LESSONS IN LIFE
* Carey Mulligan and her wardrobe . sa t
carry "An Education," a British tale s
of sex, maturity and disillusionment. H p
SEE ARTS, PAGE 5A

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, November 23, 2009

michigandaily.com

Martin and
Coleman:
Rodriguez's
job is safe

SAID A LSAL AH/Daly
Michigan head coach Rich Rodriguez on the sidelines during the team's 2110 loss to Ohio St. at Michigan Stadium on Saturday. For more on the game, see SportsMonday, igside.
Nowhere near the rose

Athletic director
says coach will
'absolutely' be
back next year
By MATT AARONSON
Daily News Editor
Both Athletic Director Bill Mar-
tin and University President Mary
Sue Coleman said in separate com-
ments after Michigan's loss to Ohio
State this weekend that headcoach
Rich Rodriguez'sjob is safe.
The 21-10 loss to Ohio State
made the team ineligible to play
in a bowl game for the second-
straight season and left the team
with its first consecutive losing
seasons since 1962-63.
In a phone interview yesterday,
Athletic Department spokesman
Bruce Madej pointied to what
Martin told reporters after the
season-ending loss to Ohio State
University on Saturday: Rodri-
guez will be the head coach of the
football team next year.
"I and the administration fully

support him," Martin was quot-
ed as telling several outlets, "and
you'll see him in the future."
Asked to clarify whether that
meant Rodriguez would be the
coach next year, Martin said,
"Absolutely."
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham spoke to the Daily
yesterday on behalf of President
Mary Sue Coleman, saying Cole-
man "supports the coach and sup-
ports the football team," but would
not comment further because of
the pending NCAA investigation.
Coleman made headlines on
Thursday when she skipped
her usual practice of talking to
reporters after a Board of Regents
meeting, instead abruptly leav-
ing through a back door once the
meeting adjourned. During that
meeting, regents discussed the
University's ongoing investigation
into allegations that Rodriguez and
his staff.violated a series of NCAA
rules. Board of Regents Chair
Andrew Richner (R-Grosse Pointe
Park) read a statement to those
in attendance, saying the regents
would not comment to the press
See RODRIGUEZ, Page SA

ong after the crowd had
left, postgame debris still
littered the expansive
green carpet of Michigan Stadium.
Rose petals were scattered across
the south end zone, remnants of
one of college football's most time-
less celebratory traditions.
This is the place - and this
* is the rivalry - where Charles
Woodson clenched a plump rose
in his mouth on his way to the
1997 national championship. And
where Desmond Howard posed to
cement his winged-helmet legacy.

And where Chris Perry bowled sealed the Big Ten's spot in the

over the Buck-
eyes in the
100th meeting
in "The Game"
to send his
team to Pasa-
dena, a rose
held high above
his head after
the victory.
Only this
year, the roses
were an after-

ANDY
REID

Rose Bowl.
Buckeye fans brought vases of
roses to their pregame tailgates,
rubbing salt in the open wounds
of their floundering, once-proud
rivals.
During a weekend that invokes
so much gridiron history and
passion, the heyday of Michigan
football has never seemed further
away.
Gone are the days of fighting
the Buckeyes for a Rose Bowl
berth. Now it's struggling for a

bowl berth, period.
Gone are the days of the Big
Two, Little Nine. While Ohio State
has held cip its end of the bargain,
Michigan needed a last-minute
thriller over lowly Indiana to
avoid an 0-8 Big Ten record.
Gone are the days of Michigan
glory and well-documented arro-
gance. Welcome to being humble.
"How much does a man have
to get humbled?" Rich Rodriguez
said. "We got humbled last year.
We've been humbled before, and
See REID, Page 8A

thought - Ohio State had already


SGOVERNING THE G.REEKS:
Sigma Nu expelled from
IFC for rules violations

Day of Remembrance honors
transgender hate crime deaths

Fraternity house was
suspended one day
before altercation
that led to expulsion
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
The University's chapter of
Sigma Nu fraternity was expelled
from the interfraternity Council
earlier this month for a violation of
tFC bylaws and misconduct.
IFC President Ari Parritz wrote
in an e-mail interview that Sigma Nu
was suspended near the end of Octo-
ber for violating IFC bylaws and then

expelled for violatingthe terms of its
suspension within one day.
The original suspension came
after the fraternity held a registered
party during welcome week that
the Social Responsibly Committee
- which governs social functions
for both the IFC and the Panhellen-
ic Association - visited twice dur-
ing the night, according to Sigma
Nu President Jordan Eckstein.
IFC Vice President of Social
Responsibility Jason Mohr said in
an e-mail' interview that after the
first check, SRC informed Sigma
Nu that the party was in order, but
"explicitly stated" that the event
exceeded the registered event size.
When SRC returned to the party
laterto perform another check,Sigma

Nu was marked off for a few viola-
tions, including having glass bottles,
which are prohibited, having too
manyentrances inuse and exceeding
the time limit for the event, accord-
ing to the Sigma Nu Chapter History,
which wasprovided to The Michigan
Daily by Max Barack, IFCs judicial
vice president.
Mohr said the second check was
performed without an escort from
the house because SRC was unable
to contact the fraternity's then-
president Kyle Sandefur.
After the check, SRC informed
the president that it would go over
the fraternity's violations after the
party ended. It took Sigma Nu longer
than SRC expected to clear out the
See SIGMA NU, Page 3A

Six
d
aboi
A m
gather
Comm
of Ret

th year of event several gay rights groups to rec-
ognize lives lost to crimes associ-
raws crowd of ated with gender identity.
The event, which about 100
ut 100 on Friday people attended, commemorated
individuals killed in hate crimes
By BRIE PRUSAK because of their gender identity
For the Daity or expression. It also honored
activists who were killed fight-
ournful yet resolute crowd ing for the rights of transgender
ed Friday night in Palmer people.
ons for a Transgender Day This was the sixth year Ann
membrance, organized by Arbor has held a Transgen-

der Day of Remembrance vigil,
though similar events have been
held internationally for nine
years. The event was sponsored
by the Spectrum Center, the Ann
Arbor Human Rights Commis-
sion, the TGLB Matters Initiative
of the School of Social Work and
the Washtenaw Rainbow Action.
Project.
Rackham graduate student
Anand Jay opened the ceremony
See REMEMBRANCE, Page 8A

BATTLE-BOTS

MiCHIGAN'S ECONOMIC UTURE
University economist: Michigan
will see net job gains by end of 2011

Data released at
event shows slowly
declining job losses
By JAMES LEE
For the Daily
With the highest unemployment
rate in the country and not a single
annual job gainthis decade, Michi-
gan's economic woes can snake for
a depressing campus event.

But Economics Prof. George
Fulton, along with other experts
at the 57th Annual Economic Out-
look Conference, had some more
optimistic views for the downtrod-
den state.
"So how much more economic
pain do we have to endure before
the tide begins to turn and we are
creating more jobs than we are los-
ing?" Fulton, the director of the
Research Seminar in Quantitative
Economics, pondered before an
audience of academics and busi-

ness professionals assembled in
the Rackham Amphitheater last
Friday.
RSQE's 2010-2011 forecast for
Michigan's economy, delivered
by Fulton during the conference
on Friday, predicts that the state's
currently dire economic situation
will improve by the end of the 2011
calendar year.
RSQE is a program at the Uni-
versity that has compiled outlook
reports for the state and national
See JOB GAINS, Page 8A

TOREHANSHARMAN/Dai
LSA sophomore Jay Yang and Engineering sophomore Megan Leininger work on a robotfor a U ROP event on Friday. The robots
will compete in an Australian Ministry of Defense event in which they will be tasked with finding "objects of interest"like bombs.

WEATHER H I: 52 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LU: 46 newsomichigandailv rom ind let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Fromour food blog: Happy Thanksgiving!
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THF TABLE

INDEX NEW S.................................. 2A ARTS
Vol. CXX,No. 53 SUDOKU............................3A CLASSIFIEDS.....
(2009 The Michigan Daily 001 ! I M'^ ^"'-o nPAr)r-h

.5A
6A
1 R


2A - Monday, November 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, November 23, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
SOther Towers Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY:
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA DANNEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com

0

Students protest UC tuition hike

WORKING THE CROWD

Between 30 and 50 protestors
from UCLA and other UC campus-
es barricaded themselves inside a
UCLA building Thursday morning
while thousands more demonstrat-
ed across campus in anticipation
of UC Regents' approval of a plan
to raise tuition by 32 percent, the
Daily Bruin reported.
The Regents approved the two-
phase tuition increase through
2011 for all UC campuses Thurs-
day afternoon, according to the
Daily Bruin.
The Los Angeles Times reported
that the occupation lasted about 18
hours and yielded 41 arrests. How-
ever, the Daily Bruin reported zero
arrests pending an assessment of
damage done inside the occupied
building.
The Daily Bruin reported that
the occupation forced University
officials to te'mporarily close the
hall and cancel classes and servic-
es offered there.

KKK PROTEST OUTSIDE OLE
MISS-LSU FOOTBALL GAME
At the University of Mississippi
about 12 members of the Ku Klux
Klan gathered Saturday before the
university's football game, the Asso-
ciated Press reported.
KKK Great Titan Shane Tate told
The Daily Reveille - LSUs newspa-
per - Thursday that Klan members
would protest the Ole Miss Chan-
cellor's decision to remove the song
"From Dixie With Love" from the
marching band's songlist.
Jones asked the band to remove
the song after fans ignored a request
that they drop the customary chant
"The South will rise again" fromthe
end of the song, The Daily Reveille
reported.
Tate told the Daily Mississippian
that Klan members would bein full
ceremonial dress, but that the rally
would be a "silent protest" in sup-
port of free speech.

STUDENTS RECEIVE
MODIFIED EDITION OF'ON
THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES'
Students on University of Min-
nesota and Purdue University
campuses received free copies of
"On the Origin of Species" Thurs-
day in light of the book's 150th
anniversary this month, The Asso-
ciated Press reported.
The books, however, included
one major modification: a 50-page
introductionby notable evangeli-
cal leader and Minister Ray Com-
fort explaining creationism and
refuting evolution.
The giveaways were part of a
nationwide effort led by Comfort
and actor Kirk Cameron, both
members of the Living Waters
ministry - a national evangelical
organization - to promote cre-
ationism and inspire discussion,
the AP reported.
- TORREYARMSTRONG

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom c
News Tips
Corrections
LetterstotheEditor
PhotographyDepartment
Arts Section
Editorial Page
SportsSection
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online sales
Finance-

)ofieous:nsaue.-rhxurs. 11a.m, 2 a..
news@nichigandaily.con
ceon@h~igandaiy.oA
tothedaity@nihiandaty.omn
phnxoynicigandaiy.con
eetspagegniehigndaia.on
opininn@nihigandaiy.enn
epors@nistgandait.enn
disptay@nchigasdaily.nnn
ctassefied@nichigandaitrnnnm
ntineads@nichigandaitvnnnm
finane@nichigandaityeanm

Football head coach Rich Rodriguez speaks to the crowd at
the Go Blue, Beat OSU pep rally last Friday on the Diag.

CRIME NOTES
Bag with phone, Tailgate party
tickets stolen gets hot

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Central Campus Rec-
reation Building
WHEN: Friday at about S:15 p.m.
WHAT: A backpack containing
a cell phone, $60 and football
tickets was stolen from the first
floor men'slockerroom, Univer-
sity Police reported.

WHERE: University Golf
Course
WHEN: Saturday at about 9 a.m.
WHAT: A small fire started
from a barbecue pit at a tailgate
party, University Police reported.
Police extinguished the fire.

Open gender
discussion
WHAT: An open discussion
and support group for indi-
viduals questioning their
sexuality. The group meets
every other Monday.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight from 8 to
10 p.m.
WHERE!Mirhivn Unin

, : e Wnr V1C cii ganinon
Vendingmachine
Fake parking |.
takes abeating Volunteers in
permits sold E a .m
WHERE: DuderstadtBuilding i Action zlleetllg


Smoke-free
forum .
WHAT: A forum for under-
graduate smokers to give
input about the University's
initiative to go smoke-free
in 201.
WHO: University Health
Service
WHEN: Tonight from 5 to
6 p.m.
WHERE: Health Service
CORRECTIONS
* A viewpoint in Friday's
edition of the Daily, 'Party
lIke it's 1969' incurre-tly
identified one of the span.
sors of the Go Blue, Beat
OSU pep rally as the Michi-
gan Student Association.
The Michigan Student
Assembly was the correct
sponsor of the event.
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

U.S. Customs agents at Los
Angeles International Air-
port stopped a man who
had 15.live lizards stuffed into
his money belt, The Los Ange-
les Times reported. The man
was returning from Australia
with a variety of lizards valued
at $8,500.
The Varsity Hockey team
broke its five-game losing
streak, the longest skid in
21 years, with a 4-1 victory over
Bowling Green on Saturday.
>FORMORE,SEESPORTSMONDAY,PAGETB
A man from Hong Kong
will pay $420,000, includ-
ing taxes and fees, for the
rhinestone-studded white golf
glove Michael Jackson wore
when he premiered his moon-
walk on Motown's 25th anni-
versary TV special in 1983, The
Associated Press reported. The
man won the glove at an auction
at the Hard Rock Cafe in Times
Square.

EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneyRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SnilOitZMaegngewsEditor, s ovitz@nchhigandaily.com
oSeS oNy soSEDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mal ory Jons, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert Soae ditorial PagetEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeske, Matthew Shier
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
S TSeITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Junea, Ryan
Kartje, Chris Meszaros, Ryan Podges
DaidWatnick ManagingArtEditon n aenick@michiyandaily.com
.SENIOR TSoEssenORSJanieBloknBrndnenudis,Witneyrnnw
ASSSTANT ARTs E DIToRS: Joshua Bayer, Carolyn Klarecki,Andrew Lapin, DavidjRiva,
JeffSanford
ZacharyMesnerand photo@michiandailycom
ClillReeden Mana~ging hotonEditors
SENIoRnOonDIORS:aidAlsaah,ChanelVonHabsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Coll ins, Chris Dzombak Sam Wolson
4ngela Chih and designomichigandaily.com
MaareenStyth Managin esignEditors
Jessica Vosgerchian MagazineEditor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copychie mitchelt@michigandaiy.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CH IEF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak sales Manager
SA LES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASSI F1ED ASSISTANTMANAGERi Kayla LaFatn
Ben Engish ProductionnManager
AlisonnSantacreu Layoutaanager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales CirculationnManager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
TheiganDaty'SS 0t5 -97 s t~publisednMonday throghnFria drngthe llead
wnstertermn bystuientsat theivrsitynof icigan,.Onencpy saailablefreie hre
to ll readers.Additional copies may be pcked up at the Dailys ce for s2.subscriptions
or testa enepe e .5. n eUS.ma . 5at0.Wntrterm nuary through
Apr is,$115 ,eln Seteter thhrl)ise$. Uiversity afliats:,areset
to areducedsubscription rate.Oncampussubscriptionsforttaltermare $35.Subscriptions
must be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The
Assciated Coeiste PrFss.

0

S

WHERE:2250 State St.
WHEN: Saturdayat about 8:25
a.m.
WHAT: Policewere unable to
locate an unknown subject sell-
ing fraudulent parking permits,
University Police reported.

WHEN: Saturday at about 4:10
a.m.
WHAT: A suspect kicked in
the vending machine glass on
the first floor of the library,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.

WHAT: Members of Volun-
teers in Action will meet to
discuss volunteer activities
they have done throughout
the semester.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Tonight from 7 to
7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Hillel Student
Lounge

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes?Get more onlne at michigandailycomblogs/the ,>

.. _,

Real Life
Are you ready?
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIG4N

Spend a full day shadowing an alum and learn from the best. If
you're a junior, senior or a grad student, you could be selected for
an alL-expenses-paid, one-day internship. The application deadline
is Sunday, December 6.
Here are the fall 2009 Michigan Apprentice opportunities:
" Senator Deborah Cherry, '76, is a Michigan senator
" Jordan Hymowitz, '90, is the managing member of Philadelphia Financial
Management of San Francisco, LLC
" Mike Miller, '96, is the head of the Google Ann Arbor office
" Andrew Humphrey, '92, is a Local 4 Emmy Award-winning meteorologist
" John Spain, '07, is the associate brand manager on the Ziploc brand
at SC Johnson
" Ernest J. Newborn II, '83, is senior vice president, general counsel
and secretary of USI Holdings Corporation
* Dr. Anthony Weinert, '93, is a physician and surgeon who specializes
in foot and ankle disorders and has a solo private practice
* Dr. Grant Baldwin, '94, PhD'03, is the director of the Division of
Unintentional Injury Prevention at the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control

0

a

0

l

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 23, 2009 -- 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Motown celebrates
50th anniversary
Black ties and gowns filled a ball-
room Saturday in a big-bucks salute
to Detroit-style royalty - the King
of Motown, the Queen of Soul and
the Kid of Rock.
Motown Records founder Berry
Gordy, along with Aretha Frank-
lin, Kid Rock and Motown's origi-
nal kid, Stevie Wonder, came to
Motown's original hometown for
the Motown 50 Golden Gala. The
50th-anniversary event, which
fetched $350 and up for a ticket,
W was a fundraiser for the Motown
Historical Museum. The museum
was the original home of Motown
Records Corp., which Gordy start-
ed with an $800 loan.
The event drew about 750 peo-
ple and many of the big names and
behind-the-scenes people from the
label, which moved to Los Angeles
in 1972. Detroit's output included
scores of hits, including "My Girl"
by The Temptations, "The Tears of a
Clown"by Smokey Robinson and the
Miracles, and "I Heard it Through.
the Grapevine" by Marvin Gaye.
"The pleasure is mine to be here,"
Gordy said during a pre-concert
reception. "I'm thrilled Igotthe nur-
turing and all of the things Detroit
had to offer me. Motown could not
have made it in any other city."
NEW YORK
9/11 defendants will
plead 'not guilty'
The five men facing trial in the
Sept. 11 attacks will plead not guilty
so that they can air their criticisms of
U.S. foreign policy, the lawyer for one
of the defendants said yesterday.
Scott Fenstermaker, the lawyer
for accused terrorist Ali Abd al-
Aziz Ali, said the men would not
deny their role in the 2001 attacks
but "would explain what happened
and why they did it."
The U.S. Justice Department
announced earlier this month
that Ali and four other men
accused of murdering nearly
3,000 people in the deadliest ter-
rorist attack in the U.S. will face
a civilian federal trial just blocks
from the site of the destroyed
World Trade Center.
Ali, also known as Ammar al-
Baluchi, is a nephew of professed
9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed.
Mohammed, Ali and the others
will explain "their assessment of
American foreign policy," Fenster-
maker said.
CALABASAS, Calif.
Facebook incites
beating of pre-teen
Authorities say a 12-year-old
boy assaulted by a group of middle
school classmates in Southern Cali-
fornia may have been targeted after
an Internet posting urged students
to beat up redheads.
Los Angeles County Sheriff's Lt.
Richard Erickson says the boy, who
is redheaded, was kicked and hit in
two incidents Friday at A.E. Wright
Middle School in Calabasas. As
many as 14 students participated in
the attacks.
Erickson says the attackers may

have been motivated by a Face-
book message announcing that Fri-
day was "Kick a Ginger Day." The
posting may have been inspired by
an episode kf the television show
W"South Park."
The boy was not seriously hurt.
Erickson says there may be other
victims.
NEW YORK
Subway passenger
stabbed to death
A subway passenger stabbed to
death in front of horrified strap-
hangers has been identified as
36-year-old Dwight Johnson of
Brooklyn.
Authorities say some 30 passen-
gers watched as Gerardo Sanchez
ef the Bronx stabbed Johnson at
around 2 a.m. Saturday in an argu-
ment over a seat.
Police say the passengers were
trapped with the knife-wielding
attacker and his victim until the
train arrived at the station at Sev-
enth Avenue and 53rd Street.
Police say Sanchez was standing
*ever the blooedied victim when the
train doors epened. Johnson was
pronounced dead when the train
arrived at the station.
Sanchez, who's 37, was arrested
on charges of murder and weap-
ons possession. He had not been
arraigned on the charges as of yes-
terday afternoon.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Senate Dems at o s over health care

Final passage of bill
will hinge on
moderate Democrats
and independents
Senate Democrats yesterday
sparred with each other over how
to fix the nation's troubled health
care system, the moderates threat-
ening to scuttle legislation if their
demands weren't met and the more
liberal members warning their
party leaders not to bend.
The dispute among Democrats
foretells of a rowdy floor debate
next month on legislation that
would extend health care coverage
to roughly 31 million Americans.
Republicans have already made
clear they aren't supporting the bill.
Final passage is in jeopardy,
even after the chamber's historic
60-39 vote Saturday night to begin
debate.
"I don't want a big-government,
Washington-run operation that
would undermine the ... private
insurance that 20 million Asseri-
cans now have," said Sen. Ben
Nelson, a conservative Nebraska
Democrat.
Nelson and three other mod-
erates - Democratic Sens. Mary
Landrieu of Louisiana and Blanche
Lincoln of Arkansas and Connecti-
cut independent Joe Lieberman
- agreed to open debate despite
expressing reservations on the
measure. Each of them has warned
that they might not support the
final bill.
SIGMA NU
From Page 1A
house, so SRC left and informed the
then-vice president that SRC would
contact Sigma Nueat a later time.
The following night the SRC
Executive Board voted to sanction
Sigma Nu with 12 weeks of social
probation because of the violations,
according to Mohr. Sigma Nu was
notified of the sanctions on Sept. 9.
Eckstein said what "really pissed
us off" most about the suspension
was that the fraternity took precau-
tions to ensure the party was safe
and regulated.
"We didn't want anything to get
unsafe but they marked us off for
stuff as we were kicking people out
of our house so it was kind of fran-
tic," he said. "And like I said, that
didn't sitwell in their eyes."
Following the IFC social proba-
tion sanction, Eckstein said Sigmea
Nu's nationals were required by the
fraternity's policy to suspend the
chapter from all activities pending
further investigation into the inci-
dent, which did occur.
Sigma Nuthen appealedthesanc-
tionesen the Greek Activities Review
Panel - the judicial panel for Greek
life. Eckstein said GARP looked into
Sigma Nu's disciplinary history and
found more issues than just the one
party. Because of these fndings,
GARPthen referred Sigma Nu to the
IFC for further punishments.
Sigma Nu's disciplinary history
dating back to 1998 includes many
significant transgressions and time
spent on social probation, according
to a document passed out to chapter
presidents at an Oct. 14 IFC meeting
and provided to the Daily by Parritz.
The documentstatedthat the fra-
ternity spent more than 50 percent
of the past four and a half years on

One ajr sickittypint is a
provisien that wuld allew Ae-
cans to buy a federal-run insurance
plan if their state allows it. Moder-
ates say they worry the so-called
public option will become a huge
and costly entitlement program
and that other requirements in the
bill could cripple businesses.
"I don't want to fix the problems
in our health care system in a way
that creates more of an economic
crisis," said Lieberman.
The sway held by such a small
group of senators has annoyed
their more liberal colleagues, who
'culd vote against a final bill if it
becomes too watered down.
Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio,
said he didn't think rank-and-file
Democrats wuld feel compelled
to go that far. At the same time,
Brown warned Democratic leaders
not to make too Iany concessions.
"I don't want four Democratic
senators dictating to the other 56
of us and to the rest of the country
- when the public option has this
much support -that (apublicoption
is) not going to be in it," said Brown.
The Senate bill would require
most Amsericans to carry instrance
and provide subsidies to those who
couldn't afford it. Large companies
could incurcosts ifthey did notpro-
vide coverage to their work force.
The insurance industry would
come under significant new regu-
lation under the bill, which would
first ease and then han the practice
of denying coverage on the basis of
pre-existing medical conditions.
Congressional budget analysts
put the legislation's cost at $979 bil-
social probation.
"Timeand timseagain,the chapter
has engaged in actions that violated
established policy and put students
and the community in danger," the
document stated.
Some of the listed infractionss
included four missed IFC meetings
in 2008 and hazing and other risk
management issues in 2005.
The document stated the IFC
would review and vote on Sigma
Nu's case at its weekly mseeting on
Oct. 21 and would give Sigma Nu
members the chance to speak.
IFC chapter presidents voted to
suspend Sigma Nu on Oct. 21. The
suspension included 13 conditions
specifically designed to rehabilitate
the chaptee, including 12 hours of
mandatory community service each
semester for each member.
During the suspension, the fra-
ternity was prohibited from host-
ing or participating in any event in
which alcohol would be served. Any
misconduct from any of Sigma Nu's
members would result in the frater-
nity's expulsion.
These terms were violated ons
Oct. 22 when two Sigma Nu mneme-
hers - a sophomore and a senior -
assaulted Barack at a srriy barn
dance social fuction, accordig to
a document sent to all IFC chapter
presidents motioningfor Sigma Nu's
"immediate expulsion," which was
provided to the Daily by Parritz.
Though Eckstein wasn't present
at the function, le said people pres-
ent told him there was a conflictethat
resulted in a call to the police. How-
ever, there were no charges filed
and there were no serious injuries,
according to Eckstein.
After this incident, the IFC chap-
ter presidents met and decided to
expel Sigma Nu after determining
that the fraternity didn't demon-
strate the ideals of Greek Life.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, (D-Nev.), speaks after the Senate voted to begin debate on health care legislation Saturdlay.
lion over a decade and say it would enable Obana to claim victory on "The thing that Our working
reduce deficits over the same peri- a major domestic priority when families need more than anything
od while extending coverage to 94 he delivers his'State of the Union else is to end these double-digit
percent of the eligible population. speech in January. With one-third cost increases that they're hav-
The eouse approved its version of Senate seats up for election in ing every single year with health
of the bill earlier this month on a 2010, politics will factor heavily insurance," Bennet said.
near party-line vote of 220-215. into the outcome of the debate over Democratic Sen.iChuck Schumer
Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois, the health care. of New York said he believes there
No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, said Sen. Michael Bennet, a junior are enough votes to include t pub-
the healthcarebill mustbepassedby Democrat who will be seeking his lie insurance option in the bill as
the end of the year so that President first full term next year in Colo- long as states were allowed to opt
Barack Obama and Congress can to rado, where many districts lean out. To do so, all 58 Democrats and
shift their attention to the economy conservative, said he would sup-- independent Sens. Lieberman and
and improvinggemploymentrates. port the health care overhaul even Bernie Sanders of Vermont would
Such a timeline also would ifdoing so means losing his seat. have to support it.

Two deciding factors led to the
expulsion, according to the docu-
ment calling for Sigma Nu's imme-
diate expulsion: the assault and
Eckstein's "chastising" comments
after Sigmaa Nu's initial suspension.
Eckstein said his intent wasn't
to chastise IFC, though he said he
understands his comments were
interpreted in that manner. He said
he wanted to make the chapter pres-
idents aware that he felt the sespea-
sion was inappropriate.
Brad Beacham,executive director
of Sigma Nu's national headquarters,
said the national organizations is dit-
appointed with the IFC's decision to
expel the chapter frommembership,
but that it respects the I FC's role on
campus.
Beacham said the fraternity's
national organization believes it is
the local chapter's responsibility to
take disciplinary action in response
to individual members' misconduct,
as was the case with the Un iversity's
chapter of Sigma Nu. He said the
incident is not a reflection on the
chapter as a whole..
Eckstein said in an e-mail state-
ment that fraternity members will
remain at their current address at
7111 O~xfosrdfRd.
olloi igthe incident at the
sorority function, the local chap-
ter temporarily suspended the two
members involved, -followed by a
probationary period. Beacham said
the IFC was made aware of these'
internal actions.
According to Beacham, the FC
infornmed Sigma Nt lthat if the two
members were not permanentlt
expelleditwouild take actionagainst
the whole fraternity.
Eckstein said he feels it is not
within FC's jurisdiction to tell the
fraternity what to do with mem-
hers in situations like this.
"So we went through the pro-

cesses that we deemsed appropri-
ate and we told them that," lee said.
"I guess they just didn't agree with
ems."
Parritz wrote in an e-mail inter-
viewl ie informed Eckstein that if
the individual members weren't
expelled, the chapter presidents
would most likely vote to expel the
whole chapter.
Eckstein said Sigma Nu refused
to expel the members because the
fraternity felt submitting to IFC's
demands might set a precedent that
allowed FC "to regulate every single
member of every single fraternity."
"That's something that we
thought would be bad for Greek
Life," he said.
Barack wrote in an e-mail that
IFC doesn't typically get involved
with the internal affairs of chapters,
like dealing.with transgressions of
individual members.
Beacham said the national Sigma
Nu drganization supports the local
chapter's decision because of the
internal actions the chapter took.
He said the national headquarters
is disappointed with the IFCs deci-
sion to expel the chapter.
"I certainly do hope that after
timaepasses and the chapter contin-
ues so inmprove that IFC will wel-
come them back into membership,"
lee said.
Eckstein also said the chapter
wants to return to the IFC "however.
long it takes."
Parritz said Sigma Nu will remain
eligible to return to casspus under
the general IFC expansion pro-
cedures. The council can vote to
reopen the expansion calendar at
any time to vote to allow Sigma Nu
back into the IFC.

"We hope, though, that Sigma NeU
makes a swift and thorough transi-
tion to become the excellent chapter
it was in years past," Parritz wrote.
He said the IFC chapter presi-
dents did all they could to collabo-
rate with Sigma Nu as their chapter
"navigated through a challenging
reorganization."
"Expulsion was and always has
been a last resort," Parritz wrote. "It
pains me to see a chapter that once
flourished be forced to leave the IFC
comnmunity."
Business junior James Hazan, a
member of the fraternity, wrote in
an e-nail interview that despite its
expulsion from the IFC, the frater-
nity is still "very much alive."
He said Sigma Nu is involved in
the comesunity with projects like
Habitat for Humanity and Packages
for Patriots.
Hazan added that the fraternity is
also still engaged socially.
"We're actually pretty relieved to
be off-casspus so we don't have to
follow all of those silly IFC rules,"
he wrote. "Come down to Oxford
and Hill some time, we'll be the ones
eliciting noise cosmplaints fromthe
neighboring IFC-regulated Greek
anuses."
Sigm" Nu'snationalheadquarters
is guidingthe chapter to take action
to improve the fraternity, like edu-
cation programs, leadership con-
ferences and community s4rv ice,
according to Eckstein.
Eckstein said despite issues in
the fraternity's past, the chlapter
is "trying to be in good standing
with everyone."
"We're just going to take what-
ever is given tous and do our best to
move forward," lie said.

I r- ------------ I

INTERESTED IN THE FIELD OF GRAPHIC DESIGN?

The
MCAT
10 Fobs - AvgSore Increase * 6
105 hur live instruction
'aCpprtisseru trsa
Cmm maca.untny s.my eF

--'

Thme Daily.
The Michigan Daily Advertising Design Department
is loaking to fill1 a design position for Winter 2010.

s I :HY

ahakiaj(a)uaich.edu


A


4A - Monday, November 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL HARUN AT BULJINAH@UMICH.EDU

C I
4e fitichinan wily

HARUN BUJINA


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF ED TORIAL.PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
No more broken promises
State should fund education out of moral, practical concerns
ov. Jennifer Granholm, having already signed a budget
eliminating the Michigan Promise Scholarship, has now
returned to her pro-education rhetoric. Last week, she
urged college students to pressure the legislature to fund the pro-
gram, which helps students pay for in-state tuition. Though her
position is hypocritical in light of her signature on last month's bud-
get, Granholm is correct - the government has a duty to reverse
its decision on the Promise Scholarship. But the burden shouldn't
be on students: Instead, legislators should start doing their jobs
and find a way to fund this necessary tuition aid program.

YO IO,,, IM NTE
I s , ABDYTO iS 'o4EvHD

I \ t ' 5
1c h

-<,
w
'
__ , }
x d


I V
}r \ w

0

Compulsory compassion

The Michigan Promise Scholarship,
which provides between $500 and $4,000
in merit aid to 6,172 University students,
was cut in late September by state legisla-
tors due to a $2.8 billion budget shortfall.
But apparently dissatisfied with the bud-
get bill she signed that cut the scholarship,
Granholm has begun a statewide campaign
to restore the scholarship and plans to visit
college campuses across the state. She has
suggested that the legislature, currently
enjoying its hunting season recess, amend
the Earned Income Tax Credit as a means
of funding the $120 million program.
The loss of the Promise Scholarship
is particularly painful in light of tuition
increases over the last decade. With tuition
up 52 percent since 2002, the University
of Michigan consistently ranks among
the most expensive public universities in
the country. Scholarship cuts and tuition
increases were compounded by significant
cuts to K-12 education in this year's budget.
The bottom line is a Michigan that is all but
giving up on its schools.
Such a result will be disastrous for the
state's students. While those with options
will go to other states for an education,
many will notb e able to afford tuition any-
where else. These students won't gain the
skills needed to excel in today's economy,
and will be left with fewer employment
options with lower salaries. The state
should feel responsible for helping people

to escape this future by offering compre-
hensive tuition aid.
But in addition to moral concerns, the
state should fund the Promise Scholar-
ship for practical considerations as well.
With every student who leaves Michigan
in search of better-funded and less expen-
sive schools, the state's future employment
base dwindles. The long-term result will be
a state that isn't prepared to move its econo-
my in new directions. And if the state econ-
omy can't improve, legislators are certain
to face even greater budgetary shortfalls
down the line. This is the danger in allow-
ing the cost of higher education in Michi-
gan to slip out of reach of most students.
Students shouldn't have to pressure law-
makers - as Granholm is urging - to save
the Promise Scholarship. The inherent
value of education to Michigan's future is
something that should already be under-
stood. The fact that legislators approved
a budget that doesn't fund the Promise
Scholarship and Granholm signed it speaks
volumes about the incompetence of the for-
mer and the insincerity of the latter. But
both branches of government should feel
compelled to revisit the budget debate, find
alternate sources of revenue and keep the
promise to Michigan's students.
And if they don't do that, no amount of
cutting programs or raising taxes will save
the budget of a state has given up on educa-
tion.

he third Wednesday night of
every month during my ele-
mentary school years involved
two loaves of Pep-
peridge Farm
bread, a jar of Jif
peanut butter, a jar
of Smucker's stiaw-
berry jelly and a
roll of aluminum
foil. My family and
I would make as
many PB&J sand- EA
wiches as we could LEAH
and donate them to POTKIN
the Martha's Table
organization, which
helps provide food and clothing to
people in the Washington, D.C., area.
This was my first community service
project.
My community service habit con-
tinued because I was required to com-
plete 60 hours in order to graduate
high school. The top of every student's
report card had a section dedicated to
logging his or her hours and detailed
the hours required, hours earned and
hours remaining. Here on campus,
much of my time is consumed with
libraryvisits and fulfillingmydistribu-
tion requirements, and it seems I have,
little time (or, more correctly, I am
not readily inclined to make the time)
to give back to the Ann Arbor com-
munity. But who's to say community
service can't be a distribution require-.
ment category of its own? Think credit
hours. The University should make
community service hours a gradua-
tion requirement to motivate students
to get involved and hopefully stay
involved as a result.
I came into this university as an LSA
freshman knowingI would have to ful-
fill certain distribution requirements.
Despite the fact that I can hardly per-
form simple multiplication in my head,
I am currently enrolled in Stats 350
to fulfill my quantitative reasoning
requirement. Like it or not, fulfilling
these requirements forced me to bal-

ance all aspects of my studies - some-
thing I wouldn't have done had it not
been mandatory to do so. Just think
what students could learn if a commu-
nity service requirement was added to
the equation.
With around 25,000 undergrads, a
requirement of a mere four hours.prior
to graduation would result in over
100,000 hours contributed per gradu-
ating class. Even the overachiever of
overachievers could spare a few hours
a year to help someone less fortunate -
and what better place to do so than our
beloved A-squared community? With
elementary schools located very near
campus and a world-renowned hospi-
tal nearby, motivated students - witha
little push - could make a huge differ-
ence. Ann Arbor is a prime community
for students to find their community
service niches.
The University community prides
itself on its dedication to community
service, and while many students
already volunteer, some of us could use
the additional incentive. For example,
a friend of mine asked me to drive her
to the Food Gatherers organization a
few weeks ago. I was impressed with
her and disappointed in myself for
not taking the same initiative. But my
conscience was soon put to ease when
I learned she had to do service for her
Econ 108 class.
I'm sure people are. wondering
what's so great about her work if she's
being forced to do it. But whether her
work is required or not, people are
being helped by her efforts. Also, there
are many well-intentioned students
(I like to put myself in this category)
who have elaborate agendas in which
community service - though a nag-
ging thought - isn't a priority. But
after being pushed to complete service
hours, many people have rewarding
experiences and consequently devel-
op a life-long dedication to service.
There's no beating that.
Feeling the need to give myself that
extra push, I took it upon myself to do

some research. I would bet my cher-
ished Ohio State vs. Michigan football
ticket that few students have come
across the insanelyuseful University of
Michigan Community Relations web-
site. This website has a section dedi-
cated to community service that lists
different organizations and how to get
involved. Looking at this website, I was
like a kid in a candy shop on a service
high. There's a plethora of great orga-
nizations just craving student involve-
ment.
College students
need extra push
to volunteer.
But the University can provide even
more. I can see it now: A tab on CTools
with the words "Service 101" between
biology and English classes. For those
of you who didn't have a service
requirement in high school, the moni-
toring of hours is really quite simple.
When a student completes hours, he
or she fills out a form to submit to an
adviser and - tada - hours completed!
It's shame that so many students
miss out on the opportunity to com-
plete these often life-changing hours
because they're too busy socializ-
ing, fulfilling other requirements or
twiddling their service-able thumbs.
Community service should become
a requirement of its own to avoid this
loss of opportunity. Argue all you want
about the unfeasibility of my proposi-
tion - but when push comes to shove,
if students can fulfill distribution
requirements taking dance classes,
they should be able to get credit from
making PB&Js.
--Leah Potkin can be reached
at Ipotkin@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, William Butler, Ben Caleca, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
JOHN uN I
Continuing MVP's vision
Last March, the students of the University mittee should not be tolerated and, in keeping
voted for a change in their student government. with our principles, MVP is holding MSA and
Tired Of having a student assembly that didn't its candidates accountable for their actions.
focus on them, they elected Michigan Vision Accountability not only means calling peo-
Party candidates for president and vice, presi- ple out when necessary, but also working to
dent, as well as for nine out of 11 representative fix the probleis we see. With regards to the
seats. These were candidates committed toward DPS oversight issue, we have a candidate, Josh
making the Michigan Student Assembly trans- Buoy, running in this fall's election. He is com-
parent, accountable and focused on students. mitted to holding DPS accountable and, in light
Since MVP joined the assembly, our repre- of the recent influx in crime alerts, working
sentatives have done a tremendous amount to improve campus safety. When MVP sees or
of work to serve students and ensure that the hears of MSA not doing its job, it is committed
assembly focuses on their needs. MVP rep- to not only calling out the assembly but also
resentatives have played significant roles in addressing the problems it sees.
organizing Go Blue, Beat OSU Week and the with the fall elections just around the cor-
Block M at Michigan Stadium. They have also ner, we are proud to say that our current slate of
organized MSA Mondays on the Diag, helped candidates reflects our core principles of trans-
to make campus a welcome environment for parency, accountability and a student focus.
student veterans, focused the assembly on stu- Each of our candidates brings a unique vision
dents by banning non-students from speaking of how MSA can better serve and represent the
at assembly meetings and called for professors student body. These visions include hosting
to post course syllabuses during registration. "campus hall meetings" at which students can
While alotof good work forstudentshas been meet and talk with representatives, bringing
accomplished, there have also been significant big name performers to campus, updating the
shortfalls that reflect the need for increased student organization funding process, stream-
transparency, accountability and focus on lining campus informtation resources and pro-
students. 'T'his past week it was revealed that tecting students' rights.
MSA executives, led by MVP's president and As previously mentioned, MVP has done a
vice president, Abhishek Masanti and Mike lot of good work on the assembly, but Michigan
Rorro, mishandled their role in overseeing the deserves more. The Michigan Vision Party is
Department of Public Safety. MSA executives committed to serving students and fixing the
claimed they followed the advice of the Univer- problems that we see with the assembly. Our
sity's General Counsel. But this is no excuse. In vision remains the same: to restore transparen-
fact, it's rather disturbing because it suggests cy and accountability to MSA. We believe that
that our executives are following the guidance our candidates, with their strongbelief in these
of the University administration rather than core principles, are what the assembly needs in
the student body, whom they are charged with order to make MSA once again relevant.
representing. Help tis continue the vision. We invite you to
This is the Michigan STUDENT Assembly. share your vision for MSA with us at whatsy-
We should expect elected representatives to oturvision@umich.edu, and check out our web-
look out for student interests and know when site, www.michiganvisionparty.com. Finally,
to resist attempts by the administration to we urge you to vote Nov. 30 to Dec. 1.
interfere with student governsance. Excuses
and rationalizatiots are nacceptable. Cu- John Lin is the message chair of
bling key issues like the DPS oversight Com- the Michigan Vision Party.

A stake in health care reform

am about to lose my health insur-
ance and face some tough choices.
It looks like I'm going to be unem-
ployed next senses-
ter. The people
who run things at 1
the Department of
Political Science
have informed me
that they won't need
my services as a
GSI. Applications to
other departments PATRICK
aren't going well,
either. And without O'MAHEN
a University job, I
will lose my Uni-
versity-sponsored health insurance.
Seniors, you'd better listen up - many
of you will lose your health coverage
the day you graduate, and Will face
some difficult decisions of your own.
According to some politicians, like
Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas), that isn't
a problem. While railing against the
health care reform bill that passed in
the House of Representatives on Nov.
7, he said 10 to 15 million young Ameri-
cans under 30 freely choose to forgo
health insurance because they "don't
want to pay the premiums."
I'm only 30 years old, I'm fairly
healthy, I get 30 minutes of daily exer-
cise, I eat reasonably well and I even
floss regularly. Going without health
insurance seems like it isn't a big deal.
In fact, it might even be a smart choice,
so long as I don't get made into a hood
ornament by a drunk driver while I'm
walking home from the library late at
night. But this risk of a catastrophic
accident means I should have some
form of coverage, both for my own sake
and so that I don't stick taxpayers with
my emergency room bill.
Although I'm quite healthy now,

I suffer from Dysthymic Disorder,
which is essentially a long-term form
of low-grade depression. To treat it, I
check in with a therapist once every
two months. With my current health
insurance plan, I pay a $15 co-pay for
the visit, and the company pays the bal-
ance - more thanO$100. Without insur-
ance, I can't afford to see my counselor,
let alone buy the antidepressant I use
to supplement therapy.
So I have three "choices." The first
one is to stop taking antidepressants
and seeing my therapist. That's a fool-
ish idea, especially since I had trouble
functioning before I sought help sev-
eral years ago.
My second choice is to try to buy
insurance on the open market. But
because I'm an individual, I inherently
create more risk for an insurance com-
pany than I would as part of a large
group buying insurance, so I'll have
to pay several hundred dollars more a
month for a similar policy. Worse, my
depression qualifies as a pre-existing
condition, so I'll pay morestill - if I can
get any company to insure me at all.
My best current choice is to con-
tinue to buy into the GradCare plan for
six months under the Comprehensive
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
of 1986, commonly known as COBRA.
I pay full price plus five percent of
the plan's monthly premium, which
is about $200 a month. That's much
cheaper than buying insurance as an
individual, but still difficult for me to
pay. I barely earned $20,000 last year
when I had a job. If I'm paying COBRA,
I probably won't have a job, certainly
not one as well-paying as a GSI posi-
tion. That means cutting the other
parts of my budget even further - and
choosing between paying for groceries
and rent won't be much fun.

What does this have to do with you
undergrads? The vast majority of you
are going to lose your parents' health
insurance coverage the day after you
graduate. If you don't have a job lined
up with insurance benefits, you'll face
a menu of the two most unpalatable
choices I outlined above: going with-
out insurance or paying an extraordi-
nary amount on the individual market.
Students face
tough choices if
current bills fail.

0

Both the House and Senate versions
of health care reform would solve
these problems instantly by mandat-
ing insurance companies to extend
coverage of children to age 26. They
would help me by subsidizing my.pre-
miums and allowing me to purchase
insurance at a group rate on a health
insurance exchange, preferably with a
public option that would compete with
private companies and drive down
rates.
The point is that health reform
isn't some arcane debate in far-off
Washington. It has dire implications
for each of our personal lives. For me,
those implications likely start on Jan.
1. For you seniors, they arrive as soon
as you graduate. If health reform fails,
I strongly suggest looking both ways
when crossing Main St. after you get
your diploma at Michigan Stadium.
- Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.0
Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We
do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

r'

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 23, 2009 - 5A

Precociously classy

Carey Mulligan exudes
Oscar-worthy confidence
starring in 'An Education'
By JENNIFER XU
DailyArts Writer
The story of "An Education" can easily be
traced through Carey Mulli-
gan's wardrobe.
At the beginning, she plays
precocious 16-year-old Jenny, An Educatin
waiting on the curb after a
school orchestra rehearsal, At the Michigan
her schoolgirl's uniform sop- and Showcase
ping wet from the rain. An Sony
exciting, older man (Peter
Sarsgaard, "Garden State")
pulls up and offers her a ride, taking her through
a whirlwind romance of glamorous concerts,
art auctions and dazzling seaside vacations. Off
comes the uniform, up goes the hair and on goes
the demure yet sexy black shift.
She sensually embraces her older lover in a
knee-length lilac dress dotted with flowers and
bows. They're in Paris; it's the city of love, and
they're kind of in love. That night, she swirls
around in a floating white chiffon masterpiece
with a streak of red across the shoulders.
Later that night, once she has laid her soul -
and breasts - bare, she has no clothes at all. With
her virginity successfully lost, she has become a
woman - or so she thinks - donning a dignified
brocade sheath stitched with gold piping.
Finally, the film reaches its climax. It turns
out she's not really a woman; she's a girl. "I feel

old, but not very wise," she intonates, her hands
folded across her schoolgirl's skirt, once again
back to the beginning of the story.
It's details like these that make "An Educa-
tion" much more than the typical coming-of-
age blah. if there's anything brilliant about
director Lone Scherfig ("Italian for Begin-
ners"), it's that he knows how to contrast visual
elements, whether clothes or scenes, cutting
decisively between jazzy, electrifying dance
sequences or clipped kitchen table conversa-
tions. Yet the crown jewel of this film is not
its cinematograph', set decoration or even
costume design - it's Carey Mulligan herself.
Incandescent and effervescent, Mulligan's
portrayal and fascinating transformation from
innocent ing6nue to wise woman possesses the
nuances of an actor twice her age.
Ever since the film premiered at the Sundance
Film Festival last January, Mulligan's perfor-
mance has been on the radar for Oscar love. Yet
this isn't a conventional Oscar-baititngrole. Mul-
ligan pulls out a subtle, organic performance
with little drama. Yet there's a genuineness to
the way she speaks and the way she moves - a
genuineness that extends past the fourth wall of
cinema down into the hearts of audiences. It's a
performance you'll be able to feel through all the
pores in your body. Forget golden statues; this is
a role that will be remembered for years to come
- it's that eerily and spookily mesmerizing.
Vreviously only known for her role as Kitty
Bennet in "Pride and Prejudice," Mulligan
takes the audience straight into the film, giv-
ing the viewers a chance to experience the
world through the rose-tinted lenses of her
young character Jenny. In one scene alone, her
eyes can tell histories of emotions: ambition,

desire, wonder, discomfort, excitement, hesi-
tance. In less than two hours she evolves from
giggling schoolgirl to woman of the world and
then back again, and the transformation never
feels forced. Jenny slowly grows more confi-
dent, more beautiful, more worldly and even-
tually more cynical. It's a remarkably textured
performance.
Still, "An Education" never falls into the traps
of this type of film. Set in the time of England's
sexual reawakening, theyoungJennyrepresents
the burgeoning of women's liberation and the
inception of the British New Wave. The coun-
try was growinag up. Even as a youtsg schoolgirl,
Jenny is no blushingdaisy. "All that poetry about
something that lasts no time at all," she quips
about sex. As a girl that exudes sexual self-con-
fidence, Jenny makes her relationship with her
40-year-old lover play out less creepily than it
would otherwise. She's young, but she's no vic-
tim - a refreshing take on a young British girl's
supposed "innocence."
Although it might seem excessive to solely
praise Mulligan's performance in an-otherwise
intoxicating film, "An Education" embraces her
from the inside out. From the solid supporting
roles by seasoned British actors Alfred Molina
('Spider-Man 2"), Dominic Cooper ("The Duch-
ess"), Emma Thompson ("Love Actually") and
Rosamund Pike ("Pride and Prejudice") to the
dizzying cinematography to the exquisite cos-
tumes, all peripheral aspects merely act to orna-
ment the star of Carey Mulligan.
Toward the film's end, Jenny giddily rides a
bike while donning a flowered jumper - a sort
of intermediate between little girl and young
adult. She has bloomed before our eyes. And so
has Carey Mulligan.

The Dirty Birds
clean up nicely
By LEAH BURGIN The album's bookends are particu-
Daily Arts Writer larly strong, gratifying listeners'
expectations to be engaged from
How the Cause Became the beginning to end. The orchestra
Cure mean- tions and lyrics on album opener
ders between "What I Realized" and closer "The
toe-tapping, Problem" are some of the most
high-energy powerful on the entire album.
tunes and TheDity Both tracks are among the most
melodic, croon- Birds upbeat numbers. They're unifiers,
ing orchestral How the weighing down the other tracks
numbers. The and keeping them from rambling
album ebbs and Cause Became away. Furthermore, both songs
flows beneath the Cure reach the middle ground of the
the versatile Self-released album's generic jungle - there is
vocal umbrella not one predominant genre bias in
of Jared Saltiel, eithertrack - allwingthese book-
vocalist, keyboardist and guitarist ends to concisely summarize the
for The Dirty Birds. album's unique collage of styles.
This debut album for The Dirty The fact that The Dirty Birds chose
Birds was partly recorded at Big to place these songs at the begin-
Sky Recordings right here in the ning and at the end further reveals
band's home base, Ann Arbor. a great musical sensibility.
But however strictly midwestern It is equally impressive when an
The Dirty Birds' beginnings may album's cover art perfectly match-
be, their music molds together all es its tone. How the Cause Became
sorts of genres - including jazz, the Cure's cover impeccably suits
pop, folk and rock - into a won- the almost melancholy and subtle
derfully rich sound, deeply layered nature of the album's contents.
but simultaneously subtle. The muted, water-colored hues
The instrumentals for
"Katrina" and "Saudade" show-
case the band's incredible musical
sensibility. Intricate and delicate An album both
guitar and keyboard melodies
deftly intertwine with the string defined and
orchestration, then suddenly erupt
into heart-wrenching and soulful confined by its
crescendos. Such explosions are
always expertly placed - the band delicate balance.
lures listeners into a state of antic-
ipation and flips the switch at the
optimal moment to release a great
deal of musical tension. of a winter scene, dominated by a
This musical sensibility extends solitary and solemn old-fashioned
into the album's lyrics. Though house upon a hill, invite the lis-
bland and unimpressive on paper, tener into The Dirty Birds' fore-
when combined with the musicethe boding haven. The house's many
lyrics transform from nonchalant windows, lit with a sickly greenish
statements into bold proclama- tint, convey the dampened bright-
tions. The tangled love duet "Just ness of the album's sound. This
As Blue" asks, "If there were no house is not only the perfect set-
more air on earth / would I share ting for where an album like this
my last breath with you?" This is may have been born, but also for
a fairly morbid (if not somewhat where this album should ideally be
tired) thought, yet the consistent listened to.
and prevalent drum beats ground How the Cause Became the Cure
the lofty wondering. is incredibly well-balanced. The
Jaunty and jazzy, "Self-Disci- album not only flourishes in pro-
pine" earnestly inquires "So will duction quality, but also in lyrical
somebody please tell me why the and musical terms - by blend-
hell it derails me / every time ing so many genres, the album
the world fails me?" without a becomes virtually genre-less.
single hint of whiny adolescent This, however, is a double-edged
attitude. In fact, the song's heavy sword - with no distinct and
jazz influence turns this com- consistent "feel," there are few
plaint on its head - the poten- situations where someone might
tially petty question becomes a sa, "Man, this is the perfect time
subtle expression of empower- for some Dirty Birds."
ment. The Dirty Birds exhibit an The album is too tame to charge
acute sensitivity to the interac- an atmosphere and too dynamic to
tion between music and lyrics serve as chill background music.
- each lineis crafted beautifully How the Cause Became the Cure
and blends perfectly into the exists in a gorgeous but cursed
surrounding orchestration. musical limbo - if the album
How the Cause Became the Cure were to leave this state, it would
exhibitstwoaspectsofalbumcom- be undone. This delicate balance
pilation that can be hard to master, is what both defines and confines
especially for such a young group. the album.

Bringing a taste of sophistication to TV

By CHRISTINA ANGER
DailyArts Writer
Compared to most dramatic,
trashy and
pathetically ***
rose-bearing
reality televi- Chef Academy
sion, a culi-
nary program Mondays at
can be a glass 10p.m.
of Cabernet Bravo
Sauvignon in
a lineup of double cheeseburgers
and fries.
Bravo, home of arguably the
DON'T LET YOUR
DEVELOPMENT
GET ARRESTED.
WRITE FOR DAILY
TV/NEW MEDIA.
OTHERWISE,
YOU MAY END
UP LOST.
OR BORED TO
DEATH.
E-mail join.artsilumich.edu
for an application.

best cooking show on TV, "Top
Chef," now introduces "Chef
Acddemy," starring French chef
Jean Christophe Novelli. "Chef
Academy" can't replace the
obsession-producing qualities
of "Top Chef" (like underdogs
racing against the clock and an
obscure set of rules); it also lacks
the unnecessary cursing and hell-
ish fear seen in "Hell's Kitchen,"
with Chef Gordon Ramsay single-
handedly discouraging anyone
from wanting to join the restau-
rant business. But in its own way,
"Chef Academy" still promises

entertainment, suspense and anything taste good, but ze food
high-class food. iz ze most important part of the
"Chef Academy" follows Chef show. Dramatic flour explosions
and spittle-laiden bouts of criti-
cism don't take center stage - ze
food does, largely because there's
Taking the no competition. The candidates
can't win or lose, but they're sau-
competition out t ing and chopping to stay in the
h kacademy.
of the kitchen. Chef Novelli embraces his pas-
sion for food. Imagine a barista
in France, overlooking the water,
Novelli on his quest to start a culi- with a glass of vino and a French
nary school in the United States. accent full of chocolaty thickness,
He has an accent that could make See CHEF, Page 7A

41Mict~igant, i!APRESEFN TS
RENTAL 1~
the NLIN CLA SIFI D 00

- U D-IIKU

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties,


A

A


0

GOBBLE GOBBILF SPECIAL
Scio lars 0l'Sun tI onic> has amrat 2
bed 2 bath home tor sile t only $9
per motnth. 'or 3years.bFinanceing avail-
able. Ann Arbor Schools. Call today
this one won't ls
888-883,703 tunose olantis coin
PARKING
PARKI NCAVAIL. CENTRAL Cant-
pus. near B and LawtSholtI734-222-
9033. jtrspro 'tsbeglnolttet
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-81825
AUTOMOTIVE
1993 PONTIAC GRAND Att Se
Stporty, dteendable rie $t1-9
810-J299 >7501 tstrntas ettin
1994 JEPCH1EROKEE 4x4
Runts gret. $795
1116229-97,501 ctetras tutu
199501O1)S CUTILASSSuretme
I O\ Il MIF5 1ooks & rntts great
$2995 816-225-17511 nitivetitas utti
1997(C1'HEV CAVAIER 4 door
Aitirriti i. RMis grealt>291>5
'10l-225-97501 tetnttas.eout
1997 CHEVY MONTE Carlto
Sharp louokirng. rnts great $3995
810-225-9750l tstn-ettrts.euin
1997 MERCURY MOUNTAINEER
AWlS t'tlly Loaded. All Wheel Drive
$2795380l-225-9750xit -N.tTas.cout
1 997 PONTIAC MONTANA Van
***Rt/LSJC~I),**
Depeudable ruraisy-.onation $1995
1998 FORDI TAURUS RUNS GREAT
-Flex ibtel ernginte. Sharp lootking $1695
80-229-97f5 ) nun.ettints.cottt
2(0(1 DODGE DAKOTA X-eab 4x4
$6999 Like tnw.loarded4sx4
810-229-9750 \ntew.ettnas.eott
2003 TOYOTIA COROLLA $6999
Iike n>wLsceelet (as-saver
CARTRU 'KS & MORE INC.
81(0-225-9750
100% Guaranteed Financing
lIlY IERE PAY HIRE, LEASE
TO OWN
FOR RENT
I4 I(IRM houtse. Mnay 't. Mary Ci.
IM bldg. lrko s r2ll0. 45-399-9904.

$100 FREE CASH with every
NEW Reservation.
*ends on December 2,2009
Check us out antd get
FRF]E Bubble Island
)rink with
any new tour!
Voatedl Best
Apartmesnts in
20189In'
Michigan Daily!
ON CAM1PUS, FURoItSHED
STUtuto, 1, 2 & 3 BEDOOMS-t
CHEAPE'R AND MUCH
SETTER THAN 771E DORMS!
YOU DESERVE TO CROW UP.
Contact usfor a
Pour roday!
536 Sooth Forest
Ann Arbor, Mt 48104
734-76-2680
LJII RSI ll PIIS5IRS-MI.CHOt
Lunivecrsity
I BEDROOMS $685-$765 atid 2 bed'
roomis $8404$985.
rAvai lable Augtust 27th. 2010.
We nfer fnlly fnrnishedl apartment
at na extra east!
Pun more itfocll 734-662-4446 or visit
wwissaproperties.eotrti
3 BDRM Apts an East .!
(lien high ceilings> hardwood tIns,
deek io backtioi site parkinig, heat &
wate net. Pepper tProperties 810-231-
0219 9 limunampLtSlttUSiJIg.e~Itt
4 FLFVEN LOFTS has select spacees
IcC' for nest year- NO MONEY
DOWN till 211010.Stiti by Nov25. All-
new. furntished, 2 bloeks biout Central
Carnuts. all utilities included, pet tier-
suictnraicts. 734-998-4400.
ww .4el even lolis coti
2 & 3B1)RM AltAIIIMLNIS avail-
able fhr Pall 2010 915/919 Sounlt Diet-
site Apantmntis are nithribof'(looter
and South iof' Benjamnttaeross fino (
be] Field> Furnished. lleat&Watei in-
chided> tree onsite Parkittg, 1,atidry
Facilities,> Iltotis. 1181-$8$0
2110-1100> 31)D$1 750, Spaotits
Btedrootms and isitig Room. To schied-
tle a viewing call 248-996-7524 or
734-302-7830. email-
>2mnatgemet5/e jottcast. net

GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATION

HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bedrooms Available
From $799
Call Sun Homes at 888-993-6851
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
I! www.sciofarms~com orff oo
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Buts like 37 Hawaiian island 53 Tequila p1ant
1 Closes itt auger, Noah's 38 Gonion in pears 04 Oet plan one
as a dour 4 Beauty mark 39 Bargain hunter's 55 Dad's brother's
6 Cause6davagn in h A Streetcar deligbt daughter> in dad
10 Count tutua pillow Named Desire" 42 SpopyToynta 09 Corp. leadership
14 Psgchic's crd woman Camip 88.
15 Belle man 6 "Real Time With d5 Suffix with 61>"1 buhsted!"
16 Watering aid Bill Maher' intellectual 62 Judge
1/ Beatles footwear rietwork 49 Winter hut 63 Colorless
19 Ancient Andean 7 Really lung time fetuare 89 held. Air Prance
201In a dishonorable 0 Interest 5 y acvosy fir
wag percntages 51 Ryehloauly67titery
21 Japanese 9 Oman's captatl 2tunel 87rkikeearly
electronuics giant 10 Gualie's udrul onn ur
22 Pinut-' protective pair ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Country meadow 11 "Objions,
25 Spanish wine Your'" !" USCEI I HAITI
paveS 12 Computer text AP P EAL G'ENERO US
27 Seaoned pro' code S T A LIL S L I SITE N T0
32 The'"T"in some 13 Anne of"Archie K 0 R EIA M I R EIS D 0 S
fraterinity initials Barber's Pluce"
330503. in old home 18 'See ya later'" I
34dCaa kitchen 2d Stevensonnwhno S FEA CS E S I T P AT
cruck lostitwice to E P I C H E R N C H I T A
36 Halta'W0s pop Eisenhower A E R0 OOL E H m 0Lo
naop 26 "Apocalypse T T SJUILA LO I
40 Likenthediving- Now'settng, 0 M E UGAIS EN 0 M T S A
board nnd briefly DNA IES C
41 WWIIlvuncrebat 27/Bettorsconcern Don EARCI
fmales 28 Steud H 0 G K NEAD E C I L
435Sitar music 29 Fizzlesnout I N I T I A LS A R I T Yc
44dSeaweed- 30 Pants with alow HONE S TLY IT TE R
wrapped waisinre RESTE NZ
Japanese tare 31 Cut dramatically
d6 Aalgy phrase 35 Join ihn cast o1 anaransitnr@al.caa 11/22n0a
47 Contest with 1 t a t 5 E t 17 u 9n 1ts1r1rust
pistols
98 Put intoservice aT4t16
h0 Sledding spot
52 Word game 17 it
invlving a stick 21 2
igate at
56 "Nu meg, laddie!" LL 2 5 2
07 Highlyoexcid
58 Edg ofa hoop teat28 tt 3tt 3t
60 Double-checks
the math 33 t34 3ttt 738 t
65 CopenhagenI
native 42us t 4t
66 Stuckiuglike
workout we>454
88 At arg time 4n8 at sa s
69 Apex1
78 Words afterhove ru2 ist tt
construcionus
72 Sompras oftenuis n65us6 n
73 Buril placs
DOWN 7or 72 73
1 Wild gues s -L
2 Supethu's tirJoa Buel
girfriend Lang taistt1x.Miuxcxvn.11/23/SR

TOUR TODAY!
$10 t car an
FREE tlUNCH!T
wwwntheWartshrDsrrco
21 Pa0CkarTuA, P 710 M ile, 712
Mc80 inley, 229)Whi94S-&617
wweeout"ttlesr&spknnarbordrscio
6rs opRE bsedroims. fencEdni-
921siPACaRD,010 3fall 'lath3silry>e
bdrii n Itrsis Itr . urised.3 fulehlt
3 kitchen. Itly> p36ky. 2734-1211.
is 6inisedomLaigear2u10.Land
l1 arsca, 710M2KOfusitnce.71
AAileyFALL2'10:iePSte & deiu
fiteosit71 e y: $2750/mdo 83
tropnb$2750too.en 930 in ya eys
pe2er0 Prp/ti s. 80Lots23 10-22 69
twieecai iipkisbosingtaomyattt~o
WINTECKRDSEMESTER0 Rntal:,
hrit ue dr. Fur811niLb3llevel.
$5isinfinsed sn opi20m.and-
lord call 734-62-40db. asisane
2010-2011!
A IPRtmetsEndTouES
hupesto714 Dedro 27os833
5rwn Bedrooms,90Dwv
22 Mhonral oe~sa 109256
916TESyil R enal
6n Bdroomg 80s Ibilv,
1619 S.Unive r vsit
orcUl734Walnut46
1132 WhAiteLF

7 Bedrooms
331 - 333 6. Jefferson
335 F. Ann
1615 Packard
8 Bedrooms +
1362 S. Forest (8 Ur)
1136 S. Forest (9 hr)
1619 S. University (9 Ur)
1614 Vaughn (11 hr)
*only $4806 per person
915 Oakland (26 person)
ole' ZZa tcus
616 Church> Street
For details cell
734-995-9200.
wwwarchreaityco.com

cncthe bf
owneed an ft
20 Locations to Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Cimpu West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Sta
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
-High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapat nsnt
I! BEAUTIFUL HOMES
6' td 7 bed rms Near Catupus 9uo
les. APPYtO'VNIW Sr Aug/Sp
2010. Central Air.hFree Laundry. Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
naucylat/d)Iunuiclt~ednu>
nswn-u~tcy at comt
11 AVAILABLE FALL200!!
715 Church- 1, 2trdrsnnapartmens
Across frotmtICrst Quad- near B School.
IBeandfnul> espatsie spces. closets g-
lore. frunuuiisltd/itut frnishied.> Iny> 0-rce
prkg. free eat & aue(all Attn734-
320 1244 or ciiittlheifynulittut
n-ow.cIIlItneuretn~eials.cuuuuu
11 CAMPUS ALL 2010. ILre 6
hdnut. irse. Walnut St.. near unuuIabuwl.
Prkg. Sue 6 cars, easy it/ensy otL
Fute.. hciy. 2 baths.. central ai. All
iem!! 3700/to. Call 426 4772 ask
for itm.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
ualking distace' of cetral camtpus.
parkig itcluded. rAvailbeiuuuedi-
aicy. ('nll CnUITpus Mratngeietteu73-
663-4 101.
Now Showing for
-Fall 2010-201M!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
" Tully Furnished
"*Het Waer, Internet and
Parking included
* Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for te fall!!
Vam ie hr hloctiuu
-734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
M! CORNER HOUSE APT !!! 2 & S
bdrunus hts of dise space> flat scrent
is. muoern funiturue & t1Itnultmire!
741-9300 anuabrapatiets.te
"ICLASSY 7-B13-BA HEME-Greal
La)catirru! Remotdeled! -irepace/conol
kitchten. Must see! 3131 562-575.
S NOW AVAILABLE $
2 bdrru. spancious apt. Ecellen.
cotueien, great htcationt, pr.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
-- -3 BI)RM TR-LEVEL* avail.
May. IHadwooud floots '. fully Ihernisled.

washer/dryer rind carporh. 741-9300
wwss.annrborapurtiuuents.uuet
J-Luxurious 6 Bedroom,
2 Bath, Bi - Level Apartment
616 Monroe #D

# Beds kocotion Rent
7 $10 Catherine $3700
7 1t129 White St. $3400
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 41$ N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3600
6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
$ 1024 Packard $2800
j 4 1117S. Forest $2440
3 $07 Sauer Cc $2000
CAPPO/DEINCO

1 34-995-92011 for- a tUnur nut email
1734-996- 199 '1]lctrabauud i/arclorealtyco.coun rmdld
**CARRIIAGE HOUSE" NEXT 3IIORM, 2 bathos. Newly rmdld
to CC L-ittle. 2 & 3 bdrinus stb 1.5 $18000/tote, 113 Sylvant. 248-798-4755.
bathos> flat screen us. dislonaslier. tnd-
eon fUrntUire & private balconyv. 741- _5 tglRM. PALL 21110. 530 S. Fourth.
930 w.auunanhornupartiun 'ttisunet 2hatil. Pree pckp,. & fdry. 5 mtito. walk
hao Uniorn. $2450-4 rtil. 734-709-5709.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3 ____________
-bnlnuu. house. Wtalking distanoce fruomi
camnpus. 945 Wuodlawit. Conttact 734 1.0 2 9 VAUGHN
276-3876.
___________ 6 BDRM + STUDY
3BAT-,HS, $4200
MAY 2010
May 3-bed apt! COPI PROPERTIES
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts! 734-663-5609
Now leasing 100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium

Contact Pest Realty ton
showing en mere infermatien:
734-761-8220 er
iate@pestneaItypeepertins.comj
uFALL 2111UG1 t~E 2 Odrnn
1g-level Apt. I I/2 gaths.
Prnime Locatioun. Easily ins 4.
$1 599/time. 734-60r5-8825.
101 BDRM HOUSE 433 1 lailtome,
10 I3IRM house 217 N. I ngnlls.
nU-plnces.couu 734.478.2936.
2 BORM APARTMENT availauble io
the shadow of'kU of' M homspital out
F~uller. Purnised, tentu-amer andclpnark-
mg iumClnUned. Muse intomday. ('all Cain-
puts Maoa'enent 734-663-4 10 1.
*LOOKING FOR "THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were Cheapter and
MUCH Better than the Dirriss Don't
lose $1011 CASH, ask us Itow to gel it.
Check aS nut and gel a fRZEE iubble'
Islanud drink ,ittiny ruew tinur! We
have Studios. 1. 2 & 3 bedroornLim-
nised apanunemuls asailable line Sprntg
/ Pall. Call tis at 734-761-2680 for Youur
appoiolmoeuts.
www~tlniversityTowers-Micom
2 BDORM. APTS. AVA IL FALL 2010
u'ww.suniheypropermies.cumn
(7341 761-4469
AVAIL FALL 21( 1 & 2 Bdrun. tru.
apts. 402 Hill Sm. & 1313 S. Stt.
Edry. biee util & prk(p. 734-904-6735.
Country Charm
Cit Convenience
Immediate
Openings!
SPACIOUS 1, 2, & 3
BEDROOM IOWNHOI'rES
OMinur ierc-rrurrre/ceos unvesiie
* 24hrerncncy manteanc
insm. Equit haresrange fom $8080-9985 which
tacrear seiue thoriu resideinstheuuuup-
eraive. Theirharareuindabule'h uponsuiie-oui.
Forest Hills Cooperative
2351 Shadwisad -Drise
734-971,9270 SP10

'I tree bedruooim house, two can garage.
nnrnurnnfoumal dimotto> roomy, dishi-
masherlhardwsood Oflig, ceramic
bath> ull basememint / laundry and attic
storageckreat fonrhUM football fans
arid/or EMUl cunnuicus. tall Pat 665-
2010tHOU1)>SE'S AND apartmmnos at
huitlcints (11118 (']lucho, 1020
Clunure .55 ackard, 17 Renjamoin.
516 OnIIAlutatumd 52 oilmen locations).
Thnurunucluls updated. Please cheek
uuiehin mml cut uorcall(734) 260-
72 15.

Beds.
6
6
5
4

Location Rest
1122S5. Foreut"'$360'0 }
812 McKinley $3500
1 120 5. Forest $3000
715 Catherine $2300

Buds Locution Rent
6 1029 Vaughu $4200
B 1021 Church $3700
B '541 5. Divisios $3500
B 930 Packard $3200
B 110 1Church $3000
4 1010 S.kUnversrty $2600
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
10 BtED HOUSE B~eautiful homneho-
cured on S.LUniversity less than a 5
siutewlk to thoe Diah phe01y of pxrk-
ingflly ftrnishmed, Nice kitchen with
Idm ishwahe, aimndry on site. fallW

Copi Properties
734.663.5609
4 BDRM BI1-levch near kerrytown asail
Surly. ILarge modnnm kitchenu. 1.5 bathos.
FLfull' ishledan md munch'more! 741-
9300 wewwsaimamiarbortupai-iinetits.net
7 BDRM HSE out Eingsley and State-
Sir 2010. Free Parkin,,g. (248) 910-2286.
AVAIL. 9/1/101. WILLIAM & D~isi-
sinu. 6-+a bdruo. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-01256,

0

0

Just $4,599.00!
Spacuous Penthouse wth
all new amenities including
marble bathrooms> central air
conditioning, granite kitchens with
2 refrigeraturs, and laundry and
parking ou site.
Campus Realty
1335 South University
Ann Arbor Ml 48104
Tel: (734) 665-8825

Call us: (734) 764-0557 E-mall us: dailyclassttiedf egmail crm
Pax ust (734) 936-1054 Visit us: Mon-Fri, Sans-Spin
Lne Ad Deadline is 11:30are. nne business Cay p rsro to publication
Open Rates $9.30 per line (first issue), $2.10peerline (consecutive issues)
Prequencp & Bulk cnntracts -ano asallble -- cnutact us Inn details
Student Discount is SOW, when ads ar. oliaced lam pers on with student ID'
All ads most h eprepaidh anless pion billing piuilugwe have been established
We accept Visa>,IMa.sterCarcd, American h/upress Discosvecash or check
Contact us far more infornmation, including8 acing Clxssilied Display ads
"son-orgot -tiena knoo-husirt sasoxly

0

0

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

The ugly truth about my taste in music

aterialism and music don't mix.
Right? Unlike the narrative-
bound mediums of literature,
film and theater, music doesn't have to
tell a story in order to sell. It's not about
tangible things hap-
pening to tangible
people - sure, I often
picture vast "Myst"-
like dreamscapes
when I listen to
evocative post-rock
by instrumental
bands like Tortoise. JOSH
And, sure, I'll have an BAYER
imagery cocktail party
in my head whenever I play Pavement (I
triple-dog-dare you to hear "he sold his
swollen daughter in a sauna playing con-
tract bridge" without getting some serious
mind's-eye action going).
But, ultimately, music isn't about things.
It's not about conveying meaning or doling
out a take-home-message. It's not about
political expression (although Zack de la
Rocha would probably shank me for saying
that). It's about riding that immaterial wave
of noise and either feeling it in your gut or
not. And while it's probably true that the
best art - regardless of medium - packs a
punch because it woos you viscerally rather
than intellectually, music is abstract in the
sense that its mission statement is not to
represent the physical world.
Now, this isn't to say that reality-rooted
content is merely chump change in the
spiritual realm of music - listening to

a wordsmith like Conor Oberst without
attending at all to his vivid imagery would
be completely missing the point. But,
when push comes to shove, I'm in it for the
way the aural textures mesh with my ear-
drums, not for the amount of lyrical motifs
an artist can slyly tuck into one record.
Someone could transcribe the entire text,
of "Ulysses" into a 30-minute concept
album - if the singer's voice sucks, I'm not
going to give a shit.
Conversely, if the music is great but the
lyrics aren't stellar, I can usually cope.
This is especially apparent in genres
like shoegaze, where the hazy vocals
melt indecipherably into noise-damaged
soundscapes and become just another
instrument rather than a vessel for social
commentary or poetic value.
Loveless by My Bloody Valentine isn't
a classic because of its literary appeal -
the blissfully tragic atmosphere of a song
like "To Here Knows When" is severely
undercut if you read the lyrics: "Slip your
dress over your head / It's been so long /
Move on top / Because that way you touch
her too." Still, while these lines may sound
like a bad translation of a Korean soap
opera, they don't change the fact that the
song's runny-mascara acoustics make me
want to squirt some.
But this is all basically just preamble for
me to come out of the closet - I am a bad,
bad man. And as much as I preach music's
immateridliiy, I, being a devout American,
,have found ways tolet superficiality taint
my enjoyment of the medium. And no, it's

not because I watch MTV (because I don't).
When I listen to Built to Spill on
record, I am smitten. There's something
about Doug Martsch's blue-eyed, pseudo-
nasal drawl that pushes me dangerously
deep into man-crush territory. Based on
their music's bedroom charm, I'd always
pictured the band members to be a bunch
of flannel-wearing, baby-faced slackers
with ripped jeans and offhand sex appeal
- an attractive byproduct of hip mid-'90s
apathy.
But when I saw them live, my man-
crush went through the shredder.
Expecting a bunch of pretty-boy softies, I
Trying to separate
sounds from sights.
instead got the cast of '"The Big Lebows-
ki." With their back-from-the-dead facial
hair and schlubby, plumber-esque get-
up, they certainly looked like slackers,
but not the kind I had fantasized about.
In fact, I can confidently say that Built
to Spill is an ugly-looking band. And, as
guilty and shallow as I felt being turned
off by their Larry the Cable Guy blue-col-
lar-ness, I couldn't help the fact that the
band's homely exterior made me go a big
rubbery one. And, while I was admittedly
quite stoned and therefore hyper-prone
to fixating on incredibly minute details,

I must divulge that Martsch's possessed-
by-the-devil facial tics made me severely
uncomfortable. After a while, I fixed my
eyes resolutely on the band's guitars so
that I could get my head out of the gutter
and siiply revel in their jam-band chops
like a normally functioning human being.
This may seem minor, but it wasn't an
isolated event. The second time I saw
Yeasayer live, I was incredibly impressed,
and it took me a second to figure out
why I had been so irritated the first
time. Then I realized that the bassist
had chopped off his obnoxious-looking
braids, and that had probably made all
the difference. And I have trouble turn-
ing a blind eye to the fact that Avey Tare
from Animal Collective looks a little bit
too much like a frat boy to be fronting
such an enigmatic band.
I am not pleased with myself. If any art
form should be freed from the societal
mold of appearance, it's music. Music has
no celebrity-ptar system. It isn't even a
visual medium. So it seems like, theoreti-
cally, it should be exempt from all that
red-carpet bullshit. ButI just can't help
the fact that, if a musician is unpleasant
to look at, I'm going to have an unpleas-
ant time looking at them. Do I feel like an
asshole? Yes. Yes, I do. I just hope someone
else reads this and empathizes with me so
I can stop feeling like such a heathen.
Did you like Bayer's column until you
saw his headshot? To tell him about your
inner conflict, e-mail jrbayer@umich.edu.

Monday, November 23, 2009 - 7A
CHEF
From Page 5A
sitting in front of a television.
"Chef Academy" is for this per-
son - the sophisticated reality
addict. Bravo does a fine job of
honing in on series that play up
tension and catfights, but here the
network seems to aim for a new
demographic. It's now possible
to see how people improve their
cooking instead of watchingthem
get voted off for a lapse in judg-
ment. While "Chef Academy"
gives young cooks a chance, it
also shows the process of learning
to be a fantastic cook instead of
people proving they're fantastic
cooks.
"Chef Academy" is an inspir-
ing show that doesn't attempt
to make a chef out of you, but
does its best to bring some
respect back into the kitchen.
It's refreshing to geta glimpse of
the candidates before they make
it onto the show. Either Bravo is
really great at setting the mood
or Chef Novelli actually has a
hand in choosing the right peo-
ple for his academy.
On "Chef Academy," reality
meets respectability and cuisine
meets art on a non-competitive
level. With these two arguably
unexplored aspects of culinary
TV brought together, it's worth a
watch even if all it reaps is a pas-
sionate love-fest in the kitchen.
Wine and burgers for dinner?
Well, it's better than justburgers.

'4

~-

IU':

PRESENTS THE

I

SICK OF THE DORMS?
- CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandally.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furmished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
5 BEDROOM APARTMENT 611
Church, Located on the corner of
Church and S. University above
Amers. Entire building has been com-
pletely renoveted. Completely Fur-
nished (leather couches!), Huge Clos-
ets! Washer and Dryer in unit, Granite
Counter Tops, Stainless Steel Appli-
ances, Dishwasher and Disposal, 2500
S.F., 2.5 Baths. Available May and Fall
2010 $665.00-$785.00/month per per-
son with 6 roommates. Limited num-
ber of units remaining call
734-995-9211 for a lear.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE $450 per per-
son with 7 Roomates, this amazing
house is located just South of S. State
Street on Packard. The home has 3
bathrooms, 2 Kitchens, and 7 Large
Bedrooms. Plenty of room for up to 10
people! For a tour call 734-995-9200.
May 2010
Houses Available
7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3700
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPO/DEINC0
(734) 996-1991
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
room at $491. 2 bedroom at $714 w/ 2
months free. Call Now! 734-663-8463.

txperience ne virrerence
.1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
* Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
* Free High-Speed Internet
* HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
* Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Eercise Room, Rec. Room
* Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Doily
C B741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
8 BEDROOM HOUSE - $485/mo per
person with 8 roommates! Located just
about a 10-15 minute walk from the
diag this fully furnished house is a
great choice for those wanting to save
$$$$ and still be able to walk to cam-
pus. 2 Kitchens, 3 bathrooms, and
plenty of parking!!!!
Call 734-995-9200 for a tour today.
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2010. dklemptner@comcast.net
9 BEDROOM HOUSE $560/mo per
person with 10 roommates!!!!!! Lo-
cated just a 10 minute walk from the
Diag on 1130 South University. Hard-
wood floors, Dishwasher, 3 kitchens, 6
bathrooms, maximum occupancy 14
people. Call 734-995-9200 for a
showing.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AFFORDABLE 4-MONTH CON-
TRACTS, Available for Winter Term.
Rates Starting at $529; Includes all
meals, utilities and more.
ICC Student Co-op Housing,
www.icc.coop 734-662-4414.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff.,-I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. NOW FOR 2010. 2 spacious
furn. 5 bdrm apts. Can be combined as
10 bdrm hse. Call 734-665-2723 or
visit www.ShahProperties.com
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Cull
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water mc., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com

Beds Location
6 1121Church
6 543 S. Division #2
6 1221 S. State #2
5 1117 Church #1
5 420 S. Division #2

Rent
$3500
$3000
$2500
$3000
$3000

Copi Properties
734.663.5609
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in -08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
EAST U & Vaughn. 5 bdrm for 6. Lrg
bdrms, very nice condition. Furn, free
dry + prkg for 4 cars. Easy in/out.
$2750. 734-426-4772.
FALL APARTMENT-LRG 2 Bdrm.,
very nice, 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furnished,
dishwasher, disposal, ldry. Heat, water,
and prkg. included. $1200 + electric.
(734) 662-7121 or gpmiles@aol.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil,
910 Packard, 1130 Oakland, 1026
Vaughn, etc. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi,
NOW LEASING 2010,11
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
726S. State
610 S. Forest
344S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Porest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Poresm
1320S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
4 Bedroom:
720 S. State
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
Free heat and water
* Atmost locations)

608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff, Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Cull Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
68MonroeManagrrs@umich.edu
8155. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
Vaughn. 6 bdrm, first floor of duplex. 2
bath, 2 fridge, free parkingfor 5 cars.
Easy in/out. September lease. $3390.
734-426-4772.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fal '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., dry.,
$100$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-67-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
-VARSITY MANAGEMENT:
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
All apts. are fuly furnished, have new
kitchens w/ dishwashers, include heat,
water, most ine. parking, some incl.
wireless!
*BI-LEVEL 2 BED 2 BATH:
515 Walnut, huge apts. perfect for 4!
Close to CCRB and CC Little.
-FOREST TERRACE: 1001 S. For-
est, huge, sunny, 2-bedrooms large
enough for 4! All w/ big beautiful
kitchens.
-543 CHURCH ST: 2 & 4 bdrm bi-
levels, andhuge 2-bdrms for 4. The per-
fect location! Parking extra for this lo-
cation.
-PARK TERRACE: 148 Tappan, cor-
ner of Tappan & Oakland, huge 2-bed-
rooms w/ new kitchens and great bal-
conies! Underground parking.
-BURNS PARK: 1039 Baldwin, mas-
sive, gorgeous apts. insa converted man-
sin.lHardwood floors, 10ftsceilings,
fireplaces. Youve gal to see these!
Studio, 2bds, & 4 bds avail.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Id. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com
SUBLETS
WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service ents et houses and
apartments to alumni for fotbpll/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com.
SERVICES
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writen@iserv.net

HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTN: GRADUATING SENIORS
U-Mis Center for Researchon Learning
and Teaching seeks full-time, year-
round Program Assistant for event
planming and support. Must be depend-
able, detail-oriented, organized, and
possess great communication skills.
Dec I start (neg.). Starting salary in
high twenties, full benefits. Submit
cover letter and resume in single elec-
tronic file to JOB ID 35881 at
www.umich.edu/-jobs/ . The Univer-
sity of Michigan is an Equal Opportuni-
ty/Affirmative Action Employer.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
NEED CASH? EARN up to $1,000
during finals week! Better World
Books needs your help buying text-
books and collecting textbook dona-
tions. Help your friends get more cash
for their books and earn money in the
process. Contact Emily at 574-855-
5206 or go to www.betterworldbooks.-
com/campusoperative
PART TIME WORK
Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
ible around classes, will train.
734-677-2477. www.earnparttime.com

EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
CHILDCARE
CHILDCARE FOR 7YR old son of
UM professor and entrepreneurial wife.
Cure in A2 home for 12 hes a week.
Great ref(s) req., 1-2 yr.2commitment
pref, must have car. Email resume to
cherylh@humaxnetwsrks.cem
EXPERIENCED DRIVER WITH
good driving record needed to pick and
drop two kids from St. Francis school
Please call for more info 313-399-0652.
TICKETS & TRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

For Tuesday, Nov. 24, 2009 You want long-term results.
ARIES SCORPIO
(March 21 to April 19) (Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
This is a great day to make travel plans This is a good day for business and
or plans for further education, training or finances. If shopping. you will want
anything having to do with promoting practical items that will last far into the
your job, your career or your life experi- future. You're also willing to work hard
enrce. Plan ahead! to earn your money today.
TA UR US SAGITTARI US
(April 20 to May 20) (Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
You cart make great strides if you sit You're in a serious frame of mind
down with others to discuss shared prop- today. Discussions with people who are
erty, insurance matters or inheritances. older or more experienced will benefit
People are in a very practical frame of you. Listen to the advice of others.
ini d. CAPRICORN
GE:MINI (Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
(May 21 to JLune 20) Research or working on your own will
Partners ard close friends are willing pay off today. You're willing to forgo
to talk about practical, long-term solu- today's pleasures for good results tomor-
tions for issues that you both share. This row.
includes taking care of children. AQUARIUS
CANCER (Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
(June 21 toJuly 22) Think about your goals and dreams for
Yourtthinking is very careful and exact the future. What do you have to do now,
today. Choose work that requires atten- in very practical terms, in order to see
tion to detail. You have the energy and results a year from now?
perseverance to slog away at routine PISCES
tasks. (Feb. 19 to March 20)
LEO Discussions with authority figures
(July 23 to Aug, 22) bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs -
Artists can make headway in taking will focus on long-range plans for the
care of rUndanre details such as prepara- future. People want to know that they
tion or buying cleaning supplies. This can count on you. And they can!
also is a goodlay to discuss the care and YOU BORN TODAY You're
education of children. extremely energetic and are not afraid of
VIRGO disputes. You stand up for your beliefs!
(Aug. 23to Sept. 22) Furthermore, you're very frank with
Family discussions are practical today. your opinions: You're active, ful-loving
'eople watt to discuss loeg-terrnvseun- arid very posiive. You like to help oth-
rity. Talk to relatives, especially a parent, ers. People count you as a loyal friend.
about home repairs. Recently, you have embarked on a new
LIBRA course. In the year ahead, partnerships
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22) and close friendships will be important
You're in such a practical frame of to you.
mind today; why not use this energy to Birthdate of: Billy Connelly,
take care of whatever is right in front of actor/comedian; Katherine Heigl,
you? Just roll tip your sleeves and dig in! actress; Colin Hanks, actor.
C. 2009 King Feaures Syndicate, Inc.

r

A


01

8A - Monday, November 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

REMEMBRANCE
From Page IA
by reading from poems he wrote
about the prejudice transgender
people face and the strength it
takes to overcome it.
Following a poetryreading,vigil
participants in the room each read
the name of a transgender person
who had been killed within the
past year and placed a rose in a
vase. After doing this, participants
could take a stone to represent the
strengths and challenges the trans-
gender community faces.
Accordingto the National Coali-
tion of Anti-Violence Programs,
2,424 victims reported anti-LGBT
violence to the organization in
2008. LGBT murders are at their
highest reported levels since 1999,
the report found.
Public Policy junior Stephanie
Parrish saidshe feels it's important
to have events like the Transgen-
der Day of Remembrance because
the transgender community is
"often invisible, even within the
LGBT community."
"So I think that it helps to put

them in the spotlight so we can be
a real community for at least one
day," she said.
Denise Brogan-Kator, a trans-
gender woman and co-founder
of the Rainbow Law Center - a
law firm dedicated to serving
the LGBT community - said in
a speech after the vigil that she
hopes "the world will see the trag-
edy and the injustice and that they
will someday embrace us."
"There will be no memorial
wall built by our country to honor
them," she added. "But make no
mistake, these are our she-roes
and our heroes."
She also played "Taps" in
memory of those who died and
explained that, to her, "Taps" is a
song "to say goodbye."
Attendees were then invited to
share stories of loved ones or any-
thing elsethey felt like contributing.
Noah Meeks, an activist who
came to the event, said he want-
ed to use his life to contribute to
transgender rights.
"I woke up one day and I real-
ized my life could have a greater
impact on the world than my
death," he said.

RODRIGUEZ
From Page 1A
about the investigation.
Both the NCAA and University
investigations were provoked by an
Aug.30Detroit Free Press reportthat
alleged the program "consistently
has violated NCAA rules govern-
ing off-season workouts, in-season
demands on players and mandatory
summer activities under coach Rich
Rodriguez," citing "six current or
former players" who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.
The Athletic Department
launched an investigation into the
matter the following day, and the
NCAA sent Coleman a letter of inqui-
ry on Oct. 23 announcing plans forits
own investigation. The letter said the
NCAA intends to complete the inves-
tigation by the end of this year.
A University audit released on
Nov. 15 showed that the football
team failed to appropriately turn
in Countable Athletically Related
Activities forms - or practice logs.
The failure to turn in CARA forms,
the auditors stated, did not itself
constitute an NCAA violation.

JOB GAINS
From Page 1A
economies since 1971.
According to the RSQE report,
employment and personal income
levels for Michigan hit record lows.
during 2009. Employment shrank
by 6.8 percent, while personal
income decreased by 3.4 percent.
RSQE estimates that a total of
282,900 jobs will be lost in 2009;
that figure is predicted to shrink
to 54,000 jobs lost in 2010, with
losses in 2011 shrinking further to
36,000. However, the RSQE fore-
cast also predicts that there will
be modest levels of net job creation
for Michigan bythe fourth quarter
of 2011, a trend that is expected to
continue into 2012 as well.
Fulton, who spoke on the second
day of the conference, said Michi-
gan's particularly weak economy
this year "is related, of course, to the
unprecedented industry crisis that
the domestic automakers and their
suppliers went through in 2009."
At least since the early 1990s,
Fulton said, automotive sales and
overall employment levels across

the state shared a "striking corre-
lation."
In closing, Fulton emphasized
the importance of diversifying the
state economy, as well as the need
to reevaluate and retool the state
budget process to bring revenues
and expenditures into alignment.
Following Fulton's speech,
Arthur Schwartz, general direc-
tor of labor relations for General
Motors Corp., gave a presentation
about the company's recent expe-
rience with the challenges of cor-
porate restructuring. According
to Schwartz, a University alum,
GM's position in 2009 is grim but
improving.
While admitting that the Chap-
ter 11 bankruptcy experience was
arduous, Schwartz said GM is
already emerging from restructur-
ing a leaner and more profitable
company.
Much like Michigan's economy
suffered from dependence on the
automotive sector, Schwartz said
that GM ultimately placed too
much of its hopes on continued
demand for trucks.
In addition to a diversified
product lineup and better profit

margins across vehicle classes,
Schwartz said that GM's success-
ful efforts to manage debt and cur-
tail expenditures signal that better
times are ahead for the company.
The third and final speaker
at the conference on Friday was
Timothy Bartik, senior economist
for the W.E. Upjohn Institute for
Employment Research. Bartik's
presentation offered eight specific
policy recommendations that he
argued would promote Michigan's
economic development in the long
run.
Notably absent in Bartik's pre-
sentation was any mention of the
automotive industry. Instead,
he most prominently suggested
increasing educational investment.
Among other recommendations,
Bartik claimed that expanding
pre-kindergarten programs, career
academies and summer school
offerings would provide cascading
benefits over several decades as
students enter the workforce with
better educations and stronger
credentials.
As for educating adults, Bartik
said that job re-training closely
linked to specific employers - like
apprenticeships - was another
cost-effective way to improve
Michigan's long-term economic
prospects.
Bartikclosedbysayingthatstate
lawmakers should invest "at least a
billion (dollars) or two a year" in
these educational programs.
"If you're not willing to invest
that, then you're not serious about
affecting things," he said. "You're
just playing games."

0




mom

HA T
H LR R
REL IEF

e .,,

&ie Mlre

.' :,
{;
i
3.
{( .
{ 1
k.. *...

I

to the guys who improved their
game by visiting the Axe Hair Crisis Relief Center.
And - keep up your great efforts, and remind the guys in
your life that hair matters.

REID
From Page 1A
we'll be humbled again. When
you'get in this profession, there's
enough humility to go around for
everybody.
"I'm tired of being humbled."
So are Michigan football
fans, who have witnessed 13
conference losses in the last two
seasons, almost doubling the
amount of games the Wolverines
dropped to conference foes (14)
from 2000-07.
And in the last two years,
Michigan has especially tripped
up in the game that matters most,
geching outscored 63-17 against
Ohio State.
It's simple. Rich Rodriguez says
he's "building a program." But at
this point, it's taken way too long
and the program has taken way
too big of a dip.
There are only four other BCS
conference teams - Iowa State,
Indiana, Washington State and
Washington - that have lost
13-plus conference games in the
last two years. Baylor will join the
list if it loses to Texas Tech next
weekend.
Not even perennial bottom-
dwellers like Duke, Vanderbilt and
Syracuse are on that list. W
"It's hard any time you lose,"
secondary coach Tony Gibson
said. "I don't care where you are
or what you're doing, it's always
hard to lose. You know, you
work 353 days a year for these 12
moments. And we came up short
in seven of them."
Except a down year for Michi-
gan traditionally involves no more
than four losses. This two-year
stretch feels more like an apoca-
lyptic meltdown.
Rodriguez deserves at least
one more season to right the
ship. With hopefully another
full recruiting class coming
in - including freakishly good
quarterback Devin Gardner - the
coach will theoretically do what0
he preached after Saturdays loss:
Recruitthe student-athletes that
fit his system and develop their
talent.
After all, that's his job, right?
But if the Wolverines find
themselves in a similar position
next year - heading into another
lackluster matchp with the Buck-
eyes in Columbus while hoping
for bowl eligibility - it's hard to
imagine that Rich Rod wouldn't
have worn out his welcome.
- Reid can be reached at
andyreid@umich.edu.
WANT TO
WRITE
FOR DAILY
NEWS?
E-mail smilovitz@
michigandaily.com
to get started.

shampoo & styling products


A

t


The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com I November 23,2009


. + _4 
' 1
six M- %h.- ,,t s. r

CLIF REEDER/Daily SAID ALSALAH/Dail
Defensive end Brandon Graham had four tackles for loss in his final collegiate game. Ohio State safety Kurt Coleman intercepts a Tate Forcier pass to halt a Michigan drive in the fourth quarter. Forcier threw four interceptions in his first game against the Buckeyes.
Forcier's struggles doom olverines: Blue 'D' shines,


ByCOURTNEYRATKOWIAK "had to get the seniors to a bowl
Daily Sports Editor game," but after throwing three
straight interceptions in the fourth
Wif-'k qu2r-trone -naic-0igan,- o--oes put

With 33 seconds left in another
miserable Michigan football sea-
son, the freshman quarterback who
was hailed as Michigan's savior just
two months ago stood red-eyed on
the sideline.
Running back Mike Shaw had
something to say about that. He
marched up to Tate Forcier, gripped
the sides of the freshman's helmet
with both hands and forced him to
listen.
Keep your head up, Shaw told
Forcier. You're young, and you have
a lot of work to do. Work hard.
The game ended, but neither
moved. Shaw gave his quarterback
a few last words and a hug before
leaving to face the postgame locker
room scene.
"I told him, he's a freshman. This
is his team," Shaw said. "Rebuild-
ing is over. Michigan is gonna be
back."
The freshman who led his
team to two early-season,
last-minute comebacks ended .
his team's chances forpne when
it needed it most - in Saturday's
21-10 loss to Ohio State. Forcier's
mantra this week was that he

quarter, the Michigan coaches put
Denard Robinson behind center as
the 5-7 season wound down.
Offensive coordinator Calvin
Magee's postgame talk with Forcier
sounded similar to Shaw's.
"These exact
words: It's -
tough. You
gonna hurt. ' .
But you got
to learn

from it," Magee said. "Now he has With a little more than 13 min-
time to sit back, see it, study more, utes left in the game, Forcier
get his coverages"imore and learn loked ready to lead another come-
from those mistakes." . , , , from-behind effort. He started the
The freshman finished the game drive by throwing the ball to red-
23-of-38 for 226 yas, and looked.shirt freshman wide receiver Roy
much more effective on paper than Roundtree, who made an excellent
Ohio State's Terrelle Pryor (9-of-17, play by finding a hole for a 43-yard
67 yards). But after factoring in five gain. But two plays later, at the
Forcier turnovers - four intercep- Ohio State 35-yard line on third
tions and a fumble that gave Ohio down, Forcier overthrew a pass to
State its first touchdown - the the 10-yard line. Buckeye defensive
Michigan offense disappointed. back Kurt Coleman intercepted the
It was a sharp departure from ball with a leaping catch to endthe
last week against Wisconsin, when Michigan drive.
Forcier had one of his better games The Michigan defense then
of the year, finishing 20-of-26 with forced the Buckeyes to go three-
188 yards, two touchdowns and and-out, and down two scores with
one interception. But the 10 minutes left, the Wolverines got
missed red zone oppor- the ball back at midfield and drove
tunities were again a it to the Ohio State 6-yard line. But
problem - Michigan con- with the maize-and-Mue faithful in
verted on just one of its the Big House ready to celebrate,
three chances Saturday. Forcier faked and then threw the
The Wolverines converted on ball to Ohio State cornerback Devon
a d'ismal 66 percent of their red Torrence. That drive proved to be
zone chances this season, good Michigan's last real chance for seal-
for dead last in the Big Ten. ing bowl eligibility, and Forcier left,
"We had to settle for field the field visibly rattled.
goals and we turned the ball "You can't be excited on one play
over," redshirt junior offensive when he scrambles and finds a guy
lineman Steve Schilling said. "It for a touchdown, and then he does
hurts when you're so close. It's a it again and throws a pick," Magee
rough one." See FORCIER, Page 3B

~offense falter s

. y MIC AEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Fourteen points.
Michigan's defense - statisti-
cally worse than 81 others in the
country - held No. 10 Ohio State
to just a pair of touchdowns Sat-
urday. After the unit gave up 26,
30, 25, 38, 38 and 45 points in
its six other Big Ten losses, the
defense played its best in its big-
gest game of the season.
But the Wolverine offense sur-
rendered another score on a fum-
ble in the end zone, and freshman
quarterback Tate Forcier's four
interceptions ended any hopes
Michigan had at winning a bowl-
clinching sixth game.
"When you hold a team- like
Ohio State to 14 points, you
expect to have a little bit better
result than you did today," red-
shirt sophomore defensive tackle
Ryan Van Bergen said.
Tears flowed freely in the lock-
er room afterward.
The team's two senior defen-

sive starters, defensjve end
Brandon Graham and linebacker
Stevie Brown, had nothing more
left after 60 minutes of rousing
football.
They are the third straight
class to graduate without beating
Ohio State.
"I feel really bad for them -
even more so because they're my
class," redshirt junior linebacker
Jonas Mouton said. "They left
here without ever beating Ohio
State, which you know is a ter-
rible thing."
The 21-10 loss is the Wolver-
ines' sixth in a row to the Buck-
eyes.
With eight defeats in the
2000s, the series is now the most
lopsided since Fielding Yost's
Michigan teams beat Ohio State
nine times in the 1900s.
"It's not so much disappoint-
ment as - I don't want to say
regret - but we just want another
shot to keep going," fifth-year
senior center David Moosman
See DEFENSE, Page 3B

MEN'S BASK ETBALL
Sims' hot hand leads
Michigan over Huskies

'M' ends five-game skid in series split

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
After struggling through much
of Friday's opening half against
Houston Baptist, the Michigan
basketball team went to a likely
source to find a cure - forward
DeShawn Sims.
But it wasn't from the senior
forward's usual spot in the post.
As 16th-ranked Wolverines
pulled away from the Huskies in
the second half en route to a 77-55
win, Sims's shooting from beyond
the arc ignited the team.
After the Wolverines missed 16
of their first 20 shots and allowed
the Huskies (0-4) to gain a five-
point lead, Sims finally got Michi-
gan (2-0) going. He spotted up
from the wing and nailed a three
to start the rally.
"I've been shooting the ball
great lately," Sims said. "That

zone really forced us to shoot
some threes today andI'm glad I
hit them."
Just . 20 seconds later, the
senior hit the same shot from the
same spot.
Aftfer it was clear that Sims had
the hot hand, his teammates kept
feeding him the ball, and Sims
made two more threes to end the
first half. He finished with five
total in the game.
The late first-half run helped
Michigan take a 41-29 lead into
the locker room.
"When he's hitting from the
outside, you have to look for him,"
freshman guard Darius Morris
said of Sims. "Once he hit them
back-to-back, you have to keep
looking for him, even if he miss-
es."
Sims finished the game shoot-
ing 7-of-18, including 5-of-8 from
See HUSKIES, Page 2B

By NICK SPAR
Daily Sports Writer
TOLEDO, Ohio - Going into
this weekend's home-and-home
series against Bowling Green, all
four of Michigan's wins had one
thing in common - three goals
before the first intermission.
And against the Falcons, the
Wolverines desperately needed
that type of quick start. No. 16
Michigan stood at 4-6 before the
start of the series - its worst ten-
game opening stretch in 23 years.
The team was also trying to
elude a five-game losing streak,
which would have been its longest
since 1988.
The Wolverines extended that
streak after losing in Friday's
game, but they did garner their
first win since Oct. 31 with a 4-1
victory Saturday.
Another three-goal first period
spurred Michigan's fifth win.
"That was huge," Michigan
coach Red Berenson said. "I
thought we had a quick start (on
Friday), but it never amounted

to enough. We got one goal and
then we gave up a goal, but we had
seven really good chances.
But on Saturday, the Wolverines
converted on those chances.
Junior winger Carl Hagelin
put the Wolverines (5-7-0) on the
board just over two minutes into
their first-ever game at Toledo's
Lucas County Arena with a tip-in
goal off of a Brandon Burlon shot.
Freshman A.J. Treais and senior
Brian Lebler also tallied goals in
the first period, as Michigan held a
3-1 lead and a 16-4 shot advantage
heading into the second period.
Neither team scored in the
middle stanza, but the Wolverines
imposed their will in the defensive
zone and held the Falcons to just
three shots.
And in the third period, with
a dangerous power play looming
for the Falcons, Michigan utilized
their conference-best penalty kill
to silence the Bowling Green threat
and put the game away.
"For once, we actually played all
60 minutes," Hagelin said. "In the
See FALCONS, Page 2B

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Junior Carl Hagelin fights for a loose puck in Michigan's 4-2 home loss Friday.

SENIOR SW R K
0. Veteran trio shines in final home match ' Wolverines' comeback effort falls short,
as No. 14 Michigan volleyball team awaits handing women's basketball team its first
NCAA Tournament bid. Page 2B. k loss of young season. Page 2B.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - November 23, 2009

HUSKIES
From page 1B
behind the are, for 22 points
and six rebounds. The senior
also reached a career milestone,
picking up his 500th rebound as
a Wolverine.
Though Harris led the team
in scoring (25 points), he was
inconsistent all night, shooting
just 8-of-21. But his free throws
kept Michigan in the game early
and he finished 8-of-11 from the
charity stripe.
The Huskies started the game
playing a 1-3-1 defense that gave
the Wolverines trouble. And
while Michigan, did get some
good looks in the opening min-
utes, the team didn't hit its
shots, making just 38 percent in
the game. Only Harris and Sims
finished the contest with more
than 10 points.
Michigan coach John Beilein

was concerned with his team's
interior defense and rebound-
ing. Houston Baptist's lead-
ing scorer, Mario Flaherty (17
points), picked up nine offensive
rebounds and turned most of
them into baskets. Overall, the
Huskies outrebounded Michi-
gan 52-39.
Beilein hopes the game's
opening minutes will be a teach-
ing tool, particularly as the team
heads to Lake Buena Vista, Fla.
this Thursday to battle Creigh-
ton in the Old Spice Classic.
"We haven't struggled in a
game since Oklahoma beat us
(last year), " Beilein said. "You
forget what it's like, and it's
important that we learn from
the experience of playing teams.
They were very aggressive and
it's certainly better than when
we would have just walked away
from somebody. We'll learn from
it."

CUIF REEDER/Daily
Ohio State fans celebrate after Saturday's win. The Buckeye faithful came out in full force for the game, and by the end of the game, were ouder than Michigan fans.
Too iTuc re Uin the Big House

Ynou all heard it. The first
time Ohio State fans
attempted the "O-H-
1-0" chantt
around the
massive bowl
of Michigan
Stadium,it was
drowned out in
an onslaught
of boos and
hatred. ANDY
By the end REID
of the fourth
quarter -
when it was
apparent that the Wolverines
would fall to their most hated
rival for the sixth consecutive
year - Michigan fans lacked the
energy and passion to dam the
flood of Buckeye joy.
"O-H-I-O" rang out in the Big
House, over and over, for what
seemed like half a century. The
signs came out - scarlet-and-gray
text reading "Rich Rodriguez,
we love you!" and "2,191 days and

counting" and "Another Buckeye
Championship" - to taunt the
Michigan faithful even more.
And following Tate Forcier's
fourth and fStal interception,
the enormous Ohio State fac-
tion began to chant, "This is our
house, this is our house."
And, you know what? For that
day, it was.
"It felt good," Buckeye receiver
Ray Small said. "Every time I've
been here I've celebrated after the
gamee. It felt kind of homey.
And the only people to blame
for that are Michigan fans. Those
who gave up on this season. Those
who sold their tickets on Stub-
Hub or EBay. Those who had the
audacity to sell their tickets to
the greatest rivalry in sport to the
opposing team's fares.
You know what happens when
a Michigan fan tries to scalp a
ticket in Columbus? The seller
looks you up and down, surveys
your maize-and-blue attire and
succinctly says, "Fuck you." He

turns around and tries to sell to
someone else.
Buckeye fans apparently didn't
meet the same resistance Satur-
day.
I can't count the number of
Brutus the Buckeye dolls I saw
or the number of times I heard
that "Hang on Sloopy" song when
I walked around the tailgating
scene at Ann Arbor Pioneer.
But having that many Ohio
State fans in Michigan Stadium is
downright embarrassing.
The entire south end zone
looked be red. Maybe the Buckeye
fans' attire just stood out that
ruch, but the rest of the stadium
seemed- to e housing a lot of
Buckeye fans, too. A member of
the Athletic Department said it
reminded him of the 1969 game in
that aspect, with the sheer num-
ber of people making the trip up
from Columbus.
And that's pretty much the only
way in which Saturday's contest
resembled the famous 1969 game.

When the Buckeyes trotted
over to their fanbase in post-
game celebration - a sight that's
become all too familiar after eight
home losses in the last two years
- they sang the fight song and
swayed to the alma mater as if the
game had been played in Ohio Sta-
dium. It might as well have been.
I will give credit to the student
section, which came out in full
force, but the rest of the stadium
was absolutely unacceptable.
I realize the team sucked this
year, to put it bluntly. But this
was Michigan-Ohio State, and
it ended up being a pretty good
game, despite five offensive turn-
overs.
To see that much red in Michi-
gan Stadium was embarrassing,
simple as that.
And if you sold your ticket this
weekend, you were part of the
problem.
-Reid can be reached at
andyreidumich.edu.

Lehigh too much for
'M'in first dual meet
Wolverines struggle one more match, when redshirt
junior and team captain Antho-
to wrestle fr full - ny Biondo defeated Lehigh's Joe
seven minutes in loss Kennedy 6-4.
Still, the Wolverines struggled
even when they won.
By AMY PARLAPIANO "Anthony Biondo won the
For The Daily match, but he stopped wrestling
when he got the lead," McFarland
During the No. 21 Michigan said. "That's been a problem that
men's wrestling team's first dual I need to fix. You have to compete
match of the season yesterday, for seven minutes."
both the crowd and the Michigan On the whole, Michigan lacked
bench chanted two words: "Keep aggressiveness and toughness
wrestling." yesterday. When the Wolverines
But the Wolverines couldn't got behind, they seemed to lose
stage a comeback. An inability to spirit.
capitalize in scoring situations "It's the effort and being a
led to a disappointing defeat, competitor and a warrior when
21-9, to No. 14 Lehigh. you get on the mat," McFarland
Though there was a strong said. "And some of our guys just
turnout of maize-and-blue-clad didn't step up tonight."
fans, some even donning claws, Sophomore captain Zac' Ste-
Michigan didn't give them much vens (133 pounds) was one of the
to cheer about. few who did step up, winning his
Freshman Sean Boyle (125 early match 7-5 to tie the score
pounds) lost the first match 4-0, at 3-3. Unlike many of his team-
and the team went on to lose mates' matches, Stevens was in
three of the four next matches control much of the entire bout.
to go down 12-3 at intermission. "Zac stayed aggressive,"
Despite pleas from their bench, McFarland said. "He's got that
the Wolverines simply couldn't great toughness and that's what
wrestle strongfor the entire seven it takes to win matches. I've got
minutes of a match. guys that didn't do that tonight,
"We had guys that, when and in the end, it cost us."
things got tough, they didn't The Wolverines have a chance
respond," Michigan coach Joe to show they have learned
McFarland said. their lesson when they travel
Things looked like they might to Guilderland, N.Y. on Sunday
turn around when redshirt for three sets of duals against
junior Aaron Hynes (165 pounds) Bloomsburg, American and
came out after the intermission Penn. McFarland hopes that this
and defeated Lehigh's Brandon weekend his team learned that
Hatchett in overtime. they need to stay focused both
Hyne's resilience electrified when they're behind and when
the building as he worked his way they're ahead.
back and earned a takedown with "I want my kids winning in the
30 seconds remaining to win the third period," McFarland said. "I
match and cut Lehigh's lead to want my kids winningthose tough
12-6. matches like Aaron Hynes did. It
But the rest of his teammates goes into overtime, I want my kids
couldn't keep up the momentum. winning because I want my kids
Michigan went on to win only feelingthatthey deserve to win."

From page 1B
Falcons: quick start propels'M'

last period, we showed a lot of
character killing off that penalty.
... You can hear the guys in the
locker room (after the game) -
we're all excited."
But the Wolverines weren't as
lucky in the series' opening game.
In Friday's loss, Michigan
struck first with an impressive
goal by junior center Louie Capo-
russo - just his second of the sea-
soil.
He weaved through the Bowl-
ing Green defense on the power
play and slipped a backhand past
Nick Eno.
Then, the Falcons (2-9-1) tied
the game with just over a minute

left in the first period. But the goal.
Wolverines recaptured the lead Within the next 2:22, they
with a Robbie Czarnik wrist-shot scored two more goals off of weak
goal over Eno's defensive zone
glove late in the coverage and
second frame. poor rebound
Lee Mof- "You can hear the control by
fie and Steve Michigan goalie
Kampfer each guys in the locker Bryan Hogan.
took penal- Stunned, the
ties early in the room ... tney're Wolvertres wat-
third period, nessed their
and that's when all excited." one-goal lead
Bowling Green turn into a
took control. two-goal deficit
Nine seconds within a matter

gan hockey," Caporusso said.
"Michigan isn't known to lose five
in a row.
"It doesn't sit well. It doesn't
feel good to belong to a team that
is not playing Michigan hockey-
caliber."
The Wolverines returned to
form with the decisive win on
Saturday, but that win was over a
Bowling Green team that had won
just one game this year prior to
this weekend.
The Wolverines still haven't
defeated a ranked team this sea-
son and find itself in an unfamiliar
spot, under .500 this far into the
season.

Like The Daily but can't stand
reading anything over 140
characters long?
We have the perfect solution.
@michdailysports.

after the Kampfer penalty, the Fal- of minutes.
cons tied the game with a 5-on-3 "Obviously, (that wasn't) Michi-


0

On Senior Night, Blue grabs key three-set victory

.Am.

Paz
wa
NC
For,
Rood,
ending
With
sota tie
Friday'
Rood s
two po
the Gol
"To
come b
legitte
us bad
proud
Michig
Thrc
Michig
all) co
sive att

and Rood lead the block on the outside, which ranks
y as Wolverines second in the conference. Early in
the first set, the 12th-ranked Gold-
move closer to en Gophers centered their block-
ers on sophomore Alex Hunt, the
AA Tournament Wolverines'hitting leader heading
into the match.
Knowing that, the coaching
By MARK BURNS staff wanted the team to "bal-
Daily SportsWriter ance out the offense," according
to senior right side hitter Megan
Juliana Paz and Veronica Bower.
Senior Night was a fitting Michigan did just that, catching
the Gophers off guard with hits
Michigan and Minne- from the right side off of slide sets
ed at 25 in the .third set of and back sets.
s volleyball game, Paz and Bower finished with six kills
cored the Wolverines' final and Rood with eight.
ints in a three-set sweep of In the third frame, the Wolver-
den Gophers. ines were down 24-20 with the
come back in game one and game on the line. But led by Paz
ack in game three against a and Rood, the team clawed its way
am- and (Minnesota) beat back.
at their place -,I'm just The duo was responsible for
of how our kids played," Michigan's last seven points en
an coach Mark Rosen said. route to its fifth consecutive win.
eughout the entire match, After the sweep of Minnesota (13-
an (12-6 BigTen, 24-7 over- 5, 22-8), the two, along with Bower
nstantly shifted its offen- and senior Cassie Petoskey, were
ack to combat Minnesota's honored with a video tribute.

The Wolverines have two more
regular-season matches on the
road next week against Ohio State
and Penn State. Rosen said his
team is peaking at the right time as
it heads into the final weekend of
the regular season and the NCAA
Tournament.
"We talk about this every year
"It's great to
send our seniors
out on such a
good note."
that the sign of a good team is
playing your best volleyball at the
end of the year, and we're play-
ing and competing the best right
now," Rosen said. "That tells me0
these kids are doing the right
thing, and we're going in the right
direction."

TOREHAN SH ARMAN/Dal
Senior Juliana Paz ard senior Veronica Rood Ied a comeback in game three against Minnesota to complete the sweep. The Wol
verines won on Senior Night and moved closer to securing an at-large bid in the NCAA Tournament for the fourth straight year.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

November 23, 2009 - 3B

GAME
Frst Down
Rush/Tds
passing Yards
Corp/ATA/ItS
Offensive Play
Total Offense
Kick resturn/ YdSR
Punt returns/ Yds
Punrs/Avg
Fumbles/Lost
Penalt s/Yads
PASSING/
Forciers
Robins..on, D.
Totals
RUSHING
**
Sh-w
0* s g
RECEIVING
Player , N
Mathews
Smith, V.
Grady, Km.
Hemingway
13rom.C
Shaw
Totals 2
PUNTING
PMayer N
Totals
KICKOFF RETURNS
Playsr I
Stonum
Totals
PUNT RETURNS
PIFFI,
Plaer
Odoms
Totals
TACKLES
Play.,
BI N
Graham
Ron
VaP Begen
Campbell
Blinks
Herr..
PASSING
Player
Pry.r,
Totals
RUSHING
player A
H-ronD. 1
RECEIVING
Posey
Totals 5
PUNTING
Player N
Thoma 5
Toi q
K1KIFRETURNS
Playr I
Totals
PUNT RETURNS
Player I
Sma
Total
TACKLES
Homan
Hine,
Roslle
Worthington
Spitler

Coleman
William
Chekwa~
Heyward
Wilson
Oliver
Denlinger
Small -

STATISTICS
OhioSa te Michigan
PR 16
S3/2SS 31/8U
67 229
9/17/1 25/42/4
70 73
318 309
2/39 3/63
2/9 4/6
9/37.9 6/38.2
1/P 3/1
6/0 3/25
32:5N 27:04

Warren says he'll come back

M I C H I G A N
C-A Yds
23/38 226
2/4 3
25/42 229

TD
1

Int
4a
0
4'

Att
7
6
31
No.
9
6
3
2'
1
1
1
25

Yds
31
32
7
10
80
Yds
116
67
28
7
10
6
5
-4
.6
229

Avg
1.0
1.7
26
Avg
124
11.1
9.3
3.5
5.0
-4.0
-6.0
9.2

Lg TD
10 0
5 0
11 0
17 0
Lg TD
43 0
23 0
18 1
5 0
10 0
5 0
0 0
0 0
43 1

No. Yds Avg Lg
6 258 43.0 53
6 258 43.0 53

No. Yds
3 63
3 63

Avg Lg TD
21.0 36 0
21.0 36 0

No. Yds Avg Lg TO
2 0 0.0 1 0
2 6 3.0 5 0
4 6 1.5 5 0
Solo Asst Tot
3 6 9
5 2 7
5 2 67
3 4 57
5 1 26
1 4 5
2 1 13
1 1 2
H1 0 1T
9- 1 67 1 1
9-17 67 1 1
Att Yds Avg Lg TO
19 96 5.1 23 0
s3 2s1 4. 29 1

By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
During Ohio State week, Dono-
van Warren decided he wanted
one more shot at the Buckeyes.
Following Michigan's 21-10 loss
to No. 10 Ohio State, the junior
cornerback was asked if he would
return next season instead of leav-
ing to enter the NFL Draft early.
"Uh, yeah," he said before
turning to sign autographs out-
side Michigan Stadium.
Warren may have been caught
up in the
moment after NOTEBOOK
the game, but he
sounded much less certain about
his future at last Monday's press
c conference.
"I'm going to look into where
I stand," Warren said on Nov. 16.
"If it's the best thing for me to
do for my family, then I'll have to
decide that. But if it's not, then I'll
be here helping Michigan."
Easily the Wolverines' most
talented member of the class of
2011, Warren was tied this season
for fifth in the Big Ten in inter-
ceptions (four) and was sixth in
pass breakups (seven).
ESPN.com's NFL DraftTracker
has the 6-foot, 185 pounder listed
as the No. 4 cornerback and the
42nd-best prospect, making him
a potential second-round pick.
Throughout the Wolverines'
defensive woes this season War-
ren remained a stabilizing force.
Should he enter the draft, he
would leave a young and inex-
perienced secondary in an even
worse position.
Big Ten opponents outscored
the Wolverines this season 266-
177, with many of those points
coming off big plays downfield
that were made possible by the
secondary's mistakes. Michigan
is set to return its entire back
four, but without Warren, a year
of experience may not be such a
step forward.
FORCIER
From page lB
said of Forcier's inconsistency.
"You can't praise one and be mad
at him on the other one. You just
kind of teach on both of those."
Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez re-emphasized after the
game that it is a rarity for true
freshmen to play at the college
level, let alone as a starting quar-
terback. And next year, Forcier
will be likely be the poster child
for what experience can do for a
team.
But for now, the decision to
put Robinson in for Saturday's
final five minutes showed that
even after a year of experience,
Rodriguez may still be looking for
an answer at quarterback during
crunch time. The Robinson-led
offense went three-and-out on
Michigan's final offensive drive.
He finished with 31 yards rushing
on 10 attempts, and was just 2-of-
4 for three yards in the air.
"The boy was bouncing off the
walls the last three or four weeks,
inching to play, wanting to play.
And we just wanted to utilize him
today," Magee said of Robinson.
"I think we used him how we
wanted to, how we planned to."

Warren clearly understands
how Michigan's 5-7 season will
affect his future.
"I feel like I'm right up there
with some of the best in the coun-
try, but a lot of times, it's not a
matter of individually, it's a mat-
ter of the team's success," Warren
said. "But personally, I feel like
I'm one of the top in the country
with my confidence and just my
ability."
Senior defensive end Brandon
Graham was in Warren's shoes
last year - the talented junior
contemplated leaving for the NFL
after the Wolverines' woeful 3-9
performance. But Graham elect-
ed to stay another year to help
rebuild a program and, as he puts
it, "not grow up too fast."
Although Graham's senior
year fell short of his expectations
DEFENSE
From page 1B
said. "We tried our hardest. We
gave it our all."
For the seniors walking U the
Michigan Stadium tunnel one
last time, it was the hardest climb
in the 5-7 rollercoaster season.
But when they ran out on the
field before the game, it was clear
the defense and its leaders were
ready for a special game.
"They were inspired," red-
shirt junior Stephen Schilling
said. "We kind of knew they were
going to have a big game."
Graham moved into second
on Michigan's career tackles-
-for-loss list with a sack and four
takedowns behind the line of
scrimmage. Two of them came in
the third quarter with Ohio State
poised to score. Graham barely
seemed to notice the offensive
tackle in his path.
And swarmingbehind him was
Brown.
Three of the linebacker's seven
tackles Saturday came on third
down. Overall, the Wolverines
stopped the Buckeyes on 11, of 15
third downs.
"I'm glad for Brandon Graham
and Stevie Brown and the seniors

without a bowl appearance and
an abysmal U-7 Big Ten record, his
25 tackles for loss and 9.5 sacks
garnered him attention from NFL
scouts and bolstered his image.
He's projected as the 24th-best
prospect in the first round by
ESPN NFL Draft analyst Mel
Kiper.
Warren said Te must get bigger,
faster and stronger to compete at
the next level. Like Graham, the
extra yearlof college football would
do him more help than harm.
"The game has slowed down
a lot, but for it to slow dowiT a
lot more, and just evei slower,
another year would definitely
help," Warren said.
RECEIVER UNION: During the
final minutes of Saturday's loss,
Greg Mathews sat solemnly on TAn
equipment chest on the sideline.
on the defense that we were able
to come out and play a pretty full
game together like we did," Vanl
Bergen said. "I have no bad feel-
ings towards the way our defense
played."
Mouton, who has played
inconsistently all year, uncharac-
teristically led Michigan with 11
tackles and picked off Ohio State
quarterback Terrelle Pryor's first
pass in the second half. S
The turnover temporarily
sparked the offense, which took
advantage of the turnover t-
score its only touchdown of
the game.
Freshman running back
Vincent Smith's 18-yard
reception was just the Wol-
verines' second touchdown
in three years against the
Buckeyes.
Highly touted junior cor-
nerback DoAiovall Warren,
who said after the game that
he would be back with the
Wolverines next year, post-
ed seven tackles and tipped
Pryor's intercepted pass.
And two walk-ons - line-
backer Kevin Leach and
safety Jordan Kovacs - were
second and third in tackles.
"We did our assign-
ments," Van Bergen said,

Junior Donovan Warren pursues Ohio State's Terrele Pryor on Sunda

aCk racked p seven tackles Saturday-
Redshirt freshman slot receiver
Roy Roundtree walked over and
gave the senior wide receiver one
last gametime high five.
Roundtree had just completed
his second 100-yard receiving per-
formance this season. Mathews,
meanwhile, finished his Michigan
career without ever reaching the,
century mark.in a gaie.
When Roundtree arrived at
Michigan, Mathews immedi-
ately took the Trotwood, Ohio
native under his -wing. This sea-
son, Roundtree displayed mTuch
of the same promise Mathews
shlwed as a sophomore when lie
played behind former Wolverines
Mario Manningham and Adrian
Arrington.
After sophomore Martavious
Odoms was injured In the second
half of the season, Roundtree filled
describing the change in the
defense this week. "We put a lot
more time into it and we had a
lot more cleaner game as far as
assignment football. When you
do that, you're always going to
be a little bit better, and I think
that's what was the big differ-
ence tod ay."
The Wolverines held Ohio
State to fewer yards than any of
their other Big Ten opponents.
Just two of the Buckeyes'
drives lasted longer than six

in effortlessly. He finished as the
Wolverines' leading receiver with
32 receptions and 424 yards.
At just 170 pounds, Roundtree
will need to bulk up if he wants to
transition to an outside receiver,
as some suspect he will next sea-
son. Should lie move, he would fill
Mathews' spot.
"It's just working in the weight
- room in the offseason," Round-
tree said. "I'm really going to
pick up some more weight. I don't
know if they'll put me outside or
keep me at the slot, but I'm going
to be ready for next year."
BOREN BLUNDERS: If one
Buckeye was bound to receive
a harsh welcome, it was Justin
Boren.
Saturday's game marked the
former Wolverine's first return
to the Big House since he played
against Ohio State in 2007. Boren
transferred after Rich Rodri-
guez was named Michigan's head
coach, and as he left the program,
he famously talked about the
team's "eroding family values."
Boren received his fair share of
Rack from the Michigan fans and
players. But after the game, he
seemed as calm as ever.
"He was a bigger man by not
turning around and not giving ST
to whoever was taking shots at
him," Ohio State center Michael
Brewster said.
Saturday's game was the first in
the Big House for Boren's younger
brother, Zach, a freshman for the
Buckeyes. And Brandon Graham
wasn't letting the brothers off
easy.
"I said, 'Yeah boys, y'all got
hard hitting,' " Graham said.
"Because when we made that
tackle on Pryor, I don't know
what happened, but I seen Boren,
he bump into (his brother), and I
was like, 'Yeah Boren, you still,
you still a Michigan Man, you still
trying to tackle Ohio State play-
ers.' But I tried to joke around a
little bit."
plays.
But as good as Michigan's
defense was, the scarlet-and-gray
one was better.
After the Wolverines crept
within four points, Ohio State
held Michigan to a three-and-
out, intercepted three passes
- includingone in the end zone -
and forced a turnover on downs
to end the game.
Somehow, in the end, those
fourteen points were just too
much for Michigan.

No.
5
2
1
9

Yds
38
17
11
67

Avg
7.6
8.5
11.0
74A

Lg
13
12
1
13

TD
0
0
0


o. Yds Avg L
9 347 38.6 54
9 347 38.6 5
No. Yds Avg g TD
2 39 19.5 22 0
No, Yds Avg tg TD
2 9 4.5 7 0
2 9 4s 7 0

Solo
5
4
3
3
4
1
2
1
1
1
0
1
1
0
. i
i
t
1
0
0
0

Asst
7
5
6
4
1
4
2
3
3
3
3
1
1
2
0
0
0
0

Tot
12
9
9
7
5
5
4
4
4
4
3
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

H--, OK

Jayhawks too much for Michigan

BIG TEN
STANDINGS
Team B - BigTen Overall
Ohio State 7-2 10-2
Iowa 6-2 10-2
Penn State 6-2 10-2
Wisconsin 5-3 8-3
Northwestern 5-3 8-4
Michigan State 4-4 6-6
Purdue 4-4 5-7
Minnesota 3-5 6-6
Ilinois 2-6 3-7
Michigan 1-7 5-7
Indiana 1-7 4-8
Big Ten Results
Ohio State 21, Michigan 10
Penn State 42, Michigan St. 14
Purdue 38, Indiana 21
Northwestern 33, Wisconsin 31
lowa 12, Minnesota 0
WRITE FOR
DAILY SPORTS.
ANDYREID@UMICH.EDU

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Five minutes into the second
half of yesterday's game, the
Michigan women's basketball
team cut No. 19 Kansas' lead to
four.
But after rallying from a
17-point halftime deficit, the
Wolverines' surge didn't equal
success. Michigan lost to the
Jayhawks 77-66 in Lawrence,
Fsan., for its first loss of the sea-
son.
The Wolverines shot nearly
50 percent from behind the
arc in the second half, but it
wasn't enough to make up for
the defensive mishaps that
snapped the team's three-game
win streak.
"Defense is something that
helps you win the game," junior
guard Veronica Hicks said. "I
think our effort was there, but
we made mistakes and they were
able to capitalize on them."
Yesterday's game in Allen
Fieldhouse marked the Wolver-
ines' first on the road this sea-
son. It was also the first meeting
between the teams in program
history.
The game offered the Wolver-
ines a chance to see what kind

of competition they could be
up against once Big Ten season
begins.,
"I think it put us in a good
situation, because the first three
games we didn't face this, where
we were coming back from a
deficit," Hicks said. "Losing and
coming back, and we had some
bright spots in there and that's
all a part of what we are doing.
That's something that we need
to do."
For a team known for its
strong defensive ability last sea-
son, yesterday's performance
was uncharacteristic. Michigan
coach Kevin Borseth knows all
too well that half-court bas-
ketball is dangerous, but in the
past, he has had to worry about
a lack of offensive performance,
not defensive.
"You've got to get early
offense because it's too hard to
just play half-court basketball
for 40 minutes," Borseth said
after Michigan's first win of
the season against Ball State,
in which the Wolverines were
impressive on offense, "We tried
that for the last two years, and it
was hard for us."
But against Kansas, defense
was the problem.
The effort was there, but

Kansas capitalized on too many
Michigan mistakes.
"We were just passing up easy
stopping and our defense was
not what we expected it to be,"
freshman guard Dayeesha Hol-
lins said. "That's pretty much
how we lost.
"We were just having a hard
timne rotating, and wherever
their main scorer was, we just
weren't.'
It was Hollins's first collegiate
away game, and she struggled to
call plays above the loud oppos-
ing crosid.
But Michigan's comeback
effort could be promising for the
future.
Although they couldn't stop
a 21-11 run by Kansas with less
than 15 minutes remaining in
the second half, the Wolverines
learned from their season's first
deficit.
in addition to struggling
defensively, rebounds proved a
challenge for the teai, with the
exception of freshman guard
Jenny Ryan's career-high eight.
Redshirt senior Ashley Jones
contributed six rebounds.
Michigan has a long road
ahead, with seven more away
games before they return to
Crisler.



4B - November 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN

MAIZE GAUGE
MESK-Q-METER

The Michigan Daily football writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Mesk-o-Meter measures the success of special teams, the Rod-o-Meter
ludges how emotional (positive or negative) Rich Rodriguez was following the game and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance
ROD-O-METER HYPE-O-METER

Poor Jason Olesnavage. The fifth-year senior kicker was
4 1-of-4on field goals 26 yards or shorter, and 10-of-11on
Zoltans field goals 27 yards or more. Had he made that 24-yarder in
first quarter, it would have been an entirely different game.
Also, we're sad to see Zoltan Mesko leave, which means
he's taking the student section's 'Z' hand motion with him.

2,4 Rich Rodriguez was alittle bit snappy and very frustrated
during Saturday's press conference. He seemed tired
4 of answering the "What is your timetablefor success?"
Rich Rods questions and curtly answered questions about the
status ofthisjob safety. Of course, that's bound to hap-
pen after missing a bowl for the second straight year.

2 MichiganStadium was the loudest it has been all season, but
we couldn't help but think that was because ofthe enormous
g number of OSU fans in attendance. So much for being all
Big Houses
in for Michigan. We were also happy to see the traditional
blow-up penis in the student section, which is worthy of
one Big House. But that's it. Stop selling your tickets.

LOOKING GOOD FEELING BLUE I PLAY OF THE GAME

CLIF REEDER/Daily
DEFENSIVE END BRANDON GRAHAM
There's really nothing more to say about one of
Michigan's greatest defensive players ever. But we
have space, so we'll try to do him justice. Graham
finishes-his career second all-time in career sacks,
tackles for loss and forced fumbles. He also leads the
country with 25 tackles for loss. Everyone will miss
him next season, but can still watch him on Sundays.

SAID ALSALAH/ Daily
QUARTERBACK TATE FORCIER
Before the OSU game, Forcier said he would do
anythingto make sure Michigan's seniors made a
bowl. He added he'd spend 10 extra hours watching
film just to get the win. Well, maybe the 11th hour was
the critical one. Forcier had five turnovers against
OSU, including a fumble for a TD and an interception
in the end zone. That's going to be a long offseason.

0


NOTABLE
QUOTABLE
I talked to his brother,
too. I said, 'Yeah boys,
y'all got hard hitting.'
Because when we made
that tackle on Pryor,
I don't know what
happened, but I seen
Boren, he bump into
(his brother), and I
was like,'Yeah, Boren.
You still, you still a
Michigan Man. You still
trying to tackle Ohio
State players.'
- Defensive end Brandon Graham on
what he said to former Wolverine and
current OSU0 -lineman Justin Boren.

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP 10 POLL
The Michigan Daily Top'10 returns for its final installment this season. Each week, Daily Sports
staffers will fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10 points, second-place votes
receivingnise,"and sso The results are published with first-place soles is parentheses.
1. FLORIDA (4): Tim Tebow 6. BOISE STATE: Utah State
is now the SEC career TD fell to 1-51alltime against
leader. His son will likely be teams in the AP poll. See,
the next one to pass him. RichRod isn't that bad.
2. ALABAMA (3): FCS 7. OREGON: The Pac-10
games in November? Who really comes down to
do the Crimson Tide think Oregon-Oregon State? For
they are, Minnesota? a Rose Bowl bid?

3. TEXAS (2): Colt McCoy
earned his 43rd career
victory asa starter. Guess
Forcier won't catch up.

-.8. GEORGIA TECH: The
' Yellow Jackets now face
Georgia, who just lost to
Kentucky this week.

0

4. TCU: The last time the 9. PITTSBURGH: The
Horned Frogs started 11-0, Backyard Brawl and a
they won the National trip to Cincy seems like a
Championship. Hmmmm. peachy end to the season.
S. CINCINNATI:With a 10. OHIO STATE: Jim
bye week, hopefully Brian Tressel still wears a
Kelly was exercising while sweater vest. We hear
watching Charlie Weis lose. Ducks love Buckeyes.

W WAOi WWMOUEPF
SAID ALSAL AH/Daily
Freshman Tate Forcler threw three interceptions in the fourth quarter. He finished with five turnovers.

STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their
best to predict what happens Michael Ruth Courtney Andy
in the 2009 football season. Eisenstein Lincoln Ratkowiak IReid

Michigan (+12) vs. No.10 Ohio State
No.1 Florida (-45) vs. Florida International
No. 2 Alabama (NS) vs. Chattanooga
No. 3 Texas (-27.5) vs. Kansas
No. 4 TCU (-31.5) at Wyoming
No. 6 Boise State (-23) at Utah State
No. 8 LSU (-4) at Mississippi
No.11 Oregon (-6) at Arizona
No.12 Oklahoma State (-19) vs. Colorado
No.13 Iowa (-10) vs. Minnesota
No.14 Penn State (-3) at Michigan State
No.15 Virginia Tech (-21) vs. North Carolina State
No.16 Wisconsin (-7) at Northwestern
No.17 Stanford (-7) vs. No. 25 California
No.19 Oregon State (-30.5) at Washington State
No. 20 Miami (FL) (-19.5) vs. Duke
No.21 Utah (-23) vs. San Diego State
No. 22 BYU (-10) vs. Air Force
No. 23 Clemson (-21) vs. Virginia
No. 24 Houston (-23.5) vs. Memphis
Purdue (-3) at Indiana
Last Week
Overall

Michigan
Florida International
Alabama
Texas
Wyoming
Utah State
Mississippi
Oregon
Oklahoma State
Iowa
Penn State
Virginia Tech,
Northwestern
Stanford
Oregon State
Duke
Utah
Air Force
Virginia
Houston
Purdue
14-7
140-127-3

Michigan
Florida International
Alabama
Texas
Wyoming
Boise State
LSU
Arizona
Colorado
Iowa
Penn State
Virginia Tech
Wisconsin
Stanfprd
Oregon State
Miami
Utah
Air Force
Virginia
Houston
Purdue
14-7
139-128-3

Michigan
Florida International
Alabama
Texas
Wyoming
Boise State
LSU
Oregon
Colorado
Iowa
Penn State
Virginia Tech
Wisconsin
Stanford
Oregon State
Duke
San Diego State
BYU
Virginia
Houston
Purdue
14-7
141-126-3

Michigan
Florida International
Alabama
Texas
Texas Christian,
Boise State
LSU
Oregon
Colorado
Minnesota
Penn State
Virginia Tech
Wisconsin
Stanford
Washington State
Miami
Utah
BYU
Virginia
Houston
Purdue
13-8
126-141-3

Guest Picker:
Joel Posner
Ohio State
Florida International
Alabama
Texas
Texas Christian
Utah State
LSU
Oregon
Oklahoma State
Minnesota
Penn State
North Carolina State
Northwestern
Stanford
Washington State
Miami
San Diego State
BYU
Virginia
Memphis
Indiana
7-14
130-137-3

0

'S


I

,

is

i

Congratulations to Michigan Marching Band Drum Major David Hines, Jr. He beat us the most consecutive weeks (especially Andy Reid) and put the rest of you to shame. E-mail prize suggestions to lincolnr@umich.edu.

t
4


