DEBATING REFORM
With the health care debate heating up,
I two writers offer different takes on what
should matter to students.
SEE OPINION, PAGE 4

A LOT OF
HOT AIR

The Islands's latest
Vapours is pared down -
and there's nothing left.
SEE A T AGE 5

11 lifidc11a43n Da iIj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, September 22, 2009

FROM PENCILS AND PAPER TO PINTS AND POINTS

michigandaily.com
GOVER NING FACULTY
'U' amends
prof. travel
cost policy

JED MOCH/Daily
Every Monday night, former University Prof. Barry Aherne takes over the mic at Conor O'Neill's, an Irish pub on Main Street, to host trivia night.

CITY COUNCitL
Off0icials rebuff state

Changes come as a
surprise to faculty's
top governing body
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily Staff Reporter
After new changes to University
policy announced yesterday, fac-
ulty and staff will have to keep a
closer eye on how much they spend
while traveling for business.
At yesterday's meeting of the
Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs, the leading
faculty governing body, Provost
Teresa Sullivan presented policy
changes to the Standard Practices
Guide, which dictates University
policytoward faculty.
The major change "suddenly"
sprung on the faculty - as SACUA
Chair Michael Thouless, Pro-
fessor of Materials Science and
Engineering, described it - was a
revised travel policy for University
employees that will go into effect
Oct. 15.
The University reimburses fac-
ulty and staff for reasonable travel
and business expenses.
When the new policy goes into
effect, travel expenses will be pro-
vided via per diem - a pre-deter-
mined sum of money allocated for
the trip. That system represents a
shift from the way expenses had

been handled in the past, when
faculty and staff would put in
for Travel and Business Hosting
Expense Report to the Provost's
office, along with receipts from
lodging and transportation.
The per diemsystem also replac-
es purchasing cards - commonly
referred to as PCards - that the
University would issue to the fre-
quent travelers.
With the new system, employ-
ees will not need to keep track
of receipts for various expenses.
Instead, before employees can
receive the pre-determined sums,
a supervisor must approve their
trip's expenses.
Expenses that range between
$5,000 and $10,000 require
approval by the faculty member's
department chair or department
manager. Expenditures of more
than $10,000 require approval
from a chancellor, vice president
or dean.
Thouless said the per diem con-
cept sounds appealing,
Thouless said there is "a level
at which not keeping every single
receipt for every meal" is a better
way for the University to do busi-
ness.
But Thouless said in an inter-
view after the meeting that he
thinks faculty members are more
surprised than upset with the
changes because the Standard
See TRAVEL POLICY, Page 7

Co
Sta
mu
Cou
got sti
expert
meetin

uncil criticizes Ann Arbor Mayor John Hieftje
announced to council members
te plans to slash and the public that Kirk Profit, a
member of Governmental Con-
nicipal funding sultant Services,
cancelled his NOTEBOOK
By LARA ZADE presentation
Daily StaffReporter on the state's 2010 fiscal budget
because the state legislature was
mcil members and residents still in flux over its decision about
ood up by a state budget the budget plan and had no new
at last night's City Council developments to report.
ig. Later on in the meeting, after a

nearly 30-minute closed session,
Councilmember Leigh Greden
(D-Ward 3) announced that he
wanted to add a new resolution to
the agenda that opposed the 2010
state budget proposed by House
Speaker Andy Dillon and state
Senate Republicans.
The resolution, sponsored by
Councilmembers Margie Teall
(D-Ward 4), Marcia Higgins
(D-Ward 4) and Greden, expressed
CityCouncil's dissent over the pro-

budget
posed state budget, which would
"slash statutory revenue sharing
to Michigan municipalities by 30
percent," according to the resolu-
tion. That cut amounts to a loss
of approximately $1,200,000 per
year for the City of Ann Arbor, the
resolution shows.
The resolution further states
that the proposed budget would
prove harmful for Michigan
municipalities - including the
See CITY COUNCIL, Page 7


SAFETY STATISTICS
Property crime climbs in A,
as violent crime holds steady

U' officials crack down
on trademark violations

Local numbers
buck reported
national trends
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
Property crime in Ann Arbor
jumped 12 percent in 2008, while
violent crimes remained relative-
ly stable, dropping 1 percent when
compared to the 2007 figures,
according to the FBI.

In Washtenaw County, howev-
er, the number of violent crimes
reported to the sheriff's depart-
ment was up 59 percent and prop-
erty crime increased 8percent.
The figures come from the
FBI's Uniform Crime Report,
a collection of reported crimes
from city, county and state police
departments.
In the annual report, the FBI
separates reported crimes into
two main categories: property
crimes and violent crimes. Prop-
erty crimes include burglary,

larceny-theft, motor vehicle theft
and arson, while violent crimes
include aggravated assault, rob-
bery, forcible rape and murder.
In Ann Arbor, a 13 percent
spike in larcenies and an 8 per-
cent increase in burglaries were
the two driving factors for the
increase in property crimes.
A larceny differs from a bur-
glary in that a larceny involves
theft of property from a public
place, where a burglary is com-
mitted on private property.
See CRIME, Page 7

COMPARING CITY CRIME
How Ann Arbor's percentage change from last year stacks up to Washtenaw County and national figures

15
12
9

124%
3.80/(
-1.C00

KEY:
Property Crime
® Violent Crime
Allfiguresa percentage
changefrom 2007 to 2008.
-0.77% -1.90%,
Nation

Several student
groups forced to
alter names, logos
By ANNIE THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
While perusingthe many booths
at this year's Festifall, students may
have noticed that some student
groups looked a bit different.
Recently, University officials
have cracked down on student
organizations they say were
improperly using the University's
logo or name, causing some of the
most well-known campus groups
like Blood Battle and Dance Mara-
thon to change their names.,
Though the University adopted
the "official" Michigan logo - a
block 'M' - in 2002, officials only
recently started cracking down on
its use, according to Ruth Gretz-
inger, senior project manager
under the vice president for com-
munications.
Gretzinger said the enforcement
of the use of University trademarks
is a process that has been going on
for more than a year.
"It's a genesis of taking a look at
how students and other people are
using the mark and how they're
describing themselves," she said.
In an e-mail sent to all student
groups in April by the Office of
Student Activities and Leadership,
the University requested that those

associa
change
"The
Namin
dent o
Univer:
any det
its nam
studenr
Studen
wrote i
Spon
- ones
try
n
d
Studen
to use,
versity
affiliate
volunta
whichc
Thot
nizatio
of the
groups
departt
sity's m
"Wh
make"a
things

tions in violation of the rule parts of the University of Michigan
their name. and organizations that are associ-
Student Organization ated with the University but aren't
g Policy states that no stu- 'official' parts of the University,"
rganization may use 'The Gretzinger said. "The reasoning
sity of Michigan, 'U-M,' or was we wanted the student-spon-
rivative in the beginning of sored organizations to be able to
ie, unless it is a sponsored show that they were associated
t organization,"the Office of with the University."
t Activities and Leadership In order to help enforce the
n the e-mail. new policy University officials
isoredstudentorganizations are educating groups on the poli-
funded by the Michigan ies and provisions of the change
through websites and e-mails.
Gretzinger added that officials
would be willing to work with
That we were groups directly.
Mark Hindelang, assistant
ing to do was director of the Office of Student
Activities and Leadership,saidthat
ra e ltrhe e nomto apini
* n shiftfrom past procedure.
st~in t.ioni "In the past we've done just a
posting on a website and put it
inside of the recognition process,
so when students go through that
t Assembly - are allowed and create their student organiza-
certain aspects of the Uni- tions or renew their student orga-
s name since they are more nizations for each year, they see
ed with the University than those policies and regulations,"
try student organizations, Hindelang said.
do not receive funding. Many groups like Dance Mara-
ugh sponsored studentorga- thon, Blood Battle and the Col-
ns are allowed to use parts lege Democrats are changing
University's name, only their names this year, Hindelang
sponsored by a University said, because of the increased
nent can use the Univer- education efforts. He added that
sarks. many groups didn't need to make
at we were tryingto do was changes.
clear distinction between "We were approached by the
that are actually official See STUDENT GROUPS, Page 7

3
0
-3

- Ann Arbor

Washtenaw County

1 Source: 2008 FBI Uniform Crime Report


WEATHER HI 81
TOMORROW LO

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
'U' neurologist to head first ALS stem cell trial
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS ..................... 2 ARTS ...... ,. ,..............5
Vol CXX, No. 11 AP NEWS ..................... 3 CLASSIFIEDS.......... 6
O2009TheMichiganDaily OPINION............. 4 SPORTS..............
michigovdoilycom 4 S O T ................


0

2 - Tuesday, September 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

(T a Ifid~igan DAM
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-ease
graca@michigandailycom tmdbusines@nailtcom

0

A world-class collection on South U.

One afternoon, William L.
Clements Library volunteer Tom
Dziuszko spotted a political sci-
ence student looking over a copy
of the Federalist Papers before
class.
He was able to show her a bet-
ter copy.
Original copies of the Fed-
eralist Papers are just one of
the historical jewels the library
located on South University Ave-
nue houses. There are also eye-
witness accounts of the deaths
of Abraham Lincoln and George
Washington, a note from Fred-
erick Douglass that was carried
through the Underground Rail-
road and Christopher Colum-
bus's written report to Queen
Isabella and King Ferdinand of
his first expedition.
The earliest published piece
of writing in the library is from
1108, and the furniture seems

just as historic as the litera-
ture. With antique desks and
couches, the library itself looks
like it could've been Lincoln's
study.
The Clements Library, which
opened in 1923, was the gift of
the library's namesake, a Uni-
versity regent and alumnus. The
historical collection has more
than 75,000 rare books, 2,000
volumes of early newspapers,
40,000 maps and over 3,000
individual photos and manu-
scripts.-
The library attracts people
from across the world like
Pulitzer Prize winner David
McCullough who used the Cle-
ments Library archives to write
his book, "1776."
"The library may be more
famous internationally than it is
on South University," said Ann
Rock, the library's director of

development. "People come from
all over the world to see this. To
students, it is just a little build-
ing on South University."
On a good day, only 12 peo-
ple will be in the downstairs
research section of the library,
though sometimes, according
to Dziuszko, the exhibits draw
larger crowds.
In addition to historical arti-
facts, the library also has one
of the nation's largest culinary
collections - the Longone
Center for American Culinary
Research.
The library will close its
doors next school year and
will stay closed for a year and a
half while it undergoes its first
renovation since it was built 86
years ago. The University will
contribute $10 million to the
project.
- GRACELINBASKARAN

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
LetterstotheEditor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial.Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

officehours: S.-Thurs. 1a.m. - 2a.m.
news@icigandaiy.com
corrections@michigandaiy.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
photo@michigandaily.com
arsage@ichigandaily.com
opinios@mich~igandaily.com
spor-ts@michigandaily.com
disay@micigandaily.cox
classified@michigandaily.com
onliseads@michigandaily.com

0

WILL MOELLER/Daily
The Clements Library houses an impressive collection of historical arti-
facts. It currently features the exhibit "1759: Britain's Year of Victories."


CRIME NOTES
Parking sign Electrician's
swiped from lot tools lifted
WHERE: 300 Packard St. WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Sunday at about 11:45 WHEN: Yesterday at about
2:40 a.m.
a.m. WHAT: An electrician called
WHAT: A Park Rite employee to report his tools were stolen
reported a parkingsign stolen
from one of the company's Uni- sometime over the weekend,
versity contracted parking lots, University Police reported.
University Police reported. The The tools were stored in a cart
sign read, "Visitor Parking $15 on the third floor of the hospi-
Pay Attendant.,,tal. There are no suspects.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Career decision UPZ welcome BostonEmergencyMedical
1mTechnician Rhys Williams
workshop meeting I shot two of his friends and
WH AT: Doreen Muraskythen proceeded to adminis-
' WHAT: A meeting for those ter first aid to both of them,
Center for the Education of interested in joining the The Boston Globe reported.
Women senior counselor, Union of Progressive Zion- Rhys shot his friends who are
will give a talk on techniques ots.y
for career decision making. WHO: Hillel brothers, after he was kicked
WHO: Center for the Educa- WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m. out of a fundraiser.
tion of Women WHERE: Hillel
WHEN: Today at 1 p.m. TheUniversity holdsmore
WHERE: Center for the F u d ithan 1,900 remains arti-
Education of Women, 330 igure rawing facts claimed to be owned
East Liberty Street workshop by Native American tribes.
r >ORMORE, SEE PAGE4
Talk on LGBTQ WHAT: A workshop hosted

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSMiloVitZManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Mutt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Treor Calero, Jenna
Skoller,Kyle Swanson
ASSISTANTsNEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, Eshwar Thirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial PagetEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITOR IAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandailycom
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gnn Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje, Chris Meszaros, Ryan Podges
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandailycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTSEDITORS: Joshua Bayer,Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, DavidRiva
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOS:SaidAlsalah, ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Sam Wolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandailycom
Maoidn StyhManagine Phtdits
SENIOR PHOTOEDITOR: Allson sshaean
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKETINGMANAGER:MichaeliSchrotenboer
Ryan BUSinski Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
VivianLee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday duringthefall and winter
terms bystudentsattheUniversityo Michigan.One copy is avalable free of chargetoallreaders.
Additiona copies may be picked upat the Dalys officefor$2. Subscriptions for fallterm starting in
throuA prl )is5 Unvest ya iAat ares t r e sa m
subscriptionsfor falltermare$3s Subscriptionsmust be prepaid.The MichiganDailyisamembero
TheAssociatedPressandTheAssociatedCollegiatePress.

I

4

Pager stolen
from bench
WHERE: North Campus Rec-
reation Building
WHEN: Sunday at about 12 p.m.
WHAT: A student reported
his pager stolen after he left
it unattended on a bench for
about half an hour, University
Police reported. The pager was
valued at $50. There are no
suspects.

Another set of
items stolen
WHERE: Shapiro Undergradu-
ate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 2:45
p.m.
WHAT: A student reported
his backpack stolen after he
left it unattended on a table
for an hour, University Police
reported. The backpack and its
contents were valued at $120.

4

movement
WHAT: Dede Oetomo, the
founder of a gay rights organi-
zation inIndonesia, willbe on
campus to discuss the LGB-
TIQ movement in Indonesia.
WHO: Center for Southeast
Asian Studies
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: Room 1636, School
of Social Work Building

by the Lloyd Hall Scholars
Program featuring live mod-
els. Beginners are welcome.
WHO: Alice C. Lloyd Hall
WHEN: Tonight ateS p.m.
WHERE: Ground Floor Art
Studio
CORRECTIONS
Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

Transportation Security
Administration officials
confiscate an average of
1,000 pounds of banned items
at the Hartsfield-Jackson
Atlanta International Airport
every month, CNN reported.
Items that have some value
like knives and saws are often
put up for sale at auctions and
websites like Ebay.com.


U.S. looks to China for
North Korea progress

150,000 gay couples
report they're married

4

Obama, Asian allies
suggest direct U.S.-
North Korean talks
NEW YORK (AP) - The Obama
administration and its top Asian
allies agreed Monday that direct
U.S.-North Korean talks may be
the best way to bring North Korea
back to the nuclear negotiating
table, American officials said.
But they also suggested that
more groundwork needed to be
laid by China, North Korea's main
friend and benefactor, before
President Barack Obama would
decide to send his special North
Korea envoy, Stephen Bosworth,
to Pyongyang for such discus-
sions.
The officials spoke after talks
here between Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton and
senior Australian, Japanese and
South Korean diplomats on the
sidelines of the annual U.N. Gen-

eral Assembly session. They also
spoke as Obama prepared to see
Chinese President Hu Jintao on
Tuesday amid a trade dispute that
could complicate the diplomacy.
"The focus (was) on what can be
done to get North Korea back to the
six-party process," State Depart-
ment spokesman P.J. Crowley said
after Clinton's meetings.
"There was general agreement
and support for the idea that not
only the United States, but other
countries, might engage in bilat-
eral dialogue which would bring
North Korea back to the six-party
process," he told reporters.
The six-party process is the
effort by the U.S., China, Japan,
Russia and South Korea to per-
suade the North to abandon atomic
weapons and denuclearize the
Korean peninsula. North Korea
walked away from the talks to pro-
test criticism of a rocket launch
earlier this year.
Since then, the U.S. and its part-
ners have worked to get North

Korea back to the table. But they
have also tightened sanctions
against the Stalinist nation even
as the North seems to have made
conciliatory gestures, such as the
release of two detained American
journalists following a visit to the
country by former President Bill
Clinton.
China, which wields the most
outside influence of any coun-
try with North Korea, is widely
believed to hold the key for the
resumption in the stalled disar-
mament talks. A senior Chinese
official, State Counselor Dai Bin-
guo, visited Pyongyang last week.
Another, Premier Wen Jiabao,
expects to visit in early October.
"During these meetings, we
expect China to take a fairly clear
line about their desire to see North
Korea resume interactions as part
of a six-party framework," said
Kurt Campbell, the assistant sec-
retary of state for East Asian and
Pacific affairs who sat in on Clin-
ton's talks.

Significantlyhigher
than number of actual
weddings, civil unions
WASHINGTON (AP) - Nearly
150,000 same-sex couples reported
being in marriage relationships last
year, many more than the number
of actual weddings and civil unions,
according to the first U.S. census fig-
ures released on same-sex marriages.
About 27 percent of the estimated
564,743 total gay couples inthe Unit-
ed States said they were in a relation-
ship akin to "husband" and "wife,"
according to the Census Bureau tally
provided to The Associated Press.
That's compared with 91 percent of
the 61.3 million total opposite-sex
couples who reported being married.
A consultant to the Census Bureau
estimated there were roughly
100,000 official same-sex weddings,
civil unions and domestic partner-
ships in 2008.
Analysts said the disparities are

probably a reflection of same-sex cou-
ples in committed relationships who
would get married ifthey could in their
states. The numbers are also an indi-
cator of the count to come in the 2010
census, a tally that could stir a state-by-
state fight over same-sex marriage, gay
adoption andotherlegal rights.
Nationwide, about56 percent ofthe
149,956 total same-sex marriages in
the census survey last year were les-
bian couples. Same-sex spouses were
reported in every state;specific break-
downs weren't immediately available.
"Even though in 2008 there were
only a few states where you could get
legally married, a large portion of
same-sex couples either were mar-
ried or chose to use that term," said
Gary Gates, a demographer at UCLA
who is advising the Census Bureau.
Gatesreviewedthenumberofmar-
riage licenses issued and other factors
to estimate the number of same-sex
couples in legal relationships. During
2008,same-sexmarriage waslegal in
California, Massachusetts, Iowa and
Connecticut,whileahandfulofother

states recognized civil unions and
domestic partnerships. U.S. same-
sex couples also can marry in Canada
and other foreign countries.
Curtis Chin, 41, and Jeff Kim, 43,
of Los Angeles, are among those who
plan to report to the census that they
arespouses.Thetwowereplanninga
big wedding for 2009 but rushed into
aprivatelegalceremonylastfallwhen
it became clear that Californiavoters
would soon ban same-sex marriages.
Chin says he and Kim won't feel like
they are really married until they do a
follow-upceremonyinfrontoffamily
and friends but believe it's important
to get a full count.
"Gay couples are getting married
or in committed relationships, and
we are out here," he said.
The numbers come as the Census 4
Bureau prepares to make an official
count of same-sex marriages, unions
and partnerships for the first time in
the 2010 head count, following the
Obama administration's decision to
provide the numbers under pressure
fromgay-rightsgroups.

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 22, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
ANN ARBOR, Mich.
Stem cell trial for
ALS treatment gets
FDA OK
A University of Michigan neu-
rologistis the principal investigator
for the first human clinical trial of a
stemcelltreatmentforamyotrophic
lateral sclerosis.
Dr. Eva Feldman has worked
with a team of neurologists to
develop the protocol for injecting
neural stem into patients' spinal
cords. The cells are patented by
Neuralstem Inc., a Rockville, Md.-
based biotech company.
The U.S. Food and Drug Admin-
istration has approved Neural-
stem's plan to test the safety of the
treatment for the fatal, untreatable
neurodegenerative disorder com-
monly called Lou Gehrig's Disease.
The initial phase to determine
the safety of the treatment is to
take place at Emory University in
Atlanta.
ATLANTA,Georgia.
Storms flood
Southeast, killing 3
Floodwaters that swept across
the rain-soaked Southeast killed at
least three people and left five oth-
ers missing Monday, including a
Georgia toddler who disappeared
after a mobile home was split apart
by a swollen creek.
Three Georgia motorists died
when their vehicles were swept off
Atlanta-area roads, and some major
highways were submerged. Offi-
cials urged motorists to stay off the
roadsas anewline ofstormsthreat-
enedthe area.
Fast-moving water also swept
away a Tennessee man who went
swimming in an overflowing ditch
on adare.
Crews in northwest Georgia
worked furiously toshore up alevee
that had been breached and was in
danger of failing along the Chat-
tooga River. Hundreds were evacu-
ated in the small townofTrion, and
inmate crews were piling sandbags
along the levee wall.
"It's agrave situation forus," said
Lamar Canada, ChattoogaCounty's
emergency management director.
DENVER, Colorado
Govt. warns of
danger of mass
transit attacks
A judge ordered an Afghanistan-
born Colorado man who allegedly
received al-Qaida training and had
bomb-making instructions on his
computer to be held pending a de-
tention hearing Thursday, as the
government warned law enforce-
ment around the nation Monday
about the danger of an attack on
masstransit.
InvestigatorssayNajibullahZazi,
a 24-year-old airport shuttle driver,
played a direct role in an alleged
terror plot that unraveled during a
trip to New York City around the
anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.
He has been charged with lying to

the government in a matter involv-
ingterrorism.
Investigators said they found
notes on bomb-making instruc-
tions that appear to match Zazi's
handwritingon his laptop, and dis-
covered his fingerprints on materi-
als - batteries and a scale - that
couldbe usedto make explosives.
TEHRAN, Iran
Ahmadinejad proud
to have angered
West by denying
Holocaust
Iran's president said Monday he
is proud to stoke international out-
rage withhislatestremarks denying
the Holocaust as he heads for the
United Nations this week - show-
ing he is as defiant as ever while his
country comes under greater pres-
sure to curtail its nuclear program.
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad takes
the world stage with a speech
Wednesday to the U.N. General
Assembly. He appears intent on
showing he has not been weak-
ened by three months of turmoil at
home, where the pro-reform oppo-
sition has staged dramatic protests
claiming Ahmadinejad's victory
in June presidential elections was
fraudulent.
Ahmadinejad has a reason to try
topresenthisgovernmentasstrong:
On Oct. 1, Iran is to enter key nego-
tiations with the United States and
other powers seeking concessions
on Iran's nuclear program.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Pres. vows to
help colleges
Obama tours NY s"ce 1983.
Obama vowed that by 2020,
promises economic America will again have the world's
highest proportion of college gradu-
recovery ates. He said recent increases in
Pell Grants and a simplification of
TROY, N.Y. (AP) - Touting resil- financial aid processes will help the
ience ina part of New York particu- nation reach that goal.
larly hard hit by recession, President The president also praised a
Barack Obama said Monday that plan to keep wireless carriers from
better economic days are coming blocking certain types of Internet
thanks to innovation and some help traffic flowing over their networks.
from the government. Obama said he was pleased that the
"As we emerge from this current chairman of the Federal Commu-
economic crisis, our great challenge nications Commission is announc-
will be to ensure that we do not just ing principles "to preserve an open
drift into the future," Obama said at Internet in which all Americans can
Hudson Valley Community College. participate and benefit."
"Instead, we must choose to do what Obama offered kind words to New
past generations have done: shape a York's embattled governor, David
brighter future through hard work Paterson, despite reports that the
and innovation." White House wants Paterson to drop
Obama delivered an economic out of next year's gubernatorial race.
pep talk and a plug for his economic Obama told the college audi-
recovery plan: a sustained invest- ence, "A wonderful man, the
ment in education, technology, governor of the great state of
health care and research. He told his New York, David Paterson, is in
audience that for years, Washington the house." Earlier, Paterson had
has not lived it up to its responsibili- greeted the president when he
ties to help. landed in upstate New York.
"If government does its modest Some Democrats fear Paterson's
part, there is no stopping the most low approval ratings will cost their
powerful and generative economic party a chance to hold the gover-
force the world has ever known: the nor's seat and hurt other Democrats
American people," Obama said. on next year's ballot. White House
His pitch came in a region where spokesman Robert Gibbs wouldn't
the economic mood has long been say whether the president had
gloomy. Nationwide, unemployment ordered that word be sent to Pater-
is at 9.7 percent, the highest level son urging him not to run in 2010.
House to pass
e-mergency bill on
unemployment

SUSAN WALSH/AP
Admiral Michael Mullen testifies on Capitol Hill on Sept.15, 2009 before the Senate Armed Services Committeehearing on
hs reappontment.
US eyes m--ore drone
hits on terror havens

Officials debate
sending more troops
into Afghanistan
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
White House is considering
expanding counterterror opera-
tions in Pakistan to refocus on
eliminating al-Qaida instead of
mounting a major military esca-
lation in Afghanistan.
Two senior administration
officials said Monday that the
renewed fight against the ter-
rorist organization could lead to
more missile attacks on Pakistan
terrorist havens by unmanned
U.S. spy planes. The officials
spoke on condition of anonymity
because no decisions have been
made.
Top aides to President Barack
Obama said he still has questions
and wants more time to decide.
The officials said the admin-
istration would push ahead with
the ground mission in Afghani-
stan for the near future, still
leaving the door open for sending
more U.S. troops. But Obama's
top advisers, including Vice Pres-
ident Joe Biden, have indicated
they are reluctant to send many
more troops - if any at all - in
the immediate future.
In weekend interviews, Obama
emphasized that disrupting al-
Qaida is his "core goal" and wor-
ried aloud about "mission creep"
that moved away from that direc-
tion. "If it starts drifting away
from that goal, then we may have
a problem," he said.
The proposed shift would
bolster U.S. action on Obama's
long-stated goal of dismantling
terrorist havens, but it could also
complicate American relations
with Pakistan, long wary of the
growing use of aerial drones to
target militants along the porous
border with Afghanistan.
The prospect of a White
House alternative to a deepen-
ing involvement in the stalemat-
ed war in Afghanistan comes as
administration officials debate
whether to send more troops -

as urged in a blunt assessment of
the deteriorating conflict by the
top U.S. commander there, Gen.
Stanley McChrystal.
The two senior administration
officials said Monday that one
option would be to step up the
use of missile-armed unmanned
spy drones over Pakistan that
have killed scores of militants
over the last year.
The armed drones could con-
tain al-Qaida in a smaller, if more
remote area, and keep its lead-
ers from retreating back into
Afghanistan, one of the officials
said.
Most U.S. military officials
have preferred a classic coun-
terinsurgency mission to keep
al-Qaida out of Afghanistan by
defeating the Taliban and secur-
ing the local population.
However, one senior White
House official said it's not clear
that the Taliban would welcome
al-Qaida back into Afghanistan.
The official noted that it was only
after the 9/11 attacks that the
United States invaded Afghani-
stan and deposed the Taliban in
pursuit of al-Qaida.
Pakistan will not allow the
United States to deploy a large-
scale military troop buildup on
its soil. However, its military and
intelligence services are believed
to have assisted the U.S. with
airstrikes, even while the gov-
ernment has publicly condemned
theism.
The Pakistan Embassy in
Washington did not immediately
return calls seeking comment.
Wider use of missile strikes
and less reliance on ground
troops would mark Obama's sec-
ond shift in strategy and tactics
since taking office last January.
Such a move would amount to
an admission that using a tradi-
tional military strategy to take
on the Taliban with thousands
more troops is doomed to fail-
ure, echoing Russia's disastrous
Afghanistan invasion in the late
1980s and other ill-fated con-
querors in the more distant past.
But stepping up attacks on the
remnants of al-Qaida also would

dovetail with Obama's presiden-
tial campaign promise of directly
going after the terrorist network
that spawned the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks on New York and Wash-
ington.
Over the past few weeks,
White House and Pentagon offi-
cials have debated the best way
to defeat al-Qaida - and whether
to send more troops to Afghani-
stan to battle the extremist Tali-
ban elements that hosted Osama
bin Laden and his operatives in
the 1990s and have continued to
aid the terrorist group.
McChrystal has argued that
without more troops the United
States could lose the war against
the Taliban and allied insur-
gents.
"Resources will not win this
war, but under-resourcing could
lose it," McChrystal wrote in a
five-page Commander's Sum-
mary that was unveiled late
Sunday by the Washington Post.
His 66-page report, which was
also made public by the Post in
a partly classified version after
appeals from Pentagon officials,
was sent to Defense Secretary
Robert Gates on Aug. 30 and is
now under review at the White
House.
White House officials have
made clear that Pakistan should
be the top concern since that
is where top al-Qaida leaders,
including bin Laden'himself, are
believed to be hiding. Very few
al-Qaida extremists are believed
to still be in Afghanistan, accord-
ing to military and White House
officials.
There have been more than
i50 missile strikes against Paki-
stan targets since August 2008,
according to an Associated Press'
count. Two weeks ago, a U.S.
drone killed a key suspected al-
Qaida recruiter and trainer, Pak-
istani national Ilyas Kashmiri.
A draft study by Notre Dame
Law School professor Mary
Ellen O'Connell found that drone
attacks by the U.S. in Pakistan
began in 2004, jumped dramati-
cally in 2008 and continue to
climb so far this year.

Bill slated to extend
benefits by 13 weeks
WASHINGTON (AP) - Despite
predictions the Great Recession is
running out of steam, the House is
takingup emergency legislation this
week to help the millions of Ameri-
cans who see no immediate end to
their economic miseries.
A bill offeredby Rep. Jim McDer-
mott, D-Wash., andexpected to pass
easily would provide 13 weeks of
extended unemployment benefits
for more than 300,000 jobless peo-
ple who live in states with unem-
ploymentrates ofatleast 8.5 percent
and who are scheduled to run out of
benefits by the end of September.
The 13-week extension would
supplement the 26 weeks of benefits
most states offer and the federally
funded extensions of up to 53 weeks
that Congress approved in legisla-
tion lastyear and in the stimulus bill
enacted last February.
People from North Carolina to
California "have been calling my
office to tell me they still cannot find
work a year or more after becoming
unemployed, and they need some
additional help to keep their heads
above water," McDermottsaid.
Critics of unemployment insur-
ance argue that it can be a disincen-
tive to looking for work, and that
extending benefits at a time the
economy is showing signs of recov-
ery could be counterproductive.

But this recession has been par-
ticularly pernicious to the job mar-
ket, others say.
Some 5millionpeople, aboutone-
third of those on the unemployment
list, have been without a job for six
months or more, a record since data
started being recorded in 1948,
according to the research and advo-
cacy group National Employment
Law Project.
"It smashes any other figure we
have ever seen. It is an unthinkable
number," said Andrew Stettner,
NELP's deputy director. He said
there are currently about six jobless
people for every job opening, so it's
unlikely people are purposefully
living off unemployment insurance
while waiting for something better
to come along.
The current state unemployment
check is about $300 a week, supple-
mented by $25 included in the stim-
ulus act.
That doesn't go very far when
a loaf of bread can cost $2.79 and a
gallon of milk $2.72, Senate Finance
Committee Chairman Max Baucus,
D-Mont., said at a hearing last week
on the unemployment insurance
issue.
"We need to keep our unem-
ployed neighbors from falling into
poverty. We need to figure out how
best to make our safety net work,"
Baucus said.
The jobless rate currently stands
at 9.7 percent and is likely to hover
above 10 percent for much of 2010.

I I

St 3c. n y PRESENTS
the ONLINE CLASSIFIED RENTAL MA

Y @,

Q


SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of tha great houses ah apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient mapf
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.

fI

.rrk. . ___.


4

4 - Tuesday, September 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Ep Midigan Bat*1
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views oftheir authors.
Remains shouldn't remain
In addition to closing exhibit, 'U' should give back artifacts
M uch has changed since museum dioramas depict-
ing Native Americans alongside dinosaur fossils first
premiered fifty years ago. Though acceptable at the
time, today there is little doubt that such displays are cultural-
ly insensitive and misleading. The University's Natural History
Museum is correcting a wrong by removing a one such exhibit
from its museum. Administrators also have the means to right a
second wrong by aggressively investigating the rightful owners
of human remains and Native American objects being held by the
University and returning them to their owners.


4

The Natural History Museum, situ-
ated opposite the C.C. Little bus stop,
announced on September 12 that it will
close a 50-year-old Native American
Diorama exhibit by the end of the year. The
closure comes in response to prolonged
concerns raised by both Native American
and non-Native American visitors about
the exhibit's accuracy and appropriate-
ness. The exhibit depicted scenes of Native
American life using dioramas that were
placed in a museum filled with pre-historic
artifacts like fossils and dinosaur bones as
though the indigenous people were part of
pre-historic fauna, too.
By choosing to remove the exhibit,
the museum authorities have finally
acknowledged that these dioramas were
insensitive. This is certainly a positive
development, although the display will still
remain open for the rest of the year as part
of the LSA theme year to discuss the evo-
lution of museums and their contribution
to University life. The University is right
to acknowledge and discuss the insensi-
tive representation of Native Americans
in museums and popular culture and to
eventually put an end to a misleading por-
trayal of Native American culture.
But any measure of praise the University
may deserve for finally deciding to close
the exhibit is certainly squandered by its
continued ownership of cultural artifacts

that belong to Native American tribes.
University administrators have been cal-
lous toward requests by several tribes for
the return of certain artifacts - including
human remains and other funerary, sacred
and cultural objects.
The University still holds more than
1,900 artifacts on the grounds that it's not
possible to identify whom they belong to,
which is a condition of returning artifacts
under the Native American Graves Protec-
tion and Repatriation Act of 1990. Despite
repeated protests and well-supported
claims made by the Saginaw Chippewa
tribe to 1,428 of those artifacts, the Uni-
versity has avoided a re-examination of
the issue.
The University's current efforts haven't
been good enough, and it should feel com-
pelled to make a better effort to determine
the origins of these artifacts so that they
can be returned. Keeping the artifacts
indefinitely is a disrespectful approach,
especially considering that these artifadesa
include human remains that the tribes
want to bury properly.
University administrators often claim to
value cultural sensitivity and undWrst~ii"n-
ing showcased by closing the diorama
exhibit. But they need to act on these val-
ues and take proactive steps to repatriate
Native American artifacts currently in its
possession.

We haven't been good at cutting when we add.
We just add'
- Robert Massa, vice president of communications at Lafayette College, on the responsibility
of colleges for the rising cost of tuition, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
ELAINE MORTON E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
I t leiy cdOn't Wher C sSal
caeoreirC -ba w'e
oa I
a Wild 1 anMos
Blissfield blues
T here's a town about an hour eight people or more living in a room Aid - a group that does exactly what
south of Ann Arbor, almost at no larger than a college dorm room. its name suggests - told me that
the Ohio border, called Bliss- They work long hours as long as there Michigan generally has been bet-
field. It's a small is work to be done and then they ter about migrant worker rights than
farming com- move on. Ina single year, they may go other states. But with the state's bud-
munity like hun- from Florida to Georgia to Michigan get crunch, resources for migrant
dreds of others several times to till, plant, weed, trim workers are being scaled back. Such
in Michigan and and ultimately harvest. services are of course the first to go,
across the coun- We visited during the daytime, so considring migrant workers won't
try. You've never most of the workers were out in the be around to avenge their rights at
heard of this fields. We did get to walk through the ballot box.
place, and there's some of the housing units and chat And so that leaves the rest of us to
really no reason with those that remained behind - decide their rights for them. The first
you should have. IMRAN either to take care of the children or step of course is to know that this
But Blissfield, SYED because there simply wasn't enough situation exists.
Michigan has a work to be done that day.
dirty little secret. They mostly spoke Spanish, so we
You wouldn't know it if you were communicated through translators.
just passing through on the highway. We asked them questions like how M ichigan has
Even if you took that exit, perhaps to they liked Michigan and how their
get gas or to hit the McDonalds, and working and living conditions, com- m igrant workers
wandered further downtheroad than pared to other states. These were the
normal, you wouldn't find anything right questions, but something was in its backyard.
out of the ordinary. Endless fields missing.
of corn give way to apple orchards, You see,thisisn'tyourtypicalwork-
which are fleetingly obstructed by ers' rights situation. If there were
gas stations, diners and farmhouses. violations, these migrants wouldn't But beyond knowledge, we need
Fields of peppers , are intertwined know. They've never known fair con- accurate perception. Surely there
with turquoise cabbage patches, all in ditions so anything better than the are those who would wave their fists
the shadow of magnificent red barn- absolute worst must seem like a relief. and demand that these migrants be
houses and other small white build- They make a minimum wage, have sent back to where they came from.
ings that seems to blend in almost their housing paid for and have plenty Perhaps some of them are illegal
seamlessly. of laws to protect them. But of course immigrants, though some certainly
Almost. Upon a moment's reflec- it's never that simple. were not. But such ignorantly nativist
tion though, those white buildings, The law requires runningwater, but outrage ignores an important truth:
neatly tucked in around the fields and some workers we talked to were quite These workers use up literally no
the road, do stand out. I wondered amused by thatconcept. The law regu- resources while doingnecessary, pro-
what those buildings were when I lates how many people can live in those ductive jobs that others simply would
first came there. But I already knew housingunits,butinmostinstances we not do under those conditions.
the answer - it's why I made my trip found about twice the limit crammed Seeing migrant workers living and
to Blissfield with Farm Worker Legal in there. The law requires that the working so close to Ann Arbor brings
Aid in the first place. Those buildings workers get minimum wage, but they the immigration debate home. It's
are barracks. are often paid by how much they do clear that we need these people, and
In those buildings - the largest of (by the bushel during harvest, for it's time we stopped pretending oth-
which were designed to hold about 50 instance) and not by the hour, making erwise.
people - were crammed nearly twice it nearly impossible to discern if they
that many migrant farm workers. are being compensated fairly. - Imran Syed can be reached
Entire families were here, sometimes An intern at Farm Worker Legal at galad@mich.edu.
CLARK RUPER |
Don't make health care mandatory

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke,
Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
COLLEGE DEMOCRATS
Students need quality care

Many of us know by now that 46 million
Americans do not have health insurance. Lost
in this figure, however, are the 13 million young
people between the ages of 18 and 24 who are
uninsured. Few people associate health care
with students, and most students do not even
think about health care until it directly affects
their lives. But young adults represent a dispro-
portionate number of the uninsured, and they
stand to gain from President Barack Obama's
health insurance reform proposals in numer-
ous ways.
Two weeks ago, after months of debate in
Washington and across the country, Obama
delivered an address to Congress in which he
clearly outlined the basic elements that health
insurance reform should include. One of the
central components of Obama's plan is a health
insurance exchange, which would make health
care more affordable by increasing competi-
tion in the market for individual coverage. The
health insurance exchange would be a market-
place where individuals and small businesses
shop for the best option from all of the par-
ticipating plans. All the plans that participate
in the exchange would be required to provide
a minimum level of coverage to ensure quality
of care.
The health insurance exchange would
benefit students since many students will be
dropped from their parents' insurance plans
upon graduation and will be forced to shop
the individual market for coverage. The eco-
nomic downturn has strained many employ-
ers and forced them to make tough cutbacks to
survive, and one of the first benefits to suffer
cuts has been health insurance - over 12,000
people lose their health insurance every day.
Many new employees in entry-level positions,
including recent graduates, are increasingly
left without access to quality, affordable health
care. An insurance exchange is a market-based
approach that would help young adults afford
individual coverage and help small businesses
provide coverage to their employees. Obama
has also proposed requiring insurance com-
panies to cover students under their parents'
health care plans until age 26, thereby buffer-
ing students in their transition from school to

the job market.
Obama's reform proposals would not only
expand access to coverage but also prevent
insurance companies from abusing their power
to the detriment of their patients. Under cur-
rent law, for example, insurance companies are
able to deny coverage to people who have pre-
existing conditions or drop people's coverage
when they are sick and need it most. But under
Obama's plan, insurance companies would be
prohibited from doing either of those things.
Health insurance reform would ensure that
the people who need care the most have access
to the coverage that they need at a price they
can afford.
Comprehensive health insurance reform is
urgently needed to control skyrocketing costs
of care. Health insurance premiums have
doubled since 2000, but real wages remained
stagnant during that time. Without reform, the
cost of an employer-sponsored health care plan
is expected to rise dramatically. This increase
would hit young adults hardest, as they work
in entry-level jobs and often bear a debt burden
from higher education costs.
Whether or not students follow politics,
they clearly have a vested interest in the ongo-
ing health care debate. Last November, young
Americans showed that they can make an
impact on the direction of our country. The
thousands of students that worked on Obama's
campaign last fall and the millions of young
people that voted for him played a vital role in
his victory.
This fall, students should follow the health
care debate closely and mobilize to support the
President's proposed reforms. As the reform
effort continues, young people should consider
the crisis of increasing health care costs and
think about their own prospects after college
with regard to health insurance. Then, stu-
dents should make their voices heard. Students
and all Americans should also consider the
question of morality. Is it right for a nation as
wealthy as ours to allow its citizens to go with-
out the health care they need?
This viewpoint was written on behalf of the
University's chapter of the College Democrats.

One aspect common to most of the health care reform
proposals currently being considered by Congress is a
government mandate that all individuals must have health
insurance. If individuals are not covered by their employ-
ers, they will be forced to buy a private plan or possibly to
buy into a government plan, or "public option." There are
many relevant questions in this debate, including: Who
are the currently uninsured, why are they uninsured and
why must we force them to buy coverage? Proposals in
Congress might solve the "problem" of the uninsured, but
will it have any real benefits? And is this the best way to
fix the problem while still recognizing each individual's
autonomy to make their own choice?
The consensus among politicians and political com-
mentators is that approximately 46 million Americans
are uninsured. Of that number, the largest identifiable
group is young people, accounting for around 13 million.
They are recent college graduates. They are students in
between undergraduate and graduate school and young
professionals in their first or second jobs. They are entre-
preneurs taking risks while they are young and have no
one to account for but themselves.
I belong to this group. I am 23 years old and have cho-
sen not to purchase health insurance. Four months ago, I
left a job that included employer-provided health insur-
ance to work for a start-up nonprofit called Students for
Liberty. The organization is young and I took an entrepre-
neurial risk when I decided to come on board. I took this
risk with full knowledge of the decision I was making. My
income at my new job is not great: roughly $25,000 a year,
which doesn't get you very far in Washington, D.C., where
I live. But with good budgeting, I could afford a private
health insurance plan if I wanted to. I am simply choos-
ing not to purchase one.
For many young professionals, this is a rational deci-
sion. Young and healthy individuals receive very little
benefit from health insurance. Why pay for insurance

that we do not use? We choose to use our little disposable
income on other investments such as our own savings and
personal health. I would rather spend money on my gym
membership and a healthy eating plan than health insur-
ance, and I consider myself fortunate to be in a position
where I can choose to not buy insurance that I don't want
and don't need. I, for one - and many other recent gradu-
ates in my situation - don't want to be forced by the gov-
ernment to buy a product with little discernible benefit.
The common rebuttal to my claim is that young people
like me are part of the current problem. We don't buy
insurance, and then when we get sick, we go to the emer-
gency room, get treated, don't pay our bills and run up
the cost for everyone else. We are taking risks and asking
everyone else to pay for it.
I agree that this is a problem with the status quo that
needs to be fixed. My solution is to change the laws that
require hospital emergency rooms to treat everyone. I
will gladly sign a waiver stating that no hospital is obli-
gated to treat me. If I am unable to pay for a hospital's
service, than it should be able to turn me away just like
any other business. This leaves very clear options in the
consumer's hand: (1) buy insurance, (2) save enough to
pay for your care on your own, or (3) take the risk of opt-
ing out of insurance with full knowledge of that risk.
The government should not force young people to buy
insurance - it should allow us to make our own choice
and to do what is best for ourselves based on our own
judgment. Those advocating a government mandate do
not think we are capable of making that choice and want
to make it for us.
I, for one, reject this authoritarian, nanny-state view
of the government's role in society, and I know that I am
not alone.
Clark Ruper is a University alum and the
Program Manager for Students for Liberty.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoify@umich.edu.

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 22, 2009 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September 22, 2009 - 5

Saviors for'At the Movies'

COURTESY OF ANTI-
"I am the ghost of my former career."
M rooned a Bt se

min
0

Islands takes
iimalism too far
n its third LP
By JOSH BAYER
Daily MusicEditor

In order to fully grasp the musi-
cal juggernaut that is Vapours,
all it takes is a
quick look at the
album artwork:
a grainy, faded- inds
out headshot of
frontman Nick Vapours
Thorburn look- ANTI-
ing rather bored
and decaffein-
ated against a garish indigo-blue
background. That's it.
For those of you who want the
back story, Vapours - Islands's
third LP - is a turkey. Gone are the
lush orchestral flourishes. Gone is
the unchecked sense of adventure
that permeated every old Islands
track, regardless of quality. Gone
is the fun.
Vapours is Islands stripping
down - an action that would've
looked good on paper after the
oftentimes highfalutin Arm's Way
(the band's sophomore slump).
The issue with this minimalism
 is it sheds everything that made
Islands likeable in the first place.
While Arm's Way took itself a
little too seriously, there was
a certain charm to its let's-go-
everywhere swooping mini-epics
haunted by Thorburn's inimitable
 croon. There is absolutely nothing
charming about Vapours.
Built upon uninspired drum
machine loops and synthesizers
that range from farty to tacky,
Vapours sounds like it was made
over the weekend on McLovin's
laptop. But wait: There are real
guitars and bass! And an electric
sitar! What a novel concept! Sadly,
Islands isn't the first band to mix
the synthetic with the organic -
Dirty Projectors did it about 20
times better just a couple months
ago. And a concept means zilch
when the songwriting quotient
hovers dangerously close to non-
existent.
DO YOU LIKE
POETRY,
BOOKS,
MUSICALS
OR DRAMA?
WAIT, YOU
DO? LIKE,
SERIOUSLY?
HOLY SHIT!
YOU SHOULD
WRITE FOR
FINE ARTS!
Send an e-mail in iambic
pentameter to
battlebots@umich.edu for an
application.

Vapours is action-packed with
arrangements that don't go any-
where at all. Over the course of
"No You Don't," synths and gui-
tars build on each other, moseying
in and out of the mix. But none of
the individual parts do anything
other than loop incessantly or
shrug back and forth between the
same two chords (save for a15-sec-
ond electric sitar solo that doesn't
refresh so much as just tease). It's
pretty disturbing that six musi-
cians - and talented ones at that
- participated in the recording of
this album.
The record reeks of the trans-
parent effort to take the compo-
nent parts of low-grade club music
and mainstream radio synth-pop
and indie-fy them. This epic fail
of an experiment is especially
evident on the embarrassing
"Heartbeat," with Thorburn actu-
ally busting out the Auto-Tune. It
would've taken a hell of a track to
bring this bold move to fruition -
and Thorburn digi-whining over
a dumbed-down version of the
synth line from "Kids" by MGMT
is a far cry from irony. Rather than
taking conventional synth-pop
and subverting it, Islands simply
removed the hooks.
This brings us to the biggest

bummer of all: Thorburn's vocals.
It's as if Thorburn read all the
media spitfire knocking his flut-
tery histrionics on Arm's Way and
retreated back into the closet. His
usually taffy-like tenor is flat and
lifeless despite his obsequious
ooh-ooh-ing and stretched-out
vowels, making it sounds like he's
hiding behind a monotone win-
dow even as he's shifting octaves.
The aural end result is somewhat
akin to a washed-up glam rocker
on a reunion tour, and it isn't par-
ticularly pleasant.
The most painful thing about
all this is that Islands clearly
know how to write a killer pop
song. "Vapours," a funky, Bowie-
esque bopper laden with abundant
horn fills and tambourine shakes,
and "Disarming The Car Bomb,"
engorged with fuzzed-out bass
and glittery '70s nostalgia, show
that Islands hasn't completely
lost its edge (and that it probably
could've recorded a decent enough
glam rock album).
But the truth is that Islands
recorded Vapours, not Electric
Warrior: Part Two. So the best
you can do is look at Thorburn's
vacant expression on the album
cover and hope he wakes the fuck
up real soon.

The tide of film criticism
has ebbed and flowed
throughout the better part
of the last century, and for as long
as film itself has
been around. 4
Sometimes
casual moviego-
ers want a truly
well-informed
dissection of
cinema, anda
sometimes weIANDREW
just want a guy LAPIN
(or a couple of
guys) to tell us whether a movie
is worth seeing. And nothing has
epitomized our changing opinions
about other people's opinions more
than the TV show "At the Movies."
You still might know the show
as "Siskel and Ebert and The Mov-
ies," though that title is several
degrees removed from reality by
now. The basic concept remains
the same: Two unattractive men sit
and argue about the movies of the
week for 30 minutes. Gene Siskel
died in 1999; Roger Ebert left the
show in 2006 after treatments for
thyroid cancer rendered him with-
out a voice; Siskel's replacement,
Richard Roeper, quit the show in
2008 after parent company Walt
Disney announced it was planning
to take the decades-old program in
a new direction.
Enter Ben Lyons and Ben
Mankiewicz, the poster chil-
dren for this "new direction" of
film criticism. The 42-year-old
Mankiewicz, former talking head
on Turner Classic Movies, gives
faceless, generic opinions that
would go down smooth with your
nightly glass of warm milk. And
the 28-year-old Lyons, a former
Michigan dropout (he says he got
"restless" here after only a few
months), came direct from the
MTV/E! News school of film crit-
ics: lots of sound bites projected
at a loud volume accompanied by
toothy grins aimed squarely at the
lowest common denominator.
At the risk of sounding (even
more) unfathomably geeky, I will
now admit that "At the Movies"

was my
teenage
start w
era, I w
the bac
show -
bullish(
other in
to get tc
Whic
son, the
was sot
but eve:
represe
everyth
ic. He w
His ide:
Basterd
cast" -
leave it
enEye"
not bec
]
M
Ber
an
because
64 vide
multipl(
texting
Not lon
chair, L
vile hat
even a v
ons.comr
It see
thirsted
cism w
Hollyw
"critic-I
week. T
site Rot
down e
or not, t
for easi
so the n
Ben Lyc
revamp
voice of

favorite TV show asa where. I accepted this outcome and
r. Even though I didn't prepared to holda candlelight vigil
atching until the Roeper for the show that made me fall in
as instantly enthralled by love with movies.
k-and-forth dynamic of the But then something amazing
the way the two smart-yet- happened: The Bens tanked. No
critics were engaged each one watched their show, and this
nonstop verbal tennis just August they were yanked from
heir opinions heard. their chairs for poor ratings (iron-
h is why this past TV sea- ic, since they had been brought on
first season of "The Bens" to boost ratings). So Ben Lyons was
painful - not only to watch, stopped, and at the beginning of
n to think about. Ben Lyons this month, we met "new" faces of
nted the exact opposite of "At the Movies:" A.O. Scott, a New
ing I admired in a film crit- York Times critic, and Chicago
vas boorish and uneducated. Tribune critic Michael Phillips. I
a of praising"Inglourious say they're "new" sarcastically for
s" was to say it had a "great two reasons: first, because both of
list the cast members and these guys put in extended guest
at that. He named "Gold- appearances at the show during
as his favorite Bond film, Ebert's long illness; and second,
ause of the film itself, but because the producers of "At the
Movies" are desperately trying
to prove to us that these guys are
old-school critics who take movies
Hie went to seriously.
In web-exclusive clips, the pair
lichigan, but demonstrate their film knowledge
to us, first by riffing on direc-
SLyonsis still tor Steven Soderbergh ("The
Lyon Informant!") and then by talking
asinine fool. about musical scores to Fellini
movies. "Look at us," they seem
to demand. "We care about mov-
ies much more than you do." As
it inspired the Nintendo well they should. Unlike the Bens,
o game. And according to Scott and Phillips are more than
e reports, he was often seen qualified to take over the "At the
during preview screenings. Movies" balcony.
g after taking Ebert's old Does this mean that America
yons became the subject of will once again embrace the true
red on the Internet; there's role of the critic as someone who
website called StopBenLy- provides valuable insight into film
n. instead of just pumping out poster-
emed like those of us who ready quotations? Not as long as
I for intelligent film criti- Rolling Stone's Peter Travers is
ould soon be SOL. After all, still employed. But we can dream.
ood releases more and more Still, the show has at least come
proof" blockbusters every full circle, and the Ben Lyonses of
'he rise of review-aggregate the world have been vanquished
ten Tomatoes has boiled for the time being. And I, for one,
very opinion, beit educated couldn't be happier. The saga of
to a single percentage point "At the Movies" finally has a Hol-
er public consumption. And lywood ending.

ext logical step was for
ons to find success on this
ed "At the Movies" as the
moviegoing morons every-

Lapin is just bitter because he
sucks at "GoldenEye." Challenge
him at alapin@umich.edu.

ii

h+ 'mow;-:-,
YK

To learn more about Ave Maria School of Law,
come meet a representative at the
Universityof Michigan LawDay
on Wednesday, September 231, 2009
338S.State St. :
; Ann Arboryc.

Congratulations,
Professor Karen Bird!
Dr. Karen Bird, a Lecturer in Accounting and
Associate Director of Instructional Development at the
University of Michigan's Ross School of Business, is a
winner of the first annual Ernst & Young Inclusive Excellence
Award for Accounting and Business School Faculty.
Along with four other professors, she is being recognized
nationwide for mentoring diverse students and for
supporting minority students and diversity-related
organizations.
"Karen Bird has profoundly impacted many students,"
says one admiring colleague. Adds another, "Her ability
to work with diverse students and encourage them to
consider the field of public accounting has made a serious
impact in the percentage of underrepresented students
who enter the accounting profession each year from Ross."
Learn more about Dr. Bird and the Inclusive Excellence
Award at ey.com/us/facultyinclusiveaward.

Mon-FRI To
Happy Hour 3-6pm RT
Lunch Special Menu 11:30am-3pm eR
BOTTLSD eia usn
BUeRS
MOnaDB
Live Trivia hosted by Motor City Trivia 7 and 8p
Late Night Happy Hour 10pm
$1 off Select Drafts W,+SInais MawT SCOT
SaTURDMN
Kegs and Eggs' Breakfast Buffet:
Open Early For Every Big Ten Home Game
Featuring Breakfast, Beer, and a Bloody Mary Bar

iri .
a+
s'
c
r,
::: u
t.
:,i
. ; ""
e .r¢^.
:~i
E

I ERNST&YOUNG
Qualityina Everything We Do

1

SEGA UP FOR ulalL UPDTS aT www.ashleys.com
101I OUR TWITT@RI a2ashleys

{r }


4

6-Tuesday, September 22, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

025 m ..
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
aions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagenent.com
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing on Central Campus rates start at
$50 per month. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny in the
winter. (In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 50 steps to the B
School. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
aUtomotive '
00
1998 BMW 540. Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner. 734-
429-2850 or brideratumich.ed
for rent
060
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished. 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 to 12 bedrooms. Very close to
Campus. SIGN NOW for May 2010.
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370.
nancylata michedu
www.tancyla.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010 a
http://www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, fll basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great fore UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.arcrealtyco.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and ery Tawn. Immediate Occ-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.

REALTY
Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
x po zza a# e
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Fully furnished 2
bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
gotiable and we'll help fnd a room-
mate. Call Varsity Management (734)
668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagemen.com
the daily classifieds...
They're kind of a big deal.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com. the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furmished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
PMostnReaty
Four great campus locations. 1- & 2-bed-
apartments and studios. Great locations,
well maintained, responsive mgmt.,
free internet & other amenities.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtypropeties.com

C I PfirfMiapan 0ailj
PRESENTS THE
Online Classified
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see al of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
with full descriptions, features, and
prices
GRAD STUDENTS & Professionals:
1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
nished, heat, water, parking included,
in unit washer/dryer available. Call Var-
sity Management for details (734) 668-
1100 or www.varsitymanagement.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdn. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water mcl., fully furmished,
free parkitg, $999/tao. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully ftrn, large kitchens,
fill size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. tlalf a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to down-
town. Wsher/dryer in unit, $1000/mo.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com

IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parkitg Incltded. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.arclirealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991

LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Introductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willow Run Airport. 734-780-5685.
http://www.buzzardairservice.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
I 'e I wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
AA INTERNET FANTASY Sports
Co seeks student programmer..P/T,
possible F/T Summer. Must know C,
Linux. support@onroto.com
BABYSITTER-- FOR TWO kids,
fall/winter term. Needed for occas-
sional evenings. FlesibCe. Call
(734) 995-0494.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply
telefandumicheda or 763.4400.

STUDENT WORK
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., no exp. nec.,
will train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid sarvey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys
Chl Care
095
BABYSITTER NEEDED AFTER-
SCHOOL. Must be friendly w/own car
& ref. 649-2401 or appelkraut@tds.net
IN-HOME CHILDCARE provider,
Mon-Thurs., some Fri, 2:45 to 5:45.
Job act. pickup from school & some
driving. Close to campus, excellent
pay, some flex. Ref req. Contact
668.8327 or abrown@plantngmt org,
. F

SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.

Get 'em while they're freshmen.
They won't be ripe for long.

STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able for ismediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Central Campus. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop by 616 Church Street for more in-
formation.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

1 BEDROOM, 521 Walnut St.: Fully
furnished, brand new furniture, updated
kitchen with dishwasher. Great campus
location, heat, water, parking included.
Call Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100.

I

I -
Daily Classifieds:
servin-Q the of tl


1!
11
1!
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
3
4
4

I


Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Pee Wee of the 34 It's rolled out for 49 Video game
1 Bergen's dummy '40s-'50s celebs pioneer
Mortimer Dodgers 37 "The Raven" 51 Boutique
6 Letter after pi 5 Catch-22 writer 52 Old Roman attire
9 Preschool 6 Univ. militaryorg. 38 Utah's capital: 53 Britishtitle
lessons 7 Barber's concen Abbr. 54 Feds under Ness
3 George who 8 Conductor 41 Like bks. with 55 Moisten, as a
played Sulu on Klemperer pictures stamp
"Star Trek" 9 Suspected Soviet 42 Clothes 56 Bodyshop nos.
4 Castle protection spy of the 44 Rugged ridge 57 Cubs, on
5 Finish second McCarthy era 45 Speaker's scoreboards
6 Halo wearer 10_- constrictor amplifying aid, 58 Massage
7 Quarreling once 11 TVforensic briefly 59 Get older
more drama
9 "A Beautiful 12 Obama, before ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
Mind"star he became pres. - L
1 Give oft 14 Blended ice -E T D E PA LA D
2 Eleganttapestry cream drinks L E N I N ES P N E Q U I
86 Lanka 18tInundated aBA S I C S T AT F U S S
kCerain 20Lucyof"Kill Bill" A S K U P T E T A S K
mollusk's 23 Do a smith's ob I T M A Y E L YP
prolectiest 24...Joy:candy A -- l S EL PA
3 Oloful bar A S E
*Clru ba--aqaarium fishb 25sLostspeed M E L E E A U R A L E
STough-guytrait 26Scareletter, e.g. U P F O R A P R O M O T I O N
6 " Only Have 27 Stomachacid S T U N C E O S D A R E D
Love": Jacques problem ESL H ERRI TER E S A
Brel song 28 Formal words of W E T B A T E D
7 Pretentious one confessionAN AN0A WA Y W E G W E
9 Broadway event 30 Bit of - -NA -Y E - E
0 Bloomwith mudslinging C O A X T E A L J A I L S
sword-shaped 31 Water, in Cannes E A V E E L K 0 O A T E S
leaves 32 Watch display, S H E D S P E W Y A H O O
2 With a single for short xwordeditor@aol.com 09/21/09

yOU'Ve community for
been hundreds upon
Served hundreds or so
years,.
ROOM FOR RENT on a horse farm.
20 miles from campus. $400/mo.
734-433-1057.
l dcrma. Units
ower Plara Condominium
734-663-1 530
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful I-hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealtyco.com

HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
AD)
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

For Wednesday, Sept. 23, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to Aprit 19)
Be careful at work today. Accidents
might occur. Computer crashes, power
outages, delays, canceled appointments,
fire drills and staff shortages are just
some things that will cause a big blip to
your day!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
This is an accident-prone day for chil-
dren in your care. It's also a rocky day
for romance. Go gently, and don't try to
"improve" other people. Easy does it.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Appliances might break down athome
today. Equipment could be faulty.
Expect minor breakages. Your home
routine definitely will be interrupted. Do
whatever you can to promote harmony in
the family.
CANCER
(Jane 21 to July 22)
Take it easy and slow down, because
this is an accident-prone day. Think
twice before you say or do anything.
After all, who wants egg on his or her
face? (Ketchup helps.)
LEO
(July 23 toAug. 22)
Be careful aboutyour money and your
possessions today. You might find
money; you might lose money. You
might break something you own. Guard
against loss and theft. (Yikes!)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Your daily routine will be interrupted
today. Don't be too hasty with others if it
seems like they're too slow. In truth, you
just might be impatient.
LIBRA
(Sept.23to Oct. 22)
This is an unsettling day. You feel
emotionally perturbed or mentally
wired, and you might not know why. It's

just a passing influence that is in a hid-
den part of your chart. Don't worry.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Something will go sideways ina New
York minute when dealing with friends
and groups today. Just be ready for this.
Nothing is predictable today!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
This is an extremely poor day to go
against the wishes of authority figures.
Nevertheless, you feel rebellious and
independent. Don't quit your day job.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Don't even go near arguments about
religion, politics or racial issues today.
These situations are explosive. Remain
mellow and calm.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Decisions about inheritances, insur-
once matters, taxes, debt and shared
property could be completely reversed
or upset in some way today. Be very
careful here.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 toMarch 20)
Curb a tendency to be blunt today.
Avoid saying things to shock others.
(You'd better be prepared to back up
whatever you say.)
YOU BORN TODAY You're
extremely creative, and you love adven-
ture. Because of this, you always struc-
ture your life so that it is exciting. You're
hardworking and ambitious. Nothing
daunts you. Many of you are idealistic,
and hope to improve the world around
you. It's good you have learned some-
thing important this year, because next
year might be one of the most powerful
years of your life!
Birthdate of: Julio Iglesias, singer;
Bruce Springsteen, singer; Ray Charles,
singer.

4

0

4

C 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

voice
43 Marathoner's
bane
46 Onetime Leno
announcer Hall
47 The "A" in "CAT
scan"
48 Philbin's sidekick
50 Steal a herd
57 Gambling
metaphor for a
risky venture
60 Harold of
"Ghostbusters"
61 Gigantic
62 Storybook
monster
63 Standing upright
64 "Yeah, suret"
65 Steno's need
66 Sausage
servings
DOWN
1 Nighttwinkler
2 Hall ot Morks
signoff
3 Cardiologist's
tests, for short

1 2 3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12
16 17 18
19 20
21 22 23 24 2s
26 27 28 29 30 31 32
33 34 35
36 37 38 39
40 41 42
50 51 fit 53 54 55 5
57 58 58 66
61 82 63
64 65 6
By Dan Naddor 0/20
(c)2009'Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Ntc

_0

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per linefor the first issue and $1.75 per linefor each additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequencyand Bulk contracts areavailable- contact our stafftfor details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid studentlD (non-organizational, non-businessadsonly)
" All ads must beprepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
* We acceptVisa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, pleasecall one of our Account Executives

0

L) reuu mhe ury
b.) do the crossword pinze
ca) sleep and embarass yourself




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 22, 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September 22, 2009 - 7

'U' website offers coping guidance

Campus Mind Works
made with help of
students suffering
from mental illness
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Students coping with mental
health issues have a new Univer-
sity-sponsored resource to turn to:
campusmindworks.org.
The new site developed by the
University's Depression Center in
partnership with the Division of Stu-
dentAffairs,aimstoprovidestudents
with more "live" resources to help
themdealwithmentalhealth issues.
Developed with the help of stu-
dents with mental health disor-
ders, the site also features pages
with self-care strategies, plans
for staying healthy in college and
interactive worksheets. It also
includes sections on medication
CRIME
From Page 1
The number of forcible rapes in
AnnArborincreasedby2incidents,
while the number of aggravated
assaults dropped by 5 incidents.
As was the case last year, there
were no murders in Ann Arbor.
The numbers coming out of
Washtenaw County are much
more striking.
A 110 percent increase in aggra-
vated assaults and a 9 percent
increase in larcenies contributed
to the overall increase in violent
and property crimes.
The figures for Washtenaw
County buck a national trend that
saw both violent crimes and prop-
erty crimes decrease in 2008.
According to the FBI report,
violent crimes in the United States
decreased by about 2 percent, and
property crimes fell about 1 percent.
The report also compares crime
CITY COUNCIL
From Page 1
City of Ann Arbor - by "forcing
reductions in spending for vital
public services, including police
protection, fire protection, park
operations and human services."
Such reductions, the resolution
states, are too drastic when the
state government has cut statu-
tory revenue sharing to Michigan
municipalities by millions of dol-
lars in recent years.
Councilmembers formally stated
their disapproval of the proposed
state budget in the resolution and
urged Sen. Liz Brater (D - Ann
Arbor),Rep.Pam Byrnes(D-Lyndon
Twp.) and Rep. Rebekah Warren
(D-Ann Arbor) - all of whom repre-

and information on how to com-
municate effectively with profes-
sors, according to Melvin McInnis,
director of psychiatry programs at
the Depression Center.
McInnis said the site was
meant to address student com-
plaints that finding information
for dealing with mental health
issues was often a long and com-
plex process. He said students
would get frustrated and give
up their search for information
when they found dead links and
other problems.
"Campus Mind Works simply
brings information together in an
organized and unified way that we
hope will make things more acces-
sible and expedite the information
finding process," he said.
Rackham student Steve Brun-
wasser, who helped develop the
content of the website, said the site
will be constantly redefined based
on the student feedback.
"I think (the website) will contin-
ue to get better,".he said. "It's going

to be dynamic and I feel that it will
never be finished and will be con-
stantly adaptingto students needs."
He added that the site develop-
ers plan on continuing to get feed-
back from comments on the site
and focus groups.
"There is no way you can antici-
pate everything, which is why the
feedback is so important," he said.
McInnis said there's no hard
and fast way to assess the efficacy
of the program, since many won't
take the time to fill out a survey
about a website. But he said he
hopes the number of hits on the
site can be an indicator of how
successful it is.
"Beyondthesheernumberofhits
and the amount of time spent on the
links we're very much open to ideas
on how to assess it," he said.
To make sure students know
about the site, McInnis said the
developers have been making sure
that health care providers tell their
patients about it. In addition, rep-
resentatives from the site were at

Festifall handing out stress reliev-
ers and T-shirts.
McInnis added that he hopes
students will hear about the site
through another University men-
tal health resource, Mitalk.org.
Mitalk is designed to screen for
psychological diseases and provide
information for people dealing
with those issues.
"Mitalk.orgmightbe considered
the first folia for a student that is
having some issues," McInnis said.
"Mitalk will help the individual
potentially develop strategies for
everyday problematic things stu-
dents might run into."
"If that student is concerned
they may have a major depressive
disorder," he continued, "then
Campus Mind Works is the web-
site that will help them develop
and identify a longer term care
program."
McInnis added that the sites are
meant to work in tandem.
"Theyare meant to work ashand
and glove," he said.
D08
VIOLENT PROPERTY
T CRIMES CRIMES
16 1,065
23 1,034
12 465
8 421
15 771
2 435

With no heads-up,
officials alter travel
expense pol icy

From Page 1
Practices Guide with the revisions
was sprung on them unexpectedly.
"Although there have been dis-
cussions about it over the past year,
the SPG just suddenly appeared,"
he said.
Travel policy for faculty has
been a much-discussed issue of late,
especially given recent fraudulent
charges to credit cards distributed
to often-on-the-road faculty.
Since 1995, PCards have been
given to the most frequently trav-
eling faculty. The card allowed
the University to directly pay for
charges, instead of reimbursing
faculty on an individual basis.
Yet in the last few years, PCards
have been the subject of much
debate after a handful of University
employees were accused of misus-
ing their cards.
In July 2007, The Michigan
Daily reported that Tommy Metty,
a University maintenance super-
visor, pleaded guilty to embezzle-
ment charges for using his PCard to
make purchases that totaled about
$160,000. The card is not intended
for private purchases, but Metty
used his card to pay for motorcy-
cle parts, a television and a digital
camera.
According to the article, in 2005,
a University employee used her
PCard to pay for personal expens-
es amounting $85,200. Another
employee reportedly charged
$4,000 to her card in 2006.
At the meeting, Sullivan did not
say previous fraudulent activities
played a role in making the switch
from PCards to per diem. She said,
rather, financial constraints have
caused the University to look at
ways of cutting down unnecessary

costs, and that faculty expenses are
a factor into that equation.
"We do anticipate that this year
will be financially challenging, and
most offices have begun to make
some changes," Sullivan said.
She added at the meeting that
there are "things around the edges"
the University can trim, citing that
her office has eliminated catering
for most events - a cost-cutting
measure she says saves the equiva-
lent of three in-state undergradu-
ates' tuitions.
While the new policy is meant
to reduce unnecessary travel costs,
Sullivan said per diems will actual-
ly benefitfaculty because there will
be no delay in getting reimbursed,
as was the case with PCards.
"Because per diem is flat, we'd
be able to determine it quickly,
and we'd hope you'd get your turn
around very fast so that you would
not pay any interest on the float,"
Sullivan said.
One of the concerns raised by
members of SACUA was that fac-
ulty would not be able to cover all
travel expenses by per diem.
Sullivan said the new system is
not intended to make traveling dif-
ficult.
"I think people are not going to
find this a hardship," she said. "We
think faculty are going tobe able to
live with this without too much dif-
ficulty."
Sullivan cited federal and state
employees who use per diem,
who, she says, find that the system
works. She added that faculty who
attend conferences are often pro-
vided meals and don't need to cover
additional food expenses.
- Dylan Cinti contributed
to this report.

SOME BIG 10 SCHOOLS' CRIME STATISTICS - 2
STUDENT
SCHOOL NAME ENROLLMEN
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 52,568
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 46,045
PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 43,252
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN MADISON 41,563
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN ANN ARBOR 41,042
INDIANA UNIVERSITY AT BLOOMINGTON 38,990
Source: FBI 2008 Crime in the United States Report

statisticsfromeveryuniversity and
college in the country. Reported
crimes at the University of Michi-
gan have decreased from the year
2007 to 2008.
Property crimes dropped nearly
11 percent and violent crimes fell
25 percent on campus.
The University's official report-
ed crime numbers from 2008
have not yet been filed, according
sent Ann Arbor in different roles -
to also vote against the draft.
In addition, councilmembers
wrote in a press release that Gov.
Jennifer Granholm, a Democrat,
shouldshootdownanyproposalthat
would cutstatutory revenue sharing
to Michigan municipalities.
City Council announced the
resolution one week after Sen-
ate Majority Leader Mike Bishop
(R-Rochester) and Dillon set newly
established budget targets that call
for a $L2 billion cut in spending
statewide withoutincreasing taxes.
The compromise represents a
breakthrough in a stalemate over
the state's budget. Reports by the
conference committees in both
state houses appointed by Bish-
op and Dillon will be presented
as a revised budget and must be

to Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Diane Brown. The
University will release its official
statistics on Oct. 1.
Washtenaw CountySheriffJerry
Clayton expressed his concerns
about the county-wide increase in
crime in an AnnArbor.com story
published last week.
"Any increase in crime concerns
me," Clayton said. "Obviously, one
completed by the Oct. 1 deadline,
otherwise there will be a partial
government shutdown. -
CASA DOMINICK'S
NEW BUILDING
Councilmembers unanimously
voted to approve Casa Dominick's
proposal for a new Planned Unit
Development, which will allow the
restaurant to expand and renovate
as well as fold four other proper-
ties into a new establishment.
Dominick's, which is currently
a bar and restaurant, will use the
extra space to add a small grocery
operation, more seating, a bed and
breakfast and housing and office
space.
In order for the restaurant's
owner - ardDni-to+nve-

of our primary focuses is public
safety and improved quality of life
in our community."
To address the increase in crime,
Clayton said the sheriff's depart-
ment is working to identify spe-
cific crime hotspots in Washtenaw
County. The department is also
working to increase enforcement
numbers and patrols in those areas,
according to AnnArbor.com.
forward with his plan, the pro-
posal will also have to comply with
Ann Arbor's zoning ordinances.
DiVarti inherited the property
the restaurant currently sits on
from his parents in 1960 and has
since acquired the four surround-
ing properties. Divarti's plan
was approved by the Ann Arbor
Planning Commission in March,
before it went before City Council.
Though there are concerns from
the community, John Barrie, the
architect working on the project,
said he will maintain the charm of
the neighborhood.
Divarti added that patrons
shouldn't look for huge changes in
the near future.
"There's nothing immediate.
It's a50-year plan, so it's a gradual
change," he said.
Justin Hakala, '09


STUDENT GROUPS
From Page 1
logos team to see how we could
step up the education about those
policies because there were some
pretty flagrant violations of them,
and so we stepped up the educa-
tion efforts and I think that's the
effect we're seeing this year," said
Hindelang.
Tom Duvall, vice chair of Col-
lege Democrats, said the group
had to change its name from the
University of Michigan College
Democrats to the College Demo-
crats at the University of Michi-
gan, because of the rule.
"In reality, it's not that big of a
change for us," he said.
Another organization affected
by the enforcement of the rule
was the student group formerly
kn n as Universiet.of Michi-

gan Dance Marathon. The group
began the renaming process as
early as October 2008, according
to LSA senior Kathleen Olson,
executive director of Dance Mar-
athon.
"I think at some point (the
trademark policy) was known but
the University hadn't really been
enforcing it," Olson said. "But I
think that (Dance Marathon) did
know that the rule was in exis-
tence."
Gretzinger said that her office
provided the group with other
name options, like Michigan
Dance Marathon but the group
chose to use Dance Marathon
at the University of Michigan
instead.
"We're actually really excited
about our new name," Olson said.
- Allie White contributed

I I

Humankind in his future world has
learned how to thrive in harmony with
a flourishing Nature. In one homeland,
however, women are oppressed. Now
they awaken to their rage-and the men
have all the weapons.
Clementa
a novel

Jim Martin

Explore the basics of biomedical technology innovation
through an intensive, hands-on fellowship at Stanford
University's Biodesign Program. Graduate Engineers,
Business Professionals, Bioscientists and Physicians learn
the key stages of the Biodesign Process: identification and
verification of clinical needs, brainstorming, invention,
prototyping, patenting and more.
APPLICATION DEADLINE October 16. 2009

The Ross BBA
action-based/team-oriented/great careers
Interested?
Attend an Information Session to learn about the program, application,
and where the Ross BBA can take you.
Reserve your seat at
www.bus.umich.edu/bba


4

8 - Tuesday, September 22, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

From factory to football, Grady stays humble

4

By ANDY REID come home, go to sleep and do it all
Daily Sports Editor over again.
"It was a humbling experience,"
During a cool May day, with the he said. "To go from college, play-
evening sun hanging in the sky, ing sports, getting a rent check,
Kelvin Grady rolled over in his bed going to class, hanging out with
and shut his eyes again. your friends to reality. I was out of
Any college kid knows what it's school and I was working, working
like to not want to get up and face in a factory."
the day ahead - a boring lecture, a Grady worked on the factory
pointless pop quiz, a hangover from line for about a month, and every
a long night at Rick's, whatever the day, he questioned his decision to
case may be. leave basketball. But then another
But technically, Grady wasn't opportunity came calling. It wasn't
a college kid anymore. After the too far from the old one - after all,
Michigan basketball team's sur- Crisler Arena and Michigan Sta-
prising run to the second round of dium are neighbors.
the NCAA Tournament, the sopho- About two weeks after the Mich-
more point guard left the team, igan football team started its sum-
decided not to enroll in any spring- mer workouts, Grady received a call
term classes, went back home to from his brother, Kevin, a senior
Grand Rapids and tried to figure fullback for the Wolverines. The
out what he was going to do for the two had played football together at
rest of his life. East Grand Rapids, and Kevin tried
He settled on a night-shift job at to convince his brother to join the
an Amway factory in Ada, capping team.
bottles of lotion from 10 p.m. to 7 "He was like, 'You got the tools,"
a.m. every day. He'd get up - reluc- Grady said. " 'If you want to come,
tantly and with some occasional come in. But if you do, you need to
help from his father - go to work, be all in. You can't come out here

just to come out here. This is some-
thing serious. This is Michigan
football. This is somethingthatyou
have to really want to do."'
Grady met with Michigan coach
Rich Rodriguez and brought some
tapes from his playing days at East
Grand Rapids High School. Grady
hadn't played football since his
senioryear,butRodriguezwasopen
to the speedster's proposition.
The redshirt sophomore joined
the team shortly thereafter.
The coaching staff found a spot
for Grady at slot receiver, and he
hasimmediatelyexcelled.Although
Grady readily admits that basket-
ball is his first love, he says he's bet-
ter at football.
And it has showed. Grady quick-
ly climbed the depth chart in one
of the Wolverines' most talent-
rich positions, finding his place as
the No. 2 slot receiver. Other slot
receivers include 2009 leading
receiver Martavious Odoms, Roy
Roundtree and Terrance Robinson,
all of whom had time to study and
become comfortable with the sys-
tem last season.

With only a few weeks worth of
practice time, he played in Michi-
gan's season-opening win over
Western Michigan. So far, Grady
has caught five balls for 30 yards.
But he's been able to provide the
Wolverines with a lot more than
just on-field production.
"There's a lot of people out here
that have jobs and bust their butt
every day for every dollar that they
get," Grady said. "So now I can
respect that aspect of it, and then,
here I am again.
"Through my struggles, I am a
stronger person, and I feel like I
can put that on my teammates and
encourage them to work hard and
realize what they got and to take
advantage of everything they got.
You never know when it could be
gone."
Of course, Michigan strength
and conditioning coach Mike Bar-
wis's workouts are hard, and Grady
may not want to take that nagging
midterm.
But you'll never see him com-
plain.
After his experience at the fac-

4

4

SAMWOLSN/Daily
Redshirt sophomore Kelvin Grady joined the football team this summer.
tory, he'll never take his opportuni- and fight through it, because I've
ties for granted. been to the bottom of the bottom
"Whenever I look down or I and now I'm back. I'm a Michigan
get tired, I'm easily encouraged Man, and this is where I'm sup-
now," Grady said. "Just to work posed to be."

FOOTBALL
Molk sidelined 4 to 6 weeks with broken bone in foot

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Freshman quarterback Tate
Forcier's writhing on the ground
in pain may have garnered a bigger
reaction from the Michigan Sta-
dium crowd, but
redshirt sopho- NOTEBOOK
more center David
Molk suffered the most significant
injury during Saturday's win over
Eastern Michigan.
Molk broke his foot during the
game and underwent surgery Mon-
day morning, Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez announced at his weekly
Monday press conference. The pro-
cedure will leave the only center
who has started in Rodriguez eraon
the sideline for four to six weeks.
"That's aptpughbltsw,"Rodriguez
said. "David is not just one of our
best lineman but he may be - he

is - one of our best football players,
period."
Fifth-year senior David Moos-
man will likely replace Molk at
center. Moosman sat out against
Eastern Michigan after suffering
an injury during the fourth quarter
of the Wolverines' win over Notre
Dame, but he is expected to return
this week. Moosman played all
spring and fall camp at center, leav-
ing Rodriguez "pretty comfortable"
with Moosman and his snaps.
Redshirt freshman Rocko
Khoury will also help fill in.
Molk likely suffered the injury
in the first half of the game when
he complained about soreness. He
insisted on staying in 4nd played
well in both halves, but an X-ray
after the game revealed a break.
Uzlike last aeson, the Wolver-
ines have some flexibility on the
offensive line. Redshirt junior John

Ferrara filled in at guard for Moos-
man against the Eagles, helping the
Wolverines post 380 rushing yards,
the most in one game in the Rodri-
guez era.
Rodriguez also feels confident
moving redshirt sophomore Mark
Huyge from tackle to right guard,
where Moosmanusually starts, and
playing redshirt junior Perry Dor-
restein at tackle.
"It's not exactly the ideal situ-
ation because our depth is still
with inexperienced guys, but at
least inexperienced guys that have
been in the program for a year, as
opposed to last year where some
of the depth were true freshmen,"
Rodriguez said.
Ideally, Rodriguez said he likes
to have two centers, three guards
and three tackles. As players spend,
more time in the system, they'll
learn to play multiple positions, just

as Huyge and redshirt freshman
Patrick Omameh are training at
both guard and tackle.
In the meantime, freshmen
Michael Schofield and Taylor
Lewan took second-string reps last
week to "keep them greased up" in
case the offensive line suffers more
injuries.
"It's going to take us a couple
years to really fix some of the issues
we have as far as depth, and expe-
rience, and talent and, what have
you," Rodriguez said.
SECOND-HALF STRENGTH: Much
has been made of Michigan's defen-
sive resurgence in the second half
against both Notre Dame and East-
ern Michigan.
In particular, the Wolverines
shut out the Eagles in the second
half and limited themto-Slrushing
yards after giving up 17 points and
128 yards on the ground in the first

two quarters.
Whatever the cause, it's not
because of a Vince Lombardi-esque
halftime speech.
"I think that's just a coincidence,
more than anything else," Rodri-
guez said. "There's not a whole lot
of time for big adjustments. ... But
I think our defensive staff, more
than anything, has just calmed the
guys down, tell them this is what's
happening, these are the fewthings
we're going to do to fix it."
OTHER INJURIES: Aside from
Molk's broken foot, there were not
any major injuries from Saturday.
Senior running back Brandon
Minor still has a nagging ankle
injury and will be evaluated on a
day-to-day basis. Rodriguez said
he plans to rest Minor early in the
week in hopes that his health will
improve.
"Brandon's got a great pain tol-

erance," Rodriguez said. "So he'll
go, but we've also told him he's
got to be honest with us when it is
bothering him, particularly when
it's at a point where it's bothering
him where he doesn't feel he can be
himself."
Redshirt sophomore safety Mike
Williams is also day-to-day with a
tweaked ankle.
Rodriguez added that redshirt
senior offensive lineman Tim McA-
voy could return this week after
beingoutsince springpractice.
HOMECOMING WEEKEND: In
honor of Homecoming this week-
end, there willbe a prep rally for the
football team at Crisler Arena on
Friday. Doors will open at 3:30, and
the team will arrive around 4:15.
There will be prizes and give-
aways, and buses will be provided
for students living in the residence
halls.

I
I

4

I

Public Education to the.Highest Degree

Highly regarded doctoral programs
The Graduate Center is the principal
Ph.D.-granting institution of the City
University of New York. Many of the
Graduate Center's more than thirty doctoral
programs are regularly ranked among the
best in the country.
Renowned teacher-scholars
Over the last decade, the Graduate Center
has added dozens of world-class scholars to
its already eminent faculty roster. Five
faculty members were awarded Guggenheim
Fellowships this year alone.
Fellowships for incoming students
About 300 fellowships available to first-year
students provide each recipient with
$18,000-$24,000 a year for five years, plus
tuition remission and low-cost health
insurance.
The heart of New York City
Located across from the Empire State
Building in one of the world's most
cosmopolitan environments, the Graduate
Center offers students a wide range of
research opportunities and presents myriad
cultural events.
Please visit www.gc.cuny.edu to learn more
about this remarkable institution.

EU


