ROBINSON'S JOURNE HBO'S REIGN
New Michigan defensive coordinator HBO proves why it's still the
GregRobinson has seen NFL glary, colleg best with the coolly funny
urity and everything in bedeen. series "Bored to Death."
SEE FOOTBALL SATURDAY, INSIDE SEE ARTS, PAGE 5A

0 Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, September 25, 2009

michigandaily.com

FIN AN CING YOUR EDUCATIO
W ith vote,
'Promise'
may return

MICHIGAN'S NEXT TOP MODEL

Hou
rev
sch
The.
ship sa
a prop
fully fi
mittee
Rep.
(D-De
Approp
duced
would
Michig
gram.
party li
the Cot
The
from W
ference
cation,
to cut t
arship.
Rep.
chair
Approp
in sup
ise Sc
intervi
the on
that C

se committee may cot a coocrete plan for funding the
verse Wednesday However, Bauer said there are
many ways to increase revenue
decision to cut to provide funds for the Promise
Scholarship, like closing tax loop-
olarship program holes, raising fees on beverages like
bottled water by a penny or putting
By NICOLE ABER a six cent sales tax on live enter-
Daily Staff Reporter tainment.
"Every single area is gettingcut,"
Michigan Promise Scholar- Bauer said. "So we're at a point now
ga continued yesterday after where it's not like we could just go
'osal in the state House to take money out of one area and put
and the grants passed com- it in another. We're really at a point
where we have to raise revenue
. George Cushingberry if we want to keep the Promise
troit), chair of the House grants."
priations Committee, intro- But committee Republicans like
a bill yesterday morning that State Rep. Dave Agema (R-Grand-
fully fund the $120 million ville), who also sits on the House
;an Promise Scholarship pro- Appropriations Committee, dis-
Representatives voted along agree with the proposal to generate
lines to pass the bill within revenue by raising taxes.
mmittee. Agema, who voted against Cush-
bill represents a turnaround ingberry's proposal to reinstate
Wednesday's vote in the Con- funding for the Michigan Prom-
e Committee on Higher Edu- ise Scholarship, said that while he
which resulted in a decision doesn't want to cut the program,
he Michigan Promise Schol- he's not willing to vote on some-
thing that does not have a solid
Joan Bauer (D-Lansing), source of funding.
of the Higher Education "It's not that we're against the
priations Committee, voted Promise Grant," Agema said. "It's
port of funding the Prom- just kind of a crazy thing you have
holarship yesterday. In an to vote on something when you
ew yesterday, Bauer said don't even know where the money's
ly downside of the bill is coming from."
ushingberry did not pres- See PROMISE, Page 7A

MIA MARINO/Daily
LSA freshman Kathryn Beaton gets her headshot taken by LSA junior Winnie Jeng for Shei Magazine's model search held yesterday at the Work Gallery on State Street.
The magazine, which publishes annually in the spring, is also responsible for various movie screenings, fashion shows and other events on campus throughout the year.
Rankings change a source of worry

National Research
Council overhauling
methodology of
long-awaited report
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
DailyStaffReporter
The success of university
researchers is about to be quanti-

fied, and that fact has officials at
colleges across the country sweat-
ing.
Considered by many as the pre-
eminent system for assessing doc-
torate programs, the United States
National Research Council report
ranks 222 institutions nationwide
over 61 different doctoral fields.
The ratings attract a lot of
attention because they come out
about once every 10 years. But this
forthcoming report is already four
years late, as the last edition came

out in 1995. Though the release of
this version is expected in the very
near future, nobody knows exactly
when that publication date will be.
The NRC, which recently
released its ranking methodology,
will be using survey data of par-
ticipating universities from the
2005-2006 academic year. Applied
to individual doctorate programs,
the rankings rely on a wide range
of criteria, which include the num-
ber of publications and grants pro-
duced by faculty, demographics

like minority composition and cur-
rent rankings.
Averaging all departmental
scores, the University of Michigan
scored third overall on the NRC's
previous list of rankings in 1995,
behind the University of Califor-
nia, Berkley and first-ranked Stan-
ford University.
In an interview this week, for-
mer University President James
Duderstadt, who is also a professor
of science and engineering, said
See RESEARCH REPORT, Page 7A


FOOTBALL SATURDAYS
Annual homecoming tailgate
set to go green this weekend

CAMPUS CRIME
Diag incident ends in pepper spray

All trash from event
to be recycled, reused
or composted
By OLIVIA CARRINO
For the Daily
"Go Blue, Live Green" may
become a reality on campus this
weekend when the University's
first zero waste tailgate takes place
tomorrow at the 33rd Annual Go
Blue Homecoming Tailgate at Oost-

erbaan Fieldhouse.
Every year the Go Blue Tailgate
welcomes 3,000 alumni, students
and friends to enjoy food, cama-
raderie and entertainment. This
year, the event is taking the whole
production one step further. Zero
waste means all materials at the
tailgate will be reused, recycled or
composted. This eliminates the
need to send garbage to landfills.
The Alumni Association in
partnership with the Student Sus-
tainability Initiative and the Uni-
versity's Department of Refuse and

Recycling is organizing the event.
SSI is an on-campus group of lead-
ers in government groups, envi-
ronmental groups and individuals
who want to make the University of
Michigan a leader in sustainability.
At the tailgate, all plates will be
made from bamboo and all utensils
will be made from corn syrup. Both
are entirely compostable, as are the
cups, napkins and trash liners that
will be used. All compostable mate-
rials will be transported to a local
composting farm.
See TAILGATE, Page 7A

After one man
resists arrests,
police take action
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Passers-by stood and watched
as University Police confronted
two men near the Diag yesterday
in an incident that ended when one
of the men was subdued with pep-
per spray.
Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Diane Brown said
University Police were called to
the scene after reports that the two

men were demanding money from
students walkingin the area.
"We received a report of two
people on the Diag, or in the Diag
area, who were aggressively pan-
handling," Brown said, adding that
the panhandling was not being
carried out in a way that would be
considered robbery.
Once University Police arrived,
the two men were read trespassing
rights and were asked to leave Uni-
versity property, Brown said.
Brown said that while one of the
subjects readily cooperated with
officers and was escorted from
campus peacefully, the other sub-
ject - a 49-year-old man - resist-
ed arrest.

"We had reports of him aggres-
sively panhandling and so we were
escorting him off campus property
when he resisted police instruc-
tions and then ultimately resisted
the police officer when he was
told he was going to be arrested,"
Brown said.
While resisting arrest, the
subject - who Brown said was
inebriated - began to fight with
University Police. In response,
police officers used pepper spray
to subdue the man. Brown said he
was then taken into custody and to
the University Hospital because he
was complaining of physical dis-
comfort.
See INCIDENT, Page 7A

WEAVING A HISTORY

L EA DING KIN ESIO LOGY
University officials pick Zernicke as
new School of Kinesiology dean

If approved by the
regents, new dean
would begin in 2010
By VANESSA NUNEZ
Daily StaffReporter
University President Mary Sue
Coleman and Univesity Provost
TeresaSullivannamedRonaldZer-
nicke the new dean of the School of
Kinesiology on Monday.
Zernicke's appointment, which
is contingent on approval from the
University's Board of Regents, will

go into effect on Jan. 1, 2010.
Zernicke has been the director
of the University's Bone & Joint
Injury Prevention & Rehabilita-
tion Center since 2007 in addition
to being a faculty member in the
Department of Biomedical Engi-
neering, the School of Kinesiology
and Department of Orthopaedic
Surgery.
In a press release issued ear-
lier this week, Sullivan said she
was very happy with Zernicke's
appointment and looked forward
to working with him.
"President Coleman and I are
extremely pleased that Dr. Zer-

nicke is assuming the leadership
of the School of Kinesiology at this
time of dramatic change within
the study of human movement,"
Sullivan said.
Zernicke's appointment comes
after two rounds of interviews that
took place after Beverly Ulrich, the
former dean of the School of Kine-
siology, stepped down in 2008.
In response to the selection,
Ulrich wrote in a statement that
she is very happy with Zernicke's
appointment.
"He combines strong and
visionary leadership with a sup-
See DEAN, Page 7A

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daily
Tatiana Calixto weaves a rug at the GIEU Symposium in the ballroom of the Michigan Union yesterday. She went with a group to
Cusco and Chinchero, Peru, where the native people are known for rug weaving.


WEATHER HI 69
TOMORROW LO: 54

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail At Tufts, there's no sex in the dorm room
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOG/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS................2A CLASSIFIEDS ...................... hA
Vol. CXX, No, 4 OPINION ................4A SPORTS . .......... ....... A
©2009 The Michigan Daily ARTS... . .. A FOOTBALL SATURDAY.......1B
michigandoiilycom



6

2A - Friday, September 25, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom



MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEVVPAN
Editor in Chief Basiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@iihigandailycom tmdbuaineaa@gmnail.om
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Offce hours: un.-Thau trn.1 ~. - 2a.m.
News Tipsnewsn@michigandaily.om
Correctians correeniona@michigandaily.oe
Letterstoathe Editor tohedailygmichigandaily.com

0

a.
;9
m
m
m

Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section

photo@michigandaily.com
arspage~fmichigandaily.com
opinion@michigandaiy.com
sports@michigandaiy.com

LEFT Juliana Paz of the women's oolleyball team plays against Oregon State at Cris-
ler Arena in Ann Arbor. Michigan lost the game. (SAID ALSALAH/Daily) ABOVE
Art & Design students maroel at the proected image inside a camera ohscura built
by local engineer Stan Shachman. A natural phenomenon, the camera obscura
utilizes a single concentrated light source making it ahle to project a lion image of
its surroundings. (SAID ALSALAH/Daily) RIGHT A referee and trainer look on as
a ball goes through the goal posts daring the 4S-t7 winovuer Eastern Michigan at
Michigan Stadium September 19, 2009. (MAX COLLINS/Daily).

MORE ONLINE
For more photos of the week, go tn michigandailycom

CRIME NOTES
Student swipes Bike lifted
ATT 'r1 a-%

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Sukkah making
at Hillel

AIV 1 11 UII1 IlF
WHERE: S12 Thompson Street
WHEN: Wednesday at about
8:55 am.
WHAT: A stolen Univeraity
Park Automatic Vehicle iden-
tification device was found in a
car, University Police reported.
The car is owned by a student
who is also a staff member.
Visitor suffers
rattlesnake bite
WHERE: Matthaei Botanical
Gardens
WHEN: Wednesday at about
3:25 p.m.
WHAT: A visitor was trans-
ported to the hospital after a
rattlesnake it her ankle, Uni-
versity Police reported.

WHERE: North Unive
Court
WHEN: Wednesdaysat
5:55 p.m.
'WHAT: A bike was stc
from the racks betwee
Central Campus Recre
Building and Stockwel
dence Hall, University
reported. The bike isv
at $300.
Student pas!
out, gets MI.
WHERE: East Quad
WHEN: Yesterday ata
3:1S am.
WHAT: A student was
ported to the hospital't
ambulance after he wa
passed out in a hallwa:
versity Police reported
cited with a minor inp
sion.

ersity

about WHAT: Help students and
staff at Hillel build a tempo-
olen rary hut for celebrating the
n the harvest holiday. Drinks and
eation snacks will be provided.
11 Resi- WHO: Hillel
VPolice WHEN: Today from 1 p.m.
'alued to 3 p.m.
WHERE: Mendell L Berman
ses Center
P
Spelling bee
bout with cash prize
s trans- WHAT: The University's
by second annual spelling bee.
a found All participants are welcome
y, Uni- and there is a $t00 cash
i. He was prize.
)osses- WHO: University Union Arts
& Programs
WHEN: Today from S p.m.
to 7p.m.
e WHERE: Pendelton Room,
MihgnUnion

Explorth
WHAT: An event to cel-
ebrate North Campus and its
offerings and hidden secrets.
Event will include music,
prizes and free food.
WHO: Arts on Earth
WHEN: Today at 4:30 p.m.
WHERE: North Campus
Diag
CORRECTIONS
* A story in the Sept. 15 edi-
tion of The Michigan Daily,
"MSA, faculty to team up,"
and an editorial in Tuesday's
edition of the Daily "Making
the right call," incorrectly
stated that the Good Samari-
tan Policy is in the State-
ment of Student Eights and
Conduct.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandailycom.

1Yesterday was the 250th
anniversary of Guinness
Brewery, according to
CNN.com. Its founder Arthur
Guinness signed a 9,000-year
lease on the brewery in Dublin
in 1759.
2 San Francisco's 2007
ban of plastic bags
reduced consumption by
five million bags per month.
>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
3 Areport published by
the Guttmacher Insti-
tute in New York recently
found that at least nine out of
10 American men and women
have had premarital sex.
The 90 percent of Americans
includes people born as early
as the 1940's.

Display Sales dispaygichigandaily.com
tiassified Sales ctassfied@mihiandaily.com
Inline Safes onlineada@michigandaily.com
financefnance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
taartneyltatkowiak ManaginEeditor ratkowiak@michigandaity.om
Jacob Snilaoite Managing NewseEditrnsailovite@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NESumsDITnOS:Mett:Aaonso,,Jillian Bermn, TrevorCatlero,aJenna
uSSANToNESums IOS:tNo o le Aberus,, Malloryona, Emily Orle, Stehanie
Robert Soave EditoiatPageEditor eoaee@michigandailycomn
Andy Reid ManagiguSorts Editorn rmid@michigandailyecom
SEs0NeOSOSaEITRNa icoleAu.5erbach, Mike Esetini,,I an Ka,uh
Linol,le Poseri
unnl,sCrsszarousu,oya us MroreceIrs~euaa,~in
DaidWatnick MaoagiogAe stEditon watnick@mhhgandailycm
SENORnRTSunEDITOS: Jamie Bock,Bandn Conradis,WhitnePo
ASSITAuNT ARTSoEDTOSoas huaye,Colynlaeceki,AndtraLapi,avidanir
ZacharfMesner and photo@mihiandaily.cm
tClf Reeder Managing PhooEditrsn
aSNORePHOOEDITORS:aidaoll,ha~elVon Hbbu~rgLothingen
AngelatChihband design@michigandaitycm
Maureen Stycb ManagnesigniEnditors
Jessita Vosgerchian MagazineEditor vesgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katberine Mitchell copyrchief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASAsTunoECO CHEFMeaie ed,Ai Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Sales Managee
SALESORCE MsuANGRollyTiugg
Ryan BasinfskiClassifiedsManager
Ben English Pnoduction Manager
Allison SaatacreafLayout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manaer
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad WileyPtrojeoc oordinatrn
Theichigan DailyISSN75-967)his publihed Mondaytouh idiuingrhell and intr
trms bystudentsatenivesitofMiciae.sOnecopyis aailaefee of care toallreades.
Aona opimreesmy e picked upeat the ilysuffie for$2. Sbscriporfal eitenm, strtng in
Seterrh,iaeUS. maiare $1WntOterternuarestrouhArnilis $15, eelarog(eeber
thrugh April) is $195. UnieitaffeOiitnes are subeoareducedsbritinae. On-ampus
subscritonsfr fall teae$35 Subsciptsustbe prepid.The icinDily i mebeaof
The Assoiaed Prean TheAsoaed CollegaePes.

MORE ONLINE
Lose Crime Notes? Got more online at ntichigandail.cor/blog/he wir(


The new Trojan' 2G0@I condom card. Two premium Trojan condoms,
oneslek pckae. itsdiscreetly in your wallet. Available at checkout. PCo N
To find Trojan 2G0 at a store near you, go to TrojanCondoms.com
aw , , AntLm. Anyhere.

e



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 25, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Indiana man
admits to stealing
cemetery funds
A man admits embezzling
about $4.2 million in perpetual-
care trust funds from a Michigan
cemetery operated by his India-
napolis-based company.
Michigan Attorney General
Mike Cox announced yesterday
that Robert Nelms of Green-
wood, Ind., pleaded guilty in
Kent County Circuit Court to
embezzlement and failing to
trust funeral contracts. He faces
up to 10 years in prison.
Nelms is accused of stealing
about $24 million from the trusts
of funeral homes and cemeteries
he controlled in Michigan and
Indiana.
About $4.2 million was taken
from Chapel Hill Memorial Gar-
dens in Grand Rapids. Nelms faces
charges inIndiana for the rest.
MAUMEE, Ohio.
Woman given
wrong embryo
An Ohio woman who is car-
rying another woman's baby
because of a fertility clinic error
says she's still not sure where to
place the blame.
Carolyn Savage told The Asso-
ciated Press yesterday that she
and her husband have not been
told who made the mistake or
@ why it happened.
She says that "hopefully some-
day an explanation will come."
The 40-year-old woman from
the Toledo suburb of Sylvania is
due to give birth within the next
two weeks. The couple say they
will give the baby boy over to his
biological parents, who live in
Michigan.
The Savages' attorney says
he's been contact with a lawyer
for the fertility clinic. He says he
hopes they can reach a resolution
without going to court.
The Savages have not dis-
closed the name of the clinic.
WASHINGTON
Up to 8 Uighurs to
leave Guantanamo
The Obama administration
says at least six, and as many
as eight, Chinese Muslims held
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, will
soon leave their island prison
for freedom in another island
nation, Palau.
Word of the upcoming trans-
fer to the tiny Pacific country,
* planned for sometime after Oct.
1, came in a letter released yes-
terday from Solicitor General El-
enaKagantothe Supreme Court.
Kagan also confirmed that Palau
has agreed to accept all but one
ofthe 13 Chinese Muslims, orUi-
ghurs (pronounced WEE'-gurs),
who remain at Guantanamo.
Kagan's letter was intended to
demonstrate that the adminis-
tration was the process of mov-
ing the Uighurs out of Guantan-

amo and that the Supreme Court
thus would not need to review a
challenge over their detention.
Six Uighur detainees have
agreed to the transfer and at-
tempts to persuade two others
are ongoing, Kagan wrote.
BAHGDAD
Members of
al-Qaida escape
 from Iraqi prison
U.S. aircraft and Iraqi patrols
combined in a massive manhunt
Thursday after the escape of 16
prisoners - including five al-Qai-
da-linked inmates awaiting exe-
cution - who apparently crawled
through a bathroom window in a
makeshift jail on a former com-
pound of Saddam Hussein.
The jailbreak in Saddam's
hometown Tikrit highlighted
the struggles for Iraqi authori-
ties to maintain control over an
overcrowded prison system and
absorb thousands of detainees
turned over by U.S. forces as part
of a broad security pact. At least
two senior officials were fired
after the late Wednesday escape.
Few details on the fugitives
were provided by Iraqi security
chiefs. But five were Iraqis who
were sentenced to death for ter-
rorism-related crimes and links
to al-Qaida in Iraq, said a Tikrit
police officer, said on condition
of anonymity because he was
not authorized to discuss the
operation with media.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Feds: Suspect hit beauty
stores for bomb supplies

Airport shuttle driver
buys supplies for
homemade bomb
NEW YORK (AP) - An Afghan
immigrant who received explo-
sives training from al-Qaida went
from one beauty supply store to
another, buying up large quanti-
ties of hydrogen peroxide and nail-
polish remover, in a chilling plot
to build bombs for attacks on U.S.
soil, authorities charged yesterday.
Najibullah Zazi, a 24-year-old
shuttle driver at the Denver air-
port, was indicted in New York
on charges of conspiracy to use
weapons of mass destruction.
Investigators found bomb-making
instructions on his computer's
hard drive and said Zazi used a
hotel room in Colorado to try to
cook up explosives a few weeks ago
before atrip to New York.
The extent of Zazi's ties to al-

Qaida was unclear, but if the alle-
gations prove true, this could be
the first operating al-Qaida cell to
be uncovered inside the U.S. since
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Over the
past few days, talk of the possible
plot set off the most intense flurry
of national terrorism warnings
since the aftermath of 9/11.
Prosecutors said they have yet to
establish exactly when and where
the Zazi attacks were supposed to
take place. But Attorney General
Eric Holder said in Washington,
"We believe any imminent threat
arising from this case has been dis-
rupted."
A law enforcement official told
The Associated Press yesterday
that Zazi had associates in New
York who were in on the plot.
Zazi was arrested in Denver last
weekend and was charged along
with his father and a New York
City imam with lying to investiga-
tors. Authorities said in the past
few days that they feared Zazi and

others might have been planning
to detonate homemade bombs on
New York trains, and warnings
went out to transit systems, stadi-
ums and hotels nationwide.
Explosives built with hydro-
gen peroxide killed 52 people four
years ago intheLondonctransitsys-
tem. They are easy to conceal and
detonate, and last week's warnings
asked authorities to be on the look-
out for them.
A law enforcement official said
Thursday that authorities had been
so worried about Zazi - and that
his Sept. 10 trip to New York City
coincided with a visit by President
Barack Obama - that they consid-
ered arresting him as soon as he
reached the city. The official spoke
on condition of anonymity because
the investigation continues.
Zazi left a Denver court yester-
day without commenting and will
be transferred soon to New York.
He and his lawyer have denied he
is a terrorist.

EL6E AMENDOLA/AP
Former Democratic Party chairman Paul G. Kirk Jr. takes the podium at a news con-
ference in Boston on Thursday where it was announced that he will temporarily fill
the late Sen. Edward Kennedy's U.S. Senate seat.
Kennedy loyalist
na-med as Senate
replacem__ent

MATT ROURKE/AP
Demonstrators begin a protest march in Arsenal Park in Pittsburgh, yesterday in protest of the G20 summit - a gathering of some
the world's most influential leaders.
G-20protestors and police,
clash on P ittsburgh strlLu-ets

Kirk will be the
interim replacement
until special election
in January
BOSTON (AP) - Paul G. Kirk
Jr. served Edward M. Kennedy
as an aide, rooted beside him at
Harvard-Yale football games and
is the executor of his will. Now,
as Kennedy's replacement in the
Senate, he is charged with trying
to complete his late friend's legacy
by passing health care reform.
Massachusetts Gov. Deval Pat-
rick tapped the former chairman
of the Democratic National Com-
mittee yesterday to hold Ken-
nedy's seat until a special election
Jan. 19. Kirk, 71, said he would not.
run himself.
The announcement came after
the Democratic-dominated Leg-
islature changed the state's Sen-
ate succession law to restore the
governor's power to appoint an
interim replacement. Republicans
went to court in a last-ditch effort
to stop Kirk from being sworn in.
President Barack Obama and
his staff lobbied for the change,
hoping to regain a 60th Demo-
cratic vote that would prevent
Senate filibusters from derail-
ing his top legislative priority, a
national health care overhaul.
Obama said in a statement:
"Paul Kirk is a distinguished
leader, whose long collaboration
with Sen. Kennedy makes him an
excellent, interim choice to carry
on his work until the voters make
their choice in January."
Kennedy's widow and sons had
encouraged Patrick to appoint
Kirk. Vicki Kennedy and Edward
Kennedy Jr. sat in the front row

next to Kirk's wife, Gail, as the
governor made his announcement
at the Statehouse.
Besides health carePatricksaid
Kirk would represent the state's
interests in upcoming debates on
the economic recovery, financial
regulation and climate change.
"In all these and other ways,
Congress is debating our future
- right now," Patrick said. "The
issues before the Congress and
the nation are simply too impor-
tant to Massachusetts for us to be
one voice short."
Kennedy died last month of
brain cancer. Kirk, who has never
held elective office, recalled how
his late friend used to say rep-
resenting Massachusetts in the
Senate "was the highest honor he
possibly could have imagined."
"It's certainly nothing I imag-
ined, but it would be my highest
honor as well," Kirk said.
He is to be sworn in this after-
noon by Vice President Joe Biden.
The Massachusetts Republican
Party went to a Boston court
seeking an injunction to stop
Kirk's swearing-in, questioning
an emergency power the governor
invoked in naming him.
In restoring the governor's
power to appoint an interim sena-
tor, lawmakers declined to have it
go into effect immediately, rather
than after the standard 90 days.
The governor has the power to
put the law into effect if he deems
it an emergency; Republicans say
this law does not qualify.
State Secretary William F. Gal-
vin said the power to make the
immediate appointment is "very
clearly available" to governors
and was used more than a dozen
times by Patrick's Republican pre-
decessor, Mitt Romney. The court
set a hearing for 8 a.m. today.

Anarchists say police
denied their right to
peaceably assemble
PITTSBURGH (AP) - Police
fired canisters of pepper spray
and smoke at marchers protesting
the Group of 20 summit yesterday
after anarchists responded to calls
to disperse by rolling trash bins
and throwing rocks.
The march turned chaotic at
just about the time that Presi-
dent Barack Obama and first lady
Michelle Obama arrived for a
meeting with leaders of the world's
major economies.
The clashes began after hun-
dreds of protesters, many advo-
cating against capitalism, tried to
march from an outlying neigh-
borhood toward the convention
center where the summit is being
held.
The protesters banged on
drums and chanted "Ain't no
power like the power of the
people, 'cause the power of the
people don't stop."
The marchers included small
groups of self-described anar-
chists,some wearing dark clothes
and bandanas and carrying black
flags. Others wore helmets and
safety goggles.
One banner read, "No borders,
no thanks," another, "No hope in
capitalism." A few minutes into
the march, protesters unfurled a
large banner reading "NO BAIL-
OUT NO CAPITALISM" with an
encircled "A," a recognized sign
of anarchists.
The marchers did not have a
permit and, after a few blocks,
police declared it an unlaw-
ful assembly. They played an
announcement over a loudspeak-
er telling people to leave or face
arrest and then police in riot gear
moved in to break it up.
Protesters split into smaller
groups. Some rolled large metal
trash bins toward police, and
a man in a black hooded sweat
shirt threw rocks at a police car,
breaking the front windshield.
Protesters broke windows in a
few businesses, including a bank
branch and a Boston Market res-
taurant.
Officers fired pepper spray

and smoke at the protesters. Some
of those exposed to the pepper
spray coughed and complained
that their eyes were watering and
stinging.
Police were planning a news
conference to discuss their
response. Officers were seen tak-
ing away a handful of protesters
in cuffs.
About an hour after the clashes
started, the police and protesters
were at a standoff. Police sealed
off main thoroughfares to down-
town.
Twenty-one-year-old Stephon
Boatwright, of Syracuse, N.Y.,
wore a mask of English anarchist
Guy Fawkes and yelled at a line
of riot police. He then sat cross-
legged near the officers, telling
them to let the protesters through

and to join their cause.
"You're actively suppressing us.
I know you want to move," Boat-
wright yelled, to applause from the
protesters gathered around him.
Protesters complained that the
march had been peaceful and that
police were trampling on their
right to assemble.
"We were barely even protest-
ing," said T.J. Amick, 22, of Pitts-
burgh. "Then all of a sudden, they
come up and tellus we're gathered
illegally and startusing force, start
banging their shields, start telling
us we're going to be arrested and
tear gassed. ... We haven't broken
any laws."
Bret Hatch, 26, of Green Bay,
Wis., was carrying an American
flag and a "Don't Tread on Me"
flag.

U

.qf
338 S. State St
Ann Arbor
734.996.9191

U of Michigan Animal Rights Society



SaTURD 1
'Kegs and Eggs' Breakfast Buffet:
Open Early For Every Big Ten Home Game
Featuring Breakfast, Beer, and a Bloody Mary Bar
SIGn UP FOR MaIL UPDaTOS AT www.ashleys.com
10113 OURTWITTOR: a2ashleys

You're Sick
LSA students, if you're concerned about flu season this
year, be sure to visit the LSA website. You can
self-report your illness and simultaneously inform your
instructors and advisor as well as read up on University
efforts to curtail the spread of H1N1 and other
potential campus outbreaks.
www.Isa.umich.edu


0

4A - Friday, September 25, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU

C74C IWIC4igan .+ ai1

BELLA SHAH


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Clean-up in aisle A2
City Council should stop delays and vote on plastic bag ban
proposedban on plastic bags inAnnArborhasbeenbagged
- atleasttemporarily. TheAnnArbor City Council decided
at a meeting on Tuesday to put the vote to ban plastic bags
on hold until later this year, arguing that enough details weren't
known. If it ever makes it to a vote, the ban would be the first of its
kind in Washtenaw County and could set a good example for the
rest of the state to follow. City Council has been dragging its feet
on this important issue long enough: It must implement this envi-
ronmentally friendly proposal. But even without a ban on plastic
bags, students can still promote greener alternatives by switching

T m cowns to an f!8. tv
A
many 1or

Ifrti fit

0

'

6

Majorly undecided

to cloth bags on their own.
The proposed ban on plastic bags isn't
new to City Council. It was first introduced
in June 2008, mirroring similar propos-
als and bans in cities across the country,
notably San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Tuesday's delay marks the third time the
proposal has been tabled. The proposal
would prohibit all retailers with yearly
sales of more than $1 million from provid-
ing plastic bags to shoppers. Because the
ban would only affect retailers inside city
limits, it would primarily impact Briar-
wood and Arborland Malls.
The ban's benefits are clear - plastic
bags aren't conducive to a healthy envi-
ronment. Plastic bags are made from pet-
rochemicals, which come from fossil fuels.
As more bags are manufactured and used,
nonrenewable resources are depleted. And
plastic bags take an extremely long time to
decompose, adding to Michigan's already-
overflowing landfills. As the bags do break
down, they leave harmful contaminants in
their wake.
Banning plastic bags has positively
impacted the communities that have done
so. San Francisco's 2007 ban reduced the
consumption of plastic bags by five million
per month. Similar measures have been
taken in Los Angeles and recently in San

Jose. Though Ann Arbor might not benefit
as heavily as these larger communities,
Ann Arbor's City Council should do what-
ever it can to encourage greener options.
Critics of the ban may say it will hurt
businesses, but this is unlikely. Because
the ban only applies to grocery stores with
a yearly gross of more than $1 million,
smaller establishments wouldn't be affect-
ed. And larger stores shouldn't have much
of a problem shouldering the monetary
burden associated with a ban.
In any case, there are plenty of more
environmentally friendly options to
replace plastic bags. Decomposable plastic
bags do exist, and though they are more
expensive, large retailers could afford to
offer them if they really want to stick with
plastics. But the best option is cheap, dura-
ble cloth bags, which can easily be reused.
And students don't need to wait for City
Council to opt for this choice - cloth bags
are already available with many larger
retailers.
The plastic bag ban would be an envi-
ronmentally responsible measure, and City
Council shouldn't have delayed its passage
again. But in the meantime, students can
avoid plastic bags on their own to create a
greener campus community.

At the age of five, I was con-
vinced I would make the
world's best kindergarten
teacher. By eight, I
saw myself becom-
ing a psychologist.
I was sure I was the
next Judy Blume
during my pre-teen
years. The past few l
years, I have had
my heart set on
becoming a nutri-
tionist. Just last LEAH
week, I convinced POTKIN
my friends I would
thrive as a wedding
planner. Now, I'm
awaiting my next grand idea. I can't
wait to see which quirky career I'll
pick for myself.
So, given my history, how should
I answer the most common question
that, as asophomore, I nowencounter:
What's my major? Honestly, I have no
idea what I want tobe or what I want
to major in. In fact, I assert my uncer-
tainty with pride, unlike many of my
contemporaries, who seem embar-
rassed to admit they're undecided.
Just because I knew what I wanted
when I was five does not mean my
19-year-old self can make any deci-
sions - at least not yet. College should
be the time when students explore all
their interests without the constant
pressure of deciding on their future
as defined by a major. I understand
that some people know what they
want to do with their lives and have
goals. Good for them. I still find that
the pressure to commit leaves stu-
dents quick to dive into a major they
may be unsatisfied with in 10 years -
or even six months.
Finding the right career involves
more than simply liking something or

being good at it. It's a balance of all
aspects of a person's life. The process
can only evolve from experience, and
unfortunately, I don't think my jobs
as a gym employee and camp coun-
selor can resolve my indecision.
Maybe that's because, to me, inde-
cision isn't a problem. I feel lucky to be
at a school with so many outstanding
programs. Idhbe cheating myself to not
explore as many as possible. Frankly,
the fact that Iwill - despite my reluc-
tance - still be required to eventually
declare a major pisses me off. If it were
up to me, Undecided would be a major.
People speak as if it is, and there's
nothing wrong with that.
I know that declaring a major isn't
the death sentence I'm making it out
to be, and I know declared majors are
subject to change. But if I end up tak-
ing classes solely to fill requirements
in a major I ultimately change, I have
wasted my time and tuition money.
And even the innocuous-sounding
General Studies major has its own
list of course requirements that limit
exploration.
To assist stubborn students, the
University implores us to seek guid-
ance from advisors. These advisors
are touted as seers with the ability to
assign the correct career path based
solely on a meeting or two in which
years of experiences and goals are
condensed and analyzed. Not to be
rude, but how can middle-aged col-
lege advisors with their own pre-
dispositions guide me when I don't
even know - or care to know - what
I want? Thank you, advisors, but I'll
gladly stay lost and un-analyzed for
as long as possible.
A word of advice for anyone inter-
ested in weighing different options -
I'm taking a class this semester that
I find especially valuable. It's a sec-

tion of Psych 211 called "Exploring
Careers." To be honest, I signed up
for it last minute when a friend also
in the class told me it was an easy
pass-fail class. But by the end of the
first lecture, I knew I would get more
out of this class than any other course
I'm taking this semester. The teacher
emphasizedthat today, it's far more
acceptable to be out of college and
not have a "real" job, or to have a
job unrelated to one's major. It's not
uncommon for people in their later
twenties to go back to school after
discovering an unexpected passion.
Students shouldn't
feel rushed to pick
the perfect major.
And that's okay, because I'm sure that
I'll probably change my mind about a
career even after I finish college.
This might seem like nothing more
than a rant about my indecisiveness.
But I've felt this way since my grand-
mother told me that she took her first
anthropology class during her senior
year of college and then wished she
could have majored in it. Naturally,
I took an introductory anthropology
course last year - sorry, Grammy,
it bored me to tears. But I now have
an overwhelming fear that if I get
stuck fulfillingthe requirements for a
declared major, I might miss out on a
class that could direct me to my true
calling. And that would be a major
loss.
- Leah Potkin can be reached
at Ipotkin@umich.edu.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

A different kind ofprivilege

a

Daily article on Halfway's
recent removal is one-sided
TO THE DAILY:
I am writing in regards to the September 15th
article about the relocation of the Halfway Inn in
East Quadrangle (East Quad's Halfway Inn con-
verted into student lounge, 9/15/09). As a former
East Quad resident I have many fond memories
of the Halfway Inn and am very sad to see it
change. While I understand many of the reasons
that they would move the cafe, I felt that the arti-
cle portrayed a very one-sided view of situation.
Where was the feedback from the students who
didn't want to see it go? What about those who
think it's a terrible idea to move the food? Based
on my own experiences, I don't think that this
article covered the true feelings of many of the
East Quad residents.
Andaiye Spencer
Alum
Good Samaritan policy will
not change MIP status
TO THE DAILY:
In regards to a recent Daily editorial about
the Good Samaritan Policy, it is pertinent
to mention that some information relating
to MSA has changed (Making the right call,
09/21/2009).
I would like to clarify what has been hap-
pening within MSA to make sure that interest-
ed students have the latest information. MSA's
Student Rights Commission originally sought
out the staff at the Office of Student Conflict

Resolutions to implement a Good Samaritan
Policy in the Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities. After meeting with various
staff at University Health Service, OSCR and
Department of Public Safety, we've realized
that the issue is much more complicated than
simply writing an amendment.
Changes in the SSRR affect only students
and have no governing power over DPS's abil-
ity to issue MIPs. Changing MIP laws is a legal
issue that falls under state law rather than
University policies. DPS officers are bound to
Michigan law, which states that if an officer
encounters an intoxicated minor, the officer
must issue an MIP or else the officer will face
consequences. With this information, we are
taking two routes.
The SSRR's Student Rights Commission is
writing an amendment to incorporate infor-
mation about adaptive conflict resolutions,
including one that OSCR has called "Alterna-
tive Conflict Resolution for Alcohol and/or
other Drugs" (ACR-for-AOD). We would like to
bring attention to this program because many
students are unaware that if they are issued an
MIP, they can clear their disciplinary record
with the University by completing an edu-
cational ACR-for-AOD program with OSCR.
A clear disciplinary record can be advanta-
geous when applying to graduate schools and
jobs. This program, however, doesn't expunge
an MIP. The Student Rights Commission and
other interested students are arranging meet-
ings with people to get as much information as
possible before we move forward to lobby the
state legislature. We encourage any interested
students to get involved by emailing MSAstu-
dentrights@umich.edu.
Vickie Hwang
LSA senior

Neil Marcus, a prominent poet,
artist and activist for dis-
ability culture, told the New
River Free Press in
2006, "Accessibil-
ity means you feel
okay about being in
a place." Fighting
against segrega-
tion has been one
of Marcus' greatest
challenges. Every
day, he must ques- MATTHEW
tion whether he isH
welcome in public HUNTER
despite incidents
that keep him from
simply feeling okay at school, work,
restaurants - even, until the recent
renovations, in the Big House. Since he
was eight, Marcus has been disabled
with general dystonia, a neurologi-
cal movement disorder that causes,
among other things, twisting body
movements and abnormal postures.
I met Marcus on Tuesday at a dis-
ability culture workshop. Shamefully,
I admit that I initially questioned his
intelligence and ability to commu-
nicate because he was so "severely"
abnormal. Naturally, I equated dis-
ability with a lesser intelligence than
my own. But Neil quickly taught me
otherwise. His unique movement
patterns are not bizarre - they are
elegant. His words are always accom-
panied by awarm smile. And he does
not, for asecond, wantyour pity. After
a few hours with Marcus, I realized
that I was in the presence of someone
who could be a great civil rights icon
like Dr. King or Rosa Parks, only Mar-
cus' struggle focuses on something
different.
On April 5, 1977, disabled people
led a protest at the San Francisco
offices of the Health, Education and
Welfare Department after Secretary
Joseph Califano refused to sign regu-
lations for Section 504, a civil rights
law that prohibits discrimination
against individuals with disabilities

by providing equal access to educa-
tion. It was one of the longest sit-ins
in U.S. history, lasting 25 days. One
group that made this courageous act
possible was the Black Panthers, who
protested and helped provide food for
others in the protest.
The Black Panthers are better
known for their unforgiving black
civil rights activism. But here, they
fought for equality for another
oppressed group - the disabled. They
were fighting together for access and
to feel okay in social space. This is the
struggle of minorities, women and
gays. This is what I, as a black man,
must consider daily: whether or not I
have equal access in social space.
I never realized it was a function
of my privilege to be physically able
to walk up the steps of Angel Hall,
just as whites often do not realize
that it is a function of their privilege
to rarely have to consider their race's
effect on social legitimacy or to be a
part of a student population propor-
tional to that of the nation. As white
civil rights activist Tim Wise put it,
"White privilege is being able to be a
gun enthusiast and not make people
immediately scared of you. ... White
privilege is being able to claim your
experience as a POW has anything at
all to do with your fitness for presi-
dent, while being black and experi-
encing racism is, as Sarah Palin puts
it, a 'light' burden. ... White privilege
is, in short, the problem."
What lessons can be learned from
Marcus and the disability movement?
First, we should all recognize our
own privilege and how it oppresses
others. My own privilege enabled me
to associate disabilities with incom-
petence, as white privilege enables
some to associate blacks with lesser
intelligence and violence. The looks
on some students' faces when I open
my mouth and I speak "standard Eng-
lish" never fail to amuse me.
Second, coalitionsarevitaltoestab-
lishing civil equality. This means that

blacks should be on the front lines
combating homophobia, men should
be self-identified feminists and Palin
should befriend minorities from
Detroit. Whites should learn to bet-
ter identify racial injustices and find
ways to openly discuss and combat
these issues.
Third, movements are more effec-
tive when a variety of people are
involved. You don't have to be Tim
Wise at a podium or Huey Newton
toting a machine gun to fight for civil
rights. Attending race forums, having
civil rights conversations and calling
your representative to tell them that
a six percent African-American stu-
dent population is just not enough are
all instrumental steps for change.
Disabled people
continue to fight
for civil rights.
Only 30 minutes after meeting
Neil, I helped him eat a turkey sand-
wich from Panera Bread, as he is
unable to feed himself. It was not an
act of kindness on my part - it was
one of sharing. While his hunger
was temporarily satisfied, I learned
lifelong lessons from him about my
own shortcomings and blindness
because of my privilege. Whereas
many describe Marcus' disability as
debilitating, Marucs will smile and
tell you that he enjoys the fluidity and
unpredictability of his movements.
Our common ground is in our mutual
struggle. We both want access, to feel
comfortable in social space, tobe bet-
ter understood, to have more equal
opportunity and to feel okay to be in
a place.
- Matthew Hunter can be
reached at majjam@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and Uni-
versity affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy.
All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate writers to
join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing and
writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

0

'3


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 25, 2009 - 5A

Not so scary Monsters

By MIKE KUNTZ
Daily Arts Writer
History has shown that super-
groups almost always look good on
paper. Too often
that's where they
look best - the
wildly inconsis- MonSters
tent results range
from breathtak- of Folk
ing (Crosby, Stills, Monsters
Nash & Young) to of Folk
head-scratchingly
awful (too many Shangi-La
to name). Today's
version, the markedly less preten-
tious Monsters of Folk - whose
tongues were placed firmly in cheek
when making that moniker - lie
somewhere in between: Fantastic in
theory yet still leaving something to
be desired on tape.
Monsters of Folk unites four pil-
lars of modern popular folk on this
self-titled debut album, namely
singer-songwriters Conor Oberst
(Bright Eyes) and M. Ward (also
of She & Him fame), My Morning
Jacket frontman Jim James (or Yim
Yames, as he has been credited of
late) and Saddle Creek Records' pro-
ducer/multi-instrumentalist Mike
Mogis (also of Bright Eyes). Their
idea to cut an album originated in
2004 when Ward, Oberst and James
toured together, collaborating on
I their respective catalogues in a night
billed as "An Evening with Bright
Eyes, Jim James and M. Ward."
Even with such prolific and indi-
vidualized songwriters as Oberst,
James and Ward, the album is
remarkably cohesive. Like the folk
supergroups of yore, each artist has
a handful of songs that are clearly
his or her own, and employs the
other members to help orchestrate
the tracks. This collaborative ele-
ment allows for a thicker dose of
vocal and instrumental layeringand

some ac
the fou
togethe
ning fas
Jame
(Sincere
prayer
thought
undern
tos andl
and stri
"Bab
fun, ex
sters co
Oberst1
two-ste
harmon
they so
It's a ni
erwise L
Ober
Dylan p
particu

dded stylistic variety. Still, songs themselves may not be that
r find plenty of ways to blend great, he does his best (with help
r, and often do so in stun- from Mogis's deft keyboards and
hion. mechanical guitars) to dress them
es-led opener "Dear God up all pretty.
ely M.O.F)" is a soulful "The Sandman, the Brakeman and
with each singer taking a Me" is another fine moment, and is
tful stab at divine dilemmas perhaps M. Ward'sbest writing since
eath James's soaring falset- 2006'sPost-War. Here heemployshis
Mogis's R&B-flavored drum dusty Americana style to full effect
ng samples. for an acoustic ballad that sounds like
y Boomer" is a little more a lullaby sung from a Depression-era
emplifying the ideal Mon- boxcar.With lonesome atmospherics
llaboration with Ward and courtesyofMogis,thesongpacksone
trading vocal lines over a of the few consistently compelling
p shuffle and James's high melodies on the album. It posesses a
ies. With all guns blazing, backcountry familiarity that only M.
und, well, pretty darn good. Ward can conjure.
ce break on an album of oth- "His Master's Voice" rounds
lackluster songwriting. out the album. It's another biblical
st enlists his typical faux- hymn led by James, with harmonies
rose throughout the album, played by Ward and Oberst aiding
larly in "Man Named Truth" the chorus. The song slowly builds
and recedes with dramatic effect
before ending on a goofy iteration
of the final lyric that recalls garbled
eat on paper, Cuisinart-like vocal effects.
While Monsters of Folk wrestles
)K on tape. with themes often more serious than
their delivery, it serves as more of a
lyrical frame touting the American
folk tradition - Baptist hymns, left-
mazcal,"using the same lyri- ist rags, plantation blues and breezy
hulas and shaky delivery that storytelling - than an attempt at
'pically come to character- achieving conceptual grandeur.
Omaha troubadour. It's here Besides, the record's more playful
tying it safe brings out the moments (see the skattingon "Losin
Monsters: There is a notable Yo Head") outweigh any pretension
of inspiration from all three that might arise from any one track.
iters, Oberst included. They are the "Monsters of Folk"
James somewhat makes up after all.
mediocre songwriting by Jokes aside, the four self-appoint-
ing to push the limits of his ed folk titans still made a decent
ngly playful persona (whom record. And thoughMonsters ofFolk
1 only assume to be 'Vim isn't the folk godsend some might
that likely first emerged in have expected it to be, it certainly
n MMJ's Evil Urges. James doesn't try to be. The Monsters ses-
estionably the most daring sions are nothing short (or tall) of
n the record, acting as both four very talented friends hashing
mboyant backup man and out a collection of songs for fun -
sive balladeer. Though the and it shows.

Gr
(

TV REVIEW
COURTESY OF HBO
"Did I forget to submit my personals ad?"
A lovely 'Deat h'
HBO proves it novels, he posts an ad on craigslist, sounds familiar, that's because
selling himself as an unlicensed "Bored to Death" is somewhat
still owns TV with private investigator and waitsfor a autobiographical. The creator is
call. Before he knows it, he's in the real-life Jonathan Ames (a New
another stellar series middle of a case, living his dead- York Press columnist and author
beat life by day and moonlighting of several novels including "The
By CAROLYN KLARECKI asa detective by night. Alcoholic"), who once decided
Daily TV/New Media Editor Schwartzman has always been to rent an office and put an ad on
a master of subtle comedy and the craigslist offering his services as
Who doesn't love film noir? style of "Bored to Death" uses his a detective. After he realized the
There's something inherently talents perfectly. His first case legal repercussions of his pipe-
classy about a is simple enough - a girl visitng dream actions, he decided to live
private inves- New York can't locate the sister through his writing and created
tigator sipping she came to meet - but he makes it "Bored to Death," naming the
a drink and B to complicated and melodramatic to main character after himself.
smoking a cigar serve his detective desires. Ames The back story also empha-
in a dark club Det1 proclaims, as though he thinks his sizes the show's tendency to pull
only to be later Sundays at idea is an astonishing revelation, influences from different genres:
approached by a 9:30 p.m. that they ought to find the miss- "Bored to Death" plays with clas-
beautiful (prob- ing girl's boyfriend in order to find sic film noir and modern humor,
ably foreign) HBO her. Elementary, isn't it? tragedy and comedy, but stays
woman in need Ames is, in all actuality, a very focused mostly on fiction and
of his help. Of course, it's hard depressing man who tells everyone reality. The show integrates these
nowadays to create a new movie who will listen that his girlfriend artistic pulses in away so that they
or show in the classic film noir dumped him. He looks at even the never contradict one another. The
style without it being labeled as simplest cases with solemnity. But results are constructive, and they
"formulaic" or "standard." And because Schwartzman plays himin create a beautiful story.
often times these criticisms are such a wonderfully straight-faced It's clear that "Bored to Death"
accurate. Too many shows have manner, the show is not only awk- is smart, funny and intricately
been expected to succeed by sim- ward but surprisingly humorous, detailed in a way that not a whole
ply copying the stylistic elements Generally,TVshowsoundtracks lot of TV shows can manage these
of the genre's best without add- are nothing notable. They're usu- days. Even still, the show's intel-
ing their own personal touches. ally comprised of either generic lect may be its downfall. People
HBO's "Bored to Death" is a rare and nondescript mood music or traditionally don't turn on the
exception that balances the ideas Top-40 hits, but the soundtrack television to watch artistic indie
of film noir with the touch of mod- for "Bored to Death" is a master- shows. It might be difficult for
ern humor. The result is a fantas- piece: The songs switch between "Bored to Death" to gain notoriety
tic show. cool, whimsical jazzy numbers when bad reality TV and cheesy
Jonathan Ames (Jason and soothing indie songs by art- sitcoms are increasingly popular.
Schwartzman, "The Darjeeling ists such as Kaiser Cartel and HBO, which can worry less about
Limited") has been stuck on his Andrew Bird, and these songs suit viewership figures, is the perfect
second novel for a while. To make the show perfectly. The attention home forthis show, and those who
matters worse, he just got dumped given to this usually overlooked are up for something with a little
by his girlfriend, smokes too much element makes "Bored to Death" more meat than whatever's air-
pot and drinks too much white a treat for the ears as well as the ing on typical the typical network
wine. In a moment of desperation eyes and mind. primetime lineup will love "Bored
inspired by his affection for crime If the name Jonathan Ames to Death."

and "Te
cal form
have ty
ize the'
that pla
flaws in
absence
songwr
Jim
for the
continu
increasi
we can
Yames')
2008 or
is unqu
artist o
the flat
the pen

Pure, pleasant growing pains

By DAVID WATNICK
ManagingArts Editor
Like any respectable high-heart-
rate band cooking slight songs for
musical sweet
tooths, The Pains *
of Being Pure at
Heart are meeting le Pains of
their output quota B Pur
as quickly as their
touring schedule at Heart
allows. Even with
one of 2009's best Higher Than
albums already the as
under the belts of Slmerland/
their skinny jeans, Fortuna Pop
The Pains have
kept working at a pace to match
their songs' tempos.
Fans of The Pains' self-titled Feb-
ruary long-player can rejoice in the
arrival of the Higher Than the Stars
EP, but image-conscious audience
members should be warned that the
new release only follows the seven-
month-old trends set by the band's
debut.
Captaining the five-song platter
that shares its name, "Higher Than
the Stars" is a concurrence to the
band's basic sound. Exuberant and
straight-forward but bent toward
the synthesized side of the dial,
it's a bubbly breeze that continues
The Pains' penchant for enigmatic
perversion. In case you were won-
dering, "you're not straight /in the
 back of her mother's car." Who
knew?
"Falling Over" also observes
the newfangly electric keyboard
precedent, prancing over synth
eruptions while sticking pain-
fully close to the verse-chorus-
verse formula. Adhering to the old
faithful structure, it's emblematic
of the disc's primary flaw: unre-
peatability. The first four tracks
are effortlessly endearing on the
first go (the fifth is a remix of the
title tune), but continued spins
can't coax anything further from
the band's pleasantly simple melo-
dies and arrangements. The most
vital attribute any release can
posses is the ability to expand and
flourish in a listener's mind over
time. Here, The Pains show their
hand at the draw, and endurance
and growth is sacrificed for fleet-
ing instant gratification.
The serious guitars (is it safe
to assume they're Jazzmasters?
probably) come out on "103" and
* "Twins," and the pair is much bet-
ter for it, even if their songwriting
sophistication level is no greater
than anything else on the EP. The
two songs survive on their strik-
ing sense of adolescent longing and
geeky punk vigor, but they're toss-

offs that don't deserve slots on a full-
length release.
The "Saint Etienne Visits Lord
Spank Mix" of "Higher Than the
Stars" is the meal's final course,
and arriving on the heels of four
immediate hitters, it's a dominat-
ing downer - long, dreary and
repetitive. But over repeated plays,
something miraculous happens:
While the song's comrades become
increasingly insignificant with age,
the "Higher Than the Stars" remix
matures into an intoxicating hyp-
notist that rides minimalism to the
stars. A smoldering slow jam, it's not
only a stellar afterglow, but it's also
the most novel - and best - song of
the bunch.
The EP may suffer from a lack of
replayability, but more disappoint-
ing is how little the band pushed
the boundaries of its comfort zone
throughout the disc. The closer is
the only number that could even be

considered a remote departure for
the band, and it's a remix.
With a start-to-finish knockout
LP already in their portfolio, The
Pains of Being Pure at Heart are
ready to upgrade their sound, and
Higher Than the Stars would have
been the perfect venue for The Pains
to take some chances. Instead the
EP is a fun spin, but it's a missed
Sweet, but not
risky enough.
opportunity. For the moment, it
appears the pains symptomatic of
being pure at heart are the same
as those associated with stunted
growth. Still, youth is youth; it's
better to be young and idealistic
than old and disillusioned.

All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
/*/ 6S gae e lo l 10-CL
Domestic Bot tles Start At $1
310 Maynard St.-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Maynard Parkin Structu'



6A- Friday, September 25, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0
0

CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1 100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing on Central Campus rates start at
$50 per month. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
'his space is sorth every penny in the
w inter. (In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 50 steps to the B
School. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200or stop into 616 Clurch Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVA I L. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. wwsw.jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
1998 BMW 540. Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner. 734-
429-2850 or bcriderbaitumich.edu
1998 SUBARU LEGACY Outback
Wagon 4WD. 5 speed, air,
A t/ M/C3D/Cassette, power windows,
locks, allos wheels. $2,850:
734-646-1375.
for rent
...
'4 ELEVEN LOFTS is nttw leaving
for 2010. Private hedroums, even pri-
sate baths. All-new, furished, 2
Stocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. limited 2009
spaces availaie - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 www.dclevenlofts.com
! CENTRAL CAMPUS !
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated. beautifully furnished
Parkittg, tree lauindry
Ieasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
HORVATHPROPERTIES.COM
!! BEiAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6tir l2 bedrooms. Very close so
Car pus SIGN NOW or May 2010.
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370.
nanceylatatumich.edu
sss.nancylat.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904.

R EA LTY
Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
n leo Pzza #' s
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
a NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdrn. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
hath, fall hasement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.
917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Fully furnished 2
bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
gotiable and we'll help find a room-
otate. Call Varsity Management (734)
668-1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water mel., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.

PRES ENT S THE
RmetalMap r-
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and aparttents very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 hedroom
apts. and smaller available toot All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644
shor e a m Studio & d
c u W d r udrn. Units
Tower Plaza Condomium
734-663-1530
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Wshr/dryer in unit, $850/mo.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.
Pfkiani~qgmail.com

LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealtyco.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMSAVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus, 734-996-1991
STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able for immediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Central Campus. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop by 616 Church Street for more in-
formation.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 mtt. walk. No Sept. rent.
the daily classifieds
they're kind of a big deal.
0/0
1 BEDROOM, 521 Walnut St.: Fully
furnished, brand new furniture, updated
kitchen with dishwasher. Great campus
location, heat, water, parking included.
Call Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100.
serv ices
081 A A d
HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or wrteonu iservnet
AD
VER
TISE
WITH

THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

Daily Classifieds:
serving the Uoff
you've community for
been hundreds upon
served hundreds or so
L~iP-*years,.
LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Itttroductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willow Run Airport. 734-7e0-5685.
http://www.buzzardairservice.com

DO YOU CARE about National Parks?
Mackinac Island was America's 2nd
National Park. It is really in trouble and
urgently needs YOUR help.
Rise up, UM, and lead!
www.MichiganLeads.org
www.MichiganCaresforMackinac.org
To IHelp: 1-866-MAC-ISLE
NEW SOCIAL PORTAL that pays
$300-$500. Get on the ground floor...
Act Now! lttp://www.pslOt.info
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENT WORK
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., no exp. nec.,
will train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
child C"r
095
CHILD CARE NEEDED. 2-3 days a
week. 6:30-8 AM. I1 year old. Own
transporation. Repsonsible references.
734-769-1462.
rDone the
Sudoku yet?

6
6
6

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
AA INTERNET FANTASY Sports
Co seeks student programmer. P/T,
possible F/T Summer. Must know C,
Linux. support@onroto.com
EXECUTIVE COUPLE SEEKING
assistants to clean and organize base--
ment of local residence. Pay $10/hour
Flexible hours. Must have excellent or-
ganization skills. Short term temporary
assignment lasting 1-2 weeks. To apply
email references and letter of interest/
resume to sdodson@thdg.com refer-
encing residential organization project.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefisnd.umich.edu or 763.4400.

17

6

4-.

..

94 2
2 Li

GO
Newman O'Malley & Epstein
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 "Bingo!" 37 Blueprint 49 Does penance
1 Held (on) by 3 Columnist, e.g. 38 noire: bane 51 Holidaymelodies
stitches 4 Alaskan 39 High-end, as 53 Cultivated violet
5 Cavalry weapon gold-rush town merchandise 54 Rap sheet letters
10 Farm females 5 Cappuccino 40 "Give rest!" 57 Read the bar
14 Multinational cousin 41 Friend of Frodo code on
official currency 6 Capital north of 45 Summer drink 58 Part of N.L: Abbr.
15 Starting unit the Sea ofuCrete with a lemon 59 _ facto
16 Retail come-on 7 Nair rival twist, maybe 60 Skye cap
17 Peat op for 8 Batman 47 Bopped on the 61 Dismiss,
Hallownen? acnessory bean informallp
20 Heart-to-head 9 Big bird 48 On the go 62 Pal of Pierre
talk 10 Annual sports
21 Hurricane feature awards ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
22 Maui strings 11 Be roused from
23 Pin near the sleep by, as music S P Y P U T T S A W F U L
gutter 12Yale Blue wearer TEA CHAT LOOS E
24 Perse 13 D.C. bigwig RAW C L A R A K O R E A
27 "Frankenstein" 18 Put away . I C E S K A TE B LAD E
author Shelley 19 Handel oratorio P E D A L S A L C A B
20 Swings around 24 Health insurance MOLT S P I R A T E
32 Mahmoud giant
Abbass gp. 25 Roto-Rooter S I C C A R E S O S H A
33 Navy shipiletters target T R A C K C O M P E T I T O R
36 How ballerinas 26Weeding tool R A S H T I A R A S S S
dance 28 Arizonacity on A T T I R E S N A I L
38 Yokel resting in the Colorado p E I U G G L A T T E
the woods? River L O N G N A R R O W R U G
4! Split up 30 Soloit Sp I O N O N A I R A N Y
43 Withdrawal site, cards
for short 34 Wrist twists, e.g. CANER ENDED E S T
44 Arcade games 35 Boot with a blade xwordeditor@aol.com 09/24/09
trailblazer 1 2 3 4 1 6 0 7 9 10 11 1213
46 Univ. sports
organizer a 141s 16
50 Any one of
Cinderella's
stepfamily, e.g. 20 21
52 Expert on IRS
forms 22 23 24 26 28
55 Fest mo.
56 Wood of the 27 28 29 30 31 32
Rolling Stones 3 22 ts 28 n
57 Enter stealthily
60 Steals the dinner 38 39 40
cloth from
Garfield's lap? 41 4z
63 Rinkjump 43 44 4s 45a49 4,
64 Husband and
wile 51 I Sl1 52 153 154 355
65 Balesteros of the
PGA 5s s7 s 59
66 Queensteam
67 Dental filling 60 81 s2
68 Poetic tributes 83485
DOWN e 60 78
1 Facial wall that
may be deviated By Kurt Mueler 09/25/09
()2009 Tribune Media Services, nc.

read the michigan
daily horoscope
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
with full descriptions, features, and
prices
GRAD STUDENTS & Professionals:
1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
nished, heat, water, parking included,
in unit washer/dryer available. Call Var-
sity Management for dtls (734) 668-
1100 or www.varsitymanagement.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at Ilt1 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng~Qeicomcast.net
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
$585-$900/mo. 970-1279 sq. ft. Lots of
amenities. Ask about our special.
734-449-4213.
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com

For Saturday, Sept. 26, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Some aspect of your private life will
suddenly be made public today. You will
be noticed! The irony is that the people
who notice you will be bosses, parents,
teachers and VIPs - including the
police.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Because you have a desire for some-
thing different today, go someplace
you've never been before. Furthermore,
you want to learn! Therefore, visit
libraries, museums and interesting out-
of-the-way places.
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
This is a good day to take care of red-
tape details that you've been avoiding.
(We all do.) Drag out those papers and
get better organized. It's a beginning.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Because the Moon is directly opposite
your sign today, you will have to go
more than halfway when dealing with
others. This is no big deal, really.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Give extra attention to health matters
and hygiene, as well as anything having
to do with small pets. (Curious combina-
tion, I know.) You want to get better
organized!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
This is a favorable day for sports,
vacations, the arts, playful times with
children and doing anything for pleas-
ure. This Capricorn Moon fits with your
Virgo Sun.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Discussions with a family member
wilt be significantltoday. You might want
C 2009 King Feat

to spend time at home alone, puttering
around and getting a handle on things.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Discussions with siblings and relatives
are important today. In particular, a dis-
cussion with a female acquaintance
might help you get a lot done.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Make friends with your bank account
today. Take care of anything that affects
your cash flow. This is a good day to
maintain, clean or repair possessions as
well.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Today, the Moon is in your sign,
which gives you a little bit of extra good
luck. However, it also can make you a bit
more emotional than usual. (No big
deal.)
AQUARIUS
(Jan.20 to Feb. 18)
Work alone or behind the scenes today
if you can. You need some peace and
quiet. Solitude will feed your soul.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Discussions with a female friend can
be very much to your advantage today.
This person might give you tips or put
you in the know about something.
What's to lose?
YOU BORN TODAY Many of you
have scientific, technical abilities and
interests. Or you perfect a particular
technique. Many of you also have more
than one career or vocation. You're ver-
satile! You have a great sense of humor
and a fine, logical mind. You're private
about your personal life. This year is the
beginning of an entirely new cycle for
you. Open any door!
Birthdate of: Olivia Newton-John,
singer/activist; Ashley Leggat, actress;
George Gershwin, composer.

6

6
6

ures Syndicate, Inc.


15

a

Deadline for line ads is11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per linefor the first issueand $1.75 per linefor each additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contractsareoavailable- contact ourstaff for details
" Students may receive a 20% discountwhen adsare placed in personwith a
valid studentlID (non-organizational, non-business adsonly)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, orcheck
" For Classified Display advertising, pleasecall one of our AccountExecutives


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 25, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, September 25, 2009 - 7A

RESEARCH REPORT
From Page 1A
the ratings carry great weight and
the report's findings have moti-
vated re-evaluation of programs at
many colleges in the past.
"If a program you thought was
great turned out to be 15th or 20th,
you often changed the leadership,"
he said. "But, generally, Michigan
has not aligned itself with these
(ratings), because we've been high
on the food chain."
On the steering committee for
the Division on Policy and Global
Affairs of the NRC, Duderstadt
said the forthcoming rankings will
be more objective than they have
been in the past. The NRC is fore-
going a reputation-based assess-
ment of departments in favor of
hard data.
While many have applauded
this more numerical approach,
it does have the potential to yield
surprising results, he said, hence
the anxiety currently being felt by
administrators everywhere.
"Institutions that were highly
ranked in the old way may find
themselves ranked much differ-
ently now," Duderstadt said.
The effect of the rankings on a
research institution's hiring prac-
tices, funding and departmental
evaluations has forced the NRC
to become more transparent with
its methodology, Duderstadt said.
But allowing survey participants
to become acclimated with the
new system has come at the cost of
a four-year delay in the release of
the rankings, he said.
Duderstadt said the increasing
anxiety surrounding the immi-
nent release of the rankings is jus-
tified given the current economic
climate. Institutions that lack sig-
nificant financial backing will be
forced to trim their departmental
costs and may look to the rankings
for guidance, he said. Moreover,
key donors are likely to be swayed
by the NRC's departmental assess-
ments.
"If it had come out two years
ago, it would have been treated
in the normal course of things,"
Duderstadt said. "But now it will
probably feed into some very diffi-
cult decisions that institutions are
forced to make."
Having seen three other releas-
DEAN
From Page 1A
portive and open rapport with
colleagues, faculty and alumni,"
Ulrich said.
Zernicke holds a honorary doc-
torate of science degree from the
University of Waterloo, Ontario
in 2008 and a Distinguished
Teaching Award from UCLA.
"He represents the whole
package," said Ken Warner, dean
of the School of Public Health, in
a press release, "Zernicke was
by far the best candidate. He's a
respected researcher with a most
impressive publication record."
Warner also said that Zernicke
"comes equipped with loads of
relevant experience."
With his new appointment,
Zernicke said his major goals will
include developing a strategic
PROMISE
From Page 1A

Agema said he disagrees with
House Democrats' proposals to use
tax hikes to pay for the program.
"Before you ask any body to
pay anymore taxes in the state
of Michigan, be efficient with
what you have," Agema said. "The
answer isn't always just to raise
taxes, the answer is where are
we spending money where we
shouldn't, prioritize the spending
and spend it that way."
Democratic Gov. Jennifer
Granholm has proposed raising
$680 million in revenue through
increasing certain taxes and
reducing business tax credits.
Megan Brown, a spokeswoman
for Granholn, said the governor
stands by her decision to support
funding for the Michigan Promise
Scholarship despite challenges to
the budget.
"The governor continues to
support the Michigan Promise
Scholarship because it is our first
universal scholarship and as such,
supports the belief that everyone
should continue their education
beyond high school," Brown said.
"As far as today, we're pleased
they have reinstated it, but it's
just one step."
In an e-mail interview, Cynthia
INCIDENT
From Page 1A
Though she could not con-
firm what treatment the subject
received at the hospital, Brown
said University Police did not take
physical action that would have

es of the NRC rankings during his
time at the University, Duderstadt
also said there were merits to the
reputation-based approach that
the survey data alone will not
provide, such as considerations of
esteemed professors and research
projects.
"I don't know that this is going
to be successful," he said. "It's
going to have an impact, but they
may decide, after looking at the
reaction, to go back to the earlier
model."
University Spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham said the ratings are
an important tool for graduate
students looking for a particular
assessment of their department of
interest. But she said that the NRC
rankings are only one part of a big-
ger picture.
"(The rating) is one of the ele-
ments of choosing a graduate
school, but, more important is
choosing the right graduate school
for the right person," she said.
Cunningham said compatibility
with departmental faculty, poten-
tial colleagues and research proj-
ects - all things that would also
factor into a pre-doctoral student's
school choice - is outside the
scope of the rankings. The same,
she said, is true of the University's
overall approach to education and
research.
"Interdisciplinary teaching
is huge for us, and I don't think
that is covered in the ratings," she
said.
The large number of institu-
tions that subscribe to the NRC
ratings has caused some universi-
ties to re-evaluate their research
activity and to set an explicit goal
of improving their ranking.
As a result, changes have been
made in the hiring practices, ten-
ure and overall evaluation of facul-
ty research, according to one paper
written by Florida State University
Professor Randall Holcombe.
But Cunningham said the rank-
ings, although important, do not
significantly influence the Univer-
sity's research aims.
"We don't change how we oper-
ate the academic enterprise based
on the ratings," Cunningham said.
"They provide us with valuable
information that we can use to
assess the quality of our programs,
but they are just one measure of
success."
plan for the school and recruit-
ing more quality faculty and
students. Zernieke said he also
has plans to make the School of
Kinesiology more visible nation-
ally and internationally.
"The University of Michigan
has both the breadth and depth to
be outstanding in many different
areas, particularly in the School
of Kinesiology. I'm excited toube a
part of it," Zernicke said. "There
is a tremendous resource there
and I don't think the full message
is getting out."
Sullivan said she is confident
these goals will be met under
Zernicke's leadership.
"We are confident that he will
strengthen the school's interna-
tional reputation of excellence
in providing innovative educa-
tion for the next generation of
movement science profession-
als," she said.
Wilbanks, vice president for gov-
ernment relations at the University,
said she is optimistic the governor

and state legislators will find away
to fund the program despite the
challenges of the state budget.
"The action today by the
House Appropriations Commit-
tee to restore, at least in part, the
Michigan Promise Scholarships
is encouraging, but there is lots of
work to be done to identify fund-
ing for the program," Wilbanks
wrote.
The House and Senate are
slated to vote on the final budget
proposals brought forth by the
conference committees the legis-
lature's Oct. 1 deadline to finalize
a budget.
Both Bauer and Agema said
state legislators will come to an
agreement before the cut-off
date.
"I'm fairly confident that the
government will not shut down
and we will have an agreement
by the deadline," Bauer said.
"I'm doing all I can, but a lot of
it is going to depend if people in
the legislature are willing to vote
for some increases in revenue
in order to fund it. That's really
what it's going to come down to at
this point."
- Daily News Editor Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.
injured the man.
Brown did confirm that the man
was discharged from the hospital
and would be released from police
custody after being processed.
Brown said the man has had
previous run-ins with University
Police for trespassing on campus
property.

Protesters carry signs and posters at the "Stand for Freedom in Iran" rally against Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad near the United Nations headquarters in New
York City, yesterday.
U.S.-Russia sanCtions could
put pressure on Ahmadinejad

Russian president
opens door to
agreement after U.S.
missile shield deal
NEW YORK (AP) - A unified
U.S.-Russian stance on sanctions
against Iran would put added pres-
sure on Iranian President Mah-
moud Ahmadinejad to yield some
ground on his nation's nuclear
program.
Russian President Dmitry Med-
vedev opened the door Wednes-
day to backing potential sanctions
as a reward for President Barack
Obama's decision to scale back
a U.S. missile shield in Eastern
Europe.
While U.S. and Russian offi-
cials denied a flat-out quid pro quo,
Medvedev told the U.N. General
Assembly that Obama's pivot on a
missile defense plan long loathed
by Moscow "deserves a positive
response." Obama himself has
said his missile decision may have
spurred Russian good will as a
"bonus."
"We believe we need to help Iran

to take a right decision," Medvedev
said after the two leaders met on
the sidelines of the U.N. assembly.
Ahmadinejad has taken a softer
tone on many matters since arriv-
ing in New York for the U.N. meet-
ings, emphasizing his interest in
improving relations with the Unit-
ed States and expressing an open-
ness to include nuclear matters on
the negotiations agenda.
He has given no sign, however,
that his country is willing to bar-
gain away its nuclear program,
which he insists is for peaceful
purposes only. In an interview
Wednesday with The Washing-
ton Post and Newsweek, he said
he would be willing to have Ira-
nian nuclear scientists meet with
experts from the U.S. and other
countries.
In his speech to the General
Assembly on Wednesday night,
Ahmadinejad made no explicit ref-
erence to nuclear matters or pro-
spective sanctions.
Obama's chief Russia adviser,
Mike McFaul, told reporters after
the meeting with Medvedev that
there was no deal with Moscow on
missile defense and Iran. Pressed
further, he said: "Is it the case that

it changes the climate? That's true,
of course. But it's not cause-and-
effect."
A member of the Russian del-
egation, speaking on condition of
anonymity under ground rules set
by the Russians, said Moscow's
final position on the question of
imposing further sanctions would
be determined, to alarge extent, by
Medvedev's consultations here.
The U.S. and Russia are among
six countries that will hold talks
in Europe next week with Iran
over its nuclear ambitions. Obama
wants to reserve the possibility
of pursuing tougher sanctions if
those meetings lead to no restraint
by Iran in the weeks ahead. Rus-
sia, which has strongeconomicties
with Tehran, has stood in the way
of stronger action against Iran in
the past.
In remarks to reporters with
Medvedev at his side, Obama said
both agree that negotiations with
Iran are still the best approach.
"We also both agree that if Iran
does not respond to serious nego-
tiations and resolve this issue in a
way that assures the international
community that it's meeting its
commitments, and is not develop-

ing nuclear weapons, then we will
have to take additional actions and
that sanctions, serious additional
sanctions, remain a possibility,"
Obama said.
Medvedev told reporters that
the intent is to move Iran in the
right direction and to ensure that it
does not obtain nuclear weapons.
"Sanctions rarely lead to pro-
ductive results but in some cases
are inevitable," he said through an
interpreter.
Medvedev also mentioned that
his government welcomed Obama's
decision last week to scrap a Bush
administration plan for a mis-
sile defense system to be based in
Poland and the Czech Republic. He
gave no indication that his remark
about the sanctions on Iran was a
diplomatic payoff for Obama's mis-
sile defense move.
In his address to the U.N. Gen-
eral Assembly earlier Wednesday,
Obama stuck to his two-pronged
approach to Iran - acknowledg-
ing its right to the peaceful use of
nuclear energy while warning of
unspecified penalties if it veers
onto the weapons path.
"We must insist that the future
not belong to fear," he said.

Supreme Court Justice Ginsburg
hospitalized after feeling ill at work

Justice remained in
hospital overnight
as precaution
WASHINGTON (AP) - Supreme
Court Justice Ruth Bader Gins-
burg was hospitalized yesterday
after becoming ill in her office at
the court following treatment for
an iron deficiency.
The 76-year-old justice, who
underwent surgery for pancreatic
cancer in February, was taken to
Washington Hospital Center at
7:45 p.m. EDT as a precaution, a
statement from the court said.
The court said Ginsburg would
remain the hospital overnight,
again as a precaution.
Earlier in the day, Ginsburg had
received an iron sucrose infusion
to treat an iron deficiency anemia
that had been discovered in July.
About an hour later, she "devel-
oped lightheadedness and fatigue,"
the statement said. She was found
to have a slightly low blood pres-
sure, which the court said can
occur after the type of treatment
TAILGATE
From Page 1A
Kirk Lutz, the senior manager
of events for the Alumni Associa-
tion and the event organizer for
the zero waste tailgate, said the
current environmental movement
makes events like this successful.
"It's the right time to do this
because of the greening of the
globe on everyone's mind - mind-
ful of recycling events across the
universe and around the world,"
he said.
Lutz said although there is an
increased cost associated with
using these environmentally

she received.
Although an examination found
her to be in stable health, she was
given fluids and taken to the hospi-
tal as a precaution, the court said.
The July evaluation found
"that she was in completely nor-
mal health with the exception of
a low red blood cell count caused
by deficiency of iron. Intravenous
iron therapy was administered in a
standard fashion," the court state-
ment said.
Doctors on Feb. 5 removed a
small, malignant growth from
Ginsburg's pancreas. Doctors
found no spread of it elsewhere, the
court said at the time. Her spleen
also was removed.
She returned to work quickly
and hasn't missed a day of work
since. In March she said the opera-
tion had been "a complete, success-
ful, surgical removal" ofthe cancer.
However, she also said she was to
undergo chemotherapy treatment.
A common side effect of chemo-
therapy for pancreatic cancer is
anemia.
Two months after her surgery,
Ginsburg told law students at a
friendly products as opposed to
plastic- and petroleum-based
products, the Alumni Association
knows it was worth the additional
financial resources.
LSA senior Matt Gacioch, one of
four board members of the SSI, said
the group wanted to create avisible
project so people can see that steps
are actually being taken to create a
more sustainable campus.
Gacioch said he hopes to create
as little waste as possible at this
weekend's tailgate.
"It's a zero waste tailgate event,"
he said. "All the packaging, uten-
sils and everything being used are
either compostable or recyclable.
The intent is to send nothing to the

KEVIN WOLF/AP
Ruth Bader Ginsburg was rushed to the hospital yesterday after falling ill at work.

symposium at Ohio State Univer-
sity that serving on the Supreme
Court was "the best and the hard-
est job I've ever had." She said at
the time that she wanted to match
the tenure of Justice Louis Bran-
landfill."
Student volunteers from SSI
will be at all trash, recycling and
composting stations to help those
attending recycle properly.
Alumni Association President
Steve Grafton said he is conscious
of maintaining a healthy environ-
ment.
"By working to reduce waste at
our annual tailgate event, this is
one day that we are encouraging
alumni to 'go blue' and 'go green',"
he said.
Gacioch said although this tail-
gate is the first of its kind at the
University, he hopes the initiative
will continue in the future.
"We hope it is so successful

deis, who served for more than two
decades and retired at age 82.
Ginsburg spent part of this past
summer the way she usually does,
teaching in Europe. This year's
class was in Rome.
that we can take it next year and
make one whole football game
zero waste," said Gacioch. "Then
hopefully in the future continue
the initiative to eventually make
the entire game day experience
zero waste for the entire football
season."
Lutz said he is confident that
this program will continue in the
coming years.
"I think like anything it has to
become something that people just
automatically think of, rather than
some special activity," he said.
"Times are tight, budgets are tight
and we need to be mindful of that,
but there's a smart road to it. It
starts with awareness."


8A - Friday, September 25, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Bower and Co. ready for Big Ten

Wood and Blais
." ."
thriving on and off
the soccer pitch
By ZAK PYZIK Blais is credited for starting.
For the Daily "Finally, he's just in his sliding
shorts and he's running the ball
To their teammates, they're out," Klein said jokingly.
referred to as Woody and Bricks. Wood brings a unique persona
To the adversary, they're a threat- to the practice environment. He
ening duo capable of being soccer's is typically known for listening to
finest. techno music before each game
Together, Michigan men's soc- to pump himself up, according to
cer defenseman Alex Wood and freshman midfielder Hamoody
goalie Chris "Bricks" Blais - who Saad.
gets the nickname for his brick- "Woody, he doesn't start, but
wall guise in the box - have bal- he comes off the bench with a lot
anced a competitive atmosphere of motivation," Saad, Wood's road
with a fun and lively environment. roommate, said.
"Chris is the biggest motiva- Wood and Blais have discovered
tor," junior forward Justin Meram a way to work as two role models
said. "I look to him as a captain of cooperatively, something that will
our squad. He lifts our spirits up come in handy as the Wolverines
and gets us pumped and ready for (5-1) embark on a journey to Uni-
every victory. I'm always really versity Park to take on a fierce
comfortable playing when Chris is Penn State (4-3-1) squad.
on the field." Traveling to State College will
Blais has displayed tremendous be difficult - Michigan will have
athleticism this season. Having to take a seven-hour bus ride this
not allowed a second half-goal in weekend. But the Nittany Lions
five games, his play in the net has are coming off a heartbreaking
been a catalyst to the Wolverines' 1-1 tie they had two days ago. This
success. means the Wolverines may have
But even when the team is not the momentum heading into the
under the lights, Blais develops game, since Penn State fans wit-
unique ways to foster team unity. nessed such a disappointing loss.
According to freshman mid- "On the field, Chris and I give
fielder Alex Klein, Blais slowly each other our own space and we
took off his clothes during team know that each will pull our own
fitness tests at the beginning of the weight and come together for the
season - it's now a tradition that win," Wood said.

Michigan looks to and Missouri.
"Those are all equitable of a Big
start conference Ten-level team," Rosen said. "Some
years you might go into Big Ten play
play s rong nthe with one or two of those matches,
but this year we have six or seven,
Hoosier state and that'lle advantageous forus"
The Wolverines have finished
By MARK BURNS as high as fifth in the conference
Daily Sports Writer during Bower's career, but more is
expected of her and her teammates
The look in her eyes and the tone who have underperformed after
of her voice suggested that this starting out so strong in non-con-
year might be different for Megan ference play.
Bower and the No. 8 Michigan vol- "Our expectations are always
leyball team. highregardless of the team," Bower
"We talk about the Big Ten (title) said. "This year, we had a lot of vet-
all the time," Bower said. "It's defi- erans coming back. ... There's defi-
nitely a goal of ours to win and to nitely higher expectations this year
just compete. Being a senior, I think and there's a harder work ethic -
it means alittle bit more, just know- but that's expected day-in and day-
ing it's your last one. ... But I think out - no excuses."
we definitely have an expectation That harder work ethic paid
of winningthe Big Ten this year." dividends on Aug. 28 when Michi-
Over the last three seasons, the gan shocked the volleyball world
Wolverines are 51-1 in non-confer- by knocking off the then-No. 3
ence play but just 30-30 against Big Nebraska in straight sets. The win
Ten foes. highlighted how farthe Wolverines
Granted, Michigan plays in one had come after last year's three-set
of the toughest conferences in the debacle against the Cornhuskers in
country - Penn State has won the Sweet 16.
back-to-back national champion- But for now, Michigan has its
ships - but the team must improve eyes set solely on Indiana - who
its conference play to become an the Wolverines play tonight in the
elite program. Hoosier state for its first confer-
And that could possibly happen ence match - even if the thought
this year, according to Michigan of a Big Ten title is lingering in the
coach Mark Rosen. back of everyone's mind.
He feels Michigan (12-1) is bet- "Expectations can become a
ter prepared for Big Ten play than pretty big burden to carry some-
in previous years. The Wolverines times," Rosen said. "We have to
played a veryadifficult preseason focus on everym atchindividu-
schedule, with matches against ally. We have 20 matches left, and
then-No. 3 Nebraska, Oregon State, we just need to take them one at a
Tennessee, Kansas State, Xavier time."

6
0

sAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior Megan Bower has gone .500 in conference play at Michigan. Bower and the
Wolverines are focused on winning the program's first conference title since 1981.

Around the Nation: Harris and Best highlight the field

By ALEX PROSPERI and
MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Writers
NO. 9 MIAMI AT
NO.11 VIRGINIA TECH
Less than three weeks ago,
Jacory Harris was just the next
Miami quarterback trying to bring
a depleted program back to star-
dom. Now, Harris is ranked fourth
on ESPN's Heisman Watch, and a
win in Blacksburg against a Virgin-
ia Tech defense that gives up fewer
than 20 points per game will move
him even higher.
The Hurricanes and Hokies will
take the field as ranked opponents
for the first time since 2005, and the
game is significant for both sides.
After dropping its opener to
then-No. 5 Alabama, Virginia Tech
has taken care of Marshall and No.
19 Nebraska. The Hokies face just
one ranked team (No.22 North Car-
olina) the rest of the way, so if they
take care of business at home, a BCS
bowl game is certainly in reach.
Miami's schedule has the Hurri-
canes playing No. 18 Florida State,
No.14 Georgia Tech, No.11Virginia
Tech and No. 10 Oklahoma in their
first four games. But Harris and Co.
took care of business in Tallahas-
see and at home against the Yellow

Jackets. If Miami - which is ranked
in the top 10 for the first time since
2005 - beats the Hokies, you can
bet college football analysts will be
salivating over the Hurricanes -
and Harris.
NO.6 CALIFORNIA AT OREGON
Behind the legs of running back
Jahvid Best, the Golden Bears
look bound for The Rose Bowl and
maybe even for the BCS national
championship game.
Best rushed for 131 yards and a
school-record five touchdowns on
7.8 yards per carry lastweek against
Minnesota. He's behind just Florida
quarterback Tim Tebow in ESPN's
Heisman Watch, and with Oregon
this week and Southern Cal next
week, Best has a prime opportunity
to solidify his place.
Cal is putting up nearly 50 points
a game while giving up less than 14.
Oregon has been outscored through
three games after starting the sea-
son at No.16.
This is the Ducks' last statement
game for more than a month, and
they certainly need it. As for Best,
another dominating performance
could push him past Tebow.

ARKANSAS AT NO.3 ALABAMA
If not for freshman quarterback
Tate Forcier's promising future,
Michigan fans would have been
screaming at their TVs last Sat-
urday. Alabama quarterback and
former Michigan gunslinger Ryan
Mallett threw for 408 yards and
five touchdowns in a 52-41 loss
against Georgia.
Mallett and the nation's second-
best offense might have trouble in
Tuscaloosa, as Alabama has given
up just 45 points in three games.
On the other side of the ball,
don't be surprised if Alabama hits
the SO-point mark. The Crimson
Tide average 42.3 points per game
and Arkansas is allowing 31 this
season.
Mallett will either burst into the
national spotlight as an elite col-
lege quarterback, or the Alabama
defense will give Mallett a good
taste of the Bryant-Denny Stadium
grass.

WASHINGTO
SOUl
After losing
a Washington
zero wins in20
12th-ranked T
bounce back in
The Trojans
back games si
roll's first year
with freshman
Barkley returt
shoulder keptI
against Wash
ready to take'
against heavy
ton State.
Don't expe
game to be clo

)N STATE AT NO.12
THERN CAL _
a close 16-13 game to
team that recorded
008 last Saturday, the
rojans are looking to
a big way.
haven'tlostback-to-
nce coach Pete Car-
in Los Angeles, and
n quarterback Matt
ning after a bruised
him on the sidelines
ington, Carroll is
out some frustration
underdog Washing-
ct this West Coast
se after halftime.

0
0
6

Sophomore Jacory Harris and Miami travel to Virginia Tech in the weekend's
highest-profile game. Harris is ranked fourth on ESPN's Heisman Watch.

- i - F -


STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their
best to predict what happens
in the 2009 football season.
No. 23 Michigan (-20.5) vs. Indiana
No.1 Florida (-21) at Kentucky
No.2 Texas(-36)vs. UTEP
No. 3Alabama (-17.5) vs. Arkansas
No. 4 Mississippi (-4) vs. South Carolina
No. 5 Penn State (-10) vs. Iowa
No. 6 California (-5.5) vs. Oregon
No. 7 LSU (-12) at Mississippi State
No. 8 Boise St. (-16.5) at Bowling Green
No. 9 Miami (-3) vs at No. 11 VA Tech
No.12 Southern Cal (-45) vs. Wash St.
No.13 Ohio State (-14) vs. Illinois
No.14 Cincinnati (-17) vs. Fresno State
No.15 TCU (-2.5) at Clemson
No.16 Okla. St. (NS) vs. Grambling St.
No.17 Houston (PK) vs. Texas Tech
No.18 Florida St. (-14) vs. South Florida
No.19 BYU (-17) vs. Colorado St.
No. 20 Kansas (-14) vs. Southern Miss.
No. 21 Georgia (-11.5) vs. Arizona State
No. 22 UNC (+3) at Georgia Tech
No. 24 Washington (+7) at Stanford
No. 25 Nebraska (-28) vs. La-Lafayette
Wisconsin (-3) vs. Michigan State
Northwestern (-1.5) vs. Minnesota
Purdue (+7) vs. Notre Dame
Last Week
Overall

Michael
Eisenstem
Indiana
Kentucky
UTEP
Arkansas
Mississippi
Iowa
California
LSU
Boise State
Virginia Tech
Washington State
Illinois
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Texas Tech
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
North Carolina
Stanford
Nebraska
Michigan State
Northwestern
Purdue
14-7-1
43-21-1

Ruth
Lincoln

Courtney
Ratkowiak

0

Andy
Reid

?A
T-

Michigan
Kentucky
Texas
Arkansas
Mississippi
Iowa
California
Mississippi State
Boise State
Virginia Tech
Southern Cal
Illinois
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Houston
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
Georgia Tech
Stanford
Nebraska
Michigan State
Northwestern
Notre Dame
12-9-1
39-25-1

Michigan
Florida
UTEP
Arkansas
Mississippi
Iowa
Oregon
LSU
Boise State
Miami
Washington State
Ohio State
Cincinnati
Clemson
Oklahoma State
Texas Tech
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
Georgia Tech
Washington
Louisiana-Lafayette
Wisconsin
Minnesota
Notre Dame
12-9-1
39-25-1

Michigan
Florida
UTEP
Arkansas
Mississippi
Penn State
California
LSU
Boise State
Miami
Washington State
Illinois
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Houston
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
North Carolina
Washington
Nebraska
Wisconsin
Northwestern
Notre Dame
12-9-1
33-31-1

With just one game between
two ranked opponents, the week-
end has potential to
be uneventful. But
with two Hesiman
hopefuls on the
verge of stardom,
it should be
an exciting
weekend
of college
football.
Guest Picker:
Michigan
Marching Band
Drum Major
David Hines Jr.
Michigan
Florida
Texas
Arkansas
Mississippi
Iowa
California
LSU
Boise State
Virginia Tech
Southern Cal
Illinois
Fresno State
Clemson
Oklahoma State
Texas Tech
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
Georgia Tech
Washington
Nebraska
Michigan State
Minnesota
Notre Dame
11-10-1
37-27-1

a

6

To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail lincolnr@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.


0


0 0 0 0

Football Saturday - September 26, 2009


GOSINI
TS TIE
AIRPORT?'

TRANS11NC
Twwwcustomtransitcom

CUSE TRANSIT AIRPORT SHUTTLE
is vsur smartest choice!

BOOK NOW for Fall Break Thanksgiving, and Winter Break
Henmemher. Everyone leaves town atthe same time.




S S S

S

0 . 0

0

KICKING OFF THE 2009 MICHIGAN FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

September 26, 2009 FootbM "

BIG TEN SEASON
Conference play is upon the Wolverines, and say
what you will about the league's recent success (or lack
thereof) - when these 11 teams start beating up on
each other, things always get interesting.
Many Michigan fans are ready to say that the Wol-
verines are back to their winning ways, but with Indiana
up to the plate and two road trips to Michigan State
and Iowa on deck, they just need to focus.
A bowl game is easily in reach - something the
maize-and-blue faithful figured out they couldn't take
for granted last season - but with the way Rich
Rodriguez has his team playing, our guess is that he has
his sights set higher than just making the postseason.
Michael Eisenstein a Ruth Lincoln
Courtney Ratkowiak * Andy Reid
HIGHLIGHTS
There's a pretty good chance you won't recognize
Indiana's offensive scheme on Saturday. That's because
the Hoosiers just adopted the pistol, which was invented
in 2004. Learn more about the formation inside.
Greg Robinson is Michigan's third defensive coordinator
4 in as many seasons. But after 34 years of experience
in the NFL and college football, and a disastrous head-
coaching stint at Syracuse, he's looking for a fresh start.
It's best to know the enemy, right? Read about
members of the opposing team in our weekly Q&A
feature. Up this week is Hoosier quarterback Ben
Chappell.

Sept. 5 Western Michigan: Before this win, it had been a while since Michigan
fans had anything to cheer about during opening weekend.
Sept.12 Notre Dame: So charlie Weis doesn't like Big Ten officials. Boo hoo. Formal
complaints must be part of the five-year internship process or something.
Sept.19 Eastern Michigan: The Eagles put up a good fight in the first half, but Michigan once
again proved there's only room for one big-time college football team in Washtenaw county.
Sept. 26 Indiana: Wait, what? Indiana still has a football team? We'll believe it when we see it.
Oct. 3 at Michigan State: Well, hey, Little Brother proved he's at least the third best team
in the state of Michigan this year, losing to Central Michigan two weeks ago. Watch out,
Sparty, we heard Detroit Country Day is fielding a pretty tough squad this year.
Oct.10 at Iowa: Say what you will, Michigan fans - at least iowa pulled out a win in its
close game with an FCS team. Oh, sick burn.
Oct.17 Delaware State: As if Michigan students needed more motivation to
skip this game, the Athletic Department scheduled it during Fall Break.

ROBINSON
From page 5B
recruiting part of it had fallen.
There was frustration in that you
wanted to get good quickly, but you
just can't do that. It's hard to go
"poof" and to have the talent and
then have to develop it. It's hard.
Especially on offensive line - we
had to recruit seven offensive line-
men oneayear. But anyway, B could
go on and on. But the bottom line
is, it's a great experience. I liked
being at Syracuse. Good place,
good people. Treated me well, real-
ly did. Everybody has their critics,
but that's part of the deal. It was
unfortunate I couldn't get it going
fast enough.
It seems that throughout
your career, you have had
young players and a young
staff. How do you go about
bringing a staff together,
especially coming in here
as the one new person?
I did the same thing at Kansas
City. I did the same thing at Texas.
It's identical, really. It's important
that you understand in your own
mind, it isn't just about you. I'm
fortunate that these are three fine
coaches that I've hooked up with
here. So I think it's just important
that you communicate well, that
you're constantly trying to make
sure we're all on the same page,
and make sure I hear them and
hear what they have to say. That's
as much as anybody will ever ask
for, is "can we talk," "can we get it
on the same page," and have some
fun doing it. I really enjoy coaching
and I think there's a place to be able
to laugh and be able to enjoy your-
self at the same time while you're
working your tails off. And these
guys, they fit the part. They're easy
to entertain.
How would you, three weeks
in, assess the defense so
far?
We're a work in progress, is

what I would say. I think that our
players re growng morecomfort
SFOLLOW US @MICHDAILYSPORTS
cess, that's why you like to keep
winning as the process goes.
They're beginning to feel more
and more comfortable in what The University of Michigan class of 2013 would like to thank the
they're doing. They're not think- following donors for helping make our transition to college life
g as much, but we're not thereerAe
yet. We'll continue to improve, Ir e rie
think, as the year goes on.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR GENEROSITY DURING WELCOME WEEK!
How does it compare to
your expectations right AOEGON ARSUI
I felt like we had a chance at 30 S. State Street
the end of spring ball to develop
into a good defense. The key AN AR R SY M PHONY5 RCETA
to us, and it still is, we need to 0 . nStreet
develop depth. Where there's
young players that can go in and
" "BARNES MCH&N LE MENHIGAS ETNBALKTL R
keep it rolling for anumber of * ~ 0 0 5
plays, because on defense we G d F a
need to play, we want to play at
a very high intensity level. And B IAN
to do that, you got to be able S er Aee
to roll some guys. I think that
we're starting to build alittle bit ST C SAK E
of that, but that's still kind of a
work in progress, is developing 58 Liet PoneDv
the young depth so that we can
spell some people and not fall GRA TWAP
off.31 S.tae trt
You wear a "3 & out" shirt M-E
at practice. What's that 35S anSre
about?-
Well, that's critical stuff. MA 3T TVNTRE
Three-and-out in something that, 6*5 - M -
as a defense, is a goal that youa tre
need to have all the time to getA A
the ball back for the offense asMA &FRA'
quick as you possibly can. I like 44 .E soe aka
to believe wherever I've been,
we've been good at that. Not just MC GAN 0 W E' BA SKTAL
me as a coordinator. When we 1g0 o Stt Sre
were at the Jets, we were good
at three-and-outs. When I was at
UCLA, we were good at three-NGGZ
wrakdright Iup nearthen top. tt Sre
of the conference, near the top of ASI H OT-TB A RDN
the NFL in three-and-outs. My 201 S.SaeSre
last year in Kansas City we were
very, very good at three-and- FIC OF STDN ACTVT SAN LEADER P
outs. (And) at Texas, we were 220 Mihgn no
good at it.

I#1S

Oct.24 Penn State: Let's be honest. In his twilight years, Joe Paterno probably doesn't even remember
Iowa's monumental upset of the Nittany Lions last year. He may be reminded of it this weekend.
Oct. 31 at Illinois: After a weak start, the Fighting Illini are almost as irrelevant as Chief Illiniwek,
the school's mascot that was discontinued in 2007.
Nov. 7 Purdue: Think the Wolverines still have that hook-and-lateral on their minds?
Nov.14 at Wisconsin: Nothing beats a fall afternoon in Camp Randall. That is, of course, if
the Wisconsin Health services can nab that pesky H1N1 virus floating around Madison.

Nov. 21 Ohio State: Remember when Matt Barkley led a game-winning drive on
yo'-Buckeyes? There's another freshman QB waiting for you on Nov. 21.

Breakdown: IU's newfound offensive prowess not enough

BY RUTH LINCOLN AND
COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily SportsEditors
Thirty years ago, Michigan
and Indiana were tied on Home-
coming. With six seconds left,
Anthony Carter, a freshman who
would go on to become one of
Michigan's greatest wide receiv-
ers, told quarterback John Wan-
gler to get him the ball. He caught
it. The rest is history.
Michigan is now facing the
same opponent, also on Home-
coming, with a similarly cocky
freshman taking over the offen-
sive unit. Tate Forcier, welcome
to Big Ten season.
MICHIGAN PASSING OFFENSE
VS. INDIANA DEFENSE
The Wolverines are averag-

ing just 168.3 passing yards
per game, compared to their
opponents' 235. The Wolver-
ines' receiving corps is look-
ing much better going into this
year's Big Ten season, with
Greg Mathews playing well and
Junior Hemingway emerging as
a deep threat when he can stay
healthy.
Last week, Indiana had four
interceptions in its 38-21 win
against Akron. The Hoosiers
are ranked second in the con-
ference with nine sacks this
season. Indiana's defensive line
is feeling confident and is mark-
edly better than it was last year.
But this Saturday's game will
be the Hoosiers' first real test.
Against Forcier and Co. at the
Big House, theywon't pass it.
EDGE: MICHIGAN

MICHIGAN RUSHING OFFENSE
VS. INDIANA DEFENSE
Michigan is third in the nation
inrushingyardspergame (270.7).
Much of that can be attributed to
running back Carlos Brown, who
lit up the Big House last week-
end with his 187 rushing yards,
including a 90-yard touchdown
run. Brown is averaging 79.3
yards per game. Throw quarter-
back Denard Robinson and his
fast feet in the mix, and Michi-
gan is lethal on the ground.
The Hoosiers only allowed 76
yards to Western Michigan, who
Michigan beat in the first game
of the season. The defense may
look impressive on paper, but
expect it to crumble when faced
with Michigan's deep arsenal of
running backs.
EDGE: MICHIGAN

MICHIGAN RUSHING DEFENSE
VS. INDIANA OFFENSE
After holding Western Michi-
gan to just 38 rushing yards, the
Wolverines have allowed 167.5
rushing yards over their last two
games. Entering Big Ten play, it's
a statistic Michigan coach Rodri-
guez isn't comfortable with.
The Wolverine defensive line
should hold down the pass rush,
but Hoosier tailback Demetrius
McCray could break out. The
fifth-year senior is having the
best season of his career and
leads Indiana with 228 rushing
yards, including a 59-yard out-
burst against Western Michi-
gan.
McCray should be a test for
the Wolverines, butnothingthey
can't handle.
EDGE: MICHIGAN

MICHIGAN PASSING DEFENSE
VS. INDIANA OFFENSE
In less thannine months, Hoo-
sier quarterback Ben Chappell
has gone from a mind-numb-
ingly bad backup to a legitimate
starter.
After completing just 52.3 per-
cent of his 155 passes last season,
the junior has shown marked
improvement. Chappell is tied for
fourth in the Big Ten with a 68.5
completion percentage. A lot of
that is due to Chappell's protec-
tion up front. The Hoosiers' sea-
soned offensive line has allowed
only one sack this season.
But Chappell needs some tar-
gets, and Wolverine cornerbacks
Donovan Warren and Bou-
bacar Cissoko have controlled
the passing game too well this
See BREAKDOWN, Page 6B

.... .... . .. .... ..

bponsorea Dy
The Division of Student Affairs and the Office of New Student Programs


0

0

0

Set e 2,00

Football Saturday - September 26, 2009 411149-

MICHIGAN DEPTH CHART
VS.
INDIANA

BREAKDOWN
From page 2B
season to let this one slip up.
The biggest issue will be which
Michigan defensive backs will
step in if Indiana uses three
wideouts in its pistol offense.
With safety Mike Williams
doubtful with an ankle injury,
the backfield Saturday could
be tight.
EDGE: MICHIGAN
SPECIAL TEAMS
Special teams have been
steady for Michigan, which
is more than it could say
three games into last sea-
son. The Wolverines have

been able to catch the ball
and tally decent yardage on
kick returns (25.2 average
yards per return). Punter
Zoltan Mesko always gives
Michigan an edge on special
teams - his punts are flying
an average of 42 yards and
he is one of the team's most
consistent players.
Indiana's punting is solid,
but it has made only five of
seven field goals attempted
this year.
EDGE: MICHIGAN
INTANGIBLES
The last time Michigan lost
to Indiana at home, Bo Schem-
bechler was an assistant under

legendary Buckeye coach
Woody Hayes.
That was 1958 and the Wol-
verines lost 8-6. It's been a
while since the Hoosiers could
get things done at Michigan
Stadium, and it doesn't look
like that will change Satur-
day.
Sure, the Hoosiers are
3-0, but that's the beauty of
padding a non-conference
schedule. The Wolverines
have the opportunity to sur-
pass last season's win total,
and that should carry a lot of
weight.
EDGE: MICHIGAN
PREDICTION: 31-10

Indiana unveils pistol offense in Big House

OFFENSE

QB

1. ForcierTate Freshman
2. Robinson,Denard Freshman

1. Minor, Brandon
RB Senior
2. Brown, Carlos
Senior
1. Moundros, Marl
tB edshirt junior
2. Grady, Kevin
Fifth-year senior
1. Mathews, Greg
W R Senior
W 2.Stonum arryl
Sophomore
1. Hemingway, Junior
W R Redshirt sophomore
2 Savoy, LaTerryal
Redshirt sophomore
1.Odoms, Martavious
S LOTSophomore
Redshirt sophomore
1. Koger, Kevin
Sophomore
2. Webb,Martel
ounion
1 Ortmann, Mark
Li Fifth-year senior
2. Dorrestein, Perry
Redshirt junior
1. Schilling, Steve
G Redshirt junior
2. Mealer,Elliot
Redshirt freshman
1. Moosman, David
Redshirt freshman
2. Khoury,Rocko
Redshirt freshman
1. FerraraJohn
PG Redshirt jnior
2. Barnum, Ricky
Redshirt freshman
1. uyge,Mark
RT Redshirt sophomore
2.Omameh, Patrick
Sophomore

DEFENSE
1. GrahamBrandon
D E Senior
2. Heininger,Will
Redshirt sophomore
1.Van Bergen, Ryan
DT Redshirt sophomore
I 2. Banks, Greg
Junior
1. Martin, Mike
T Sophomore
S2. Sagesse, Renaldo
Junior
1. Roh,Craig
0 LB Freshman
LJ 2. Herron, Brandon
Redshirt sophomore
1. Ezeh, Obi
M LB Redshirt junior
B 2. Ftzgerald, J.B.
Sophomore
1. Mouton, Jonas
W !LB Redshirt junior
LB 2.eack, Kevin
Redshirt sophomore
1. Brown,Stevie
LB Senior
2. Simmons, Floyd
Redshirt freshman
1. Warren, Donovan
LC Junior
2. Turner, J.T.
Freshman
1.Woolfolk, Troy
Junior
2. Van Slyke, Jared
Redshirt sophomore
1.Williams,Mike
FS Redshirt sophomore
2. Kovacs, Jordan
Redshirt freshman
1. CissokoBoubacar
RC Sophomore
2. Floyd,J.T.
Redshirt freshman


SYRACUSE
From page 5B
crossed. He wasn't leaving any
stone unturned. He always,
always had great game plans."
Salgado said Robinson
excelled at teaching his players
how techniques relate across
schemes and in tying the play-
book together in their minds.
Watching the manner in
which Robinson did his job
made Salgado realize who he
was coaching alongside.
"When I came in the room
with him and we started prepar-
ing for what we were going to do,

I knew I was with somebody,"
Salgado said. "I thought this guy,
this guy is agood coach. This guy
is a hell of a football coach."
Perhaps itwasjust an instance
of a talented football mind
struggling with his first head-
coaching job. Robinson's players
were known for always playing
hard for him, even when he was
fired with two weeks left in the
season. Notre Dame was next on
the schedule.
The Orange upset the Irish in
South Bend that Saturday, 24-23,
with the last hopes of turning a
program around.
"I don't think we were far
away," Salgado said. "I really

don't."
After the season, Robinson,
58, looked back on the lessons
of a children's book at his final
Syracuse press conference.
"I'm going to read a little
story," he told the assembled
media, still looking determined.
"This is a story that Iheard when
I was young. And I suspect there
might be a few of you that have
heard this story. It's called, 'The
Little Engine That Could.' "
He drew out the main points
of the story, explaining each,
and emphasized its famous line:
"I think I can. I think I can."
"Well you know what, I still
think I can. I do."

By ANDY REID
Daily SportsEditor
Michigan football fans are
still trying to get used to the
spread-option after Bo Schem-
bechler-induced, three-yards-and-
a-cloud-of-dust
offensive philoso-
phy dominated Indiana at
the Big House for Michigan
40 years.
On Saturday, Matchup:
Indiana is going Miana 3-0
to introduce M
them to an even When: Satur-
more innovative day, 12 p.m.
scheme, one that Where: Michi-
was invented in gan Stadium
2004 in Reno, TV:ESPN2
Nev. and has Live Blog:
recently spread michigandaily.
across football in com/the game
high school, col-
lege, the Cana- michdaets:
dian Football lysports
League and the
NFL. The Hoo-
siers jumped on the bandwagon
this season to open up some offen-
sive possibilities.
What is it? Well, that's a pretty
tough question.
"I have no idea," cornerback
Donovan Warren said on Monday.
"I'm about to go break it down right
now. I can definitely let you know
sometime this week."
It's called the pistol, a hybrid
between a traditional I-formation
and the spread package that Michi-
gan coach Rich Rodriguez helped
create, and it just might be the next
big thing in offensive evolution.
In the pistol, the quarterback
lines up four yards behind the
center - three fewer than in the
spread - and the running back is
three yards directly behind the
quarterback, which opens up sev-
eral options in power-runs and
play-action passes.
When run well, the pistol has
proven tobe anightmarefor oppos-
ing defenses. But Rodriguez isn't
going to approach it any differently
than he would when preparing for
any other offensive scheme.
"The pistol gets popularized
because it's kind of new," Rodri-
guez said. "It's like the wildcat
thing, but people that use the wild-
cat maybe only use it 10 or 12 times
a game, but that's all they talk
about. It's really just defending an
offense and the answers and things
they do scheme-wise."
Nevada coach Chris Ault invent-
ed the pistol before the 2004 sea-
son, and, as with any new idea, the
initial reaction to the quirky for-

Football Monthly. "When you have
traditional I-back teams where
the back is at seven yards, it's a lot
easier for those linebackers to key
him."
The Hoosiers traded in their
spread package from last season
in order to bolster the run game,
which ranked 49th in the coun-
try last year, and take advantage
of another plus-side of the pistol
- a dangerous play-action passing
game.
Since the pistol takes the best of
both worlds from the I-formation
and the spread, Indiana should, in
theory, be able to run the ball and
spread the defense out with the
pass much more effectively than in
years past.
Indiana has yet to fully grasp the
offense - it has run for a measly
146 yards per game this year and is
ranked ninth in the Big Ten in scor-
ing offense - but once the team
does, it could be dangerous.
"Putting in more of a power
running game definitely has been
our No. 1 goal," Indiana coach Bill
Lynch told the Evansville Courier-
Journal before the season. "Last
year, in the spread, the quarterback
was back there alone a lot of the
time and there weren't the oppor-
tunities to run the ball downhill or
run play-action.
"We think this formation gives
us a chance to do both of those, and
at this point it's so far, so good."
But Rodriguez is not too wor-
ried about defending the pistol, as
opposed to the other schemes the
Wolverines will see this season.
"I think the schemes are over-
rated," Rodriguez said. "I think
you just need to have a system that
has answers to problems you'll face
in various schemes and personnel.
... Most offenses have a variety of
things. It's not just one particular
scheme or formation you have to
defend."

AP PHOTO
Indiana coach Bill Lynch decided to implement the pistol offense this year in order to bolster the Hoosiers'
run and play-action pass packages. The pistol offense was invented in 2004 by Nevada coach Chris Ault.


Q

i
a I

mation wasn't exactly positive.
"When I first introduced it to my
staff, they thought I was nuts," Ault
told American Football Monthly in
2007.
But the results are undeniable.
Since 2005, the Wolfpack have
ranked 33rd or better nationally
in rushing offense every year. Last
season, Nevada utilized the system
and dual-threat quarterback Colin
Kaepernick's skills perfectly, rack-
ingup more than 275 rushingyards
per game, good for fourth in the
country.
The pistol often spreads the
defense with three receivers and
looks like a passing formation. But
it's obviously the run game that's

boosted by it, especially the zone-
read, one of the most popular run-
ning plays in football right now.
The zone-read is what Michigan
ran during Mike Hart's career. It
allows running backs to find cut-
backs and other holes in the defense
easier, and in the pistol, ball-carri-
ers can see the lanes open up with
even more clarity.
Because the quarterback and
running back are just three yards
apart before the play - as opposed
to seven yards apart in a traditional
I-formation-therunningbackgets
the ball much quicker and has more
time and space to find cutbacks.
And, as opposed to the spread, the
running back is already running

downhill when he receives the ball,
so he can hit the hole faster.
"The beauty of the offense is that
if you're an I-formation team like
we were before we converted, it
fits into the same schemes that you
were running," Ault told American
Football Monthly. "You just get the
ball to the back sooner."
Ault also uses misdirection
and counter plays to confuse the
defense. Even though these plays
can be used from a traditional
I-formation set, the running back's
position makes misdirection even
more effective.
"The back is hidden; he's com-
pletely concealed by our quar-
terback," Ault said to American

with IU quarterback Ben Cha;
BEN CHAPPELL

K
1. Olesnavage, Jason
Fifth-year senior
2. Gibbons, Brendan
Freshman

SPECIAL TEAMS
P
1. Mesko, Zoltan
Fifth-year senior
2.Wright, Bryan
Redshirt junior

Most embarrassing moment -
Northwestern game, probably no one
really knows this besides the guys on the
team - I almost tripped taking a knee
at the end of the game and almost blew
my knee out.
Favorite non-sports item - TV
KR Favorite TV show - 24
m, Darryl Pre-game meal/ritual -We always
ore have some sort of pasta, and actually
us, Martavious
ore eat that for breakfast.
S. Three words to describe your

ppell''
PHOTO cOURTESY OF MIKE DIcKBERND/IU Athletics
coach- He's a player's coach, he's
honest, and he's hardworking.
Favorite sports rivalry- Indiana vs.
Purdue
Playing vs. Michigan- It's gonna be a
special game for us. First Big ten game,
on the road, it's going to be a big game
for us, a nice test to see where we're at.
Obviously Michigan's a great football
program. They have a lot of tradition
(and) the Big House. I've never actually
been there. But I'm really excited to go
up there and see what it's about.

1. Stonu
Sophom
2.Odon
Sophom

ILLUSTRATION BY ALLIE GHAMAN/Daily

Note: Depth chart as predicted by Daily football writer

The pistol offense utilizes the advantages of both the traditional 1-formation and spread offense.




0

9

9

a

0

0

, lombati Saturday - Septembe, 26, 2009 1

September " 2009 Football cl.

NY JETS 1990-1994
Switching coasts to follow Carroll,
Robinson coached the Jets' defensive
line. In 1994, he became New York's
defensive coordinator.

TEXAS 2004 DENVER BRONCOS 1995-2000
to the colle When the Broncos won back-to-back
ns in the NFL Super Bowls, Robinson's defenses
.onghorn defense were ranked No. 1 and No. 3 against
arned his fourth the run. And in three of his six sea-
sons, the Broncos had one of the NFL's
top 10 overall defenses.
SYRACUSE 2005-2008
After coaching for nearly 30 years,
Robinson was hired for the first time
as a head coach But after winning
just 10 games oser the course of four
r ~years, and posting the Orange's first
two i0-loss seasons ever, Robinson
was fired.
MICHUIAN 2002
Robinson approached Wolverine
coach Rich Rodriguez about the job
opening, and Rodriguez hired his
former Big East foe as his defensive
coordinator
rd. So they've to win. I don't like to lose. Those game when I was there. I think
sall. Plenty of are the things that motivate me, it was because Coach Wooden
I suspect. The challenge. had such an influence on every
program (at UCLA) and that was
lid you get What are the core roots one of them, fundamentals.
of your defenses? In 20 or 30 years, when
Coletto, my I'm still a believer in funda- you look ack at your time
Pacific), asked mentals. You got to learn how to u
and I were control your body. You got to be at Syracuse what do you
ete was a year able to learn how to maximize think you'll take away from
redshirted, he your body as far as leverage. You that?
but Pete was have to play with great effort.
tant) a year I mean, those are core things. Oh, I worked extremely hard.
ie and I would Enthusiasm. The fundamentals Very, very hard trying to get the
>gether wher- of the game are very important. thing headed in the right direc-
we'd talk and The longer I'm in coaching, tion. InmyheartIthinkwewere,
k, this is kind the more I believe that. John and I believe that you're going to
doing. Then Wooden used to always say, see - there's an opportunity for
osition coach, 'Greatteams keep getting better.' the new staff in there to reap the
interested in Because as some begin to fall off benefits. They still have a tough
Yeah, I really teaching their fundamentals as schedule. But anyway, I didn't
So we went to the season goes on and get more realize what a situation that I
ggested that I into the schematics, all of a sud- was in going into it and I didn't
to be a GA, so den, you'll see a decline in their realize how tough a schedule we
I took it. fundamentals, where as .those were going to play. Really, for
that continue to really hone in three or four years I think we
on the fundamentals, you'll see had a top-15 every year toughest
growth as the season goes on. schedule in the country. That's
At UCLA, we always took great tough while you're still trying
f there's one pride that we were a team that to reprogram the program. The
mdoing.Ilove always, we won every bowl See ROBINSON, Page 7B

Winning two Super Bowls
When Greg Robinson was Bowlyears.
the Denver Broncos' defensive Over those same seasons,
coordinator, one eventthatstole they forced 61 turnovers and
the show each season. sacked the quarterback 90
Even when Denver won times.
back-to-back Super Bowls in "When you win, there's only
1997 and 1998. so much credit, and it always
"Every year, we had a party went to the offense," Teerlink
at his house where he'd bring in said. "Greg did ahell of a job."
a pianist and we'd have a sing- " When Robinson arrived
a-long party and it was always in Denver, the team had just
a great time," former Broncos dabbled in free agency and had
and current Indianapolis Colts many new coaches. What he
defensive line coach John Teer- excelled at was working with
link said. "One of the highlights new faces.
of the year." Robinson's creativity
They'd sing "all the popular stretched to everything he did,
stuff" in duos and trios, and especially his motivational
play "name that tune." techniques.
While Robinson had an "He'll bring out boxing high-
innate talent to bring together a lights, hockey tapes, gun fights,
youngstaff,hiscoachingaccom- movie clips, things where peo-
plishments in Denver were ple are challenged and have to
overshadowed by the offen- rise to the occasion," Teerlink
sive accomplishments of John said. "I don't want to take away
Elway, one of the greatest quar- any of his secrets, but he'll put
terbacks of all time. suffon Friday nights that'll fire
"(We had) just fantastic the guys up."
numbers and fantastic stats that He fit in perfectly there, an
always got lost behind the John ability that he's brought with
Eiway, Terrelle Davis num- him alongthe many stops in his
hers, you know," Teerlink said. coaching career, and it trans-
"The fact that we had all those lated onto the field and into the
sacks, all those turnovers, and team's chemistry.
played so well on third downs "To delegate, to manage
always has kind of been forgot- and to organize to where all
ten, and I don't think Greg ever the parts are working together
got the credit for that that he - that's very hard to do, espe-
deserved." cially when you're diverse and
Robinson coached in Den- from different teams and dif-
ver from 1995 to 2000, leading ferent places," Teerlink said.
three top-10 overall defenses. "Everybody kind of wants to do
Against the run, the Broncos their thing and it was his job to
were especially potent, ranking tie it all together and package it
No. 1 and No. 3 in their Super and he did."
Going 10-37
Almost 10 years later, Rob- sity that I'd like to see," former
inson had his Syracuse coach- Syracuse running back and
ing staff watch the 1972 John NFL legend Jim Brown said
Wayne film, "The Cowboys," on ESPN's College GameDay in
which the coaches referenced September last year.
backtothroughouttheyear.The Syracuse Athletic Director
movie is associated with words Daryl Gross also publicly called
and phrases such as "survival Robinson's performance well
story," "hardship" and "fighting below Syracuse standards.
for whatyou believe in." "We're Syracuse. We should
All of those terms seemed beat Akron. It's that simple," he
appropriate during Robinson's said on GameDay, referencing
time with the orange, as he Syracuse's 14-point loss to the
wentfrom anationally celebrat- Zips, a bottom-dwelling Mid-
ed coordinator to a floundering American Conference team.
head coach. The days of Syracuse's 1959
It's truly startling how light- National Championship and
and-day different those closely Heisman winner Ernie Davis
associated with the program were buried in fans' memories
describe Robinson's career at as they witnessed Robinson's
Syracuse. downfall. The Orange never
There is the obvious reac- finished above another team in
tion. Syracuse was a Big East the Big East in his four years.
powerhouse, boasting winning But even with the lowly
season after winningseason for record, Robinson was still well-
as long as can be remembered. respected in the locker room.
No coach had ever lost 10games "He's very, very, very
in one season in Orange history. detailed, a great communica-
But that was before Robinson tor, great with the kids, a great
did it twice in his first three teacher," said former orange
years at the helm of the pro- secondary coach Jim Salgado,
gram. who now coaches at Cornell.
"I don't see the competitive "Not only teaching players, but
spirit that I'd like to see, I don't us coaches as well, makingsure
see the hitting that I'd like to you got all youri's dotted andt's
see. I don't see any of the inten- See SYRACUSE, Page 6B



