be 1idiganBail

NE-F NDIREiD-NINEITEELN Y1011)EARS1FDI

LAL FREEDOM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, March 30, 2009

ONE AND DONE

michigandaily.com
TRAVELING TO ISRAEL
Birthright
cuts back on
availability
Officials: Decline is result of high admissions num-
bers the past two years - a time
the result of more when Israel was celebrating its
60th birthday - not international
acceptances in past financial troubles or fallout from
Bernie Madoff's Ponzi scheme,
years, not economy which affected a disproportionate
number of wealthy Jewish people
By AMY MUNSLOW and Jewish charities.
Daily StaffReporter Allison Sheren, program direc-
tor for the University's Taglit-
LSA freshman Lauren Kap- Birthright Israel program, said
nick has never been to Israel, but the number of available spots on
thanks to the Taglit-Birthright the trip has decreased drastically
Israel program, she thought that this year, while registration has
this would be the year she would seen an unprecedented spike.
finally get the opportunity to visit Only 75 University of Michigan
the country - and for free, none- students are taking a Birthright
theless. trip through Hillel this summer,
But when Kapnick received down from 165 students last sum-
her admission decision from the mer. Sheren said this drop is a
organization, she got a surprising result of limited availability.
answer: She was rejected from "Unfortunately, a major-
the trip. ity of students who registered for
Record-breaking numbers of Taglit-Birthright this summer
Jewish students applying to the will be unable to actually go on a
Taglit-Birthright Israel program trip," Sheren wrote in an e-mail
this year, hoping to go on a free interview. "Many of them will be
trip to explore their heritage, waitlisted because of the number
have received similar responses of spots available."
from the program. But according The program, which is funded
to Birthright officials, the severe by private donations and the Israe-
decline in availability is the See BIRTHRIGHT, Page 7A
ELECTING MICHIGAN'S NEXT GOVERNOR
A2 businessman
throws hat into,
Republican race

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Junior forward Brian Lebler consoles senior forward Brandon Naurato after the Air Force hockey team upset the Wolverines 2-0 on Friday in the opening round of the NCAA
Tournament in Bridgeport, Conn. The top-seeded Wolverines outshot the fourth-seeded Falcons 43-13, but failed to score on goalie Andrew Volkening. After last year's run
to the Frozen Four, Michigan was heavily favored to go deep in this year's tournament. For more on the game, see Sports, Page1B.
A NEW MODEL FOR TEACHING BUSINESS
Ross ethinks finance studies

Industry woes haven't
hurt student interest
in field, officials say
By MALLORY BEBERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Despite the nation's econom-
ic meltdown, driven primarily
through the collapse of Wall Street
and the suffering of large financial
institutions, officials at the Ross
School of Business report that the
decreased availability of jobs in
finance hasn't soured students'

interest in entering the field.
To meet this continuing demand
from students, Business adminis-
trators said they are restructuring
the Bachelor in Business Adminis-
tration Finance curriculum for the
upcoming academic year by alter-
ing existing classes and adding four
new courses.
"Very close to 60 percent of our
students are interested in finance
careers so we wanted to take a good
look at the curriculum," Business
School Prof. and Finance Depart-
ment Chair M.P. Narayanan said.
Narayanan said though the field
of finance has suffered of late, he

hasn't seen a related dip in enroll-
ment in finance classes for this
upcoming fall.
The new finance program will
feature an increase in action-based
learning, Narayanan said, which
will give students the chance to
use real money and information to
start and manage their own hedge
funds.
Additionally, the 2009 curricu-
lum will allow for more specialized
interests within the finance field.
Narayanan said the four new
courses will educate students in
financial trading, the macroeco-
nomics of capital markets, alterna-

tive investments and real-estate
finance.
But even with enrollment in
classes holding steady, Robert
Koonce, the director of undergrad-
uate student affairs in the BBA Pro-
gram office, said a change to the
program was more necessary than
ever to help students navigate the
current economy.
"The finance faculty thought it
was time for some changes based
on what's going on in the world
to try to keep the program presti-
gious," he said.
John Kavchak, a Business
See FINANCE, Page 7A


U students reconnect with Detroit Unvesityalu,"

More than 800 head
downtown for this
year's DP Day
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
DETROIT - With brushes,
sandpaper and buckets of paint in
hand, more than 40 University stu-
dents gathered this weekend in the
halls of Priest Elementary to give
the school's lockers a much -needed
paint job.
The group, primarily made up
of members of the business frater-
nity Phi Chi Theta, was one of more
than 27 groups from the University
volunteering in the 10th-annual
Detroit Partnership Day.
This year, more than 800 stu-
dents participated in the annual day
of service known as "DP Day." The
event is organized by The Detroit
Partnership, a service-learning
organization focused on creating a
stronger connection between the
University and the city of Detroit.
Students worked in areas locat-
ed mostly around southwest and
northwest Detroit, doing a variety
of activities like repainting schools,
clearing abandoned buildings for
demolition and planting trees on
city blocks.
The first DP Day, in 2000, was
created as a way to get University
students more interested in Detroit
through community service proj-
ects. Beginning with about 400
participants, the event has now

Snyder forms
exploratory group
By A. BRAD SCHWARTZ
Daily StaffReporter
Michigan's next governor
could come from right here in
Ann Arbor. Rick Snyder, a local
venture capitalist and University
alum, is considering running as a
Republican candidate for gover-
nor in 2010.
Snyder announced in a press
release earlier this month that he

has formed an exploratory com-
mittee to assess the possibility of
a gubernatorial run next year.
"I am in the process of putting
together the best team of advisors
this state and countryhas to offer,"
Snyder wrote in the release.
Snyder went on to write that he
will travel around the state, talk-
ing with citizens for the next few
weeks to learn more about the
problems Michigan residents face.
"Oureconomyisinshamblesand
there is no doubt we are heading
in the wrong direction," he wrote
in the release. "The economic
problems in this state started long
before the economic meltdownhit-
ting the rest of this country due, in
See GOVERNOR, Page 7A

University students Sam Hamburger (left), Himesh Pathmanathan (left center), Ells Hamburger (right center) and Alex West
(right) sand lockers at Priest Middle School in southwest Detroit on Saturday. 800 students participated in this year's DP Day.

more than doubled in size, attract-
ing student groups seeking service
projects that help surrounding
communities.
LSA senior Julia Roberts, a
volunteer at Priest Elementary,
stressed the importance of service
work in Detroit.
"There is so much cleanup to be
done in Detroit. (DP Day) is a great
way to contribute," she said. "It's a
great form of solidarity with sur-
rounding communities."
Priest Elementary is located in a

neighborhood in southwest Detroit
that has seen better days. The walls
outside the schoolyard are littered
with graffiti and the lockers inside
are faded and paint-chipped.
The work of paintingthe school's
lockers began last year, when half
of the lockers in the main hallway
received a fresh coat. This year the
work continued, as students sand-
ed down lockers before giving the
hallway a new splash of color with
blue, yellow and red paint..
Business junior Cory Rosenfield,

who volunteered at Priest Elemen-
tary, said he found the work done
on DP Day to be simple, but impor-
tant in helping to clean up Detroit.
"We're here just to paint and do
anything that the janitor needs,"
he said. "It's really too bad that we
can't see how the kids react to what
we've done in the halls. It would be
nice to see that."
Rosenfield, who is also president
of Phi Chi Theta, attributes DP
Day's popularity amongstudents to
See DP DAY, Page 7A


WEAT HER HI: 54
TOMORROW LO04)

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Memories of Michigan men's gymnastics
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX
Vol. CXIX, No.119
02009 The Michigan Daily
michigandoile.com

N EW S ................................ 2 A A RTS .................................. 5 A
SUDDKU .......... .................3A CLASSIFIEDS ......................6A
OPINION. . ........ . .4A SPORTS MONDAY ................1B



2A - Monday, March 30, 2009

Yale to stop sending paper rejection letters

BOXCAR CHILDREN

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
C ht idcigan 3atly
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun.-Thurs.11a.m. - 2a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section arts@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@mrichigandaily.com

ApplicantstoYaleUniversitywill no
longer receive a rejection letter in the
mail, theYale Daily Newsreported.
To save paper and reduce mailing
costs, Yale University will not mail
rejection notices if the prospective
student has checked the decision
online. Yale announced the plan last
week in an effort to cut expenses
after the university's endowment
decreased this year.
In the article, Yale Dean of Admis-
sions Jeff Brenzel said the change
will save the university from print-
ing and mailing more than 20,000
rejection letters.
He added that 95 percent of appli-
cants check the decisions online with-
in 72 hours after they are posted.
Yale will still send paper letters
notifying students if they are accept-
ed or placed on the waiting list. If
students do not check the admission
decision online, the university will
send them a letter regardless of the
decision.

HARVARD TRADITION TURNS
DANGEROUS
RiverRun-along-standingHarvard
tradition in which students write the
name of their desired housing on card-
board boats to sail down the Charles
River - ended with the presence of the
Cambridge Fire Department and Mas-
sachusetts State Police this year, The
Harvard Crimson reported.
The event began with students
launching their creations into the
river. Students then started to drench
their boats with flammable solutions
like Axe Body Spray and nail polish
remover, which drew the attention of
firefighters and police. Some then lit
their boats on fire.
Officials warned the students to
leave the area.
In retaliation, Harvard freshman
Kelsey Koff and her group of friends
disobeyed the orders.
"We went all the way down to the
other end of the river and doused our
boat in nail polish remover," Koff said.

CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITIES
DRASTICALLY REDUCE
THEIRACCEPTANCE RATES
Students who would normally
be accepted to universities in Cali-
fornia may now receive more rejec-
tion letters than acceptance letters,
The Chronicle of Higher Education
reported.
The drastic cut in admission accep-
tances is a result of the initiative to
decrease enrollment in California
universities by 10,000 full-time stu-
dents - a decision made in light of
the state's economic crisis.
Pat Lopes Harris, a spokeswoman
for San Jose State University, said
determining which students to reject
is hard on admissions officials.
"It comes with great difficulty
because the same staff who normally
works to figure out which people get
in now has to turn around and figure
out which people need to be exclud-
ed," Harris said in the article.
- STEPHANIE STEINBERG

Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.coer

Sophie Lete-Traka gets a push down South University
Avenue at Phi Delta Theta's and Ann Arbor Active
Against ALS's First Annual Boxcar Derby on Saturday.

CRIME NOTES
Four trays of MoJo bathroom
food stolen painted with

WHERE: Henry Vaughan Pub-
lic Health
WHEN: Friday at about 9:30
a.m.
WHAT: An unknown subject
stole four trays of food from the
kitchen of the Public Health
School, University Police
reported. The door to the
kitchen was unlocked when the
theft occurred.

watercolors
WHERE: Mosher-Jordan Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Saturday at about
12:10 p.m.
WHAT: An unknown subject
painted the walls in the wom-
en's restroom on the first floor,
University Police reported.
The subject used green and red
water color paint. Police have
no suspects.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Lecture on Free HIV/AIDS
autobiographies testing
WHAT: Robin Lane, histori- WHAT: A counselor from
cal advisor to film director the HIV/AIDS Resource
Oliver Stone, will give a lec- Center will offer HIV/AIDS
ture about famous autobiog- testing. Testing is free and
raphies written in the time of anonymous.
Augustine. WHO: Spectrum Center
WHO: Classical Studies WHEN: Tonight from 6 p.m.
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Graduate WHERE: Michigan Union,
School Amphitheater Room 3200
Political humor Discussion on
and democracy campus groups
WHAT: A meeting forstudent
discussion leaders to discuss issues con-
cerningcampus organizations.
WHAT: A discussion about WHO: Student Activities and
political humor and how it Leadership
influences public opinion and WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m.
democracy. WHERE: Michigan League,
WHO: Institute for the Koessler room
Humanities
WHEN: Today from 1p.m. CORRECTIONS
to 5 p.m. " Please report any error in
WHERE: Palmer Commons, the Daily to corrections@
Forum Hall michigandaily.com.

The website computertan.
com claims users will get
a free tan through their
computer screens, express.
co.uk reported. The site, which
has received more than 1 mil-
lion hits, shows a tanning light
when users click to start the
free session. Messages then
pop up to warn the public of
the dangers of tanning.
The Ann Arbor City
Council's A2D2 plan aims
to divide Ann Arbor into
two zones - the core and the
interface, which would each
be subject to different rules on
issueslikebuildingheightlimits
and environmental limitations.
"FOR MORE SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
Thousands of Facebook
users have decided to send
condoms to Pope Benedict
XVI to protest his comment
last week about the inability
of condoms to prevent HIV,
CNN.com reported. "You can't
resolve it with the distribu-
tion of condoms," the pope told
reporters. "On the contrary, it
increases the problem."

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmilOvitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
NIORNEWSEDITORS:JillianBerman,TrevorCalero,CaitlinSchneider,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
Kyle Swanson
RoberttSoave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
ASAN POTSEDITORS: Ryan Karte, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
AlexProsperi,ColtRosenwe
David Watnick ManagingArtsEditor warnick@michigandaiy.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:JamieBlock,BrandonConradis, WhitneyPow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:JoshuaBayer,Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, BenVanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins,Chris Dzombak,RobMigrin,SamWolson
AngelatChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ru e
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
DavidMerian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandailycom
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Disptlrayodertising eseManaer
DISPLAYADVERISNGASSOCIAMAAERS: Dnielnge
Newman,Christie Philips
Ryan Businski classified SalesManager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber onlinetSales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMichiganDaly(IsN0745-967)nis published MondaythroughFridayduringthefalandwinter
terms by studentsat the University of Michigan.One copy is available free of charge toa readers.
Additionacopiesmaybepickedupattheoaly'sofficefor$.subscriptionsforfallandwinterterm
(SeptrmberrthrughAprilvaU.S.emalae200.Yaa-rond ubrpibonsal,intrSring an
Summerissare s225.Sbsipti bon eprepid.TheichgnDiy isameberoTe
Associated PressandThe AssociatedCollegiatePress

Unknown subject
shatters street *arindow
car window

ligt
WHERE: North University
WHEN: Friday at about 7:10
a.m.
WHAT: An unknown subject
broke a street light near the
Michigan League, University
Police reported.

WHERE: Lot NW-54, 2400
Stone Road
WHEN: Friday at about 9 a.m.
WHAT: An unknown suspect
smashed the window of a 2007
Honda and attempted to break
into the glove compartment,
University Police reported.


4

4

- One year master's degree/three year PhD*

- No GRE

* Scholarships

* Currency conversion rate is favorable
(1 Pound = $1.4 compared to nearly $2 a year ago)

I
I

* International exposure

* Variety of subjects, including Arts,
Environmental Science, International
Relations, Film Studies, and MBA
www.studyintheuk.org

f

' on average

4

+

4

f


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 30, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, March 30, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
State employees
resist budget cuts
State workers who didn't get
a raise this fiscal year while see-
ing their health care premiums
double are resisting talk of more
concessions.
But they may not be able to
dodge the bulls-eye on their backs
as the state's financial situation,
already shaky, grows worse. With
hundreds of millions of dollars to
be made up, one of the places state
government is looking to save is
labor costs.
State employees have been here
before, enduring furlough days
and other concessions earlier in
the decade. None of the state's
52,600 employees are eager to
relive those times.
"We've given and given and
given. That's the thing that's so
frustrating," said Steve Gilroy, 53,
who does billing and reimburse-
ment at the state's Kalamazoo
Psychiatric Hospital.
House Republicans caused a stir
last week by proposing to reduce
state workers' wages 5 percent
in the current budget. They also
want to freeze a 1 percent raise this
October and a 3 percent raise in
October 2010 and boost workers'
share of health premiums from 10
percent to 15 percent.
WASHINGTON
Tobacco prices rise
in lieu of new tax
However they satisfy their nic-
otine cravings, tobacco users are
facingabighit asthe single largest
federal tobacco tax increase ever
takes effect Wednesday.
Tobacco companies and public
health advocates, longtime foes in
the nicotine battles, are trying to
turn the situation to their advan-
tage. The major cigarette makers
raisedpricesacoupleofweeksago,
partly to offset any drop in profits
once the per-pack tax climbs from
39 cents to $LOl.
Medical groups see a tax
increase right in the middle of a
recession as a great incentive to
help persuade smokers to quit.
Tobacco taxes are soaring to
finance a major expansion of
health insurance for children.
President Barack Obama signed
that health initiative soon after
taking office.
Other tobacco products,
from cigars to pipes and smoke-
less, will see similarly large tax
increases, too. For example, the
tax on chewing tobacco will go
up from 19.5 cents per pound to
SO cents. The total expected to
be raised over the 4 1/2 year-long
health insurance expansion is
nearly $33 billion.
KIRKUK, Iraq
UN mulls power-
sharing plan for Iraq

Seeking to head off an explo-
sion of ethnic violence, the United
Nations will call for a power-shar-
ing system of government for
Iraq's deeply divided region of
Kirkuk in the oil-rich north.
A draft U.N. plan, outlined to
The AssociatedPressbytwo West-
ern officials, aims to defuse dan-
gerous tensions. Kurds, a majority
in the region, have been trying to
wrest control from Arabs, Turko-
menand otherrival ethnic groups.
If open warfare breaks out, it
could jeopardize the U.S. goal of
stability across Iraq before elec-
tions at year's end.
Peaceful elections are criti-
cal to reducing the U.S. presence
in Iraq, promised by President
Barack Obama.
The U.N. has played only a
minor role in Iraq since 2003,
when its Baghdad headquarters
was destroyed by a truck bomb.
Now, officials in Kirkuk say
the U.N. efforts may be the last
chance for a peaceful outcome.
CARTHAGE, N.C.
Shooter kills six
at nursing home
A gunman opened fire at a
North Carolina nursing home yes-
terday, killing six and wounding at
least two others, police said.
The gunman was also injured
before he was apprehended by
police after the 10 a.m. shooting
at Pinelake Health and Rehab in
the town of Carthage, Carthage
Police Chief Chris McKenzie
told television stations WRAL in
Raleigh and WTVD in Durham. A
police officer was also among the
injured.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

On campus, Pandora founder talks of life's work

Westergren aims to
transform the way
people listen tomusic
By MALLORY BEBERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
When Tim Westergren, the
founder ofthe Internetradioservice
Pandora, asked a packed Stamps
Auditorium on Friday afternoon,
"how many people here have used
Pandora?" all the hands in the room
went up.
The Pandora phenomenon has
been sweeping the nation since it
launched in 2005. The free web-
site allows users to discover new
music based on the artists they
already like.
Westergren said that through
Pandora - as an established radio
service with about 600,000 songs in
its collection - he aims to reinvent
radio and help lesser-known artists
gain the publicity they deserve.
Westergren, who was brought
in by the campus entrepreneurship
group MPowered, said he aspires
to change today's radio, which "is
very limited in the music it plays,"
and transform it to "something
that's much more satisfying and
personalized."
Seventy percent of Pandora's
music library belongs to artists
without a record label, Westergren
said. He explained that as long as
the quality of the recording meets
Pandora's standards, any music is

entered into the database.
He said that he hopes to "turn
Pandora into a massive promotional
channel for tens of thousands of oth-
erwise invisible workingmusicians."
In 2007, when Pandora's exis-
tence was threatened by sky high
performancefees,Westergrensolic-
ited the help of the website's mil-
lions of users. Westergren said he
sent an e-mail to subscribed users
asking them to write to Congress.
He said the overwhelming response
kept Pandora in business.
"Washington received 400,000
faxes in three days and eventually
about 2 million calls, faxes, and let-
ters to Congress,' he said.
In the near future, Pandora plans
on going global so that music lovers
and musicians all over the world
can enjoy the benefits of Pandora
radio, Westergren said.
After studying political science at
Stanford University, Westergren's
idea for Pandora was born from his
experience as a struggling musi-
cian, he said.
As he played in bands and hung
around fellow musicians, Wester-
gren said he noticed a discouraging
problem.
"What I saw was a tremendous
number of very talented musicians
who nobody knew about," he said.
After reading an article about
a semi-well-known artist whose
record company refused to release
another one of her CD's, Wester-
gren decided to create a solution
that would expose lesser-known
artists to the ears of the world.

I kind of put this thing all
together and thought, 'well there's
a genome thing,' " he said. " 'Maybe
if I can marry that to technology,
some kind of algorithm, I could
deliver (the artist's music) to the
Web asa recommendation tool.'"'
After sharing the idea with a
friend, renting office space, hiring
engineers and finding investors,
Westergren's Music Genome Proj-
ect was put into action.
Yet the road to success for Pan-
dora was far from smooth. Wester-
gren said that in mid-2001, after
the investors' money ran out and ;.
some of the technology collapsed,
employees' paychecks shrank until
they were non-existent.
He said that for three years, about
50 people worked without pay.
"We were really in a pretty deep
dark hole," Westergren said. "I
had 11 maxed-out credit cards and
I owed I think a couple hundred
thousand dollars to friends and
family."
Now with 25 million registered
U.S. listeners - a number that
grows by 50,000 people each day
- Pandora has finally reached the SAID ALSAL AH/Daily
e Tim Westergren, founder of Pandora online radio, spoke at the Stamps Auditorium
level of success that Westergren o North Campus oFriday.
knew it could.
The event was part of MPow- ered, said that to most students the neer or business major to pursue
ered's Entreprelliance conference word "entrepreneurship" is very entrepreneurship.
this weekend that brings together intimidating. She said her group "Pandora is used by students on
students involved in entrepreneur- aims to make it less frightening. campus at Michigan from every
ship from colleges across the nation She said that having Tim Wester- major," Cheng said, "and we really
to discuss, share and collaborate on gren as a speaker enabled MPow- invited Tim because we thought he
entrepreneurial ideas. ered to bring students with varied would connect with so many stu-
Michelle Cheng, an Engineering interests together to demonstrate dents, share his story and what he's
senior and the president of MPow- that you don't have to be an engi- learned."

North Korea to test
rocket this week,
despite warnings

In this June 26, 2008 file photo, then-Sen. Barack Obama talks with General Motors Chairman Rick Wagoner. Wagoner will
step down immediately at the request of the White House.
Obama gives G Crysler
an ultimatumo n vfutueaid

GM's Rick Wagoner
forced out, Chrysler
required to partner
with Fiat in final plan
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
White House says neither General
Motors nor Chrysler submitted
acceptable plans to receive more
bailout money, setting the stage
for a crisis in Detroit and putting
in motion what could be the final
two months of two American auto
giants.
President Barack Obama and his
top advisers have determined that
neither company is viable and that
taxpayers will not spend untold bil-
lions more to keep the pair of auto-
makers open forever.Inalast-ditch
effort,theadministrationgaveeach
company a brief deadline to try one
last time to convince Washington it
is worth saving, said senior admin-
istration officials who spoke on the
condition of anonymity to more
bluntly discuss the decision.
Obama was set to make the
announcement at 11 a.m. Monday
in the White House's foyer.
In an interview with CBS' "Face
the Nation" broadcast Sunday,
Obama said the companies must do
more to receive additional financial
aid from the government.
"We think we can have a suc-

cessful U.S. auto industry. But it's
got to be one that's realistically
designed to weather this storm
and to emerge - at the other end
- much more lean, mean and
competitive than it currently is,"
Obama said.
Frustrated administration offi-
cials said Chrysler cannot func-
tion as an independent company
under its current plan. They have
given Chrysler a 30-day window to
complete a proposed partnership
with Italian automaker Fiat SpA,
and will offer up to $6 billion to the
companies if they can negotiate a
deal before time runs out.
If a Chrysler-Fiat union cannot
be completed, Washington plans to
walk away, leave Chrysler destined
for a complete sell-off. No other
money is available.
Shawn Morgan, a Chrysler
spokeswoman, said the company
wants to work with the Treasury
Department and Obama's auto task
force but declined to comment on
the White House's plans.
"With the administration's
announcement on the restructur-
ing of the automotive industry
imminent, it would be inappropri-
ate to comment on speculation,"
Morgan said in a statement early
Monday morning.
For GM, the administration
offered 60 days of operating money
to restructure. A frantic top-to-
bottom effort began Sunday after

CEO Rick Wagoner resigned under
pressure from the White House.
Fritz Henderson, GM's presi-
dent and chief operating officer,
became the new CEO, a Treasury
Department source said. Board
member Kent Kresa, the former
chairman and CEO of defense con-
tractor Northrop Grumman Corp.,
will be interim chairman of the GM
board.
One official said a majority of
the GM board was expected to step
down.
Obama advisers saw public out-
rage come to an ugly head in recent
weeks, as populist anger escalated
over bonuses paid to American
International Group executives.
They realized Americans are frus-
trated with the economy and its
business leaders; they also said
they would not invest one dollar
more than was necessary to keep
the companies alive and would
walk away if it looked impossible.
Officials said GM had not
made good on promises made in
exchange for $13.4 billion in gov-
ernment loans, although there are
no plans to call in those loans.
Administration officials still
believe GM's chances are good,
given its global brand and its
research potential. Officials say
they are confident GM can put
together a plan that will keep pro-
duction lines moving in the com-
ing years.

U.S. says testing
would violate U.N.
security resolution
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -
North Korea's plans to launch a
rocket as early as this week in defi-
ance of warnings threatens to undo
years of fitful negotiations toward
dismantling the regime's nuclear
program.
The U.S., South Korea and Japan
have told the North that any rocket
launch - whether it's a satellite or a
long-range missile - would violate
a 2006 U.N. Security Council Reso-
lution prohibiting Pyongyang from
any ballistic activity, and could
draw sanctions.
NorthKoreasaidsanctionswould
violate the spirit of disarmament
agreements, and said it would treat
the pactsas null and void if punished
for exercising its sovereign right to
send a satellite into space.
"Even a single word critical of the
launch" from the Security Council
will be regarded as a "blatant hos-
tile act," a spokesman with North
Korea's foreign ministry said Thurs-
day, according the North's state-run
Korean Central News Agency. "All
the processes for the denucleariza-
tion of the Korean Peninsula, which
have been pushed forward so far,
will be brought back to what used to
be before their start and necessary

strongmeasures willbe taken."
That would be a sharp reversal
from June 2008 when the North
made a promising move toward
disarmament, dramatically blow-
ing up a cooling reactor at its main
Yongbyon nuclear complex.
But the regime routinely back-
tracks on agreements, refuses to
abide by international rules and
wields its nuclear program like a
weapon when it needs to win con-
cessions from Washingtonor Seoul,
analysts say.
"History has shown them that
the more provocative they are, the
more attention they get. The more
attention they get, the more they're
offered," Peter M. Beck, a Kore-
an affairs expert who teaches at
American University in Washing-
ton and Yonsei University in Seoul,
said Sunday.
Despite years of negotiations and
impoverished North Korea's grow-
ing need for outside help, it's clear
the talkshave done little to curb the
regime's drive to build - and sell -
its atomic arsenal, experts say.
"Ifthis is Kim JongIl's welcoming
present to a new president, launch-
ing a missile like this and threaten-
ing to have a nuclear test, I think it
says a lot about the imperviousness
of this regime in North Korea to
any kind of diplomatic overtures,"
Defense Secretary Robert Gates
said in an interview broadcast on
"Fox News Sunday."



1- 77777771


4A - Monday, March 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

cJ1Ie Iidiigan waily


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Zoning should start to look up
State development plan should account for residents' needs
Though the acronym "A2D2" sounds more like a rip-off of a
certain Star Wars robot, it's actually a proposal to regulate
city buildings. A2D2 means Ann Arbor Discovering Down-
town, a development and zoning plan currently working its way
through City Council after several years of discussion in the Ann
Arbor Planning Commission. The A2D2 plan includes a slew of sug-
gested regulations, but two proposals stand out as especially note-
worthy. For students, the proposals will affect the housing market
in Ann Arbor and determine city rules regarding environmentally
sensible buildings. As City Council and Ann Arbor residents discuss
the A2D2 plan, they should include proposals that support an envi-
ronmentally friendly, socio-economically diverse city.

Last Monday, the Ann Arbor City Council
held an open meetingto hear public feedback
on A2D2. This was just the first in a series of
City Council meetings that will determine
the final version of the plan. A2D2 aims to
divide Ann Arbor into two zones - the core
and the interface, which would each be sub-
ject to different rules. Some of the issues
addressed in A2D2 are parking limitations,
use guidelines and flood mitigation plans,
but the two most intensely discussed issues
are height caps and environmental regula-
tions for buildings.
Much of the argument seems to center on
how high the cap should be. City residents
often argue that height caps protect Ann
Arbor's aesthetic quality. But this argument
doesn't hold up against the pressing need to
expand the city - and building "up" is the
most reasonable practice. Taller buildings
are the best way to combat urban sprawl,
preventing further stratification of socio-
economic classes. When downtown hous-
ing is limited, it becomes more expensive.
Those who can't afford to live downtown
get pushed to the outskirts of the city.
For students, taller buildings mean more
affordable housing options closer to cam-
pus and the heart of the city. Housing prices
decrease as more options become available.
Havingclose, dense housing available in the
downtown and campus areas at reasonable
prices allow students and Ann Arbor resi-

dents to live closer together, encouraging
the diverse atmosphere on which the Uni-
versity prides itself. Because of these obvi-
ous benefits, City Council should not give
in to the demands to implement restric-
tive height caps. Instead, the debate should
focus on where to draw the lines that sepa-
rate the two zones.
Another important aspect of the A2D2
plan involves creating incentives for build-
ers to make their projects eco-friendly. Cur-
rently, A2D2 requires buildings to include
environmentally sound features approved
by the U.S. Green Building Council's Lead-
ership in Energy and Environmental Design
program for them to receive certain insur-
ance premiums. Students at the University
- and residents of Ann Arbor - are dedi-
cated to an environmentally friendly city.
This regulation will ensure that businesses
are making environmental responsibility a
top priority, too. Creating environmentally
friendly buildings should be among City
Council's top priorities.
City Council must stick to the guiding
principle of fostering a socio-economical-
ly diverse and environmentally friendly
downtown to make A2D2 a fitting plan for
the city. While provisions like the envi-
ronmental incentives will be good for the
city, City Council should adjust its atti-
tude toward height caps before approving
A2D2.

The U.S. auto industry has to emerge much more
lean, mean and competitive than it already is."
- President Barack Obama, commenting on the auto industry's
financial situation, as reported yesterday by Reuters.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI IUT T A E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
So whts yor soltion Yeah>haI'a whtelIdthoght C
Hih roes are destroyingithe podaffrde Someone has as aeon
image of A nArbor' This is student hous ngthat makes econoc and
Tree Town, not Skyscraper enronmenaleas f
yTow ULL, tha ~1.L1 ~peaoetamgJense
Townu.. wl. ad you wryabtan
SL4L
The Bing exception
D uring my time at the Daily, they instill the right values or simply ly before entering the mayoral race),
I've noticed that any editorial seek to create workers for the boss's or whether his misstatements about
concerning the city of Detroit assembly lines? We balanced that when he got his college degree matter
draws an unusual danger with the immediate needs of more thanthe fact thathe actuallygot
amount of ire from schoolchildren and chose to support one (and then did enough in his life to
our readers. Appar- that particular charter school initia- warrant two honorary degrees), an
ently, much of this tive. The deciding factor was the man important consideration seems lost
campus sees the behind the plan: Dave Bing. in the madness: Bing is unquestion-
Daily's editorial Bing has brought the right sort of ably the most promising candidate
voice as a product attention to Detroit all his life. Still for a city that needs promise.
of suburban opu- best known for his time as an all-star
lence that has no guard for the Detroit Pistons, Bing
business comment- IMRAN played for Detroit in a particularly
ing condescend- tryingtime period - the aftermath of W hen it comes to
ingly on Detroit's SYED 1967's 12th Street Riot. In an era that
broken schools or heralded the end of Detroit's days as Detroit Dave Bing
particularly juicy a flourishing American metropolis,
political scandals. Bing won not only scoring titles but means business.
But there is one example of an edi- also respect for the city when it most
torial on this page praising a new ini- needed it.
tiative in the city that has stuck in my Upon retirement from basketball,
mind for four years. As the man who Bing did what most modern athletes I understand why the aforemen-
was the driving force behind that ini- would certainly chafe at - he settled tioned distractions manage to draw
tiative comes back into the news, I down in the city he had played for scrutiny from voters. It wasn't so
wonder just how much he can do. and started a new career. The prod- long ago that I found myself sick to
In the fall of 2005, the Daily edi- uct of that - The Bing Group, which my stomach every time I saw Mitt
torial board broke with longstanding is a group of manufacturing compa- Romney on TV citing his business
precedent to come out in support of a nies that employs hundreds of union- moxie as a qualification for the presi-
plan for 15 charter schools to be built ized employees in Detroit - is almost dency - or worse, touting himself as
in Detroit (A plan worth following, as impressive as Bing's basketball a son of Michigan. Bing faces a simi-
09/13/2005). Overcoming our gen- achievements. lar stigma, which may explain why
eral concern about charter schools And now Bing wants to be the unions have thus far refused to back
taking away students and resources mayor of Detroit. The first-place him (and why he drew the endorse-
from the public system, the editorial finisher in the primary election last ment of the generally conservative
board argued that Detroit's students month, Bing will tip off against inter- Detroit News before the primary).
shouldn't have to wait for the mas- im incumbent Ken Cockrel Jr. on May Butuwhile we may rightlybe skepti-
sive, failing public school system to 5. Having followed the campaign rel- cal of businessmen moving into poli-
correct itself. atively closely, I think it's clear just tics or of apparent carpetbaggers in
We recognized, of course, the how much Bing can do: As much as general, it's time for Detroit's voters
danger of allowing too many rich we let him. Unfortunately, that might to make an exception for Bing - just
businessmen to offer flashy pri- be the problem. like this page did four years ago.
vate alternatives. Schools that are As Detroiters debate whether Bing
the product of the ego and wallet of is a carpetbagger (he most recently - Imran Syed was the Daily's
expectant barons may have adequate lived in the suburb of Franklin before editorial page editor in 2007. He can
facilities and resources, but would moving into a condo in Detroit short- be reached at galad@umich.edu.
IRWIN GOLDSTEIN I EW I
Remembering 'U' activism

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Cooperation is essential for
environmentalism
TO THE DAILY:
In a recent letter to the editor (Earth
Hour exemplifies anti-progressive principles,
03/27/2009), Victoria Miller opposes turning
off the lights for an hour to help the Earth. She
asked the readers to consider that "by flipping
that switch, you endorse the movement for
man to withdraw, to stop changing the envi-
ronment, and to exist in a primitive, 'natural'
state."
Victoria, with six billion people now on the
planet, humans are not about to withdraw even
if we all turned every light off for a week. Also,
please remember that manmade changes include
JASON MAHAKIAN

the release of deadly toxins, the clear cutting
of forests, the extinction of animals and the
destruction brought by climate change. There
is a balance, and all the wonderful conveniences
you gush about won't mean as much if you come
down with cancer, if you can't find food or if your
house is destroyed by a tornado in January.
The Earth is out of balance because of people.
All ofushave aresponsibility, like itornot,tohelp
restore the Earth and slow, destructive, man-
made changes that are mostly due to technology.
The conveniences that some worry will be taken
awayby"tree-huggers" will be meaningless if we
don't work together toward the same common
goals: good health, a happy life and prosperity.
Yes, Victoria, there is cooperation.
Jacques Mersereau
Library staff
E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU

oA No. WHATA E
W UF9FEt, To /
r0Now 7
9 -7
I,
\ /
1 '1 -

Forty-four years ago this spring, President Lyndon
Johnson ordered the United States military to bomb
North Vietnam, initiating full-scale war. While the war
in Iraq is different in several key respects, the parallels
with the Vietnam War are striking. Both were thought
to be justified and winnable in a brief period, yet both
proved bitterly costly in lives, money and America's
moral standing - and both times, we have found our-
selves mired in a conflict with no clear end.
There's another way in which the wars are the same.
In both instances, there have been protests at the Uni-
versity, though these were more widespread and intense
for the Vietnam War. In March of 1965, three months
after I came to the University, Michigan held the nation's
first teach-in against the war. Instead of classes, profes-
sors and students planned to hold lectures and discus-
sions. Initially, 45 faculty members were involved, but
the number quickly grew to 200, bolstered by huge stu-
dent interest.
Governor George Romney and the Michigan State
Senate were furious about our activities. After a lot of
back-and-forth, we decided to hold the teach-in after
classes were done for the day. We used Hill Auditorium
and Angell Hall, and over 3,000 people debated and
discussed the war through the night and into the next
morning. At the time, it was one of the largest demon-
strations in the University's history.
As part of the teach-in, I spoke to a packed Hill Audi-
torium. There were students squeezed into the aisles and
anti-war chants shook the huge hall. As a biochemist, I
talked about the dangers of chemical and biological war-
fare being practiced by the Pentagon in Vietnam. Our
military was using nerve gas, agents that caused terrible
burns and blisters, and other chemical weapons against
the North Vietnamese. Never before, I told the crowd,
had chemicals been used to destroy crops, and not since
1936 had gas been deployed against military personnel
on such a large scale. Fearing that the University might
somehow be involved in what was happening,. I called
for an end to all secret and classified research here.
The next day, as we headed home from the success-
ful teach-in, we felt we had reached a broad consensus:
the war in Vietnam was unwinnable and represented a
new arrogance and aggression on the part of the United
States government. We drew the attention of schools
across the country, and Berkeley followed suit with a
teach-in that drew an astonishing 30,000 people.
Activism on our campus only grew. On the Diag, we

held a huge protest against. Dow Chemical, which was
responsible for chemical defoliants used by American
military aircraft to blanket fields in North Vietnam. In
all, the U.S. dumped about 12 million gallons of these
deadly herbicides on enemy territory, causing terrible
harm not just to the environment, but to countless civil-
ians. Our government used these agents because we
were one of the only major countries that had refused to
ratify the Geneva Protocol against chemical and biologi-
cal warfare.
A few months after, I came up with the idea for a peace
button to raise funds for the protest movement. An art- 4
ist friend and I worked out the design of a peace symbol
wreathed in holly. I sold the buttons on the Diag for 25
cents. They were gone in an hour. I ordered thousands
more and wherever I went in Ann Arbor - from the med-
ical campus to the farmer's market - I sold the buttons,
and I never seemed to have enough. We made posters
with the same symbol, which local shops and churches
put in their windows.
Protest against the war reached an even greater level
with the colossal New York City demonstration, and the
funds gained from button sales were used to pay railroad
fare for dozens of us to go to Manhattan. The current
site of the Gandy Dancer restaurant was the train sta-
tion at that time, and students, professors and towns-
people took over the whole place. We rode the New York
Central Railroad train via Canada, and the atmosphere
on the train was electric. In New York City, hundreds
of thousands of us marched, arms locked in a symbol of
unity, along with famous protestors from novelist Nor-
man Mailer to Dr. Benjamin Spock.
The Vietnam War was vastly unpopular by the sec-
ond term of the Nixon administration, and we finally
pulled out in 1975. How President Obama handles the
complex situation in Iraq remains uncertain, though he
still seems dedicated to the change he promised - and
I hope we will remain dedicated to holding him to this
promise. The University has a long and proud heritage
of standing up and dissenting when our political leaders
go astray. As is our constitutional right, we assemble and
speak freely, we criticize our leaders and we demand
change. And now that we have stood up and called for a
new direction in Iraq, let us be vigilant in ensuring that
our new president takes us there.
Irwin Goldstein is a professor
emeritus of biological chemistry.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 30, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, March 30, 2009 - 5A

Selling celebrity
with ShamWow

In this country, you can show
someone on the streeta picture
of an important political figure
- let's say Vice President Joe Biden
- and there's a
decent chance the
person won't be
able to name that
political figure or
say what he or she >
does. But show that
sameAmerican JHE
civilian a picture BLOCK
of Matthew Lesko,
more commonly known as "that guy in
the question-mark suit," and, though
the person may notbe able to tell you
Lesko's name, the person will at least
be able to tell you that the question-
marked man can offer the secrets to
obtaining free money.
It's a sad truth that people know
more about celebrities than politicians.
It's an even sadder truth that info-
mercial hosts have joined the ranks of
other celebrities. Or at least I used to
think it was sad.
Matthew Lesko has written far
too many books, including at least
six whose titles begin with the words
"Free Money." Billy Mays has sold
everything from Lint-B-Gones and
Bedazzlers to ESPN's online coverage
r with his loud, in-your-face demeanor
and signature "Billy Mays here" intro.
Vince Shlomi (known in his infomer-
cials as "Vince Offer") is so universally
known for his ShamWow informercial
that a Wikipedia search for "Sham-
Wow" links directly to Shlomi's Wiki-
pedia profile.
When I first realized these "accom-
plishments" are more successful ways
to build celebrity than acting in an
indie film or performing in a Broadway
show, I was understandably pissed.
Even the most commodified pop stars
have some semblance of talent that
made them famous. What right do
Lesko, Mays and Shlomi have to be
household names compared to true
talents and personal favorites like Gael
Garcia Bernal ("The Science of Sleep")
or Michael Cerveris (who played the
titular role in the 2005 Broadway
revival of "Sweeney Todd")? But then
I came to realize they have the same
right to fame as anyone else.
Sure, infomercials may be incred-
ibly annoying, but that doesn't mean no
semblance of skill is required to pro-
duce them and make them successful.
Also, when you think about how many
infomercials exist, it's remarkable
some stand out above the others. Yet
Shlomi, Lesko, Mays and perhaps some
of the home-gym sellers (I'm looking
at you here, John Basedow) have done
just that. And they are now the famous
few among the commercial crowd.
Now, these wizards of sales could
never have built their star power with-
out setting themselves apart from the
rest. Lesko's high energy is engaging,
and his signature suit was one of the
most effective advertising ideas in the
entire infomercial world. Mays is just
a powerhouse, full of great product

ideas and capable of selling anything
with contagious enthusiasm. Relative
newcomer Shlomi has a youthful exu-
berance that makes his products seem
like must-haves for a new generation of
go-getters.
So it turns out these guys might
actually have talent after all. But now
that they have their celebrity status,
they need to make sure they live up to
its standards of scandal and question-
able moral decisions. Luckily for us,
they haven't disappointed.
Let's start with The Riddler-
wannabe Lesko, who has had a rough
relationship with both famous news-
papers and our nation's government,
as detailed in his Wikipedia page. In a
2007 Washington Post article, Lesko
admitted to plagiarizing his books
from the federal guidelines regard-
ing grants and loans, and he has been
criticized by The New York Times for
claimingto still be a part of the paper
despite the fact that he stopped writ-
ing his column in 1994. Also, in 2005,
Emmy-winning writer Bernard Gold-
berg "honored" Lesko by including
him in his book "100 People Who Are
Billy Mays has
real star power.
Screwing Up America."
Mays and Shlomi aren't unfamil-
iar with creating drama within the
infomercial community either. After
Shlomi's rise to ShamWow fame, Mays
called him out in a radio interview on
Feb. 10, claiming that Shlomi's product
was a clear knock-off of Mays's own
Zorbeez towel product. Mays went so
far as to say, "Billy Mays doesn't take
this" and "I am the ultimate pitch-
man."
Also, Shlomi assaulted a prostitute.
Really. Look it up. It just happened.
So it turns out infomercial celebri-
ties are no different than any other.
While celebs steal significant others
from each other, infomercial salesman
steal product ideas. While movie stars
get arrested for violating the law, Lesko
gets in trouble for plagiarizingthe
law and selling it as a book. And while
pop stars maybe loud and belligerent,
Mays's voice and Lesko's bright suit are
louder than all the celebrity singers in
this country combined.
So tobringthis all full circle, I have
two pieces of wisdom. First of all, don't
be as quick as I was to criticize infor-
mercial hosts - they've truly worked
their way to the top. Second of all, if
any of you are thinking about running
for elected office some day, start wear-
ing a crazily punctuated suit. It sucks
that it has come to this, but it might
just be the only way to get people to
pay attention to politics.
Block needs a ShamWow to clean
his bathroom. E-mail him atjamblock@
umich.edu if you have one to lend.

It doesn't matter where you live, Dhani Jones will grab your balls.

Globe"-trotting gaffe

University alum Dhani
Jones is a better
linebacker than a TV host
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily Arts Writer
The student body at the University of
Michigan is comprised
of the "leaders and best," *-
and alum Dhani Jones
is no exception. Jones Dhani Tackles
helped the Wolverines the Globe
win a football national
championship in 1998, Mondays
and he is currently a line- at 9 p.m.
backer on the Cincinnati Travel Channel
Bengals. Though Jones
has achieved a lot in his football career, his

career asa TV host needs alot of work.
In his show, "Dhani Tackles the Globe,"
Jones goes to a foreign countryto experience
the culture and food and, of course, to check
out the local sports. One episode sends Jones
to Switzerland to learn about the country's
national sport: schwingen. Thoughthe Swiss
assure Jones that schwingen is an intellec-
tual and strategic sport, it's really nothing
more than wrestling in sawdust - the only
catch being that players aren't allowed to
let go of their opponent's pants. Throughout
the episode, Jones trains, immerses himself
in Swiss culture and eventually flaunts his
skills in a schwingen tournament.
Because all of Travel Channel's program-
ming is very similar, "Dhani Tackles the
Globe" stands out among the monotony. It's
a smart move for a travel show to use sports
as its grabbing gimmick. It's also a welcome
change of pace. Travel aficionados and sports

enthusiasts alike can enjoy the culture and
history exhibited in obscure sports from
around the world.
Though a show like "Dhani Tackles the
Globe" is a clever way to attract a broad
audience, Dhani Jones might not have
been the best choice for a host. He has no
idea how to conduct an interview, even an
informal one. Whenever the conversation
lagged, Jones reverted back to one question:
"Will this help me with my schwingen?" He
was always answered with a blank stare,
which he attributed to a language barrier.
But clearly, the answer meant "how would
milking cows / playing an alphorn / eating
fondu / yodeling / wearing traditional Swiss
attire / making meringue help you with your
schwingen?" Jones really needs to work on
his casual conversation skills.
After playing in many high-pressure
See DHANI, Page 8A

'Gomorrah' reveals Italy's crime culture

By TIMOTHY RABB
Daily Arts Writer
Every day, citizens of cor-
rupted areas of the world are
forced to live in
environments
where no
event, regard- Gomorrah
less of its emo-
tional impact, At the State
has any moral Fandango-IFC
justification
whatsoever.
This universe is presented in a
startling observational format in
"Gomorra," a riveting multiple-
character study that reveals the
extent to which wanton crimi-
nality is ignoredby an indifferent
and ethically bankrupt society.

The docudrama is set in the
Campania region in Italy, one
of the few remaining strong-
holds of the sinister real-world
crime organization known as
the Camorra. The organization
resembles the Sicilian "Cosa
Nostra" (the Mafia) in the nature
of its illegal operations, but dif-
fers in its hierarchy. Rather than
consisting of a tightly knit, ver-
tically structured family, the
Camorra is divided horizon-
tally into more than 100 loosely
connected factions that vie for
control of the Campania
region.
The deep-seated ten-
sion bred between these
clans often erupts in vio-
lence that bears an inesti-

mable toll on the economic and dairy farming, waste disposal

cultura
ty. Add
Un
run reg
oversig
tracted

1 climate of the communi- and clothing manufacturing -
itionally, since Camorra- are executed exclusively by the
Camorra. The inefficiency with
which the Camorra performs
these duties has resulted in dra-
istructured matically increased pollution
r , and death rates in every region
et riveting. in which they have influence.
The screenplay of "Gomorra"
is unstructured, consisting offive
different narratives that follow
ions have no government the lives of individuals related
ht, many privately con- to the Camorra. After the film's
professions - including See GOMORRAH, Page 8A


I

The UM administration has disregarded its agreement
with the Lecturers' Employee Organization.
They moved money around to deny Lecturers the raises they negotiated.
Come support LEO and good faith financial practices at UM
Rock&RaI y&Mag!c
Thursday, April 2; 12noon in Fleming Plaza by the ube
FUBAR, jugglers, sleight-of-hand artists, teach-in!
How can I show my support? Show up to the Rally!
Go to the LEO website, www.leounion.org, where you can find more information
& send an email to the Provost asking her to give LEO their negotiated raises.
Lecturers' Employee Organization, AFT Michigan Local 6244, AFL-CIO


6

6A-Monday, March 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

0

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
72t S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent / 4
! 4 ELEVEN Lofts will buy you FREE
LUNCH ! First 10 new visitors daily,
weekdays 12-3pm. THIS WEEK
ONLY. U-M students only, no pur-
chase or obligation. 400 E Washington.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room andmuch more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
Aartments Available

Houses Available
for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton PI. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
324 Church $2,995
1300 Broadway $2400

www.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-56201
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
1 bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Church St. Across from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furmished or
unfurnished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$0 SECURITY DEPOSIT on remain-
ing spaces at 4 Eleven Lofts -
734.998.4400 4elevenlofts.com
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. I
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
RELEASE DATE- Monday, March 30, 20
Los Angeles Times DE
Edited by Rich Norris a
ACROSS 2 Civil uprising
1 Olfactory 3 Nebraska tribe
enticement 4 Cooing sound
6 Fashion show 5 Mo. wlen 1040s
strutter are due
11 Chugalug's 6 Ado About
opposite Nothing'
14 6-Down- 7 Labor Dept. arm
strengthening 8 Sweetheart
exercise 9 Grocerytrip, say
15 Online surfers, 10 Leary's turn-on
e.g. 11 Church garb
16 Cyberaddress, 12 Flawed, as sale
briefly mdse.
17 Franklin's 13 Hangar
almanac-writing occupant
alter ego 18 Hawkeyes,
19"Right to bear statewise
arms"gp. 22 Clamorous
20 Flower holder 24 Sashi tuna
21ScrlettoTara 26"Dancing with the
22 Port in Yemen Stars" network
23 Detroit labor org. 27 Broadway
25 Furious disaster
27 Young, promising 28 On _ with: equal
fellow to
32 Hosp. staffer 29 Blendstogether
331t/2 ofafoot into awhole
34 Conspiring band 30 "Bleah!"
37 Solemnvow 31Valerie Harper
39 Woman's golf sitcom
garment 35"PuppyLove"
42 Nevada city singer Paul
43 Before surg. 1 2 3 4
45 Consider
47 Enjoy Aspen 14
48 Beneficent
biblical traveler 1
52 Cocktail maker 7-
54 Actor Affleck
55 "__ brillig, and the 23 24
slithy.: Carroll
56 Beautifaulr 27 2 329
Bologna 32 33
59 Business garb
63 Dine 37 3
64 F. Scott
Fitzgerald title 43
character, with 4e
66 "You - here" 62 83
67 Paris Hilton's
sister 55
68 Nigerianeighbor
69 Hosp. VIPs 6
70 Theater employwe 7
71 Garden shovel
DOWN
1 Nile snakes By Donna S. Levin

Offering a $500.00 *B SCHOOL STUDENTS!*
917 Packard: Huge 2 bedrooms, great
gift card to a store of balconies or patios, heat, water, furnish-
ings and parking included, quiet study
your choice with every environment, ALL FOR A GREAT
signed lease of these PRICE! www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
available houses!!
*MAY- MAY 2 bedroom*
331 Packard: Sunny apt. on the top
floor of a converted house, large eat-in
0 rkitchen w/ dishwasher, laundry and
663-8989 parking on site.
www.varsitymanagemet.com
(734) 668-1100
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
$$REDUCED RATES$$ sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
Remodeled 2 Bedroom washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
909 Church Street bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
Great Location storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
Great for 4 people! parking revenue can offset rent/utii-
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables, ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
Free Internet, Heat & Water, EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
and parking included!
Hurry....Only 3 left ! 3 BDRM, 1 bath, updated, 1 car
734-761-8000 garage, walk to campus, 734-649-7571.
primesbcom
***LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. avail Studio & 1
for Fall. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam- + drm. Uits
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com Tower Plaza Condominium
Qut & Scm fh se - One dock fomCampus
*2 BEDROOMS - Great campus lo- C r.anTic
cations* 1001 S. Forest, 526 & 917 734-663-1530
Packard, 848 Tappan, 515 & 521 Wal-
nut. All furnished and include heat, wa-
ter, and parking, some with free wire- 3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
less! www.varsitymanagement.com Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
(734) 668-1100 09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
*3 BEDROOM APTS* 325 E JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine: month or $499.00 per person for you
Fully furnished, parking, large bed- and 7 of your closestfrieods! Tse tiv-
rooms great toshare. ing room is HUGE and features a built
www.varsitymanagement.com in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
(734) 668-1100 Management 734-995-9200
*6-BEDROOM HOUSE* www.wisonwhitemanagement.com
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full 4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
baths, great for 6 -8 people. Kerry- plex. 2 bath, A/C, dry, prkg, fireplace,
town! Close to Downtown, hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Zingerman's & summer farm market! Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100 401 EAST MADISON - 1 bedroomss
available May for $625-845 per month.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & Close to the Business and Law
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C, Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735. Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
5 BDRM., 1111 Prospect, 2 blocks
aily Crossword Puzzle from UM Business School. $2,000/mo.,
Y ~Sept-Apt or SepLSept. Large be-
nd Joyce Nichols Lewis rooms, of'street parking, free
36 Pork cut 52 Second-string washer/dryer Cll 614-395-8104.
38 Fish catchers squad 5 BDRM./2 bath. attractive house.
40 Dream state 53 Emmy or Oscar Close to central campus and stadium.
acronym 57 Tahe, faone
41 Pekoe packet 5H Astrnomil $2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
44"The Raven" distance meas. 611 CHURCH - Need to et a room'?
peel 60 Annapolis inst C - g
46 Desert Storm 61 Fotnote abbr $800 a month fully furnished including
chow, initially 62 Dalyof"Cagney heat, water, and electric. Wilson
49 Rubbish & Lacey" White Management 734-995-9200
50 Oration 64 Wildebeest www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
51 Arched foot part 65 Tummy muscles
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only 1
A S P L A N N E D W A S A T my. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
S T R I N G O U T H I E R o $3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
K E E P Y O U R S H I R T O N
E R S A R N O E R M I N E 7 BDRM. FALL '09.510 Catherine.
 I T N A only 1 n sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
IRR NOR NEC A/C, 4prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
E Y E O P E N E R S L A B $3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
D O N T M A K E M E L A U G H
O R C R E D A s A B E E T AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
E E L T R I S G E M BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
O O H S D A R K Call today 741-9657.
I H A V E N T G O T A C L U E AVAIL. SEPT. '09, $4,300, large 6
L U N E S W A T E R L I N E bedroom, 3 bath. house very close to
T H E R E I R O N M I N E S Diag. Central air, laundry, 4 nearby
xwordedttor@aol.com 03/30t9 parking spots, hdwd. floors, large bed-
6 a e '10 11 12 13 rooms. michaelbielby icomcast.net
21 22w
2s 26
34 35 36
s 41 42
9 soS1
64
{ a' sl Y1s E .1-2. r
sr 6

816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May 09to August e 09ton
$1200/month and September 09 to Au-
gust '10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wison White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsowhitemanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom,
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are acively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people eachgweek. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathon traviso)lsbcglobal.net
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedrootm house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michconreaty.com for details.
EHO.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management 01 734-995-9200.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail, in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.catmpusrealty.com
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
0,,,cthe 0 04,
'Ow ed and Ot
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms

Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
WWw.ann rbOrapatmenl0BeI
OF Visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
March 31st. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
GRADUATE STUDENT? 418 E.
Washington studios and oneabedrooms
available. Close to Main St. and central
campus, modern, quiet, many updated
kitchens. Visit
www.varsityanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 5. Slate, Near UM has stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heal & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., dry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
1 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
$450-$650
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
MAY-AUGUST SUBLEASE. 4
rooms available. Kingsley and State.
Call (248) 910-2286.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
WE HAVE ALLyour housing needs
from studios tof6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
ANN ARBOR
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.

WilsonWhite
I MINAGEMEUN
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO.
New teduced talon available
May and Pall 2000 availabiliy
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
I will waive the application fee and reduce
I security deposittoone month's rent
I 616Church Street
734-995-9200
Swww.wilIsonwhitemanagement.cmt
looms, nt/ins, an i-In 8-he/so
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344S. Division
0 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
S1t E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment .
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT and Campus
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms, avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM. duplex. 1114
Prospect. Modern kitch., central A/C.
Free ldry. $2650+ util. avail. May. 734-
665-2723. shahtiger@hotmail.com
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postreatyprperties.com
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
GREAT SUMMER SUBLET; 710
Catherine St. $350/mo. 269-569-2707.
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 5. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H2O/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. esesb@umich.edu
ONE BDRM. SUMMER sublet. Close

walk to Blue Lep and Charleys. Free
Prkg. & [dry. Big kitch. w/ two fridges.
Front porch. Brand New! Fully fur-
nished. Call Jeff at 802-318-7028.
Classifieds
continued on
the next page
6= 60 0;

0

I

4

0

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one businessday prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for the first issue and $1.75 per lineefor each additional
consecutiveivssue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- contact ourstaff for details
" Students mayreceive a 20% discountmwhen ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless priorbilling privileges have been established
* We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives

4


News

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 30, 2009 = 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, March 30, 2009 - 7A

"What a bitterweec achieve-
BIRTHRIGHT ment," Mark wrote. "We are aking
From Page 1A as many participants this year as
could ever be expected inthis econ-
li government,. aims to strengthen omy, but we're also at risk of leaving
Jewish identity and bridge the gap behind more than ever before. It's
between Israel and the rest of the an extraordinary challenge."
Jewish world by providing young LSA freshman Sabrina Tharani
JewishadultswithafreeO1-daytrip also applied for Taglit-Birthright
to Israel, according to the Taglit- Israel trip through Mayanot's
Birthright Israel website. Michigan program, but was placed
During the past two summers, on the waitlist. She said she wor-
the program brought a combined ries that she now won't be able to
total of about 50,000 people from go Israel, something she said she
colleges across the country and always wanted to do.
around the world to Israel for the "I knw it's a wonderful experi-
trip, or about 25,000 per summer. ence and you come back a changed
This summer, the number has been person," she said. "With the suffer-
reduced to 8,000, Sheren said. ing economy, I don't think I'll get
A spokesperson for Taglit-Birth- another chance to go."
right Israel, who wished to remain Therani said she wants to apply
anonymous because she is not per- again next year, but worries she won't
mitted to speak to the press on the have the same amount of free time.
subject, said she attributed the cur- "It's harder, going into junior
rent decline in trip availability to a year you need to startworking," she
considerable spike in both funding said. "I don't know if I'll have the
and participation during 2007 and availability next year, but I'm defi-
2008, the years corresponding to nitely going to apply."
Israel's 60th anniversary. To meet the increased demand
She added Bernard Madoff's for the trip and to compensate for
Ponzischeme, whichaffected many the decline in available spots, the
Jewish charities and organizations Birthright Israel Foundation has
that invested with his companyhad expanded its fundraising efforts
no effect on the program's finances through a new campaign.
or the availability for participation. The core of the new campaign
Kapnick said she will reapply rests with the Adelson Family Foun-
nextyear, but worries the organiza- dation, a Jewish philanthropic foun-
tion will run into the same problem dation, which has pledged to match'
again next year due to the worsen- and double the funds raised in 2009,
ing economy. She said her worries up to a maximum of $20 million.
are driven by the fact that she and Sheren said she thinks the pro-
six friends applied to go on the trip gram will continue to offer at least
together, but that not one of her 8,000 students the chance to travel
friends was accepted. to Israel in future years, despite the
While the availability of spots state of the economy.
on the trip is in decline, there is an "Although the 8,000 spots is a
overflow of eligible candidates to reduction from the past, it is the
fill them. approximate number Taglit-Birth-
According to a Birthright Israel right Israel would like to maintain,
Foundation press release earlier regardless of the economy," she
this month, demand for the trip has wrote in the e-mail interview.
doubled from previous years, with Michael Kaplan, an LSA junior
more than 35,000 people vying for who participated in Birthright in
the 8,000 spots. May 2007, said the fact that the trip
Registration for the trip was was free drew him in.
open for just nine days, the shortest "I found most of the students on
. registration period in the program's my trip were pretty unreligious,
history, accordingto the release. as am I, and ordinarily taking an
Gidi Mark, a spokesperson for expensive trip to Israel would not
Taglit-Birthright Israel, wrote in a be something I would strongly con-
press release that the organization sider, especially with the economy
was funding as many trips as pos- the wayitis," he wrote inane-mail.
sible, but he expressed regret that it "Beingthat it is paid for, it suddenly
could not fund more. becomes completely worth it."
who is the executive director of
DP DAY Detroit Partnership, has been part
From Page 1A of the organization for four years.
This year's DP Day, she said,
their desire to connect more with saw an increase in community
the city of Detroit, which cannot be involvement, something the orga-
done while sitting in a classroom. nization has been focusing on in
"You don't get a sense of Detroit recent years.
while you're in Ann Arbor," he But Fotieo said one of the pri-
said. "Coming to help out here is mary goals of DP Day, besides the
' just one small piece of the puzzle." city cleanup, is establishing a con-
At the end of the day, students nection with the city.
rallied at Stoepel Park in Detroit to "I think that maybe what the
celebrate the day's work and listen bigger impact is, is connecting
to speakers from the city, includ- people to the city," she said. "You
ing Detroit Mayor Ken Cockrel. can't make long-lasting changes
Education senior Ashley Fotieo, with just one day's work."
the michigan daily

Museum of Art opens to the public

24-hour grand
reopening event well
received by visitors
By JOHN A. WEISS, JR.
Daily StaffReporter
The University of Michigan
Museum of Art welcomed the
general public back into Alumni
Memorial Hall Saturday evening
after nearly three years.
UMMA, now sporting a newly
added wing and a refurbished inte-
rior, had its official 24-hour long
grand reopening for the public this
weekend. The museum had been
closed while it underwent nearly
$42 million worth of construction
and renovations.
A crowd of around 400 students
and community members were
waiting outside when James Stew-
ard, the director of the Museum of
Art, officially opened the doors.
"Let's declare the art museum
open, and let's go in," he said, tell-
ing the crowd the museum already
had 7,000 visitors during its
"dynamic opening week."
More than doubling the size of
the original building, the $41.9 mil-
lion Maxine and Stuart Frankel
and the Frankel Family Wing is a
53,000-square-foot expansion of
the original facilities.
The new wing, with its glass-
oriented design drawn by architect
Brad Cloepfil and his company,
Allied Works Architectureis meant
to complementthe Beaux-Artsstyle
of Alumni Hall, which was erected
in 1910 as a memorial for University
veterans of 19th-century wars and
to add lecture halls, meeting rooms
and space for the Alumni Associa-
tion headquarters. While helping

house its 18,000-piece collection,
the museum addition increases the
number of galleries, study rooms,
state-of-the-art conservation and
art storage facilities, a 225-seat
auditorium and classrooms and
event spaces, along with a new
research center, expanded museum
store and a Wi-Fi accessible cafe.
The museum also has expanded
public programming, offering more
events in performing arts, spoken
word, film and art making.
"I think we pretty much rein-
vented ourselves," Steward said in a
phone interview after the opening.
Steward said the 24-hour opening
was intended to draw different com-
munities on campusto the museum.
"We're really happy to see so
many peoplehere,"he said."It seems
to be a pretty diverse crowd."
Many events and attractions
were scheduled during the week-
end to celebrate the museum's
opening. Multiple University and
community choirs, dance troupes
and musical groups performed.
There were also yoga sessions, fit-
ness consultations, poetry read-
ings, a scavenger hunt for kids and
docent-led tours.
Ruth Slavin, director of educa-
tion at the museum, said she envi-
sions UMMA as a place where
staff, faculty, students and the
public meet for the arts.
"I see this as a place for every-
one," she said, adding that whether
coming for a class, a performance
or to see a film, there is something
for people of all interests.
Slavin added that the museum
expects 200,000 visitors this year.
She said when she joined the
museum's staff 11 years earlier,
only roughly 1,100 students visited
each year. Now roughly 30,000
students are expected to visit.

Steward echoed Slavin's com-
ments, saying the museum is once
again open as a resource and attrac-
tion on campus. UMMA had been
operating on a temporary basis
from an off-site exhibition space on
South University Avenue while the
museum was revamped.
"We want to serve the Universi-
ty's teaching and research mission,
but that's not enough," he said.
The purpose of the museum,
Steward said, is to create "some-
thing that will make your lives
richer and fuller, to develop critical
thinking, and to explore the things
that bind us together."
"Art canbe auniversal language,"
he continued. "I ask people to real-
ly take the time to rediscover the
museum and ask how artcan be part

of daily life. Think of the art muse-
um as something to turn to for dif-
ferent reasons to cheer you up, calm
you down or challenge yourself."
Tiffany Purnell, an project coor-
dinator of the Barger Leadership
Institute with the organizational
Studies program, was among those
there for the opening.
"I've never visited the museum
before," she said. "I figured opening
nightisthe bestdaycto do it."
LSA freshman Anna Weiss
attended the grand reopening
because she wanted to see the
architecture exhibit and photogra-
phy displays.
"I wanted to check it out," she
said. "I have an interest in art. I
have been craving goingto a muse-
um for a long time."

(their) future career path," he "Those who have studied not need to hire new professors,
FINANCE said. "The classes will definitely market cycles understand that Narayanan said.
From Page 1A give us a competitive advantage in the world isn't going to end, and To restructure the curricu-
terms of what recruiters and com- that the next five to 10 years lum, Narayanan said some three-
junior and co-president of the panies expect." will provide exceptional oppor- credit courses will be split up into
BBA Finance Club, said the new Kavchak said while many stu- tunities for those who have the two one-and-a-half-credit, half-
curriculum will give students a dents with a dual interest in mar- experience and capital to devote semester classes.
chance to follow an educational keting and finance have chosen to them and for young people "The whole idea here is this
path more tailored to their inter- marketing jobs because of the like us to learn from the best," allows students more flexibility,"
ests. economy, students who recognize he said. Narayanan said. "They don't have
"I think that having more spe- the cyclical nature of the econo- The new curriculum will be to go through a whole three-cred-
cialized finance programs defi- my still see the value of learning taught by current finance fac- it course if they are not that inter-
nitely helps (students) navigate about finance. ulty members, so the school will ested in it"


GOVERNOR
From Page 1A
large part, to the lack of leadership
and vision of the professional politi-
cians in Lansing."
Snyder added that he wants to
provide residents with the neces-
sary tools to get out of this eco-
nomic downturn.
"The No.1 priority will be to pro-
vide a vision to the people of this
state that will give them hope and

a clear road map back to sound eco-
nomic principles and financial secu-
rity," Snyder wrote in the release.
Snyder is the former president
and chief operating officer of Gate-
way, Inc. and is currently chairman
and chief executive officer of the
local nanotechnology investment
firm Ardesta, which he co-founded.
Representatives at Ardesta said
last week that Snyder was not yet
willing to be interviewed about his
gubernatorial bid.
If Snyder decides to run, he

will be one of many Republican
candidates vying for the party's
nomination. Thoughthe Michigan
Republican party is declining to
endorse any candidates through-
out the primary process, spokes-
man Bob Wolfer said there are "a
number of outstanding candidates
who will be able to bring the state
in a different direction."
Other possible Republican
gubernatorial candidates rumored
to soon throw their hat in the ring
include Attorney General Mike Cox,

SWEETS DELIVERED
Six days a week- To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
p 996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
_ r wanted
!!BARTENDING!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
ATHLETIC FEMALE STUDENTS
Wanted for photo shoots for www.col-
legeflex.com. Great pay!!For details
please email thmmillard@aol.com
BORDERLINE PERSONALITY
DISORDER Healthy, right-handed
women with a diagnosis of Borderline
Personality Disorder needed for a study
of stress and emotions, Study partici-
pants will have I fMRI and 2 PET
scans along with psychological evalua-
tions. Compensation up to $650.00
Call 734-763-3580
IRBMED #2003-0663
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 mm.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu

GET PAID CASH for taking online
surveys. www.cashtopsend.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
THE POLO FIELDS Country Club is
now hiring for concession stand, bever-
age carts, certified lifeguards, exp. wait-
staff, dishwashers, golf course laborers,
golf shop and outside golf services.
Please apply in person at 5200 Polo
Fields Dr., Ann Arbor, MI. Directions
available on our website
www.polofields.org
S~rmmer smp " ym -
093
CANCER RESEARCH SUMMER
INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
(CaRSIP)
As part of its Cancer Biology Training
Program, the University of Michigan
Comprehensive Cancer Center, in part
with funding from the National Insti-
tutes of Health (NIH) is providing expo-
sure to cancer research for highly moti-
vated and talented college undergradu-
ates. This program will give the suc-
cessful applicants an opportunity to ex-
plore potential careers in the field of
cancer. Interns are paid a stipend of
$4,500 for ten weeks during the sum-
mer and are aimed at students who are
completing their sophomore or junior
undergraduate year this spring. In
keeping with the terms of the NIH
grant, we especially encourage applica-
tions from individuals from minority
groups that are currently underrepre-
sented in biomedical and behavioral
research.
The deadline for application is 17 April
2009. Your application must be up-
loaded at the following site:
http://www.cancer.med.umich.edu/pro-
fessionals/summerinternship.shtml
Questions about the program? Please
email La Cheryl Wicker at
hlwicer(r11mich erun

WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
2009 SUMMER/FALL INTERNSHIP
Beer Distributor located in Ypsilanti,
covering territories in Washtenaw, Liv-
ingston, Western Wayne and Monroe
Counties. Looking for a hard working
Business Student, must be 21 and have
a car. Flexible hours, evenings and
weekends especially during Football -
Hockey Season. Fun, hands-on experi-
ence in Sales, Special Events and Mar-
keting. Apply in person at O&W, Inc.
3003 William St. Ypsilanti. 734-480-
4012.
095 /- *
PART-TIME ITALIAN speaking
babysitter needed for 7 year old child.
email: mamarc@comcast.net
WANTED: CHILD CARE for infant
and 2 yr old. Part/full time. Exp. req.
Education in related prog pref. Will per-
form background check. 248-231-9264.
t ickets & tra vel
TRAVEL
Book your flight to Europe
for the summer during
March, and get your 1st
hostel night free!
STA Travel, Inc.
530 South State St
Ann Arbor MI 48109
T:(734)769.2555
UMI@statravel.com

For Tuesday, March 31, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is a curious day. No doubt, you'll
start off feeling worried or anxious about
something. However, don't dwell there,
because later in the day, your dealings
with friends and groups bring you joy.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
You might feel financially squeezed
about children, sports or something hav-
ing to do with entertainment and social
functions. Fortunately, later on, good
news from a boss or parent makes your
day!
GEMINI
(May 21 toJune 20)
Relations with family members, espe-
cially parents or older relatives, might be
stressed today. People are too quick to be
critical. Fortunately, later in the day, you
feel confused abouttravel or educational
opportunities.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
You might feel worried in the begin-
ning of the day and not know why. It's
just a feeling. Fortunately, feelings
change! Later in the day, you feel just
great!
LEO
(July 23 toAug. 22)
Difficulties (or perhaps just a disap-
pointment) with friends about money
issues or possessions plague you today.
Others are a wonderful source of com-
fort and joy later. (Whew!)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Difficulties with authority figures,
parents, bosses and VIPs are likely early
today. However, later in the day, you get
positive recognition for your work.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct.2)
Avoid arguments about religion, poli-
tics and racial issues. Travel might be
delayed. Expect a fun incitation later in

the day to enjoy yourself. (Thank heav-
ens.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Avoid important discussions about
shared property, taxes, debt and inheri-
tances. Make plans to enjoy family gath-
erings this evening.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Conversations with partners, bosses
and significant others are difficult early
today. People are too quick to be critical!
Enjoy relaxing times with siblings and
friends in the late afternoon or evening.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Difficulties at work, especially related
to travel, foreign countries and publish-
ing are hard to avoid today. However,
good money news later in the day lifts
your spirits!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Accept increased responsibilities with
children today. This could isclude
increased expenses as well. Later, you'll
enjoy fun, games, sports and playful
activities.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Be patient with partners and family
members today. This patience will pay
off when you entertain at home or enjoy
good times with relatives over pizza and
beer!
YOU BORN TODAY You're not a
quitter. You're tenacious in whatever
you pursue because you're passionately
interested in your cause. You will fight
for your beliefs. You're capable of mak-
ing a radical change in your occupation;
many of you do. This year something
you've been involved with for the past
nine years will diminish or end in order
to create room for something new.
Birthdate of Al Gore, Nobel laureate;
Pavel Bure, hockey player; Gordie
Howe, hockey player.

Secretary of State Terri Lynn Land,
CEO of Domino's Pizza and former
University Regent David Brandon,
U.S. Reps. Peter Hoekstra and Can-
dice Miller, Oakland County Sheriff
Michael Bouchard, state Sens. Tom
George and Majority Leader Mike
Bishop and 2006 gubernatorial
candidate Dick DeVos.
If Snyder wins he will replace
current governor, Democrat Jen-
nifer Granholm, who will be term-
limited by state law after 2010
Political Science Prof. John
Jackson said early indications sug-
gest that victory could be easier
to attain for Republicans in the
2010 gubernatorial race than in
past years particularly because of
Michigan's economy.
"I don't think the state economy
is going to be better, and there is no
dominant national race to compete
with state races," Jackson said.
Still, Jackson said it is too early
to comment on how Snyder may
fare in the primary against other
Republican candidates.
"He said that he was active in
Michigan economic development
affairs, but beyond that I don't
know how he stands on a whole
range of issues, particularly ones
Republicans care about," he said.
According to the Ardesta web-
site, Snyder graduated from the
University in. 1977 and earned a
Master of Business Administration
in 1979 and a Juris Doctor in 1982.
In addition to his work at Ard-
esta, Snyder is chairman of Ann
Arbor SPARK, which the Ardesta
website describes as the "innova-
tive focused economic develop-
ment organization formed by the
University of Michigan and local
and state government."
Snyder is also a board member
of the University's Tech Transfer
Advisory Board, Literature, Sci-
ence & Arts Advisory Board and the
Comprehensive Cancer Center.
He currently lives in Ann Arbor
with his wife and three children.
snFINEST&FASTESTS NCE 109739
tU
ST -SH IR T P R IN TE R Y
-Expert Screenprinting
Embroidery
TEES, SWEATS, SHORTSE
CAPS, TOTES,APRONS
Multi-Color ( we Turn
*printcing .L'Your Skoeh
our Specality Into T-ShtrtiArt
* EMAIL DESIGN FOR PROMPT QUOTE
CATALOGUE, &EMWILUNKAT
A iuii,FROMCAMiPUa
* 1002 PONTIAC TR.9 -1367:
m aa aa aa aa aa aa aa

02009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


8A - Monday, March 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

fiA - Monday, March 30, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

DHANI
From Page 5A
games in the National Football League, Jones shouldn't
think much of a folksy schwingen tournament. Even
so, the man takes sports very seriously and does all he
can to increase the drama of the game. His warm-up
routine is filmed with close-ups from various angles
and he gives a dramatic narration of what he's thinking
("If I don't do this, no one will") to heighten the audi-
ence's anxiety. His concentration is unfaltering during
play, where he pouts over a penalty call. Dhani Jones is
GOMORRAH
From Page 5A
opening scene, the audience is introduced to Totfl
(Italian newcomer Salvatore Abruzzese), a malleable
young delivery boy who wishes to join the ranks of
the Camorra in hopes of sharing in the organiza-
tion's wealth and power. The film then focuses on
the reprehensible actions of a greedy waste disposal
contractor and his reluctant associate, a tailor who
defects from his Camorra-owned manufacturing job,
a lowly money-carrier and two disillusioned hellions
named Marco (Italian newcomer Marco Macor) and
Ciro (Italian newcomer Ciro Petrone) who idolize the
infamous "Tony Montana."
"Gomorra" is unlike the typical multiple-narra-
tive film in that its five plot threads rarely converge.
Instead, the story is essentially five separate short

quite possibly the only American to have ever argued
with a schwingen official.
The locations are exciting and the sports are fasci-
nating and obscure, but Dhani Jones'slackluster ability
as a TV personality makes "Dhani Tackles the Globe"
a laughable project. A successful host is engaging and
not afraid to make fun of his or her situation. Rather
than taking the games so seriously, Jones should fash-
ion his hosting style after Mike Rowe of Discovery's
"Dirty Jobs," who makes awkward interviews funny.
Maybe Jones will calm down and come into his ele-
ment as the season progresses. But until then, all we
know is that a raging Wolverine and a friendly game of
schwingen don't mix.
films that share only their thematic material (name-
ly the treacherous actions of the Camorra) and the
equally harrowing nature of their conclusions. By the
movie's end, every character has sold his soul out of
greed, fear or betrayal.
The film is an expos6 that brings to the foreground
the cancerous effects of the Camorra in Italy. The
problem is prominent when considering the dan-
gers associated with the film's production - death
threats were made against several people involved in
the production of the film, including Roberto Savia-
no, the author of the book from which the film was
adapted. Additionally, several of the actors featured
in the film were later found to be directly involved
with the Camorra.
In spite of the unadulterated authenticity of
"Gomorra," the limited character development and
lack of plot convergence detract from the film's
entertainment value and consign it to the position of
a fragmented, emotionally aloof docudrama.

0

COURTESY OF ABC FAMILY

All the happy people. Where do they all come from?

Domestic disaster
strikes ABC Family

I


'Roommates' relies
on a mixture of stale
premises and jokes
By BRIGID KILCOIN
Daily Arts Writer
"Roommates" is such a god-
awful show that it makes the rest
of ABC Family's
programming
look deep by
comparison. Roommates
The show
focuses on Mondays
the hijinks at 9 p.m.
and romantic ABC Family
entanglements
of young New
York 20-somethings. The plot
goes like this: Mark (newcomer
Tyler Francavilla), the show's
focal point, bumps into his high-
school sweetheart Katie (fellow
newcomer Dorian Brown) in an
elevator. After Katie mentions
she's looking for a roommate,
Mark uproots his life and moves
all of his things to her apartment
in Brooklyn so he can exist in
closer proximity to her. Along the
way, he encounters her quirky co-
inhabitants and her on-again-off-
again boyfriend.
Everything about "Roommates"

is tired. The show's plot is ripped
off from horrible 1970s sitcoms,
and the dialogue is trite and unre-
alistic. There's a heavy reliance on
comedic misunderstandings inthe
style of "Three's Company," which
is not only unfunny, but actually
irritating to watch.
In one situation, Katie pours
out her heart to Mark about an
unnamed romantic interest she's
uncertain about persuing. Big sur-
prise:Markthinkssheisreferringto
him and tells her to go for it. Shock-
ingly, it turns out she was refer-
ring to an old boyfriend. Purposely
vague conversations in which the
participants walk away with differ-
ent ideas of what just happened are
the backbone of "Roommates" -
each episode would be roughly five
minutes long if the characters just
talked to each other.
Characters in "Roommates" are
shallow and undeveloped; they
also steadfastly avoid the course
of action a normal human might
take. For example, Hope (Tamera
Mowry, "Sister Sister") dresses
for work in a pantsuit and heels to
trick her roommates into thinking
she is a high-powered Hollywood
executive rather than a lowly
barista. The other characters on
the show are similarly uninven-
tive: Hope's boss is a flamboy-
ant gay man who manages to be

a walking embodiment of every
homosexual stereotype. Likewise,
the one-dimensional Katie has no
notable qualities other than being
attractive.
The show's performers are a
ragtag array of alumni from other
lackluster sitcoms and newcomers
including Tony Yalda, who previ-
ously setthe world on fire with his
performance as "American Idol" 's
Sanjaya Look-A-Like in the 2008
film "Meet the Spartans." The
lack of legitimate acting experi-
ence might account for the over-
the-top reactions and constant
high-pitched yelling that pass as
emoting on "Roommates."
As a whole, "Roommates" is for-
gettable at best, bafflingly point-
less at worst. The show's subject
matter - dealing with the stressful
adjustment to adult life after com-
pleting college - could have been
appealing in the right hands, but
the show goes for cheap laughs and
slapstick rather than striving for
comedy that is true to life. "Room-
mates" manages to be a half hour
of television completely devoid of
any original content whatsoever.
While ABC Family has carved a
niche in basic cable by providing
viewers with family-friendly fluff,
"Roommates" is almost aggres-
sively stupid and altogether unap-
pealing.

COURTESY OF FANDANGO-IFC

These underwear are made of kevlar, right?

F __________________________________________________ *

I

SPRING OPEN HOUSE SALES EVENT

I

Huge selection on motorcycles, dirt bikes, ATVs, snowmobiles, scooters and MORE!
We are new and improved and under NEW MANAGEMENT.
Food, games, prizes, and entertainment for all 3 days!
Nicholson Enterprises, Inc.
4405 Jackson Road
Ann Arbor, MI 48103
1-800-825-5158

Ready to Launch
Thursday, April 2
11 a.m.-3 p.m.
Alumni Center
200 Fletcher St., next to the Michigan League
The Alumni Association wants to help graduating seniors get ready to
launch their careers. Drop by the Alumni Center on April 2 and make
connections that can help you settle into a new city, help you with
your job search and help you find a career mentor. Seniors will also
receive one-on-one help with their job search.

www.nicholsonfun.com

123
MPG
Estimated*

'

Job search advisers will be available to:
" Review your resume and cover letter
" Provide interview tips
" Coach you on your professional pitch

R :

" Feisty 49cc, air-cooled, 2-stroke engine produces zippy power for perfect around-town performance.
* Autolube injection eliminates the need to mix oil and gasoline. * Zuma's sporty profile provides great
wind/weather protection and a comfortable place for rider and passenger. " Five-spoke cast wheels,
fat low-profile tires, a telescopic fork and single rear shock work together to provide a sporty ride.
* A 155mm front disc brake and rear drum provide serious stopping power. " Huge underseat storage
compartment-perfect for hauling backpacks or groceries. " The Zuma achieves fuel economy up to an
estimated 123 mpg* with a fuel tank that holds 1.5 gallons of gas.

9 Strategize your next step for your career
Free gifts and guaranteed appointment times for those who pre-register.
Visit www.umalumni.com/students to pre-register or for more details.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

*Fuel economy estimates are based on US EPA exhaust emission certification data
obtained by Yamaha. Your actual mileagewill varysdepending on road conditions, how
you ride and maintain your vehicle, accessories, cargo, and operator/passenger weight.

*YAMAHA

1 S


;;


Clary swims to two national titles
By RYAN A. PODGES NCAA record. He not only swam
Daily Sports Writer better than the day before - he
swam better than his former train-
COLLEGE STATION, Texas - tog teammate, Olympian Michael
After the first day of the men's Phelps. Clary dropped over two
swimming and diving NCAA seconds off his previous record-
Championships, Michigan coach setting time and smashed Phelps's
Mike Bottom thought sophomore 2006 American record on his way
Tyler Clary was a little too "wound to winning his first individual
up" during his race. NCAA title.
Sure, Clary lowered his person- "It absolutely hurt like hell,"
al-best time by over a second and Clary said of the final laps of his
a half and broke the school record race. "But looking up at the board
en route to a second-place finish in after that race and seeing what I
the 200-yard individual medley. went was just complete ecstasy. All
But Bottom felt .the sophomore of the training all year had just cul-
could do better. minated into one moment, and all I
The next day, Clary swam the F LE PHOTO/Daily can say is it was awesome."
400-yard individual medley, an Sophomore Tyler Clary, seen here last season against Indiana, earned national titles Michigan finished seventh in
event in which he already held the in the 200-yard backstroke and 400-yard individual medley this weekend. See NCAAS, Page 4B

t
t
l
l
3

FOOTBALL SPRING PRACTICE
Scrimmage helps
evaluate freshmen
By ANDY REID although there are video high-
Daily Sports Editor lights on Mgoblue.com).
"More than anything else ... I
Michigan football coach Rich want them to play physical, play
Rodriguez didn't expect perfection hard," Rodriguez said. "As I told
from Saturday's team scrimmage. the team yesterday, they're going
With the Wolverines playing to make mistakes, they're goingto
full-pad, live-ball football for the go the wrong way, but just do it in
first time since a full-speed mode."
the Ohio State NOTEBOOK All spring, Rodriguez has
game in Novem- preached fundamentals. The
ber, Rodriguez had a clear vision scrimmage took the coaches off
of what he wanted from the 100- the field and placed the players in
play session (which was closed a more realistic game setting.
to all members of the media, See FOOTBALL, Page 3B


HOME DOMINANCE MADNESS ON ICE
U After 29 games on the road, the Michigan U Nate Sandals thinks there are two sides of
softball team easily handled Loyola-Chicago in March Madness - and the most popular one
the home opener at Alumni Field. Page 3B. F isn't the most interesting. Page 2B.


2B - March 30, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

2B - March 30, 2009

Th Mchga Dil -mihianaiy Io

The real
March Madness
is on ice
J the past two years, six of the But underdogs seem to be disap-
eight No. 1 seeds in the NCAA pearing.
Tournament have made it to Last year, all four No. 1 seeds
the Final Four. made the Final Four for the first
There's still some madness in time in history. This year, just one
March, but not nearly as much as team higher than a fifth seed made
there used to be - in basketball, the Sweet Sixteen - and that was
that is. Arizona, a traditional powerhouse.
If you're looking for something There was no Cinderella to rally
other than straight chalk (for you behind. Whichbrings us back to
non-gamblers, that means the hockey. The hockey tournament
favorite winning), try switching hasn't lost its parity.
over to the In 2007, Michigan State went
other March from the last team in the tourna-
Madness: the ment to National Champions, riding
Division I men's a pint-sized goalie and a few good
hockey NCAA bounces. No one on this campus
Tournament. was happy to see it, but the drama
Three of was undeniable.
the four No. Notre Dame followed a similar
1 seeds in the path last season, narrowly squeak-
16-team field NATE ing into the tournament field, then
got knocked SANDALS making it all the way to the champi-
off in the first onship game.
round this year, This year, the parity and excite-
including Michigan, which lost 2-0 ment have risen to another level.
to Air Force on Friday. This isn't The storybook underdog wins
quite like a 16 seed beating a one would be enough to make this
seed in basketball, but a 14 over a year's tournament must-see TV.
three is a pretty good comparison. That doesn't even include the two
The upsets in hockey have creat- teams that scored last-second goals
ed interesting storylines and given to force overtime, then went on to
the potential for national glory to win in the extra session.
a bunch of schools that don't get A single-elimination hockey
much attention. tournament is an unpredictable
Along with Air Force, Bemidji way to determine a champion. And
State, Cornell and Miami (Ohio) all like basketball, the best team is less
pulled off upsets. likely to win than the hottest team.
Hockey will never have the large The difference is lately, the hottest
audience March Madness does. team and the best team seem to be
Hockey is not as popular as basket- the same thing in basketball. That's
ball, fewer schools are involved and not the case in college hockey.
less money is bet. But the hockey All the upsets won't do much
tournament gives a better opportu- to raise college hockey's profile
nity for small schools to try to make nationwide. It's destined to be a
waves. In this state alone, schools niche sport at best. There's little
like Northern Michigan and Lake local media coverage and even less
Superior State have won national national attention.
championships. Those schools So you might have to dig around
don't even compete in Division Itin on Google a little bit to find out
basketball. more about this weekend's upsets.
Everyone loves an underdog. Just But if you're tired of just seeing
thinkbackto George Mason's excit- favorites win, the extra effort is
ing run to the Final Four in 2006. worth it.
Fans who had never even heard of
the school were pulling for the Colo- - Sandals can be reached
nials for three straight weekends. at nsandals@umich.edu.
Write for Daily Sports.
E-mail
andyreid"-umichedu

I

14

FILC PHOTO/Daily
Senior Andrew Mazlin and the Welvernes split their matches this weekend, losieg to Wisconsin before bouncine bach to beat Northwestern.
'M' enr~d exteni'-%ded 'lointg skid

By MARK BURNS Jung stayed poised as his team-
Daily Sports Writer mates cheered him on from the
nearby courts at the Combe Tennis
Jason Jung could feel the pres- Center in Evanston, Ill.
sure mounting. "I said to myself, 'I have to win
Down 4-1in the third set against this match,' " Jung said. "I just had
58th-ranked Northwestern, the a lot of heart and came through for
sophomore knew it was his time the team."
to help the Michigan men's ten- Jung used his quickness on the
nis team overcome its past per- court to grab the win (3-6, 6-4,
formances. Before Sunday, the 6-2) at the No. 1 position against
Torrance, Calif., native had not the Wildcats' 89th-ranked Marc
won a singles match since Feb. 6 Dwyer. The Wolverines won the
against Vanderbilt. match 4-3.
The 51st-ranked Wolverines (1-3 "It was a good win against a
Big Ten, 7-2 overall) were also in good team on the road," Michigan
the midst of an eight-match losing coach Bruce Berque said. "(North-
streak. western) has made a big jump
But that was about to change since last year. You can throw the
against the Wildcats (1-3, 13-6). rankings out the window in men's
With the match tied at three, tennis this year because anyone

can win."
Berque was quick to note it was
Jung's ability to reduce errors and
compete strong throughout the
entire match that enabled him to
grab the Wolverines' first team
victory since Feb. 20, when they
defeated Harvard 5-2.
The Wolverines' win was a
long time coming. Their last four
matches prior to yesterday's had
been decided by a 4-3 margin.
"This obviously gives us a lot of
confidence," junior George Navas
said. "With the win, we kind of get
the monkey off our back and can
now concentrate on the rest of the
season."
But Michigan's weekend wasn't
perfect. On Saturday, the Wolver-
ines lost at No. 24 Wisconsin.

SeniorAndrew Mazlin saw him-
self in the same situation as Jung
against the Badgers (1-2, 12-5).
With the match knotted at three,
Mazlin lost the deciding match at
the No. 2 position against Wiscon-
sin's No. 37 Marek Michalicka.
Despite Michigan's loss to the
Badgers, any pressure that might
have been on its shoulders has sub-
sided after its win against North-
western.
The losing streak is over, and
that's all that matters for the Wol-
verines.
When they square off next
weekend against Penn State and
Ohio State at the Varsity Tennis
Center, it will have something they
can build on for the rest of season: 1
their first Big Ten win.

Wolverines trump tough BYU squad

By JAKE FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
On one sideline stood a group of
Brigham Young lacrosse reserves
in clean uniforms, some without
helmets or gloves. In the biggest
game of their season to date, the
players tossed balls against the
wall of Oosterbaan Fieldhouse and
seemed to wish away the remain-
ing time on the game clock.
The solid wall of fully suited
players in maize jerseys on the
opposite sideline clapped and
shouted for the duration of No. 1

Michigan's 14-11 win over the Cou-
gars on Saturday night.
"We really preach togetherness
and everybody supporting each
other," Michigan coach John Paul
said. "And that's a big part of what
this team is."
"We definitely pride ourselves
on respect and discipline," added
junior attackman Kevin Zorovich.
"We come into each game knowing
that we prepare better than any-
one, and we respect everybody. We
want to represent Michigan to the
fullest."
Such dedication is typical of

the rapidly growing varsity club
lacrosse program. The Wolverines
(9-0) won their 30th consecutive
game, a streak dating back to the
2007 season.
Junior midfielder David Rein-
hard won the first five faceoffs of
the game to help the Wolverines
grab an early 4-1 lead. After a few
costly turnovers, Michigan's lead
dwindled to one goal with 5:19
remaining in the first half.
"We had to gut check a little bit
and outwork them," Paul said.
Zorovich and sophomore attack-
man Trevor Yealy did just that,
combining for five consecutive
goals to put the game out of reach.
Late in the third quarter, Cougar
goalie D.J. Sullivan made a tough
save on a shot fired at the top of the
box. Yealy slyly snatched a rebound
out of Sullivan's stick and scored.
"We're hard to match up with
offensively, and Trevor's a big part
of that," Paul said. "If you slide

from Trevor, you're in trouble. He's
a great target, he doesn't need a lot
of space and he's gonna finish."
Yealy camped out on the crease
for much of the game, taking
advantage of his tall frame and
quick release to tally four goals.
Senior midfielder Anthony Hruso-
vsky added three goals and two 4
assists just one game after his sev-
en-point performance in a 21-4 win
over Central Michigan.
Numerous recruits watched the
impressive victory from the stands
and met with Paul after the game
to discuss the future of the pro-
gram.
"We've taken a lot of pride in the
way we recruit and the kids we're
recruiting," Paul said. "That's
something that a lot of people don't
realize around here. We recruit
like a varsity team."
And having won every game
since 2007, this Wolverine squad
plays like a varsity team, too.

f Yc
- 5 - - ForAT

Date: Thursday, April 2
Time: 4:45 - 6:00 pm
Place: Michigan Union, Pond Room
To Register: Call 734-998-7071 or
visit www.mcancer.org/outreach

Hosted by the U-M Comprehensive Cancer
Center Community Outreach Program


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom March 30, 2009 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandaiiy.com

March 30, 2009 - 3B

Blowout victories allow
playing time for bench

Mi
LO

FILE PHOTO/Daly
Senior Chris Fetter pitched a complete game Friday night, bouncing back after giving up three runs in the first inning for a win.
'M' Nie take series
inBig Ten open111er

In
Michig
openin
Loyola
CarolF
mound
close
the ga
Except
it wa
All-
Ameri
pitcher
Sop]
Taylor
the fin
13-0 ro
the firs
Nikki
had ste
Wolver
In M
on Sat
roster(
Tayl
render
inning

chigan destroys "She deserved the opportunity,"
Hutchins said. "She works very
)yola Chicago in hard every day, and she does a lot
ho e to help our team win. She pitches
home opener to our hitters in practice a lot, and
it was a good opportunity to give
By MIKE FLOREK her a chance to get what she's been
Daily Sports Writer working for."
Not too long after fans returned
the second game of the to their seats at Alumni Field for
pan softball team's home- the second game, the game was
ig doubleheader against effectively over.
Chicago, Michigan coach The scoreboard read 11-0 after
Hutchins sent a Taylor to the the first inning. Some fans headed
1 to toward the exits before Michigan
out MICHIGAN 13 could take the field for the top of
me. LOYOLA 0 the second.
The Wolverines scored first-
sn't MICHIGAN 4 inning runs in both games of the
LOYOLA 1 doubleheader, and nine players
can collected hits. Despite Michigan's
r Jordan Taylor. recently streaky offensive produc-
homore walk-on Lauren tion, the Wolverines (22-9) have
took the mound to pitch scored in the first inning of 13
al inning of the Wolverines' games.
rut. Her appearance marked "We've been working on that
st time someone other than a lot in our practices, just getting
Nemitz or Jordan Taylor ahead," Nemitz said. "As a pitcher,
rpped into the circle for the it's a great relief because you know
rines in 91 games. your team is ready to play and is
tichigan's 4-1 and 13-0 wins helping you out early."
urday every player on the Freshman Amanda Chidester
entered the game. did the job in the first inning of the
or allowed two hits but sur- first game with a two-run home
ed no runs in her first career run.
Michigan exploded for 11 runs

By RYAN KARTJE
DailySports Writer
It was the bottom of the 7th
inning on Saturday as Michigan
sophomore relief pitcher Tyler
Burgoon approached the mound.
The Wolverines were in a 1-1
deadlock with Iowa in the first
weekend of Big Ten play.
Burgoon tossed a wild pitch
that flew past freshman catcher
Coley Crank, sending a Hawkeye
baserunner home to break the tie.
Michigan (2-1 Big Ten, 16-7 over-
all) couldn't recover from the 2-1
deficit and suffered its first Big
Ten loss at Duane Banks Field in
Iowa City.
The only thing colder than the
Wolverine bats was the weather,
which spent most of the weekend
below 40 degrees.
"When the weather is so bad,
so cold, it's usually a low-scoring
game," fifth-year senior outfielder
Kenny Fellows said of Saturday's
2-1 loss. "It's tough to get the bats
going in those situations when
they're already so cold."
To manufacture more runs,
Fellows knew the Wolverines
would need to play scrappy base-
ball and improve the small-ball
aspect of their game to build on
' their Friday win and claim the

Big Ten opening series on Sun-
day.
The former walk-on responded
yesterday to the tune of a career-
high four hits and four stolen
bases as Michigan cruised to a
7-5 win over Iowa (1-2, 9-12).
Michigan coach Rich Maloney
called the team's performance "a
gritty one, to say the least".
"Thank goodness we got a run-
ning game going finally," Malo-
ney said. "It's been stalled for
quite a while. And today, Kenny
Fellows was great. He was our
spark plug."
The rest of the Wolverines con-
tributed two more steals to give
the team a season-high six stolen
bases. It couldn't have come at a
better time. After two baserun-
ners were picked off in the wan-
ing innings of Michigan's 3-1 loss
to Eastern Michigan last week,
Maloney admitted baserunning
was key to the Wolverines' suc-
cess.
And on Sunday, Michigan's
improved baserunning disrupted
the Hawkeyes' defensive efforts
and allowed the team to put last
week's embarrassing loss to the
Eagles behind them.
Of course, the return of a
legitimate offensive threat from
Michigan's bats sure helped as

the Wolverines had four players
with multiple hits on the after-
noon.
"Ittookeveryounce ofenergy we
had to get it done," Maloney said.
"Now, we have a lot of guys just
waiting in the wings, so they have
to be scrappy in order to win."
In the series opener Friday, the
Wolverines sent ace senior pitch-
er Chris Fetter to the mound. Just
like all season, he didn't disap-
point.
After allowing three runs in
the first inning, Fetter rebounded
to throw a complete game. He
gave up five hits and struck out
nine Hawkeye batters to lead
Michigan to a narrow 4-3 win.
The winning run came cour-
tesy of a sacrifice fly from senior
second baseman Kevin Cislo in
the eighth inning that scored
senior pinch runner Nick Urban.
The real difference from the
Wolverine bats came from junior
first baseman Mike Dufek who
was 6 of 12 with four RBI on the
weekend to continue his hot hand
as of late.
In a conference that looks tobe
much closer than in past seasons,
the Wolverines will need offen-
sive production from players like
Dufek and Fellows who have been
"waiting in the wings".
"The last few years we were
dominant (in the Big Ten),"
Maloney said. "But we knew that
wasn't the case this year. On any
given day, any of these teams can
beat each other up ... It's going
to be a contested race right to the
end."

on eight hits in the first inning
of the second game. The inning
also included a stretch where 12
straight batters reached base safe-
ly.
With a 4-for-5 performance
from the plate, Chidester could
have left it at that and had a good
day. But the utility player also
showed her defensive prowess.
Playing catcher in the first
game, Chidester made two dynam-
ic plays. On a small foul pop up, she
made the only play possible, a div-
ing stab to her left to record the
out.
With runners on second and
third in the bottom of the seventh,
a slow roller came to Nemitz, who
quickly sent it to Chidester.
Chidester caught the ball and
lunged back to make the play at
home, keeping the game out of
reach.
Now, the Wolverines can focus
on Big Ten play. With Michigan's
0-2 start in conference play after
two losses to Northwestern last
weekend and the elimination of
a conference tournament, regu-
lar season play is more important
than in past years to determine
postseason seeding.
The Wolverines return to action
Wednesday when they travel to
Penn State.
thing there is at the University of
Michigan, particularly our Athlet-
ic Department," Rodriguez said.
"Our spring game is, more than
anything else, a spring event. Our
Athletic Department has done a
terrific job of trying to promote
that."
A member of the Athletic
Department said the roster for
the alumni flag football game - a
new tradition for the spring game
weekend - will slowly leak over
the coming weeks on Rodriguez's
official facebook.com page.
On Saturday, the only thing
Rodriguez knew about the roster
was that a few former members
of the Wolverines who won Super
Bowl rings with the Pittsburgh
Steelers this year would be play-
ing in the game. LaMarr Wood-
ley and Larry Foote are the only
Michigan players on the current
Steelers roster.
A member of the Athletic
Department said he was contact-
ing the members of the NFL Super
Bowl runners-up Arizona Cardi-
nals about playing. Steve Breas-
ton, Gabe Watson, Alan Branch
and Victor Hobson are all on the
current Cardinals' roster.
The Detroit Free Press con-
firmed that Rick Leach, Derrick
Walker, Jim Betts and Bill Dufek
will be participating.

FOOTBALL
From Page 1B
It was achance for younger play-
ers - especially those like fresh-
man Tate Forcier, who enrolled at
Michigan early to participate in
these practices - to exhibit their
play-making abilities.
"You don't get a lot of coaching
during a scrimmage, and that's by
design," Rodriguez said. "You just
kind of sit back ... let them play and
see who steps up.
"For some of the new guys that
are in this environment, we want
to see how they compete without
a coach telling them what to do on
every snap."
Forcier played with the first
team because redshirt junior Nick
Sheridan fractured his right leg
during Tuesday's practice.
Although Rodriguez planned
to use a smaller playbook for the
scrimmage, he said he would
"simplify a little bit," while Forci-
er took snaps.
"We've got to be able to run the
offense, but we've got a smaller
package in anyway," Rodriguez
said. "In particular, in the scrim-
mage, not only because of him but
because of some of the other young
guys. I don't want them thinking
too much - just let them play."

LINE SHIFT: After redshirting
last season, there are six linemen
making waves during spring prac-
tice. With their addition to the
roster, Rodriguez and his staff are
still waiting for five to emerge as
starters.
"I don't really have a first group
yet," Rodriguez said. "We've got
six or seven or eight that are rotat-
ing in the first group ... I think it's
still a work in progress."
Rodriguez is still consider-
ing shifting redshirt junior Steve
Schilling to guard, but he was
quick to mention that nothing is
set in stone just yet.
"I want him to wind up where
our best five are at," Rodriguez
said. "If our best five have Steve at
guard and somebody else at tackle,
that's fine. I think he's comfortable
in there. I also think he's athletic
enough to play both spots."
FIRST GLANCE: Although Sat-
urday's scrimmage was closed,
the public will have the chance
to see the Wolverines play at the
spring game on April 11 at noon at
Michigan Stadium.
More information about
the additional festivities was
announced before Saturday's
practice.
"We want as many people as
possible to come, not only to
watch our game, but to see every-


Spring/Summer Spaces Available!
STUDENT CO-OP HOUSING
Community Living for College Students
2 & 4 Month Spring/Summer Contracts
(Fall/Winter 8-month contracts also available)
Low Monthly charges include:
-Single room
-Full or partial meal plans
-All utilities and Internet
- Laundry, parking and morel
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414
www.icc.coop
Save some cash - make some friends!
First Annual Victors Run for
Diabetes Awareness 5k
Hosted by Students for Diabetes Awareness
Saturday, April 4th at 11:00AM
at The Nichols Arboretum
To Register visit our website:
SDAumich.wordpress.com or Active.com
$20 online before the event
$25 day of
For more information contact:
SDABoardMembers@umich.edu


4B - March 30, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

EISENSTEIN
From page 1B
ice since Marty'
Blackburn were
pipes in the latel
2000s: A goaliet
enough to carryl
the NCAA Tours
Turco is theo
Michigan coach:
has made it to th
pionship game. T
won on both trip
Blackburn, nowt
teer goaltending
Frozen Four twic
than his fair shar
heroics from 199
But Michi-
gan, despite
consistently
gettingstrong
goaltending
throughout the
regular season
in recent years,
hasn't found
another goalie
since Blackburn
the high-pressus
ment.
In 2005, Al M
in a row, givings
rebounds to surr
against Colorad
Noah Ruden, wh
with then-freshr
surrendered five
Dakota. And the
Saueritis strucki
The now-senior;
goals in 2007's f
and three in the
year's Frozen Fo
And that's wh
loss all the more
omore goalie Br:

a season-endingblow. And Air
Force played great defense down
the stretch, clearing outrebounds
Turco and Josh almost perfectly.
between the What's frustrating is that once
1990s and early again, the Wolverines don't have
hat is good that shutdown goalie - that net-
Michigan through minder that could steal a game like
nament. Turco or put up career-best save
ly goalie under numbers in the tournament like
Red Berenson who Blackburn. Michigan got to wit-
e NCAA Cham- ness that type of performance, but
'he Wolverines it was on the wrong end of the ice.
s in 1996 and 1998. Hogan faced just 13 shots, so he
he team's volun- couldn't have "stolen" the game.
coach, wentto the But a save percentage of .846 will
ce and had more only get you a chartered flight
e of tournament home a night early.
8 to 2002. It's not teachable, and there's no
science to it. In
the last few weeks
Michigan needs a of the season,
coaches say to let
solid goalie to 'win goalies just do
, their ownthing
championships. to keep up their
confidence. And a
hot goalie canbe
untouchable.
that thrives in Boston College rode John Muse
re NCAA Tourna- and his 1.67 goals-against average
and .942 save percentage in the
ontoya let up four single-elimination bracket last
up a few too many season to a national championship.
-ender a 3-0 lead And Michigan fans know all too
o College. In 2006, well about Spartan goalie Jeff Lerg.
so had splitctime His 1.25goals against and .954 save
man Billy Sauer, percentage in the 2007 tournament
goals to North speak for themselves: Michigan
next two seasons, State won the whole thing.
in the postseason. But damn, you have to hope Jack
gave up seven Campbell, one of the country's top
irst-round loss prospects, has got it in him when .
first period of last he comes to Ann Arbor in 2010.
ur. Because, as everyone knows, hot
at makes Friday's goaltending means you're filling
frustrating. Soph- the trophy case. Anything else, and
yan Hogan didn't you're reading columns like this.

A RIEL BO D/Daily
Sophomore Bryan Hogan faced just 13 shots but let in two goals, finishing with a dismal .846 save percentage in Michigan's 2-0 loss to Air Force.
Inabilitytoconvert

By GJON JUNCAJ times, it looked as if the Wolverines
Daily Sports Writer were skating with the puck glued to
their sticks.
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. - Last Fri- The Wolverines attempted 86
day, it appeared as if Air Force hock- shots to the Falcons' 30. Michigan
ey coach Frank Serratore's worst officially tallied 14 grade-A scor-
fears were coming to fruition. ing chances (open shots in the area
On the Wednesday before his between the crease and the faceoff
fourth-seeded Falcons upset top- circle dots), which Berenson said
seeded Michigan 2-0in the opening is "the most you're going to get in
round of the NCAA East Regional, any game." The Wolverines fired
Serratore watched the gamefilm 17 shots on Falcon goalie Andrew
from the Wolverines' CCHA playoff Volkening from inside 20 feet.
run. He said he immediately regret- What the Wolverines sent at
ted it. Volkening was the hockey equiva-
Despite having the sixth-best lent of a 60-minute firing squad.
scoring defense in the nation, Serra- Yet while everything seemed to be
tore said he lost sleep from wonder- going right for Michigan, nothing
ing how his team could slow down actually was.
what he called "the fastest group in Whenshots weren'tgoingstraight
the country." into Volkening's chest, they were
For Michigan coach Red Beren- getting deflected or knocked away
son, everything went right for his by defenders. Air Force blocked 18
fifth-ranked offense - except in the shots Friday, often setting three
end, nothing actually did. Michi- skaters up in a loose triangle in front
gan outshot Air Force 43-13 for of the net to crowd the shooting
the game, but that statistic alone lanes. And when a pass or rebound
doesn't capture how one-sided the set up a Michigan scoring chance in
game seemed. front of the crease, the Wolverines'
Michigan completely controlled sticks were often tied up.
the game's pace from start to finish. And as ridiculous as it sounds,
The Wolverines nearly doubled the despite letting 43 shots reach Volk-
Falcons in faceoff wins, 41-22. At ening, the Falcons played a solid

defensive game.
"When you look at the game,
they had a lot of shots," Serratore
said. "But how many second shots
did they get? How many outnum-
bered situations did they have? ...
The entire game, how many back-
door shots did they get? How many
rebound chances did they get?
"You can't hold ateam like that to
no shots. But we said, 'If they score,
they're going to have to score one-
shot goals.' And scoring one-shot
goals on Andrew Volkening is not
an easy task."
When Air Force took a 2-0 lead
seven minutes into the second peri-
od, Michigan's poise turned into
urgency, and thaturgency gradually
devolved into frustration. When an
official would remove a Wolverine
from the faceoff circle for being too
quick on the draw, players on the
bench would throw their arms up
in disbelief.
With 4:45'remaining in the game,
sophomore forward Matt Rust went
in alone on Volkening and had the
junior netminder beaten with his
patented forehand-to-backhand
move. But the shot went off the
high post. As he watched the puck
bounce into the opposite corner,
moments of the meet came during
the 1,650-yard freestyle. As senior
co-captain Matt Patton stepped on
the block for his last race as a Wol-
verine, the entire Michigan team
lined up along the pool deck and
cheered him on for his 14-plus min-
ute race. He finished first in his heat
and swam his best time by three sec-
onds. While the parents in the stands
and his teammates whistled, cheered
and clapped, the notoriously quiet
Patton simply nodded his head and
pointed his finger toward his team.
Patton's sixth-place finish earned
him All-American honors.
Though the Wolverines had ini-
tially hoped for a top-four finish after
finishing sixth last season, Patton
said the team's entire season mustbe
considered in order to put the team's
performance at this meet into per-
spective.
"There are so many things we as
a team had to overcome," he said.

Rust raised his arms above his
waist, as if someone had just played
a joke on him.
Facing elimination with two
minutes left, freshman defense-
man Brandon Burlon received a
quick pass at the point and saw
Volkening out of position, giving
way to an open net. After the shot
whizzed over the crossbar, Burlon
turned and cocked his stick behind
his head, ready to slam it on the ice
before he remembered play was still
going on.
As the shots continued to hit
everything but the back of the net,
Berenson's hands were tied. What
does a coach tell his players when
everything is going their way,
except on scoreboard?
"It's not a matter of working
hard," Berenson said. "It's about
working smart, doing the things
that got us here, moving the puck
wide. We're a good team when we
use our outside speed and go to the
net, and we had trouble getting past
their D."
Ultimately, it was a lack of puck-
luck that doomed the Wolverines.
And for all his concerns heading
into the game, Serratore would
finally be able to get some sleep.
"We lost our best swimmer, really,
when (Scott Spann) transferred to
Texas. We graduated a two-time
NCAA champion (Alex Vanderkaay),
and we lost our coach (Bob Bow-
man). But we all swam better than
last year, and that defines what this
year's team was all about."
Taking some time to reflect at the
end of his first season as Michigan's
coach, Bottom said he was happy
with the team's development but
called the meet "very educational"
for his own approach to coaching.
"This year has been a time where
I've sat and watched and next year
is going to be a time of action," Bot-
tom said. "The guys will be seeing
a different Mike. The team will be
reminded daily about what this meet
was like. It gave them all a new per-
spective on their swimming, but if
we are going to be the team I know
we can be, they need to be reminded
of this experience every day."

lose the game for Michigan, by any
means. Berenson didn't like either
of the goals Hogan let in, but when
you have the CCHA's best offense,
two goals feel like a paper cut, not
FALCONS
From page 1B
Multi-line scoring was the
Wolverines' mantra, and it
worked for a while. They even
found success for two periods
against Notre Dame last weekend
- their two-goal lead came from
their first and third lines.
But despite outshooting Air
Force by 30 shots Friday, Michi-
gan came up empty. It tallied 43
shots on Volkening. It dominated
time of possession, even posting
a stretch of almost four minutes
where the puck didn't leave the
Air Force zone. Friday's game
marked the sixth time this sea-
son in which Michigan outshot
its opponent but lost the game.
The Wolverines demonstrated
the speed, skills and playmaking
ability to win the game, but their
luck ran out against a white-hot
goaltender.
"We got 40-some shots, we
probably had 10 or 12 Grade-
A scoring chances," Michigan
coach Red Berenson said. "That's
the most you're going to get in
any game. We didn't capitalize
on them. Then their goalie played
a terrific game. It's as simple as
that.
"Somebody told me a long time
ago, when you get to this tour-
nament, the team with the best
goalie wins."
His team echoed many of his
sentiments after the season-end-
ing defeat.
Sophomore forward Aaron

-Eisenstein will still bein D.C.
for the Frozen Four because he's
going home for Passover. He can be
reached at mseisen@umich.edu.
Palushaj said it was quite appar-
ent that the Wolverines out-
played Air Force - the bounces
just didn't go their way.
Sophomore forward Matt Rust
said he and his teammates had
enough scoring chances to win
the game, but running into a
hot goalie made the task nearly
impossible.
Junior co-captain Chris
Summers, who usually cracks
light-hearted jokes at press con-
ferences, gave short, one-word
answers to reporters after Fri-
day's game. When asked how he
felt following the loss, Summers
simply glowered. His deadly glare
seemed to showcase a variety of
emotions - from anger to disap-
pointment to sadness.
And there's no doubt that, on
paper, the loss was shocking. A
No. 4 seed knocked off a No. 1
seed. Air Force, a team that had-
never won a tournament game,
beat Michigan, a team with nine
NCAA Championship titles.
It would have been easy for
the Wolverines to overlook the
lowly Falcons. It would have been
easy for them to chalk it up as a
crazy upset. But for Berenson, it
was neither. He stood firm, stat-
ing repeatedly that his team had
been well-prepared.
"We expected a tough game,
so this wasn't an upset," Beren-
son said. "This was a real good
Air Force team. ... I can tell you,
(my) team did not look ahead. We
put everything we had into this
game, and the puck just didn't go
in."

NCAAS
From page 1B
the overall team standings with 248
points, with Auburn winning the
national title (526). It was the Wol-
verines' ninth consecutive top-10
NCAA finish.
The meet got off to an unfamiliar
start for Michigan. The majority of
the team's races ended with personal-
best times and even school records,
but after the prelims for many events,
several Wolverines found themselves
watching the finals from the bleach-
ers instead of swimming in them.
Bottom said his team was "shell-
shocked" by the meet's intense com-
petition. But Michigan pointed to
junior Chris Brady's butterfly leg
of the 200-yard medley relay at the
start of day two as a turning point.
"To be honest, we were a little
down after the first day," freshman

Dan Madwed said. "Mike told us
we weren't swimming as well as we
should be, and when we saw Chris
had the fastest butterfly leg of any
relay, it really inspired us all to do
well."
And the Wolverines, led by Clary,
did finish strong. Clary won a second
individual NCAA championship and
set another NCAA record in the 200-
yard backstroke, becoming the first
Wolverine to win the national title in
that event since Ed Bartsch in 1963.
He was also named national Swim-
mer of the Year at the conclusion of
the meet.
Madwed finished 12th in the 200-
yard freestyle, and Brady set schools
records as he took fourth in the 100-
yard butterfly and the 400-yard
freestyle relay, consisting of senior
co-captain Bobby Savulich, Brady,
Clary and redshirt senior Evan
Ryser.
One of the more emotional

4


4

4

4

4

Fro ItorationalUP) 1 05-.64


