ON THE ROAD NPT
Football travels to Iowa, hockey In his owt
to Alaska, and Daily Sports , Cleveland
tells you what to expect.a differ b
SEE SPORTS, PAGE 8 SEE ART.
I~c ffid ian Ba IVj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, October 9,2009

michigandaily.com

FINDING A MASTERPIECE

DONATION DIVIDENDS:
PART 5 OF A 5-PART SERIES
WAhat's

next for'U
fundraising

ARIEL BOND/Daily
School of Information student Ashleigh Donaldson searches for books yesterday in the Fine Arts Library in Tappan Hall. The library houses an impressive collection of print and
electronic resources in the history, theory and criticism of thevisual arts, consisting of more than 100,000 volumes on painting, graphic arts, architectural history and other topics.
LITIGATION REPORT
Gayprof,,'s etlawsuit setfr ation

New database,
donor guidelines,.
capital campaign
in the works
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
and KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporters
From his office on the ninth
floor of Wolverine Tower, Jerry
May, the University's vice presi-
dent for development, commands"
the fundraisers who bring in hun-
dreds of millions of dollars to the
University each year.
Over the past eight years, the
office has raised more than $3.2
billion through its Michigan Dif-
ference Campaign. The wildly suc-
cessful effort - which exceeded its
$2.5 billion goal by nearly 30 per-
cent - seta national record for the
most money raised in the United
States by a publicuniversity during
a single capital campaign.
However, with the campaign
now finished and a new campaign
not yet started, the question aris-
es - what are development office
employees doing with all their
time?
According to May, his staff isn't
sitting around waiting for the next
campaign. They're busy planning
for how they can better relate to
donors and how the office can

operatemore efficiently.
THE BRAINS OF
THE OPERATION
One of those major initiatives is
the creation and implementation
of a brand new, multi-million dol-
lar electronic brain for the Univer-
sity's fundraising activities. If's a
highly-personalized database that
will serve to store and collate the
most specific of details for the Uni-
versity's donors - which totaled
nearly 375,000 over the last eight
years - from the basics to the
most acute detail regarding their
interests. ("Some day we'll be able
to know all the people who collect
antique maps," May said, only half
joking.)
The University's current donor
database system - known as
Development/Alumni Constitu-
ency System or DAC - is nearly 20
years old and isvastly outdated.
May said the system was eval-
uated prior to the Michigan Dif-
ference Campaign, and a decision
was made to bandage it for the
campaign. Major reconstruction
or replacement of the system
was tabled until after the capital
campaign.
Once the Michigan Difference
Campaign finished last Decem-
ber, efforts to select a firm to
design a new system were kicked
into high gear.
See SERIES, Page 7

Peter Hammer says
he was denied
tenure for being gay
ByKYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Five years and two University
general counsels later, a former
University professor's lawsuit
alleging the University discrimi-
nated against him because he is
gay still hasn't gone to trial. But
two motions being considered
later today may get the wheels

moving on the case once more.
Peter Hammer, who is now
a law professor at Wayne State
University, left the University
of Michigan in 2003 after being
denied tenure. Hammer was the
first male professor at the Law
School to be denied tenure in
at least 40 years, according to
Hammer's complaint. In that
timeframe, three women were*
denied tenure, according to the
documents.
Hammer's suit was filed against
the University in 2004 and alleges
that the University discriminated
against him by denying his tenure.

A tenure review board voted 4 to
1 to grant tenure to Hammer. But
tenured faculty at the Law School
voted 18 to 12, falling short of the
two-thirds threshold required to
earn tenure.
The complaint against the Uni-
versity says that at the time Ham-
mer was hired, the University was
represented as a non-discrimina-
tory employer, and that as such, it
has a contractual obligation not to
discriminate against him on the
basis of his sexuality.
Though little progress has been
made in the case over the last few
years, two motions are being con-

sidered by Judge James R. Gid-
dings of the 30th Judicial Circuit
Court.
The first motion, to schedule
pretrial conference, is in essence
meant to bring the case to the
court's attention in an attempt to
move the case through the judicial
system more quickly. The motion
outlines what has happened so
far, including multiple motions
for summary judgment - which
are attempts to settle a case and
avoid a trial with evidence from'
discovery and deposition, among
other areas.
See LAWSUIT, Page 7


CAMPUS PROMOTION
Colleges employ
student bloggers

HAMMERING HOME A POINT

Admissions offices
turn to students
for an inside look
at campus life
By MALLORY BEBERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
For the most part, those
heavy and overwhelming col-
lege guidebooks can't really
give prospective students a look
at college life from a student's
perspective.
To solve that problem, admis-
sions offices at universities
across the country have teamed
up with student bloggers to
offer prospective students an
inside look into campus life.
Schools like the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology
and Amherst College host stu-
dent blogs on their admissions
websites and the University of
Michigan's admissions office
has also dabbled in student
blogging.
Erica Sanders, director of
recruitment and operations at
the University's Office of Under-
graduate Admissions, said the
office tested putting student
blogs on its website from 2006

to 2009.
"The Office of Undergradu-
ate Admissions staged a three-
year demonstration student
blog, which ended last year," she
wrote in an e-mail interview.
Sanders added that the
admissions office recruited
bloggers from campus tour
guides, student volunteers and
student staff members. She also
said admissions officials plan to
bring the blogs back early next
year.
LSA junior Mitch Crispell
blogged for the admissions
office two years ago. He said he
was asked to blogbecause of his
position as a Campus Day tour
guide.
"The idea is that you talk
about things that prospective
students would want to know
about and the things that they
can relate to," he said.
He said that the admissions
office never told him what to
write about. Furthermore,
Crispell said that for the most
part, the admissions office
didn't edit his entries.
"They gave us guidelines but
they (knew) how much we love
Michigan and they let us show
the Michigan that we want(ed)
to show," he said.
See BLOGGERS, Page 7

RUNNING FOR A CAUSE
Alum looks for social
change in marathons
Zlotoff to run three longtime.
"The work that Men Can Stop
marathons in five Rape is doing really hit a chord
in me because working at the
weeks for charity Rape Crisis Center I really saw
the issue from a victim's perspec-
ByALLIE WHITE tive and from a victim's services
For theDaily perspective and I wanted to do
something that was true preven-
Forget Nike. University alum tion," he said. "Working not just
Jordan Zlotoff said he wants to to comfort and support survivors,
be sponsored by Snuggie. But for which is incredibly important,
Zlotoff, even an oversized blanket but I wanted to work on actu-
with armholes probably won't be ally preventing sexual assault and
much comfort as he participates rape in the first place.'
in three marathons in just five According to its website, Men
weeks. Can Stop Rape works with young
A graduate of the 2006 Univer- men to prevent violence against
sity graduate, Zlotoff is undertak- women and challenges the estab-
ing what some might consider lished negative aspects of mas-
appropriate only for a Navy Seal.. culinity. The group encourages
This fall, he plans to run three males to see their role as allies
marathons over a five-week with women and girls in creating
period to raise money for a Wash- and fostering healthy relation-
ington D.C.-based organization ships.
called Men Can Stop Rape. He said that in working at the
"I think my motivation goes D.C. Rape Crisis Center, he saw
back to the University of Michi- how much men can do in this
gan and taking some of my soci- issue.
ology classes is when I really "I was one of three male volun-
started to understand the female teers at the D.C. Rape Crisis Center'
experience in sexual assault," out of probablyt100volunteers they
Zlotoff said. have," Zlotoff said. "I was just sort
He's worked at the D.C. Rape of immediately attracted to work-
Crisis Center and had a recent ing on this issue because I saw so
internship with Men Can Stop few men involved. Iknew that men
Rape, a group Zlotoff said he have such a huge potential impact
had wanted to work with for a See MARATHONS, Page 7

ARItL BOND/Daily
High school senior Alex Flannigan hammers a nail for Habitat for Humanity on the Diag
yesterday. Students camped out with sleeping bags and blankets last night to bring
awareness to the homeless who don't have a place to sleep.


WEATHER HI: 57
TOMORROWW- Lo:38

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Eugene Robinson reflects on his time at the Daily.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE EDITORS

INDEX NEWS. . . ..2 ARTS.. . . ...........5
Vol. CXX, No.24 SUDOKU. . . . 3 CLASSIFIEDS ................,......6
2009 TheMichiganDaily OPINION... ......4 SPTS....
michioondoily~com 4 S O T ................




I p 4 f


0

2 - Friday, October 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:'
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY:
Before You Were Here

LEFT Chemistry students in Chem Lab 125/126 work on a redox reaction lab inside of the Chemistry Building. These students
investiagte the reactivity of metals and metal ions. (Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen/Daily) RIGHT Yaron Brook, the presi-
dent and executive director of the Ayn Rand institute, speaks in the Chemistry Building on Tuesday. Yaron spoke as part of the
lecture "Capitalism Without Guilt," which was hosted by Students for Objectivism. Brook, who is a regular commentator on
CNN and Fox News Channel, told the packed room that it was the government, not the free market, that caused the economic
downturn. (CLI FREEDER/Daily).

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehourssun.-Thurs1 ta.m. -2 a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaity.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
letters tothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaity.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaiy.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmiloVitZManagingNews Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Skoller, nunleSSwanson
AS KSANT EmS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Malory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
RobertSoave Editorial Page Editor . soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty Rachel VanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
AndptReid ManaginSportsnEditor rzid@michigandaily.com
"ENI P OR TS ORS:NoeAuerbach,MikeEiein,-IanKaiyu
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantl Jennings, Gjon JuncajRyan
Kartje, ChrisMeszaros,RyanPodges
DavidWatnick ManaginigArts Editor wartnick@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR ARTSEDITORS: JamieBlock,BrandonConradis,WhitneyPow
SlSNT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, David Riva,
Zachary Meisnerand photo@michigandailycom
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTOEDITORS:SaidAlsalah,ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Sam Wolson
Angela Chihand design@miehigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing DesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF:Melanie Fried,AdiWollste
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak sales Manager
MRKETING MANAGER Michae crotenboer
RpanBusinskiclaassiedManaer
CLASSI FInEDASSISTANTMANAGER KaylaLaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison SantacreuLayoutManager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily(SsN074s-967)ispublished Mondaythrough Friday duringthefallandwinter
terms bystudentsattheniversity of Michigan.Onecopy is available free of charge toallreaders.
Additiona opiesmay bepickedupattheDalysoffice for$2.subsiptionsforfalliterm,startingin
september,viaU.s.mal are$110interterm(oJanuary through Apri)is$11s,yearlong(september
through April) is s195. University affiliates are subject to areduced subscription rate On-campus
suiions foralltre s.ssecritio ens paid.TheMichiganDyisamemberof
TheAssociate rsndh e AssciatdColleaePres.

CRIME NOTES
Baseball bag Student gets
lifted from field cut in lab

WHERE: Mitchell Field
WHEN: Wednesday at about
7:10 p.m.
WHAT: A bag containing
baseball equipment was stolen
from the lower field, Univer-
sity Police reported. The bag
was taken between 7:00 and
7:30 p.m. on Monday.
Shirt rips during
heavy lifting
WHERE: Campus Safety Ser-
vices
WHEN: Thursday at about
12:05 a.m.
WHAT: A shirt was ripped
while moving a shelf, Univer-
sity Police reported. The shirt
was valued at $40.

WHERE: Herbert H. Dow
Building
WHEN: Wednesday at about
8:18 p.m.
WHAT: A student received
minor cuts from a class con-
tainer, University Police
reported. The container broke
during an experiment in the
lab.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Greek Life Performance of
UMix Tartuffe
WHAT: Greek Life is spon- WHAT: The famous per-
soring a UMix with a show- formance tells the story of a
ing of "The Hangover," patron falling for a con-man.
performances by campus The show is a farce about rell
groups, a Tailgate-style buf- gious hypocrisy.
fet at midnight, and airbrush WHO: Department of The-
tattoos. ater and Drama
WHO: University Unions WHEN: 8 p.m.
Arts and Programs WHERE: Arthur Miller The
WHEN:10 p.m. to 2 a.m. ater, Walgreen Drama Center
WHERE: Michigan Union

f
-
-
r

Suzanne Farrell Cultural
Car struck in lot Ballet breakfast

University of California
Davis is using $150,000 to
study duct tape and cata-
log 10,000 imprints, according
to United Press International.
The forensic science depart-
ment believes once torn, each
piece of duct tape is unique
and they will use it in crime
investigations in a way similar
to fingerprints.
AFloridalawrequires con-
victed sex offenders to live
atleast2,500feetawayfrom
places where children gather.
>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
NASA dropped the odds of
Apophis, an 885-foot aster-
oid, striking the earth in
2036 from a1-in-45,000 chance
to a 1-in-250,000 chance,
according to the Christian Sci-
ence Monitor.

WHERE: 1100 Ann St. WHAT: The famous ballerina
WHEN: Tuesday at about 5 has her own company and has
p.m. danced in more than 100 bal-
WHAT: A Honda Civic was lets in her 28-year career. She
struck while parked in a park- is showcasing some of the per-
ing lot, causing minor damage, formances from throughout
University Police reported. The her career.
incident is under investigation. WHO: University Musical
Society
WHEN: 8 p.m.,
ichigandaily.com /the wire WHERE: Power Center for
the Performing Arts

WHAT: Presentation about
efforts to help citizens of multi-
ethnic communities share their
cultures and traditions. .
WHO: Arts of Citizenship
WHEN: 9 am. to 10:30 am.
WHERE: Lane Hall, Room
2239
" Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

WANT TO WRITE FOR DAILY NEWS? palPtinin eadPrshin

Send an e-mail to
smilovitz@michigandaily.com to get started.

WINTER COATS, FLEECE, HATS, GLoVES
WOOL SWEATERS, BOOTS.
JEANS, Tops, DRESSES, JEWELRY,
HANDBAGS, BODY PRODUCTS
...AND OF COURSE
QUALITY OUTDOOR EQUIPMENT
NORTH FACE, PATAGONIA, MERRELL, KEEN,
HARD TAIL, 7 FOR ALL MANKIND,
MICHAEL STARS, JAMES PERSE, MARC JACOBS

backtracks on UN report
Palestinian foreign advantage of it, and really score planned and provide a high-pro-
points, rather than having a genu- file forum for the explosive report
minister calls move ine principled position regarding to be discussed.
the report," Malki said. Malkisaid PalestinianPresident
a "clear crisis" for The report also accuses Pales- Mahmoud Abbas' Fatah move-
.s . tinian armed groups of possible ment -- which lost power in Gaza
Palestinians war crimes in the Israeli-Mamas when it was overrun by Hamas
conflict last winter. Hamas, the militants in 2007 - remains "far
UNITED NATIONS (AP) - The Palestinian Authority's main apart" in any potential deal with
Palestinian leadership has quickly rival, controls Gaza. Hamas to reconcile and hold Pal-
backtracked in its approach to a The Palestinian Authority ini- estinian elections. The Egyptians
U.N. report accusing Israel of pos- tially pushed for the U.N. Human hope to broker a deal in Cairo this
sible war crimes in Gaza, in what Rights Council to forward its month.
its top diplomat acknowledged commissioned Sept. 15r eport to "Frankly saying, and this is the
yesterday is erupting into a "clear the Security Council. first time I say it: When it comes
crisis" for its people. Then it agreed last week under to the principal issues, we feel
Palestinian Foreign Minister U.S. pressure not to push the issue that we are close to reaching an
Riad Malki didn't say who was at the United Nations. That brought agreement between the Palestin-
responsible for the crisis, but told harsh criticism, including angry ian Authority, between Fatah and
reporters at U.N. headquarters protests at home and condemna- Hamas, and that's why everybody
that the militant Islamist group tion around the Arab world. talks about the possibility of sign-
Hamas is trying to take cynical Finally, on Wednesday, the Pal- ing that agreement in the next
advantage of the report, to court estinianleadershipagainswitched couple days," Malki said.
favor with the Palestinians. gears. It reversed itself by strongly "But when we start looking
"This clear crisis about the backing Security Council member deeper into the details, and the
report proves that the Hamas Libya's push to hold the 15-nation positions of each party regarding
position is really trying to exploit council's monthly debate on the the different issues, we discover
it, to its own favor, trying to take Middle East a week earlier than we are very far apart," he added.
Make sure students
into the rig'ht cri..
Fall RalyPa,.e
The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn't stopstudents from
thinking about housing early, so why shouldyouAdverise
leases for now, May, and Fall zoio! Reach over 40,000
students and other University members.
Presentedby TheMichigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22 " "
Published Oct. 28
(734) 764-0557
dailyclassified@gmail.com

0

Sale Ends Sunday Oct. 11th

0


The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

Friday, October 9, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October 9, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Mich. lawmakers
pass budget bills
Gov. Jennifer Granholm has
signed bills establishing new bud-
gets for community colleges, courts
and military and veterans' affairs in
Michigan.
The bills signed yesterday were
passed by the Legislature before
an Oct. 1 budget deadline with
bipartisan agreement. Other bills
needed for a full state budget either
haven't been passed the Legislature
or haven't been sent to Granholm
because Republicans worry she will
veto them.
State departments are operat-
ing under a temporary budget that
expires Oct. 31. No budget is in place
foraidto K-12 schools.
The community college bud-
get remains unchanged at $299
million. The courts budget does
not include funding for a men-
tal health court pilot project but
does include some money for drug
treatment courts.
LANSING
House committee
votes to extend bar
closing time
Bars could stay open two hours
longer and stores could sell alcohol
on Sunday mornings in exchange
for paying a state fee under legisla-
tion approved yesterday by a House
committee.
TheDemocratic-ledHouseAppro-
priations Committee voted 18-12
along party lines to send the extend-
ed-hours bill to the full House, which
could vote later in the day.
Current closing time for Michigan
bars is 2 a.m. The legislation would
let bar owners pay $1,500 to sell alco-
holuntil 4 a.m.
The bill also would lift the state's
Prohibition-era ban against selling
alcohol on Sunday morning if estab-
lishments pay $1,500. Golf courses,
stores and Detroit bars catering to
Lions fans are among those hoping
to sell before noon Sunday.
Local governments could opt not
to allow local businesses to sell dur-
ing the extended hours.
LOS ANGELES
UCLA student
stabbed in chem lab
A female UCLA student was
hospitalized yesterday after a fel-
low student slashed her throat in a
chemistry lab on campus, authori-
ties said.
A man was arrested after UCLA
police got a call about the stabbing
Thursday afternoon in Young Hall.
UCLA spokesman Phil Hampton
said the victim and suspect were
among a group of students working
in the undergraduate teaching lab at
the time. They are both 20-year-old
seniors.
Officers were interviewing 30 to
40 witnesses who were in or near
the lab and might have seen the at-
tack, Campus Police Assistant Chief
Jeff Young said. No names have
been released, and the motive is un-

der investigation.
MEXICO CITY
Mexico police arrest
* FBI most wanted
One of the FBI's most-sought fugi-
tives, wanted for the 2002 killings
of his girlfriend and her two young
sons in Idaho, has been captured in
Mexico.
Federal police detained Jorge
Alberto Lopez Orozco on a highway
in the Pacific coast state of Guerrero,
Mexico's Attorney General's Office
said yesterday. He was transported
to the neighboring state of Michoa-
can and held on a U.S. extradition
request.
Lopez Orozco, 33, is charged with
three counts of first-degree murder
in the deaths of Rebecca Ramirez
and her sons, aged 2 and 4, in Elmore
County, Idaho. He was placed on the
FBI's Ten Most Wanted list in March
2005.
There was no immediate informa-
tion on whether U.S. prosecutors had
agreed not to seek the death penalty
against Lopez Orozco; Mexico refus-
es to extradite suspects who might
face execution.
According to FBI reports, Lopez
Orozco called Ramirez on July 30,
2002, and later picked her up along
with her two sons at her father's
house in Nyssa, Ore. Twelve days
later, fishermen found the aban-
doned, burned-out shell of the car
that Lopez Orozco had been driving
near the Snake River in a remote area
of Elmore County.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Lawyer shared
Kilpatrick texts
with Free Press

CHARLES REXARBOGAST/AP
In this Feb. 8, 2009 file photo, General Motors Vice President for Sale, Service and Marketing Mark LaNeve, talks about
'the future of GM, at the Chicago Auto Show in Chicago,
Lawmakers question GM
Chrysler union demands

Attorney Mike
Stefani obtained the
texts while suing
Detroit mayor
DETROIT (AP) - A lawyer who
obtained atrove of sexually explicit
text messages while suing former
Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick in
2007 said Thursday he gave a copy
to the Detroit Free Press, whose
Pulitzer Prize-winning stories led
to criminal charges and forced the
mayor from office last year.
Mike Stefani made the disclosure
whiletestifyingbeforethe Michigan
Attorney Discipline Board, where
he's accused of acting unethically
while representing police officers in
lawsuits against Kilpatrick.
"I gave one to the Detroit Free
Press for safekeeping ... a day or
two after I got them," Stefani
said, according to the newspaper's
account of his testimony.
During a break, he told The
Detroit News: "It wasn't something
just for the Free Press; it was just
that it needed to come out."
The Free Press never disclosed
how it obtained text messages for

a blockbuster story in January
2008 that revealed a torrid affair
between Kilpatrick and his chief of
staff, Christine Beatty.
The story contradicted repeated
denials that there wasn't a sexual
relationship. The question was crit-
ical because police officers had sued
Kilpatrick, claiming they were pun-
ished when they tried to investigate
wrongdoing by his inner circle.
Free Press publisher and editor
Paul Anger declined to comment
when asked by The Associated
Press if messages supplied by Ste-
fani were the basis for its story.
Messages seeking comment were
left with Stefani and his lawyer,
Ken Mogill.
Stefani obtained text messages
from the city's communications
provider after a jury awarded $6.5
million to his clients, two officers in
a whistle-blowers' lawsuit, in 2007.
Kilpatrick vowed to appeal, but he
settled the case and another for
$8.4 million when he learned what
Stefani had.
The Free Press story followed
a few months later. Kilpatrick
and Beatty subsequently pleaded
guilty to obstruction of justice
because of their lies at trial and
were sent to jail.

Concessions made by
unions during crisis
now being seen by
some as anti-union
WASHINGTON (AP) -Months
after the government bailed out
General Motors and Chrysler,
some lawmakers are questioning
tough contract demands by the
two auto companies that union
officials argue could lead to the
replacement of hundreds of union
carhaulers with nonunion drivers.
Michigan lawmakers have
raised the issue with GM CEO
Fritz Henderson and Chrysler
CEO Sergio Marchionne in let-
ters during the past week, con-
cerned that the automakers could
reduce business with auto trans-
port companies whose drivers are
represented by the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters.
"We demand an explanation of
your position," wrote Rep. Dale
Kildee, D-Mich., in letters to Hen-
derson and Marchionne. "We do
not support your plansto abandon
your long-term carrier partners."
Union officials said GM and
Chrysler have sought cost savings
of at least 25 percent from Allied
Systems Holdings Inc. of Atlanta,
and Cassens Transport Co. of
Edwardsville, Ill., who deliver
assembled vehicles to car dealers
in the U.S. and Canada.
The Teamsters represent about
4,800 workers who deliver new
cars and trucks to auto dealers.
More than 2,000 employees work
for Allied, Cassens and Jack Cooper
Transport Co. in Kansas City, Mo.
Chrysler Group LLC's contracts
with Allied and Cassens expired

Sept. 30 and the company has
shifted some work to nonunion
contractors, affecting 129 union
drivers, including 50 in Detroit,
said Fred 2uckerman, director of
the Teamsters' automobile trans-
port division.
According to a one-page sum-
mary titled "Chrysler Vehicle
Distribution Changes," the com-
pany said some of the changes
occurred because a new facility
built in Toledo, Ohio, allowed the
automaker to mix vehicles in one
location for distribution.
Chrysler said in the document
that Allied and Cassens failed to
address uncompetitive cost struc-
tures and beginning Oct. 1 the
auto company would re-source
28 percent of its haulaway carrier
business "to improve transit time
and reduce costs by $31 million
over three years." Chrysler said
in the document that Allied and
Cassens would reduce 77 Team-
ster jobs in Michigan.
Zuckerman called it an attempt
by Chrysler to undermine union
drivers. "We don't believe for a
minute that it had anything to do
with cost," he said.
In addition to the 50 jobs in
Detroit, Zuckerman said the
Chrysler moves led to union job
losses in Winston-Salem, N.C.,
Warren, Mich., Richfield, N.J.,
Buffalo, N.Y., Miami, Jessup, Md.,
and Shelbyville, Ky.
Teamster officials are also
watchingupcoming talks between
General Motors Co. and Allied,
whose contract with the automak-
er expires Feb. 1, 2010. About 400
union drivers deliver GM vehicles
for the transport company.
Allied filed for bankruptcy in
2005 and imposed a 17.5 percent
wage cut on its workers in 2007

and 2008, Zuckerman said. He
said GM has sought cost reduc-
tions of 26 percent, cuts he said
would be unsustainable.
A GM spokeswoman declined
comment. Messages left with
Allied and Cassens officials
weren't immediately returned.
The union job losses have
caught the attention of several
Michigan lawmakers, who sought
government loans for GM and
Chrysler and pushed for a $3 bil-
lion Cash for Clunkers program to
revitalize auto sales.
"I urge you to not discriminate
against the unionized labor work
force," wrote Rep. Gary Peters,
D-Mich. "Although cutting costs
is a necessary measure, I expect
that you will not base your deci-
sion exclusively on which opera-
tors pay their employees the
lowest wage rate."
Rep. Thaddeus McCotter,
R-Mich., wrote the "intent of the
government's support for GM and
Chrysler and the 'cash for clunk-
ers' program was to keep the
automobile industry viable and
not to force companies in the sup-
ply chain like the car haul indus-
try into bankruptcy."
InalettertoCongressmanPeters,
Mike Keegan, Chrysler's senior vice
president of supply chain man-
agement, wrote that the company
explained to Allied and Cassens its
inability to continue subsidizing
their uncompetitive business mod-
els, particularly in light of the auto-
maker's recent bankruptcy action .
and the concessions made by the
UAW, CAW and dealers.
Keegan wrote that Chrysler's
business relationship with Allied
and Cassens will continue in seg-
ments and regions where they are
more competitive.

All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
/ / - &az 7e 6t 1010-CL
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
310 Maynard St-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Maynard Parkin Structure
--U,

ACORN mobilizes to save
image following scandal

Supporters make
phone calls, public
speeches to restore
credibility
LOS ANGELES (AP) - Armed
with little more than pen and pad,
ACORN organizer David Maza-
riegos hits inner-city streets to save
his embattled employer ratherthan
his usual mission of saving homes
from foreclosure.
Mazariegos approaches Jose
and Maria Rodriguez on their patio
surrounded by overflowing potted
plants and a Virgin of Guadelupe
statue and asks ifthey would speak
at a news conference about how
ACORN saved their house.
Maria Rodriguez doesn't hesi-
tate.
"The only people who helped us
were ACORN.We triedto negotiate
with the bank, but they wouldn't
listen," she says. "We paid $5,000
to a company to help us fix the loan.
They took the money and didn't do
anything."
As the nonprofit strives to
survive the worst scandal in its
39-year history - videotapes of
staffers counseling a faux pimp and
prostitute how to run a brothel -
the organization is doing what it
does best: mobilizing low-income
people. In this case, the goal is to
restore the organization's cred-
ibility.
Themobilizationeffortisunfold-
ing on several fronts. People like
Rodriguez are being asked to speak

up about how ACORN saved them.
She and her husband also agreed to
work a phone bank and bring five
new people to the next community
meeting. And ACORN officials say
people are donating more money
as they rally to the organization's
defense.
"The truth is it broke my heart,"
Mazariegos said of the scandal.
"But it doesn't faze me. It wasjust a
couple people who did this, not the
organization."
ACORN activists across the
country say being the voice for the
voiceless is the real story of their
organization. That's why they
refuse to buckle to what they see
as right-wing detractors trying to
bring down the group because it
teaches poor people to stand up for
themselves.
Their work continues, whether
its stopping bulldozing of flooded
homes in New Orleans, building
housing for the working poor in
New York City or protesting teach-
er layoffs in Los Angeles.
"Most of us have the under-
standing that we can't not do what
we do," said Tanya Harris, the
New Orleans chief organizer who
was featured in Spike Lee's 2006
Katrina documentary "When the
Levees Broke." "If we're taken out
of the equation, what is to happen
to those people? Who steps in there
and fills that void in the way we've
done? How are they heard?"
Fallout from the videotape scan-
dal has been harsh. ACORN lost
millions of dollars in federal fund-
ing and associations with institu-

the U.S. Census Bureau. Several
states, including California and
Louisiana, are investigating the
group's operations.
Inrecentyears,ithas alsoweath-
ered charges of voter-registration
fraud and a $948,000 embezzle-
ment by the founder's brother. But
the widely broadcast videotapes,
recorded on hidden camera, have
damaged the organization's cred-
ibility, perhaps irreparably.
The scandal has shaken the
group. ACORN has suspended its
tax preparation service and housing
assistance program. Foreclosure cli-
ents are now referred to counselors
at the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development.
Yet the group continues to oper-
ate.Staffers arebeingretrainedand
procedures reviewed. Activists, are
working on other types of issues,
such as the case of a New York City
woman who says she was assaulted
by a police officer.
They're also trying to drum
up cash. Last week, headquar-
ters sent a fundraising plea to
field offices under the title "Will
ACORN survive?" in a bid to make
up the loss of some $2 million in
government money. Most of the
nonprofit's $25 million annual
budget, however, comes from the
500,000 active members. They're
asked to give $10 a month, but not
all pay dues regularly.
People are responding, said
Brian Kettenring, deputy director
of national operations. He reported
a huge outpouring of online dona-
tions, but said the dollar amount

timit of 2 tickets per student, valid with student ID,regular price $35. Tickets go on sale
to the general public October 16th at 1OAM.
sDi

tions such as Bank of America and was not yet available.


6

4 - Friday, October 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com.
E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU

74C IWC4igan +

BELLA SHAH

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

A istory of homophobia

0

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Stigmatized for life
States should reconsider flawed sex offender registries
There's no question that sexual assault is wrong. But, like
other crimes, punishment shouldn't mean the end of the
offenders' lives. Highlighting this issue is the case of a
Washtenaw County teenager who is fighting to remain off the state
sex offender list for a crime he committed when he was 15. State
laws that require long-term registration on the sex offender list
even after incarceration and parole create a social stigma around
these people that ruins their lives. Michigan and other states should
reevaluate their laws on sexual offenses and work toward rehabili-
tating offenders rather than permanently ostracizing them.

Threeyears ago, athen-15-year-oldWasht-
enaw County male was convicted of second-
degree sexual misconduct after he grabbed
a female classmate and touched her breast.
The male was put on probation for 18 months,
required to complete a sex offender rehabili-
tation program, avoid contact with the vic-
tim and register his name with a nonpublic
sex offender registry for juvenile offenders.
At the age of 18, he was legally obligated to
reregister on a public adult sex offender list
for the next 22 years. But his lawyer was
able to successfully petition Family Division
Judge Darlene O'Brien to keep his name off
the public registry. O'Brien determined that
22 years of registration forbthe relatively mild
offense qualified as "cruel and unusual pun-
ishment." Washtenaw County prosecutors
are appealing the decision.
This case aptly demonstrates why the
sex offender registry is deeply flawed. This
teenager may have committed a crime, but
not one that's memory should be shackled to
him for much of his adult life. And some even
less notable crimes - like public urination
and streaking - can also land people on the
list for 25 years. Such strict penalties for less
serious crimes are patently absurd.
But having one's name placed on a public
sex offender registry is an unfair burden for
more serious offenders, too, and often pre-
vents their successful re-entrance to soci-
ety. Being placed on a registry constrains

the ability of sex offenders to find jobs or
places to live. Last winter, a Michigan home-
less man froze to death because the law pre-
vented him, as a sex offender, from staying at
local shelters. According to the Grand Rap-
ids News on Jan. 28, the local shelters also
housed women and children, meaning that
homeless sex offenders can't use them. A
more extreme example is Florida, where the
law requires convicted sex offenders to live
at least 2,500 feet from public places where
children gather. On Aug. 5, the Economist
reported that due to limited housing options
in Miami and the 2,500 feet law, many sex
offenders have no choice but to live together
under a bridge. The fact that sex offenders
are unable to find a home in Michigan and
nationwide is a tragic failing of the law.
The goal of the corrections system should
be to prepare offenders for reintegration
into society, not continue to punish them by
removing them from society forever. Instead
of prohibiting sex offenders from living
a normal life after serving their time, sex
offenders should participate in rehabilitation
programs that prevent further offense and
allow them to become productive members
of society.
Sex, offenses are terrible, but the fact that
offenders are forced to live on the streets
because of them is equally terrible. Legisla-
tures should make rehabilitation the rule,
not stigmatization.

n Saturday, film writer and
producer Tyler Perry admit-
ted on his website to being
mentally and phys-
ically abused in
his childhood, the
details of which
are all too common
in the worlds of our
black youth. One
might think that
beingbeaten bloody
by one's father, wit-
nessing him molest MATTHEW
your 12-year-old HUNTER
girlfriend *' and
being washed with
ammonia to eliminate bad germs
-better known as asthma - by one's
mother might draw sympathy. And it
did, to an extent. But many accused
Perry of being gay because, one of his
experiences included being molested
by a man he met at church.
Somewhat ashamedly, I scanned
through the gutters of black com-
munity opinion on bossip.com (black
gossip), and, for the first time, I
questioned my support of the First
Amendment. The majority of over
200 comments on Perry's online con-
fession condemned him, assuming
he must be a homosexual - a label
with which Perry does not iden-
tify. For many, Perry's molestation
proves that he is gay, which is a bad
thing to many blacks. One bossip.com
member shared his logic: "Yup, that
turned that nigga gay. Children that
get molested can sometimes turn out
gay and you can look that shit up."
On September 7, 2008, four men
attacked Tony Hunter, a gay black
man, in Washington, D.C. on the way
to a gay bar. Hunter died days later.
According to a Sept. 18, 2009 article
in the Washington Blade, one black
man, Robert Hannah, pled guilty to
manslaughter. Rev. Abena McCray of
D.C.'s Unity Fellowship church led a
ceremony where Hunter was attacked
after his death to build awareness
about black homophobia. McCray

is among a minority of outspoken
church leaders who endorse gay
rights and oppose leaders like Rev.
Lester James who condemn equal-
ity for gays. James told the New York
Times back in 1993 that "He (God)
hates the homosexual lifestyle."
In understanding the nature of
oppression related to the black com-
munity, discussions of equality should
not only be had about issues in which
whites and blacks are at odds, but also
those injustices that seem unique to
and practiced by the black community.
But it isn't as easy as putting blame
on blacks. This issue is related to whites
to the extent at which all injustices in
the black community - from crime to
poverty to the education gap - have
their roots in the historical relation-
ship between blacks and whites.
In her book, "We Real Cool," bell
hooks describes the process by which
the black man's role in the church
and at home was one of defensive
patriarchy. While she holds the black
community responsible for taking
on these roles, the roles themselves
were learned from the whites who
oppressed them. The black patriarch
was viewed as important to main-
taining a familial stronghold against
oppressive white society, and was
endorsed as such by the church. The
one remaining acceptable image of
black men was one of heterosexual
patriarchy and gays were considered
harmful to the black family unit.
Obama's former Trinity pastor,
Jeremiah Wright, also supports gay
rights. On May 20, 2008, Rick Garcia,,
political director of a Chicago-based
gay rights group, told The Washing-
ton Post, "Trinity has been among
the strongest supporters of LGBT
rights ... I have the highest regard and
admiration for Rev. Wright." Even if
these accepting black churches are a
minority, acceptance by religious fig-
ures speaks to a doctrine of greater
acceptance, and works to counteract
bigotry elsewhere.
But I think those who oppose gay

rights today have already lost the
battle, as new gay rights triumphs are
made every year. Same-sex marriages
are now legal in Massachusetts and
Connecticut. In the past two years,
New York, Oregon, Connecticut,
Iowa, Vermont, New Hampshire and
other states have made significant
progress toward establishing equal
rights for gays. But just as slavery
existed as discrimination for 100
years after it was banned, discrimina-
tion against gays, especially by those
who submit to limited definitions of
men and women, will continue for a
longtime before full acceptance.
Black intolerance
of gays is rooted in
racial history.
So while we are waiting on the world
to change, we can find some solace in
the timeless contributions of numer-
ous gay blacks, all of which, to some
extent, are widely accepted in the
black community. Lee Daniels was the
producer of Academy Award-winning
film Monster's Ball; Audre Lorde was
a prolific poet and activist in the '60s;
Octavia Butler was a brilliant fiction
writer; James Baldwin is one of the
most recognized African-American
writers in the world - to name just a
few. The more openly gay role models
we have, the more we can cherish the
representatives of our common strug-
gle for equality. Even though Tyler
Perry has never identified himself as
gay, if he or any other prominent face
in the black community (like Kanye
West or LeBron James) were gay and
publicly and they came out, I think it
would be fantastic for further accep-
tance in the black community.
- Matthew Hunter can be
reached at majjam@umich.edu.

0

0

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Daily wrong - those against LGBTQ march for equality
gay marriage not a minority combats misinformation

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity
and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
Skewing the curve

a

a

TO THE DAILY:
"The fact that this injustice has been pushed
onto most of the country by a hateful, socially
conservative minority is fundamentally wrong..."
Even in a commentary that consisted of little
other than delusion, this particular delusion
stood out more glaringly than the rest in the Dai-
ly's Thursday editorial condemningthe marriage
protection amendments approved by voters so far
in 30 states (Taking back marriage, 10/08/2009).
For the Daily editorial staff, who obviously
aren't majoring in political science, and appar-
ently missed even rudimentary eighth grade civ-
ics, here's how direct democracy works:
State constitutional amendments defin-
ing marriage as only between one man and one
woman have been enacted because a majority of
voters in 30 states - not a minority, "hateful" or
otherwise. Infact, the average percentage of the
vote in favor of those 30 state amendments has
been a super-majority of well over 60 percent.
Here in Michigan, our Marriage Protection
Amendment was approved by 59 percent of vot-
ers, including - according to Detroit Free Press
and Detroit News pre-election and election-day
exit polls - two-thirds of union households and
two-thirds of African-Americans. It passed with
majorities in the cities of Detroit, Flint, Saginaw,
Benton Harbor and multiple others with large
African-American populations.
Michigan's amendment was also approved
by a ten-point margin in Hamtramck, a notable
example since four years later, that city voted 87
percent in favor of Barak Obama for president -
meaning lots of those "hateful, socially conser-
vative" Obama supporters had to have voted for
it. Come to think of it, doesn't President Barack
Obama say that he too is against redefining mar-
riage? Does the Daily's editors think we should
sign him up for "hateful, socially conservative
minority" as well? If they're pushing mathemati-
cal as well as moral relativism, maybe so.
What's far more likely is that the Daily's edi-
torial writers are so far left and so intractably
intolerant of those with a diversity of opinion on
this issue that they really do think anyone who
dares disagree with them - including most union
members, most blacks, even half of all Demo-
crats - really are all a bunch of hatemongers. But
isn't falsely labeling and maligning people just
because you don't agree with them the very defi-
nition of prejudice and hate? Sadly, such prejudi-
cially hateful stereotyping of any who disagree is
a commonly observable tactic of those who sup-
port radically redefining marriage and will toler-
ate no resistance.
In 30 states so far, the minority - who I won't
call any names - have been those who voted
against constitutionally affirming that marriage
is and always should be only between one man
and one woman.

TO THE DAILY:
On Friday around 10:00 p.m., a charter
bus will load a group of University students
and deposit them in Washington, D.C., for a
weekend of grassroots education and activ-
ism focused on one thing: full and equal rights
under the law for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans-
gender and queer people. These Wolverines
will join thousands of other LGBTQ people and
their Allies at the National Equality March;
The National Equality March comes at a time
where LGBTQ people are on the cusp of gain-
ing rights denied to them in a number of areas:
the right to serve openly in the armed forces,
the right to work without the fear of unjust
dismissal and the right to have their social con-
tracts recognized by the federal government,
to name a few. Never before have Congress and
the President been more active in discussing
the lives of the LGBTQ community, but discus-
sion is not action. The National Equality March
is an opportunity to give that extra push - a
way for LGBTQ people and their allies to state
clearly, "the time is now." Surely, eyes and ears
will be on Washington Saturday night, where
President Barack Obama will be speaking at the
Human Rights Campaign Annual Dinner. It's
unclear what statement he will make, but many
hope for more than an excuse for inaction and
another plea for patience.
. The National Equality March moves forward
with the weight of history at its back. The actu-
al day of the March - Sunday, Oct. 11 - falls
on the thirtieth anniversary of the first March
on Washington in 1979. This march birthed
National Coming Out Day, celebrated every
year on Oct. 11. The premise of National Coming
Out Day is both simple and infinitely complex
- celebrate and embrace your authentic identi-
ties and be OUT. National Coming Out Day is
a strong vehicle in combating the gads of mis-
information about the lives of LGBTQ people.
In being OUT in our identities, we boldly state
that LGBTQ people are all around - leading
healthy and fulfilling lives as your colleagues,
neighbors, professors and friends.
When we return from the National Equal-
ity March, there will be work to do. Organizers
of the march expect people to return to their
communities and enact change in congressio-
nal districts statewide. Even in our own resi-
dence halls and classrooms, we need to actively
and proactively stand against homophobia,
hate and discrimination. If you cannot join us
in Washington, then join us when we get back.
You can be an important partner in the work
for LGBTQ equality through your involvement
in programs like the LGBTQ Ally Training Pro-
gram or the National Coming Out Week rally.
For more information, visit SpectrumCenter.
umich.edu.

A mong the whispers about
midterms, paper deadlines
and who's going out at night,
one topic sneaks
its way into count-
less conversations
in the supposedly
"silent" graduate
library - Adderall, s
a prescription drug
intended to help
people with atten-
tion-deficit hyper- LEAH
activity disorder POTKIN
and similar disor-
ders concentrate.
But with papers to
write, tests to ace and bars to frequent,
many University students sans ADHD
couldn't manage without the help of
this friendly and easily available pill.
Or at least that's what many think.
Adderall increases the flow of neu-
rotransmitters in the brain, strength-
ening a person's ability to concentrate
forextended periodsoftime.Forthose
diagnosed with ADHD, Adderall can
relieve symptoms and help to per-
form daily activities. But many undi-
agnosed students wrongly ' assume
that Adderall is a safe and innocuous
cure-all for poor study habits.
And though pulling an alj-nighter
without the distraction of snacks and
TV shows may boost a student's GPA,
the long-term consequences may out-
weigh the short-term benefits. Study-
hungry students should consider both
the physical and mental consequences
of taking this drug before popping
their first 20mg dose.
I have never tried Adderall. I've
been tempted, but the cons continu-
ally seem to outweigh the pros. I have
read all of the warnings, heard all of
the praise and ultimately decided the
drug isn't for me. But my lack of first-
hand experience doesn't discredit my
opinions, so hear me out.
While the medical literature on

Adderall lists the normal litany of pos- her newfound source of income as a
sible side effects (difficulty sleeping, study-style drug dealer.
dizziness, dry mouth, loss of appetite, Thanks for the offer, but from one
nausea, nervousness, restlessness, scattered brain to another, even tak-
etc.), these are admittedly infrequent ing something that makes the arduous
and not an overriding concern. If any- task of studying more palatable doesn't
thing, side effects such as loss of appe- make me want to risk losing confidence
tite only encourage students whose in the study habits that have gotten
favorite study snacks include cheesy me this far. If I did choose to take it,
bread from Pizza House and colliders I might begin to underestimate my
from Rod's. natural abilities and become reliant on
I am more fearful of the psycho- the drug-. and that scares me. I know
logical impact associated with Adder- many users only diagnose themselves
all - on those who use it and believe as Adderall-needy during midterms or
that success in school might be impos- final exams, but as with many drugs,
sible without it, and on non-users dependency is a related concern. The
who may harbor resentment over the problem starts when reliance sets in -
unfair advantage it could provide. This and itnvery easily can.
advantage could pressure students
who feel their GPAs are at risk due to
the enhanced abilities of classmates Adderall isn't
who use the drug. At this point, the e te
stakes have been raised, and it's only
a matter of time before students feel great study buddy
forced to try Adderall simply to keep
up with over-stimulated peers. After students think.
all, how could they compete with those
able to study for hours on end without
sneaking a single snack break or Face-
book check? Despite my reservations, it's unde-
Let's first state the obvious - Adder- niable that the Adderall epidemic is in
all is not intended for recreational use. full force. Even my pediatrician was
But when used by studiers to get an shocked (thoughrelieved) tohearIhad
extra boost, the drug can give undiag- never tried it. It worries me that when
nosed users an undeserved leg up. In , I told a friend I was writing an article
the same way that steroidsgive athletes about this issue, he was quick and
unfair advantages in sports, Adderall unashamed to say that he would read
does so for school. We all know how it but it definitely wouldn't change his
competitive Wolverines can be both mind or study habits. But in the spirit
on the field and in the classroom, and of at least slowing the epidemic, I chal-
the Adderall obsession may skew the lenge all the self-prescribed Adderall
playing field. addicts out there to set your pills aside
Dispensing prescription drugs is and settle down in a quiet room with
illegal, yet the buying and selling of a cup of your favorite coffee. If you
Adderall has become so commonplace trust yourselves as much as you trust'y
that students with true prescriptions an unprescribed dosage, you might be
hardly think twice when sharing (or surprised at the results you get.
selling) their beloved study buddy
with an eager classmate. Just today, - Leah Potkin can be reached
one of my classmates boasted about at Ipotkin@umich.edu.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke,
Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

0

Gary Glenn Gabe Javier
The letter-writer is president of the American The letter-writer is assistant director of the
Family Association of Michigan. Spectrum Center.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 9, 2009 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October 9, 2009 - 5


Love, music
is in the Air
By JASMINE ZHU with fervent violins, bringing to
DailyArts Writer mind visions of film noir, smoky
jazz clubs and silent-screen sirens.
If the first stage of love con- Sometimes, however, the pur-
jures images of poseful aggression of Love 2 has
infatuation and * a jarring, wince-inducing effect.
new beginnings, "Night Hunter" disconcertingly
then its subse- Air juxtaposes mellow instruments
quent stage must Love 2 like clarinets and vaguely oriental
be a progression Virgin piano against extremely discor-
from it - some- dant synth and antagonistic gui-
thing much more tars stretched and bent far out of
nuanced and developed. This is tune.
certainly the case with Air's latest The unimpressive closer "Afri-
album, Love 2. can Velvet" may leave listeners
Nicolas Godin and Jean-Benoit wondering if there is a Love 3 in
Dunckel, the French duo known the works. The song trails off to
as Air, have opted for a bolder, an unimpressive ending making
more direct sound with their lat- it feel like an unfinishel thought.
est album. As a result, the album feels incom-
Love 2 opens aggressively with plete.
"Do the Joy," featuring heavy Holistically, vocals play a sec-
synth, prog guitar and a robotic ondary role to the supple and
voice intoning phrases in very richly layered ambient instrumen-
harshly accented French. The song tation, which comprises much of
sets the auditory precedent for the ' the album's overall appeal. Air is
album, which takes an unexpected renowned for its moody tone, but

"You know what sucks? Having your nostrils perpetually clogged by a mustache."

A n w neighborhood

'Family Guy' spin-off gets
by on its source material
but breaks no new ground
By ERIC CHIU
DailyArts Writer
You can't escape Seth MacFarlane.
Now, that's not necessarily a negative state-
ment, just a restating of the
obvious. Besides creating and -**J
currently starring in Fox's
"Family Guy" and "Ameri- The
can Dad!," MacFarlane regu- aeiand
larly appears on co-star Seth
Green's show "Robot Chick- ShoW
en," heads his own online Sundays at
comedy series, acts on the 8:30 p.m.
side and has a recurring role
on ABC's fall drama "Flash- Fog
Forward."
But considering how increasingly difficult
it is to turn to ahy given channel and not see
something related to MacFarlane, "The Cleve-
land Show" - a spin-off of"Family Guy" - rais-
es the obvious question: Does the world really
need another show from Seth MacFarlane? It's,
a question "The Cleveland Show" isn't particu-
larly sure how to answer.
"The Cleveland Show" revolves around

Cleveland Brown (voice of Mike Henry), a
recurring character on "Family Guy." Tired of
playingsecond fiddle to Peter Griffin and want-
ing to move on after a divorce, Cleveland and
his son Cleveland Jr. move back to his home-
town, where he meets up with a former high
school crush and ends up becoming a father for
her and her kids.
From the hyper-saturated "Sanford And
Son"-esque opening theme to the leisurely
rate at which the show develops its setting and
cast, it's clear"The Cleveland Show" aims to do
something different than "Family Guy."
The story line moves at a somewhat more
deliberate pace than the other shows in Mac-
Farlane's oeuvre, but that's not saying much.
The show makes occasional use of cutaway
gags - the nonsequitur scenes that "Family
Guy" is known for - but there's a conscious
effort to give the show less of a gag-per-minute
mentality, putting it closer in toneto shows like
"King of The Hill."
As admirable as those aims might be, the
execution only occasionally hits its mark.
There's a common thread in MacFarlane'swork
of defying convention, whether it's the anar-
chistic disregard "Family Guy" has toward the
sitcom format, throwing in musical interludes
and cutaway gags at random points or the sheer
bizarreness of "American Dad!"
Right now, though, "The Cleveland Show"
lacks both the teeth of its less conventional

cousins and the emotional base to support its
loftier ambitions. On "Family Guy," Cleveland
was always a capable foil to the absurdity of
any given episode, but anchoring an entire
series around a character who is essentially a
generic straight man requires a kind of finesse
the show doesn't yet have.
The show's premise adheres to especially
tired genre tropes - Cleveland has to deal with
quirkily precocious sons, a combative teenage
daughter and his stereotypical neighbors. But
there's never really a sense that MacFarlane,
along with co-creators Mike Henry and Rich
Appel (who all worked on "Family Guy") know
how to tell a story without a cutaway gag.
Even with the twists "The Cleveland Show"
applies to the traditional sitcom formula - for
example, Cleveland and his new family live
next to a talking German bear couple voiced by
MacFarlane and, inexplicably, political com-
mentator Arianna Huffington - the unadven-
turous writing is bland, straddlingthe political
incorrectness of "Family Guy" and the emo-
tional heart of "King of the Hill," but never
finding a comfortable balance in between.
"The Cleveland Show" isn't terrible - the
pilot has the occasional sharp joke, with Tim,
the bear husband, regularly stealingthe scenes.
But for a show that's ostensibly "The Cosby
Show" by way of Seth MacFarlane, it's remark-
ably tame and, consequently, can't help but feel
like squandered potential.

turn for aband known mostly for its
dreamy, "light as air" harmonies.
Lead single and album stand-
out "Sing Sang Sung" is one of
the record's frothier offerings. At
times, the timbre of the vocals is
strangely reminiscent of of Mon-
treal's Kevin Barnes. It's not sur-
prising, given that both groups
are influenced by the same '70s
synthesizer sounds. The song is
deliciously coy and unhurried,
with jaunty tambourines accom-
panying breathy vocals, skillfully
offsetting the album's largely
assertive feel.
In contrast, "Missing the Light
of Day," another standout, follows
the aggressive mien of the opening
track with a pounding, insistent
rhythm and fluid harp melodies,
which add a layer of atmospheric
complexity to the song. The song
has an understated, yet energetic
and danceable beat.
"TropicalDisease," also employ-
ing this more forcefulsound to pos-
itive effect, is perfect for lounging
around in a velvet dressing gown
while languidly smoking a pipe.
Sultry saxophone quickly segues
into a James Bond-like theme rife

The most
aggressive Air
you'll ever hear.
the bold aggression of atmospher-
ic sounds is used to mixed results
on its latest album. At times, the
aggressive tone is too deliberate
and overworked, clashing against
Air's traditionally more delicate
sound. It's unfortunate none of the
songs on the album quite live up to
the new direction offered by the
promising opening track.
Love 2 is an enjoyable, lis-
tenable album, but it certainly
doesn't compare with Air's best
works (Talkie Walkie, Moon Safa-
ri). Despite all this newly inserted
aggression, Love 2 remains a rela-
tively innocuous album, lacking
Air's signature cheekiness and
poignancy.
As in real life, love is good, but
it isn't necessarily all it's cracked
up to be.


Connecting through Twitter

By LEAH BURGIN
For the Daily
At 3:50 p.m. on Sept. 26, I looked
down at my phone and saw I had a
message from Twitter. The update,
short and to the point, read "zinger-
man's bliss #annarbor." I promptly
started to freak out - not because I'm
a fan of Zingerman's (though I am)
or because I love Ann Arbor (which I
do), but because the person who made
that update was none other than
Edward Droste, the vocalist, guitarist
and pianist for acclaimed band Griz-
zly Bear.
Edward Droste is just one of the
millions of people using Twitter, the
ubiquitous online micro-blogging site
that limits tweeters to 140 characters
-per entry. Since the site's creation in
2006, Twitter has been used by presi-
dential candidates, celebrities, pro-
testers and - of course - the plain
Janes and average Joes convinced that
everyone cares about their answers to
Twitter's famous question: "What are
you doing?"
According to The New York Tines,
Twitter's creators intended the site to
be a "mixture of messaging, social net-
working, 'microblogging' and some-
thing called 'presence,' shorthand for
the idea that people should enjoy an
'always on' virtual omnipresence."
This, for many people, is the appeal of
Twitter - the constant feeling of inter-
connectedness, of being able to keep
tabs on friends and family members.
However, for me, Twitter has tran-
scended this realm of provincial post-
ings, opening the pearly gates to the
heaven of indie stalker-dom. Sure, I
"tweet" a little and occasionally look
at my friends' Twitter profiles, but I
spend most of my time following the
lives of indie celebs.
In addition to Edward Droste, I
follow such prodigious individuals
as Chris Bear (also of Grizzly Bear),
Rostam Batmanglij and Ezra Koenig
of Vampire Weekend, Owen Pallett of
Final Fantasy, Nico Muhly (a contem-
porary composer) and Vincent Moon
(an independent filmmaker who cre-
ates music videos for indie bands).
It may seem a bit unhealthy - or
pathetic - that I wish to be constantly
updated with whatever 140-character

bone the
me. But
tedly, q
these ad
ter is ex
Also,
where a
music vi
sions. B
time blo
informa
feel a bit
Twitt
Pallett w
ver show
concert-
ing abou
We alsol
Barnesi
John Oa
of Unde
zine w
h
inc
thr
some mu
about las
cial deal
which is
who pro
budget (
Follow
ers also
what m
when th
ing or r
Muhlyh
Scrabble
words t
which on
receive n
no ATE!
no" at ra
It's er
geniuses
Nico M
Massage
lett? Wh
@crbear

ese indie titans wish to throw Twitter is the one place where I
in all actuality, being (admit- can observe these indie behemoths
uite loosely) connected with stripped ofalltheirpovers,made mor-
imirable individuals via Twit- tal by the effects of everyday life. Nico -
tremely enriching. Muhly: "There is never any neosporin
Twitter is often the place in Europe." Chris Bear: "Damn.....Den-
rtists first post a link to new tist tomorrow..."
dens, interviews or photo ses- Contrastingly, Twitter is also the
y using Twitter, I spend less one place where I can fully observe
ig-hopping and get the same the gap between the lives of us human
ltion sooner. Plus, it makes me weaklings and those of the indie-
more "in the know." famous. Ezra Koenig: "this week, we
er followers knew that Owen got shouted out by Miley Cyrus and
was goingto cancel his Vancou- dissed by Alice Cooper. next week:
ron Sept. 25 before many of the iCarly and the Nuge?" Edward Droste:
goers did, as he began tweet- "Can't believe I just met Brian and
it his flu diagnosis at 9:09 a.m. Lizzie of Gang Gang Dance at a wed-
knew that of Montreal's Kevin ding in south of France, and on friday
interviewed Daryl Hall and we play together! #small world."
tes for the most recent issue But, most importantly, Twitter
r the Radar before the maga- makes me feel like I have a legitimate
as distributed. Additionally, connection to these formerly distant
individuals. When Edward Droste
tweeted about Zingerman's the day of
the Grizzly Bear show in Ann Arbor, it
Fj inding the gave me a crumb of happiness to know
that we have something in common.
uman side of It was nice to know that Chris Bear
thought enough of Ann Arbor to tweet,
die musicians "Michigan theatre is beautiful. Super
nice folks. Got our zingerman's fix in.
'ough Tweets. reunited w/ beach house."
Through these specific tweets and
countless others before them, Edward
Droste and Chris Bear have become
usicians will post information more than indie icons - they've
st-minute ticket offers or spe- become individuals, personalities
s on upcoming album releases, with which I can identify. And know-
always appreciated by those ingmore about these two indie moguls
'crastinate and follow a strict added a whole other dimension to the
like me). Grizzly Bear show this September - it
wing famous indie Twitter- was the best Bear performance I had
satisfies my curiosity about ever seen.
y favorite artists are doing For indie-stalkers like me, Twit-
hey're not performing, writ- ter is a gold mine of information and
ecording. Most recently, Nico anecdotes. It may be creepy. It may be
as become addicted to iPhone pathetic. But it's always interesting to
and constantly posts which know how some of the brightest and
he program recognizes and most fascinating individuals of the
nes it doesn't. It is hilarious. I musical world chose to answer the
messages like "YOGA yes ZEN question "What are you doing?" Fur-
N no SHIVA yes SH yes SHH thermore, when their answer to this
ndom intervals. question is something along the lines
ndearing to see these indie of "Thanks Michigan!" (as it was for
tease each other via tweets. Edward Droste at 11:50 p.m. on Sept.
uhly: "Who left Calendula 25), a bond is formed between stargaz-
Oil in my house!? @owenpal- er and star. And in the end, that's what
o all else has been up in here. social networking - and music - are
(Chris Bear)?" all about: connecting.

Witches ain't shit.
Black-magic predictability

By CHRISTINA ANGER
For theDaily
With fantasy storylines like those found in
"Twilight" and "Harry Pot-
ter" intriguing the masses,
it seems any form of magical
realism is a recipe for success. Eawd
With this assumption in mind,
"Eastwick," based offthe John Wednesdays
Updike novel "The Witches at10 p.m.
of Eastwick," seemingly sets ABC
itself up for the ratings of a
lifetime. Its premiere, though,
is a series of predictable events with stereotypi-
cal characters. For good measure, let's just say
the magic wasn't there.
Eastwick is a small town with a history
filled with magic and supernatural myths. The
opening scene sweeps the audience through
a festival on a crisp day reminiscent of Hal-
loween. After wishing upon a fountain, three
women find themselves drawn together by a
mysterious force and begin to discover powers
they never knew they had.
Roxie (Rebecca Romijn, "Ugly Betty"), Joan-
na (Lindsay Price, "Lipstick Jungle") and Kat
(Jaime Ray Newman, "Made of Honor") find
themselves strangely linked to Eastwick's new
businessman, Darryl Van Horne (Paul Gross,
"Slings and Arrows"). Van Horne unleashes
each woman's inner powers, which does abso-
lutely nothing except completely give away
every aspect of the unsurprising plot. Roxie
is the developing psychic; Joanna plays the
uptight-nerd-turned-seductress; and Kat nur-
tures her motherly character with the power to
call upon nature.
A plot in which three witches deal with the
unknown forces of a man who seems to know
more about their powers than they do them-

selves has some appeal to it. Even so, it cannot
be stressed enough that every scene is either
predictable or literally predicted earlier in -the
show. They are, after all, witches.
The writers of "Eastwick" must have forgot-
ten that fact. While psychic powers are fasci-
nating, there's something to be said about a
surprise here and there. Each woman's deepest
desire manifests itself in the witch's individual
power, and the plot insinuates that trouble will
ensue. Of course, as a townswoman blatantly
implies, the fate of Eastwick will undoubtedly
be in the hands of the women and puppeteer
Van Horne.
As for a bright spot in the program, the
ambiance is delightful. The deep autumn col-
ors presented throughout most scenes create
a sense of fall nostalgia, the kind that easily
Halloween nostalgia
and nothing else.
slips into the childish fun of anything magical.
"Eastwick," though, isn't trying hard enough
to become the mystifying show it could be. The
three witches don't question their newfound
powers as much as they should and Darryl Van
Horne isn't nearly as creepy as he should seem,
beinga man who has control over the trio. It's
safe to say the' witches' individual character-
istics are banal, but perhaps the series will
develop each of the characters more deeply,
eventually pulling more out of the acting than
the writing itself.
"Eastwick" isn't a show that will cast its spell
as wide as other magical mediums have in the
past. And as for that slight feeling of nostalgia, a
bite into a caramel apple will suffice.


6- Friday, October 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daly
025 students
,~Zinto the
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School r
734-222-9033. www.jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRALCampus-
covered and uncoved. Call"
734-995-9200 for details.

R E ALT Y
Now Leasing for May/Fall 2010
Houses that accommodate
up to 20 people
Immediate Occupancy Available
Hundreds of Central Campus
Houses Available

1998 BMW 540. Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner.
734-429-2850 or bcrider@umich.edu
4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furmished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
' CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734)972-7368
HORVATHPROPERTIES.COM
! BEAUTIFUL HOMES 11
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campss, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air,3Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylatumich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
1!!! 4 LG. Bdrm. house. 5 person.
Mary Ct. at IM bldg. Ldry., prkg. May-
May $2210. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Let's
make a deal. Avail. Fall '09. On
Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free offstreet
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
&6 6BDRMHOUSES
MAY 2010
PROPERTIES
-663-5609
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
20 PERSON HOUSE available fall
2010. Located Near Oakland and Hill.
Call 734-995-9200 for details.

Realty
Page
The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn't stop
students from thningabout housing early,
so why should you? Advertise leases for
now, May, and Fall2aoio! Reach over 40,ooo
studentsandotherUniversitymembers.
Presentedby The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22
Published Oct. 28
dailyclassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com,
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
I drrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
d &Se Tx ChF a
734-663-1530
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White
www.keysmanagement.net
AVAILABLE NOW 1 bdrm. on, S.
Forest near South U. 734-996-2836.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heal/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
BASEMENT BDRM & Bath avail-
able. Free prkg, Indry, cable, util, heat.
Quiet, near campus, non smoking.
$450/mo. 1013 Rose Ave. Call CK
Eaton at 734-663-8925.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759

Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Now taking reservations
for fall 20101
Studios, 1,2, 34, & 5 bdrms & Houses
See our 23 locatios at www.varsiymonag.m.rd.com
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
WANTED GRAD STUDENT/ profes-
sor. New I bdrm. Chelsea apt. $625.
Util, elec., cable, DSL. Country hse on
100 acre nature preserve. 734-475-0291.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

ne>'o O e
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.om
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car port,W/D in unit,
$950/mo., all appliances, water in-
cluded. Call 734-395-5288.
Pfkiani@gmail.com
HOUSE FOR FALL 2010. 1 block to
CCRB. Furnished. For 7-8 persons.
Fireplace. 7 prkg spaces. Dshwshr/A/C.
$4095, plus util. 734-996-8506.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
$1100-$1650, No smtkgno pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit wwwCampusMgtcom the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
the daly classifleds..
they're kind of a big dea.
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealtyco.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. aps. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy just 5 minutes walk
to the Uniot. Heat. Water. Furnishings.
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
ROOM FOR RENT in 2000 sq. ft
house near U of M North Campus.
$550/month. A/C, wshr/dryer, dwshr,
garage prkg, basement storage, dogs
and cats welcome. 734-668-6152
Pfe R EMiE igaT Twil
PRSE NTS, THE

SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
A nn Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

LABORATORY RESEARCH AS-
SISTANT. U-M Dept. Human Genet-
ics, basic molecular biology lab duties.
Chemistry or biochemistry knowledge
required. 10 hours per week, consistent-
schedule. Possible extension of posi-
tion thru summer 2010. Contact Dr. D.
Burke at dtburke@umich.edu or
647-3823.
NECTO IS ACCEPTING applica-
tions from energetic STUDENTS for:
Bartender, Cashier, Waitress, and Door-
person. Please apply IN PERSON, at
516 E. Liberty Mon-Wed from 12-4pm.
NEW SOCIAL PORTAL that pays
$300-$500. Get on the ground floor..
Act Now! http://www.ps101.info
Daily Classifieds:
serving the Uoffl
You've community for
been hundreds upon
Served hundreds or so
years.
OCCASIONAL HORSE BARN help
wanted. Experience pref. 995-0092.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey tukers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey. .
www.GetPaidTol'hink.comn
THE SALVATION ARMY of washte-
naw county is hiring belt ringers for the
holiday season. Monday thru Saturday
seasonal and temporary employment.
For information 734-668-8353. 100 Ar-
bana Drive. Ann Arbor, MI 48103. Spe-
cial recruitment day on October 15th,
tOAM-3PM.

" 95
CHILDCARE NEEDED: EARLY
mornings or late afternoons. Driving
required. $10.00/hr. 747-9484.
tickets & travel
10 C
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

LOOKING FOR VOLUNTEERS to
help save and protect history and open
spaces on Mackinac Island. Needed
also active involvement of professors
and departments, to help to save areas
on the state park island, which has a
unique history and importance, nation-
ally, but especially, because itis owned
by us, to Michigan. 1-866-MAC-ISLE
Done the1
Sudoku yet?

ON ARBORETUM NEAR campus
and midtown A2, Historic, Frank Lloyd
Wright-type, sublet: 4 bdrms, 2 baths,
Nov or Dec 734-662-7924.

I
it


1
1
1
1
1
1
2
2
2
2
2
3
3
3
4

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Like glowing 30 Library volumes? 48 "Peachy keen!"
1 Heartless coals 31 Avian 48 'For Ma and
rRn in atrffic 4 Hall of Fame homemaker MyrM d
jam? second baseman 33 Hook (up) 50 Bay window
9 "_ fan tutte": Bobby 34False god 53 Wildebeests
Mozart opera 5 Stem with a bow 35 Brute 54 Indian
13 Hodgepodge 6 Chain that serves 36 Weapon in Clue mausoleum city
14 Aquarium the Grand Slam 38 Hardly at all 55 Flueacoat
clapper breakfast 42 "When I'm ready" 57 Dallas cager,
15 Be silent, in 7 Fall behind 44 The King briefly
music 8 "Strange Magic" 45'Lathered up 58 He's next to
16 Tropical fruit that band 46 Foodfowl Teddy on Mount
grows 9 Bay of Naples 47 Battery terminal Rushmore
underground? isle
18 Autobahn autos 10 Continental ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Exceeded, as a divide? D R A C O L Ell A J A Y Z
budget 11 Baseball
2o Ankle-swelling commissioner R U M O R A A R P I R A E
cause sincethe '90s ELOPE STOP S H O R T
1 Church game 12 "' big deal" D E C A L S I N 4 A N D A
played with cans 15 Military D R O P S H O T M U D
and bottles? higher-ups L E A P A I S L E Y
24 Workout unit 170G.1. ration
7 More cunning 20 Witnessed E D I E N IPPE R D O
8 Not away visiting M O M A N D P O P S T O R E S
2 Michigan college 22 Enduring opus I D S A S S I S T L E N T
town 23 Navel buildup L O O K S E E R E D
7 Italiantcheese 24 Bailiff's request O C T C H O P S U E Y
from the Florida 25 Cumpound
Keys? containing a
39 Sobs hydmxl group C O VE R TOPS DOU G S
40 Fictional author 26 Spittingsound A R E A U T E S E R R O N
of "The World 29 Giant great who 0 E A N G O R Y S E A T O
According to wore #4 xwordeditor@aocom 0/08/09

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iservnet
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., Part time, will
train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Cale, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
smart@branfuse.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(7 6 4 -1111111
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.co M

9
2

9o
5

4
1

2
7

For Saturday, Oct. 10, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Just because you have great ideas
about how to make improvements at
work - or possibly how to improve
your health - don't try to convince oth-
ers to jump on your bandwagon. They
might not agree!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Avoid power struggles with children
today. Similarly, romantic arguments
could erupt because you or others are
entrenched in your views. Lighten up!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Avoid domestic arguments today.
Instead, use your energy to make
improvements at home, especially to
bathrooms, plumbing and garbage areas.
Get rid of what you don't need!
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Quite likely, you're obsessed about
something today. You have a one-track
mind. In one way, this is good for getting
things done, but in another way, it's hard
to relate to others when you're like this!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You're very focused about money
issues today. You might be similarly
obsessed about something you own or
want to own. (Easy does it.)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Don't come on too strong with others
no matter how excited you are about
something. Quite likely, they don't share
your enthusiasm. (Yes, this is frustrat-
ing.)
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is a fabulous day to do research.
You're enormously tenacious. You're
like a dog with a bone! You won't give
up until you find what you're looking
for.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 toNov. 21)
Avoid squabbles with groups or
friends today. You're unusually intense
in all your discussions, because you're
so single-minded today. Take a deep
breath.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
I recommend that you sidestep itense
discussions with authority figures today.
It will only become an ugly clash of
wills. Who needs this? Not you!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Don't'get too hung up on a particular
subject or something related to politics
or religion. It's easy to be obsessed about
things today. (But what's the point? This
is not reasonable.)
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You feel very strongly about how to
share something today, or how to handle
your responsibilities for others. Be
aware that others might not agree with
you.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Avoid important discussions with part-
ners and close friends today. You will
probably only clash. People have a very
tiny focus today, which means they can't
see the other side - or the big picture.
YOU BORN TODAY You are careful
and precise in everything you do because
you pay attention to details; in addition
to which, you have high standards for
yourself (and others!). You know how to
make things right again. You're a won-
derful problem-solver. You're generous,
affectionate and a lover of beauty.
Partnerships are extremely important
this year. Next year, you must make an
important choice.
Birthdate of: Giuseppe Verdi, com-
poser; Nora Roberts, novelist; Brett
Favre, quarterback.

0
I
I
I

-7

mmmp

7

C 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

41 Spotogetoff 1 a2 a
43 Grant opponent ma
44 Fled what was
onceZaire? 1 1
51 Body shop
offering 1
52 SWAT team
supply z1
56 Jet trail
57 Jargon of ancient as 5a9a
Yucatdn?
59 Nanos and minis
80 Drive tha an
getaway car for,
61 Prefix with dollar
83 lastword sang a1
with champagne us as a s7
in lana
63 Presidential s,
power
64 FutureJ.D.'s s
hurdle
DOWN
1 Designer Chanel sa
2 Patron sayi of
Noway ByrDansNsaddor
(c)2009 TrbuneMedia'

s T --17 8 9 10 11 12
14 16
7 18
28
22 23
2T
0 31 32 3 34 35 38
38
40
1 42 43
48 49 50
52 3 54 55
57 58
80 61
83 64
Services, Inc. 10109109

0

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication
Rates: $430 per linefor the first issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-contact our stafftfor details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshave been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
 For Classified Display advertising, please call one ofour Account Executives

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 9, 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October 9, 2009 - 7

Action expected in lawsuit
filed by gay prof. against 'U'

From Page 1
The pretrial conference motion
also discusses the protective
orders on the case, in which both
parties are being instructed to file
motions under seal. So far, neither
party has adhered to the order.
Hammer's second motion is to dis-
solve the protective order. In an
interview yesterday, Hammer said
the motions would bringa greater
transparency to the case.
"These two motions - the pre-
trial motion and the motion to
dissolve the protective order -
are intended to bring the facts to
light and to hold the University
accountable after years of trying
to bury this case and avoid any sort
of public accountability," Hammer
said.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said in an interview

yesterday that he would not com-
ment on the motions.
"It wouldn't be appropriate to
comment ahead of the court ruling
tomorrow," Fitzgerald said. "We
need to let this play out."
A motion by the University in
2006 to have the case thrown
out claimed that the University
had no legal obligation to adhere
to its non-discriminatory policy,
because the policy only represent-
ed a "commitment" of the Univer-
sity.
However, after significant pres-
sure from faculty on campus,
the position was abandoned and
replaced by the position that the
University did not discriminate
against Hammer in denying his
tenure.
Fitzgerald admitted the change
in position had taken place, but
would not comment on why.

"We did change our legal strat-
egy in this case," Fitzgerald said,
adding that the University does
not discuss its legal strategy pub-
licly, especially in ongoing legal
matters.
Despite the lengthy process so
far, Hammer said he is commit-
ted to the case because he wants
to bring about change at the Uni-
versity..
"The primary values for fight-
ing this case is to establish some
degree of transparency and
accountability on the part of the
University," Hammer said.
Though he would not comment
extensively on the issue, Fitzger-
ald Said the University has poli-
cies in effect to safeguard against
discrimination. "The University
of Michigan clearly is committed
and remains committed to non-
discrimination," he said.

MUSADEQ SADEQ/AP
An Afghan security man asks local peaple to get out of the site of a blast in Kabul, Afghanistan on yesterday.
SolI 1u rce: Obama focuVsing
on al-Qaida, not Taliban


President will base
tough decisions
mostly on keeping
al-Qaida at bay
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama is prepared to
accept some Taliban involvement
in Afghanistan's political future
and will determine how many more
U.S. troops to send to the war based
only on keeping al-Qaida at bay, a
senior administration official said
yesterday.
The sharpened focus by
Obama's team on fighting al-
Qaida above all other goals, while
downgrading the emphasis on the
Taliban, comes in the midst of an
intensely debated administration
review of the increasingly unpop-
ular war.
Aides stress that the president's
decision on specific troop levels and
the other-elements of a revamped
approach is still at least two weeks
away, and they say Obama has not
tipped his hand in meetings that
will continue at the White House
on today.
But the thinking emerging from
the strategy formulation portion
of the debate offers a clue that
Obama would be unlikely to favor a
large military increase of the kind
being advocated by the top U.S.
commander in Afghanistan, Gen.
Stanley McChrystal. McChrystal's

troop request is said to include a
range of options, from adding as
few as 10,000 combat troops to -
the general's strong preference - as
many as 40,000.
Obama's developing strategy on
the Taliban will "not tolerate their
return to power," the senior official
said in an interview with The Asso-
ciated Press. But the U.S. would
fight only to keep the Taliban from
retaking control of Afghanistan's
central government - something
it is now far from being capable of
- and from giving renewed sanctu-
ary in Afghanistan to al-Qaida, the
official said.
The official is involved in the
discussions and was authorized
to speak about them but not to be
identified by name because the
review is still under way.
Bowing to the reality that the
Taliban is too ingrained in Afghan-
istan's culture to be entirely defeat-
ed, the administration is prepared
to accept some Taliban role in
parts of Afhanistan,.the official
said. That could mean paving the
way for Taliban members willing
to renounce violence to participate
in a central government - the kind
of peace talks advocated by Afghan
President Hamid Karzai to little
receptiveness from the Taliban.
It might even mean ceding some
regions of the country to the Tali-
ban.
In Kabul yesterday, a suicide car
bomber detonated his vehicle out-
side the Indian Embassy and killed

17 people in the second major attack
in the city in less than a month. The
Taliban claimed responsibility.
Obama has talked positively
about reaching out to moder-
ates in the Taliban since he first
announced a new Afghanistan
strategy in March. It would be akin
to, though more complicated than,
the successful efforts in Iraq to per-
suade Sunni Muslim insurgents to
cooperate with U.S. forces against
al-Qaida there.
Obama has conferred nearly
every day this week on the war, and
continued that yesterday afternoon
with Vice President Joe Biden and
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton.
On Wednesday, the eighth anni-
versary of the war launched by
President George W. Bush after the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, Obama and
more than a dozen officials in his
war council met for three hours to
focus on Afghanistan's neighbor,
Pakistan. Another of those larger
discussions - the fourth of five
currently scheduled - is set for
today, on Afghanistan. That meet-
ing also could feature the group's
first discussion of specific troop
options.
In the first two of the sessions,
which are taking place in the secure
Situation Room in the White House
basement, Obama kept returningto
one question for his advisers: Who
is our adversary, the official said.
The answer was al-Qaida, as it
was back in March.

BLOGGERS
From Page 1
Crispell said that he purpose-
fully did not cover topics that were
negative.
"I had a lot of negative things to
say," he said, "I didn't write about
how I didn't like my psych class for
example.
"I wrote about things I loved
about Michigan," he continued.
"There are a few negatives like
that at every school. I may have
mentioned I didn't like my large
lectures. But I think I was very
honest and gave a very accurate
depiction of campus life. I wrote
about being busy at meetings."
Blog entries from 2008 includ-
ed tips on the best places to study
and eat in Ann Arbor, things every
freshman should know, anecdotes
from University life, and firsthand
glimpses into clubs, performances,
campus activities and residence
hall life.
Though the University doesn't
host blogs anymore, Sanders said

admissions office officials "learned
a lot in the process."
While the University's admis-
sions office has gotten rid of stu-
dent blogs for now, other colleges
are embracing the nationwide
blogging trend.
David McOwen, communica-
tions manager for the MIT Office
of Admissions wrote in an e-mail
interview that MIT first began
using blogs five years ago and
today the site has 15 student blog-
gers.
McOwen wrote that student
blogs offer interested high school
students honest insight into the
MIT experience.
"Student blogs provide the
authentic, unfiltered view of what
it's really like to be a student at
MIT," he wrote. "It also gives pro-
spective students a chance to post
comments/questions to either the
bloggers or admissions staff."
Celena Chan, a sophomore at
MIT, wrote in an e-mail inter-
view that she never even consid-
ered attending MIT until she read
the student blogs on the school's

admissions site.
"What made me change my
mind was discovering the blogs on
the MIT admissions website," she
wrote. "The bloggers wrote about
all the crazy, cool things that went
on, on campus, and more impor-
tantly, they blogged honestly about
their journey at MIT."
Mike Hudak - a tour guide and
student blogger at Amherst - said
that student blogging is especially
beneficial for prospective students
who are unable to visit a school
before applying.
He said the only rule at Amherst
is "don't write about anything you
wouldn't say on a tour."
McOwen wrote in the e-mail
that MIT's admissions office
operates by a similar rule: that
the admissions office allows their
student bloggers free reign for the
mostpart.
"We don't give them assign-
ments or pre-screen their entries
unless they ask us to, so most of
the time we're just as excited as
the rest of our audience to read a
new post," he wrote.


MARATHONS
From Page 1
that they can have inthe field."
When a student at the Univer-
sity, Zlotoff was involved in a dual
degree program in Sociology and
Earth Systems Engineering. He
was also on the rowing team for
his freshman and sophomore years
and recently worked as a firefight-
er through AmeriCorps and the
United States Foreign Service.
While it seems that running 78
miles in five weeks should be an
undertaking for a seasoned veter-
an, Zlotoff ran his first marathon

just two years ago and has been
running ever since.
"The whole thing how I started
to get three marathons all at once
was the idea that if I'm going to
invest three or four months train-
ing for just one marathon, I might
as well do a couple while I'm in
shape," he said.
Zlotoff said there's not much
more to his training than running
a lot.
"I have a running group that
I run with from time to time, but
really you just go out and run and
as the marathon gets closer you
run more miles," he said.
With a goal of raising $2,500,

Zlotoff is more than halfway there.
He has created a website, www.
racingtoendrape.com, where sup-
porters can donate money or learn
where they candonate their time.
Inadditionto runningmarathons
for charity, Zlotoff is also working
with students at the E.L. Haynes
Public Charter School in Wash-
ington, D.C. as part of his self-pro-
claimed mission to save the world.
Zlotoff's marathon of mara-
thons begins on Oct. 18 at the
Detroit Free Press Marathon. He
will then return to D.C. for the
Marine Corps Marathon on Oct.
25 and finish with the Philadelphia
Marathon on Nov. 22.


SERIES
From Page 1
After evaluating several
options, staff serving on com-
mittees and representing units
throughout the office decided to
use Blackbaud Enterprise CRM
and Target Analytics to replace
the existing system.
Though purchasing and imple-
menting the new donor database
will cost "several million dollars,"
May said the new functions of the
system will be well worth the cost.
"It's not cheap," May said. "On
the other hand, if you keep track of
people and you get a few million dol-
lar gifts in the short period, you're
going to pay for it in no time."
May also said the new system
could help eliminate duplicate
"shadow systems" that exist at sev-
eral units across campus and hin-
der the office's ability to get all their
donor information into one central-
ized location.
"With all those shadow databas-
es, then you have inaccuracy of the
central records everybody depends
on," May said. "By spending several
millions of dollars, we're going to
try to save the base long term," May
said.
The new system will provide
greater flexibility to development
officers by allowing them to do
things the current system does
not - including simple customiza-
tion like donor title preferences and
more advanced functions that will
track donor interest areas.
May said that by having more
complete and up-to-date donor
records, development officers will
be able to target donors who may
have particular interests in cer-
tain projects. For instance, donor
records could track certain depart-
ments and organizations that alum-
ni were members of in an effort to
help raise money for those units.
"We're trying to personalize our
fundraising, and the best way we
know to do that is to have a system
where we can sort people by inter-

ests," May said, adding that virtu-
ally any interest could be tracked in
the new system.
With the current system, May
said the Office of Development is
only able to create highly person-
alized relationships with a small
fraction of donors.
"Right now, we're very personal
in our approach to about 25,000
of our alums and really in par-
ticular a little less than 10,000,"
May said, adding the develop-
ment office works closely with the
10,000because they are some of the
wealthiest donors.
With nearly 1.1 million donor
records in the current development
database, the development office
only has highly personalized rela-
tionships with less than 1 percent of
those in the system.
The new donor system is sched-
uled to be fully operational in 2012.
Elizabeth Woods, senior asso-
ciate director of marketing and
research for annual giving, said
the new system will allow annual
giving to better track and relate to
donors.
Joseph Gagliardi, senior associ-
ate director of annual giving, added
that the new system will allow the
annual giving office to more easily
track donor preferences like saluta-
tion requests and preferred means
of communications.
"It's going to open some new
doors for us to be able to account
for some of the information we
have from our donors," Gagliardi
said, adding he thought doing so
would lead to better relationships
with donors.
IMPROVING RELATIONS
The Office of Development is
also looking to improve donor rela-
tionships by creating donor stew-
ardship guidelines.
May said implementing stan-
dards will help build and maintain
relationships between donors and
developmentstaff.However, he said
it's too early to say exactly what the
standards will include.

"We have a whole team of people
University-wide who are working
on a stewardship program," May
said. "We don't know what those
standards (will be)."
Though specific standards
haven't been adopted yet, May said
they will likely include increasing
communication between staff and
donors, thanking donors for giving,
helping donors plan future gifts
and addressing concerns they may
have.
"For instance, if somebody
endows a scholarship with a
$50,000 gift or $100,000 gift, they
can expect that they're going to be
invited back to campus once a year,
that they can expect to get a letter
from the University saying 'this is
your student,' and we may even have
something where they can expect
to get a letter from the student,"
May said. "Just as an example."
Another way the office is work-
ing to improve relationships with
donors is through special events on
campus aimed at thanking donors.
Because the Michigan Difference
Campaign has been completed,
May said he viewed this year as an
appropriate time to focus on thank-
ing donors for their contributions.
"This year is the year to thank
people, so we're doing all sorts of
different activities and events," he
said.
At the same time, the Office of
Development is updating its wealth
screening records in an effort to
raise more money from donors.
By updating these records, devel-
opment staff will be able to more
effectively target individuals for
projects they are interested in and
for which they have the means to
make significant contributions.
THE NEXT CAMPAIGN
While seeking better relation-
ships with current donors and
updating information on potential
donors may help the University to
raise more money in private dona-
tions, nothing can top the level of
giving that occurs during a major

capital campaign.
The University has undergone
five major capital campaigns in its
history, with the first in the 1950s
and the most recent finishing at
the end of last year. Both the capi-
tal campaign of the 1990s and the
one that ended lastyear set national
records forthe mostraisedby apub-
lic university at the time $1.37 bil-
lion and $3.2 billion, respectively.
In capital campaigns, it is not
uncommon for individuals to com-
mit multi-year pledges, meaning
they will continue to make pay-
ments on a gift to the University
after the fundraising campaign has
ended.
This was the case with the last
campaign and is one reason May
said it would be inappropriate to
comment on when the next capi-
tal campaign would be, though
he admitted planning for the next
campaign was underway.
"I'm trying to get us ready for
(the next campaign)," May said. "I
don't know how to say this, but I'm
tryingnotto get a headline thatsays
'University of Michigan planning a
campaign,' because that comes off
as disrespectful."
In an interview earlier this year,
University President Mary Sue
Coleman said another capital cam-
paign would be launched in a few
years.
"Getting that philanthropic sup-
port is critical to keeping the Uni-
versity at the high level that it is, so
there'll be another campaign in a.
few years," Coleman said.
Coleman stressed that even
though the University may not cur-
rently be in a major campaign, the
Office of Development is still work-
ing hard to raise private support for
the University.
"When we finish a campaign,
that doesn't mean we stop fund-
raising. Full speed ahead," Cole-
man said with a chuckle. "We keep
raising money every year. We don't
stop."
In her State of the University
address earlier this week, Coleman
praised the efforts of the devel-

opment office during the down
economy, but said that donations
were falling because of the current
economy.
"Our donors have been remark-
ably generous in recent years," she
said. "But donors' investments have
decreased just as have ours, and
private support for the University
declined 22 percent this past fiscal
year."
The development office raised
about $340 million in the last year
of the Difference campaign. But
May says that annual fundraising
revenue will fall to about $268 mil-
lion for this past year.
May said the combination of the
Michigan Difference Campaign's
conclusion and the decline in the
economy were to blame for the drop
in revenue.
"We've got the double whammy
of the campaign ending and the
economic downturn," he said, add-
ing it's not unusual for either factor
to cause a decrease in giving. "It's
actually quite normal to be off after
a campaign and quite normal to be
off in an economic downturn."
Major gifts from donors - like
bequests and life income gifts -
have drastically decreased from the
last fiscal year. Bequest expectan-
cies declined from about $71.5 mil-
lion in 2008 to$61 million in 2009.
Similarly, more than $15 million in
life income gifts were received in
2008 but dropped to nearly $5 mil-
lion in 2009.
Despite the recession, the devel-
opment office will continue its
ongoing fundraising. May said staff
will continue to raise money for
projects that were priorities in the
last campaign such as construc-
tion of the C.S. Mott Children's and
Women's Hospital and a new addi-
tion to the Law School. The office
will also focus on raising money for
endowed professorships and schol-
arships.
"So far we've continued to sta-
bilize our investment in fundrais-
ing because we're in it for the long
run," May said. "We always have to
do fundraising. You just don't stop it

and start it. You have to kind of keep
it going as steadily as possible."
The economy has affected each
unit at the University differently,
causing each to tailor its fund-
raising strategies. One unit, the
Intercollegiate Athletics Develop-
ment Office -which fundraises to
support the University's 25 varsity
athletic teams - has focused its
efforts on raising money to fund
the construction of new athletic
facilities.
Joseph Parker, senior associate
athletic director for development,
said the athletic development office
has been working to secure com-
mitments for the 82 new luxury
suites being added to Michigan Sta-
dium, as the change in the economy
has caused members to shy away
from asking donors to contribute
large sums to the department.
"It's not the appropriate time in
many cases to have deep dialogue
about a major gift commitment, so a
lot of our focus in the last 12 months
has been on the stadium project,"
he said.
THE FUTURE OF THE OFFICE
Though the current economy
may have short-term effects on
the University's fundraising, May
said the long-run evolution of
development operations is more
important.
"I hope that we continue to trea-
sure our relationship with the hun-
dreds of thousands of donors that
this University has had," he said.
He added that he wants to see
the Office of Development staff
come up with "exciting" and "vital"
ideas that incorporate the Univer-
sity's resources to motivate people
to donate.
"I think we need some ideas that
are totally out of the box in terms
of it may be a new center for some-
thing, it may be a new way of teach-
ing, it may be a way of learning, it
may be a new way of engaging peo
ple in other parts of the world," he
said. "Something that we don't have
a paradigm for yet."


0

8 - Friday, October 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


0

Night game awaits Blue

By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
They say the freaks come out at
night.
The 1984 "Moonlight Madness on
Mountaineer Field" between Penn
State and West Virginia saw plenty.
And for Rich Rodriguez, the madness
started early.
That October night, the West
Virginiaseniorstartedandgrabbedan
early interception.
But Rodriguez MiChgan
was just a catalyst a JIoa
for the eventual
bedlam. Matchup:
After going Michigan 4-1;
winless in the Iowa 5-0
rivalry since 1955, When: Satur-
this West Virginia day, 8 P.M.
team was about to
make history Where: Kin-
athis st nick Stadium
under a minute TV: ESPN
left to play and Twitter:
the Mountaineers @michdailysports
up 17-14, Penn
State threw an
interception at the West Virginia
18-yard line.
Then all hell broke loose.
Fans rushed the field, taking a goal
postdownwiththem.Thescoreboard
ignored the 50-some seconds left on
the clock and read, 'WOW.'
The TV announcers declared,"The
game is not over, folks." But Penn
State coach Joe Paterno knew better.
Amid all the on-field chaos,
Paterno, who at the time held an 18-0
record against West Virginia, ran
across the field to shake the hand of
Mountaineers' coach Don Nehlen
and offered some advice.
"We can't stop the clock, and we
can'top this crowd,butthis game is
over. Let's get our teams out of here,"
Nehlen recalled in his book, "Tales
from the West Virginia Sideline."
Paterno sprinted to the visitors'
locker room, and the Mountaineers
continued with the on-field
celebration. But outside the stadium,
no one was going anywhere.

A year after a sluggish trip to Alaska,
Michigan returns with revenge on mind

Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez was 23-7 in night games at West Vir

A bonfire in the middle of a campus
street seemed like the appropriate
answer to the Mountaineers'
unimaginable win. It wasn'tquite the
style of East Lansing's Cedar Village,
but little was spared from theblaze.
"They were burning couches,
chairs and tables, lawn furniture,"
Rodriguez recalled in what he said
was his most memorable night game.
"That happened to be a block from
- the house I was renting, so I saw all
the smoke."
As the Mountaineers' head coach
from 2001 to 2007, Rodriguez was
familiar with the 'Backyard Brawl,'
West Virginia's annual rivalry with
Pittsburgh, which is often played at
night. At the helm in Morgantown,
Rodriguez was 23-7 in nightgames.
"Our players took a little extra
pride in that, because it was a special
atmosphere for them," Rodriguez
said.
Tomorrow, Rodriguez will coach
in his first night game as Michigan's
head coach when the Wolverines
travel to No. 12 Iowa. After losing to
Michigan State last weekend in East
Lansing, the Wolverines have yet to
prove themselves in a hostile road
atmosphere. With kickoff scheduled
after sunset, the lights will be on in
Kinnick Stadium, and the crowd will
likely be as rowdy.

"Sometimes the crowd gets into
it for whatever they were doing the
six, seven, nine hours before the
game," Rodriguez said with a laugh.
"They seem to be more prepared for
the game attnight than those noon
kickoffs,ifyouknow what Imean. t'm
sure their students and the fans will
be juiced up - if that's the rightword
-forthenightgame."
But if you ask Iowa Athletic
Director Gary Barta, there is a fine
line between use and abuse. For the
Hawkeyes' home games so far this
season, Bartahasn'tbeen pleased.
Barta suggested that tows fans
still have fun but do so responsibly.
Regardless whether the fans are
staying warm because of their
beverage choice or layers of clothing,
nothing could shine brighter under
the moonlight than the Wolverines'
rumored throwback ensemble.
Against Iowa, the Wolverines may
complement their white away jerseys
with white pants, but an Athletic
Department spokesman told The
Michigan Daily last night he had
"no definitive answer." The uniform
change would include everyone, even
the 300-pound linemen.
"We alreadyhave someprettyself-
conscious offensive linemen. I don't
know if that will help out," left tackle
Mark Ortmann said.

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Writer
It wasn't the performance that
Michigan coach Red Berenson
had hoped for from his new top
line.
Last November, as the Wolver-
ines left Fairbanks following a
two-game split with the Nanooks,
then-sophomore and top scorer
Louie Caporusso left as the only
first-liner to
score a goal all
weekend. Mdigan
Berenson's atAlaska
comments about
Caporusso's sin- Matchup:
gle first-line goal Aacha n 0-0;
spoke for them-
selves: When: Today,
"Your best 9PM.
players have Where: Sul-
to be your best hvan Arena
players in these Live Blog:
games," Beren- michigandaily.
son said afterthe com/thegame
game.
As No. 4 Mich-
igan returns to Alaska this week-
end to open regular season play,
Berenson is breaking in another
first line. Caporusso, sophomore
David Wohlberg and junior Ben
Winnett will have to redeem
themselves for last year's perfor-
mance. The Wolverines will face
Alaska-Fairbanks tonight and
non-conference foe Alaska-An-
chorage on Saturday.
In that first series against the
Nanooks last November, Wohl-
berg. emerged as an offensive
force, scoring two goals on the
weekend, including one in a 3-2
victory that helped Michigan
avoid a sweep.

This year may be a little easi-
er for Wohlberg and Co. - they
won't have to deal with an All.
American between the pipes for
Alaska-Fairbanks.
Last year's CCHA Player 'o
the Year and Hobey Baker Award
Finalist Chad Johnson, now a
member of the New York Rang.
ers, was a dominating force in the
net for the Nanooks last year and
allowed 1.66 goals per game.
Johnson is replaced by sopho-
more Scott Greenham, who regis-
tered three wins and a tie in five
.games of action last season.
"We don't really know a lot
about this guy," Caporusso said of
Greenham. "We obviously knew a
lot about Chad Johnson. But at the
end of the day, if we're shooting
well enough, we should beat any
goaltender."
The Nanooks play a style o
offense that players and coaches
agreed is dangerous because it
can "lull a team to sleep" and force
opposing teams to lose focus. By
employing a neutral zone trap
when Michigan crosses the blue
line, Alaska-Fairbanks will try to
limit the Wolverines' opportuni-
ties near the net.
But senior captain Chris Sum-
mers thinks Michigan is more
than capable of keeping its com-
posure, even with the high num-
ber of young, inexperienced
players that will likely see the ice
this weekend.
"We need to implement ou
own style, that's the most impor-
tant thing," Summers said. "We're
a fast offense and a shutdown
defense, so if we can beat them
we'll beat them with our speed."
The weekend's matchup also

- poses a challenge that Michi-
gan won't encounter the rest of
- the season - a 10-hour flight and
r a time difference of five hours.
The Wolverines have expressed
f
"If you want to
build momentum
t... itstarts with
this weekend."
t
f
a range of feelings in anticipation
of theoad trip, but most of all, the
team sees it as a bonding experi-
ence for its younger players.
"(Winning) makes the whole
f trip so much more positive when
you go all the way up there,"
t Berenson said. "It's not like a one-
hour bus ride ... and it's a long 10
hours coming back. It's so much
more positive when you have a
good weekend."
After opening last season with a
- relativelydisappointingiO-6 record
before cruisingto a CCHA Champi-
- onship, the Wolverines know that
starting off the conference season
- strong could make a huge differ-
- ence come March.
"If you want
to build any
momentum for
r the rest of the
- year, it starts
this week-
end,"
Sum- /
mers
said.
Guest Picker:
Michigan
Marching
Band
Drum Major
David HinesaJr.
Michigan
Florida
Colorado
Alabama
Boston College
Wisconsin
TCU
Miami
Oregon
Penn State
Oklahoma St.
Kansas
Arkansas
BYU
Oklahoma
Missouri '
Georgia Tech
South Carolina
Indiana
Michigan State
Minnesota
Northwestern
9-10
57-52-1

a

6
6

STAFF PICKS
The Daily Football writers do their
best to predict what happens Michael
Eisenstein
in the 2009 football season.

.rtI


Ruth
Lincoln

Andy
Reid


Courtney
Ratkowiak


Michigan (+8) at No.12 Iowa
No.1 Florida (-7.5) at No. 4 lSU
No. 2 Texas (-32) vs. Colorado
No. 3 Alabama (-5) at No. 20 Ole Miss
No. 5 VA Tech (-13.5) vs. Boston College
No.9 Ohio State (-16) vs. Wisconsin
No.10 TCU (-10.5) at Air Force
No.11 Miami (FL) (NS) vs. Florida A&M
No.13 Oregon (-6.5) at UCLA
No,14 Penn St. (NS) vs. Eastern Illinois
No.15 Oklahoma St (-8) at Texas A&M
No.16 Kansas (19.5) vs. Iowa State
No.17 Auburn (-2.5) at Arkansas
No.18 BYU (-17) at UNLV
No.19 Oklahoma (-26) vs. Baylor
No. 21 Nebraska (-3.5)at No. 24 Missouri
No.22 GA Tech (+3) at Florida State
No. 25 So. Carolina (-9.5) vs. Kentucky
Indiana (+7) at Virginia
Illinois (+4) vs. Michigan State
Minnesota (-3.5) vs. Purdue
Northwestern (-19) vs. Miami (Ohio)
Last Week
Overall

Michigan
Florida
Texas
Alabama
Boston College
Wisconsin
Texas Christian
Miami
Oregon
Penn State
Texas A&M
Kansas
Arkansas
BYU
Oklahoma
Missouri
Florida State
Kentucky
Indiana
Illinois
Minnesota
Northwestern
8-11
62-47-1

Michigan
Florida
Texas
Mississippi
Virginia Tech
Wisconsin
TCU
Miami
Oregon
Penn State
Texas A&M
Kansas
Arkansas
UNLV
Oklahoma
Missouri
Florida State
Kentucky
Indiana
Illinois
Minnesota
Miami (Ohio)
5-14
56-53-1

Michigan
LSU
Colorado
Alabama
Boston College
Ohio State
TCU
Miami
Oregon
Penn State
Oklahoma St.
Kansas
Arkansas
'BYU
Oklahoma
Missouri
Florida State
Kentucky
Indiana
Illinois
Purdue
Northwestern
10-9
60-49-1

Michigan
L SU
Texas
Alabama
Virginia Tech
Wisconsin
TCU
Miami
Oregon
Penn State
Oklahoma St.
Kansas
Arkansas
BYU
Oklahoma
Missouri
Georgia Tech
Kentucky
Indiana
Illinois
Purdue'
Northwestern
9-10
51-58-1

0

To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail lincolnr@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.

a

Your Path

ues at Lehigh.

Stop by our table at the
Graduate School Information Fair
on October 14 or discover
us online at
http://cas.lehigh.edu/discover.
LEHIGH
VU N I V E R S I T Y.

Discover Our Degrees in:
American Studies - M.A.
Biological Sciences - Ph.D.
Chemistry - M.S., Ph.D.
Clinical Chemistry - M.S.
Earth and Environmental
Sciences - M.S., Ph.D.
English - M.A., Ph.D:
EnvironmentalPolicy
Design - M.A.
History - M.A., Ph.D.
Mathematics - M.S., Ph.D.
Photonics - M.S.
Physics - M.S., Ph.D.
Political Science - M.A.
Polymer Science and
Engineering - M.S., Ph.D.
Psychology - M.A., Ph.D.
Sociology - M.A.

6
6

a


