P , iC i Hl1 4:3allp

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, December 14, 2009

A FIGHTER IN THE RING

michigandaily.com
Granholm
to sign ban
on smoking

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Kinesiology freshman Gabe Sheena stands on a Michigan wrestling mat on Friday. Sheena was diagnosed with osteosarcoma, a form of bone cancer, when he was eight
years old. He lost most of his left leg when he underwent surgery to remove the tumor. Sheena got his first introduction to the wrestling team the summer before his fresh-
man year in high school when he attended a Michigan wrestling camp and started competing without his prosthetic leg. For more see SportsMonday Page 1B.
GE T TING INT GRAD SCHOL
Law schools seeing increased
applicants in tough: econ, omy

State Senate and
House passed bill
late last week
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
Gov. Jennifer Granholm is soon
expected' to sign a bill that will
make Michigan the 38th state to
enact a smoking ban.
The much-discussed smoking
ban passed in both the state Senate
andthelHouse ofRepresentativeson
Dec. 10, and if signed by Granholm,
would take effect May 1,2010.
The bill prohibits smoking in all
bars, restaurants and work plac-
es, with the exception cigar 'bars,
tobacco specialty stores, home
offices and Detroit's three casinos.
Legislators included the exemp-
tion for casinos so Detroit casinos
would not have to compete with
tribal casinos, which do not have to
follow state law.
Though the bill has yet to reach
Granholm's desk, Megan Brown,
the governor's press secretary, told
The Michigan Daily that the gover-
nor will sign it once it does. '
Brown said that the governor
supports the bill because it will
make Michigan a healthier state.
"This is great news for Michi-
gan," Brown said. "This is truly a
gift for' our next generation and
this is all part of our effort toward
building healthier communities for

everyone in Michigan, for families
and kids and making it a cleaner,
healthier place."
In addition to the general health
benefits for the state, State Rep.
Joan Bauer (D-Lansing) noted the
importance of the ban in ensuring
employee safety, especially forthose
who inhale secondhand smoke on
a daily basis because they work in
establishments that currently allow
smoking.
"We are especially concerned
about the people who have to make
a choice between their health and
making a living in terms of jobs,"
Bauer said. "And so this really is
a bill first and foremost to protect
worker safety, and all Michigan
workplaces should be safe and
healthy."
State Sen. Liz Brater (D-Ann
Arbor) said that despite concerns
the ban could harm Michigan's
already ailing economy, she thinks
the state could model itself after
others that have already imple-
mented the ban.
"Many other jurisdictions -
including the state of New York, the
city of Rome - all are very success-
ful cosmopolitan. areas that have
adopted this ban without having
an adverse economic effect," Brater
said.
Many Ann Arbor bars and res-
taurants interviewed over the past
couple days agreed, sayingthatthey
think the ban will not be very det-
rimental to their businesses. While
. See SMOKING BAN, Page 8A

Business, medical challenging road ahead of them
than their peers applying to other
schools report professional schools.
Officials from law schools across
their numbers are the country are reporting a boom
time for applications, while their
holding steady counterparts at medical schools
and business schools say their num-
By NICOLE ABER bers are holding steady.
Daily StaffReporter As recent college graduates look
to avoid a bleak job hunt and the
Students looking to go to law recession forces more professionals
school next year may have a more to change careers, applications to

graduate and professional schools
- especially law schools - are
increasing, making admissions to
professional programs across the
nation more competitive than in
years past.
The University's Law School is
following the trend, with the num-
ber of applicants up 20 percentfrom
last year - the largest percentage
increase in seven years - at 3,000
this year, according to Sarah Zear-
foss, assistant dean and director of

law school admissions.
Zearfoss said she believes the
recession over the past year and
half is a major factor driving this
increase in applicants, a trend she
also saw duringthe economic down
times in 2001 and 2002. The Law
School saw a 30-percent increase
in its applicant pool between those
two years.
"My anecdotalbelief is that there
are a lot of people coming straight
See APPLICANTS, Page 8A


FACULTY HJRING
'U': Faculty hiring and
retention still strong

Former prof. lawsuit delayed til Jan.

Provost says state's
problems not
affecting personnel
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
While the stagnant economy
is affecting employers across the
state, the University continues to
retain current faculty members and
hire new staff, according to Univer-
sity Provost Teresa Sullivan.
Sullivan said the poor economy

and its implications for quality of
life - like education funding and
other publicservices - is not deter-
ring potential faculty members
from accepting jobs at the Univer-
sity. For example, she said every
person the University offered a
position in the College of Engi-
neering to lastyear accepted.
"Also, I just have to say the cali-
ber of the new faculty who joined
us this year is really high," she said
in an interviewlast month. "I think
they'll be a really great group."
Sullivan said the number of job
applicants has increased from last

year. She cited, in particular, the
Michigan Society of Fellows - a
Rackham Graduate School pro-
gram in which postdoctoral stu-
dents work on specific projects and
teach a few classes. Sullivan said
the program received 800 applica-
tions this year compared with the
100 they received last year.
In previous years, before the
economy crashed, Sullivan said the
University faced a lot of pressure to
retain faculty because other univer-
sities were heavily recruiting them.
However, she said, most other
See RETENTION, Page 8A

In hearing, lawyers
clash over details of
Hammer tenure vote
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
LANSING - Former Univer-
sity Law Prof. Peter Hammer was
handed yet another delay in his law-

suit against the University Board of
Regents late last week.
Judge James Giddings said in'a
Lansing courtroom Friday after-
noon that he would have his deci-
sion whether the lawsuit - which
alleges that Hammer was denied
tenure in 2003 because he is gay -
will go to trial by late January.
Hammer's lawsuit has not yet
developedtothe trial phasebecause
the University Board of Regents

has filed multiple summary dispo-
sitions, which, if approved by the
judge, would keep the case from
going to trial.
Richard Seryak, an attorney rep-
resentingtheBoard ofRegents,filed
the summary disposition arguing
there is a lack of evidence that the
final decision to refuse Hammer's
tenure was based on his sexuality.
The Board of Regents has
See LAWSUIT, Page 3A

CARRYING ON TRADITION

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
NIH, Medicare team to fund'U'study

Research will look
at the causes of
pulmonary disease
By GRACELIN BASKARAN
DailyStaffReporter
The National Institutes of
Health has recently joined up with
Medicare to sponsor a new study
at the University that will look into
why some smokers develop chron-
ic obstructive pulmonary disease
while others don't.
WEATHER HI: 32
TOMORROW 9

COPD is the fourth leading
cause of death in the United States,
affecting the lives of more than 12
million people. While cancer and
chronic heart disease mortality
rates have decreased, COPD is one
of the few major chronic diseases
in which the mortality rate has
increased, doubling in the last 30
years.
University researchers hope that
through this study they will not
only be able to stem the increase
but also reverse the trend.
Fernando Martinez, lead inves-
tigator for the study and direc-

tor of the University's Pulmonary
Diagnostic Services, said the col-
laboration between Medicare and
the NIH exemplifies the project's
significance.
"The government is a soloed
arena," Martinez said. "Medicare
is the largest insurance company
in the United States. The NIH has
typically been both an investiga-
tional agency that looks into bio-
logical problems as well as patient
problems."
"When the two of them come
together, it's a very unique and
See STUDY, Page 8A

zAcHARY MEISNER/Daily
Rabbi Alter Goldstein lights a hannukiah Saturday night on the Diag to commemorate the second night of Hannukah. The
lighting was hosted by Chabad of Ann Arbor and University of Michigan Hillel.

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news(4lmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
BAMN holds public hearing on campus diversity.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS ...........
Vol CXX, No.66 SUDOKU.........
(02009 The Michigan Daily OPINION...........
michioondoiiy.com

........-...2 A A R TS....................
...........3A CLASSIFIEDS........
.........4A SPORTSMONDAY..

.5A
6A
.'fB


2A - Monday, December 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, December14, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

DAILY SENIOR STAFFERS SAY GOODBYE

~The 1Mid4igan Daitm
420 Maynard Sc.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NE'WMALN
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0eat
graca@michigandaily.com rnsdbusinesa@aesailcom

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroon c
Nes Tips
Correctians
Lettes tothe Editor
Photography Departmnt
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classif ied Sales
Online Sales
Finance

oficehours:aS.-Thsurs.11 a..- 2s.m.
nes@eihigandaiy.on
correctiots@michigandaily.tee
tothedaily@enichigandaily.com
photo@miohigandiy.con
artspage@michigosdaiy.on

sports@michigandaily.omn4
display@michigandaity.con
classified@michigandaily.com
onliseads@miohigssdaily.oen
finance@miohigasdaityucon

MOO COLLINS/Daily
This is the last paper edited and produced in lange pant by this year's graduatine seniors. To read their reflections on their time at The Michigan Daily, visit michigandaily.com/goodbyeO9
Back row: Senior Photo Editor Said Alsalab, Associate Editorial Page Editor Emily Barton, Senior Ants Editor Whitney Pow, Copy Chief Katie Mitchell, Senior Design Editor Allison Ohaman,
Senior Sports Editor Euth Lincoln, Senior Sports Editor Michael Esenstein, Senior Sports Editor Alex Prosperi, Assistant Sports Editor Chris Meozaros. Front row: Managing Photo Editor
Zachary Meisner, Magazine Editor tessica Vosgerchian, Managing Ants Editor David Watnich, Editor in Chief Gary Graca, Managing Editor Courtney eathowiak, Managing Sports Editor Andy
Reid, Editorial Page'Editor Rtobert Soave, Managing Photo Editor Cut SReeder.

CRIME NOTES
Planner stolen Tire slashed

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Friday at about 2:40
p.m.
WHAT: A day planner was
stolen frnm the radiology
room, University Police report-
ed. There are no suspects.
Man exposed
WHERE: Smith Law Library
WHEN: Saturday at about
10:30 a.m.
WHAT: An man exposed him-
self while masturbating in the
north lobby, University Police
reported. The man could not
be identified.

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Friday at about 2:55
p.m.
WHAT: Asuspect slashed the
tire of avehicle, University Police
reported. There are no suspects.
Stolen equipment
WHERE: Harrison Randall
Laboratory
WHEN: Friday at about 1:30
p.m.
WHAT: Plumbing equipment
valued at $2,000 was stolen
from the loading dock outside
the laboratory, University
Polite reported.

University
Philliarmonia
WHAT: The University
Philharmonia Orchestra will
perform.
WHO: University Phil Mar-
monia
WHEN: Tonight att8 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium

Stressbusters
WHAT: A free event for
students to take breaks from
studying with food and
activities.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight from 7 to
11 P.M.
WHERE: Pierpont Commons

Anonymous, Table tennis

1A new study from Read-
ing University in Britain
found that drinking a couple
glasses of champagne a day are
promote good heart health and
blood circulation, nzherald.cono
reported. The study reports that
even inexpensive champagnes
offer positive benefits.
2The Michigan Student
Assembly recently voted
to withdraw its support
to lower the burden of proof for
students accused of violating
the University's student code.
soPOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
3For the second time in
recent weeks, a squad of
Detroit police officers mis-
took film crews shooting scenes
for crime scones in movies for
actual crime scenes because
the film crews had notcobtained
the proper permits for the city,
The Detroit News reported.

EDITORIAL STAFF
tourtneytRatkawiak MasseigEtdion rattowiat@michigasdait.on
Jacob Snillastz managing es E ditor seitorito@niohigasdaily.con
SENRoNEWS EOS:ost ronso,,JitlinBerm, Tr 'ewoCle,, 3sss
Skulls,sole Swasons,
ASSISTAsNNEWS 00DI00RS,:oe Abe, MallryJons,Emly0re, oSnehsie,
5Sinbr, EshwarOhi,,nvkkarasu
RobertSoaoe EditorialtPae Editor seoe@niohigasdaity.eorn
ASSOCIAEnDIORIoAL AGE IOSnml tn,,Brian Fet, Racnhetn Gilder
ASSSNTsEDmTOIL AE EDITnOSEm e,~se, Matt,,hew hutler
Andy Reid Managing SporsEditor reid@mioltigandaityom
SoENO POoTS EDITOS ioleAurbch, Mik ienti, Ian Kay,nRuh
Linol, Al" roeru0IsI
ASSITANTsoSPORT,$ EnnOoRS:MrkunSs, sChas,,laJenning.s, onJa,, yn
DasidWatnick ManaginggArts diton oatniok@michignsdaityosn
SNIsORARTS EDIOReS:J,,amieBok, Braon o,,,dis, Whitne Po
ASSTA RTsn SounEIOS:Jshu ae, Caroyn sKtnseki AndrenLapis ni,nidni
Zachary Meisner and photo@rnichgandaityco n
littReeder Msnainet'htotditons
nS~oEsORPOOEDTRu~ S:Said slsh, Chanlon Hbsburgessthinoss
ASSISTAoNTPOTO EIOS:oMax ollins, Chisassnhk, SaWsn
AngelatChih and design @nichigandafly.eom
MaUneenStycn ManagingoDesignsEitors
Jessicatlnsgenchian MagazioetEditor eosgrohias@eiohigasdaily.on
Kathnrine Mitchell topytchinf eitchelt@nhchigasdaily.com
ASSOCIATE COeY CHIor: Melanieried, Adi Wallstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jszwiak Sales Manager
Ryan tusieski Classified Manager
CLAuSSIFEDsASSISTAsNMAsuNAGE: Kya Lar,,
Ret EngisheProduction Manager
Allison Santatnes LayouManager
Vivian LeeFinance Masne
Brittany MoralesCiculastion Manager
Brad Wiley ProtCoordinator
The MichignDal S 045-967) ispurbishdndasly rugh ridyuingsthe flland winter
trmrs by sudens ateUnivesity oMichganne opyisnavilablen *o careo llredrs.
Additinaslcopies y benpicked upstthetsils office for$2 tubscritions for fall teem, startg is
Sptember, via1U.S. mail ane1110.Witr tenm (Jauary through, Aprl) is $115 yearlong (September
trough Apills t$195. Unest filiats are sujectto areducedsubsrptionrate. O-campus
subo,,yptosfor fll tnrmns $35.trrbsriinsst be prpai.T icthiglanDilyisaereiber o
Ttesuoatnd PrssndThenAssocatedCollegiate rs


tree 1-u. v testing
WHAT: Needle-free and
anonymous HIV costing free
of charge.
WHO: HIV/AIDS Resource
Center
WHEN: Tonight from 6 to
85p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union

WHAT: Table tennis prac-
tice open to both members
and non-members.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
liards
WHEN: Tonight from 7 to
9 P.M.
WHERE: Coliseum
CORRECTIONS
0 Please reporE any error
in the Daily to
corrections@
1michigandaily.
corn,

MORE ONLINE
Looe tCrme Notes? Get nore online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

i4 Ik1igan aiI1 P RE SE NT S

HEAR THE STORY
BEHIND THE STORIES.
Tune. in to Michigan Daily Radio on
WCBN-FM-Ann Arbor
Tuesdays and Thursdays
6 to 6:30 p.m.

*1

sl
w-S - l''
Y. . ;.


SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO' LIVE?

Visit michiganciailly.com/classifleds to see
all of the groat houses and apartments
Ann Arhor has to offer on a convenient mapl
Also he sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.

-a -:q 0 3312 H 4 j
rs - ALi


3KRL('A1 - ~ UI)

Pre-College
Summer
Program

UNIVERSITY
HOUSING,
lilundredts of eongle rooms eid
apertrettts chooe1onetot
your owEn petsontel getawely.

wwwopion~louitt. U tImihdu
Plt11)sCe of fo ul Loft.

You can be a Korea specialist in YOUR major.
The next generation of global professionals.
Funded bythe National Security Education Program, The Language Flagship leadsthe nation in
designing, supporting, and implementing a new paradigm for advanced language education.
Through an innovative partnership among the federal government, education, and business,
The Language Flagship seeks to graduate students who will Rake their place among the next
generation of global professionals, commanding professional-level proficiency in Korean or
one of the other languages critical to U.S. competitiveness and security.
Application Deadline: February1
t1859 s- esRoad ut 1 W Rx'889-601
HoouuH 62 -al oenfasi~aa~d

UNVRII\t -11MI(EJAN



A-1


* The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 14, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
COPENHAGEN
Activists push for
carbon levels at 350
parts per million
As police cracked down on cli-
mate protesters, church bells tolled
350 times yesterday to impress on
the U.N. global warming confer-
ence a number that is gaining a
following, but is also awash in con-
tradictions.
Conference negotiators went
behind closed doors in talks to pin
down an elusive new pact on climate,
talks in which the figure 350 looms
as a goal for true believers, but one
that appears impossible based on
progress so far.
It refers to 350 parts per million
of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere,
the highest concentration that some
leading scientists say the world can
handle without sparking dangerous
climate effects.
"It's the most important number
in the world," said Bill McKibben,
founder ofthe environmental activist
group 350.org. "It's the line between
habitability on this planet and a real-
ly, really desolate future."
Not everyone buys into that.
But an entire environmental group
has sprung up around the number,
pushing 350 as a goal, sporting it on
T-shirts and flags waved by throngs
of protesters that marched to the
conference center over the weekend.
DETROIT
Granholm: Obama
helped Michigan's
,manufacturers
Michigan Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm is praising President Barack
Obama, saying his administration's
efforts to boost the economy helped
safeguard the manufacturers that
are the backbone of Michigan's
economy.
During an appearance yester-
day on NBC's "Meet the Press,"
Granholm lavished praise on the
administration for its role in help-
ing the Detroit Three.
Granholm says the administra-
tion made it a priority to help the
economy's manufacturing sector
and that without that the recession
"would have been so much worse."
Michigan has the highest unem-
ployment in the nation, 15.1 per-
cent, and has been in an economic
tailspin far longer than the rest of
the nation.
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.
Grand Rapids
could return rapids
to Grand River
0
Grand Rapids is considering
returning some rapids to the Grand
River in downtown.
The Downtown Development
Authority on Wednesday approved
nearly $30,000 to study and engi-
neer changes designed to make the
river more navigable. The aim of the
project is to boost tourism and out-
door activities.
The Grand Rapids Press reports
$4,980 was approved for an engi-

neering firm to come up with a pre-
liminary design to create a portage
for canoeists and kayakers to exit
the river upstream from the Fourth
Street Dam.
Separately, the authority voted
to contribute up to $25,000 to the
nonprofit group Grand Rapids
Whitewater for engineering and
marketing efforts needed to modify
downtown dams to create a navi-
gable whitewater course.
NEW YORK
Samuelson, Nobel
laureate, economist
dead at 94
Economist Paul Samuelson, who
won a Nobel prize for his effort to
bring mathematical analysis into
economics, helped shape tax policy
in the Kennedy administration and
wrote a textbook read by millions of
college students, died yesterday. He
was 94.
Samuelson, who taught for
decades at Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, died at his home in
Belmont, Mass., the school said in a
statement announcing his death.
President Barack Obama's chief
economic adviser, Lawrence Sum-
mers, is his nephew.
In 1970, Samuelson became just
the second person, and first Ameri-
can, to win the Nobel Memorial
Prize in Economic Sciences, created
in 1968 by the Central Bank of Swe-
den. The other Nobels have been
awarded since 1901.

Afghanistan policy before cadets at the U.S Military Academy at WeE

President Barack Obama speaks aboutis
N.Y. on Tuesday, Dec t, 2009.

Obm:Afghan success
will be evident in a year

LAWSUIT
From Page 1A
already filed two previous sum-
mary dispositions, both denied
by Giddings. His decision in Jan-
uary will determine the outcome
of the third.
At the hearing Friday after-
noon, attorneys for both sides
of the suit argued the validity of
the evidence that allegedly shows
that multiple votes cast against
Hammer's tenure status were
based on discrimination.
Seryak and Hammer's attor-
ney, Phillip Green, argued over
the correct number of votes cast
at the tenure hearing. The argu-
ment stemmed from conflicting
documents about the vote count.
Seryak said there were 32 ten-
ured law professors present at the
panel to decide Hammer's tenure,
with a final vote of 18 "yes" votes
and 14 "no" votes.,
But Green said, however, that
the records of the voting panel
showed only 30 tenured law pro-
fessors were present when the final
vote was cast, leaving the vote with
18 in favor and only 12 opposed.
Neither tally surpasses the law
school's tenure threshold, which
requires that a professor must
receive a two-thirds vote of ten-
ured law professors to be granted
tenure.
Judge Giddings said he would
review all the documents pre-
sented in order to make a decision
on the total number of official
votes cast.
Seryak said, according to his
numbers, five opposing votes
would have to be invalidated to
grant Hammer tenure. And, of
the seven votes Green is calling
into question for discrimination,
Seryak said none of them were
rooted in prejudice.
One vote called into question
was that of University Law Prof.
Richard Friedman concerning
his actions prior to and during
the vote.
Friedman was helping Ham-
mer look for other professorship

options at Ohio State University,
sending e-mails to contacts he
had there with kind words about
Hammer, Seryak said.
Just before going to the tenure
vote, Seryak said Friedman called
Hammer to wish him luck.
But Green said that at the ten-
ure meeting, Friedman spoke
out against Hammer, stating he
wasn't a "mover and shaker,"
which Friedman previously
admitted to.
Hammer's lawyer also brought
the vote by former University Law
Prof Jeff Lehman under scrutiny.
But, Seryak said Lehman, nowdean
of the law school at Cornell Univer-
sity, was "responsible for bringing
gay faculty to the University."
The votes of law professors
Kyle Logue and Bill Miller were
also called into question Friday
afternoon.
Logue, who Hammer claims
was a friend before the lawsuit,
is a Sunday school teacher at a
Baptist church that denounces
homosexuality on its website,
according to Green.
Seryak said that participation
in such a church does directly
show cause for his vote to deny
Hammer's tenure.
Seryak said that Miller could
not have been discriminatory
because he had mentored an
openly gay woman in the past.
But Green argued that Miller's
discrimination was only toward
gay men.
In the Lansing courtroom
Friday, Giddings promised to
have a decision made by late
January 2010.
This is the third request for
summary disposition by the Uni-
versity on this case. If Giddings
denies the disposition, a trial date
will be set.
The University could file for
the case to be dismissed again
after the decision is made, in
which case a trial will once again
be delayed.
Calls to the University's Office
of Public Affairs this weekend
were not returned as of Sunday
evening.

President says
effect of new troop
surge to be known
by end of 2010
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama says he'll know
by the end of 2010 if his Afghan
strategy is working, and pledges to
change direction if the U.S. mili-
tary is not on course "in terms of
securing population centers" from
Taliban militants.
The president also says his Dec.
1 speech ordering 30,000 more
American soldiers and Marines
into the 8-year-old war "hit me in
the gut" emotionally more than
any he had given.
After doubling the U.S. force in
Afghanistan in March, just two
months after taking office, Obama
raised the stakes further by order-
ing a nearly 50-percent troop
increase in a speech at the U.S. Mili-
tary Academy at West Point, N.Y. He
issued the orders even as support for
the war was crumbling among the
public and opposed by many fellow
Democrats in Congress.
Many observers said Obama
appeared overly analytical and
emotionally detached in order-
ing still more Americans into
an increasingly violent mission
against the Taliban to prevent
their takeover of the Afghan gov-
ernment and a feared return of al-
Qaida terrorists.
Not true, Obama told CBS's "60

Minutes," in an interview taped
Dec. 7 for broadcast yesterday
night.
"You knoNw, that was actcs-
ally, probably, the most emotional
speech that Ive made, in terins of
how I felt about it," the president
said, "because I w as looking out
over a group of cadets, some of
whom ere goingto e deployed in
Afghanistan. And potentially some
might not come back."
Obama also answered critics
who saw ambiguity in ordering the
big troop increase while then say-
ing some of them probably would
begin coming home in July 20t1.
That's the date when U.S. military
forces plan to start handing securi-
ty responsibility to Afghan soldiers
and police sho would undergo
intensive recruitment and training.
"We then start transitioning
into a drawdown piase," Obana
repeated, noting that specifies
were conditional. "How many U.S.
troops are coming out, how quickly,
will be determined by conditions
on the ground."
And in gave himself a ksophole.
"If the approaci that's been
recommended doesn't work, then
yes, we're going to be chassg-
ing approaches," let said. Obasma
quickly added that the deadisne
was necessary to alert the Afgain
leadership that the United States
was not goingto make Afghanistan
an American "protectorate."
Gen. Stanley McChrystal, tise
U.S. commander in .Afghanistan,
agreed to the mission of secur-
ing the population, saying success

would mean "over time they (the
Taliban) become irrelevant and
ineffective."
M'cChrystal had sought 40,000
additional troops for the war.
Obama eventually settled on
30,000 after an intensive three-
month study of the mission and
how best to achieve goals. Most
of the shortfall between what
McChrystal sought and what
Obama approved was expected to
be made up from U.S. NATO allies
and other countries that have sent
forces to the conflict.
Obama and McChrystal said
the idea was to mimic - to some
extent - the Bush administra-
tion's troop increase in Iraq that
deflated the Sunni insurgency
there by bringing many of its fight-
ers into the U.S. fight to de-fang
the al-Qaida forces.

Congratulations
Daily Sales Department
on a productive and enjoyable semester:

Courtney Byrd

Ashley Karadsheh- Else Tak

Stephanie Bowker Carol Im
Tangela Cheatham Jennifer Lo

Siwei Wang
Yuning Zhang

Julianna Crim

Katie McCarthy

The
Princeton
Review
MCAT
10 Point - Avg Score Increase
12 Point -Top Quarter Increase
105 hours live instruction
5 expert instructors
800-2flevif w I PrincetonReview-com
Corner of S, University&$,. Forest

Also, a speciaJ thanks to Ben English for providing our paper, rate
card, and designs with a high level of creativity and professionalism
for the past 2 years.
We appreciate all your hard work and dedication to the Daily!
Your managers
Katie, Molly, and Mike
IOVERINE 'FANS!
WATCH YOUR WOLVERINES BATTLE
FOR THE 45th ANNUAL GREAT LAKES INVITATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY -,
Drive one.
LEE TUE. DEC 29, 2009
TT, JOW . D~noS

4:00 PM

7:30 PM

Tickets are available at the Je
aouis Arena Box Office, Campus
Box Office, all Ticketmaster
locations or call 1-800-745-
3000. Or purchase online at
CollegeNockeyatheJoe.com.
FAMILY 4-PACK-$44
4 Ceneral AdmissionT lickets,
4 slices of pizza & 4 soft drink.
MARRIOTT DETROIT
For the special College Hockey
Fan Rate Call 1-800-352-0831

WED. DEC 30, 2009
3rd PLACE GAME - 4 PM /
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME - 7:30 PM

- Compiled from
Daily wire reports


4A -Monday, December 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *
E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU

74C e MC4,6,gan D

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Until proven guilty
U should not lower burden of proof for student violations
here is no question that certain behavior is unacceptable for
University students. The Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities is correct to hold students to a high stan-
dard of personal conduct. But no matter how inexcusable a violation
of the code may be, the University should not lower the standard of
proof for determining whether a violation has occurred. The Mich-
igan Student Assembly, which retracted its support of an amend-
ment to the code that would have lowered the standard, did the
right thing when it changed its position. Now, University officials
should recognize the gravity of lowering the burden of proof and
end their pursuit of such an amendment. Instead, the preventative
education being done during University orientation and by student
groups should continue.

think I can see God.
You're scaring me.
Nothats just what happens
C when you eat a bag of cofee
beants durdng finals week
TI
-t

Obama's fighting words

J m sure I wasn't the only per-
son in the world feeling a little
miffed as President Barack
Obama accepted
an undeserved
Nobel Peace Prize
on Thursday, just AL
nine days after
committing 30,000
more U.S. troops
to a hopeless war
in Afghanistan.L
While Obama cited
accomplishments ROBERT
like the closing SOAVE
down of the Guan-
tanamo Bay deten-
tion camp, the bulk
of his acceptance speech was a ring-
ing defense of the necessity of waging
"just" wars. And for Obama, Afghani-
stan is one of those wars.
The hawkish nature of Obama's
speech was shocking. What hap-
pened to the man who opposed the
troop surge in Iraq? What happened
to the man who promised a foreign
policy that was markedly different
from his predecessor? When I look
back on President George W. Bush
and compare him with Obama, I
see two imperialist presidents who
fought two interventionist wars.
I realize that at this point, most of
you are probably turning against me.
"You can't compare the two wars,"
you say. "We had good reasons to go
to war with Afghanistan - reasons
that didn't exist in Iraq." Such is
Obama's argument - we will fight the
war in Afghanistan because it's justi-
fied. But justified or not, isn't a more
important question whether or not
we will win? This is where Obama's
speech misses the mark.
The problem with the war in

Afghanistan - and with foreign wars
in general - is that it isn't an effective
way of achieving our goals. Ousting
their leaders and bombing their cit-
ies doesn't win us the support of for-
eign peoples, no matter how bad their
situations may be. The best thing that
the United States can do is to leave
the rest of the world alone.
There is no better example of this
than America's wars in the Middle
East, which have demonstrated that
foreign peoples don't want the U.S.
to help. They have come to hate U.S.
occupational forces just as much as
their own corrupt regimes. In Iraq, for
example, polls consistently found that
a vast majority of Iraqi people want-
ed the United States out. By trying
to solve their problems for them, we
cheat oppressed people of the sense
of victory they desperately need to
rebuild their countries on their own.
Aside from war, Obama mentioned
economic sanctions against hostile
countries as another foreign policy
tool. Specifically, he said, "Sanctions
must exact a real price." Unfortu-
nately, sanctions do exact a real price
- but they don't punish the leader of
a country. Dictators like Kim Jong
Il of North Korea don't suffer from
sanctions. They benefit from them.
The oppressed people of these coun-
tries grow to hate the prosperous
nations that are denying them trade
and decreasing their standard of liv-
ing. The dictators then feed off this
hatred to stay in power.
And while Obama may be entire-
ly oblivious to this point since his
foreign policy continues to mimic
Bush's, the American people aren't
quite so pro-war. Earlier this month,
the Pew Research Center found that
49 percent of Americans thought

the United States should "mind its
own business," the highest number
in 40 years, according to MSNBC. So
maybe even if Obama doesn't under-
stand that we can't defeat our ene-
mies by occupying their countries or
starving their people, the American
people are realizing that peace will
be best achieved when our govern-
ment is least involved.
An imperialist
president in an
isolationist U.S.
Thisdoesn'tmeanthatthecivilized
world should have nothing to do with
the Middle East. But it is through free
trade, not war and sanctions, that
the United States and its allies will
defeat authoritarian regimes, spread
world peace and improve standards
of living. By interacting with these
people for mutual economic benefit,
they will be exposed to positive ide-
als like social and political freedom.
And when these ideas become popu-
lar enough, they will cast off their
overlords on their own.
We can't win that battle for them.
No amount of direct intervention -
just or unjust - will solve the issues
of the Middle East. But since pull-
ing out and letting the region solve
its own problems doesn't win you a
Nobel Peace Prize these days, I won't
expect Obama to follow such advice.
-Robert Soave is the Daily's
editorial page editor. He can be
reached at rsoave@umich.edu.

On Dec. .6, Vice President for Student
Affairs E. Royster Harper spoke to the Sen-
ate Advisory Committee on University
Affairs - the faculty's leading governing
body - about changes to the Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities, which
outlines the rules for students'behavior. One
of the proposed amendments would change
the standard of evidence needed to find a
student in violation of a policy from "clear
and convincing evidence" to a "preponder-
ance of evidence." Effectively, the amend-
ment would mean that University reviewers
wouldn't have to be certain that a violation
occurred - they would only have to believe
that a violation was more likely than not.
While MSA originally voted to support this
amendment in October, the assembly voted
last Tuesday to retract its support.
While the amendment would affect all
violations pertaining to the Statement of Stu-
dent Rights and Responsibilities, it appears
to have been created with sexual assault
cases in mind. There is no doubt that sexual
crimes are repugnant, but this policy change
is the wrong approach to prevent them. It
will only make it less certain that the Uni-
versity is justly punishing violators. Adju-
dicators have a responsibility to make sure
indisputable evidence exists that proves an
accused student violated the code.
It's terrible for any person to become a
victim of sexual abuse, but being falsely
charged with committing a sexual crime

is terrible, too. False convictions can ruin
students' lives. The University should be
exercising a high standard in determining
whether a violation has taken place. Too
much hangs in the balance for these deci-
sions to be made more lightly.
One justification for the amendment has
been that other universities like the Uni-
versity of Virginia and Dartmouth College
have similar standards of proof. But the
University shouldn't feel the need to bring
its policies in line with other institutions if
those policies are flawed.
Instead of adopting policies that could
lead to innocent students being held respon-
sible for crimes they didn't commit, the
University should focus on preventing sex-
ual assault in the first place. Many of these
measures are already in place - freshmen
orientation covers topics like how to protect
yourself against sexual violence, asking for
consent and what constitutes rape. Organi-
zations on campus, like the Sexual Assault
Prevention and Awareness Center, help to
stop sexual assaults before they happen. If
administrators feel like these efforts aren't
enough, they should expand them, not lower
their standards for determining guilt.
Students who breach the Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities should
be held accountable - but not unless they
are undeniably in violation. Proof isn't
something the University should ever
think it can do without.

Copi ng with herpes

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, William Butler, Ben Caleca, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
BRITTANY SMITH |
My black experience at the 'U

Since the election of President Barack
Obama, I have given more consideration to
the idea that I am living in a post-racial gen-
eration. As I sat watching the polling results
on CNN, basking in happiness and shedding
tears of joy in my friend's dorm room, I began
to think, "Wow! I am so proud. I am living the
days when the impossible has become possi-
ble." Simply put, I thought Nov. 4, 2008 would
forever change the invisibility of the black race.
If this is perhaps the case for some parts of
the country, I hesitate to believe that this is the
case here at the University. While the Universi-
ty tries to promote diversity, it has fallen short
in providing a sensitive, inclusive and healthy
environment for black students. The racial cli-
mate at the University is tense and strained due
to the differing backgrounds that have social-
ized students. Admittedly, I - along with some
other black students - feel dismissed by the
University and our peers in the classroom.
Yes, the University has made strides towards
campus inclusion by admitting students who
were historically prohibited from attending.
But realistically, this university still has a long
way to go.
I struggle with what it means to be black on
this campus. Race relations at this university
have such a dark past that sometimes the big-
otry my friends and I experience comes as no
surprise. The University's Black Action Move-
ment in the 1970s and 1980s was a political
response to the practices of marginalization at
this university. Examples of such discrimina-
tory practices included a black cultural house
"mistakenly" fallingvictim to arson and others
calling black students "negros" when the black
students didn't self-identify as such.
Once, I heard a student say that "diversity is
better when it is embraced and not forced." Her
rationale suggests that often diversity breeds
conflicts like racism and poverty, which often
arise as a result of such enforcement. I have
encountered administration officials from
various departments that discouraged me from
applying to competitive programs and schools,
because they assume my grades aren't good
enough.

Appallingly, I have learned through my con-
versations with administration officials that
some of them are astounded by the insensitiv-
ity that some black students, if not all, must
endure by the administration, faculty and stu-
dents. But then again, sometimes I do under-
stand why some officials are left unaware.
There is a lot of pressure when speaking in a
classroom where students think that Africans
- who represent part of black American heri-
tage - wouldn't know how to operate a struc-
tured government without the United States
showing them how to be "civilized." Listening
to students say that Africans don't know how to
make or properly use roads or water can make
some black students feel that complaining to
the administration would be fruitless.
I, along with my black peers, am experienc-
ing similar strife. For the black students that
have come before me and will come after, the
University needs to acknowledge that racial
tension exists on campus. My hand sometimes
goes unacknowledged in student organization
meetings and in the classroom. A real conver-
sation needs to be had about why some profes-
sors are more willing to help students whose
faces look like my own. The University needs
to address the problems that afflict the black
community on campus and why some students
are told that they only made it to the University
through affirmative action alone.
I am often left to question the motive behind
the University actively seeking out black stu-
dents to enroll in this academic institution in
the first place. Honestly, I am skeptical when
I hear the concept of "diversity" constantly
preached by the University. I don't understand
the mantra that "Diversity Matters" at the Uni-
versity, when nationally and at the University,
it is understood that this university isn't equal.
The University must first fix the plight of
the black student before increasing the enroll-
ment of black students. When prospective stu-
dents are shown a welcoming environment, I
believe that they will in turn welcome the idea
of becoming a Wolverine.
Brittany Smith is an LSA sophomore.

s college students, we are
possibly the demographic
that's the most overexposed
to "wrap it up"
campaigns. On
any given day, it's
practically rain-
ing condoms, and
the "safe sex"
messaging that
often accompa-
nies the latex bliz- V
zard probably isn't
given a second ROSE
thought. AFRIYIE
But it's impor- _
tant to consider
the possible impli-
cations of the "safe sex" advocacy
that we've all probably been guilty
of in some way. The subtext of "safe
sex" - or "safer sex" messaging, for
that matter - asserts that there is
something inherently dangerous and
threatening about not just unpro-
tected sex but also people living
with Sexually Transmitted Infec-
tions. It's that infamous scene we've
likely all encountered when an adult
employs scared-straight tactics to
encourage condom use. Usually, it's
a photograph of a familiar STI with
prominent symptoms. This is usually
followed by a look of disgust.
What's often forgotten in persis-
tent condemnations of these infec-
tions is that the pictures are attached
to actual people. According to the
most recent summary from the Amer-
ican Social Health Association, there
are 19 million new STI cases each
year, and half of those infections will
belong to folks between the ages of 15
and 24. But somehow, it seems that
the numbers alone don't quite capture
some of the faces these numbers rep-
resent. STIs negatively impact one's
sexual health. But those living with
STIs aren't defined by their infections
and there is more to someone's story
than outbreaks or symptoms. There is
life after infection and - dare I say it
- a sex life, too.
To further illustrate this point, I
met with a University student who
shared her experience living with
herpes. She asked for anonymity to
protect her privacy and the iden-
tity of her partner. We will call her
Jane. obviously, Jane's story isn't a
stand-in for everyone who has been
infected. But it's important to add
some dimensionality to an occur-
rence more common than we think:
STI transmission.
She remembers her diagnosis: Dec.
31, 2007. A searing vadge sore sent
her and her partner to the emergen-
cy room. Her health care provider
handed her a fact sheet and explained
that it was likely that she had been
infected with herpes in the past 30
days. "You will have this for life," she
remembered him telling her.

"It was kinda like, I had too much
to drink and whatever happened, hap-
pened. We used a condom, but we
weren't officially anything," she said.
She hadn't been with anyone but him in
the past month. PIt was pretty tough,"
Jane said of his reaction when she told
him. Like most men, he had never been
tested for STIs. "He blamed me, swore
he didn't know where it came from
and continued having sex with other
women like it was nothing." She soon
cut ties with the man.
Here is usually where stories about
STI transmission end. But for Jane, it
was only the beginning. She was an
undergraduate senior at the time and
still covered by her parents' insur-
ance. They were floored when the
bill was mailed home. "My mother
was very anti-sex, so she was disap-
pointed," Jane continued. "My father
knows but, to this day, we have never
spoken about it."
For four months she sought coun-
seling and experienced a range of
emotions. "I was upset, depressed,
trying to finish (my) last semester of
college - it was my counselor that
saved me." Jane explained, "I was
living in a small town then. And she
was one of the first people to talk to
me about it in a non-judgmental way.
She helped me gain the courage to
talk openly with my mom." In time,
things got better between Jane and
her mother. She was accepted into
graduate school at the University.
It was in Ann Arbor that she start-
ed dating again.
She was three or four dates and
steady phone calls in when she told
him. All they had done was kiss. She
previously told him that she wasn't
ready for sex. One night, she just
said it: "I have herpes." Jane remem-
bered. "That is a scary word for peo-
ple to hear."
But what was done was done. She
had won him over and he still wanted
to see her. They dated for six months
and eventually became sexually
active. She took daily medication to
prevent outbreaks. "Surprisingly, my
partner didn't seem nervous," she
said. "It was much more me pushing
to use a condom than him." But per-
sonality differences led to the end of
the relationship.,
Today, she and her live-in partner
have been together a little over a year.
He had been a friend, so he knew
about her situation going in. They
talked about sex and the risks that
existed despite medicine and protec-
tion. She explained to him she could
have kids and a normal life. "He was
nervous at first, and we dated for two
and a half months before we started
having sex," she said
Jane is currently on birth control,
so she and her partner don't always
use protection. But there is still one
notable hill she hasn't climbed since

becoming infected: She hasn't had
to the oral sex conversation yet. And
while she gleefully explained that
she masturbates and that her partner
will occasionally stimulate her clitoris
during intercourse, that is the extent
of clitoral stimulation. "I am not sure
that him not giving me oral sex has
everything to do with herpes, but it's
not totally unrelated either," she said.
Along with managing oral sex han-
gups, there is the pill regimen. She
takes a large Valtrex pill once a day.
This is largely covered by her par-
ents' insurance. "For the uninsured
person, it costs $195 a month. But
prices vary depending on how many
outbreaks you have," she said. When
I asked about side effects, she paused
for a moment."I had nausea at first...
And I do check my skin occasionallyto
make sure there is no discoloration,",
she said. Long-term use of Valtrex
has been linked to kidney problems.
But other than these things, Jane con-
tends she lives a normal life.
An STI diagnosis
doesn't mean your 0
life is over.
"Herpes is an issue in the begin-
ning. But it's nice to know that if
(partners) can talk about herpes and
abstain until we are both ready, sex
becomes more meaningful," she said.
In the past, Jane dated guys who
were non-committal and superficial.
She also noted that while she faced
rejection since contracting herpes,
she has never been rejected by a man
she has dated. "The only stigma I
have felt has been from the public."
Jane noted, "Most of the discussions
I have heard on campus are related
to STIs in general or HI. I haven't
heard anyone talking about herpes."
Until now.
In the end, Jane's diagnosis has
had its impact, but it didn't stop her
from graduating from college, heal-
ing her relationship with her mother
and pursuing a partnership she val-
ues. But it's important to note that
just as Jane isn't defined by her STI
status, she also isn't defined by our
relationship status.
As we strive to be inclusive. and
minimize STI stigma, it's important
to note that it's not our place to vali-
date anyone based on his or her STI
status. ButI also recognize that what
we say and how we treat people mat-
ter, and we should respect each other
and strive to understand those who
seem different.
-Rose Afriyie can be reached
at sariyie@umich.edu.


A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 14, 2009 -5A

A great victory, an
underwhelming film
By NICK COSTON been excused under the tenets of
Daily Arts Writer suspending disbelief for presenting
the entirety of Mandela's presiden-
Nelson Mandela overcame inhu- cy through rugby.
main oppression in Instead, Mandela's bodyguards
his 27-year jour- ***I find him collapsed from exhaus-
ney from prison tion in his driveway before his
to the presidency iWictus morning jog. He excuses himself
of South Africa. AtQualityl from an economic lecture in Tai-
The country's wan to check the score of a Spring-
80-percent black and Showcase boks game. We see him in passing
population faced Warner Bros. on a television screen delivering a
similar hardships speech to the United States Con-
at the hands of its minority white gress. Without wasting time, East-
oppressors, even when Mandela wood encapsulates the breadth of
took office. Mandela's duties. If nothing else,
You wouldn't really know this, "Invictus" is a clinic on precision
though, from watching Clint East- and editing.
wood's new film "Invictus." An That is, until the slow motion
otherwise beautiful, well-acted and kicks in and refuses to go away.
triumphant film, "Invictus" pres- Whether it's a boon to the drama
cuts few obstacles to its belabored and emotion of a scene or just a
heroes in their march to real-life molasses-paced nuisance, it's dif-
glory, which tempers the victory ficult to defend 10 continuous min-
that Eastwood otherwise flawlessly utes of ultra-slow movement and
presents. muted sound. We get it, Clint. Big
Tine true story concerns the moment ahoy.
months preceding the 1995 Rugby Among the traditional Eastwood
World Cup held in South Africa. qualities in "Invictus" is the over-
Nelson Mandela, played with whelming manliness of its rugby
stately grace by Morgan Freeman scenes. Though some games, like
("The Dark Knight"), has won the South Africa's quarterfinal win
first presidential election since over France in the rain and mud,
could be more extensively shown,
Eastwood thankfully eschews
by s d shaky, unfocused chaos for clean,
How rugby saved sweeping imagery of the pitch. He is
South Africa. deft in his camera placement, often
S cramming the camera into the mid-
dle of a violent serum for the ball
without ever disorienting the view-
the dissolution of the racist apart- er, making for many truly exciting
4 heid regime. Soccer's World Cup is moments. One would be remiss not
less than a year away and the host to mention the scene immediately
nation's team promises to disap- preceding the final match between
point. Mandela sees in the divisive South Africa and New Zealand, in
Springboks rugby team - spe- which New Zealand's All Blacks
cifically, in the Afrikaner captain perform their famous tribal Haka.
Francois Pienaar (Matt Damon, If you follow rugby to any degree,
"The Informant!") - a chance to your jaw will drop at the awesome-
reconcile whites and blacks and ness of seeingthe Haka shot on film
take the first step to greater racial and performed on a big screen.
harmony. An important distinction is that
Perhaps the lone but substantial "Invictus" is not a bad film, but
fault of the film is the absence of merely an underwhelming one. If
opposition to that harmony. Pien- this film had anyone else's name on
air's ft ther svatches Mandela on it, we mightcelebrate itasthesplen-
television and curses the downfall 'did introduction of a young and
of his once-pure nation, yet hap- bold new filmmaker. But it isn't -
pilytakes his black house servant to it's simply another entrant into-the
tie stadium when Francois brings catalogue of Clint Eastwood, one of
]home an extra ticket. Mandela's the most talented pictorial crafts-
black bodyguards bristle when men in the history of the medium.
their request for more men yields And since the lead actors happen
a cold, all-white roster of agents. to be Morgan Freeman and Matt
Still, as the film progresses, the Damon, it would border on insult-
two factions form a predictable and ing to expect anything less than
trite bond. Pienaar's teammates one of the finest films of the closing
blanch at the prospect of holding year. This is a film with more than a
rugby clinics in shantytowns across dozen Oscar nominations between
the country, yet when they arrive, its three principal engineers.
they smile and happily play with So you won't find fault in the
the black children. workmanship of "Invictus." It's a
Mandela's nscreen obsession beautiful film with superb actors
with the Springboks' progress is and a heroic story which, unbe-
but one of many aspects of "Invic- lievably, is also true. Instead,
tus" that yield continued awe and blame Eastwood, Damon and
respect for Eastwood's mastery. Freeman for being so good at their
The director of Oscar Best Motion jobs that anything short of perfec-
Picture winners "Unforgiven" and tion leaves you with a sense of mild
"Million Dollar Baby" would've disappointment.

"Look at me! I'm a jazzier Mary Tyler Moore!

Disney's reawakening

'The Princess and the Frog'
sidesteps racial issues but
retains some Disney magic
By JENNIFER XU
Daily Arts Writer
It's always difficult to gauge the quality of
Disney movies, just because
they're so intricately tied to
our childhoods. They're the
films we watched over and TkPrncess
over again as youngsters, the
ones with songs we memo- and the Frog
rized and the characters we At Quality 16
dressed up as for Hallow- and Showcase
een. That's why appraising Disney
every scene of "The Princess
and the Frog" with a critical
hawk's eye just doesn't seem right. It's practi-
cally like deconstructing Dr. Seuss.
"The Princess and the Frog" has made a
small splash for two reasons that have been
more hyped up than they should be. First,
Disney has returned to 2-D hand-drawn
animation for the first time since 2004's
box-office flop "Home on the Range," and
second, it's the first Disney film to feature a
black princess.
Anika Noni Rose ("Dreamgirls") voices
young Tiana, a waitress from New Orleans
with big dreams. One day, she encounters
frog prince Naveen (Bruce Campo, TV's "Nip/

Tuck") and gets cajoled into kissing hin, only
to be turned into a frog as well. As they embark
on a journey littered with voodoo magic, the
two amphibians encounter a jazz-playing croc-
odile, a snaggletoothed firefly and a wishing
star named Evangeline. In the end, Tiana and
the prince succumb to - surprise, surprise --
true love.
Over the years, Disney has managed to
hold an interesting place in audiences' hearts.
Rather than introducing revolutionary, adult-
centric ideas to the children's fold like its occa-
sional collaborator Pixar, Disney's priority has
always been to tell a treasured fairy tale with
finesse and creativity.
There is no place where sheer beauty is more
valued than at Disney, and for "The Princess,
and the Frog," it's no different. Jazz-Age New
Orleans pulsates and blooms on the screen in a
parade of earthy greens and acid purples, rev-
eling in a culture teeming inside the swamps. A
nearby bayou unfolds to expose frogs croaking
away glitzy melodies with bellies full of soul-
pumping gumbo. It's a fairyland come to life.
But for all its captivating magic, sometimes
the film's scenes are too familiar. Maybe it's
because Disney is out of practice, or maybe it's
just the cynical, jaded adult in me speaking,
but going back in time seems kind of been-
there-done-that - trite, even. Whether it's
witchcraft and transformations (see "The
Little Mermaid," "Aladdin") or a frog with a
comical accent ("The Swan Princess"), these
overused tropes of animation quickly trans-
form the film into less of an exciting new

fusion and more of a recycling bin of charac-
ters and ideas.
As for the race issue, Disney manages to
sustain its reputation for being a company still
woefully behind the times, despite all of its
efforts to combat this image. For one, accord-
ing to the film, it's inconceivable for a black girl
to be an actual princess, so of course she has to
be a poor waitress first. For another, the young
Tiana spends an aw ful lot of time in amphibian
form, as if Disney isn't quite comfortable with
having a fully black princess strut around the
screen for longer than a few moments.
Since "Steamboat Willie" in 1929, Disney
has -been accused of perpetuating racial ste-
reotypes, from the jive-talking Uncle Remus
in "Song of the South" to the "What Makes the
Red Man Red?" song in "Peter Pan." If they
can't even show a girl in all of her African-
American glory for more than a few spunky
minutes, it doesn't seem like Disney is quite
ready to embrace the new, Obama and Oprah-
fueled millennium.
Yet for all of its derivations and tentative
race-assuaging political correctness, "Prin-
cess" still remains a genuinely heartwarming
movie. If the purpose of going back to old-
school animation was to recreate the magic
Disney has been lacking since 1999's 'Tar-
zan," it has succeeded. The kids in the theater
laughed; they cried; they were silent at all the
right parts. Despite its faults, "The Princess
and the Frog" remains a throwback to what
Disney was founded on - a fairy tale rooted in
fantasy, tradition and simplicity.

Boring life on TV is still boring

eAlicia Keys: Lovely
classy and timid
By JASMINE ZHU fans might wish Keys would've
Daily Arts Writer been much bolder - sassier, even
- on her latest album, The Element
Alicia Keys is, in a word, lovely. ofFreedom.
She maintains This isn't to say Keys's latest
a grace and *** isn't a decent album. It is. But com-
sense of deco- ing from a woman who astounded
rum that often Alicia Keys listeners with her incredibly poi-
eludes other gnant debut track ("Fallen"), the
wildly success- of Freedom album as a whole doesn't exactly
fhl R&B song- impress. Keys's gritty authenticity
stresses - Keys, i has mostly dissipated, only to be
for instance, will replaced with an expected brand
never be found guilty of a hysteri- of polished prettiness. On The Ele-
cal diva meltdown or embarrassing ment ofFreedom Keys sounds very
public panty-flash. But while her sweet and lovely, but by this point
personal life is all fine and dandy, See KEYS, Page 7A
CHECK ONLINE ALL WEEK
FOR MORE FILM AND
MUSIC REVIEWS.

By ANT MITCHELL
Daily Arts Writer
Midlife crises have been th
subject of lots of surprisingl
strong comedy over the year
But watching
TNT's "Men
of a Certain
Age" ultimately Men of a
feels more like C .
experiencing a cetinA
midlife crisis Mondaysat
than observ- 10 p.m.
ing one. In fact, TNT
with three
loathsomely
unlovable characters, it feels a i
like having multiple midlife cr
ses simultaneously.
"Men of a Certain Age" fo
lows the incredibly average an
entirely commonplace lives of Jo
(Ray Romano, "Everybody Love
Raymond"), Owen (Andre
Braugher, "The Mist") and
Terry (Scott Bakula, "The
Informant"). Owen, a dia-
betic car salesman with no
motivation, struggles with
his daddy issues through
much of the show and
whines constantly. Terry is
an ex-actor who never made
it big and is currently work-
ing as a temp in z nonde-
script office. He shoves his
work off onto others, takes
advantage of their admi-
ration in truly nauseating
ways and flirts with a bar-
rista young enough to be his
daughter.
Finally, Joe, the most
hateful of the trio, refuses
to accept his divorce, denies
his gambling problem and
has long conversations
about - and constantly
stares at - his crush's "big
boobs." Moreover, it's just
hard to feel bad for all his
little problems when watch-

ing him be a dick to all of the drama. S
employees who work in his chain are imupo
store all day. more tha
me It's difficult to tell if the audi- pathy the
ly ence is supposed to be enter- the give-
s. tained by Joe's managerial style humor is
and unusual way of using his ulous cm
young employee to deliver pay- friends -
ments to his bookie. It's not
exactly endearing to watch him
be a skeevy eye-groping man- The'L
ager one moment, then give his T
children a horrifically embar- bou
rassing version of "the talk" the
next. Hasn't that plot been used
enough by people trying to be
funny? largely sa
ot The lack of sympathy the show usually b
i- fosters with its characters leads like, "I sa
to yet more infuriating flaws. the other,
1- "Men of a Certain Age" makes Dreadf
d an attempt to combine come-
ie dic banter and situational
es humor with moments of
ZARAGON PLACE
734-222--9300 619 E 5
THE BEST APTS IN TOWN
SWWWZARAGONPLACE.COM
10 SECONDS FROM DAG
F ULLY FURNISHED
LUXURY APARTMENTS
247HGH END FITNESS
WRLSSINUT
HieiME M_
-5

i
t
t:
C
ij
G
rr
F

adly, if the characters show uses a run-over possum as
issible to care about possibly the most obnoxious sym-
n the extras, the sym- bolic representation of the accep-
y draw is fairly low on tance of divorce ever created. Not
a-shit scale. Plus, the only is the possum scene com-
found mostly in ridic- pletely unnecessary, but it leaves
onversations between us wondering if there's any extra
conversations that are buckshot left in that gun for a sec-
oad mercy killing.
There is a special circle in TV
e i a hell for writers who make their
e writers are protagonists too everyday."
nd for hell Nothing distinguishes the main
characters of "Men of a Certain
Age" as people you'd want to get
to know, let alone watch on TV.
ad and despicable, and It's not a difficult distinction to
egin with statements make, and those responsible for
w my ass in the mirror "Men of a Certain Age" should
day." get their souls ready for a one-
ul dialogue aside, the way trip to a fiery punishment.

t M
{
J r " p .n K
C^ '
h.


6A- Monday, December 14, 20090

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pas, near B and Law Schaol 734-222-
033. jrnsprop@ sbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

E93PNICDR*ND Am Se
ann*n*REDUCED*****
Sporty, dependable ride $995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1994 PONTIAC GRAND Am runs
great, extra clean $2495
810-225-9750. www.ctmas.com
1997 CHEVY MONTE Carlo
Sharp looking, runs great $3995
810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 MERCURY MOUNTAINEER
AWD Fully Loaded, All Wheel Drive
$2595. 810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 PONTIAC MONTANA Van
*REDUCED**nA
Dependable5Transportion $1795
110-229-9750 www.cmas.cam
1998 FORD TAURUS RUNS GREAT
*****REDUCED*****
Flex fuel engine, Sharp looking $1695
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1998 OLDS INTRIGUE
LOW MILES, Looks & Runs Great
$4995 810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
1999 MERCURY COUGAR
Custom Wheels, well maintained
$3995 810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
20* CHEVY CAVALIER 2 door
****REDUCED***
5xpeed, rutt great $2995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
2001 DODGE DAKOTA X-cab 4x4
$6999 Like new, loanded 4x4
810-229-9750wwww.ctmas.com
2001 FORD EXPLORER XLT 4x4
Xtra clean, runs great $7995
810-225-9750. www.ctmas.com
2001 HONDA CR-V 4x4
Well maintained, Xtra clean $6995
810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
2002 CHEVY SILVERADO 4x4
runs great, very dependable $6995
810-229-9750. www.ctmas.com
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC.
810-225-9750
100% Guaranteed Financing
BUY HERE PAY HERE, LEASE
TO OWN
FOR RENT
F PALL 2010: 5 bdrm, 2 bth house.
Between Central Campus & Stadium.
833 Brown St: $2400/mo. Beautiful
House. Call Louis at 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskinanpyahoo.com
I BEDROOMS $685-$765 and 2 bed-
rooms $840-$985.
Available August 27th, 2010.
We offer fully furnished apartment
at no extra cost!
For more info call 734-662-4446 or visit
www.issaproperties.com
1 921 PACKARD, Fall '10 3 story, 5
bdrm house for 6. Furnished, 3 full bth,
3 kitchen, ldry, prkg, (734) 272-1320.
S sBDRM IOUSE-Fall 10, Lg.
Bdrmx., 2.5 bath, Fain., Parking,
Lndry, Updated, Nice. 717 S. Division,
$3660/mo. 734-662-1362.

ve the 1
0Il dd lt
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio -4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Sta f
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
PetsWelcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.*9300
www.annarborapartments.net
1 WINTER SEMESTER Rental:
One bdrm, large 850 sq ft, bi-level,
$765/mo, furnished option. Email
info@issaproperties.com or visit
www.issaproperties.con
or call 734-662-4446.
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES i
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat~at)umicb.eda,
www.nancylat.com
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. Far mare infarmatian call
Laura at Church StreetApartments,
1.1 73t4-C40A'44.

# Beds Location Rent
6 1121 Church $3200
6 543 S. Division #2 $2700
6 1221 S. State #2 $2400
5 1117 Church #1 $2700
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
H1 AVAILABLE FALL2010 !!
1225 White-6 bdrm, $3595/mo
734-564-2125
1! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- I & 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc~gyahoo.coin
www.churchstreetrentals.coin
!!!AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.

NOW LEASING
FOR 2010!

GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATION
TOUR TODAY!
I4 beror opts.
startinfg at $699
FREE satellite TV
FREE high peed Internet
"Flutilities Incued
In-Unit Washe/re
A sk how you can receve
$150 gift card and
FREE LUNCH
I COURTYARDS1
S TU D E NT A PA RT MEN T s
1780 Broadway (734) 994 - 6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
M! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrmns lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.ne
!!CARLSONPROPERTIES.COM!!
is finished leasing fr 200. Land-
lords call 734-332-6000 or assistance.
!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitchen. Must see! (313)215-8115.
!!TOO CLOSE TO BE TRUE!! Great
apdn f oslargebgroups. Well cared fr
and cloe In ban tp near CC Lile.
May & Sept. '10 leases. 734-668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free utit & prkg. 734-904-6735.
1101 CHURCH ST.
5 BDRM + 2 BATHS
$2700
MAY 20 10
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
$ NOW AVAILABLE $
2 bdrm. spacious apt. Excellent,
convenient, great location, prkg.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
**3 BDRM TRI-L EVEL*** avail.
May. Hardwood floors, fully famished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
10 BDRM HOUSE 433 Hamilton.
10 BDRM house 217 N. Ingalls.
u-places.com 734.478.2936.
A H
R E ALT Y
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Bedrooms
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (BrandNew!)
1021 E. University
916 Sybil
6 Bedrooms

1619 S. University
200 Packard
507 Walnut
1132 White
7 Bedrooms
331 - 333 E. Jefferson
335 E. Ann
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms +
1302 S. Forest (8 br)
1130 S. Forest (9 br)
1619 S. University (9 br)
1014 Vaughn (11 br)
*only $480 per person
915 Oakland (20 person)
xd e, s x/,e
616 Church Street
For details call
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

Up to
ONE MONTH
FREE!
Lease any Apartment from now
until1-11-10"nd"yo"'lhave a
chance to win up to one month free,
1/2 month free, $500 off, $300 off,
$100 off, Flat Screen TVs, Kindles
and more!!
**PLUS if you rent by
12-31-09, you automatically
get an additional $ 100 off
lst months rent.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Callusformoreinformation.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
AnnArbor,M148104
Universitytowers-mi.com
J iervsity
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrmns with 1.5
baths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
ern furniture & private balcony. 741--
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
room at $491. 2 bedroom at $714 w/ 2
months free. Call Now! 734-663-8463.

625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Forest Terrace
100 1 S. Forest
2-Bedrooms starting at $1295
Rent Includes: heat, water,
furnishings, parking, and
wireless Internet.
Large enough for 3 or 4
people too!
All apcs have new kitchens
w/ dishwashers, bathroom
vanities with double sinks, and
new furniture. Our standards
are higher than most!
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or enail
ctraband@archrealtyco.com -
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage.
nonrooin, formal dining room, dith-
washer, hardwod flooring, ceratnic
bath, foll baseinent w/ Ilundryand attic
storage. Great for UM football fant
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.smileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469

Just $4,599,00!

VARSITY MANAGEMENT
www.varsitymanagementcom
..\ / G

Spacious Penthouse with
all new amenities including
marble bathrooms, central air
conditioning, granite kitchens with
2 refrigerators, and laundry and
parking on site:
Campus Realty
1335 South University
Ann Arbor MI 48104
Tel: (734) 665-8825
3 BDRM FURNISHED. Private deck.
Wshr/dryr. Near campus and Kerry-
town. $1458 + electric. 734-996-8506.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
1021 CHURCH ST.
6 BDRM + 2 BATHS
$3400
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
3-BEDROOMS: NEAR CCgB and
CC Little, balconies or patio, large liv-
ing rooms w/ new ftimiture. Heat, wa-
ter, parking ncl. Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100.

i

# Beds Location
6 1122 S. Forest

Rent
$3200

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Noris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Great Salt Lake 31 Puccini title 48 Emergency room
1 Trumpet mufflers state heroine VIP
6 Like pretzels 3 Bull in acorrida 34 Heavy drinker 49 Eva or Zsa Zsa
11 CD-_ 4 Gets a kicknOut of 35 Fitzgerald of scat 51 High hair styles
14 Observe Yom 5 Does an usher's 36 Harvest 53 Othello's betrayer
Kippur j obh 38Instamatic maker 54 Stytfood
15 Degrade 0 lephant soy 39 "The Wizard._" 55 In days gone by
11 Latin loner's verb potrayerof 42 Cat's front foot 56 Fancy hat fabric
17Cmia 7, a eymc 45 Same: trot. 57 Sarbonne
characer in 'Star 8 Data-sharing 45 GamgstPr Al sammers
Warstilms spat. 40 Gangster A umr
19. Bartlet, 'The 9 Displeased cluck 47 Furnish with 60 "That's icky!"
West Wing" 10 "Make up your gear 61 Also
president mind!" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 O.K. Corral event 11 Indian bigwig
21 Old enough 12 Last Greek letter Z 0 0 M L E N S F R I D G E
23 French designer's 13 Digital data I N P U B L I C M O N I E D
monogram transmitter GETSO V E R STA R E D
24 Father of Isaac 18Hershey's s A s H I C E S A N T S Y
26Takersoftpics caramel-and- D R E W C A Y E Y
29 Be superior to, as chocolate brand P A P A Y A B A n Y J A R
inthe miltary 22 Hindu wonder-
32 Japanese sash warker CARE AILE ROILE
33Novelby ahack 24Morehoity-toity, 0 U I T S C 0 L D T u R K E Y
37Hitonthe noggin inacultural U R N S A L L S 0 E E R E
39Davisof"Dr. sense E A T P D I C T 0 A S T 5
Dolittle" 25 Ruthoftthe B 0 R S T 0 P E N
40 "Golden" principle Yankees D A R L A S M I R T A M
41 Ticket-selling 2 AorLeeJ.- ID U N N X E
place 27 Peek- IJSA
43 P. Hearst's 28 Hussy TIE H1EE Y E A H Y E A H
kidnappers 30 Rising trend in
44"Is the gamble the market xwordeditor@aol.com 12113109
worth it?" 1 a a a4 E e a 8 10 t11 12 13
46 London guy
47 "Fencers, 14 15 16
prepare to duet!"
50 Sine non: 17 19
essential 2 2
52 Seismic event
53 "Could be" 23 at 35
58 Suffix with sub
59"Stop 26 2 2 30 1
cnmplainingl" 32 ,, a an
land what ou
might doatothe a7 38 59a
statof 17-, 33-
at 41 -Across) 1 2
62 Lead-infor metric 444 4
63 Whisky -:
Bollywood disco j 50n53 I 5 11
64 Dad's brother, in
Bordeaux s " T ' " s "1 1' 571
05 Pay-- view
66Octd cry ~ lnaa 1 1 1 1 1
167 Tries to find 62 63
DOWN s n 67
1 They're above
capts. 2"ySamanlha.in1e
(c)2009 TribunenMediaSenrvics, Inc. 12/14/09


Luxurious 6 Bedroom,
2 Bath, Bi - Level Apartment
616 Monroe D

5 1120 S. Forest $2800
4 715 Catherine $2100
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
a**** MAY LEASES *****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May to August
1 bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furmnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Call today 761-8000!
Prime Student Housing
primesh.com
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact 734-
276-3876.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
541 S. DIVISION
6 BDRM + 2 BATHS
$3200
MAY 20 10
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-825.
*UP TO ONE MONTH FREE for a
Limited time only! Call us for more
details. Were Much Better than the
Dorms! Check us out and get a FREE
Bubble Island drink with any new tour!
We have Rooms, Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bed-
room furnished apartments available
for Spring / Fall. Call us at 734-761-
2680 for an appointment-
UniversityTowers-mi.com
c mps real
NO-MONEY-DOWN
LEASES!
Sign today,
pay nothing 'til
you move in
next fall!
1- to 6-bedroom
luxury units
still available.
734-665-8825
1335$. University
www.campusrealty.com

2-BEDROOMS: 2 minute walk to the
Business or Law Schools, unique lay-
outs in spacious apts, new kitchens w/
dishwashers, heat, water, underground
parking included.
www.varsityi-anageinent.com
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
greai locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
721 5.
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 lttp://www.sublet.com
PRESEN TS THE
Oline Classifed
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

&
9

4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. Large modern kitchen, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and much more! 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdnt with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD direet
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home avuilable spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrns
avail on central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

Experience the Difference
* 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
* Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
* Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
Cw rtris n741-9300
www.annarb'orapartments.net


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
KEYS
From Page 5A
listeners all know what she's capable of.
Keys possesses an incredibly flexible voice
and a clear gift for musical lyricism. It's a
bummer to hear her play it so safe, with
tepidly pleasant, harmless songs.
But Keys's substantial talent as an art-
ist keeps The Element of Freedom from
degenerating into pure sentimentalism.
Although the album's focus is mostly
centered on relationships and break-ups,
never once do the love songs sound trite,
Keys should heed
her own advice.
cloying or obvious. If anything, Keys
maintains an understatement in her songs
that expressively reflects her personal
demeanor. Unfortunately, sometimes the
subtlety of her songs translates into an
unexciting listen. ,
The album, a mix of forgettable pop bal-
lads and the occasional epically awesome
anthem, starts to pick up about halfway
through its cumbersomely lengthy 16-track
running order. The first half, which seems
to almost entirely consist of easy-listening
for the over-30 crowd, makes for unobtru-
sive ambiance, but won't particularly stick
or resonate with the hipper, younger set.
"Try Sleeping With a Broken Heart" is just
as bland as its title sounds, keeping in line
with the album's flavorless first half.

Monday, December 14, 2009 -7A

But the album does contain the occa-
sional sparkler. "Like the Sea" samples
Debussy's "Arabesque #1"to terrific effect.
The nostalgic, trickling piano notes pro-
vide a familiar backdrop to Keys's emotive
vocals - a clever, believably organic blend-
ing of the old and the new.
Clear album standout "Empire State
of Mind (Part II)" is a refreshing alterna-
tive to the first, overexposed collabora-
tion with Jay-Z of the same title. There is
an honesty in this track that the original
lacked. Keys shines on her own in this
epic, exhilarating love note to the great-
est of American cities - "Concrete jungles
where dreams are made of / There's noth-
ing you can't do."
On the other hand, Keys's collabora-
tion with the Mrs. Jay-Z, Beyonc6, is not
nearly as "fierce" (to borrow a term from
the missus). "Put it in a Love Song" seems
to lack inspiration. It's an infectious tune,
but not a memorable one, despite the talent
and wow-factor of Keys and Knowles. Both
artists are known for their striking, unique
voices, but in their collaboration, scale back
to accommodate the other, which dimin-
ishes the potential of the track.
Although The Element of Freedom is a
decent album, it lacks punch. While a few
gems are sprinkled among a landscape
of relatively lackluster songs, they aren't
nearly precious enough to carry the weight
of the album.
The opening track, "The Element of
Freedom," has Keys sermonizing about
taking risks: "And the day came / when the
risk it took / to remain tight and closed in
the bud / was more painful / than the risk
it took bloom."
It would be nice had Keys taken her own
advice on the album itself
last decade or so of his career. De Niro
plays Frank, an old widower trying to get
in touch with his children after the pass-
ing of his wife. But - as those needing to
learn life lessons in forgettable holiday
films often are - his kids are too busy
with big-city jobs and problems to care
for their poor, lonely father.
Frank wanders from town to town,
discovering things about his kids he
never knew and maybe learning some
lessons of his own. This makes for a
grim, stale and downright boring journey
that is foremost an exercise in cinematic
incompetence. Though audiences gen-
erally buy into sappy holiday films, that
simply cannot happen here; so little is the
film's regard for its audience's patience
and common sentiment.
A disjointed disaster, "Everybody's Fine"
may score a couple of smiles from the Medi-
care crowd, but even they know a decided
dud when they see one.
IMRAN SYED

My dream battle royale

he way I see it, there are four
great TV shows that either
spawned or were spawned by
game franchises: "Beyblade," "Yu-Gi-
Oh!," "Pok6mon," and
"Digimon: Digital
Monsters." These ter-
rific 'toons held my
childhood self rapt on
many a Saturday morn-
ing. And to this day, I
find myself perusing
YouTube listening to JAME
the old theme songs BLOCK
that captivated me, -------
every so often watching a full episode.
But there is one mystery regarding
these four shows that remains unsolved,
even now: Which one is the best? They
are all magnificent works of overdubbed
art. But which one rises above the rest as
champion of the children's anime world?
There's only one way to solve this. As
Yugi Moto so wisely yells, "It's time to
d-d-d-d-d-duel!"
The Underdog Bracket:
"Beyblade" vs. "Digimon"
In the blue corner, we have "Beyblade,"
an epic anime centered on battle tops
- yes, battle tops. But these aren't your
grandma's fighting dreidels. These twirl-
ing towers of weaponry are equipped
with blades, spikes and, most important-
ly, the spirits of ancient mythical beasts.
In the red corner, we have "Digimon,"
a world of computer-generated giants
and the kids who must save it. With such
convoluted, ripped-off terms like "digivo-
lution," "digivice" and, oh I dunno, "Digi-
mon," you know the show is full of tacky,
overblown digi-goodness. And as the
theme song proudly proclaims: "Digimon
are the champions." But are they really?
"Beyblade" launches into the arena,
armed with a simple formula of show-
ing off tournament competition in its
fictional, top-centric world. But in stomps
"Digimon" atop an angry Raidramon,
highlighting the show's subdued-yet-
spiky anime style.
All of a sudden, a giant dragon emerges
from "Beyblade" for some unexplained
reason, but "Digimon" swiftly evades
the monster and lunges in for a bite to
the jugular (if tops have jugular veins).
The dragon re-emerges, and "Digimon"
once again evades. With such limited
subject matter and repetitive plot form,
"Beyblade" can't win. The engaging plot
advancement of "Digimon" is just too
quick. "Digimon" wins the bout, and the
dreidel comes up nun.

The Popular Bracket:
"Yu-Gi-Oh!" vs. "Pokdmon"
In the mauve corner, we have "Yu-Gi-
Oh!," the ultimate in spiky-haired, card-
dueling tomfoolery. With a strong set of
developed characters, small-business
struggles, corrupt CEOs and a more-than-
healthy dose of Egyptian mythology,
there was no theme "Yu-Gi-Oh!" couldn't
touch. Combine all that with elves, drag-
ons, traps, magic and giant holograms
and you've got a nerd's wet dream.
in the chartreuse corner sits "Pok6-
mon," which requires no introduction.
Accompanying one of the best game
franchises of all time, the show made
everyone's favorite cute and cuddly com-
panions even cuter and cuddlier. Add to
this an unfailing sense of humor, great
music and moral messages and you've got
one hell of a series.
"Pok6mon" chooses you, Pikachu,
with your adorable, children-friendly
pugnacity. Meanwhile, Yugi Moto sum-
mons his favorite monster, Dark Magi-
cian, revealing the darker fantasy vibe of
Yu-Gi-Oh!
Oh no! Oh yes!
"Yu-Gi-Oh!" Pikachu tries to use tackle,
but misses when he does a pratfall for
attempted comedic affect. It's not very
effective. But Pikachu recovers and uses
Thundershock, illuminating the visual
spectacles of the "Pokdmon" series. But
then Yugi yells "You've activated my trap
card," and you fuckin' know all is lost
for the little electric mouse. With unpre-
dictability inherent to the card game it
features, "Yu-Gi-Oh!" defeats the overly
immature and formulaic "Pok6mon"
series. "Meowth, that's right," everyone.
"Pok6mon" fainted.
The Championship Round:
"Digimon"vs. "Yu-Gi-Oh!"
All right, readers, this shit just got real.
Let's slow things down and have a real,
detailed fight here. Nothing dirty. Noth-
ing below the belt (not that the target
audiences for these shows even know
what that means). And no more oddly
scripted pseudo-battles. This is important
stuff we're doing.
It's no coincidence that the two darker
shows made it to the finals. It's an inde-
scribably impressive feat to create a show

that keeps children engaged (by some-
thing other than paralyzing fear) while
still maintaining a sense of foggy, sinister
intrigue for older audiences. Yugi's grand-
father was kidnapped by a corporate
monster, and there's an entire alternate
reality in "Yu-Gi-Oh!" appropriately
titled "The Shadow Realm."
The Dark Emperor of "Digimon," on
the other hand, was none other than
the depressed, overachieving pariah
from school with a vendetta against the
world. Both shows pull off the drama to
a point, but "Digimon" undeniably goes
deeper into the perils of human and
digimon psyches. "Yu-Gi-Oh!" presents
trauma in the form of an epic mission
designed to inspire impressionable kids
while "Digimon" shows life's hardships
as they really are, except the show's
brooding anti-hero gets a virtual world
in which to vent.
But for any fantastical show, the fiction
realm where it unfolds must be perfected
and captivating. "Digimon" presents a
stereotypical middle school experience,
paired with a visually stunning digital
world. But, at Ieast in the first season,
much of "Yu-Gi-Oh!" takes place purely
in reality, with fantasy elements appear-
ing only in the form of the namesake card
game. And even when the show takes a
trip to ancient Egypt, there is a stron-
ger sense of reality. Because "Digimon"
doesn't make its real-world setting suf-
ficiently exciting, "Yu-Gi-Oh!" wins the
setting scuffle with its corrupt corporate
metropolises.
Visually, both shows are equally
matched, though they sport notably dif-
ferent aesthetics. In the end, the true
decider must be addictiveness. Both
shows are great diversions, but only one
keeps you coming back week after week.
Barring the last few episodes of each sea-
son, it's safe to miss an episode of "Yu-Gi-
Oh!" and just assume someone challenged
one member of the main cast and lost. But
with "Digimon," every moment is vital.
The world isunder constant threat, the
characters are constantly forming and
shifting their relationships with their
digimon and with one another. And new
powers, forms and realms are always
being discovered.
It was a long and noble effort by both
competitors, but in the end there can only
be one winner. And as the show itself so
presciently postulated, "Digimon are the
champions."
Block is dreaming up another tournament:
all-time-best pocket protector. Nominate
your favorites to jamblock@umich.edu.

ARTS IN BRIEF

FILM REVIEW
Sappy De Niro pic is
far from'Fine'
Everybody's Fine
At the Quality 16 and Showcase
Miramax
"Everybody's Fine," an unabashed
tear-jerker of wandering form and nar-
rative, is definitely one of two things:
an OK film that only those with age and
experience will appreciate, or simply
a horrendous conception that is stock,
sterile holiday Hollywood fare at its
worst. It certainly seems to be leaning
toward the latter.
The film stars the venerable Robert
De Niro in another of the many forget-
table roles that have characterized the


# Beds Location Rent

Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!!
Studio, 1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
* Central Campus locations
" *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*varies by ion
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. ivites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AMAZING SIX BEDROOM
HOUSE in prime location. Two full
baths, private porch, newly renovated
kitchen and living room with hard
wood floors. 6 free parking spots.
$3499/ month. Campus Reality 734-
766-8865 www.campusreality.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3/4 bedroom,
free pkg/lndry by Yost Arena, $1550,
734-883-8140.
skyharrisllc@comcast.net
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.

Beds Location

Rent

0 1021 Church $34001

6 541 S. Division

$32001

5 1101 Church $2700
4 1018 E. University $2400
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
5 BDRM. FALL 2010. 530 S. Fourth.
2 bath. Free prkg & Idry.Few min walk
to Union. $2450 + util. 734-709-5709.
6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
2010! 1608 Geddes. Furnished. 3 full
baths. Newly renovated. Carpet
throughout. Free Parking. Free
laundry. Dishwasher. A/C. Call 734-
717-9288.
5 BEDROOM APARTMENT 611
Church, Located on the corner of
Church and S. University above
Amers. Entire building has been com-
pletely renoveted. Completely Fur-
nished (leather couches!), Huge Clos-
ets! Washer and Dryer in unit, Granite
Counter Tops, Stainless Steel Appli-
ances, Dishwasher and Disposal, 2500
S.F., 2.5 Baths. Available May and Fall
2010 $665.00-$785.00/month per per-
son with 6 roommates. Limited num-
ber of units remaining call
734-995-9200 for a tour.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8.3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
AFFORDABLE 4-MONTH CON-
TRACTS, Available for Winter Term.
Rates Starting am $529; Includes all
meals, utilities and more.
ICC Student Co-op Housing,
www.icc.coop 734-662-4414.
8 BEDROOM HOUSE - $485/mo per
person with 8 roommates! Located just
about a 10-15 minute walk from the
diag this fully furnished house is a
great choice for those wanting to save
$$$$ and still be able to walk to cam-
pus. 2 Kitchens, 3 bathrooms, and
plenty of parking!!!!
Call 734-995-9200 for a tour today.
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.

7 510 Catherine $3700
7 1l29White St. $3400
6 418 N. State $3600
4 1117 S. Forest $2440
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-19911
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
FURNISHED NEWER 6-BDRM
APTS. - WALK TO CENTRAL CAM-
PUS $650/BDRM- INDIVIDUAL
LEASES - INCLUDES WATER, TV
& CLEANING (734) 418-2050
www.828greeneapts.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm.,apis.
Call Phil am 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
HUGE 4-BEDROOMS: hardwood
floors, ]Oft ceilings, & fireplaces in a
beautiful converted mansion in quiet
Burns Park. Heat, water, parking &
fur-
nishings included. Call Varsity Man-
agement (734) 668-1100.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.

7 BEDROOM HOUSE $450 per per-
10 18 E. UNIVERSITY son with 7 Roomates, this amazing
house is located just South of S. State
Street on Packard. The home has 3
4 BDRM + I BATHS bathrooms, 2 Kitchens, and 7 Large
$2400 Bedrooms. Plenty of room for up to 10
MAY 20 10 people! For atour call 734-995-9200.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. am, 1111 5. State, Near U-H bus
COPI PROPERTIES slop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10,NHeat
(734) 663-5609 & water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
WWW.800FULLER.COM ehtseng@comcast.net
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi. available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and

AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BABY SITTER NEEDED for 2 kids
(2 & 6). 15-20 hrs/wk. Nursing/medical
exp. pref Trans req. Send resume to
jobs@weisernet.com
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
HOLIDAY HELP
Apply now, start after finals
734-677-2477
www.winterbreakwork.com
PART TIME SALES position avail.
Great Commissions Selling Bottle-less
water coolers. Contact us @
bellafinawater@gmail.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com


CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
9 BEDROOM HOUSE $560/mo per
person with 10 roommates!!!!!! Lo-
cated just a 10 minute walk from the
Diag on 1130 South University. Hard-.
wood floors, Dishwasher, 3 kitchens, 6
bathrooms, maximum occupancy 14
people. Call 734-995-9200 for a
showing.
*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
Free heat and water
(* At most locations)

parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
NO MONEY DOWN!!! come in to-
day, sign a lease for next year and dont
pay anything until you move in! Things
are renting fast so call today!
Campus Reality 734-665-8825
www.campusreality.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil,
910 Packard, 1130 Oakland, 1026
Vaughn, etc. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
SUBLETS
FREE RENT MONTH of dec. $629/1
BR. Bus stops. Dishwasher, Central air
AC, pet friendly, free wireless, sub-
lease to July 31, 2010. 740-590-6596.
SERVICES
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
AFTER SCHOOL SITTER needed
for 14 yr. old twins. Responsibilities
include driving to activities, help with
homework, etc. Tues, Wed., and Fri.
afternoons, 2:30-6:30 with option- of
one night. AIust be non-smoker, with
car, excellent driving record, and refer-
ences. gglick@umich.edu or
734-747-8949.

Spring Break comes to life..
Live Concerts
* Awesome VIP Parties
Beautiful Beaches
Scenic Cliff Jumping
Spectacular Sunsets
Book Your Trip Todayl Contact
1.800.648.4849
www.ststravel.con
10.
1.800.426.7710


8A - Monday, December 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

SMOKING BAN
From Page 1A
many said they expect to see a
slight drop in revenue at first, they
predict that after a while business
will return as usual.
Carmen Fernando, general man-
ager at Ashley's Bar and Grill, said
she thinks the smoking ban could
actually have a positive impact on
her establishment.
"I don't think that the fact that
there's not going to be any smok-
ing in bars and restaurants is going
to keep people from going out,"
Fernando said. "In fact, there have
been some people who may not have
come here before who may now be
going out more to bars and restau-
rants in the area because there is no
smoking."
Anna Kurtz, night manager at
Caf6 Habana, a Cuban-themed res-
taurant on East Washington Street,
also said she feels the ban won't do
much to hurt the restaurant.
"I don't think it will be too det-
rimental. I think when most people
come out to eat they don't really
want smoke floating around any-
way," Kurtz said.
Conor O'Neills Irish Pub Night
Manager Eric Bodley said he is
looking forward to the ban. He said
not having smoke in the restaurant
will improve the quality of health
for himself and his coworkers.
"I can't wait for it. Ever since I've
heard they've been putting the bill
through I've been excited about it,"
Bodley said. "The day after I work
in the morning I feel like I smoked a
pack of cigarettes myself and I don't
even smoke."
Despite the positive responses
from various legislators and some
RETENTION
From Page 1A
institutions are not currently hiring
new faculty. She added that this fact
is probably temporary, though.
"And the reason is we have a very
attractivefacultywhoaretheopinion
leaders in their field," Sullivan said.
"They do great research. They also
are good with students. So they're
very attractive to other universities.
"So it's almost inevitable - as
other universities get back on their
feet, they're going to start looking
at us again as a place to hire away
from," she said. '
As a result of diminished com-
petition for faculty, the University
this year shrunk its retention fund

Ann Arbor businesses, other state
legislators have opposed the ban,
arguing the ban gives the govern-
ment too much control over busi-
ness.
Matt Marsden, press secretary
to Senate Majority Leader Mike
Bishop (R-Rochester), said Bishop
opposed the ban because he doesn't
feel that "it's the government's job
to regulate business."
Rep. DaveAgema(R-Grandville)
said, quite simply, that the bill goes
against American capitalism.
"It's a legal substance and yet
we're going to tell people they can't
use it and where they can and can't
use it," Agema said. "Ifthey want to
really make it illegal, then fine, do
that. But banning something that's
legal and telling business owners
what they can and can't do with
their own businesses and their own
clients? I don't think that's the capi-
talist way."
LSA senior TylertLeVasseur, who
smokes, said he's opposed to the
ban. He said that designating cer-
tain restaurants or bars as smoke-
free is sufficient.
"I think that if you have certain
areas that you can smoke and keep
it separate, it wouldbe fine," LeVas-
seur said. "And plus, if you're going
to a bar you should expect there
should be smoking. It's not like
you're goingto the library and hav-
ing people smoke in the stacks, it's
a bar."
LeVasseur said that he and his
friends have stopped going to bars
that have gone smoke-free, and
with the impending legislation,
he doesn't know what he's going
to do.
"Yeah, it's going to pretty much
suck if you can't smoke in a bar, that
seems ridiculous," he said. "I don't
- a pool of money used to lure back
faculty who are given offers from
other institutions.
"We cut back a bit on it, but it's
because we think that we'll have
fewer cases that we'll actually have
to deal with," Sullivan said.
Sullivan said she believes that
when the economy starts to pick
up, other universities will once
again to try to persuade faculty
away from the University - which
means the University will have to
up its retention efforts.
Despite the positive hiring picture
Sullivan described, she did say that
one deterrent for potential faculty
members has been the prospect of
their spouse being able to find a job.
"(It can be difficult for) dual
career couples where one member

know what I'm going to do. Hope-
fully there will be some places that
let it slide."
While smoking a cigarette
outside on State Street Saturday
night, Ann Arbor resident Steph-
anie Joy said that she thinks the
ban will be harmful to the city's
economy.
"I think Michigan's economy
is already in serious trouble and
I think that the smoking ban is
really going to mess up the bars
around town because people like
to smoke while they drink," Joy
said.
LSA junior Jack Coffey said
there are some benefits to the ban,
including its potential to help some
of his friends quite smoking.
"It will probably be better
because a lot of my friends like to
only smoke when they're drunk,"
Coffey said. "And now they won't
be able to."
Other students, however, said
the ban wouldn't change the way
they go out at night, including Art
& Design sophomore Jennifer For-
rest.
"I don't like to go to places that
allow smoke, so in that sense, if
places no longer have smoking I
would be inclined to go there more
than before. But I don't think (going
out) will change much for me," For-
rest said.
Bauer said that despite delay in
passing the bill, she is very happy
that it will finally be put into place.
"It's a bit of an embarrassment
that we're (the) 38th (state to pass
a smoking ban), and I wish we had
been much more progressive and
done this sooner," Bauer said. "But
I'm very happy that we took the
action we did ... and we're moving
forward now."
of the couple will be here at the
University and the other member of
the couple looks around southeast
Michigan and says, 'Where will I
find a job?' Sullivan said. "It's not
so much hiring the faculty member
- its collateral issues for the faculty
member."
Despite the poor economy, fac-
ulty members with young children
want to come to the University
because of Ann Arbor's highly
ranked public school system, Sul-
livan added.
"The public schools are a hiring
advantage for us," she said. "A lot of
the schools we compete with are in
areas where the public schools are
so bad that part of their recruiting
offer includes private school tuition
for the kids."

HALFTIME CANINE

CLIFRE EDER/Daily
A dog performs during the "Fly Ball" halftime show at the Michigan men's basketball game at Crisler Arena on Sunday.

STUDY
From Page 1A
important paradigm," he said.
Martinez said the study is not
seeking to replicate COPD stud-
ies conducted in the early 1980s,
which found that people who have
low oxygen levels at rest should get
more oxygenvia prescription.
The new study - The Long-term
Oxygen Treatment Trial (LOTT)
- is testing whether oxygen is a
positive or negative treatment for
COPD patients whose oxygen levels
are adequate when resting but drop
when exercising.
The study will look at the effect
of a 24-hour oxygen therapy on
COPD patients.
The University is just one of more
than 21 sites nationwide being used
for testing, four of them in Michi-
APPLICANTS
From Page IA
through (from undergraduate
school) and believe they won't be
able to get jobs," Zearfoss said.
The University's Law School,
ranked No. 9Sin U.S. News and World
Report's Best Law Schools, currently
gets about 6 percent ofall applications
to law schools nationwide, a number
that has increased both as the nation-
al pool of applicants has gotten bigger
and as the University attracts more
law students, Zearfoss said.
Though the increase in applicants
this year is currently at about 20 per-
cent, Zearfoss said she expects that
number to go down to 10 percent by
the Feb.15 application deadline.
With the increase in applicants,
admission to the Law School will be
even more selective this year, Zear-
foss said, though the admissions
office will not change its overall
approach to reviewing applications.
"We'll be applying the same gen-
eral criteria and be choosier about
who we admit," Zearfoss said.
The Law School's acceptance rate
is about 20 percent, but it is expect-
ed to go down for this year, as the
admissions staff aims to maintain
the class size, Zearfoss said.
Though the University Law
School's jump in applications mir-
rors a national trend, it is to a much
higher degree than at other colleges
across the country.
According to preliminary end-
of-year data from the Law School
Admission Council, the number of
applicants tonAmerican Bar Associa-
tion law schools is up5 percent over
last year. The data also show that
total applications are up 6.5 percent,
indicating that applicants are, on
average, applyingto more schools.
A rising interest in law school
applicants is also evident in the num-
ber of people taking the LSAT exam,
thetestrequired for admissionto law
school. During the 2001-2009 aca-
demic year, there was a 6.4 percent
increase in the number of test takers,
according to the LSAC website.
I The University of Illinois Col-
lege of Law has experienced an
even larger increase in applicants


I


SELECT SPACES
LEFT FOR 2010

II.

gan: William Beaumont Hospital in
Royal Oak, the Veterans Adminis-
tration Medical Center, the Henry
Ford Hospital and the University of
Michigan Health System.
Martinez said the project first
officially began a year and a half
ago, but just recently began patient
treatment. The study is expected to
be completed in 2013.
According to Martinez, the new
study is an example of President
Barack Obama's new health care
plan, which seeks to optimize ther-
apy with evidence.
"This is an ideal way to do it -
what you have is an insurance com-
pany working with an investigational
agency to look into a very big prob-
lem," Martinez said. "The investi-
gation agency is running the study
while the insurance company, Medi-
care in this case, is paying for it."
As ofthe beginning ofthis month,
than Michigan, with a 44-percent
increase from this time last year,
according to Paul Pless, assistant
dean for admissions and financial
aid at the University of Illinois.
Pless said he thinks this increase
will be sustained throughout the
entire admissions cycle and by
the application deadline in March
there could be a 30- to 40-percent
increase from last year. Pess called
this increase an "all-time high,"
adding that the school would most
likely have to admit a smaller per-
centage of applicants this year.
"Coming out of undergrad, that
certainly is more difficult for even
the very talented students to find a
jobso goinigtolaw school can make
sense," Pess said.
For comparison, the University
of Chicago Law School and Boston
University School of Law have seen
increases of 12 percent and 10 per-
cent, respectively.
Officials in the office of admis-
sions at both schools said the com-
petition is increasing with the rise
in applicants, as they are not going
to increase the class size.
But Yale Law School and Stan-
ford Law School, both ranked in the
top three by U.S. News and World
Report, have not experienced large
fluctuations in their application
numbers for this year.
Applications to Yale Law School
are currentlyup2 percentrbutspokes-
woman Jan Conroy was careful to
characterize the number as prelimi-
nary, saying "it's too early in the cycle
tonotice anythingdramatically."
Conroy said Yale's application
numbers have not been affected by
changes in the economic climate.
"They fluctuate during the cycle
and we're not seeing any meaning-
ful rise or fall that you could attri-
bute to the economy at this time,"
Conroy said.
Judith Romero, spokeswoman
for Stanford Law School, also down-
played the economy's effect on
-applicants. She said Stanford Law
School has consistently had about
4,000 applicants every year with an
admittance rate of about 4 percent.
But officials at several schools
said admissions for other profes-
sional school programs, like medi-
cal school and business school, are
not as affected by changes in the
economic climate.
Robert Ruiz, director of admis-
sions at the University of Michigan
Medical School, said most students
applyingtomedicalschooltypically
plan for it throughout their college
career. d
The medical school had a 2-per-

cent increase in applicants this
year, according to Ruiz.
TheYale School of Medicine also
saw an increase in applications - a
record high - though the admis-
sions office is not sure whether this
increase is connected to the econo-
my, said Richard Silverman, direc-
tor of the admissions office.
But while there has been an
increase in the number of appli-
cants, Silverman said he "wouldn't
call it a surge," and that medical
school admissions are not typically
as affected byeconomic downturns
as other professional schools, like
law and business schools.
"(There is a) more immedi-
ate effect for law and business

close to 150 people have been
screened nationwide, while only 47
people have passed the screening,
meaning they have the target oxy-
gen level researchers are lookingfor
in the study's participants.
Here at the University, 25 people
have been screened and only four
people have passed.
"It's hard to find people with the
specific oxygen number, an oxygen
saturation level between 89 and 93
percent, that also have Medicare,"
Clinic Coordinator Catherine
Medrum said.
Other screening factors include
being at least 40 years old, having
smoked at least 10 pack-years - or
73,000 cigarettes in a lifetime -
being willing not to smoke while
being a part of the study and having
either Medicare A and B or aninsur-
ance plan that will cover the cost of
the oxygen and breathing tests.
schools and not as much for medi-
cal schools," Silverman said. "Aper-
son can't decide to apply to medical
school tomorrow."
While law school. applications
at the beginning of the admissions
cycle are up this year, admissions
officials at business schools like the
Ross School of Business and Stan-
ford Graduate School of Business
said itis too early in the admissions
cycle to know what the application
numbers will look like for the year.
The acceptance rate to the Ross
School of Business MBA program
is expected to remain the same this
year at 23 percent, said Soojin Koh,
director of admissions at the Busi-
ness School.
While the Stanford Graduahe
School of Business has experienced
an increase in applicants over the
past several years, Lisa Giannangeli 9
marketing director of MBA admis-
sions, also hesitated to attribute the
trend to the economy.
Giannangeli cited the school's
application numbers in 1998, 2001
and 2009 as examples of their appli-
cation numbers not directly corre-
lating with the state of the economy.
In 1998, when the economy "was
very strong," the school received
over 7,000 applicants - about the
same number of people who applied
for spots in the class of 2009 - but
in 2001 applications were at "mid-
level," she said.
"Ifyoulook at our historic data and
the natural ups aid downs, it hasn't
been tied to what's been going on in
the economy," Giannangeli said.
The Stanford Graduate School of
Business also does not release their
application numbers before the
application cycle is complete, Gian-
nangeli said.
While the economy is having
less of an effect on applicants to
medical school and business school,
many University students currently
applying to law school said they can
tell that admissions to law schools
across the country are becoming
increasingly competitive.
LSA senior Brian Rosen applied
to 10 law schools this fall, a num- 4
ber that he said is becoming typi-
cal, as more soon-to-be-graduates
want to secure their spot in a law
school amid the increased com-
petition.
"It's just an unknown kind of
market...you don't know because
so many people are applying this
year, so you have to make sure,"
he said.

But LSA senior Eric Berlin, who
applied to 13 law schools this fall,
said he applied to a relatively high
number of schools, not because
of the increasingly competitive
nature of law school admissions,
but because he wanted to keep
his options open and not restrict
himself to a few specific schools.
Roth, who applied to eight law
schools, said she applied to some
schools she doesn't want to attend,
because she needs "safety schools"
in the competitive environment of
law school admissions.
Roth also said she is glad she will
be continuing her education next
year instead of going directly'into
the workforce.
"I'm happy I'm going for more
schooling because of the economy
and the job market," she said.

PEN HOUSE EVENT
Free food and drinks
Enter to win a $200 Visa gift card'
Reserve with no money down
Sign and receive two free movie passes

734.998.4400

411 E Washington St.

4elevenlofts

$38 MOVING KIT
FAST FREE SHIPPING
Student Moving Pack Includes:
* 2 very large boxes * tape, packing paper
*5 large boxes * marker & knife
*9 medium boxes
Environmentally Friendly Moving Kit consists of gently Ship
used but sturdy boxes and packing paper ct.isting of dorm
recycled newsprint. Colk

ress to your
1-2 days from


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 14, 2009 - 9A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, December 14, 2009 - 9A

Looking for something more added. "Professore Vacanti would've
authentic than local favorite Pizza been proud of me. Or maybe I
Barn, the group had decided to should say would've been feiro di
AD RTISING venture out and try a new place. me."
CLASS TAKES 0
ON LAW FIRM@ ,R
AS CLIENT
A local college adv
taking on the law.
entire law firm! The
spending their se
help the lawyers g
"We just dk
Brian Fats. "Wt
creative help aroun
we really look forwa
their ideas and work
them with legal spe
making themechange
don't matter and basic %
water it down until
funny, not creativ
ay way."
After sub ig
round of ide clas
drowned in d chan
lead-
lie ti
sedt
paranc
libel. C 3 U
G--A$0NT X
HEI iyuS---~ M
STU I Y - - It was Thursday
I swear it was the scariest before the big exan
ORDE PIZZA moment of my life," Ka1lWinsey, Jay Limbaugh's offi
fiend of Danny's, recalled. "It was As were Professor R
AT RESTAU- like we time-warped into Italy or Dr. Denise Carrol's. Where was
something. The waiter came over everyone during the last-minute
RANT fand started talking in Italian! Um... question frenzy? Apparently, tailgat-
what? I had no idea what to do." in


liberty.
"Did we eat too many
Doritoes? Maybe. Throw a little
Frisbee around? Sure. But teachers
deserve to have a little fun too. And
t's not like it hurt anyone," said the
6 year-old Fineman. "In fact, I
ink the students should be thank-
at... I was so hungover the next day
at I just gave everyone A's
pnyway. I think it worked in their
avor."
ile students are demanding
a s, 'ere's no word yet on how
IS it

thinking of hiding in a closet for the
rest of its life hoping to be forgotten
and never found.'
GREEK
SYSTEM
RUNNING OUT
OF LETTER-

just about every option out there,'
said National Greek Board
President, Henry Boggins. "There
were only about 18,000 possible
letter combinations to begin with, se
you had to know it was coming."
The news certainly left the
Greek System in a state of turmoil,
as rumors began to fly immediately
Some suggested a move to a 4-lettei
system, while others questioned why
it always had to be Greek."I think
English is a pretty good language,"
said Debra Boomgarden. "I mean,
- "United States, not a
stic country."


MONEY
M A S CO T i s A
ER oF THESE
CATpOIS

11h14h

Police rep,
became agitated
Book on who wi
altercation ensu4
several blows to

confront(
frth more

renmg
aaaaay
ich led
ars and
"Once I
4tbooks, I
much
find a
Y negoti-
ng ren or food,
tion, back massa d toiletries.
f I could rent all , I'm pretty
rtain I wouldn" need a real
b." And if he ao I'll probably
it a guy to dotl- orme too."
sior Mick m'cConnelly has
cided that he will no longer buy
ything. Instead, he says with
sfidence, "I'm gonna rent."
Mick tells the story of renting
s apartment, which is "waaaaay
eaper than buying one", which led
renting movies, renting cars and
,e 5;tn, hqtxtnk

What began as a typical dining-o
experience quickly turned into
scary situation yesterday whe
sophomore Danny Rivers and N
friends realized that the Italia
restaurant that they had chosen ft
lunch... was completely Italian.
sneking.

the books you need, the prices you wan O .com..x b uk 6

0


Sell your books online
It's FAST and EASY!

1. Find your textbooks

2. Accept our cash offer
3. Ship books for free
" i4. Get paid!


10A - Monday, December 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

''

4'



The Michigan Daily i :gandaily.com I December14, 2009

k

MEN'S BASKETBALL
Sims provides
second-half
boost i n win

COMPANY

, 4
y Y
H ' V' ni fir
i :. l l

Blue's NCAA Rosen and Co.
journey halted earn national

Th
has b
coac]
It
tion
ballt
Regi(
Haw
Th
fourt
Wolv
vice
with
four-
"V
game
repo
team
the c
going
said.
our h
kidsI
ment
Bu
repli
follo'
drop
the I
son.

By MARK BURNS playoff run in history.
Daily Sports Writer "We definitely didn't bring
our 'A' game tonight," junior
ie serve-and-pass battle setter Lexi Zimmerman said.
een a point of emphasis for Zimmerman was named to the
h Mark Rosen all season. Stanford Regional All-Tourna-
needed to be the founda- ment team along with sopho-
of his Michigan volley- more left side hitter Alex Hunt.
team's play in its Stanford Zimmerman added that the
onal Final match against team's effort was a non-issue
aii on Saturday. against the 12th-seeded Rain-
se previous night against bow Wahine, and that every
h-seeded Stanford, the Wolverine knew the stakes of
'erines recorded eight ser- the match. But the execution
aces and handled the ball just wasn't there, and it cost the
ease en route to a shocking team dearly in Palo Alto, Calif.
set upset victory. The 13th-seeded Wolver-
Vhen we started to do the ines (27-10) never really gained
plan and the scouting momentum throughout the
rt for Stanford, I think our match, a testament to Hawaii's
- one through 15 and all of fast-paced offense, which pre-
oaches - felt like we were vented Michigan from setting
g to win the match," Rosen upa consistent block.
"But we didn't play out of Hawaii (32-2) registered five
head. ... I was proud of our service aces to the Wolverines'
for going into that environ- zero. Michigan tallied six ser-
, coming out and then being vice errors, as well.
essful." "Even at the highest level, the
it the Wolverines couldn't serving and passing is where the
cate that performance the game is often going to be won
wing night, as the team or lost," Rosen said. "(Hawaii)
ped a three-set match in won the serve-and-pass battle
Elite Eight to end the sea- tonight."
It was Michigan's longest See ELITE EIGHT,.Page 3B

respect in1'09

Led by two stars,
Wolverines come
back after trailing
36-33 at halftime
By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
John Beilein may have finally
found a way to motivate his team
during halftime. Yesterday, he
certainly motivated senior for-
ward DeShawn Sims.
"He brought out the 'F chart,"
Sims said. "It's this chart Coach
Beilein's got. If you don't do
something you get an 'F,' and
that equals sprints in the next
practice. That was a little moti-
vation."
When Sims realized he wasn't
contributing enough, with two
F's on Beilein's chart at half-
time, he immediately picked up
his game. Sims scored a total
of 23 points to power Michigan
past Detroit 75-64 yesterday,
while teammate Manny Harris
also contributed a game-high 27
points. I
Sims got his game together
in the second half when he
made 3-of-3 from downtown
and scored 15 points. The senior
made 10 of 12 shots and added 12
rebounds
Together, Sims and Harris
have accounted for over 53 per-
cent of the Wolverines' offensive
output this season. But it wasn't
until the second half that Sims
and Harris started to gel.
"Once he picked it up, the
whole team feeds off him," Har-
ris said of Sims' performance.
"Of course, they also feed off
me, but when you got two guys
doing it, its just a whole differ-
ent story."
In the first half, the Titans
easily tossed the ball inside to
one of their forwards, who either
overpowered the Michigan
defender or got a second-chance
opportunity off of an offensive
rebound. Detroit picked up 26
of its 36 first-half points in the
paint, which helped it garner a

36-St halftime lead.
What was alarming was the
ease with which Detroit scored
points. The Titans shot more
than 55 percent in the first half
and nearly 70 percent in the
paint.
But in the second half, the
Wolverines held Detroit to
just 34.5 percent shooting and
forced 11 missed shots within
eight feet. Michigan's swarm-
ing man-to-man defense finally
made a difference, and the Wol-
verines didn't let Detroit get sec-
ond chances, outrebounding the
Titans 23-10 in the second half.
"The whole story of the game
was our second-half defense,"
Beilein said. "It was where it
needs to be. It had great convic-
tion as (assistant coach) Jerry
Dunn said before the game. We
were on a mission and we got it
done, because we had been talk-
ing about defense but we needed
to amp it up."
It wasn't until about the
12-minute mark of the second
half that the Wolverines finally
pulled away. The effort was
charged by Harris, who led the
Wolverines during a 10-2 run
with four points, including a
dunk that energized the lacklus-
ter crowd and sealed the win for
the Wolverines.
During the first half, it
seemed like Harris was the
only one who showed up to play,
leading the team with 14 points
on 5-of-9 shooting. Once again,
the supporting cast didn't show
up. Sims and sophomore Laval
Lucas-Perry saw glimpses of
offensive production, but nei-
ther one played consistently
enough to offer a reliable option
outside of Harris.
The second half was probably
Michigan's best effort so far this
season, but the team has a tall
order in their next game at No.
1 Kansas.
"Winning and playing is
always confidence and momen-
tum," Sims said. "We're going
into Kansas to face a great Kan-
sas team. We're going in with the
mindset ofjust playing confident
and with some swagger, and we
had a little swagger today."

t all started Aug. 28, 2009.
The Michigan volleyball
team hit the road for its
first match of the season, against
then-No. 3 Nebraska, a perennial
powerhouse and three-time NCAA
Tournament MARK
Champion. AK
It's safe to say BURNS
most thought
the Cornhuskers On volleyball
would beat the
Wolverines. After the first set went
Michigan's way, some spectators
probably called it a fluke. After
two, it was a trend. Three in a row,
well, that was just domination.,
David swept Goliath, soto speak
- on his home court.
That was only the beginning for
Michigan. The team won 11 of its
next 12 matches before starting Big
Ten play, eventually finishing tied
for fourth in the conference.
The Wolverines won 27 matches
this season - their best since 1981.

They went to the Elite Eight of the
NCAA Tournament for the first
time in program history before los-
ing to No. 3 Hawaii in three sets.
"This season, back in May, this
team set high goals for them-
selves and they've achieved those
things," Michigan coach Mark
Rosen said. "A lot of teams out
there say, 'We want to do this,
we want to do that.' But are they
willing to put the work in and the
effort in to get there? And this
team did that."
The Wolverines did it in style,
establishing themselves as one of
the best teams in the nation.
After this weekend, college
volleyball dynasty Penn State has
won 108 of its 113 sets this year. Of
those five losses, two came at the
hands of Michigan.
The Wolverines were up on
the Lady Lions 2-1 back on Oct. 16
before losing in a five-set thriller.
See RESPECT, Page 3B



Wrestling on one leg, Sheena
motivates young Wolverines

ICE HOCKEY
-Michigan's offensive luck runs
out in second game against Irish

By LUKE PASCH
For the Daily
Gabe Sheena has never been shy
about his leg condition - the back
wall of his dorm room features a
plaque that reads "One-Legged
Wonder Blvd."
When Sheena, now a fresh-
man on the Michigan wrestling
team, was eight years old, he was
diagnosed with osteosarcoma, a
common form of bone cancer. He
underwent a Van Ness rotation-
plasty, a surgical procedure that
rid his body of the tumor but forced
doctors to amputate much of his
left leg.
During the operation, doctors
removed the knee and surrounding
tissue, then reattached the remain-
ing part of the limb. With the use of
a prosthetic, Sheena's foot now acts
as his knee joint when he walks.
The procedure would severely
hamper Sheena's athletic abilities.
Or so the doctors thought.
In the summer before his fresh-
man year at Brother Rice High
School in Birmingham, Sheena
attended Michigan's wrestling
summer camp, where he first met
Michigan coach Joe McFarland
and began wrestling without his
prosthetic leg.
"He's a neat kid and an inspira-
tion to everyone," McFarland said.
"The kid has an awful lot of cour-
age."
He also has a rather blunt sense
of humor.
When Sheena hears students'
complaining about homework or

By TIM ROHAN On offense, the Wolverines (5-7-
Daily Sports Writer 0-0 CCHA, 9-9-0 overall) created
similar opportunities in the first
SOUTH BEND - In Friday period in both games. Yesterday,
night's first two periods at Yost they missed opportunities on
Ice Arena, the Michigan hockey rushes and missed shots in front of
team controlled the puck and out- the net to start the game. But most
shot No. 18 Notre Dame en route of Michigan's shots came from the
to a 4-1 victory. outside after Notre Dame scored
Yester- its first goal and then tacked on a
day was NOTRE DAME 1 second.
the same MICHIGAN 4 On Friday, Hagelin scored on
story, a rebound that came off of a set
except play from a faceoff. Senior for-
for the MICHIGAN 0 ward Brian Lebler also scored on
result. NOTRE DAME 2 a rebound, and freshman defense-
. Even man Lee Moffie scored during a
though second-period power play.
the Wolverines took 38 shots, they Junior forward Louie Capo-
were shut out 2-0 at Notre Dame's russo finished the scoring with a
Joyce Center. and missed count- wrist shot about 10 feet inside the
less opportunities in the first blue line that also snuck in the top
period. of the net.
A rejuvenated Irish team At Yost, the puck was bouncing
snatched the lead with a shot that the Wolverines' way.
hit junior goalie Bryan Hogan's "I just watched (Alexander)
glove and went into the net. Ovechkin YouTube clips," Capo-
"Games like this in the begin- russo said jokingly of the goal. "I
ning, scoring (issues) were prob- just tried to do that. Obviously, it
ably because we didn't play well didn't look like him, but I just fig-
enough," junior forward Carl ured, 'You gotta shoot the puck.' "
Hagelin said. "Today was more Yesterday, that swagger and fire
like, unlucky. I haven't said that was missing.
we've been unlucky before. But "We've played the first half of
today we definitely had enough the season coming from behind,"
grade-A chances, to win the Caporusso said. "That's not fun.
game." ... You want to get the momentum
Michigan coach Red Berenson and make (your opponent) have to
called Friday's victory lucky. The perform."
puck didn't go the Wolverines' The Wolverines couldn't regain
way yesterday - all of the luck the lead Sunday. Michigan is 8-2
belonged to the Irish. when it scores the game's first

goal, but 1-7 when the opponent
lights the lamp first.
Michigan played with a sense
of urgency, crashed the net, and
made plays happen throughout
Friday's game. Notre Dame (5-5-
4-2, 8-8-4) played without four of
its defensemen, including talented
junior Ian Cole. Cole's absence
forced the Irish to play sophomore
forward Billy Maday (the Irish's
points leader), Ryan Guentzel and
Riley Sheahan on defense.
But the Irish defense was
good enough that Michigan still
couldn't muster a goal yesterday.
The Wolverines didn't help
themselves by taking 18 penalty
minutes in the shutout loss, and
the nation's No. 1 penalty kill unit
enteringthis weekend gave up two
power play goals on the weekend.
It was another inconsistent
weekend for Michigan, which
entered yesterday's game with a
chance to earn its second sweep of
the season.
The Wolverines are now off
until Dec. 29, when they play in
the Great Lakes Invitational at
Joe Louis Arena.
"(This weekend) leaves us
somewhere in the middle," Beren-
son said. "We're not on a roll.
We're not bad. We're a pretty
good team. We've got to find ways
to win games like this. When you
come in here and play like that and
keep them on their heels, you have
to find a way to win this game.
"I still think our best hockey is
ahead of us."

ARIEL BOND/Daly
Freshman Gabe Sheena underwent a Van Ness rotationplasty at age eight.

exams, he's never afraid to chime
in with a card that few can play. "A
least you have two legs," he says.
From his summer camp expe-
rience, Sheena was well aware of
what it would take to become a Big

Ten wrestler.
He worked on his upper body
strength throughout high school
(Sheena can bench 285 pounds now
- roughly twice his body weight)
See SHEENA, Page 3B

I

INTRA SQUAD CLASH WINNING WAYS
N It may have just been Maize against Blue, 1 After last year's 10-20 season, women's
but the Michigan men's gymnastics team basketball has learned how to win again. Its
proved a lot in its first competition. Page 3B. -game at Xavier will be a big test. Page 2B.

I

I


2B - December 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com14

Detroit a familiar opponent for 'M'

It's a shame to see some
FCS teams lose football

his weekend, Brian Kelly
called a team meeting to
tell his Cincinnati play-
ers that he had accepted the head
coaching job at Notre Dame.
The Bearcats' standout receiver
and vocal team leader, Mardy
Gilyard,
immediately
walked out of
the room and
told the Asso-
ciated Press,
"He went for
the money. I'm
fairly disgusted
with the situa- ANDY
tion, that they REID
let it last this
long."
I sympathize with Gilyard, but
only to a point. His team has a
chance to upset a deflated Florida
team and finish the season 13-0,
but the situation could be much,
much worse.
Mardy, you lost your coach. Ask
Northeastern senior defensive
lineman Chris Byrne what it's like
to lose your program.
A few weeks ago, his FCS foot-
ball team met with athletic direc-
tor Peter Roby, in a similar setting
to Cincinnati's meeting with
Kelly. But Roby dropped a much
bigger bombshell.
At his recommendation, the
school decided to drop the team
forever.
"I am convinced that this
decision is in the best interest

of the university," Roby wrote
in an open letter, explaining the
situation. "The past several years
have been disappointing for our
football program despite the best
efforts of our staff and players."
After Kelly's meeting, Gilyard
was worried about what he would
tell his younger teammates who
needed motivation for the bowl
game.
It could be much worse, Mardy.
You could have to console the
younger guys - the ones who are
now faced with potentially life-
changing decisions, like whether
to transfer or stay in Boston.
"I had some younger friends on
the team who were crying in my
arms," Byrne told AthleticBusi-
ness.com after the decision. "It
was pretty ridiculous how it all
went down, because nobody saw it
coming. We felt betrayed and lied
to. Even though we thought there
was a chance the program might
get cut, Peter Roby assured us it
wouldn't be."
Northeastern is just one school
in a sad trend this offseason. Not
as publicized as the annual fir-
ing of coaches, smaller schools
around the country are canning
their entire football teams, clearly
for monetary reasons.
Western Washington cut foot-
ball in January 2009, and Hofstra
and Northeastern cut their teams
after this season. According to the
Associated Press, the move will
save Hofstra's athletic depart-

ment $4.5 million annually, and a
combined 13 new sports programs
are being planned between North-
eastern and Hofstra.
In an ideal world, every school
could have every sport, and every
athletic department could be as
comfortably independent and
financially stable as Michigan's.
But the reality is - especially in
this economy, when people might
not want to pay to watch a 3-8
FCS team like Northeastern -
that's not how college athletics
work.
Football is, hands down, the
most expensive team a school
can field. Though the benefits of
having ateam can often outweigh
the negatives, it's a shame when a
school just can't sustain the sport
any longer.
I love football, especially col-
lege football, because of its pas-
sion. And I can't think of anything
more passionate than playing for
a struggling FCS team just for
the love of the game. It's a shame
these kids are losing out on that
opportunity.
I'm sure it hurt Mardy Gilyard
to hear of Kelly's departure, and
I really respected that he told the
city, "Cincinnati, I got you, we got
you." But imagine, Mardy, that
you had to tell Cincinnati that
your program was just dropped to
save a few bucks.
-Reid can be reached at
andyreid(4umich.edu.

ByJOESTAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
Yesterday's win against Detroit
nmsy have seemed like just a tune-
up for the Michigan men's basket-
ball team, especially with a game
against Kansas looming on Dec.
19. But to the Wolverines' two
stars - junior Manny Harris and
senior DeShawn
Sims - it meant NOTEBOOK
more.
"I know most of the guys who
play a lot on their team, and a lot
of us played together and grew up
together," Sims said. "I used to go
to U of D games, so it meant a lot
for us to get this win."
Harris and Sims are the only
two Michigan players from the
city of Detroit, and they matched
up against former AAU team-
mates and opponents yesterday.
"I know quite a few of them,"
Harris said. "(Sophomore guard)
Chase Simon actually played on
my AAU team, (senior guard)
Eulis (Stephens) played on my
AAU team, a couple of those
guys."
Michigan coach John Beilein
said potential Detroit bragging
rights played a part in the Wol-
verines' strong performance in
the second half after trailing at
halftime.
"They know these guys, they
played with a great deal of pride,"
Beilein said. "And we need to
make sure we play like that every
day."
NOVAK THE BARBER: Fresh-
man Matt Vogrich ran through
the tunnel onto the court for war-
mups yesterday sporting a brand-
new 'do.
It was an interesting look -
buzzed pretty short, but with a

4

W

CLIF REEDER/Daily
Junior Manny Harris, a Detroit native, scored 27 points against the Titans. He
knows several of the Detroit basketball players from AAU and high school ball.

strange shaved patch on the back
of his head.
The stylist behind the new
look? Sophomore Zack Novak.
Apparently, it all started when
Vogrich asked Novak if he could
borrow his car to go to a barber.
"I wasn't gonna let him," Novak
said. "Then I decided to let him,
but I waited until all the places
were closed."
So Novak told him to go get a
razor. After Novak buzzed most of
Vogrich's hair off, the sophomore
he took a chunk off the back.
And apparently, Vogrich is OK
with it.
"He loves it," Novak said.
"He calls it his Rasheed Wallace
patch."
HAPPY FOR THE HEISMAN
WINNER: On Saturday, Alabama's
Mark Ingram hoisted the 75th
Heisman Trophy. And while plen-

ty of Southerners were rooting for
the running back, so were many
in his hometown of Flint.
One fellow Flintstone in par-
ticular was pulling from Ingram:
Michigan redshirt sophomore
Laval Lucas-Perry.
"We went to the same school
together in Grand Blanc, and we
played against each other," Lucas-
Perry said. "There's a little bit of
camaraderie there."
When asked about Ingram's
basketball skills, Lucas-Perry,
who logged 36 minutes and scored
10 points on Sunday, laughed and
said the Heisman winner was
where he needed to be.
"He should probably stick to
the football field, but he's ahell of
football player," Lucas-Perry said.
"I like to see -he's representing
Flint town, so it's a great moment
for him."

Wolverines continue brutal road stretch at Xavier, look for eighth 'W' of season 6

In eight-game road
slate, Michigan
has already
notched four wins
By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writer
To put it succinctly, the Michi-
gan women's basketball team is
learning how to win. And the Wol-
verines are doing it at a pace that
has coach Kevin Borseth pleasant-
ly surprised.
Six games into an eight-game
road trip, the Wolverines have
picked up four crucial wins,

including Thursday's 76-70 vic-
tory over Boston College.
Michigan looks to continue
its impressive road performance
tonight at No. 8 Xavier.
Its four road N
wins already
quadruple the
team's road victory totals from a
year ago.
KEEPING PACE: Whether it's
an up-tempo brand of playground
hoops - as witnessed in the Wol-
verines' three 85-plus point efforts
this year - or the grind of Big Ten
basketball, Michigan has kept pace
with its opponents.
"We like to push the ball this
year," freshman guard Jenny Ryan
said. "That's one of our points of

emphasis.... We have a lot of speed
between (freshman guard Day-
eesha Hollins) and (junior guard
Veronica Hicks). And then we have
the shooters that are capable of
putting up the big numbers."
The team is constructed per-
fectly to run the floor. Hollins,
Hicks and Ryan have proved they
can force turnovers on the perim-
eter that turn into easy baskets.
Senior center Krista Phillips and
sophomore forward Carmen Reyn-
olds are as comfortable shooting
from beyond the arc as they are
patrolling the paint.
Itwasn't clearifMichiganwould
be able to compete with physical
conference opponents, but in their
only chance so far this season, the'

Wolver
In th
far, th
those q
to s
we
The
Michig
of the s
Reynolc

ines looked impressive. the starting lineup, all scoring in
eir lone opportunity thus double digits. The Hawkeyes, with
me Wolverines answered five freshmen of their own and
uestions triumphantly. three in the starting lineup, are
fairly young themselves, and the
game served as a good measuring
ven if you try stick for the Wolverines.
0/ y "I think this win was something
low us down great for us," Hicks said. "It shows
I that even if you try to slow us
can fight that down we can fight that adversity
and come out on top. I think that's
adversity." something that's really huge."
YOUTH AND EXPERIENCE:
Even though Michigan relied
on its more experienced players
54-51 win over Iowa was against the Hawkeyes, the fresh-
an's lowest scoring affair men showed they could step up
eason. Phillips, Hicks, and when it counted, against Boston
ds, the three veterans in College.

"Dayeesha did a great job down
the stretch," Borseth said after
Thursday's win over the Eagles.
"She had a tip-in, she had a layup,
a crunch layup, and then she hit
some free throws that were pretty
darn critical. She came to life right
at the end of that game."
Both Hollins and Ryan sunk a
pair of free throws with under a
minute to go in the game.
The Wolverines managed to
seal both games in the final min-
utes, proof that the team is playing
more mature than its age.
Michigan has shown it can play
any style of basketball it needs in
order to secure victories, whether
in the comforts of Crisler or in
hostile environments.

BIVO UA Cannrborcom

LIAY GIFTS FOR
FOR UFNDER

PETZL - i
PLUS

FOLLOw DAILY SPoRTs ON TW-rER: @MICHDAILYSPORTS.
Are You Considering a Career in Health?
Consider the advantages of earning a
Master of Public Health (MPH) degree at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is offering
an exciting opportunity to become a public health professional
specializing in the prevention and control of disease,
particularly chronic disease.
Health and health-related industries are among the fastest-
growing in the nation, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, and those holding Master of Public Health degrees are
needed in a wide variety of health careers.
Our MPH degree provides intensive education and training in
public health approaches to prevention. Applications are now
being accepted for the MPH program's Fall 2010 semester. For
more information, visit our website:
www.mph.illinois.edu

9

4

JAMES PERSE
T/ SHIRT

p AIAONIA
EoRD RAN

336 S. Siate Sieei, Ann Arbor, MI 48104 ph. 734.761.6207
WE GUARANTEE he LOWEST prices! hem from Bivouac will match all competilot a prices, incloding mail order and internet.



The Michigan Daily - michigandailytcom

December 14, 2009 - 3B

SHEENA
From page lB
and practiced new techniques that
allowed him to maximize the use of
his fully functional right leg.
Sheena tries to emulate the style
of Arizona State wrestler and All-
American Anthony Robles, who
was born without a right leg and
entered this season as the No. 3
wrestler in the nation.
"I try to watch film of him at
least once a day," Sheena said. "I
ask myself, 'What does Robles do
in this situation? Can I do the same
thing?'
But as much as Sheena takes
after Robles's wrestlingtechniques,
nobody has influenced his work
ethic more than his father. Sheena
described him as a "workout fiend,"
the man that drove him to train
harder, lift more and set goals.
"In the short term, my goals
involve working hard, getting bet-
ter, and helping the team in any
way I can." Sheena said.
And he does that much more
than his 0-4 record from the early
season warm-up matches shows.
"When players are stressed with
managing practice and schoolwork
and such, they look at Sheena and
what he has to overcome," McFar-
land said. "It kind of brings them
ELITE EIGHT
From page lB
Hawaii's aggressive serving
style gave Michigan trouble hand-
ing the ball on service receive and
passing.
Despite the Wolverines' season
coming to a close, the team has
plenty to be proud of from this
season.

back to reality."
Coming off the bench hasn't
stopped Sheena from thinking big.
After all, every athlete dreams of
achieving a career-defining perfor-
mance.
Michigan basketball star
DeShawn Sims' double-double that
led Michigan to an upset over No.
4 Duke last season and quarter-
back Tate Forcier's final drive that
stunned Notre Dame in September.
And Sheena recalls his defining
moment at Brother Rice without
hesitation.
In his sophomore year of high
school, Sheena was scheduled for a
varsity start at the Catholic League
Tournament, where he got his
chance at redemption against the
only opponent who had pinned him
that year.
Sounds like a climax taken from
a movie script.
"It was a beautiful match," Shee-
na said. "I wound up winning 18-9.
I just killed him."
Sheena hopes to have another
career-defining moment in the
next four years, but right now he is
just focusing on his goal of starting
for the Wolverines.
And it's clear from his past that
he will continue to work hard,
inspire his teammates and build
on the moments that wrestling has
given him.
They had a record-setting year
in which they made it to their
fourth consecutive NCAA Tour-
nanment and earned a spot in the
pro'gram's first Elite Eight.
"Anytime that a program can
get to the Elite Eight, I think you
have to respect the team and know
that they have a lot of fight," Hunt
said. "This year, making it to the
Elite Eight, we've definitely prov-
en ourselves."
in each of her three years in
Ann Arbor, the Wolverines have
increased their win total and have
reached at least the Sweet 16.
"We've created this culture of
expecting to win and advancing in
the tournament," senior right side
hitter Megan Bower said. "It didn't
come easy, and it took a lot of work.
This senior class has really shown
good leadership and brought Michi-
gan along with them. We're not just
on the map. We're on the top of that
map.:
Duringthe Wolverines'match
againstthe Corhuskers over three
months ago,thetwo commentators
were both Nebraska fans. It was obvi-
ous from their tone andsufficient
knowledge of the Corhusker team.
After Michigan won the opening
two sets, those commentators were
at a loss for words. They tried in
vain to describe a team they knew
nothingabout.
After the Wolverines' season, it's
a sure bet the media will know who
Michigan is next fall.

RESPECT
From page 1B

Junior Carl Hagelin has been a bright spot on the Wolverines' power play this season with three goals. He also leads the team in points (16).
Questions still loom on speclc
teams after weekend series sp

By MARK BURNS Fighting Irish's penalty killers.
Daily Sports Writer With the puck on the outside of
the box, Notre Dame only had to
SOUTH BEND - When it has minimize the amount of offensive
the man advantage, the Michigan activity within the heart of the
hockey team possesses the puck box.
with the best of Finally, with five seconds left
the CCHA. NOTEBOOK in the power play, senior defense-
Its crisp, man Chris Summers let a slap shot
tape-to-tape passing has been a go from the top of the left circle.
strength on the power play all Notre Dame goaltender Mike
season. Johnson easily stopped the puck.
But the Wolverines' shooting It's shots and scenarios like
- or lack thereof - has plagued these that have haunted the Wol-
them. verines' power play more than
This weekend was no different. two months into the season.
in the split against No. 18 Notre "Most of our chances tonight
Dame, Michigan registered one were on the four-on-four or five-
tally in 10 chances. on-five," junior forward Carl
On Sunday afternoon, Michi- Hagelin said. "We didn't get
gan (5-7 CCHA, 9-9-0 overall) enough shots through. We had
drew a power play 37 seconds into good movement and good puck
the second period. For a minute protection, but we didn't get those
and 55 consecutive seconds, the grade-A scoring chances (on the
five Wolverines on the ice contin- power play)."
ued to just pass the puck to each Michigan's power play cur-
other. rently sits in seventh place in
They made things easy for the the CCHA, and with a bulk of its

conference schedule still looming
after the holidays, the Wolverines
will need to revamp their power
play if they want to finish at the
top of the conference.
"Most goals on the power play
aren't tic-tac-toe plays," Hage-
lin said. "They're shots from the
point, just a tip. Today we got a
couple of shots through, but we
had no real tips or rebounds."
LIVIN' IN THE BOX: With just
under nine minutes remaining in
yesterday's matchup against the
Fighting Irish and Michigan down
by a 2-0 margin, senior Brian Leb-
ler took an elbowing penalty - his
second infraction of the night.
The Wolverines committed
nine penalties against Notre Dame
on Sunday, almost a full period's
worth of penalty killing. Penalties
are becoming dangerous for the
team. Michigan is second only to
Ferris State in the CCHA in total
penalty minutes.
"I think we took four penalties
in a row during the second period,

and especially a f
that really hurt us
coach Red Berenson,
no momentum out o
period even though\w
pretty well."
The team's relati
the sin bin grew ever
iar when the Wolveri
another four penalti
period.
The plethora of
ruined the momentu
team was trying to
road in a hostile(
And it eliminated an;
tinuity with players
binations.
Some players w
more energy on the p
others sat out for mii
which -caused Mich
momentum.
"You take a per
shuts everything d
defenseman Steve K
"You're sitting back(
and reacting to them

ARIE L BOND/Daly It was the only time all season the
Lady Lions - who beat California
on Saturday to earn their 100th
consecutive win - have been
a i pushed to the five-set match limit.
Talk about earning some
respect.
The seniors have put this pro-
gram on the map and they have
changed the standards for what
Michigan volleyball is," junior set-
ive-on-three, ter Lexi Zimmerman said. "We're
," Michigan still creating that image, and we're'
said. "We got definitely not comfortable where
f-that second we're at, but we're headed in the
e started out right direction. This program is
getting better every year, which is
ionship with something to be proud of."
n more famil- It's obvious Zimmerman doesn't
nes garnered want the program or her team-
es in the final mates to become complacent,
which is a sign of her maturity and
infractions leadership.
m Berenson's But Zimmerman should feel
create on the comfortable about the program's
environment. current position.

y kind of con-
and line com-
ere exerting
enalty kill as
nutes on end,
igan to lose
nalty and it
own," senior
.ampfer said.
on your heels
now."

GOING AWAY FOR
THE 'HOLIDAYS?
YOU'RE NEVER FAR FROM
THE WOLVERINES WITH
WWW.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Santander shines in intrasquad matchup

Defending Big Ten
Co-Champs hold
exhibition match
By MICHAEL LAURILA
Daily Sports Writer
The annual Maize and Blue
Intrasquad meet on Saturday was
the Wolverines' first judged event
of the season. Michigan coach Kurt
Golder was not very excited about
his team's performance in the
exhibition.
After last year's runner-up per-
formance at the NCAA Champion-
ships, the sixth-ranked Wolverines
are back in action again.
"I saw a lot of good things,"
Golder said. "But I saw a lot of
missed routines tonight, too. I
doubt whether we hit 50 percent of
our routines tonight, because we've
been hitting around 50 percent in
practice. That's disappointing."
One of the "good things" was the
performance of senior Mel Anton
Santander, who won the pommel
horse and finished third on the
rings.
"I thought he looked the best
prepared out of all the guys on the
team," Golder said. "During the
regular season, I always have most
outstanding performance and I
would give it to him for the total of
all the events-tonight."
In this year's intrasquad meet,

si9L
500otrt
flll.e youmai r ca
wi('-Sf-Pre-Wera
I eThnicians 734 665.97 7 ProAutoTechs com
H- -OrN ro AtRr7. 01225Jewett * Ann Arbor

Senior Mel Anton Santander won the Maize and Blue Intrasquad meet on Saturday a
Santander and junior Chris Cam- starting point for me, and hopeful-
eron traded roles from last year. ly, it will just continue on to better
In last year's meet, Cameron things in the future of our season."
beat Santander in overall points by Cameron, an All-American last
a mere 3.1 points. This year San- year, was disappointed with his
tander got retribution by taking a performance at the meet. Thougla
slim 3.4 point victory, leading the he won the floor exercise and fin-
Maize team to a victory. ished second on the high bar, he felt
Even though Santander was the he could have done better.
overall winner, he was not com- "At no point should 1 drop to the
pletely satisfied with his perfor- level that I performed at today,"
mance. Cameron said. "There's no excuse
"I had some good things and for that. When it all boils down to
some bad things," Santander said. what I needed to do, it was nothing
"Overall, I felt like it was good, but near what this team needs of me."
not good enough. This is just a good Other top performers for the

ARIEL BOND/Daily
nd led the Maize team toa victory.
Wolverines included freshman
Rohan Sebastian, who finished
third in the overall competition
and junior Thomas Kelley, who
won the high bar by at iimpressive
1.2 points.
Up next for Michigan is the
Windy City Invitational in Chi-
cago on Jan. 16. Golder is hoping
for a better showing than his team
exhibited Saturday.
"We better hit a lot more rou-
tines, and we better look a lot
cleaner," Golder said. "We better
win it. We won it last year, and we
should be a better team this year."


4B - December 14, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 6

4B - December A, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

, , ,

My Daily memories, from my
futon to the Big House turf

4&

 st was Oct. 22, 2006, and I had
just turned in my firsc story
for the Daily. I received a few
edits in red pen and a healthy dose
of horror stories. "The Daily will
suck you in," one of the seniors
told me. "You think you have other
interests right
now, but the
Daily will take
over your life."
I didn'tfind
that funny. So
I was careful
not to get too
involved as COURTNEY
a freshman, RATKOWIAK
volunteering
to write stories
only when it
wouldn't get in the way of watching
"American Idol" with my roommate
on Tuesday and Wednesday nights.
I had absolutely no interest in giv-
ing up my weekends to travel to
away games, soI didn't.
It was Sept. 10, 2007, and I
wasn't going anywhere fast. Not
on foot, anyway. I had had foot
surgery three weeks before,
which meant on this particular
Monday night, I was lying on
my futon with a bright blue ice
pack strapped to my cast. My cell
phone rang. I only answered it
because I didn't have the number
saved in my phone.
Then-Daily sports editor Nate
Sandals was on the other end, tell-
ing me the editors really wanted
me to come in that night to inter-
view for a position on the hockey
beat. I purposely hadn't signed up
for an interview, I told him. I was
perfectly content writing about the
men's swimming team for the next
few years, which was a four or five
hour-per-week commitment.
But somehow, after an hour-

long phone conversation, I hobbled
to 420 Maynard St. to meet with
six upperclassmen I barely knew.
They were apparently desperate
for someone to fill that spot on the
four-person beat, and I didn't really
understand what I was signing up
for.
Turns out I had only lasted 11
months before gettingsucked in.
There's no way I would have
known how lucky I was.
It was Oct. 18, 2007, and I was
quickly forced to change my mind
about road trips. Hockey coach
Red Berenson allowed fellow beat
writer Mike Eisenstein and me to
hitch a ride with the hockey team
on its charter plane to Marquette.
It was an unprecedented invita-
tion for any Daily writer, and we
went through about two minutes
of security, walked right onto the
plane and found out the "airplane
food" included Reese's Peanut
Butter Cups and beef jerky.
We were just starting to feel at
ease when Berenson rose from his
seat, turned around and addressed
his team before takeoff.
"Be on your best behavior," he
told them. "Reporters are in atten-
dance."
He turned to give us one of his
legendary stares. I don't think Mike
or I said a word to each other the
entire flight, out of sheer intimida-
tion.
But we got to know Coach Beren-
son better after that. Each day after
hockey practice, the coach would
trod out of the locker room, wear-
ing socks (no shoes) and holding a
steaming mug of hot coffee. He'd
take his seat on the couch and
patiently answer all of our ques-
tions. He wasn't as intimidating
then, and I knew I was lucky to be
there.

It was April 12, 2008, and I
found myself wedged between big
guys holding bulky photo equip-
ment, craning my neck to see the
final seconds of the NCAA hockey
national championship tick down.
Michigan had lost in the Frozen
Four two days before, but Boston
College was about to win the NCAA
title and we wanted to be in the
middle of it when it happened.
Our media credentials said NO
ICE, but beat writer Andy Reid and
I snuck past security to try and
blend in with the all-access guys
and their neon press armbands. The
buzzer sounded, the arena went
crazy and we ran out, taking turns
feverishly snapping pictures of the
celebrating Boston College players
with my point-and-shoot Nikon as
if we were really doing our jobs.
We must have looked ridiculous,
but I didn't care. That was as close
to a national championship as I got
in my time here at Michigan, and I
knew I was lucky to be there.
It was Nov. 21, 2009, and I had
just watched Michigan football
lose its 16th and final game of my
two years in the press box. I had
been sure to pull out all the stops
for this Ohio State game - wak-
ing up to blaring tailgate music
at 7 a.m., heckling Buckeye fans
from my friend's house on State
and Hill, then changing into
business casual and watching
from 10 feet away as the football
team stormed out under the GO
BLUE banner.
After conducting postgame
interviews, the four seniors on the
football beat walked back down
the tunnel and onto the Michigan
Stadium turf for the last time.
Andy joked about playing a game
of pickup football on the field, and

I burst into tears. And the tears
didn't stop, even as I transcribed
football quotes for the last time
and as we slung our press box
chairs over our shoulders to take
them home as souvenirs.
All of our group photos from
after that game suck. My eyes are
red and puffy, and I'm forcing a
smile.
Now that I look back on it, it was
embarrassing, really. But it only
happened because even though
I covered two terrible football
teams, I knew as I walked out of
the Big House press box for the
last time that I was so, so lucky to
be there.
It's now December 14, 2009, and
this is my last byline for the Daily.
Over the past three years, one
month and 22 days, I've written
more than 320 articles and logged
16,800 away game road trip miles.
I'm currently the second-high-
est paid member on the Daily edit
staff, but my monthly salary evens
out to a cool $1.25 per hour during
football season.
And the thought of never writ-
ing for a newspaper again terrifies
me, so I'm going to try to make
sure that doesn't happen.
When I was prone on my futon
a couple years ago, that bright blue
ice pack on my cast, I was worried
I wouldn't get the real "college
experience," whatever that's sup-
posed to be, if I was working in the
press box instead of screaming in
the stands.
But now I know the brightest
part of Michigan blue has to be
writing sports at 420 Maynard St.
And for that, I'll always feel
lucky.
- Ratkowiak can be reached
at cratkowi@umich.edu.

Senior Kylie Botterman impressed those in attendance at the annual intrasquad
meet this weekend
Tu-mblers get
chanc e to warm
up for '910 seaso-n

THANKS FOR READING THE DAILY THIS SEMESTER.
WE'LL BE BACK IN PRINT NEXT YEAR WITH MORE
COVERAGE OF THE SPORTS YOU LOVE.
OVER WINTER BREAK, READ ABOUT THE WOLVERINES AT
WWW.MICHIGANDAILY.COM/SEcTION/SPORTS.

By STEPHEN NESBITT
For the Daily
On a Saturday night that was
meant to showcase some of Ann
Arbor's brightest young athletes,
the Maize team trumped its Blue
counterparts in a thrilling 6-5
finale at the Michigan women's
gymnastics team's annual intra-
squad meet.
The competition pitted Maize
- seniors Sarah Curtis, Kelsey
Knutson and Jaclyn Kramer and
freshman Natalie Beilstein -
against Blue - seniors Maureen
Moody and Jordan Sexton, junior
Kylee Botterman, and freshman
Brittnee Martinez.
The evening's judges were
WTKA radio personalities Sam
Webb and Ira Weintraub, noted
author and University professor,
John Bacon, and former Wolver-
ine running back Jamie Morris.
The match, held at Crisler
Arena, came down to the final
floor exercise between Botter-
man and Beilstein - a proven
veteran against an incoming sen-
sation.
After Beilstein finished her
routine, Botterman took the
microphone and pleaded with the
judges.
"Professor Bacon, I'm just won-
dering if you're up for any type of
negotiations," she said in playful
banter with the judge, her Ameri-
can Culture professor. "How
about if I do this floor routine up
to your standards, I get sO 'A' in
your class?"
Her ensuing routine was as
good as promised, but one unsta-
ble landing allowed Beilstein to
swipe the final point and win the
competition for the Maize team.
Michigan coach Bev Plocki and
her gymnasts said they were con-
tent with the team's performance
as a whole.
"We know that our beam (rou-
tines) have been really, really good

in practice, and (tonight) we had a
few falls under pressure," Plocki
said. "But all the makings of a good
team are here, and I think we had
a lot of highlights tonight."
Added Sexton, a senior captain:
"We know that our routines are
not up to national quality yet, but
we want to get out there and we're
feeling confident. We just wanted
to go and get those routines and
keep on moving up the ladder and
gettingstronger and stronger, get-
ting ready to start in January."
"We have the
same goals
pretty much
every ylear.1
No. 14 Michigan enters the sea-
son with five seniors and three
freshmen, but the most impres-
sive outings may have come from
Beilstein and Martinez, two of the
newest Wolverines.
"I was very impressed with
(the freshmen) in their first ever
collegiate-type situation," Plocki
said of the duo. "I thought they
did very well."
The Wolverines, who have won
15 of the last 17 Big Ten titles,
begin their regular season in Ann
Arbor against Iowa and Bowling
Green on Jan. 9.
According to Plocki, who is in
her 20th season of coaching at
Michigan, the team's aspirations
remain the same..
"We have the same goals pretty
much every year, and we never
back down from those," Plocki
said. "Ultimately, we want to win
a national championship, but first
and foremost, we always focus on
a Big Ten Championship."

*I

U

SELECT SPACES
LEFT FOR 2010

II1
IAI .t[

I

i

j-:
rf
i
. ,

--t 7
,. y . .5.'5a k.
'
'1
;,.,:;.,
-_i
11
^l
7
-

r ,
._
Z
1,
s
i
f
.
f ,
,
a'
}
,: ; ,- :'
L-
t
r ; :
r <<
{
e;, :,: s,,;
r
:.
4'
i
':
t^ ,
i

FORRETRNING STUDENTS?

UNIVERSITY
HOUSING.
Stockwell, Mosher-jordao,
Northwood I, North Quad, and
more..all eserved jsat for you,

www ptomsT.hesmimeg.urich. du
The Time of Your Lafe

734998.4400 411 E Washington St. 4elevenlofts I
iv we iv m~' 'tnc parchsse neccssa'y.

U NIVERSITY of MICHIGAN
isii~iiN r st o siattin

4


