Iie liCidogan i I1j

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, April 15, 2009

michigandaily.com

THE ECONOMY AND CAMPUS
Hillel asks
for aid in
downturn

. ED MOCH/Daily
President Mary Sue Coleman (left) and Vice President for Student Affairs Royster Harper (center) field questions from students at yesterday's fireside chat on financial issues.
Coleman chats abouthe

Officials say that
$200,000 could be
cut from budget
By ANNIE THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
University of Michigan Hillel,
the campus organization famed
for its Friday night Shabbat din-
ners and free "Jewish Penicillin"
matzah ball soup deliveries for
the sick, has caught its own case
of the nation's economic blues.
Officials from the organiza-
tion said they might need to cut
as much as $200,000 from their
annual budget. They are now
starting a grassroots fundraising
campaign in hopes of avoiding
staff and salary cuts or poten-
tially ending popular programs
before the end of the fiscal year
on June 30.
Hillel's . Executive Direc-
tor Michael Brooks wrote in an
e-mail that like many non-profit
organizations in the country, the
University's Hillel is experienc-
ing some tough economic times.
BrookssaidtheBernieMadoff's
Ponzi scheme didn't affect Hillel

as much as it affected many other
Jewish non-profit organizations.
But funding is down because par-
ents and alumni have been less
able to contribute because of lost
jobs and tight financial times.
"Last year we had 3,500 annual
donors, but we expect that num-
her to be down this year," Brooks
wrote in an e-mail. "The students
conductingour annual phonathon
campaign this year have spoken
with many of our supporters who
are facing their own financial
challenges and in some cases who
have lost their jobs."
Hillel officials recognize that
part of the problem may be that
the organization spread itself too
thin, Brooks said, by supporting
so many student groups and pro-
viding a variety of services.
"It's also a function of Hillel
havingover the past several years
sodramaticallyextendeditsrange
of services not only to the Jewish
community but to the entire cam-
pus community," Brooks wrote in
the e-mail. "There are now about
50 student groups and organi-
zations formally affiliated with
Hillel and the number increases
each year."
See HILLEL, Page 7A

University president
says it's too early to
know if there will be
a tuition increase
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
At an intimate meeting yester-
day, University President Mary

Sue Coleman told students how the
University will help them cope with
financial hardships over the next
year, but admitted it was too early
to tell whether a tuition increase
was on the horizon.
Coleman met with approximate-
ly 40 students yesterday in her last
fireside chat of the year. Coleman
hosts an invitation only fireside
chat with students each month to
discuss any concerns they have
about the University.

Coleman focused a major part of
the chat on explaining the budget
process and responding to student
concerns about University finances.
Vice President for Student Affairs
Royster Harper also fielded ques-
tions from students.
Coleman said the budget process
begins by examining expenses that
are expected to rise - like energy
and utility costs, unionized employ-
ee salaries and supply costs - and
then reviewing individual schools'

budgets. At the same time, Coleman
said expected revenue levels are
considered to make sure they will
cover the budgeted expenses.,
Coleman said pinpointing rev-
enue levels has been very difficult
this. year because of several vari-
ables that are still up in the air.
"That's been particularly chal-
lenging this year because we don't
know what's going to happen with
the state (appropriations)," she
See COLEMAN, Page 7A


ALTERNATIV NEGY SERIE PART 3 0 5
Our energy future:
Geothermal power

Sobering news: Beer tax may rise

By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
For commercial producer Mat-
thew Grocoff, living green with
a geothermal system has meant
sustained comfort at a fraction
of the original cost. And, with a
global drive toward sustainabil-
ity, Grocoff believes geothermal
energy may no longer be taking
a backseat in the discussion of
energy alternatives.
Grocoff said he and his wife,
Kelly, moved to Ann Arbor from
Santa Monica, Calif. bringing
with them a Californian con-
sciousness about water and ener-

gy efficiency. Still in the ongoing
process of renovating their home
in the Old West Side of Ann
Arbor, the Grocoffs have retrofit-
ted a 110-year-old Victorian-style
house with the latest eco-friendly
technology.
After insulatingthe house, buy-
ing energy-saving light motion
sensors and installing Energy
Star appliances, the couple set
its sights on a geothermal unit to
heat and cool their new home.
Referring to the Envision - a
geothermal system created by
WaterFurnace - as "green hling,"
Grocoff was eager to share the
details of his return on the invest-
See GEOTHERMAL, Page 7A

Tax would help
fund child abuse
prevention programs
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
Beer pong tournaments could get
more expensive if a Michigan state
task force gets its way.
The Michigan Child Welfare
Improvement Task Force plans to
recommend a higher tax on beer in
Michigan, raising the tax from two
to five cents per 12 ounces of beer,

or about one can, i"shars,'grocery
stores and wholesale stores. The
money from the tax rate increase
will go toward prevention pro-
grams for child abuse and neglect
and to help children in the foster
care system.
Patrick Babcock, a co-chair
of the task force, said raising the
taxes on beer would have a large
impact on child abuse prevention
programs.
"If the legislature were to adopt
the five-cent proposal, we could
raise as much as $110 million per
year," Babcock said. "And for five
cents on the bottle, we think it's a

small amount to be able to protect
our children."
Babcock added that the group
chose to tax beer because of high
trends of alcoholism among abusive
or neglectful parents.
"There is a relationship between
the ingestion of alcohol and child
abuse and neglect," Babcock said.
"Though it is not always the case,
there is often alcohol involved in
cases of child abuse and neglect."
But University students
shouldn't get too worried yet
because the proposal is likely to
face opposition once it reaches the
See BEER TAX, Page 7A

BY THE NUMBERS
Proposed changesnto stateutaxeson beer
5 cents
Proposed newltao pet12 ounces of beet, at
aboutone can sold in thesateof Michigan.
2 Cents
The current statetaxon12ounces of beer,
whetebeer indusr y officialsand Republican
legislatures marl it In slay.
$110 million
Total amountlthat the state could raise if the
legislation were passed, accordingto Patrick
Babcock, a co-chair of thetask force.

MUSICAL MOCKERY

MICHIGAN STUDENT A S MLY
MSA passes resolution
to support DREAM Act

Legislation would
help undocumented
students work
toward citizenship
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
When he was three years old,
* local community college stu-
dent Mohammed, who asked
that his last name not be printed
because he is in the country ille-
gally, immigrated to Ann Arbor
from Iran with his parents in
1989.
a He has lived here ever since,

attending Ai" Arhor public
schools for his entire primary
education. But because of a
lawyer's filing mistake when
his parents first arrived in the
United States, he remains an
undocumented immigrant.
Mohammed has taken the
maximum amount of transfer-
able credits at a Michigan com-
munity college and wants to
finish his degree in social work at
the University of Michigan. How-
ever, due to high tuition costs and
a lack of eligibility for in-state
tuition or financial aid because
he is undocumented, he cannot
attend the University.
Students like Mohammed are
See DREAM ACT, Page 7A

JED MOcH/Daily
Students act in a mock High School Musical film about college graduation produced by LSA seniors Megan Gilliam and Zoe'Rudsill (not pictured). The project is for the two
seniors' Video, Screen and Dance class and appropriately features a story line about graduating college students.


WEATHER HI: 63
TOMORROW LO: 38

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsomichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICNIGANDAILY.COM
Former Wolverine Hunter signs with the Knicks.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS.......
Vol. CXIX, No.130 OPINION..
(0095The htichigan Dily SPORTS....
michigoodoily.com

...... ...,.2A C LAS S IF IE DS.....
...................4A A RT ..............
...................5A THE STATEMENT

.A
..8A

.ti



4

2A - Wednesday, April 15, 2009
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

p :.. The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Characters Explained Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

The art of temperature

Sometimes the Fishbowl feels like a
sauna, and sometimes the Mason Hall
classrooms feel like freezers. But if
you've ever wondered who controls the
thermostats around Angell Hall, you're
not alone.
The Angell Hall thermostats can be
adjusted by almost anyone who is using
the building's facilities, although it is not
recommended to fiddle around with the
thermostats, according to Jim Almashy,
an energy engineer in the College of Lit-
erature, Science and the Arts.
"Thermostats in offices andclassrooms
do not respond in the same way they do at
home," Almashy wrote in an e-mail inter-
view. "It may take an hour to change the
temperature two degrees in a large class-
room".
He added that LSA controls the spe-
cific temperatures at which its buildings
should be kept.
"Ideally, LSA wouldlike all thermostats
to be set at 74 degrees in the summer and

68 degrees in the winter," Almashy wrote.
"As the LSA EnergyfEngineer, I try to visit
all classrooms, offices, and common areas
twice a year makingthis adjustment."
Almashy said this temperature range
is consistent with practices at other uni-
versities and complies with the Univer-
sity's Planet Blue Program, which was
launched in Fall 2008 and is designed to
increase energy efficiency.
"When that program is complete, LSA
might consider mandatingthe above tem-
perature settings," Almashy wrote.
Though temperatures' generally stay
within a certain range, Almashy added
that common areas are usually kept cool-
er than the rest ofthe building inthe win-
ter and warmer in the summer.
To regulate the change inbuildingtem-
peratures, Almashy said part of his job is
to "review classroom schedules, as well
as office schedules, and turn off heating,
ventilating, air conditioning, and exhaust
systems when buildings are unoccupied."

The reason students sometimes feel
like the rooms in Angell Hall, especially
the Fishbowl, are too warm is due to
the unusual warm days in the middle of
spring or fall, accordingto Almashy.
"The Plant (Operations) cannot just
turn large air conditioning systems on
and off for a day," he wrote. "It typically
takes a team of skilled trade Plant employ-
ees weeks to fill the chilled water air con-
ditioning systems and ready them for
operation during the spring, and equally
as longto drain them in the fall."
Almashy said states' varied weather
and temperature patterns make this espe-
cially difficult.
"Turning these systems on too soon
in the spring or running them too long
in the fall could result in catastrophic
failures if temperatures drop below
freezing for any length of time," he JDMOCH/Daiy
wrote. "And that's a real possibility in Oneof many thermostats in Angell Hall The
Michigan." thermostats are controlled by the LSA energy
- DIYA WADHWA engineer.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA A ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
raneo@michigandaity.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officethours:sun.-thurs. n a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor rothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photoomichigandaily.com
Arts Section artsomichigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@niichigandaity.com
Display Sales . display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSmiloVitZ ManagingNews Editor smioiegmichigandailycom
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman,'TrevorCalero, Caitlin Schneider,
Linedy Stnsenvens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
Kyle Swanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandailycom
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANTSPORTSEDITORS:RyanKartey,Ia,,JasonnKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandailycom
SNOR RToSEDTORSoe: Jaielok,Brndnonrdis, Witneymows
STANARTSEDOrosuaBayer,ndrwapinDaveRepBenVanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
CliftReeder Msnagingrbunt diters
SENIOR PnOO EDITORSSaid Asaah, ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, Rob Migrin,Sam Wolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
DavidMerian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display AdvertisingSales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, Christie Phillips
Ryan Businski classifiedSalesManager
Cassified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissl Gerber onlinesales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Michigan Daily IsN 0745 967)is published Monday through Friday duringthefalland winter
terms bystudents at the University of Michigan.One copy isavailable free of charge to al readers.
Additional copies maybe picked up atthe Daily's office for $2.Subscriptions for fall and winter term
(September through April)viaU.S.smail$ars0.Ye-roundsubscriptions(Fall, Winter,Springand
Summer issues)are$22.Subscriptions must be prepaid The Michigan Daly is a member of The
Associated Pressand The AssociatedCollegiatePress.

4

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Student falls off Laptop swiped Ethics in
ladder, hurts from Grad careers p;

SAPAC film
anel screening

ankle
WHERE: East Quadrangle
Residence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 4:20
p.m.
WHAT: A subject fell off of
a ladder in her residence hall
room, University Police report-
ed. She injured her ankle.

WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Monday atabout
4:30p.m.
WHAT: A Hewlett-Packard
laptop was stolen from the
graduate library, University
Police reported. The laptop was
left unattended for five minutes
on the fourth floor.

Skateboarders DPS responds
given warning to fire alarm at
near Union Courtyard

WHAT: A panel discussion
on the ethical challenges in
careers like medicine, law and
government. Panelists include
James Cameron, managing
partner of Dykema Law Firm
and Hobart Lee, house officer
and chief resident at the UM
Medical School.
WHO: LSA-SG Honor Council
WHEN: Today at 7 a.m.
WHERE: Annenberg Audito-
rium, Weill Hall
Talk on
architecture
WHAT: Brad Cloepfil, the
architectof the UMMA reno-
vation will give a talk on the
projects of his firm, Allied
Works Architecture.
WHO: UMMA
WHEN: Today at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Helmut Stern
Auditorium, Museum of Art

WHAT: A screening of a film
created by SAPAC called, "A
Common Voice: Sexual and
Intimate Partner Violence on
Campus." The movie features
interviews with survivors on
campus.
WHO: University Unions
Arts and Programs
WHEN: Tonight at6 p.m.
WHERE: Ballroom, Univer-
sity Unions
Bible study
WHAT: Rev. Mark J. Lyons
will lead a Bible study as part
of Mustard Seed Christian
Campus Forum.
WHO: Black Student Union
WHEN: Tonight at 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: MSA Chambers,
The Michigan Union
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Byron Shane Carpenter, a
defendant in a fatal New
Mexico drunk driving case
published a fake obituary for
himself, United Press Interna-
tional reported. U.S. Marshals
found Carpenter hiding under
a pile of rocks.
Both the CCRB and the
NCRB were built in 1976
and neither have under-
gone major renovations since
being built.
">FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
PAGE 6B
The British Government is
training operators of pro-
Western websites in search
engine optimization, Fox News
reported. If the program goes as
planned, when the word "jihad"
is typed into Google pro-Western
sites will be atthe top of the list.

0
I

WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN: Monday at about 4:30
p.m.
WHAT: Skateboarders who
were skating near the con-
struction area close to the
Union were given a verbal
warning, University Police
reported.

WHERE: 1655 Plymouth Rd.
WHEN: Monday at about 9:40
p.m.
WHAT: A DPS unit assisted
Ann Arbor Police at the Court-
yard Apartments, University
Police reported. A fire alarm
went off and strobes were flash-
ing, but there was no fire.


0

I

a

a

I

k 6549 E. UNIVERSITY AVE
4q o549 734-662-3201
B 00 K S T0 R E WWW.ULRICHS.COM

317 SOUTH STATE
734-665-4990
WWW.MICHBOOK.C
BOOK & SUPPLY

a

OPEN 'TIL PM OR LATER

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, A pril 15, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Detroit man sues to
block demolition of
rail depot
A Detroit man wants to derail
the possible demolition of the
Michigan Central Station.
Stanley Christmas filed suit
Monday against the city and City
Council, contending the 96-year-
old building is protected by the
National Historic Preservation Act
of 1966.
The council on April 7 approved
a resolution seeking emergency
demolition of the decrepit 17-story
building long considered a symbol
of Detroit's decay. Mayor Ken Cock-
rel Jr. wants to use $3.64 million in
federal stimulus funds to raze the
station, which closed in 1988.
City attorneys will outline the
process to the council on April 28.
Mayoral spokesman Daniel Cher-
rin says the city has made no firm
plans regarding the depot's fate.
Christmas ran for mayor in 2005
and in the Feb. 24 special mayoral
election, drawing 103 votes.
HILLSDALE, Mich.
Hillsdale's youngest
mayor won't seek
re-election
The city's youngest mayor is
ready to move on.
Michael Sessions was 18 when
he won a 2005 write-in campaign
in Hillsdale, a city of 8,200 located
85 miles southwest of Detroit.
The 21-year-old announced yes-
terday he won't seek re-election be-
cause he is to graduate from Hills-
dale College in 2010 and his career
plans may prevent him from com-
pleting a second four-year term.
Sessions registered to vote one
day after his 18th birthday in Sep-
tember 2005 and signed up as a
write-in candidate the day after
that. He financed his campaign
with $700 earned by working at a
french fry wagon at local fairs and
carnivals.
After defeating the incumbent
by two votes, Sessions appeared
on national news programs and on
the "Late Show with David Letter-
man."
MOMBASA, Kenya
Somali pirates on
hijack spree since
the weekend
A Somali pirates were back to
business as usual yesterday, defi-
antly seizing four more ships with
60 hostages after U.S. sharpshoot-
ers rescued an American freighter
captain. "No one can deter us," one
bandit boasted.
The freed skipper, Richard Phil-
lips, will return home to the United
States today, after reuniting with
his 19-man crew in the Kenyan port
of Mombasa, according to the ship-
ping company Maersk Line Ltd.
Thebrigandsgrabbed moreships
and hostages to show they would
not be intimidated by President
Barack Obama's pledge to confront

the high-seas bandits, according to
a pirate based in the Somali coastal
town of Harardhere.
"Our latest hijackings are meant
to show that no one can deter us
from protecting our waters from
the enemy because we believe in
dying for our land," Omar Dahir
Idle told The Associated Press by
telephone. "Our guns do not fire
water. I am sure we will avenge."
MONTPERLIER, Vermont
Vt. may set aside
harshest penalties
for 'sexting'
Parents, school districts and
law enforcement have been grap-
pling with what to do with teen-
agers who take sexually explicit
photos of themselves with their
cell phone cameras and send them
to friends.
Vermont legislators are moving
to get rid of one option: child por-
nography counts that result in life-
time listings on the state's Internet
sex offender registry.
Legislation passed by the Ver-
mont Senate and pending in the
House would remove the most seri-
ous legal consequences for teenag-
ers who engage in "sexting." The
bill would carve out an exemption
from prosecution for child por-
nography for 13- to 18-year-olds
on either the sending or receiving
end of sexting messages, so long as
the sender voluntarily transmits an
image of himself or herself.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

N. Korea set to
restart nuclear
programs

Officials oust U.N.
inspectors, pull
out of negotiations
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -
North Korea said yesterday it was
restarting its rogue nuclear pro-
gram, bootingU.N. inspectors and
pulling out of disarmament talks
in an angry reaction to U.N. Secu-
rity Council condemnation of its
April 5 rocket launch.
Pyongyang ordered U.N. nucle-
ar inspectors to remove seals
and cameras from its Yongbyon
nuclear site and leave the country
as quickly as possible, the Inter-
national Atomic Energy Agency
said.
North Korea told the IAEA
it was "immediately ceasing all
cooperation" and "has decided
to reactivate all facilities and go
ahead with the reprocessing of
spent fuel," according to a state-
ment from the U.N. agency.
White House spokesman Rob-
ert Gibbs condemned the decision,
saying the international commu-
nity will not accept North Korea
until it abandons what Washing-
ton calls its pursuit of nuclear
weapons. The North must "cease
its provocative threats," he said.
Russia also deplored the move
and urged its neighbor to rejoin
six-nation talks, which have been
held since 2003 in an attempt
to get Pyongyang to give up its
nuclear program in exchange for
aid and other concessions. Brit-
ain's Foreign Office said the break
with the IAEA was "completely
unjustified."
China - Pyongyang's main ally
and the host of the talks - called
for calm on all sides.
Despite its defiance, ana-

lysts say North Korea, one of the
poorest countries in the world,
is unlikely to abandon the talks
altogether. They suggested North
Korea could be trying to draw the
United States into direct negotia-
tions, which it has long sought.
Hajime Izumi, a North Korea
expert at the University of Shizuo-
ka in Japan, said the North Kore-
an reaction was designed to "bring
the United States to the negotiat-
ing table and squeeze maximum
concessions from it."
All 15 members of the Security
Council, including China and Rus-
sia, agreed Monday to condemn
the April 5 launch as a violation
of U.N. resolutions and to tighten
sanctions against the regime. The
U.N. statement was weaker than
the resolution Japan and the Unit-
ed States had pursued.
North Korea claims it launched
a communications satellite as
part of a peaceful bid to develop
its space program as Kim Jong
I embarked on his third term as
leader. The U.S. and others call the
launch an illicit test of the tech-
nology used to fire an interconti-
nental ballistic missile, even one
eventually destined for the U.S.
A Security Council resolution
passed in 2006, days after North
Korea carried out an under-
ground nuclear test, prohibits
Pyongyang from engaging in any
ballistic missile-related activity
- including launching rockets
that use the same delivery tech-
nology as missiles mounted with
warheads, Washington and other
nations say.
Under a 2007 six-party deal,
North Korea agreed to disable its
main nuclear complex in Yong-
byon north of Pyongyang in
return for1 million tons of fuel oil
and other concessions.

In this May 14, 2008 file photo, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich testifies in front of the Senate on Capitol Hill
Gingrich considers run
for White House in2012

Former Speaker of
the House's media
blitz raises suspicions
about potential run
ATHENS, Ga. (AP) - More than
a decade after he stepped down
as speaker of the House into what
seemed like almost certain politi-
cal oblivion, Newt Gingrich is back
and seemingly more relevant than
ever.
Gingrich seems to be every-
where these days, headlining an
endless circuit of GOP dinners,
popping up on TV news shows,
authoring yet another best-selling
book and acting as a policy guru to
out-of-powercongressionalRepub-
licans on how to do battle with the
Democratic White House.
As beleaguered Republicans
look for a standard bearer after last
year's disastrous election, they've
been tossing around the names of
flashy new stars like Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin, the 2008 vice presi-

dential candidate, and Louisiana
Gov. Bobby Jindal, young and
Indian American in a party that's
increasingly identified with older
white men.
But could the GOP's savior
instead be a wonkish, twice-
divorced throwback to the
fiercely partisan Republican rev-
olution?
Gingrich has managed to keep
himself in the public eye since
leaving the House, but the blitz
of public appearances in recent
months is reminiscent of the run-
up to 2007, when he toyed with a
presidential run only to abandon it
before the primaries began. Now,
some are speculating that the for-
mer congressman from Georgia is
laying the groundwork for a White
House bid in 2012.
Grover Norquist, a prominent
conservative and president of
Americans for Tax Reform, said
Gingrich is on nearly every Repub-
lican short list of possible White
House prospects.
"One of the ways you judge these
guys is how hard they're working,

and Newt is out there hustling,"
Norquist said.
Gingrich does not exactly dis-
courage such presidential specu-
lation. Instead he argues he is
busy with work for a pair of think
tanks - American Solutions and
the Center for Health Transforma-
tion - that give him a platform to
speak on a dizzying array of issues:
from childhood obesity and nucle-
ar weapons i North Korea to off-
shore oil exploration.
"I really love trying to solve
problems. I get very excited about
it," Gingrich, 65, said after teach-
ing a law school class recently at
the University of Georgia.
With Gingrich, a former college
history professor, the ideas some-
times come so fast and furious that
even supporters say they can feel
overwhelned by a conversation
with him.
Rich Galen, a Washington-
based Republican strategist and
former Gingrich aide, called him
the GOP's "intellect-in-chief."
"He's always been the idea man,"
Galen said.

Ex-Il. governor
pleads not guilty

Blagojevich denies
charges of fraud
and racketeering
CHICAGO (AP) - Ousted Gov.
Rod Blagojevich pleaded not guilty
to racketeering and fraud charges
yesterday, defiantly embarking on
a long journey to clear his name but
facing serious money problems and
without ateam of lawyers in place.
"I'm glad this process has finally
begun," the impeached former gov-
ernor told the media throng that
spilled into the street in front of the
courthouse afterhe andhisbrother,
Robert, were arraigned on corrup-
tion charges.
"It's the end of the beginning
in one respect but it's the begin-
ning of another aspect" of the
case, Blagojevich said. "That is
the beginning of me being able
to prove and clear my name and
be vindicated of what are inaccu-
rate allegations."
Blagojevich, 52, is charged
with scheming to sell Presi-
dent Barack Obama's former
U.S. Senate seat, attempting
to extort campaign money
from companies seeking state
business and plotting to use
the financial muscle of the
governor's office to pressure
the Chicago Tribune to fire
editorial writers calling for
his impeachment. The accu-
sations led to his ouster as
governor, but he repeated
yesterday what he has been
saying for months - that he is
not guilty.
The former governor
appeared to be in his element
as the focus of a major political
story yet again. He chatted ami-
ably with reporters, and when
one television cameraman stood
atop a concrete pillar outside the
courthouse to get a shot from
above, he obligingly looked up
and smiled.
Blagojevich was arrested
Dec. 9 after authorities said
he was heard on FBI wire-
taps discussing swapping the
Obama seat for a Cabinet post,
a new job or campaign money.
A federal grand jury returned
a 19-count indictment April 2
that alleges corruption begin-
ning before Blagojevich even
took office.
At the 10-minute arraign-
ment, Blagojevich and the only
attorney currently on his case,
longtimefriendSheldonSorosky,
entered a plea of not guilty.

U.S. District Judge James B.
Zagel then started a sequence of
legal maneuvers that attorneys
said would most likely lead to a
Blagojevichtrial ayear ortwo down
the road. Blagojevich faces charges
including racketeering conspiracy,
wire fraud, extortion conspiracy,
attempted extortion and making
false statements. Most of the charg-
es carry a maximum sentence of 20
years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
Prosecutors must give the
defense team mounds of documents
and recordings made over years of
investigation. Defense attorneys
can then be expected to ask Zagel to
throwoutmuch of it.
"The circumstances of these
wiretaps hasn't been flushed out
yet," said DePaul University law
professor Leonard Cavise. "We
can expect all kinds of motions to
suppress evidence. They will chal-
lenge the warrants. They will chal-
lenge whether the government had
probable cause" to tap Blagojevich's
home and campaign office phones.

Chrysler debtholder talks
pick up pace; M stalled

Banks and creditors
hold $6.9 billion in
secured debt
from Chrysler
DETROIT (AP) - The pace of
negotiations between Chrysler
LLC and its debtholders picked
up this week, but talks at General
Motors Corp. have slowed as both
companies face looming govern-
ment deadlines to cut their debt
in order to stay out of bankrupt-
cy.
Banks and other Chrysler
creditors that hold $6.9 billion
in secured debt are preparing a
counteroffer after they rejected
a proposal from the automaker
and the government to erase the
loans for $1 billion, according to

a person briefed on the negotia-
tions.
At GM, a group representing
bondholders is still waiting for a
counteroffer from the company,
according to another person with
knowledge of the talks.
Both people spoke on condition
of anonymity because the negotia-
tions are private.
The Treasury Department
is getting involved in the nego-
tiations with GM and Chrysler's
debtholders after the companies
failed to finalize their restruc-
turing plans by the government's
original March 31 deadline.
President Barack Obama gave
the automakers more time, but
with instructions to make even
tougher cuts.

Last week, the Treasury
Department was pressing GM
to offer bondholders a small
amount of its stock in exchange
for their $28 billion of GM debt,
according to published reports.
That would be much less gener-
ous than a similar offer GM made
two weeks ago.
There'smore urgency atChrysler
because the Auburn Hills-based
company is a little more than two
weeks away from its new April 30
deadline to get concessions from
its creditors and unions and ink a
deal with Italian automaker Fiat
Group SpA. If the Fiat alliance isn't
finalized by then, the government
has threatened not to provide any
more aid and let Chrysler be sold
off in pieces.

Only two months left LSAA9013A Only Kaplan Offers:
Starts. April14th - June 4th hs Most Pesonaiied Prep
omuu S Unmatched perse
to prep for the Irtntpm-4:3tpm lelltsO

June LSAT

sptestcom/Isat
a 1800-EAP-ST



0

4A - Wednesday, April 15, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

L 4e fiVC4t*gan4:3at*lV

ROSE JAFFE

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Show us the money
MSA must make funding decisions more transparent
Jn the most recent Michigan Student Assembly elections,
the student body narrowly elected the Michigan Vision
Party presidential candidates to run the assembly. Or at
least that's what roughly 13 percent of students who actually
voted did. But despite low turnout, MSA still has a responsibil-
ity to the entire student body and the Michigan Vision party
needs to act quickly to implement some long-overdue changes.
With a new party in charge, it's finally time for MSA to fix its
transparency issues. The assembly should start by making sure
that the rationale behind how funding is allocated to student
groups is better understood - and such information should be
readily available to students on MSA's website.

OIL/
9Y \!4 ., at OI t N
tNI~ ':, C~&EL t4Y~~o~Z~,.

Life, death and lists

MSA managed to give out more money
to student groups this year than in pre-
vious years. In difficult economic times
- when financial backers may be willing
to spend less on student groups - MSA's
role in allocating funds to these groups is
more important than ever. And the pro-
cess to apply for funding from MSA was
made easier in response to complaints that
the previous system was too complicated.
Initiated at the beginning of last semester,
the new procedure for requesting funding
from MSA's Budget Priorities and Commu-
nity Service Committees requires students
to fill out only one form.
Though the process for receiving fund-
ing is simpler, the reasons for why some
funding decisions are made can still be
mysterious. This can be an issue for newer
groups who may not have the institutional
knowledge that comes with applying for
funding several times. To assure that stu-
dent groups aren't surprised and confused
by funding decisions, MSA needs to make
sure an explanation of the decision-making
process is readily available to all students.
With a better understanding of this, stu-
dents won't have to wonder how funding
decisions are made.
Being clearer about funding decisions
is one way that MSA can start solving its

transparency issues. But the assembly
has struggled for years to keep students
informed about what it's doing, and there
are plenty of other things the assembly
needs to fix. While the new administration
has displayed a willingness to combat this
problem, more can be done.
A glaring example is the recent disclo-
sure of MSA's attendance record. On aver-
age, 30 percent of MSA representatives
were absent at each meeting last semes-
ter. This number of absences certainly
impacted the assembly's ability to govern
effectively and students should have been
aware before heading to the polls. For the
sake of accountability, students need to
know which of their representatives are
showing up to meetings.
A good place to list such information
would be MSA's website. The website
should ideally be MSA's best method of
informing students about its decisions
Sadly, it has been neglected by the assem-
bly for years. The Michigan Vision Party
must make good on its campaign promise
to present students with a better one so
that students can effectively check up on
their representatives.
While progress is being made on issues
like simplifying the funding process, MSA
still has a long road ahead of it.

T here comes a time in people's
lives when they reflect on
lost opportunities, forgotten
childhood dreams and what truly
makes them happy.
Most die before
this happens.
As the school
year dwindles=
down, however,
existential crises
are on the rise.
Life choices are
being called intoW
question. Intended WILL
majors are fall- GRUNDLER
ing under intense
scrutiny. All over
campus, students
are asking themselves if they actu-
ally want to graduate with a degree in
Choral Music Education.
Youmightfeel alittle overwhelmed.
Maybe you don't even have a major
in mind. Maybe that "Undecided"
T-shirt you bought as a joke to make
your parents laugh is still in your
closet, only now they're not laughing
anymore. But your friends are. Only
they're not your friends - they're
weird voices inside your head.
I might be of help. The answer -
like most answers - lies in list mak-
ing. List making is a process that
condenses incredibly complex issues
into simple, manageable steps. The
entire American way of life - the
Declaration of Independence, weight
loss, etc. - relies on making lists with
specific resolutions in mind.
If you're worried about choos-
ing the wrong career and leading an
existence of utter- boredom, it might
be beneficial to make a "life list" of
all the amazing goals you would like
to accomplish before you die and are

forgotten about forever. A good plan
is to start with modest goals and then
increase in complexity, assuming
future technology improves.
Here is a brief example of one of my
lists to get your ideas going:
1. Buy more toothpaste (with fluo-
ride).
2. Box out weird guy with beard
during next pick-up game. He is short
but quick.
3. Grow beard.
4. Start to read the news and hold
opinions.
S. Join the Squirrel Club.
It's always a good idea to have your
first few goals be relatively frivolous
and/or unambitious. Thus, if you
don't accomplish them you'll know
you're not really cut out for this sort
of thing. Subsequent goals should
start to become more difficult.
6. Pass Calculus II at a community
college.
7. Run for president of the Squirrel
Club.
8. Print lots of little colored pieces
of paper with nothing on them and
pass them out on the Diag. See if any-
one notices the difference.
9. Abolish something.
10. Teach my friend from Ohio how
to operate indoor plumbing.*
*I recommend placing a star by any
goal that you feel is especially chal-
lenging. After ten or so goals, you
have to start predicting what your
life will be like in the future so you
can continue to be spontaneous. Odds
are after ten goals and about ten years
you'll be stuck in a boring job, so mix
it up a little. To continue...
11. Sell the house, car and kids and
get a boat! Sail the world.
12. Do not sail the world near
Somalia.

13. Better just get a personalized
license plate instead.
14. Start drinking wine. Learn how
to swish it around and smell it with-
out looking silly.
15. Run for the president of my
kids' school board, then dismantle
it because school boards are plain
annoying.
There's always the
Squirrel Club. You
could be president.
At this point in your life list, any-
where from fifteento thirtyyears may
have passed. Amazing, I know! Under
no circumstances are you required to
continue - you may find that fifteen to
twenty goals is enough. However, by
the period 2025 to 2040, impressive
technology may emerge. Feel free to
get creative. Here are my ideas:
16. Own some sort of futuristic
device that includes a phone, camera,
e-mail, calculator and girlfriend.
17. Clone it.
18. Contact extraterrestrial civili-
zations to see if they have any extra
oil to spare.
My list goes on, but the general
idea should be apparent by now. It's
important to remind yourself of what
matters - to think critically about
your goals before it's too late, even
if you are majoring in Ceramics. So
make your list. And good luck.
- Will Grundler can be reached
at sailgull@umich.edu.

I
I

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed writers
with an interest in campus issues to become editorial board members
in the spring and summer semesters.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU
FOR MORE INFORMATION.
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Journalists should not spin
stories forpolitical agendas

organization was
report, which clai
killed a 12-year-ol
hamud al-Dura. I

TO THE DAILY: light that the jour
There is a dangerous myth concerning the had no proof that
American media that is circulating not only on published his deat
our campus here in Ann Arbor but in various While this exat
locations around the country. It is our collective importantto cons
civic responsibility to be aware of this myth and it means to publ
to work to dispel it in The Michigan Daily and context and whatl
elsewhere. It has become an increasingly popu- to be a journalist i
lar activity for irresponsible journalists to accuse
the American media of lies and bias. While I am Yoni Labow
an ardent supporter of the freedom of speech LSA junior
and an unregulated press, I also understand
that it is unfair for the Ann Arbor community to
be exposed to such accusations while they are Kakwan's
lacking any coherent and logical supportive evi-
dence.chlla o
It is the journalist's obligation to support his ora
her accusations and claims with evidence and a
proper context. For example, Ibrahim Kakwan's TO THE DAILY:
recent column in the Daily claims that it was a Ibrahim Kakw
human rights violation for the United States to labor betrays a lac
send weapons to Israel prior to its incursion into protect children
Gaza and that it is inconceivable to him that this trade' tragedy, 03/
occurrence didn't receive much attention from ognizes that it's t
the American media (Middle East misinforma- is the answer.
tion, 04/09/2009). He and we oug]
The reason why this accusation is a far cry children out of ha
from responsible journalism is because the writ- ents in vulnerable
er purposefully avoids the situation's context in he assumes are u
order to achieve his agenda. For example, had problem with any
the writer mentioned that Israel was a victim column, he should
of daily rocket fire prior to the incursion during us who don't like i
an agreed cease-fire with Hamas it is likely his But if he finds'
readers would understand why such a shipment tionable, let him
of arms is neither an act of human rights abuse spending future c
nor something that is newsworthy. practice wherevet
Perhaps Kakwan thinks American journal- idea or two in the
ists should learn from their comrades at the
French 2 news organization, which epitomizes Michael Madill
irresponsible reporting. In November 2004, this Alum

exposed for publishing a false
med the Israeli Defense Forces
d Palestinian boy named Muh-
In actuality, evidence came to
rnalists in charge of the story
the boy was harmed, but still
th.
mple is a very extreme one, it is
ider when we think about what
ish accusations without their
kind of responsibility it entails
n the U.S.
rationalization of
ris inappropriate
an's rationalization for child
:k of imagination about how to
and ameliorate poverty ('Fair
'26/2009). Surely Kakwan ret-
he money and not the job that
ht to be fighting harder to keep
rm's way by ensuring that par-
societies don't face the choices
navoidable. If he sees no real
of the abuses he catalogs in his
d get out of the way so those of
t won't step on him.
exploitation of children objec-
contribute to the solution by
olumn inches condemning the
r it is found and offering up an
way of progress.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than
300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style,
length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
EMMA LIST I 1EP1 iNT
Preparing middle schoolers for college

I
I

$22,729.00. This should be a number familiar to stu-
dents across campus as we roll steadily through the sec-
ond semester. This particular number is the 2008-2009
estimated cost of tuition for in-state first and second year
students at the University. It's a dauntingly high number
for those struggling to pay for both credit hours and a
roof over their heads. Unfortunately, it's not an uncom-
mon circumstance as colleges and universities across
the country continue to raise the numbers on their price
tags.
As anyone who needs to keep textbook costs and
electricity bills on their mental list would know, a col-
lege degree in today's world is becoming an increasingly
difficult undertaking for the average middle-class stu-
dent. Many students need to worry about issues other
than classes. I know that I am among the lucky students
attending the University with a relatively stable financial
situation at home, but regrettably, this isn't true for far
too many other prospective and current college students.
The prospect of earning a University degree is even more
disheartening if feels out of reach at an early age.
Rewind to your middle school days. If you were any-
thing like me (and probably plenty of others who won't
admit it), you were thinking about prospective colleges
five or six years ahead of time. In retrospect, what felt
like an extra load of stress to place on my 13-year-old
shoulders now seems more like a luxury. I had assumed
that college was in my future. It was an unquestioned
undercurrent that affected every aspect of my academic
life. Now, years later, I realize that this is far from the
experience that many kids had growing up.
Without the assurance of further education waiting

in the future, it's easy for young minds to lose focus on
school even if there may have been initial enthusiasm. At
the University, a branch of the organization InnoWorks,
of which I am a member, is one group on campus dedicat-
ed to sparking an interest for the sciences in financially
disadvantaged middle school students.
According to Anudeep Mukkamala, Executive Direc-
tor of the University's InnoWorks chapter, InnoWorks
strives to increase middle school students' interest in
attending college by making the opportunities provided
by the University more accessible. InnoWorks tries to
connect middle school students with University experi-
ences by organizing visits to facilities like the Medical
School and meetings with University faculty. The goal is
to prompt middle school students to consider careers in
math, science and engineering.
InnoWorks's immediate goal is to start current middle
school students down the path of scientific discovery,
connecting them with opportunities available only at a
major research university like the University of Michigan.
In the long run, InnoWorks will become more involved
in the process of making higher education a reality,
especially for socioeconomically disadvantaged stu-
dents.
We've all jumped through the hoops and hurdles to
get here, with or without help. As obtaining an education
from a college or university increasingly becomes a lux-
ury of the upper class, keep an eye out for InnoWorks as
this summer approaches, and with it, the organization's
second annual science camp.
Emma List is anS LSA sophomore.

I
I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, April 15, 2009 -5A

PITCHERS' DUE
Jim Abbott, one of the greatest pitchers in Michigan baseball history, will return to Ann Arbor Saturday afternoon to have his No. 31 retired.
On Friday night, senior Chris Fetter could pass him on the Wolverines' all-time wins list. Which one is the better collegiate hurler?

SAM WOLSON/Daily
Redshirt freshman Roy Roundtree caught two touchdowns in the spring game.
Roundtree
can finally
see clearly
Now equipped passes and screens out of the slot
position. If Roundtree can com-
with contact lenses, plement Odoms as a deep threat,
it will add a new dimension to the
redshirt freshman Wolverine offensive - and give
opposing defenses matchup prob-
impresses lems.
Roundtree caught three pass-
By ANDY REID es total in the scrimmage - all
Daily Sports Editor from the slot - including another
touchdown from Forcier, a quick
There's a tried-and-true rule slant to the middle of the field.
for wide receivers: if you can get a "He told me last night that he
hand on the ball, you should catch really wanted to come off strong
it. No excuses. today," said sophomore Michael
But in the first few spring prac- Shaw, who was Roundtree's
tires this season, Michigan red- teammate at Trotwood-Madison
shirt freshman Roy Roundtree High School, after the spring
was a rare exception. Roundtree game. "I told him, 'You can do
was dropping catchable passes, it, we've been doing it since first
and Michigan coach Rich Rodri- grade.' For him to come out and
guez soon noticed the source of play the way he did, it didn't sur-
the problem for the 20-year-old prise me, but at the same time,
wideout. it's like, 'You're finally doing it.'
"When we'd look at him, he'd Hats off to him."
squint at you," Rodriguez said. As Roundtree continues to turn
"That's the first sign that you heads, the slot could become one
ought to get your eyes checked. of the most hotly contested posi-
After he got his eyes checked, the tions heading into the fall. Odoms
doctor said he didn't know how he was the team's leading receiver
was walking a straight line." last season, and Roundtree has
The Trotwood, Ohio native emerged as a viable option. Red-
wore glasses off the field in high shirt sophomore Terrance Rob-
school, but the lack of eyewear inson, who sat out last year with a
in games didn't knee injury, and
affect him too talented incom-
much. He caught all ing freshman
165 catches for "Now I read all Jeremy Gallon
2,637 yards will ensure the
and 28 touch- these books, Wolverines will
downs in high be deep at the
school, includ- and it killed position.
ing 85 grabs for It's possible
1,238 yards and my eyes. Roundtree will
13 scores as a move back to
senior. the outside,
Then came where he was
the added coursework and read- listed last year. The flanker posi-
ing assignments when he started tion is usually reserved for bigger,
college classes. more physical players, like senior
"(My eyesight) wasn't that bad Greg Mathews. But Roundtree,
when I got here," Roundtree said. listed at just 6-foot, 175 pounds,
"Now I read all these books, and it never found his rhythm on the
killed my eyes." outside, and he was redshirted
With Roundtree struggling to to give him more time to develop
locate the football mid-route, it his skills.
was nearly impossible for him to Rodriguez believes Roundtree
be an effective receiver. has the tools to be an inside and
"We got him some contact lens- outside threat, saying the receiver
es real quick," Rodriguez said. will learn both positions for the
Not quickly enough. fall. But on Saturday, Roundtree
"I had to wait for them to get was happy to be back at the slot,
in," Roundtree said. "Coach Rod his position in high school.
was like, 'Roundtree! When are "Coming in now, back in slot
you going to get your contacts?' I again, I'm used it," he said. "I like
was like, 'You've got to schedule slot more, because there's oppor-
them for me.'" tunities. Like a linebacker, I'm
The contact lenses arrived in small, but I've got heart - like a
time for Saturday's spring game, linebacker can show you he's got
and they made quite a difference. heart."
Roundtree turned in one of the Regardless of where Roundtree
most impressive offensive perfor- ends up next season, his play on
mances. Saturday has Michigan football
Midway through the scrim- fans optimistic for the receiving
mage, Roundtree - playing in corps, which was much-maligned
the slot - juked to the inside and last season.
slipped past redshirt sophomore And especially after last year's

safety Jared Van Slyke. Early- position change and eventual red-
5 enrollee Tate Forcier rolled out of shirt, he just has to take opportu-
the pocket and found Roundtree nities as they come to him.
all alone for a 50-yard bomb. "When I'm on the sideline, I'll
The play didn't come against hype the defense up, hype the
the first-team defense, but it was offense up," Roundtree said. "I'm
noteworthy nonetheless. Last just going to play my role. If I get
season, small, speedy players like the opportunity to play a long
Martavious Odoms caught short time, hey, I'm gonna take that."

PHOTO/Dai

.AH/Daily

Former Michigan pitcher Jim Abbott.

Senior pitcher Chris Fetter.

26 CAREER WINS 26
MOST WINS IN A
11 in1987SINGLESEASON 1 in 2008
3.04 CAREER ERA 2.92
Golden Spikes Award Winner (1987) Second-loam All-American (200B)
OSecmpictGoldAMedalirtcan9(20i)
gTepn Athletefda i (1988)) AWARDS/ACCOLADES Golden Spikes Watch List (2009)
College Hall of Fame Inductee (2007) All-Big Ten Conference first team (2006, 08)


.

6A - Wednesday, April 15, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

i

parking
025 FR
!t!!t!!r!!!!!!PARKING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
We got "YOUR" spot at one of our
"Prime" lots! Call 734-761-8000 for
the locations & rates!
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. imined. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rentf
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!ONLY ONE REMAINING!!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL
RATE!!
1 bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715
Church St. Across from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished or
unfurnished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$$REDUCED RATE$$
Remodeled 2 Bedroom 909 Church
Great Location! Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet, Heat & Water, and park-
ing included! Hurry ... .Only 3 left !
734-761-8000
primesh.com
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.imsnron.com 769-7025.

r -- _ - - - _-_- - -_ - -
i IsonWhite
i M N A I T
1 t
I 3 f GNI N
RENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST GO.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability I
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
will waive the application fee and reduce
security deposit to one month's rent
I 616 Church Street I
734-995-9200
1 www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com I
Rooms, studios, and 1-to 8-bedroom
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
1015 W. HURON & 801 W. Madison
- Great Old West Side location!
- Large 1 & 2-bedrooms!
- (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
1350 GEDDES ACCROSS from
CCRB Large single family house. Too
much to list. 734-475-2577
martbaltatcomcast.net
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter ici. Prkg. avail. Coin dry access.
Located on N. State. Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625 o.
Farn. haca/water inci. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is HUGE and features a built
in bar for entertainig! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com

4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, Idry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2100/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@ao.comt
401 EAST MADISON - 1 bedrooms
available May for $625-845 per month-.
Close to the Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
418 E. WASHINGTON
" Grad Students Galore!
- Mature, quiet study environment!
- (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
515 & 521 Walnut
- CCRB & CC Little bus stop so close!
" 1 & 2 bdrms of all shapes and sizes!
- (734)1668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
526 PACKARD!
- Just offWest Quad!
- Huge Balconies, Huge 2-bdrms over-
looking Packard!
" (734)668-1100
" www.varsiymanagement.comt
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagetent.com
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only 1 ma. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prkg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3000 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
848 TAPPAN
" ON Central Campus near B School!
- Huge 2-bedrooms, cozy I-bedroom!
- (734)668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
917 PACKARD
" Business & Law School so close!
- Every apt. has a patio or balcony!
- (734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
,ec he ry
lop
' pnd and O a
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
w Wvw.annarboraparnents.net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room i-I eve! apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a frnt porch! Available
May -09to August -09 at
$1200/month and September 09 to Au-
gusot 10 at 2995/ month; other leases
tmay also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitetanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-

dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.

lower lzaL-naominum
1; Bnat-)Tmis
734-663-1530
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Let's
make a deal. Avail. Fall 09. On
Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free offstreet
prkg, lndry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
*3 & 4 bdrm I-louses, A/C, free prkg.
& Idry., close to campus, 734-649-7571.
*REDUCED RENT, 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
Fall 09. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
1001 S. FOREST
- Great Campus Location!
" Large 2-bedrooms for 2 4 people!
S(734) 668-1 laf
" www.varsitytoanagment.com

331 CATHERINE
" 6-bedroom house for 6- 8 people!
" Kerrytown! - need we say more?!?!
* Or separate 3-bdrm apts; we'11 accom-
modate you!
" (734)668-1100
" www.varsitymanagment.cotn
331 PACKARD
- 2-bedroom May - May!
" 1-bedroom private entrance and porch!
- (734)668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall -09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site lndry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com

AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled, a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms with
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New furnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathon travis osbeglobal.net
904 S. FOREST at Hill, apt. # 2. Avail
May '09 or Sept. '09- 10, 4 bdrms, com-
pletely updated. 734-475-2577
martbaltatcomastnet
I BDRM. & EFF.APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT.20091
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609J
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm.. and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL
Beautiftl I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE MAY LOCATION!
Corner of South Forest and South U.
Rooms-elf 1/2 bdrms. 734-996-2836.
EFFICIENCY AND I bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail, for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE located
near Geddes and South University. Can
accommodate six. Contact Michigan
Realty at 734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com EHO.
FURNISHED ROOMS FOR rent -
all util. incl. Free phone, cable and high
speed internet call Alan 734-649-7015.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-S1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail, in prime
spoUHeat and water netl 1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusealty.com
Management
BumeanduLow Stunts
Varsity hs
GrsatmPrices l
GratA0 t8si
Cal nea for apersonal tend
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 15th. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREI' Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartoents.net

LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
ill S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng a comcast.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only 1
ma. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3000 neg. plus itit. 734-996-1991.
3 BDRM APT. May - Aug. Packard @,
Greenwood. $990. Pkg, wshr, dryer
incl. 734-717-2935.

LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwlitemanagement.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NORTH CAMPUS
Don't Miss Out-2 Bdrm.
Affordable reduced rates
Quiet, beautiful location!
411 High Street
Call today to see your new home
734-761-8000
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Reduced Rates
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
726 State Street
909 Church
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
LPost Realty
properties
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available,
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
AMAZING SUBLET AVAIL for
Spring/Summer. 904 Church St. prkg,
indry, big lawn, price neg 810-772-9691
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartioents.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully fern. $350/person or best offer.
Right near bus stop. 513-315-6273.
estesb d/.umich.edu

HOME MADE SWEETS delivered
Six days a week- To order visit
home.comcast.net/~sweetswithlove/site
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeonaiserv.net
WRITE YOUR LIFE STORY!
A creative writing workshop with Gail
Balden on May 30, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.
Ann Arbor Friends Meetinghouse
1420 Hill Street, Ann Arbor
www.crea-ivejorneys.net
503-368-7807

Ho

OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net !!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
uses Available for Fall 2009 training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House ANN ARBOR BASED company,
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400 Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
428 individuaals for otar Manager Develop-
7 Bero os ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
7 Bedroom Ho$ses hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
406 C. Jefferson $3,850 in the state. We will be holding inter-
1220 arospec $3,850 views weekly; please submit resumes
334 Cathere $3,850 to rrichtereegoldstarfnancial.com
6 Bedroom Hlouse
952 Greenwood $3,600 EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
(May or Fall Lease) needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
4 Bedroom Houses being a mystery shopper. No experi-
4116 Bedaroo $2Fo3s ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
1 116 Packard $2,300 ________________
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995 FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
ng a $500.00 gift card to a store telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
r choice with everysigned lease

4

a


Offeria
of your

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, April 15, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Noris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 6 Like Niagara 33 Smooth transition 46 Cut back, as a
1 St. with a Falls 34 "... _, dust to branch
panhandle 7 Data dust" 47 Gave the eye
5 Polio vaccine transmission 37 Expel 49 Mid-12th century
developer rate 39 Droop date
10 Stash 8 Swenson of 40 "High Sierra" 50 One _: kids' ball
14 Jockey strap "Benson" director Walsh game
15 Native of Tehran 9 Disease research 42 Two-time U.S. 52 AWOL chasers
16 "Now I get it!" org. Open champ 53 Troupe for
17 Loaf pan filler 10 A hero might hold Andre troops: Abbr.
19 Mane man of it 44 Pop or bop 54 Prizm maker of
film? 11 "Cut it out!" 45 Full of yore
20 Fruity rum drink 12 Dublin-born actor excitement 55 FDR successor
21 Fills Milo ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
22 Give authority to 13 Razzie Award
25 Gets in the word SPAM OS A KA C P A
crosshairs 18Useadivining I AGO SE R I F S L E I
26 English subjects?. rod B R U NCH B U N C H A L L
27 One may be 21 One of about 19S
proffered at a million Indians
wedding 22 Georgia of R E A R B R R R
29 Mistletoe branch "Coach" OWN E D G R E E K G E E K
that was Aeneas' 23Dinero N A I L I T E N D E V E N
passto the 24Make a dramatic D D T T R I P T I P A L E
underworld recovery V E R B A P E D U N D E E
32 Eavesdropping 25 Inner turmoil D R O L L D O L L S E E D S
org. 27 Rinsed, as a
35 First name in jazz drivewayTRAS ES DSO LUH A
36 Lets up 28 Violin virtuoso
37 Adversaries Leopold YOU P R E T T Y P E T T Y
38 It's 0 at the 30Author Zora_ T A R S A M U E L S T O P
equator: Abbr. Hurston E R A M U D D Y T O E D
39 Something to 31 Diminish xwordeditor@aol.com 04/14/09
lead a horse to 1 2 3 4 s 6 7 a 9 10 11 12 13
41 Rained hard?
43 Lock horns 14 s 16
44 Use Scope, say
46 Dogs 17 1s 19
48 WWiltorpedo
vessel 20 21
49 Poe's 'The
Murders in the
Rue _" 26 27 2e
51 We, to Henri
52 "The Thorn Birds" 29 30 31 32 33 .4
author
56 Fixes, in a way 35 36 37
57 Two-dimensional u 3u
surface
58 Puts to work 41 4239
59 Pre-coll. catchall
60 Located a 45 4 47
61 Horn sound9
DOWN s1 52 53 54 s5
1 Heavenly body
2It can precee a5t5
plop or plunk
3 Make stuff up su960o51
4 Amazon predator
5 Move urtivey toy Dan Naddor 04/15/09
(c)2a9 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

ofthese available houses!!
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take oaur pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.

LAB INTERNSHIP FULL-time in-
ternships in rheumatology research
available for spring/stummer semesters.
Duties may include: signal transduc-
tion, gene therapy studies, cell culture,
proliferation, chemotaxis, ELISA, HC,
western blotting, protein purification,
in vivo studies, lab org & maint,
reagent prep, data entry/analysis. Prefer
some lab experience. Contact
axilla@umich.edu with resume (pdf).
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. 1RB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida a med.umich.edu


ROOM FOR RENT in nice, clean
condo. Females only, non-smoking.
$350/month Sept-Sept incl. util. Free
prkg and Indry. For more info contact
Rachel at rachelvg@umich.edu
SIGN THIS MONTH,
& SAVE BIG!!!
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
1346 GEDDES
" 3-bedroom for 3 - 5 people!
- Only one left; 2 prkg. spaces included!
- (734) 668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com

SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and Itoorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
summer employme
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

6

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for the first issue and $1.75 per lnefor each additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulkcontracts are available- contactour stafffor details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid studentID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Displayadvertising, please call one ofnour Account Executives

6


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'U' researchers, local business
owners tout geothermal energy

From Page 1A
ment. To first cover the upfront cost
of the system, the Grocoffs took out
a rehabilitation loan to be paid back
over the 30-year life of the geother-
mal system, adding $40 to their
monthly mortgage payment.
"The payback was immediate,"
he said. "As soon as the geothermal
started running in March (of2006),
it cut our utility bill by 200 bucks."
What may be more remarkable,
however, is that the Grocoffs paid
$350 for heating, cooling and hot
water for the month of January
prior to installing the system. After
the geothermal system became
operational, the Grocoffs spent
around $550 in total for 2007 - a
monthly average of about $45.
With the savings in mind, Gro-
coff said everyone looking to pur-
chase a new furnace in the next
five years should instead invest in
a geothermal system. Grocoff cited
the 30 percent tax credit incen-
tive guaranteed for implementing
a geothermal system as outlined
in the energy rebate section of the
recent stimulus plan as one major
reason to install one.
In its simplest sense, geothermal
energy relies on extracting heat
from the Earth's interior to gen-
erate power. Current geothermal
systems come in two types.
In one form, deep boreholes are
drilled into the ground and fluids
are run through a system for direct
exchange of heat. Generators
that use this form often rely upon
hydrothermal resources like hot
springs to produce electricity.
The second type of geother-
mal systems, like the one in Gro-
coff's home, take advantage of
the Earth's static temperatures at
shallow depths of 20 feet or more
where seasonal variation is not
felt. At about 50 degrees Fahren-
heit year-round, the ground is an
effective heat sink in the summer
and a heat source in the winter.
Consideringhis original motiva-
tions to pursue green renovations,
Grocoff echoed the sentiments of
environmental pundits, saying that
current levels of energy consump-
tion are unsustainable.
"It has become obvious with
automobiles, and it's soon becoming
obvious with our homes," he said.
Henry Pollack, professor emeri-
tus of geological sciences, said the
new appeal for geothermal systems
has come from the rising price of
carbon-based fuels. The initial
installation cost of the system is
paid back over a number of years,
and the savings have always been
relative to the cost of natural gas.
"When carbon-based fuels

MSA
From Page 1A
uniting to urge the U.S. Senate to
pass the Development, Relief and
Education for Alien Minors Act to
help undocumented young people,
who arrived to the United States
as children, become citizens by
either completing two years of
military service or attend college
for two years. The bill would also
allow universities to offer these
students in-state tuition at state
schools and make them eligible
for financial aid. Currently, it is
unclear if state universities can
offer in-state tuition to undocu-
mented immigrants.
At itsweekly meeting last night,
the Michigan 'Student Assembly
passed a resolution supporting a
federal DREAM Act in a vote of
17-5-10. It was authored by Rack-
ham Rep. Kate Stenvig and LSA
Rep. Robby Saldafia.
The resolution includes sup-
porting a march for the act that
will be held on May S in southwest
Detroit. The march will begin in
Patton Memorial Park at 10 a.m.
and end at Clark Park with a rally
at noon. Organizations contribut-
ing to the march and rally include,
Migrant and Immigrant Rights
Awareness, By Any Means Neces-
sary and Latinos Unidos/United
de Michigan.
"Many of these (undocumented
immigrants) have attended ,U.S.
schools for most of their lives,
but their immigration status bars
them from opportunities that
make a college education afford-
able, including in-state tuition
rates, loans and grants, most pri-
vate scholarships and the abil-
ity to work legally," the resolution
reads.
The resolution states that MSA
will send a copy of the resolu-
tion to President Barack Obama,
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelo-
si, The Michigan Daily, The Ann
Arbor News and the Detroit Free
Press.
Several supporters of the
DREAM Act addressed the
assembly about the issue at both
last night's and last week's meet-
ings, encouraging representatives
to vote in favor of the resolution.
Laura Sanders, a lecturer in
the School of Social Work and
founder of an interfaith coalition
for immigrant rights, stressed the
importance of the cause at MSA's
meeting last week.
"The whole issue of immigra-
tion is really at the forefront of
our human rights and civil rights
movements right now," she said.
"We don'treally realize how under
attack our immigrant community
is, and you can really change that.
You can really have a voice as
Michigan students."
The proposal was originally
brought before the assembly last
week but was tabled until this
week because the meeting ran too

Wednesday, April 15, 2009 - 7A
long.
The DREAM Act applies to
students with "good moral char-
acter" who arrived in the United
States before turning 16, lived in
the country for at least five years
and graduated from high school
or earned a General Education
Development diploma. After high
school graduation, individuals are
required to serve in the military
or attend college for at least two
years, according to the Library of
Congress website.
LSA senior Christine Rhee,
president of Migrant and Immi-
grant Rights Awareness (MIRA),
said the DREAM Act would help
to provide financial relief for
undocumented immigrants.
"So far a lot of undocumented
students are just stalling or are
deferring their acceptance let-
ters or aren't even considering
going to higher universities just
because of the fact that they have
undocumented status and the fact
that they can't pay for out-of-state
tuition, granted their whole lives
were practically in the states that
they wanted to apply to," she said.
Mohammed said if the DREAM
Act were to pass, it would help him
finish college and earn a degree in
social work.
"The one personal thing is that
it would enable me to go to school
and finish my degree, my master's
and bachelor's, and then actually
be able to give back to the commu-
nity that I've pretty much grown
up in my whole life," he said.
Mohammed said he believes in
students' potential to make a dif-
ference in the passage of the leg-
islation.
"One big role is just as a sign of
unity. Everybody coming together
and voicing support for it is one
big definite step," he said. "And
another one would be going and
actually lobbying on behalf of it
as students and as people from the
community."
Stenvig echoed this sentiment,
saying that universities play a
critical role in passing this legis-
lation.
"In particular, universities can
play a big role because students
are coming to administrations,
who can say, 'We need to do this
to make it possible for (undocu-
mented) students to be able to
come here,'"she said. "And I think
that's really important."
Even though several repre-
sentatives who spoke against the
resolution said they favored the
overall concept of the DREAM
Act, there was opposition due to
the unstable nature of the bill.
Rackham Rep. Michael Benson,
who did not vote in favor of the
resolution, said he would encour-
age the assembly to follow the bill
as it might change and to read-
dress the act in the fall.
"My main objection was the
fact that we just approved some-
thing that we don't know what the
final form will be," Benson said.

The geothermal energy unit in the basement of Matt Grocoff's century old house on Seventh Street in Ann Arbor.

were cheaper, the payout [for geo-.
thermal] was eight, 10 or even 12
years," he said. "Now, with the
payoff in seven or fewer years,
geothermal has become an attrac-
tive alternative."
Pollack has spent most of his
research career measuring sub-
surface temperatures across the
globe in an effort to map heat loss
from its interior.
He said the expense of drilling
boreholes and the scarcity of loca-
tions with "hot rocks" puts deep
mining for heat far behind wind
power as an established source of
energy. And despite the low effi-
ciency of solar panels, Pollack said
the Earth's interior only generates
four-thousandths of the sun's heat.
"I just don't think we'll see the
mining of the heat as a large-scale
replacement for other sources of
energy," he said.
While deep mining for heat may
not be viable in the near future,
shallow heat exchangers have
already made their way into more
than 15,000 Michigan homes,
according to the Michigan Geo-
thermal Energy Association.
Pollack's only concern with the
personal geothermal system is that
a large amount of fluid exchange is

HILLEL
From Page 1A
Brooks said the worst case sce-
nario would be staff and salary
cuts. But programs like free Shab-
bat dinner, free chicken soup for
sick and overwhelmed students
and the Golden Apple Award -
which honors outstanding teach-
ers at the University - aren't in
immediate danger, though.
Many of the 6,000 Jewish stu-
dents on campus frequent Hillel
on a fairly regular basis.
Directors began to detect finan-
cial problems over the past couple
months, leading the organization
to take measures to turn the situa-
tion around.
On April 5, Hillel launched a
Facebook campaign and mobi-
lized other efforts to raise money
for the organization.
Officials are trying to expand
BEER TAX
From Page 1A
state Senate.
Both Gov. Jennifer Granholm
and many Republican senators
are opposed to raising taxes after
recently increasing the state
income tax, according to The
Associated Press.
Matt Marsden, spokesman for
Republican Senate Majority Lead-
er Mike Bishop, said that after the
recent income tax raise, any pro-
posal to raise sales taxes the Sen-
ate would likely reject.
"We've made it clear, and the
governor made it clear back in
February, that revenue through
fees and taxes is not something
we are willing to support," Mars-
den said.
Marsden said that while he
thinks it is a hearty attempt at
raising funds for their cause, tax-
ing various goods will not solve
the state's economic issues.
"We have a $1 billion debt and a
nickel of beer is not going to cover

the organization's base of donors
who may be able to contribute
larger sums to the Hillel. Students
are also being asked to reach out
to family and friends who have
University connections and set-
ting their Facebook profiles and
pictures to encourage supporting
the organization.
Neal Ashinsky, chair of Hillel's
student board, is hoping students
'will support the group and that
Hillel will be able to continue to
provide the same levels of service.
Though it's possible Hillel may
have some tough choices, Brooks
said he is happy with the support
the organization has received
since announcing the campaign.
"It's thus been all the more
gratifying to see so many stu-
dents, parents and alumni rallying
to help Hillel not only sustain its
level of service to U-M students
but to help it continue to grow," he
wrote in the e-mail.
that," he said. "We've had these
problems with the deficit for eight
years."
Mike Lashbrook, president
of the Michigan Wine and Beer
Wholesalers Association, a trade
association in Lansing, said that
state taxes on beer are already rel-
atively high. He said an increase
would not only hurt the beer
industry in Michigan, but also
consumers.
"The current tax on beer is
already significantly higher than
neighboring states," he said.
Lashbrook said he believed the
proposed tax increase is simply
an attempt to find financial sup-
port the state government will not
provide, though the ramifications
of such a tax could reach everyone
in Michigan.
"Right now the tax increase is
just a suggestion from a private
task force to find funding," he
said. "But an increase that more
than doubles the current rate
will hurt the economy, the jobs in
Michigan, and the low-income tax
payer."

necessary for heating and cooling,
potentially limiting widespread
use in homes.
"Noteveryone'syardisbigenough
to have a sufficient loop of pipe, or if
you have a small place, you would
have to go deeper to get an equiva-
lent vertical loop," he said.
Meadowlark Builders, a local
design and building firm for
Washtenaw County, has sought to
address the typical constraints for
installing geothermal heating and
cooling systems - especially in
context of historic renovations.
DougSelby, presidentof Meadow-
lark Builders, founded the company
five years ago with sustainability
in mind. He said green renovations
have been a means to counter rising
natural gas prices, which excused
poor buildirg practices in the past.
"When energy was cheap, the
workmanship wasn't good, but
you could throw extra energy at it
knowing it would work," he said.
Stressingthe importanceofinsu-
lation, Selby said heating and cool-
ingenergy losses can be reduced by
up to two-thirds with a well-sealed
home, allowing geothermal sys-
tems to operate at lower costs.
"Our goal is to build zero energy
houses," he said. "That's difficult
COLEMAN
From Page IA
said. "That's a moving target right
now."
When Coleman opened the floor
for questions, students asked her
whether she expected a tuition
increase next year and how much
the increase could be. Coleman
told students it was too early to
know whether an increase would
be necessary, but said she would
know what the tuition rates would
be in June, when the budget is sub-
mitted to the University Board of
Regents.
Several students asked Coleman
what the University was planning
to do to help students deal with the
burden of rising tuition levels that
have made it difficult for some stu-
dents to afford tuition.
Coleman didn't offer specifics on
any new programs at the Univer-
sity, but told students that several
federal initiatives will help make
tuition more affordable next year.
Coleman said the American
Opportunity Tax Credit, which
will offer a $2,500 higher educa-
tion tax credit to individuals nak-
ing less than $80,000 a year or
couples making less than $160,000
a year, will help to make tuition
more affordable.
Additionally, Coleman said
increases to work study programs
will create 440 new job opportu-
nities for University students and
give an additional $1.6 million to
students over the next two years.
Finally, Coleman said the $619
increase to individual Pell Grants
would benefit as many as 3,300
students on campus. The increase
will make the average Pell Grant
award $5,050 for the year.
Several students also asked
Coleman what the University is
doing to cut costs or increase rev-
enue streams so that tuition rates
don't need to be increased.
Coleman responded that every
year the deans of each school
submit budget plans that would
eliminate 1 percent, 3 percent and

in our climate and especially dif-
ficult in retrofitting situations, but
we keep trying to push toward that
goal."
An attendee of annual green
building conferences, Grocoff, the
homeowner with the geothermal
unit, admitted it is difficult to find
resources to make decisions about
insulation, heating, cooling, light-
ing and water conservation.
"Even with all of the talk of
green, there's not a really good
resource where homeowners can
go to and learn how to do this," he
said.
To address the issue, Grocoff
has started an Internet TV channel
project called GreenovatinnTV.com.
Set to launch on Earth Dav next
week, the website will offer free
on-demand access to videos about
green building and renovation with
support from social networking
sites like Facebook and Twitter.
Grocoff said he hopes Greenova-
tionTV will serve as "a space where
homeowners can come together
and share ideas." And given his
recent success with implement-
ing a personal geothermal unit, he
anticipates the site will attract an
audience looking to both live green
and save money.

University President Mary Sue Coleman discusses financial issues with students during her fireside chat yesterday.

5 percent of their budget. Based on
the plans, administrators can then
determine how much to cut from
each budget.
"My own office, I've got to cut
1 percent out of my budget this
year," Coleman said. "I don't know
yet how I'm going to do it, but I'm
going to do it because we have to."
One student raised concerns
that with that process, deans may
have an incentive to pad their
budgets with extra money, so
that their cuts aren't as fully real-
ized. Harper told the student that
because of the process in place
and the level of detail required in
budget proposals, that wouldn't
be possible.
A different student recom-
mended to Coleman that she and

other University executives take
pay cuts to help cut expenses at
the University. Coleman didn't say
she was planning to take a cut, but
avoided the question by saying she
couldn't speak for other Univer-
sity executives. Though she has
donated pay increases back to Uni-
versity causes, Coleman accepted
the salary boost she was awarded
by the regents in September. At
about $760,000 in total compen-
sation, Coleman currently ranks
fifth among the highest-paid pub-
lic university presidents, according
to The Chronicle of Higher Educa-
tion.
She continued byexplainingthat
competitive salaries are required
to attract quality employees, both
for administrators and faculty

members.
Students raised other concerns,
including the amount of money
spent on faculty retention incen-
tives and the lack of transparency
in the University budget. Students
also gave Coleman recommenda-
tions, which ranged from more
socially responsible investment
practices to higher payouts from
the endowment.
Before the meeting ended, Cole-
man told students a new web-
site will launch Monday that will
include information about the Uni-
versity's budget, in an effort to bet-
ter inform students and members
of the University community about
what the University is doing to pre-
vent additional financial burdens
on students and their families.


0

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, April 15, 2009 - 8A

Poehler 's
'Park' leases
By DAVE REAP except Leslie. So instead of one-
TV/New Media Editor on-one duels, we see four-, five-
or six-against-one melees. And
"Parks & Recreation" will while that sounds slightly cruel
always be judged alongside "The in nature, it definitely generates
Office" - that's an undeniable, laughs.
irrefutable There's a fraternal bond
truth. And it ** between those surrounding Les-
makes sense lie; they all act like they care,
"Parks" was Parks& humor her a bit and then when she
created by Greg RSreation jollily turns the corner, they drop
Daniels, execu- what they're doing and resume
tive producer of Thursdays at something of actual importance.
"The Office;" it 8:30 p.m. For instance, the colleague Les-
uses the mock- NBC lie proclaims her right-hand man
umentary style Tom (played brilliantly by Aziz
"The Office" Ansari, "Observe and Report") is
is celebrated for; it airs right charged with writing down Les-
before "The Office" on Thursday lie's most memorable quotes on
nights on NBC; and if that wasn't command so they can be included
enough, one of its cast members, in her not-yet-written memoirs.

"Watch what I can with this.

D ragonball' devolves

Liv(
class
of c
With
thy
and v
persona
big-scre
inthe p
it was o
ter of ti
a class
series
suit. "E
Evoluti
lovablec
from th
includin
more -

e-action take on doesn't revive, however, is the spirit
of the timeless cartoon. Unlike the
iC cartoon is full show, there is little character devel-
opment and the fight scenes are
heap thrills and cheesy and slow.
The plot centers on Goku (Jus-
flaeCid fights tin Chatwin, "The Invisible"), an
abnormal boy who can harness his
By HANS YADAV "ki" (some sort of life force) but
Daily Arts Writer can't fit into normal school life.
Enter the newly escaped-from-ban-
every remotely notewor- ishment green demon Piccolo, who
superhero lays waste to everything in his path
ideo-game as he searches for seven mysterious
making a orbs known as Dragonballs. The
en debut holder of all seven Dragonballs is
astdecade, Diagonball granted one wish, so Goku, teamed
nly a mat- Evolution with a few friends, goes on a quest
me before to find the spheres and stop Piccolo.
ic anime At Quality 16 Like most TV series translated into
followed and Showcase a motion pictures, "Dragonball"
Dragonball 20th Century Fox tries to include too much in too lit-
on" revives tle time. Characters are introduced
characters willy-nilly with little background
e "Dragonball" TV series - supplement.
ig Goku, Bulma, Piccolo and Much of the appeal ofthe cartoon
in live-action form. What it was the intricate storyline coupled

with the unique personalities each
character brought to the manga.
The movie should have focused on
just a few important characters and
taken the time to really flesh them
out. That could have eliminated
many of the half-assed introduc-
tory scenes, thereby siphoning the
extra time into a deeper, more lin-
ear storyline.
But the movie's biggest letdowns
are its action sequences. Fans of the
series know the frequent encoun-
ters in the TV show between the
forces of good and evil were epic
and surprising. Contrastingly, the
film contains few battles, and the
battles it does have repeat them-
selves. They all involve the same
moves and CGI effects, neither of
which look polished. The only thing
missing as the characters fly across
the screen is the wire suspending
them in the air. The heavy green-
screen usage is extremely apparent
(like a certain instance when Goku
hops across a very "real" lava flow),

leaving many scenes looking doc-
tored and amateur.
Because there are only a hand-
ful of real fighting scenes, much of
"Dragonball" is boring filler. Each
new line of uninspired and unnec-
essary dialogue makes the hour-
and-a-half long flick feel much
longer than it rightfully should. The
only slightly redeeming qualities of
the movie are the striking Emmy
Rossum ("The Day After Tomor-
row") and relative newcomer Jamie
Chung. Given the rest of the movie's
shortcomings, it's not surprising
that it uses the age-old technique
of hiring charming starlets to com-
pensate for its lack of substance.
"Dragonball" will probably
appeal to very few people - the
fanboys, children under the age
of 11 and most likely some randy,
single men over 40. Future anime-
based movies should learn from the
atrocity that is this film, and hope-
fully evolve into something worth
watching.

Rashida Jones, was featured
prominently in the third season
of "The Office."
So for television critics and
average Joe television junk-
ies alike, "Parks" presents an
intriguing question: Can a show
that borrows so much establish its
own identity? The answer to this
question can't be communicated
in black-and-white absolutes.
While "Parks" unquestionably
sports the feel of "The Office,"
the new faces - save Jones - help
remind us what we're watch-
ing. And at the forefront is dis-
tinguished "SNL" alum Amy
Poehler. As the main attraction,
Poehler convincingly portrays the
wonderfully oblivious optimist
Leslie Knope, a low-level govern-
ment official working at a Parks
and Recreation Department inthe
cradle of Midwestern boredom:
Pawnee, Ind.
Yes, "Parks" mostly takes place
in an office, but this office is set
up differently from the Scranton
branch of Dunder Mifflin - and
that's not a reference to the fur-
niture, but the web of palpable
personal relationships that per-
vade it. The bread and butter of
"The Office" is the clashing of
signature personalities, whether
it's between Dwight and Andy
over the love of cat-aficionado
Angela, or Michael and Stan-
ley over Michael's stupidity. But
the dynamic of "Parks" differs:
Being a part of the Parks and
Recreation Department is a joke,
and everyone understands that

Not quite
'The office.
Yet, when asked, Tom doesn't
actually write down anything
Leslie says. He merely scribbles
on a piece of paper to appease her.
Similarly, the hunk at the work-
place who Leslie thinks she's in
a relationship with wants little
to do with her. There's also the
always-angered boss and the
always-bored college intern, who,
despite their differences, share a
powerful disdain for the forever-
cheery Leslie. So all that's new.
Still, that pesky feel of "The
Office" never quite goes away
during "Parks," reminding us
that while the show is no clone,
it certainly isn't a beacon of
originality. That's probably OK,
though, and it almost doesn't
matter; "Parks" is pretty much
assured to get relatively high rat-
ings. Its placement within NBC's
Thursday night comedic jugger-
naut lineup - which includes
"My Name is Earl" and "30 Rock"
as well as "The Office" - gives it
a boost most television shows
would kill for. So for the time
being, the soul searching can go
on hold, even though it seems
"Parks" is already on its way to
making a name for itself. At least
as much as it possibly can within
its restraints.

4

'Krod' is nothing but crud

By TOMMY COLEMAN
Daily Arts Writer
In 2007, "Epic Movie" topped the box office charts.
A year later, "Meet the Spartans"
achieved the same feat. Both mov-
ies were shoddily cooked up by
throwing scenes from recent popu- Krod
lar films of the epic fantasy genre Mandoon
into a pot, mixing in some slapstick,
a scoop of potty humor and a few and the
tablespoons of pop culture refer- Flaing
ences. And despite being ripped
apart by critics, they enjoyed unde- SWord
niable commercial success. of Fire
Seeking to capitalize on the rat-
ings that an epic-fantasy parody Thursdays at
TV show could bring, Comedy 10:30 p.m.
Central unveiled its newest addi- Comedy Central
tion, "Krod Mandoon and the
Flaming Sword of Fire."
Like its predecessors, "Krod" doesn't seem too wor-
ried about its critical success. In fact, it's like "Epic
Movie" and "Meet the Spartans" in every way (except
there aren't any scenes pulled directly out of "Lord
of the Rings" or "Harry Potter" - or any other refer-
encestopopculture, forthatmatter). Otherwise it'sthe
same go-for-every-gag-possible routine, with the same
sometimes-it's-funny-but-usually-it's-not result.
In "Krod," a team of fighters is assembled to bring
down an evil empire against impossible odds. Unfor-
tunately, the actors playing the rebellious gang are
lackluster at best. Krod (Sean Maguire, "Meet the
Spartans"), plagued by a lack of self-confidence, is
expected to lead the battle against evil. But when
Maguire's unconvincing forehead-wrinkling look
of concern never changes, it's apparent that he will
bring little comedic value to the show.
The legion of actors Maguire commands is
equally lifeless. India de Beaufort ("Run, Fatboy,
Run") plays Aneka, Krod's on-and-off girlfriend

and a skilled Pagan warrior who gets Krod and his
pals out of several hairy situations. But her contri-
butions to the "humor" are nothing special, and it
seems that she may have been brought on purely as
eye-candy.
One of the show's few comedic bright spots is the
evil-but-incompetent Chancellor Dongalor (Matt
Lucas, "Little Britain USA"), leader of the Meconian
Empire. Whether he's sentencing those who doubt
totalitarianism to torture or plotting to destroy a vil-
lage with a weapon of mass destruction (known as
the Eye of Gulga Grymna), his conviction that he's the
best villain ever upstages even the most conceited evil
rulers. There's something brilliant yet simultaneously
disturbing about a man with this strength and will
power prancing around like a schoolgirl and asking
his assistant for fashion advice, occasionally showing
off his blindingly pale thighs in his favorite feathery
undergarment.
Bringing another much-needed dose of humor to
"Krod" are the British accents employed by Donga-
lor and his minions. British accents are classically
humorous, as seen with comedian Russell Brand and
in other epic fantasy comedies like "Monty Python
You'll laugh at the
name, but that's it.
and the Holy Grail." But the accents are pretty much
the only genuinely funny element of the show apart
from the villainous Dongalor. Everything else, like
Krod walking into a support beam, feels forced and
has been done before.
"Krod Mandoon and the Flaming Sword of Fire" is
plagued by a limp cast and an overuse of old and tired
gags. When it's all said and done, the show's name
may just be the funniest thing about it.

"Jesus will lead me to my car keys.
Malkovich shines in a sub-par film

4

By TIMOTHY RABB
Daily Arts Writer
Sometimes a film comes along
that can amuse an audience with
just a little bit of everything (a few
laugh-worthy
moments, a few
sighs in the the- 7k*
ater), but ulti-
mately has no The Great
lofty ambitions Buck Howard
to transcend its
predictability. At the Michigan
A ripple in the Bristol Bay
ocean of cine-
ma, "The Great
Buck Howard" ends, as T.S. Eliot
might say, "not with a bang but a
whimper."
The plot follows a young law
school dropout named Troy (Colin
Hanks, "King Kong"), who takes
a job as an assistant to the Great
Buck Howard (John Malkovich,
"Burn After Reading"), a washed-
up mentalist who seems to be igno-
rant of his own shameful state. In
spite of Troy's initial misgivings,
which stem primarily from Buck's
volatility, he perseveres and even-
tually witnesses Buck's resurgence
to fame by way of an awe-provok-
ing spectacle.
Though a comedy shouldn't be
expected to resort to ridiculous
measures to elicit laughter, the

movie doesn't make much of an
effort at comedy at all, nor does it
succeed in its attempt to adhere to
the "inspirational" genre. In fact,
the only cinematic aspect that
even seems to indicate a moment's
significance is the film's accompa-
nying score.
One need look no further than
the production credits to see why
the movie feels so familiar and
overwrought. The film is produced
by Tom Hanks, Colin Hanks's
real-life father (Tom even cameos
as Colin's father in the story). If
you've seen "Shawshank Redemp-
tion," "The Green Mile" or "For-
rest Gump," expect this movie to
be nothing more than a diluted
version of these landmark produc-
tions, with the all-too-familiar voi-
ceover to boot. Colin Hanls plays
his role satisfactorily, but does not
venture beyond the constraints of
the film or forge his own individ-
ual personality as a character. It's
unfortunate he didn't take advan-
tage of his prominent role and
showcase his acting talent.
In spite of the movie's promi-
nent flaws, the weight of the film's
redundancy is countered by the
superb theatrical abilities of its
lead performer, John Malkovich.
His obnoxious elitism manifests
itself vividly onscreen to inject life
and humor into what otherwise

may have been a deadpan disap-
pointment. Malkovich's personali-
ty undergoes a seamless transition
from the real world to the big
screen whenever he appears in a
movie; it's this genuine, raw dis-
play of humanity that lends an
endearing trademark to many of
his films.
Though totally forgettable due
to its homogeneity, "The Great
'Howard' is a
homogenous,
deflated 'Gump.'
Buck Howard"features alandmark
performance by John Malkovich
that is certainly worth your time.
Malkovich proves he can bear
the burden of a lead acting role in
addition to compensating for the
shortcomings of his more inexpe-
rienced co-stars. The movie also
alludes to Colin Hanks's poten-
tial as an up-and-coming actor,
though it certainly won't assure
his stardom. If you're a fan of the
inspirational comedy genre, "The
Great Buck Howard" will keep you
sufficiently entertained, albeit not
amazed.

"soon my Rogaine will be complete!"


U

V V V V V

1

w

W-

W.

_

-w-

-W

IM ,111 ZI S .~ ih-nD v-W dnsaA rl1,2 0

ON TWITTER? FOLLOW US.
@michigandaily

Teral Tmn
The realRT

lying faster than the speed of
sound, replying "YES SIR!"
to every command, training
earlier in the mornings than the
average student wakes up for class.
Is this what you think of when you
hear R-O-T-C? Well, you're right...
sort of. You have definitely seen
us, the ones who walk around in
our "blues" every Thursday with
shiny black shoes and meticulously
pressed uniforms. You definitely
have some ideas about the kind of
people who call themselves cadets
do and stand for. Let me tell you a
little bit about why we do the things
we do and who we really are - and
then you can decide if your notions
are correct. .
No, we are not the Army. Yes,
we are students. No, we do not
fly for the Air Force... yet (and
that's only some of us). We are not
ultra-conservative, card-carrying
members of the National Rifle
Association. We did not join the
Air Force because we like or enjoy
war. We live in the dorms and off
campus, just like you-not in North
Hall, the Reserve Officer Training
Corps (ROTC) building between
the Natural History Museum and
the Dental School. We belong to
various campus organizations
including fraternities, sororities
and varsity athletics. We DO see
you staring at us - but it's OK,
we're used to it.
The purpose of Air Force ROTC
is to utilize the knowledge and
technical abilities of college stu-
dents and turn those students into
leaders who will serve to protect
the interests of the United States of
America. Have you ever seen the
"Bourne" trilogy? In the movie,
Matt Damon's character undergoes
intense training as an assassin to
become "better" in every way. That
is not at all what we do. We have
engineers, political science majors,
nursing students and movement
science majors. We are represented
in each of the University's under-
graduate programs. Everyone has a
personal and diverse level of exper-
tise that he or she brings to the
Air Force, and through ROTC, an
essential foundation is instilled and
practiced. These students will all
move into what we call the "active
duty" Air Force. We will be officers
first and our particular specialty
second, so we need to go through
a common training program - not

Jason Bourne training. Some of our
"training" is surprisingly very sim-
ilar to leadership and management
courses offered at the Ross School
of Business. We learn how to prob-
lem solve in high-intensity envi-
ronments so as cadets, we can keep
our cool and make sound decisions
when under a great deal of pres-
sure. Then we take it a step further
and complete in-depth, specialized
training such as small team tactics,
cyber warfare simulations and cul-
tural immersion programs in places
like Brazil and South Africa.
All of these complimentary
experiences and the professional
development we get from being
part of Air Force ROTC really is
awesome. In fact, it is the best edu-
cation I've had. But the best part
of Air Force ROTC is the connec-
tion that is developed between all
of us. Nothing brings people closer
than enduring a common hardship.
Working with driven, goal-orient-
ed, funny-as-hell individuals cre-
ates a bond that will only continue
to grow when we join the Air Force
upon graduation.
Yeah, we wake up early and work
out, do all this extracurricular
training and wear uniforms once or
twice a week. But we are students
just like everyone else here. We will
graduate with a degree and com-
mission into the Air Force, just as
you will graduate and begin work-
ing as professionials in your field.
What separates us is the amount
of responsibility we will have from
the get-go and the enormity of
our pursuits. About 10 percent of
us will fly a $130 million aircraft.
Note, also, that not everyone in the
Air Force flies. Some of us will head
up multi-million dollar acquisition
projects, while others will lead
the world's finest warriors into an
austere environment to secure ter-
ritory for extracting civilians from
a war zone. When we decide it is
time to leave the military, whether
that's after four years or 24 years,
we will have acquired a long list
of accomplishments that would be
unattainable for those who didn't
wake up at the crack of dawn for
four years.
That's what Air Force ROTC is.
What are you doing next year?
-Erich Mehnert is the
Recruiting Squadron Commander
of the AFROTC on campus


V V V V V V w w w V


-i

v

-W

v

0

w

w

w

v

w

v

- - . '" II

WenedyAri 1,00.. TeMihia*Diy. g

new rules
the rule 200: If
graduation day
is the expiration
date for your
Magazine Editor: relationship,
Jessica Vosgerchian break up with
Editor in Chief: class and grace.
Gary Graca rule 201: The
Managing Editor: financial crisis is
Courtney Ratkowiak actually a
Photo Editor: fantastic excuse
Sam Wolson not to do
Multimedia Editor: anything
David Azad Merian productive this
The Junk Drawer: summer. rule
Brian Tengel 202: If you don't
Center spread design: do a background
Lan Truong check on your
Cover photo:y
Sam Wolson subletters, you
can't really blame
them when
their crackhead
friends trash
The Statement is The Michigan your place.
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the - E-mail rule submissions to
academic year. TheStatement@umich.edu
;Hablas espanol?
** Do you want to share your Spanish skills with kids?* '
Here's an opportunity to excite local 3rd graders about
Spanish language and Spanish-speaking cultures!
Ann Arbor Language Partnership
" Course begins Summer term '09
* Examine issues of literacy and educational
psychology
* Learn to teach Spanish & create meaningful learning
experiences for elementary students
" Co-teach 3rd grade classes in Ann Arbor during
Fall/Winter '09-'10
Info sessions:
April 15, 28 & May 7
7 pm - Room 1322 - School of Education
** email mariaic@umich.edu to reserve a space **

FITNESS
From Page 6B
ELLIPTICAL INEQUITY
Canning said that the philoso-
phy in creating modern fitness cen-
ters demands more natural lighting
and larger windows in order to
make the space seem more open.
He added that .the state-of-the-
art technology for cardiovascular
machines includes individual mul-
timedia stations with each piece of
equipment so that users can enter-
tain themselves without worrying
about dropping iPods or balancing
textbooks.
If you'd like to see a modern
weight room and gymnasium for
students on campus, venture to the
basement of the new Ross School
of Business. The center features
brand new equipment and nine
large flat-screen TVs lining the wall
in front of the elliptical machines.
Of course, you can only go here if
you're in the business school and
pay the $100 membership fee. Kine-
siology students must be scratching
their heads in frustration. r
At the three facilities open to
all students, the atmosphere of the
weightrooms is thesame. No televi-
sions, music playing or windows -
just musty air filled with the smell
of sweat and the sound of weights

dropping on the rubber floors,
punctuated with a few grunts. At
many times during the day, people
wait in line to use 25- and 30-pound
dumbbells while heavier weights
remain untouched.
Cardiovascular rooms at cam-
pus's main buildings differ a bit
more. At times in the IMSB, a pleas-
ant breeze and the sound of birds
permeates from outside. But the
main room at the CCRB resembles
a sweaty, windowless dungeon,
and many of the cardiovascular
machines are in a former racquet-
ball court. The NCRB is perhaps
the most pitiful - space is so lim-
ited that elliptical machines stand
in the front hallway.
For some of the common use
equipment, it's only a matter of time
until upgrades will be unavoidable.
Canning said that some tread-
mills in the IMSB are approaching
120,000 miles of usage. He estimat-
ed that the lifetime of the average
treadmill is roughly a third of that
and credited an outstanding main-
tenance crew for getting the most
from the machines.
Although the . maintenance
workers should be commended for
lengthening the lifespan of equip-
ment, the statistics from the report
scream for the revamping of fitness
centers across campus. With ellip-

tical machines on their last legs,
campus gyms exemplify the "high
school gymnasium and weight
room" atmosphere that the task
force alluded to in its report.
The task before the administra-
tion, should they choose to go for-
ward with the recommendations,
is immense. But the University
of Michigan is a massive institu-
tion with excellent resources, and
many smaller schools with fewer
resources have been able to pro-
vide top-notch facilities for their
students.
Listed in the report as schools
with admirable, contemporary
facilities were nearby Oakland Uni-
versity, Miami University in Ohio
and Saginaw Valley State Univer-
sity, a Division III school.
"In terms of lifting and total
workout space, it was actually larg-
er at Miami, a school less than half
the size of Michigan," said Kend-
all, who spent his freshman year at
Miami.
While the endowment is not
where funding would come from
for new facilities at the Univer-
sity of Michigan, it is worth not-
ing that its endowment of $6.5
billion is approximately 20 times
that of Miami - which illustrates
a huge disparity in overall financial
resources between the schools.

The pool in the CCRB is open for lap swimming during set hours

IS IT FEASIBLE?
Allocating more funds toward
recreational facilities as outlined
in the report recommendations
would mean either cuts to depart-
ments or a tuition hike, Provost
Sullivan told The Michigan Daily
in an article published Mar. 31.
Because of that, Sullivan wasn't
sure to what extent the adminis-
tration would adopt new projects
for improving facilities.
On the other hand, the task force
,seemed to already have found the
answer.
"A majority of students said they
would easily pay a $100 fee for new
recreation facilities at U of M," the
task force wrote in its Recreation
Feasibility Study after consulting
their focus group.
Within the same study, one
student was also quoted saying,
"This is Michigan, and we don't do
things halfway! We have the Big
House; we should also have the Big
REC!"
Still, with the national economy
in shambles, there is the question
of whether taking on more proj-
ects at this time really the respon-
sible thing to do.
While many schools have cut
new projects and spending, Can-
ning proposed that conditions are
actually quite favorable for the
University to take on such a proj-
ect.
"There are lots of people -
architects, planners, suppliers,
trade skill workers - who are look-
ing for work right now," Canning .
said. "That becomes a very advan-

tageous time to have a project go
out for a competitive bid."
Even if prices for such a project
don't come at much of a discount,
there is also the positive external-
ity of creating jobs through the
project.
The University applied this New
Deal strategy with the $108 mil-
lion purchase of the Pfizer facility
in January, where it aims to cre-
ate more than 2,000 jobs over the
course of a decade.
Sullivan also told the Daily that
the proposals to fund recreational
facilities do fit wellwith recent Uni-
versity initiatives. She described
one as promoting "active lifestyles
for students and faculty," appar-
ently referencing the MHealthy
campaign begun in 2005 by Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman.
The link between new fitness
facilities and more active lifestyles
doesn't need too much explaining.
Sullivan also saw new facilities
helping admission, another aim of
MHealthy.
Improving recreational sports
and fitness facilities is something
students and faculty both want.
The studies presented also show
that students are willing to pay for
it, and it's something that lines up
perfectly with the priorities of the
University's administration while
aiding the economy. In short, the
time is now.
"The statement that keeps ring-
ing in my hear is, 'Why can't our
facilities be better?"' Canning said.
"Because we have the leaders and
best. And that's an expectation."

WRITE FOR
THE SUMMER
DAILY
E-mail jamblock@umich.edu

The outside of the CCRB is much more open and welcoming then its cramped and stuffy workout rooms.


V V V V V

w

w

W--

IF

W-

I 6B The Michigan Daily -Wednesday, April 15, 2009

WenedaApil15. 00 -Te icignDaly 3

THE CCRB IS OUT OF SHAPE
Campus fitness facilities are weak compared to colleges with fewer resources.
It's time that the University listens to students and whips campus gyms into shape.

QUOTES OF THE WEEK
"We didn't pay 37 million
I want him to live on. I zlotys (7.6 million pounds)
want to keep a piece of for the largest elephant

_1

By Roger Sauerhaft
Daily Staff Writer
When LSA junior Jeff Kendall
first stepped foot in the Central
Campus Recreational Building
(CCRB), his first impression was
that the facilities appeared dated,
reminding him of the shabby com-
munity center in his hometown of
Midland, Mich.
"They really should reconsider
how they put it together," Kendall
said. "I think we have a lot of work
to do in terms of our recreational
facilities, especially at theCCRB. It's
just so dated for such a large school
with such great resources."
Common gripes with the rec-
reational facilities on campus are
what led to the creation of the Rec-
reational Sports Task Force, which
issued a 91-page report in March
recommending major changes to
campus recreational facilities. Data
was compiled from a survey con-
ducted by the task force starting in
fall 2007.
The task force most strongly
advocated changes to the CCRB, the
North Campus Recreational Build-
ing (NCRB) and the Intramural
Sports Building (IMSB).
The recommendations made in
the report, commissioned hy Pro-
vost Teresa Sullivan and Vice Presi-
dent of Student Affairs E. Royster
Harper, undoubtedly added to
the administration's lengthy list
of needs amid financial strife. But
many say this call to action is well
overdue, especially given the prog-
ress made by institutions that com-
pete with Michigan for students.
As a measure of comparison,
the task force surveyed the fitness
facilities of 11 other universities -
seven other Big Ten schools, Stan-
ford, Maryland, Texas and Virginia.
To put it lightly, the University of
Michigan didn't measure up.
From the list of 11, only Purdue
and Penn State had a lower ratio of
square footage per student. Iowa,
which plans to open its new $69
million facility later this year, will
have well more than double Michi-
gan's space (17.13 ft. to 6.97 ft.) per
student.
The new Ross School of Business
boasts a shiny new fitness center
which is only available to business

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Roxana Saberi
2. The War on Pirates
3. U.S.-Cuba relations
And three things you can't:
1. Obama's dog
2. Madonna's adoptions
3. Spring Break Havana 20104

him."
- MARISSA EVANS, a woman from Texas,
expressingher desire to collect her dead
sot's sperm so she can use it to fulfill his
dream of producing three children named
Hunter, Tod and Van. Her son was beaten
to death last week in Austin

house in Europe to have a
gay elephant live there."
- MICHAL GRZES, a conservative politician in
western Poland, complaining that the local zoo
bought a gay elephant who won't procreate because
he prefers "male friends over females"

"I will do what I can too, by offering some of my houses."
- SILVIO BERLUSCONI, Italy's billionaire prime minister, offering to give shelter to thousands of
people who lost their homes during last week's catastrophic earthquake in L'Aquila. As a media
mogul, Berlusconi has homes that include mansions, several beach villas and an apartment in Rome

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
Intro to dancing
On weekend nights, many students
flood the dance clubs near campus to
let loose and have a good time. Some
of those students are experienced
dancers who are confident in their
skills on the floor. Others might do
well to watch this video.
Titled "How to Dance Without
Embarrassing Yourself," this video
comically lists nine steps to improve
your dance moves and avoid making
a fool out of yourself. As the narra-
tor says, "It's easier than you think to
shake your moneymaker, even if you
happen to be a maniac on the floor."
The subject of the video is a stocky
man dressed in drag, wearing red
lipstick, a dress and a blonde wig. As
he's awkwardly dancing in the back-
ground, the narrator says that you'll
need music, a place to dance and a
mirror. In learning how to dance,
there are apparently two optional
parts: alcohol and a dance partner.
The narrator proceeds to list the
nine seeps. In one of the steps, the
narrator advises you to stand next to
someone who is drawing a lot of atten-
tion, which would deflect any criti-
cism of yourbad dancing. You are also
told to avoid emulating other dancers
because "that's creepy." Most impor-
tant, don't break dance, "krump,"
attempt any Justin Timberlake moves
or scream "Ooh, ooh."
Keep these steps in mind for the
next time you're at Necto.
- BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos of the week at

Nearly all the schools surveyed by the Recreational Sports Task Force had fitness facilities with more square feet per student than the University's gyms.

BY THE NUMBERS

students who pay a membership doubles as an historic campus land-
fee. The average University student mark - one that students appreciate
has to deal with long wait times, an more from the outside than when
unpleasant atmosphere and anti- they're fighting for workout space
quated exercise equipment. But inside.
demand for better facilities is high "I love the old building and its
and the task force report affirms architecture," said Meghan Mil-
that the University could whip its ford, a 2007 alum. "It would be sad
fitness centers into shape if it imple- to see thatgo, but at the same time, it
mented a few changes. wasn't built for this kind of activity.
It's just really outdated."
STUFFY,OLD, INADEQUATE The aesthetic relic is a credit to
of the facilities open to all full- campus architecture but is quite at
time students, the CCRB and odds with the concept of providing
NCRB, both built in 1976, represent quality fitness facilities to help stu-
the cutting edge. According to the dentsrelievestress.Milford alsosaid
report, neither has ever undergone ventilation is an issue. And if you're
major renovations since being built. willing to tolerate the stuffiness for
All other schools on the list except aturn on the elliptical, you'll only be
Penn State have built new facilities able to for 30 minutes at a time.
since 1983. "It just seems like they're try-
The University hasn't always ing to pack more machines in the
lagged behind the recreational van- same amount of area every year,"
guard. When the IMSB was built Milford said. "It just keeps getting
in 1928, it was the first intramural tighter and tighter. They are put-
building in America. Now, it also ting machines in racquetball courts,

and it's just like, 'Come on, expand It should also be noted that since
already."' 2003, residency on North Campus
Despite its historical place on has greatly escalated, causing stu-
campus, the IMSB was criticized dent demand for the NCRB to be
just as harshly as the other two higher than it was six years ago.
facilities on campus by a focus One student employee quoted in
group of 2,293 students surveyed by the task force reportsaidthat"many
consulting firm Brailsford and Dun- freshman are constantly shocked"
lavey in 2003. at how inadequate the gyms are for
Out of the 70 percent of respon- a school with such a strong reputa-
dents who had visited the IMSB, 38 tion.
percent answered that the facilities Staff and faculty shared the opin-
failed to meet their expectations. Of ion of the students. In a July 2008
the 90 percent who had been to the survey taken by the task force, more
CCRB, more than 50 percent were than half of the 2,498 staff and fac-
disappointed. For the NCRB, 48 ulty members who responded said
percent had visited and 27 percent it was "very important" to improve
were let down. the facilities.
The results of the survey led "Our facilities are undersized and
to some modifications within the they are tired," said Recreational
IMSB and CCRB, such as trans- Sports director William Canning.
forming unused locker room space "They are not up to Michigan brand
and racquetball courts into an addi- standards. They are also not up to
tional fitness area, but the task force the current level of technology and
report showed there is much more equipment innovation."
to be done. See FITNESS, Page 7B

Amount of money President Obama is requesting for military
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan
Amount of money Pakistan will receive under Obama's request
Amount of money the U.S. has spent financing the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan since Sept. 11, 2001
Source: The Associated Press

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
The final hoorah - With classes ending on Tues-
day, you've got one last weekend to throw a blowout
before finals start. You better make it good. That
means no Natty, no Five O'Clock Vodka and no
Boone's Farm. Even if the party gets raucous, you
still need to say goodbye to the '08-'09 school year
with class. The first nice day, host a spring whites
luncheon. Good music, fresh belinis and dank weed.
Stay classy.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Brown fat in adults can burn calories
Almost every adult has little pockets of brown fat that can burn
many calories when triggered by the cold, according to several stud-
ies published last week in The New England Journal of Medicine that
examined the presence of brown fat in humans.
Inone of the studies, researchers looked at 1,972 people who had
undergone PKT-CT scans for different reasons. After analyzing the
scans, they concluded that brown fat existed in 7.5 percent of the
women and 3 percent of the men. In another study, researchers had
five healthy adults sit in one room with a normal temperature and one
room that was cold. After scanning the subjects in each room, those
who were in the cold room showed signs of brown fat.
After conductingthe studies, the researchers concluded that brown
fat consumes calories and produces heat when someone is sitting in a
chilly atmosphere, like a room that has a temperature between 61 and
66 degrees.
- BRIAN TENGEL




--

48 The Michigan Daily - AVedr:esday, Apri! .!i. 2009
x ,
- 41.
N' R
5da .R
, " _'. .
6--ys
17
When campus instinctively converged on the Diag after Barack Obama won the presidency on i
Nov. 4, the Daily photo staff did the same. At 3 a.m. that night, the Daily's editorial staff scrapped
our plan to lead with words and lead with photos that accomplished something text simply 4":: ' >" . ,
couldn't. The election issue epitomized the role of a visual staff and set a standard ofphotojour-
nalism we strive to meet on a daily basis. Accompanying the election, pictures in our collection of
photos of the year are examples of work that met that standard.
- Zachary Meisner, Managing Photo Editor "
. w d
No.
t v
,. 4WI, x
.6
.r - - +
70%, R7 ' ( s. Yr :. ' , f t 2ti f $i 'auk '"' ", .-t:. .,, .
x s
L ~z
" Y d
" i a~-
: 77 a $'
-X + ......... .. ....... .. ....... .... -... : r ),n.s".sir.^..
jiv
r "
,
R
AW:
_ i
i
a-:
s ..
# i'
t.
Ilk ti
r.y
- a".. .} s
aa"p x' "z :
"
!<:'i !#r i s 3:. x r ' S! :
,a
HA '
: u\ 'r
,

Wedes a Api1309-Th ihgnD
ANGELA CESERE/Da
CLIF REEDER/Da ly MAX COLLINS/DaIy
JEREMY CR0/Daily
1. Fifth-year senior CJ Lee, redshint freshman Laval lucas Perry and redshirt sophomore Anthony Wright celebrate the Michigan
basketball team's selection to thn NCA A Tournament at Crisler Arena on March 1R. 2. Students straggle against bungee cords to place
their beanbags farthest at the Homecoming Kick Off Carnioal on the Dlag Sept. 3D. 3. After nearly three years of construction, the
Unloersity of Michigan Museum of Art reopened mith a meekend of activities and a student openIng March 3t shomn abooe.
4. Musicljurior Curtis Wikiund proposing to Rochester Hills resident Jordin Nelson na bus to Nor th Campus Noo. J4. A bout 3D frends
mho had decorated the bus mith streamers amaited the couple. 5. Illinois Ruarterback Juice Williams escapes the stumbling Woloerines
during the second half of the Oct. 4 game in Ann Arbor, exemplifying the frustration of Michigan's dismal season. 6. LGA junior Graham
Burgess, an ROTC cadet, carries tine bags of sand in a timed race at the Ranger Challenge at Camp Atterbury in Indiana. 7. Graduatn
students Leslee Mcknight and Nicole Dickelson break into tears as alum Jeremy Rromn and graduate student Ashley Reid embrace in
6 the Blue Leprechaun shortly after Obama's Gictory mas announced Noo. 4. 8. Presidential nominee Barack Obama at a rally in Detroit
on Sept. 28. 9. Students celebrate or the Dlag early in the morning on Noo. D after Barack Obama mon the presidential election.


