r. r:n

e ic1 i n a4#0t1

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, November 25, 2009

michigandaily.com

CAMPUS POLITICS
CSJ disbands
constitution
convention

PHOTO COURTESY OF THE CARTER CENTER/L Gubb
Dante Vasquez treats Latifah, 9, who had two Guinea worms surfacing from the back of her knee. In 1986, there were an estimated 3.5 million cases of Guinea worm in
20 African and Asian countries. But with the efforts of officials from The Carter Center, like Vasquez, and other organizations, there are fewer than 5,000 cases today.
Dante Vasquez: worm eradicator

Student court rules
that effort needed
campus-wide vote
By MALLORY JONES
Daily StaffReporter
A Michigan Student Assembly
effortto revamp the document that
governs campus life for students at
the University has been deemed
unconstitutional by the leading
campus judicial body.
In a trial that ended late Mon-
day night, the Central Student
Judiciary ruled that the Consti-
tutional Convention, which was
being organized and executed by,
top officials from MSA, violates
the student constitution. They also
ruled that the convention needed
to be disbanded immediately.
When the convention was first
presented as a resolution during
a weekly MSA meeting earlier
this semester, Rackham Rep. Kate
Stenvig said she did not think it
was constitutional. After the reso-
lution passed, Stenvig brought the
case to the CSJ.
Student General Counsel Jim
Brusstar and Rules and Elections
Committee Chair and Rackham
Rep. Michael Benson argued the
case on behalf of MSA. They served
as secretary and vice chair of the
convention, respectively, until it
was disbanded last night.
The justices found that the cre-
ation of the convention was not in
compliance with the student con-

stitution, which states that a con-
vention requires its delegates to be
elected.
in preparing for the conven-
tion, MSA officials opted to invite
all students to apply to serve on
the Constitutional Conventional,
rather than hold a campus-wide
election. MSA President Abhishek
Mahanti then reviewed students'
applications and selected about
40. students to serve on the con-
vention. These 40 names were
then presented to the assembly for
approval.
Stenvig applied to serve on the
convention in one of the eight seats
allotted for MSA representatives
but was not chosen by Mahanti.
CSJ ruled that this process did
not qualify as an "election," which
the constitution deems mandatory,
and the judicial body ruled the
current convention invalid.
"CSJ ruled that the conven-
tion should be proportionately
represented by school or college
and serious questions were raised
about whether or not student orga-
nizations should be represented
at all," MSA Vice President Mike
Rorro wrote in an e-mail to MSA
members after the ruling.
Stenvig's legal representation,
Joyce Schon, argued that includ-
ing so many MSA members in the
convention would just advance the
majority party's agenda.
"I think that the current MSA
leadership that organized the con-
vention in this manner has been
making a series of attacks on the
See CONVENTION, Page 7

2005 grad Vasquez
works in Africa to
end Guinea worm
By KATHERINE MITCHELL
Daily StaffReporter
Dante Vasquez lives in Juba,
the capital of southern Sudan, in
a compound constructed roughly
out of imported crates and ship-
ping containers. He travels the
country as best he can - land
cruiser, motorcycle and, when
necessary, by foot. For some, it
would appear a grueling exis-
tence. But for Vasquez it's busi-

ness as usual.
A 2005 University graduate,
Vasquez now works in Sudan as a
deputy regional technical adviser
to The Carter Center, an organi-
zation founded in 1982 that "is
committed to advancing human
rights and alleviating unneces-
sary human suffering," according
to its website.
Sudan isa country with a histo-
ry marred by civil war stemming
from religious and military strife.
But Vasquez is not there to try to
put an end to the conflict. He's
waging a different kind of war - a
battle against Guinea worm.
Guinea worm is a parasite that
enters the body through a water

source, typically drinking water.
The parasite releases its larvae in
water, which, when ingested by a
host, mate and produce a worm
that can grow up to three feet in
length. The worm can take up to
a year to surface through a pain-
ful skin blister but, when present,
causes an intense burning sensa-
tion as it exits the body.
Removing Guinea worm is an
excruciatingly delicate process.
Extrication methods involve
wrapping the worm around a
small stick and slowly turning it
to pull the worm from the body.

CONTINUING SERIES:
A FT ER T HE Y WA LK
However, because the worm
wraps itself tightly around the
host's muscles and bones, twist-
ing the stick must be done with
extreme care so as to not break
the worm. The process can take
many weeks or, in extreme cases,
months.
There is currently no vaccine
or cure for the' Guinea worm,
meaning health activists and vol-
unteers like Vasquez must focus
on prevention through other
See AFTER THEY WALK, Page 7

BIG HOUSE INCIDENTS NEXT STOP: STUFFING
Man pushed by Bill Martin
regrets not pressing charges

Kahn says athletic
0 director's apology
wasn't sincere
ByJOELLE HECKER
For the Daily
The Department of Public
Safety employee who was alleg-
edly pushed by Athletic Director
Bill Martin during a Michigan
football game last month said he

now regrets not pressing charges.
After Eastern Michigan Uni-
versity sophomore Arif Kahn
denied Martin entry into the
Regents Guest Area after the Del-
aware State game Oct. 17, Martin
grabbed Kahn's windbreaker and
slightly pushed him, according
to a police report. Martin apolo-
gized for the incident on Oct. 26
and Kahn did not press charges
against him.
Kahn said that in Martin's
apology, the athletic director

claimed he was running late for a
meeting and that there is usually
a police officer at the entrance
who recognizes him. Martin also
noted in his apology that the con-
fusion was due to recent policy
changes he was not made aware
of, according to Kahn.
Kahn decided not to press
charges because he wanted a
"quick, easy resolution," and he
thought taking it to court would
be "too big of a deal." Kahn said
See INCIDENT, Page 3

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Pharmacy intervention program
shows promise to help mentally ill

MARi$SA MCCLAIN/Daiiy
Students head home for Thanksgiving break on the Amtrak train yesterday evening.
CA US GROPS
The Daily elects new slate of editors

Program could help
mentally ill manage
*medication schedule
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
Patients who forget to refill
their prescription medication
may soon receive help through

pharmacy-based intervention - a
hands-on approach to encourage
mentally ill patients to take their
medications.
Marcia Valenstein, associ-
ate professor for the Univer-
sity's Department of Psychiatry,
recently led a study that proved
the value of such a program.
The randomized trial com-
pared patients who received the
MedsHelp pharmacy interven-
tion with those who received

usual pharmacy care. Published
in this month's online edition of
Schizophrenia Bulletin, the study
reported an 86-percent adher-
ence to refill dates for the inter-
vention group - nearly 25 percent
greater than that reported for
patients without assistance.
"The reason we started the
study is because people with seri-
ous mental illnesses often have
difficulty taking their medications
See RESEARCH, Page 3

Next class will serve
year-long terms
starting in January
By LIBBY ASHTON
Daily Staff Reporter
The Michigan Daily has elected
a new class of editors who will offi-
cially begin a yearlong term this
January.

Each year, the Daily holds
staff-wide elections to appoint its
editor-in-chief and editorial page
editor, while the other sections
hold smaller elections to deter-
mine their editors. The elected
editor in chief appoints other key
positions that are confirmed by
the Daily's senior editors, includ-
ing managing editor - the paper's
second in command.
Elections for editor in chief and
editorial page editor take place in

one roughly 12-hour block of time.
During elections, the entire Daily
staff asks the candidates ques-
tions relevant to how they would
approach the position. Each staff
member's vote is counted equally.
After standing through about
eight hours of questions, Business
junior Jacob Smilovitz - the Dai-
ly's current managing news editor
- was elected as the paper's next
editor in chief.
See EDITORS, Page 3


WEATHER HI: 42
TOMORROW LO: 35

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsa michigandaily.com and let os know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
A bittersweet end for 'Jon & Kate Plus 8.'
MICHIGANDAILYCOM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS ...........2 ARTS.............,......S....5
Vol. CXX, No.,55 SUDOKU ............... 3 CLASSIFIEDS ....... .. ..... ..6
C2009TheMichianOaily OPINION ............................4 SPORTS................. 8
m'iichigondoitycom


*I

2 - Wednesday, November 25, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEN
In Other Ivory Towers Off the Beaten Path
Food, banter and shvitzing

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DANNEWMAN
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmai1.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours: Sun.-Thurs. 11a.. - 2 a..
News Tips newso@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com

01

Know what a Shmoo-
zalufuguse is? Have you ever
shmoozed?Ifnot, you must not
know about Shmooze.
Shmooze is a Jewish stu-
dent organization founded in
2004 with a primary purpose
of, quite simply, shmoozing.
Students gather once a month
to share food and conversation
at a member's home. While the
informal meetings generally
begin with obscure icebreak-
ers, they quickly turn into
impassioned discussions about
Jewish culture, past and future
club events and, perhaps most
importantly, food.
Food is a central part ofboth
shmoozing and the Jewish cul-
ture, and most of Shmooze's
events focus on cooking.Kugel,
a Jewish dish similar to cas-
serole, is the subject of the
organization's premier annual
event-- the Kugel Cook-off

The club's leader, head
Shmoozalufuguse Avery Rob-
inson - a Shmoozalufuguse is
any member of the club's lead-
ership board - explained that
the cook-off allows members
to "expand what can be kugel,"
or even show off their grand-
mother's kugel recipes. .
The club hosts another
annual cook-off that focuses
on a different food each fall.
Apples starred this semester,
yielding creations like apple
challah and apple-butternut
squash soup, while past years
have seen a variety of desserts
that experimented within the
cooking limitations of Pass-
over.
Shmooze, which receives
most of its funding through
Hillel, also organizes events
such as the upcoming Ashke-
nazi food symposium, an event
which highlights the evolution

of Jewish food. An expert on
Jewish food from Zingerman's
Delicatessen, Zack Berg, will
be the keynote speaker at the
event.
While food is indeed impor- 0
tant, conversation is the other
important aspect of the group.
Robinson, an LSA junior,
believes that shmoozing is an
important skill to have, both
in professional and social situ-
ations. The meetings allow
members to become more com-
fortable speaking and interact-
ing with others.
The living room often leads
to the CCRB's locker room sau-
nas, as members sit together
and talk. Robinson said this
form of socializing, known as
shvitzing, is a fantastic way to
form friendships in a relaxing
atmosphere. JEREMY CHO/Daily
Members of the Shmooze Club play guitar at a backyard campfire on Elm
-PETERNOORANI Street in 2007.

Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

photo@michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandaity.com
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classiyed@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com
finance@michigandaily.com

01

CRIME NOTES
Accidental purse Tire slashed

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Hillel ice Bowling club
hockey game meeting

thief
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Yesterday at 11:45 a.m.
WHAT: A patient mistakenly
took the wrong purse while
under the influence of medica-
tion, University Police reported.
She then returned the purse.

WHERE: Cardiovascular Cen-
ter Parking Lot
WHEN:Yesterday at about
12:50 p.m. -
WHAT: A man reported that
his vehicle's tire was slashed
while parked in the lot, Univer-
sity Police reported. There are
no suspects.

Railing broken Another railing

WHERE: School of
Information
WHEN: Yesterday at about
4 p.m.
WHAT: An officer founda
handicap railing broken from
the building after a caller
reported skateboarders in the
area, University Police reported.
The damage was valued at $100.

broken
WHERE: Mosher-Jordan Hall
WHEN: Yesterday at about
4:15 p.m.
WHAT: A handrail was report-
ed broken, University Police
reported. It was split down in
half and broken from its base.
There are no suspects.

WHAT: The Hillel Ice
Hockey Team will play a
game at the Ann Arbor Ice
Cube.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Tonight from 10
p.m. to 1 a.m.
WHERE: Ann Arbor Ice
Cube
Printmaking
exhibit
WHAT: A printmaking
exhibit of Takeshi Takaha-
ra's work called "The Four
Corners."
WHO: Residential College
WHEN: Today from 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: East Quadrangle,
Resiidential College Art
Gallery

WHAT: The bowling club
welcomes members and
nonmembers of all skill lev-
els to attend their practice
sessions.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
liards
WHEN: Tonight from 7
p.m. to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Colonial Lanes
CORRECTIONS
* A campus event in Mon-
day's edition of the Daily,
'Open gender discussion,'
incorrectly stated that the
group is for individuals
questioning their sexual-
ity. It is to discuss gender
identity.
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.
com.

Two prisoners crawled
through a window and
under a fence to escape
from a Tennessee prison,
KTVU.com reported. Once
free, the men stole cigarettes
from a convenience store and
then re-entered the prison
through the same window
they used to escape.
Two gay rights bills are
going through the leg-
islature, one of which
could overturn the 2004
amendment to Michigan's
constitution that prevents
homosexual couples from
having spousal benefits.
>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
The German newspaper
Die Tageszeitung revealed
a plastic sculpture depict-
ing the editor-in-chief of its
rival right-wing paper Bild
naked, The Local reported. He
is depicted with sensationalist
headlines surrounding him.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
acob Smilovitz Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
SSITANTNWSsEDITORS Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial Pa'geEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmmaJeszke,MatthewShutter
Andy Reid Managing SporsaEdinor rid@mnkhigndaity.com
SE"IORSeiSnE TORnnSonNicoe Auerbach, Mike rienso e nIan Kay. uth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Channel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje, Chris Meszaros, Ryan Podges
David Watnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block,BrandCo nradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayer,CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,DavidRiva,
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIORPHOTOEDITORS:Said Alsalah,iChaneloVonHabsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,SamWolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.con
MaUreenltyh ManagigDesignEditors
Jessica Vosgerchian MagazineEditor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copyChief mitchellorichigandaily.com
ASSOCIATECOPYCHIEF:Melanie Fried,AdiWolstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Baainski Classified Manaer
CLAS FID ASISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project coordinator
The MichiganDaily(iSSN 0745-%7)sulishedMondaythrough Friday duringthefalland winter
tems by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is avalable free of charge to all readers.
Subsciptionsforfaiem,startinginseptemaviUs.maiare$1o.Winterim(anuaryethrough
Aprilsslt1syeaiong(septemberthroughAprili)is195.Universityaffiiatesaresubjecitoareduced
subcriioate.n-mpsboiptiionsforiatea" S bscon"mberaiq.The
MichiganDailyisamemberofTheAssociatedPressandTheAssociatedCollegiatePress.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Getlmore online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

British panel begins inquiry on Iraq war

Inquiry called the
most comprehensive
of the conflict
LONDON (AP) - An inquiry into
Britain's role in the Iraq war kicked
off yesterday with top government
advisers testifying that some Bush
administration officials were calling
for Saddam Hussein's ouster as early
as 2001 - long before sanctions were
exhausted and two years before the
U.S.-led invasion.
Critics hope the hearings, which
willcallex-Prime Minister Tony Blair
and are billed as the most sweeping
inquiry into the conflict, will expose
alleged deception in the buildup to
fighting. However, they won't estab-
lish criminal or civil liability.
As the inquiry began, a small group

of anti-war protesters gathered near
Parliament. Three wore face masks of
George Bush, Blair and Prime Minis-
ter Gordon Brown - their hands and
faces covered in fake blood.
"Five years we've waited for this,
and finally we're getting somewhere,"
said Pauline Graham, 70, who trav-
eled from the Scottish city of Glasgow
to see the hearings. Her grandson
Gordon Gentle, 19, was killed in the
southern Iraqi city of Basra in 2004.
Sir Peter Ricketts, who was
chairman of Britain's Joint Intelli-
gence Committee in 2001, said Brit-
ain had hoped for a strengthened
policy of containment - reducing
the threat posed by Iraq through
sanctions, weapons inspections
and security measures. The strat-
egy had been in place since the 1991
Gulf War when Iraqi forces invaded
Kuwait.

But Ricketts said some in the Bush
administration had a different vision.
"We were conscious that there
were other voices in Washington,
some of whom were talking about
regime change," Ricketts said, citing
an article written by National Secu-
rity Adviser Condoleezza Rice warn-
ing that nothing would change inIraq
until Saddam was gone.
The panel will question dozens of
officials over the next year - includ-
ing military officials and spy agency
chiefs. It will also seek evidence but
not testimony from ex-White House
staff.
Bereaved families and activists
have long called for an inquiry into
the U.S.-led war that left 179 British
soldiers dead and triggered massive
public protests. The Labour-led gov-
ernment lost a significant share of
parliamentary seats because of the

war.
But with no lawyers on the panel,
few believe the inquiry will answer
one of the most basic questions -
whether the war was legal.
Blair will be questioned on wheth-
er he secretly backed U.S. President
George W. Bush plan's for invasion
a year before Parliament authorized
military involvement in 2003.
"There were no weapons of mass
destruction and we know that, so
what are we going to get out of this?"
asked Mabel Saili, a 49-year-old office
administrator. "It's too little too late.'
Led by a panel appointed by
Prime Minister Gordon Brown, the
inquiry can only offer reprimand
and recommendations in hope
mistakes won't be repeated in the
future.
In the United States, the 9/11 Com-
missionexaminedsome issues around

prewar intelligence, and a Senate
select committee identified failures in
intelligence gathering in a July 2004
report on prewar intelligence assess-
ments.
But the Iraq inquiry is envisioned
to be a comprehensive look at the war.
Brown set up the inquiry to address
public criticism of three key aspects
of the conflict: the case made for war;
the planning for the invasion; and the
failure to prepare for reconstruction.
Any significant findings could pose
embarrassing questions for the gov-
ernment ahead of a general election
next year. Both the Labour Party and
the opposition Conservatives voted
for the invasion.
Leaked military documents pub-
lished Sunday disclosed that senior
British military officers claim war
plans were in place months before
the March 2003 invasion, but were so

INTERESTED IN THE FIELD OF GRAPHIC DESIGN?

badly drafted they left troops poorly
equipped and ill-prepared.
The panel said yesterday it would
first try to establish Britain's view of i
Iraq before 2003.
Ricketts, who is now the Perma-
nent Secretary at the Foreign Office,
said elements of a containment strat-
egy - sanctions, an incentive to lift
sanctions if Saddam allowed weapons
inspectors to return and no fly zones
were already starting to show signs of
failure in 2001.
The deterioration was linked to the
rise of smuggling, Saddam's growing
standing in the Arab world and the
increasing unpopularity of the mea-
sures in Iraq.
Witnesses also said Saddam was
feeling no pressure from the interna-
tional community -the United States
and Britain viewed Iraq as a consider-
able threat but astumbling block had
been Russia, which was against strict
sanctionslargelybecauseofcommer-
cial interests.
"In February 2001, we were
aware of these drum beats from
Washington and internally we dis-
cussed it (ousting Saddam)," said
Sir William Patey, head of the Mid-
dle East department at the Foreign
Office in 2001 and now Britain's
Ambassador to Saudi Arabia.
"Our policy was to stay away
from that. We didn't think Saddam
was a good thing, and it would be
great if he went, but we didn't have
an explicit policy for trying to get
rid of him."
Simon Webb, who in 2001 was
policy director of the Ministry of
Defense, said despite mounting
skepticism over the containment
strategy, there were no military
plans in 2001 for regime change.
"The question of regime over-
throw was, I recall, mentioned but
it was quite clear that there was no
proposition being put in our direc-
tion on that"
The turning point for the U.S.
administration was Sept. 11 terror
attacks, according to the three wit-
nesses who said they believed the
UN Security Council would have
agreed to revised sanctions on Iraq
if it weren'tforthe attacks.
"In 2001, we were seeing an
acceleration of work on missile
programs, we saw increased Iraq
efforts to secure material for the
nuclear program and we saw con-
tinuing interest in CW (chemical
weapons) research and develop-
ment," Ricketts aid.

Design Ads for
Tie Daily.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday November 25, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November 25. 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
. WASHINGTON
Obama to unveil
plan to add troops
in Afghanistan

Obamas welcome guests to state dinner

War-weary Americans will sup-
port more fighting in Afghanistan
once they understand the perils
of losing, President Barack Obama
declared yesterday, announcing he
was ready to spell out war plans
virtually sure to include tens of
thousands more U.S. troops.
He is expected to make his case
to the nation in a speech next Tues-
day night, even as the military
completes plans to begin sending in
reinforcements in the spring.
Eight years after the Sept. 11
attacks led the U.S. into Afghani-
stan, Obama said it is still in
America's vital national interest to
"dismantle and destroy" al-Qaida
terrorists and extremist allies. "I
intend to finish the job," he said.
Obama said he would announce
after Thanksgiving his decision on
additionaltroops, and military, con-
gressional and other sources said
the occasion would be a Tuesday
night televised speech laying out
his plans for expanding the Afghan
conflict - and then ultimately end-
ing America's military role.
DETROIT
Saab likelyto close
as General Motors
fails to sell car brand
A deal for General Motors Co. to
sell Saab to a specialty carmaker
has collapsed, leaving the storied
Swedish brand born from jets in
.1947 close to extinction.
Koenigsegg Group AB, a con-
sortium formed by Swedish luxury
sports car maker KoenigseggAuto-
motive AB, said yesterday it pulled
out of the deal in part because it
was unable to agree with investors
on how best to move the brand from
mass-market to premium.
For GM, it was the third time
this year that a deal to shed one
of its brands fell apart as it tries to
recover from a stay in bankruptcy
protection by focusing on a core of
four: Chevrolet, Buick, GMC and
Cadillac.'
The next move is up to GM's
board, which will decide Saab's
future in a few days. But with no
apparent backup investors and the
Swedish government refusing to
buy Saab, GM may follow through
on a contingency plan to let the
brand die.
That jeopardizes the jobs of
Saab's 4,500 employees, most of
them in Sweden.
EAST LANSING, Mich.
Michigan State
kicks two players
off football team
Michigan State coach Mark
Dantonio says running back Glenn
Winston and safety Roderick Jen-
rette "have been dismissed from
the football team for violation of
team rules."
The statement released yester-
day gave no other details.
The moves come about a month
after another pair of Spartans, run-
ning backs Caulton Ray and Andre
Anderson, were removed from the
team's active roster.
Winston already was out of
action with a right knee injury.
Jenrette was lost for the rest of the
regular season with a broken foot.
Winston was reinstated to

the team in August. He had been
l indefinitely suspended after plead-
ing guilty to misdemeanor assault
charges over a fight that briefly
left a Michigan State hockey player
hospitalized.
WASHINGTON
GM returnS $140M
provided for parts
suppliers
General Motors has returned $140
million ofthe $290 millionitreceived
from the government to support is
parts suppliers.
The Treasury Department said
yesterday that the $140 million was
part ofthe $2.5 billion pledged to GM
to help the automaker's parts suppli-
ers. The money came from the gov-
ernment's $700 billion bailout fund.
GM, however, received only $290
million from the fund for the parts
suppliers. GM spokesman Alan Adler
saidthecompanynowbelieves itwill
only need to use $150 million. For
that reason, GM decided to return
the other $140 million it got from
Treasury.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

First state dinner of
Obama White House
honors Indian
prime minister
WASHINGTON (AP) - The first
state dinner of the Obama White
House had it all: Oscar-winning
entertainers, Hollywood moguls,
a knockout guest chef and even a
wardrobe malfunction.
Traditional evening gowns vied
with saris of vibrant colors yester-
day night at the high-glitz dinner
in honor of Indian Prime Minis-
ter Manmohan Singh. There were
turbans and bindis as well as dia-
monds and brocades.
"Everyone looks great; we're
feeling great," White House social
secretary Desiree Rogers told a
phalanx of cameras as she arrived,
betraying no hint of nerves at the
biggest social event of the Obama
presidency.
RESEARCH
From Page 1
regularly," Valenstein said. "Work-
ing in the VA, we thought about
what we could do that would be
perceived as non-coercive but also
practical."
The study's researchers devel-
oped a pharmacy-based interven-
tion program called MedsHelp
and observed the prescription
refill adherence of 118 patients who
have been diagnosed with either
schizophrenia or bipolar disorder.
"Unit of use" packaging - one

First lady Michelle Obama had
been a little more forthcoming ear-
lier in the day when she described
the trick to-pulling off the event as
sort of like being a swan: calm and
serene above the water but "pad-
dling like mad, going crazy under-
neath."
The 338-person guest list was a
mix of wonky Washington, Holly-
wood A-listers, prominent figures
from the Indian community in the
U.S., and Obama friends, family
and campaign donors.
Attorney General Eric Holder
patted his pocket as he arrived and
said his kids had prepped him with
all sorts of questions for tablemate
Steven Spielberg. U.N. Ambassa-
dor Susan Rice, asked who she was
most looking forward to chatting
with, ventured, "I'd have to name
four." Then didn't.
Sen. Bob Casey of Pennsyl-
vania had to scramble when his
ensemble went rogue at just the
wrong moment: His cummerbund
dropped to the floor just as he and

his wife stopped to pose before a
scrum of about 40 reporters and
photographers.
Alfre Woodard and Blair Under-
wood provided the celebrity quo-
tient, but neither could come up
with a connection to India. Under-
wood said he was there because of
Woodard. She said she was there
because she's on the president's
Committee on the Arts and the
Humanities.
Dinner guests were treated to an
eye-catching scheme of green and
purple, from the green curry sur-
rounding the prawns to the purple
floral arrangements paying homage
to the peacock, India's national bird.
Pumpkin was on the menu, too,
with yesterday's dinner coming
just two days before Thanksgiv-
ing.
Hours before guests arrived and
in keeping with tradition, Mrs.
Obama previewed the glamorous
table settings in the State Dining
Room. That's often the venue for
such dinners, but not this time.

CHARLE5DHARAPAK/AP
President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obata welcome India's Prime Min-
ister ManwohanfSinth and his wife Gorsharan Kaur to he Stale Dinner af the North
Portico of fhe White House in Washington yesterday.


notable feature of MedsHelp -
groups pills under labels for spe-
cific days of the week or months
to remind patients when to take
their medications. The idea was
inspired, in part, by a similar time
guide used for individuals taking
oral contraceptives and anti-infec-
tive medications in developing
countries, Valenstein said.
"It's a very strong visual cue,"
said Valenstein, also a research
investigator at the Health Services
Research and Development divi-
sion of the Department of Veterans
Affairs. "We thought we could try
that for people with serious mental

illness along with some other ideas
at the pharmacy."
Those other ideas included syn-
chronizing the due date for all of
a patient's prescription drugs and
notifying their clinicians if refill
dates were not met on time.
MedsHelp relied heavily on
pharmacy staff to take an "innova-
tive approach" to patient advocacy,
Valenstein said. Minimizing the
cost of the intervention program,
pharmacy technicians fielded
patients' medication-related inqui-
ries and sent out reminders two
weeks in advance of a refill date.
With MedsHelp, Valenstein said

the pharmacy staff often serves as
an intermediary between doctors
and their patients, especially in
cases where patients are unclear
about dosage instructions.
"We involved pharmacy people
as part of a clinical team, and that
hasn't really been done for people
with serious mental illness," she
said.
Because it's economically fea-
sible and easy to use, pharmacy-
based intervention has already
seen implementation in five VA
facilities.
MedsHelp has not been strictly
limited to patients with serious

mental illness; it has been extend-
ed to people with chronic condi-
tions, like diabetes, and geriatric
patients who experience difficulty
managingtheir medications.
"Even though our patients are
often thought to be different than
people with other chronic illness-
es, it seems like this kind of simple
intervention has a similar effect,"
she said. "I think the evidence is
accruing that this might be a prac-
tical approach for a lot of people
who need assistance, including the
elderly, individuals living alone
and people who have irregular
schedules."


EDITORS
From Page 1
Smilovitz said he hopes to con-
tinue some of the technological
advances that current Editor in
Chief Gary Graca put in place.
"Over the next year, we're going
to keep pushing to improve our
coverage and our content and at
the same time, really push our
online reach to get that content in
front of as many eyes as possible,"
Smilovitz said.
Smilovitz appointed Business
junior Matt Aaronson, a current
Daily senior news editor, as the
Daily's new managing editor. The
Daily's senior editors confirmed
this appointment.
LSA junior Rachel Van Gilder
was elected editorial page editor.
Van Gilder currently serves as an
associate editorial page editor.
During her tenure as editorial page
editor, Van Gilder said she hopes to
improve the training of opinion
writers.
LSA junior Jillian Berman, a

current Daily senior news editor,
was elected managing news edi-
tor. Berman said she plans to work
with news staffers to make their
writing more "punchy and fun."
Berman said she thinks her role
leading the news section will hold
some significance in itself, as there
has been a recent lack of female
managing news editors, despite
large numbers of female reporters.
"Making women who walk
through the door here understand
that they can have any position
that they want is what I want my
legacy to be," Berman said.
LSA junior Ryan Kartje, a cur-
rent Daily assistant sports editor,
was elected as the Daily's new
managing sports editor. He said
he's looking forward to implement-
ing better sports writer training
and incorporating more mediums
for sports coverage.
"I hope for more innovative
things to happen," Kartje said.
"We're going to try to focus some
more on onlinevideo content (and)
a lot of multimedia. We're taking
baby steps, but I'd like to sort of

institutionalize multimedia."
LSA junior Jamie Block - a cur-
rent senior arts editor who served
as the Daily's editor-in-chief this
past summer - was elected manag-
ing arts editor. Block said he plans
to improve the section's blog and
increase local arts coverage.
"I think the main goal is that
there's a lot of arts happening on
this campus that we don't cover
adequately," he said. "The major
goal for next year is to (remove)
some of the reviews that are
less relevant and instead cover
what's happening."
LSA junior Sam Wolson and
Art & Design junior Max Col-
lins, current assistant photo edi-
tors, were elected co-managing
photo editors. The pair is plan-
ning to- take over the Daily's
multimedia and introduce the
photo staff to video journalism.
"We may fall on our face,"
Wolson said. "But we're hoping
to get somewhere better."
Wolson said they also hope
to "inspire" the photo staff by
reminding it of its responsibility

to document life at the University.
LSA sophomore Anna Zielinski
and Engineering sophomore Sarah
Squire were elected co-managing
design editors.
The magazine editor and copy

chief will be appointed by the Dai-
ly's senior editors in the coming
weeks.
- None of the Daily staffers nawed
in this report edited the article.

* u oI KIE


INCIDENT
From Page 1
all he wanted was an apology.
"(Martin) said, 'I'm sorry, you
were just doing your job,' " Kahn
said.
Kahn initially took Martin's
apology to be sincere, but has
since come out saying he no lon-
ger believes this to be true and
regrets his decision to forgo
pressing charges.
"If I had known that he wasn't
totally sincere at that time then
I probably would've pressed
charges," Kahn said.
Kahn said that since accept-
ing Martin's apology, he has
become aware of a similar inci-

dent between one of his cowork-
ers and the athletic director.
Kahn referenced LSA sopho-
more Jackie Turner, who was
stationed at the north stairwell
of the Regents Guest Area dur-
ing the Notre Dame game Sept.
12. According to a Nov. 9 article
in The Michigan Daily, Turner
told DPS that three males in
University of Michigan polo
shirts approached the entrance
and attempted to pass her with-
out presenting identification.
Turner told DPS that the man
at the front of the group placed
his hand on her shoulder and
said "Honey, I'm the athletic
director." Martin then pushed
Turner just enough to get by
her.

Kahn said Martin's claim that
the encounters stemmed from
his not being informed of policy
changes at the stadium is a poor
excuse. Kahn said that Martin
had to have been aware of the
policy changes after the first
incident.
Kahn pointed out another
of Martin's inconsistencies.
"In Bill Martin's statement, he
claims that I wasn't wearing my
DPS uniform, but in fact I was,"
Kahn said.
"(Those two factors) lead me to
believe that the apology was not
sincere," Kahn said. "And I regret-
ted accepting the apology."
- Daily News Editor Jillian
Berman contributed to this report.


Looking for a way to get
your club/orgonization
involved in the community?
Northville 5k Art ntio
Saturday, December 5th 9:00am Arlhrits Foundaion*
Northville Downs Race Track
Bloomfield Hills 5 / 10k
Saturday, December 12th 9:00am
Birmingham Covington School

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.


}


4 - Wednesday, November 25, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU

74L e MIC4igan wily

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI

Edited and managed by students at
the University ofMichigan since.1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Extending equality
State legislature must pass bills to recognize gay rights
Michigan's overall legal climate is still one of discrimina-
tion for the gay community. But coming on the heels
of a small win for gay rights in the election earlier this
month - when voters in Kalamazoo added sexual orientation to
a local non-discrimination ordinance - the state legislature may
consider bills that, if passed, would amount to significant legal
improvements for gay people. While it's unlikely that the govern-
ment will reverse the statewide ballot initiative that banned same-
sex marriage in 2004, principled legislators should recognize that
gay people deserve the same marriage rights as everyone else. Bills
that reverse this injustice must be passed.

Two separate bills to improve gay rights
are currently making their way through
the legislature. In the state House of Rep-
resentatives is a bill that would overturn
the 2004 amendment to Michigan's con-
stitution that prevents spousal benefits
from being offered to same-sex couples,
including access to health care. Because
the bill would overturn a constitutional
amendment, it requires a two-thirds vote
of approval to pass. And in the state Senate,
a bill would update the Elliot-Larsen Civil
Rights Act of 1976 to include sexual orienta-
tion and identification as a protected group
under state non-discrimination laws.
There is no excuse for anyone to be
denied access to public services based on
their sexual orientation or expression.
Basic civil rights should extend to every-
one, regardless of race, creed, color, nation-
ality or sexual orientation. The fact that
sexual orientation hasn't been included in
the state law is symbolic of Michigan's fail-
ure to recognize gay people as deserving of
equal rights. Failing to pass the bill updat-
ing that act would be a disgrace - one
more in Michigan's line of discriminatory
legislation regarding the gay community.
The legislature shouldn't hesitate to pass
this bill.
But a more significant victory for gay

rights would be the approval of the House
bill to legalize same-sex marriage. So long
as the statewide same-sex marriage ban
remains codified law, Michigan will never
be able to say that it is a state that affords all
of its citizens equal rights and treats them
with dignity. Reversing this should be one
of the state's highest priorities.
Realistically speaking, it may be unlike-
ly that the legislature acts on this bill. As
long as a majority of the voters of Michigan
appear to cling to backward beliefs about
marriage and sexual orientation, politicians
will, regrettably, be afraid to cross them.
Supporters of gay rights must do their best
to demand equality with an even greater
fervor and persuade the opponents of same-
sex marriage that such a position is intoler-
ant and unjust. And one day, when enough
people have opened their eyes to this real-
ity, same-sex marriage will, one way or
another, win approval.
But legislators shouldn't feel the need to
wait until that day. They have the opportu-
nity to change state law and end discrimi-
nation against gay people. And in a broader
sense, they can finally pgt Michigan oAthe
correct side of one of the most important
civil rights struggles of the decade. Both
these bills should be put before Gov. Jen-
nifer Granholm's desk and signed into law.

Oh, hi there, Un Ive si ty7y6-Its h to vve up parenting
officials. Don't mind me. Since 'n a cartoon character, now, because OTPs are the
Im just enoyngthe coo the governtent says your onlycigarettes with the mild
ehness of my children will be powerless to taste kids love. Mmmnm satisfy-
OTPrand cigarees i resist my persuasive charts. in& Act nowbefore the
ee capus ban is enacted
Right, left and wrong
Ihate being called a conserva- to be rather than as it is. This sets servatives have been swept up by a
tive. Few things annoy me more the stage for a revolution in per- tide of false populism led by Sarah
than responses to my columns manence, or a continuing political Palmn that offers no real change in
that label me a conservative and my movement toward the ideal. The direction for our country.Atbest her
views "right-wing." Most of what idea of a permanent revolution is vision of the future is a mix between
I believe in runs common among the beliefs of other whatever World War II special she
contrary to both -leftists, such as Marxists, social- happened no catch last night and a
parties. 0 support ists and communists. The idea of Norman Rockwell calendar.
free trade and end- complete self-ownership, the key But the Democrats are no better.
ing subsidies to unifier of classical liberal and lib- Although Bush added to the deficit,
oil companies. a ertarian thought, was perhaps best fought pointless wars and intro-
supported unham- articulated by Lord Acton, a British duced Medicare entitlements that
pered free markets statesman of the 19th century: "Lib- cost $15 trillion as unfunded liabii-
and unlimited civil meralism is essentially revolutionary
liberties. I sup- Facts must yield to ideas. Peeaoably
port ending the VINCENT and patiently if possible.kViolently if
War on Poverty, PATSY not." fisAl o Bs ayto
the War on Drugs The right, on the other hand,is
and our country's simply a reaction to these new politi- popular belilef
wars abroad. Most cal philosophies and a longing for
people today are locked in to the the restoration of the old srder. The RepubliCan and
conservative vs. liberal paradigm of right represents the last dying ele-
political choices, and simply can't ments of serfdom, theocracy and
imagine another direction.But these rule by elites. As for our current enoCrats are
people are confused on what left and political dichotomy, most politi- Con r t
right actually mean. cians, whether Democrat or Repub- O ~ ~ r a1e
The terms left and right as politi- lican, are on the right. They seek to
cal distinctions came about in the keep their positions of power while
French legislature duringthe French nominally supporting civil liberties
Revolution. The side on which legis- or free markets, but urge for prag- ties, President Barack Obama has
lanures would sin represented their matism to stymie any leftist cries for taken the Bush blueprint and run
affiliation to the Ring of France, revolution, wild with it. His plans are adding
with those on the right moderately In this proper context. 0 am proud trillions of dollars to the national
supporting the regime and those to be a leftist. I am a liberal: 0 believe debt. And regardless of which party
on the left opposing it. On the left that each person is sovereign only is in charge, the U.S's foreign policy
were, broadly speaking, two types unto himself, and that each person remains interventionist.
of thinkers -- the socialists and the owns himself and can act accord- Washington D.C., is right-
classical liberals (or modern-day lib- ing to his wishes as long as he does winged. It is full of politicians who
ertarians). not interfere with others' personal - like the French legislators who sat
The key uniting feature of leftism rights, on the right and supported the king
is that it is centered around a phi- Unfortunately, neither politi- - work to maintain the status quo.
losophy and seeks to make the world cal party has been even close to They do this by bailing out their rich
reflect that philosophy. The social- adopting this philosophy in the last financial friends while keepingpow-
ists, fot their part, sought to end the decade. President George W. Bush erful special interest groups happy.
idea of private property and replace imposed trade barriers on steel early I am not a conservgtive. Those
it with communal ownership. The in his first term and began the pro- who support the modern Democratic
classical liberals wanted to enhance cess of "stabilizing" the financial and Republican parties are the con-
individual freedoms through free system by giving loads of money to servatives.
markets and personal liberties. Goldman Sachs, an entity that just
To be on the left means that one so happenedto have influence in the - Vincen Patsy can be reached
prefers to see the world as it ought Treasury Department. Today, con- atsapaltsy@umich edu.
The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDRR AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
MILES JACKSON| I ~ f
When racism hits close to home

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, William Butler, Ben Caleca, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

PromiseScholarship should
be based on need
TO THE DAILY:
Even as a recipient of the Michigan Promise
Scholarship, I have yet to hear a truly compel-
ling argument for its reinstatement, including
the Daily's editorial on Monday (No more bro-
ken promises, 11/23/2009).
Yes, I value higher education funding, and yes,
I understand the additional financial hardship
that the scholarship's cancellationmay put on the
backs of some Michigan families. The Michigan
Promise Scholarship, however, was flawed from
its introduction. The scholarship rewards stu-
dents on a sliding scale based on their achieve-
ment as measured by the state-run Michigan
Merit Examination. But the high school students
who often need the most financial assistance are
those who reside in school districts that fare the
worst on these examinations.
I think that this situation calls for Michigan
lawmakers to take a close look at their policies
on education. Sure, roll back the earned income
tax credit, but put the money to better use for
students in greater need.
I most likely will not receive my $2,000
scholarship this year and I'll miss it dearly.
But I will just have to take the hit. But I know,
nonetheless, that I'll soon be one of the proud
Michiganders who can put their higher educa-
tion to use for the greater good of this state.
Eric Maier
School of Music junior
Republicans are atfaultfor
failed Promise Scholarship
TO THE DAILY:
The Daily's editorial Monday unfairlyblamed
Gov. Jennifer Granholm for the legislature's
decision to cut the Michigan Promise Scholar-

ship (No more brokenpromises, 11/23/2009). The
editorial failed to recognize that it was the leg-
islature - not the governor- that deliberately
left funding for the Michigan Promise out of
the budget. When this budget reached her desk,
the governor had two choices: Veto it and force
a government shutdown, or sign it and hope to
fund the Michigan Promise Scholarship with a
supplemental appropriations bill. She chose the
latter because a government shutdown would
have been catastrophic in a state suffering from
the ongoing recession.
The blame for this cut lies mostly with the
Republicans in the state Senate. Under Major-
ity Leader Mike Bishop, Senate Republicans
have refused to create new revenue sources to
compensate for revenue decreases as a result
of the economic downturn. Since Michigan's
constitution requires a balanced budget, the
legislature must make cuts to eliminate budget
shortfalls if it is unwilling to raise revenue to
close these budget gaps. One of the cuts that
the Senate Republicans chose to make was the
Michigan Promise Scholarship. Unfortunately,
House Speaker Andy Dillon was complacent
when faced with the decision.
Contrary to the Daily's editorial, Granholm's
actions with regard to higher education match
her rhetoric. She continues her campaign to
restore the Promise Scholarship. On Monday,
for example, she traveled to Eastern Michigan
University to encourage students to pressure
their representatives to prioritize education
funding. As the leader of the executive branch,
she does not have the power of the purse and
is unable to restore the scholarship by herself.
She needs students to help her efforts by pres-
suring legislators to keep their promise.
I encourage you to contact your legislators
over the next few weeks and let them know
how you feel about their broken promises and
reckless cuts. I am confident that by raising our
collective voice, we can convince the legisla-
ture to keep its promise to us.
Samuel Marvin
Chair of the University's chapter of the College
Democrats .

On Oct. 24, 1 came home to see my roommates' friends
watching the football game. I introduced myself and
walked to my room, just beyond the living room. I hung
out in my room with the two girls while the guys were
glued to the TV, drinking beer. After the game, I noticed
my Barack Obama poster had been moved. Not only had
the poster been relocated, but the word "NIGGER" was
also scribbled across it. One of the guests had written
the ignorant slur and disappeared. I angrily demanded
to know who had written it, but the others in the house
pleaded the Fifth.
President Barack Obama is a symbol of change and
progress. But for the narrow-minded citizens that still
infest our country, his face manifests the end of their Jim
Crow white supremacy. Obama, as a political champion
and the first African-American president, has achieved
the equality that Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. dreamed
about. The racist act of vandalism that happened in my
house is a reminder that the racism that we have fought
to end still exists.
My father grew up in the South, and he endured racial
battles everyday. As boys, my father and uncle were
verbally harassed by whites. Whites called them the
"N" word and gave them no respect. One time, a police
officer approached my father - who was working on a
Goodwill truck to put himself through college - and
drunkenly put a gun to his face.
I cannot imagine how my father must have felt, but
after my poster was defaced, I felt defenseless, irate and
dehumanized. I am deeply offended and disgusted by
this defamation. I don't know if what this person wrote
was aimed at Obama, directed at me, or both. I have
experienced racism before, but to have such a repulsive
act done to me in my own home caught me off guard.

I condemn not only the criminals who defaced my
property, but also their friends, who sat quietly, allowed
such disrespect and scurried away when confronted.
What can I do to exact justice on these criminals?
I called the Ann Arbor Police. The officer collected
information on a yellow notepad and then asked me
how much the poster was worth. Well, sir, the poster is
invaluable to me because Obama is the first black presi-
dent and that means something to me and many other
people. But it's probably worth $5. Do you want to buy
me a new one so when I show my. future kids, they do
not have to see the ugly racism that still existed in 2009?
Discrimination still permeates our society, but I never
thought that I would be its target. Who would have
thought I would encounter such hatred in Ann Arbor?
As a campus, we must combat these crimes with vigi-
lance and fervor. 0 hope for justice, and I believe we can
step forward as an integrated, united society if we-all
promote equality. I cannot love my enemies - I can only
hope that they will acknowledge their wrongdoing. But I
won't sit quietly. I intend to spread this message widely.
I ask fellow students to join me in condemning hatred
and bigotry. All students - black and white, gay and
straight, Asians and Native Americans, Arab and Jew-
ish - should unite to protest this stupidity. I am hoping
the campus chapter of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People and other anti-racist
organizations will join with me to demand that action be
taken whenever such events occur. In addition, I am ask-
ing that the Ann Arbor Police find the culprit and make
him or her explain these actions upon prosecution, and
have faith that these actions will be punished by law.
Miles Jackson is an LSA senior.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy.
All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 25, 2009 - 5

Rihanna's dark
diversion

A picture of tragedy.

Touching heartbreak

The letdowns never stop
coming in 'Precious,' but it's
a treasure nonetheless
By ANDREW LAPIN
Daily Film Editor
There's a lot "Precious" has going against it
before you've even sat down to watch the film.
For starters, there's the
mind-numbingly obvious
title (changed from the origi-
nal "Push") that smacks you
over the head with its bitter
irony - an abused girl named BaSed on the
"Precious" - ho ho ho. Novel'Push'
And then there's the story,
which piles tragedy after by SaPPhre
tragedy on top of the poor At Showcase
main character (black Har- Lionsgate
lem teenager Precious Jones)
to the point where viewers
will practically need to pop a bottle of Prozac
before even sitting down to watch the thing.
Precious is 16 years old, and she's pregnant
with her second child. And the father of the
child is her own father - he raped her. And her
first child has Down syndrome. And her mother
assaults and torments her night and day. And
they live on welfare checks. And she just got
kicked out of high school. '
There's just too much sad going on all at once,
almost to a parodic extreme - bordering on
comedian Dave Chappelle's description of the
ghetto as a place where babies sell weed on the
streets. "Well, OK," you'll say to yourself during

the film's deliberately crude, misspelled open-
ing credits. "Maybe this is going to be exactly
the kind of melodrama I expected from a movie
presented by Oprah Winfrey and Tyler Perry."
But it's not. "Precious" gets to you in ways
you don't expect. The film finds your emo-
tional center by investing so much in its char-
acters that they virtually become real - yes,
even Precious's monster of a mother, played
with uncharacteristic fierceness by Mo'Nique
("Welcome Home, Roscoe Jenkins"), an actress
who usually resigns herself to playing the "fat
girl" in comedies. The anger and insanity of
her character is often over-the-top, but it never
seems like she's acting. Her dialogue flows
naturally and her nervous breakdowns feel dis-
turbingly intimate.
"Precious" reallybelongs to GaboureySidibe,
though. In her lead role as Precious, the new-
comer could have easily undersold or oversold
her struggle to succeed in the world, either of
which would ihave resulted in an unmitigated
cinematic disaster. Miraculously, this isn't the
case. Precious clearly has a tough soul, and
Sidibe communicates this to an astonishing
degree. Over the course of the film, she finds her
way to an alternative education center led by a
saintly teacher (Paula Patton, "Swing Vote"), in
which her success and newfound relationships
help her forge a new path of hope ina less obvi-
ous and cheesy way than one would expect.
Director Lee Daniels's ("Shadowboxer")
stylized approach to the story is surprising but
mostly effective. There are fantasy scenes when
Precious imagines herself as the star of BET
music videos, and while these can get a little too
obvious with their message, Daniels reserves
them for key moments. Still, Daniels adds other

great touches that reveal everything about Pre-
cious that she's not saying out loud: one brief
sequence shows her looking into a mirror, with
a skinny white girl looking back.
The script, by first-timer Geoffrey Fletcher,
also transcends the well-worn ghetto-fabulous
redemption story by keeping the audience on
a tight, suspenseful leash, always concerned
with where these characters are heading next.
Fletcher has a great instinct for dialogue, so
much so that it's hard to pinpoint what he wrote
and what the actors improvised. Regardless,
the structures of the scenes are all his, and he
demonstrates a strong understanding of dra-
matic flow.
In the film, Precious's mother puts on an act
with her disabled child to fool a social worker
into handing them more welfare checks. The
kids at the alternative school introduce them-
selves and joke about each other's stereotypes.
Precious notes via voice-over that her teacher
talks like "TV channels I don't watch." These-
telling moments help create incredibly three-
dimensional characters -- hyper-realistic souls
who genuinely don't know how-to handle lih
situations they're in.
By the end, though, it's hard to say whether
the film's brought you up enough after bringing
you down so far. Even toward the end, awful
new acts of misfortune continue to befall the
protagonist. Was quite this much doom and
gloom necessary to tell the story? Maybe it's a
success - we're with the characters the whole
way through, never throwing up our arms in
revulsion. Still, this movie has the power to
reach out and touch you. And that's so rare
these days that "Precious" is something that
should be treasured.

By SASHA RESENDE
Daily Arts Writer
If 2007's breakthrough hit
Good Girl Gone
Bad positioned
then-19-year-
old Rihanna as
a carefree pop
star, her newest Rated R
release effec- Def Jam
tively blows
awaythatsugary
persona. With Rated R, the Bar-
badian artist's fourth full-length
studio effort, Rihanna eschews
the feel-good "Umbrella"-style
hits that made her an industry
favorite, instead choosing to pur-
sue a darker - and arguably more
mature - sound. While this latest
effort clearly marks a new era in
the singer's performing career, it
seems to be less accessible than
her preceding efforts and is prob-
ably less likely to make an indeli-
ble mark on American pop music.
Considering the year Rihanna
has had, it isn't surprising to see
the star shedding her upbeat,
radio-friendly exterior for a more
somber demeanor. The artist
first began recording songs for
Rated R in early 2009, soon after
the tumultuous fallout from her
hyper-public assault at the hands
of then-boyfriend Chris Brown.
Several of the album's collabo-
rators have stated that the singer
requested a darker edge for her
new album. This moody feel is
evident on the album's first single
"Russian Roulette," a somber,
beat-driven ballad that is strik-
ingly different from any single
Rihanna has released before.
Chuck Harmony, who produced
the track, said the two purpose-
fully pursued "something a little
darker, something a little edgier,
something a little more morbid"
for the lead single.
The ballad, which employs
reckless gunplay as a not-so-
subtle metaphor'for' trbubled
relationship, achieves its seem-
ingly morbid intent but in turn
sacrifices the singer's knack
for easily digestible dance-pop
anthems. While it's likely that
Rihanna released the track as a
bold attempt to both shock fans
and introduce them to her newer,
darker sound, the single is more
likely to push away devotees from
her "Disturbia" era than to wel-
come new listeners into the fold.
The album as a whole follows
the framework set by its lead

single, as Rihanna channels her
inner emo side with brooding bal-
lads and truly tragic references to
her past relationship with Brown.
On the bleak, piano-driven "Stu-
pid In Love," Rihanna candidly
recounts her past love life and
repeatedly calls herself "stupid"
throughout the song's chorus.
It's more than a little unsettling
when she belts in her pitch-per-
fect voice, "Don't understand
it / blood on your hands / And
still you insist on trying to tell
me lies." By relying on the shock
value of her publicly abusive ex-
relationship, Rihanna manages
to raise eyebrows, but her taste is
questionable.
At times, Rated R shows
glimpses of the power jams that
made Rihanna a renowned pop
hit-maker. The Stargate-pro-
duced "Rude Boy" is the closest
the album gets to a bona fide club
rager. "Rockstar 101," which fea-
tures a guitar cameo by Slash, is
another beat-heavy banger with
radio potential. The song gives
Rihanna the edge she is looking
for, although it seems a little out-
Eschewing pop
for brooding
bAt-s and ballads.
of-place when the singer repeat-
edly refers to herself as a "rock
star" and a "big shit talker."
one of the album's more prom-
ising cuts is "G4L" (produced by
Chase & Status), a synth-driven
wonder that showcases Rihan-
na's more macabre side, boasting
repeated references to gangsters
and guns without compromising
her pop sensibility. By promot-
ing strong beats over downtrod-
den lyrics, the song encapsulates
the qualitiesthatdade Rihanna a
star, but still highlights her new-
est album's shortcomings.
With a not-so-homogenous
mix of Whitney Houston-style
ballads and the occasional quirky
dance beat, Rihanna's latest is a
definite turn from the poppy club
hits that have defined her career
thus far. Although the singer had
hoped to strengthen her image
as a dark and brooding pop tart,
Rated R proves the songstress
is better suited to vocalizing
demurely about umbrellas.


Stretching way out on a'Vacation'

WRITE FOR ARTS.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for
information on applying.

By MIKE KUNTZ the record, credited as "Birds"
DailyArts Writer in the liner notes, could easily
be mistaken for astonishing field
For us Midwesterners, the jun- recordings. In actuality, friend
gle might sound DeDe Sampaio performed each
like a pretty *** squawk himself from the floor of a
ominous place grain silo. The result is startlingly
- with nature On Fillmore authentic: Each screech has such
left to its own Endless a sense of proximity and imme-
devices, "wild" Vacation diacy that the oddly soothing
takes on a whole feeling of being surrounded on all
new meaning. It Dead Oceans sides by beasts, bugs and birds is
might not be the inevitable.
first place you would want to spend Establishing a mood-driven,
a vacation either, as the rainforest minimalist feel right off the
is a far cry from sandy beaches and bat, opener "Checking In" sets a
sunshine, let alone the city. relaxed tone with a few minutes
Endless Vacation, the third of prolonged laughter over mobile,
widely released album from Chi- jazzy basslines and sparse vibra-
cago duo On Fillmore, certainly phone. The comparitively driving
evokes the Amazon more than "Master Moon" has a more sin-
the Midwest, using a wealth of ister feel, introducing Sampaio's
Tropicalia-inspired freeform jazz cacophony of bird-calls for added
and musique concrete. The band tension. The title track, appropri-
pairs percussionist Glenn Kotche ately enough, is the longest on the
(of Wilco) with bassist Darin record, with junkyard percussion
Gray. They met through Chicago and seemingly random xylophone
scenester Jim O'Rourke in 2000. strikes slowly building over the
Kotche and Gray found similari- course of its 12 minutes.
ties in their classical training and Because the songs are primar-
free jazz affinities, and formed On ily ambience-focused, they tend
Fillmore as an outlet for the more not to stand out on their own
experimental ideas their day jobs - the album is more representa-
wouldn't allow. tive of a unified aesthetic, mood
While side projects have a ten- or location than a collection of
dency to be swept under the rug in singular tracks. The musical ano-
comparison to their parent bands nymity from track to track, while
- in this case, avant-pop-rock jug- slightly homogenizing, ultimately
gernaut Wilco - these projects aids the record in its primary
tend tobemore meditative, sprawl- goal: getting you lost inside of
ing and experimental as a result. It it. And, on these grounds, it suc-
seems appropriate to note, then, ceeds.
that On Fillmore's latest release, Kotche is known for experi-
Endless Vacation, sounds nothing menting with non-traditional
like Wilco - this is an experimen- percussion, and it shows here -
tal jazz record immersed in the in addition to using the standard
sounds of the wild. set of toms, cymbals and snare,
The animal sounds that adorn Kotche employs two octaves of

crotaleE
called
numero
coction
Mobile,
chirpin
QR
Mi
Extei
sounds
greater
previou
paio's fe

s, a gong and something own world that, like the jungles it
a fruit basket, among seems to genuinely conjure, can
us other homemade con- be quite frightening. Where the
s. His latest solo release, wild things are, indeed.
even featured an army of Through its seven tracks of
g crickets. exploratory, occasionally aimless
jazz composition, Endless Vaca-
tion is a break from the daily grind
for for its creators - Kotche, who has
Ulte wlild for been touring relentlessly with
Wilco in support of last summer's
dwesterners. Wilco (The Album), has certainly
had his hands full. More than
anything, the record is a vacation
tded Vacation uses found from form, pop-oriented arrange-
from nature to an even ments and expectation, as Gray
extent than on Kotche's and Kotche tune out the noise and
s work, employing Sam- static of the city in favor of the
ral utterances to create its freedom of the wild.

get any grande
specialty beverage
for $3.00p
1741 Plymouth Rd * Ann Arbor
FREE BIGGB
for franchise info www.biggby.com COFFEE
Good at this location only. Not good with any other offer.
No copies of this coupon will be accepted. Offer expires 12/01/09.

at t do if You're Sick
LSA students, if you're concerned about flu season this
year, be sure to visit the LSA website. You can
self-report your illness and simultaneously inform your
instructors and advisor as well as read up on University
efforts to curtail the spread of H1N1 and other
potential campus outbreaks.
www.Isa.umich.edu


6 - Wednesday, November 25, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmsprp@sbegloba.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
65-825
AUTOMOTIVE
1993 PONTIAC GRAND Am Se
***REDUCED**
Sporty, dependable ride $995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1994 JEEP CHEROKEE 44
Runs great, $2495
810-229-9750 www ctmas.com
1995 OLDS CUTLASS Supreme
LOW MILES, Leks & rnt great
$2995 810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 CHEVY CAVALIER 4 door
*****REDUCED*****
Automatic, runs great $2995
810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 CHEVY MONTE Carlo
Sharp looking, runs great $3995
810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 MERCURY MOUNTAINEER
AWD Fully Loaded, All Wheel Drive
$2595 810-225-9750 www.ctmas.cmt
1997 PONTIAC MONTANA Van
*****REDUCED*****
Dependable Transportation $1995
810-229-9750 wwwctmascom
1998 FORD TAURUS RUNS GREAT
*****REDUCED*****
Flex fuel engine, Sharp looking $1695
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
2001 DODGE DAKOTA X-cb 4x4
$6999 Like new, loaded 4x4
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
FOR RENT
5 BDRM houses Avail Fall 2010:
717 Dewey: $2750/mo, 833 Brown:
$2750/mo, 930 Dewey: $2900/m. Call
Louis at 610-952-5269 or emai
louisbreskman@yahoo.com
1 BEDROOMS $685-$765 and 2 bed-
rooms $840-$985.
Available August 27th, 200.
We offer fully furnished aparmet
at uu extra eost!
Far more info call 734-662-4446 or visit
www.issaprperties.cm
3 BDRM Aps on East U.!
Furn, high ceilings, hardwood firs,
deck off back, on site parking, heat &
water incl. Pepper Properties 810-231-
0229. www.utcatmpashousing.com
4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for next year - NO MONEY
DOWN till 2010. Sign by Dec. 1. All-
new, furmished, 2 blocks from Central
Campus, all utilities included, per-per-
son contracts. 734-998-4400.
www.4etevenlofts.com
6-8 Bedroom Large Houses!
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 White St. & 1237
White Street. Close to campus. FErn.,
free on site Indry & prkg. Hardwood
irs, open basement, fenced in yards.
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcatmpushusing.com
921 PACKARD, Fall '10 3 story, 5
bdrm house for 6. Furnished, 3 full bth,
3 kitchen,ldry, prkg, (734)272-1320.
ROOMSAVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.

$100 FREE CASH with every
NEW Reservation.
*ends on December 2, 2009

Chockusot and get
FREE Bubble Island
Drink witb
any new tour!
Voted Best
Apartments in
2009 by
Michigan Daily!
ON CAiPUs, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
CHEAPER AND MUCh
BETTER THAN THE DORMS!
YOU DESERVE TOMOVE UP
Contact usfor a
tour today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-268o
UNIVER I O'IiRS-MI COM
]jUniversity
- -ow--
WINTER SEMESTER Rental:
One bdrtn, large 850 sq ft, bi-level,
$765/mo, furnished option. Email
info@issaproperties.com or visit
www.issaproperties.com
or call 734-662-4446.
BEAUTIFUL HOMES
6 and 7 bedroomts Near Campus, 8 Mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylati4tumich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
!!CARLSONPROPERTIES.COM!!
is finished leasing for 2010. Land-
lords call 734-332-6000 for assistance.
Studio & I
8drm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
734-663-IS30
!!AVAILABLE FALL2010!!
715 Church- 1; 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgntlc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
ts, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitchen. Must see! (313)1215-8115.
$ NOW AVAILABLE$
2 bdrm. spacious apt. Excellent,
convenient, great location, prkg.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com

sethe l
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
***3 BDRM TRILEVEL*** avail.
May. Hlardwod loors, fully frmised,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrs with 1.5
bbaths, flat screen t, dishtaher, mod-
ern furniture & private balcny. 741-
9300 www.antiarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact 734-
276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were Cheaper and
MUCH Better than the Dorms! Don't
lose $100 CASH, ask us how to get it.
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedrootm fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appointments.
www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
10 BDRM HOUSE 433 Hamilton.
10 BDRM house 217 N. Ingalls.
u-pacs.cm 734.478.2936.
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk toathe Dig, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or email
ctraband farchrealtyco.com
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.snileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469
REALTY
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Bedrooms
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)

1021 E. University
916 Sybil
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
200 Packard
507 Walnut
1132 White
7 Bedrooms
331 - 333 E. Jefferson
335 E. Ann
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms +
1302 S. Forest (8 br)
1130 S. Forest (9 br)
1619 S. University (9 br)
1014 Vaughn (11 br)
*only $480 per person
915 Oakland (20 person)
616 Church Street
For details call
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

S T u - N 01 1, uS r, N aC
Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
" T~ully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood looring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of Uo f M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
itg included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3. bdrms
avail an cerbraarmenps.t 741-9300
www.annurherapartmests.nts-

P5 SENTS THE
Online 07lassfied
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaly.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE $450 per per-
son with 7 Roomates, this amazing
house is located just South of S. State
Street on Packard. The home has 3
bathrooms, 2 Kitchens, and 7 Large
Bedrooms. Plenty of room for up to 10
people! For a tour call 734-995-9200.
1029 VAUGHN
6 BDRM + STUDY
3 BATHS, $4200
MAY 20 10
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
8 BEDROOM HOUSE - $485/ino per
person with 8 roommates! Located just
about a 10-15 minute walk from the
diag this fully furnished house is a
great choice for those wanting to save
$$$$ and still be able to walk to cam-
pus. 2 Kitchens, 3 bathrooms, and
plenty of prking!!!!
Call 734-995-9200 for a tour today.
9 BEDROOM HOUSE $560/m per
person with 10 roommates!!!!!! Lo-
cated just a 10 minute walk from the
Diag on 1130 South University. Hard-
wood floors, Dishwasher, 3 kitchens, 6
bathrooms, maximum occupancy 14
people. Call 734-995-9200 for a
showing.
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE1 Ibed-
room at $491. 2 bedroom at $714 w/ 2
months free. Call Now! 734-663-8463.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AFFORDABLE 4-MONTH CON-
TRACTS, Available for Winter Term.
Rates Starting at $529; Includes all
meals, utilities and more.
ICC Student Co-op Housing,
www.icc.coop 734-662-4414.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.

FALL 2010 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
7 510 Catherine $3700
7 1129 White St. $3400
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 415 N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3600
6 716 E.Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $2800
4 1117S. Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer ct $2000
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-19911
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. NOW FOR 2010. 2 spacious
furn. 5 bdrm apts. Can be combined as
10 bdrm hse. Call 734-665-2723 or
visit www.ShahProperties.com
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995.0900 for details.

0

# Beds Location
6 1122S.Forest
5 1120S. Forest

Rent
$3600
$3000

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Rapid-fire 35 Director Lee 45 Leaked
1 Workout room weapon 38 Shi'ite leader slowly
4 Bit of hardware 4 "Eats, - & 40 Server's 46 Turnpike fee
9 Suffix.with sea Leaves": basketful 47 Melville
14 Extinct punctuation 42 Bygone bringers novel
ostrich-like bird handbook, of cold blocks 48 "The Gift of
15 Games authority 5 Reef stuff 43 Named for a car the _"'
16 Give._: care 6 Saving model, group 49 Info
17 360-degree Private who sang the 50 Auto designer
artwork 7 Common street 1961 hit formed Ferrari
19 Hardlythe name bythe ends of 53 Stump creator
gregarioustype 8 Cunning o 17-, 26-, 41- and 54 Red state
20 Buckeye g Nat paid hourlp 02-Across erg.
21 "Skipthe sordid 10 Bachr mrk ANSWER tO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
details"' 1t Superior
23 Like many 12 Keats work PEC DE BUT JIGS
airports: Abbr. 13 Rasond'-: 0ER 1O I RJAITIE U CL A
24 firma reason for being IN AN NEX D E EP
28 Well fluids 18 Golf course E2EP AT
26 Former resident 22 Shrimplike - N S I LA
of Lhasa's Potala crustaceans
Palace 24 "in space no one PA DDL E OINITV G A B
30 God of hawks? can hearyou A G R EE E L I E D OZ E
31Gearpart scream,"for P A I N T E R S P A L E T T E
32 Frank "Alien" APPT A G E S O A T E R
33 Fanzine, e.g. 25 Mosultresident L ES T ON CY N I CS
34 Leric kplace 26 ForeC femaler P AE H E A T
36014d Priemn 27 Source at mohair
automaker 28 Bearings
37 Representas 29 Near-etemity R I S R A I L S I M A X
identical 30 From theU.S. EST ERNIE SU R E
39__andouts 31 Cashaftemative D[E S Y E A T S T S A R
40 East Berlin's Cold 34 Neapolitans, e.g. xwordeditor@aol.com 11/24/09
War counterpart
41 Wildly exciting, in 1 2 a a5 16 n7ua a9 in0i11an2 in
slang 14 16 16
43 Guesses 'lrue"
when the answer 17 i19
is "false"
44 Pulitzer winner 20 2i ii
Walker2
45 Concert halls
46 Golfer whon s u 27 28 29
the 1882 U.S.
Open an0na 3a
49 Pre ription 3
measure 4s
51 Nebraska city a7 s 4i
52 Long-time
Chinese leader a an an
55 Boston airport
56 Throw out 2.5
57 Nitrogen-based as n 4 us an
dpe
58 Pork cuts n 5 a 54
59 Esseials1
60 Gonnabetter s7
DOWN 6 s na
1 Canyon or Sierra
2 Toy on a string Bynaresin 11/25/09
()0ibune nMediiua $ri, Inc.

4 715 Catherine $2300
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
2 & 3BDRM APARTMENTS avail-
able for Fall 2010 915/919 South Divi-
sion, Apartments are north of Hoover
and south of Benjamin, across from El-
be Field, Furnished, Beat&Water in-
cluded, Free onsie Parking, Laundry
Facilities, Balconys. .1 BD-840
2BD-$t 100, 3BD-$1750. Spacioust
Bedrooms and Living Room. To sched-
ule a viewing call 248-996-7524 or
734-302-7830, email-
A2managementffcomcast.net
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrenta.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytwn avail
July. Large modem kitchen, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and much more! 741-
9300 www.annarborapartmeiits.net
5 BDRM. FALL 2010. 530 S. Fourth.
2 bath. Free prkg. & dry. 5 min. walk
In Union. $2450.'' util.734-709-5709.
5 BEDROOM APARTMENT 611
Church, Located on the corner of
Church and S. University above
Amers. Entire building has been com-
pletely reoveed. Completely Fur-
nished (leather coaches!), Huge Clos-
ets! Washer and Dryer in unit, Granite
Counter Tops, Stainless Steel Appli-
ances, Dishwasher and Disposal, 2500
S.F., 2.5 Baths. Available May and Fall
2010 $665.00-785.001i/month per per-
son with 6 roommates. Limited um-
ber of units remaining call
734-995-9200 for a tour,
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modem appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
meats LLC. 734-994-0644.
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. fun.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free Uti & pkg. 734-904-6735.
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2010. dklemptnerticmecast.net
Experience the Difference
. 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great tr 2-5 people
" Balcnies + allen
for entertaining
* Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
* Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

Beds Location Rent
6 1029 Vaughn $4200
6 1021 Church $3700
6 541 S. Division 3
6 930 Packard $3200
5 1!101Church $3000
4 1018 E.University $2600
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water tacl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-06#4.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil,
910 Packard, 1130 Oakland, 1026
Vaughn, etc. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
Classif ieds
continued on
the next page
.1-9.r

1

# Beds
6
6
6

Location
1121 Church
543 S. Division #2
1221 S. State #2

Rent
$3500
$3000
$2500

5 1117 Church #1 $3000

0
0

'f


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 25, 2009 - 7

AFTER THEY WALK
From Page 1
means. For Vasquez and The Cart-
er Center, this means limiting the
worm's transmission by protect-
ing local water sources - where
the parasite thrives - and educat-
ing the people of southern Sudan
about the devastating impact of
the Guinea worm.
And it appears the efforts have
been paying off.
In 2007, The Carter Center
reported 9,585 total cases of Guinea
worm disease worldwide.
One year later, the center report-
ed a full, 51-percent reduction in
cases, which totaled just 4,619.
This year, only 1,930 cases have
been reported from January to
June 2009. And if this rate contin-
ues through the end of the year, the
Center could see another drop of
about 17 percent.
When the Center began fight-
ing the spread of the worm in 1986,
more than 3.5 million cases existed
in 20 countries throughout Africa
and Asia. Now there are less than
5,000 cases in six African countries,
a 99.8-percent drop in 23 years. If
this continues, Guinea worm dis-
ease should be completely eradi-
cated in the near future, a feat that
hasn't happened since Smallpox
was declared eradicated in 1979.
Of the six countries that still
report cases of the disease, Sudan
has by far the largest number of
existing cases. The Carter Center
reported in 2008 that Sudan has
78 percent of the remaining cases
worldwide; the majority of these
occur in the southern regions
where Vasquez is working.

Vasquez grew up in Ann Arbor
and studied political science at the
University. Just out of college, he
worked as a researcher at Univer-
sity Hospital. Unsure of his future
and hesitant to follow his friends to
law school, Vasquez opted to travel
instead.
His travels led him all over the
world, and at one point he found
himself in West Africa, spending
time in several countries and visit-
ing a friend who was working with
the Peace Corps in Burkina Faso.
It was during these travels that he
met the Ghana country director for
The Carter Center who led him to
his job.
"It just happened by chance," he
said.
In June 2006, just two months
later and with no public health
experience, he was in Ghana.
That's when he started work-
ing with The Carter Center. After
an 18-month stay in Ghana's mid-
dle belt near Lake Volta, Vasquez
moved to Savelugu, a smaller town
in northern Ghana. In Savelugu,
Vasquez ran a Guinea worm case
containment center where he
helped to identify Guinea worm
cases and contain infected the peo-
ple so they could not contaminate
local water sources, where the dis-
ease is easily transmitted.
While working in Ghana,
Vasquez became quite knowl-
edgeable of the traditional politi-
cal hierarchy of the area. He
began working with the commu-
nity to pass bylaws pertaining to
Guinea worm and saw 90-percent
reductions of the disease in some
areas, 100-percent reductions in
others.
In December2008,Vasquezrelo-
cated to Sudan, "the last frontier
on the difficult path to eradicating
Guinea worm disease," according

to The Carter Center's website.
"It's like the end of the Earth,"
Vasquez said of the situation in his
current home. "There is a reason
why the last case of Guinea worm
will be reported in Sudan."
He's been in the country for
about a year, and has now taken on
a new managerial role as a deputy
technical adviser for The Carter
Center, which means he has to split
his time between field and office.
"When I go to the field now, most
of what I'm doing is supporting the
system of surveillance," he said.
By surveillance, Vasquez is
referring to how he and his team
understand the surrounding areas
and the local people! They work to
build relationships with the local
communities, helping them to bet-
ter identify Guinea worm cases and
locate potentially infected water
sources for chemical treatment.
Unlike in Ghana, where people
are more hesitant to trust mass
chemical dumps into water sourc-
es, Vasquez said the Sudanese are
more willing to accept the water
treatment.
In the office, Vasquez said one of
the biggest challenges comes with
managing human resources. Since
entering this position, Vasquez
said he has learned to form realis-
tic expectations of his team and the
people they work with in the field.
Vasquez's team includes Ugan-
dans, Ethiopians and Ghanaians.
Half of his technical staff is made
of Sudanese nationals, though, and
the other half is made of Americans
recruited by The Carter Center.
"The level of education just isn't
there," he said, especially since
the nationals "have all just been
through a civil war."

Vasquez checking a water source in Savelugu, Ghana. Ghana is one of several African countries grappling with Guinea worms.

Many of his workers grew up
in camps during the war and were
aligned with opposing sides. Now
in the field, Vasquez said a large
part of the job is adjusting to his
team's steep learning curve.
But despite the other challenges
of the job, the core of the battle is
always helping victims ofthe worm.
"Once in a while ... you come
across a case and connect with a
patient in a very personal way," he
said. "Certainly that's the most spe-
cial part of the job."
Vasquez is constantly learning to
deal with language barriers. Hav-
ing been in Sudan less than a year,
he said he's still trying to pick up
bits of the language here and there.
The day-to-day operations of

running a humanitarian organiza-
tion in a war-torn country can get
sticky, though.
Security, Vasquez said, remains
one of his operation's biggest chal-
lenges.
Vasquez said there is constant
risk assessment, both in moving
technical staff in the field and in
moving expensive cargo across the
country. This becomes critical, he
,said, when raising questions like,
"is this important enough when we
have to have an armed escort?"
After two years, Vasquez is
unsure about whether he will pur-
sue a career in public health. He

said he is lucky to have had this
opportunity to work with The
Carter Center, and that there is a
chance he might look into other
ways to help fight poverty, includ-
ing through business.
"I have seen firsthand how pub-
lic health can help economic devel-
opment," he said.
While working long days in
demanding environments, Vasquez
said his two biggest takeaways
from his experience are humility
and patience.
The future may be uncertain for
Vasquez, but for now, he said he is
going to continue battling the worm
in Sudan - at least for a little while.
"I know I'll never get another
chance like this," he said.


CONVENTION
From Page 1
basic democracy and free speech
that the MSA constitution pro-
vides to students," Stenvig said.
Stenvig is a leader of the Defend
Affirmative Action Party - a party
that has held MSA representative
seats over the past several years
but has never won executive seats.
Though they are no longer affili-
ated with a party, Mahanti and
Rorro both ran with the Michi-
gan Vision Party. Two of the eight
MSA representatives appointed to
the constitutional convention are
MVP members.
Schon asserted in the proceed-
ings that different voices are
required to update the constitu-
tion in an effective manner.
"The reason an election is
required is for constituents to
elect them," Schon said. "That's
the only way changes are going to
be made."
Rorro, who served as chair of the
Constitutional Convention, said

after the meeting that MSA has
other means of proposing amend-
ments to the student body, though
they are less efficient.
The student body must vote on
any amendment to the constitu-
tion, no matter how small. The
constitution requires one of three
methods for an amendment to be
added to the ballot, so that it can
be voted on by the entire student
population.
MSA can garner a two-thirds
majority vote to get amendments
added to the campus-wide ballot.
Alternatively, a student or student
group can petition MSA to add
proposed-amendments to the bal-
lot. Each proposed amendment
requires 1,000 student signatures.
The last option, which MSA
officials chose and believe to be
the most efficient for a major
overhaul of campus policy, is to
assemble a constitutional conven-
tion to present an entire amended
constitutional document, which
the student body can then vote to
approve.
The most current Constitu-

tional Convention was preparing
a document to be voted on by the
student body during the March
campus-wide student government
elections.
CSJ ruled that in order for a
convention to convene, individual
colleges and student groups must
elect delegates from their schools
or groups to serve on the conven-
tion.
MSA representatives drew a
parallel between the election pro-
cess used for the convention and
the process used to elect student
representatives to the Department
of Public Safety Police Oversight
Committee. The DPS Oversight
Committee is a body intended to
check the power of DPS that has
recently come under fire for prob-
lems with the election processes
used to select faculty, student and
staff representatives.
Both the DPS Oversight Com-
mittee and a constitutional con-
vention call for an "election" to
determine student members. In
both cases, MSA representatives
determined that an internal "nom-

ination and confirmation process"
would be sufficient to elect del-
egates.
Brusstar and Benson used the
DPS Oversight Committee selec-
tion process as evidence of the
constitutionality of their actions.
However, the three CSJ justices
who heard the case - Chief Justice
Daniel Horwitz, Associate Chief
Justice Jonathan Beitner and Jus-
tice Michael Huston - ruled that
this process did not constitute an
"election."
"That's a point where Iguess I
have to disagree with the court,"
Brusstar said after the trial. "It's
my interpretation that that is, in
fact, a valid form of election."
The court decided the Consti-
tutional Convention did not pro-
portionally represent the student
body, which the student constitu-
tion requires.
Benson said MSA will consider
appealingthe overall decisionafter
the written decisions are released.
MSA has until Monday to file an
appeal to CSJ.
Rorro said despite the ruling,

the executive board intended to
represent as many parts of cam-
pus as possible through the selec-
tion process, but that "obviously it
wasn't enough."
"But now that we're re-focus-
ing it we want to make sure that
we do get all those opinions and
all those voices in the room," he
said. "But no, we're not stopping,
and we really want to give Michi-
gan a document that will live for
a long time and ensure that stu-
dent government works for its
constituents."
Rorro said he expects the
amendment process will continue,
just through different means.
"There are a 'couple of differ-
ent ways to have an amendment
to the Constitution," he said. "I
think that our re-writing efforts
so far have been very productive
and I'm really excited to continue
them."
Rorro suggested that the mem-
bers already selected to be on the
constitutional convention might
continue their re-writing efforts.
Those students would work to

obtain the 1,000 studentsignatures
needed to put the amendments on
the ballot for the all-student vote
in March.
"I believe the next step is con-
tinuing the re-writing process,
ensuring that all constituencies
are represented in a good way," he
said.
Rorro added that if the conven-
tion decides to take this option, it
would no longer be an MSA-run
initiative but would be a separate
student group.
Alternatively,Mahinti said
MSA representatives might inter-
nally propose amendments for
approval by the assembly, which
would then enable them to be put
on the student-wide ballot.
"I think that it's something the
assembly has wanted to do," he
said. "I think it's something that
the assembly will still carry for-
ward."
Mahanti said he is not sure if
MSA will initiate another con-
vention using the guidelines laid
out by the CSJ ruling, but that the
assembly is "back to square one."

7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3700
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPOIDEINCO
(734)9S96-1991
NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
Drive-in garage. Cathedral ceiling livin-
groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo.
734-516-4291. gunnerbl7@aol.com
NOW LEASING 2010-11
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 B. Madison
721 5. Porest
511 B. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
Free heat and water
( At most locations)

7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at1248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
-VARSITY MANAGEMENT:
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
All apts. are fully furnished, have new
kitchens w/ dishwashers, include heat,
water, most mcl. parking, some icl.
wire/ess!
-BI-LEVEL 2 BED 2 BATH:
515 Walnut, huge apts. perfect for 4!
Close to CCRB and CC Little.
*FOREST TERRACE: 1001 S. For-
est, huge, sunny, 2-bedrooms large
enough for 4! All w/ big beautiful
kitchens.
#543 CHURCH ST: 2 & 4 bdrm bi-
levels, and huge 2-bdrms for 4. The per-
fect location! Parking extra for this lo-
cation.
-PARK TERRACE: 848 Tappan, cor-
ner of Tappan & Oakland, huge 2-bed-
rooms w/ new kitchens and great bal-
conies! Underground parking.
-BURNS PARK: 1039 Baldwin, mas-
sive, gorgeous apts. in a converted man-
sion. Hardwood floors, 10ft ceilings,
fireplaces. You've got to see these!
St dio, 2bds, & 4 bds avail.
I _ T_ _

FALL APARTMENT-LRG 2 Bdrm.,
very nice, 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furnished,
dishwasher, disposal, ldry. Heat, water,
and prkg. included. $1200 + electric.
(734) 662-7121 or gpmiles@aol.com
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520 -
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
SUBLETS
WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com.

FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students,'appty @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
NEED CASH? EARN up to $1,000
during finals week! Better World
Books needs your help buying text-
books and collecting textbook dona-
tions. Help your friends get more cash
for their books and earn money in the
process. Contact Emily at 574-855-
5206 or go to www.betterworldbooks.-
com/campusoperative
PART TIME WORK
Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
ible around classes, will train.
734-677-2477. www.earnparttime.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
CHILDCARE

For Thursday, Nov. 26, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
Be cautious when in discussions about
shared property today, because you
might not have all the facts. Something
could sway you toward being generous
to the point where you might later regret
it.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
A partner orclose friend might dispp-
point you for some reason today.
However, part of your disappointment
might be because you had unrealistic
expectations.
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
Be careful with health issues today.
Guard against any kind of misuse of
drugs or questionable food that might
make you sick. Be aware.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Some kind of starry-eyed romance
could be a source of disappointment for
you today. Remember: Unexpressed
expectations almost always lead to dis-
appointment.
LEO,
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Be extra patient with family members
today. If ynur expectations or ideals are
too high, you will feel disuppointed. It's
fan better to expect less and be happy.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Relations with relatives and siblings
are confusing today; nevertheless, they
are well-meaning. Remain forthright.
Don't skirt the truth to avoid a con-
frontation.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Be careful with financial matters
today. If shopping, keep your receipts.
Some kind of deception is possible. Or
you might kid yourself about money
matters with respect to how to earn it or

spend it.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 toNov. 2 1)
You feel idealistic about others today.
You want everyone tobe happy. You also
feel sympathetic toward others. (Just
make sure you don't expect too much
from people. Keep your feet on the
ground.)
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 2 1)
You're willing to go out of your way
to help someone today. You're ready to
put your interests second to the interests
of someone else who is needy. This is
very good; however, don't be a martyr.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan, 19)
Before you share your hopes and
dreams for the future with others, make
sure you have a sympathetic audience.
Today is a bit tricky.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
It's easy to idolize someone older,
richer or more experienced than you
today. In fact, you might develop a crush
on your boss or someone in authority.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Your appreciution of beauty is aroused
today. Therefore, give yourself a chace
to enjoy punks, museums, galleries and
beautiful places.
YOU BORN TODAY You're individ-
ualistic, and you have an excellent imag-
ination. (You have your own style.) You
need lots of freedom because you're
spontaneous and creative. You don't like
to be held back by others or external reg-
imens. By your mid-20s, you become
fixated on status, respect and success.
Ironically, by your 50s, these matter
much less. Work hard to build or con-
struct something this year.
Birthdate of: Rich Little, impression-
ist; Tina Turner, singer; Charles Schultz,
cartoonist, creator of Peanuts.

EXPERIENCED DRIVER WITH
good driving record needed to pick and
drop two kids from St. Francis school.
Please call for more info 313-399-0652.

SERVICES
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net .

TICKETS & TRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

0 2009 King Features syndicate, inc.

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-9 5-6520 x 125.


8 - Wednesday, November 25, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'M' faces first major test in
weekend's Old Spice Classic

By GJON JUNCAJ
Daily Sports Writer
The past three weeks have almost
felt like an extended preseason for
the Michigan men's basketball team.
That means the 15th-ranked Wolver-
ines are more than
eager to enter Michigan vs.
tomorrow's game
against Creighton Gvighon
in the opening Matchup:
round of the Old Michigan 2-0;
Spice Classic. Creighton 2-1
"Jost being When: Thurs-
able to play that day. toss
many games, it's Where:
like making op for Orlando, Fla.
lost time," senior TV/Radio:
forward DeShawn ESPN2
Sims said last
week. "We've Live Blog:
been having (six www.michi-
or eight) days in gandaily.com
between games,
so I'm excited to
go on Thanksgiving. I've spent too
many Thanksgivings here."
The four-day invitational held in
Orlando, Fla. features eight teams,
half of which made the NCAA Tour-
nament last March. Creighton fin-
ished 27-8 last season and advanced
to the second round of the National
Invitational Tournament. And
despite graduating last season's Mis-
souri Valley Conference Player of the
Year in Booker Woodfox, the Blue
Jays (2-1) are averaging 79 points per
game and have five players scoringin
double figures.
This year, Creighton coach Dana
Altman has trained his guards to run
elements of Vance Walberg's famous
Dribble-DriveMotionoffense. Mich-
igan coach John Beilein praised the
way Altman has juggled a deep rota-
tion.
"They're so diverse right now
with what they do," said Beilein, ref-
erencing Creighton's high-post and
dribble-drivemotionoffense."We've
got to prepare for both (offenses).
They're also running10 to 12 players
at you, and scouting the opponent is
really hard."
To compound that problem, three
of Creighton's top six scorers - Dar-
ryl Ashford, Wayne Runnels and
Ethan Wragge - were in either junior
college or high school last year, so
the Michigan coaching staff just has
three games'worth of filmto analyze
them.
The Wolverines may not know

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Coach Red Berenson experienced the Michigan vs. Minnesota rivalry-as a player.
Coach reflects
on old rivalry

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior DeShawn Sims scored five 3-pointers in the win over Houston Baptist, and is expected to step up in the Old Spice Classic.

much about Creighton's top scorers,
but they do know the Blue Jays have
one glaring weakness - the front-
court. Creighton finished dead last in
the MVC last season in rebounding
margin, and is just minus-five this
year with a lineup that has nobody
taller than 6-foot-9.
The Wolverines (2-0) also have
something to prove after getting
wiped out on the glass against lowly
Houston Baptist last weekend, fin-
ishing with a minus-13 margin. But
against Creighton's small lineup,
Beilein should be able to divide min-
utes at power forward among Zack
Novak, Zack Gibson and Anthony
Wright.
The coaching sthff has also dedi-
cated practice time this week to
transition defense.
It looked weak at times last week-
end, as Houston Baptist guards drove
the length of the floor for easy layups
throughout the first half.

"We've worked on it every day for
15 to 25 minutes," Beilein said. "It's
a yearly event. No matter what hap-
pens, no matter what team you have,
your transition defense stinks when
you first get it."
Michigan will face either Xavier
or Marquette on Friday, both of
which are 3-0 this year and earned
top-six seeds in last season's NCAA
Tournament. The overall quality of
the Old Spice Classic is a welcome
step up from the doormats Michigan
has played this month, so there's a
palpable sense of curiosity among
the team regarding how well they
will play in back-to-back games.
Perhaps the strangest possibility
of this weekend's tournament is the
slight chance the Wolverines will
face Baylor, where former Michigan
starting center Ekpe Udoh trans-
ferred to after the 2007-08 season.
Now a redshirt junior, Udoh is aver-
aging 16 points and nine rebounds

through four games.
"It's definitely going to measure
up - at the end of the tournament
- where we are and how far we've
come (since last year)," Sims said.
"We've lived up to the hype so far....
This is goingto be one of our biggest
tests of the season."
Although the Wolverines are the
only ranked squad in the tourna-
mernt, Beilein believes four to five of
the seven other teams can earn an
NCAA Tournament invitation next
March.
He views this weekend as an early
season teaching opportunity.
"It's preparing us for Big Ten play,"
Beilein said. "We talk about transi-
tion defense, and we're talking about
(how) you have to be ready to shoot
quickly and come off a screen hard,
or somebody's going to be there. It
hits you after you play these teams.
There'll be positives out of it - either
way - after this weekend."

By MICHAEL FLOREK players in the NHL - this game
Daily Sports Writer will have a slightly different feel
from their previous meetings.
In the opening game of this For the first time in College
weekend's College Hockey Show- Hockey Showcase history, both
case, the Michigan hockey team teams will be under .500 when
will take the ice against Minne- the puck drops.
sota - a team Michigan coach . "We've played them when
Red Berenson knows well. we're both up in the top 10 in
After all,theteams have played the country," Berenson said.
258 times and used to square off "Looking at Minnesota's sched-
as conference rivals in the West- ule, they've played in North
ern Collegiate Hockey Associa- Dakota, they've played in Wis-
tion, until the Wolverines moved consin, they've played some
to the CCHA in 1981. tough games. I think they're like
When Berenson played at us, they're probably better than
Michigan under coach Al Ren- their record."
frew in the early '60s, the rivalry Michigan snapped a five-
was one of the most intense in game losing streak last weekend
college hockey. against Bowling Green, its lon-
"(Then-Minnesota coach gest skid since 1988.
John) Mariucci would complain The Wolverines' usual
about all the Canadians playing strength - their offense - has
for Michigan, and he was priding largely failed to deliver this sea-
himself (on) playing all Minne- son. Minnesota has had-a simi-
sota and all U.S. kids," Berenson lar problem. Like Michigan, the
said. "I heard that when I was team is in the bottom half of the
playing,'Berenson, you goddamn country in scoring and power
Canadian.' play percentage.
"So there's been a pretty good In the Showcase, wins over
rivalry going on for a long time." Minnesota on Friday and Wis-
As Michigan changed confer- consin on Saturday would give
ences, the College Hockey Show- Michigan -its first consecutive
case was created to keep those wins since Halloween weekend.
rivalries alive. The Wolverines have lost to
And the intensity isn't lost every ranked team they have
among the current Michigan played, and have been outscored
players. 16-6. A strong showing this
"I think it just goes along weekend could help salvage what
with the history of the two pro- has been a disappointing season
grams, the games we've had and so far.
the tradition with both teams," "If there is a big picture at the
junior forward Matt Rust said. end of the season, these games
"I know back from my fresh- will really be important games,"
man year until now, we've had Berenson said. "Just in terms of
some tough games against them. our momentum, when we play
It's an important series for both Ohio State and Notre Dame in
teams." the upcoming games in our con-
Even with the progams' sto- ference, we have got to be more
ried histories - Michigan is first ready than, let's say, we were
and Minnesota is fifth in nation- against Bowling Green. So these
al championships and both are games hopefully will get us
among the top in terms of putting there."
Club soccer loses in
tourney quarterfinal

"t

Michigan's four-person senior class
could be best in program's history

Cla
on
it t

Wh
Arbor,
grams
The te
season
record
namen
But
her th
Veroni
Julian,
Cassie
- ha
placet
on th
stage.
Mic
Mark
they c
best s
in Mic

ss of 2010 is only that and it gets a little over the top,
but that's her.
e that has made "I've always told our past cap-
tains that you have to lead within
o Tournament in your own personality, and Bower
all four years embodies that."
all our ears The rest of the seniors, regard-
less of playing timie, hate shown
By MARK BURNS that same spirit over the past few
Daily Sports Writer years.
From role player last year to cur-
en Megan Bower came to Ann rent starting middle blocker, Rood
the Michigan volleyball pro- has maintained a positive attitude
seemed to be at a standstill. that has helped create great team
am had finished the 2005 chemistry within the locker room.
with a sub -.500 conference And Paz, a junior college trans-
and missed the NCAA Tour- fer from Iowa Western Community
t. College, has brought new enthusi-
four years later, Bower and asm to the Wolverines - one that
ree senior counterparts - fanshavegrown accustomedtoover
ca Rood, the past two
a Paz, and years. Whether
Petoskey e don't have she's jumping
ive helped a up and down
he program to evaluate them after snag-
e national ging a service
... they've just ace or dancing
higancoach '''around in the
Rosen said proven that." huddle during
ould be the pregame intro-
enior class ductions, Paz is
chigan his- never at a loss

By JAKE FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Junior forward Mia Miller runs
to her friends' house. She walks
in, heart still pounding from the
quarter-mile sprint, and begins
to pace the living room. When her
friends ask her to grab a seat and
relax, she refuses. Miller hangs
out for about a half hour, stand-
ing all the while, before departing
for the gym where she'll begin her
daily workout routine.
Her behavior typifies the life-
style of the women's club soc-
cer team - they do not like to sit
around.
So when the Wolverines (4-3-1)
finished the regular season in fifth
place nationally and their national
tournament hopes appeared to be
in jeopardy, players and team sup-
porters refused to wait helplessly
to hear which teams receivedbids.
Instead, they took action.
"We had our board members
and coach and even parents con-
tacting our regional director
fighting to get an at-large bid to
Nationals," senior co-president
Bethany Carlson said. "The issue
with the regular season is that not
all of the teams play each other.
For some reason, every year, we
play all of the strongest teams in
our region."
With a winning record and a
very tough schedule, Michigan
was ultimately awarded a tourna-
ment berth.
Once the Wolverines arrived in
Arizona for Nationals, they were
anxious to prove they belonged.
Miahigan emerged as the Vin-

ner of its pool, shutting out Texas
State and Colorado State 2-0 last
Thursday. Senior forward Kaitlyn
Sargent scored Michigan's most
impressivegoalofthe tournament
- a beautiful header off a cross in
the first half of the game against
Colorado State.
The two victories propelled
the Wolverines into the Sweet 16,
where they beat Virginia Tech,
5-1, in their most dominant per-
formance of the year.
"During the season, I wouldnot
have been confident in our abil-
ity to score, but during Nationals,
scoring came with ease," Miller
said. "Everyone's goals seemed to
effortlessly slide past the oppos-
ing goalkeeper."
After three convincing wins
over formidable opponents, Mich-
igan proved its at-large bid was
well deserved. The Wovlerines
headed into their Elite Eight con-
test against UC-Santa Barbara
brimming with confidence.
Although both teams had
numerous scoring opportunities,
the Wolverines failed to convert
when it mattered. Their postsea-
son run ended at three games, as
Michigan fell, 4-0, to the eventual
National Champion Gauchos.
"The loss is a little less painful
knowing that they won the tour-
nament, but at the same time it's
tough to deal with knowing that
they are beatable," Carlson said.
But it's not as if the Wolverines
needed such a tough loss to keep
them motivated during the off-
season. Judging from their past
behavior, they won't be sitting
around very long anyway.

S
0
0
0

tory. for energy.
"They've gone the farthest in the "I remember the first week of
(NCAA) Tournament, they've won practice we were like, 'Wow, she's
the most, they'll be the first time to really, really good,' " Rosen said. "I
go to the tournament four times," think what we were most impressed
he said. "So that in respect, we don't with was not just her offense. ... But
have to evaluate them subjectively, the rest of her game - her serving,
they've just proven that." her passing, her defense - just the
That's a testament to the class's full game she brings. We got every-
leadership, beginning with team thing and more out of her."
captain Bower. After this upcom- Petoskey, who grew up in Ann
ing weekend's match against Ohio Arbor, hasn't played much during
State, she will become the Wol- her Michigan career. But she has
verines' all-time leader in career maintained the same commitment
matches played. Her passion on and dedication ever since she first
the court and ability to mentor the arrived on campus.
team's underclassmen have influ- "I think the biggest thing I've
enced the entire program. learned is that consistent behavior
"She leads from her heart," builds trust," Petoskey said. "If you
Rosen said. "She leads with every- come in everyday, you work hard. If
thing, every ounce of her personal- you build trust with yourself, your
ity. Sometimes she has to temperk coaches, your teammatep - you're

Senior Megan Bower will become the all-time leader in matches played. -
going to find success." be the first time a class has made it
And success is exactly what the to the tournament in all four years.
2010 senior class has experienced And the senior class hopes it can
over the last four seasons. The Wol- help the team to another first - a
verines are a shoo-in to make the FinalpFour visit to Tampa in Decem-
NCAATournament this yeam It will ber.


