TOO FLIGHTY LEASE LITERACY
The latest album from Flight of Do' infra os ihu
T the Conchords should be loved reviewing your tenant rights in the
by fans but lost on everyone else. housing issue of The Statement.
SEE ARTS, PAGE 5A SEE !NSIDE

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, October 28, 2009

michigandaily.com

MIDTERMS AND MASSAGES

UNDER AGE DRINKING
State House
passes Good
Samaritan bill

MARISSA MCCLAiN/Daily
LSA freshman Lauren Beriont enjoys a massage yesterday from Ann Arbor Seventh-day Adventist Church intern Isabella Hansen, who is also a part of the group
Campus Hope. The Christian organization gives free massages at the Michigan Union every Tuesday to help relieve students' stress.
SERIES: AFTER THEY WALK
en ey Rhnthele-changer

Bill would protect
drunk minors
from citations
in emergencies
By LIBBY ASHTQN
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan House of Repre-
sentatives unanimously voted last
week to pass the "Medical Amnes-
ty" - or "Good Samaritan" - bill,
which would grant exemption to
underage drinkers who seek medi-
cal attention for alcohol-related
health issues.
Now on its way to the state Sen-
ate, the bill seeks to amend the
Michigan Liquor Control Code,
which currently states that under-
age drinkers are guilty of a mis-
demeanor, a crime punishable by
law. The bill aims to eliminate the
hesitation that might occur when
underage drinkers are deciding
whether or not to get help for a
friend for fear of receiving a "minor
in possession" citation.
Sen. Liz Brater (D-Ann Arbor)
first introduced the bill in March.
According to a press release issued
by her office, the goal of the bill is
to "prevent loss of life and make
health and safety a higher priority
than punishment."
Brater said in an interview this
week that she was motivated to
introduce the bill after hearing
about a series of incidents on col-

lege campuses in which seriously
intoxicated students went without
medical assistance because they
or their friends were too afraid of
receiving an MIP to call for help.
"We're trying to prevent a trag-
edy by allowingsomeone to receive
medical assistance for someone
who is dangerously intoxicated,"
Brater said. "(The bill) is in no way
meant to condone minors consum-
ing alcohol but to prevent a very
narrow exception for this particu-
lar situation."
Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Diane Brown said
the motivation for this bill might be
based on misconceptions.
"t've heard for years the percep-
tion that if you go to the E.R. and
you've been drinking, they will call
the police," Brown said. "If that's
the totality of the situation, they
will not."
Brown explained that medi-
cal personnel are only expected to
report their observations of other
legal matters, like domestic or child
abuse, not of underage drinking.
Secondly, Brown said she
believes students have a miscon-
ception that if they receive an MIP,
their records will be permanently
marked with the offense. In real-
ity, first-time offenders have the
option to participate in alternative
programs that will expunge their
records.
Still, Brown doesn't empathize
with the choice to protect oneself
from perceived legal repercussions
See GOOD SAMARITAN, Page 7A

Editor's Note: Today, the Daily
premieres a new series, 'After They
Walk," which profiles University
alumni who are significantly chang-
ing the lives of others for the better.
The series, which will run periodi-
cally throughout the year, starts with
the incredible story of Wendy Rhein,
who runs a programfor the homeless
inAtlanta.
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Two years ago, Wilkes Bonhart
was smoking a steady dose of about

three grams of crack a day, scroung-
ing for food out of dumpsters and
sleeping in boarded up, dilapidated
homes in inner-city Atlanta.
And although Bonhart now com-
pares his former self to the homeless
who wander the streets of Detroit, a
brief look at his past would make
that comparison quite hard to
believe.
In 1988, he graduated from the
University of Toledo with a bach-
elor's degree in political science.
And at age 27, he enrolled in gradu-
ate courses in economics at UT. But,
because of his constant drug use,

Bonhart was forced to drop out of
school a few months later.
"That was a decision I regretted
for the rest of my life," Bonhart said
in an August phone interview.
In a series of interviews through-
out the last couple months, Bon-
hart was polite and friendly. Amid
those conversations, he explained
the story of how he ended up on the
streets in Atlanta.
"OK, let me tell you a story," he
said when asked about the journey.
And in that moment, Wilkes was
no longer the mannerly, courteous
civilian who had been a part of the

previous conversations. He trans-,
formed into his old self, talking
slang like "balla" and "playin' " and
cursing about all the shit he went
through while addicted to crack.
He did not hold back.
After burning through his stu-
dent loans and supporting himself
on unemployment checks, Bonhart
took his last check in March 1989
and fled south. The next 10 years of
his life were spent onthe streets. He
earned about $500 a week detailing
cars - but he quickly spent it all on
drugs.
See AFTER THEY WALK, Page 3A

MICHIGAN FOOTBALL
Cornerback Boubacar
Cissoko kicked off team

Cissoko was due in
court yesterday for
disorderly conduct
charge
By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Sophomore cornerback Bou-
bacar Cissoko was dismissed
from the Michigan football
team yesterday afternoon for a

violation of team rules, Michi-
gan coach Rich Rodriguez said
through Athletic Department
spokesman Dave Ablauf.
Cissoko was due to appear in
Detroit's 36th district court yes-
terday for disorderly conduct
charges stemming from a traffic
arrest over the summer, accord-
ing to an Aug. 25 annarbor.com
report. If found guilty, Cissoko
could receive up to a $1,000 fine
and 90 days in jail.
Another annarbor.com report
from late July described a June 6

incident in which Cissoko was a
passenger in a vehicle pulled over
in Belle Isle for speeding. When
the police officer asked the driver
to get out of the car, Cissoko was
quoted as saying "Leave my boy
the (expletive) alone," accord-
ing to the annarbor.com story.
He was then arrested after the
officer ordered him to stop, the
report said.
Thomas Wilcher, Cissoko's
former coach at Cass Technical
High School in Detroit, said the
See CISSOKO, Page 7A

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
MSA passes concerns resolution

Chair of the University's Council for Disability Concerns Jack Bernard shakes hands with Truman, a golden retriever, on the Diag
yesterday during an event called "Dogs, dogs, dogs...and how they help!" The event was part of Investing in Ability Week.
Investing in Ability Week celebrates
artistic eXpression of life's hardships

In reversal, assembly
will revamp the way
community can voice
public concerns
By MALLORY JONES
Daily StaffReporter
In a big reversal, the Michigan
Student Assembly passed a con-
troversial resolution last night
that will add restrictions to the
"community concerns" portion of
its weekly meetings, potentially

preventing people from address-
ing the assembly in the future.
The resolution passed the
assembly 23-7 - with two mem-
bers choosing to abstain from
voting - and needed a two-thirds
majority to pass.
A version of the resolution
was put before the assembly two
weeks ago and failed to pass.
Amendments were added, howev-
er, which called for the executive
board to provide a written report
when they decide to turnsomeone
away, allowing the resolution to
pass last night.
The amendments also specified

that the board base its decisions
on whether the topic the speaker
would be addressing is relevant to
students, campus and the commu-
nity, and whether MSA could have
an impact on the issue.
The assembly will now require
a valid, non-expired Mcard for
community members to speak
during the community concerns
segment - now titled "communi-
ty input." Non-affiliates will have
to request permission from the
executive board in order to speak.
The time for community speak-
ers was also shortened from
See MSA, Page 7A

hig
awai
If yo
yesterd
of ador
How
than ju
vice do

'ies of events to therapy to people with disabilities.
The dogs were part of a demon-
Fhlight disabilities stration for the annual Investing
in Ability Week, now in its 19th
reness ends Oct. 31 year, sponsored by the University's
Council for Disability Concerns.
By DYLAN CINTI The program seeks to promote
Daily StaffReporter campus awareness about disability
issues.
tu walked through the Diag This year's program is themed
lay,you probably saw a bunch "Art and Abilities." It began on Oct.
able golden retrievers. 19 and will continue through Oct.
'ever, these dogs were more . 31.
st cute pets - they were ser- Anna Ercoli Schnitzer, a librar-
.gs, providing assistance and ian who specializes in disability-

related content at the Taubman
Medical Library and Health Sci-
ences Libraries, serves on the coun-
cil and helped plan the week-long
event.
Schnitzer explained that the
council works to level the play-
ing field for people with physical
or emotional challenges. Its work
includes examining blueprints of
University buildings to ensure they
meet accessibility standards set by
the Americans with Disabilities
Act, as well as advocating for stu-
See ABILITY WEEK, Page 7A


WEATHER HI 64
TOMORROW LO: 51

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEWONMICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX . NEWS............... ............2A CLASSIFIEDS...A............6A
Sobriety court attorney pulled over for drunk driving Vol. CXX, No.t35 OPINION.. ..4A S P ITS.... IA
H2009TThe Michigan Daily A IRT ............................ . A S T S E . . ..
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE 000m@0c he heichiman ARTS.. ....5ATHI STATEMNT..............1


2A - Wednesday, October 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TUESDAY: THURSDAY:

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Off the Beaten Path CampusCu Before You Were Here
Driving to an alternative future

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-847-3336 734-764-55
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours: sun.-Thurs.11 a.m. - 2 a.m.
f 734-763-24s9
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com

Winning five out of the last
nine biannual national cham-
pionships has made the Univer-
sity's Solar Car Team the most
successful solar car team in
North America.
As one of the most heavily
funded student organizations
on campus, with a budget of
approximately $2.6 million, the
Solar Car Team brings together
students from a variety of dis-
ciplines, including engineering,
business, art, economics, edu-
cation and history.
The current car, Infinium,
holds one passenger. It gets
energy from solar panels that
is then stored in a battery and
used to power a two-horse-
power motor. Using the same
amount of energy as a com-
mon hair dryer, the car reaches
speeds of up to 87 mph.
Such an undertaking requires

a large budget - approximately
$2.6 million - and a serious time
commitment, ranging for each
student from 10 to 40 hours per
week during the school year
and approximately 80 hours per
week during the summer. Stu-
dents receive neither financial
compensation nor course credit.
According to Engineering
senior Steve Durbin, the Solar
Car Team's interim project man-
ager, the goal of completing the
project is enough motivation.
"A lot of times, especially
(with) homework, students
work on something but don't
see a finished product," Durbin
said. "It keeps them coming
back, week after week."
The team raises funds through
a variety of sponsors, including
each of the Detroit Three auto-
makers, the College of Engineer-
ing, Ross School of Business and

Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

photo@michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandaily.com
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com
finance@michigandaily.com

0
0

the Michigan Student Assembly.
According to Interim Strat-
egy Director Rachel Karmer, an
LSA sophomore, the corporate
and public relations aspects
make up half of the work.
"So many students put in
time, energy and brain power

to perfect every aspect of the
team - it's a perfect collabora-
tion of business and engineer-
ing," Karmer said.
Each car the team builds
is for a two-year competition
period. The National Competi-
tion and World Solar Challenge

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Foul ball
WHERE: Alumni softball field
WHEN: Monday at about 3
p.m.
WHAT: A contractor was
struck in the head by a fly ball
while he was repairing a fence,
University Police reported. He
was taken to the University
Hospital for treatment.
Smash & Snatch
WHERE: South Forest park-
ing structure
WHEN: Monday at about 9
a.m.
WHAT: A student reported
that she returned to her car
to find a window shattered
and her iPod and iPod charger
missing, University Police
reported. The valuables are
worth about $350. There are
no suspects.

Wallet stolen
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about 4:30
p.m.
WHAT: A hospital staff mem-
ber reported that his wallet
was stolen, University Police
reported. The wallet, money
and miscellaneous identifica-
tion were valued at approxi-
mately $70.
Trouble on two
wheels
WHERE: Nichols Arboretum
WHEN: Monday at around 7
p.m.
WHAT: A caller told authori-
ties that a person was riding a
bike in the Arboretum in defi-
ance of an ordinance, University
Police reported. Officers were
unable to locate the subject.

Lecture: The
Art of Old Age
WHAT: English Professor
Nicholas Delbanco gives a
lecture on "lastingness," the
advantages of old age and
the true meaning of "sunset
years."
WHO: Arts on Earth
WHEN: Today from 5 p.m. to
6:15 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Kuenzel Room
CREES lecture
WHAT: University of Michi-
gan Doctoral candidate in
anthropology Ema Grama
will give a lecture.
WHO: Center for Russian
and East European Studies
WHEN: Today from 12 to
1:30 p.m.
WHERE: SchdOl'Of'Sbtitl
Work Building, Room 1636

Health seminar
WHAT: Seminar to give
information about health
issues concerning lesbian
women.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight from 7 to
8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Ann Arbor District
Library
Octubafest
WHAT: Students of School
of Music Professor Fritz
Kaenzig perform small
ensemble work and solos on
tuba and euphonium.
WHO: Euphonium/Tuba
Ensemble
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen Drama
Center, Stamps Auditorium
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the'Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

alternate each year.
Currently, 18 members are in
Australia competing against 40
other teams in the World Solar
Challenge. Althwough compe-
tition is still underway, Durbin
expects a top-three finish.
-GRACELIN BASKARAN
Authorities have asked
people attending Phish
Festival 8 this weekend in
Southern California to abstain
from smoking marijuana, the
Desert Sun reported. Concert
attendees found smoking pot
could be fined or spend up to a
year in the county jail.
Having trouble sifting
through Ann Arbor's
high-end student hous-
ing market? The Daily breaks
down three of the new-
est apartment complexes
to help get you started.
>>FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
3A motorist hit a pedestri-
an on the side of a Rhode
Island highway, and then
drove for over a mile with the
man trapped on his wind-
shield, Yahoo! News reported.
After the driver was stopped,
he fled on foot and was later
found in his home. Thd'vldtifr'
survived.

EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneylRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SMilOVitz Manaing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Skoller, KyleSwaason
ASSIeS awssDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg, EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert soave EditorialPage Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuler
AndyReid MasnagineSors rbdiar kreid@michigandailyeam
sSENRSePORSEDITORas sisal, Auarbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Rath
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartjea,ChrisMeszars,Ryan Podgs
DanidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:JamieBlock, WhitneyPow
ASSITAsNTARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, CarolynKlarecki,Andrew Lapin, David Riva,
Zachary Meisnerand ' photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen '
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak,SamWolson
AngelaChihand design@michigandaily.com
Mannren~lych Manaeing eseignEditoes
SENIOR DESG DI:Allsn Ghama
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
KatherineMitchell Copytchief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATECOPYCHIEF:MelanieFried,AdiWollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jowiak sales Manager
SALaESaCEsMANAGER:MollyTwig
MARKETING MANAGER: Michaechotenboer
Ryan BUsinski ClassifiedManager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANTMANAGER:Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison SantacreuLayout Manager
Vivian LeeFinance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project coordinator
The MichiganDaily(ISSN 0745-%7)ispublshed Mondaythrough Friday duringthefall andwinter
terms by students at the University of Michigan. One opy is available free of charge to all readers.
AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupattheDalysoffcefors2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,startingin
September,ViaiaU.s.maiare $10,inter term(January through April) is $115, yearlong(September
through April)is$195.Universityaffiates aresubjecttoareduceddsubscriptionrate.On-campus
'" apa sforfans tee mals $3sa35.Subeesions beprepaid.TheMidionasalyas memnber*-
TheAsse d lPlead TeAsnsocaCllegateessh

*I

MORE ONLINE .
Love Crime Notes? Get moresnineat michigandaiy.com/blogs/the wire

A Friend Dies. Who Cares?

6

Toxic drinking is an epidemic on
campuses all across America.
It means consuming so much alcohol
the drinker passes out. But while "sleeping
it off," the victim may be quietly dying.
When you come right down to it, students
themselves are the best ones to tackle
this problem. So, in growing numbers,
Stony Brook students have joined together
in the Red Watch Band movement.
Working with experts, they fine-tuned a
course in techniques to handle these
alcohol emergencies. Red Watch Band
members can act fast, when every second
counts.They know the quick steps they
can take to rescue a passed-out student
from a drinking death, and can immediately
summon professional help. Everyone
completing the course is given the
distinctive red watch for identification.
Since its inception at Stony Brook
University in March 2009, approximately
40 schools across the country have signed
on to implement this lifesaving program.
To prevent toxic drinking deaths, go to
redwatchband.org

STONY
BR4OK
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 28, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 28, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
KABUL
Eight U.S. soldiers
killed inAMghanistan
Roadside bombs - the biggest
killer of U.S. soldiers - claimed
eight more American lives yester-
day, driving the U.S. death toll to a
record level forthethirdtime in four
months as President Barack Obama
nears adecisiononanewstrategyfor
the troubled war.
The homemade bombs, also called
improvised explosive devices or
IEDs, are responsible for between 70
percent and 80 percent of the casual-
ties among U.S. and coalition forces
'in Afghanistan and have become a
weapon of "strategic influence," said
Lt. Gen. Thomas Metz in Washing-
ton.
The attacks yesterday followed one
of the deadliest days for the U.S. mili-
tary operation in Afghanistan - grim
milestones likely to fuel the debate in
the United States over whether the
conflictis worththesacrifice.
Obamahasnearly finished gather-
ing information on whether to send
tens of thousands more American
forces to quell the deepening insur-
gency, White House press secretary
Robert Gibbs said. A meeting Friday
with the Joint Chiefs of Staff will be
amongthe last events inthe decision-
making process, Gibbs said.
VANDERBILT, Mich.
Three men die in 2
 Mich. plane crashes
Two men died after their small
plane crash-landed along a northern
Michigan freeway yesterday, just
hours after a Canadian pilot died
when his plane went down at an air-
port in southwest Michigan.
The victims of the late crash on
'Interstate 75, about 235 miles north
of Detroit, were from Gaylord, but
Michigan State Police did not release
their names or say which of them
was piloting the plane. One man was
52, the other 32.
Sgt. Jeff Gorno said in a statement
that the two-seat plane crashed
shortly before 6:30 p.m.yesterday on
southbound I-75.Witnesses reported
seeing the plane circle the freeway
before crashing along the shoulder,
the statement said.
The victims were taken to Otsego
County Memorial Hospital. The Tra-
ves* "t~ cord-Edglenrcpnrfc
that one man died at the hospital and
the other was pronounced dead at
Munson Medical Center in Traverse
City. Gorno said police aren't sure
where the plane was headed, but it
was registered to a company based
at Gaylord Regional Airport, 10 miles
southeast of the crash site.
WASHINGTON
Long-term care
insurance program
gains in House
House health care legislation
expected within days is likely to
include a new long-term care insur-
ance program to help seniors and
disabled people stay out of nursing
homes, senior Democrats say.
The voluntary program would

begin to close agap in the social safety
net overlooked in the broader health
care debate, but it must overcome
objections from insurance companies
that sell long-term care coverage and
from fiscalconservatives.
"I'm pretty confident that it will
be in there," Rep. Frank Pallone,
D-N.J., a leading sponsor, said of the
provision.
More than 10 million people cur-
rently need long-term care services,
a number that's only expected to
grow as the baby boom generation
ages. But most families whose elders
can no longer care for themselves
have to scrape to find a solution.
TEHRAN, Iran
Iran to seek changes
to UN uranium plan
Iran accepted the general frame-
work of a U.N.-draft nuclear deal
yesterday, but said it would seek
"important changes" that could test
the willingness of world powers to
make concessions in exchange for
a pact to rein in Tehran's ability to
make atomic warheads.
It was unclear how far Iran would
push for those changes.Already, Iran
has raised a potential roadblock: It
wants a step-by-step approach to
send low-enriched uranium stock-
pile out of the country rather than
the big single shipment called for
under U.N. provisions.
Western powers say it's critical for
Iran to send out at least 70 percent
of its uranium store in one load to
eliminate - atleast temporarily- its
options to make a nuclear weapon.
- Compiled from
8aily wire reports

Report: Afghan
leader's brother
on CIA payroll

JOHN BEALE/AP
Former aide to President George W. Bush, Karl Rove, left, and Howard Dean, former Democratic Governor of Vermont answer
a question at a press conference before a debate on the topic of health care at Penn State University yesterday.
Health care debate draws
Dean, Rove to Penn State

Karzai suspected
as major player in
country's illegal
opium trade
WASHINGTON (AP) -
Ahmed Wali Karzai, the brother
of the president of Afghanistan,
gets regular payments from the
CIA and has for much of the past
eight years, The New York Times
reported yesterday.
The newspaper said that
according to current and former
American officials, the CIA pays
Karzai for a variety of services,
including helping to recruit an
Afghan paramilitary force that
operates at the CIA's direction in
and around Kandahar.
The CIA's ties to Karzai, who
is a suspected player in the coun-
try's illegal opium trade, have
created deep divisions within
the Obama administration, the
Times said.
Allegations that Karzai is
involved in the drug trade have
circulated in Kabul for months.
He denies them.
Critics saythe ties with Karzai
complicate the United States'

increasingly tense relationship
with his older brother, Presi-
dent Hamid Karzai. The CIA's
practices also suggest that thet
United States is not doing every-
thing in its power to stamp out
the lucrative Afghan drug trade,
a major source of revenue for the
Taliban.
Some American officials argue
that the reliance on Ahmed Wali
Karzai, a central figure in the
south of the country where the
Taliban is dominant, undermines
the U.S. push to develop an effec-
tive central government that can
maintain law and order and even-
tually allow the United States to
withdraw.
"If we are going to conduct a
population-centric strategy in
Afghanistan, and we are per-
ceived as backing thugs, then we
are just undermining ourselves,"
Maj. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, the
senior American military intelli-
gence official in Afghanistan, was
quoted by the Times in an article
published on its Web site.
Ahmed Wali Karzai told the
Times that he cooperates with
American civilian and military
officials but does not engage
in the drug trade and does not
receive payments from the CIA.

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP)
- It sounded like the makings of
raucous political theater: Former
Democratic Party chief Howard
Dean and former Bush adminis-
tration official Karl Rove sharing a
stage to discuss health care.
They didn't disappoint, even
if the students who brought the
political heavyweights to Penn
State last night were looking for
something a bit more cerebral than
a town-hall tussle.
The hour-plus event ended up
being a primarily lively politi-
cal debate complete with good-

natured one-liners, with a
sprinkling of town hall-like verve
provided by a smattering of anti-
Rove audience members.
"Liar! Liar!," some in a crowd
of mainly students yelled at Rove
toward the end of the night, when
the former deputy chief of staff to
President George W. Bush brought
up the No Child Left Behind edu-
cation legislation as an example of
an issue that could attract biparti-
sanship.
"These people must be from
Michigan - or they must be from
Ohio State, I don't know," Rove

quipped, referring to Penn State's
biggest football rivals.
The verbose pair hammered
each other with arguments familiar
in the fractured health care fight.
Rove lambasted Democratic
proposals as being modeled on
broken government programs like
Medicare, weighed down by stag-
geringcosts. Dean implored that it
was imperative that all Americans
have the option to obtain afford-
able health care.
"All I want is the option, I don't
want to tell people what to do,"
Dean said.


AFTER THEY WALK
From Page lA
"That was my life," he said. "Get
some more money for some more
dope."
What little money he saved, Bon-
hart used for food - cheap conve-
nience store products like Little
Debbie pastries. He no longer cared
about his personal hygiene, bathing
once every two months, or when
someone told him he smelled.
Bonhartwould lie awake at night,
he remembered, shivering under
his only blanket. As he tried to fall
asleep in freezing churches with
leaky windows,he dreamed ofgoing
back to school to get an education.
~~ "I pr , said.
"Please, God, if I could just stop
smoking dope ... if I could just get
myself back together.
"But Ididn't know how."
Wendy Rhein did.
Known as "Wen" to her friends
and family, Wendy Rhein, a 1991
University alum, runs a program
for homeless men and women in
Lawrenceville, Ga., called NSPIRE.
Founded in 2007, the nonprofit
organization currently works with
30 former homeless people to teach
them the necessary skills and give
them the resources to lead a self-
sufficient life.
Rhein and her coworkers at
NSPIRE,simply put, work to change
lives.
"It could be a wide range of
issues, but we work with that indi-
vidual specifically - on how they
got there in the first place and then
what do they need to do to empower
themselves so that this won't hap-
pen again in their lifetime," Rhein
said over the phone from her office
in late July. She spoke with confi-
dence, and a firm, yet friendly tone.
More than 100 people have
sought help. from the program in
the last two years. Rhein said it's
"very intense" and that not every-
one graduates.
To graduate, participants must
pass drug and alcohol screenings,
secure a job and a place to live, open
and balance a checking account and
more. NSPIRE also works witheach
individual to set personal goals.
Rhein cited Shirley, a 58-year-old
woman who had been homeless on
and off for the last 15 years. Shirley,
whose last name cannot be pub-
lished here because of privacy con-
cerns,was an alcoholic who couldn't
keep a stable job. Since graduating
from NSPIRE in July, Shirley now
has her own apartment, recently
bought herself a car and is starting
her own cleaning company, where
she is employing other NSPIRE cli-
ents to clean houses with her.
Last year, Lawanda - a 23-year-
old woman six months pregnant
- and her partner, Char, sought
assistance through NSPIRE.
"They had literally been living in
a hole in a ditch near a construction
site downtown, and they needed a
place to live," Rhein said.
Both individuals had drug and
criminal histories, but needed
somewhere to raise their infant.
After NSPIRE sorted out their legal
situations, the woman gave birth to
a healthy, 8-pound baby girl. Rhein
attended the birth at the hospital,
whereishe coached the woman d -

inglabor. night, I might have my two, three
Nine months into the program, grams ofcrack in mypocket, $40 to
the couple reunited with their fami- $50 - I would go to church," Bon-
lies. They are now working and living hart said. "I'd sit there long enough
with Lawanda's sister in Alabama. until I just couldn't stand it, and I'd
Rhein primarily deals with have to go get me a hit, but I would
NSPIRE finances and operations, sit there, and I wanted to hear some-
but she said working with people thingdifferent.
who have lived on the streets gives "I was tired ofliving like that."
her a different prospective on life. . Bonhart first went to SafeHouse
"It can be very humbling," she Outreach, a homeless shelter in
said. "You take nothing for granted Atlanta where he met Gregg Ken-
after you work with this kind of a nard,NSPIRE founderandexecutive
population." director. Kennard was interviewing
the homeless to join his program,
--which was only a few months old at
the time. He hadyotrouble convin--
The true impact of Rhein's work ing Bonhart to participate.
expands beyond the confines of her "Once I listened to what Gregg
office. Besides meeting with cli- had to say - how they would move
Off s-she visl - '-nice s
less outreach programs once a living in a house and then move to
month where she serves meals and an apartment, itwas just like an 'a
encourages the homeless to join her ha' moment."
program. Bonhart spent the next seven
Now40, Rheinhas workedinnon- and a half months in the program
profits her whole life. After graduat- and was part of its first graduating
ing from the University with degrees class. Now a truck driver for the
in Women's Studies and Communi- clothing company that partners
cations Studies, she moved to Chi- with NSPIRE, the 47-year-old is
cago and worked with the Chicago starting to get his life back togeth-
Christian Industrial League - the er. And he said he has Rhein, one
largest homeless outreach program of his favorite people, to thank for
in the Midwest at that time. that.
The CCIL provides short- and -"Wendy is my biggest cheer-
long-term shelter for the homeless leader," he said. "She is probably
men, women and children in the the reason I have my own apart-
Chicago area. It was her first job out ment, a job and I've got money in
of college, and Rhein worked as a the bank."
donor services person, writingthank Bonhart said Rhein was pres-
you notes and tracking financial con- ent when he signed the lease on his
tributions. Although she was doing apartment, and she has helped him
behind-the-scenes work, Rhein said work through his self-esteem issues.
the job gave her the opportunity to "I just listened to Wendy ... tell-
see how a nonprofit functions. ing me 'yeah, you are worth it. You
As it was her first experience do deserve a good life,' "he said.
working with the homeless, she said In August, he was accepted
the job gave hera different perspec- to Georgia State University's
tive of people living on the streets. Andrew Young School of Policy
"It was a great eye-opener Studies, where he is working
because some people have this pic- toward a Ph.D. in economics.
ture of what a homeless person is Bonhart said he would not
in their head, and as I've seen now be where he is today without
as well, they're people that have NSPIRE - or without Rhein.
really fallen on hard times and for "When Wilkes first came into
a variety of reasons just can't keep NSPIRE," Rhein said, "I think he
an apartment or haven'tbeen able to had about a week of clean time
secure a job," she said. after decades of crack use.
Rhein explained that it's almost "He was clearly smart and tal-
impossible for homeless people to ented and shrewd and needed the
get jobs or apartments because they opportunity to take some chances
don't have a permanent address. on himself and regain a sense of
Because of the bad economy, purpose that he had lost in his
Rhein said she has seen more home- early twenties."
less individuals and families than Rhein admits they clashed aslot
ever before. She said many people - in the beginning as Bonhart test-
mostlythe unemployed - who can't ed the limits of the program. But
provide for their families have had she said "he stuck with it, hum-
their homes foreclosed on or have bled himself and has unveiled
been evicted from their apartments this incredibly driven, committed
because they cannot afford the rent. and thoughtful person."
Rhein said she's frustrated that
there's not more she can do, but said
it's more frustrating from a recipi-
ent'sperspectivetoknowyoucannot Rhein's sister, Robin Hurwitz
take care of yourself or your family. - a 1988 University graduate -
"I can't imagine how that must said that although their parents
feel to know you're educated, you've had always taught them to do
had a job, you've done everything good deeds, it wasn't until college
right and you still can't manage to that her sister found her passion
find a way to feed yourself or feed for helping those less fortunate.
your family," she said. "Truthfully, I think when she
got to Michigan, that is where a
--- lot of this started," Hurwitz said.
The two girls lived together
After10years oflife on the streets, during Hurwitz's junior year at
in the winter of 2007, Bonhart said the University. Hurwitz recount-
he decided to make a change in his ed that her sister would wake up
life. He started attending church, early on the weekends to work
where he could escape his life of against people trying to block
drugs, thefts and shootings. women from entering Planned
"Even when I was geekin' - it Parenthood:
might have been a hood Friday "She w ld come home and

NSPIRE official Wendy Rhein (right) with p
be so bruised from blocking people
whoweresomuchbigger, especially
adult men who were trying to block
these women from getting the edu-
cation they wanted," Hurwitz said.
"But it was so important for her."
Hurwitz added that the protests
"started opening her (sister's) eyes
to other things" and may have led
her to where she is today.
Hurwitz said she could never do
the kind of work her sister does.
"I think emotionally it would
be way too hard for me," she said.
"Especially having kids of my own, I
think I would just fall apart, but she
has an inner strength that not many
other people have."

program participant Wilkes Bonhart.
NSPIRE would not run as
smoothly or change so many lives if
it were not for Rhein, Kennard said.
"She has a great big heart and
passionto help people to make a dif-
ference," he said.
Rhein said all the various expe-
riences she has had working with
disadvantaged populations during
the last 18 years have culminated in
her current job and said she is driv-
en by knowing her small deeds can
change a person's fate.
"The ability to touch people's
lives, to help them get from one
place to another, it's kind of like
watching a year of a miracle happen
in somebody's life," she said.

FREE brewed coffee or
$1.00 OFF any specialty [ a
beverage I I,
1741 Plymouth Rd * Ann Arbor
F R EE . .B1GGBY
FE) for franchise info www.biggby.com COFEE
Good at this location only. Not good with any other offer.
No copies of this coupon will be accepted. Offer expires 11/03/09.
nruu

I


4A - Wednesday, October 28,,2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C 1
4e Michioan l wily

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Back to school
No Worker Left Behind good for workers, economy
Though people who live outside of Michigan might not real-
ize it, the recent decline of the U.S. economy was heralded
by the gradual collapse of Michigan's economy over the last
several years. With the struggles of Michigan's automakers - the
state's primary industry - many workers have lost their jobs or are
in danger of becoming unemployed. But the state has been working
to mitigate this consequence with its No Worker Left Behind pro-
gram, which provides grants to educate and retrain workers in high-
demand and growing fields. NWLB recently released the results
from its initial 18 months, and the program's progress is promis-
ing - for workers and for the economy. The state should consider
expanding the program in the future.

It's just asking for trouble.
-Sen. Joseph Lieberman (I-Conn.), promising to support a filibuster of the health care
reform bill if it includes the public option, as reported yesterday by CNN.
Worldpeace, free markets
A s I walk through Ann Arbor This would obviously be a flawed onic Wars and lasting until the rise
on my way home each day, I economic approach, and that's of imperialism that accompanied
pass shops with signs hang- because wealth comes from increased the unification of Germany. During
ing in their win- capital investment, not increased this period in Europe, the constant,
dows that read "Buy employment. Capital investment dynastic wars that had plagued the
local, or bye-bye allows for fewer people to produce continent since the fall of the Roman
local." The logic of more, and because they are produc- Empire ended. This time period also
this protectionist ing more, they will be paid more. And allowed for people of any nationality
view seems simple capital accumulation creates jobs to come to the United States and seek
enough - if we buy that didn't previously exist - there a better life. It's no accident that the
only from ourselves, are, after all, very few jobs today that greatest era of free trade was accom-
we will keep our existed 100 years ago. If anything, panied by widespread peace - free
fellow Americans VINCENT labor has become scarcer relative to trade and world peace go hand in
or Michiganders capital and land than ever before. Our hand.
employed. If theyPATSY high wages are the result of, not the
are employed, they cause of, our prosperity.j
will buy stuff and, But there's a related reason to sup-
bingo, we will all be rich. But not only port free trade - one that my fellow
are protectionist sentiments eco- peace-loving college students should doesn't
nomically destructive, they are also support. The main reason to abolish Iflean
in direct opposition to another fre- all tariffs is to ensure economic inter-
quently expressed view of Ann Arbor dependence among all people of the creating wealth.
locals - the hope for world peace. earth and bring about world peace.
Of course, the simplest argument I am proud to call myself a citizen
against protectionism is this: If it of the world. I see no ethical or bio-
is really beneficial to local trade to logical distinction between myself, a In contrast, consider one of the
impose tariffs on countries to make European, an Asian or anAfrican. We most egregious warmongers in his-
international trade more expen- are all deserving of the same natural tory - Adolf Hitler, who is often
sive, why not put up tariffs between rights, including the right to benefit remembered for saying that Germany
states? Wouldn't it be better to stop from trading with each other. was in need of "breathing space" in
the people of Michigan from wasting There may be confusion among order to justify his conquests. But his
their money on those lousy, cheap some proponents of world peace as motivation for these conquests was to
Ohio goods? Why not extend tariffs to what a free market foreign policy secure enough resources for Germa-
further to each county, city block actually entails. Free trade is cer- ny to be self-sufficient. This is the end
and house? This would certainly tainly a major part of it, but to truly to which protectionist policies inevi-
create jobs, since everybody would have free trade, our foreign policy tably lead - world war over available
have to drill for their own oil to drive must be non-interventionist. In a resources.
their cars. world of minimal states, it shouldn't In a world of true capitalism and
The core of the protectionist matter which state controls which free trade, it doesn't matter where
argument is that creating jobs, it is territory. The interference of the resources are located. Any person
believed, creates wealth. But if this state in our lives should be so mini- would be able to purchase goods from
were really the case, we should all mal that it would have no reason or whomever they wanted, and warfare
return to pre-Industrial Revolution ability to restrict people from living would be incredibly limited or non-
farming - before technology made where they want or trading with who existent. Peace lovers should keep
work more efficient and less time- they want. this in mind and get rid of their signs
consuming - and "create" more jobs. The greatest era of free trade and that favor of protectionism.
We would be able to employ more classicalliberalismexisted duringthe
people using shovels or their hands first half of the 19th century, begin- - Vincent Patsy can be reached
to do the same job one tractor can do. ning around the end of the Napole- at vapatsy@umich.edu.
JEREMY LEVY|
Biased professors aren't a problem-

0

NWLB was first implemented in August
2007. The program aims to retrain work-
ers in danger of losing their jobs by arming
them with the skills needed for emerging
and high-demand fields. In order to apply,
individuals must be unemployed, have
received a termination notice or make less
than $40,000 per year. The state spends
roughly $10,000 per worker over the course
of enrollment in the program to help pay
for the workers to attain degrees or occu-
pational certificates in sectors in need of
workers. According to the first round of
results released by the state on Monday, 72
percent of those in the program during its
first 18 months have either retained their
jobs or found new positions.
The onlywayto revive Michigan's econo-
my - and to prevent similar statewide eco-
nomic failure in the future - is to increase
science- and technology-based industries.
But these industries require a workforce
that is educated in new fields. Programs
like NWLB will prepare workers to tran-
sition to growing fields likeagreen energy
production, biotechnology and the medi-
cal field. These industries are the future of
Michigan's economy, and NWLB prepares
workers for this future.

But NWLB is making a difference on
an individual level, too. Michigan's unem-
ployment is at a dizzying 15.3 percent as
of September, according to the Michigan
Department of Energy, Labor and Eco-
nomic Growth. Programs that give work-
ers the skills to stay employed are one way
to keep that rate from growing.
After all, the state has a responsibility
to support education - not just for K-12
and college kids, but for workers, too.
People of all age.s should have the oppor-
tunity to broaden their knowledge base
and apply this knowledge to a successful
and desirable career. With the economy so
distressed, the state must shoulder more
of the responsibility in making sure this
happens and offer more programs like
NWLB that support education and help
the economy.
It's impossible to determine if NWLB
is the sole reason for the 72 percent suc-
cess:rate because of all the variables in
the turbulent economy. But any program
that helps Michigan workers tokeep their
jobs while preparing the state economy for
a brighter future is clearly a success. The
legislature should look at expanding it to
include more struggling workers.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya,
Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

When I tell members of my family that I'm takinga class
on the Arab-Israeli conflict this semester, the first ques-
tion they usually ask is, "Is your professor Jewish?" This
conversation occurred with my mom and aunt the day
before I left for school this fall. I didn't know anything
about my professor at the time, but in spite of the fears of
my predominantly Jewish family that a non-Jewish pro-
fessor would skew the facts of the issue, I hoped that he
would turn out tobe of Arab descent.
While professors' ethnic, cultural and political back-
grounds are relevant to classes that are political in nature,
these backgrounds shouldn't be a source of alarm. Of
course, it's impossible to be completely unbiased, but a
professor should be able to be fairly objective. A profes-
sor's role is to inform students about the various argu-
ments that surround political issues and discuss the
possible merits and nuances of those arguments. It's never
a professor's job to take a political stance on a particular
issue. But there is a lingering fear among students and
families that professors may support the wrong political
party or faction. These fears are insulting to the purpose
of the University and should be discarded.
Part of a professor's job is to be as objective as possible.
Even for a dispute as bitter as the Arab-Israeli conflict,
it's possible for a professor to convey the material with-
out casting judgment on the groups involved. On the first
day of my class, the professor gave thorough overviews
of the main Arab arguments and Israeli arguments. The
goal of the class isn't to determine which side is right or
wrong, but rather to understand why members of each
group made the decisions they did at various points in
history. The professor often explains decisions in terms
of political strategy and takes into account the influence
of external factors..
To illustrate my point, I'll summarize the way in which
the professor framed early Jewish immigration to Pales-
tine. Zionism, the movement to establish a Jewish home-
land, arose in response to Jewish persecution in Eastern
Europe in the late nineteenth century. After World War
I, Great Britain and the United States, neither of which

wanted its own massive inflow of Jewish immigrants, sup-
ported Jewish immigration into Palestine. Palestinians,
who feared they would become a minority in their own
land, were openly hostile to this idea. Obviously, there are
many more complicated details to be discussed. But the
goal of the discussion is to understand how the conflict
arose, without ascribing the sense that one side is right
and the other is wrong.
So what happens if a professor is extremely biased?
Believe it or not, I think students are capable of determin-
ing when this happens. In other words, there's no reason
to fear that biased professors are brainwashing clueless
students. There was a history teacher at my high school
that was notorious for his liberal slant on American his-
tory. His students - most of whom considered themselves
liberals - complained about it all the time. Our ability to
identify the biases of sources and our teachers is one of the
most important skills that we develop in our education,
both in high school and college.
While I used the Arab-Israeli conflict as an example in
this article, the students' fear of biased professors applies
to many political topics. For example, when giving exam-
ples of political concepts, political science professors often
feel obligated to mentionDemocrats and Republicanswith
the same frequency, simply to prove to students that they
are not slanting toward one side. And in sociology classes,
I have heard students' remark that the discipline is inher-
ently Marxist, even though that is a ridiculous conclusion
to draw about an entire group of professors. Sociologists
may teach about Marx, but that doesn't mean they are
necessarily promoting his views. It's easy for students to
make these generalizations, but in reality, most professors
manage to keep their personal opinions to themselves.
Students should realize that professors aren't usually
trying to jam a political agenda down our throats. Bias
may be inevitable, but the notion that a professor's politi-
cal background will automatically hinder his or her teach-
ing ability needs to go.
Jeremy Levy is an LSA sophomore.

0

Michigan should update its
sentencingfor drug offenses
TO THE DAILY:
Drug policy and control are becoming
increasingly important to the federal govern-
ment. The Obama administration has requested
a 1.5-percent increase in government spending
for the 2010 fiscal year tobe used for the Office
of National Drug Control Policy, but the state
of Michigan is lagging on this issue. Although
addiction touches millions - if not billions - of
lives in the United States, there aren't enough
resources provided through the state govern-

ment, such as treatment services and diversion
programs in prisons.
In 2000, California passed Proposition 36,
which allowed non-violent drug offenders to
choose drug rehabilitation or prison. A cost-ben-
efit analysis conducted in 2006 by the Univer-
sity of California-Los Angeles estimated this act
could save the state millions of dollars that would
have otherwise been used for prison costs.
Now, in Michigan, we need to unite as a
community to spur change for the good of
the whole, in terms of finance and the overall
health of the state.
Ashley Dominique
School ofSocial Work


ROSE JAFFE

cj .)M tri irtn d end }r~e~Sar
fo~r Hs [loweet'I -
WhsY d ustSeve' *fLMIYSenve.. tv b
whyvas evev-,'f11ii
,-s
1p

PUJU45 IH,411c eer
i5 aeV ocfi~et ce! tF-
Maedc c-# cQSa4{^-t va sfThe-
Yet ti-

K;'.' flirT
r~ -
fX,~ ',h~e -'7

E-MAL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU
W avc isfd #iif
-~ J
/1

6
6


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 28, 2009 - 5A

A Whale of
an album

By KRISTYN ACHO
DailyArts Writer
It's hard for critics not to
roll their eyes at Noah and The
Whale's ste-
reotypically * *
hip persona -
its name pays Noah and
homage to the Whale
the cult indie
flick "The The First Days
Squid and the of Spring
Whale" and Vertigo
the band is
composed of
eccentric musicians who look
like they just walked off the
set of the latest Wes Anderson
film.
Anticipation for the band's
new album The First Days of
Spring has left quintessential
indie music junkies foaming
at the mouth. But for everyone
else, the band's appearance
gives off a cutesy, quirky image
that's pretty much a turn-off
from the start.
But once listeners get past
its pretentious exterior, they
will really appreciate what
Noah and The Whale has to
offer: an epic album complete
with some of the most original
folk ballads the music industry
has seen in a long time. A band
with such an endearingly deli-
cate quality and retro charm
has not come on the scene
since cult favorite Belle and
Sebastian.
For lead vocalist Charlie
Fink, The First Days of Spring
signifies new beginnings. Fink
recently broke up with his long-
time girlfriend and frequent
collaborator, and he uses the
record to voice every emotion
he has ever had regarding the
relationship.
Track by track, Fink looks
back to find out where it all
went wrong and map out his
road to recovery. The album
leaves listeners feeling like
they are eavesdropping on a
private therapy session as Fink
pours his heart out in every
song. Behind the meticulously
orchestrated sound lies Fink's
sincere vocals - nothing is
sugar-coated and his pain is
palpable. The juxtaposition
of raw emotion and beautiful
melodies is what makes this
album's theme of unrequited
love so damn heartbreaking.
The record begins with the
title track, "The First Days of

Spring." Fink's healing process
unravels itself as the methodi-
cal drum beats, somber guitar
riffs andsoftviolins creep their
way into harmony before surg-
ing into a climax of orchestral
percussion. Tom Hobden, the
band's talented violinist and
its resident virtuoso, arranged
the strings on the album. His
exquisite work brings the track
to a culmination that captures
Fink's fragility as he mourn-
fully whispers his lyrics over
painful violin screeches.
"Our Window" is the album's
most achingly sorrowful bal-
lad. It marks the end of a long,
drawn-out break up in which
the two lovers have been up all
night. The song captures the
moment where each person
said what he or she had to say,
but no one is ready for the rela-
tionship to be over quite yet.
The brisk taps of the keyboard
bring life into the track as Fink
croons, "The stars are shin-
ing through our window / and
it's been awhile since I stared
at the stars." The lines bring
a glimpse of hope to an other-
wise tragic track.
In order to balance the
album's somber demeanor, the
band strategically places uplift-
ing melodies throughout the
A turning-point
album for Noah
and the Whale.
tracks. In "Love of An Orches-
tra," a church choir sings an
encouraging melody, carry-
ing Fink out of his remorseful
gloom with joyous lyrics like
"Thests no need for despair /
I'm carrying all the love of an
orchestra."
With its new album, Noah
and The Whale reinvents itself
- the British band, formerly
known for composing standard
indie-pop, proves itself capa-
ble of producing complex and
wistful ballads. The First Days
of Spring's encouraging tone is
defined in the lyric: "You know
in a year it's gonna be better,
you know in a year I'm gonna
be happy." While each track
may be infused with sorrow,
there is always an overriding
sense of hope.

Get a show on HBO. Then you can eat as many hot dogs as these hip dudes.

Freakalicious 'Chords

While kooky, the Conchords'
new disc can't match the show
By LEAH BURGIN
DailyArts Writer
Bret McKenzie and Jemaine Clement, co-
creators of Flight of the Con-
chords (the band) and "Flight ***
of the Conchords" (the HBO
TV show) are geniuses. They've Flight of the
developed unique comedic Conchords
personas rooted in their abil-
ity to use music as a humorous 1 Told You i
tool. With deadpan delivery, Was Freaky
disarming charm and an ador- Sup Pop
able kookiness, McKenzie and
Clement sing about aspects of their fictionalized
lives as struggling New Zealand artists living in
New York City.
Ten seconds into I Told You I Was Freaky, this
comedic talent is obvious.
Crafty and clever as ever, the duo maintains
its comedic angle on the its new album. Musi-
cally speaking, however, Freaky is an awkward
combination of several novelty songs and aslew
of synthpop tracks. It is unbalanced and often

annoyingly repetitive. Many of the tracks cannot
stand squarely ontheir own - separated from the
context of the TV show, the songs lose their zing.
"Sugalumps," a watered-down parody of the
Black Eyed Peas' "My Humps," is unimpressive in
the musical sense. The bleep-bloopy synth loops
are flat and uninteresting, and the song's musical
development is almost non-existent.
Onthe TVshow, however, McKenzie and Clem-
ent'sunabashedconfidencetoboastthattheir"sug-
alumps" are "sweet and white and highly refined"
- combined with the duo's fearless dance moves
- gives "Sugalumps" its life. While it is hilarious
to watch these sexually harmless men spread their
legs on TV to showcase the "family jewelry," this
ha-ha moment is missing on the album.
The less organic songs on Freaky are more
often the ones lost in translation from TV to
album. It's as if the spare synthy tracks need the
duo's TV antics to patch up the gaping musical
holes. When Flight of the Conchords upgraded
from their customary folky acoustics to a heavy
use of drum machines, synthesizers and tape
loops, something was bungled in the mix.
Still~ therp's enpugh pf the gnod ol' Conchords
on the new album. "Hurt Feelings" emphasizes the
classic naivety of McKenzie and Clement's char-
acters -listeners will recognize the mini-piano

sound from first season classic "If You're into It,"
and find comfort in its familiar tinkles. "Rambling
Through the Avenues of Time" and "Carol Brown"
similarly showcase McKenzie and Clement at their
best. The songs work as songs (although the video
for "Hurt Feelings" is hilarious) and display the
duo's genuine musical and lyrical talent.
"We're Both In Love With a Sexy Lady" is an
R&B upgrade of "Jenny," a rambling acoustic
number from McKenzie and Clement's stand-up
act. Like its spiritual predecessor, "Sexy Lady"
is a Conchords specialty - it tells a story in real
time, and intentionally has no structure. The sub-
tle craftwork injected into the track reflects the
talent of the 'Chords. Lyrically constructed, but
performed with a delicate act of improvisation,
"Sexy Lady" is one of the album's besttracks.
I Told You I Was Freaky demonstrates that
Flight of the Conchords comes as a package:
Without McKenzie and Clement's spot-on facial
expressions and an understanding of their TV
characters, it can be hard to appreciate the duo's
talent. But for ardent followers of the band, the
album functions as a portable version of Con-
chorop comedy - the gpps qre largely forgiven
because McKenzie and Clement and their every
hilarious action and expression are tattooed on
our brains.

MTV's new bro-down falls face-down

NOAI IAND THVE WII[AIL
r'zhd14:: ,~s

By ANT MITCHELL
Daily Arts Writer
Watching "MTV's Ultimate Park-
our Challenge" is like being invited
to spend an hour with a bunch of
stoned street ath-
letes as they talk **
about the mean-
ing of life and MTV's
jump over stuff. Utimate
In fact, the show
isn't "like" that at Parkour
all, it is that. The Caln
first 20 minutes of
each episode are Thursdays
attention-worthy atla p.m.
because of the MTV
impressive feats
and good humor, but beyond that,
the show's merits are hard to see.
"Parkour Challenge" follows a
competition for a grand prize of
$10,000. It brings together eight
famous Parkour athletes from all
over the world, including Daniel Ila-
baca, King David, Tim "Livewire"
Shieff, Michael Turner and Brian
Orosco, most of whom became
famous for filming YouTube videos
of their stunts.
Parkour is a sport that combines
break dancing, rock climbing and
jumping over urban landscapes.

Unlike rock climbing, however,
there are no proper handholds
and basic "jumps" are often made
between buildings. The sport uses
obstacles like walls, buildings, con-
crete blocks, bars and fences as
objects around, on orover which
contenders climb or jump to show
off their skills.
In "Parkour Challenge," the only
descriptive words anyone seems to
use are "killer" and "pure," and the
show is hosted by gttys with nick-
names like "Streetbike Tommy."
Sitting on the edge of a roof, mood-
ily looking off into the distance, one
competitor tries deciding whether
or not to attempt jumping from a
roof onto a ladder after having failed
once before. The scene is accompa-
nied by loud and inspiring music
accompanying this pointlessly long
shot, and one might think that these
dramatic tricks are setting up a
brave second attempt. Wrong. The
music and contemplation were just
demonstrating how "deep" a sport
Parkour is.
This sense of "depth" is a con-
stant theme throughout the show.
In between "pure moves" and "kill-
er style," contestants say things like
"This obstacle course symbolizes
life" and "it truly just is about the

philosophy. It really is just a way
of life." There's only so many ways
they can babble on about how Park-
our "defines them" in an hourbefore
it gets to be nauseating in ways
beyond description.
While the constant bro-ishness
of "Parkour Challenge" is annoying,
it has the strange effect of creat-
ing an oddly emotional and unusu-
ally supportive group dynamic for
a cash-prize competition. Literally
only one nasty comment was made
about another Parkour athlete in
the pilot - an athlete was called
out for not being in the proper men-
tal state - and even that exchange
Where 'killer' is a
deep compliment.
wasn't all that nasty. An overabun-
dance of clapping, hugging, back
slapping, hand shaking and general
concern for others is strategically
confusing but admittedly somewhat
refreshing.
There are certainly some cool
tricks to watch, and the eight main
athletes can jump from building to
building in considerably amusing

ways. At times, however, the tricks
and athletes just aren't impressive
enough. Michael Turner especially
seemed only to be in the group to
add an inspirational element - he'd
snapped his leg in half and still
returned to compete.Yes, his resolve
is impressive, but hearing about it
every time he stumbles or changes
his plans to account for the old inju-
ry is enough to beg the question: Was
he worth the price of the plane tick-
et? After he's taken by ambulance
to the hospital for a cut finger (yes,
that really happened), it's hard not to
calculate how much money could be
added to the grand prize if he hadn't
been added to the roster.
"Parkour Challenge" certainly
isn't the worst thing MTV has come
up with, and on mute it is possible to
genuinely enjoy some of the cooler
parts of the show - it's impossible
not tobe impressed by seeing some-
one do a handstand on the edge of
a 30-foot drop. That said, the show
would improve vastly if interviews
were almost entirely cut out, along
with the repeated footage of injured
competitors being driven to the hos-
pital by ambulance. There are better
ways to serve up a show like this,
and "Parkour Challenge" doesn't
quite make it.

ARTS IN BRIEF

Film,
Tired, vapid vampires
"Cirque du Freak:
The Vampire's Assistant"
At Quality 16 and Showcase
Universal
"Cirque du Freak: The Vampire's Assis-
tant" is a cheesy, lifeless by-product of the
"Twilight"-inspired vampire craze.
The film starts out as a mildly comedic
horror film, but gets increasingly annoying as'
it mixes teen angst with vampires and freaks.
The characters are little more than prototypi-
cal tween-age cutouts. Darren (Chris Mas-
soglia, "The Hole") lives a life so perfect it's
hard not to want something really terrible to
happen to him. His best friend Steve (Josh
Hutcherson,"Winged Creatures") is thetypi-
cal suburban bad b who wears black and
throws rocks at w dows when he's in the

mood to do something particularly horrible.
In a moment of rebellion, Steve convinces
Darren to attend a freak show, and somehow
Darren ends up stealing a vampire's deadly
"performing spider." After it bites and poi-
sons Steve, Darren agrees to become a half-
vampire to save his friend.
"The Vampire's Assistant" never gets
freaky, which is too bad because the freaks
are really the best part of the movie. The
Snake Boy (Patrick Fugit, "Horsemen"), the
bearded lady (Salma Hayek, "Across the Uni-
verse") and the lady who can regenerate body
parts (Jane Krakowski, "30 Rock") are all
wonderfully gross and creepy but their story
takes a backseat to the convoluted plotline.
In addition to the central narrative, there
are numerous subplots about evil vampires,
the relationship between Darren and Steve
as well as stories concerning bloodsucker
mythology. It's all just too much to keep
track of, and the overstuffed storyline does
nothing to cover up for the film's mode of
dull-toothed schlock.
EMIYBOUDREAU

LSA students, if you're concerned about flu season this
year, be sure to visit the LSA website. You can
self-report your illness and simultaneously inform your
instructors and advisor as well as read up on University
efforts to curtail the spread of H1N1 and other
potential campus outbreaks.
www.isa.umich.edu


6A- Wednesday, October 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the mich gan daily
ado

PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.imsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
for rent
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
! 441 HAMILTON ! 6 bdrm, study &
3 bathrooms! Sept'10 12 mo. lease.
$3400/mo. includes[dry., furn.,
A.C., prkg. Call 734-649-0190.
! CENTRAL CAMPUS !
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furmished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
www.HorvathProperties.com
'! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
* NOW LEASING FOR 2010
wsww.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
$1500/mo. Avail. on Dewey, near Yost
Arena. Free offstreet prkg, Indry, water
incl. 734.223.7777.
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DRINK
WITH EVERY NEW TOUR. Studio,
1, 2 or 3 bedrooms with great City
views could be yours - secure your
apartment today!!! 734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
1 BEDROOMS STARTING at
$55300.- This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 info@u-towers.com
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Newly remodeled.
$1800/mo. 903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
+ + t . Studio & 1
Bdrrr. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Chpt&Surl igh iirise-One bHok Campj
Call Brilllomsici
734-613-1I530
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.

15 DIFFERENT
LOCATIONS?
CNOSE FROM EFFICIEN-
CIES, 1,2, AND 3 RED-
ROOMS, 91-LEVEL AND
TRi-LEVELS TOO'
Call today for an appointment
and visit our websitel
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M- hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize,
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
ANN ARBOR
Student Housing Fair
Mon, Nov. 2nd Alum Ctr
1-4PM Win $100 GC at
www.midigs.com
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE 1 bed-
room at $649. 2 bedroom at $714. Call
Now! 734-663-8463.
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses.
For pies/info call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman(?/yahoo.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.

Univerity
1Towedr
Voted "Best
Apartments"
in 20091
Reserve your fully-
furnished room, studio,
1,2, or 3 bedroom
apartment for 201012011.
Save your style!
Heat & Water Included
Fitness Center & Pool
24 Hr. Lobby Attendant
Secure-Entry Building
Central U-M Campus
FREE Food & More!
Full 2 bedroom rental
in Oto er 20
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/lndry, by Law School, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharrislc@comcast.ne
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 Irg bdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/tndry, by Law School, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllcrccomcast.net
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Wash-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utl.
1037 Packard. (734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm. 341 E. Jefferson-8
bdrm. 734-564-2125
www.keysmanagement.net
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Iteat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
539 Packard Rd.
Fall 2010
Newly-remodeled 5-bedroom, hardwood
VarsitY Mnagement . '
(73416-1100
wwwarsitymalareIInest.Laol
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water ocl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-882.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
EXTRA LARGE HOUSES on Cen-
tral Campus near Hill and Oakland, can
accomodate up to20 people. Several
options available for Fall 2010, Call
Arch Realty at 734-995-9200.
FALL 2010. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
1109 S State St.
Fall 2010
5 Bedroom w/ finished basement
ars"it Management
(734) 668-1100
wWtarstsa.a.ggBsM oS

REALTY
Now Leasing for May/Fall 2010
Houses that accommodate
up to 20 people

www.varsitymanagement.com
Varsity
625 ChurchSt.
734) 668-1100
173tao
res-rmsijiiofss
for Fgl1l21
1-5 bdrms & hous
Wi

Immediate Occupancy Available
Hundreds of Central Campus
Houses Available
next Zo Px . u~
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrtn.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., dry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtsengccomcast.net
920 Dewey Ave.
Fall 2010
! eromw finished attic & basement
VarsIty Management
(34)668-1100
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3. 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. lttp://w ww.caimpusrealty.coni

BRAINFUSE.COM SEEKS tutors:
Calc, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
$10-$14/hr. Send CV and Transcript to
bschinto@brainfuse.com
EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
PAID DISCUSSION $75 Male sports
fans ages 18-22. Mast be a full-time U
of M Student, call 734-332-1049.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
tickets & travel
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Bent Prices Gaaranteed!.
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancuan,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com. Taking
orders now for Penn State weekend
080
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
bewanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail.,Part time, will
train. 734-677-2477.
htn-. wwnkn_ mtii- k

:he n ai

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS DOWN
1 Run smoothly 1 Lose brightness
5 Uzifiller 2 Weaver's
9 Bench warmers machine
arent unit 3 'We're treating"
14 Excelent 4 Saring area with
15 Known as "the no water, with
Impaler," prince "the"
who inspired 5 Get even for
"Dracula' 8 LXII x XVII
16 American 7 Q xiteafew
competitor 8 Ununual
17 Lie innurance 9 Regard highly
clause 10 Portable shelters
20 Printers' widths 11 Part of QE2:
21 A deadly sin Abbr.
22 Posh 12 ABA member
23 Neurogist's 13 Perhapswill
test, hietly 18 Ogle
24 Publicizes 19 "Fear of Flying"
25 Hoedown author Jong
activity 23 Painter's stand
30 Poor, as an 24 Like llamas
excuse 25 Missounri city
33 Second most nickname
populous 26 Fundamental
Oklahoma city particle
34 Alan of "The 27 Radii neighbors
West Wing" 28 City in which the
35 Marquis de,__ State Fairoft
36 Youngest ofnthe Texas is held
musical annually
Jackas 29 Outothis world
37 Golfer's concern 30 Riyadh resident
38 Mass of grass 31 Fess up
39 Vcalized 1 2
40 Deendant's
answer 14
41 Accountant's
review 1 0
42 Barely squeeze n
(out)
43 Apple variety
45 Petting places
46 BMOC, for one 2 no
47 Washington
neighbor
49 Yoked beasts
51 Psychic'sasset,
for short
54 Inadvertent
remark 02 43
57 Common news
hr. no
58 "I'd advise
against if" r4 a
59 Brand with a
paw print in its on
logo s
60 Bears, in Latin
61 Pump or nafer
02:17-, 25-, 43- aed
54-Across begin B
with a kind of one (c200 a9r ueMedia Sen

32 Pool 48Cacophonies
measurement 49"Whoops!"
35 Batter's dry spell 50 Strange: Pref.
38 Vegas attraction 51 Alaska'sfirst
40 Evidence governor
43 End a vacation, 52 Japanese
say wrestling
44 Mimieux of "The 53 Nuisance
Time Machine" 54 Early Beatle
45 Mothers of Sutcliffe
Invention musician 55 NFL six-pointers
47 Robert of1 The 56 Ending with
Sopranos" beat

55 56 57 58
66 67
69 70
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Encl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.comi
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550: Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.arclhrealtyco.como
1029 Vaughn St.
6 bdrm house, Avail May 2010
Copi Properties
(734) 663-5609
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 hdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

For Thursday, Oct. 29, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
The good feelings from yesterday
have disappeared! Disputes about how
to share things, especially inheritances
or joinmtly held property, are likely today.
Patience!
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Be extra tolerant and diplomatic with
friends and partners today. It's too easy
to get your belly in a rash about some-
thing. (In the end, does this really mat-
ter?)
GEMINI
(May 21tto June 20)
Conflicts with those at work, espe-
cially authority figures, might arise
today. Essentially, they're just power
struggles. Don't even go there.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Parents and teachers must avoid
power struggles with children and young
people today. Romantic partners must
avoid fights with each other as well.
Who needs this? Not you!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Either you or someone else is feeling
aggressive on the home front today.
That's why domestic squabbles might
break out. It's far better to use this
energy to work hard. (Ya think?)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Someone could be working behind the
scenes against your own best interests. If
you think something fishy is going on, it
is. Stay alert for this.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Competition with others, especially in
sports, will be strong today. You have a
lot of energy, and you want to get your
way in all kinds of group situations.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You're highly energetic today; how-
ever, you're also very aggressive! You
might bowl others over. (Keep this in
mind, if you see people running in the
opposite direction!)
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Your efforts to work alone or work
behind the scenes could meet with obsta-
cles from somebody else today. Try to be
patient. (But don't roll over and play
dead.)
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Conflict with others about a group
decision or about how to share some-
thing is likely today. You don't agree
with others, and they don't agree with
you. Postpone important decisions for
another day.
AQUARIUS
(Jan.20 to Feb. 18)
Bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs
notice you now. Therefore, if you feel
angry about something, be cool. Don't
lose it when people are watching you!
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Avoid political, religious and racial
arguments today. Everyone (including
you) feels highly opinionated about
things, and ready to defend these opin-
ions in the blink of an eye.
YOU BORN TODAY You have akeen
interest in the society around you. Even
though you have an analytical mind,
you're full of original, fresh ideas! Many
of you can become an expert in your
field. Privately, you're secretive. Warm
family relations matter to you. After
dealing with a major change that is
occurring this year, next year will be a
lovely time for enjoying relationships
and social occasions.
Birthdate of: Jon Vickers, tenor;
Richard Dreyfuss, actor; Joely Fisher,
actress.

0

HOUSE FOR FALL 2010. 1 block to
CCRB. Furnished. For 7-8 persons.
Fireplace. 7 prkg spaces. Dshwshr/A/C.
$4095, plus util. 734-996-8506.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
P RE-SE N TS T HE
amline Classified
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

O 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

A'

Deadline for line ads is11:30am one businessday prior to publication
Rates: $4.30 per lnefor the first issueand $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-contactour staff"for details
" Students may recive a 20% discount when ads are placed in personwith a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads mustbe prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshave beenoestablished
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one oflour AccountExecutives

10128/09

At



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 28, 2009 - 7A

From Page 1A
Michigan coaching staff told him
the cause of the dismissal was
"just a combination of missing
study tables, missing class and
missing workouts."
"I never saw it coming,"
Wilcher said, adding that Cis-
soko never caused trouble in high
school. "Whatever he was asked
to do, he did it."
Wilcher did not know exactly
when these issues began, but said
"it's like the second time it hap-
pened, I know."
The coach spoke with Cissoko
and a Michigan assistant coach
V yesterday evening about the dis-
missal.
"He accepts reality, that's all,"
Wilcher said. "He was calm. He
wasn't upset because he knows
he messed up."
Cissoko was suspended by
* Rodriguez for the Oct. 10 game
versus Iowa and the Oct. 17 game
versus Delaware State after start-
ing the first four games of the sea-
son. He also did not play on Oct.
3 against Michigan State. Rodri-
guez first attributed the suspen-
sion to "a violation of team rules."
"When he comes back, it's
really up to him," Rodriguez said
after the Iowa game. "He's got
certain things he's got to do, on
and off the field, academically
and all that, and if he does that,
he'll be back sooner rather than
later."
Wilcher said Cissoko strug-
gled in his classes freshman year,
but did "whatever it took to make
* sure he got his grades."
During his suspension, Cis-
soko was relegated to the scout
team in practice. But he returned
to the field last weekend against
Penn State, playing in third-down
man-coverage situations.
After Saturday's game, Rodri-
guez said Cissoko would stay in
the lineup "unless he screws up
again."
Cissoko practiced Monday,
the team's first practice since the
Penn State game, according to
a source close to the team. The
same source said Cissoko would
frequently "show up a few min-
utes late" to practice during the
season.
But that was his last day prac-
ticing for Michigan, where he
will leave after a 20-game career

in Ann Arbor. Cissoko, who was
considered the cop prospect
in Michigan by rivalsacom and
scoutrcom, tallied one intercep-
tion and 30 tackles, including
one for a loss, while wearing the
maize and blue.
It's unclear what the future
holds for Cissoko.
"Well, it depends on how he
comes out with this right here,"
Wilcher said, adding that the
decision hinges on Cissoko's
grades. "I think he'll probably go
someplace else and play."
But one of Cissoko's high school
teammates, Edward Eniang, who
played cornerback with him, said
he thinks Cissoko will stick it out
at Michigan.
"Since tenth (grade), all he's
talked about was Michigan,"
Eniangsaid. "I expecthimto stay,
try and get his grades up, and do
anything he can to get back on
the team."
His dismissal was particularly
shocking to Eniang.
"I was definitely surprised
when I heard the news," Eniang
said. "Everyone in high school,
they have a few classes they
struggle with. But Boubacar
loved football, and he always put
in the extra work to make sure
his grades were up and he could
stay on the field."
Former high school teammate
Delshawn Morris agreed.
"(It was) very surprising,"
Morris said. "I never will find
a reason why he'd be kicked off.
He's a good person."
"The last couple weeks, he's
been working, so we thought it
was time for him to play again,"
secondary coach Tony Gibson
said after the game.
Junior cornerback Donovan
Warren said Saturday that Cis-
soko had regained the trust of his
coaches.
"Boubacar just came back with
a vengeance," Warren said. "You
know he worked hard in prac-
tice this week. Got the coaches
to trust him real well. This was
just a matter of them having con-
fidence in him, and they got con-
fidence in him."
That confidence was broken
Tuesday.
"He almost turned it around,
though," Wilcher said.
- Daily Sports Editors
Courtney Ratkowiak and Andy
Reid contributed to this report.

In reversal, MSA approves policy
some say infringes on free speech

From Page1A
five minutes to three minutes per
speaker and from an hour to a half
an hour total.
MSA President Abhishek Mah-
anti voted to pass the resolution
both times and said he was pleased
with the discussion between mem-
bers of the assembly last night.
"All the voices were heard and
we had really good discussion,"

he said, "which I'm really happy
about."
LSA Rep. Andrew Chinsky
authored the amendments to the
resolution. He said the changes
made the selection process for
speakers more objective than in the
original version.
Chinsky said the resolution will
redirect the focus of MSA's meet-
ings back to the students, where he
said it should be.

"I am very happy that we could
come together and take some of
the first steps to making sure stu-
dents come first in our meetings,"
he said. "(The resolution) really
promotes free speech and empow-
ers students to come forward with
their issues knowing that they
are our primary concern and they
will be the ones that will be heard
above all else. That's why we were
elected."

Opponents of the resolution said
that even with the amendments,
the resolution is still too restrictive
of free speech.
Public Health Rep. Hamdan
Yousuf voted no on the resolution
twice. He said that this resolution
threatens the democratic legitima-
cy of the assembly.
"If I were to give a caption to
this meeting it would be 'democ-
racy reconsidered,"' he said.


GOOD SAMARITAN
From Page 1A
rather than to prioritize safety.
"How can it be more important
what kind of a fine you have to pay if
you truly believe someone's going to
die?" Brown said. "I don't get it."
Michigan Student Assembly
Business Rep. Alex Serwer said he
thinks the bill will be effective in
encouraging students to receive
medical attention when necessary.
"(The bill) will provide students
with a safety net should they be at
risk late on a Saturday night," Ser-
wer wrote in an e-mail interview.
ABILITY WEEK
From Page 1A
dents, faculty and staff with dis-
abilities.
Ability Week, Schnitzer said, is
the one time in the year when the
council can promote its message to
a broader audience.
"We kind of focus on events that
are open to everybody to get people
of all backgrounds and interests to
come," Schnitzer said.
Schnitzer said the council
selected several speakers who
have channeled their disabilities
into artistic presentations.
She spoke of Sadie Wilcox, an
artist who was badly burned in
a domestic violence incident and
decided to tackle her experience
through art.
"Instead of just saying, 'This
is the end of my life because this

"It will make students more proac-
tive when considering what to do
in response to excessive drinking
behaviors."
Rep. Mark Meadows (D-East
Lansing), one of the bill's primary
supporters, along with members of
the Associated Students of Michi-
gan State University (ASMSU),
contacted Serwer earlier this
month, asking him to have MSA
write a letter of support to the
state Senate on behalf of the bill.
"As students from various class-
es, grades and circles of friends,
we have found that we can all
relate to having heard stories of
fellow classmates who have found
terrible thing happened,' (Wilcox)
made a positive thing out of it,"
Schnitzer said.
Wilcox has two presentations
scheduled for today in the Ability
Week event calendar. During the
first, she will specifically address
creating art while recovering from
traumatic burns and violence.
Sadashi Inuzuka is another
artist who overcame adversity
and will be speaking throughout
the week. Inuzuka, an art pro-
fessor at the University's School
of Art & Design, has faced sig-
nificant visual impairment since
birth.
Inuzuka said he first considered
becoming an artist when he was
three, but that his condition pre-
vented him from pursuing it.
At age 30, he moved from Japan
to North America where he finally
discovered a mediumthat he could
work with under his condition -

themselves in the scary situation
of either being too intoxicated
or having to deal with another
student who is too intoxicated,"
MSA's letter read. "In both situa-
tions, students are scared to call
the police for fear of damage to
their records or being punished by
alcohol policies."
The letter goes on to explain situ-
ations in which intoxicated students
may choose to drive their friends to
the hospital over calling for help.
This scenario, it reads, puts the stu-
dents involved, along with everyone
else on the road, at risk.
Serwer said he learned from
various House administrators and
clay.
"Because I have a visual impair-
ment, I really depend on touch,"
Inuzuka said.
While Inuzuka has created
multimedia artistic presentations
for some time now, he said he did
not feel comfortable acknowledg-
ing his disability in his work for a
long time.
"I didn't want people to label me
as an artist with a disability. I just
wanted to be an artist," Inuzuka
said.
However, Inuzuka said he
recently started considering how
his disability affected his work,
or "how I do what I do." And after
some reflection, he said, he came
away with a more positive out-
look.
"Because of my condition, I
think differently and I see things
differently,"Inuzuka said. "I think
my 'disability' is actually an abil-

the University's Vice President for
Government Relations Cynthia
Wilbanks that the letter articu-
lating MSA's perspective of the
bill held great significance in the
House Judiciary Committee's pro-
ceedings as a representation of the
student opinion.
"Now that the bill is in the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee, we will
certainly strengthen our efforts,"
Serwer said. "We have reached
out to (the Ann Arbor Police
Department) as well as DPS so
that we can create a coalition of
law enforcement officials. Their
voices at the state level would be
very powerful."
ity."
Consequently, he said his work
is changing to focus more on dis-
ability issues.
Inuzuka will discuss his person-
al artistic journey during a presen-
tation tomorrow, and on Saturday
he will lead a clay workshop for
children.
He said he's confident art can
help bridge the gap between stu-
dents with disabilities and those
without, and encourages students
to attend the presentations to gain
understanding of a perspective
different from their own.
Schnitzer said she hopes the
presentations will diminish com-
mon preconceived notions about
people with disabilities.
"Some people might say, 'Oh
this person is disabled and can't do
anything,"' Schnitzer said. "That's
not true at all Were plucking the
art from the disability."

GARDASIL.
[Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent
(Types 6,11,16,and 18)Vaccine, Recombinant]
IN R1ESTE IN NDARASIL
EARDASIL IS WIDELY AVAILABLE AND MANY
PRIVATE INSURANCE PLANS* COVER IT.
TALK TO YOUR CAMPUS HEALTH CENTER
OR OTHER HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL

#1


8A Wednesday, October 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Michigan needs to shake its
early-season scoring woese.

T hrough25gameslastseason,
then-sophomore forward
Louie Caporusso looked
invincible.
He netted 20 goals in that span,
putting him in contention for the
Hobey Baker Award, given to col-
lege hockey's best player.
But Caporusso's fortunes turned
soon after he lifted the Great Lakes
Invitational MVP trophy in-Decem-
ber.
In the final 16 games of last sea-
son, he scored just four more goals,
a disappointingly low number con-
sidering he had scored almost one
goal per game
before. And RYAN
in matchups
against ranked KARTJE
opponents in the On ice hockey
season's final
stretch, Capo-
russo notched just three points - all
of which came againstthen-No. 15
Ohio State.
The Michigan hockey team
managed to wina majority of those
games, (12 of 16), thanks to players
like Aaron Palushaj, Tim Miller
and Travis Turnbull, whose physi-
cal play on offense provided other
Wolverines like Matt Rust and Carl
Hagelin with scoring opportunities.
The problem is that list of
capable forwards who can set up
scoring opportunities got drasti-
cally shorter this offseason with the
graduation of Miller and Turnbull
and Palushaj's ascendancy to the
NHL.
And as much as Michigan coach
Red Berenson may have hoped
Caporusso's scoring blues had
ceased with the offseason, Capo-
russo has yet to even register a
single point this year.
What's even more worrisome is
he has only taken four shots - good
for 17th on the team.
"Is he a bit of a concern? Yeah.
He'll work his way through it,"
Berenson said.
But, even through four games,
it's clear that No.5 Michigan (2-2)
is in desperate need of someone to
light the lamp. Whether it's Capo-
russo or not remains to be seen.

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Junior Louie Caporusso hasn't tallied a point through the first four games of the year.

Entering the season, much of
the team's buildup surrounded the
defense, which was thought to be
the catalyst to a possible national
championship run.
Senior defenseman and captain
Chris Summers even claimed that
this season's defense was better
than the Wolverines' star-studded
cast his freshman year-- one that
included current NHLers Jack
Johnson and Matt Hunwick.
"To me, the team with the best
defense wins," Berenson said ear-
lier this season.
But so far, Coach, that hasn't
been the case.
The defense will certainly close
out games for this team like they
did against Niagara when, after a
three-score offensive surge in the
first period, the offense couldn't
buy a goal.
But when the Wolverines face off
againstgreat teams, like defending
champion Boston University last
weekend, the team can't expect to
win very often with two scoreless
periods to start the game.
Michigan's most effective line
thus far has been its second, with
Rust, Hagelin and freshman Chris
Brown scoring six of the Wolver-
ines' 11 goals this season.
Meanwhile, the first line, high-
lighted by Caporusso and sopho-
more David Wohlberg, has zero
points to its name.

Berenson's solution? Switching
up the lines.
"You don't want to stay with the
same lines if your team is under-
achieving," Berenson said. "And I
think we are.... We're still not sure
who the best combinations are."
But his proposed plan to couple
Hagelin with Caporusso means
breaking up the team's best offen-
sive combination, which also
doesn't seem to be the best solu-
tion.
Sophomore forward Robbie
Czarnik has shown flashes of
offense this season with two goals
and two assists, second only to Rust
in points. After a disappointing
freshman season, Czarnik could be
the answer to Michigan's offensive
woes.
Meanwhile, Brown's ability to
take overa game physically, make
space and put a few goals in the
back of the net might be able to
jumpstart a .500 squad.
But with a-matchup against No.
1 Miami (Ohio) looming in two
weeks, one thing is frighteningly
clear. This Michigan team needs
a hardnosed, offensive specialist
on the first line, one in the mold of
an Aaron Palushaj, Tim Miller or
Travis Turnbull - and they need
it fast.
Because a lack of scorers on the
first line will just result in a whole
lot of disappointment this season.

COIF REEDER/Daily
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez had issues with several of the officiating calls from the weekend, including the play during
which freshrnan Denard Robinson threw an interception. Replays showed Penn State had 12 men on the field at the time.
Coach spares no
words about flags*

I ENJY THE

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
In hindsight, it seems like it
was almost an omen.
After announcing that officials
would be stricter in enforcing
holding, Big Ten coaches watched
tape of what would constitute the
penalty before the season - and
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
was shocked.
"By the end of the clip, there
were three or four clips you're
thinking, 'You've got to be. kid-
ding me,' " Rodriguez said Mon-
day. "A guy falls down, a guy loses
his balance or he's not as good an
athlete, and he gets pancaked and
they're calling it holding."
And that's pretty much how
Rodriguez felt about the penalties
Michigan was called for - and the
yellow flags it didn't get - after its
35-10 drubbing at the hands of the
12th-ranked Nittany Lions. It was
the most he had vented about pen-
alties at a Monday press confer-
ence all year, even though it was a
blowout loss that did not hinge on
any one call.
"Some of them I understand,
when you twist and turn a guy,
whatever," Rodriguez said. "But
if you've got your hands inside
in great position, you're drive
blocking a guy and he falls down,
because, one, he loses his bal-
ance or something, I don't think it
should be called holding.
"There is more of a gray area,
and there's more frustration,
I think, in seeing some of the

calls."
Halfway through the third
quarter, redshirt junior offen-
sive lineman Steve Schilling was
called for holding, which offset a
first down on one of the few sec-
ond-half Wolverine drives that
seemed to be gaining momentum.
The series ended up as a three-
and-out, which stumped the
Michigan offense in the decisive
13-point quarter.
Rodriguez's frustration was
even more pronounced when dis-
cussing another call - one for five
men in the backfield on quarter-
back Denard Robinson's intercep-
tion-ending drive.
After reviewing the tape Sun-
day, Rodriguez is positive the
offensive lineman "had his head
across the midpoint of center,
which is what you're supposed to
do."
"We'll turn it in to get another
interpretation," Rodriguez said.
"Some of those calls, you know,
you see the official on the oppos-
ing sideline, the one that calls it,
and they're standing next to their
coaches."
The penalty turned out to be
somewhat inconsequential -
Michigan earned an automatic
first down the next play because
of a Penn State holding call.
Rodriguez's irritation with
what has not been a major weak-
ness this season is somewhat
surprising. The Wolverines were
called for just five penalties for
33 yards against Penn State, and
have been smack in the middle of

the conference in average penalty
yards per game (46.9). Last sea-
son, Michigan wasn't much dif-
ferent, averaging about five yards
fewer.
Rodriguez's aggravation stems
from the penalties directly affect-
ing the Nittany Lions' ability to
score.
Back-to-back false start and
delay of game penalties pushed
the Wolverines back to their own
two-yard line before surrender-
ing a safety. And maybe more
importantly, when Robinson's
second-quarter pass was inter-
cepted, Penn State wasn't called
for having too many men on the
field. One Nittany Lion was still
running off the field when the ball
was snapped.
"But he's still on the field,"
Rodriguez said. "Generally that's
always been called, even if he's
running off, so it's a five-yard
penalty, whatever. We'll see.
There's nothing you can do about
it now."
While Rodriguez is certainly
right - nothing can be done about
it now - penalties will likely have
a significant impact against Illi-
nois this weekend.
Just two Big Ten teams have
been penalized more than the
Fighting Illini (48 times for 444
yards). And Illinois has played
one fewer game than every other
team but Wisconsin.
If that trend continues, Rodri-
guez will probably be fuming a bit
less about penalties after Satur-
day's game in Champaign.

S HALLSWEEK
Saturday. October 31.2009'

Junior's great weekend leads
way for Michigan in fall tourney .

206 S. State St. Ann Arbor 734.99.9143

N1

i

" * !
k
vnll vnrrc Tn oc LiEnE-rw

By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writer
Junior Denise Muresan steam-
rolled through the competition
early in the Intercollegiate Ten-
nis Association Midwest Region-
al Championships.
But in the semifinals, Mure-
san was faced with playing the
nation's top-ranked player.
Muresan hoped her hot streak
would continue in the semifinals
against No. 1 Maria Mosolova
from Northwestern. But things
didn't quite work out as planned
as the junior lost 6-1, 6-2 to the
top-seed. Mosolova went on to
win the tournament yesterday.
"She has not played (Mosolova)
before, so it was good for her to
see that level," Bernstein said.
"She can definitely hang with her,
and hopefully she gets another
chance during the season to play
her. If Denise plays well, I think
she can beat anybody in the coun-
try."
Muresan played lights out in
her first three matches of the
tournament in Evanston, -II1, set-
ting the tone early with a 6-1, 6-1
victory on Saturday. On the fol-

lowing day, Muresan made short
work of Ohio State senior Chris-
tina Keesey (6-2, 6-2) to advance
to Monday's quarterfinals.
In her bout against 89th-
ranked Northwestern senior,
Lauren Liu, Muresan won anoth-
er match in straight sets (6-4,
6-4) before going up against Liu's
teammate.
"Denise had a great tourna-
ment," Michigan coach Ronni
Bernstein said. "She played at a
really high level this weekend.
We see her continuing to improve
and doing great things for us
again this year."
The match was a boost for
Muresan even in defeat.
"Knowing I can hang with
these top players definitely helps
my confidence," Muresan said.
"I don't feel that when I'm play-
ing these girls that they're a lot
better than me. So when I am
playing well, I feel like I can beat
them."
Other Wolverines also saw
success on the court this week-
end. Junior Rika Tatsuno was
the only other Wolverine to win
in the main draw. Freshman Tay-
lor Fournier continuedher strong

play, coming off of a flight title in
the team's last event by winning
both of her qualifying matches.
"Taylor has done everything
that we've asked of her," Bern-
stein said. "For her to do what
she's done not feeling totally
comfortable on the court ... that
looks good for her and her future
at Michigan.
Bernstein puts special impor-
tance on doubles play during
the fall, which is used strictly to
determine individual rankings in
the spring season. The Wolver-
ines went 6-4 overall with only
one pairing, Fournier and junior
Kari Wig, who were unable to
win a match.
Michigan has one event left in
the fall season before team play
begins in January. The amount
of Big Ten competition in the ITA
Regional gives the Wolverines
a sneak peak into the upcoming
conference season.
"We're looking to win it,"
Bernstein said of her team's goal,
winning the Big Ten Champion-
ship. "If we're at the bottom of
the conference, we're not going
to be happy with that. We're defi-
nitely lookin to be on top."

TIv HU VErv EI
I -e
buffalowldwir

uE t:lHIM:
ngs.com

i
x


0 0 0_0

B

The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, October 28,2009

The drug den next door

y first foray into off-cam-
pus housing in Ann Arbor
was both devoid of local
knowledge and poorly thought out.
I transferred to the University in
summer 2008, and my only criteria
for living quarters were that they be
centrally located and not too much
like a dungeon. I settled on an apart-
ment within a house across from
Liberty Plaza on South Division
Street and soon found a roommate.
The location was perfect - right
in the heart of urban Ann Arbor, not
too far from Main Street or Central
Campus. I had a large bedroom with
skylights and a comfortable balcony.
I thought I deserved a pat on the
back for my wonderful find.
But before classes had even start-
ed, things got fishy. We assumed
that students occupied the other
apartments in the house, but we
were the only ones. Nearly all of
the other residents were part of the
state's Section8 housing program -
state-subsidized housing that helps
low-income households.
The problems ensued from day
one. Excruciatingly loud, violent
confrontations took place on a
nightly basis between residents on
lower floors. They threw furniture
often, the crashes shook my room-
mate and I awake at night. Shady
characters entered the house - by
either invite or force - at all hours
of the night and compounded the
violence through what were obvi-
ously illicit drug deals.

. It was general knowledge around
the neighborhood that a fairly long-
standing crack ring operated from
within my house, and that one of
the other residents was a prostitute
despite clearly suffering from men-
tal illness. The police were constant-
ly paying visits due to complaints.
There was no denying where I lived
the day I kicked a used syringe off
the front steps.
An older, scruffy-haired resident
had a habit of panhandling near
Borders, posing as a "hungry home-
less man" in order to fuel his drug
problems. Another resident was a
middle-aged woman who drifted in
and out of rehab and sometimes dis-
appeared for weeks at a time. During
one of her disappearances, a group
of rough men who clearly knew her
broke open the door and lived in her
apartment, indulging in drugs and
violence for weeks on end.
My friends and family suggested
that I move out, even if that meant
hiring a lawyer to get out of my
lease. Neither my roommate nor I
could study in the house because of
the noise and smoke wafting from
downstairs. And to top it all off,
both the heat and plumbing posed
major problems.
A young couple next door actu-
ally did move out in early October,
taking the time to warn me that
a murder could take place in the
house at any time. I wasn't as fearful
as they were, but any time I walked
outside at night, I clenched my fists

and stayed sharply aware of my sur-
roundings. And since my roommate
often spent weekends at home, Ikept
a large knife nearby where I slept.
I relentlessly called my land-
lord asking for help, and he always
acted appalled by what I told him
and repeatedly promised to end
the problems. Unfortunately, his
laziness meant that nothing ever
changed. One night, my roommate
and I awoke to a violent domestic
My apartment
building doubled
as a crack house
and brothel.
assault in the room below us, which
was normal except for the sound
of shattering glass and a man yell-
ing that he was bleeding to death.
Before we were able to respond, the
police and an ambulance arrived
outside to treat the victim.
The woman living downstairs
was arrested for assaulting the
man. I told mylandlord if she wasn't
evicted, I was done paying my rent.
Thankfully, he obliged. However,
she clearly wasn't the only major
problem. There was a rape allega-
tion that resulted in an arrest and
various assaults, most of which

went unreported. Once, a shady
guest threatened violence toward
me for being disrespectful after he
said he was going into my house to
do a drug deal.
One of the most absurd inci-
dents occurred when I awoke to
the screech of the alleged prosti-
tute exchanging obscenities out the
window with a woman in the park.
Police arrived, and in the morn-
ing I learned that the two women
had been flashing each other
across South Division throughout
the whole argument and had been
reported by a passerby.
Finally, after several months of
fearing for my personal safety and
repeatedly calling the police to
report the white van that showed up
at the house to make drug deals each
night, I learned about how I might
be able to get out of my lease.
On a visit to the Ann Arbor Police
outpost on Maynard Street in early
April, I was informed that more than
50 complaints had been made about
my house in the past year (I was
not responsible for more than five).
I told them the name of the alleged
prostitute and others, and they
rolled their eyes and said they knew
my claims were true. My next step
was to call the City of Ann Arbor,
where the City Attorney's Office
told me that such a high number of
complaints could possibly constitute
a "nuisance" which would allow the
city to seize the property.
Just days later, in the wee hours of
SECURITY DEPOSIT
From page 5B
to want stronger evidence.
Gayle Rosen, a Student Legal Ser-
vices attorney, said that the magis-
trate for small claims court in Ann
Arbor is generally fairwith students.
But to avoid being judged as just a
student challenging a legitimate
adult, photograph the condition of
the residence and record your inter-
actions with your landlord as much
as possible.
"The more you have documented
the problem, the less the judge has
to make it just a credibility deci-
sion between you and the landlord,"
Rosen said.
. Exhaustively document the state
of the house when you move in and
when you move out. That way, an
objective judge can determine the

night, a violent guest left the alleged
prostitute's apartment quite angry.
He screamed that she was a "skank,"
she replied that he was "cheap shit"
and then he proceeded to punch out
a few windows. He also took the
house trash bins and scattered their
contents across the street in a fit of
rage. I called my parents the next
morning, and they quickly called
the landlord telling him I was mov-
ing out and we were not going to pay
our final four months of rent.
Probably somewhat aware that a
legal battle might not be in his best
interests, he agreed to void the lease
for my roommate and I within min-
utes. Thankfully, the landlord let me
move to another of his properties for
the remaining month of school and
he kept my security deposit as rent
for that final month. The final four
months were voided. My roommate
decided to immediately cutcties with
the landlord, taking a summer sub-
let near the CCRB at a house under
different management. Despite this,
the landlord also kept his deposit.
Interestingly, even though my
old landlord said he made a mis-
take by taking on so many Section
8 leases, the same people continue
to live in the house and renew their
leases every month. The landlord
still clearly runs a tight ship - and
my old roommate and I couldn't be
more thankful not to be part of it
anymore.
- Roger Sauerhaft is an SLSA senior
cost of damages or accept your claim
that the wine stain was there before
you moved in.
You'll also want to consult Stu-
dent Legal Services - you have
been paying a legal fee as part of
your tuition, so you might as well
get some of your money's worth.
A good way to prevent things from
escalating to legal action, though,
is requesting that your landlord
inspect your apartment before you
move out. After you and your room-
mates have dutifully cleaned and
repaired the apartment, invite your
landlord to look over the place and
give you a thumbs up or at least an
indication of any possible concerns.
While not legally binding, this can
be a good way to not only preempt
possible claims but also let your
landlord know you're paying atten-
tion and would not be a good candi-
date for exploitation.

SIGNING LEASE
From page 5B
of the tenants in a house plan to
move. It saves the landlord the time
and cost of processing separate
security deposits, but could mean a
giant financial headache for you.
The simplest thing that students
overlook when signing a lease is
how the moving dates coincide with
MOVING IN
From page 5B
present themselves, you should be
conscious about absolving yourself
of future guilt. Take the inventory
checklist detailing the condition of
the residence seriously - and turn
it in within seven days of moving
in. Photographing carpet stains is
stronger than just writing"poor" on

the University's academic schedule.
We all want to enjoy a good, long
Welcome Week, but many leases
technically start after the first foot-
ball game. While most landlords
will allow tenants to move in early,
pay close attention to what you're
agreeing to. Many landlords charge
a fee for early move-ins. Many also
refuse to clean the residence if ten-
ants move in early. If yours does
both, you're gettingscrewed.
the checklist - and a video show-
ing how the bathtub won't drain is
stronger still.
The most important thing you
can do, Rosen said, is to get every-
thing in writing. In the age of the
Internet, that is a lot less formal
than it seems.
"E-mail is so easy now and most
landlords will respond by e-mail,"
Rosen said. "If you call, it becomes

Also, take a look at your move-
out date. If yours is in the first half
of August, you might be upset when
your landlord expects full rent for
that half month. Ask if the cost of
August can be prorated to exclude
the last few weeks. It might not
work, but it's worth a shot. Always
remember that you have the abil-
ity to negotiate. You are a customer
buying a product that your landlord
is selling.
your word against theirs."
Make sure you e-mail your land-
lord with every complaint you have.
Calling might reap more immediate
results,but ane-mail accompanying
every call could help you later on.
Whether your landlord responds
with a promise to do the repair or
fails to respond to repeated e-mails,
you have written proof of negli-
gence if the problem persists.



AdMbL

- ----- -------
The Michiom Daily --- VVednesday, October 28, 2009

Wcencsday, October 28, 2009 - TThc Michigan Gaily 7B

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor inChief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
TheJunk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spreaddesign:
Coreen DeFever
Cover photo:
Jake Fromm
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

new rules
rule 221: If
you're going to
fall asleep in
class, don't sit in
the front of the
lecture hall. Your
drooling might
distract the
professor. rule
222: Don't be
annoyed when
you explain your
esoteric Hal-
loween costume
several times
and people still
don't get it. rule
223: Sexy nurses
and sailors aren't
that sexy when
they're shivering.
Wear a coat or a
fall appropriate
costume.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

Mak sue tudents
fllinto the rih crib.
fit ZaURealty 'Pageo
TheAnnArbor ordinance doesntstop studentsfrom
thinking about housing early, so why should you?Advertise
leases fornow, May, and Fallzoio! Reach over40,0o
students and other University members.
Presented by The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22=-
Published Oct. 28
(734) 764-0557
dailyclassified@gmail.com

Tired of South University Avenue?
Maybe you belong in the student
neighborhood north of the Diag.
By Jessica Vosgerchian
Magazine Editor.

s .<- :
r
/ 9
aL
j.
ai .
;.
t" ,
"j
,
\
u. 3 .
,r .
.
r
+y
A
- "
. -

3
t
h
f
m 7
f I

The pros and cons of Kerrytown

THE MALL OUTLET
CLOTHING WAREHOUSE SALE

MEN'S & LADIES'
JEANS, CORDS & KHAKI'S
Best of $ 99
Mall Brands FROM
LADIES'
LUCKY, SILVER, YANUCK
1999
JEANS
FROM
MENS
ADIDAS SHORTS

i

MEN'S &ISS' LADES'
HOODED FORE VER 2
SWEATS & 0CHARLOU
LADIES' MENS
BEBE & SKECHERS
BCBG BOOTS&
PURSES SHOES
esn5 19 99
GRAB e99

I

MEN'S & LADIES' LADIES'
NORTH STEVE MADDEN
FACE SHOES &BOOTS
FROM
LADIES' LADIES'
ZOO YORK& JEWELRY
ELEMENT FAMOUS MALISTORE
$799 $399
MEN'S
LUCKY NIKE
JEANS &ADIAS
$ 99 $2991
FROM 9
Sponsored by Michigan Union Arts
& Programs 2nd Floor Ballroom
ANN ARBOR

Choosing off-campus housing
is a lot more complicated than
just finding a place with enough
bedrooms at the right price. Your
address will decide where you're
most likely to party, what your
neighbors will be like and when
you'll be able to fall asleep at
night.
There are many student
enclaves in the residential area
around campus, but the most
obvious divide is the Diag. Most
student renters live south of South
University Avenue - in the area
affectionately deemed the stu-
dent ghetto. But a subset chooses
to split from the horde and settle
in the north near Kerrytown.
While the rental houses north
of Huron Street are often just as
run down, Kerrytown offers a
different way of life. Which side
should you choose?
HANGING WITH THE
NEIGHBORS
On any given Friday night, the
south side of campus seems to be
populated by shivering girls in
tiny dresses and boisterous dudes
in button-downs. In Kerrytown,

it's often difficult to determine
someone's gender from as close as
a block away. People are laid back,
but also politically correct. If you
say "that's gay" as a general insult,
rule out living on Catherine Street
immediately - that shit definitely
won't fly over there.
The Kerrytown social scene
is mellow, which can be good
and bad. Kerrytown house par-
ties don't pack in guests like sar-
dines. Nobody breaks glass in
the street or pukes in the kitchen
sink. There's room to move, and
very often, room to dance. Unlike
more macho gatherings to the
south, Kerrytown dance parties
are rarely short of willing partici-
pants.
But the question is how long
the party will last. Because of a
higher population of graduate
students and real adults, noise
complaints are a common occur-
rence. You might be glad of quiet,
older neighbors during the week,
or when you're sick or working on
a weekend night. But if you throw
a party, you have to be prepared to
talk to the cops.
Not everyone in Kerrytown is
an old fogy. Kerrytown's prox-

imity to North Campus makes it
attractivetostudents inthe School
of Music, Theatre and Dance. Cre-
ativity abounds between Huron
Street and Kingsley Street - look
forward to well-supplied potlucks
and musicians with actual talent.
But beware of music snobs who
try to play Animal Collective at a
dance party.
GOING OUT IN
KERRYTOWN
It's somewhat of a trek across
the Diag to South U, and Kerry-
towners aren't too keen on wait-
ing in line to get into a bar. So
instead of Rick's, BTB Cantina
and the Brown Jug, Kerrytown-
ers opt for Circus Bar, Aut Bar and
Arbor Brewing Company.
Circus Bar's Bluegrass Night
on Wednesday is a big draw for
the Kerrytown crowd - mostly
because of $1.25 cans of Pabst
Blue Ribbon and $2 Long Island
Iced Tea. The bands are incon-
sequential to the experience, but
occasionally there's a gem.
The onel bar techically is Ker-
rytown is Aut Bar, Ann Arbor's
main gay bar. Situated on Cath-

erine Street, Aut Bar consists of a
two-floor bar and a festive patio.
You can expect fun music and
questionable service. With mimo-
sas and bellinis galore, it's a great
brunch place as long as you have a
few hours to spend.
The Arbor Brewing Company
on Washington Street is the staple
watering hole for Kerrytown-
ers. It's chill, reliable and rarely
too crowded. You can almost
always find a table, even for big-
ger groups. And since ABC cards
at the bar, underage friends aren't
shut out from the gathering.
If you're looking to rage, you'll
want to stay near South U. But if
you're tired of standing in line for
45 minutes to get a drink, try your
luck up north.
FINDING FOOD
Kerrytown's biggest advantage
might be that it has two grocery
stores: Sparrow Meats and Pro-
duce and the People's Food Co-op.
And as any student living off-cam-
pus knows, eating at home can be
near impossible without regular
trips to grocery stores outside of
downtown.

ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAVOGLIA
Between the two Kerrytown
stores, you can find most any
ingredient' you might need -
fresh produce, fancy cheeses or
free-range chicken. You might not
be able to find your guilty snack
food, and the emphasis on organic
and gourmet may make your gro-
cery bill higher than you like. But
buying eggs and milk at Campus
Corner is also not economical.
Kerrytown is also home to
the Ann Arbor Farmers Market,
which sells food from local pro-
ducers on Wednesday and Satur-
day mornings. The price is usually
right and you'll feel like a liberal
do-gooder.
A problem occurs around 2 a.m.
when the drunk munchies set in.
While South U. has myriad late-
night options, Kerrytown has a
lone Papa John's that is open until
3 a.m. on the weekend. The closest
options after that are Fleetwood
Diner and New York Pizza Depot,
which aren't really close at all.
The bottom line is if you're fine
living off of burritos and party
store pizza, don't move to Kerry-
town - homemade potluck meals
and organic produce will only
irritate you.

Tues., Oct. 27th 10am-6pm
Weds., Oct. 28th 10am-5pm S
FR EE A DMISSION C


0 0 0 r

Living n the trap of luxury
Ann Arbor's most expnsive student ousing isn't quite worth the price
By Trevor Calero II Daily News Editor

WednesdayU.TS"0 . T EEE
QUOTES OF THE WEEK

I had a house for
homeless people. Now,
I'm homeless."
- SHERI WEST, a resident of Cleveland,
Ohio, explaining how she lost her home
last spring as a result of foreclosure. A few
years ago, West ran a group shelter for
homeless people, doing their laundry and
cookingtorthem, until she couldn't afford it

"For...everyone who walks
through the doors, their
claims are taken at face
value."
- YOLANDA B. JIMENEZ, a woman who works
with victims of domestic violence at the mayor's
office in New York City, explaining the city's policy
after it was discovered that six women lied about
being domestically abused in order to get housing
subsidies from the city government

4 Eleven Lofts

9 minutes - Walk to 'Block M
$165 - Price of a parking spot

$795 - Rent per person for a four
bedroom, two bathroom apartment

The urban-inspired rooms and sleek, minimalist Residents complained aboui the size of the fitness
furniture at 4 Eleven Lofts look more Manhattan room (there are only six machines), as well as noise
than Ann Arbor. And because the building is just two traveling through the paper-thin walls.
blocks from Main Street, there are countless nearby "You can hear everything that goes on in the other
bars, restaurants and other entertainment venues. apartments," Business junior Ian Mark said. "Our
Like Zaragon Place and The Courtyards, 4 Eleven neighbors complain about us all the time."
Lofts has a fitness room for residents and provides And though residents laud the proximity to down-
an HD flat-screen television for each living room. All town, anyone with classes farther than Angell Hall
utilities, including cable and Internet, are covered has a much longer commute.
with a flatrate of $95- which can be a deal, consider- "I'm a B-school student so my walk is brutal,"
ing high winter heatingbills for drafty older houses. Business sophomore Jake Barnett said. "I know in
The benefits of living at 4 Eleven, however, end the winter it's going to be really tough."
there. The rooms are small and don't come with light- Our advice: Proximity to the Main Street bars is
ing, while storage space is seriously lacking. There definitely a plus for graduate students and seniors
are no closets and the armoires that come with the who are tired of South University nightlife. But you
rooms take up what precious space there is. can find a cheaper place with better insulated walls.

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Unlawful lease clauses
2. Ex-A.I.G Chief Maurice Greenberg
3. Paul Haggis on Scientology
And three things you can't:
1. The off-campus housing rush
2. Seeing the South U. fire
3. Dick Cheney on Afghanistan

"I have never seen anything this bad."
- DAN TISHMAN, head of Tishman Construction, describing how the current housing bubble will
soon affect commercial real estate owners, whose shopping malls, hotels and apartment buildings
will suffer a drastic decrease in value. This decline in prices will make it harder to pay mortgages

4 minutes - Walk to 'Block M'
$180 - Price of a parking spot
Location, location, location. The biggest perk to
living at Zaragon Place is a short walk to Central
Campus. It's right across the street from the library,
the Ross School of Business and numerous South
University bars and restaurants.
The fitness room is huge and the concrete walls
and ceilings help to insulate the sound, blocking out
noise from the endless parties that seem to happen
in the building.
"There are a lot of parties up on the ninth floor,"
LSA junior Kate Slaga said. "But as soon asI go down
(to my apartment), I can't hear a single thing. They'll
be blasting music and you can't hear it at all."
The ninth floor is home to eight two-story pent-
houses that provide a view of the South University
area - for whatever that might be worth.

$1,100 - Rent per person for a four
bedroom, two bathroom apartment
Zaragon currently features an on-site cafe on the
main floor, with soups, salads and sandwiches. And
with a grocery store on the way, residents will soon
be able to have beer, wine and pre-packaged meals
delivered to their door. Residents gave the person-
able staff high marks.
Boasting a convenient location and above average
amenities, Zaragon is by far one of the most expen-
sive student-focused apartment buildings in Ann
Arbor. Residents say it's worth it, but these residents
are also more affluent students.
Our advice: If you can afford it, Zaragon's a great
place to live. Nothing beats the location and on-site
food services, and the residents sure know how to
have fun. But do you really need to be paying this
much to live in Ann Arbor?

Zaragon Place

YOUTU BE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
Bubble trouble
For many college students, the
housing bubble remains an inscru-
table concept, something about
refinancing and equity and adjust-
ahle-rate mortgages. And why is it
even called a huhhle in the first place?
Well, this video hopes to answer
that question. Set to a folksy tune
with a catchy beat, the video fea-
tures the animated story of Johnny
Homoner (pronounced with long
"o's"), a stick figure who becomes a
victim of the housing crisis.
When we first meet Johnny, he
is reading a newspaper with "Buy
Homes Now" scrawled across the
front page. Suddenly, bubbles filled
with illustrations of houses are
swirling around him, with the nar-
rator singing, "It was worth 250, but
appraised for double." At which point,
Johnny touches a bubble that has
250,000 written inside it; the bub-
ble pops, and the number magically
changes to 500,000.
Johnny is eventually seduced by a
lender, who encourages him to buy a
new houseand quickly refinance it.
Next, we see Johnny relaxing on the
beach, a drink in hand. You know
where this is going.
His rate resets, and he can no lon-
ger afford his mortgage. When John-
ny reappears, he's sleeping on a park
bench.

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION


BY THE NUMBERS

Landlord Summit - It's house-hunting season. All
your friends are probably signing leases with crooked
landlords, who are charging them exorbitant rent
prices and demanding the insurance deposit up
front. Instead of being cheated, you should convene
a meeting with your friends to discuss Landlord
Diplomacy. This must include, among other things,
reading Henry Kissinger's memoirs. Just remember:
lower rent equals more beer.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu

K


The Courtyards

36 minutes - Walk to 'Block M' $699 - Rent per person for a four
$90 or $110 - Price of a parking spot- bedroom, four bathroom apartment

Yes, it's on North Campus. If you have classes in
Lorch, go to parties on Greenwood and eat at Sadako
for every meal, then The Courtyards are out of the
question.
But for Engineering majors and School of Art &
Design students, nothingbeats this value-priced pick.
The Courtyards are the cheapest of the three luxu-
ry studentecomplexes, and rife with amenities: tanning
beds, a badminton court, a 24-hour fitness room, a
state-of-the art theater room with stadium seating and
surround sound, study rooms on every floor and mul-
tiple common areas that provide grills, fireplaces and
gaming systems for the residents free of charge. Each
bedroom also comes with its own private bathroom. .

"I've had the experience of living on Central and
now on North. It was a factor to consider," Engineer-
ing junior Katelyn Videto said. "But I can honestly tell
you there isn't anything I don't like aboutbeing here."
The Courtyards apartments aren't loft-style or
urban. The rooms are simple and pleasantly decorated,
more like a parent's home than a friend's city apart-
ment.
Our advice: Don't live here if you have no business
being on North Campus. But if the majority of your
classes are there, and your friends are too, The Court-
yards are yourbestbet (free tanning andbadminton).
Hell, if North Campus wasn't so damn far away, we
might even consider living there.

The percentage by which existing home sales increased in September,
the highest level in two years
The median price, in dollars, of homes sold in September. The figure
is 8.5 percent less than the median price of homes a year ago
The percentage of home sales in September that involved distressed
properties like foreclosures


- BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos ofthe week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaily
I If

STUDY OF THE WEEK
Rising unemployment increases foreclosures
The number of houses facing foreclosure increased more than
five percent from July to September, a trend that is largely due
to rising unemployment, according to a report recently released
hy RealtyTrac Snc., a firm that specializes in monitoring foreclo-
sures.
The report indicated that almost 938,000 properties were hit
with foreclosure during that three-month period, an increase from
the preceding three months, when 890,000 properties were fore-
closed. Given these numbers, the report stated, foreclosures could
reach 3.5 million by the end of the year. Last year, 2.3 million prop-
erties were affected by foreclosure.
Despite President Obama's efforts to provide federal assistance
to borrowers, the surging unemployment rate - currently 9.8 per-
cent - has produced a steady stream of people who are defaulting
on their mortgages.
- BRIAN TENGEL





0 0,

p

0

(2ce nf$&
3ftnrJ

Knowing when not to sign
It's October, and you found that perfect sophomore year house, still within earshot
of Markley. Your six roommates are psyched to sign the lease before someone else
snags it, and your first instinct is to seal the deal as quickly as possible. But what you
really need to do is take your time and read the lease closely - there are a variety of
tricky clauses that can cause trouble with your landlord.

Wednesday, October 28,209-Th icignDat
Moving into a mess
Excited to move into your new house, you find that the cute older house you
toured last year has transformed into a pigsty. There is rat poop in the cupboards and
mysterious carpet stains in every room. On top of that, the kitchen sink makes an
ominous gurgling sound like it might not hold out much longer. If there are problems
from the onset, you need to be prepared to deal with them later on.

;
._
'
:
T
a.
C -
r

Any student renter in Ann Arbor has heard horror
stories about exploitative and negligent landlords.
Students are too often at a disadvantage in lease
agreements because they don't know what rights
housing laws afford them.
It's time for that to change.

Ann Arbor's "Rights and Duties of Ten-
ants" handbook lists a number of unlawful
clauses that landlords sometimes include
in lease agreements to discourage tenants
from taking legal action against them. For
example, the law does not allow clauses
that prohibit you from attaininga jury trial
or stipulate that you must pay for the land-
lord's legal fees. These clauses are unen-
forceable by law, and landlords know this
- don't be intimidated.
Gayle Rosen, an attorney at Stu-
dent Legal Services who handles hous-
ing disputes, said that she does not see
many unlawful clauses in the cases she
handles. But if something in your lease
seems suspicious, have a tenant lawyer
at Student Legal Services examine it.
In the case that the clause doesn't hold
up, you'll be able to move into your new
place with the knowledge that you would
be entitled to your full legal rights if you

ever needed to use them.'
But there are plenty of subtler problems
that can be spelled out in leases ahead of
time. Landlords cannot waive the abil-
ity to sue for negligent upkeep, but they
can transfer some of the responsibility for
keeping the house up to code to tenants.
For example, many leases require tenants
to take the trash out or shovel snow from
the walk. Think about the place you're
looking to rent - in a big house split into
several apartments, these jobs might be
bigger thanyou want to take on.
One trend that Rosen warns about is a
security deposit waiver, which would have
you sign over your security deposit to the
people who move in the following year.
The expectation is that the new tenant
would then be responsible for paying you
the value of your deposit. Landlords most
often present this waiver when only some
See SI-GNING LEASE, Page 8B

Don't let your landlord off the hook for
not cleaning your place. You're paying to
live in a residence as if it's your own, not
to have the privilege of rifling through the
former tenants' old junk.
"You have the right to a clean, sanitary
dwelling before you move in, even if your
lease says it does not have to be clean,"
reads the city's "Rights and Duties of Ten-
ants" handbook.
Some landlords push tenants to sign
cleaning waivers absolving them of the
obligation to clean between leases. Such
waivers are only legal some of the time -
such as when tenants waive cleaning for
the chance to move in early. If you signed
one, show it to a tenant lawyer to see how it
checks out. If you didn't sign one, you can
demand that your landlord have the place
cleaned regardless of when you moved in.
In the instance that your landlord fails
to comply with your request, you may be

able to receive compensation for cleaning
the place yourself. First, Rosen recom-
mends that you take time-stamped photos
of the condition of the house when you
first moved in. Then log how many hours
you worked to get the house in satisfac-
tory condition. Compiling evidence might
be enough to compel your landlord to give
you credit toward rent.
But unwashed floors might be the least
of your problems. If you suspect that your
house isn't up to city housing codes, your
landlord is required to show certification
of compliance upon request. But even that
might not be reliable - city inspectors
often get backed up and sometimes issue
temporary certificates without completing
an inspection.
When dealing with prolonged housing
issues, recording evidence should be your
prerogative. Even before major problems
See MOVING IN, Page 8B


Jessica Vosgerchian and Sam Wainwright I Magazine Staff Writers


Prompting repairs by withholding rent
You have been badgering your landlord for weeks to replace the dishwasher that died.
Washing dishes by hand is a major inconvenience, and not what you signed up for when
you agreed to the cost of rent. You feel your landlord has cheated you by failing to pro-
vide an amenity that makes the house valuable to lease. It's time to take bolder action
than leaving angry messages - legally refuse to pay rent until the repairs are made.

Securing your security deposit
The end of your lease rolls around and you move out of your house. You think you've
left the place in decent condition, but you're worried your landlord might take a chunk
out of your security deposit for something ludicrous - those years-old coffee stains
in the living room, for example. You don't have to accept the judgment your landlord
makes, as long as you follow the rules.

"I find that when you start withhold-
ing rent, things start to move forward,"
Student Legal Services attorney Gayle
Rosen said.
So your landlord will take you seri-
ously, you want to go about withholding
rent as carefully as possible. Collect all
the rent money from your roommates as
usual, but instead of paying your land-
lord, open a checking account at your
bank and deposit the full amount of
rent. Then write your landlord a letter
explaining why you're withholding rent
- you might want to include the bank
statement from your new account so your
landlord knows you're not just trying to
buy time.
Often, taking the initiative to with-
hold rent will prompt landlords to fix the
problem in order to get their money as
soon as possible. But in other situations,
your landlord might want to contest your
claim or you might want to fight to be
compensated for the inconvenience.
"Depending on how long it lasted and
how bad it was, we would want to talk

about an abatement of rent," Rosen said.
"I'd want to argue that if you don't have
heat in the middle of winter, you deserve
that full day's rent."
_ If you plan to take legal action, com-
pile a list of instances when your landlord
failed to complete necessary mainte-
nance. Dated e-mails will demonstrate
how your landlord's negligence has been
an ongoing problem. If seeking com-
pensation for a short-lived but extreme
occurrence - such as water damage from
busted pipes or whole days without heat
- photo evidence can be especially help-
ful. Take time-stamped photos of your
damaged belongings or of the thermostat
at an inhospitably low temperature.
In retaliation, your landlord may sue
or begin eviction proceedings against
you. Since withholding rent is legal, you
won't have to worry about being forced
from your home, although you may have
to appear in court. Student Legal Ser-
vices will represent University students
free of charge, but you will have to pay
court fees.

The first thing to do is send your land-
lord your forwarding address in writing
four days after you move out at the latest.
This is crucial, because doing so obligates
your landlord to provide an itemized bill
listing damages and the cost of repairs.
You also don't want to risk your secu-
rity deposit notice getting lost in the mail
for a few days - you only have seven days
after your landlord sends your security
deposit to dispute claims by mail.
But your landlord is also under dead-
line. If you haven't received your secu-
rity deposit within 30 days of moving out,
your landlord is obligated to return the
full amount and bill you later.
Let's say you did provide your forward-
ing address, you get the itemized bill and
oddly enough, you disagree with your
landlord's assessment of the damages: you
don't think it costs $200 to clean a piece of
gum off the carpet or that those scuffs on
the couch qualify as anything more than
normal wear and tear.
You also want to consider the worth of
the original item and the cost the landlord

cited for repairing or replacing it. Even if
you did break a rickety old table during a
kegger, you don't have to pay for a spank-
ing new one - you only owe the value of
the table that broke.
Afteryouobject tothe damages claimed,
your landlord then has the option to kind-
ly return your security deposit in full, cor-
dially negotiate a different amount or take
you to court.
Your landlord has 45 days to initiate a
lawsuit or return your deposit in full. If 45
days pass and you are neither a defendant
nor reunited with your money, you have
the right to counter-sue for double dam-
ages, or twice the amount of your security
deposit. You can actually stand to make
money on the whole inconvenience.
If your landlord does sue, make sure
that you remembered to fill out that ini-
tial inventory checklist with obnoxious
attention to detail, because this is when
it becomes important. It is your primary
document to dispute the claims, but to win
a case in small claims court, you're going
See SECURITY DEPOSIT, Page 8B

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Tenant lawyers recommend photographing anything that is wrong
with your residence in case you need evidence to defend yourself
against your landlord later on.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 28, 2009 -1C

. ,
;., ;,
,
,.

I

TOWER PLAZA


Z/ 1

CONDOMINIUM
Comfortable, secure high rise
One block from University of Michigan Campus.
Studio and One Bedroom Units
Sale or Lease
Fall 2010 rental showings
Start December 2009
Call Brian Tomsic (734) 663-1530
www.towerplaza.net
University Realty Associates, LLC

FREE
HIGH SPEED
INTERNET
CONNECTION

FREE
HIGH SPEED
INTERNET
CONNECTION

Call Today for 18 Locations to choose from
2010-11
Availability!!! Many on Central Campus

Reserve Early
for
2010-1!

FREE ETHERNET
Parking Included "
Heat & Water Included .
Completely Furnished
Visit us on the web
at
www.primesh.com

Leather Furniture .
Bi-level/Tri-levels "
Eff, 1, 2 & 3 bdrms "
Updated Kitchens .

On Site Laundry .
Air Conditioning "
Garbage Disposals
Dishwashers.

Trigon Entries
Balconies & Patios
On AATA bus lines
Trash Removal

Stop by our office at
610 Church St.
or call us today at
(734) 761-8000 to arrange viewings.
'""'Amenities vary by location'*

Direct T.V.
Now
Available

Where it's not just about the Apartments
But about the Residents and the Management
Apartments
Eff. -1 Bed $600-$950
2 Bed $875 - $1,500
3-4 Bed $1,550 - $2,400
Heat & Water paid for Most
Houses
3 - 9 Bed $1,800 - $4,500
Tenants Pay All Utilities

. -

Call or Stop by Today!!!
318 E. Jefferson #6B
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
(734) 996-1991
www.cappomanagement.com

MICHIGAN RENTAL
52+ Locations
At the Heart of Campus
- Specialize 4-9 Bedroom Houses
- 2+ Baths Typical
- Always Ample Parking
- Modern Kitchens

1
thecourtyardsannarbor.coml
11$41 994-6001. THE
Y RDS *
"; N TTM APARTMENTS
i y4( vrnadwaY iAm ArborMI '415

f


2C - Wednesday, October 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Available Fall 2010
Forest Post- Large 2-bedroom apts; furnished
Wilmot Post- 1,2 and 3 bed apts; furnished
Hoover Post- 1 bedroom apts unfurnished/furnished
Maynard House- Studios + 1 bedrooms - furnished
Free Internet at all locations.
nformation viit www nnetrp ltIvnrnnprtic rm nr rII 72A147 I 220

4%Free Food

Bring this ad to any ICC house & get
a tour and a free homemade dinner
Save Some Cash " Meet New People
Join a Co-op

1
I
I
I-

0
0

Find our houses at:
www.icc.coop.- (734) 662-4414

I

1
1

The best housing prices in Ann Arbor - 4, 8, & 12 month contracts
The Inter-Cooperative Council
Living without Landiords since 1932

I
I
1

Oppenheimer
 Properties, Inc.
Short term leases available for 09-10
Many Houses/Apts/Rooms
Available for May or Sept. Leasing

0

Visit www.oppenheimerproperties.com
or call 734-995-5575

C & I Management,
LLC

Rental Info.
(877) 426-6035

NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2010! LOCATIONS:

The Spaly Group, Inc.
Now Leasing for Fall 2010!
(734)769-7000 / (734) 769-1807
Close to Campus ~'Fully Furnished
1321 & 1327 Wilmot 1 & 2 bdrm apts.
805 E. Huron 1 & 3 bdrm apts.
1506 Packard 1 & 3 bdrm apts.
726 Packard 1 & 2 bdrm apts.
525 Benjamin 5 bdrm 2 baths
123 N.Thayer 6 bdrm 2 baths
213 N. Ingalls 6 bdrm 2 baths
For descriptions, photos and details -
visit our website!

6
0

*Great Location:
Across from East Quad
*Beautiful, Spacious, Quiet
*Furnished & Unfurnished Available
*Laundry

Tarking included
*Heat and water paid for
most properties
*No pets, no smoking
*Small management co.
*Excellent record of personal service

*Awarded for historic preservation
*Older homes on Central campus, Kerrytown,
Old West Side, Burns Park

0

Now Rentingfor
Spring and Fall
(734) 994 - 3157
www.arborprops.com

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 28, 2009 - 3C

Grat MRa
to CER Loma
Charleton Apartments
Approx. 1 mile from Main St.
1 bedroom starting at $649
2 bedroom starting at $714
734-663-8463
free application fee!

INVESTOR'S
PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT

JMS PROPERTIES
Scm 1979
For May/Sept 2010
4, 6, & 8 Bdrm. Houses
Studio, 1,2, & 3 Bdrm. Apts &
Bi-levels at PRIME locations.

Houses &
Apartments
www.ipma2.com
734-662-8832

Call us at 734-222-9033
www.jmsprop.com

CAMPUS
MANAGEMENT,
INC

337 E. Huron
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
(734) 663-4101
www.campusmgt.com
rentals@campusmgt.com

Come visit us at the Housing Fair Nov. 2nd

40 wonderful houses and apartments
CLOSE TO CAMPUS!!!
Most properties are less than 2 blocks from the campus perimeter.
Contact us and we may be able to help you find the perfect place to
live within walking distance of the University of Michigan campus.
(734) 665-5620
wwwbartonbrook.com
May and September leases
Voted #1 by Michigan Daily readers!

Fall '10 Availabilities!
Efficiencies to 6 bedroom houses
and everything in between.
Some with parking, laundry,
high-speed interntasmore!
Large group? We specialize.

Check out our website at campusmgt.com
or stop into the office for listings.
"Proudly Serving the Ann Arbor and U of M
communities for almost 45 yrs!"

Now Leasing for May and Sept. 2010
Furnished - Very Close to Campus
1315 Forest Ct. (May) - 5 Bdrms, 5 parking
spaces, Air, 2 Fridges, Cable. $3000/mo.
321 E. Liberty (Sept.) - 5 Bdrms, 1st floor
apt, $2,500/mo. 6 bdrms, 2nd and 3rd floors,
$2,800/mo. Both-3 parking spaces included.

Large 31 floor bedroomwith private bath
"Very Nice, Very Clean"
Near IM building
Free Parking
A/C & Free W/D
1507 White Street

Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 bedrooms
616 Church St. (734) 995-9200
Next to Pizza House
www.archrealtyco.com

November 2nd from 1-4pm
Alumni Association Center
200 Fletcher Hall


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4C - Wednesday, October 28, 2009

10

ATTENTION GRADUATE STUDENTS:

We have exactly what you desire
for your housing needs.

6

Efficiencies, one, two, three or six bedroom units.
In older homes or modern apartment buildings.

le

Look us up sn tlheuofll h using Webste at ww .husing.unlctodu,1stIng800FullerLLC
+-Floor Plans and Interior Pictures on website +

Please contact us at 734-662-5500
or www.michcomrealty com

 8.
6 S
Time to
move?.
Are you feeling pressured to make a housing
decision... right now? The fact is, every year,
there is plenty of off-campus housing, even
after the fall term begins. No matter where you
decide to live next year - whether on campus
- or off - take the time you need to explore your
options and make a choice that's right for you.
Time to
compare!
Use this comparison worksheet to consider the
pros, cons and costs of your housing options.

My Housing Options
All rates are based on the 2009/10 academic year.
Option 1 Option 2
Michigan Northwood IIl
Residence Halls Apartments

Option 3

Option 4 Option5

a

UTILITIES
Water
Electricity
Heat
Garbage/Waste Removal
easic Cable (per room or apartment)
Internet
U-M Meal Plan Available
Lounge/study Space
Computing Lab
storage
Laundry Facilities
Lawn Care
Snow Removal
SECURITY
,24/7 Security
On-Call Staff
Internet Firewall Protection
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
Community Building Activities
Leadership Opportunities
Dining Facilities
Community Center Services
(vacuum rentals, lockout
assistance, packages, info)
LEASE/CONTRACT
Length
Co-signer Required
Accommodates study abroad
OTHER

Included
Included
Included
Included
$140/term{
Included
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
N/A
N/A

Included
Included
Included
Included
$144/term0o
Included
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes

$
$
$
$
Yes

/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo

$
$
$
$
$
Yes

/mo $
/mo $
/mo $
/mo $
/mo $
/mo $
Yes

/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo
Jmo

$5
$S
$S

$
$
$S
$S

/mo
/mo
/mo
/mo

$
$
$
$

Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes

Sept-Apr Aug-Apr
No No
Yes Yes

Time to

learn more:


aSN $c

COSTS
Application Fee
C dU Security Deposit
Cleaning Fee
Parking (academic year)
Monthly Rent (per person)
LOCATION
Close to campus
Near gym facilities

$0
$0
$0
$30000
$549-$94000

$0
$0
$0
$600
$510-$100100

$S
$S
$S
$S
$S

$
$
/mo $

$
/mo $

/mo

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes

Living at Michigan.
The time of your life.

Near campus bus Yes Yes
Near AATA bus Yes Yes
02010/2011 rates will be available in Winter Term 2010.
OBlueBucksaccepted.
dRoom only, varies by academic term, meal plan costs not included. Meal planrequired.
a Room only, varies by academiciterm. Meal plan optional.
i12-month contracts are also available.
Limited parking is available at Bursley, Baits, Oxford and Fletcher.
current fall term cost; current winter term cost is$128.

0

U HOUSIG.
UNWERSsrYOFrMICHIGAN


0

Sponsored by:Washtenaw"Ar Apartment Association


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wdedy coe 8 09-5

Wednesday, October 28, 2009 - 5C

www.danshouses.com

12 BedroomslDu plexf$7800/Oakland

9-10 Bed roomslDuplex/$4995 5 Bedrooms/$3375

6 Bedroomsl$4250

9 Bedrooms/Mulit Unit/$5000

5 Bedroomsl$3375

6-7 Bedrooms/$2850

8 BedroomslDuplexl$5000 4-5 Bedroompl$2595

6 Bedrooms/$2795

4 Bedroomst$2600

4 Bedoomsf26006-7 Bedrooms/$3995

it


6C - Wednesday, October 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Uiverity
To+werer
utig 1 ou r eservation Today!
Reserve your fully-furnished room, studio, 1, 2, or 3
bedroom apartment for 2010/2011. Save your style!

0
0
0

BEST CAMPUS LOCATIONS
Call Now for Leasing Info
Metro Property Services
124 W Summit
Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734) 668-6686

Heat & Water Included
Fitness Center & Pool
24 HR Lobby Attendant
Secure-Entry Building
a Central U-M Campus
a FREE Food & More!
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor, MI
(734) 761-2680

Tom Clark Apartments
Fall 2010 Leases
Efficiency, 1 bedroom
& 2 bedrooms
Great Locations
Within 3 blocks to campus

S

996-2836
www.tcapts.com

I I

0

0

0

734-998-4400
4elevenlofts

411 E. Washington St.
Hours: M-F 9a-9p, Sat. 12-7p

0


