DISNEY DISASTER"
Miley Cyrus made a movie. It's just as
amateurish and pointless as her show.
SEE ARTS, PAGE 5A

SECOND NEVER FELT SO GOOD
At this weekend's NCAAs, the Wolverines
shocked the field and took home second place.
U SEE SPORTSMONDAY, INSIDE

my id i an Batl;.
)NE H17 'UNDR SED r { 1N1.NETEEN 1 Tft t jy TYEARS OF ,(EDI, S T RIA 1.FREEDOM


Ann Arbor Michigan

Monday, April 20,2009

michigandailv.com


--, -r . __, - ,..,, o ,wu ,1 .,


DUNKIN' ON THE DIAG

A SECOND TRANSITION
For transfer
students, a
struggle on
N. Campus

SAID ALSALAH/Dsly
LSA senior David Dennis tries to dunk Michigan hockey defenseman Tristin Llewellyn on the Diag on Friday. The dunk tank was part of a charity event sponsored by
Sigma Chi that raised money to purchase school supplies for underprivileged children in the Dominican Republic.
THE END OF AN INDUSTRY?
After a newspap er collapse

For tough transition,
76 percent of transfer
students placed on
North Campus
ByVERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
When LSA sophomore Lauren
Mosena transferred to the Uni-
versity of Michigan from Pitzer
College in Claremont, Calif. in the
fall, she had two major challenges
ahead of her.
° Not only did she have to struggle
through Michigan's harsh winters,
but she also had to adjust to a com-
pletely new university - with new
professors, new classes and, hope-
fully, new friends. But because
she was placed on North Campus,
Mosena said that those were more
difficult tasks.
"It has been extremely hard to
meet people around me in North-
wood," Mosena said. "Everyone
who lives up here already has their
life here at Michigan figured out
and aren't necessarily looking for
new friends - alot of them keep to
themselves."
And Mosena's experience is not

an isolated one.
According to figures obtainedby
The Michigan Daily from Univer-
sity Housing, 76 percent of trans-
fer students for the fall 2008 term
- 199 of the 262 students - were
placed on North Campus in either
Bursley Hall, Baits I and II or the
Northwood Community Apart-
ments.- And of -those students, 91
percent - or 181 - lived in North-
wood.
University Housing Spokesman
Peter Logan said this trend is due
to the fact that the kitchen and
apartment-style living that North-
wood offers is appealing to older
students, and also that many trans-
fer students request it.
But Logan said the decision
is ultimately dictated by space.
Because the University is respon-
sible for supplying housing for
first-year and returning students,
transfer students aren't always
placed in ideal locations, he said.
"Transfer students are placed
where space is available in Uni-
versity Housing facilities that they
have requested or would be appro-
priate to their age and university
experience," Logan said. "We can't
always give a transfer student a
placement that they prefer, but we
See TRANSFER, Page 3A

p What becomes of a
community when its
local paper closes?
By CHRIS HERRING
Daily StaffReporter
When it became known late last
month that Ann Arbor's primary
daily newspaper, The Ann Arbor
News, would be closing its doors
in July, the obvious question fol-

lowed: Who's going to provide
local news content for the area?
And with dozens of papers hav-
ing closed since the start of the
year, it's a question that's being
asked across the country. At best,
the print newspaper industry is.
in a state of flux. At worst, it's in a
state of emergency.
To reduce costs, the Detroit
Free Press and The Detroit News
just scaled back home delivery to
three days a week. In the last two
months, two big-city dailies, the

Rocky Mountain News in Denver
and the Seattle Post-Intelligencer,
have closed and gone exclusively
online. The San Francisco Chroni-
cle and The Boston Globe have also
recentlyreceived threatsofclosure
from their parent companies.
Understandably, the fate of
major papers and their respective
cities has been the primary topic
of discussion when it comes to the
future of the industry. But little
has been said about how smaller
cities like Ann Arbor - and even

smaller towns -are being affected
when they lose their main source
of news.
In many cases, industry experts
and newspaper veterans say, small
communities have much more to
lose than major cities when their
primary newspapers fold. With
no apparent outlets to plug the
news holes left behind, residents
of small and mid-sized towns
are more likely to be uninformed
about the developments taking
See NEWSPAPER, Page 7A


UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION
A look inside how
the 'U' formulates
its' annual budget.

CAMPUS SOCIETIES
Order of Angell releases list of 2010 members

University officials
discuss how they
finalize the budget
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
The University's budget is mas-
sive, to say the least. With totals of
more than $5.2 billion in operating
revenues and expenses at the Uni-
versity's three campuses, including
the University of Michigan Health
System and the Athletic Depart-
ment, it's easy to see why devel-
oping the University's budget is
almost a year-long process.
Despite the budget's enormity
and vast importance for life at the
University, very little about its for-
mulation is known to many mem-
bers of the University community.
Over the past two months, through
several interviews, University
President Mary Sue Coleman,
Provost Teresa Sullivan and Phil
Hanlon, vice provost for academic
and budgetary affairs, have offered
insight onto this rarely discussed
process.
The University's budget plan-
ning begins in the fall of the previ-
ous academic year. Upon direction
from the office of the Provost, the
dean of each of the University's
schools and vice presidents of each
executive office begin formulating

budget recommendations for their
respective units.
In an interview last month, Cole-
man said deans and vice presidents
are directed each year to look for
ways to cut costs.
"We understand that we're
going to have to take between land
2 percent out," she said. "We're just
goingto have to cut."
Coleman said the cuts proposed
must impact the quality of edu -
cation at the University as little
as possible, so as not to harm the
experience students receive on
campus.
In an interview last month, Sul-
livan said in addition to the cuts,
deans and vice presidents are
asked to reallocate an additional 1,
to 2 percent from low priorities to
higher priorities - to put emphasis.
on each unit's bigger goals. Once
this has been done and the propos-
als are completed, the budget rec--
ommendations are then reviewed
in budget conferences with the
provost.
In that March interview, Sul-
livan said this year's budget con-,
ferences began in January and
were expected to finish near the
end of March. She explained that
the budget conferences provide
an opportunity for deans and vice
presidents to present their budgets
and justify the amount of money
they're requesting.
See BUDGET, Page 7A

Group includes 22
leaders of campus
organizations, teams
By EMILY ORLEY
Daily StaffReporter
Most students are fairly famil-
iar with the many clubs on campus
that comprise "the leaders and the
best" of the University. However
there is one club made up of prom-
inent leaders on campus that pre-
fers to work in silence.
Order of Angell, the senior honor

society started by and named after
former University president James
Burrill Angell, announced its new-
est class, "Pride of 2010," to The
Michigan Daily on Saturday.
Every year, a new group of
prominent organization leaders,
sports captains and influential
Greek representatives are select-
ed, or "tapped" by the outgoing
class to join the club and continue
its mission.
"It is an organization to advance
exceptional leadership through a
lifelong loyalty to and engagement
with the University of Michigan,"
See ORDER, Page 3A

2010 ORDER OF ANGELL CL
Ashley Sauer: Women's Golf
Christopher Brady: Men's Swimming and
Diving
Pascal Carole:National Societyof Black
Engineers
David-Jonathan Chan: Men's Gymnastics
AndrewDalack:StudentsAlliedfor Freedom
and Equality
John Federspiel: Solar Car Team
Alisa Goldman:lDance Marathon
rSashaGribov:TAMID IsraelInvestmentGroup
Julia Hawley: Solar Car Team
AnujLal:IndianAmerican Student Association
Mike Michelon: MUSKET
Salimah Mohamed:Ypsilanti HealthlInitiative

David Moosman: Football
Meha Pandey: Society of Women Engineers
AriParritm:Inter-Fraternity Council
Scott Roffman: Men's Glee ub
Fiona Ruddy: Human Rights Through
Education
Michael Sears: Wrestling
Frank Shotwell:Men's Track and Field
Katy Wallander: Blood DriveslUnited
Jason Waller:Army ROTC
LaurenWashington:NationalPan-Hellenic
Council
Honorary Member David Brandon: Chair
man and CEO of Domino's Pizza
SOURCE:Order of Angell

CR IM E FORKING OVER YOUR MONEY
Kappa Sigma vandalized
by intoxicated student

By TREVOR CALERO
Daily StaffReporter
Ann Arbor police officers
responded to a call at a fraternity
house early Friday morning after
-a 20-year-old University student
reportedly smashed multiple
windows in the front of the house,
an Ann Arbor Police Department
official said.
Sgt. Andrew Zazula said when'
the officers arrived at the Kappa
Sigma fraternity at 806 Hill St. at
around 2 a.m. they found a front
glass door shattered and broken
windows on the front and side of
the house.
"The student said somebody
from that residence was giving
him a problem earlier," Zazula

said.
Kappa Sigma President Greg
Carmody said he was in-his room
with a couple of friends when he
learned of the vandal's presence
at the front of the house.
"Someone comes in my room
and says that someone is outside
with a metal pipe," Carmody said.
"I went downstairs and was try-
ing to calm him down and at this
point he started going off on me.
He was just in a state of uncon-
trollable rage."
The man, who was apparently
drunk, claimed that someone
from the fraternity had been yell-
ing at him from across the street,
Carmody said.
Carmody said after the man
See CRIME, Page 7A

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
LSA freshman Sari Krumholz replaces a fork with a quarter on the Diagon Saturday
as part of a programto raise money for Washtenaw County's 3,000 homeless.

WEATHER HI:50 GOTANEWSTIP? NEWONMICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS...............................2A SUDOKU.............-.-...-.5A
Call 734-763-2459 ore-mail Zoltan Mesko picked as a preseason All-American. Vol. CXIX, No.133 OPINION ............................4A CLASSI FIEDS h..A..................6A
TOMORROW LU:37 news@michigandaily.comand letus know. THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM ©2009TheMichigan D ARTS................................5ASPORTSMONDAY..............1B
wichigandailycow RS - - ASPESODY S
;S trt- dl' r; , . 4 w iS


News

2A - Monday, April 20, 2009


TUESDAY:
Campus Character

WEDNESDAY:
Explained

THURSDAY
Before You Were

Harvard will have most sports teams in nation

FRIDAY:
Here Photos of the Week
SUNNY SIDE UP

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA ELAINABUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com

The Massachusetts Institute of PROTESTORS RALLY F
Technology will cut some of its var- FOR ASIAN-AME
sity athletic teams by May 1, The Tech Around 200 student
reported. As a result, Harvard Univer- gathered last Friday tc
sity will have the most varsity athletic crimes and discrimine
teams in the nation. toward Asian-American
Currently, MIT and Harvard both other minority groups a
have 41 athletic teams. However, MIT sity, The Tufts Daily rep
athletic officials plan to cut five to eight The protesterscalledf
teams in an effort to reduce spending tion to stop the racism ft
during the next three years by $1.45 to spread throughout th.
million. Recently, a drunken s
The Tech said the decision is prob- racial slurs at a group of
lematic for recently admitted students dents, which resulted in
looking to attend MIT to play a specific both parties.
sport. Junior Jenny Lau, pr.
Julie Soriero, head of MIT's athlet- the Asian American All.
ics department, said in the Tech's arti- Tufts Daily that the rally
cle, "MIT understands the timeliness in responseto the inciden
of the decisions, and we intend to be ing discomfort the Asian-
respectful of that." munity is experiencingat
MIT Department of Athletics, Phys- "As students, we hav
ical Education and Recreation admin- feel respected and safe,
istrators will determine which sports she said in the article
to cut based on expenses, necessary American voice is onlyc
resources, team performance and stu- many voices of people w
dent interest. marginalized."
CRIME NOTES
Construction Missing moped
bus vandalized WHERE: Ross School of Busi-

FOR RESPECT MILKING SYSTEM INVENTORS
RICANS SUE CORNELL
ts and faculty Two inventors are suing Cornell
o protest hate University for allegedly slander-
ation targeted ing the product they developed for
n students and milking cows, The Cornell Daily Sun
t Tufts Univer- reported.
'orted. In the 1990s, Cornell researchers
for administra- studied the milking system CoPulsa-
rom continuing tion to determine whether it reduces
e university. infections in the cows' udders.
tudent shouted If proven successful, the technol-
13 Korean stu- ogy could potentially increase milk
afightbetween production. However, Cornell's results
showed it was no more effective at
esident-elect of reducing infections in cows than other
liance, told The conventional systems.
ywas organized The inventors, disagree and claim
t and the grow- Cornell is lying about the findings
American com- because of financial reasons.
t Tufts. Cornell earns a profit from farmers
ve the right to who are required to test their cows
on ... campus," for infections. CoPulsation inventor
. "The Asian- Bill Gehm said the university would
one example of lose income if the rate of infections
ho have been ... decreases.
- STEPHANIE STEINBERG

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom o
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
tlassified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

Dffie hours: tuo-Thun. 11 axm. - 2a x.
ewnsihiandaily.com
corrections~michigandaily~com
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
ehctcgtihiundaily.coce
artsnihiandaily.com
opininichiandai ly.coin
sporatsiciandaily.com
display~miciandaily.com
classifed@icigandaily.com
cnlieadasxihiandaily.com

4
4

Rtesidents at Act Arbor and students of the
University gathered at Ingalls Mall between
the Hatcher Graduate Library and Rackham
for the Solar System Walk on Saturday.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Lot NC-50 2500
Glazier
WHEN: Fridayat around 8:20
p.m.
WHAT: A privately owned
bus used to transport con-
struction workers was broken
into, University Police report-
ed. The subjects smashed a
window and broke the door
latch but did not steal any-
thing from the bus. There are
no suspects.
Purse stolen
from patient
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Friday at around 9:10
a.m.
WHAT: A subject stole a purse
from a patient's room, Univer-
sity Police reported. The purse,
contained identification, cred-
it cards and a small amount of
cash. There are no suspects.

WHEN: Friday at about 8 p.m.
WHAT: A male student had
his moped stolen from the
bicycle rack outside the Ross
School of Business, University
Police reported. The value of
the moped is $500 and the
owner said it was in good
shape.
Two students

Free HIV/AIDS
testing
WHAT: A counselor from
the HIV/AIDS Resource
Center will provide free and
anonymous HIV testing.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonighteb p.m. to 8
p.m.
WHERE: MichiganUnion,
room 3200

caught siphoning Canadian folk
from pumps musician gives
concert

CORRECTIONS
* An article in Friday's edi-
tion of the Daily (Provost
toutsnewfederalaidfunds)
inaccurately attributed the
position that administrators
should make sure not to get
too involved in the student
controlled process of find-
ing space for the Michigan
Review to Regent Andrea
Fisher Newman (R-Ann
Arbor). The position should
have been attributed to
Regent Olivia Maynard
(D-Goodrich).
An article in Thursday's
edition of the Daily (Public
Health program helps unem-
ploymentshiftgears) failed
to clearly express that the
Foundations of Public Health
certificate program existed
before it gained approval
to become a part of the No
Worker Left Behind program.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

The family of Martin
Luther King Jr. will charge
the Martin Luther King Jr.
National Foundation for using
King's words and image on a
monument being built in the
National Mall, The Associ-
ated Press reported. The rela-
tives are asking for $800,000
to engrave King's quotes on
the memorial.
Barack Obama recent-
ly announced -plans
to build a nationwide
high-speed train network,
which will connect Ann
Arbor to Chicago and Detroit.
">FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
A company in Burnie,
Australia has discovered
a way to convert wom-
bat poop into paper, BBCcom
reported. While Burnie is fac-
ing numerous job cuts, the
wombat industry is thriving,
with tourists buying the prod-
uct as an Australian souvenir.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandailycom
JacobSmilovitZManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian.Berman, Trevor Calero, Caitlin Schneider,
ASSISTANTNEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Anna Skoer,
Robert Soave Editorial PagetEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
seng, RuthLicl
ASITN SOT DITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
^ texuProspersnColtRosenweig
David Walnitk ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandailycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshiua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Said Alsalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Max Collins, Chris Dzombak, RobiMigrin, Sam Wolson
AngelaChih and designomichigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian MagazinetEditor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
' MichaelSchrotenboerDisplayAdvertisingsalesManager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel.
Newman, Christie Phillips
Ryan Businski ClassifiedtSalesManager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber OnlinetSales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Michigan Daily(ISN0745-967)is pubishedMondaythroughFridayduringthe falland winte
terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is avalable free of charge to alreaders.
Additiona copies may be picked up athe Dailysoffice for $2. Subscriptions for faland winterterm
Summe sus)ae$25.Suscpis must e rpad.heMicigndiy a mmerp of Th
Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press

-

WHERE: North Campus Ser-
vice Station 3250 Baxter
WHEN: Friday at around t1:20
p.m.
WHAT: Two female students
were arrested for stealing
gasoline from fuel pumps, Uni-
versity police reported. Police
officers were fillingup their
vehicles when they noticed the
theft.

WHAT: Canadian folk gui-
tarist and songwriter Bruce
Cockburn will perform his
music. General admission
tickets cost $30, though ser-
vice charges may apply.
WHO: The Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark

549 E. UNIVERSITY AVE
734-662-3201
r WWW.ULRICHS.COM
BO OK ST OR E

317 SOUTH STATE 5
734-665-4990
WWWMICHBOOK.C
BOOK & SUPPLY

OPEN 'TIL1OPM OR LATER

I

4


News

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, A pril 20, 2009 - 3A

N ew s Monday, April 20, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
NAIROBI, Kenya
Gunmen seize two
foreign aid workers
An aid worker says gunmen have
kidnapped two foreign aid workers
in Somalia.
He says the Medecins Sans Fron-
tieres (Doctors Without Borders)
workers were seized in central
Somalia yesterday by around 25
gunmen traveling in two trucks.
The Somali staff traveling with
the two hostages were released.
One of the captives is European and
the nationality of the other is not
known.
The aid worker spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity because he was
not authorized to talk to the media.
Attacks on aid workers are com-
mon in Somalia. The government
accuses them of helping insurgents
and the insurgents accuse them
of being spies. Dozens have been
killed, kidnapped or threatened
within the past year.
ST. PAUL, Minn.
Senate seat dispute
to be heard by state
supreme court
Republican Norm Coleman's next
and possibly last gambit for regain-
ing his U.S. Senate seat will come
before a Minnesota Supreme Court
that seems built to his advantage:
Five of the seven justices were put
there by Republican governors.
But Coleman's edge with the
court, which is expected to receive
the appeal this week of his election-
lawsuit loss to Democrat Al Fran-
ken, isn't all it seems.
Two of the GOP appointees
will sit out the appeal because
they helped referee the statewide
recount. A third has drawn fire for
past donations to Coleman's Senate
campaigns,
And the court as a whole has a
history of nonpartisanship in elec-
tion-law decisions.
While courts nationwide are
being increasingly drawn into polit-
ical disputes, few elections reach
this stage. Fewer still have such
stakes: A six-year Senate term vital
to the Washington power struggle.
"These aren't the kind of cases
judges want to see come their way,"
said Michael Pitts, a professor at the
Indiana University School of Law in
Indianapolis.
WASHINGTON
Government seeks
cyber hackers to
fill vacant jobs
Wanted: Computer hackers.
Federal authorities aren'tlooking
to prosecute them, but to pay them
to secure the nation's networks.
General Dynamics Information
Technology put out an ad last month
on behalf of the Homeland Secu-
rity Department seeking someone
who could "think like the bad guy."
Applicants, it said, must understand
hackers' tools and tactics and be
able to analyze Internet traffic and
identify vulnerabilities in the fed-
eral systems.
In the Pentagon's budget request
submitted lastweek, Defense Secre-
tary Robert Gates said the Pentagon
will increase the number of cyber-
experts it can train each year from
80 to 250 by 2011.

With warnings that the U.S. is
ill-prepared for a cyberattack; the
White House conducted a 60-day
study of how the government can
better manage and use technol-
ogy to protect everything from the
electrical grid and stock markets to
tax data, airline flight systems, and
nuclear launch codes.
FARMINGTON, Mich.
City amends law,
requires foreclosed
homes to be kept up
Farmington officials have given
notice to mortgage lenders that
foreclose on homes: Maintain the
properties or face fines.
Farmington has amended its nui-
sance ordinance to require banks
and brokers that own abandoned
homes to keep them up. The com-
munity of 10,400 is about 15 miles
west-northwest of Detroit.
City Manager Vincent Pas-
tue says Farmington has about 50
homes in foreclosure, and about 40
percent of them are abandoned.
Pastue tells the Detroit Free
Press the law that took effect Thurs-
day requires lenders to have trash
removed and grass cut. They also
must hire managers to monitor the
properties each week:
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama says reaching out to
enemies strengthens U.S.

Obama calls for
closer ties with
Cuba, Venezuela
PORT-OF-SPAIN, Trinidad (AP)
- Defending his brand of world pol-
itics, President Barack Obama said
Sunday that he "strengthens our
hand" by reaching out to enemies of
the United States and making sure
that the nation isa leader, not a lec-
turer, of democracy.
Obama's foreign doctrine
emerged across his four-daytrip to
Latin America, his first extended
venture to a region of the world
where resentment of U.S. power
still lingers. He got a smile, hand-
shakes and even a gift from incen-
diary leftist leader Hugo Chavez
of Venezuela, and embraced over-
tures of new relations from isolat-
ed Cuban President Raul Castro.
"The whole notion was that if
we showed courtesy or opened up
dialogue with governments that
had previously been hostile to us,
that that somehow would be a sign
of weakness," Obama said, recall-
ing his race for the White House
and challenging his critics today.
ORDER
From Page 1A
Andrew Dalack, spokesman for
Order and co-chair of Students
Allied for Freedom and Equality,
wrote in an e-mail interview.
The core values of this year's
22-member class, as highlighted in
a press release, are "leadership and
character, passion and commit-
ment and diversity and humility."
"The class of 2010 looks forward
to improving Michigan through
an enduring commitment to hum-
ble service," Dalack wrote in the
e-mail.
While the club never officially
released its class list before 2006,

"The American people didn't
.buy it," Obama said. "And there's a
good reason the American people
didn't buy it - because it doesn't
make sense."
Still, Obama made sure to inject
some go-it-slow caution and clear
expectations for U.S. foes as he
capped his trip to twin-island
nation of Trinidad and Tobago
with a steamy outdoor news con-
ference.
On Cuba, he said Castro should
release politicalprisoners,embrace
democratic freedoms and cut fees
on the money that Cuban-Amer-
icans send back to their families.
Obama has lifted some restrictions
on Cuba, and Castro responded
with a broad, conciliatory over-
ture.
"The fact that you had Raul
Castro say he's willing to have his
government discuss with ours not
just issues of lifting the embargo,
but issues of human,rights, politi-
cal prisoners, that's a sign of prog-
ress," Obama said. "And so we're
going to explore and see if we can
make some further steps."
He did not, though, offer any
sign of lifting the crushing U.S.
trade embargo on Cuba, as many
the organizations records and his-
tory are open to the public.
Despite previous conflicts, the
organization is currently regis-
tered with the University and can
be found on Maize Pages.
Even though information about
the club is readily available, order
prefers to act silently.
"While some of our activities
are listed publicly, we seek to serve
Michigan without recognition,"
Dalack wrote.
The club, founded in 1902, was
referred to as Michigamua from
its inception until 2006, when the
group changed its name to remove
its allegedly racist reference to a
Native American tribe.
In 2000, during a takeover of

Latin American and U.S. lead-
ers want. Obama acknowledged
that the ti.S. policy in Cuba for
the last 50 years "hasn't worked"
but said change will be gradual.
In Washington, both Democrats
and Republicans said Sunday that
they wanted to see actions, not just
rhetoric, from Cuba.
"Release the prisoners and we'll
talk to you. ... Put up or shut up,"
said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.
"I think we're taking the right
steps, and I think the ball is now
clearly in Cuba's court," said Sen.
Claire McCaskill, D-Mo. "They
need to respond and say what
they're willingto do."
As for Venezuela, Obama's
friendly encounters with Chavez
at the summit drew intense
publicity - partly, Obama said,
because Chavez is good at getting
in front of TV cameras. Chavez's
anti-American rhetoric has, in
the past, led Obama to call him a
demagogue.
Obama returned to Washington
early Sunday evening. But even
before he got back, Obama was
facing condemnation from some
Republicans about how he dealt
with Chavez. "I think it was irre-
Michigamua's office in the tower
of the Michigan Union, Students of
Color Coalition discovered Native
American tribal artifacts in the
group's meeting space. The coali-
tion claimed Michigamua was
in violation of a 1989 agreement
between the University and Native
American tribes to not use native
artifacts and rituals.
And while the reasoning behind
the possession of these items was
never confirmed, the club perma-
nently vacated the office in the
tower of the Union after an extend-"
ed occupation of the tower by the
Students of Color Coalition.
The same year, Michigamua
began considering women for
membership. Current members

President Barack Obama shakes hands with Venezuela's President Hugo Chan
Friday during the Fifth Summit of the Americas.

sponsible for the president to be
seen kind of laughing and joking
with Hugo Chavez," said Sen. John
Ensign, R-Nev.
The president brushed that
aside, noting that Venezuela has
a defense budget about one-six
hundredth the size of the United
claim that the club was not ruined
by the scandal, despite the contro-
versial past. The group says it has
grown from the experience and is
dedicated to repairing the broken
relationships.
"We do not intend to dismiss
the past; rather, we look forward
to building and strengthening
relationships with groups that are
affected by certain aspects of the
organization's history," Dalack
wrote.
Pride 2010 joins a group of the
University's most prestigious
alumni.
President Gerald Ford was a
member of the Order and Michigan
football coach Bo Schembechler
and University presidents Angell,

States' and owns the oil company
Citgo.
"It's unlikely that as a conse-
quence of me shaking hands or
having a polite conversation with
Mr. Chavez that we are endanger-
ing the strategic interests of the
United States," Obama said.
Henry Hutchins, Alexander Ruth-
ven, Harlan Hatcher and Robben
Fleming were all honorary mem-
bers.
More recent reputable members
include Indianapolis Colts Run-
ning Back Mike Hart and Miami
Dolphins Tackle Jake Long, U.S.
Olympic gold-medalist swimmer
Peter Vanderkaay and Dallas Stars
Goalie Marty Turco.
Other secret societies atthe Uni-
versity include the Phoenix Senior
Honor Society and Vulcan Senior
Engineering Society, both of which
do notrelease membership lists.
- Daily Editor in Chief Gary Graca
was tapped to join this year's class
of Order but declined the invitation.


TRANSFER
From Page 1A
do our best."
Mosena said that when she final-
ly managed to meet friends - who
mostly live on Central Campus - it
was more difficult to socialize with
them because she lived on North
Campus.
Adam Runkle, president of the
Organization for Adult and Trans-
fer Students, a student organiza-
tion dedicated to helping transfer
students adjust to life at the Uni-
versity,said many transfer students
have voiged similar concerns.
"I have had several students
complain of their placement on
North Campus because it hinders
their ability to maintain a social
life with other students on Cen-
tral," Runkle said.
Runkle, an LSA senior, said
many freshmen or non-transfer
students living on North Campus
already have a social circle, and
+hatft +maes- it ex+remely hard

for transfer students to adjust.
When LSA senior Tae Won Um
first arrived at the University, com-
ing from Korea, he understood that
he would probably have to learn
new customs, styles and slang. But
the culture shock that normally
comes with moving to a foreign
country was only exacerbated, Um
said, because he was placed in Baits
I on North Campus, isolated from
many of his fellow students.
Um transferred from Hankuk
University of Foreign Studies in
Seoul, South Korea, last year, and
said he has had trouble adjusting
to life at the University because of
where he lives.
"As an LSA student having all
classes on Central Campus, it was
neither a time-effective nor social-
ly engaginglife," he said.
With the libraries on Central
Campus having more resources
related to, his studies, he said, his
placement on North Campus made
life that much more challenging.
It also forced him to be conscious
of +the s cedule owhen Leoing to

study.
"The University needs to con-
sider more carefully when putting
students into dorms," Um said.
Jennifer Brown, an LSA junior
who transferred from Grand Valley
State University at the beginning of
this year, said she has mixed feelings
about her experience as a transfer
studentresiding on North Campus.
Brown was placed in North-
wood III with many other transfer
students that she said she probably
wouldn't have met if she lived on
Central Campus.
"Itiskindofnicetobe livingwith
other transfer students because
we are all going through the same
transition, and it is nice to have
others that you can relate to close
by," she said. "However, I know a
majority of the other students in
Northwood probably have not
had the same experience."
Brown saidshe also felt unnec-
essarily isolated living on North
Campus.
"Adjustingto a new college for
the-ndAtimecnhedifurtaI

it is," she said. "And feeling isolated
from the rest of the campus makes
the transition a little more difficult
than necessary. Especially when a
majority of my peers are lining on
Central and/or have already estab-
lished their own friendships, living
on North makes it harder to try to
mingle with other juniors."
In order to meet more students
and become more "connected"
with - Central Campus, Brown
joined Alpha Gamma Delta soror-
ity shortly after she arrived on
campus.
"North can be a deterrent to
becoming involved in academic
and social organizations," she said,
and joining the sorority has helped
her become more involved with
student activities.
LSA junior Kaitlin Terpstra-

Sweeney, who transferred from
Pasadena City College in Padadena,
Calif., said she couldn't completely
adjust to life at the University of
Michigan until she moved away
from North Campus at the end of
her first semester.
"It was a pretty lonely experi-
ence (living in North Campus),"
she said. "I just had transferred
this year from California, and
because I transferred from so far
away I didn't know anyone."
Terpstra-Sweeneysaidshemade
the decision to move off of North
Campus because she "wanted bet-
ter opportunities to meet people
and make friends," and since there
was anopeninginthe MarthaCook
Building, she grabbed it.
And, she said, "It has made a
world of difference."


I

4A - Monday, April 20, 2009

Opinio

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
i 420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
On the right track
Government should adopt plan for nationwide railroads

We cannot rebuild this economy on
the same pile of sand."
- President Barack Obama, commenting on his plan to redefine American capitalism,
as reported on Saturday by The New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I0E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
ntrodctorygreetiersona attack eeled by The punch ine. Sometimes
towed by aquery concernga ad anger tloinga humorous
a current event orfinals. hses e tension ote strip. coincidence in language like
a o t.A teaisa g."g:
e Atypical*coeseroatee S n hlsighted *an
a response. Usually blunataa "a nersso yySilence and a ~rW.8 %as>
" Oa 0 0
a 0
-111 * * .*il-11111 17 111 1111

t's no secret that the University of Michigan is stranded in the
middle of the Midwest. In cities like Ann Arbor and Detroit,
it's easy to feel disconnected from other metropolitan areas.
Students needing to travel often complain about the current options
being limited, expensive and inconvenient. Thankfully, President
Barack Obama has recently announced plans to build a nationwide
high-speed rail network of 100 miles per hour-plus trains. This
network would connect Ann Arbor to Chicago and Detroit,
providing students with much better options for sampling other
cities. At the same time, the plan would conserve energy and
create needed jobs. Such a plan should be implemented quickly for
the good of students, workers and the state.

Administrators need a lecture

The proposed plan identifies 10 cor-
ridors, one of which is the Chicago hub
network that would connect Chicago with
other metropolitan areas in the Midwest,
including Detroit. The broader goal of the
proposal is to relieve the congestion on
highway and airport infrastructure by giv-
ing travelers an efficient alternative in the
form of speedy, electric-powered trains. In
addition, the plan will also create short-
term and long-term jobs for the upgrading,
construction and maintenance of the rail-
road infrastructure.
With Ann Arbor on the Chicago-Detroit
rail route, this would make it easier for stu-
dents to get to Chicago and beyond much
faster than they do now. Besides opening up
new destinations for everyone, this could
also help out-of-state and international
students by giving them an option of flying
from Chicago, which can be cheaper than
flying from Detroit. But all students benefit
from easier options to travel long distances
in shorter amounts of time. Being located a
mere 2 hours from Chicago gives students
in Ann Arbor much better access to the
world outside the University community.
The state of Michigan also stands to
benefit from this plan. The high-speed
rail network would create both short-term
and long-term employment for Michigan,
which is dealing with the highest unem-

ployment rate in the country. The state
does not have an efficient and affordable
public transportation system to speak of.
This project would give it a much-need-
ed boost in infrastructure by connecting
parts of the state to Detroit, and Detroit
to other metropolitan counterparts in the
Midwest. This creates greater connectivity
between everyone who lives in Michigan,
which will undoubtedly be helpful as the
state inches toward economic revival.
A reliable nationwide rail network
would also ease the demand for air and
road travel and decongest clogged airways
and highways. And in doing so, it will make
the United States cleaner and greener. The
electric-powered trains would reduce
dependence on vehicles that burn harm-
ful fossil fuels. Reducing the number of
cars on the road and planes in the air could
decrease both air pollution and greenhouse
gas emissions.
While the plan has its critics, high-speed
rail networks like the French TGV and
the Japanese Shinkansen have been suc-
cessful, and there is no reason why such
a model can't be replicated in the United
States. This is a sound investment, from
an economic as well as an environmental
standpoint. It's an investment we need to
make to get our state and our country back
on track.

A fter University representa- funds - known informally as the "B", and employees as'
tives walked out of an Apr. "C" and "Super C" funds -to cover the What really ma
1 meeting that was meant to other classifications of faculty raises, the University's p
settle the nine- like getting promoted from assistant is that Frumkin so
month-long dispute professor to associate professor. about lesson play
with the Lecturers' Obviously,the relative sizes of these LEO held a full-I
Employee Organi- funds will vary from year to year. Apr. 6 and 7. Tha
zation over a dis- But over the last four years, accord- feelings all arount
crepancy with this ing to internal University documents long list of grieva
year's lecturer sal- obtained by LEO and the Michigan have traditionally
ary raises, it's clear Daily (University officials and LEO job security, lackc
that the grievance seek arbitration to settle dispute over pay.
will only be settled pay raises, 04/02/2009), the size of the
by outside arbitra- PATRICK A fund has steadily shrunk from 62
tion. What is also O'MAHEN percent of the pool to less than 38 per-
clear is that even if cent while the combined C and Super W hy 1
the University wins C funds have grown from 20 percent
in arbitrationthe actions of high-level to 41 percent. should r
administrators have been shortsight- This appears to be an ongoing effort
ed. Their vindictiveness and incompe- by the administration to shortchange cheat its e
tence has further poisoned an already lecturers. Even as the pool for faculty
long-strained relationship between raises roughly doubled from $1.98 mil-
lecturers and the University, which lion in 2006 to $3.64 million in 2009,
will result in not only more acrimoni- the average lecturer raise has lan- So what have w
ous contract talks next year with LEO guished below 15 percent for the same LEO members
but also during the 2010-11 school time period, the threat of actior
year with the Graduate Employees' Last Friday, I asked Director of versity back to th
Organization. (Full disclosure: I am Academic Human Resources Jeffrey because adminis
the former communications chair for Frumkin if the University had been grievances serio
GEO, and a current member.) . ready to offer a monetary settlement tantly, since ad
On Mar. 12, the University denied to.LEO on the raise issue. been abusing the,
a grievance filed by LEO, prompting He told me, "Let's put it this way limit pay, they'll oj
a union-organized teach-in on Mar. - it would have been inappropriate year seeking to sc
31 and Apr. t in which lecturers would to come to a meeting without a settle- ary article. That,
spend 10 minutes of their class dis- ment offer." tions onerous, to s
cussing the issue. But the University didn't let him remember that sim
In response, the University threat- offer it. After having received one ern raises in the4
ened to file an unfair labor prac- complaint from a prospective student the-University -V
tice complaint if LEO went through about a lecturer who conducted the 2011 GEO-Univers
with the action. Then, on Mar. 30, it teach-in hearing-that LEO had called tentious as well.
offered to meet and discuss the issue it off, someone from a "higher level," . So congratulati
on Apr. 1. as Frumkin put it, instructed him to in trying to make
At its core, the salary dispute cancel the meeting. have yet again sho
between LEO and the administration To translate, someone in the Pro- on labor relations
is over the distribution of money for vost's office, to which Frumkin aches do you hav
faculty raises. In practice, raises for reports, decided to call off negotia- you learn that it
lecturers at Ann Arbor are tied to the tions. with your organi
increase of the "A" fund, which is a Apparently,theUniversitytakesthe tryingto cheat the
general pool of money that LSA uses to opinipns of prospective students quite
provide merit-based increases for fac- seriously. I just wish it would listen to - Pa
ulty members. The college uses other the opinions of its current students reached at p
KENT HOFFMANV
Innovation during crisis

well.
kes the sincerity of
ontification suspect
aid no one told him
n deviations when
fledged teach-in on
t leaves us with ill
d - on top of a long,
nces that lecturers
y had about lack of
of respect and lousy
the 'U'
not try to
employees.
elearned?
learned that only
m will force theUni
e bargaining table,
trators don't take
usly. More impor-
dministrators have
current contract to
pen bargaining next
rap the current sal-
will make negotia-
ay the least. Finally,
nilar provisions gov-
GEO contract with
which will make the
sity talks more con-
ons, administration,
a quick buck. You
t yourself in the foot
s. How many head-
e to endure before
costs less to work
zed employees than
em?
trick O'Mahen can be
omahen@umich.edu.

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

LETT ERS T

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Basketball QB would be a
terrible choiceforMichigan

so much as taken a snap in four years and that
he knows nothing about our offensive system
He's Duke's point guard! No self-respecting
Michigan football fan wants to root for him.
In fact, we would rather he transferred to one

TO THE DAILY: of our opponents
I and thousands of like-minded alumni say the opportunity
no, no, a thousand times no to the idea of Greg sion.
Paulus playing quarterback at my beloved
university. Has Rich Rodriguez truly lost his Patrick Gilhool
mind? Never mind the fact that Paulus hasn't Alum

so that our defensive line has
to pound him into submis-

4

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
JASON MAHAKIAN E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU
Goe s D 1 101 scm -oes tvse I
Br )' STo zAP NordEsTHA T Arr-aR5.
ye IrINL mA(55I ret-Nc
ANP isv vO' s00 P .CT bF0
YoUR. cae i 6r a .AvLYWAr
j l~- ar rr WW T Ff5.P ~KwAhP
1a, IT ur' 1nunuau
LU A L 5 H E E5ALHF YVEF<
° EAL

The other day, I bought a copy of the magazine Foreign
Policy at the local Borders and read the cover article on the
"Axis of Upheaval."After finishingit,Ewantedto armmyself
immediately, buy enough food for at least 40years and con-
struct a nuclear silo 20,000 leagues under the sea. World
destruction seemed imminent. Then, I decided maybe the
world's fate wasn't so dire - maybe Foreign Policy was just
publishedby over-anxious war hawks. SoI picked up a copy
of the magazine Foreign Affairs and read about Russia's
rapid destabilization and anticipated battles in the Indian
Ocean over sea control with burgeoning Indian and Chinese.
naval fleets.
At this point, I stopped reading and turned on the televi-
sion. CNN was showing pictures of a glacier in Antarctica
falling into the ocean as some really confused penguins
stared on in disbelief.o
I decided to take a nap. Between economic catastrophe,
international destabilization and climate change, there isn't
much to be optimistic about these days.
America finds itself in a precarious position, surround-
ed by rising international powers as it negotiates a tricky
financial crisis that has laid waste to the economy. But with
every crisis comes opportunity, and I think that the Obama
administration would do well to utilize this current melt-
down to make some fundamental changes. No, I'm not advo-
cating for universal health care, the nationalization of banks
or redistributive wealth programs. But if the Obama admin-
istration focused on using this crisis to spur investment for
new alternative-energy research or to help redesign our
infrastructure for a future without petrol, then America
could prepare to take an active role in world leadership on
combatingclimate change..
It's no secret that America hasn't been smitten with cli-
mate change initiatives over the last two decades, declining
to sign the Kyoto Protocol and emitting greenhouse gases
at a rate greater than any other country except China. But
with American businesses lining up outside the Congressio-
nal gates looking for bailout money, the Obama administra-
tion and Congress would have a perfect opportunity to help
alter practices within large American companies. Normally,
I'd be completely opposed to any government attempt at

regulating big business beyond health and safety code. But
in asymmetric economic conditions, when failed compa-
nies need taxpayer money to continue operating, I have no
qualms with tyingstipulations to bailout payments - stipu-
lations thatcould require companies to devote a certain per-
centage of the bailout money to alternative energy research
before receiving Uncle Sam's check.
The government is already encouraging private action
through General Motors and Segway's new P.U.M.A. cre-
ation. Part-Segway, part golf cart and part-rickshaw, the
P.U.M.A. attracted much attention during its recent beta test
in New York City. This was obviously an attempt by General
Motors to garner some positive PR, since many Americans
view the car manufacturer's troubles as a result of clue-
less management and cringe at the idea of taxpayer money
being used to help subsidize GM operations. But the idea
of using crises to help encourage new and innovative ideas
is very important. Given high barriers to entry for vehicle
manufacturing and energy development, the private mar-
ket would be unlikely to produce new and innovative ideas
without substantial subsidies. A project like the P.U.M.A. or
the Chevy Volt could require large government investment
to bring to market. Using the bailout money as a means of
enticing change in America's large companies would create
an opportunity for new projects that could help prepare our
infrastructure for the future.
To solve the climate change issue with any efficacy
beyond mere political rhetoric or pieces of purely symbolic
legislation, American private industry will have to fun-
damentally change. Whether that innovation begins with
companies like GM spurred on by stipulations tied to bailout
money or, perhaps more likely, with small entrepreneur-
ial start-ups focused on fuel-cell or bio-mass energy is not
important. What matters is that our government realizes
that no solution to the climate change issues will come from
congressional legislation, cap-and-trade systems or Al Gore
documentaries. Any real solution to the climate change issue
needs to disseminate directly from private industry, and this
crisis is a perfect opportunity to begin that transformation.
Kent Hoffman is an LSA freshman.


Agha Monday, April 20, 2009 - 5A

I The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Mil ey's major mishap

T V/N W I OLM
YouTube your
summer bredk

Cyrus's big-screen
debut adds nothing
to her already
shallow alter ego
By ANNIE LEVENE
Daily Arts Writer
Growing up just isn't what it
used to be. Past
generations
could look to
realistic depic-
tions of ado- Hannah
lescent angst Montana:
in movies like
"Pretty in Pink"
or TV shows At Showcase fa-
like "My So- and Qualityl6
Called Life" for Disney
lifelike portray-
als of teenage
life. These teens were moody and
flawed (ew, zits) - just like their
real-life counterparts.
Nowadays, gritty image of
teenage life has been glamorized
beyond all recognition. Singers
like the Jonas Brothers and Taylor Hannah does Montana.
Swift sing about heartbreak and
coming-of-age drama, but it's like- dollars. Likewise, shows like "Gos-
ly the biggest problem these phe- sip Girl" and "90210" flaunt teens
noms face is finding time between with perfect bodies and unlimited
fancy vacations and award cer- cash. These teen idols are hardly
emonies to count their millions of relatable figures for the typical

morals and a big old smile. Miley
Cyrus is Disney's go-to girl, and
her TV show "Hannah Montana"
is crazy-popular with the tweens.
In the past few years, Cyrus has
gone from daughter of a one-hit
wonder Billy Ray Cyrus to singer,
actress and, apparently, writer -
because there's nothing the world
needs more than the autobiogra-
phy of a 16-year-old. Cyrus's suc-
cess in, well, everything made a
big-screen adaptation of her TV
show not a question of "if" but
"how soon?"
The film, which follows the
same general plot as the TV show,
is about normal girl Miley Stew-
art (Cyrus) who happens to live a
secret double life as famous pop
star Hannah Montana. Complete
with a sassy best friend, a wacky
older brother and a loving single
father, Miley's life is basically per-
fect, save the difficulty of manag-
ing her famous alter ego. In the
film, Miley gets a little too caught
up in her fame-loving Hannah
mode - cue an over-the-top fight
with Tyra Banks regarding shoes
- and is shipped off to Tennessee
for some good old fashioned coun-
try lessons about life.
Much like Cyrus herself, the
movie has a shiny fake veneer of
perfection. Rarely does the life of
Miley (both the character and the
See MONTANA, Page 8A

awkward teen.
Disney has a history of churn-
ing out ready-made "role models"
in the form of actors and singers -
the "next big thing" with perfect

'Telekinesis will move you

ouTube isn't just for
laughing/crying/cursing/
exploding/drugged-up/
vomiting/dancing/lip-synching -
breath - babies/
penguins/
trucks/celebri-
ties/preteens/ "
monsters/game-
show contes-
tants/coworkers
anymore. It's
now your salva- JAME
tion from my BLOCK
high expecta-
tions for your summer television-
watching schedule.
If I ruled the world, you would
all spend this summer watching
the first five seasons of "Lost," all
three seasons of "Arrested Devel-
opment," the sci-fi miniseries "The
Lost Room" and season one (I'll
spare you the rest) of "Heroes." But
it has been broughtto my attention
that some of you enjoy such luxu-
ries as eating and sleeping to such
a great extent thatyou would forgo
those higher TV pleasures. So for
you disillusioned readers, Iwill
direct you to the wonderful world
of the YouTube series.
The YouTube series is a mag-
nificent thing. As Britney Spears
would innocently put it, it's-not
a viral, not yet a TV show. A
series usually consists of 10 or
so five-minute episodes that you
can watch in a single evening or
space out for the entire summer
if you've got the willpower. They
range from the product of three
guys, two cases of beer and a shit-
ty old video camera to the work of
C-list celebrities with too much
time on their hands.
Now, obviously I wouldn't be
bringing these up if I didn't have
some in mind for you already.
Being the hoity-toity elitist I am,
I can't help but recommend the
classiest of YouTube's offerings.
First up is "The Guild," a tale"
of some misfits wholly absorbed
in their unnamed "World of
Warcraft"-esque video game.
There's the nursing mother who
finds going on raids more impor-
tant than removing the surge
protector from her infant's mouth,
the guild leader who clearly lost a
lot of money in a pyramid scheme
and the meek, redhead protago-
nist who one day opens her door
to see one of her fellow guild
members with blue roses and a
marriage proposal. With good
production values, decent acting
and an annoying-beyond-all-
reason theme song, "The Guild"
will entertain anyone who has
ever been or ever wanted to be a
complete nerd.
tfslayinggnomes and bring-
ing your own cheese to a cheese-
burger joint aren't your thing,
then maybe I can interest you in
the pseudo-how-to series "You
Suck at Photoshop." You can learn
to superimpose a picture of your
marriage license on a van wind-

shield, edit a wedding band off
your deceitful ex-wife's finger,
add a cat urine stain to your car-
pet and more. But the clincher is
that, despite the evident marital
problems the protagonist Donnie
hopes to edit away, he actually
teaches legitimate Photoshop
tools, because "you suck at Pho-
toshop - now let's waste another
five or six minutes of my life and
see if we can do something about
it." Waste of Donnie's life? Maybe.
Waste of yours? Most certainly
not.
For those who scoff at or at
least appreciate the potential
humor in the soap-opera melo-
drama, I've saved the best for you.
The subject matter of "Horrible
People" is exactly what it sounds
like. Throughout the story of a
money-grubbing mother trying to
marry off her son to a rich fam-
ily, one character is found to be
a chocoholic, at least four people
get killed, fecal matter takes a
starring role and a man tries to
impregnate a passed-out bride-to-
be with a turkey-baster. In other
YouTube beats
eating and
sleeping on any
summer day.
words, standard soap fare, hut in
five-minute bites.
These should be more than
enough to tide over the eaters
and sleepers among you. If not,
you can always check the other
nominees for best YouTube series
from the last two years' YouTube
awards (apparently we award
pretty much everything these
days). And come to think of it,
those of you who have the time to
get through all my other recom-
mendations probably have enough
time to get through these too.
So go and enjoy the freedom
of summer. Lie on a towel on the
beach, umbrella overhead and lap-
top beside you. Bask in the rays of
the sun and the glow of the screen
as you watch Donnie move a cat
from the couch to a trash bag.
Or spend the summer making
your own series. It's the perfect
chance to live out those this-
would-make-a-sweet-TV-show
dreams you probably have if
you're taking the time to read this
column. Who knows? You could
be the next winner of the presti-
gious YouTube award.
And with that on your resume,
you might actually be able to get a
job next summer.
Block wants you to star in his
YouTube series. For a role, e-mail
him at iamblock@umich.edu.

By MIKE KUNTZ
Daily Arts Writer
While many would argue the slew of bands
emerging from the Pacific
Northwest these days capture
a sound unattributable to any
r single place or time (see all
press regarding Fleet Foxes), TelileSiS
there's undoubtedly a certain Telekinesis
breed of power-pop inextri- Merge
cably affiliated with every-
thing Chris Walla (Death
Cab for Cutie, The Decemberists) touches. He's
clearly found a winning formula, and now, it
appears, an apprentice.
The eponymous debut (just add exclama-
tion point!) from Merge Records greenhorn
and Death Cab acolyte Telekinesis, also known
as 22-year-old Seattle native Michael Lerner,
is a promising exercise in pop songwriting,
with Walla's uncongested arrangements giv-

ing the production just enough edge to keep all
the head bobbing hipster-friendly. With each
song tracked and mixed to analog tape over
the course of a single day, the album carries
a unique sense of movement and spontaneity
that is immediately enthralling: To put it sim-
ply, the album has legs.
Lerner is a self-professed fanatic of the Far
East, though he has never actually been there,
as he confesses in "Tokyo": "Only in my dreams
/'Cos they're all I know." The standouttrack is
a triumph of pop songwriting, reworking well-
worn melodies and progressions (The Strokes'
"Barely Legal" in particular) with its own
endearing brand of meat-and-potatoes power-
pop. Making the most out of basic arrange-
ments, Walla and Lerner layer the few overdubs
to create just the right amount of punch. The
careful mix of brevity and high velocity always
spells desire for repeated listens, and "Tokyo"
is a textbook example of the craft.
"Rust" starts the album off on a lo-fi note,

and its eerily reminiscent of a home-recorded
Death Cab demo - softly strummed acoustic
guitar, sparse piano recorded a room away, Ben
Gibbard-esque vocal stylings and all. Lerner
has obviously taken many cues from the Death
Cab playbook, but ditches their more atmo-
Making pure pop
interesting.
spheric tendencies for a frenetic locomotion
more befitting his youth. And, for the most
part, it works.
The album's momentum relies heavily on
song sequencing, and the careful crescendo of
the first four tracks, reaching a head with the
See TELEKINESIS, Page 8A

Discovery sells infomercial personalities

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily Arts Writer
Hi! Carolyn Klarecki here for
Daily Arts to
tell you about
Discovery Chan-
nel's latest show,
"Pitchmen!" Pitchmen
Billy Mays's Wednesdays
signature catch- at10 p.m.
phrase - "Hi! Disovery
Billy Mays here
for (insert prod-
uct)" - has made him a national
icon. He has managed to convince
millions of people they absolutely
need bizarre items like OxiClean,
the Bedazzler and Mighty Putty.
Of course, the next logical step
for the world's most famous info-
mercial tycoon is his very own TV
show, where he can yell at vulner-
able consumers for a full hour -
not bad for a guy who first starred
in two-minute commercials.
Mays and lesser-known British
pitchman Anthony "Sully" Sullivan
help hopeful inventors and entre-

preneurs make a fortune by offer- tions to his jealousy of Mays's own
ing their salesman services to help celebrity status. An annoyed Sulli-
promote new products. "Pitchmen" van claims Mays is the worst pro-
shows how they decide what prod- ducer he has ever worked with and
ucts to endorse and what goes into when Mays overhears, sparks fly.
making obnoxious commercials. But wait, there's more! When
The biggest selling point of Mays is too afraid to let a three-ton
"Pitchmen" is Mays himself. car drive over his hand for a dem-
Everyone can recognize his big
black beard and booming voice,
but this show gives a glimpse of
the man behind the products. And
there's little question he's very
entertaining.
Mays and Sullivan are constant-
ly at odds. Sullivan, the organized
one, tries to get Mays toprepare for

onstration on the shock absorbency
of the insoles he's endorsing, Sulli-
van steps in as a stunt double. With
stunt doubling and petty fighting,
the hosts of "Pitchmen" are almost
as amusing as actual celebrities.
There might be a perception
See PITCHMEN, Page 8A

But wait,
there's more!
a shoot, but Mays is too busy greet-
ing fans. Mays is something of a
diva, attributing Sullivan's frustra-



I

6A- Monday, April 20, 2009
the michigan daily

CLASSIFIEDS

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

pa rking _
025
...!!!!!!!t PARKING!!!!!!!!!!!!
We got"YOUR" spot at one of our
"Prime" lots! Call 734-761-8000 for
the locations & rates!
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
or rent

Houses Available
for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400

7 Bedroom Houses
.e 1-406 E. Jefferson $3,850
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!! 1220 Prospect $3,850
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom. 334 Catherine $3,850
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405. 6 Bedroom House
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/ 952 Greenwood $3,600
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE (May or Fall Lease)
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fimess room and much more. 741-9300 4 Bedroom Houses
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3 1
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet 942 Woodlawn $2,060
space, gragne pkg, HD Directs with 624 Church $2,995
LDVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapa mentsnet 1300 Broadway $2400
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and Offering a $500.00
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405. gift card to a store of
!ONLY ONE REMAINING!
AVAIL FALL 2009!! SPECIAL your choice with every
RATE!! signed lease of these
1 bdrm.(can live 2 people) -715e o s
Church St. Across from East Quad!! available houses!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished or
unfurnished. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking. 6
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask6
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
$$ FOREST PLACE $$
Reduced Rents-721 S. Forest
Great location!
Furnished, heat, water & parking 100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
included! Three bedroom house, two car garage,
**FREE Internet** sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
734-761-8000 washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
primesh.com bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
$0 SECURITY DEPOSIT or $411 parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
OFF RENT on remaining spaces at 4 ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
Eleven Lofts - 734.998.4400 EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
4elevenlofts.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn, apts. 402 Hill St. &
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease*** 1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm. heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
REDUCED RENT, 3 & 4 bdrm. apts t1111 S. State, -Near UM bus stop,
Fall 09. Fun. Free heat. Central Cam- Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657 incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
2096 or visitfwww.um-housig.com $1450-$1750, No stmkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
1001 5. FOREST ebtseng@comcastonet
" Great Campus Location! ___________________
' Large 2-bedrooms for 2 - 4 people! FALL RENTALS: 1 bdrm-$700, 2
' (734) 668-1100 bdrm-$1100. Heat, no smoking/pets.
- www.varsitymanagment.com 502 E. Kingsley. 734-455-1487.
Apartments Availabe!
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
I eases 6r NMay and SSpacious apts., great location,
Se ptem ber Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Vote #1by MichganDaily
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-220 or
www.Baronbrook.com, 734-665-5620 info@postrealtyproperties.com
RELEASE DATE- Monday, April 20, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 37 Unhealthful 52 One whose job is
1 Good-sized piece 1 Opening forta skyline obscurer fitting?
Of meat coin 39 Scatter 55 Religious
5 Play-of-colorgem 2Tibet's Dalai _ 41 Give permission offshoot
9 To the left, atsea 3 Statewith 42 2007 William P. 56 Wheel shaft
14 Volcanic output conviction Young 57 Ollie's sidekick
15 White House 4 Fruit high in Christian-themed 59 Gillette razor
staffer potassium best-seller 60 Gator's cousin
16 Medium for 5 Acorn producers 45 Summer in 62 Sheltered inlet
FDR's fireside 6 __ colada France 63 Garden site in
chats 7 Big fusses 47 AOL, for one Genesis
17 Sign of things to 8 Hannibal the 50 Cruise ship stop 64 Malicious
come Cannibal 51 You cant get out gossip
18 Start of many a 9 Genesis craft this way" sign 66 Suitable
corysoke 0reakefast stack ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 OHara's estate 1t Olactory
21 Flavorful reception B A R B A R O A D D A F I
22 Canadian tribe 12 Pilafgrain O V E R T A X U N E AT E N
23 Neighbor of Swe. 13 Casino gratuity I
205Scatsinger 1g9NASCAR's petty L I B R AR Y ONAROL
Fitzgerald or Busch T O E DEMO T E D M I A
27 Start of a 24 Gives a E N C L R O L E X S I N N
trucker's thumbs-up D I C E K R E D DAZE D
communication eFllbehind C A T A L O G J I V E S
34 Crude inn 27 Oe loking
gusher manners S T A N V I D A
35 Sea World 28 Fastenerfor CAN ID DUGONG S
performer Rosie D A F O E S O L K NEE L
36eHeredity units 29tpper crus 5SD G 1T S U RDG E A T N O
3e "Meamorphoses" 0Msic genre in H M N M D E A
woet the'hood
40 Like milk on the 31 Jewelry in the A B A T I N G R E C I T E S
floor 'hood RAN INTO I NGRATE
43 Outside, as a 32 China's Zhou_- P R I N T A D A S S E N T e
chance 33 King's tenure xwordeditor@aol.com 04/2n/en
44 Kno again
46 Classicgrape 1 2 5 s e a 1u) 11 12i1a0
soda
48 "Fourscore and a01 16
seven years _

49 Start ofaa sound2
man's mike
check 23 24 26 26
53 Cancun cash
54 Pampering n 2 e29 n 3 r31 en 2 e
plume
55 Manuscript encl. 4 e e 37
58 Remove by
percolation 3 a 4n 4r 42 4a
61 Kepttfrom
swelling 44, 45 46 47 48
e5 Startola2
newsboy'scry 4S Ctysar525
e7cg Cryear 4
68 awery aener 6 s 8 59 6 1 B 3 6
68 Jenerytauener en se en se se en e1 e2 en en
69 High-performance
camaro e en So
711 Finished
71 Church belief en e6976
72 Bulletin board
sticker 71 72C7
73 Monthly
expens n y David w.Cromer4/2/09
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

1350 GEDDES ACCROSS from
CCRB Large single family house. Too
mucs to list. 734-475-277
martbalt@comcast.net
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ]dry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM APT. May - Aug. Packard @
Greenwood. $990. Pkg, wshr, dryer
incl. 734-717-2935.
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $162/mo.
Furn, heat/water intl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
325 E. JEFFERSON- $3995.00 per
month or $499.00 per person for you
and 7 of your closest friends! The liv-
ing room is HUGE and features a built
in bar for entertaining! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
I BDRM. & EFE APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609J
331 CATHERINE
' 6-bedroom house for 6- 8 people!
" Kerryown! - need we say more?!?!
" Or separate 3-bdrm apts; well accom-
modate you!
'(734)668-1100
" www.varsitymanagment.com
331 PACKARD
- 2-bedroom May - May!
1-bedroom private entrance and porch!
" (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2200 +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2100/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
401 EAST MADISON - I bedrooms
availabletMay fore 625-84 per month.
Close to he Business and Law
Schools as well as the Michigan Union.
Some offer hardwood floors and some
include parking. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
418 E. WASHINGTON
" Grad Students Galore!
' Mature, quiet study environment!
"(734)668-1100
" www.vrsiymanagement.com
515 & 521 Walnut
" CCRB & CC Litle bus sop so close!
1 &2 bdms of all shapes and sites!
'(734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
526 PACKARD!
' Just off West Quad!
" Huge Balconies, Huge 2-bdrms over-
looking Packard!
' (734) 668-1100
' www.varsitymanagement.com
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios 1 6 bdrm. houses in all I-
cations. Please contct Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9637.
9%P
S e' d and
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
wwwantnarbrapartment .net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

Wilson~hite
R ENT SALE!
ALL INVENTORY MUST W.
New reduced rates available
May and Fall 2009 availability
Bring this ad to lease signing and we
willwaive the application fee and reduce
secriy dpsitlonne onth's ret I
I 616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www wilsonwhitemanagement.com
Rooms, studios, and1-to t-hedroom
houses and apartments.
Great Central Campus locations!
CALL TODAY!
611 CHURCH - Need to get a room?
$800 a month fully furnished including
heat, water, and electric. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL 109. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, only I
mo. sec. deposit. By Packard and Arch.
$3000 neg. plus aili.734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine.
only 1 mo. sec. deposit. 3 1/2 baths,
A/C, 4 prekg. spaces, 2 living rms.
$3000 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
816 PACKARD - 5 Bedroom/2 Bath-
room Bi-Level apartment one block
from the Business and Law schools.
Fully furnished unit offers spacious
bedrooms, a newer kitchen with dish-
washer and A/C. Some original wood
work, plenty of windows for natural
sunlight, and a front porch! Available
May 09to August '09 at
$1200/month and September '09 to Au-
gust 10 at $2995/ month; other leases
may also be considered.
For more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
848 TAPPAN
" ON Central Campus near B School!
' Huge 2-bedrooms, cozy 1-bedroom!
'(734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
Tower Plaza Condominium
e&ecu Hs O ekfitmCampus
Call Brian Tomsic
734-663-530
904 S. FOREST at Hill, apt. # 2. Avail
May 09 or Sept. '09-'10, 4 bdrms, com-
pletely updated. 734-475-2577
martbalt@comcast.net
917 PACKARD
" Business & Law School so close!
" Every ap oho patio or balcony!
' (734) 668-1100
" www.varsitymanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CmpusMgcm, the best
local website for she best selection of
apartments and houses. We specinlize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
aredactively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
AMAZING 5-7 Bedroom house for
rent, everything has been remodeled,a
complete rehab. 3 full bathrooms wih
slate tile in each. Hardwood floors
though out the house. Ikea kitchen with
stainless steal appliance's. Wash-
er&Dryer included. New frnace/AC,
and a working fire place. Tons of park-
ing. $4,000 a month Contact me if your
interested and or would like to see
some pictures. 734-368-2763.
jonathon travis@sbcglobal.net
SIGN THIS MONTH,
& SAVE BIG!!!
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
AVAIL 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 dnrn., and 2 bdrm. ap w/

security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrm
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdns. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com

AVAILABLE MAY LOCATION!
Corner of South Forest and South U.
Rooms-eff. 1/2 bdrms. 734-996-2836.
CASHIERS WANTED PART-TIME
nights and weekends. Apply in person
after 6 pm at Quickie Burger at 800 S.
State St. 734-222-4555.
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., ldry.,
bath., internet. Rent for Summer $300,
Fall $440. Call 734-276-0886.
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE located
near Geddes and South University. Can
accommodate six. Contact Michigan
Realty at 734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com EHO.
FURNISHED ROOMS FOR rent -
all util. incl. Free phone, cable and high
speedintemet call Alan 734-649-7015.
FURNISHED/UNFURNISHED ONE
AND Two Bedroom apartments avail-
able for May, walking distance to
Michigan Union $595-$1145. For
more details contact Wilson White
Management at 734-995-9200.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
April 30th. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot Heat and water intl $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates &'Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
SPACIOUS 5 BDRM. apt. 1114
ProspectL Modemn hitch., 'central A/C.
Free dry. $2650+ util. avail. May. 734-
665-2723. shahtiger@hotmail.com
LET'S MAKE A Deal! We have Effi-
ciencies up to 6 bedrooms available for
May, all reasonable offers
considered. For more details call
734-995-9200 and please see available
apartments at
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
1015 W. HURON & 801 W. Madison
 Great Old West Side location!
"'Large 1 & 2-bedrooms!
S(734)668-1100
- www.varsitymanagement.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Cawpus
PRIVATE 2 BDRM Loft, Downtown
734-662-7888.
arsity
Mansgenaent
625 Church St
173) 68-1100
aiLoa w Steisuts
Varslilas

NORTH CAMPUS
Don't Miss Out-2 Bdrm.
Affordable reduced rates
Quiet ,beautiful location'
411 High Street
Call today to see your new home
734-761-8000.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Reduced Rates
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
326E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Frest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400
7,Bedroom Houses
406E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood'$3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Hoases
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses..
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
tated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tourat
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
em visit our website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
ROOM FOR RENT in nice, clean
condo. Females only, non-smoking.
$350/month Sept-Sept incl. util. Free
prkg and lndry. For more info contact
Rachel at rachelvg@umich.edu
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS.
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimming pool. Pet friendly!

I

GrsaLlcsfam
Grat mcsl
Grat Ilqhasl
ON No a srsehnllOld

a

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one businessday prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per linefor the first issueand $1.75 per line for each additional
consecutiveissoa
" Frequency and Bulk contracts areuavailable- contactour staff for details
" Studentsmay receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-businessadsoonly)
All ads mustbe prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
' We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Displayadvertising, please call one of our Account Executives

a


N c ,

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Briggs-Bunting, director of Michi-
NEWSPAPER gan State University's School of
From Page 1A Journalism.
She said because The Ann
place in their area. Arbor News is morphing into
a twice-weekly print publica-
ANN ARBOR'S MEDIA tion with a heavy online empha-
FUTURE sis - in addition to Ann Arbor's
affluent, Web-savvy makeup
There was an outcry when Lau- - residents will be fine reading
rel Champion, the publisher of The their news online.
Ann Arbor News, announced the "The biggest concern when a
paper would shut down after its city loses its paper is Web access,"
174 years of existence. Briggs-Bunting said. "In a place
But despite the disappointment like Ann Arbor, that's not as much
many have expressed because of of a concern."
the impending closure, the general Aside from AnnArbor.com and
consensus among analysts seems its print counterpart, The Michi-
to be that the city of Ann Arbor gan Daily will continue to pub-
- more so than most - is ready lish on weekdays from September
to embrace the next generation of through April and maintain its
news. online presence. The Ann Arbor
"People have been very under- Chronicle, a year-old, Web-only,
snending," said Champion, adding blog-like source on city affairs,
that she had Peturned calls from also contributes original reporting
around 100 town residents and to the city.
members of the media regarding In short, experts say the media
the paper's future. "There's defi- landscape in Ann Arbor appears
nitely a sense of mourning for The to be changing, but not dying out
Ann Arbor News. But then as you completely.
get to the end of your conversation "Most newspapers are making
with the residents, they say, 'You money from their websites," said
know, this AnnArbor.com thing American University Journalism
sounds pretty cool."' Prof. Amy Eisman, who has done
AnnArbor.com is the website consulting for several major news-
that the paper's management papers trying to make the shift
announced will largely replace the from print to the Web. "It's just
print version starting this sum- that those papers aren't making
mer. enough to sustain an entire print
For now, Ann Arbor is on track organization and newsroom."
to become the largest city in the
country to lose its primary daily HOW SMALL TOWNS SUFFER
newspaper this year.
For most cities comparable in The very thing that Briggs-
size to Ann Arbor - which has Bunting said will keep Ann Arbor
about 100,000 residents - there residents informed - Web access
would normally be more concern - is what could prevent smaller
about the loss of the daily newspa- communities from gathering the
per. One would think, with a major information they're used to hav-
metropolis just a half hour away, ing.
other news organizations would be People in places like Ann Arbor,
rushingto Ann Arbor to fill the gap where about 70 percent ofresidents
that will be left behind by The Ann over the age of 25 hold a bachelor's
Arbor News. degreeorhigher, arewellequipped
But with both the Detroit Free to read online-only coverage. The
Press and The Detroit News facing community's affluence is among
their own financial turmoil, that the key reasons AnnArbor.com
isn't very likely, said Don Nauss, will soon replace The Ann Arbor
managing editor of The Detroit News, Champion said.
News. But in many cases, the nation's
"Traditionally in this situation, recession has forced newspapers
I think, we would have made a play to cut back print publications in
for Ann Arbor by adding reporters markets that aren't prepared to
and doing more advertising there," make the shift to online yet.
said Nauss, adding that he and A town like Newton, Miss.,
other executives at his paper were which in January lost its
caught off guard by The Ann Arbor 107-year-old daily, The Newton
News's closing. "About 10 years ago Record, is one such example. The
or so, we had more resources and town of 4,000, which is about an
were still looking to expand. But hour east of the state's capitol
I just don't know that we have the in Jackson, is Ann Arbor's polar
resources to do it right now." opposite. In Newton, just over 12
Editors at the Detroit Free Press percent of residents hold a bach-
did not return phone calls request- elor's degree and nearly a fifth of
ing comment for this story. its residents are living below the
Even without the major metro poverty line.
newspapers making a concerted "The closing of the newspaper
push into Washtenaw County, here was very abrupt and didn't
Ann Arborites who want to stay give the residents a chance to
informed on city issues should be brace for it," said Newton Mayor
able to for the most part, said Jane Michael Pickens, who said the
the michigan daily

paper was a casualty of slump- task of watchdogjournalism would
ing advertising sales and the be affected in any way because of
town's poor economy. "Once the the smaller staff, Champion said,
newspaper closed, we scrambled "Absolutely not. We're going to be
for about two weeks to see if we providing the information in a dif-
could fill that hole." ferent way, but we're not giving up
The paper won't be restored, but on the traditional local watchdog
Pickens said his town was fortu- journalism role."
nate because another paper in the Others were skeptical about
county was in good enough finan- Champion's assertion.
cial shape to hire a pair of report- "If they (AnnArbor.com) are
ers from The Newton Record. only rehiring a fraction of their
Those reporters have been tasked staff, there's no way the staff
with covering Newton in hopes of can accomplish all the same
filling that void. things they did before," said Uni-
Newton is just one of many versity of San Francisco Prof.
towns across America to see its Teresa Moore, who teaches in
lone paper vanish. According to the media studies department
Paper Cuts, a blog that tracks the and spent 10 years reporting for
print newspaper industry's woes, the now-endangered San Fran-
87 American newspapers have cisco Chronicle. "There's no way
closed or gone online-only since for the skeleton staff to do the
New Year's Day. Most of those things the community has come
papers served rural communities to expect from them."
with limited populations. Moore said AnnArbor.com
Boston University's Mitchell could play a strong watchdog role
Zuckoff, a journalism professor, in the community, but only if it
said it would be a mistake for most chooses to focus solely on thattype
newspapers to do what The Ann of reporting.
Arbor News and Seattle Post-Intel- ProPublica, a New York City-
ligencer have done. based, online-only outlet, hastaken
"There's a huge risk involved that very approach. The two-year-
in jumping to online-only. It can old site, which employs 28 investi-
definitely be done too soon," said gative reporters, offers its stories
Zuckoff, who was nominated to major media outlets in hopes of
for a Pulitzer Prize in investiga- garnering recognition and, in turn,
tive reporting during his time at advertising revenue.
The Boston Globe. "You risk los- ProPublica managing editor
ing your legacy readers, who have Stephen Engelberg; an Ann Arbor
traditionally gonse out to the end native and former investigative
of the driveway or the mailbox reporter at The New York Times,
to get a print copy. It's premature said he believes more groups will
to think that every community is adopt his outlet's model, which is
ready to automatically migrate to funded by The Sandler Foundation
the Web." and donations from online read-
Zuckoff's point is especially true ers.
in Pinckneyville, Ill., a town of "The way we're dojng it -
5,500 that lost its paper, The Dem- through pure philanthropy - is not
ocraf, in March. After the paper going to be possible everywhere,
folded, residents there couldn't go but I expect that we will see more
online - the 140-year-old paper independent, Web-based, investi-
didn't have a website. gative reporting," he said.
"This sort of thing leaves a huge Pinckneyville, Ill., illustrates
hole in a small community like Engelberg's point that in some
ours," said Pinckneyville Mayor places, democracy is already in
Joseph Holder, who has lived in danger. The town has no reason
the town all 60 years of his life. to expect that another paper will
"We have no idea how to fill that sprout up anytime soon. And as for
void right now. It's going to take thelocalnewswebsite,well,there's
awhile." a better chance that another news-
paper may come along before that
DEMOCRACY AT RISK? happens.
Holder, the town's mayor, said
Industry experts were unani- papers from other towns parachute
mous in one sense: each said news- in every now and again by send-
paper closings anywhere, paired ing a reporter to a city council or
with the loss of reporters, are a school board meeting, but that the
threat to democracy. coverage ends up being "sketchy at
For that reason, people will take best" and "not adequate at all."
great interest in what happens Asked whether he, as a politi-
with AnnArbor.com's . coverage cian, was happy that no media
later this summer. Can the site, outlet could closely scrutinize his
with only a fraction of the paper's work, Holder laughed.
current staff, be anywhere near "I guess when you're mayor of a
as hard-hitting as The Ann Arbor smallplace like this, you don't have
News? much to hide," he said. "I'd rather
Champion, who will act as have a reporter grill me with hard
executive vice president of AnnAr- questions to let my town know
bor.com, believes the website can what's going on than have my peo-
accomplish just as much as the ple in the dark wondering what's
print product. When asked if the going on."

BUDGET
From Page 1A
Last week at Coleman's monthly
fireside chat - an event to which
a group of students are invited to
meet with the president and to ask
questions and share concerns about
the University - Royster Harper,
vice president for student affairs,
told students about her experience
with the budget conference this
year.
"We went into our budget meet-
ing, and we had squirreled away a
little money, and so the issue on the
table when we got there was 'What
are you going to do with all this
money?' she said. "We had squir-
reled it away for specific things that
we knew we were going to have to
replace or some equipment, so we
had our little list."
Harper said because the bud-
get she had presented looked too
large, she was forced to go back
and outline more specifically what
the money would be used for, so the
provost could review the budget
more carefully.
"When she saw the budget, it
was big at the bottom," she said.
"So we had to go back, make our
list and show her exactly why we
'didn't have what looked like a lot of
money."
Sullivan said after budget con-
ferences are finished, she joins her
budget team in reviewing the list of
priorities from each school or office
to determine what may be feasible
for the following year. At the same
time, Sullivan said her budget team
will review ways to control expens-
es through cost containment.
"If we can contain costs, that
makes a big difference in the bud-
get," she said, adding that the Uni-
versity has eliminated $135 million
in expenses over the past six years
because of cost containment.
The approximately $135 mil-
lion in savings has been due to
measures like changing how the
University orders and distributes
supplies, increasing energy effi-
ciency at several campus build-
ings and alternative strategies for
managing employee health care
benefits.
Sullivan stressed that in order to
protect the University financially
from year to year, cost containment
measures have to be permanent
solutions. For example, the Univer-
sity has renegotiated several con-
tracts with suppliers to gain more
favorable prices and switched to a
direct-delivery system -eliminat-
ing the need for a central office on
campus to deliver office supplies to
various schools and offices.
Sullivan said one-time cuts can
create a structural deficit - mean-
ing the expenses may return the
following year requiring the Uni-
versity to make deeper cuts or raise
revenue streams, like tuition, more
dramatically to cover the costs.
The University has had an equal-
ly long-term approach to other
aspects of its financial planning.
Approximately two years ago the
University switched from a five year
rolling average on payouts from its
endowment to a seen-year aver-
age to better insulate the Univer-
sity's endowment from changing
winds in the nation's economy. This
means the 5 percent annual payout
from the endowment is based on
the past seven years' performance,
which mitigates temporary spikes
or dips in stock markets and other
investments.
Coleman and Sullivan both said
the same conservative approach
would be taken with any money the
University might receive from the
federal stimulus package. Instead
of using the money to cover exist-
ing operating costs, both said the

money would be used for one-time
expenses, since the money would
not be available in the future.
Sullivan said throughoutthe pro-
cess she also receives advice from
multiple advisory groups that are
convened to offer advice about the
budget. Two such advisory boards
include the Student Budget Advi-
sory Committee, which consists of
students from campus that meet
with Sullivan on a monthly basis,
and the Prudence Panel, which has
members from the faculty, staff and

Monday, April 20, 2009 - 7A
students on campus:
In a meeting with Sullivan and
some members of the Student Bud-
get Advisory Committee last week,
committee members explained the
committee has met approximately
six times since it was founded last
fall. The committee, Sullivan said,
was created to bring a student voice
into the budget process and help
students learn about the Univer-
sity's budget process.
The Prudence Panel, which was
also formed earlier this year, is a
committee of faculty, staff and stu-
dentsthatmeetswiththeprovostto
discuss ways to cut expenses from
the general fund.
Sullivan said although the com-
mitteesmaynotmakerecommenda-
tions on cost-cutting strategies that
can be immediately implemented,
their recommendationsmay be able
to help cut costs in future years.
After all the recommendations
and budget proposals have been
received and discussed by the pro-
vost's budget committee, the pro-
vost and her staffwill work to create
a budget that will balance expenses
with expected rvenues.
Revenue streams to the Univer-
sity include appropriations from
the state, tuition paid by students,
endowment revenue, research
grants, and other fees charged for
services.
Some sources of revenue can be
restricted for certain activities. gor
instance, most endowment funds
are given by donors for a specific
purpose and can only be used for
that purpose, whether it be student
scholarships, endowed professor-
ships or special programs at the
University.
Other funding from the Health
System and the Athletic Depart-
ment is used by those entities and
does not enter the general fund -
excluding funds from the Athletic
Department that pay for student-
athlete scholarships and money
contributed for general financial
aid.
On the other hand, state appro-
priations can be used for any pur-
pose at the University. Coleman
said the fact that state appropria-
tion money isn't earmarked for any-
thing makes it especially valuable
to the University because it can be
used for any purpose.
Since 2002, the University has
lost $36 million of state appropria-
tions in nominal dollars and more
than $100 million in total of state
appropriations in real dollars -
which are adjusted for inflation
at the Consumer Price Index for
Detroit.
Sullivan said it can be very dif-
ficult to predict revenue levels
because the University finalizes its
budget in June, butthe state doesn't
finalize its budget until the end of
September - making it hard to pre-
dict state appropriation levels.
"We go to our board in June, but
thestatebudgetdoesn'tgetwrapped
up until Sept. 30 so we have to make
a guess everyyear about how much
we're goingto get," she said.
Last year was the first time the
budget was presented to the Uni-
versity Board of Regents in June.
Previously the budget was not pre-
sented until July. Sullivan said she
instituted the change so incoming
freshmen know their tuition rates
earlier in the summer.
Sullivan said in the past, esti-
mates have not always been accu-
rate, but that she tries to estimate
conservatively to ensure drastic
measures like a mid-year tuition
increase aren't necessary.
For example, Sullivan said last

year the University's estimates
were wrong last year, but that the
decision was made to absorb the
difference internally as opposed to
further raisingtuition.
"I have to be the most conser-
vative person about the budget on
campus," Sullivan said, "because if
I get it wrong, we all pay the price
for 12 months, maybe more."
The regents have unanimously
approved the University's budgets
- including those for each of the
University's three campuses and
the healthsystem- for the pasttwo
years. However, in 2006, Regent
Andrea Fisher Newman (R-Ann
Arbor) opposed each of the budget
proposals.

FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. $350/person or best offer.
Right near bus stop. 513-315-6273.
estesb@umich.edu
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLET
2 Bdrm. available, 2 Bath., Kitchen,
Living Roam, Wshr./Dryer, FREE
parking. 1012 S. FOREST! $350 + utili-
ties. arinch@umich.edu

HOME MADE SWEETS delivered
Sin days a week- To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
WRITE YOUR LIFE STORY!
A creative writing workshop with Gail
Balden on May 30, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.
Ann Arbor Friends Meetinghouse
1420 Hill Street, Ann Arbor
www.creativrjoaroeys.nel
503-368-7807
HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
h wanted
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
torrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
OCCASIONAL HORSE BARN help,
strong fix-it type pref. 995-0092.

FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply w
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
OWN A COMPUTER? Put it to
Work! Up to $1,000 to $5,000/mo
PT/FT Free Info! www.ptibusiness.com
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-boor 15 mit.
session, pays $5. To qualify. mast be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkaiaida@med.umich.edu
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and fiootman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer-Make life long frends. be
Island Hlousc Hotl and Ryba's lFudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hlous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1(800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
CHILD CARE NEEDED for 2 year
old & 2 mo. old. Mon. and Wed. after-
noons and every other Sat. Trans. req.
734-883-4705.
M ALUMS SEEKING child-care in
Ann Arbor for children age 6 & 7.
Mid-June to Aug, Mon-Thurs. Please
email halljc@trinity-health.org

For Tuesday, April 21, 2009
ARILS
(March 21 to April 19)
People will enjoy your company and
your enthusiasm because you're full of
energy and charm today. This is a great
day to schmooze and also to make a
wonderful impression on others.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
You feel confident and aggressive
about financia matters. For tbatmtter
yei feel unusually calm, content and
confident about many things today. (It's
a feeling you have within you.)
GEMINI
1May21 toJune 20)
Enjoy this popular day! In particular,
group activities will delight you. You're
in the mood to schmooze, but you also
feel physically energetic and super posi-
CANCER
(June 21 toJuly 22)
You make a great impression on
bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs today.
Others think you're hot! A romance with
someone older, wiser or richer could
begin (perhaps your boss).
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You have grand ideas about travel,
escape and adventure. You've decided
that you want more out of life because
you want your life to be as exciting and
fulfilling as it can be!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Others might be very generous to you
today. This is a good day to discuss how
to divide something or deal with inheri-
tances and shared property.
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Exchsanges with purtnters and close
friends are lively and energetic, but they
are also warm and good-hearted. It's a
romantic, fun-loving day.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 231 Nov. 21)
Co-workers are supportive today.
You'll enjoy making your workspace
more attractive. You might see new ways
of making money as well.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
This is a wonderful day for play,
romance, vacations and fun activities
with children. Spoes and sporting evetts
mitt hr equally enjoyable. Get oat there
and have some fun!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Put some energy into making where
you live look more attractive today. Ttis
is also a great day to entertain at home.
All family events will be lively and
rewarding.
AQUARIUS
(Ian. 2010o Fob. 18)
You can be estremely persuasive
today when talking to others. It's a great
day to act, teach, write, sell or market
anything. Do anything that requires
excellent communication skills, because
you've got them!
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
This is an excellent day for business
and commerce. Trust your moneymak-
log ideas. You also might be pleased
with purchases that you make today.
YOU BORN TODAY Excellence mat-
ters to you because you value your dig-
nity and yourgood name. You love beau-
tiful things, but you also need to have
close relationships with others. You
understand power and how to use it.
You're excellent with money. This year
something you've been involved with
foe the past nine years will diminish or
end it order to make room for something
Bitodaterof: James McAvoy, actor;
Patti LuPone, actress/singer; Queen
Elizabeth II, British royal.

know the total cost of the dam-
CRIME age, but that the glass in the front
From Page 1A door alone costs about $1,000 to
replace.
shattered the door he ran away and Police apprehended the man out-
entered a nearby house, at which side the nearby house, and he now
point Carmody yelled for someone potentially faces charges for mali-
to call the police. cious destruction of property and
Carmody said he does not yet minor in possession of alcohol.
HANDY WITH A CAMERA?
JOIN DAILY MULTIMEDIA.
E-mail davazad@umidh.edu

0 2009K ing Features Syndicate, Inc.


8A - Monday, April 20, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

8A - Monday, April 20, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONTANA
From Page 5A
starlet) getntoo serious or too real. While she may strug-
gle with "tough" decisions, like whether to go forward
with her Hannah duties or keep a dinner date with a
cutie cowboy - allowing for a montage in which Cyrus
changes clothing multiple times and annoyingly ruins
everyone's meal - there's little question everything
will work out in the end.
Miley will have her pink bedaxzled cake and eat it
too. Lest things get too intense, most of the supporting
characters in the film serve as mere comic foils, play-
ing for cheap laughs regarding runaway ferrets and
bottom-biting alligators. Miley may play pretend when
she is Hannah Montana, but her "home life" is hardly
more realistic.
'The film's only saving grace is Vanessa Williams
(TV's "Ugly Betty"), who plays into the movie's campy
vibe, projecting some fun into her portrayal of Han-
nah's savvy manager. Her snark is the only real humor
found in the film apart from the hilarious befuddled
faces of confused extras. Cyrus herself, while an OK
singer and actrels,is unsurprisinglyunlikable as Miley.
She acts spoiled and selfish, but, in the end, says sorry
and all is forgiven - hardly a true-to-life example of
teenage rebellion.
The film tries hard to tell audiences that Cyrus is a
relatable example of teenage life. Perhaps one just has
to walk a mile in her jeweled cowboy boots, butit's hard
to find a connection between the fantasy world of Han-
nah Montana and the real drama teens face. She might
just be a product of a more cosmetic generation of teen
idols who celebrate glitz over substance, but the adults
behind the production should have knownbetter.
TELEKINESIS
From Page 5A
one-two punch of "Tokyo" and "Look to the East," is
enough to keep listeners pleasantly on edge through-
out the first half of the album. Fortunately, the first
side packs enough firepower to keep the album afloat,
its particular strength countering the lackluster songs
that round out the disc.
Naturally, the album's quieter, duller moments are
revealed on its second half, after the sugar high of the
first has worn off. Here, one of the major hurdles of
pop records is revealed: How can a record keep listen-
ers interested throughout? Lerner has no answer. The
weaker songs decorating the album's second side feel
half-formed and uninspired. Tracks like "Great Lakes"
and "Calling all Doctors" seem hollow; the melodies
don't stick nearly in the same way and are easily throw-
aways in the face of the radio-ready "Coast of Carolina"
and the '50s pop balladry of "Awkward Kisser."
Luckily, the album ends with the pleasant, albeit
anticlimactic "I Saw Lightning." It highlights Lerner's
folkier tendencies, with just an acoustic guitar accom-
panying his admittedly thin voice to reveal a naked-
ness otherwise unexplored on the rest of the album.
Though it's easy to dismiss pop songs as trite or
derivative, it's damn near impossible to pinpoint what
makes them so infectious in the first place. The sound
is so much like Death Cab that Chris Walla may as well
have written half of these songs himself. Still, there's
no doubt that Michael Lerner brings a quality and
a knack for the pop craft all his own. Hopefully, the
future finds Lerner's Telekinesis moniker carving out
its own niche in the modern power-pop landscape -
but surrounded by such good company, he may never
need to.

4

4

uct doesn't sell well, he's happy with his current life
PITCHMEN and insists that - even if he were a millionaire - he'd
From Page 5A never move out of his trailer park.
Discovery knows that infomercials have a dirty
reputation and turns up the pathos to hide the fact
that these guys are no better than the slime on Wall that these commercials trick people into paying
Street - that is, they only care about getting rich ' $19.99 for a worthless piece of junk. Though a noble
quick off some crazy money-making scheme. With effort is made to conceal the truth, it's often easy to
the state of the economy and America's problem see right through their rotten tactics.
with over-consumption, it's hard not to wonder if Infomercial products and their endorsers have
this "industry" is merely taking advantage of naive somehow become a staple in pop culture. Further,
people. In "Pitchmen," however, Mays and Sullivan Mays has become the center of an odd American
do their best to refute that notion by emphasizing fixation. YouTube is full of infomercial parodies and
how their products improve lives, which they do by videos of him doing everything from ordering break-
showing the people behind the inventions. fast at a drive-thru window to simply falling down.
It's hard not to root for the inventor of the GPS With this bizarre fascination, "Pitchmen" is sure to
Pal, an old Texan who lives alone. Though his prod- satisfy curiosity - and it's absolutely free!

To c
Jame
of th
Moi

and
e the n
ard (19'
:eton 1

mmunity t
contribution
z009) as he de
ersity Art Mus
4-6 pm

en House
'UMMA Direc
s for the dire
a.

en Please c
es well in h

C,
(Ka

Tuesday May 5th!
Cinco de Mayo "Progressive
Pricing" starts early.
Get there at 3pm on May 5th
for 50t. tequila shots. Prices
go up 50c every hour and
stop at $2.50 for the rest
of the night.
Special bonus for people 1
waiting in line! More news
to come...

learn. explore.discover.
SUMMER in BOSTON
Summer 1: May 19-June 26 Summer 2: June 29-August 7
SUMMER TERM is more than a chance to get ahead in your studies-
it's an opportunity to expand your horizons. Find over 600 courses in
more than 70 subjects, taught by Boston University's award-winning
faculty. Learn more today.
Call 617-353-5124 Visit bu.edu/summer

Check out the BTB Cantina
Cinco de Mayo Facebook
Event for details.
fCINco p MAYo!

Boston University Summer Term



The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I April 20, 2009
M' NOTE: FOOTBALL
Wolverines
no longer
0w
interested
in Paulus
The Michigan football team is no longer pursuing
former Duke point guard Greg Paulus, according to a
Scout.com report on Saturday.
On the Dan Patrick radio show on Thursday, Pau-
lus said he had an opportunity to compete at the
quarterback position at Michigan. He was at the
Wolverines' final spring practice Tuesday to meet
with Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez and talk about
potentially joining the team.
Paulus said that he has trained with the Green Bay
Packers as well as talked to several college teams.
An ESPN.com article from Wednesday reported
that Paulus had been offered by Duke football coach
David Cutcliffe the opportunity to try out for wide
receiver for the Blue Devils.
"He's a quarterback at heart, but there was no way 0
he was going to be able to compete and play quarter-
back for us," Cutcliffe said to ESPN.
Immediately after a FOXsports.com report broke
the story ofPaulus's visit to Ann Arbor, rumors began
to swirl about the point guard playing for Michigan
next season. Under NCAA rules, he could apply for
a waiver and, because he technically has one more
year of blanket eligibility, Paulus could come back to
college sports for one year should he choose to use it', I1
in a sport other than basketball.
Paulus was a highly touted dual-threat quarter-
back in high school, passing for 11,763 yards and 152
touchdowns.
Early-enrollee Tate Forcier, incoming freshman By COLT ROSENSWEIG through. They were expected
Denard Robinson and redshirt junior Nick Sheridan, Daily Sports Writer to win. No one expected us to
who is currently sidelined with a slight fracture in get second."
his right leg, will compete for the starting spot at MINNEAPOLIS - When Kelley had earned a 15.30
quarterback this fall. the final scores came up in floor score in Michigan's final
Friday night's men's gymnas- routine of the night, mov-
tics NCAA Championships, ing Michigan past both No. 2
the fourth-ranked Wolverines Oklahoma and No. 5 Califor-
U P, STreacted as if they had won. na. With that, the Wolverines
I think (my must memo- ploded in raucous celebra-
watched the ESPN broadcast For much of the season, No.
of me jumping up and down 1 Stanford was favored to win
t w o ag n s t like a sixth-grade schoolgirl the national title. But no one
screaming at the top of my expected Michigan to be the
couRTESvOFJACKDiSCHER w e had each other's voice when we got second," runner-up..Michigan finished
- (Top) Senior Ioe Catrambone performs a sophomore Thomas Kelley just behind the Cardinal's
straddle-L on the still rings; he later placed backs and We did it said. "We could possibly be 362.80 score with a 361.50.
iv a Mfifth in tb high-bar finals. (Middle)Senior happier than the first-place Defending national cham-
S ott Bregman competed in his first for the love of each Stanford team right now, just pion Oklahoma was just three
NCAAs since his freshman year. Boi am because of all we've been See NCAAS, Page 2B
By TIM ROHAN Sophomore ChrisCameron earned All-
Daily Sports Writer American honors on the floor exercise and other."
pommel horse afer helping lead Michigan
EAST LANSING - The Wolverines couldn't have to a second -place team finish. -Senior Ralph Rosso
set a better script for a memorable weekend series y
and the chance to halt their recent losing skid. osso p ovid es s{
Its opponent was Michigan State, a team nine o
games below .500. The Wolverines were set to retire h i
former pitcher Jim Abbott's No. 31 jersey before hits on biggest stage
Saturday's game. And to top it off, a win by senior
pitcher Chris Fetter on Friday would push him past By COLT ROSENSWEIG lineup so he could compete for
Abbott for fourth on the Michigan all-time career Daily Sports Writer the all-around crown a couple
wins list. weeks after finishing second
But Michigan (5-7 Big Ten, 21-16 overall) lost 8-7 MINNEAPOLIS - On the at the Big Ten Championships.
Friday in extra innings at East Lansing and 3-1 at morning of the men's gym- NCAA rules don't allow gym-
home on Saturday. It avoided a sweep by taking yes- nastics NCAA Championship nasts to exhibition events in
terday's away game, 9-2. team finals, the all-around competition, so
"You know they're trying so hard, so you just got to senior Ralph NOTEBOOK Cameron's score would have
play through it," Michigan coach Rich Maloney said. Rosso wasn't to count towards Michigan's
"You hope that before it's too late from a playoff stand- in the vault lineup., team point total.
point that somehow you find a way.... (The games are) But by the time Michigan's But it wasn't such a straight-
all big now. We've got a tough road to go. But never- vault rotation finished, he had forward decision. Rosso's vault
theless, the game of baseball, things can change." posted one of the teams best is worth over a point more
scores. than Cameron's. And though
See SPARTANS, Page 3B The Michigan coaching Rosso's handspring double
staff originally put sophomore front, one of the hardest vaults
Chris Cameron in the vault See ROSSO, Page 2B
p - I ,~dUO 10 ~ 1

iviicrngars most obscure national cnampion
Tiffany Ofili may be the most p.m., she reminded him, and he should be getting
prolific athlete in Michigan "I'm just waiting on Tiffany," he told his wife,
referring to senior Tiffany Ofili, Michigan's All-
sports history - and you've Everythihurd erf-past the hour after attending
SI probably never heard of her an event for the College of Pharmacy. Henry didn't
"I would wait until 8 p.m. to work with her if I had
t was the Friday before Easter and the Michi- to," Henry said.
gan women's track and field team had just Such concessions can be made for Ofili, who will
finished a grueling three-hour workout at quietly leave the women's track program as the most
the Indoor Track Building. prolific runner in its history and unarguably lay
The squad, feeling sore and By CHRIS claim to one of the most decorated careers - in any
looking forward to embracing ByRRIS sport, male or female - ever at Michigan.
the holiday weekend, filed out. HERRING
But coach James Henry didn't HUNTING FOR A CHALLENGE
leave. Instead, he waited for Daily Sports +h The main reason Henry has no problem with Ofili's
his next appointment. Editor lateness is that she tends to have a hectic schedule as
He killed time by stamping a a pharmacy student. The other reason he's OK with
SAID ALSALAH/Daily stack of letters that needed to be mailed and then CHRIS DZMOMAK/Daily her coming later has to do with her performance on
SeniorChris Fetter missed the chance to pass Jim Abbott on took a call from his wife, who wanted to know Senior Tiffany Ofili is a four-time national champion in the the track.
Michigan's all-time wins list with the Wolverines' loss Friday- when he'd be home for dinner. It was already 5:15 hurdles, her specialty event. See OFILI, Page 4B
CWPA CHAMPS . Y INDIVIDUAL FEATS
The Michigan water polo team toppled Sophomore Kylee Botterman took ninth on
archrival Indiana to earn its eighth straight floor in the NCAA individual championships,
CWPA championship. >>Page 3B good for All-American honors. >>Page 3B


I

2B - April 20, 2009

Sj9 rt Moday

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ffi V

The Daily may
e shrinking but
it can't disappear
Traditionally, the last Sports- 2005, if Michigan students wanted
Monday Column of the school year news, they had to turn to the Daily
has taken the form of alonggoodbye - at least if they wanted it for free.
froma(hopefully)soon-to-be-grad- I'm all for the proliferation of
uating senior information. And I don't want to
addressed to use this space to offer my opinions
anyone interest- on why the newspaper industry is
ed in listening. dying. The truth is, I don't have any
I'll refrain more answers than the next guy. If
from using that I did, I probably would have, you
format because, know, landed a job in the industry
if anything, this by now.
column should All I hope is that the changes I've
be about what NATE seen at the Daily in the last four
the Daily has SANDALS years don't mark the beginning of
meant to you, the end for this great college news-
the reader. ButI paper.
don't really have much to say about I'mnotconcernedthattheDaily's
that, either. decline in influence will negatively
So I sat down to write this col- impactme. I've already gotten more
umn with some apprehension, out of the Daily than anything else
doubting that I would have any- on this campus.
thing intelligent to offer. And I still Without the Daily, I never would
doubt I do, but the process made me have had the countless incredible
reflect on why I think the Daily is opportunities to cover interesting
still an important part of this cam- people, take amazing trips and,
pus, even if we don't realize it. most importantly, work with the
When I arrived on campus in people who became some of my
September 2005, the Daily was a best friends.
part of everyone's routine. There The Daily was important to me
it was every morning before class, for every reason other than seeing
offering some diversion to make mynameinthepaper,strewnacross
that nine a.m. lecture go by a little the floor in Angell Hall. The Daily
bit faster. was my outlet, my proving ground
The Daily of that time - and the and the place where I learned more
years before - was a behemoth about real life than any class I took
compared to what you see today. on this campus.
The print edition regularly had 16 I'm sure any senior reading this
pages. Sports fans could expect can say the same thing about the
to find an article on their favorite extracurricular they poured their
team two or three times a week, not time into over the last four years.
just after a game. So even if the Daily does nothave
Sure, everyone still picked up the a single reader at some horrible
Daily for the crossword, and by the point in time, I can only hope it
beginning of my sophomore year, doesn't completely disappear.
the Sudoku. But there was a lot of I've been lucky enough to have
good writing in the paper, too, for the Daily there for me for the past
anyone who cared to take a look. four years.
There's still an amazing level of Four years from now, I hope
quality in today's Daily. ButI worry the Daily will be there for another
that fewer people are takingnotice. student looking for a place to call
in the past four years, the Daily home.
has shrunk in size, laptops have
taken over classrooms and you can - Sandals wants to thank you,
get your news, if youhave any inter- the reader. He can be reached
est, from a dozen sources online. In at nsandals@umich.edu.

NCAAS
From pagelB
tenths behind the Wolverines,
with Cal coming in a half a tenth
behind that.
Just one big mistake could have
dropped the Wolverines to fourth.
But Michigan put together its
best meet of the entire season
when it mattered most, posting its
highest NCAA finish since 2000.
And for the second straight night,
the Wolverines posted their high-
est team score of the season.
"Pretty, much everything
clicked," senior Joe Catrambone
said. "We've never, ever hit this
high. It was just one great routine
after another."
As the gymnasts predicted all
year, pommel horse was a differ-
ence-maker. The Wolverines chose
to start on the bye rotation, mean-
ing their first event would be the
pommel horse. For some teams,
the pommel horse might exacer-
bate those first-rotation nerves.
Not Michigan.
The Wolverines knocked out
Rosso
From page 1B
in gymnastics, been inconsistent,
he knew he could hit it on Friday
night.
So the Michigan coaches decid-
ed to pull Cameron from the vault,
thus preventing him from com-
peting in the all-around.
"I just talked to the coaches
about what would be best for the
team," Rosso said. "Basically, if put-
ting Chris in was best for the team,
then put Chris in. Or if having a
little more difficulty would be bet-
ter for the team, then take a chance
on me. Chris could have easily been
All-American, national champion
in the all-around, but he was will-
ing to give that up for the team."
Through the thick, hot air of
Minnesota's Sports Pavilion on
Friday night, Rosso pounded down
the runway. He flipped a total of
three times off the vault table,
landing in a deep squat and taking
one step back to steady himself.
"I was a little nervous, because
I was pretty much putting myself
out on the line," Rosso said. "Either
I was going to eat my words or I
was goingto live up to them."
He lived up to them - his 15.70
score tied for Michigan's second-

5 of 6 hit sets, with sophomore
Chris Cameron anchoring the
rotation. He was competing with
an injured shoulder held together
by an extensive tape job, but he
performed as if nothing was out of
the ordinary.Afterhis 15.30 set, he
tilted his head back and whooped.
Following a picture-perfect
rings rotation, in which Michi-
gan's four top gymnasts all scored
a 15.00 or higher, the Wolverines
headed for vault. And in what
became the story of the night, all
six vaulters performed to their
potential.
Still, of the teams who had
already gone on the bye, Michigan
was third. And coming up next
was parallel bars, the event that
had given the Wolverines prob-
lems for over a month.
Senior Ralph Rosso led off.
Over his career, Rosso's trade-
mark has been his steadiness, and
his hits are usually so predictable
that they can be easily overlooked.
On Friday, he did exactly what he
was supposed to do - get Michi-
gan started with a solid hit.
The Wolverines built off Ros-
highest of the night.
All through the competition,
Rosso was a rock-solid foundation
for his teammates. He led off the
recentlytroublesome parallel bars
with a hit routine - and the rest
of the event squad followed with
four hits in the next five sets.
"We talked about needing to
get off to a good start (on paral-
lel bars), and Ralph's been that
guy all year," Michigan assis-
tant coach Scott Vetere said. "He
doesn't have a high start value but
he's clean. And he did just that."
Rosso was a spark on the rings
and floor rotations as well, start-
ing strings of Wolverine scores
above 15 on both events.
For the senior, who was part of
the team that finished eighth and
out of the team finals in 2006, it
was a fitting end to his career.
"To go from eighth to second,
it was quite an amazing journey,"
Rosso said. "Just everything that
we've gone through, from the dis-
appointment to our triumphant
success, it's been worth it all."
SYQUE-ING OUT THE COMPE-
TITION: When freshman Syque
Caesar tore his meniscus over a
month ago, his season seemed to
be over.
"Seemed" is the operative word
in that sentence.

so's success, as fourofthe nextfive
hit their sets. After senior Ryan
McCarthy stuck his dismount, he
began dancing and gesturing to
the fans to get louder. Cameron
bounced among his teammates
like an out-of-control Ping-Pong
ball after his 14.95'set, while Kel-
ley anchored with a 14.75.
When the Wolverines got to
high bar, the energy of team
and fans reached new heights.
Catrambone performed the same
set that earned him the Big Ten
high bar title, sticking his triple
backflip dismount. Kelley finished
the event with a 15.45 set, roaring
to his teammates.
"That was the moment for me
where I went crazy," Michigan
assistant coach Scott Vetere said.
"I think I could have jumped over
the high bar."
Heading into floor exercise, the
final event, Michigan was in third
behind Cal and second-place Stan-
ford. The two expected powers of
the night, Stanford and Oklahoma,
finished on rings and vault.
Michigan knocked out set after
set on the floor. Sophomore Ben

Baldus-Strauss finished his rou-
tine and ran in long leaps back to
his teammates' arms. Rosso, Cam-
eron and Kelley ended the night
with three straight scores above
15 - exactly what the Wolverines
needed to edge out the Sooners
for second place.
"You know, even though we got
second, this felt like '99 where
we won," said Vetere, who was
a freshman on the 1999 NCAA
Championship team. "You could
just feel that we were going to hit
routines. That's just a great feel-
ing and as a coach, I haven't had
that feeling since I was compet-
ing."
The Cardinal finished in first
place, but from the beaming smile
on the face of every Wolverine, it
was easy to believe they had won.
After the arena had emptied, they
even sang The Victors, the normal
celebration following a win.
"There were 15 of us, but
tonight we were one," Rosso said.
"We couldn't have done it without
each other. We had each other's
backs and we did it for the love of
each other."

4

:r

The freshman, who had been ond on high bar, the event in
singled out by teammates earlier which he was also an All-Ameri-
this season for his tremendous can last year.
improvement, was one of the keys "Those guys are awesome,"Vet-
to Michigan's second-place team ere said. "That's a one-two punch
finish. Though he started land- that's going to be at Michigan for
ing double-twisting vaults with another two years. Every other
consistency just before NCAAs, team, they're going to be scared,
he was in the lineup on both vault because they're only going to get
and parallel bars for team finals. better."
He put his hand down during RedshirtfreshmanAdamHam-
qualifiers the day before, but on ers earned his first All-American
Friday night, Caesar just took one title, performing with his usual
step, earning a crucial 15.65 score. smooth elegance on the pommel
Just one rotation later, he was horse for a seventh-place fin-
part of the Wolverines' dramatic ish. On the high bar, senior Joe
turnaround on parallel bars, post- Catrambone also received his
ing a solid 14.20. first All-American award, coming
SWEET SEVEN: In the individ- in fifth.
ual event finals on Saturday night, Senior co-captain Phil Gold-
five Wolverines brought home berg finished second only to Cali-
seven All-American awards. The fornia's Evan Roth on the rings,
five All-Americans tie a program performing one of his best rou-
high, and Michigan had an All- tines of the season. Each picture-
American in every event but vault. perfect strength position drew a
Thesophomore duo of Cameron round of cheers from the crowd,
and Kelley collected four awards. and Goldberg topped it off with a
Cameron came in fourth on the stuck dismount.
floor exercise and sixth on the "He just has the best positions
pommel horse, his dramatic flares in the NCAA," Cameron said of
on both events eliciting awed Goldberg. "Michigan is back.
whistles and shouts. We are here to stay. It has been a
Kelley became a regular in the decade since greatness, but great-
parallel bars lineup just a month ness is back and it's alive. We're
ago. On Saturday night, he fin- going to take this all the way.
ished third in the event and sec- No. 1in 2010."

4

4


2009-2010 Stanford Lipsey Awards
IMRAN SYED: Public Service Reporting
"Squandered Potential"
February 13, 2008
ANDREW KROLL: Investigative Reporting
"Perks for Profs on AthletiC Department Oversight Board Raise Concerns"
November 9, 2008

a
I
I

ii


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

' ' April 20, 2009 - 3B

Th MihgnDiy-mciadiyo Sp rs (f{Arl2,09-3

Michigan squeaks out
win at archrival Indiana
for eighth straight title

By AARON SHAW
For the Daily
Winning CWPA Western Divi-
sion Co-Player of the Week last
weekend wasn't enough for senior
captain Julie Hyrne.
She played her best game of
the year yesterday, according to
Michigan coach Matt Anderson.
With her five goals Sunday, includ-
ing a SportsCenter Top 10-worthy
no-look, over-the-head goal as the
first half expired, Hyrne led the
Michigan water polo team to a 9-8
victory over Indiana for the CWPA
Western Division Championship.
The win in Bloomington wasthe
eighth championship for Michigan
coach Matt Anderson and is the
Wolverines' 22nd straight win this
season.
"It has taken a lot of hard work
to do what we have done," Ander-
son said through the Athletic
Department. "I am very happy
because the girls played well, and
they deserved it. They need to
enjoy this moment and then turn
their focus to next weekend."
After rolling past Penn State-
Behrend 14-2 in Saturday's quar-
terfinals and Gannon 17-4 in the
semifinals, No. 1 seed Michigan
came out strong in yesterday's
final against tournament host and
No. 2 seed Indiana. Hyrne's goal
as the clock ticked down gave the
Wolverines a 7-3 lead entering
halftime.
"I knew there was about three
seconds left on the clock," Hyrne
said through the Athletic Depart-
ment. "Keller (Felt) set it and I just
tried to get off a quick shot."
The third period began with a
resurgent Indiana team pressing
hard for the first goal, but senior
goalie Brittany May was there to
make save after save. May had two
crucial stops two minutes into the
third period when the Wolverines
(30-8) were on a double-ejection
penalty kill.
"In California (attheAztec Mini
in San Diego last weekend), we had
rSFTBALL

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Sophomore Kylee Botterman took her second All-American honor in as nany years
Botterman takes
ninth at NCAAs

Kylee Botterman is on her way
to becoming one of the most deco-
rated gymnasts in Michigan wom-
en's gymnastics history.
The sophomore placed ninth
in the floor exercise at the NCAA
Individual Event Finals on Satur-
day in Lincoln, Neb. Botterman,
the lone Wolverine competing,
scored a9.7,whichwas wellbehind
Georgia's Courtney Kupets and
Louisiana State's Ashleigh Clare-
Kearney, who tied for first with
9.95.
It was Botterman's second
trip to the finals in as many

years. She finished eighth in the
nation on the uneven bars last
year. The New Lenox, Ill. native
is the first Michigan gymnast
to win the floor exercise title at
the Big Ten Tournament and the
NCAA Regional and take home
All-American first team honors
in the event since Calli Ryals in
2003.
Botterman scored a 9.875 at
the NCAA preliminary round on
Thursday.
The performance topped her
season average (9.802) going into
the weekend competition.

SeniorJulie Hyrne scored five goals yesterday to propel the Wolverines tothe CWPA championship

all these 6-on-4s and they didn't
score on us, so Matt (Anderson)
started to joke that we were better
at 6-on-4 than 6-on-5," May said
through the Athletic Department.
"It was pretty cool that I blocked
the first one. I tried to get it out of
the way so she couldn't push it in
or throw it.
"Even though she got the ball
back, everyone got right back in
position and it made it less hectic
and a lot easier for me to make the

second save."
Entering the final frame, the
Wolverines held a 9-5 lead. For the
first time since Mar 15, Michigan
was held scoreless for an entire
period.The Hoosiers(19-15) scored
just over a minute into the period,
again with 3:21 remaining and
again with just over a minute left
to pull within a single strike. May
stepped up and made two critical
saves, and sophomores Ryley Plun-
kett and Lauren Orth ran the clock

out with an impressive showing o
strong swimming and expert bal
control.
With the win, the Wolverine
continue their postseason ques
next weekend at the CWPA East
ern Championship in Cambridge
Mass., where they are expectec
to be at least the second seed. I
Michigan takes the championshii
crown, it will earn an automati
NCAA Championship bid for th
second year in a row.

Relaxed and fun atmosphere key in
olverines two-game sweep of Illini

SPARTANS
From page 1B
Having lost six
games and looki
'y Michigan sent its
for Friday's series
f ,Fetter pitched
11 and allowed just
while striking ou
s the effort.
t "What a greatjt
- ney said. "I didn't
, best stuff, and yet
d a champion.
f And that's
p the sign of a
c champion ...
e somebody who
pitches well
without even
having their
best stuff."
But after
Fetter's eight
stellar innings
helped the
Wolverines build
wheels came off
dipped into its b
that has happen
e this season.
- Sophomore T
d attempted to clot
s in the bottom o
f gave up two qui
e next batter bunt
Burgoon, who tht
d out of reach of se
n at first, giving th
a runs that tied the
In the 10th inn
d baseman Mike D
- run homer to snat
t. But the Spartans
n the bottom half w
t ed walk and a sa
. junior Eric Katz
n State (5-7, 14-22)E
e thon after scoring
- Michigan redsh
g Anthony Toth.
A "We hit a two-
you think, I meat

ney said. "They were down as they
could be atthat moment. And then
we just gave them life again."
Before Saturday's game, Michi-
of their last 10 gan retired Abbott's number, and
ng for a spark, Abbott threw out the first pitch in
ace to the mound front of a record crowd.
opener. "Jimmy's a very special per-
t eight innings son," Maloney said. "He was a
one earned run, great player for us, and this honor
it six batters in is very well deserved. It puts him
in a very elite class of people, and
ob he did," Malo- we're thankful for everything he
think he had his has contributed to our program."
t he pitched like Fittingly, the Wolverines'pitch-
ing was a bright
spot on the day
. they honored
"They're trying their legendary
ace. But it came
so hard, so you from a - rather
- unusual source.
just got to play JunioroAlan
thro h it." O aks made his
g first career start
for the Wolver-
ines and almost
matched Fetter's
a 5-3 lead, the Friday performance. Oaks pitched
when Michigan 7.2 innings, allowing three earned
rullpen, a trend runs and striking out four bat-
ed all too often ters.
"I was hoping (Oaks) would
Tyler Burgoon give us a chance to win, and he
se out the game did even more than that," Malo-
f the ninth but ney said: "I thought he was great
ck singles. The ... You know that gave our team a
ted the ball to lift, gave us a chance. And unfor-
rew the ball just tunately, like I said, we couldn't
nior Kevin Cislo get the big hit."
te Spartans two The Wolverines failed to cash
game. in on any of their chances Sat-
ting, junior first urday as they left 14 runners on
ufek hit a two- base, nine in scoring position.
ch the leadback. Even after the pair of disheart-
surged back in ening losses, Michigan found a
ith a bases-load- way to get back on track yester-
crifice fly off of day at McLane Stadium, where
man. Michigan the Spartans had been unde-
ended the mara- feated before the game. Katz-
g on an error by man allowed just two runs in 5.2
irt sophomore innings, and he benefited from
an explosive nine-run offensive
run jack and so effort to pick up the win and
n, c'mon," Malo- avoid the sweep.

By MIKE FLOREK exaggerated swings - after the ball
DailySports Writer was in Shaw's glove.
To many observers, the Wol-
CHAMPAIGN - Seconds before verines might have appeared to be
the starting lineups were an- unfocused. But to Michigan coach
nounced for the Michigan softball Carol Hutchins, they looked like
team's game against Illinois on Sat- they were on track to win. And they
urday, the Wolverines seemed to followed-through, sweeping the
have other things Illini 8-2 and 8-3.
on their minds. NOTEBOOK "Michigan softball is best when
Senior short- they are loose," Hutchins said.
stop Teddi Ewing was warming "When kids have fun, they usually
up unusually in the grass down the play their best. We try to keep an
right field line. Ewing was "pitch- atmosphere that's fun. We don't
ing" to freshman Stephanie Kirk- always succeed with it, but I really
patrick, who was just five feet away. do believe that when kids come out
The makeshift at-bat was complete here to play."
with sophomore first baseman Although watching junior Roya
Dorian Shaw playing catcher and St. Clair strike a Heisman pose dur-
starting pitcher Nikki Nemitz as ingflyballdrills mightbe confusing,
the umpire. nobody can argue with the results.
The rest of the team watched Michigan, ranked No.8 in the coun-
and laughed as Kirkpatrick took try with a 32-9 record, sits third in

the Big Ten at 8-2 in conference.
GOING STREAKING: Michigan had
two extraordinary streaks come to
anendthisweekend,butnotits most
importantone -12 straight wins.
Nemitz and sophomore Jordan
Taylor had combined to throw
eleven straight no-hit innings until
Nemitz gave up a single to Illinois
junior Hope Howell in the fourth
inning of the weekend's firstgame.
The hitless innings contributed
to the otherstreak the two had-19
consecutive shutout innings.
The Wolverines had not given
up a run in their previous two
games and three innings until the
Fighting Illini finally put a run on
the scoreboard in the first game's
fourth inning.
The team's winning streak is
its longest this season. Last year,
the Wolverines strung together

a 15-game streak and a separat
14-game streak. A sweep of Wis
consin. in Madison next weeken
will tie last year's streak, but leave
it well short of the all-time mark o
32, set back in 2005 en route toth
national championship.
"We are not thinking aheac
and we are just staying withit
ourselves," freshman Amand,
Chidester said.
NOTES:The Wolverines have scorec
43 runs in the five games since Kirk
patrick-moved into the leadoff spot
They have scored at least seven it
four of five games.... Michiganswep
Illinois for the second straight time
The Illini haven't beaten Michigat
since 2007. ... Nemitz gave up on
earned run yesterday, slightly rais
ing her ERA to a Big Ten-leadin
0.78. Shehas the fourth-lowest ER
in the country.


SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.


0


',

4B - April 20, 2009

SportsMond'ay

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

OFILI: Leader and best in a Southern-dominated sport
From page 1B

Henry said it's human nature for
an athlete to pace herself based on
how other people are running, so it
should come as no surprise that he
likes Ofili to run alone.
"It's like acar being on the high-
way," he said. "If that car is around
a bunch of other cars going 55, the
fastest it will go is 60. But if Tiffa-
ny's on the highway by herself, she
can go about 80."
Ofili's motor has been running
faster than anyone else's for a while
now. After arriving at Michigan
in the fall of 2005, the freshman
promptly broke school records in
both the60- and 100-meter hurdles.
She currently holds the nation's fast-
est collegiate time in the 100-meter
hurdles (12.88) and hasn't lost in her
signature event, the high hurdles, in
almost a year.
The Ypsilanti native has clocked
such ridiculously fast times in her
four-year career that Henry often
has to come up with new ways to
push her in practices.
When her pharmacy school
schedule - 9:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. on
Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays
and 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tues-
days and Wednesdays - allows her
to practice with her teammates,
Henry routinely puts his star ath-
lete at a disadvantage. He recently
started Ofili 10 metersbehind one of
her teammates in a 200-meter dash
to challenge her. She still managed
a tie.
Though her times have always set
her apart - she first broke Michi-
gan's indoor and outdoor hurdles
records as a freshman - the most
noteworthy thing about Ofili's
accomplishments is that they've
come in the cold-weather state of
Michigan.
Since 1982, when the hurdles
became an official event for the
women's national championships,
just Ofili and two others have won
national titles for Midwestern
schools. That-Ofili has four champi-
onships is unheard of - in the Mid-
west or otherwise.
While she finds Michigan's cold
weatherfrustrating,Ofilineverseri-
ously considered competing in the
South. Part of that had to do with
limited recruitment from there. She
also wanted to stay close to family
and study pharmacy.
Ofili takes pride in breaking
the stereotype that runners from
the North can't run as fast as their
southern counterparts.
"A lo ef athletes think that just

because they go to a certain school
that has a certain name that they'll
automatically do well," said Ofili,
who had practiced inside that day
because of April snow. "There's
more to it than that."
NOT YOUR.TYPICAL NATIONAL
CHAMPION
The 21-year-old has a wide range
of interests, most of which aren't
tied to athletics. She seemingly con-
trols her concern for sports like a
light switch. If she, her teammates
or her family aren't involved in a
sporting event, Ofili probably won't
take notice of it.
When one considers her family's
extensive sports history, it becomes
a bit easier to understand.
Her brother Alex, now 26, played
football at Michigan. Her oldest
brother, Frank, now 27, played foot-
ball at Toledo. Her 14-year-old sister
Cindy, who Tiffany lovingly calls
"Joobie Boodie," is a high school
freshman who plays basketball, vol-
leyball and just beganrunningtrack.
Ofili's father and uncles all ran track
in college, too.
"She'd rather be at home than go
to Michigan football games on Sat-
urday," said teammate Geena Gall,
who's roomed with Ofili all four
years. "She doesn't even buy sea-
son tickets or anything. She'll only
go to the games if we have a (track)
recruitvisiting."
Ofili said she has nothing against
sports - they just aren't high on her
list of priorities.
"IfI had a choice between watch-
ing 'House' and watching a basket-
ball game, I'd watch 'House,'" she
said.
That she enjoys the medical
TV drama is no shocker, given her
interest in medicine. After three
years as an undergrad inthe College
of Literature, Science and the Arts,
Ofili applied to and gained admis-
sion from the College of Pharmacy
last year. She's currently finishing
her firstyear in the program.
Pharmacy is among the four
things - God, family and track
being the other three - she con-
siders most important. She cares
about pharmacy so much that she
plans to earn her degree in 2012,
just months before that year's Sum-
mer Olympics, in which Ofili hopes
to compete.
Though striking that balance
sounds nearly impossible, those
closest to her say she'll be able to
accomplish both.

Ofili has derived some of her big-
gest loves from her parents. Her
interest in education can be tied to
her mom, who teaches first grad-
ers in Detroit. Her desire to go into
medicine comes from her Nigerian
father, who is a retired eye doctor.
The track star said her most-
prized attribute -her faith in God -
stems from her mother. Ofili attends
Sunday church services every week,
calling the routine something she
""never compromises."
She frequently discussed her
faith with her mother, Lillian, after
one of her teammates, Joi Smith,
died from a quick-spreading cancer
in Nov. 2007.
"That shook her up a lot," Lil-
lian said. "She talked about Jai a
lot. I just told her to stay prayerful
because you never know what may
happen in life."
Ofili heeded her mother's advice.
Shortly after her teammate's death
sophomore year, she made a vow to
run each race like it was her last.
"Joi's passing really made me dig
deeper and explore what's impor-
tant in life," Ofili said. "It's really
easy to get caught up in what's hap-
pening every day and not appreciate
things as much as you should. What
happened with Joi made me look at
things differently."
MOVING BEYOND OBSCURITY
In the three years that have
passed since Smith's death, Ofili has
become the nation's top collegiate
hurdler.
At times, using the word "domi-
nant" to describe her performances
would be an understatement. She's
reset her own records in the 60-
and 100-meter hurdles 12 times
(she shattered the 60-meter hurdles
mark three times in a four-week
span her sophomore year). Ofili
claimed her first national title as
a sophomore and has won her last
four NCAA championship meets.
She'll be the hands-down favorite
when she vies for a fifth consecutive
hurdles crown in June.
But she's still got more to prove.
Her dominance alone hasn't gar-
nered the attention of the trackcom-
munity - let alone her classmates at
Michigan - yet.
Asked why Ofili still competes
in relative obscurity, Henry cited
geography..
"If she were at a USC or a Texas,
she would be on the covers of track
magazinesbynow," said Henry,add-
ing that the lack of attention doesn't

FILE PHOTO/Daily

Senior Tiffany Ofili practices with teammates by givingthem a tO-meter head start - she still wins.

bother Ofili. "Even most people in
our athletic department don't know
about her."
Ofili was close to changing all
that last year. She narrowly missed
qualifyingfor the U.S.Olympic Trial
Finals in the 100-meter hurdles, the
competition that determines which
American runners will go to the
Olympics. The race, in which the top
eight finishers advance, saw Ofili
come up just shy of the final spot.
Her finish, .004 seconds behind
the eighth-place finisher, was so
close that officials had to calculate

her time out to the thousandths (the
process is almost always done by
the hundredths). Only then did Ofili
find out that she'd placed ninth and
not eighth.
She called the process "bitter-
sweet," saying she was honored to
run against the best in the world,
but disappointed to finish so close
without earning an invitation to the
Olympics.
"It's definitely motivation for the
next time," she said.
Because of her youth - she was
the youngest of the top nine finish-
ers - andhercollegiatesuccess,Ofili
is expected to be a force to contend
with in the 2012 Olympic Trials. In
an effort to meet that expectation,
she plans to continue training on

campus with Henry after this year,
much like former Michigan swim-
ming coach Bob Bowman trained
Michael Phelps before the 2008
Olympics. Ofili expects her regi-
men to stay consistent while she's in,,
pharmacy school.
"Not having the block 'M' on my
chest will be the only difference,"
she said.
That and the fact that people will
know exactly who she is - at least
if she accomplishes what her coach
thinks she can.
"Ithink she'llhbreak the American
recordandtheneventuallybreakthe
world record someday," Henry said.
"When? I don't know. But as long as
she keeps the drive and fire that she
has now, I think she will do it."


4

Opportunity
keeps knocking
All those cynics out there say opportunity only knocks
once. Of course that's because they never worked here
with us. We invite you to explore opportunities at GE in
o number of disciplines.
www.ge.com/careers

4

4

0, im agination at work


