GUN-FREE MOLK DONE FOR YEAR
State legislators' latest attempt After being out with a broken foot for five
* to allow guns on campus is weeks, the redshirt sophomore center only
misguided and dangerous. lasted four plays before tearing his ACL.
SEE OPINION, PAGE 4 SEE SPORTS, PAGE 8
Ii JMidiigan &ailj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, October 27, 2009

TMPROV WTTH A SIDE OF RICE AND REANS

michigandaily com
SENATE ASSEMBLY
Coleman
discusses
'U' fiscal
health

ED MOCH/Daily
LSA freshman Nick Drew of the comedy group "The Impro-fessionals" takes the stage at BTB Cantina's 'Laughter on Lunes' (LOL) Comedy Night. The South University hot
spot will be featuring comedy acts on Monday nights with an open mic at 9 p.m:and scheduled acts starting at 9:30 p.m.
SOUTH U. BLAZEr
 A DAFD:NtCu R r cuerldot

Before faculty body,
Coleman explains
research, hirings
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Members of the University's
Senate Assembly received a visit
from President Mary Sue Cole-
man at their first meeting of the
year yesterday.
In her speech, Coleman high-
lighted positive developments
at the University during the last
year and touched on the Univer-
sity's financial status. .
Coleman said research expen-
ditures achieved more than $1
billion in research grants this
year. The package included $421
million from the National Insti-
tutes of Health - with more than
$160 million in stimulus funding
research awards from NIH alone.
"That really gives me just tre-
mendous confidence that people
are ready, they're waiting and
when they get their proposals out
they are really good proposals,"
Coleman said.
Coleman also said that the

100 new faculty members hired
as a part of her 100 New Faculty
Initiative launched in 2007 are
"absolutely outstanding"
While many universities across
the country are enforcing hiring
freezes due to the economy, the
University of Michigan has con-
tinued to hire new faculty mem-
bers.
Coleman said the new faculty~
members have proven to be "very,
very high qualityscholars."
She added that the University
is constantly fighting the per-
ception that because the state of
Michigan is "just a basket case,"
the University is also suffering.
"What I want to counter to
people is that we are managing
our resources well, that we are
hiring faculty, that we have not
closed the doors," Coleman said.
"And so the fact that we are still
out there in the marketplace is
another good signal that we are
competing, and competing effec-
tively."
Despite the economic down-
turn, Coleman said she was
also impressed with the way
the University has handled its
budget while other institutions
See FACULTY, Page 7

Arcade's manager says
homeless people had
* been taking refuge in
abandoned building
By MALLORY JONES and
EMILY ORLEY
Daily StaffReporters
Ann Arbor Fire Department offi-
als have ruled out natural causes

for the fire that destroyed the for-
mer location of Pinball Pete's late
Saturday night.
"We have not found a natu-
ral cause for it so we're looking at
someone possibly causing the fire,"
said Fire Marshall Kathleen Cham-
berlain in an interview yesterday
afternoon.
Chamberlain said that it is clear
the fire was man-made, but it
remains to be seen if it was an acci-
dent or premeditated.
According to Battalion Chief

Robert Voteo, the owners have
reported that the abandoned build-
ing has been plagued with trespass-
ing since it was vacated in 1995.
"There appears to have been
relatively easy access despite the
boarding up," said Chamberlain.
While authorities did not specify
who might have been inside the
building, there is much specula-
tion.
Lance Johnson, Pinball Pete's
manager, said it was likely that
homeless people took refuge in the

building.
Pinball Pete's was located at 1217
S. University Street for 12 years
before its move across the street in
1995, Johnson said.
Johnson said the business moved
in order to condense space. The
building across the street was left
empty.
"It has been abandoned since we
left," Johnson said. "I don't know if
it was condemned or not needed."
The lot was sold in 2001 to
See FIRE, Page 7


NCAA INVESTIGATION
NCAA formally starts probe
into UM football program

Rec. Sports to change hands

In notice, official
says investigation to
finish by year's end
By JACOB SMILOVITZ
Managing News Editor
The University of Michigan's
athletic department is officially
under investigation by the NCAA
for alleged violations of rules gov-
erning practice time and off-sea-
son workouts for the University's
football team.

University President Mary Sue
Coleman announced today that
she has received a "notice of inqui-
ry" regarding the investigation.
When the NCAA finds "suffi-
cient information to warrant" an
investigation, the notice is sent as
a procedural step that allows the
NCAA to dot its "i's" and cross its
't's" in informing the school that
the investigation will move for-
ward.
The document sent to Cole-
man last Friday lays out what the
NCAA plans to investigate and the
role that the school is expected to

play in that investigation.
The University initially
launched an internal investigation
after the Detroit Free Press pub-
lished a report on Aug.30 alleging
that the football team had gone
far beyond the allowable number
of mandatory practice hours for
players on the football team. The
report also alleged that football
team officials monitored off-sea-
son scrimmages, which is prohib-
ited by the NCAA.
The letter states that possible
violations "primarily involve the
See INVESTIGATION, Page 7

S T EM CE LL SUMMIT
University researchers excited
about conference's Detroit venue

Oversight to shift
from Athletic Dept.
to Division of
Student Affairs
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Forrthe Daily
Oversight of the Department of
Recreational Sports is moving from
the Athletic Department to the
Division of Student Affairs in an
attempt to garner more funds and
resources.
Rec Sports is in charge of all the
campus recreation buildings, intra-
mural sports, club and varsity club
sports, Outdoor Adventures and the
Challenge Program, which offers a
ropes course and other team build-
ing resources.
The move is partially in response
to a report issued last March by the
Recreational Sports Task Force,
which recommended Rec Sports
relocate to the Office of the Provost.
The report also called for signifi-
cant, and costly, updates to the Uni-
versity's recreational facilities.
Under the previous system, Rec
Sports was financially indepen-
dent but overseen by the Athletic
Department, whose financial house
is in good shape.
Rec Sports Director William
Canning said that while Rec Sports
has experienced difficulties in rais-
ing money in the past, potential
donors often assume that the orga-
nization has proper funds because
of this association with the Athletic
Department.

MAX COLLINS/Daily
Officials say that with the change in oversight, campus recreational facilities, like the
Central campus Recreation Building, will get funding for the renovations they need.

New stem cell laws
lay groundwork for
event to take place
in Michigan
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
Less than a year ago, the state
of Michigan was almost com-
pletely out of most discussions

concerning the future of stem cell
research.
That was before the state's vot-
ers passed Proposal 2 last Novem-
ber. The ballot initiative created
a constitutional amendment that
allowed researchers within the
state to create their own embry-
onic stem cell lines to study and
treat diseases.
Michigan Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm and Detroit Mayor Dave
Bing announced earlier this
month that Detroit would host
the 2010 World Stem Cell Summit

- a three-day event expected to
attract more than 1,200 leaders in
stem cell business, policy and sci-
ence from over 30 countries.
The University of Michigan,
Michigan State University, Wayne
State University and the Michigan
Economic Development Corpo-
ration will co-host the summit,
which is scheduled to begin Oct. 4
next year at the Detroit Marriott
Renaissance Center.
Dr. Sean Morrison, the director
of the University of Michigan Cen-
See SUMMIT, Page 7

"Because there is money (in ath-
letics), when Recreation goes to
meetings across campus (donors
say), 'Oh you work for Athlet-
ics? What do you mean you need
money?"' Canning said.
Vice President for Student
Affairs E. Royster Harper said that
the transition to Student Affairs
will make it easier for Rec Sports
to afford the facility upgrades it
needs.
"It's hard to do that when there
are other priorities, legitimate pri-
orities - finishing the stadium,
looking at Crisler Arena - but we
want to be able to not be compet-
ing against ourselves to get other
things done that need to get done,"

she said.
Harper said students using the
various recreation facilities on
North Campus and Central Cam-
pus will notice improvements, like
upgraded equipment, in their day-
to-day use of the facilities as a result
of these administrative changes.
"We hope that you'll see that
together we'll be able to do more,"
she said. "Also, the experience for
you will be more enhanced. It will
be seamless."
Aside from those details, Harper
said students will not be directly
affected by the change.
Canning stressed that intramu-
ral, club and varsity club sports will
See REC SPORTS, Page 7


WEATHER HI: 58
TOMORROW LO:45

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS ....................2 ARTS..................5
Clive Owen, David Schwimmer tofilm at the 'U' Vol. CXX, No. 34 SUDOKU ............................3 CLASSIFIEDS.................
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE @2009 The MichiganDaily OPINION.......... .....4 SPORTS. ....................8
inichigandailycom4 SP R S........ ....... $

i



2 - Tuesday, October 27, 2009

MONDAY TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Off the Beaten
Wh floss is made of s

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com emdbusiness@gmait.com

Though many may
dread a visit to the den-
tist, there is an entire
museum on campus
dedicated to the art of
dentistry. Toothbrushes
with heads greater than
two inches in length,
floss made from silk and
examination chairs grand
enough for aking fill glass
cases along the walls at
the Sindecuse Museum of
Dentistry.
According to the muse-
um's curator, Shannon
O'Dell, Dr. Gordon Sinde-
cuse made a donation to
create the museum more
than 70 years after his
graduation from the Den-
tal School.
The museum - located
in the Kellogg Building
CRIME NOTES

- first opened in 1992
with its original curator,
Jane Becker, O'Dell said.
Since it first came into
existence, the museum
has had three curators
and gone through a major
renovation.
The overhaul included
the addition of display
cases, a storage room and
an atrium, which hous-
es re-creations of den-
tal offices from various
decades.
O'Dell said all the arti-
facts in the museum are
gifts from collectors and
former Dental School fac-
ulty. They range from tins
of tooth powder - a pre-
decessor to toothpaste -
to vintage x-ray machines
and antique microscopes.

Along with the arti-
facts, the museum show-
cases the histories of
their users and inventors.
O'Dell said many of
the museum's visitors are
not dental students, but
tour groups from Univer-
sity museum classes. She
added that she would love
to see an increase in the
number of visitors and
partially attributes the
lower attendance records
to the museum's con-
cealed location.
O'Dell said the rarity
of the museum is one of
the things that makes it
so interesting.
"There are just so
many stories to be told,"
she said.
- JOELLE HECKER

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom C
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

Officehours:oSun.=1Csa-Thrs.ta.m.-2a.m.
734-763-24s9
news@michigandaily.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
eothedaily@michigandaily.com
photo@michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandaily.com
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com

0

An exhibit ofa dentist's office at the Sindecuse Museum of Dentistry.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Macbook stolen Wind, tent Michigan's Best Finding grants
WHERE: Hatcher break window Dance Crew for grad students

Graduate Library
WHEN: Yesterday at
about 3:45 p.m..
WHAT: A student reported
his Macbook laptop sto-
len, University Police
reported. The computer
was valued at $1,500.
There are no suspects.

WHERE: Univer-
sity Golf Course
WHEN: Saturday at
about 2:15 p.m.
WHAT: The wind blew a large
tailgate tent into a car window,
University Police reported. The
damage was valued at $1,000.

Spools stolen Subject trips,
from hospital sustains injuries

WHAT: There will be
tryouts for Michigan's
Best Dance Crew, a com-
petition that will take
place in December. The
grand prize for the win-
ning crew is $200.
WHO: University Unions
Arts Programs
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union, Pendleton Room
Workshop on
negotiation skils
WHAT: A workshop
on improving nego-
tiating skills in the
workplace. Individual
sessions are $15.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Center for the
Education of Women,
330 E. Liberty St.

WHAT: A workshop to
help graduate students
find funding for fellow-
ships and dissertations.
WHO: Teaching and Tech-
nology Collaborative
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Shapiro Under-
graduate Library
Foosballpractice
WHAT: University foosball
practice is open to members
and non-members. The mem-
bership fee is $5 per semester.
WHO: Michigan
Union Billiards
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union, Billiards Room
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Dailyto correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

While being transported
to a Wisconsin hospital
early Saturday morning, a
prisoner escaped by taking off
his shackled pants and flee-
ing across the freeway, WCCO
reported. He was found later
that morning and was taken to
the hospital to be treated for
frostbite injuries.
 A new bill in the state
Mouse could reverse a
University policythatpro-
hibits guns from being carried
around campus. Classrooms
and residence halls would still
be gun-free, but places like the
Diag and bus stops would not.
oFOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
After only one shoe went
missing from a store in
Belgium, a one-legged
man was designated as a sus-
pect, metro.co.uk reported.
The man and the shoe were
quickly found.

Finance finance@michigandaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SMiloVitZ Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Skolle,DyleSwno
SSsN E DITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
RobertSoave Editorial PageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT E DITORIA L PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managin eSrtsaditor ereid@amichigandaily.com
SEIRSPORTS EDITORs NicoesAuebaeh,Mike Eiesin, IaXa, RutOh
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chante Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje, Chris Meszaros, RyanPodges
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor vatnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EnnDISJe lock, WhiteyePow
ASSITANARTS EDITORScJoshaBayrCacolynnlarecki,AndrewLapin,DavidRiva,
Jeff Sanford
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
tif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:SaidAlsalah, ChanelVonHabsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,SamWlson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maoreen tyth Managingtsignditors
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchenll Copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATECOPYCHIEF:MelanieFried,AdiWollsteie
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lozwiak Soles Manager
SALES OCE MAAE: ollyaeTwigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIEDASSISTANTMANAGER:Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison Santacreu LayoutManager
Vivian Lee FinanceeManager
ritanyMoralesCirculatlonManager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily(IssN 0745-%67)is published Monday through Fridayduring the fall and winter
termsbystudentsattheUniversityoMichigan.onecopyisavaiablefreeochargetoallreaders
AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupattheDaily'soffiefor$2.subscriptionsforfaterm,startingin
SeptemberviaU.S.malaret10.Winter term(January throughAprl)is$11,lyearlong(September
throughAprilis195.Universityaffiiatesaresubjectatoareduced subscriptionrate.On-campus
subcrpinsfo slltrmat$ bscsiitonsibeprepadidTheMichigilnisamembeof
ThnsaoiatdPrss and T soatd ColleaePrss.

0

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Yesterday at
about 11:30 p.m.
WHAT: An unknown suspect
stole two spools of conduit tub-
ing valued at $200 from the
emergency room Thursday,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.

WHERE: Alumni
Memorial Hall
WHEN: Yesterday at
about 2:05 p.m.
WHAT: A subject was
injured after tripping over a
restraining bar at the Univer-
sity Museum of Modern Art,
University Police reported.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more onlineatmichigandaily.com/blogs/the wire -

UN leader hopes US to act Colombia accused of spying in
soon on global warming probe of Venezuelan killings

0

Deep divisions in
Congress, bill unlikely
before year's end
SEATTLE (AP) - Just six weeks
before a key meeting on climate
change, U.N. Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moan said Monday he's
hopeful the U.S. Senate will pass
a significant bill to limit carbon
emissions.
With deep divisions in Congress
onhowto dealwithclimate change,
a bill is not likely before the end of
the year. However, Ban told a news
conference he still thinks the U.S.
can come up with an ambitious
measure that will encourage other
nations to act on carbon emissions.
"I'm very encouraged by the
strong commitment by the Obama
administration," he said.
Ban is on a two-day trip to Seat-
tle to promote action on climate
change and U.N. initiatives on
poverty, hunger and health, along

with improving the perception the
American public has of the U.N. He
met earlier Monday with Bill and
Melinda Gates, and later in the day
received an honorary degree from
the University of Washington.
Ban has been pressing nations
to commit to firm emission limits
when they meet in December in
Denmark to work out a new treaty
to slow global warming, replacing
the 1997 Kyoto Protocol on carbon
dioxide emissions. The meeting
has been billed as a last chance to
avoid the impact of catastrophic
global warming.
This week, the Senate environ-
ment committee will take up its
version of a global warming bill.
The legislation would cut green-
house gases by about 80 percent
by 2050 and require more domes-
tic energy to come from renewable
sources.
But with work still to be done
on health care and deep divisions
in Congress over how to deal with
climate change, chances the Senate

will pass a climate bill by the end of
the year are slim. That means U.S.
negotiators are likely to not have
firm targets set before the Copen-
hagen meeting.
Ban said he plans to meet with
Senate leaders to encourage the
passage of the climate bill.
By doingso, the Senate "can have
a huge political impact for other
negotiators of other counties," Ban
said. Many developing countries,
such as China and India, "are ready
to make some political compromis-
es only if and only when the United
States is ready to do that."
Ban said he's confident the
Copenhagen meeting will produce
a broad agreement, though many
details remain to be worked out.
That requires all countries "par-
ticularly the developed countries
and including the United States"
to come up with ambitious targets
to cut greenhouse gases, and to
provide the financial support that
many developing countries will
need to reduce emissions.

Allegedly helping
investigate killings
of eight Colombians
CARACAS, Venezuela (AP)
- President Hugo Chavez's gov-
ernment accused Colombia on
Monday of using its state secu-
rity agency to spy on' Venezu-
ela while purportedly helping
investigate the killings of eight
Colombians.
Venezuela sent a diplomatic
protest note saying officials of
Colombia's DAS state security
agency were "detected carrying
out espionage work and attempt-
ing to bribe."
Venezuela did not give details
in its statement but said authori-
ties seized documents referring
to a conspiracy to destabilize its
government. It also demanded
the DAS halt the espionage.
Colombia has offered help
in investigating the slayings

of 10 men - eight Colombians,
a Venezuelan and a Peruvian
- whose bodies were found in
the Venezuelan border state of
Tachira on Saturday. Venezue-
lan authorities say relatives told
them the men were kidnapped
from a soccer field where their
team was playing near the bor-
der Oct. 11.
The killings, which Venezuela
says were likely carried out by one
of the warring factions in Colom-
bia's conflict, appear to be exac-
erbating already hostile relations
between Chavez's government
and the U.S.-allied administra-
tion in Bogota.
Colombian Foreign Minister
Jaime Bermudez said it remains
unclear what sort of armed
group killed the men, or why. He
said there are various hypoth-
eses, including that the violence
involved criminal organizations
or guerrillas or militias.
For more than four decades,
Colombia's conflict has pitted

leftist rebels seeking to topple the
government against the military
and far-right paramilitary fight- *
ers.
JoseMiguel VivancotheAmer-
icas director of Human Rights
Watch, called for Venezuela and
Colombia to "work together to
hold the culprits accountable and
prevent more horrific atrocities
like this."
Venezuela's foreign ministry
said its officials were taking vic-
tims' bodies to the Colombian
border town of Cucuta to turn
them over to their families.
The ministry cited "a lack of
resources" on Colombia's part to
pick up the cadavers. Colombian
officials disputed that, saying
Venezuela denied them permis-
sion to fly in with Colombian air-
craft to return the bodies to their
families.
One 19-year-old Colombian
.survived the ordeal and was hos-
pitalized in Caracas with a gun-
shot wound to the neck.


S0

Is

I


The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 - 3


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 27, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
UAW in Mich. and
Missouri rejects
contract with Ford
Autoworkers in Missouri and
Michigan overwhelmingly rejected
a new contract with Ford Motor
Co., a sign that the automaker and
the United Auto Workers union are
having trouble convincing some
workers to accept changes that
would lower Ford's labor costs.
Ninety-two percent of workers
at the Kansas City Assembly Plant
voted against changes to their
contract Sunday. The plant, which
makes Ford F-150 pickups as well
as the Ford Explorer and Mercury
Mariner, employs around 3,700
people, or about 9 percent of Ford's
41,000 UAW members.
Workers at plants in Livonia and
Plymouth also rejected the changes
in recent days, according to Gary
Wolkowicz, a member of the UAW
bargaining committee at the Dear-
born Truck Plant and an outspoken
opponent of the changes. The vote
at the Sheldon Road plant in Plym-
outh, which makes climate control
systems, was 80 percent opposed,
while 52 percent of those voting
at the Livonia transmission plant
were against the deal.
LANSING
Board of Ed. to
Granhoil: Reduce
* budget cuts
The bipartisan State Board of
Education yesterday urged Gov.
Jennifer Granholm and lawmak-
ers to find money to reduce cuts in
public education and buy time for a
long-term funding solution.
The 8-0 vote came after a series
of blows delivered to public schools
last week.
The Democratic governor signed
an education budget that contains
a cut of $165 per student. But she
also vetoed $51 million in extra
funds for 39 wealthier districts and
ordered another $127 per-pupil cut
for all districts because of falling
tax revenue.
The reductions will take effect
unless more money is raised within
a month.
The board heard from superin-
tendents, former legislators and
others in the public. Yet it was
the testimony of three economic
experts that prompted optimism
that money for schools could be,
found if the political will existed.
MIAMI
Obama says he's
serious' about
closing Gitmo
President Barack Obama says
he's serious about closing the mili-
tary prison in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.
That was the pledge he repeated
last night at a congressional fund-
raiser in Miami.
Obama said: "We are going to
close Guantanamo. We are serious

about this."
The president, however, did not
repeat the January 2010 deadline
he originally set for shutting the
facility.
Obama promised soon after tak-
ing office to close the prison, argu-
ingthat doingso would help restore
the U.S. image abroad.
The White House has said it
still hopes to meet that deadline.
But senior officials have acknowl-
edged it may slip because difficult
issues still to be resolved. More
than 220 detainees remain at the
prison.
QUITO, Ecuador
Ecudor's president
asks Europe for
money to go green
Ecuador's president is in London
this week to promote a unique pro-
posal: pay his country $3 billion not
to drill for oil in a pristine Amazon
reserve.
Germany and . Spain have
expressed interest in President
Rafael Correa's idea, which envi-
ronmentalists say could set a prec-
edent in the fight against global
warming by lowering the high cost
to poor countries of going green.
"This is the first time the govern-
ment of amajor oil-producing coun-
try has voluntarily offered to forego
lucrative oil extraction in order to
help combat climate change," said
Dr. Matt Finer, staff scientist for
Save America's Forests and author
of a study on Correa's initiative.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Harvard fellow
says poisoning
not accidental

Researcher is one
of six poisoned by
toxic coffee
BOSTON (AP) - One of six
Harvard Medical Schoolresearch-
ers sickened after drinking coffee
laced with a toxic chemical said
yesterday he does not see how the
poisoning could have been acci-
dental, but has no idea who might
be responsible.
University police and other
agencies are investigating the
Aug. 26 poisonings, which were
revealed in an internal memo to
medical school faculty last week.
The memo identified the sub-
stance as sodium azide, a common
preservative used in school labs,
but did not indicate whether offi-
cials believed the laced coffee to
be accidental or intentional.
"I always thought it was a
deliberate substance added to the
coffee," said Matteo Iannacone
(pronounced mah-TAY'-oh eye-
a-nah-KOH'-nee), a postdoctoral
fellow.
"It was too strange for me to be
an accident," he told the Associ-
ated Press in an interview yester-
day.
lannacone said he immediately
noticed a "weird" taste after sip-
ping an espresso he poured from a

coffee machine in an eighth-floor
lounge near his research lab. After
takinga second sip to make sure he
wasn't imagining the foul taste, he
began feeling dizziness and a rapid
heartbeat, but said the symptoms
passed quickly.
Two of the researchers who
drank coffee earlier in the day had
fainted, but officials did not imme-
diately connect their illnesses to
the coffee machine, Iannacone
said.
An ambulance carried Ianna-
cone to nearby Brigham and Wom-
en's Hospital for treatment. Doctors
could find nothing wrong, he said.
Iannacone said university offi-
cials privately told him the results
of toxicology tests last week.
Daniel G. Ennis, executive dean
for administration, and Richard
M. Shea, associate dean for physi-
cal planning and facilities, later
sent the internal memo to Har-
vard Medical School faculty.
. "As the investigation continues,
we are being prudent and taking
additional precautionary mea-
sures to ensure the well being of
our community;" the memo said.
Among the steps being taken was
installation of additional security
cameras in buildings and "strength-
ening security systems that manage
access to the laboratories during
both normal business hours and off
hours," according to the memo.

President Barack Obama, center, greets Navy personnel who were in attendance at his speech at the Jacksonville Naval Air
Station, yesterday, in Jacksonville, Fla.
Oba-ma tells crowd e won't
rush Afghan war decision

Amne sty: Israel
withholding water
from West Bank

President says he war council sessions with about a
half-dozen Cabinet officials and
won't risk lives other top advisers earlier yesterday
amid Republican criticism that he
unless 'absolutely is takingtoo longto choosehis next
,move.
necessary The Situation Room session
focused onthe cooperationbetween
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (AP) - U.S. military and civilian efforts in
President Barack Obama mourned Afghanistan, White House officials
14Americanskilledyesterdayinheli- said. Another session may be held
copter crashes in Afghanistan and later this week.
told a military audience he will not Obama did not tip his hand on
be hurried as he evaluates whether how he might decide. White House
to alter U.S. strategy inthe war. press secretary Robert Gibbs told
"I will never rush the solemn reporters that a decision was still
decision ofsending you into harm's expected in the coming weeks.
way. I won't risk your lives unless A war plan that asks Obama to
it is absolutely necessary," Obama commit tens of thousands of addi-
said during a visit to Naval Air Sta- tional U.S. forces to Afghanistan is
tion Jacksonville. too ambitious, a top Senate Demo-
Obama is nearing a decision on crat said in Washington yesterday.
whether to commit large numbers Sen. John Kerry, the Senate For-
of additional troops to the war next eign Relations Committee chair-
year. His top military commander man who was the White House's
in Afghanistan favors an increase point man during last week's tense
of roughly 40,000, officials have talks with AfghanPresident Hamid
told The Associated Press, which Karzai, praised commanding Gen.
would allow the U.S. military to Stanley McChrystal but said his
expand its reach in areas of the plan for adding troops in Afghani-
country's south and eastnow under stan "goes too far, too fast."
Taliban sway. Kerry's stance would aim for a
Obama's visit to the naval air modest increase in American fore-
station came after he convened es,treadingmiddlegroundbetween
another in a series of White House Republicans who have said Obama

would put soldiers and the country
at risk by rejecting McChrystal's
larger request and anti-war Demo-
crats who question whether the
United States already has taken on
too much in Afghanistan.
"Under the right circumstances,
if we can be confident that military
efforts can be sustained and built
upon, then I would support the
president should he decide to send
some additional troops to regain
the initiative," Kerry, D-Mass.,
said.
Fresh from several days of talks
in both Pakistan and Afghanistan,
Kerry warned that the United
States also cannot risk a drastic
shift in strategy that would focus
narrowly on hunting terrorists.
"We all see the appeal of a lim-
ited counterterrorism mission, and
no doubt it is part of the endgame,
but I don't think we're there yet,"
Kerry said during remarks to the
Council on Foreign Relations.
"A narrow mission that cedes half
the country to the Taliban could
lead to civil war" in Afghanistan
and threaten the fragile civilian
government in Pakistan, he said.
In Florida, Obama promised a
"clear mission" with defined goals
and the equipment needed to get
the job done.

Israeli officials deny
allegations of human
rights group
JERUSALEM (AP) - Amnesty
International is accusing Israel
of pumping disproportionate
amounts of drinking water from
an aquifer it controls in the West
Bank, depriving local Palestinians
of their fair share.
The London-based human
rights group also said in a report
to be released today, that Israel has
blocked infrastructure projects
that would improve existing water
supplies to Palestinians - both in
the West Bank and those living in
the Gaza Strip.
"This scarcity has affected
every walk of life for Palestinians," .
Amnesty's researcher on Israel,
Donatella Rovera, told The Associ-
ated Press in an interview Monday,
ahead of the report's release. "A
greater amount of water has to be
granted to them."
Israeli officials deny the accusa-
tions.
Water is a major point of conten-
tion between Israelis and Palestin-
ians and is considered an issue that

must be resolved before the two
sides could make peace.
The issue is further compound-
ed by the split in Palestinian ter-
ritories, with the moderate Fatah
movement governing the West
Bank, while the militant Hamas
rules the coastal Gaza Strip.
Israelis use more than four
times the amount of water per
person on average than do Pal-
estinians, whose consumption
falls far below the minimum
amount recommended by the
World Health Organization, the
report said.
The report especially focuses
on the so-called Mountain Aqui-
fer in the West Bank. It says that
Israel uses more than 80 percent
of water drawn from the aquifer
and while the Jewish state has
other water sources, the aquifer
is the West Bank's sole supply of
water.
As a result, the 450,000 Israe-
lis who live in the West Bank and
east Jerusalem use more water
than the 2.3 million Palestinian
residents, Amnesty said. Israel
captured both areas from Jordan
in the 1967 war.
The Palestinians claim them
as part of a future state.

De f~ibihian rile PRESENTS

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
IoronalSollModellalPacifice Specials All Night
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25% Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER
310 Maynard St.~- To Go Orders 734.995.0100 ~Next to the Maynard Parking Structure
H-cl,,

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.

Make sure students
" ri"
into the rih rb
Fall Realty Page
The Ann Arbor Ordinance doesn't stop students from
thinking about housing early, so why should you? Advertise
leases for now, May, and Fall 2010 Reach over 40,000
students and other University members.
Presentedby The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Oct. 22
Published Oct. 28
(734) 764-0557
dailyclassified@gmaiLcom
i3


4 - Tuesday, October 27, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

$t1 Iidiigan &Uail
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
}tur420 Maynard St.
. { # Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorialboard. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheirauthors.
Trigger happy
State legislature should not allow guns on college campuses
W hat do finals and guns have in common? Students
may soon have to worry about both - that is, if the
state legislature passes its proposed bill to allow
firearms on all college campuses. This extreme and poorly
thought out measure would increase the likelihood of gun vio-
lence at colleges throughout the state and thwart efforts to keep
students safe. Instead, colleges should take reasonable actions
to ensure student safety - and the legislature should keep guns
away from schools.


We hope that Olympia will come back."
- Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nevada), commenting on Sen. Olympia Snowe's (R-Maine) opposition
to the public option included in Reid's health care reform bill, as reported yesterday by MSNBC.

ELAINE MORTON

E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

Vproos I
yniscot R i'lilm
(~,rtli~lCreA~ A' LYc
ilMohw xl.

Under current state law, a statewide ban
on guns exists in places like classrooms,
residence halls and stadiums. Many uni-
versities, including the University of
Michigan, have put their own ordinances
in place to prohibit firearms on all parts
of their campuses. But a new bill in the
state House could change this. If the law
is passed, state-protected areas like class-
rooms and residence halls would still be
gun-free zones, but Michigan colleges
would no longer be able to keep guns off
campuses entirely.
For the University, this means that peo-
ple would be allowed to carry guns every-
where from bus stops to the Diag, and the
Department of Public Safety could do lit-
tle to stop them. Police at the University
and nearby Eastern Michigan University
are opposing this new bill, largely because
they think it would increase the likelihood
of violence on campus. Department of Pub-
lic Safety Police Chief Ken Magee has called
the proposed bill a "recipe for disaster."
Proponents of this bill have argued
that colleges should not be allowed to
establish gun-free zones, and that people
should be allowed to carry firearms on
campus without facing any penalties. But
this argument doesn't make sense in the
context of a university environment. The
more guns there are, the more likely it is

that guns will be used, intentionally or
unintentionally. Students shouldn't have
to walk to class or walk through campus
at night wondering whether or not the
people around them are carrying danger-
ous weapons. And the presence of alcohol
in college life means that fights can easily
escalate into gun violence and fatal inju-
ries when firearms are present.
Some claim that letting students have
guns could prevent acts of violence like
the one that occurred at Virginia Tech in
April 2006. But the only likely scenario of
increasing the presence of guns on cam-
pus is that more danger will be created
due to accidental shootings. It is a univer-
sity's responsibility, not the students', to
implement better safety measures such as
emergency alert systems. Armed students
taking matters into their own hands will
only result in accidental deaths, even in
the unlikely event of a school shooter.
The House should reject this bill and
respect the University's efforts to create
a safe and welcoming learning environ-
ment for students, faculty and staff. Forc-
ing administrators, police, students and
others to accept guns when they clearly
aren't wanted is a big step backward for
campus safety. It would make the job of
maintaining safety on campus decidedly
harder.

Patenting body parts

As I reach the end of my time
here at the University, more
and more of my classes as an
engineer concern
the ethical dilem-
mas and responsi-
bilities of engineers
and scientists. It is " -
our moral respon-
sibility to not
restrict research
or technology that
benefits society. BEN
Patents and intel-
lectual property CALECA
rights should have
limitations when
they pertain to chemicals that affect
our health. I'm not talking about tak-
ing away the rights of pharmaceutical
researchers to patent medicine, but
rather the efforts made to patent our
own genetics.
Just lastweek, the Secretary's Advi-
sory Committee on Genetics, Health
and Society announced a draft report
recommending that genetic research-
ers be exempt from legal liability per-
taining to patented genetic material.
The issue boils down to this: Under
current U.S. legal precedent, you can
patent a naturally occurring gene in
humans if you've figured out what it
causes. That patent thereby gives you
the right to block out or demand roy-
alties from anyone who wants to cre-
ate a test for that gene for something
like health screening or research
directly related to testing the gene.
This exemption would grant other
researchers legal protection if they
wish to research tests for a patented
gene.
While I can understand the original
precedent in the 1980 case Diamond
v. Chakrabarty that states genetically
engineered life forms can be patented,
patenting human genes based on sim-

ply discovering their use is an ethi-
cal minefield. The premise offered by
some is that if you identify, for exam-
ple, a gene that causes increased risk
of cancer, you'll be able to hold onto
the patent for the right to eventually
develop a test for that gene - atest you
would hold exclusive rights over. The
logic in this idea falls apart when you
try to think about the issue with other
parts of the body. Should the first doc-
tor to figure out the function of cer-
tain human tissues or hormones do
be allowed the right to claim domin-
ion over that part of us? Should we
be able to patent the problem without
the solution, the discovery before the
invention?
The issue becomes even more con-
fusing when one considers who is
responsible for the bulk of the work in
curing or creating tests for diseases.
Is it the researcher who discovers a
gene's purpose, or the researcher who
makes a test or treatment that affects
that gene? If more work is needed to
create genetic treatments and tests,
is granting a patent for the discov-
ery of a gene's function premature?
Furthermore, is it morally acceptable
that researchers who can discover
gene purposes faster than others but
develop treatments or tests slower
than others have first rights to creat-
ing treatments and tests?
The worst outcome of not follow-
ing through on exempting liability
to genetic patents - one that one can,
only hope would be avoided by human
compassion, if nothing else - is that
patent holders may simply sit on their
research and wait to collect royal-
ties when others get impatient and
develop tests of the gene on their own.
From a business standpoint, collecting
royalties from tests developed by out-
side parties at no cost to you could be
lucrative. The third party developing

the test would probably pass the roy-
alty costs on to those seeking medical
testing.
Especially in a competitive health
care system where medical research
and treatment are, to an extent, in
competition, the monopolization of
genetictestingwill limittheextentand
impact of such research for some time.
Especially if only individual medical
groups can test or treat a certain piece
of genetic code, tests or treatments
could become less available. If you
want to patent genetic research, patent
testing methods, instead of genes that
are to be tested.
1980 genetics case
set a dangerous
precedent.
The precedent presented in the
Diamond v. Chakrabarty case was
centered on the idea that genetically
engineered genes are tools to solve a
particular problem. The spirit of that
precedent should still remain: Genes
in our body that may relate to disease
are not artificial creations, but are
part of many of us. If not for the sake
of other researchers, but for patients
and average people who could gain
frombetter health testing, a line needs
to be drawn that recognizes our genes
are not inventions. By providing an
exemption allowing researchers to
test or treat our genes for our benefit,
the government is helping research-
ers to fulfill their ethical duty to help
people.
- Ben Caleca can be reached
at calecabgumich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranaga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Change in housing policy
not as drastic asfeared
TO THE DAILY:
Daily staff reporter Stephanie Steinberg was
very thorough in her reporting on the proposed
change to University Housing sign-up (For Uni-
versity Housing, a potential shake-up to the way
sign-up has been, 10/15/2009). It's important to
distinguish, however, that there will not be a
shortage of rooms for returning students. Regard-
less of the sign-up proposal, returning students
will have a great choice of rooms next year. And
we expect the process to be completely online,
which should make it much easier for residents to
make their selections.
We believe that nearly all students will be able
to return to their current halls, if they choose,
except for Couzens, which will close for renova-
tion, and Markley, which is reserved for first-year
students.
Current students will be eligible to sign up
for all the other campus communities, including
those reserved for second-year and older resi-
dents: North Quad, Stockwell Hall, Cambridge
House and Northwood III apartments. With the
opening of North Quad, University Housing will
have more single rooms and suites available than
before. Many choices exist - more than enough
to suit all returning students.
Peter Logan
University HousingSpokesman
Technology is more than
personal anecdotes
TO THE DAILY:
Upon opening Monday's edition of The Michi-
gan Daily, I stumbled across a column claiming
that today's youth lack necessary one-on-one
communication skills because of their obsession
with high-tech gadgetry (The BlackBerry Blues,
10/26/2009). The author, Leah Potkin, works
under the naive and romantic assumption that
human beings communicated more freely and
eloquently before the advent of e-mail and instant
messaging. Rather than offering any real insight
on the way technology affects our interactions,
she partakes in simple nostalgia. While she goes
on about how our generation can't even "keep
up a five-minute conversation," she ignores all
of the positive changes technology has made in
the world. In one breath, she laments the fact that
young people are continually on phones and that
communication has lost "that human touch." But

in the very next breath, she claims that because
our grandparents didn't have this technology,
"they were forced to pick up the phone and have
one-on-one conversations far more often than we
do today." How exactly can one claim that cell
phones deprive us ofhuman contact and then hold
up our grandparents talking on old dial rotary
phones as the epitome of human contact? Never
mind the fact that video conferencing, Skype and
picture messaging allow us to hear, see and share
things with family and friends that older genera-
tions had to miss out on.
To explain what is wrong with our generation,
she offers anecdotes about her own family. As a
person who grew up in the same household as a
grandparent, I can honestly say that I couldn't
disagree more with her conclusions. But maybe
that's part of the problem. Since everyone has
their own experiences with technology and fam-
ily, personal anecdotes aren't enough to support
such sweeping claims about entire generations of
people.
Taylor Stanton
Senior, School of Music, Theatre t Dance
Ann Arbor visit a pleasant
and enjoyable experience
TO THE DAILY:
As a recent graduate of Penn State University
and a resident of Erie, Penn., I decided to make
the four-hour drive to Ann Arbor this weekend to
watch my Nittany Lions. It was my first time trav-
eling to a road game, and I must say that my trip to
the University of Michigan set the bar extremely
high for my future visits to other Big Ten cam-
puses. The overall experience at your campus
was simply outstanding. I did not exactly prepare
the best for the trip, so I continually had to ask
for directions. All of your fans and students were
very helpful. The students along State Street were
very welcoming and friendly, and even invited my
friend and I inside for a bit. The downtown scene
at night was more of the same, with Michigan
fans congratulating us for finally winning in the
Big House.
Although I was very pleased to see Penn State
leave with a victory, I left Ann Arbor much more
appreciative of the campus beauty, genuine
friendliness and overall amazing atmosphere that
your student body and fan base has created. I can
only hope that anyone who travels to Happy Val-
ley anytime in the future will have just as wonder-
ful an experience.
Colby Wesner
Penn State University alum

ALEX SCHIFF I
An extreme view on family values

Dear Gary Glenn,
I am writing this in response to your letter to the edi-
tor (Daily wrong, those against gay marriage not a minor-
ity,10/08/2009). You are indeed correct to point out that 59
percent of Michigan voters approved the ban on same-sex
marriage in 2004. It is also true that supermajorities sup-
ported slavery in the American South and Adolf Hitler in
Nazi Germany. Discrimination approved by majorities is
still discrimination. The fact that a lot of people approved
the Marriage Protection Amendment to the state constitu-
tion does not make it any less reprehensible and hateful in
nature. Direct democracy does not confer justice in its own
right.
Mr. Glenn, I assure you I know my civics - it is you who
seem to be mistaken on the concept of direct democracy.
The way the MPA was foistedon the people was not direct
democracy. Direct democracy allows citizens to propose,
shape and decide on the laws they are obliged to follow.
Ballot initiatives present citizens with a poorly worded,
legalese sentence that is incomprehensible to the average
person. Consequently, many end up voting in ways opposite
their intent. Here is what the amendment says:
"To secure and preserve the benefits of marriage for our
society and for future generations of children, the union
of one man and one woman in marriage shall be the only
agreement recognized as a marriage or similar union for
any purpose."
While you and many others may find nothing objection-
able in this sentence, many will fail to realize its implica-
tions. By phrasing it in such a way, some will vote in favor
of the amendment without being opposed to same-sex mar-
riage. Further complicating matters, the beginning of the
sentence primes the response that opponents of same-sex
marriage seek. Inserting "to secure and preserve the bene-
fits of marriage" distorts the decision process in the voting-
booth by presupposing a correct answer, and therefore does
not reflect the pure will of the people.
Even if you discard these obvious effects, it wasn't votes
that passed this discriminatory amendment - it was money.
If this ballot initiative operated as a truly direct democracy,
the state would have solicited citizens' concerns and their
proposed solutions. Instead, it received a vote on a confus-
ing statement driven by a $1.9 million campaign against
same-sex couples' civil rights.

Mr. Glenn, you are the hypocrite. You accuse the Daily
editorial staff (of which I am a member) of being "so far left
and so intractably intolerant of those with a diversity of
opinion on this issue that they really do think anyone who
dares disagree with them ... really are just a bunch of hate-
mongers." I invite those reading this open letter to take a
look at the website of Gary Glenn's organization, the Ameri-
can Family Association (www.action.afa.net) and judge for
yourself who the "hatemongers" really are. As President of
the AFA of Michigan, you, Mr. Glenn, do not simply advo-
cate "protecting marriage." You advocate the idea that
homosexual people are immoral stains on society and their
lifestyle should be suppressed.
In your letter to the editor, you attempted, in vain, to
frame The Michigan Daily as a bunch of crazy, radical,
fringe leftists. But itis the AFA that appears most comfort-
able in its attacks the further it travels from the mainstream.
Your "Action Alerts" are so insane, they have replaced both
textsfromlastnight.com and Facebook.com as my top enter-
tainment sources during Friday classes (okay, maybe not
Facebook - but it's close). My personal favorite so far has
been your assertion that "ObamaCare" will place Planned
Parenthood clinics in every school.' Your commitment to
tolerance is crystal clear in your mile-longlist of boycotted
companies - ranging from 7-Eleven, Burger King and Clo-
rox to the Walt Disney Company, Microsoft and PepsiCo.
If anyone remains unconvinced of the identity of the
true agents of intolerance, they need only take a cursory
look at www.boycottpepsico.com, where your organization
sponsors a boycott of Pepsi products because of the com-
pany's contribution to the Human Rights Campaign, its
requirement that employees attend diversity training, its
sponsorship of Family Guy (which, according to your orga-
nization, promotes the homosexual agenda) and refusing
"to give one penny to help those trapped in this destruc-
tive and unhealthy lifestyle." The scariest part of the whole
website is that, based on your count, 354,620 people agree
with you.
I'll stick with drinking Pepsi. Do not allow the AFA
and its members to cast blame on others for being intoler-
ant when they are the ones who attempt to suppress every
opposing viewpoint.
Alex Schiff is an SA freshman.
*


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 -- 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 27, 2009 - S

Cinephiles need
a bail out

Jennifer Granholm swore she wouldn't come back until she had found a solution for Michigan's economy. And she was never seen again:
'Amela' doesn't fl

Despite a credible acting job from Hilary
Swank, this biopic needs to disappear
By Sheri Jankelovitz ( Daily Arts Writer

Amelia Earhart is arguably one
of the most fascinating figures in
history and one of the world's most
enduringmyster-
ies. Earhart was
the first woman
to fly solo across Amelia
the Atlantic
Ocean, and later At the Michigan,
she attempted to Quality16 and
become the first Showcase
woman to fly Fox Searchlight
across the world.
The fact that nobody knows what
happened to Earhart the day she
attempted her doomed final flight
has made her a legendary enigma.
Considering how many unanswered
questions her life left, it's a surprise
and a disappointment that "Amelia"
is so boring.
In fact, "Amelia" is not really
a story about Earhart's life at all,
but just about her career as a pilot.
While her flying exploits are prob-

ably the most interesting aspect
of her story, it would've been nice
to learn more about the woman
behind the goggles. All the audi-
ence is told is that as a child Ame-
lia (Hilary Swank, "Million Dollar
Baby"), in an attempt to mentally
escape her country life, loved to
watch planes fly above the fields of
Kansas. The film is content to por-
tray Earhart as nothing more than
a clich.
After meeting publisher and
promoter George Putnam (Rich-
ard Gere, "Nights in Rodanthe"),
Amelia signs up to fly across the
Atlantic and make history. Despite
being saddled with an alcoholic co-
pilot, Amelia stands her ground and
refuses, to be marginalized by her
chauvinistic counterparts. Later,
she continues to buck the system
and marries Putnam after claiming
the marriage will not be bound to
old-fashioned ideas of faithfulness.

Maybe in real life this made sense,
but it's hard to believe that Putnam
would want to marry the strange,
slightly annoying woman Earhart
is portrayed as in the film. And they
don't even have a shred of screen
chemistry.
In today's day and age,it's bizarre
to think that at one point America
worshiped (going so far as to throw
ticker-tape parades) those who did
nothing more than fly across the
Atlantic. And why should today's
audiences care? Well the film never
bothers explaining why these
feats were so amazing, leading to
a strong disconnect between the
"heroic" action on the screen and
the reaction of the audience in the
theater.
Swank does a credible job por-
traying Amelia as a wide-eyed coun-
try girl who says things like "that's
hooey" and who just happened
to find herself as America's new-
est sweetheart. But Swank falters
somewhat in grounding Earhart in
nothing more than the stereotype
of the anti-society woman, wear-
ing pants, keeping her hair short
and refusing to be dominated by

the men in her life. The rest of the
actors in the film are clearly phon-
ing it in, believing that adopting
strange old timey accents takes the
place of actual acting.
Sure, the on-screen Amelia has
spunk and determination, but the
woman herself remains a mystery.
The true motivation behind her
daring flights - or her extra-mari-
tal tryst with fellow aviation enthu-
siast Gene Vidal (Ewan McGregor,
"Angels & Demons") - is never real-
ly explored. The film briefly implies
that she is simply flying for the fame
and money. But that's it.
The entire film feels much too
rushed and, frankly, too tired. There
is not one credible moment of sus-
pense or even genuine emotion. At
the end of the film, grainy footage is
shown of the real Amelia Earhart,
and it stirs more feelings than the
entire two hours preceding it.
By the time the film arrives at
Earhart's final flight, audiences
won't care. It doesn't say much about
a film when the audience can't wait
for the heroine to disappear. If only
she would have taken the film with
her and saved us all the trouble.

When I finally saw "I
Love You, Man,"
good month after it
came out, it was playing at my
local theater
only once a day.
My friend anda
I walked in just,
as the two other
people in the
theater (a rowdy #
teenaged couple) DREW
finished strad- L
dling each other.
Eventually a few more trickled in,
but there still weren't enough of us
to fill one row, let alone the entire
theater.
And yet, we each still had to pay
$10 for our tickets.
To me, this represents the most
flawed aspect of movie ticket pric-
ing: the fact that you have to pay
the same blanket amount for some-
thing that's been out for weeks as
you do for an opening-night show.
It's completely nonsensical, espe-
cially considering the box office
trajectory a wide-release movie
goes through these days.
Generally, studios place so much
emphasis on a big opening weekend
for a movie that neither they nor
the moviegoing public care about
the following week when five new
films are released. The exceptions
are mega-blockbusters like "Trans-
formers: Revenge of the Fallen"
and word-of-mouth surprises like
"Paranormal Activity," but most
wide-release films have a big open-
ing then fade into oblivion.
It doesn't have tobe like this,
though. People are still willing to
see new-ish movies in theaters, and
they also love a good bargain. And
studios love it when a film has stay-
ing power. So here's a movie ticket
stimulus plan that'll make every-
body happy: Theater chains should
start a new pricing option and sell
cheaper tickets for wide-release
moves that have already been out for
a set number of weeks, during that
awkward middle stage of their run
before they hit the dollartheater.
Say you're paying $10 a pop
this weekend at the Showcase for.
"Saw VI" tickets because.it doesn't
offer student discounts; maybe you
should also have the option to see
"Zombieland" for $6 or $7 instead.
If you go for "Zombieland," you
get the satisfaction of both sav-
ing money and catching up with
something the rest of the world has
seen; the movie theater still gets
the satisfaction of ripping you off;
and Columbia gets to post fairly
sizable ticket sales for a month-old
film once budget-minded consum-
ers everywhere flock to see the
splattered brains of the undead.'
Now, I've been emphasizing

"wide-release" movies for a reason.
This pricing plan simply wouldn't
make sense for independent films.
Even successful ones like "The
Hurt Locker" and "(500) Days of
Summer" start out their theatri-
cal runs on only a few screens in
New York and L.A. They open in
more theaters every week as good
reviews trickle in, so by the time
these movies reach you, odds are
they're already a month old. And
the limited-engagement nature
of most art theaters ensures they
won't be sticking around for long,
not to mention that, coming from
an independent distributor, these
movies are generally more in need
of the funds a fully-priced ticket
provides. And between you and
me, they're usually worth the extra
money. Overall, I don't mind drop-
ping a Hamilton for Werner Her-
zog and a Lincoln for Michael Bay.
This plan isn't as simple as what
I'm making it out to be, though.
Movie ticket prices are completely
in the hands of the theater chains,
which have to keep raising them as
the studios raise the cost of distri-
The longer they
run, the cheaper
they should be.
bution if they want to make a prof-
it. But if the Quality 16 can give out
student and senior discounts, I see
no reason why a "new-ish movie"
discount can't exist in the future. If
video stores can do the same thing
with "nearly new" DVDs, why the
hell not? And yes, I'm aware of the
existence of matinee prices. But
not everyone has the time to go to
the movies at 11 a.m. between Mon-
day and Thursday.
Disclaimer: I'm not an econo-
mist. I'm just a guy who loves going
to the movies. And, as a reviewer
for the Daily, someone who occa-
sionally sees them for free. But
that doesn't mean I can't feel for
the moviegoers across the country
whose wallets are screaming in
agony. Hollywood needs us to go to
the movies, and we need them to
go easy on our paychecks. So start
writing letters to Showcase, Goo-
drich Theaters, AMC and all the
other theater chains, and tell them
to start charging less for older
films. And do it quick: I still need
to see "The Invention of Lying."
Lapin is a cheap date. So if you also
haven't seen 'The Invention of Lying'
either, e-mail alapin@uwich.edu.

* Deerhunter's Cox scores with 'LogosF

By SASHA RESENDE
Daily Arts Writer
Bradford Cox is probably the most over-
worked creative genius in indie rock today.
Nearly every press piece
currently produced about ****j
the Athens, Ga. native prais-
es his relentless, critically Atlas $ound
acclaimed work in a broad
range of musical outfits, Logos
most notably the shoegaze- Kranky
inspired project Deerhunter.
Cox has recently found further praise with
Atlas Sound, a solo effort created to receive
the totality of Cox's creative energy, allowing
the musician to play a more collaborative role
in his four-piece Deerhunter outfit.
Cox supposedly wanted to achieve a more
"international" feel with Logos by incorpo-
rating big-name indie rock collaborations and
shying away from writing purely autobio-
graphical lyrics. In order to maintain the raw,
static-tinged effect heard on previous efforts,
nearly all of the songs on Logos are first takes,
thus preserving the collection's unrefined,
"live album"-like quality. The finished prod-
uct is true to its aim: a free-spirited journey
through various ambient soundscapes, care-
fully guided by Cox's expressive artistry.
Hype for Logos began to escalate within the
indie-rock blogosphere this past summer when
Cox released "Walkabout," the album's collab-
oration with Animal Collective's Noah Lennox
(a.k.a. Panda Bear). The track's sampled synth
hook, from the Dovers' "What Am I Going to
Do?" channels the summer's soulful energy,

offsetting the rest of the album's subdued,
autumnal gloom.
The record's second collaborative piece is
also its most ambitious - and arguably best
- track. Cox's work with Stereolab's Laetitia
Sadier yielded "Quick Canal," an epic hymn
complete with yearning keyboard strokes,
a delicate bassline and Sadier's tragically
haunting vocals tinged with the French sing-
er's exotic accent. The track was originally an
endlessly compelling 15-minute ode before
Cox pared it down to a more reasonable eight-
and-a-half minutes. While the edit certainly
facilitates the song's momentum within the
album's overarching flow, "Quick Canal" is
so effortlessly alluring that listeners probably
wouldn't have noticed if the song continued
into further static abstraction for another five
minutes.
While both these efforts stand on oppos-
ing ends of the album's musical spectrum,
they fit perfectly into the record's progres-
sion. Cox explained that the album is "a
A free-spirited
journey in expression.
collection of songs. There is no 'filler.' There
are little scrapbook details everywhere,"
according to Pitchfork. These words ring
true through the album's eclectic selections,
which include dreamy vocalizations over
dark drumbeats ("Kid Klimax"), whispered
movie devoted solely to crazy death contrap-
tions iscompletely bogus and out of place.
Even the staple of the series - torture scenes
- has been watered down in both shock value
and creativity. For example, one of the tor-
ture devices is a machine that slowly squeezes
the victim's sides with each breath the person
takes, so the victim has to hold his breath to pre-
vent himself from being squashed. Scenes like
this take up far too much time and aren't even
particularly breath-taking (pun unfortunately
intended) to watch.
Other than the newly vamped insurance con-
demnation and the lack of imagination, "Saw
VI" is the same movie as the previous five. The
mood is ominous; the moral messages are as pre-
tentious as ever; the scattered plot elements fall
inevitably into place by the end of the film. The
worst part is that the end of the movie doesn't
feel like any sort of resolution, hinting at more
"Saw" movies to come. If this ends up being the
case, the "Saw" franchise will find itself in the
same fatal situations as the victims in its films.
HANS YADAV

COUESY OF KR ANKY
acoustics ("Attic Lights") and kitschy electro-
beat hooks ("Washington School"). Although
these assorted musical soundscapes do not
fit under one easily regurgitated genre, the
album's lo-fi melodies flow well together and
ultimately allow the record to prevail as a
whole.
With his latest effort, Bradford Cox suc-
ceeds in challenging naysayers who deride the
artist's propensity for nonstop creative explo-
ration. Through his survey of static-driven
ambient rock, he has crafted a truly sublime
collection of diverse songs that meld into each
other and manage to sound fully integrated.
Cox has proven himself as a musical innova-
tor, and this fact shines through his solo work.
On Logos, he expands upon his own expressive
abilities and succeeds in producingyet another
luscious, multifaceted album.

TH3 D4ILY W4NTS 4 VID30
G4ME R3VI3W3R, YO!
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu
for an application.
University of Michigan's
Largest
1H
Selection of REALTY
Units Available forlImmediate Occupanay
Off Ca U Now Leasing for 2010-2011
Houses up to 14 bedrooms
Housing 6Church St. 7341995->200
www.a rchrealtyco.com
-.5- K U

ARTS IN BRIEF

Film Review
'Saw VI' can't cut the
mustard
"Saw VI"
At Showcase and Quality 16
Lionsgate
The "Saw" series is in trouble. When the-
franchise decides to substitute what it does best
- splashing unreasonable amounts of blood,
gore and mayhem at audiences - with scenes
of political criticism, you know something has
gone terribly wrong.
The newly released sixth installment of the
series shifts away from the quasi-comfort zone
of graphic violence, focusing instead on boring,
politically charged rants about health insur-
ance companies. These unstructured inter-
jections feel forced and overly didactic. While
noble in theory, addressing weighty issues in a

I


0

6- Tuesday, October 27, 2009
the michigan daiy

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

parking
025
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
PARKING ON CENTRAL Campus -
covered and uncoved. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
Or rent
060
1 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available -eask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlfts.cem
441 HAMILTON ! 6 bdrm, study &
3 bathrooms! Sept '10 12 mo. lease.
$3400/mo. includes dry., fern.,
A.C., prkg. Call 734-649-0190.
! CENTRAL CAMPUS !
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
www.HorvathProperties.com
"! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW forAug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
* NOW LEASING FOR 2010 *
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
T d Studio & 1
r dr. units
 Plac Condominium
a Bran Tosic
734-663-1530
***AWESOME 3 BDRM house.
$1500/mo. Avail. on Dewey, near Yost
Arena. Free offstreet prkg, Indry, water
ecl. 734.223.7777.
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DRINK
WITH EVERY NEW TOUR. Studio,
1, 2 or 3 bedrooms with great City
views culd be yuan - secure yer
apartment today!! 734-761-280
inf @u-twers.com
1 BEDROOMS STARTING at
$553.00. This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 info@u-towers.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in'
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
WWW.00FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modem, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

A
R E ALT Y
Now Leasing for May/Fall 2010

FREE HIGH SPEED INTERNET
niversity
Voted "Best
Apartments"
in 2009!


19 DIFFERENT
LOCA TIONS!

CHOOSE FROM EFFICIEN-
CIES, 1,2, AND 3 BED-
ROOMS, SI-LEVELS AND
TR-LEVELS TOO!
5 r ~E O - 5 144. INC.
Call today for an appolntment
and visit our websitel
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com
%^venfies vary by mlon
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
20 PERSON HOUSE available fall
2010. Located Near Oakland and Hill.
Call 734-995-9200 for details.
r DRM HOUSES
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
-663-5609
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locatiens, Best Prices,
Best Landlerd. Clat 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
ANN ARBOR
Student Housing Fair
Mon, Nov. 2nd Alum Ctr
1-4PM Win $100 GC at
www.midigs.com
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses.
For pics/info call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yuhoe.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
1018 E. University
4 bdrm house
Avail. May 2010
Copi Properties
734-663-5609
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campas. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are famnished and seine in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.

Houses that accommodate
up to 20 people
Immediate Occupancy Available
Hundreds of Central campus
Houses Available
-e.d to PzZa/- e
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/ndry, by Law School, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllci),comcast.net
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 Irg bdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/ndry, by Law School, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrisllc@comcast.net
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Wash-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utl.
1037 Packard. (734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm.E341 E. Jefferson-8
bdrm. 734-564-2125
www.keysmanagement.net
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
1029 Vaughn St.
6 bdrm house,Avail. May 2010
Copi Properties
(734) 663-5609
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
FALL 2010. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
HOUSE FOR FALL 2010. 1 block to
CCRB. Furnished. For 7-8 persons.
Fireplace. 7 prkg spaces. Dshwshr/A/C.
$4095, plus util. 734-996-8506.
539 Packard Rd.
Fallu201r
Newly-remodeled 5-bedroom hardwood
Varsity Managemint
7341668-1100
www.varslvIsIagmmI.comI
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.

PRESENTS THE
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michlgandally.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

Reserve your fully-
furnished room, studio,
1,2, or 3 bedroom
apartment for 2010/2011.
Save your stylel
Heat & Water Included
Fitness Center & Pool
24 Hr. Lobby Attendant
Secure-Entry Building
Central U-M Campus
FREE Food & More!
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
accoss the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.achrealtyc.com
920 Dewey Ave.
Fall2010
5 Bedroom w/ finished attic & basement
Varsity Management
1134 66-1100
wwwarsitymageRIentcixe
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Newly remodeled.
$1800/mo. 903 Sylvan. 248-791-4755.
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locatins (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
Now Taking
Reservations!
Large 2 Bedroom Apts!
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011.
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118
or visit www.nplacelikejnes.com
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
1109 S. State St.
Fall 2010
5 Bedroom w/ finished basement
Vrsity Maagmnt
1134668-1100
afsm su melnMem
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com

ROOMSAVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410.
www.varsitymanagement.com
Varsity
Management
625 Church st.
(734) 668-1100
NOW bdm S
for F911 on
1-5 bdrms & houses

WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com. Taking
orders now for Penn State weekend.

EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
LOOKING FOR STUDENT to assist
in the preparation of a seminar dealing
with Engineering & Business ethics.
Must have exp. with Microsoft Office
& Power Point & good comm. skills.
10 hrs/wk, payment negotiable. Email:
jglafond@comcast.net
PAID DISCUSSION $75 Male sports
fans ages 18-22. Must be a full-time U
of M Student, call 734-332-1049.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.

tiCket s & travel
100-
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations

*I

b.1wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten- 52
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+0K. 800-965-6520 x 125. 56 56 57
ATTENTION STUDENTS 63
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, scholarships avail., Part time, will es
train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com 69
BRAINFUSECOM SEEKS tutors:
Calc, Phy, Geo, Trig, Chem and Bio.
S10-514/he. Send CV and Transcript to
bschinto@brainfuse.com

I I

1
1
1
1
1
7
1

Los Angel
Edi
ACROSS
1 One-person boat
6 College athlete
10 Mouse catcher
14 China's Zhou _
15 Clickable symbol
16 Compete in a
meet
17 Ghostly noises
18 "Let It _": Everly
Brthers hit
19 Peruvin empire
builder

20 Furthermore
23 Barbary ape's
cont.
24 Necklace clasp
resting place
25 Baton Rouge
ark.
26 Implore
29 Coastal inlet
31 Taketotheclink
331961 Tony-
winning musical
inspired by Elvis
being drafted
37 Rig on the road
38 John, to inge?
39 Trivial, as chatter
437/4/1976
celebration
48 Debonair
51 Dr group,
maybe
52 Adobefile format
53 Cockney's main
Web page?
54 Bears or Cubs
57 Suffix with Israel
59 Retail store
inancing
64 Rick's lone in
uCaablanca"

es Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
led by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
4 Classic orange 41 Young man 55 William Tell's
soda 42 Christmas target
5 Seafood cookout helper 56 Largest New
6 Triangular sails 44 Analogy words England state
7 Blue part of a 45 Give a 58 Piano exercise
map tongue-lashing 60 indian breads
8 Cause for a 46 Runner Zdtopek 61 Supporting
pause 47 Cooperative votes
9 Patella protector response to "Do 62 Cabinetdept.
10 The Dixie Chicks, you mind?" with a lightning
e.g.r 8' prng chirpers bolt on its anal
11 Fester in one's 49 Lucky cham 63 Sume HDTVs
mind 50 Enters, as data 67 Corrida shout
12 Wayto get in ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
13 Planters logo
Mr._ S E M S E VE R H 1 Y O
21 Buffalo-to-Albany NEON P R O V O O M E N
canal I L L F LYAWAY SATE
22Acress Garr TMSE L I O T A C A C I A
26 Air rile amine
27 Needieeature A N N P Y L O N
28 Preciousustone D AM E GOO UN C L E
30Proficient RULE BEPREPARED
32 Coachman's O B I S O R T I E 5 I V Y
control BACKTOBACK RB I S
34 Netanyahuof E I E I 0 I R K F U S S
Israel, familiarly D W E L T J G
35 Particle with a
charge L A B R E A S U N R I S E
36 Philip whowrote E U R O T E R M I N A T O R
the Zuckerman T R A C A T T 1 C T R O I
novels TANK TESTY SYNC
40 Chip go-with xwordeditor@aol.com 10/260

For Wednesday, Oct. 28, 2009
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
Discussions with partners and close
friends will be extremely positive and
joyful today. People are in good spirits!
Furthermore, they want to help each
other.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
This is an excellent day at work
because co-workers are supportive and
people you encounter are positive.
Similarly, you feel good about your
health today.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Love, romance, social occasions,
sports and playful activities with chil-
dren can all flourish beautifully today.
You want to have fun and pleasure!
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
This is an excellent day for real estate
deals. It's also a wonderful day for fam-
ily gatherings oy activities that can
improve your home. Invite the gang
over!
LEO
(July 23 toAug. 22)
You're in a positive frame of mind
today! Writers, actors and teachers, as
well as cab drivers, bus drivers and
couriers, will be successful in their work.
It's a great day for discussions with oth-
ers.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Business and commerce are favored
today. Do whatever you can to boost
your income or to explore new job
offers. Shopping will please you.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You feel content with life today.
People around you are in good spirits.
Romantic interests can flourish, and
laughter is the order of the day. Set aside
time for fun.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 toNov. 21)
It's easy to feel compassionate for
those who are less fortunate than you
today. Think about something you can
do to help someone in need. Every little
bit helps.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Work with others today. This is agreat
day to form partnerships. There's a good
chance you will meet someone who can
be of benefit to you in the future.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Exciting and pleasurable travel that is
related to your work is possible today.
Romance with a boss or someone older
or richer also is likely.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Because your appreciation of beauty is
heightened today, give yourself a chance
to enjoy gardens, galleries, museums
and beautiful buildings. Do something
different!
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Gifts, goodies and favors from others
can benefit you today. Keep your pock-
ets open. Just smile and say thank you!
This is a good day to discuss shared
property, inheritances or how to divide
something.
YOU BORN TODAY Your insatiable
curiosity helps you to do your home-
work, and be beautifully prepared for
your job. You're a professional. The high
standards you apply to your job also
apply to your friendships and relation-
ships. You have good money savvy, and
work to establish a strong base for your-
self. Your hard work this year will lead
to a majorchange, perhaps as significant
as around 2001.
Birthdate of: Julia Roberts, actress;
Auguste Escoffier, chef/culinary writer;
Bill Gates, Microsoft billionaire/philan-
thropist.

6
6
0

2 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

1 2
14
17
2t
26 21
33

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
16 16
!8 19
20 21 22
23 24 26
27 28 29 30 31 32
34 36 36

65 Mayberry moppetupp 'a''a1'a
68 Nuremberg no as as46 a a7
69 Elbow-joint bone
71 Embodiment oft n a 4 50 51 s2
perfetion
71 RRstps 58 ea sslse s7Ise
72 Bal-bearing 59 e0 1 621
gadgets?
73 Short-winded s4 es e 67
DOWN e68se70
1 Divinity sch.
2 Drawer projection 71n27
3"Now _ins
3d"ow. By Fred Jackson III 10/27/9
d n (c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.1/2/9

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication
Rates: $4.30 per linefor the first issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-contact our staff for details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid student ID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privilegeshave been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our Account Executives


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 27, 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 27, 2009 - 7

. Pakistan releases
detained Iranians
amid tension

Tehran alleges
Pakistan intelligence
is linked to deadly
suicide attack
QUETTA, Pakistan (AP) - Paki-
stan today released 11 Iranians
detained near the countries' border
amid tensions over a deadly suicide
attack in Iran that Tehran alleges
has links to Pakistani intelligence
officials, police said.
Authorities had first said the 11
were members of Iran's elite Revo-
lutionary Guards, but then reversed
course and identified them only as
security officers. They were arrest-
ed yesterday after shooting out the
tires of a car carrying smugglers,
Pakistan authorities said.
The arrests threatened to add to
the strain between the two nations
triggered by the Oct. 18 attack on
the Iranian side of the border. They
came a day after the Pakistani pres-
ident met Iran's interior minister
and vowed to track down the per-
petrators of the blast.
Police official Dadur Rehman
said the paramilitary Frontier
Corps released the Iranians after
an investigation.
"I do not have any idea why they
were released," Rehman added in
a phone call with The Associated
Press from the area where the Ira-
nians were held. He said he had not
been privy to the interrogation.
Pakistan has been accused of
supporting militant activities in
two other neighboring countries,
Afghanistan and India, greatly
complicating relations with both
of them. Strains in its relationship
with another regional power would
only add to Pakistan's problems as
it battles al-Qaida and the Taliban
within its borders.
One Pakistani official said three
senior officers among the detainees
probably belonged to Iran's power-
ful Revolutionary Guard.
Iran's Press TV carried what it
described as a statement from the
guld condemning the arrests, but
saying thatthe 11 were not its mem-
bers. The report cited."informed"
sources as saying the arrested
men were "border guards hunting
fuel smugglers (who) accidentally
entered Pakistan."
INVESTIGATION
From Page 1
matters under review by the insti-
tution and the enforcement staff
concerning the football program."
But it leaves the door open to "new
information" that is sometimes
uncovered during investigations
"that leads to expanded inqui-
ries."
Signed by David Prince, the
NCAA's vice president of enforce-
ment, the letter says that the NCAA
intends to complete the investiga-
tion by Dec. 31, 2009.
Coleman will receive updates
from the NCAA on the investiga-
tion every six months, according to
the letter.
If major violations of NCAA
rules are "substantiated," the let-
ter continued, the Committee on
Infractions will then take over
the case and consider it either
through a hearing process or a
summary disposition process.
The latter involves a "written

report that is jointly prepared by
the institution, enforcement staff
and all involved parties," accord-
ing to the letter.
The letter closed by asking for
Coleman's "cooperation and assis-
tance to the end that complete
information related to (the case)
may be developed."
According to the NCAA's bylaws,
the notice of inquiry is a procedural
step in the progression of an NCA.A
REC SPORTS
From Page 1
not be negatively affected by the
transition. He said club and varsity
club teamswill continueto compete
seriously and will have continued
access to the Athletic Department's
facilities.
The relocation will also allow
Rec Sports to further cater to the
needs of the student and faculty
bodies because it will allow the
department to integrate itself with
other facets of student life on cam-
pus, Canning said.
Canningsaid the OutdoorAdven-
tures and Challenge Programs will
benefit most from the move to Stu-
dent Affairs. He emphasized that
student groups will have more

loan attemptto boost securityin
the region, Iran put the Revolution-
ary Guard directly in control of Sis-
tan-Baluchistan province in April.
Its officers typically take the lead in
any operations on Iran's border.
The 11 officers were taken into
custody in Mashkel district, about
seven kilometers (four miles)
from the countries' border in the
southwestern Pakistani province
of Baluchistan, paramilitary offi-
cial Mohammad Naseer Baluch
said.
He said they were arrested soon
after they shot out the tires of a car
driven by "two petty smugglers."
The Oct. 18 suicide attack killed
15 members of the Revolutionary
Guard, including five senior com-
manders, and at least 27 others in
the town of Pishin. Iranian officials
blamed a Sunni rebel group known
as Jundallah, or Soldiers of God, in
the attack.
Iran's president and the guard
chief have since publicly accused
Pakistan's intelligence service of
supporting Jundallah. Last week
Iran's police chief Gen. Esmaeil
Ahmadi Moghadam accused Paki-
stan of"havinga direct responsibil-
ity" for the attack.
Pakistan President Asif Ali Zard-
ari met with Iran's interior minister
in Islamabad on Sunday to discuss
the attack.
Afterward, he vowed to cooper-
ate in capturing any attackers and
said those behind the blasts "were
the enemies of both countries."
Pakistani officials Monday said
the arrested Iranians were in two
cars and had no travel documents.
Pakistan and Iran have had
generally good relations in recent
years and in May the two countries
signed a landmark pact for a natu-
ral gas pipeline into Pakistan.
Jundallah has waged a low-level
insurgency in Iran's southeast in
recent years, claiming to fight on
behalf of the Baluchi ethnic minor-
ity, which it says is persecuted by
Iran's government. Iran has also
accused the United States and Brit-
ain of having links with Jundallah,
chargesbothnationa deny.,
Iran's 120,000-member Revolu-
.tionary Guardis its strongest mili-
tary force and is directly linked to
the ruling clerics. It also controls
Iran's missile program and guards
its nuclear facilities.
investigation into potential viola-
tions.
"If the enforcement staff has
developed reasonably reliable
information indicating that an
institution has been in violation
of NCAA legislation that requires
further investigation," the bylaws
read, "the enforcement staff shall
provide a notice of inquiry in
writing to the chancellor or presi-
dent..."
According to the NCAA's web-
site, the enforcement staff is not
obligated to publicly release the
notice of inquiry. Instead, it is up to
the discretion of the school under
investigation to decide if it wants to
release the notice.
In a pair of statements released
yesterday, Coleman and Athletic
Director Bill Martin defended the
program and said the school would
cooperate fully with the NCAA
investigation.
"As I said at the onset of this
review, we place the highest impor-
tance on the well-being of our stu-
dent-athletes and the integrity of

our program," Coleman's statement
read. "We continue to work with the
NCAA to ensure that a thorough and
objective investigation occurs."
In his statement, Martin wrote,
"We continue to cooperate with the
NCAA on this matter, which is why
we reached out to both the Big Ten
and the NCAA as soon as we heard
the allegations. We remain commit-
ted to following both the letter and
the intent of the NCAA rules."
access to use the programs' ropes
courses as means to facilitate team
building and leadership.
"They have the programs, and
we're the laboratory for those
groups to go out together and learn
to work together as a team," Can-
ning said. "That's what we do."
Harper spoke eagerly about
the bright future she thinks Rec
Sports will have as part of Student
Affairs.
She emphasized that students,
who make up a majority of the rec-
reational facilities' clientele, will
continue to bea focus of Rec Sports
and Student Affairs.
"We want to focus on Recreation
succeeding and get some resources
there," she said. "That's what's so
exciting about it because it allows
us really to make progress."

University President Mary Sue Coleman speaks to the Faculty Senate Assembly yesterday in Palmer Commons.

FACULTY
From Page 1
across the country "are trying to
deal with this era of constraining
resources."
However, Coleman stressed that
the University faces many chal-
lenges concerning the budget mov-
ing forward.
"I don't want to tell you that
everything is just rosy, and we
don't have anything to worry about
because that's not true," she said to
the assembly.
She cited the fact that both the
endowment and private giving
were down more than 20 per-
cent last year. State support has
also declined 10 percent over the
last seven years, and the Univer-
sity has reduced spending from its
general fund by more than $135
million within that same time
period.
Over the next three years, Cole-
man said the University will most
likely have to identify an additional
$100 million in savings.
She said this combination of fac-
tors has led the University to be
more "prudent" and "strategic"
in handling the budget in order to
guarantee a sense of stability for
the future.
"To make it better for our suc-
cessors, we want to keep the insti-
FIRE
From Page 1
the Tice Family Partnership for
$700,000. The company also owns
Pizza House, a popular campus
restaurant located less than a
block away.
The building was put back on
the market in 2004 for $1.2 million
but there were no bids on the new
offer, according to city records.
It is unclear why the building
remained unoccupied for such a
long period of time.
Calls to the owners were not
returned as of Monday evening.
The building, which caught fire
just before 11 p.m. Saturday night
and burned for almost an hour
before firefighters could contain
the flames, was left heavily dam-
aged.
The roof of the structure
entirely collapsed during the fire
and the interior is almost com-
pletely gutted.
Chamberlain said it appears the
fire began on a corner of an upper
floor of the building. Once the fire
began, the flames quickly perme-
SUMMIT
From Page 1
ter for Stem Cell Biology, said the
summit's venue in Michigan recog-
nizes the state's advances not only in
the field of stem cell science but also
in its political stance onthe issue.
"Our own state legislature had
been sending the opposite mes-
sage (before Proposal 2) by cre-
ating laws that threatened to put
stem cell biologists in jail for doing
the same things that the state of
California, for example, would pay
millions of dollars for people to
do," Morrison said.
Morrison said the passage of the
constitutional amendment defied
the underlying politics and instead
reflected the strong opinions of the

general public.
"The special interest groups
that opposed (the amendment)
were extraordinarily well funded
and organized and yet people
still, by a clear margin, voted for
(the amendment)," he said. "That
makes an important point that

tution strong because we are about
the infinite horizon," she said. "We
are not about what happens next
quarter or next year, so this is some-
thing we continue to work on."
Coleman cited several cost-cut-
ting measures including forming
new faculty travel policies, offering
more classes in spring and summer
terms, sharing the staff for central-
ized servers and making better use
of buildings.
Coleman said cooperation
among administrators, faculty and
staff will "make a big impact on the
institution" and will help the Uni-
versity deal with budget issues.
"Because the budget problem
isn't just my problem, it's not the
regents' problem, it's everybody's
problem," she said to the assem-
bly, "the challenges are there for
everybody, and so I appreciate cer-
tainly any help that you can give
us as we're thinking about how to
tackle this."
CHANGES TO GRIEVANCE
REVIEW BOARD
After Coleman spoke, Senate
Assembly members discussed
changes to the composition of the
Grievance Review Board - a body
that hears complaints from Uni-
versity faculty against other facul-
ty, staff or administrators and aims
to settle disputes.
ated the building.
A major concern was that the
flames would spread to Univer-
sity Towers, a heavily populated
student housing apartment build-
ing located next door. Though the
building was evacuated during
the fire for safety purposes, only
damage to the complex was a few
broken windows and some smoke
and water damage, according to
University spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham.
The 600 displaced students
Saturday night were allowed back
into their homes within a few
hours of the fire breaking out.
University Towersmanagement
did not inform residents when the
building was reopened early Sun-
day morning and was unwilling
to answer any questions Sunday
afternoon.
But resident Navya Varshney,
an LSA sophomore, said that the
management had begun to provide
answers on Monday.
A note was posted yesterday
next to the elevators in the build-
ing asking residents to report any
damage caused by the fire to the
front desk.

Currently, the board consists
of three members - two of the
members are from the department
of the faculty member making the
complaint and one is from an out-
side department.
Last January, Provost Teresa
Sullivan asked the Faculty Griev-
ance Process Task Force to imple-
ment standards proposed the
previous year by the Policy Task
Force and create a report. In the
report, one of the proposals that
came from the Policy Task Force
was that all three members hear-
ing the grievance come from out-
side departments.
However, theProcessTaskForce
recommended the board consist of
two members from an externalunit
and one from the original unit.
According to the Faculty Griev-
ance Process Response report,
the Process Task Force believed
a member from the department
of the grievant "would provide
perspective and insight into the
culture of the unit that could be
gained in no other way."
During the meeting, Senate
Assemblymembersdebatedwheth-
er or not to adopt the changes to
the Grievance Review Board. The
provost must approve the changes
before they go into effect.
Members discussed whether
it was fair to have two external
members and one internal member

- arguing that the internal mem-
ber might be biased for or against
the grievant.
Despite these recommenda-
tions, the assembly voted to have
the boards comprise of five mem-
bers, with three members from
an external department and two
members from the department of
the grievant.
The assembly decided both the
faculty member making the com-
plaint and the member who the
complaint was made against could
make separate lists of people they
would like to have as the internal
department member. Each party
would then choose one name from
the other party's list.
Robert Fraser, SACUA vice
chair, said the board drops griev-
ances that aren't considered valid.
"Typically that ends the discus-
sion," Fraser said. "If it's not con-
sidered grievable, it stops there.
There are a very few occasions
when SACUA has pressed upon the
provost that this needs to be recon-
sidered."
However, the new proposal
states that a grievant may appeal
a complaint found not grievable to
SACUA. This is the first time there
has been a proposed process to deal
with grievance appeals.
- Chelsea Lange
contributed to this report.

A firefighter clears charred waste after a fire gutted the old Pinba
on the north side of South University Avenue late Saturday night.

Momo Tea, located on the
other side of the burned build-
ing, has been closed since the fire
due to damage in the kitchen. A
sign on the door states they are

doing reconstruction and will be
open soon.
- Daily News Editor Matt
Aaronson contributed to this report.


resonates nationally."
The proposal passed with 53
percent of the vote.
Dr. Eva Feldman, director of
the A. Alfred Taubman Medical
Research Institute, said the leg-
islative support has allowed the
University of Michigan to form
a consortium for stem cell thera-
pies with a goal of developing
new stem cell lines with embry-
onic and induced pluripotent
stem cells.
Moreover, she said the consor-
tium would form one basis of dis-
cussion at the forthcoming stem
cell summit.
"The summit draws attention to
the fact that, within one year, we
have gone from being perceived
as a university community that
was somewhat behind and almost
'backwards' in the stem cell arena
to a mover and shaker in the stem
cell field," Feldman said.
Feldman, who is also the director
of both the U-M Amyotrophic Lat-
eral Sclerosis (ALS) Clinic and the
Program for Neurology Research
and Discovery, will be one of the

speakers featured at the summit.
Having recently acquired FDA
approval for a phase one human
clinical trial, Feldman will soon use
direct spinal cord transplantation
of stem cells in an effort to treat
Lou Gehrig's disease in 12 patients.
Feldman said she expects to
present these landmark trials at
the summit next year and any pre-
liminary data that may be gleaned
from her first set of patients.
"Being the principal investiga-
tor of the very first stem cell trial of
this kind in Lou Gehrig's disease,
I think it helps show the outside
community that, here at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, we can take
these ideas about stem cells and
actualize them," she said.
Dr. Gerard Doherty, chief of
Endocrine Surgery at the U-M
Medical School, is another Uni-
versity stem cell researcher who
anticipates presenting his work
at the summit. In a recently pub-
lished study by Doherty and his
research team, he used embryonic
stem cells to differentiate into
mature parathyroid cells, which

are important to bone health.
No stranger to legislative bar-
riers in the field, Doherty said his
study was constrained to the use of
one of the 60 stem cell lines made
available during the Bush admin-
istration. President Barack Obama
has since reversed the executive
order limiting federal funding on
stem cell research.
As a consequence of the recent
national and regional advance-
ments in stem cell research advo-
cacy, the 2010 World Stem Cell
summit in Detroit is expected to
garner more attention and scien-
tific collaboration than its prede-
cessor in Baltimore last year.
"There are a lot of scientific
meetings and some of them are
standard that happen every year
and some that sort of grow up
around specific topics, lasting for
a few years before fading away,"
Doherty said. "This one has been
increasing in momentum because
of the international interest in
stem cell biology and the bur-
geoning amount of information
we have."


8 - Tuesday, October 27, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Tuesday, October 27, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Molk done for'09 after ACL tear

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editor
Somehow, David Molk's bad
break just got worse.
Five weeks after breaking his
foot against Eastern Michigan on a
fluke play, the center tore his right
anterior cruciate ligament during
his first drive back on the field,
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
confirmed Monday.
The new injury, suffered on the
fourth play of Michigan's 35-10 loss
to Penn State on Saturday, means
Molk will be out for the remainder
of the season.
Rodriguez said the redshirt
sophomore will have knee surgery
as soon as the swelling goes down.
Molk will also miss spring prac-
tice, but could participate in sum-
mer workouts if the surgery goes as
planned.
"He was running really well all
week in practice, and I talked to
him about it this morning, and he
said it's kind of crazy, he felt good,
running good," Rodriguez said. "I
just feel bad for Dave because he's
had so much bad luck."
Rodriguez said the tear was a
non-contact injury where Molk
"planted funny on one of the run
plays," and it was not related to any
possible or lingering pain in his
foot. He walked off the field on his
own after the injury.
After Saturday's game, Molk
was standing and walking without
help, though he was terse when
asked abouthow it felt to be hurt so
early in the game.
"Do I really have to spell that out
for you?" he said derisively.
After breaking his foot in the
first half of the Eastern Michigan
game on Sept. 19, Molk played for
much of the restof the game. He
also didn't seem to know the extent
of his knee injury immediately
after Saturday's game, saying, "Uh,
it's not bad. I'll be back."
Redshirt sophomore defensive
tackle Ryan Van Bergen, Molk's
roommate, said Molk had told him
the same thing - that he would be
back and ready to play this week.
But yesterday, Molk went to Van
Bergen's room to share the bad
news.
"(Molk) got a phone call from

Rust sparks offense
by skating on two lines
Berenson ready to goals per game, but they know that
mix and match lines they are missing opportunities.
"We have full faith in Coach
to find right combos Berenson," Brown said. "He knows
his stuff. He's been around long
enough that he can gel some guys
By TIM ROHAN together so we can start scoring
Daily Sports Writer some goals instead of just getting
chances.....500 is not going to cut it
Three minutes into the third for Michigan."
period of the Michigan hockey GIDDY UP: Caporusso, Michi-
team's loss to Boston University on gan's top returning scorer (24 goals
Saturday, freshman Chris Brown and 49 points last season) and a pre-
was given a game misconduct and season All-Conference first team
five-minute major for checking selection, is under pressure.
from behind. Brown was ejected And through the first four games
with the Wolver- of the season, he hasn't registered a
ines down 2-0. NOTEBOOK single point.
The penalty "I'm surprised," Berenson said
forced Michigan coach Red Beren- of his lack of scoring. "After four
son to play junior Matt Rust on two games, you would've thought with
lines, a rare occurrence at this level the power play time we've had (that
of hockey. he would have scored)."
The move paid off. Rust scored Berenson acknowledged Capo-
the game-tying goal later in the russo has had a strong presence
third period while playingleft wing on offense with his passing and
instead of at his usual position at playmaking abilities, but he and
center. his teammates haven't been able to
No. 5 Michigan (2-2-0) lost the capitalize.
game 3-2, but the line changes Berenson said rest could play a
sparked the stagnant Wolverine role in rejuvenating him, too.
attack. "I think it's actually a good thing
Berenson made even more drastic that Louie doesn't have a goal yet,
line changes in yesterday's practice. because we know it's going to kick
"You don't want to stay with your in some day and he's going to get
same lines if your team is under- on a roll," Hagelin said. "We know
achieving," Berenson said. "And I he's a dangerous threat for us. He
think we are underperforming in didn't have that many points after
(every) area. And it's early in the four games last year either, so we
year. So we're still not sure who the know he's going to pick it up. When
best combinations are." he picks it up, he's going to be great
The Michigan offense has strug- for us."
gled, except for the line of Rust, Caporusso could benefit from
Brown and junior Carl Hagelin. Hagelin's presence on his line, and
The trio has combined for 11 of the Berenson is confident it won't be
Wolverines' 30 points this year. long before Caporusso is back to
That means Berenson is moving scoring goals.
Hagelin to join junior Louie Capo- "Is he a bit of a concern? Yeah.
russo's line and shifting sophomore He'll work his way through it,"
David Wohlberg to play with Rust Berenson said.
in order to spread the wealth. INJURY NOTES: David Wohlberg
"We don't know if (that line) was held out of practice because he
is gone for sure," Hagelin said. "I was "sick to the stomach," accord-
think we play well - me, Rusty and ing to Berenson. Junior Ben Win-
Brown - but they want to get Louie nett, who pulled his groin during
and Wohlberg going and get some practice a week and a half ago, is
points for those guys." about 90 percent healthy, according
The Wolverines average 2.75 to Berenson.

"

Redshirt sophomore David Molk receives attention from Michigan trainers after tearing his anterior cruciate ligament Saturday.

the doctors saying, 'You're prob-
ably not going to be able to play the
rest of the season,' " Van Bergen
said. "He's really good at hiding
emotions. I think he's obviously
upset. Anybody would be upset if
you weren't going to play the rest
of the season.
"But he took it really well, and
he just says, 'You gotta pick up the
slack for me a little bit.'"
Picking up the slack for Molk
will be fifth-year senior David
Moosman, who moved from right
guard to center for the four games
during Molk's absence. Redshirt
sophomore Mark Huyge will again
shift from right tackle to right
guard, and redshirt jutiior Perry
Dorrestein will take over Huyge's
spot at right tackle.

When Moosman was called to
switch to center after Molk's inju-
ry Saturday, the offense appeared
to lose rhythm gained during the
opening touchdown drive. The
struggles were especially evident
on a second-quarter miscommuni-
cation that led to a snap out of the
Michigan end zone for a Penn State
safety.
"It was loud down there and
Moosman didn't hear me, and I
didn't say anything so I don't know
why he snapped it, but he did," quar-
terback Tate Forcier said Saturday.
The team experienced similar
growing pains against Indiana,
the first game after Molk broke his
foot, where the Wolverines record-
ed six dropped snaps.
Moosman seemed to find his

groove by the Iowa and Delaware
State games, though, and putting
a veteran back at the position will
likely make the Wolverines' tran-
sition easier before they head to
Illinois this weekend. But echoing
what Rodriguez said the Monday
after the Eastern Michigan game,
Molk is one of the team's best play-
ers, which makes the loss especial-
ly tough for the team.
"It's not an individual thing for
him, which is why the coaches and
everybody loves him so much,"Van
Bergen said. "He went out there on
a torn ACL and a bad foot to play
for the team."
NOTE: Michigan's home game
against Purdue on Nov. 7 will be at
12 p.m. on the Big Ten Network, the
conference announced Monday.

H

UNDERGRWUND PRINTING
C U S T 0 M P R I N T E D A P P A R E L
NEW STORE
D [)G 1 O
a~aCO

0 *

----- -- - -- --
BRING IN THIS,
COUPON FOR 1
1O% OFF1 I
RETAIL
PURCHASE
1it- - - --utoe e a= o ai it nohrffrr wf- ret2-1 -

OLD UGP
Location NEW UP
Location
S University Ave



N
2

Structure

Ann Arbor's Source For Custom Printed Apparel
Now Also Offering:

UMP
MERCHANDISE

*eUGP
APPAREL CAMPUS DESIGNERS
s h i r t s c o m

ww wW

u n d e r g r o u n d



