L7Ie 1M11cI43an BaI1j

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, February 18, 2009

michigandaily.cor

CITY TRANS ORTATION
A2 could be
next home
for bike taxis

An
says
er
If
Ima
cabs w
and t
muter
city in
Bar
Arbor
garner
busine
Pedi
taxis
vehich
from
s Ant
she wa

n Arbor resident "It must have planted a seed,"
she said.
plan would offer Pedicabs have become an inter-
national phenomenon and have
avironmentally become popular in cities like New
York, Boston and San Diego.
riendly transit Annis said she came up with
the idea to bring pedicabs to
By LARA ZADE Ann Arbor after she heard about
DailyStaffReporter a grant proposal from the Ann
Arbor Community Foundation.
igine a city that provides "It's just a cool idea, said Annis.
with three wheels, no doors "It connects with the bigger idea
eo pedals for its busy com- of non-motorized transportation,
s. Ann Arbor may be that and that's something the city has
the near future. been working on for quite a long
baraAnnis,aresidentofAnn time."
's old west side, is looking to Annis said she thought pedi-
support to have a pedicab cabs in Ann Arbor would cater to
ass open in Ann Arbor. city walkers traveling short dis-
icabs, also known as bike tances or to those who have their
or rickshaws, are pedaled hands tied up from children or
es that transport people grocery bags.
ne place to another. The costtper fully equipped cab,
na first rode a pedicab when including turn signals and seat
as abroad in Asia. See PEDICABS, Page 7A

ontroversial professor Norman Finkelstein gives a speech about the current affairs in the Israel-Palestine conflict in the Rackham Ampitheatre last night.
Prof . alters plan, talks Gaza


At event, Finkelstein
spoke about Gaza
instead of lessons
from Gandhi
By BENJAMIN S. CHASE
Daily StaffReporter
Referring to the most recent
Israeli-Palestinian conflict as the
"Gaza massacre," Professor Nor-
man Finkelstein delivered a lecture
on Palestinian-Israeli relations to
a standing room-only crowd in the

Rackham Amphitheatre last night.
At the event, which was spon-
sored by the pro-Palestinian cam-
pus group, Students Allied for
Freedom and Equality, Finkelstein
strayed from his planned lecture,
"The Israel-Palestine Conflict:
What We Can Learn From Gandhi,"
opting instead to deliver a talk he
titled "What happened in Gaza?"
Finkelstein justified his depar-
ture from the planned lecture by
saying that the Gaza conflict is
more relevant.
Finkelstein has been the subject
ofmuchdebate overthe pastdecade.
In 2000 he published a book, "The

Holocaust Industry: Reflections on
the Exploitation of Jewish Suffer-
ing," thathasbeen widelydiscussed
as it claims that the Jewish Ameri-
cans have exploited the history of
Holocaust. DePaul University also
denied Finkelstein's bid for tenure
in 2007 citing his inability to show
respect for his colleagues' opinions,
among other reasons.
The mood in the lecture hall
grew increasingly tense during the
question-and-answer session fol-
lowing Finkelstein's lecture. The
debate grew heated, with audience
members arguing with one another
and Finkelstein.

Finkelstein said the most recent
conflict in Gaza was a continuation
of Israeli military policy that has
been in place since the 1967 Arab-
Israeli War. He added that the
policy is centered on Israelis ability
to prevent Hamas, Hezbollah and
its Arab neighbors from perpetrat-
ing attacks on Israel and its settle-
ments.
"The Arabs and Arab states are
supposed to be terrified by Israel,"
Finkelstein said.
Arguing that the overwhelm-
ing majority of the world supports
a two-state solution to the Israeli-
See FINKELSTEIN, Page 7A

n ,

UNIVERSiTY BOARD OF REGENTS-
Regents will consider proposal for three
new building projects at monthly meeting

Karen Boyd, a dean of students candidate,inthe MichiganUnion yesterday
Student relations
top Boyd 'S rsume

First of three
candidates for dean
of students visited
campus yesterday
By HAVEN BASSETT
For theDaily
Karen Boyd's resum6 has some
items one might not expect from
a candidate interviewing to be
the University's new dean of stu-
dents. She has performed as the
lead singer for a Pink Floyd cover
band and played Eve Ensler in
a production of "The Vagina
Monologues."
But Boyd, who has 20 years of
student leadership experience, is
one of three finalists to take on
that job on campus. Yesterday all
University students were invited
to a meet-and-greet with the
potential dean to voice their opin-
ions and play an active role in the
evaluation process.
During the informal lunch,

students were invited to discuss
campus issues with Boyd. After,
students were encouraged to
submit comments and feedback
online to have a say in the nar-
rowing of finalists from three to
one, according to an article in the
University Record.
If Boyd gets the job, it won't
be the first time she has worked
closely with students. As the
senior associate dean of student
life at the Georgia Institute of
Technology, she influenced stu-
dent ethical development and
provided leadership to student
activities, including Greek Life
and media services, according
to a biography released by the
University.
Boyd is also the former presi-
dent and conference chairperson
for the International Association
for Student Conduct Administra-
tors, an organization that aims to
set conduct standards for higher
education institutions. She'll also
be the chairperson for the Associ-
ation for Student Judicial Affair's
See CANDIDATE, Page 7A

Three renovations
expected to cost an
estimated $9.9M
By LINDY STEVENS
Daily News Editor
AtThursday'smeetingofthe Uni-
versity Board of Regents, the board
will discuss three new campus con-
struction projects up for approval.
The meeting is set to begin at 3 p.m.
in the Regents' Room of the Flem-

ing Administration Building.
The first project the board will
consider is a $2.1 million reno-
vation to the Residential College
Auditorium in East Quadrangle.
The 11,300-square-foot renovation
will provide updates, to the tech-
nology, lighting, stage and seating
areas. The remodel also includes
plans for accessibility updates to
meet codes and standards outlined
in the Americans with Disabilities
Act. Funding for the project will
come from the College of Litera-
ture, Science and the Arts, donor

gifts aid the University's General
Funod.
A $1.2 million, 8,300-square-foot
renovation to the Environental
and Water Resources Engineering
Building will also be discussed at
Thursday's meeting. Home to labo-
ratories, classrooms and offices for
the Department of Civil and Envi-
ronmental Engineering, the Col-
lege of Engineering will provide
funding for the project.
The Regents will also be asked
to approve a $6.6 million replace-
See REGENTS, Page 7A

BY THE NUMBERS
$2.1 MILLION
Residential College Auditorium in East
Quadrangle
$1.2 MILLION
Environmental and Water Resources
EngineeringBuilding
$6.6 MILLION
600 feet of underground tunnels in the
Eiag and 125 feet of piping in [orch Hall

MI H IG A N S eT UrDeE NrT AuSSyEtMeBLY
MSA pushes dorms to offer Saturday night meals

Plan would cost
an estimated
$300,000 or $30
per resident
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Student Assembly
passed a resolution at last night's
weekly meeting to address the lack
of Saturday night dining options in

University residence halls.
The resolution states that MSA
will write a letter to University
Housing, the Residence Halls Asso-
ciation and The Michigan Daily
emphasizing the assembly's sup-
port for keeping at least one dining
hall open on Saturday nights. It was
authored by LSA Reps. Timothy
Bekkers and Virat Gupta and Busi-
ness Rep. Alex Serwer,
It also said MSA will continue to
work with RHA to gather student
feedback and assess the feasibility
of implementing this option.

According to the resolution, it
would cost an estimated $300,000
per year for the University to keep
one dining hall open on Saturday
nights. This averages out to about
$30 per year for each resident hall
resident.
Bekkers said the resolution
would help students who are strug-
gling financially by providing more
inexpensive meal options.
"It's a pretty big social justice
issue also, because I think (closed
dining halls) hurt the people who
can least afford to be here at this

school already," he said.
Though the resolution passed
29-3, there was some opposition
from Residence Hall Association
President Ashley Londy. She said
that MSA's involvement might not
be the most effective way to imple-
ment Saturday night dining and
stressed that RHA will discuss the
issue Thursday
"I don't think it's necessarily the
most effective way when the man-
ager of dining says to get anything
done needs to come through RHA,"
See MSA, Page 7A



WEATHER k I H:23
TOMORROW LU 1"

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsonmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICH-IGANDAILYCOM
'U' baseball player on Golden Spikes watch list
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX
Vol. CXIX, No.97
02009 Thr Michgn Ig
michigondaily.com

NEWS... . . . 2A CLASSIFIEDS...........
O PIN IO N ...........................4A SPO RTS................
ARTS.. . . ..5A THE STATEMENT....

.6A
.8A
... B

I


I

2A - Wednesday, February 18, 2009

y: FRIDAY:
e Here Photos of the Week
LESSONS IN HIP HOP

From snow to sand, and back again
Next week, the average tempera- endar has allowed for three 15-week Despite the logic behind the
ture is predicted to be around 30 terms each year - fall, winter and schedule, students often complain
degrees Fahrenheit - at least 20 summer - with a condensed spring the University's spring break does
degrees below what could usually semester in between. not coincide with the vacations of
be described as cool, breezy spring This system grants students the friends who attend other schools.
days. choice to graduate early or use the Weir said that having spring break
So, why then, does the Universi- extra time to experiment with class- fall on the seventh week of the term
ty's spring break occur in the cold of es outside of their major, Weir said. is helpful to students enrolled in
winter instead of during the spring In order to fit three full semesters mini-courses and professors who
season for which it is named? into one year, students at the Univer- give midterms.
Despite the snow on the ground sity complete their winter semester "From an academic point of view,
when students leave campus and by the end of April. it doesn't make sense to have it right
still there when they return, spring Completing the school year earlier before finals because it would inter-
break is at its current point in the than most schools gives students a rupt the educational flow," she said.
calendar because of the University's jumpstart on summer internships Since the date of spring break
academic calendar - regardless of and job offerings. appears to be at set in stone at this
the weather. Therefore, Weir said, the timing of point, some students wonder why
Gretchen Weir, assistant vice pro- spring break must be proportional to University officials don't change the
vost for academic affairs, said that the length of the semester. name of the break, making it more fit-
the current timing of spring break "Spring break 'is defined as the ting to the time of the year in which
has been in place since the 1960s, middle of the term," she said. "(It) it occurs.
when the University turned to an has always been scheduled, since "There is no question, the name is
unofficial trimester system. the 1960s, for the seventh week of a misnomer," Weir said.
Since then, the University's cal- the term." - MALLORYBEBERMAN

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINABUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
ygraca@eichigandaityeeom bugti@michigasdaiy.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours:sun.-trs. 1a.m. - 2a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@mnichigadaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaiy.com
Letters tothe Editor rothedaily@michigandailycor
Photography Department photo@mtiehigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@nichigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinionomichigancdaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com

Display Sales
Classified Sales

display@tnichigandaily.com
classified@inichigandaily.com

'Dance 2 XS' teacher and Ann Arbor resident Kathy
Lin, breaks down some hip hop fundamentals.

CRIME NOTES
Student falls in Laptop left
shower, calls for unattended for
ambulance 8 hours, stolen

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Film screening History of wine

WHERE: South Quadrangle
Residence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 10
a.m.
WHAT: A University student
fell in the shower at South
Quad, University Police report-
ed. The person had a head
injury and was taken to the
University Hospital.

WHERE: Mosher-Jordan
Residence Hall
WHEN: Monday atcabout 10:15
p.m.
WHAT: A Hewlett-Packard
laptop was stolen from the com-
puter learning center between
10 a.m. and 6 p.m. Monday,
University Police reported. The
computer was valued at $750.

on outer space
WHAT: A screening of the
film "Queen of Outer Space."
An film about three American
astronauts on a manned mis-
sion to Venus.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m. to
9:30 p.m.
WHERE: Room 100, Harlan
Hatcher Graduate Library
Astronomy
lecture
WHAT: Astronomy Prof.
Jon Miller will speak on
"Revealing the Universe
from Space." He will explain
how stars and planets form,
how many planets might
have life and other topics.
WHO: Universe Theme
Semester
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Alexander G.
Ruthven Museum

exhibition
WHAT: Axn exhibition that
defines the 500 years of his-
tory of American wine mak-
ing from early failures to the
20th century of wines.
WHO: Arts at Michigan
WHEN: Today from 1 p.m. to
4:45 p.m.
WHERE: William Clements
Library
CORRECTIONS
" An article in Monday's
edition of the Daily (Uni-
versity holds its first Bean
Chili Cook-off) misspelled
contest winner Meena
Bajracharya's name.
. A photo in Monday's
edition of the Daily (Depth
good sign down the stretch)
incorrectly identified the
photographer. Ariel Bond
took the photo.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

In Granite Falls, Wash. A
man driving a lawn mower
died in a collision on a state
highway, MSNBC reported.
The lawn mower driver was
flown to Harborview Medical
Center in Seattle but died a
few hours later.
Whole Foods grocery
store has a liquor license
that allows the store to
sell alcohol by the drink.
FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT PAGE
6B
A woman was hospitalized
after being attacked by her
friend's pet chimpanzee in
Stamford, Conn., CNN report-
ed. She was hospitalized with
serious injuries to her face,
neck, and hands. Police were
called and shot the chimp sev-
eral times killing to get him off
the victim. The woman says
the attack was unprovoked.

Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.coin
Finance finance@michigandaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmiloVitZ ManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@nichigandaily.com
SEIR ESEDITRS:Jli n rmnTreor aeoJleRowLidStvn
JennaSkonler.Kyle Swanson
Robert SoaVe Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE ED1TORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:NEmad Ansari, EmmaJeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaity.com
SEN [OR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
DavidWatnickManagyingnrtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
ASSSTANT RTS EDITR S:oshua BayeAde apiDaveRapBnVanWagoner
Zachary Meisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder Managing Photo Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Said Aisalah, Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,RobMigrin,SamWOason
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych ManagingrDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
DavidMerian MultimeiaEditor meriat@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copyyChief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display Advertising sales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
New man, Christie Philips
Ryan Businski Classified Sales Manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison'Thomas
Marissa Gerber Online Sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily .oveless Finance Managers
The MichiganDalySSN0745 967)ispubished Mondaythrough Fridayduringthefalland wir:er
termsby students at the University of Michigan.One copy isavailable freeof charge toalreacrs.
AdditionacopiesmaybepickedyupattheDaly'sofficetfor2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,startingin
September via0U.malare110.Winterterm(anuarythrough Apriltisn115,yearlong(September
thosstdprs5.n tyuasiiate uCrebegttoured cbsitorate.Or-capus
subcrio ofallterm are$35. Subscritieonmut b repyid. TheMichigan iyis eberot
TAoitetdPress ad The0Asoited Collgiate Precs

Sign to Arb Honda scratches
struck, toppled parked Toyota

WHERE: 1600 Block of Wash-
ington Heights
WHEN: Monday at about 12:05
p.m.
WHAT: The sign to Nichols
Arboretum was struck by
a vehicle and knocked over,
University Police reported.
Police have no suspects.

WHERE: 700 East University
WHEN: Monday at about 1 p.m.
WHAT: A Honda Civic
scratched the side of a Toyota
Highlander during an attempt
to parallel park, University
police reported. No one was
injured.


4

4

4

4

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 18, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Mich. lawmaker
wants caffeine on
energy drink labels
A lawmaker is pushing legislation
in Michigan to let' people see how
much caffeine is in energy drinks.
State Sen. Michael Switalski says
a "caffeine race" is escalating in the
marketplace. The Roseville Demo-
crat wants to require the makers of
Red Bull, 5-Hour Energy and other
drinks to put caffeine content on
their labels.
Switalski says the products are
marketed toward youth, and par-
ents need information to control
children's caffeine intake. The bill
may not get far because the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration
generally oversees food and bever-
age labeling.
Switalski on Thursday also rein-
troduced legislation to require ste-
roid testing of high school athletes,
eliminate tax breaks for vending
machine food retailers and limit
the sale of junk food in schools.
TOKYO
U.S., N. Korea trade
barbs as Clinton
visits Asia
Secretary of State Hillary Rod-
ham Clinton talked tough on her
first overseas trip as America's top
diplomat, delivering a sharp warn-
ing to North Korea on Tuesday over
its threat to conduct a missile test.
As she wound down a long day
of official events in Tokyo before
preparing for the next leg of her
Asia tour in Indonesia, Clinton said
North Korea's threatened missile
test would harm its prospects for
improved relations with the United
States and other neighbors.
"The possible missile launch
that North Korea is talking about
would be very unhelpful in moving
our relationship forward," she said,
adding that if Pyongyang wants to
end its isolation, it would have to act
on pledges made to previous Bush
administration negotiators to scale
back its nuclear weapons efforts.
"The decision as to whether
North Korea will cooperate in the
six-party talks, end provocative
language and actions is up to them
and we are watching very closely,"
Clinton said, referring to North
Korea's continuing talks with the
U.S. and four other major nations
over efforts to nudge the North to
abandon nuclear weapons.
HOUSTON
Oil slips below $35
as markets slump
A new batch of lousy economic
news dragged oil prices down near-
ly 7 percent Tuesday, as signs from
across the globe pointed to a pro-
longed and painful recession.
Light, sweet crude for March
delivery fell $2.58 to settle at $34.93
a barrel on the New York Mercan-
tile Exchange.
A number of other commodities
fell hard too as people sought less
volatile investments.

"The recession is getting worse
in their eyes," said Phil Flynn, an
analyst at Alaron Trading Corp.
"We've gone from a year when we
didn't think we were going to have
enough of any commodity to a situ-
ation where we're going to end the
year with oversupply."
And for the first time in three
weeks, retail gasoline prices fell,
Prices at the pump slipped 0.5
cents to $1.960 a gallon, accord-
ing to auto club AAA, the Oil Price
Information Service and Wright
Express.
MINGORA, Pakistan
NATO cautions
Pakistan over truce
with Taliban
NATO led a growing chorus of
international concern Tuesday by
warning that a truce between the
government of Pakistan and Tali-
ban militants in a restive region
near the Afghan border risks giving
the extremists a "safe haven."
A hard-line cleric sent to the
battle-scarred Swat Valley to nego-
tiate with the Taliban received a
hero's welcome there by crowds
shouting "Long live Islam! Long
live peace!"
The cleric, Sufi Muhammad,
expressed hope the militants
would give up their arms to honor
the pact, which imposes Islamic
law and suspends a military offen-
sive in the former tourist haven and
nearby areas.
- Compiled tram
Daily wire reports

GM, Chrysler
seek billions
more in aid

FILE PHOTO/AP
Afghan policemen carry a dead body ona stretcher on Feb.11, following an attack on Justice Ministry in Kabul, after assailants
attacked the Justice Ministry and another government building.
UN say~s Afghan civ*lian
deaths j*umped 40percent

More than half the
deaths inflicted by
Taliban and militants
KABUL (AP) - The number of
civilians killed in Afghanistan's
worseningconflict jumped 40 per-
cent to a new high last year, and
more than half of the deaths were
inflictedby Taliban insurgents and
other militants, the United Nations
said Tuesday.
The report said insurgents
increasingly use roadside bombs,
car bombs and suicide bombers
in attacks that are "undertaken
regardless of the impact on civil-
ians." In the latest such attack, the
U.S. military reported a roadside
bomb killed five civilians Monday
in Kandahar province.
Two of the worst civilian tolls
from insurgent attacks came in a
February suicide bombing at a dog
fight in Kandahar that the U.N.
said killed 67 civilians and a car
bombing at the Indian Embassy
last July that killed 55 civilians.
Commanders of U.S. and other
international troops in Afghani-
stan have long sought to empha-
size how militant attacks kill far
more civilians than the soldiers or
officials targeted.
The U.N. said a record 2,118 civil-
ians died from violence last year, up
from 1,523 the previous year.
Its report blamed insurgent
attacks for 55 percent of the deaths
- 1,160, compared to 700 in 2007.
It said U.S., NATO and Afghan
government forces accounted
for 39 percent of those killed -
828, compared to 629 in 2007. No
responsibility was determined for
the remaining 130 deaths.
Taliban attacks have been
increasing for three years, and the
new U.S. administration is debat-

ing whether to send an additional
30,000 soldiers and Marines this
year to join 33,000 already in the
fight.
"As the conflict has intensified, it
is taking an increasingly heavy toll
on civilians," the U.N. report said.
Civilian deaths have been a
huge source of friction between
the international military forces
and Afghan President Hamid
Karzai, who has made increas-
ingly angry demands that U.S.
troops avoid killing ordinary
Afghans. He says civilian deaths
are undermining support for the
anti-Taliban fight.
The U.N. report noted that
despite new battlefield rules meant
to reduce civilian casualties, U.S.,
NATO and Afghan troops killed
31 percent more civilians last year
than in 2007.
That likely reflects the fact that
more foreign troops are in the
country. With more troops engag-
ing in clashes, more airstrikes are
used, increasing the chances that
ordinary Afghans are killed:
The U.N. report said 552 of the
civilian deaths attributed to for-
eign and government forces were
inflicted by airstrikes.
In an example of the complex-
ity of some cases, the U.S.-led
coalition said Tuesday that a
"precision strike" overnight in
Herat province killed a Taliban
commander and other insur-
gents. Police chief Ekremuddin
Yawar put the death toll at five
men, six women and two chil-
dren. He said the attack hit a
tent and two vehicles far from a
residential area, but it was dif-
ficult to know whether to clas-
sify the women and children as
militants.
The U.N. report cited a U.S.
raid on the western town of
Azizabad last August that a U.N.

investigation concluded killed 92
civilians, including 62 children. A
separate U.S. inquiry said 33 civil-
ians were killed.
After that and other high-profile
civilian death cases, the top U.S.
commander in Afghanistan, Gen.
David McKiernan, announced a
directive in September meant to
reduce such deaths. He ordered
commanders to consider breaking
away from a firefight in populated
areas rather than pursue militants
into villages.
In another step aimed at reduc-
ing deaths of ordinary people, the
American and Afghan militaries
announced earlier this month that
more Afghan soldiers would take
part in U.S. operations.
A NATO spokesman, Maj. Mar-
tin O'Donnell, said McKiernan's
directive was probably made too
late in the year to have an effect. "I
think the fruits of those initiatives
are yet to be seen," he said.
A U.S.-based group that advo-
cates for civilians in conflict said
in another report released Tues-
day that "the lack of a clear, coor-
dinated strategy to address civilian
losses has been a leading source of
anger and resentment toward mili-
tary forces" in Afghanistan.

Automakers ask
for extra $14B and
plan deep job cuts
DETROIT (AP) - General
Motors and Chrysler said yester-
day their request for federal aid
ballooned to a staggering $39 bil-
lion - only months after receiv-
ing billions in loans - in new
plans that envision massive job
losses and intense restructuring
to survive a deepening recession.
General Motors Corp. pre-
sented a survival plan that calls
for cutting a total of 47,000 jobs
globally and closing five more
U.S. factories, a move that rep-
resents the largest work force
reduction announced by a U.S.
company in the economic melt-
down. Chrysler LLC said it will
cut 3,000 more jobs and stop pro-
ducing three vehicle models.
The grim reports came as the
United Auto Workers union said
it had reached a tentative agree-
ment with GM, Chrysler and Ford
Motor Co. on contract changes.
Concessions with the union and
debt-holders were a condition of
the government bailout.
GM said it could need up to
$30 billion from the Treasury
Department, up from a previ-
ous estimate of $18 billion. That
includes $13.4 billion the com-
pany has already received. The
world's largest automaker said it
could run out of money by March
without new funds and needs $2
billion next month and another
$2.6 billion in April.
"We have a lot of work to do," GM
Chairman and Chief Executive Rick
Wagoner said. "We're still going at
this with a great sense of urgency."
GM's request includes a credit
line of $7.5 billion to be used if the
downturn is more pronounced
than expected. But the automaker
claimed it could be profitable intwo
years and repay its loans by 2017.
The requests pale in compari-
son to what it might cost taxpay-
ers if GM or Chrysler go bankrupt,

said Aaron Bragman, auto indus-
try analyst for the consulting firm
IHS Global Insight in Troy, Mich.
"These are not small, insig-
nificant organizations," he said.
"These are the lifeblood of Amer-
ican manufacturing."
The company looked into
three bankruptcy scenarios, all
of which would cost the govern-
ment more than $30 billion, GM
Chief Operating Officer Fritz
Henderson said. The worst sce-
nario would cost $100 billion
because GM's revenue would
severely drop, he said.
Although little is known about
whether people would buy cars
from a bankrupt automaker, some
research "suggests that sales fall
off a cliff," Henderson said.
Chrysler LLC requested $5 bil-
lioninnewloansontop ofthe$4bil-
lion it received in December. That's
$2 billion more than expected.
Both requests were part of
restructuring plans the two auto-
makers owed the government in
exchange for earlier loans.
Treasury Secretary Timothy
Geithner, who will lead an Obama
administration task force review-
ing the plans, said his team would
meet "later this week to analyze
the companies' plans and to
solicit the full range of input from
across the administration."
Dearborn, Mich.-based Ford,
which borrowed billions from
private sources before credit
markets tightened, has said it can
make it through 2009 without
government help.
GM and Chrysler plan to
reduce the number of models
they offer. GM raised the possi-
bility its Saturn brand could be
phased out and said its Swedish-
based Saab unit could file bank-
ruptcy this month.
The restructuring plans must
be vetted by the Obama admin-
istration's new autos team.
President Barack Obama's top
spokesman told reporters aboard
Air Force One on yesterday that
he wouldn't rule out bankruptcy
for the Detroit automakers.

Start Your Career
in Accounting.

Are You Feeling Sad or Blue
and Without Energy?
Have you lost interest in people?
Do you have problems with sleep?
If you answered "yes" to these questions, you are a woman or
man over the age of 18, and NOT taking medications, you may be
eligible to participate in studies looking at stress hormones.
Both studies involve multiple blood draws and between 2 and 5
study visits of varying length.
Compensation provided for study participation.
Forfurther information, please contact
depressionstudies@umich.edu or 734-232-0382
Columbia's Summer Term offers a wide variety of undergraduate
and graduate courses for visiting students from across the nation.
The Summer Term offers fascinating, challenging courses taught by
Columbia and visiting faculty. Summer Term students have access
to a state-of-the-art student center, gym, and recreational facilities,
as well as one of the largest library collections in the nation.
SESSION ONE: May 26- July 3
SESSION TWO: July 6-August 14
-- COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
Summer Term 2009
r A

Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA
for non-accounting majors:
" Earn two degrees in just 15 months.
. Complete a 3-month paid residency at a leading
accounting firm.
. Proven track record of 100% job placement.
Take the first step.
Visit us online or at an information session near you.
Learn more about the program and upcoming events

at ww.msamba.neu.edu.
617-373-3244
gspa@neu.edu
www.msamba.neu.edu

Northeastern
U N I V E R S I T Y


I


4A - Wednesday, February 18, 2009
ieIJm*Iidligan &i3a
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations representsolely the views of their authors.
F MTHEDA ILY
Bon voyage, bank account
New study abroad requirement unfair to some students
ach year, hundreds of University students travel all over
the world, taking advantage of one of the best learning
experiences the University offers: study abroad. But while
the option to study abroad provides a great opportunity, making
it a requirement is not such a good idea. Under a new policy, all
undergraduates in the School of Art & Design will be required to
study abroad during their college career. This may sound great
in theory, but concerns about the financial strain on already bur-
dened students makes it clear that this policy should be more
thoroughly reviewed before it is implemented.

O

4

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NOTABLE QUOTABLE
Like, your whole priorities change
after having a baby."
- Bristol Palin, during her first interview since having her baby,
as reported on Sunday by Reuters.
o i

4

W hen you think about sourc-
es of probing cultural
reflection, MTV is prob-
ably the last thing
that comes to mind.
But even though
"Music" Television
has degenerated 1
into shock-fests and
horrible reality gar-
bage, a recent pro-
gram gave me some
startling insights
into how pop cul- EILEEN
ture views mascu- STAHL
linity.
That show was
"Bromance", a
reality show starringrthe all-too-
appropriately-named Brody Jenner.
You may know Brody from his role on
"The Hills" (I didn't), and that stint
apparently made him rich enough for
cars, penthouses and a license to be a
total asshole. Despite his astronomi-
cal douchebagquotient, MTVtracked
down nine dudes desperate enough to
compete for his approval in a compe-
tition to find Brody's "new ultimate
bro."
Since we hadn't heard of a concept
that silly since someone claimed MSA
was relevant on the world stage, my
own bros andI were eager to watch the
program. But a layer of subtext piqued
my interest: In our homophobic soci-
ety, wouldn't a show about a bunch of
dudes attempting to secure the affec-
tions of another dude be "too gay"?
Well, apparently, MTV execs had
the same concern, because the cast of
"Bromance" goes to hilarious lengths
to assert its heterosexuality. Within
the first few episodes, the boys are sent
on a questto see who can bring the hot-
test woman to a lingerie party; they sit
around a campfire telling tales of their
sexual exploits; and a particularly cre-
ative bro constructs a miniature golf
course in which one hits a ball into
a cardboard woman's gaping mouth,
much to the raucous guffaws of all.As a
woman, I admit that I should have been

more offended than I actually was, but
for the most part I inexcusably chalked
it up to (dumb) boys being (dumb) boys.
However, what really rubbed me the
wrong way was the cast's treatment of
another contestant named Gary.
Gary was a dance instructor who
was constantly forced to explain how
"not gay" he was, even though he
seemed to me like the only normal guy
on the show. Nevertheless, the rest of
the cast incessantly ridiculed him for
such things as dancing (you know, his
job) and for talking about how much he
enjoyed the company of one particular
womanwhilst the other bros expressed
how much they enjoyed screwing mul-
tiple women with abandon (a lot, as it
happens). When Gary was at last"elim-
nated" from the show, hethought, like
I did, that his presence may have been
a mistake. "I don't belong here," he
said. "I'm not a jock." He was right -
he came off as a caring guy who is, or
should be, comfortable with himself as
a man.
Of course, "caring guy" and "jock"
don't have to be mutually exclusive,
and sometimes, "Bromance" doesn't
always portray it that way. The boys
share many emotional moments, shar-
ing their innermost feelings with each
other and crying about their families
on more than one occasion. While a bit
tacky to see on national television, this
is something I can get behind.
But it didn't make sense, then, that
they singled out Gary - especially as
there were some genuinely bromoerot-
ic moments on the program that made
his alleged transgressions seem about
as feminine as Bruce Willis driving a
stick-shift using only his pectoral mus-
cles. In the first episode alone, Brody
kidnapped the contestants from their
beds and assembled them in his liv-
ing room in various states of undress,
then hosted the first elimination round
in a rather cramped hot tub. Actually,
my friends and I began to suspect that
Brody was genuinely homosexual and
needed someone to talk to about his
feelings.

I wouldn't have batted an eyelash
at these incidents if it weren't for the
show's creepy misogyny and selective
homophobia. I haven't even mentioned
Mike, the show's only openly gay
character who appeared for a single
episode before "deciding" to leave. I
would have, too, as the poor guy was
ignorantly accused of trying to hit on
Brody at every turn. Here's an amaz-
ing fact for heterosexual males: just
as every woman doesn't nosedive into
your cock, you are not God's gift to gay
men, either.
Reality TV at its
worst: intolerance
and misogyny.
"Bromance" reveals society's dis-
comfort with the shifting concept
of masculinity. They hammered the
point home about how manly they
are in many offensive manners, then
include Mike to show that they're
"sensitive" - while leaving him open
to unacceptable ridicule. Gary, mean-
while, was the show's sacrificial lamb;
his presence allowed the boys to talk
about their feelings while maintaining
their manliness.
What "Bromance" - and arguably,
American culture - doesn't realize is
that the concept of what it means to
be masculine or feminine is constantly
shifting. A woman attending college
would have been unacceptably manly
as recently as 50 years ago, while in
some ancient cultures, homosexual
intercourse was a sign of mannish
virility. It's impossible to be 100-per-
cent manly, since the very idea of mas-
culinity is mostly socially constructed
- which is why in the end, I prefer men
who don'ttry so hard.
- Eileen Stahl can be reached
at efstahl@umich.edu.

The University is one of the biggest par-
ticipators in study abroad among institutions
with graduate level programs, having the
sixth most travelers during the 2006-2007
school year. Of undergraduate programs, the
School of Art & Design has a strong rate of
participation. About half of this college's stu-
dents choose to go abroad during their time
at the University.
Butunderthe newpolicythe school added
last week, students won't be choosing to go
abroad - they'll be forced. Starting in the
fall semester of 2010, all undergraduates in
the School of Art.& Design will be required
to study abroad for at least three weeks to
graduate.
While studying abroad may be a relevant
and influential experience for students,
it also costs money. For many students,
attending the University is already a finan-
cial burden and studying abroad may not
be viable purely for financial reasons. By
instituting this policy, the School of Art
& Design is ignoring the circumstances
of students who can't afford the costs of
studying abroad.
The School of Art & Design seems con-
fident that in the majority of cases, stu-
dents' financial aid will carry over when
traveling. But it can't guarantee this in all
instances, and that's a problem. Though
there are scholarships that students can
apply for specifically dealing with study
abroad programs, applying for scholar-
ships takes time and isn't a sure thing. And
even ifa student is awarded a scholarship,

it may not be enough to cover the costs of
going overseas. Securing a way to pay for
such travels should have been the school's
priority well in advance of making study
abroad mandatory.
Luckily, the School of Art & Design rec-
ognizes the costs as an important issue for
students. According to Joe Trumpey, the
School's director of international engage-
ment, the School has fundraising goals
to improve financial aid for study abroad
programs. And an expected increase from
alumni donors to contribute to the financial
aid should help out students who don't have
the cash to pay for the trip on their own.
Aside from these cost issues, study
abroad just isn't a viable option for every
student. Other suitable excuses exist -
some students need to work to pay tuition,
for example. While such a group may be
in the minority, its existence means that
the School of Art & Design really needs to
rethink this policy.
it's certainly true that study abroad is
an enriching educational opportunity. The
School of Art & Design's high rateostu-
dents already taking advantage of this is
encouragingproof. Butby mandating study
abroad before explaining how all students
could afford it - and by ignoring the reali-
ties of certain students for whom study
abroad just isn't a good fit - the school
instituted a rash policy. The School of Art
& Design should take a closer look at this
policy, keeping in mind the financial situa-
tion of most students at the University.

CONTINUOUS ENROLLMENT WORKING GROUPI VIEWPOINT
The money behind continuous tuition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its future on campus,
the Daily would like students to voice their opinions on what
should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU.

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Tuition, state money woes
aren't Granholm's fault
TO THE DAILY:
You are right, Patrick O'Mahen. The College
Democrats are an activist group on campus. Last
fall, we registered 4,667 voters and, previously,
we stood in solidarity with GEO as they fought
for a fair wage. Today, our members are working
across the policy spectrum to advance progres-
sive ideas on the state and national levels.
But you were wrong when you fundamen-
tally misrepresented the budgetary situation
and Governor Jennifer Granholm's advocacy
on behalf of University students in the state of
Michigan (Schooling Granholm, 02/16/09). Far-
cical analysis of the state budget fails to take in
account the extraordinary circumstances that
are facing this state as it weathers the current
economic conditions.
Granholm has been a steadfast proponent and
defender of state education funding since she
first stepped into office. Granholm is on record
as stating that with President Obama's stimulus
package, the proposed cuts will be unnecessary.
This goes for both K-12 education and higher
education spending. It also increases the Pell
Grant program to address the needs of low-in-
come students. Furthermore, Granholm's record
has consistently defended education spending.
Blaming Granholm for the hard decisions facing
this state is unfair.
The Republican Party has taken a strong
stance in both the state legislature and Congress

in favor of cutting spending across the board,
especially education. State Senate Majority Lead-
er Mike Bishop (R-Rochester) stated recently he
wanted cuts to education spending no matter
how much aid comes from the stimulus pack-
age. Granholm cannot expect willing partners
amongstate Republicans when they demand cuts
to higher education. Additionally, Republicans in
the U.S. Congress recently removed $40 billion
in aid to states. This was essential aid that would
have been used to fix these deficits in education
funding at the state level.
In these critical times, it is important to rec-
ognize that everyone is being forced to tighten
their belts. It is also important to recognize that
tuition is not the only issue critical to students.
Since the election, the College Democrats have
- focused on health care advocacy, prison reform
and sustainable growth in Michigan. Each one
of these campaigns addresses a significantly
ignored partof the budget that would immeasur-
ably improve the lives of students. Stereotyping
student concerns by focusing solely on tuition
minimizes our own pain and allows students to
be framed as extremely self-centered. These are
tough times for the entire state of Michigan, and
we are merely one constituency.
The College Democrats look forward to work-
ing with O'Mahen, MSA, LSA-SG and any other
interested organization on developing a forward
thinking action plan to address all issues affect-
ing students - not just tuition.
Nathaniel Eli Coats Styer
The letter-writer is the chair of the University of
Michigan chapter of College Democrats.

Two weeks ago, the Daily ran a
front-page story lauding the potential
benefits of Rackham Graduate School's
proposed continuous enrollment pol-
icy (Rackham dean pitches new enroll-
ment policy, 02/05/2009). This would
require all graduate students to enroll
and pay tuition for their entire program
of study even if they are researching or
writing their dissertation outside Ann
Arbor, activities that currently qualify
as tuition-free "detached study".
As noted in the resulting editorial
(Rackham's mistake, 02/11/2009), this
will increase enrollment by almost 30
percent while leaving funding levels
unchanged. Students currently paying
candidacy tuition will pay at a lower
rate, while those currently on tuition-
free detached study will pay approxi-
mately $6,000 per year to maintain
access to University resources. The
money freed up by lower rates will go
toward additional tuition fellowships
to be distributed by departments. The
books, we are told, will balance out.
So how could a proposal that is rev-
enue-neutral for the University pos-
sibly be bad? Graduate students don't
pay their own tuition anyway, so what
are they complaining about, right?
Rackham's publicity materials
emphasize how continuous enrollment
will give students full and uninter-
rupted access to University resources.
We question whether students con-
ducting field interviews in Central Asia
or writing a dissertation while living
elsewhere with a working spouse will
benefit from access to the University
gyms and University Health Services.
Students outside Ann Arbor simply do
not use the same amount of University
resources.
Rackham seems to believe that
once all graduate students are "prop-
erly enrolled," relationships with fac-
ulty mentors will improve drastically
because students will be able to say,
"We're paying for your time!" Butgood
mentoring relationships are built on
trust and reciprocity, not monetary
exchange.
As well as the dubious value to
students of a continuous enrollment
requirement, there are potential unin-
tended consequences. The Daily's
editorial could not have put the main
problem better: "The Rackham execu-
tive board is trying to streamline grad-
uate programs that demand flexibility."
Research takes unexpected turns and
personal lives continue during pro-
longed study. Sometimes, the single no-
questions-asked semester off under the
proposal just isn't enough to sort these
things out, and paying an extortionate
fee to re-enroll or re-apply only makes
it harder to return and complete.
Any barrierto cutting-edge research
damages graduate education, the Uni-
versity's reputation and, ultimately, the
quality of undergraduate education as
the best and brightest potential stu-
dents seek opportunities elsewhere.

Tackling a profound question and cre-
ating new knowledge by conducting
field research is already daunting with-
out having to obtain a fellowship to
cover tuition during an absence. Even
if, as Rackham Graduate School Dean
Janet Weiss says, there will be plenty
of fellowships to go around, and even
if we take on faith her word that only
students who bear the entire burden of
paying for their educations might end
up paying more (Student groups criti-
cize plan for a continuous enrollment
requirement, 02/11/2009),this proposal
creates a perverse incentive for depart-
ments to value quick completion over
cutting-edgeresearchandstudentbody
diversity. Excellence, and not churning
out carbon-copy Ph.D.s, is the point of
a major research institution.
So if the revenue effect is neutral,
why even have such a policy if gradu-
ate students will be financially unaf-
fected and there are potentially grave
consequences? We agree that gradu-
ate education at the University is not
perfect. Many of our colleagues do not
complete their degrees. But how many
of these could be "rescued" by continu-
ous enrollment versus how many will
be scared off from returning by the
administration? Why is Rackham only

now surveying students after the pro-
posal has been passed by its executive
board on which student representa-
tives have no vote?
In response to a letter containing
specific questions about the lack of
evidence in support of such a policy,
Rackham administrators sent back a
laundry list of initiatives underway
to improve graduate education at
the University. Then, in response to
the actual questions, they said, "We
believe that the continuous enroll-
ment policy is an important compan-
ion to these activities and will align
the provision of University services
and resources with program expecta-
tions for graduate students' work in
Ph.D. programs."
The University teaches us to exam-
ine arguments and evidence with a
critical mind and not to accept things
on the faith or belief of others - yet this
is exactly what Rackham wishes us to
do on this policy.
For further information, or to get
involved in the student response
to this proposal, please contact
cewgforchange@umich.edu.
This viewpoint was written by the
Continuous Enrollment Working Group.

ROSE JAFFE E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU.
1T
- ~Y
--y
~/
~\EkEK
- - -Z t o -

4

4

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Wednesday, Februaryv18, 2009 - 5A

Not just child's play

By ERIC CHIU from hostage negotiation to party
Daily Arts Writer escorts. The Actives regularly have
their memories wiped and get new
It has been six years since tele- personas for each job. But problems
vision writer and producer Joss start once Echo's erased memories
Whedon had a start to reemerge.
television show. *** To the show's credit, it manages
Though he has to maximize its premise's potential,
dabbled in a vari- Dolihouse fleshing out Echo and the world
ety of media out- of the Dollhouse. With shows like
lets since then Fridays at ABC's "Lost" and NBC's "Heroes"
- from comics to 9P.M. readilyemploying flashbacks, flash-
the online musi- FOX forwards and a variety of narrative
cal "Dr. Horri- tricks, the show's relative narrative
ble's Sing-Along Blog" - Whedon's simplicity in focusing only on Echo
last effort, 2002's "Firefly," ended might seem like a throwback, but it
badly enough to make him take a gives the show a chance to build an
sabbatical from the medium. But especially dense narrative.
fortunately for his legion of fans, Though the show relies on the
time heals most wounds. Bringing standard "case of the week" for-
"Buffy the Vampire Slayer" alum- mat, with Echo being sent to cli-
nus Eliza Dushku with him, Whe- ents in different personas, it raises
don returns to television with his enough questions about Echo
latest show, "Dollhouse." and the origins of the Dollhouse
Whedon's work has always been to keep episodes interesting. It
known for its dense premises and moves at an unforgiving pace for
plot themes, ranging from sci-fi intermittent viewers, however,
westerns to supernatural noirs. because it builds narrative layers
Still, "Dollhouse" stands out as upon narrative layers with each
one of his most ambitiously plotted viewing. But Whedon constructs
shows. these threads skillfully enough
Dushku plays Echo, a member that it's hard to not to be interested
of a group known as Actives. The in seeing where they go.
Actives are controlled by a large Predictably, Dushku is the
corporation that keeps them in a highlight of the show. As some-
laboratory nicknaned the Doll- one changing personalities several
house and rents them out to buyers times in an episode, a less capable
for various high-end jobs ranging actress could easily push Echo into

camp territory. Dushku plays
Echo with the right touch, shifting
between her continually changing
personas without making the epi-
sodes feel like an extended Theater
101 exercise.
Even with Dushku at the lead,
though, Echo's character doubles
as the show's biggest issue. Echo
and her problems within the Doll-
house are the anchor of the show
'Dollhouse is
compelling but
inconsistent.
- while the pilot hints at her life
before becoming an Active, it's
touched on only briefly. Echo's abil-
ity to change completely from scene
to scene makes it hard to connect to
her as the show's protagonist, and
the show's emotional strength suf-
fers asa result.
Still, even with these problems,
fans of Whedon's past work will
find a lot to dig into in "Dollhouse."
Theshowreliesonconventionmore
heavily than it should. But within
these constraints, Whedon's intel-
ligent storytelling comes through
in a compelling, if inconsistent,
package.

COURTES

F COLUMBIA

"You can run, you can hide, but you can't escape my love."
Global mayhem

Cliv
'Th

ClivE
down
Bond w
Brosna:
jab.An(
thing,
would
him a
time-c(
moderr
includi
dren
Still, C
a chan
could h
-tenttin
al." It
as "Qu
Interna
tently i
Thet
Louis
hattan.
Eleano
"Funn
uncove
the Int
and Cr(
ful ban
Eleano
a laund
includi
sinatio:
Their p
tance a
ernmer

e Owen shines in a Jack Bauer and work outside of
, the law to bring the bank down.
ie International As outlandish as the plot sounds,
the film is surprisingly realistic
By KAVI PANDEY and straightforward. The nature
For the Daily of the IBBC's scheme is summed
up in a few concise lines of dia-
e Owen reportedly turned logue, using existing global affairs
the chance to play James like China's growing dominance
vhen Pierce and the never-ending tensions
n left the * between Israel and its neighbors.
dit'sagood Unlike most pursuit films, fol-
too, as 007 The lowing Louis and Eleanor as they
have taken chase the enemy through New
way from INteflatOdal York, Milan, Berlin and Istanbul is
onsuming At Showcase far from a painful task. Also, using
n classics and Quality16 bankers as villains in "The Inter-
ng "Chil- Columbia national" is hilariously relevant,
of Men." considering the current economic
)wen gets situation. Those who blame banks
ce to see what life as Bond like Bear Sterns for the financial
save been like in the globe- crisis will find it immensely sat-
g-thwiller "The Internation- isfying to see-Louis battle-greedy,
may not be as action-packed soulless CEOs.
antum of Solace," but "The Clive Owen does badassery bet-
ational" is a solid, consis- ter than anyone else, but it would be
ntrigning film. nice to see him tap into his acting
'movie followsInterpolagent talents a bit more. In "The Inter-
Salinger (Owen) and Man- national," his range of emotions is
Assistant District Attorney limited to grouchy, mildly pissed
r Whitman (Naomi Watts, off and dangerously enraged. It's
y Games") as they work to actually a good thing that Owen's
r the crooked activities of character isn't given much depth,
ernational Bank of Business as viewers would probably hurl if
edit, one of the most power- he was given a trite ulterior motive
iks in the world. Louis and to fight the bank along the lines of
w have linked the IBBC to "they killed my wife."
Iry list of nefarious crimes, Eleanor's character stands
ng everything from assas- alongside Louis for a substantial
ns to nuclear arms trade. part of the film, but she disappoint-
'ursuit naturally finds resis- ingly disappears for the final third
it the highest levels of gov- of the movie. Still, the filmmakers
nt, prompting Louis to pull should be commended for avoiding

the conventional route of creating a
romantic relationship for Louis and
Eleanor. It's refreshingto finally see
a platonic, professional relationship
between a man and woman that's
free of any sexual tension.
"The International" is not - as
the trailer wants people to think -
purely an action film. Louis is no
Jason Bourne; he's just an above-
average police officer. Director
Tom Tykwer ("Run, Lola, Run")
wisely limits the action in the film
to a single sequence, amplifying
its intensity. Viewers will have
to wait patiently, but they will be
rewarded with a gorgeously cho-
reographed shootout that takes
place in New York's Guggenheim
Museum. The camera stays tight
to Louis as he navigates through
shattering glass and screaming
civilians-.Blood spatters against-
the dizzying white spiral con-
struction of the museum. This
eye-popping battle is guaranteed
to linger in viewers' minds as one
of the greatest gunfights in recent
cinema.
"The International" is a well-
made movie. It reaches a per-
fect pace, neither confusing nor
exhausting audiences. The Guggen-
heim shootout itself is worth the
price of admission. Tykwer made
a hard decision to avoid watering
down the film with countless car
chases and explosions, but in doing
so, risked finding a wide audience.
Sadly, more people are likely going
to see "Street Fighter: The Legend
of Chun Li" than this movie. They'll
be missing out.

"Dude. Where's our car?"
Sunny California in a band

ARTS IN BRIEF

Cat
at the
can,
they
be so
long.
one of
throu;
2009,
les-ba
Little
on the
with t
tious
Influe
Beach
Califo
uplift;
sunsh
Acc
Reyes

By LOGAN LIGHT do that was a band like the Beach
For the Daily Boys."
Tracks like "Lovers Who
ch The Little Ones tonight Uncover" and "Face the Facts,"
Blind Pig while you still both fromthegroup'sfirstrelease,
because Sing Song, are prime examples
may not The Lile of the tambourine-shaking and
little for hand-clapping sound the group
Billed as Ones w/ offers. Morning Tide, their latest
fthe break- set effort, provides more tracks that
gh ats of would have fit right into the Sing
Los Ange- Dennen Song collection and are similarly
sed The 9p.m.Tonight tinted with a happy and vibrant
Ones are musical style.
eir way up The Bind Pig "You know, what I try to do is
heir infer- paint something positive for people
indie pop. to identify with. If it makes them
nced by groups like the happy, then we're doing our jobs,"
Boys and the Kinks, this Reyes said.
rnia quintet gives off an While The Little Ones' music
ing essence as sunny as the contains such a concentrated dose
ine of Southern California. of pep, it seems to come rather
ording to lead singer Ed naturally to them. According to
in a phone interview, the Reyes, the constant pep never

feels forced. "You know, you kind
of give it your all and you play
and everything's gonna be OK.
You know, the important part is
just going for it and not being too
concerned with, you know, little
things. That small stuff."
Still, this self-expressed casual-
ness is no detriment to the young
group; the group excel's at mak-
A little slice of
L.A. at the Pig
ing great pop, and Reyes's flip-
pancy is at supreme odds with the
band's bubbly energy. In a venue
as intimate as the Blind Pig, a Lit-
tle Ones show should be nothing
short of can't-miss.

EP Review
Country-hopping pop
Beirut
March of the Zapotec/Holland
Ba Da Bing Records
Zach Condon, the mastermind behind Beirut, has
a habit of borrowing sounds from other cultures and
incorporating them into his own songs' DIY style. The
first Beirut album, Gulag Orkestar, featured a heavy
Eastern European influence, while the second, Fly-
ing Cup Club, had a more Parisian luster. March of the
Zapotec/Holland, Beirut's latest EP, maintains the cul-
ture-hopping trend with its distinct Mexican flavor.
Condon and his band recently took a trip to a small
village near Oaxaca, Mexico where they recorded a
good chunk of the EP, incorporating traditional Mexi-
can folk sounds into their own Balkan-tinged music.
While the first half of the EP contains these south-

of-the-border influences, the second half recalls Con-
don's early days as a solo musician with synth-poppy
electronic jams. As a whole, the EP is a pleasing fusion
of sounds from around the world that lives up to Con-
don's reputation for creating brilliant music.
Among the standout tracks is "The Concubine," fea-
turing a militaristic drum beat accompanied by a xylo-
phone and an unusually rhythmic accordion. Condon's
vocals soar softly above the music, creating a soothing
atmosphere.
"La Llorana" is the best effort from the opening
half. It's inspired by a tragic Mexican legend of the
same name about a young woman who commits sui-
cide. Condon captures this tragedy beautifully, backed
by a 19-piece band from the Oaxaca area that gives the
song an authentic, folky Mexican feel.
March of Zapotec/Holland succeeds by blending
traditional earthy sounds with the artificial beats and
harmonies of electronic instruments, continuing Bei-
rut's tradition of producing innovative tunes for fans
and casual listeners alike.
- RHIANNONHALLER

L.A. atmosphere has had a seri-
ous effect on the group's music.
"You know, in L.A. it's obvi-
ously sunny. The weather is
always great and the great sun-
shine and beaches. You know
that's sort of just our musical
language," Reyes said. "We try
to infuse that into our music
because I think a lot of people
aren't doing that anymore. The
last band that did that or kind of
made some conscious effort to

for more information call 734/615-6449
The University of Michigan College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts presents a public
lecture and reception


Trade in your CARHART and NORTH FACE for
SUNG S
and... more classes?
In response to increased student demand,
the COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS has expanded its
2009 spring/summer course offerings.
Sign-up for these new classes when registration begins in March.
Read more, including the list of new options, at www.lsa.umich.edu/lsa/newcourses.

Richard P. Mitchell
Collegiate
Professor of History

Wednesday, February 18, 2009
Rackham Amphitheater
4:10pm

USA

U


I

6A - Wednesday, February 18, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

4

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Cal 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200
Not Many Left! Act Now before
Spring Break and get these new rates.
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. -Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
$788-5949/mo. 970-1279 sq. It. tots of
amenities. Ask about our special. 734-
449-4213.

coupon for every new tour!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line
ads to clients
Obtaining and building client rela-
tionships
Gaining priceless salesexperience
Improving your resume
Making a commission-based salary
.and having FUN at the same time
Please e-mailtdailyclassified@gmail.com,
call (734) 764-0557, orstop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don't Let This Great
Opportunity Pass You By!
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at1912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
available for Fall. Central Campus. 214
N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-2096 or visit
www.uto-housing.com
*3 BEDROOM APTS*
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine:
Fully furnished, parking, large bed-
rooms great to share. (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitytnanageiment.com
1 BDRM. & EFF. APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 20091
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
*2 BEDROOMS - Great campus loca-
tions* 1001 S. Forest. 526 & 917
Packard, 848 Tappan, 515 & 521 Wal-
nut. All furnished and include heat, wa-
ter, and parkitg, some with free wire-
less! www.varsitymanagement.cots
(734) 668-1100.
*6-BEDROOM HOUSE*
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full
baths, great for 6 - 8 people. Kerry-
town! Close to Downtown, Zingerman-
s & summer fart market! (734) 668-
1100. www.varsitymanagement.com
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, updated, w/
prkg., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.

5 LG. BDRMS. (5-7 persons) Living,
dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2 study,'
Free ldry. prkg. $2950. 717-2017.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full Issa Prope
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun- F . t
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter- Furniuhed (optional
net. $2800/to. 734-320-1026. Includes heat, water
3 & 4 Bdrm. Hous
6 BEDROOM HOUSE Now Leasing F
Huge multi-use parking area Call Today for ou
Packard at Greenwood
May to May $3400 717-2935 734-012-4
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3 Info@issaprope
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
APARTMENTS A
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3 FALL 2009 (some wit
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th. 3 Bedrooms
$3595 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
727 Packard $1890
7 BEDROOM 915 Oakland $2295
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath. 1015 Packard $1355
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989 205 N. Division $1995
Oldtownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS 4 Bedrooms
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking. 1203 Oakland $2825
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989. 929 Church $3195
Oldtownrealty.net 731 Packard $2695
904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large 5 Bedrooms
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free 205 N. Division $2950
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577. 916 Sybil $3095
ALLMAND PROPERTIESt '09 1021 E. University $225
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses, 1307 5. State $2495
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web- 6 Bedrooms
site at www.allnandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368. 401 E. Madison $3995
1014 Vaughn $3695
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10. 1814 Geddes $3595
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included, 8 Bedrooms
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see! 325 E. Jefferson $4295
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com Many Studio, 1, and 2
*Amenities varies by location mentu available too!
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI- Management 734-995-9
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished. www.wilsonwhitema
Call today 741-9657. campus@wilsonwhitem
AVAIL 9/1/09 WILLIAM & /Dvi- FALL RENTALt 61
slot. Eff., I hdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/ $2400!!! Gn CentralC
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep- Furn., free ldry, prkg,'
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL. .
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2 Tower Plaza Con
blocks to cartpus. 734-944-2405.
Qu kt& secr, HighneOnr
AVAILABLE FALL 2009 CS Brian To
7 bdrm. 521 Linden, 2 bath, 6 prkg. 734-663-1
spots, wshr/dryer,dwshr/disposal, cen-
tral heat/AC $3200 linden521amecom
5 bdrm. 525 Linden, 2 bath., 4 prkg. CAMPUS PROI
spots, wshr./dryer, dwshr/disposal, cen- AVAILABLE M
tral heat/AC $2800 linden525@me.com

FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
dtrmS . CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
) 1 & 2 Bdrm. doorstep. Unique attic space and large
r, and parking front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
es Available Kitchen highlights include a dish-
all 2009 washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
uSpecials 734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
446 EHO.
rties.com
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
VAILABLE 734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
th new prices!)
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825 wwwcampusrealtycom

i

50

IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
Apartments Avalabe!

*MAY - MAY 2 bedroom*
331 Packard: Sunny apt. on the top
floor of a converted house, large eat-in
kitchen w/ dishwasher, laundry and
parking on site. (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. CoinIdry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
2 BEDROOMS STARTING at $1250
This includes your heat, water, furni-
ture, and FREE Internet!
$200 signing bonus on ALL 2 Bedroom
Don't miss out on the Best Central
Campus Deals!
Get $500 on all May leases
Thistspecial will notlastelong, when
teyre gone, theyre gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall -09. 2 prkg
spaces avail, on-site Indry. $2450 +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2280;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available Fall
'09. 2 baths, hardwood floor, Free laun-
dry and parking. Near Yost Arena
$2000 call: 734-717-6913.
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333Crtaol.com
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard, Floor plans available.
$3,450 /onh. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty

bedrooms apart-
Wilson White
200
nagement.com
anagement.com
Bdrmo. House
Campus, 3 bath,
734-786-0249.
Studio & 1
Bdrin. Units
dominium
r bkxk from Campqus.
msic
1530
PERTIES
dAY 2009

4

Contact Jonah Copi 415 786 8206.
for yourf,$
P r
apartment before Break!
Furished Studios, 1, 2, & 3
bedrooms still available!
Call 734.668.1100 today
for an appointment!
wwwvarwnanmntom
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
- 5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
BEAUTIFUL 4 BDRM. house in Ann
Arbor. Rent negotiable. Come see for
yourself. Contact Mike 734-576-8591.
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., dry.,
bath., internet. Rent from $430 - $520.
Call 734-276-0886.
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/too. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com

3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus uiwilsonwhitemanagement.com
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + Indry incl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
GRADUATE STUDENT? 418 E.
Washington studios and one bedrooms
available. Close to Main St. and central
campus, modern, quiet, many updated
kitchens. Visit
www.varsitymanagement.com

www.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-56201
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtsengdcomcast.net
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
$200 signing bonus on alt 2 bedrooms
+ free internet
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
WE HAVE ALLyour housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
' 'Vte the b,#}y
e .
44
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.aiinarborapartments.net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

4

4

4

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, February 18, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS
1 Towed offthe
road, say
6 Some TV screens
10 24-Down's style
14 Big bill
15 Bizet's "Toreador
Song," e.g.
16 Actress Spelling
17 Immortal
coaching name
18 Departs
19 "All is vanity'
Bible bk.
20 *Drive like the
dickens
23 Understand
25 Poetic dusk
26 Merge spiritually
(with)
27 FDR opponent
Landon nt at.
29 *1998 Stephen
King novel
33 Pail
35 Instrument with a
pear-shaped
body
36 *Have serious
financial
setbacks
43 Paris pair
44 Pursue stealthily
45 "Laugh-In" catch
phrase
5! Oreofthe"Love
Train" singers
52 Land at the
Forum?
53 Penlight batteries
55 Cnrnidacheer
56 'Burglarize
81 Kett of mics
62 Person, place or
thing
63 Notre Dame
squad, familiarly
66 Passout cards
87 Sicilian vnlcann
68 Caponevc oho
69 Fish-eating birds
70 Word that can
precede the first
ward of the
answers to
starred clues
71 Excite
DOWN
1 Comics cryof
disgust
2 B&B

3 Uncertain 38 Grass house 49 Frenzied
4 Words spoken 39 Jurist in '90s woman
before the news 50 Suffix with
Senate 40 51 out of 100, e.g. Caesar
5 Caterpillar rival 41 Flight to Haifa 54 Perform horribly
6 Beach: resort 42 Terriertype 57 Once more
near Santa Ana 45 "Venerable" Eng. 58 "The Little Red
7 Duster's target monk Hen" response
8 Middle 46 Four-time discus 59 "SNL' alum Nora
management? gold medalist Al 60 New York canal
9 Window part 47 Greek islander 64 Apt namefor a
10 Audiophile's 48 South African cook?
setup villages 65 Not at all nerdy
11 Silkworm's
protection ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
12 Esoteric W A F T A L PHA A J A R
13 Spanish diacritics
21 Lincoln's st. O R C S CARES J U D E
22 Field: historic K I C K B O X E R S ANA S
Brooklyn park T R I W E E D K P H
23 Fisherman's B A D S A N T A T E N D T O
24 0-Across singern A S EE SH B I T A
28 NBC weeketd
show E NIC A R T A T I M E W A S
30 Drug giant J O E S C H M O E M P
SmithKline BRONC TEA KARMA
31 Sharer's word LACEUP ANDERSON
32 Bouquet delivery A W K R U D D E R R
letters I B E T N E W S B R I E F S
34 Second-largest NAYS KMART VDAt
U.S. island in
area ERS E YtOYmOn S EiS OnS
37 Seine, e.g. xwordeditor@aol.com 0217/09

VIA
WilsonWhite
611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEW
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED -IN
UNIT!
Upscale 5 bedroom
spa artmn ts C6 11
Cburckl 1kc09a-
ni'WIL COn'Str'uictue 5
bedroom, 2.5 bath
apaitrttent, w/h a/
th1 7J t'if'1lat s c/rueats

4

>eadlinefor line ads is11:30am one business day prior to publication. Classification:
010 - Lost Found

4

Rates: $4.30 per line for thetfirst issue and $2.15 per line for each
additional consecutive issue. " Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contact our staff for details* Students may receive a 25% discount when
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only)n" All ads must be prepaid unless prior bllng privileges
have been established * We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check " For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives

020 - For Sale

040
045
050

1 2 3
14
17
20
23 24
27
33
36
45 46 47
52
56
61
66
8
By.Jack McIn
(c)2009 Tribal

4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
15 16
25 22
28 29 .30 31 32
34 s5
37 3639 40 41 42
43 44
7 48 48 50 51
53 54 55
57 58 58 60
62 63 64 5
67 68
70 71

day 2
2 lines 8.60 12
3lines 12.90 19
4 lines 17.20 25

dayS 3 days 4 days 5 days 080-
.90 17.20 21.50 25.80 090
1.35 25.80 32.25 38.70 093-
.80 39.40 43.00 51.60 095

- Automotive
- Com puters
- Technology
- Furniture
- For Rent
- Sublet
- Services
- Help Wanted
- Summer Employment
- Child Care
Tickets & Travel
- Announcements
- Websites
- Music
- Roommates
- Food & Entertainment
- Persona
Fa Pea

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as de
TMD for falure to pubsh an advertisement for any r
shall be limited to publshing in a subsequent issue
will be responsible for classified advertisement erro
Rates: All changes shown on the open rates ines
consecutive rate if requested and paid in full by 11
Advertisers may cancel an ad before pubication de
been publshed. Refusal:All ads are subject to e
resale of tickets at more than face value. TMD rese
accepting advertising.

4

ined by TMD wll be accepted. Misprints: The liabiity o
eason, or for pubishing incorrect ads in a specified issue
and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TNk
s only if notified by 5:00 p on the first day of publicatior
re consecutive irsertions. An ad may be extended at a
30 am on originally scheduled ending date. Refunds:
adine, but no refund wvs be given unless the ad has not
ing and approval. We do not publsh advertisements for
es the right to request samples of mail order items prior

125
130
140-

4

[nturff
rune Media Services, Inc.

02/18/09

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 18, 2009 - 7A

Illinois SenatorI ^Page1A

did try to raise
money for Gov

Burris explains he
tried, but did not
succeed in his
fundraising effort
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP)- U.S.
Sen. Roland Burris now acknowl-
edges attempting to raise money
for ousted Gov. Rod Blagojevich
- an explosive twist in his evolv-
ing story on how he landed a cov-
eted Senate appointment from
the man accused of trying to sell
the seat.
Burris made the admission
to reporters late Monday, after
releasing an affidavit over the
weekend saying he had more con-
tact with Blagojevich advisers
about the Senate seat than he had
described under oath to the state
House panel that recommended
Blagojevich's impeachment. The
Democrat also said in the affida-
vit, but not before the panel, that
the governor's brother asked him
for fundraising help.
Though Burris insists he never
raisedmoneyforBlagojevichwhile
the governor was considering
whom to appoint to the seat Presi-
dent Barack Obama vacated, the
revelationthathehadattempted to
do so is likely to increase calls for
Burris' resignation and an investi-
gation into whether he committed
perjury before the panel.
Illinois Democrats havesent doc-
uments related to Burris' testimony
to a county prosecutor for review.
In Washington, agood-government
group recommended Burris' expul-
sion from the Senate if an ethics
committee investigation shows he
FINKELSTEIN
From Page 1A
Palestinian conflict, Finkelstein
said that the United States is part-
ly culpable for the continuation of
diplomatic gridlock between the
two sides.
"It's clear that Israel can't do
anything without the United States
- that's transparent," he said.
Finkelstein also compared the
Palestinians in Gaza with prison-
ers in the Warsaw Ghetto of Nazi-
occupied Poland, saying that both
are "captive populations," that
have been "deprived of food, water,
medicine and other necessities."
In addition, Finkelstein argued
that the two sides have yet to
reach a peace agreement because
the Israelis have a vested interest
in keeping moderate Palestinians
out of the government, and do not
want to negotiate with the Pales-
tinians.
"Israel had a problem with
Hamas, it was getting too moder-
ate," he said, adding that it was a
goal of Israel to "keep hounding
CANDIDATE
from Page 1A
Academy for Student Conduct
Administration, a conference to
educate higher education admin-
istrators.
In addition to her job as associ-
ate dean at Georgia Tech, Boyd is
currently a Ph.D. candidate at the
University of Georgia. Her disser-
tation focuses on the role of uni-
versities and campus institutions

on the social and personal respon-
sibility of students.
Before becoming a Ph.D. candi-
REGENTS
From Page 1A
ment and maintenance project
for approximately 600 feet of tun-
nels in the northwest section of
the Diag and 125 feet of piping in

liedto Senate leaders.
Burris, in the middle of a previ-
ously scheduled tour of northern
and central Illinois cities, would
not discuss his attempts to raise
funds for Blagojevich, but said
he didn't do anything wrong and
encouraged officials to look into
the matter.
"I welcome the opportunity to
go before any and all investigative
bodies ... to answer any questions
they have," he told reporters in
Peoria, before declining to answer
questions.
Burris, who declined to address
reporters again during a later
stop in Bloomington, also said he
planned to release later this week
"a concise document" related to
his testimony, but he would not
elaborate.
After an event Monday night
in Peoria, Burris told reporters
that he had reached out to friends
after Blagojevich's brother, Rob-
ert, called him before President
Barack Obama's election asking
him to raise $10,000 or $15,000 for
the governor.
"So sometime shortly after
Obama was elected, the brother
called and in the meantime I had
talked to some people about trying
to see if we could put a fundraiser
on," Burris said, according to an
audio clip provided by the Peoria
Journal-Star.
But Burris said his friends
weren't willing to contribute and
suggested that Robert Blagojevich
talk to Burris' partner about
approaching other potential
donors.
Burris reiterated that in the end,
he raised no money and hosted no
fundraiser.
Palestinians until moderate posi-
tions are untenable."
Theorizing that the Israeli gov-
ernment is more opposed to a two-
state solution than Palestinian
leaders in Hamas, Finkelstein said
that Israel hopes to subdue Hamas
to the point where it no longer
holds enough political clout to be
a negotiating partner.
School of Education senior
David Metler said the event would
have been more interesting with
a counterpoint to Finkelstein's
views on the region.
"It would have been nice to
have an opposing view presented,"
he said. "I liked how the heated
debate during the Q&A presented
some different opinions."
Nick Stery, a graduate student
at the University of Michigan-
Dearborn, said that he enjoyed the
lecture but didn't learn anything
new from it.
"He needs to reach out to a
broader audience with his infor-
mation. The people who attended
his speech tonight already know
the truth and agree with him,"
Stery said.
date, Boyd attended the University
of North Carolina and Appalachian
State University.
The two other dean finalists
- Laura Jones, interim dean of
students and director of the office
of student life at the University
of Oregon and Richard Walker,
assistant vice president for stu-
dent affairs at the University of
Miami - will be at open lunches
on Wednesday and Thursday.
The lunches are one of the
final steps in the search process
to replace former Dean of Stu-

dents Sue Eklund, who retired
last year.
Lorch Hall. The maintenance is
part of a four-year plan developed
in 2006 to repair the University's
underground tunnel and piping
system.
If approved, construction for all
three projects is expected to begin
in fall 2009.

she said. "I feel like MSA just has
better things to do."
Bekkers disagreed with Londy,
saying it was important for MSA
to start the dialogue so that RHA
could take action.
"I think MSA works well enough
to have a big voice and also has the
possibility of working together
with RHA," he'said. "Someone had
to start the dialogue."
Student General Counsel
Michael Benson echoed Bekkers's
sentiment. He said it was important
for an assembly member to present
the issue to promote collaboration
with RHA.
"It's an issue that affects all of
our constituents," he said. "So now
we'll work collaboratively, as we
have in the past, with RHA to try
and find some sort of a solution."
Though he agreed with the ideas
put forth in the resolution, Benson
urged the assembly to take more
action rather than simply writing
letters.
PEDICABS
From Page 1A
belts, is $3,500 to $4,000. Other
costs include maintenance, storage
and insurance, which Annis has not
yet estimated.
Her plan is to bring a fleet of 10
pedicabs to Ann Arbor and adjust that
number after gauging popularity.
Though pedicabs operate the same
way as taxicabs and are primarily
owned by private companies, Annis
said she would like to see Ann Arbor
employ free pedicab service. That
would require the city to manage the
cabs and be funded by sponsorships.
The deadline for the last Ann
Arbor Community Foundation
grant proposal has already passed,
but Annis said she's still looking for
a sponsor.
Pete Hines,chairoftheWashtenaw
Bicycling and WalkingCoalition, said
that hisgroup is in full support ofhav-
ing pedicabs as an alternative source
of transportation in Ann Arbor. He
added, however, that as a nonprofit
organization, it wouldn't be able to

JED MOCH/Daily
Michigan Student Assembly President Sabrina Shingwani (right) and Vice President Arvind Sohoni at last night's weekly meeting.

"I'm trying to encourage people let's do something tangible. Let's
to go beyond just 'let's write a let- have a rally, have a protest, let's
ter,"' he said. OK, we support it, have meetings with people."

offer a sponsorship.
Annis also spoke with Nancy
Shore, the director of Ann Arbor's
getDowntown - a program that
focuses on finding sustainable
transportation options for the city's
commuting employees - about the
practicality of bringing pedicabs to
the city.
Shore liked the idea, but didn't
think it was feasible for such a
form of transportation due to win-
ter weather conditions and a small
population density.
"I'm very supportive of all types
of alternative transportation,
but I'm just weary of some issues
regarding our density here," Shore
said. "Right now I don't think that
pedicabs will work in Ann Arbor."
However, other Michigan cit-
ies - including Grand Rapids and
Detroit - have joined the trend.
Darin Galinis, owner and opera-
tor of Elite Pedicabs, became the
first pedicab operator in Michigan
when he opened his business with
co-owner Randy McCullough in
Lansing in 2007.
Shortly after opening in Lan-

sing, Galinis moved his business to
Grand Rapids so that he could be
closer to his family.
Currently Galinis operates four
pedicabs in Grand Rapids, but
is looking to at least double that
number and expand to other cities,
including Ann Arbor.
"We'd love to have our business
in Ann Arbor," he said. "It could be
in there in a matter of weeks."
Although Shore had concerns
about Ann Arbor's low population
density as a potential issue for sup-
porting a pedicab service, Galinis
said that the city's size is not a
major problem.
"If there's one thing I can say, as
long as you have any sort of night
life, size doesn't matter, you can
have pedicabs there," he said. "It's
just how many bikes you allow."
But even with the most expensive
ride settling at $5, a lack of custom-
ers forced Galinis to cut operation
in Grand Rapids from seven days a
week to Wednesday through Satur-
day from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m.
"At first it was our intention to
go every day of the week but we

- Brittney Miller
contributed to this report.
found out that it was harder to get
started during the day than during
the night," he said. The nightlife is
more accepting of it."
In addition, Galinis acknowledged
the fact that weather during the win-
ter months can make for uncom-
fortable conditions outside, but that
business is just about as busy now as
it is during summer months.
"The one thing that definitely
stops us is the wind," he said. "It's
just unsafe."
Even last Friday - whentempera-
tures were near 22 degrees - Galin-
is said he made as much money as he
would have on an average summer
night with perfect weather.
And in regards to competition
with taxi cabs, Galinis said he
knows it's there, but thinks that
time will mend any ill feelings after
cab drivers realize that it's a give-
and-take relationship.
Although the pedicabs business
takes away some shorter rides from
taxicabs, Galinis said he also refers
longer distance rides to cab drivers.
"I think it just needs time," said
Galinis.

the michigan daily

OPPENHEIMER PROPERTIES
sllt han bouses and large apts. for rent
for Fall '09. Offering $500-$1000 sign-
ing bonus for available properties!
4 Bedroom
816 Brookwood. $2700 + util.
1803 Hill St. 1.5 bath. $2650. Util. incl.
506 W Williams. 2 bath. $2100 + util.
5 Bedroom
401 Lawrence Unit 2. Kerrytown. 2
'bath. $2875 + electric.
401 Lawrence Unit 3. Kerrytown. 2
bath. $2950 + gas and electric.
6 Bedroom
416 Hamilton Place. 3 bath. Occ. 8.
$3500 + util.
126 Hill St. 2 bath. $3100 + utit.
1803 Hill St. Unit 2. Bi-level. 1.5 bath.
All util. paid. May Lease. $3300
203 Koch. 2 bath. $2450 + util.
Please Contact 734-995-5575 or
www.oppenheimerproperties.com
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 B. Lawrence
326 B. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedroomss
909 Church
1021 Vaughn Street
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
REMODELED 2 BEDROOMS
909 Church Street
Great Location
Great for 4 people!
Leather Furniture and Glass Tables,
Free Internet and Heat & Water,
One Parking Space included!
Hurry....Only 3 left !
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
ROOM IN LRG. Hse. Share Living.,
Din., Kitch., Bath. Util. Incl. 717-2017.
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
Clean, furnished, security. Call
248-877-0859 or 248-217-6896.
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DEN'T, and Campus

HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009
3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $2995
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
701 Catherine $3525
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500
Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200

WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com

POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN AD-
VERTISING! The Michigan Daily is
now hiring Account Executives for the
Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter terms.
Gain business experience and build
your resume as a Michigan Daily Ac-
count Executive while attending
school.
As a Display Advertising Account Ex-
ecutive, you will: sell advertising to lo-
cal and national businesses, manage
your own account territory, create ad
copy layout and earn commission pay.
Applications are available at the Stu-
dent Publications Building on 420 May-
nard or call 764-0554 for more informa-
tion. Deadline is Friday, February 20,
so act soon! Don't wait until you gradu-
ate to get the experience you need!

WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1(800)1626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
w""w nn"'nnrhnrnnnrt*'n " ne

KNOW HOW TO
USE FLASH?
WANT TO GET
INVOLVED WITH
THE DAILY?
E-mail graca@michigandaily.com.

MANAGERIAL ACCOUNTING
TUTORIALS
Kinda like cheating, only ... better!
www.enliglstenup.sset
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon mmiservnet
hlp wGanted
QUIT SMOKING! $100, patches, &
personalized intervention. Make 3 stmdy
visits including a brain scan.
734.232.0705.
sitemake.umich.edu/um studies/quit
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.con
WANNA MAKE A quick $300? Well
you can help rent houses. 717-2017.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.

For Thursday, Feb. 19, 2009
ARIES
(March 21lto April 19)
Becamse yomr birthday is a month
ammay, sneb more solitmude for yomrself so
that yO can contemplate what your new
year will be. Work alone or behind the
scenes as much as possible.
TAUR US
(April 20 to May 20)
The next six weeks will be unusually
popular for you! Join groups, clubs,
classes and organizations. Share your
dreamsand goals with others to hear
their feedback.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
For the next month, the Sun is at high
neon in your chart, acting like a spotlight
on you. Ihis is why people notice you
mole than usual, especially bosses, par-
ents, teachers and VIPs. They think
you're great!
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
You need a change ofascenery. If you
can travel at any time in the next six
weeks, by all means, do so. You want
adventure, and you want to learn some-
thing new and different!
L EO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Life becomes increasingly intense for
you during the next six weeks. Nothing
is drab. Everything is compulsive and
obsessive! CatchL mp oml loose details
about red tape.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Today the Sun starts to oppose your
sign, which it will dolfor the next month.
his makes you focus on partners and
close friendsmore than usual.
IBR A
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Do whatever you can to improve the
efficiency of your job. You have high

standards for yourself in the next few
weeks, and you want to get better organ-
ized.
SCORPIO
(Oct23 to Nov. 21)
It's a playful month ahead! Flirtations,
love affairs, romance, sports and fun-
filled activities with children all will
delight you for the next six weeks.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Your attention now turns to home,
family and real estate matters.
Discussions with family members (espe-
cially a parent) could be highly signifi-
cant in the next four to six weeks.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Busy you! Fasten your seatbelt! In the
next six weeks, you'll be taking short
trips, doing lots of errands and running
around talking to everyone. (Gasp.)
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Now your attention turns to your earn-
ings as well as your possessions. In the
month ahead, you can dream up new
moneymaking ideas or a new job.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Today the Sun enters your sign. Happy
birthday! It's your' turn to recharge your
batteries for the rest of the year.
YOU BORN TODAY You're intelli-
gent and courageous. You're not afraid
to break new ground with startling, dif
ferent ideas. You're a team player, yet
you also can work O yoUr own. Your
imagination combined with your intelli-
gence produces visionary ideas. You're
also a romantic. A major change this
year (perhaps as significant as around
2001) will occur.
Birthdate of: Karen Silkwood, activist;
Cristina Kirchner, Argentine president;
Jayde Nicole, model.


I

8A - Wednesday, February 18, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

I

Sauer could see ice time again

CHANEL VON HABSBURG-L+
Redshirt freshman Laval Lucas-Perry, shown here against Ohio State, scored 10 points Sunday at Northwestern.

IGEN/Daily

Lucas-Perry shakes slump

By ANDY REID his first six games in a maize-and-
Daily Sports Editor blue uniform.
---- "I'm a shooter, and shooters
It seemed like a dream - Laval shoot the ball well and they create,"
Lucas-Perry sunk his first shot as a Lucas-Perry said after the Oakland
member of the Michigan basketball game. "I just went out there and
team. just got my shot going. Three hun-
And then the next one. And the dred and sixty five days is a long
next. And the one after that. time, and I think I was ready for
The Michigan fans at the Palace this moment."
of Auburn Hills that day in Decem- With sophomore Manny Harris
ber cheered louder and louder for leading the team, junior DeShawn
Lucas-Perry with each successive Sims down low and Lucas-Perry
bucket. The redshirt freshman and freshmen sharpshooters Stu
transfer from Arizona had to sit Douglass and Zack Novak hitting
out the first semester this season 3-pointers, Michigan seemed like
because of NCAA rules. In his first a sure-thing NCAA Tournament
day back on the court, he exploded team.
out of the gate, pouring in 14 points Then the wheels fell off - both
on Dec. 20 against Oakland. for the Wolverines and Lucas-
For a team with an already- Perry. Before scoring 10 points in
impressive NCAA Tournament Sunday's 70-67 overtime win at
resume, Lucas-Perry's arrival Northwestern, Lucas-Perry had
was perfect. Another hot-handed scored more than five points just
shooter seemed to be exactly what three times since Jan. 17. He hadn't
the Wolverines needed enteringfBig scored in double digits since his
Ten play. career day against Indiana on
And it just kept getting better for Jan. 7.
the Flint native - 10 points against His minutes dwindled, too. He
Wisconsin, 13 against Illinois, a bottomed out at Connecticut on
career-high 18 at Indiana and a six- Feb. 7, scoring just one pointin eight
game double-digit scoring streak in minutes of play.

And during his slump, Michigan
struggled to a 3-7 record from Jan.
11 to Feb. 10. But the Wolverines
toppled Northwestern this week-
end, with Lucas-Perry entering the
double-digit column.
Lucas-Perry seemed to get back
into form against Northwestern,
scoring 10 points, including a clutch
3-pointer that gave Michigan a one-
point lead midway through the sec-
ond half.
"They're tough to play against
for a guy that's just trying to assim-
ilate into this kind of basketball in
the Big Ten," Beilein said after the
game Northwestern game Sunday.
"It's been difficult for him."
Before the game, Beilein instilled
his trust in his young guard.
"I think my confidence is back,"
Lucas-Perry said. "(Beilein) told
me, 'Keep shooting. Great shoot-
ers always shoot,' and I believe it's
going in every time. You've got to
find a way to score."
Lucas-Perry is coming out of
his freshman slump, and Michigan
grabbed a much-needed conference
road win - both critical steps in
Michigan's late-season push for an
NCAA Tournament bid.

By GJON JUNCAJ
Daily Sports Writer
After winning 14 of its last 16
games, the No. 3 Michigan hockey
team has resoundingly put its dis-
appointing first half behind them.
Although the Wolverines have
seemingly resolved their consis-
tency issues, there isstill a question
that has gone unanswered:
Will Billy Sauer ever get any goal
support this season?
The senior goaltender rotated
with sophomorefBryan Hogan as the
starter in Michigan's first 16 games.
During that stretch, the Wolverines
scored 10 goals with Sauer in net
and 37 in front of Hogan. Despite
near identical goals-against averag-
es, saves made and save percentage,
Hogan became the full-time starter
in December.
Sauer, who set single-season
program records last year in goals-
against average and save per-
centage, routinely was a healthy
scratch.
Michigan coach Red Berenson
started Sauer in Saturday's 4-2 win
over Nebraska-Omaha, just the
second nod he's gotten this semes-
ter. Berenson has maintained that
he wants two goalies ready for the
postseason, and he said the coaches
had been planning to start Sauer so
he could become reacclimated to
game situations.
Berenson said Tuesday that
Sauer will "probably" play again at
some point in the final four games
of the regular season, but Beren-
son also said Hogan will still be the
starter Friday at Ohio State.
After Saturday's nightmarish
opening period in which the Mav-
ericks scored two power-play goals
30 seconds apart, Sauer kept the
Wolverines within striking dis-
tance all night.
He saved 28 of 30 shots that
night. In his last three games, dat-
ing back to Thanksgiving weekend,
Sauer has stopped 74 of 78 shots.
"Billy's last couple of games have
been phenomenal," sophomore
defenseman Scooter Vaughan said.
"He held us inthatgame (Saturday).
It could've gotten a lot worse in that
first period with all those 5-on-3s."
And the conference's top offense

SAID ALSALA H/Daily
Senior Billy Sauer may be seeing more playing time in Michigan's last fourgames.

finally gave its veteran goalten-
der some help. The Wolverines'
four goals marked the most scored
with Sauer in net since Halloween.
Michigan's 40 shots ots goal Satur-
day werc a season high with Sauer
as the starter.
"Yeah, it took awhile," Sauer
said. "I was like, 'Here we go again,'
in the second period. But these guys
did great and really came through
for me."
Entering Saturday, the Wolver-
ines had scored at least four goals
in 10 of their last 15 games. But in
Sauer's only start in those contests,
Michigan scored one goal.
Berenson said Saturday that
Sauer was probably wondering if lie
would ever be the benefactor of a
great offensive night again.
"That's a tough thing to try to
describe," senior forward Travis
Turnbull said. "It's not like we're
playing any different in front of
Billy. We have confidence in Billy's
ability to win games, and I think
we showed that (Saturday). I know
sometimes, you just can't put the
puck in the net."
A victim of odd circumstance
more than anything, Sauer has put
on a great face in public regarding
his bizarre season. He has jokingly
lamented his lack of offensive skill
after low-scoring games, and he
has been quick to praise Hogan,
who is in his first season as the
starting goalie.
Asked in December if he took

the lack of goal support personally,
Sauer told Wolverine Sports Maga-
zine: "I think I was at first. It went
to the point where it was sad. Now
it's funny.
that sas the week of the Michi-
gan State series, when Hogan
became the full-time starter. But at
that point, the coaching staff hadn't
decided to stick with Hogan.
Two months (and two starts)
later, it's unclear when Sauer will
be in net again. As his collegiate
career winds down, Sauer isn't bit-
ter about his strange senior year.
"It's got to be tough for him,"
Turnbull said. "Butihe understands
that you've got to produce every
single night and that he has to wait
his turn sometimes. He's handled it
very well. I'm really proud of him.
He hasn't let anybody know that
he's upset or anything like that.
That's a great thing, especially for
the locker room."
When Hogan left in the third
period of Friday's 8-3 win due to ill-
ness, Sauer finished the final seven
minutes, stopping all four shots he
faced. At least 10 players skated
right to Sauer and congratulated
him before post-game handshakes.
After Saturday's stellar perfor-
mance, he was mobbed by team-
mates for his performance under
much more dire circumstances.
"Billy's a great kid and he's a
great teammate," Turnbull said.
"You can't be anything but happy
for him."

4


CMU OFF-CAMPUS
CENTRAL MICHIGAN PROGRAMS
UNIVERSITY
r do
i~i~Wmmer
f4R me%3

4

....
.--

0

4 , e - -

... --

4

40

" _

I

4

+

...............-=
lay
arc
to-ate

Grand Rapids
Lansing
Livonia
Saginaw
Southfield

With summer classes from Central Michigan University
Off-Campus Programs, you can still go home, sleep in late,
get a job, and have time for your friends.
It's all about quality and convenience.
Attend a Michigan center near you for a great face-to-face
CMU experience, or take an online course wherever you
want (fuzzy bunny slippers optional).

Traverse City
Troy
Warren
Online bachelor's and master's courses or
face-to-face classes at 12 CMU Centers

4

4


a

w

0


w

a

0

-w

-w

-w

I -


Sweet dissastisfaction

could always tell the mornings
when my dad was cooking car-
amel in the back of his candy
store - the sweet aroma filled my
sensesevenbefore Iwalked through
the swinging door of his chocolate
store. The copper kettle he stood
next to resembled a cauldron, and
I used to imagine that I w as ass itch
brewing a secret potion. 'eh father
stirred the carame in figuire-eights
using anirsie odnSpoon,
my young hand 'estting inder-
neath'his. For a time, I actatnyl
beliesee Is as doing the s-work.I, lt
the tou gher realization was that I
Would never ssant to follow in his
footsteps.
For more than thirty years my
father has been the proverbial kid
in the candy store. Three decades
surrounded by chocolate seems
like more of a dream than a job.
But having been born into a sugar-
coated dynasty, I'm the only one of
my siblings who hasn't been won
over by the chance to live in Candy
Land forever. I appreciate the sig-
nificance of having a part in such
a successful family business as
Lazar's Chocolate, but frankly, the
idea of carrying out this legacy is
less desirable than a root canal.
It is this common obsession with
chocolate, buttressed by commu-
nity support, which has kept my
father in business for over three
decades. Nearby stores constantly
hang"for rent" signs in vacant win-
dows and are usually replaced by
big chains and banks, but Lazar's
Chocolate is a household name in
TRANSGENDER
From Page 5B
testosterone. Mak finds an aspect
of his transformation humorously
ironic: in his pursuit of a post-gen-
der identity, he has "become the
stereotypical male."
"It is complicated because a lot of
these things are rooted in biology,"
he said. "We really don't under-
stand it ... that even though we are
ruled by all these biological fac-
tors that doesn't mean that we are
just one thing or another because
everyone's biological factors are
wildly different."
Mak plans on having chest
reconstruction in May. He will
have a full mastectomy and then
have a plastic surgeon reshape the

my hometown, No matter how far
I try to run, chocolate has been
my constant connection to home.
While studying abroad in Prague, I
met a young guy familiar with my
Long Island hometown and within
the first few minutes of our conver-
sation he recalled, "You know what
I really miss? Lazar's Chocolate."
But I could never identify with
the consumers' ongoing fascina-
tion. Customers still ask me ques-
tions regarding the store, hoping
to gain insight frit the daughter
of the candy sit-itsielf, as if I am
ltording some secret recipe. They
think their comments are ssittybut
at this point I've heard it all. Let me
las some of the mytths to rest now: I
do not have an Ooipa Loompa and
my dad isn't Willy Wonka. Why
don't I carry around chocolate in
my pockets? It would melt. I don't
live in a gingerbread house, I can't
eat my bed or walls, I don't have to
pay for my endless supply and no, I
absolutely will never get sick of the
smooth sensation of a quality con-
fection.
When I used to work at Lazar's,
customers who I didn't know
seemed to know me simply by fam-
ily resemblance - my dad's distin-
guished nose and my mom's soft
hazel eyes. They used to approach
me, pinch my cheeks, pat the crown
of my head and recall something
like "I remember you when you
were just this tall" or "You look
just like your brothers." I remem-
ber shuffling uncomfortably in my
light-up sneakers as early as five
tissue to resemble a more mascu-
line pectoral muscle. His insurance
will not cover the procedure, but it
may cover the hospital fees.
The University has taken steps
in recognizing and accommodating
freedom of gender expression. In
2007, it became one of 266 colleges
in the United States to include gen-
der identity and gender expression
in its non-discrimination clause,
according to the Transgender Law
and Policy Institute.
But even with progressive poli-
cies, the University cannot ulti-
mately control the way that people
on campus view transgender stu-
dents, some of whom have been the
targets of hate crimes and discrim-
ination. Many of them have not
come out to their peers out of fear
of how the people around them will

years old, when customers took to four and 4,000 I was ready to run
calling me Ms. Lazar. It's a strange out of the store at the mere mention
feeling to be a walking novelty to a of boxing chocolate.
bunch of strangers, even if it's well- My brothers Marc and Jeff have
intended. always berated my distaste for the
All of my teenage years were candy business. Of many possible
spent working in the Great Neck adjectives - lazy, annoying, fast,
store, one oif three locations. The slow, efficient, scatter-brained -
hours crept by mechanically. The they'd probably describe my time
as a Lazar's employee as unreli-
able. I guess it would resonate
The bitter truth with a sharper sting if I were more
surprised, but the truth is their
a ''t having a attitude toward me is more of a
confirumation of wh at I already
family-owned knew about myself and the candy
business. I always fell a grand-
chocolate store mariner truffle short of a success-
ful day on the job.
Holidays left me no choice,
though. I worked during the hectic
speakers softly hummed Billy Joel months, showingup late and check-
and America's greatest hits repeat- ingmye-mail instead ofhelpingcus-
edly while I placed gummy worms tomers. Jeff used to chide me: "An
into plastic bags and wrapped boxes hour late and an hour for lunch?" I
in festive paper: pastel eggs on Eas- was never allowed to attend school
ter, Jewish stars on Chanukah and on Valentine's Day because my
pansies in spring. My brothers and father needed extra help. I know
dad, meanwhile, patrolled with it seems ridiculous to fall for such
iron fists. I circled the work table a contrived holiday since it was
from breakfast until closing time, essentially invented for stores like
putting an array of chocolate pieces mine. Without Valentine's Day, it's
into boxes. Each box must weigh true that my closet would only be
the correct amount, be stuffed, half full and much less glamorous.
taped shut and wrapped to perfec- It would have been nice, though,
tion. The first time I successfully to explore the romance of Febru-
constructed a one-pound box of ary 14 for myself instead of working
chocolate and my dad approved of behind the scenes.
its tidy appearance, I was elated. I dreaded Christmas more than
Even the second and third time, I Valentine's Day though, because
felt the satisfaction of success. But unlike most families who celebrate
probably somewhere between box on December. 25, Christmas for

the Lazars lasts from Halloween
to New Year's Day. I will always
remember December evenings, sit-
ting in pajamas and slippers on a
school night, placing glossy choco-
late nut patties into storage boxes
while practicing my times tables.
I hated those evenings at the time,
but I have a hard time looking back
svith resentment because those are
uy strongest memories of a time
W hen my family was all together.
My oldest brother, Mare, grew
up knowing he would take ovter he
family business one day. It seems
obvious from pictures taken in the
1970's of him stirring caramel, his
head barely visible above the cop-
per kettle, that chocolate and fam-
ily would be his destiny. My other
brother Jeff ventured out, initially
deciding to avoid a future of work-
ing in the store. But soon he found
his way back home. Together Marc
and Jeff will carry on my father's
business without me and I honestly
respect this despite my aversion to
the job. I can onlyimaginethattheir
children will one day be forced to
endure the same jobs that I whined
my way through. I can't know if
they'll cringe at the thought of the
family chocolate store as much as
I did or if they will breathe in the
aroma of caramel and feel the busi-
ness run through their veins. But I
can only hope that despite my own
sweet dissatisfaction, future family
members will appreciate the store
for whatever it's worth to them.
-Stacy Aron Lazar is an LSA senior.
our society, whether it be in poli-
tics where pundits argue if Hilary
Clinton should wear pantsuits, in a
clothing store where men discuss
whether or not they should wear
pink or in academia, where there
is an entire department devoted to
the study of women.
The discussion that transgender
students put forth is a continua-
tion of the greater gender dialogue,
but one of a different flavor. A dis-
cussion on how we can better ful-
fill gender stereotypes becomes
a discussion of how perceptions
of gender can better suit our indi-
vidual wants, needs and desires.
But with progressive policymaking
and transgender activists, the Uni-
versity might see the day when it
has achieved a truly "post-gender"
campus.

respond. Others have not revealed
their true sexual identity out of fear
of losing their jobs.
Charlie and Mak have both
experienced discrimination on the
Michigan campus. Mak has been
accosted on the street walking
home at night and last winter, he
was reproached for the bandages
he uses to make his chest appear
flatter when he went to the emer-
gency room of University Hospital
for minor injuries he received in a
car crash.
In the words of Javier, "there is
always more to be done" despite
all the policies the University has
adopted to accommodate transgen-
der students. There could be more
unisex bathrooms offered on cam-
pus, and the forms the University
requires students and employees

to fill out could include a blank
space after gender that would allow
people to fill out a true descrip-
tion of their gender expression if
it falls outside the male and female
dichotomy.
The University of Michigan Gay
and Lesbian Association offers two
$1,000 scholarships every year to
students who demonstrate a com-
mitment to gender and sexual
orientation on campus. But Mak
hopes to help establish the first
scholarship at the University spe-
cifically geared toward transgen-
der students.
When addressing a subject so
closely tied to our self-perceptions
and the perceptions others hold of
us, anger and misunderstandings
are common. Gender is an issue
that is constantly discussed in


w w w w w w


v

w

w

w

w

w

TeMciaDaily Weneda, ebuay 00

ABOUT CAMPUS -
ILLUSTRATIONS BY JON OQU ST

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
The Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Hillary Ruffe
Cover photo:
Chris Dzombak and
Rodrigo Gaya

new rules
rule 185: Don't
Count on finish-
ing your midterm
paper on the
plane to or from
your Spring Break
destination. rule
186: Twitter
might be idiotic,
but if it's being
used to break
news you can't
completely ignore
it. rule 187: No
one really cares
how little you
slept last night.
Keep it to yourself
and catch some
shut eye during
lecture like every-
one else.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatementuumich.edu

The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

Samurai h
sweethearts p
in
Going undercover with the th
Valentine's Day Ninjas o1
uT
Known for their stealthy distri- sr
bution of candy around campus on w
Valentine's Day, the red- and pink- m
clad Valentine's Ninjas struck m
again last Saturday. ti
But this year, the ninjas allowed u
a Statement writer to join their
band of guerrilla gift-givers on h
their mission to thrust sweets into id
the hands of unsuspecting stu- ac
dents. o
Usually, the group attacks dur- ar
ing lectures, but the ninjas decided m
to visit weekend hot spots this year in
since Feb. 14 fell on a Saturday. th
The ninjas are composed mainly ci
of students in the College of Engi- g
neering and are not affiliated with d
any student groups - except for le
their Valentine's Day excursion co
in 2007 when they allied with the w
UM Patriots, an infamous group n
of engineering pranksters whose
common stage was also lecture a:

f
}

Y'v'.'
{; t 5
ySt , y a
2.1.
4 ,
i
\'3 ! ^Mwyr

rigorous training sessions as the
others.
After sneaking onto a blue bus,
we passed out candy to the riders
and thensauntered acrosstheDiag.
Luckily, we were able to infiltrate
several campus tours. One candy
recipient on her cell phone pro-
claimed "GOD, I love this school!"
while another commented, "I'm
glad there are people who like to
see other people happy." Reactions
like these are what drive the nin-
jas, they said.
"We love our school and doing
fun things on campus, and it's
just so great to see people's faces
light up after receiving candy and
a 'Happy Valentine's Day' from a
pink ninja," the ninja sensei said.
After passing through the Diag,
we visited the Union, hitting a
Dance Marathon event and pass-
ing out candy in the basement and
quiet study rooms. At times, ninjas
are so stealthy that students don't
notice their presence until they've
been attacked. Though it's not the
group's intention to frighten any-
one, students who might have been
deep into a study session will often
let out a quick scream before being
subdued by candy.

The next attack points were
the Law Quad, Law Library and
the new Ross School of Business.
When I passed out chocolate to a
table of four at the b-school, one
student asked for a kiss.
Our excursion, which lasted
slightly more than two hours, was
long and hot. I may have acciden-
tally revealed my identity several
times when I pulled down my
mask for air and water. I worried
that the other ninjas might want to
kick me out, but I don't think they
noticed - or at least they were kind
enough to forgive an amateur.
Other stops included the Gradu-
ate Library, the UGLi, South Quad,
the Fishbowl, Espresso Royale and
Borders Books. With only about
two pieces of candy remaining
per ninja at about 2:30 p.m., we
decided to infiltrate The Michigan
Daily office. When we arrived, the
newsroom was nearly empty - as
unlikely as it might seem, the staff-
ers must have been out on dates.
So having spread love and choc-
olate to our student peers in bulk,
we met one last time outside and
dispersed into thin air to clean our
extra-durable pillowcases.
-KARA MORRIS


ITh ithEu~kbkuit I

- UARTS 250 -
"C REATIVyE P RO CESS
AN INTERDISCIPUINARY STUDIO-LECTURE COURSE
In residency at the Abbey of Pontlevoy,
FRANCE
May 18 - June 12, 2009
Four Weeks/Four Credits
Satisfies the LSA Creative Expression Requirement
INFORMATION SESSIONS:
Tuesday, February 17, 5:00pm,Art & Architecture Bldg. Room 221
Wednesday, Feb 18, 7:00pm, Michigan Union Pond Room
Making creativity an integral part of students' lives and work.
Learn more now: www.artsonearth.org/students
n N EARTH g
This course is supported by the University of Michigan's Multidisciplinary Learning and Team Teaching initiative

alls.
So how, then, is the torch
assed to next year's ninjas? Try-
g to protect their secret rituals,
his year's ninja sensei listed two
ptions. One involves an illegal,
nderground fight between pro-
pective sensei, the loser leaving
ith a broken heart. The other
nethod, the head ninja said, is
tuch simpler and more likely: the
tle of sensei goes to whoever vol-
nteers.
Strong and silent stealers of
earts, the ninjas asked that their
entities remain concealed to
dhere to their sacred ninja vow
f spreading love anonymously
nd asking nothing in return. You
tight have encountered the rac-
ng clan - you might have thought
hat one caught your eye for a spe-
ial reason - but let that dream
o. Valentine's ninjas can't be tied
own. They take campus by storm,
aving nothing but handfuls of
andy and broken hearts in their
wake. Never has a group of engi-
eers been so debonair.
My adventure started out with
a e-mail from the Valentine's

ninja sensei that meticulously
outlined the requisite wardrobe,
mask-wrapping method and
chocolate supply.
Early Saturday, I joined a fel-
low warrior and headed to the
Salvation Armv for the ninja uni-
form: red slacks and shirts. We
stealthily collected our ammu-
nition at Kroger before heading
home for our morning agility
training session.
After filling our extra-durable
pillowcases with candy, we drove
to North Campus and joined
forces with nine other ninjas.
We stealthily exited our car and
made our way to the top-secret
meeting place, staying unnoticed
by using lampposts and shadows
for cover.
Our first targets were students
studying in the Duderstadt Cen-
ter. We quietly passed out candy
using a combination of silent
running, barrel rolls and karate
chops.
After scaling the first, second
and third floors of the Dude, I
was hot and tired. Clearly, this
ninja hadn't attended as many

I

North Campus
MLK Spirit Awards presents
Zingerman's Co-Founder
Paul Saginaw
Wednesday, February 18
Rm 2104, Art & Architecture Bldg
4:30 Reception
5:00 Ceremony


ly-WensdaFerar 8,20

--w

V U V U V V

v

a

0

Av

-W

-W

Weneda,,ebuay 8,209 - e *ihianDilm < 3

An improbable bar crawl

Happy Hour at Whole Foods. Daiquiris at Quickie Burger.
How to make use of Ann Arbor's unlikely liquor licenses
By Roger Sauerhaft

After a busy day last week, I felt
like rewarding myself. I changed
into a button down shirt, put on
my favorite sweater, brushed my
teeth and splashed on a little extra
cologne. Then I met up with my
friend David and headed out for
guy's night out. Our destination:
Whole Foods Market.
It's little known that Whole
Foods on Eisenhower Parkway has
a by-the-drink liquor license, mean-
ing that the upscale grocery store
could operate a down-and-dirty
bar scene if it so chooses. Instead
of playing it safe and going to the
Heidelberg for Wednesday night
karaoke, my friend and I looked up
the list of local liquor licenses and
tried to catch a buzz at some of the
least likely watering holes in town.
Like any girl-chasing college
guy, my first thought when getting
a drink is what the female compa-
ny might be like. So upon entering
Whole Foods and being welcomed
by a perky female employee, I got
ready to spit my best game.
But in an upsetting turn of
events, the bar near the wine sec-
tion was completely abandoned
- we wouldn't be able to pick up
anything other than groceries at
this particular establishment.
"It's usually an older crowd look-
ingtotrynewwines,"saidbartende'r
Mike Byram, who handles an inven-
tory of over 1,000 types of wine. "A
lot of younger students come here
too who are interested in learning
about varieties of wine."
Byram said that while pickup
attempts or obviously drunk cus-
tomers at his bar aren't common,
he has witnessed both awkward
situations since the store opened
Sept. 24.
"One guy picked up a cheese
knife and said he'd pull an O.J.
(Simpson) on me," Byram said.
"Then he started thrusting the knife
at me - that's about the drunkest
I've ever seen here."
Toying with the chance to one-
up the Simpson protegee, I asked
if I could order a vodka cranberry
to start off. No dice, Byram said.
Due to the lack of regulation in the
liquor industry, Whole Foods can-
not determine what brands are up
to their ingredient standards and

therefore is liquor-free.
Fair enough. David and I ordered
pint-sized draughts of Bell's Best
Brown ale and Detroit Dwarf lager,
respectively. This time we were
served, as Whole Foods carries
nearly 200 varieties of beer, many
of which are from Michigan. With
our Whole Foods-standard brew
and open tabs, the night's festivities
had officially begun.
Byram (whose official title at the
store is Cheese Keeper) treated us
to a few delicious cheese samples
and chocolate truffles, which only
piqued our appetites and encour-
aged us to take our drinks on a
stroll around the store in search
of dinner. I settled on two spicy
salmon rolls from the sushi bar
and David picked up a grilled Por-
tobello mushroom concoction. Not
too shabby for bar food.
For those of you like me who get
separation anxiety leaving your
beer unattended, take solace in the
fact that Whole Foods understands.
I was free to roam the aisles while
savoringmy cold glass of beer.
"This totally changes the idea of
shopping in my mind," said David,
a 2007 University graduate. "I've
always viewed it as such a chore.
Now I can take my leisurely time
eating dinner and drinking a beer."

I could not agree more. Mom, if
you are reading this, I might just be
willing to go grocery shopping with
you if we can go to Whole Foods.
While perusing the aisles, I spot-
ted a girl from my history class.
Determined to be able to tell my
friends that I'd been so bold as to
buy a drink for a woman at Whole
Foods, I suavely asked LSA sopho-
more Annabelle Harless to come
have a drink with me.
Turns out, she was underage and
out with her twin sister and her
mom celebrating her birthday. She
introduced me to her family and
after chatting for a minute, I invited
her mom to try some wine after they
were done shopping.
Harless's mom, Deborah from
nearby Fowlerville, accepted my
offer and the whole family came
along. It was definitely a pleasant
surprise to hear that she found the
white wine better thanhouse whites
at mostrestaurants, and she said she
and her husband might make a date
of their next grocery trip.
Last call came just after 9:30
p.m., which kept me from reaching
the point when people sometimes
pull out cheese knives and imitate
O.J. Simpson. Looking for a place
with a better male-to-female ratio
to continue the night, we saw that

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. The new Internet
2. $100 billion in education aid
3. Bristol Palin's views on abstinence
And three things you can't:
1. The Commerce Secretary post
2. Octo-mom
3. A-Rod's mystery injections

QUOTES OF THE WEEK
4"The house shook, the "We've documented many
windows shook, the abuses by FDLR forces, but
ground shook. It was a these are killings of ghastly
real blast. " proportions."
- DAVE LUCE, a man from Buffalo, New York, - ANNEKE VAN WOUDENBERG, a researcher
on the Continental Airlines plane that crashed for Human Rights Watch, on violence perpetrated
into a neighboring house in a Buffalo suburb by the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of
last Thursday, killing all 50 people aboard. Rwanda against local villagers accused of betrayal.
Investigators are still analyzing cockpit voice The FDLR is a Rwandan militia group responsible
and data recorders to determine the cause. for the 1994 genocide in Rwanda.
"Things have changed. Now, I'm able to fulfill my wife."
- ANGEL POSADAS SANDOVAL, a 74-year-old man from Mexico City, discussing the city govern-
ment's new social program to distribute Viagra to impoverished men aged 60 and older. With mayoral
elections in July, the Mexico City mayor started the program to make life more enjoyable for citizens.

You'll never want to grocery shop without a cold glass of beer again.

the Ann Arbor Women's City Club.
on Washtenaw Avenue was on the
city's liquor license list and decided
to check it out.
But sadly, we learned we couldn't
drink there unless we were mem-
bers. Frustrated and dejected, we
saw that Quickie Burger had been
granted a liquor license Dec. 17, so
off we headed to the corner of State
and Hill to finish the night in style.
Unlike the scenic walk from the
sliding glass doors to the shiny new
bar at Whole Foods, Quickie Burg-
er's bar was just one quick stride
from the door. The cheery owner,
Varujan Arman, placed a Bud Light
draught in my hand a couple min-
utes later before I headed down-
stairs to watch the Duke vs. North
Carolina basketball game on the big
screen TV in the basement.
I thought I might be forgotten
downstairs if I needed another
drink, but the wait staff kept a good
eye on everything, regularly com-
ing down and asking if customers
needed anything.

Arman, a 2006 University alum,
clearly knows how to apply the
knowledge he picked up while
earning a psychology degree to his
business plan.
"Summertime, you grab a burger
and have a beer, what's better than
that?" Arman said. "Beer and burg-
er, it's a natural fit."
It seems alot of customers are on
the same page. Every few minutes
the door would swing open and the
later it got, the more partygoers
trudged in to take advantage of the
2:30 a.m. closing time during the
week. (Quickie Burger closes at 4
a.m. Thursday through Saturday.)
There are twelve beers on tap,
ranging from Blue Moon and Stella
Artois to Bud Light and Pabst Blue
Ribbon.
The burger definitely hit the
spot for me. So did the Jager-bomb
dispensed by a special machine. I
could have also chosen to go with a
rum and Coke, strawberry daiquiri
or a Longisland iced tea. There was
also the blue lemonade, Quickie
Burger's equivalent to the shark
bowl at Rick's.
"I would drink it anytime, to be
honest,"Arman said ofthe blue lem-
onade. "It's one of those drinks that
tastes like candy. You can't taste the
alcohol, then you drink like four..."
You get the point.
After an exhausting night of vis-
iting everyday places and violating
social norms, I had learned, ate and
drank a lot. I had also been laughed
at or yelled at for calling businesses
with liquor licenses to ask if I could
come in for a drink.
My favorite response came from
Champion's Party Store on South
Forest Avenue. Because they sell
beer and have a laundromat at
the back of the store, I asked if I
could purchase alcohol and drink
it while I did laundry. The cashier,
angry and dumbstruck, denied my
request. Perhaps. you can find a
better way to ask, and if you do, let
me know.

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
Math problems
At one point or another, we've
probably all had frustrating experi-
ences talking with customer service
representatives. Most times, though,
the disagreements aren't about basic
math calculations.
tn this video, which will undoubt-
edly make engineers cringe, a man is
on the phone with an employee from
Verizon Wireless, trying to sort out
how much he should be charged for
some "kilobyte usage that was done
in Canada." An image on the screen
says,0.002 dollarsequals 0.002 cents,
and below each amount is a picture
of the respective currency. You prob-
ably know where this is going.
"Doyou realizethere's adifference
between those two numbers," the
customer sardonically asks. A silence
ensues, and the employee responds,
"Uhh, no." The quibbling continues,
with the employee maintaining that
his math is correct. After the cus-
tomer insists that 0.002 dollars and
0.002 cents are completely different
figures, the employee transfers him
to another representative.
The manager, Andrea, picks up the
phone, and the debate continues. The
customer tries to give the manager a
lesson in math, but she still doesn't
get it. "I don't know. I'm not a math-
ematician," she says. "It's obviously a
difference in opinion."
-BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos of the week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaily
$0.002 = 0.0024

BY THE NUMBERS
Total length, in feet, of Lee Redmond's fingernails, until they were
broken in a car accident last week
Length, in inches, of the longest nail, which was on her right thumb
Number of years since Redmond cut her nails. She is featured in the
Guinness Book of World Records
Source: MSNBC

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
Spring break bust - So you totally balked on
spring break plans and now it's too late. Your
dreams of a lewd weeklong bash in Cancun are
crushed. You'll probably end up at home, watch-
ing "Oprah" with your mom. She'll think you're sick
when you sleep past 3 p.m. every day, but you won't
bother to correct her. Instead, you'll pass out in front
of the TV every night with Cheetos in your mouth.
After midterms, that might be just what you need.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Men who smoke cannabis more likely to get cancer
Men who smoke cannabis on a regular basis significantly increase
their risk of testicular cancer, according to a study recently published
in the journal Cancer by researchers at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer
Research Center in Seattle, Wash.
In the study, the researchers questioned 369 men with testicular can-
cer about their past cannabis use. Then, they compared their findings
with responses from 979 men who did not have cancer.
The researchers concluded that men who smoke cannabis regularly
increase their risk of testicular cancer by 70 percent, regardless of their
family history, alcohol use and cigarette habits. The risk is most acute for
those who smoke cannabis at least once a week or who started smoking
during adolescence. These men are twice as likely to contract testicular
cancer than those who have never smoked, the study found.
The form of testicular cancer that can result from smoking cannabis
is nonseminoma, which is intense and usually afflicts younger men.
- BRIAN TENGEL


I

0
c
_
a
_c
F-
I
0
0
N
_
L
N
N
N
>
7

w
w

0
0
N
Co
i
QJ
C
Q1
0
V
f4
b-0
V_
V

m

,
.
t,.< ,;


