iC i IZ a i l

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, December 1, 2009

michigandaily.com

REMEMBERING MUMBAI

FA CULT Y SENAT E A SSEMBLY
Sullivan
discusses
'U'budget
challenges
Provost s s "interested in learning abuut the
budget," she said. "I know that it
increasing student makes some people's eyes roll to
the back of their head. But in the
body size not the current situation, it's much moire
important for the information tobe
solution to problems out there."
Since 2002, the University has
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG reduced recurring general funding
Daily StaffReporter expenditures by about $135 million.
The University plans to continue to
University Provost Teresa Sul- use cost-reduction strategies that
livan highlighted the budget chal- are currently in place to cut another
lenges facing the $22 million in fiscal year 2010.
University dur- NOTEBOOK Sullivan said the University has
ing the recession an advantage in dealing with cur-
at the Senate Assembly meeting rent budget challenges because the
yesterday. state of Michigan entered a period
The talk was one of 25 presenta- of economic difficulty before the
tions about the University's budget, rest of the country.
that Sullivan and Phil Hanlon, vice "We've been at it for a while, and
provost for academic and budget- we've had the chance to phase in
ary affairs, gave to various groups changes over a few years, rather
of faculty members this semester in than having to make significant
an effort to educate the University cuts in a single year," Sullivan said.
community about budget issues, Despite the University's cost
according to the address. containment efforts, Sullivan said
"We want to make the budget decisions made at the state capital
more transparent and we want to will always impact the University.
invite the stakeholders to become "We have been, and will contin-
more engaged in thinking about ue to be, affected by what happens
it," Sullivan told the leading faculty in Lansing," she said.
governing body. Sullivan noted that much atten-
Sullivan acknowledged that the tion has been given to the fact that
budget is not always an exciting state appropriations have been
topic, but that it's important to talk shrinking. Over the last 10 years,
about so the public knows where state funding to the University has
the University stands in these tough decreased 10 percent.
economic times. "Looking at our overall budget
"I know that not everybody is See SULLIVAN, Page 7

The Indian American Student Association commemorated those who died in the Mumbai terrorist attacks one year ago by hosting a vigil on the Diag last night. At least
166 people died in the shooting and bombing attacks. LSA freshman Tulsi Patal (right) was among those who paid their respects to the victims last night.
' reprt details progress
Of its e-n vironme ntal efforts

Officials say data
will help set realistic
goals for future
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily News Editor
Despite a 9-percentspike in pop-
ulation and an 11-percent increase
in building area, energy use has
remained nearly constant over the
past six years for the University,

according to a report released by
the Office of Campus Sustainabil-
ity yesterday.
The 2009 Environmental
Report - one of the tasks del-
egated to the new office created
by President Mary Sue Coleman in
October - tracks the University's
environmental efforts on campus.
The report describes campus
sustainability initiatives and cam-
pus energy, water and land use in
the last fiscal year, which ended
June 30. It emphasizes strides the

University has taken in its effort to
increase energy efficiency.
The University used a total of
6.5 trillion British thermal units
last year, which is equal to the
average energy used over the past
six years, according to a press
release published by the Univer-
sity Record.
"It's a significant accomplish-
ment, and we hope to continue
to hold the line - and perhaps
even decrease energy use - in
the future. That's the goal," Terry

Alexander, executive director of
the Office of Campus Sustainabil-
ity, wrote in the release.
Alexander wrote that updates
to "old, energy-wasting" cam-
pus buildings and the individual
efforts of students, faculty and
staff accounted for the energy effi-
ciency.
In the coming year, the Office of
Campus Sustainability will outline
sustainability goals by analyzing
environmental monitoring data
See REPORT, Page 3


ANN ARBOR PU IJC SCHOLS
After millage fails, AAPS
asks for help to solve deficit

Series of community After a millage failed in a
county-wide vote in November,
forums planned officials from the school district
are planning a series of forums
to discuss cuts for the public to discuss how to
mend the budget gap they are
By DYLAN CINTI currently facing.
DailyStaffReporter The district projects cuts in
state funding could range from
Ann Arbor Public Schools are $4.8 million to $8.7 million for
turning to the community to help this year, and up to $20 million for
plan for what officials are portray- the next school year, AAPS Super-
ing as a major budget deficit that intendent Todd Roberts said.
could result in employee cuts. In the county-wide vote on the

millage early last month, voters
rejected a property tax increase
that would have provided AAPS
with approximately $11 million in
additional revenue per year.
The Regional Enhancement
Millage was proposed by the
Washtenaw Intermediate School
District - comprised of 10 school
districts including AAPS - to
help deal with mounting budget
shortfalls. The millage received a
majority of votes in Ann Arbor, but
See MILLAGE, Page 7

Salvation Army kettle stolen from
outside Nickels Arcade, officials say
AAPD cites economy
in theft that occurred'
Saturday afternoon
By DARRYN FITZGERALD
DailyStaffReporter
A theft this weekend put a bit of a
damper on the usual post-Thanks-
givingholiday cheer.
An unattended Salvation Army
Red Kettle charity bucket was sto-
len from its post in front of Nick-
els Arcade Saturday afternoon,
the Ann Arbor Police Department
reported. According to Major
Dianna Williams of the Salvation
Army Ann Arbor Corps, a male bell
ringer reportedly left the kettle
unattended at around 2:20 p.m. to
take a 15-minute bathroom break
during his eight-hour shift.
The amount of money inside the
bucket at the time it was stolen is
unknown.
Williams said this isn't the first
time this particular bell ringer
has been pestered by people in the
area.
"We've called the police for him JED MOcH/Daily
before," Williams said. "This whole A Salvation Army bucket was stolen Saturday afternoon from outside Nickels Arcade,
last week there have been some the location seen above, according to Ann Arbor Police Department officials.
people - we don't know if they they decided to do something while tor stole the locked bucket, leav-
are homeless or college pranks, he wasn't there," Williams said. ing behind the padlock that had
but they have been harassing a bell Though the lid of the donation secured it to the post.
ringer." bucket was locked and the bucket "None of our bell ringers have
"It escalated to the point where was locked to a post, the perpetra- See KETTLE, Page 3

THE EVOLVING T EXTBOrK MA rKEtTk
Chegg.com offers reiltal textbooks

New business model
for textbook sales
could challenge Ann
Arbor booksellers
By STEPHANIE BERLIANT
Daily StaffReporter
The list of reasons for Ann
Arbor booksellers to be worried

justgot a little longer.
Chegg.com, a new online text-
book company, claims it will soon
put campus bookstores out of
business by not selling books to
students, but instead renting them
to students.
The company is the one of the
larger companies using a relative-
ly new business model in which
students rent textbooks for the
semester. A number of sites, like
bookrenter.com and campusbook-

rentals.com, offer similar servic-
es.
Aayush Phumbra, co-founder
and senior vice president of opera-
tions at Chegg.com, said the idea
for the company came from his
experience as an undergraduate
when he felt he paid too much
money for books and got too little
when he sold them back.
Phumbra said Chegg.com's busi-
ness model mitigates this problem
See TEXTBOOKS, Page 7


WEATHER HI: 45
TOMORROW L: 34

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail UHS announces it will hold HINt FluMist clinics.
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/ THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS ................................ 2 ARTS...................5
Vol. CXX, No.57 SUDOKU............................... 3 CLASSIFIEDS ......,............ 6
2N ..The.Michigao.Daily OPINION.. . . . 4 SPORT...................S. . . ..........8
wichioooddiycom


0

2 - Tuesday, December 1, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers f the Beaten

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY:
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

A memorial that fights disease

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
gaca @michigandailycom tmdbusiness@geail.eem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours: Sun.-Thurs, 11a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaiy.com
Corrections corrections@ichigandaiy.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com

Many people honor the
death of a loved one by plac-
ing flowers on their grave or
making a small donation to a
cause the loved one was pas-
sionate about.
But Catherine MacDon-
ald Simpson took a different
route.
After her husband, Thom-
as Henry Simpson, died from
pernicious anemia - a blood
disorder caused by vitamin
B-12 deficiency - Simpson
funded the construction of
a half-million-dollar insti-
tute dedicated to fighting the
disease that led to her loved
one's death.
In 1923, Mrs. Simpson
donated more than $400,000
to the University to establish
the Thomas Henry Simp-
son Memorial Institute for
Medical Research, according
CRIME NOTES

to umhistory.dc.umich.edu.
The building was designed
and constructed by architect
Albert Kahn, who designed
numerous campus build-
ings, including Angell Hall,
according to the site.
The three-story institute
is located on South Observa-
tory Street, just across from
the Alice Lloyd Residence
Hall, and features a lobby,
offices, laboratories, a library
and a conference room. As
umhistory.dc.umich.edu
explains, the third floor was
originally used as a treat-
ment ward that could hold up
to 10 patients.
While the third floor ward
is now gone, the building itself
remains in similar condition,
featuring the same entrance
hall of walnut paneling. The
entrance hall now showcases

various glass-encased histori-
cal medical artifacts dating as
far back as the mid-18th cen-
tury. These artifacts include
various bloodlettingtools and
devices used in pernicious
anemia treatment.
While Mrs. Simpson's
initial focus for the institute
was to study pernicious ane-
mia, she hoped that the cen-
ter would eventually expand
to include the study of other
disorders. The first instance
of this occurred in 1962,
when it expanded to include
the study of other blood and
neoplastic diseases, accord-
ing to documentation from a
Nov. 1962 Board of Regents
meeting.
Though there is still no
cure for pernicious anemia,
the institute has made many
advancements in treat-

ment, including the devel- 7 7
opment of an important
therapeutic compound, pro-
gression toward the isola-
tion of vitamin B-12, and the
use of blood and blood sub-
stitutes in the treatment of
shock. The institute has also
made progress toward the
treatment of leukemia and
other blood-related diseases.
Today, the institute is
home to the Center for the
History of Medicine, part of
the Department of Internal
Medicine and the Historical
Center for the Health Servic-
es. The organization works
to study the "history, culture
and philosophy of medicine"
and "to place contemporary
medical dilemmas in context
with past events," according AARON AUGSBURGER/C
to its mission statement. The Simpson Memorial Institute on Observatory
- BETHANYBIRON Street.

Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

photo@michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandiy.om
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michiandaiy.om
dispay@michigandailyrcom
classiiedt@mirhigandaily.omo
osieads@michigandailyomo
finance@michigandaily.omo

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Men found in Couple caught in Lecture on Computer
hospital bed parking lot flying hospital showcase sale

WHERE: Mott's Children's
Hospital
WHEN: Sunday at about 6:25
a.m.
WHAT: Two subjects were
found sleeping ina room on
the first floor of the Hospital,
University Police reported.

WHERE: Lot M-16, 1513 Hos-
pital Drive
WHEN: Sunday at about 3:25
p.m.
WHAT: A male and female
were observed having sexual
relations in the parking lot,
University Police reported. The
incident is under investigation.

Ticket issued for
Amigscooter
unleashed dog
swiped

WHAT: Dr. Del Monte, WHAT: A holiday sale
an expert in pediatric on computers and acces-
ophthalmology and adult sories, with discounts for
strabismus, will give a students, faculty and staff.
talk on the International WHO: Michigan Administra-
Flying Eye Hospital. tive Information Services
WHO: Unite for Sight WHEN: Today from
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m. 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Great Lakes South WHERE: Michigan Union
Room, Palmer Commons and Pierpont Commons
CORRECTIONS
W 0orkshop on A story in yesterday's
edition of the Daily
negotiating 2"lt A
ne~m-Aiaing (After some delay, MSA
ajob offer opts for stop-gap to launch
website soon) incorrectly
stated that the backend
WHAT: Aworkshop to of MSA's website was
teach students how to writ te ite Pas
learn howto negotiate a job written in the PEARL
offer with a focus on the programming language.
employer's perspective. It was written in Perl
WHO: The Career Center programming language.
WHEN: Today from
noon ,o 2 p.m. * Please report any error
WHERE: Fourth floor, in the Daily to correc-
Assembly Hall tions@michigandaily.com.

A German tourist visiting
Disney World in Orlando,
Fla. made a bomb threat
yesterday, according to The
Associated. Press. Jochen
Naumann of Leipzig, Ger-
many told a worker stationed
at the security check point
that he had two bombs in his
backpack. The police report
says Naumann claimed he
was joking.
The University of Florida
has 16 LERD certified
buildings and is trying to
register five more.
">FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
Two dogs in Beijing have
been diagnosed with the
H1N1 virus, the Beijing
Times reported. The virus
found in the dogs is 99 percent
identical to the H1N1 strain
found in humans.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
acob SmiloVit ManagingNewstEditor smilovitz@icigandaily.com
SENsIONWSnEIORvS MattArn,Jillian Berm,reoro Ce,J,,
ASSISo E sooEDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaity.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty RacheVan Gilder
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SOR TEDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Linoln, A,ex oeri
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje, Chris Meszaros, Ryan Podges
David WatniCk ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michandaiy.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS: JaieBlock,Brandon Conradis,WhitneyPow
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayer,CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,DavidRiva,
JeffSanford.
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhoto Editors
SEN1RPHOTOEDITORS:saidAlsaIah,ChaneIVon Habsbug-Lothringen
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:MaxCollins,ChrisDzombak,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
MaureenStych ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
JessicarVosgerchial Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chief mnitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF:Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katielaizwiak Sites Managee
SA LES FORCEMANAGER:Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
RyanaBusinski CassifiedManager
Des Erglish Perotioseaniger
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Vivian LeeFinance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily liStN074s-967)is published Mondaythrough Friday during thefall and
witer terms by studentsat the UniversityoftMichigan. One copyis availablefree of charge
to l readers. Additionalcopiesmay be pickedupattheDailysofficefor$2. Subscriptions
for fallterm, starting in September, via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term (January through
Apri) is $11a. yerlong (september through April)is $195. Universityaffiliates are subject
to ireducedsubscription rate.On-vampus subscriptionsfor falltermare Its.Subscriptions
must be pepiid. Tie Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The
Associated Colegiate Press.

01

WHERE: Mitchell Field
WHEN: Sunday at about 12:10
p.m.
WHAT: A subject was issued
a ticket for walkingtheir dog
without a leash, University
Police reported.

WHERE:University Hospital
WHEN:Monday atabout 4:05 a.m.
WHAT: An Amigo scooter
was checked out of the hospi-
tal and not returned, Univer-
sity Police reported.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more onlieut mirhigandily.tom/blogs/thwire "

Trial begins for Ohio man
accused of crimes in Nazi camp

0

John Demjanjuk, 89,
charged with killing
27,900 as camp guard
MUNICH (AP) - John Demjan-
juk sat in a wheelchair wrapped
in a light blue blanket, his eyes
closed and his face pale as his trial
opened yesterday on charges he
helped kill 27,900 Jews as a Nazi
death camp guard.
Lawyers for the retired Ohio auto-
worker portrayed him as a victim -
of the Nazis and misguided German
justice. But three German doctors
testified the Ukrainian-born Dem-
janjuk was fit to stand trial.
Wearing a blue baseball cap, Dem-
janjuk, 89, was wheeled in to the
packed Munich state court and did
not answer when presiding judge
Ralph Alt asked if he could answer
basic questions about himself. His
left hand twitched occasionally
and his mouth was open slightly as
though he was in pain.
A German doctor who exam-

ined Demjanjuk two hours before
the trial began said that despite
suffering from a bone marrow
disease and other ailments he was
able to face trial.
"He lies there, keeps his eyes
closed, but understands everything,"
said Dr. Albrecht Stein.
Demjanjuk's family disputed that.
"Given his now confirmed grave
medical condition and his resulting
inability to fully defend himself,
it is farcical for anyone to say he
is fit for trial and malpractice for
any doctor to recommend it," said
his son, John Demjanjuk Jr., in an
e-mail sent from Ohio.
Demjanjuk was deported in May
from the United States and has been
in custody in Munich since then. He
could face up to 15 years in prison if
convicted of training as a guard in
the Trawniki SS camp, then serving
in the Sobibor death camp in Nazi-
occupied Poland.
The prosecution argues that after
Demjanjuk, a Soviet Red Army sol-
dier, was capturedby the Germans
in1942hevolunteeredtoserveunder

the SS as a guard.
Demjanjuk has denied that, say-
ing he spent most of the rest of the
war in Nazi POW camps before
joining the so-called Vlasov army
made up of Soviet POWs and other
anti-communists to fight with the
Germans against the encroach-
ing Soviets in the final months of
World War II.
Ulrich Busch, one of Demjanjuk's
twolawyers,toldthecourtthatthose
Ukrainians who did volunteer to
serve as guards did soto save them-
selves, noting that millions of Soviet
POWs died at the hands of the Nazis.
"Germany did not only com-
mit the Holocaust on the Jews, but
also on the Red Army prisoners of
war," he said. Those who trained at
"Trawniki were survivors, not per-
petrators."
Efraim Zuroff, the top Nazi hunt-
er at the Simon Wiesenthal Center,
said the contention was offensive.
"It is a total distortion of the
Holocaust and turns people with
criminal responsibility into blame-
less victims," he said.

0

CII~icai . Ea P R E S E N T S

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
ail of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.

y.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
BUENOS AIRES
First gay marriage
in Latin America
put on hold
An Argentine judge put a hold
yesterday on another court's deci-
sion to permit the first gay marriage
in Latin America, but supporters of
the couple said they would try to go
ahead with the ceremony anyway.
The official court Web site said
national judge Marta Gomez Alsina
ordered the wedding blocked until
the issue can be considered by the
Supreme Court.
Jose Maria Di Bello and his part-
ner, Alex Freyre, set plans to wed
Tuesday based on an earlier ruling
by a city judge in Buenos Aires.
"They are shocked and saddened
by the news, but still have hopes
that the wedding will go forth as
planned," said Maria Rachid, presi-
dent of the Argentine Federation
for Lesbians, Gays, Bisexuals and
Transsexuals who coordinated the
team of laywers that filed the cou-
ple's suit.
HOUSTON, Tx.
Prisoner holds
guards at gunpoint
A convicted sex offender sen-
tenced to life in prison pulled a
gun on two guards during a prison
transfer yesterday-- and held them
hostage temporarily before fleeing
on foot in one of the guard's uni-
forms, authorities said.
At the time of the escape, the
inmate was in a wheelchair, which
he claimed he needed to help move
him around, officials said.
The guards were transferring
Arcade Joseph Comeaux Jr. from a
prison in Huntsville, north of Hous-
ton, to one in Beaumont, in south-
eastTexas, whenhepulledoutagun
and toldthe guards to stop thevehi-
cle, said Michelle Lyons, a spokes-
woman for the Texas Department
of Criminal Justice.
Comeaux took control of the
transport van at 6:30 a.m., near-
ly two hours into the trip, as the
vehicle was going through Con-
roe, just north of Houston. He
told the guards to continue driv-
ing until they reached Baytown,
a refinery town east of Houston,
officials said.
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.
Officer who tased
10 yr. old fired for
not using attached
* camera
The police officer in a small
Arkansas town who used a stun
gun on an unruly 10-year-old girl
has been fired for violating depart-
ment policy - not for using the
Taser itself but for failing to use the
camera attached to it, according to
the town's mayor.
Ozark Mayor Vernon McDaniel
said he received notice of Officer
Dustin Bradshaw's firing on Mon-
day morning. Bradshaw previously
was suspended for seven days with

pay. His termination was effective
Friday.
"The policy that Officer Brad-
shaw failed to obey is failure to
have his camera placed on his
Taser," police Chief Jim Noggle
wrote in a memo to McDaniel. "It is
the officer's duty to insure all of his
equipment is present and in work-
ing order."
LANSING, Mich.
Man accused of
child molestation
commits suicide
A Lansing man has commit-
ted suicide amid charges that he
molested the younger brother of a
member of the Boy Scout troop he
once helped lead.
A Lansing State Journal report
says authorities learned Monday
that 54-year7old Roger Ellison
Young-had killed himself.
Young faced two counts each
of first-degree and second-degree
criminal sexual conduct. He was
free on a $75,000 bond with a pre-
liminary hearing scheduled for
Friday.
Court documents say police on
Sept. 22 found child pornography
in Young's Lansing home, as well
as evidence that a boy was coerced
to appear in pornographic photos.
The boy now is 12 years old.
Young was removed from his
post as assistant scoutmaster of the
East Lansing troop after the allega-
tions emerged.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Guantanamo
detainees arrive
in Italy for trial

Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee speaks to local residents in Arnold Park, Iowa on June 10.
While gov., Huckabee pardoned
Seattle police shootings suspect

Suspect could be
former gov.'s Willie
Horton if he runs
for pres. once again
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) -
As governor of Arkansas, Mike
Huckabee had a hand pardoning
or commuting many more pris-
oners than his three immediate
predecessors combined. Maurice
Clemmons, the suspect in Sun-
day's slaying of four Seattle-area
police officers, was among them.
For a politician considering
another run for the White House,
Clemmons could become Hucka-
bee's Willie Horton.
"In a primary between a law-
and-order Republican and him,
I think it could definitely be a
vulnerability," said Art English,
a political scientist at the Univer-
sity of Arkansas at Little Rock. "It
is very damaging when you have
someone like that whose sentence
was commuted. That's pretty high
profile and very devastating and
very tragic."
English said it's hard to avoid.
comparing the case to Horton,
a convicted killer who raped a
woman and assaulted her fiance
while on release as part of a pris-
on furlough program supported
by Michael Dukakis when he was
governor of Massachusetts.
Allies of former President
George H.W. Bush ran ads criticiz-
ing Dukakis for his support of the

program, undermining the Demo-
crat's presidential campaign.
As recently as Sunday, hours
before the shooting suspect was
linked to him, Huckabee said he
was leaning against running again
for president, telling "Fox News
Sunday" he was "less likely rather
than more likely" to run.
Yesterday, Huckabee offered
little explanation for why he made
Clemmons eligible for parole in
2000, and called the case a failure
of the justice systems in Arkansas
and Washington.
"If I could have known nine
years ago and could have looked
into the future, would I have acted
favorably upon the Parole Board's
recommendation? Of course not,"
Huckabee told Fox News Radio
yesterday.
Huckabee was expected to dis-
cuss the Clemmons case Monday
night during an interview with
Fox News Channel's Bill O'Reilly.
Clemmons was among 1,033
people who were pardoned or had
their sentences reduced during
Huckabee's101/2years as goversor,
a number that far surpasses that of
his three predecessors combined.
Bill Clinton, Frank White and Jim
Guy Tucker granted 507 clemen-
cies in the 171/2 years they served.
Beebe, Huckabee's Democratic
successor, has issued 273 commu-
tations and pardons since taking
office in January 2007 - all but
one of them were pardons after
the completion of the inmates'
prison terms.
Huckabee's role in gaining

the release of a convicted rapist,
Wayne DuMond, was the subject
of an attack ad during his presi-
dential run. While Huckabee's
predecessor, Tucker, reduced
DuMond's sentence making him
eligible for parole, Huckabee took
steps almost immediately after
taking office to win DuMond's
release.
Two members of the state
parole board said Huckabee pres-
sured them to show DuMond
mercy, while Huckabee publicly
questioned whether DuMond was
guilty of the rape of a teenage girl.
During the presidential prima-
ries, a conservative group aired
television commercials in South
Carolina featuring the mother of
Carol Sue Shields, whom DuMond
killed in 2000 after his release.
Pulaski County Prosecu-
tor Larry Jegley, whose office
opposed Clemmons' parole in
2000 and 2004, said ,Huckabee
created a flaw in the Arkansas jus-
tice system by freeing the number
of prisoners he did.
"(Clemmons) should have
stayed locked up like the jury
wanted him and we wouldn't even
be having this discussion," Jegley
said.
"I just have been figuratively
holding my breath and hoping
something like this wouldn't hap-
pen," Jegley said. "I just think
that a lot of the people that were
subjects of clemency during that
period of time were some very
dangerous people who didn't need
to be let out."

Two Thnisians are
suspected of having
ties to al-Qaida
ROME (AP) - Two Tunisians
who hadbeen detained at Guantan-
amo arrived in Italy late yesterday
and will be tried on international
terrorism charges for having alleg-
edly recruited fighters for Afghani-
stan, officials said.
Adel Ben Mabrouk, 39, and
Mohamed Ben Riadh Nasri, 43, are
suspected of being members of a
terror group with ties to al-Qaida.
They were immediately taken into
custody upon arrival in Milan and
were being interrogated, a pros-
ecutor told The Associated Pres.
A third Guantanamo detainee
was being relocated to France, and
a fourth to Hungary, according to a
U.S. official who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the person
was not authorized to discuss the
release. -
The detainee headed to France
is Saber Lahmar, who had earlier
been cleared for release.
Lahmar's lawyer Robert Kirsch
would not specifically confirm his
client was en route to France, but
said: "We are grateful for the cour-
age and generosity of the French
people and government," add-
ing that Lahmar will now have
"a chance to rebuild his life in
France."
Lahmar is one of six Algerians
who were detained in Bosnia in
2001 on suspicion of plotting to
bomb the U.S. Embassy in Saraje-
vo, but a judge later cleared five of
them, including Lahmar, for lack of
KETTLE
From Page 1
keys to those locks," Williams
said.
wver> explained. "fyou
jiggle them, they will open."
Despite the fact that the bell
ringer left the bucket unattended,
he won't face any repercussions.
"He is one of our good workers,"
Williams said. "He's not being dis-
ciplined at all - he didn't do any-
thing wrong."
Carlos Carter, a Salvation Army
employee who works as a bell ring-
er in Ann Arbor, said the incident
made him afraid to leave his kettle
unattended.
"I was scared to leave the buck-
et (Sunday)," Carter said, working
outside Borders on East Liberty
Street yesterday. "I sacrificed my
lunch for this."
Williams said paid employees
of the Salvation Army's Christmas
Charity program typically get two
15-minute breaks and one half-
hour lunch break during an eight-
hour shift.
Volunteers on the other hand
only work for a couple of hours at
a time and typically do not go on
breaks.
Williams told the Daily that the

evidence.
The identity ofthe detainee being
transferred to Hungary was not
immediately available. The Wash-
ington Post said he was a Palestin-
ian.
In September, two Uzbeks were
sent to Ireland, and recently two
Syrians arrived in Portugal. But
they were freed. In the case of the
Tunisians, Italian magistrates had
previously accused them of inter-
national terrorism stemming from
crimes allegedly committed as far
back as i997 and they arrived in
Italy already in detention.
Italy took in the Tunisians as a
"concrete political sign" of Italy's
commitment to help the U.S. close
Guantanamo, Justice Minister
Angelino Alfano said in a state-
ment.
The Italian prosecutor, who
spoke on condition of anonymity,
said Mabrouk and Nasri traveled
fromItalytoAfghanistanand, once
there, maintained a "functional
relationship inside the organiza-
tion" of Tunisians here to recruit
fighters for suicide missions.
Nasri was allegedly the head of
the organization and was described
by the U.S. military as a "danger-
ous" Tunisian operative when he
appeared before a U.S. military
review panel.
President Barack Obama con-
firmed last month that he would
miss his January deadline to close
the Guantanamo prison - partly
because he cannot persuade other
nations to take the detainees.
The U.S. administration says
about 90 of the 211 men now held
at the U.S. military base can be
released or repatriated.
last time a Salvation Army bucket
was stolen in Ann Arbor was over
two years ago. It was a prank, and
the missing bucket was eventually
found.
But Williams said she is con-
cerned that this incident is the
result of the down economy.
"People are getting desperate,"
she said.
Williams said that if the perpe-
trator is caught, he or she will be
prosecuted.
"If we don't do anything about
this, the public won't trust us
with their money - we need to
keep people's trust in what we're
doing," Williams said.
Lieutenant Mark St. Amour of
AAPD called the incident "dis-
turbing."
"Stealing from the people who
were probably trying to help the
people who actually took it seemed
pretty low," he said.
The incident in Ann Arbor
comes at a time when similar inci-
dents have taken place in other cit-
ies around the country. A man was
arrested Sunday in Maumee, Ohio
for stealing one of the red kettles,
The Associated Press Reported.
Fox News Boston reported on its
website that a kettle was stolen
outside of a Wagreens in Dover,
N.H. on Sunday.

Float plane crash in Canada kills six

Two American
residents were
among the casualties
SATURNA, British Columbia
(AP) - A float plane crashed off
Canada's Pacific coast, killing six
people, including a Vancouver doc-
tor and her six month-old baby, as
well as two American residents.
Two people on board survived.
The Dehavilland Beaver aircraft
went down Sunday during take-
off in Lyall ilarbour, off Saturna
Island in British Columbia's Gulf
Islands - about 50 miles (80 kilo-
meters) south of Vancouver.
Only two of the eight on board
- the pilot and a female passenger
- were rescued within minutes of
the crash and both are expected
to survive, although one has seri-
ous injuries, the other is listed in
stable condition. Bill Yearwood of
Canada's Transportation Safety
Board said investigators are hop-
REPORT
From Page 1
from the past six years, according
to the press release.
"This information will help us
set realistic targets now, and itwill
enable us to measure our progress
toward those goals in the future,"
Ken Keeler, lead author of the
report and a senior environmen-
tal sustainability representative in
the Office of Campus Sustainabil-
ity, wrote in the release.
In an attempt to increase reach,
the report was published in an
eight-page pamphlet this year
rather than in a 40-page report as
in past years, according to a press
release. The full report will be
published later in the year.
Jlach year, the Univ5rsity

ing the pilot can tell them what
went wrong. A float plane is an air-
craft equipped with pontoons for
water landings.
Coast guard spokesman Troy
Haddock said divers recovered
the bodies of six people who were
trapped in the plane which sank
in 11 meters (36 feet) of water,
moments after going down.
James White heard the crash and
rushed to his boat to look for survi-
vors, butwhile he gotinto Lyall Har-
bour within minutes, the plane had
already slipped beneath the water.
"There was no sign of anybody
else or any other debris from the
aircraft so I think it probably sank
pretty fast," White said.
He found a woman and the pilot
close together in the water, both
conscious and begging for help.
White couldn't pull the two of
them into his boat on his own, so
he tied them to the side of his ves-
sel for a few minutes until other
boats came to help.
Captain Bob Evans at the Joint
spends between $110 million and
$120 million on energy, accord-
ing to the press release. Campus
buildings are responsible for 90
percent of this energy.
Energy reduction was empha-
sized throughout the report,
which highlighted key parts of the
University that have undergone
changes to be more environmen-
tally sound. For example, about
250 million BTUs of energy are
saved each year because of a solar
collector array on top of the Uni-
versity's central power plant.
Planet Blue - a University-led
sustainability initiative - saw its
first full year last year, which came
after the program was first piloted
infive Universitybuildings, accord-
ing to the report. These buildings
saw an average reduced energy
consumption off6 pmrcent.

Rescue Co-Ordination Centre in
Victoria said officials searched
for seven hours before finding the
plane and recovering the victims.
The Royal Canadian Mounted
Police have identified the victims
as 41-year-old Vancouver doctor
Kerry Margaret Morrissey, her
baby Sarah, 55-year-old Catherine
White-Holman of Vancouver and
60-year-old Thomas Gordon Glenn
of White Rock, British Columbia.
The two American residents
were 44-year-old Cindy Shafer and
49-year-old Richard Bruce Haskett
of Huntington Beach, California.
Last year there were two fatal
float plane crashes off the coast of
British Columbia.
In August 2008, five people
were killed when a Pacific Coastal
Airlines Grumman Goose crashed
on Vancouver Island. In November
2008, one man survived a crash
that killed seven others on Thor-
manby Island, located between
the British Columbia mainland
and northern Vancouver Island.
The Rackham Building saw a
32-percent reduction, the Insti-
tute for Social Research saw a
26-percent reduction and the
Space Research Building saw a
17-percent reduction. However,
the Chemistry Building and Flem-
ing Administration Building didn't
see reductions.
In the press release, Alexander
said the program could potentially
save the University more than 10
to 20 percent on its energy budget.
Planet Blue will have been imple-
mented in 30 University buildings
by the end of the year.
The report also outlined other
more specific initiatives, like the
Transportation Services Cam-
paign, which encourages students
to use more environmentally sus-
tainable modes of transportation,
like busej and carpooling.

University of Michigan's
Largest - Ha
Selection of REALTY
UnitsAvailableforImmediate Occupancy
Off Ca i pus Now Leasing for 2010-2011
Houses up to 14 bedrooms
us n g 616Church St.7341 995-9200
www archrealtyco.com


4 - Tuesday, December 1, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

L7be 1Jlidiigan &ailj


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 48109
tathedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflectthe official position ofthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Taking the LEED
The University needs more sustainability initiatives
f the University's annual Environmental Report is any indica-
tor, the administration is talking the talk rather than walking
the walk when it comes to making campus more environmen-
tally friendly. The report released yesterday described the con-
tinued failure of administrators to set and reach truly ambitious
goals for reducing the University's carbon footprint. Educational
institutions should be leaders in the fight against global climate
change, and the University shouldn't lag behind. Administrators
need to commit to aggressive goals for environmental sustainabil-
ity and make a much more concerted effort to meet them.

The Environmental Report was released
by the Office of Campus Sustainability and
tracks the University's performance in cre-
ating a more environmentally sustainable
campus by looking at a variety of factors
including energy consumption and emis-
sions. The report was quick to point out
areas in which the University had achieved
stable levels of energy consumption and
waste. But University buildings also used
at least 6.4 trillion British Thermal Units in
the 2009 fiscal year, the energy equivalent of
3,200 100-ton railroad cars filled to the brim
with coal, according to statistics from the
U.S. Department of Energy.
To its credit, the University reported
gains in recycling and was the only univer-
sity to make the 100 Alternate Fuel Fleets
list published by Automotive Fleet maga-
zine. These details show that on some envi-
ronmental fronts, the University is leading.
Administrators deserve credit for these
achievements.
But despite these positives, the Univer-
sity still wastes alot of energy, and it hasn't
yet made a substantial effort to fix this. For
instance, the University's Planet Blue pro-
gram, aimed at conserving energy in cam-
pus buildings, has only been instituted in 30
of the University's more than 480 buildings,
and only 30 more buildings will be added
next year. Such a small number shouldn't be
good enough for the University.
The University should be pushing harder
for sustainability. Investing in green energy
in the short run means lower energy costs
in the future - a must for a university that
needs to lower its operating costs in the face
of Michigan's economic turmoil. But the
movement for sustainability is also a moral

fight in which institutions of higher educa-
tion should be at the forefront.
One way to address the University's sus-
tainability shortcomings is to obtain LEED
(Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design) approval for more of its buildings.
The University has only two buildings cer-
* tified by LEED, whereas the University of
Florida has 16 and is attempting to regis-
ter five more. And the University's newest
LEED-certified building - the Ross School
of Business - received a lower certification
than similar business schools completed
and planned by the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology and Stanford University,
respectively. There's no reason for the Uni-
versity not to make LEED-certification a
priority, too.
Another way to push the University to
aim for higher environmental goals would
be for President Mary Sue Coleman to sign
the American College and University Presi-
dents' Climate Commitment. The com-
mitment aims to curb global warming by
reducing carbon emissions at places of high-
er learning. College and university presi-
dents from 662 institutions have already
signed the agreement. But Coleman claims
the environmental goals endorsed by other
university presidents are impractical. Even
if that's true, setting difficult goals would
force the University to take impressive
strides to try to meet them. And even if these
goals weren't reached, the University would
still have made tremendous progress.
The fight against climate change demands
more than just lip service. Administrators
should be wary of falling any farther behind
other universities in implementing sustain-
ability on campus.

People are starting to view the Americans as occupiers,
and in that context more troops would be risky"
- Hanif Shah Hosseini, a lawmaker from Afghanistan's Khost province, commenting on President Barack
Obama's plan to send more U.S. forces to Afghanistan, as reported yesterday by the The Wall Street Journal.
ELAINE MORTON E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
0 TJ
ZI
bc
Give me a breUak
i'm in a greatomood today. You ic calendar was designed by a bunch probably to stay competitive. For
should be in a good mood too, of squeaking chipmunks. Our winter instance, Harvard has a break of just
even if you're going to gradu- break is short, our spring break isn't TWELVE days. So we're pretty lucky.
ate soon. Why do in sync with other schools, and our And in my high school, and probably
I have so much summer break - well, our summer lots ofotherhigh schools I couldname
joie de vivre, as break is pretty nice. But students have if I wanted to, I got no more than TEN
we Americans had enough! days. And public schools and colleges
say in bad French I get alarmed when students have in the Upper Peninsula don't even
accents, often had enough. Why? Is it because I get a winter break. It's always winter
when we've had know there will be riots on the Diag there. So I think it's important to put
too much to drink? and sit-ins reminiscent of the Viet- things in perspective.
Deux words: "New nam era? Or is it because I care deeply
Moon." WILL about public opinion? I think it's a
No, that's the little bit of both. Also, I can expect
new "Twilight" GRUNDLER someone to complain to the Michigan Stop complaining
movie, which I - Student Assembly, which will panic
definitely did not and call for a campus-wide ban on about our
see, thank you very much. (It was sold some country.
out.) What I meant to say was: Winter So let me attempt to ease any wnter break.
break. unhappiness about the way things
Let's say that again: Winter break. are run around here. The first thing
Woo! It's close! Tell your friends! we should do as students is realize We lucked out on spring break, too,
I told my friends and they said, that we are students and can't do any- even though most people don't realize
"Dude, it's not for another three thing. I'm sorry, I hate to be pessimis- it. It's always confused me that stu-
weeks, chill out. And stop following tic, but when it comes to the academic dents want to go on spring break with
us around. We don't even know you." calendar, it's set in stone. Throughout kids from Michigan State, Eastern
Well, it's true that professors can the years there have been numerous Michigan University, their friends
schedule exams all the way up to Dec. petitions to restructure it, and each from high school, etc. Aren't we sup-
23, but you have to be dumb enough petition has arrived at the same, sad posed to look down on these people?
to take their classes in the first place. fate: burned to shreds by the Board of Shove our degrees in their faces? Lose
Most of us will head home in about Regents during their secret meetings. to them at football? Why we would
two weeks. Some lucky folks will Needless to say, you can't just go want to "hang out" with them is
head home next week. And, as hap- around changing the academic cal- beyond me. And you know they spend
pens every year, Engineering students endar. Really, it's prepared years all their time working out anyway, so
will have to stay here and continue to in advance, probably in a dungeon. they look way better in swimsuits.
attend classes. Poor souls - but they But you know what? We don't need Let us relax, then, and enjoy our
knew what they were getting into to change the calendar! It's actu- breaks. There will come a time when
when they decided quantum flux inte- ally good as it is. Take winter break, we're swamped by our real-life jobs,
grals were fun. for example, which is usually two to and would give anything to have a lit-
But that is not the issue here. The three weeks. Who cares if Michigan tle time off. But instead, we will have
issue here is that I am shocked - State gets a month? Many students to keep working, and then go home to
shocked - that many students don't don't realize that the University has our children. It will be awful.
share my excitement for winter break. a very good reason for keeping break
Or springbreak, for that matter. Many short: It pisses people off. - Will Grundler can be
students think the Michigan academ- Well, actually, the real reason is reached at wgru@umich.edu.
JASON PESICK I
A new model for'U'funding

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, William Butler, Ben Caleca, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTH EDAILY@UMICH.EDU

MSA needs new direction to
better serve students
TO THE DAILY:
independent candidates are joining forces
to bring a fresh perspective and attitude to the
Michigan Student Assembly. We believe that first
and foremost, MSA needs to be revamped. MSA's
reputation and purpose have hit a low in the
opinion of the average student. The first actions
we will take as representatives include working
to rebuild MSA and questioning what is working
and what is not. We want MSA to feel like more of
an arm of Michigan students instead of a mouth,
as evidenced by MSA's recent oligarchic actions.
As independents, we aim to work on smaller-
level niche projects like reducing the expense of
living on campus. This means that food at caf6s
and retail diningshouldbe cheaper. We also think
that meal credits should be rolled over from year
to year. Other issues, such as the drop in diver-
sity rates at Michigan, need to be addressed. MSA
should start initiatives and engage in conversa-
tion on how to increase minority enrollment at
the University. One potential idea for this would
be to have MSA mentors who regularly visit ele-
mentary and high schools with low-income and
minority populations from eighth grade on and
encourage students to apply to the University.
Regardless of what position students may
hold, it is imperative that MSA move away from
the one-party system and begin to deliver on
Michigan students'unmet expectations.

Independent candidatesfor MSA
Remembering Ross School
of Business Student Affairs
Director Robert Koonce
TO THE DAILY:
Words cannot express my heartfelt grati-
tude to all of you. With Robert's passing, you
came to me with your deepest expressions of
sympathy (Memorial service honors Business
School advisor Robert Koonce, 11/05/2009).
You gave me a gift that I will cherish forever
- an insight into Robert's daily life at work. Of
course, I knew what Robert did at work. I knew
he made a difference. What I didn't know was
that he touched more lives in a positive man-
ner than I could have ever imagined. His reach
extended near and far regardless of age, race,
creed or color. For this, I am forever grateful.
His passion to help others will live on
through the scholarship that will be given in
his honor.
From the halls of the Ross School of Busi-
ness, to the athletic fields all over campus,
to the gospel choir's melodious voices at the
memorial service, I have beautiful memories
etched in my mind.
Robert's passing has created a void in my life
that I am working hard to fill with his memo-
ries. Thank you for providing me with memo-
ries that will help to sustain me during these
difficult times and beyond.

The same week in October that The New York Times
reported Harvard's plan to cut cookies from faculty meet-
ings to save money, University President Mary Sue Coleman
gave a speech that would have sounded ambitious in the best
of times.
Coleman said that in less than a decade, the University
could double annual research to $2 billion. She also dis-
cussed the development of a massive new research facility
on North Campus, reaffirmed plans to hire 100 interdis-
ciplinary faculty in addition to regular hiring plans and
announced a forum that will focus on a new transportation
system between North and Central campuses. These plans
will be debated on campus, but the fact they are even pos-
sible is impressive.
The University continues to grow, hire and expand,
despite the state's collapse.
The state has cut funding to the University by 13 percent
in the past eight years, according to University statistics.
As the state shrinks and runs out of stimulus money, the
cuts will accelerate. The governor is already talking about
20-percent state budget cuts next year. In the past 50 years,
the state's proportion of the University's general fund has
gone from 78 percent to 22 percent.
What is needed now - either in Coleman's next few years
as president, or from her successor if she retires - is to take
advantage of our relative strength and develop a creative
vision for the University's future.
As Coleman said in her speech, now is a time to be aggres-
sive and attract faculty who, not long, ago would have looked
to the Ivies or the University of California. Because of a state
meltdown, the University of California will now see tuition
increases of 32 percent over two years and cuts to faculty
salaries.
But let's not kid ourselves.
The University of Michigan's administration has long
been coy about admitting to decreases in quality of educa-
tion, but University of California President Mark Yudof
reports larger class sizes and "rapidly diminishing" course
availability in his system. At our University, between 2003
and 2008, student credit hours per full-time faculty and
staff member increased 5.3 percent, accordingto University
statistics. If I were a student, I wouldn't be shocked to be
running into more adjunct professors in larger classes.
The University could continue on its current path, trudg-
ing through the budget process every year. It could continue
asking students and their families to pay higher tuition to
make up for a portion, but not all, of the state cuts - which
basically asks them to pay more for an education of declining
caliber. But as quality erodes and the cuts make the Univer-
sity poorer, there won't be enough money available to fulfill
the dual aspiration of providing what the University's lon-
gest-serving president James Angell, called "an uncommon

education for the common man."
At some point, it won't make sense to come here - even
at in-state tuition rates. And not long into that decline, the
private universities' endowments will recover. Will a Uni-
versity of Michigan that charges a bunch of students from
wealthy families even higher tuition rates for a lower-qual-
ity education be worth it? Why not just go to Northwestern
or Columbia?
After writing the first history of the University in 1875,
Andrew Ten Brook said of the University, "May those who
have its management never allow it to lose its prestige by
standing still to contemplate and proclaim the wonderful
successes which it has already achieved."
The University's leaders have followed that advice in the
past. The University's first president, Henry Tappan, envi-
sioned the University as the nation's first research univer-
sity. Angell explained the connection between access and
excellence. Marion Burton, president during the 1920s,
envisioned a massive university that combined size and
excellence.
The University needs a strong vision now, and the stakes
are high. What's at stake is whether a high caliber educa-
tion will be reserved for a small number of people at private
schools or whether the public deserves access to an educa-
tion of similar caliber.
What's needed is a pioneering academic vision that
is supported by a new financial model, not just a fund-
ing mechanism that balances the books every year. Such a
vision will take years to develop, but it should be based on
the school's historic strengths: broad access, size, diversity,
social engagement and the connection between research
and teaching. Without more public support, one plan might
include a marriage between higher tuition, higher quality
and more financial aid.
The proximity to Detroit and the potential explosion of
green technology makes the environment a logical area of
focus for the University, a point Coleman recognized in
her speech. The University could also be a leader in the
future of information with its support of Google Books
and its role in the development of the Internet. It is also
time for an intense focus on academic quality: lowering
full-time, tenured faculty-to-student ratios, shrinking
class sizes and setting high academic standards for both
faculty and students.
The University has long been a trailblazer in the world of
higher education. It must now innovate again, or it will find
itself in a funk in which the books balance but quality goes
down, tuition goes up and a national treasure becomes just
good.
Jason Pesick is a Law student and a
former editor in chief of the Daily.

Rikav Chauhan, Nathan Hamilton, Allison
Reid and Qianli Song Angela Koonce

The Daily is looking fora diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAILRACHELVANGILD R ATRACHELVG@UM H.EDU FORMORE INFORMATION.,


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Tuesday, December 1 2009 - 5

Truth be told

This isn't your summer camp's tug of war.

Ninjas, bloody ni nas

Gore is at the fore and
acting is neglected in this
ninja action flick
By JACK PORTER
Daily Arts Writer
Ketchup, red ink and blood. In the world of
"Ninja Assassin," these liquids are all the same.
The threat of bloodshed is
always imminent in the film,
so sudden close-ups of a tattoo
artist applying red ink to a cli- Ninja
ent's back and ketchup squirt-
ing on a basket of fries send Asassin
premature shivers down the At Qualityl6
spine. After the initial shock, and Showcase
these jokey shots should
remind audiences, "None of W
this is real, it's only a movie."
On top of that, the film's downright wacky plot
distracts the audience from grasping the scope"
of the film's unsettling blood lust.
Raizo (Rain, "Speed Racer") is a rogue
ninja who turns against the mysterious ninja

clan who both raised and trained him to be
a killing machine. Now he's on the run, and
clan leader Ozunu (Sh Kosugi, "Journey of
Honor") is out to kill him for mutiny. Mean-
while, Europol investigator Mika (Naomie
Harris, "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's
End") begins to discover the web of secret
assassins behind high-profile murders dating
back a thousand years. Naturally, Raizo's and
Mika's paths cross, and they join forces to take
down Ozunu and his evil clan.
Obviously, the plot is ridiculous and over-
the-top. The action scenes are only a small part
of a strange narrative cocktail that includes a
heart-rending coming-of-age story, melodrama,
training montages, romantic comedy elements
and conspiracy theories. The film's kitchen-sink
approach leads to deliriously silly moments, like
when Mika pulls up to a hotel with her Lexus
covered in shurikens. Raizo's ability to sense
what's in people's hearts (yes, like the kid with
the monkey from "'Captain Planet") is, inten-
tionally or not, another source of humor.
" -Asekpected, fights are the film's 'main
focus. The shadowy ninja showdowns are the
most engaging skirmishes, with arcs of steel
and blood splashing through the dark like a

Jackson Pollock painting. But all too often,
the combination of quick-cutting and jittery
camerawork ruins the elaborate choreogra-
phy. The filh wants to show gore, not ballet,
so the "Mortal Kombat"-style dismember-
ment is front and center.
Another sore spot is the uncharismatic hero.
Rain's pretty-boy looks could be ignored if he
had the acting chops to playa convincing assas-
sin - but most of the time he looks bored, not
badass. Sure, he's supposed to be impassive,
but on-screen the performance comes across as
lazy. There are a few moments where he cocks
his head to the side and barks, "Let's go!" with
swagger, but that's about it.
"Ninja Assassin"has all the makings of agreat
action movie, but squanders its potential with
jumbled action scenes, a dull hero and a fixa-
tion on gore. Seeing someone's insides is par for
the course in ninja flicks, butthefilm keeps the
blood flowing to the point of exhaustion. Seeing
someone bleed is one thing, but seeing dozens
of bodies instantly split in half is another. The
fils's sense of humor works,'htis feli a bit dis7-
ingenuous when placed alongside the excessive
and indulgent violence. Queasy scenes aside,
"Ninja Assassin" delivers a meaty action fix.

hen I first learned
about libraries grow-
ingup, I concluded
the fiction section was relegated
to interesting
books. These
were books in
which wood-
land creatures e
wore overalls
in abundance -
the Berenstain
Bears books, WITNEY
"If You Givea POW
Mouse a Cook-
ie" - and cats wore extraneous
clothing accessories - "The Cat in
the Hat," "Puss in Boots."
Non-fiction, however, sur-
veyed the drier side of the
library. Not one child could
be found sitting in the alleys
between shelves, voraciously
reading. This non-fiction sec-
tion, in my mind, contained
heavy tomes about gravel, hiber-
nation, evaporation, and vari-
ous stale-biscuit-colored North
American deserts. Dry. Dry as
dry can be.
In my time reading since
then, I have managed to traipse
over to the non-fiction side of
the library and I have found
that, at this point in my life, I
quite prefer it. While fictional
books contain things close to
my heart - cats wearing hats,
bears wearing corduroy, Mrs.
Dalloway deciding she will buy
the flowers herself and Lolita,
the fire of Humbert Humbert's
loins - there is a substantial
and riveting quality to non-
fiction writing. There are some
things you just can't make up
and present so affectingly, like
how Jonathan Lethem saw "Star
Wars" 21 times to cope with his
mother's illness and subsequent
death when he was a child, or
how Flannery O'Connor raised
noisy, arrogant peacocks which
were delivered to her doorstep in
a wooden crate.
Nus-fictiosn is its own beast,
incomparable with fiction.
These accounts are challenging
in a different way because the
events contained within them
ae presented'as truth. In turn,
as a reader you must face these
happenings, this life, death and
heartbreak secondhand - some-
one has experienced these things
before you, and is passing them
down through the written page.
The memoir belongs to this
category of non-fiction, where
the personal account is most
important. And reading memoir
is, in its own way, like inheriting
stories the same way you would
inherit your grandmother's
tales. While the word "memoir"
sounds garbled, French and
somewhat impenetrable, the idea
is not. These stories are about
life, as seen through others' eyes.
Through the intake of such per-
sonal, biased stories, we see the
multi-facetedway in which the
world works and is perceived by
people like and unlike ourselves.
it is with memoir that records

are made of underrepresented
personal experiences. The sto-
ries are disseminated to larger
groups of people through books
and (hopefully) preserved in
the public memory. There are
certain experiences that should
be remembered and held on to,
like in Helen Zia's journalistic
memoir-slash-history of Asian-
America, "Asian-American
Dreams: The Emergence of an
American People" and how she
herself experienced the violent
Detroit murder of Vincent Chin
based o his race.
There is also Jonathan Safran
Foer's recent essay in The New
York Times Magazine in which
he commented on the impor-
tance of food to his family, and
how the meager way his grand-
mother survived World War
It eating "rotten potatoes, dis-
carded scraps of meat," relates
to the choice he has made for
himself and his family to be
vegetarian.
Safran Foer's essay channels
how the choices made in the past
constantly influence choices we
make in the present and future.
Similarly, we use memoir to
help propel us along in our lives,
shaping our awareness of human
experience (including racism,
war, violence and illness). Thus
we shape the way we respond to
and carry ourselves through the
same ordeals. It's comforting to
know, in some way, that some-
one else has gone through thes
things before you.
The importance of memoir
really lies in the feminist adage:
"The personal is political." What
Non-fiction:
Only for readers
who can handle
the truth.
an individual lives through is
meaningful because it can lead
to discussions of race, ide-
tity and history. Being aware
of yourself and the politics you
are surrounded by, and sharing
these stories with others is what
the memoir is concerned with
- trading, sharing, and internal-
izing bits and pieces of life.
While I still do return to the
fiction area, pulling off books by
Louise Erdrich and Nicholson
Baker, there is a large part of me
drawn to the non-fiction narra-
tive and the political importance
these books carry. Conceptions
of dryness and biscuit-colored
deserts aside, the non-fiction
section of the library is now the
place where I read, voraciously
devouring books in the alleys
between shelves.
Pow is writing a children's book
about meerkats in mittens. To help,
e-mail her at poww@umich.edu.

ARTS IN BRIEF

Wining, dining and
rocking out on TV
By ANT MITCHELL main goal of "Dinner." More-
DailyArts Writer over, when the drummer asks
about using the stemmy parts
The kitchen: heart of the of leafy greens, the contrived
home, tastebud-inspired cre- and scripted feeling that almost
ations center all other cooking shows have
andthatpoint adopted is removed entirely.
of bonding for Instead of feeling forced or
any group. Dinner With fake, the banter and conversa-
This place of tion flow smoothly, making the
stove tops, The Band experience far more like hav-
counters Tuesdays ing new friends over for a meal
and cutting at11 p.m. and jam session than anything
boards proves 1FC else. This is perhaps due in part
to be a perfect to the use of Mason's Brook-
stage for the lyn loft as the setting, mak-
Independent Film Channel's ing everyone feel far more at
"Dinner With The Band," cre- home than they would ona fake
ating a comfortably laid-back kitchen or talk show set.
atmosphere. One importantdetail of "Din-
Sam Mason, New York City ner" (atleast in the pilot episode)
chef and head man for the din- is that the musicians chosen to
ner aspect of the show, cooks a appear on the show, while still
meal with a spotlighted musi- enjoyable to listen to and clearly
cal group every week. To be talented, are not yet. famous
completely accurate, it should enough to be pretentious or bla-
be noted that cooking "with" tantly media whoring. Yes, it's
advantageous for the band to
publicize their music, but they
do so in a palatably tactful way.
Culinary arts Sharon Jones of The Dap-
gts hi. Kings certainly had one hell
gets chill. of a voice, and the music was
impressive to a head-bobbing
and knee-jiggling degree, but
often consists of a kitchen full the band wasn't afraid to com-
of people lounging around plain about the food from past
drinking beer and helping chop gigs, or start up random conver-
up garlic when the occasion sations about forgetting people's
demands it. names. This is one advantage
Mason does basically all of keeping to the plentiful indie
the work, and this leads to the rock genre of musical groups,
entertaining symbiosis of "I aside from a greater probabil-
feed you, you play me jazzy ity of getting artists to appear:
goodness in my living room They aren't turned into spar-
while I drink beer and watch." kly and bedazzled stars - that
This shift between cooks and soulless sort that one can't help
musicians helps break up the but picture taking a bite of the
half-hour nicely, making "Din- prepared meal for the cameras,
ner" go by almost too fast. then later having a celery stick
Admittedly, it's hard to and make-up touch up.
learn a hell of a lot about food As a whole, "Dinner With
preparation from just 10 or 15 The Band" is a success - a
minutes of very relaxed and low-key, easy-going show that
not-very-instructive kitchen combines mtusic, fish battering,
hangout time, but it's fairly hanging out and bass playing in
clear educatios isn't really the a nearly gorfect dosage.

TV REVIEW
'Funny' show can't
live up to its name
The Very Funny Show
Thursdays at 11:59 p.m.
TBS
TBS: It's where old sitcoms go
to die. While the channel may for-
ever be remembered for its nearly
24/7 lineup of "Everybody Loves
Raymond" reruns, it has actually
introduced original comedy pro-
gramming with shows like "Lopez
Tonight" and "Tyler Perry's House
of Payne." The newest addition to its
lineup is "The Very Funny Show."
"The Very Funny Show" has an
extremely simple format: Host Tim
Meadows ("Saturday Night Live")
takes the stage at famed Chicago
comedy club Zanies, does a few
minutes of stand-up and introduces
two guest comedians who each per-
form a set.
"The Very Funny Show" is an
idea that benefits both TBS and
the comedians it features: It gives
two up-and-coming performers a
chance to appear on television and
provides TBS with a program that
costs almost nothing to produce.
Production values are nonexistent:
A single camera cuts between a full-
body shot of the comedian onstage
and shots of laughing audience

members. The only visual pizazz
in "The Very Funny Show" comes
from the garish lights that serve as
the stage's backdrop.
Stand-up comedy is usually seen
ip two guises on television: either
in the hour-and-a-half Comedy
Central-style special or in segments
wedged between celebrity inter-
views in late-night comedy pro-
grams. "The Very Funny Show,"
however, is a half hour of straight-up
stand-up. Half-hearted interviews
with the comedians in which they
discuss the thought process behind
their jokes serve as between-com-
mercial-break bumpers, but there
are no other diversions.
This lack of other material in
"The Very Funny Show" means it
rises and falls on the strength of
the material it features, and the tal-
ent selected is somewhat uneven.
The premiere featured Henry Cho,
a Korean-American comedian from
Tennessee whose material focused
on the tired trials of marriage and
child rearing. Slightly better was
Nick Thune, whose performance
method of strumming acoustic gui-
tar interspersed with one-liners
was reminiscent of comedy staple
Demetri Martin.
Because its format is so bare-
bones, "The Very Funny Show" is
capable of being hilarious or excru-
ciating depending on who its guest
comedians are. It's the television
equivalent to a grab bag: You never
know what you're going to get.
- BRIGID KILCOIN

f M a o
Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
oronalSollNodellalPacifico Specials All Night
V"P45dew Pm -fOcala&
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25% Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER

Happy H our $4.99 6 Wings & Pinti
.,. . WW 4 - I I' ONE.IMAM



1310 Maynard St.- To Go Orders 734.995.0100 Next to the Maynar rking Structure I
- - U ,m

DAILY ARTS EDITORS
JAMIE BLOCK AND
CAROLYN KLARECKI
LIVE-BLOG THE VICTORIA'S
SECRET FASHION SHOW.
TONIGHT ON CBS AT 10 RM.
FOLLOW ALONG AT
MICHIGANDA4LY.COM/BLOGS/T4E%20FILTER


6-Tuesday, December 1, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jnspropifsbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
AUTOMOTIVE
1993 PONTIAC GRAND Am Se
***REDUCD****
Sporty dependable ride $995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.cm
1994 JEEP CHEROKEE 4x4
Runs great. $2495
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.corn
1995 OLDS CUTLASS Supremee
LOW MILES, Looks & runs great
$2995 810-225-9750 www.cmas.cm
1997 CHEVY CAVALIER 4 door
REDUCED **
Automatic, runs great $2995
810-225-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 CHEVY MONTE Carlo
Sharp looking, runs great $3995
810-225-9750 www.tmas.com
1997 PONTIAC MONTANA Van
*****REDUCED*****
Depeidable Transportation $1995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.comn
1998 FORD TAURUS RUNS GREAT
**REDUCE. D*
Flex fue engine, Sharp looking $1695
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
2000 FORD EXPLORER XLT AWD
Xtra clan, runs great $5995
810-225-9750 www.clnmas.com
2001 DODGE DAKOTA X-cab 4x4
$6999 Like new, loaded 4x4
810-229-9750 www.ctnas.com
FOR RENT
S BDRM houses Avail Fall 2010:
717 Dewey: $2750/mo, 833 Brown:
$2750/ao, 930 Dewey: $2900/m. Call
Louis at 610-952-5269 or enail
louisbreskman/iyahoo.con
I BEDROOMS $685-$765 and 2 bed-
roois $840-$985.
Available August 27th, 2010.
We offer fully furnished apartment
at no extra cost!
For more io call 734-662-4446or visit
w-w.issaprperties.com
3 BDRM Aps on East U.!
FUrn, high ceilings, hardwood mrs,
deck olt' back, on sie parking, eal &
water meL Ppper Properties 810-231-
0229. wwwL.nmcampuslnousing.com
6-8 Bedroom Large Honses!
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 White St. & 1237
White Street. Close In campus. Frn.,
free on site Indry & prkg. Hardwood
firs, open basement. fenced in yards.
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampsloUsing.cOm
921 PACKARD, Fall '10 3 story, 5
bdrm house for 6. Furnished, 3 full bth,
3 kitchen, ldry, prkg, (734) 272-1320.
! WINTER SEMESTER Rental:
One bdrn, large 850 sq ft, bi-level,
$765/mo, fsrnised option. Email
infoissaproperties.comn or visit
www.issaproperties.com
or call 734-662-4446.

$100FREE CASH with every
NEW Reservation.
*endson December 2,2009
Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island
Drink with
any new tour!
Voted Iest
Apartnents in
21109 by
Michigan Daily!
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIo, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMs
CHEAPERAND MUCH
BETTER THAN THE DORMS!
YOU DESERVE TO MOVE UP
Contact usfor a
tour today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, Mt 48104
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-M.COM
]]Uniwrnity
BEAUTIFUL HOMES
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat/g/umtich.edu
www.nancylat.comn
!!!AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/so. 845-399-9904.

# Beds

Location Rent

6 1 122 S. Forest $3600
5 1120 S. Forest $3000
4 715 Catherine $2300
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm apartments
Across fron East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/Unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cisngtllc/ifyahoo.con
www.churchstreetrentals.con
!!CARLSONPROPERTIES.COM!!
is finished leasing for 2010. Land-
lords call 734-332-6000 for assistance.

tile* rn,4
.ece t e e
20 Locations to Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome
Study Rooms
734-741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
"!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/-
cool kitch. Low Rent $ (313) 215-8115.
!0 -4 Bedrooms!
VARSITY MANAGEMENT
www.varsitynanagement.con
(734) 668-1100
All aps. arefilly irnished, hae new
kitchens w/ dishwashers, include hea,
maser, most mcl. parking, some incl.
wireless!
.BI-LEVEL 2 BED 2 BATH:
515 Walnut, huge apts. perfect for 4!
Close to CCRB and CC Little.
-FOREST TERRACE: 1001 S. For-
est, huge, sunny, 2-bedroomos large,
enough for 4 All w/ big beautiful
kitchens.
543 CHURCH ST: 2 & 4 bdrn bi.-
levels, and huge 2-bdrns for 4. The per-
fee location! Parking extra for this lo-
cation.
PARK TERRACE: 848 Tappan, cor-
nee of Tappan & Oakland, huge 2-bed-
rooms w/ new kitchens and great bal-
conies! Underground parking.
-BURNS PARK: 1039 Baldwin, mas-
sie, gorgeous apts. ina converted sean-
sios. IHardwood Cloors, 10. ceilings.
fireplaces. You've got to see these!
Studio, 2 bdrn & 4 bdrso avail.
$ NOW AVAILABLE $
2 bdrn. spacious-ap. Excellent,
convenient, great location, prkg.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
***3 BDRM TRI-.EVEL*** avail.
May. Ihardwood fCoors, fully furnished,
wasler/d yer and carpnnt. 741-9300
www.annarorapartnents.etl
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdnns with 1.5
buls, Clal screen v, dishwasher, mnod-
ern furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.ne
A
R E ALT Y
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Bedrooms
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)
1021 E University

916 Sybil
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
200 Packard
507 Walnut
1132 White
7 Bedrooms
331 - 333 E. Jefferson
335 E. Ann
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms +
1302 S. Forest (8 br)
1130 S. Forest (9 br)
1619 S, University (9 br)
1014 Vaughn (11 br)
*only $480 per person
915 Oakland (20 person)
sexs2 szeP7Z anoaLe
616 Church Street
For details call
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

7 510 Catherine $3700
7 129 White St. $3400
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3600
6 716 E.Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $2800
4 1117S. Forest $2440
CAPPOIDEINCO
734-996-1991
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact 734-
276-3876.
*FALL2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level ApI 1 1/2 Baths
Prime Locatin, Easily fits 4.
$1599/seo. 734-665-8825.
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were Cheaper and
MUCH Better than the Dorms! Don't
lose $100 CASH, ask us how to get it.
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appinmens.
www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
10 BDRM HOUSE 433 Hamilton.
10 BDRM house 217 N. Ingalls.
u-places.com 734.478.2936.
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL2010
www.smileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469
PRES NTS THE
Retntal Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or email
ctraband@archreatyco.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for U M football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4161.
2 & 3BDRM APARTMENTS avail-
able for Fall.2010 915/919 South Divi-
sion, Apartments are north of Hoover
and south of Benjamin, across from El-
bel Field, Furnished, Heat&Water in-
cluded, Free onsite Parking, Laundry
Facilities, Balcnys. I BD-$840
2BD-$1100, 3BD-$1750, Spacious

Bedrooms and Living Room. To sched-
ale a viewing call 248-996-7524 nr
734-302-7830, email-
A2managementacomcast.net
5 BDRM. FALL 2010. 530 S. Fourth.
2 bath. Free prkg. & dry. 5 min. walk
to Union. $2450 +util. 734-709-5709.
Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
* Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
C B 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

# Beds Location

Rent

FALL 2010 HOUSES

5 T 6 EN rH C, s N iRC .
Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
" Fully Furnished
" *Heat Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!?
*Varies by lcatimn
734.761.8000
www.primeshcom
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michignrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215
Studio & 1
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. Large modern kitchet, 1.5 baths.
fully furnished and snch more! 741-
9308 www.annarborapartments.net ,
5 BEDROOMAPARTMENT 611
Church, Located on the corner of
Church and S. University above
Amers. Entire building has been com-
pletely renoveted. Completely Fur-
nished (leather couches!), Huge Clos-
ets! Washer and Dryer in snt, Granite
Cousser fops, Stainless Steel Appli-
ances, Dishwasher and Disposal, 2500
S.F., 2.5 Baths. Available May and Fall
2010 $665.00-$785.00/month per per-
son with 6 roommates. Limited num-
ber of units remaining call
734-995-9200 for a tour.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
7366-609
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modem appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE $450 per per-
son with 7 Roomates, this amazing
house is located just South of S. State
Street on Packard. The home has 3
bathrooms, 2 Kitchens, and 7 Large
Bedrooms. Plenty of rom for up to 10
people! For a tour call 734-995-9200.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.

Lre2So
er e
# Beds Location Rent
6 1121 Church $3500
6 543 S. Division #2 $3000
6 1221 S. State #2 $2500
5 1117 Church#1 $3000
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
8 BEDROOM HOUSE - $485/mo per
person with 8 roommates! Located just
about a 10-15 minute walk from the
diag this fully furnished house is a
great choice for those wanting to save
$$$$ and still be able to walk to cam-
pus. 2 Kitchens, 3 bathrooms, and
plenty of parking!!
Call 734-995-9200 for a toar today.
9 BEDROOM HOUSE $560/mo per
person with 10 roommates!!!!!! Lo-
cated just a 10 minute walk from the
Diag on 1130 South University. Hard-
wood floors, Dishwasher, 3 kitchens, 6
bathrooms, maximum occupancy 14
.people. Call 734-995-9200 for a
showing.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AFFORDABLE 4-MONTH CON-
TRACTS, Available for Winter Term.
Rates Starting at $529; Includes all
meals, utilities and more.
ICC Student Co-op Housing,
www.icc.coop 734-662-4414.
1029 VAUGHN
6 BDRM + STUDY
3 BATHS, $4200
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CatmpusMgt.com, the best
local website for he best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in ouses and apartents very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and staller available ton! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many me furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact s by phne In
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-


2
1.
1i
11
2
21
21
3
3
3
3
3'
3
3
4
4
4
4
4
5
5
5
8
5
6
6'
6
6
6
6!

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Latin love 37 Columbus Day mo. 47 Parkinsonism
1 Attacks 3 Chowder or 40 Playboy Mansion treatment
6 Mandolin ridge bisque resident, familiarly 48 Greek
0 Resign 4 In "Macbeth," it 41 Like colleges with architectural
4 BPmergerpartner opens with thelowest tuition, style
5 Not often seen, thunder and - for residents 49 Fathered
to Caesar lightning 42 1840s president 52 Clarinetist's need
6 Spreadsheet 5 How many . 43 Annual period 53 1920s-40s art
reversalcmmand m dels ase bust beyondthe style
1Deeats soundly 6 Displeased looks current fiscal onu Srngsyle oe
8 Like many Keats 7 Paul Harvey's 45Wshngn ciy 5Fpring himer
poems medium g ty
9 Chilled, as coffee 8 Guitarist Clapton 46 Credits as a 56 Frat party
0 Dickens hero 9 One bringing reference containers
with "papers," as down the ball ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
he isformally carrier
known 10 Surprise football F A VIRIE T B S P N A T E
2 Clothed plays I BOOK UR AL OUS T
3 TheAinA.D. n11TfleiRemus S E D G E R O M A A S E C
?4 Mare certain than 12 Epitme
not 13 Hot alcoholic drink TA F W E
6Chewing gum 21 Hadtheanswer S T A T E A E S T S
substances 25Belief suffix S T A R T S T R A I L
0 Officefurnishing 26 Initialson anoId o s o s A W G A L L 0
 Nut ina mixed rubleE
nutscan 27Derisivelaughs K I D D H R E A S
2 Airport building 28 "My word"
6 Indian spiced 29Giris-night-out A R Y A N S P R C E
tea film ROE KAN SEAMAN
7 Manet's"The 30Tierra__ Fuego L E A V E A M E a a A G E
Luncheon on the 32 "__the A L SITIR
Grass,"e.g. season..." E R IZ N E A
8 "Elder" or 33 Carpentry fastener
"Youngef" 34S1uit to - G U R U LYE S ASRTS Y
Buman 35 Lady sman xwordeditor@aol.comE TS1/3/0
statesman 1 2 3 4 s 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
9 Mind readers
2 More sluggish 14 1616
4 County on the
Strait of Dover rT 1n 19
5 Mussed up, as
Shai r 20 21 22
16 Dover
landmarks 23 24_26
9 Pretzel topping 26 27 2121
OM aslar
it Unflatering tan3as3353 m
Nixon sobriquet
7 Singer Tennille 36 37 3
8 Prefix with
-drome 3 an 41 42 as
9 Spine-chilling
o Milton's 44 45
"Paradise Lost,"
fruone . a4a90
1 Overflow (with)1
2 Hitting serves 0 e1 n2 1 53 541551501
past 58 59
3 Potato holder1
4 OdNorsepoetic a us 62
m uorks s6
S5 Pnksh csnes 03-85

cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
NAKAMURA COOPRM. Winter
10. 517.775.2870. Food incl. $547/mo.
Beds Location Rent
6 1029 Vaughn $4200
6 1021 Church $3700 Post Realty
properties
6 541 S. Division $3500
6 930 Packard $3200 Rent with the Best!
5 1101 Church $3000 Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
4 1018 E. University $2600 Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
Copi Properties showing or more formation:
734-761-8220 or
734.663.5609 info@postrealtyproperties.com

DOWN
1 Hurt

Bly Dau anson~
vra00'tir tsMedah Srvies In.

12/01/09

F


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

DEAR LAWMAKER

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daily
LSA sophomore Firas Shalabi writes a letter yesterday to state lawmakers to stop the construction of coal plants on the Great Lakes.

SULLIVAN
From Page 1
- as research funds and other rev-
enues had increased - it was inev-
itable that the state's percentage of
contribution to our budget would
decline," Sullivan said.
While state funding has
decreased, Sullivan said that
doesn't mean that the state's inter-
est in higher education has fallen
as well. She said stategovernments
across the country are making dif-
ficult decisions regarding state
budgets and that universities have
the ability to alleviate some of that
economic stress.
"Rather than focusing on what
legislatures and governors are
not doing for universities, I think
we should emphasize what public
universities are doing to help the
states," she said, citing steward-
ship of university resources, start-
up companies helping economies
to grow and educated students
who enter the workforce and
"energize the economy."
After Sullivan spoke, assembly
members questioned her about
potential moves that could relieve
some of the University's budget
problems.
Gina Poe, Senate Advisory
Committee on University Affairs
member and associate profes-
sor of anesthesiology, asked if
the University has considered
accepting more undergraduate
students to increase revenue for
the University.
Though the University accepted
roughly 200 more students in this
year's freshman class than in last
year's class, Sullivan responded
that, in order to maintain small
class sizes, the University doesn't
intend to increase the size of the
student body.

"The truth is we could expand,"
she said. "There are a lot more
students who want to be at Michi-
gan than we currently admit, but
for quality reasons, I don't think
that's the way to go."
Another assembly member
expressed concern that educa-
tion at the University will become
inaccessible for some students if
tuition costs continue to rise to
help balance the budget.
The cost of tuition increased 5.6
percent this year for in-state and
out-of-state students.
Sullivan said the University is
trying to hold down tuition costs
as much as possible, but that finan-
cial aid is available for students
who can't meet costs.
She added that the University
has been successful in obtaining
financial aid funds from donors.
"Four years ago, the convention-
al wisdom was you couldn't raise
money from donors for financial
aid, they wouldn't give for that,"
she said. "And we've proven that's
not true."
The University has also pledged
to meet the full financial need of
any Michigan resident.
However, Sullivan said the gov-
ernment's decision to eliminate
the Michigan Promise Scholar-
ship put a strain on that commit-
ment because money set aside for
financial aid was used to replace
the lost Michigan Promise Schol-
arship funds for need-based stu-
dents.
Sullivan said she appreciates the
active engagement and coopera-
tion of students, faculty and staff in
tackling budget issues.
"The budget challenges before
all of us are considerable," she said.
"As we address them we have to
look forward, developing systems
and plans that not only address
our immediate problems, but also

establish a strong foundation for
the future."
COPYRIGHTS FOR FACULTY
SCHOLARLY ARTICLES
After Sullivan spoke, the assem-
bly discussed aproposalthat would
give the University ownership of
all copyrights of faculty scholarly
articles. The University would
then make the articles available in
an open access repository on the
Internet for members of the Uni-
versity community.
Currently, faculty members
own the copyright to their written
works.
However, Michael Thouless,
chair of SACUA, said that pub-
lishers have historically taken
advantage of copyright proce-
dures. He cited instances where
publishers have produced works
in more formats than what was
originally intended and have
packaged articles with other
works and then sell them for a
different purpose than the author
had in mind.
Thouless said the University
cannot protect what it doesn't
own, which is why the faculty
must collaborate on the issue.
"It's us that own the copyright,"
he said. "It's up to us to protect,
it."
Other universities - like Har-
vard University, the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology and
Kansas University - have passed
similar open access proposals.
Accordingto Bob Fraser, SACUA
member and assistant director of
the Mardigian Library, there are
now more than 40 universities in
the United States where faculty
members have worked with pub-
lishers to create policies that allow
university communities to access
scholarly articles.

TEXTBOOKS
From Page 1
for students.
"We make it really cheap up
front and then, at the end of the
semester, you don't have to go and
not be able to sell them back or get
a fraction of what you paid from
the campus bookstore," he said.
Students from more than 6,400
campuses have used the website,
according to Phumbra. The web-
site has a ticker that counts the
number of dollars the company has
saved students in real-time. Cur-
rently, the number is at more than
$71 million and counting.
The rental concept and the larg-
er online market could cause trou-
ble down the road for traditional
campus bookstores, like Ulrich's
Bookstore and Michigan Book &
Supply, if they can't find a way to
compete with the lower prices
at Chegg.com and other popular
online vendors like Amazon and
Halfrcom.
Managers at Ulrich's and Michi-
gan Book & Supply refused to com-
ment for this story.
This past June, Ann Arbor
bookstore Shaman Drum closed its
doors after 29 years. Former owner
Karl Pohrt partially attributed the
closing to the rise of Internet book
vendors.
Shaman Drum began suffer-
ing financially due to "customers
migrating to the Internet coupled
with the frightening economic
crisis," Pohrt wrote in an open let-
ter published by The Ann Arbor
Chronicle on Feb. 17.
Pohrt said in a Feb. 19 article in
MILLAGE
From Page 1
was defeated countywide.
The millage would have
increased property taxes $2 for
every $1,000 of taxable value over
a five-year period, with revenue
distributed to districts on a per-
pupil basis.
Roberts said the millage tax
would have helped alleviate some
of the district's deficit.
If the millage had passed, Rob-
erts said AAPS would be dealing
with a roughly $6 million to $9
million deficit versus the betweens
$17 million aod,$20 million deficit
it now faces for the 2010-11 aca-
demic year.I
"By law, (the millage was) our
only way to increase operatingrev-
enue," Roberts said.
Without the millage revenue,
the district must make cuts to deal
with the anticipated drop in state
funding, Roberts said.
To that end, Ann Arbor school
officials will hold a series of pub-

The Michigan Daily that textbook
sales in particular were steadily
declining at the local bookstore
before it closed because more stu-
dents bought textbooks online.
Many students said that in
deciding where to buy textbooks,
price is a larger factor than loyalty
to campus bookstores.
Art & Design senior Chris Firlik,
who rented textbooks from Chegg.
com during both semesters last
year, said the lower prices led her
to the site.
"To a certain extent, it's impor-
tant to support local businesses.
That's why I like going in to book-
stores to buy ones for my English
classes," Firlik said. "But in some
cases, people cannot afford to pay
those high prices."
"It's pretty irritating to buy a
book for a couple hundred dollars
and then maybe get8 percent back
for it," she added.
Firlik said she no longer uses
Chegg.com because the classes she
takes now use novels rather than
traditional textbooks. She said she
likes to keep the novels after the
classes end, so reselling the books
is not a problem.
Engineering junior Kurt
Kurzenhauser also said he decides
where to buy books based on price,
but that he likes to keep certain
textbooks for reference in more
advanced classes.
"For some textbooks, especially
new editions, (renting) sounds
useful," he said. "But as I get more
advanced, I want to keep my text-
books. I use them in other class-
es."
Engineering sophomore Hiroko
Nakahama said she considered
lir meetings in January to address
proposed budget cuts.
The meetings will start at 6:30
p.m. and will take place in district
intermediate and high schools.
The first meeting is scheduled
for Jan. 7 at Huron High School.
Subsequent dates include Jan. 12
at Skyline High School, Jan. 14 at
Scarlett Middle School and Jan.19
at Pioneer High School.
Roberts said he hopes the meet-
ings will serve as a forum for com-
munity feedback and suggestions.
"We'll be asking for feedback
from folks that are there at the
meeting," Roberts said. "If there
are thoughts about possible sav-
ings, we'd take those from folks
there."
Roberts said district represen-
tatives are currently outlining cost
reduction options for the 2010-11
school year, which they will dis-
cuss at the January meetings.
"Our goal is to maintain high-
quality education programs and
keep the cuts away from the class-
room," Roberts said.
While Roberts discussed plans

Tuesday, December 1, 2009 - 7
renting textbooks from Cheggcom
last semester but found it to be too
expensive.
"I looked up Bio and Material
Science. It's stupid to borrow Bi
for $100 or Material Science for
$60 when it's not that much more
to just buy it," Nakahama said.
Nakahama also said that the
process of selling books back is a
major hassle.
"I hate having to go through
selling," Nakahama said. "You go
to the bookstore and a lot of times
they don't buy the books back for
anything."
She added, though, that she
recently bought a new edition of
her biology book hoping she could
sell it back for a better profit than
what it would have cost to rent it.
Phumbra wouldn't say if he
agrees that Chegg.com would "put
campus bookstores out of busi-
ness," aclaim arepresentative from
the company made in an e-mail to
the Daily on Nov. 17.
But, he added that he thinks
"everyone's really happy about
saving students money."
Phumbra said the company has
not yet turned a profit but will do
so after the books have been lent
out a few times. Chegg.com now
owns 2.4 million books, but looks
to widely expand that collection
with $57 million in venture capital
the company reported receiving on
Nov. 19.
The company has rental periods
from 60 t 125 days, with slight
price alterations based on duration.
The company also allows students
to highlight books "within reason"
without repercussions, according
to Phumbra.
in general, he refused to comment
on specific cuts until a finalized
budget is settled upon.
"We're looking at all options... at
this point we aren't talking about
specific reductions," Roberts said.
But no matter the plan, Roberts
said cuts are sure to include staff-
ing reductions.
"With roughly 85 percent of
(AAPS's) costs in people, we're
going to have to reduce costs in
that area," Roberts said.
Roberts said further cuts will
target services AAPS provides,
like transportation and facility
maintenance.
Before the public meetings,
AAPS representatives will discuss
the budget deficit with the Board
of Education this Thursday and
will hold conversations with its
staff in December.
"We're looking at all our possi-
ble options, hoping to have as little
impact as possible on students if
we can," Roberts said.
The district hopes to finalize a
budgetplanforthe2010-2011school
year by the end of February.

FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK

AVAIL NOW AND/OR Fall LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
2 spacious 5 bedroom apt. available immediately, 2 blocks east of
Call 734-665-2723 or vist the business school. Heat, water and
www.shahproperties.com parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
CRAWFORD HOUSE _____ ______
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
Prime Location! Free parking! avail on central campus. 741-9300
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825 www.annarborapartments.net
www.campusrealty.com
NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6 Drive-in garage. Cathedralceilinglivin-
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08, groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo.
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo. 734-516-4291. gunnerbt7@aol.com
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
FALL '10 RENTAL. 5 Bdrm, 2 bath. Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
at 811 Sylvan. 10 mm walk to campus. www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
5mm into baseball field and track.
Major appliances. 734-834-1680. NOW LEASING 2010-11
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease. 761-8000
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil, www.primesh.com
910 Packard, 1130 Oakland, 1026
Vaughn, etc. 734-769-7025. Call today to see your new Home!
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.! 344 S. Division

STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out alt of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSelIA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
SUBLETS
WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more information email
rentme@gobluehouses.com.

FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
HOLIDAY HELP
Apply now, start after finals
734-677-2477
www.winterbreakwork.com
NEED CASH? EARN up to $1,000
during finals week! Better World
Books needs your help buying text-
books and collecting textbook dona-
tions. Help your friends get more cash
for their books and earn money in the
process. Contact Emily at 574-855-
5206 or go to www.betterworldbooks.-
com/campusoperative
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
CHILDCARE
CHILDCARE FOR 7YR old son of
UM professor and entrepreneurial wife.
Care in A2 home for 12 hrs a week.
Great ref(s) req., 1-2 yr. commitment
pref, must have car. Email resume to
cherylb@humaxnetworks.com

608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff, Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Hdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248,935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
Vaughn. 6 bdrm, first floor of duplex. 2
bath, 2 fridge, free parking for 5 cars.
Easy in/out. September lease. $3390.
734-426-4772.
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water mcl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkgino pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcall.net

515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
Free heat and water
* Atlmost locations)
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. F einco, 734-996-1991.

For Wednesday, Dec. 2, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is an enjoyable day because you
feel positive and hopeful about your
future. Isn't it amazing how our state of
mind affects everything'? Curious but
true (and something to remember at all
times!).
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
This is a wonderft day for business
and commerce. It's also a good day for
shopping. wheeling and dealing, and
buying and selling. Ka-ching!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
You feel hopeful and enthusiastic
about something today. You might even
be overjoyed. Travel plans for something
having to do with groups will please
you.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Solitude in beautiful surroundings is
just what you need today. You want to
Pull your act together sO you can take it
ems the road.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
A discussion with a fesnale could lead
to invitations or future travel opportuni,
ties. Meetings, committees, classes and
conferences will go well today.
VI RGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Personal details about your private life
might suddenly be made rather public
today. Fortunately, it's all positive and
perhlas even humorous. Enjoy your day.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Try to do somsething different today.
Break froms your daily routine. You want
to learn something new: plus, you want
some adventure! (Go someplace you've
never been before.)

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 2 1)
Focus on shared property and your
responsibilities to others today. Taxes,
debt, inheritances, insuranceiatters and
anything that is jointly owned gets top
priority today.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
You'll have to go more than halfway
when dealing with others, because the
Moon is opposite your sign today. Since
people are so upbeat, this should be easy.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Relationships with co-workers are
friendly today. News pertaining to a
small pet could be quite joyful. Work-
related travel is also likely.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
You feel prankish and playful today!
You want to have a good time. And why
not? Life is short - and fat. Playful
activities with children, sports, love and
romance are all areas that get a lovely
boast.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Invite people over to your home today.
You'll enjoy any kind of gathering -
whether it's a family gathering or a
group of people who want to study
something together. People are in a good
sood today.
YOU BORN TODAY You have a
driving force that propels you through
life, in part because you're fiercely com-
petitive. Although you have a strong per-
sonality yourself, you often become
devoted to someone you admire. You
have high ideals, which you apply to
yourself and others. Your year ahead
might be one of the most powerful years
of your life. Dream big!
Birtidate of: Georges Seurat, artist;
Monica Seles, tennis player; Maria
Callas, soprano.

SERVICES
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!!t$300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BABY SITTER NEEDED for 2 kids
(2 & 6). 15-20 hrs/wk. Nursing/medical
exp. pref Trans req. Send resume to
jobs@weisernet.com -

TICKETS & TRAVEL
LOOKING FOR A deal on a trip to
Europe during Spring Break? The first
10 people to book a trip (including
flight + hostel for 6 nights) to London,
Paris or Amsterdam will receive $200
off their trip. Call 734-769-2555 or
visit the Michigan Union to take advan-
tage of this awesome opportunity!
SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-,849 or www.ststravel.com

2009 King Features Syndicate. Inc.


8 - Tuesday, December 1, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Hogan carries 'M' with
dominant performance

0

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
As the clock ticked down on the
Michigan hockey team's weekend,
all the Wolverines needed to do was
hang on. No. 15 Wisconsin, down
3-2, pulled its goalie to gain a six-on-
four advantage in
the final seconds. NOTEBOOK
Junior goalie -
Bryan Hogan kept a firm grip on the
lead. He made two stops in the wan-
ing seconds, and as the Yost crowd
showed their appreciation, they
knew it was for more than just the
end of the game.
It was the end to Hogan's arduous
start of the season, inwhich he post-
ed a .887 save percentage through 12
games.
During that time, he had a ten-
dency to allow soft goals at inop-
portune times. A puckhandling
mistake by Hogan cost the Wolver-
ines against Boston University, and a
couple of weak shots beat him on the
five-hole against Miami (Ohio). But
after three solid games - including
Michigan's sweep of this weekend
of the College Hockey Showcase - it

seems Hogan has turned a corner.
"Now he's starting to look like
the Bryan Hogan we know he can
be, and he showed that last year,"
Michigan coach Red Berenson said.
"I think what you've seen early,
that's the end of that."
Hogan made 63 stops in this
weekend's two games, which helped
him earn CCHA Goaltender of the
Week honors. Against Minnesota,
he recorded his fourth career shut-
out and first of the season. After
needing just routine saves against
the Golden Gophers, Hogan was
forced to step up and outplay Wis-
consin goalie Scott Gudmandson for
the win the next night.
Despite all the shots faced, which
included a 41-shot Badger onslaught,
Hogan attributed some of his suc-
cess to his defensive unit, who lim-
ited second-chance opportunities.
"We're not making as many
mistakes coming out of the zone,"
Hogan said. "It's the ones we had
when we were losing five games in a
row, where it would be breakaways
and crazy stuff in front of the net
that was tough to handle."
LOOKING FOR SHORTIES: The

Wolverines, who struggled to score
before this weekend, came away
with two shorthanded goals in the
Showcase.
Against Minnesota, junior Carl
Hagelin jumped up into a rush cre-
ated by junior Matt Rust, received
a pass and split the defensemen to
score with the man down to nail
down a Michigan victory. Sopho-
more Luke Glendening followed suit
a day later with a shorthanded goal
off a faceoff.
"Obviously you're not supposed
to score on the PK, but I think ever
since I came here, we've been prid-
ing ourselves on doing a good job
offensively," Hagelin said. "I think
if you're a threat on the PK, their
PP might be almost scared to make
plays."
These are the first two short-
handed goals for the Wolverines this
season, but they shouldn't come as a
surprise. Michigan finished with six
last season.
"I like to see shorthanded goals
because they are backbreaker
goals," Berenson said. "When you
can score a shorty in a big game like
these, itjust keeps the other team on

their heels."
SHOWCASE SHUTDOWN: Those
who made it to Yost ice Arena for the
CollegeHockeyShowcasewitnessed
the last of its kind. The Wolverines
will be on the road next season for
the final year of the Showcase.
Originally created to keep old
WCHA rivals playing on an annual
basis, the Showcase proved to be an.
imperfect fit for the teams involved.
The games are always scheduled
over the long Thanksgiving week-
end, when many students are at
home.
The stale atmosphere was evi-
dent last weekend as the Yost ush-
ers forced the small contingent of
students that usually make up the
entire west side of the arena to sit
down. Even with the mellowed-out
arena, Berenson said the team can-
not drop from the schedule.
"Do I think we should continue
it? Absolutely," Berenson said. "I
was in on the initial planning of this
tournament because I thought we
should play Wisconsin and Minne-
sota every year. If I had my way, we
would play them each home-and-
home."

CLIF REEDER/Daily
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis was fired Monday after five years in South Bend.
Without Weis, -Irish
no longqer apunchine
%-.V*

3-point struggles doom
Blue at Old Spice Classic

Michigan shot just 20
percent from behind
the arc in two losses
to unranked teams
By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
When junior forward Manny
Harris clanked a 3-pointer off the
rim with 36 seconds left in Sun-
day's 68-66 loss to Alabama, it
was the perfect
summation of the NOTEBOOK
Michigan basket-
ball team's performance at the Old
Spice Classic.
Questionable shot selection.
An inability to knock down
threes.
And utter disappointment.
While Michigan fans who
watched the tournament may feel
disheartened after the team lost
to two unranked opponents, more
alarming than those losses are the
Wolverines' struggles from behind
the arc.
In Michigan's losses to Mar-
quette and Alabama, the team
sunk just nine of 45 3-poinaters for
a 20 percent success rate.
"They did a great job of con-
testing shots," senior forward
DeShawn Sims said after the Mar-
quette game.
"We got a bunch of good looks,
but we just couldn't knock down
any shots today."
Michigan relied on the 3-point-
er for a little under 40 percent of
its offense last season, so going
cold from behind the arccould be
detrimental to its future success,
particularly when it plays NCAA
Tournament-caliber teams like
Marquette.
Michigan coach John Beilein
admitted that his team relies on
the three to win close games like
those at the Classic.

The mistake with those two would
be to stop shooting. They need
to keep putting it up there when
they're open."
FALLOUT: After the hype of
starting the season in the AP Top
25 poll for the first time in 12 years,
the formerly 15th-ranked Wolver-
ines dropped out of both the AP
and coaches polls after their pair
of losses this weekend.
The drop in rankings coincides
with the need to readjust expec-
tations for the team's success as
it heads into this Wednesday's
matchup against Boston College in
the ACC/Big Ten Challenge.
"You play three games in three
days, its not like you can change
your philosophy, even for BC on
Wednesday.
"We just have to slowly work at
our_ game to see what we have to
clean up if we think things need
changing."
And while the team might not
have enough time to change its
game plan this week, it knows it
still has much to work on.
"It's still early," Sims said. "It
did let us know we still gotta long
way to go."
A SMALL SPARK: One of the
bright spots over the weekend was
the play of senior forward Zack
Gibson.
Gibson entered the game
against Marquette with 11 minutes
remaining and the Wolverines
down 60-49.
He led the team on a 7-2 run
that closed the gap to six points.
During the rally, Gibson scored
five points off two layups and
a free throw and finished with
eight against the Golden Eagles.'
Additionally, Gibson shot 3-for-
3 for six points in Sunday's game
against Alabama.
"We're trying to (find him min-
utes)," Beilein said about Gibson.
"But it'll depend a lot on the game
we're playing and howhe performs
in practice."

ell, it was fun while it
lasted.
After five seasons
and 27 losses, Notre Dame Ath-
letic Director Jack Swarbrick
announced on Monday that Char-
lie Weis will
not return
next year as
coach of the
Fighting Irish
football team.
In terms
of schaden-
freude, it was I
one of the IAN
more enjoyable KAY
press releases
in recent memory.
Weis's tenure in South Bend
was the perfect mixture of defi-
ance and delusion for Michigan
fans. As the cocky, arrogant leader
of a cocky, arrogant school, Weis
put his foot in his mouth time and
time again. "To hell with Michi-
gan," he said at an alumni banquet
in the spring of 2008. The com-
ment was allegedly an homage to
Bo Schembechler's similar state-
ments about opposing teams. That
nuance was lost on most of us.
Plus, he didn't win too much.
After back-to-back BCS Bowl bids
in his first two seasons with the
Irish - largely thanks to Tyrone
Willingham recruits Brady
Quinn, Jeff Samardzija and Tom
Zbikowski - Weis's teams went
just 16-21 over the next three sea-
sons.
Against Michigan, the Irish
went 2-3, including a 38-34 loss
this year in which Weis opted to
pass the ball late in the fourth
quarter when a few running plays
could have sealed an Irish victory.
But if Weis was both entertain-
ing and an anchor on one of Mich-
igan's most-hated rivals, why does
his departure leave me feeling so...
unsatisfied?
Well, the man could recruit.
According to Rivals.com, Weis's
recruitingclasses ranked among
the top 10 in the nation four times
in five years. His 2008 class was
the second-best in the country, led
by wide receiver Michael Floyd
and tight end Kyle Rudolph. The
pair combined for 10 catches, 169
yards and a touchdown against
the Wolverines back in September.
Despite potential first-day NFL
draft picks at every offensive skill
position, Weis never took full
advantage of the prodigious tal-
ent he accumulated. His eventual
replacement might.
Whether it's Brian Kelly, Chip

Kelly or Kelly Kapoor, odds are
that Notre Dame's next coach will
be far more tactically competent
than Weis. He'll inherit a cup-
board that's far from bare, and the
Irish mystique'should allow him
to continue building top classes
for the foreseeable future. Unlike
in Ann Arbor, where Rich Rodri-
guez will need at least three years
to build a legitimate contender, it's
easy to see Notre Dame returning
to glory in relatively short order.
Considering that Michigan is
scheduled to play the Irish every
year until 2031, this could pose a
problem.
Much like at Michigan, Ala-
bama and Nebraska, Notre Dame
has too much history, too much
name cache and too much finan-
cial backing to stay down forever.
It becameclear that Weis was
muchbetter suited as an NFL
offensive coordinator than a col-
lege head coach, and the Irish
made the right move in canning
him.
But while the monetary cost of
buying out the final six seasons
of Weis's enormous contract will
hang over the Irish program for
several years, his bumbling play-
calls and press conference snafus
likely will not. His successor will
surely bring more efficiency and
command more respect.
So before Michigan fans cel-
ebrate the end of the Charlie Weis
era, think about what the future
could hold.
Despite a lack of continuity at
head coach in South Bend, Michi-
gan has just an 6-5 record against
the Irish since Lou Holtz left after
the 1996 season. With plenty of
talent already in the fold, the right
coaching switch could shift this
power balance and potentially add
a second perennial national power
to Michigan's annual schedule.
Many of the Irish's potential
hires run the spread offense. This
could mean more head-to-head
recruiting battles, an area where
Notre Dame has consistently best-
ed Michigan in recent years.
And perhaps worst of all,
whether Weis's successor initially
wins or loses, the Irish will reas-
sume the spotlight in national
newspaper stories and ESPN Col-
lege Gameday segments.
Justby firing him, Notre Dame
is relevant again as more than just
a punch line. And that's something
we'll all miss.
- Kay can be reached
at iankay@umich.edu.

Junior MannyHarris was -sf 6 fror 3-point range in Michigan's 61 m66 b1hss I
Alabawa. This seas, Hartis is shooting a diswal 13 yercent frsm the behisd the atc.
"We have to (make them). We his teammates who specialize in
have to," Beilein said. "They played 3-point shooting couldn't get the
really good defense, I don't know job done.
how many times we had really Beilein said that he thought
clean, good looks, but it didn't Harris was hesitating on his shot,
seem like we made them when we and while the junior is a great
had to." shooter, he needs to clean up that
Harris struggled from behind part of his game.
the arcin both of Michigan's losses, "Stu (Douglass) and Manny are
making just one of his 10 attempts. obviously great shooters," Beil-
But while Harris contributed in ein said. "But Stu made one three
other facets of the game, many of the other night and that's about it.

Learn more about the Peace Corps.
Attend an information session.
Tuesday, December 1st
6:30 p.m.
U-M International Center, Room 9
800.424.85801 www.peacecorps.gov
Life is callipg. How far will you go?

a


