I1E EIIyan atF & I
ONL I.NjIIM IN I 1"''S (.)F DII LPT I I~l 

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, January 23, 2009

michigandaily.com

SALMONELLA OUTBREAK
Res halls
bring peanut
butter back
Peanut products which are managed by AVI Food
Systems.
pulled Monday, Residential Dining Services
staff received an e-mail on Mon-
back on shelves day from University Housing
administrators advising them to
yesterday suspend the use of peanut butter
products and to instruct all greet-
By JENNA SKOLLER ers, cashiers and supervisory staff
Daily StaffReporter to explain the situation if custom-
ers have questions.
America's favorite sandwich "There is information coming
was missing its better half. from the FDA directing the pub-
Peanut butter products were lic to refrain from purchasing and
pulled from the dining menus of consuming peanut butter," the
residence halls and retail opera- e-mail said. "That alone can create
tions across campus Monday in concerns even for those products
light of the recent national out- deemed safe."
break of salmonella, though none The e-mail also instructed
of the brands used in University staffers to post signs at the greeter
cafeterias were linked with the and cashier stations and on vend-
bacteria. Yesterday, University ing machines to explain the situa-
Housing decided to put the pea- tion and to assure customers that
nut butter products back on the all products sold haven't been
its shelves because the brands recalled.
the University uses to get these The University restored the
products were not linked to any peanut products yesterday after
problems in the Food and Drug the FDA and the Centers for Dis-
Administration investigation of ease Control traced sources of
the outbreak. the salmonella outbreak to a pro-
Peanut butter products were cessing plant in Blakely, Georgia
also removed from the vending owned by Peanut Corporation of
machines in the residence halls, See PEANUT BUTTER, Page 7

University administrators watch a presentation about the University's research funding at the Board of Regents meeting in the Fleming Administration Building yesterday
Research funds hit high mark

$876 million total
the highest in
University history
By KYLE SWANSON and
MALLORY JONES
Daily StaffReporters
Continuing a trend of the Uni-
versity's insulation from the state's
and country's economic troubles,

research funding at the University
reached an all-time high last year
and is expected to set a new record
this year.
In his annual report to the Board
of Regents yesterday, Vice President
for Research Stephen Forrest said
the University's research funding
increased by 6.4 percent, to a total
of $876 million.
That number sets the Univer-
sity's total funding for research
above those schools it considers to

be its peers, including Stanford Uni-
versity, the University of California
at Berkeley and the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.
Federal funding to the Univer-
sity of Michigan increased by 2.7
percent - to $611 million - while
business contributions to research
jumped 11 percent from last year, to
$43 million.
Despite the record-setting
amounts spent on research, For-
rest said he expects an additional 6

percent increase in funding for the
2009 fiscal year. Research funding
currently accounts for nearly one-
third of the University's non-hospi-
tal budget.
While the currenteconomic crisis
and new federal and local govern-
mental priorities have shifted focus
toward energy research, Forrest said
the University's long-term planning
already places it at the forefront of
this emerging research field.
See RESEARCH, Page 7

BOARD OF REGENTS MEETING
Crisler renovations pass

50,000-square-foot,
$23M facility gets
unanimous go-ahead
By KYLE SWANSON
DailyStaffReporter
The University Board of Regents
voted unanimously yesterday to
authorize the Athletic Department
to move forward with plans to con-
struct a new practice facility next
to Crisler Arena.
The 50,000-square-foot facility
is expected to cost more than $23
million and will be paid for with
Athletic Department funds and
private donations. The new facil-
ity will include two new basketball
practice courts, team locker areas,

strength and conditioning space,
athletic medicine space and coach-
ing and staff offices.
At yesterday's meeting, Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman
said the facility is a necessary addi-
tion to the athletic campus.
"There's been a lot of planning
for this," she told the regents. "I
think the need is well established."
RegentLaurenceDeitch(D-Bing-
ham Farms) added to Coleman's
comments, saying the addition has
been needed for some time.
"It's long overdue," he said.
Athletic Director Bill Martin
was present at the meeting, but did
not speak about the proposal. In a
statement released after the meet-
ing, Martin said he was thankful
for the regents' approval.
"I am truly appreciative of the

efforts of all involved to start this
project," he said. "I can't wait to
get the shovel in the ground and get
started on this project."
Crisler Arena's game court is
currently the only practice court for
the men's and women's basketball
teams. Martin said the addition
will provide more flexibility for the
teams' management and athletes.
"It's an exciting day for both
the men's and women's basketball
teams," Martin said in a statement.
"The facility will allow our student
athletes to practice later in the day,
giving them more flexibility in
scheduling their academic classes."
Women's Basketball Coach Kevin
Borseth said in a written statement
that he was excited for the new
facility.
See CRISLER, Page 7

STUDIO 4 CONTROVERSY
UAAO looks to mediation
to solve Studio 4 dispute

Edward Vielmetti invented a new service that lets people check how many spots are available in a structure from their phone
New system allows people to
check parking space availability

Asian American
student group
unsure if night club
will join in process
By MATT AARONSON
Daily StaffReporter
The United Asian American
Organizations have gone to the Uni-
versity's Office of Student Conflict
Resolution to open a mediation pro-
cess with management from the Stu-
dio 4 nightclub. The club is located
on 4th Avenue in Ann Arbor.

Leaders of the Chinese Stu-
dent Association and the Filipino
American Student Association
- two groups included in UAAO
- claim that the club's managers
broke a revenue-sharing contract
and used racial profiling to deter-
mine the amount of money they
would receive from a fundraiser the
groups were holding at the club on
Nov. 8 of last year.
Ravi Bodepudi, co-chair of the
UAAO, said nobody from the orga-
nization has been in contact with
anyone fromStudio 4 since just after
the incident. He said there are plans
to meet with the OSCR this week to
discuss a course of action.

OSCR, part of the Division of
Student Affairs, offers conflict
resolution services to anyone with
a University affiliation. All parties
must consent to the process.
Laura Misumi, UAAO's other co-
chair, said that for her, their activ-
ism after this incident was about
"creating awareness of student
empowerment."
Bodepudi had doubts about the
effectiveness of mediation.
"We're not really sure if an apol-
ogy would be enough," he said.
OSCR representatives said that
they could not disclose informa-
tion about any specific mediation
See STUDIO 4, Page 7

Anyone can call, the approximate amount of open
spaces in that area by calling the
find out where parking availability line at (734)
272-0909. It's even possible to
open spots are receive a call back from the opera-
tor when the structure selected
By EMILY ORLEY has less than 10 spaces left.
For The Daily "I walk past those parking struc-
ture signs everyday," Vielmetti
For those lucky students who said. "I know that there are people
have cars in this blistering winter, who complain about not being able
one of the few major difficulties is to find a place to park who have
finding a parking space near their plenty of places for parking."
classroom building. However, this Vielmettisaidtheinitialthought
task is usually easier said than came to him practically by chance,
done - until now. but it quickly turned into an inter-
Ann Arbor residents Edward esting concept.
Vielmetti and Fred Posner recent- Since the Ann Arbor Downtown
ly came up with the idea to create Development Authority already
real-time parking availability that had a website that provided space
can be accessed directly from any availability, all Vielmetti had to
touch-tone phone. do was create a way to access the
Anyone can select a parking website's data from your phone.
structure and instantly receive Vielmetti said Posner was able

to develop the phone service inless
than a day.
And even though the service is
already up and running, Vielmetti
said their project is far from com-
plete. They're hoping to expand
the idea to other forms of trans-
portation, with the next step being
real-time bus notifications.
"As soon as we built the phone
thing for the parking structure,
the bus thing just looks really obvi-
ous," Vielmetti said.
This time of year, having infor-
mation about the buses saves peo-
ple time and allows them to stay
warmer. Instead of having to wait
outside for a long period of time or
chase down a bus that is just pull-
ing away, with Vielmetti's new
invention, people will be able to
anticipate bus arrivals.
However, the city's website that
See PARKING, Page 7


TODAY'S H 1:16
WEATHER L 4

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
What is going on with Northwestern hoops?
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS...... . . . 2 ARTS.. . . ..........5
Vol. CXIX,No.79 SUDOKU...............,...............3 CLASSIFIEDS...................6
Q2009TheMichiganDaily OPINION...4 SPORTS...............................8
michigosdoilycom

r


2 - Friday, January 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

2 - Friday, January 23, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom ~

- 14

MORE PICTURES ONLINE
For more Photos of the Week, check out our
slideshow at www.michigandaily.com

(Left) The Ross School of Business community watches the inauguration of President Barack Obama in Blau Auditorium. (MAX
COLLINS/Daily) (Right) The Michigan Band plays during the women's basketball game last night. (SAID ALSALAH/Daily)
CRIME NOTES CAMPUS EVENTS & NOT

('14c idiigan atljj
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun-ahurs.11a.m.-2a.m.
734--763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0563
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaity.com
-734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
734-764-8585
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
734-764-0554
Classified Sales classifed@michigandaily.com
734-764-0557
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
734-615-0135
Finance finance@michigandaiy.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmilOVitZManaging News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:JillianBerman,TrevorCalero,JulieRowe,LindyStevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
JennaSkoller,KyleSwanson
RoberttSoave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTA NT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR&: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandailyoaom
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisensteian n Feidmn, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartjean Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alex Prosperi,ColtiRosenweig
David Watnick ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENI0R ARnS EoIToORSaie Olok, Branonoiionais, Whitne ow
ASSSTANTRTS EDITORS:JohaBaeAidrewLapnDveReap,Ben Vanwagoner
ZachaMeisoergand photo@michigandaily.com
CtiftReeder MenagingPhotooEditos
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:SaidAlsalah, ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak, ob Migrin,Sam Wolson
Angela Chih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGNEDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
lessica Vosgerchian MagazineEditor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display Advertising SalesManager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Nea,i Christie Philips
yan Businski Classisaed sales Manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager: Alison Thomas
Marissa Geter Online salesManager
Ben English ProductionDesignManager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
TheMichiganDaiy(ISSNO745-967)ispubishedMondaythroughFridaysduringthefallandswint
terms by students at the University ofMichigan.One copy is available free of charge to allreader
Additionacopiesmay bepickedupattheDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsfor faliterm,startingin
Septembervia U.S.mailare$110.Winter term(anuary through Api) is$11syearong(september
through Apri is$19.University affiliates aresubjecttoa reduced subscription rateOn-campus
subscriptions forfall term are $3. Subscriptionsmustbe prepaid.The Michigan Dalyis amemberof
aThe lsciated Pressand Tle AssociatedCollegiatePress.

4

4

4

ES

Wallet stolen at Suitcase of
Medical Library books stolen

Armenian

a a s w vim. a v s a.sw~

WHERE: Taubman Medical
Library
WHEN: Wednesday at about
5:30 p.m.
WHAT: A staff member's wal-
let was stolen after it was left
unattended for several hours,
University Police reported. The
wallet contained $40 in cash
and several debit and credit
cards.

WHERE: Haven Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at about
4:20 p.m.
WHAT: A student reported a
black wheeled suitcase of Uni-
versity library books missing
from a Haven Hall office, Uni-
versity Police reported. There
were no signs of forced entry.
Police have no suspects.


charity dance
and full buffet
WHAT: An Armenian dance
featuring live band and a full
dinner buffet.
WHO: Armenian Students
Cultural Association
WHEN: Tonight at 1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Polo Fields Coun-
try Club, 5200 Polo Fields
Drive

Marijuana,
Wallets stolen, MCaiTuhaaf
paraphernalia Ca ec pro
found in Weill eized talks about how
seizedla
Hall galaxies form

Lunch on life
post-graduation
WHAT: A luncheon discuss-
ing strategies for transition
to life after college.
WHO: Office of Multi-Eth-
nic Student Affairs (MESA)
WHEN: Today at 11:30 p.m.
WHERE: MSA Chambers,
3rd Floor of Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
* An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (Magee's
journey comesfull circle) mis-
identified where Ken Magee
worked in Colombia. He
worked in the city of Batgota
and its surrounding jungles.
. An article in Wednesday's
edition of the Daily (Obama
sworn in as 44th president0
misidentified Andrea James,
president of the University's
chapter of the NAACP.
* Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Homeless people in Atlan-
ta attend the Church of
the Common Ground to
receive pedicures, not bless-
ings, The Associated Press
reported. Rev. Bob Book and
his wife, Holly, have trans-
formed their church into a spa
for the homeless.
Geothermal heating is 25
to 75 percent more effi-
cient than traditional
heating and cooling systems.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3Former First Daughters
Jenna and Barbara Bush
wrote a letter offering
advice for Sasha and Malta
Obama, printed in the Wall
Street Journal. "He is our
father, not the sketch in the
paper or part of a skit on TV,".
they wrote of former President
George W. Bush. "So here is
our most important piece of
advice: remember who your
dad really is."

0

I

WHERE: Weill Hall
WHEN: Wednesday around
11:00 a.m.
WHAT: Two students reported
their wallets stolen from a study
lab, University Police reported.
They were later found in a hall-
way mailbox by maintenance
staff.

WHERE: Alice Lloyd Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at about
8:30 p.m.
WHAT: The smell of mari-
juana was reported to Hous-
ing Security. University
Police investigated and found
a small bag of marijuana and
two pieces of paraphernalia.
The items were seized.

WHAT: Charles C. Steidel of
California Institute of Tech-
nology will talk on the forma-
tions of galaxies.
WHO: Universe Theme
Semester
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Room 1800,
Chemistry Building

UN vows to raise funds for
emergency repairs in Gaza Strip
ReconstructionAn

4

WANT TO WRITE FOR
DAILY NEWS?
E-MAIL
JACOB_SMILOVITZ@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

efforts could cost up
to $2 billion
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -
The United Nations will quickly
raise money for emergeincy repairs
in the Gaza Strip, the world body's
humanitarian chief promised
Thursday after witnessing what he
called shocking destruction from
the three-week war between Israel
and Hamas.
But U.N. aid chief John Holmes
and another senior U.N. official
acknowledged they have no fallback
plan if reconstruction is snagged by
the power struggle between Gaza's
militant Hamas rulers and their
moderate Palestinian rivals in the
West Bank.
Hamas, which seized power in
Gaza by force in June 2007, insist-
ed Thursday that it will not share
control over reconstruction proj-
ects that initial estimates have said
could cost up to $2 billion.
The international community,
however, is reluctant to funnel
huge sums to Hamas, calling for
the group for the group to form a
joint government with Palestinian
President Mahmoud Abbas. Pros-
pects for such a deal remain slim.
Israel has said one of the key
objectives of its offensive against
Hamas was to halt weapons smug-
gling. Hamas has fired thousands
of rockets at southern Israel over
the past eight years, and Israel says
most of the weapons and explosives
came in through smugglers' tun-
nels from Egypt.
Any cease-fire deal will be dura-
ble only if the basic demands of
both sides are met. Israel insists on
anti-smuggling guarantees, while
Hamas wants open Gaza borders to
ensure delivery of vital supplies.
President Barack Obama
addressed both stands Thursday,
saying his administration support-
ed implementation of a "credible"
system for stopping smuggling
and calling for Gaza's borders to
be opened for aid shipments, with
"appropriate monitoring." He said
Hamas must stop attacking Israel.
Hamas criticized Obama's
comments, saying his approach
will bring the U.S. failure in the
region.
"Obama is still on the same path

4

4

Palestinians search through the rubble of their home east of Jebalya refugee camp in northern Gaza yesterday. UN humanitarian
chief John Holmes, on the first day of a five-day trip to the region, called the steep Palestinian casualty toll "extremely shocking"
and suggested the United Nations might ask Israel to compensate it for wartime damage to UN compounds in Gaza.

as previous leaders and also will
make the same mistakes as Bush
that ignited the region instead of
bringing stability," Osama Ham-
dan, the Hamas spokesman in
Beirut, Lebanon, told Al-Jazeera
television.
Holmes and Robert Serry,
the U.N. envoy for the Middle
East peace process, toured some
of Gaza's most damaged areas
Thursday, including a small indus-
trial zone in the Jebaliya refugee
camp.
"What I saw was actually more
shocking than I expected, both in
its extent and its nature," Holmes
said, speaking at a U.N. compound
that was damaged on the second
day of Israel's offensive when an
airstrike hit an adjacent guest
house of the Palestinian govern-
ment. The strike damaged the roof
of Holmes' local office and four
U.N. jeeps.
Holmes said he was asked by the
U.N. secretary-general, who visited
Gaza this week, to assess Gaza's
initial needs, including emergency
repairs of the water, sewage and
electricity systems.
The U.N. would start raising
funds in about 10 days, he said, but
added that reconstruction will be
possible only if the Palestinians

form a unity government.
Asked what would happen if a
unity deal is not reached, Holmes
said: "I cannot answer that ques-
tion in a sensible way."
In the West Bank, Abbas' prime
minister, Salam Fayyad, said repre-
sentatives of donor countries would
meet in Egypt in mid-February to
discuss Gaza reconstruction and
he urged Hamas to consider a joint
government.
"The world would like to help us,
but everyone says that we should
have a national unity government,"
Fayyad said.
Hamas officials in Gaza were
cool to the idea of reconciliation
talks with Abbas' Fatah movement.
And while eight Syria-based rad-
ical Palestinian factions, including
Hamas, called for talks, they also
said they would insist on "conti-
nuity of resistance" to Israel. That
condition appeared to preclude any
agreement with Abbas, who seeks a
peace deal with the Jewish state.
Hamas has gone out of its way to
demonstrate control in Gaza since
a tentative truce took hold Monday
after Israel's three-week offensive.
Hamas put on victory rallies with
demolished buildings as back-
drops, and its ministers of health,
construction and education held

news conferences to present plans
for emergency relief.
StartingSunday, the Hamasgov-
ernment will distribute $52 million
to the needy, spokesman Taher
Nunu said, adding that the money
was coming from the movement's
supporters.
Despite a border blockade
enforced by Israel and Egypt since
Hamas seized power, the group has
brought cash and weapons, along
with commercial goods, through
smuggling tunnels under the Gaza-
Egypt border.
Israel dropped hundreds of tons
of bombs on the tunnels during the
fighting, saying it destroyed 60 per-
cent to 70 percent of them.
Smugglers said Thursday only
about a tenth of the tunnels were
intact. Yet they were back at work,
starting repairs and lugging sacks
of goods like potato chips, clothes
and cigarettes.
One tunnel collapsed Thursday,
badly injuring a Palestinian, Egyp-
tian security officials said.
Israeli media, meanwhile, said
some Cabinet ministers were indi-
cating a new willingness to hand
over dangerous Palestinian prison-
ers in exchange for the return of
an Israeli soldier captured in 2006,
Sgt. Gilad Schalit.


6 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 23, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 23, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
NEW YORK
Kennedy withdraws
from Senate race
ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) - Caroline
Kennedy's mysteriously abrupt
decision to abandon her Senate bid
gave rise to an ugly swirl of accusa-'
tions Thursday and feverish specu-
lation over whether she jumped or
was pushed.
The 51-year-old daughter of
President John F. Kennedy was
widely considered a front-runner
for the Senate seat until she sent a
midnight e-mail to reporters and
Gov. David Paterson saying she was
withdrawingforwhatshedescribed
only as personal reasons.
Even though many Democrats
had thought Paterson was going to
appoint Kennedy anydaynow, aper-
son close to the governor said Thurs-
day that Paterson had no intention of
picking her because he believed she
handled herself poorly in introduc-
ing herself as a candidate.
The person also said there
were concerns about possible tax
problems for Kennedy, a poten-
tial "nanny problem" involving a
housekeeper, and media rumors
that her marriage was on the rocks.
The person, who spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity because he said
he wasn't authorized to speak for
the governor, would not elaborate.
Kennedy spokesman Stefan
Friedman would not detail her
reasons for withdrawing, but com-
plained: "This kind of mudslinging
demeans that process and all those
involved."
CHICAGO
Blagojevich: Senate
impeachment trial
unfair and 'a sham'
On the verge of being tossed
out of office, Gov. Rod Blagojevich
on Thursday branded his upcom-
ing impeachment trial "a sham"
that won't provide a fair chance to
defend himself
"What the Senate and the House
and Legislature is trying to do is to
thwart the will of the people and
remove a governor elected twice by
the people without a fair hearing,"
the governor said outside his Chi-
cago home.
The two-term Democrat is
accused of abusing his power by
scheming to benefit from appoint-
ing a person to fill President Barack
Obama's Senate seat, circumvent-
ing hiring laws and defying Gen-
eral Assembly decisions.
He was impeached by the state
House on Jan. 9, and his trial in the
state Senate is set to begin Monday.
He has denied any wrongdoing.
WASHINGTON
Rally marks Roe v.
Wade anniversary
Tens of thousands of abortion
opponents rallied Thursday on the
National Mall to mark the 36th
anniversary of Roe v. Wade amid
concerns they could face political

setbacks under the new president.
The rally and subsequent march
to the Supreme Court came two
days after the swearing-in of Presi-
dent Barack Obama, which many
demonstrators said emphasized the
need to become more vocal with
their message.
Among those attending the rally
marking the 1973 ruling that legal-
ized abortion was Kirk Kramer
of Cottage City, Md., who held up
a sign reading: "The Audacity Of
Hope: No More Roe."
Kramer, a Democrat, said he has
mixed feelings about Obama. He
supports the president's position
on Iraq but said he was concerned
about statements Obama made
during the campaign indicating
support for the Freedom of Choice
Act, which would overrule many
state-level restrictions on access to
abortion.
LANSING
Mich. Supreme
Court puts off
recusal issue
The Michigan Supreme Court
has put off until March a debate
on rules governing when justices
should be disqualified from cases.
The court decided Thursday to
defer the vote on whether formal
recusal procedures should be pub-
lished for public comment.
The disqualification issue has
been a bone of contention for a cou-
ple years. The court currently has an
unwritten tradition that leaves it up
to each justice to decide if he or she
should recuse himself or herself.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama will close Guantanamo Bay prison

Executive Order
would also close CIA
"black site" prisons
WASHINGTON (AP) - Break-
ing forcefully with Bush anti-
terror policies, President Barack
Obama ordered major changes
Thursday that he said would halt
the torture of suspects, close down
the Guantanamo detention center,
ban secret CIA prisons overseas
and fight terrorism "in a manner
that is consistent with our values
and our ideals."
"We intend to win this fight.
We're goingto win it on our terms,"
Obama declared, turning U.S. poli-
cy abruptly on just his second full
day in office. He also put a fresh
emphasis on diplomacy, naming
veteran troubleshooters forMiddle
East hotspots.
The policies and practices that
Obama said he was reversing have

been widely reviled overseas, by
U.S. allies as well as in less-friendly
Arab countries. President George
W. Bush said the policies were nec-
essary to protect the nation after
the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.-
though he, too, had said he wanted
Guantanamo closed at some point.
"A new era of American leader-
ship is at hand," Obama said.
Executive orders signea by the
new president would orderthe pris-
on camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
shut within a year, require the clo-
sure of any remaining secret CIA
"black site" prisons abroad and bar
CIA interrogators ofdetainees from
using harsh techniques already
banned for military questioners.
That includes physical abuse
such as waterboarding, a technique
thatcreatesthesensationof drown-
ing and has been termed torture by
critics at home and abroad.
For the signing. ceremony,
Obama was flanked in the Oval
Office by retired senior U.S. mili-

tary leaders who had pressed for
the changes.
Underscoring the new admin-
istration's point, the admirals and
generals said in a statement: "Pres-
ident Obama's actions today will
restore the moral authority and
strengthen the national security of
the United States."
Not everyone felt that way.
Criticism surfaced immediately
from Republicans and others who
said Obama's policy changes would
jeopardize U.S. ability to get intel-
ligence about terrorist plans or to
prevent attacks.
House Minority Leader John
BoehnerwasamongagroupofGOP
lawmakers who quickly introduced
legislation seeking to bar federal
courts from ordering Guantanamo
detainees to be released into the
United States.
Boehner, R-Ohio, said it "would
be irresponsible to close this ter-
rorist detainee facility" before
answering such important ques-

tions as where the detainees would
be sent.
Obanea said he was certain that
the nation's security is strength-
ened - not weakened - when the
U.S. adheres to "core standards of
conduct."
"We think that it is precisely our
ideals that give us the strength and
the moral high ground to be able to
effectively deal with the unthink-
ing violence that we see emanat-
ing from terrorist organizations
around the world," he said.
"We don't torture," Obama said,
but Bush had said the same. The
question has always been defining
the word.
Later in the day, Obama visited
the State Department to welcome
newly confirmed Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton, empha-
sizing the importance his adminis-
tration intends to give diplomacy in
his foreign policy. He told Foreign
Service officers and other depart-
ment employees they "are going to

be critical to our success."
The president and Clinton joint-
ly announced the appointment of
former Senate Majority Leader
George Mitchell, who helped bro-
ker peace in Northern Ireland, as
special envoy to the Middle East.
Former U.N. Ambassador Rich-
ard Holbrooke, who helped write
the peace deal that ended Bosnia's
1992-95 war, was named special
envoy for Pakistan and Afghani-
stan.
But for all the talk of a new era,
it remained unclear how much of a
shift Obama plans for the Middle
East.
Though he named high-profile
envoys to regions where critics say
American attention lagged under
Bush, the Mideast policy Obama
outlined was no different.
He said he would aggressively
seek a lasting peace between Israel
and the Palestinians while also
defending Israel's "right to defend
itself."

Regents Notebook:
Art & Design school
offers new degree

Google's Page gets
honorary degree,
new fundraising

toward the new program.
"It's really special and would be
wonderful for the school," Darlow
said.

B'
The I
approve
School(
degree
allow st
& Desig
tration
leges. It
transfer
Design
Univ
livan s
importa
student

GOOGLE CO-FOUNDER TO
goal issue RECEIVE HONORARY DEGREE
The regents approved a proposal
y MALLORY JONES to award Larry Page, co-founder of
For theDaily Google, Inc., an honorary doctor-
ate in engineering at spring com-
University Board of Regents mencement on May 2. Page will be
d a proposal from . the the keynote speaker at the ceremo-
of Art & Design for a new ny. Coleman said Page, president
program. The degree will of products at Google, has accom-
udents in the School of Art plished a great deal since he gradu-
n to elect a second concen- ated from the University in 1995.
in other schools and col- "Celebrating the accomplish-
will also allow students to ments of the class of 2009 will be
into the School of Art & all the more special with Larry
after their sophomore year. Page as our speaker," she said. "In
ersity Provost Teresa Sul- a relatively short period since his
aid the program was an own graduation from Michigan, he
:nt addition for art school has made a meaningful and lasting
s. contribution to society."

President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton stand together at the State Department in
Washington yesterday.
Cion takes the reins at
the State Department

Former senator
aims to repair
nation's image
WASHINGTON (AP) - Hillary
Rodham Clinton took charge ofthe
State Department on Thursday,
proclaiming the start of a new era
of robust U.S. diplomacy to tackle
the world's crises and improve
America's standing abroad.
Before a raucous, cheering
crowd of about 1,000 people, the
nation's 67th secretary of state
pledged to boost the morale and
resources of the diplomatic corps
and promised them a difficult but
exciting road ahead.
"I believe with all of my heart
that this is a new era for America,"
she said to loud applause in the
main lobby of the department's
headquarters, which President
Barack Obama visited later in the
day to underscore his administra-
tion's commitment to diplomacy.
With Obama at her side in the
ornate Ben Franklin Room, Clin-
ton introduced former Senate

Majority Leader George J. Mitch-
ell, D-Maine, as a special envoy
for the Middle East. Former U.N.
ambassador. Richard Holbrooke
was announced as a special advis-
er on Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The posts are the first of sever-
al new special envoys the admin-
istration plans to create to deal
with particularly vexing prob-
lems abroad.
Clinton began her first day on
the job at the State Department
one day after her Senate confir-
mation.
"This is going to be a challeng-
ing time and it will require 21st
Century tools and solutions to
meet our problems and seize our
opportunities," Clinton said at
her welcoming. "I'm going to be
asking a lot of you. I want you to
think outside the proverbial box.
I want you to give me the best
advice you can."
"I want you to understand
there is nothing that I welcome
more than a good debate and the
kind of dialogue that will make us
better," she said. "We cannot be
our best if we don't demand that

from ourselves and each other."
In her spirited 10-minute pep
talk, she spoke of the importance
of defense, diplomacy and devel-
opment - the "three legs to the
stool of American foreign policy"
- and noted that the State Depart-
ment is in charge of two of them.
"We are responsible for two of
the three legs," said the former
New York senator and first lady.
"And we will make clear as we
go forward that diplomacy and
development are essential tools
in achieving the long-term objec-
tives of the United States."
Clinton's mandate from Obama
is to step up diplomatic efforts
and restore the nation's tattered
image overseas. She has vowed to
make use of"smart power" to deal
with international challenges.
"At the heart of smart power
are smart people, and you are
those people," she told the assem-
bled throng. "And you are the ones
that we will count on and turn to
for the advice and counsel, the
expertise and experience to make
good on the promises of this new
administration."

"Because art funding has'been
cut back at so many high schools,
many students enter the univer-
sity without a portfolio and cannot
apply to Art and Design," she said.
"This program offers students the
opportunity to build their portfolio
(during) their freshman and sopho-
more years and then transfer."
University President Mary Sue
Coleman expressed her support for
the degree.
"It's really a good idea, and I
think it's going to be a very popular'
program," she said.
Regent Julia Darlow (D-Ann
Arbor) congratulated the School
of Art and Design on their work

PRESIDENT'S FUNDRAISING
CHALLENGE ISSUED
Jerry May, Vice President for
Development, announced a fund-
raising challenge to raise money
for study abroad programs. May
said money raised from the cam-
paign will go toward "enriching
the international opportunity for
our students."
Coleman will match donated
funds. The challenge began Jan. 1
when Coleman contributed $25,000
to the campaign. The President's
Fund will contribute 50 cents for
every dollar that is donated up to
$5 million.

WANT TO JOIN THE
DAILY'S ONLINE STAFF?
E-MAI L
GRACA@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
F RIDAYS
Domestic Bottles are only
- -~

House Democrats push tax
breaks through committee

$275 billion tax cut
package passes
first hurdle
WASHINGTON (AP) - Amid
grim new evidence of economic
weakness, legislation at the heart
of President Barack Obama's
recovery plan advanced in Con-
gress Thursday over the persis-
tent opposition of Republicans
seeking deeper tax cuts.
"We are very pleased with the
progress," said Speaker Nancy
Pelosi, D-Calif., after $275 bil-
lion in tax cuts cleared the House
Ways and Means Committee on
a party-line vote of 24-13. Demo-
cratic leaders have promised the
measure will be ready for Obama's
signature by mid-February.
"It will create jobs immediate-
ly, and it will also lay the founda-
tion for economic stability as we
go forward," Pelosi added.
But RepublicanS said there was
no reliable estimate of the bill's
impact on employment.
"The American people deserve
to know what they are getting for
their nearly $1 trillion," said Rep.

Dave Camp of Michigan, the top
Republican on the tax-writing
committee.
In all, the measure costs $825
billion, a total expected to grow
as it makes its way through Con-
gress.
Onthekeyvote of the day, Dem-
ocrats closed ranks to preserve a
tax break for this year and 2010
that would mean $500 for many
workers and $1,000 for millions
of couples, including those whose
earnings are so low that they pay
no federal income tax.
Democrats also turned back a
Republican attempt to jettison a
new federal subsidy to help laid-
off workers pay for health insur-
ance after they lose employer-paid
coverage, and to waive income
taxes on unemployment benefits
for two years.
They argued that the GOP pro-
posals would favor upper-income
individuals and couples who, they
said, benefited disproportionately
from tax cuts passed during the
administration of former Presi-
dent George W. Bush.
"We need to be dealing with
people at the bottom of the income
scale," said Rep. Jim McDer-

mott, D-Wash. He also noted that
the legislation would provide a
$25-per-week increase in unem-
ployment benefits.
But Camp cited a report by
the nonpartisan Congressional
Research Service that he said
showed lower- and middle-
income workers already would
have received most of the ben-
efits from the proposal to elimi-
nate the tax on unemployment
benefits.
Separately, the House Ener-
gy and Commerce Committee
approved a $2.8 billion program
that would expand broadband
service into underserved areas. It
also approved various programs
costing an estimated $27 billion
to promote energy efficiency.
The panel, working late into
the night, also passed a $20 bil-
lion effort to speed the creation
of electronic health records,
and it approved more money
to help states afford increased
enrollment under Medicaid, the
health care program for the low
income. In all, the additional
spending for health care pro-
grams totals about $150 billion
over five years.


4 - Friday, January 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
A420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Training the humane way
'U' needs to re-evaluate training policy that harms animals
E ach year, the lives of approximately 20 dogs end because
of an Advanced Trauma Life Support course at the Uni-
versity. The class, which operates under the supervision of
Dr. Richard Burney, a professor of surgery in the Medical School,
allows medical students to practice surgery on live dogs. Because
of recent allegations by the Physician's Committee for Responsible
Medicine that Burney withheld information from the University
to get permission to use canine test subjects, though, this practice
has come under fire. Though the situation is complex, if using live
dogs for surgery practice is to be continued, the University has a
responsibility to demonstrate that it is a superior teaching method
with no adequate alternative. If it can't do that, a more humane
teaching method should be used.

NOTABLE QUOTABLE
Celebrity magazines and cocktail party chatter
don't build support for senators."
- Democratic National Committee member Robert Zimmerman, commenting on Caroline Ken-
nedy's failed campaign for Hillary Clinton's vacant Senate seat, as reported by CNN.
JASON MAHAKIAN E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU.
DL ~ -T 8 )ae vWATEA. MAIN B~K
m or.M OP AsoQT^ tiv 4. ' /
4
S--
The heat beneath your feet

4

The allegations about the University's
practice came last week by the PCRM in a
complaint to the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture. Though the complaint recognizes that
the University's practice is technically legal,
it claims that Burney failed to disclose in his
request to the University's Committee on
Use and Care of Animals that other, superior
testing methods exist for this surgical train-
ing. The author of the complaint, Dr. John
Pippin, a senior medical and research advi-
sor to the PCRM, asserts that failing to men-
tion the equally sufficient and more humane
methods of surgical training could have been
illegal.
Since the complaint was filed, the Univer-
sity has responded by questioning the cred-
ibility of the PCRM and standing behind the
choice of its professor. In a statement, the
University described the PCRM as an ani-
mal rights group receiving substantial fund-
ing from People for the Ethical Treatment
of Animals. It also claimed that less than 10
percent of PCRM's members are physicians.
In the light of these criticisms, the Univer-
sity has said that it will leave the decision
about whether to continue the practice up to
Burney.
That response was insufficient. Though
it may not be necessary to turn this situa-

tion into an ethical debate about whether
it is right to euthanize dogs for the sake of
medical training, the University must bet-
ter justify why it allows this testing. As the
PCRM pointed out, the Medical School has
an anatomical human mannequin called
TramaMan that is capable of simulating real
surgery. The Medical School could also use
the more traditional option of operating on
human cadavers. If the University wishes to
condone the ethically questionable use of live
animals as training subjects, it should first
certify that there are no better alternatives.
Certainly, there could be good reasons the
University allows this type of animal test-
ing to occur. For one, operating on live dogs
might provide a very different psychological
experience compared to operating on a man-
nequin. But the University hasn't provided
reasons like that. Instead, it has left this
weighty decision to one professor and subtly
dismissed the PCRM's concerns as animal
rights propaganda.
If the University truly believes that its
current method is the only way to train
these students, it must demonstrate this -
rather than leaving it up to one teacher's
opinion. The University has a clear respon-
sibility to ensure that its practices are both
ethical and useful.

W ith record-low tempera-
tures locking students in
a deep freeze, heating our
houses and apart-
ments is becoming
costly. Summer
price hikes in nat-
ural gas have led.
DTE Energy to sig-
nificantly increase
gas bills despite
more recent drops
in market prices, BEN
further adding to CALECA
the woes of cash-
strapped students.
The answer to this
dilemma - and perhaps the answer
to the dilemma of usable clean energy
altogether - may rest below our feet.
That answer is geothermal heating
and energy generation.
Geothermal heating and electrical
generation are two different processes,
but both carry enormous potential for
a greener future for people across the
country. To generate electricity, geo-
thermal power plants use heat from
hot underground sources to power
electrical generators. Geothermal heat
pumps, on the other hand, use pipes
beneath a building to regulate temper-
atures of the building and the ground.
Since underground temperatures
remain constant all year, geothermal
heat pumps heat buildings in the win-
ter and cool them in the summer.
But what makes this technology
so special? Since geothermal sources
don'trequire fossil fuels to extract heat
energy and take up a relatively small
area, emissions and damageto the local
countryside are minimal. Geothermal
heat pumps are between 25 and 75 per-
cent more efficient for heating and cool-
ing than traditional systems depending
on where the system is set up and the
scale of the heating system.
The best part is that geothermal

heating and electricity aren't beholden
to global markets, weather patterns or
the time of day. Regardless of what's.
happening on the surface of the Earth,
the constant underground tempera-
tures mean more stable heating bills
for consumers and more clean baseline
electricity that can be provided at any
time, night or day.
Of course, as with any seemingly
perfect solution, there are a few catch-
es. These geothermal heating systems
have been around for decades but cost
twice as much to install as traditional
heatingunits. Their expense has scared
off consumers who don't want to wait
a decade to recoup their investment.
But with rising energy prices, geother-
mal heat pumps are now much more
attractive and companies specializing
in them have reported significant sales
growth. ClimateMaster, the nation's
largest manufacturer of ground-source
heat pump equipment, saw a revenue
increase of 200 percent between 2005
and 2007.
Another question is where geother-
mal power plants could be placed. For
a geothermal plant to work, it's neces-
sary to locate hot rocks in the earth.
The only way to locate them is by drill-
ing, which can wreak environmental
havoc if done irresponsibly. Drilling
also isn't cheap, making the fixed cost
of setting up a plant much higher.
The Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and the Department of
Energy (DOE) estimate the potential
for geothermal power in the U.S. to
be enormous. The DOE estimates that
within four decades, 10to 20 percent of
our electricity can come from geother-
mal plants if there is enough interest
to encourage large-scale investment.
Enhanced geothermal systems (EGS)
currently under development will open
up much of the country to geothermal
power generation. An investment of
around one billion dollars over the next

two decades could make this possible.
The call is being answered by an.
unlikely source. Google recently
announced a $10 million initial invest-
ment in EGS technology because the
company feels the technology is the
answer to the green energy. crisis.
Google has also announced it is work-
ing with General Electric and taking
advantage of its steam turbine exper-
tise for the initiative. The U.S. Depart-
ment of the Interior has also opened up
millions of acres of land in 12 western
states for geothermal energy explora-
tion.
Why investing in
geothermal heat is

a wise decision
This is a fantastic start, but the tech-
nologyneeds more funding and careful
stewardship. Drilling is a very risky,
exercise for the environment, with sol-
vents and lubricants possibly threaten-
ing groundwater. It's great to reduce
carbon emissions,but it shouldn't come
at the cost of the local environment
where a geothermal plant is placed.
With energy prices riding a perpetu-
al roller coaster and greenhouse emis-
sions remaining a huge threat to the
environment, part of the answer comes
from the ground we walk on. Savings
in geothermal heating and electricity
would reduce carbon emissionsby mil-
lions of tons per year and bringthe U.S.
closer to having a viable, sustainable,
clean electrical grid. Now, it's up to
private and public investment to make
this possible.
Ben Caleca can be reached
at calecab@umich.edu.

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Matthew Green, Emma Jeszke,
Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Emily Michels, Matthew Shutler,
Jennifer Sussex, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
BRIAN FLAHERTY VIE I
A bus ride that didn't happen

4

During the blizzard-like weather last week-
end, I went to the bus stop by the Michigan
Union and ran into a nasty surprise - there
weren't any buses coming anytime soon. That's
because on weekends, University buses don't
drive to South Campus, where I had parked my
car earlier. So I spent the next half hour trudging
through a whiteout in my new sneakers, which.
were pretty stylin' but not as warm as I would
have hoped. When I finally arrived at my desti-
nation, there was a fresh clod of snow roughly
the size of Antarctica on my head. And I wasn't
the only one disappointed that day. Walking to
South Campus, I saw a slew of students making
similar treks with expressions that implied their
hamsters might have just died. The situation left
me wondering why my bus in shining armor had
abandoned me.
Now, all bus addicts have horror stories about
the cold winter night when their ride drove right
past their stop or the time they were thrown onto
the lap of the stranger sitting nextto them due to
some wild driving. Those I can dismiss as infre-
quent events. But my walk through the blizzard
had its root in a more endemic problem - the
unavailability of public transportation during
weekends. Just ask someone living on North
Campus what they think of public transporta-
tion on the weekends. If their response doesn't
contain "sucks," "blows," or some sort of exple-
tive, they're probably being too polite. The bot-
tom line is that students shouldn't have to wait
30 minutes for a bus that might not take them to
where they want to go justbecause it's Sunday.
That being said, I haven't given up on public
transportation. Most of the time, the bus is still
a great way to get around. As a third-year com-
muter, I have thanked local drivers at least 500
times because proper bus etiquette requires
that you always thank the guy or gal behind the
wheel, even if that person is dead sick of hear-
ing it. And aside from a few mishaps on nights

and weekends, I've found my experiences with
the bus to be overwhelmingly positive. The-bus
is easy, cheap and (generally) reliable. It also has
some more sweeping benefits.
For one thing, public transportation has a pos-
itive impact on the community. It cuts down on
traffic, reducing the number of cars on the city's
wacky one-way streets. Public transportation
also boosts the local economy. According to the
American Public Transportation Association,
every dollar invested in public transportation
puts six dollars into the economy. Not to men-
tion that mass transit saves a lot of gas money for
impoverished students.
Because being green is in style these days, the
bus is getting sexier all the time. The APTA esti-
mates that public transportation reduces U.S.
carbon emissions by 37 million metric tons annu-
ally - that's roughly equivalent to the amount of
electricity used in every household in New York
City, Atlanta, Denver, Los Angeles and Washing-
ton, D.C. combined. In the fight against global
warming, every little bit helps, and public trans-
portation helps more than a little bit. Getting
cars off the streets also cuts down on air pollu-
tion, so we can all breathe a little easier thanks
to the bus.
Public transportation is wonderful when it
works, and there are a lot of things the Universi-
ty does right to keep it working well. That's why
I did exactly what I should have - parked my
car off campus and planned to take the bus. This
particular time, I ended up cold, wet and covered
in snow because there are also some things the
University does that are ill-advised, like dras-
tically reducing weekend bus availability. But
public transportation works for the city and it
works for the environment. There's no reason it
couldn't work more consistently for students.
Brian Flaherty is an associate
editorial page editor.

Repairing racism

Last month, I worked on a col-
umn for the Daily that explored
affirmative action - one of
America's infa-
mous racial stale-
mates. I learned
that some Uni-
versity students
were so reluctant
to talk about race,
they would only
comment anony-
mously. MATTHEW
While affirma-
tive action may HUNTER
make some people
fraught with anxi-
ety, reparations are affirmative action
to the 25th power.
Reparations involve the Ameri-
can government offering some form
of compensatory justice to African-
Americans for infractions that include
the three-fifths clause in 1787, insti-
tutional slavery, decades of Jim Crow
laws and the blind eye that many
courts have shown vigilante groups
such as the Ku Klux Klan.
Research has shown that Ameri-
cans don't like discussing reparations.
The idea controversial and highlights
a disparity between whites and blacks.
A 2002 CNN/USA Today Gallup poll
reported that 90 percent of whites
believe the government should not pay
cash reparations to slave descendants,
while 55 percent of black respondents
said the government should.
Aetna, an insurance company that
was sued in 2002 for "their corpo-
rate predecessors' roles in the slave
trade and conversion of the value
of the slaves' labor into their prof-
its," responded, "We do not believe
a court would permit a lawsuit over
events which - however regrettable -
occurred hundreds of years ago. These
issues in no way reflect Aetna today."

The courts dismissed, the case against
the company.
Some criticsofreparationsmaywon-
der: What exactly do we give African-
Americans who are the descendants of
slaves? Whatdowegive biracialblacks?
What do we give Oprah? Furthermore,
who pays? Or, more bluntly, who is
punished? The fact is, all black people
living in America right now experi-
ence the social dysfunction that has
resulted from America's sordid racial
past and deserve compensatory justice
from the American government.
As for payment and punishment,
I don't believe that many of my white
classmates who shiver beside me as I
walk to class are the same people who
constructed the peculiar institution of
slavery. In fact, I believe a majority of
my white peers would stand in solidar-
ity with me if explicitly racist policies
emerged today. However, for whites
today to believe that a vast majority of
them have not benefited economically
from these past incidences of racism is
to believe a fairy tale.
To be clear, it is the responsibility of
both whites and blacks to seek justice
where there is injustice. Many blacks
have been active in their own recovery
from past injustices by taking respon-
sibility for their present socioeconomic
statuses. And many of the racial poli-
cies that have been forged in America
have been the result of black, brown
and white coalitions. It is our respon-
sibility as Americans to better under-
stand the nature of the social status of
the oppressed and not simply blame
them for something that is inextricably
linked with white oppression.
To answer the harder question, that
ofwhat togive,Ipropose somethingwe
are all too familiar with: a government
stimulus package. It would consist of
money dedicated toward repairing
damage dealt to African-Americans.

The money should not simply be given
to individuals -.it should be allotted
to state governments to rebuild their
oppressed communities. With this,
we could see drastic improvements for
schools, jobs, rehabilitation programs,
community infrastructure and Afri-
can-American morale.
A 2003 New York Times article
titled "The Cost of Slavery" estimates
that, after inflation, payment for lost
wages to slaves would be between $2
Reparations are
necessary to right
past injustices.
trillion and $4 trillion. Would a $4 tril-
lion stimulus package be an appropri-
ate allocation to make up for the past?
Either way, it should serve as a number
that reminds us of the seriousness of
slavery and lasting oppression. And,
if this is a stretch, what public policy
measures could mitigate the oppres-
sive damages of more than 300 years?
What can the government do to help
heal the wounds and correct the dys-
function?
Perhaps the words of President
Obama are fitting in this.case: "I con-
sistently believe that when it comes
to whether it's Native Americans or
African-American issues or repara-
tions, the most important thing for the
U.S. government to do is not just offer
words, but offer deeds."
I hope he lives up to his words - we
need big deeds.
Matthew Hunter can be reached
at majjam@umich.edu.

4

4

4

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for-style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 23; 2009 - 5

Paying homage to a
rewarding connection

By BEN VAN WAGONER
Daily FineArts Editor
InOctober2006,1,000students
spent the night camped out in
front of the Power Center just for
the slim chance of getting tickets
to a Shakespeare performance. If
this sounds implausible, it is - for
any troupe other than the Royal
Shakespeare Company. But after
all, the RSC is the stuff of which
dreams are made, and the compa-
ny's three residencies at the Uni-
versity have been, almost without
question, the height of artistic
excellence at the University in
the past decade.
This Saturday, the Ford Hon-
ors Program will hold an event
celebrating the RSC's history of
performance at the University.
"These performances marked
the University in the world of
theatre," English Prof. Ralph
Williams said. "(The historic
cycle of first residency) was one
of the great productions of the
century."
Williams has been deeply
involved with the RSC'residen-
cies and is a personal friend of
Michael Boyd, the company's
artistic director. This Saturday
the collaboration between the two
dramatic giants will be honored
at the Ford Honors Program, an
annual event that recognizes out-
standing contribution to the arts.
"It's a sensational cheer for
what three great institutions can
do that no one of them could have
done on their own," Williams
said.
The performances were also
very much collaborative efforts:
They were produced by the
RSC, paid for by the University
and presented by the University
Musical Society. The University's
cooperation with the RSC was so
successful that its blueprint has
been used by the company in its
other partnerships.
"It's been stupendous for the
University," said Williams. "(It
is) a relationship which has been
mutually berleficial."
Observant art lovers may
notice that the program is

strangely out of place in January
- it's normally held in the rosier
month of May. Why the shift?
Simply to allow student the-
ater enthusiasts (and Williams
enthusiasts) access to the event.
The move clearly speaks to the
nature of the program. The resi-
dencies, and Williams's involve-
ment in them, have been in the
spirit of whole-hearted collabo-
ration - not just between com-
pany and university, but between
performers, professors, students
and community.
Ford Honors Program
honoring the Royal
Shakespeare Company,
Michael Boyd and
Ralph Williams
Saturday at 6 p.m.
Al Rackham
$20 fat sudents
On this point, Williams could
hardly restrain his enthusiasm.
Williams praised the pro-
longed nature of the residencies,
suggesting that the duration and
the additional programs made it
possible for a real dialogue.
"It was not just one concert;
people came in and sustained a
presence. (Audiences) talked with
others about it, thought about it.
(The plays) became a way for soci-
ety to talk about many of its cen-
tral issues."
Not only that, but the pres-
ence of RSC members like Pat-
rick Stewart and Harriet Walter
(Emily Tallis, "Atonement") at
everyday locales like the Ann
Arbor Brewing Company and the
State Street Starbucks gave the-
ater enthusiasts enough excite-
ment to last for months.
"They demystified excellence
for students," he said. "Seeing
them on stage, they're like..." Wil-
liams brought his voice to a whis-
per, "...gods." But RSC members'
involvement in University pro-

grams and their presence around
campus gave students a new
perspective on the possibility of
achieving true excellence - on
the mortality of the gods, as Wil-
liams would have it.
For all the celebrated success
of the residencies, Williams is
still hoping to achieve something
more. The Royal Shakespeare
Company has not made a formal
agreement with the University
to return. Although, according
to Williams, both institutions are
happy about their collaboration,
there are no guarantees. Instead,
the professor is proposing that
the University continue to build a
reputation beyond the RSC, and,
perhaps, beyond the football sta-
dium.
"This is a hope of mine," Wil-
liams said. "The University, in its
continued relations with alumni
and with the world, is known
much as the block 'M,' as the sta-
dium. That's good in my view,
but also, students typically love
(Michigan) because it lit up their
minds."
Programs like the residencies,
Williams proposes, are the key to
advancing the University's intel-
lectual strength and reputation.
"I should like to see us devel-
op a rhythm of residencies each
year - one year an American
(company), every second or third
a company like the RSC, a trans-
atlantic group," he said. "It is
deeply important to me that the
University present this possibil-
ity as well as the possibilities of
the stadium."
With figures like Ralph Wil-
liams and - as Williams names
him -"virtual godof the theater"
Michael Boyd involved, it seems
there are few things beyond the
reach of the University. We, as
the audience, can only be over-
joyed at what the RSC has helped
accomplish and hope ardently for
a future collaboration.
We will get a small taste: The
Ford Honors Program will fea-
ture a performance "by members
of the RSC of a scene from "Henry
V," and that, in its way, must be
celebration enough.

"I have candy. Come into my van."
Naturally goo

Afte
su
Bon
acci

If yo
ing a I
any pa
life, th
grow
mutton
most
now. t
recent
sute ac
& Wi
Foxes:
folker
Just
the Bo
last ye
jaguwa
album
a deer
whose
ties co
in his s
sin cat

r a tremendously of touring and critical acclaim
behind him, Vernon delivers a
[ccessful 2008, four-song EP to start 2009 off
with a bang - albeit a hushed and
1 Iver defends its pensive one, as only Bon Iver can
give us.
aim with new EP Blood Bank is short and sweet,
comprised of what appears to be
By MIKE KUNTZ an assemblage of remnants from
Daily Arts Writer the For Emma sessions. In this
case, the "outtakes" are a wel-
u were planning on becom- comed companion to the master-
bearded indie-folk artist at ful album, serving to enhance
int in your listeners' understandings of the
he time to somewhat enigmatic Vernon's
out some emotional inner-workings. On
chops is both Blood Bank and For Emma,
definitely BonIver there's an almost claustropho-
Given the Blood Bank bic sense of being enveloped in
rise of hir- pine needles and endless for-
ts like Iron Jagiagawar est - but for some reason, it still
ine, Fleet feels warm and fuzzy. Paired with
and Bon Iver, being a freak- the suppressed urgency of Ver-
is apparently all the rage. non's multi-tracked voice, there
in Vernon (the man behind is a unique honesty to Bon Iver's
in Iver moniker) emerged sound that's as freeing as it is
ar with the national Jag- gripping.
ar release of his debut Beginning with the title track,
For Emma Forever Ago, the familiar aesthetic ofFor Emma
sly affecting set of songs returns, with a heartbeat-strum of
organic, whispery quali- guitar and sparse drumming sur-
uld only have been created rounding Vernon's ghastly voice.
ecluded Northern Wiscon- "Beach Baby" comes next, with the
bin. Now, with a full year soft percussion of acoustic strings

and dreary slide guitar echoing
more patient lyrics like, "Only
hold 'til your coffee warms / But
don't hurry and speed." Percus-
sive piano strikes jolt the EP back
to life in "Babys," and are warmly
enveloped by the chorus: "Summer
comes /to multiply."
The first three tracks are where
Bon Iver shines brightest. But then
there's "Words." Like the bastard
child of a T-Pain single, Auto-Tune
reigns over this last track. While
the exaggerated experimenta-
tion with the synthetic may have
worked on, most famously, Kanye's
808s & Heartbreak, it doesn't fit
here.
Though "Words" will most
likely leave the Bon Iver faithful
scratching their heads (or beards,
as the case may be), its difficult
beauty shows potential for prom-
ising future experimentation. Nev-
ertheless, it's doubtful that the last
moments of Blood Bank suggest a
direction Vernon wil pursue in
the future. The trademark cozi-
ness of Bon Iver's sleeping bag of
sound is best kept out in the woods
where it belongs - and after two
solid releases with the rustic aes-
thetic under his belt, Vernon prob-
ably realizes that.

A failed act of 'Defiance'

By SHERI JANKELOVITZ
DailyArts Writer
"Defiance" tells the remarkable
true story of the Bielski brothers,
Belarussians who
hid over 1,200
Jews for sev-
eral years during Defiance
World War IH.
The film opens At Quality16
with the brothers and Showcase
- Tuvia (Daniel Paramount
Craig, "Quantum Vantage
of Solace",) Zus
(Liev Schreiber,
"The Omen") and Asael (Jamie
Bell, "Billy Elliot") - returning
home to find their parents and
neighbors slaughtered by Nazi
officers. Fueled by rage, the broth-
ers take to the woods and eventu-
ally find themselves charged with
guarding the lives of other Jew-
ish exiles, whose origins remain
largely unknown.
ThoughCraig'sperformancehas
beenthe most heralded, it's Schrie-
ber who gives the most fleshed-out
delivery. His desire to save Jews is
eclipsed only by his desire to kill
Germans, placing him in direct
contrast to Tuvia, who believes
the focus of their mission should
be survival, not murder. The strife
between the two siblings becomes
the film's main conflict, and for
some time it seems to be less about
Nazis versus Jews and more about
brother versus brother. Eventually,
the intense competition between

Tuvia a
as Zus
to fight
army.
That'
come in
but har:
the cam
up by G
real dra
within:
several,
to hide
rebellio
with a
address
Instead
focus o
Asael a:
ka, TV
Tuvia a
"The M
An
0
bec
a
to be ap
sored m
ably fig
wouldr
betweer
and sad

and Zus comes to a head The film trips up in its inability
abandons the forest exiles to focus more on its title subject:
on the side of the Russian defiant Jews who actually fought
back against the Nazis (and pretty
s not to say that Nazis don't successfully too). They forged a
to play sporadically. Brief life within the woods that resem-
rowing action scenes show bles nothing of the life they had
p being bombed and shot been forced to leave behind. In the
3erman soldiers. Still, the camp, those who were once par-
ma comes from the scenes ents and professionals join togeth-
the camp. The film sets up er as freedom fighters.
subplots - a woman trying if the film chose to devote more
her pregnancy, a possible time to the inspiring resistance,
n within the camp - but, perhaps there wouldn't be such a
large cast, it has trouble disconnect between the charac-
ing them thoroughly. ters and the audience. "Defiance"
, "Defiance" chooses to should be a story of the resiliency
n the romances between of the human spirit; when the
nd Chaya (Mia Wasikows- film focuses on resistance and
's "In Treatment"), and survival, it works. But, frustrat-
tnd Lilka (Alexa Davalos, ingly, it refuses to dwell there
ist"). The love stories seem for too long, choosing instead to
become something akin to any
run-of-the-mill action film dotted
with shallow romance. Director
inspiring tale Edward Zwick ("Blood Diamond"
and "The Last Samurai"), may be
:f humanity to blame: his penchant for action
often sidetracks a strong focus on
:omes a mere real people.
Though some of the film seems
action flcck. too grandiose to be authentic,
the true impact of the story fully
emerges at the end. Because of
these brothers, 1,200 Jews were
rimarily Hollywood-spon- saved from the Nazis. Their surviv-
ove; the studio heads prob- al story is far more awe-inspiring
ured that most audiences than any big-budget Hollywood
need some good romance action scene could ever be. Unfor-
n all the scenes of violence tunately, "Defiance" fell victim to
ness. this inevitable pitfall.

cOURTESY OF UNIVERSITY MUSICALSOCIETY
English Prof. Ralph Williams has cultivated a close relationship with the Royal Shakespeare Company.
CHECK ONLINE FOR A
PREVIEW OF 'GILGAMESH'
michigandaily.com/section/arts


6- Friday, January 23, 2009

d A S

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

,4

PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
PRKG SPACES 2 blocks from B-
School at Hill and Church. $75/mo.
734-260 4003.
PRKG. SPOT AVAIL. on central cam-
pus. $80/mo. 248-348-8205.
for rent
H AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD direty with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness rooni and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartmets.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!!HALF MONTH FREE!! !!Avail.
Fall2009!! (Sign up before Jan. 31st
and get one half mo. free on 2 bdrm.
apts.-up to $700 off.)
1 & 2 bedroom apts. (can live 2 or 4
people) 715 Church St. & 721 Church
St. - Incredible location! Across from
East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
parking, heat and water paid by land-
lord, no pets, no smoking. Small man-
agement company with excellent
record of personal service. We provide
first rate service! Lease with a
company that truly cares!
CALLC & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
utfo@postrealtyproprties.com
*AVAIL. FALL '09.3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734:223:7777.
Var ty
Management
625 Church 1.
{ 41668-100
*Campus Locations
@ Reasonable Prices
Fumished dishwashecs AC, Parking
1039 Baldwin - 4 Bedroom
543 ChurchtSt. - Studi
911&1001S.Forest-2Bedrooms
1346 & 1506 Geddes - 3 Bedrooms
1015 W. Huron - 2 Bedrooms
801 W. Madison -1 & 2 Bedrooms
331Packard-1&2Bedroom
526 &917FPacard -Lare 2 Bedooms
2 48Tappan -1& 2 Bedrooms
1015 Vaughn -1& 2 Bedrooms
515 Walnut - Studio, & 2&Bedrooms
521 Walnut -1. 2 Bedroom,
418E. Washington - Studios& 1 edroomn
331 Cathine -6 edroom House
Cal fo prsonlied shoing!

i

Wilson hite WilsonWhite.
S At A AG Mi
611 CHURCH; We Have Moved!
BRAND NEw Yes, we finally
APARTMENTS moved onto
WTH campus; you can-
EVERYTHING now find us next
YOU NEED - IN to Pizza House
UNIT at:


Now ti"p January 31t, got a pizza
coupon for usury now tour!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!

WilsonWhite
401 East
Madison
-pirsd New () G6
lW rOOK& + Stkd
ftpartmevts fr FaLt
2009, corvker of
MPclKar0L Ld013l0
avc o be.

4

Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!

I

Upscale 5bedroom
apartments @(,611
Churci! T leg are
ney;g con.tructe ~ 5
bedroom, 2.5 bat
apartments, wt/ a/
the latezta nc/ar test
amenties, lice a
washer and crger in
unit!

Wilson White
Management
Campus Office
616 Church
Ann Arbor, Mich
48104

4

I

***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at1912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www,jmsprop.com 769-7025.
*331 CATHERINE*: TWO 3 bdnn
apartments or combine for 6 bdnn
house. Contact Varsity Management
for more info. 734-668-1100.
*4 BEDROOM APARTMENT*:
A unique and spacious apt. in a beauti-
ful converted house. Hardwood floors,
higb ceilings, fumished, disbwasber,
screened porcb, largn yard. (734) 668-
1100. www.varsitymanagement.com
*GREAT PACKARD LOCA-
TIONS*: 526 and 917, large bal-
conies/patios, heat, water, parking, fur-
nished, dishwashers, laundry. Huge 2
bedroom apartments great for 3-4 peo-.
ple! www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1 100.
*MAY - MAY 2 BEDROOM*:
331 Packard, large eat-in kitchen w/
dishwasher, tons of sunlight, furnished,
parking, laundry. (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Fur. heat/water mcl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
tudio & I
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quiet & Secsr--I&KOre blozm Campus
734-663-1530

02.04.2009 - START planning now! U
of M Housing Fair in the Michigan
Union ballroom; we will be there with
deals, specials, giveaways and fancy
dress! Stop by and find your housing
for next year...now! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200.
www.wilsorowhitemanagement.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
1 BDRM. & EFE APTS
$500-$6001
SEPT. 20091
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
2 BDRM apt. 1004 S. Forest #B1
May Lease. $800/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
3 BDRM APT! 1004 S. Forest #B3.
May Lease. $1200/mo.
Carlsonproperties.com 734 332 6000.
428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrin. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800.eAvail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call
(734) 649-5549 anytime.

536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
www. n vesitytowers- com
5 BDRM. FALL 09. 530 S. Fourth. 2
bath. Free prkg. & ldry. 5 min. walk to
Union. $2399 + util. 734-709-5709.
6 BDRM HOUSE, 502 Benjamin. 2
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, no coin
laundry. 2 baths, basement, 2 fridges,
front porch & deck in back. $3300.
Call 248-214-8708!
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991. -
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 mm. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40 flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATIHS, Furn., free dry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Puckard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus utiil. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 buhs, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. Stale and 5tb.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldtownrealty.net
7-BEDROOM HOUSE available for
Fall 09!! Awesomewstudent rental on
Sylvan wit 3 new full bots and
kitchen, parking, and laundry. Short
walk from campus and stadium. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Tom (734) 277-6748 for more info.

904 S. FOREST # 2. May '09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall '09. Large
house. Both fully furmished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or baltzellproperties.net
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6
bedrooms very close to central campus.
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller
available too!, All are attractively
priced, most include parking, many are
furmished and some include utilities.
The rush is on and we are actively
showing housing to hundreds of people
each week. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site atnwww.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL 2 BEDROOMS
**Don't miss out on the
January Blowout Deals!!!
Get $500 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This absolutely ends on 1/31/2009!
Call the Best at1734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
IMMEDIATE & FALLi
OCCUPANCY

AVAE eIMMEDATELY -FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. IMMED. 2 bdrm., hardwood
floor, full basement, 2 car garage,
$1150/month. Heat and water included.
Call (734) 662-9446.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
BIG HSE: 5 1g. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
Living, dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath.. 2
study, Freeldry. prkg. $3100.717-2017.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Great 5 bdrm., 2 bath luxury apt. Still
available at11115 Willard. Free prkg.
$3299/mo. Campus Realty
1335 South U. (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
EVENING AND WEEKEND appoint-
ments available too if you need them!
Wilson White Management
734-995-9200.
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
FUNKY AND DRAMATIC 2 bdrm.
700+ sq. ft. 2 bath. 507 S. Fifth Ave.
May or Sept 09. $1400. 734-260-4003.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
wed ad
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapaten snet
or visit uSeat
1700 Geddes Ave.

RELEASE DATE- Friday, January 23, 2008
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Key to getting out 34 Bit of chat room 49 "Piece_": Stone
1 Hunky-dory of trouble? shorthand Temple Pilots
5 Madeout 5 Diplomacy 35 Clears song
10 Knight at the 6 Male prefix 38 Mouse sounds 50 Sidestep
movies 7 Household 39 Adriatic resort 54 Stud fee?
14 Stout relatives hazard 4 4 1 tax 55 Assemly
15 Bluwnt awap 8 Cotn girt 42 Highest point intrucion
16 Piedmont region 9 LBJ, for one 43 Risks 57 Tinker-to-Evers-
university 10 Some of the 44 Hawaiian fliers to-Chance stats
17 Support for a glitterati 46 Ward off 58 Link letters
formal 11 Name in 2000 47 Like 8-Down 592000 Viacom
downgrading headlines 48 Time issue? acquisition
proposal? 12 Condemns
20 Chop off 13 Umbilical ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Goya's goose development
egg? 18 Quarterfinal G T AR P S H
22 "Same here" groups 0 8 O E H I T u P u N C A
23 Serves under 19 Blockheads POLL RAISA TE R I .
Robert Gates? 24Ticks off F I V E F E E T 0 N D E R
27 Mitchellclan 25Ventwith C A T E A R 0 S A G E S
29 _ D.A. 26Aspen-to-Pueblo O N E A N D A H A L F M E N
30 Study forensics? dir. S N E R D U R A L
33 Canterburycan 27 "The Simpsons" T E S T P E R K S F L A T
36 Head lock bus driver P A L om m A O R t
37 Alternative to 28 Stress to a fault T W E N T Y N I N E R
whte inS"on" A O
38 Wordsworth's 31 Three-time AL. S E A M R N 0 N P N
weather banting champ S E VEN I S E NO U GH
40 Special__ 32Hearty G W E N OAS IS N O G O
41 Watch kids at agreement? T H A D T H A N E A L A D
Christmas, say? 33 Golden-brown S"O T S S L UGS W E L D
43 Hissyf ornamental stone xwordeditor@aol.com 01/23/09
458Some taes 2a3 a 5 a6 7 a8as 1art 1ta
46 Hard on the
furniture? 4 1 1
51 French resort on
Lake Geneva 1"
52 Point presenting
options22
53 Co-founder oftAir 23 24 2 2
Greenland
56 Sensed climbers 27 28 29
returning? 30 1 3233 4 35
60 1980s speed
skating gold 3$ 37 3$s3s
medalist Karin
61 Bluenoses 4
62 Unitlof memory
63 Nat so great
64 Cold shower? aa a $a a $
65 Slip through the
cracksa sa a4 s3 5
DOWN$
1 Word on two aa 01 a2
Monopoly
squares 83 $a . $5
2 To boot
3 Memory stirrers By2Danadd s ,.01/23/09
()0,09 Tribune aMedia ServicInc. 1/21

WilsonWhite
Hauser fAailable fal
1009
3 bedrooms;
529. N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedroomsz
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $3145
8 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500

Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-662-4446
lnfo@issapropeties.com

Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!

I

4

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:
'Rates: $4.30 per line for
additional consecutive iss
contact our staff for detail
ads are placed in person
business ads only) e"All ad
have been established "
Discover, cash, or check4
of our Account Executive
1 day
2 lines 8.60
3 lines 12.90
4 lines 17.20
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbre
TMD for falureto publish an advertise
shall be limited to publishing in a subs
will be responsible for classified adver
Rates: All changes shown on the op.
consecutive rate if requested and paic
Advertisers may cancel an ad before
been published. Refusal: All ads are
resale of tickets at more than face val
accepting advertising.

30am one business day prior to publication. Classification:
010 - Lost Found
the first issue and $2.15 per line for each 020- For Sale
ue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- 025 - Parking
s Students may receive a 25% discount when 030- Automotive
with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non- 040 - Computers
Is must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
045 -Technology
We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, 050-FTntur y
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one 050 - Furniture
;s 060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 080 - Services
12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
19.35 25.80 32.25 38,70 093 - Summer Employment
25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
viations as defined by TMD wll be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
rnent for any reason, or for publshing incorrect ads in a specified issue 123 - Websites
sequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD 125 - Music
tisernment errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publcation.
en rates lnes are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a 130 - Roommates
d in ful by 11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date. Refunds: 140- Food & Entetainment
publication deadline, but no refund willbe given unless the ad has not yet
subject to editing and approval. Wedo not publish advertisementstfor 150 - Personal
ue. MD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items priorto 160- Pets

4

4
4

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 23; 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 23; 2009 - 7

competitive
RESEARCH University o
From Page 1 role in that r
"There is a
"Energy is probably the No. 1 gence of ev
challenge facing humanity this now, and he
century, and the University of in the center
Michigan is well-positioned to Additiona
seize this opportunity and to help proud of the
find solutions," he said in a state- Center, whi(
ment released at the meeting.. about seven
Forrest highlighted several cur- junction w
rent energy research projects at the office of De
University, including the recent- was founde
ly announced partnership with ers and com
General Motors Corp. to develop connectingv
advanced batteries for electric research par
vehicles. That partnership will Forrest sa
bring $5 million to the University a single poi
over the next five years. to meet and
According to Forrest, the Uni- projects and
versity and its partners are also partnerships
interested in expanding research to "By taki
other areas ofenergysustainability, early on, we
including more advanced solar cells of the cho
and more efficient wind turbines. see," he sai
Forrest reported that the in a very g
stimulus appropriation bill being respects in
considered by the U.S. House of Forrest me
Representatives includes $400 mil- sity's recent
lion for energy research projects former Pfiz
from the Department of Energy's North Cam
Advanced Research Projects Agen- chase would
cy-Energy. The bill has not yet increased r
passed, but if it does, Forrest said sity announ
the University would likely receive chase the ca
some of the funding. "It's a tir
"Federal energy research has but it's also
been woefully underfunded, but great oppor
the government has woken up to the regents.
the fact that we're losing a huge one of them.
make the dat
PARKING If the cono
From Page 1 Vielmetti be
be very ben
provides real-time bus informa- local Ann At
tion hasn't been working for over a dents alike.
month.Vielmetti said he and Posner Vielmetti
are working with the Ann Arbor service to I
Transportation Authority to get the can depend
website running again so they can always right.
this addition
CRISLER our program
From Page 1 ronment that
for the develt
"Everything surrounding our athletes) and
basketball program, including the court an
scheduling, player/coach working The Boar
relationships, player development asked to appr
and recruitment, will benefit from for the facilit
the michigan daily
HOUSE FOR RENT @ 904 Packard. SPACIOUS1
5 or 6 people. Free prkg. No pets. Free Church. $825
Idry. $2650/mo.+util. 248-895-4818.
LARGE FUR
1111 S. Stat
AENTS AVAILABLE Avail. Now o
APA ATM 2in09 ncl. Balc.,
3 Bedrooms $1450-$1750,
734-996-3539
727 Packard (Furnished) $1890 ehtseng@com
915 Oakland (Grand Victorian Home) MAY LEAS
$2295 MA onLE
1015 Packard (Near State and Packard) 741-9300 wr
$1355 7190 w
205 N. Division (Cathedral Ceilings) MUST SEE!
$1995 block to Rack
tures dishwas
4 Bedrooms a separate Din
Parking inclut
1203 Oakland $2825 Call Pat 734-
929 Church $3195
731 Packard (Newly Remodeled) NORTH CA!
$2695 Incl. Heat/Wa
www.HRPAA
5 Bedrooms CAMP

205 N. Division (Historic Home) $3125 AVAIL
916 Sybil (Brand New House) $3295
1021 E. University (Across From Sgt. 3 Bedrooms
Peppers) $2495 720 West Wa
1307 S. State $2595 West Side Hot
6 Bedrooms 911 Oakland (
1116 Hill (Ac
401 E. Madison (Brand New!) $3995 $1785
1014 Vaughn (Plenty of Parking) 5 Bedrooms
$3695
tot'A feeuues W,.so -ng.-a ea

opportunity, and the
of Michigan played a
e-awakening," he said.
tremendous conver-
ents happening right
re we are sitting right
of it."
lly, Forrest said he was
Business Engagement
ch his office launched
months ago in con-
ith the University's
welopment. The center
d because research-
panies had difficulties
with each other to form
tnerships in the past.
id the center provides
nt for the two parties
develop new research
I strengthen research
S.
ng strategic moves
can prepare for some
ppy waters that we
d. "I find that we're
ood position in many
research activities."
ntioned the Univer-
plans to purchase the
er, Inc. complex near
pus, saying the pur-
be an opportunity for
esearch. The Univer-
ced its intent to pur-
mpus in December.
me of great challenge,
a time when we have
tunities," Forrest told
"The Pfizer property is
"
a accessible by phone.
flicts can be sorted out,
lieves the service will
eficial and practical to
rbor residents and stu-
said he wants the
be something "people
upon, rely upon and is
," he said. "The goal of
is to create an envi-
t will foster what's best
opment of the (student-
their success, both on
d in the classroom."
d of Regents will be
ove a schematic design
ty at a later meeting.

CHILLING OUT AT YOST

Kinesiology freshman Megan Reiner shows off her skating skills during an open skate at Yost Ice Arena last night.

STUDIO 4
From Page 1
process. According to CSA Presi-
dent Steve Lai, OSCR has been in
touch with Studio 4 management,
although it is not known whether
they have agreed to take part in the
mediation process.
Misumi said UAAO was also
working with the University's
Office of Student Activities and
Leadership to develop a set of

guidelines for student organiza-
tions dealing with Ann Arbor busi-
nesses to create accountability for
both parties.
Ashley Manzano, FASA Presi-
dent, said that before the event in
November, there had been a writ-
ten agreementthatthe two student
groups would publicize the event.
In exchange the groups would
receive half of the cover charge
from everyone who came through
the door that night.
At the end of the night, accord-

ing to Manzano and Lai, the club's
manager, Jeff Mangray, told them
that they would only be paid for 50
out of the 111 people who came to
the club that night.
Mangray told them this was
because they "only brought in 50
Asians," according to Lai.
Lai said he was threatened by
Mangray's son, who also spat on
Manzano and used racial and sex-
ist slurs in an ensuing confronta-
tion outside of the club.
UAAO passed a resolution boy-

cotting the club and condemning
the alleged actions of the manag-
ers at their last meeting before
winter break. Shortly after, the
Michigan Student Assembly
passed a similar resolution. MSA's
version cut off funding to student
organizations for events at Studio
4 temporarily while the Peace and
Justice Commission conducted
an investigation. The commission
was supposed to report its findings
at last Tuesday's meeting, but the
presentation was postponed;


PEANUT BUTTER
From Page 1
America that produces peanut but-
ter and peanut paste, according to
the FDA website.
Residential Dining Services
doesn't use any PCA products.
"We suspended any offer-
ing of peanut butter or products
made with peanut butter just in
deference to the FDA warning

to consumers," University Hous-
ing spokesman Peter Logan said.
"However, we now know that none
of the peanut butter brand or pea-
nut butter chips that we use in our
baking products had been identi-
fied as a product at risk."
The Residential Dining Services
plan to keep any recalled brands
that have not yet been approved
by the FDA from dining hall
shelves until further notification is
received, Logan said.

The Residential Dining Services
administrators had been working
with Occupational Safety and Envi-
ronmental Health representatives
to monitor the salmonella situation
before the product was voluntarily.
recalled on Jan. 12, Logan said.
The types of peanutbutter prod-
ucts that were recalled are widely
distributed for use in goods such
as cookies, cereal and ice cream,
but are only available to institu-
tions and food manufacturers, not

directly to customers. A full list of
recalled products is available on
the FDA's website.
Salmonella is a bacterial infec-
tion that causes fever, diarrhea,
nausea, vomiting and abdomi-
nal pain. It can result in severe
and sometimes fatal infections in
young children and elderly indi-
viduals. This most recent outbreak
has already sickened almost 450
people nationwide, including 25 in
Michigan.

1 BDRMS at Hill and
- $925. 734-260-4003.
INISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
e, Near UM bus stop,
r Fall 2009, Heat & water
A/C, prkg., idry.,
No smkg./no pets.
or 734-678-7250.
cast.net
ES STUDIO-3 bdrms
-a or north campus.
w.annarborapartments.net
BI-level duplex just one
ham. 3 bdrm., 3 bath. fea-
her, carpet, fireplace and
ning Room.
led.
663-4101.
MPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
ter/Parking
.com 996-4992.
US PROPERTIES
ABLE MAY 2009
shington (Charming Old
me) $1795
Furnished) $2395
cross from South Quad)

1814 Geddes (Close to Lhag) $3795,
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson (Victorian Mansion)
$4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms
apartments available too! Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
Visit www.CampusMgt.com for the
most detailed listings in town! RENT
ANY OF THESE AVAILABLE
HOUSES OR APARTMENTS AND
WE'LL KNOCK $500 OFF THE
FIRST MONTH'S RENT WHEN
YOU MENTION THIS AD. Things
are moving quickly so call 663-4101
now to schedule a personal showing!
Houses and Large Apartments:
515 Catherine - 6 BR / 2 Studies / 2
BA / $3495
203 N. Ingalls -3 BR / 3 BA / $2595
516 S. Fourth Ave. - 5 BR / all utils.
incl. / $2525
809 Lawrence #1 - 4 BR / 2.5 BA /
$2245
1334 N. University Ct. - 5 BR / 1.5
BA / $3295
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #1 - 3 BR /
$2270
912 E. Ann St. - 4 BR / RENTED
1349 Geddes - 5 BR / RENTED
811 Catherine - 6 BR / RENTED
535 S. Fifth Ave. - 4 BR / RENTED
1331 Geddes -6 BR / RENTED
934 Greenwood #2 - 4 BR / RENTED
408 E. Jefferson #1 -6 BR / RENTED
511 Lawrence -6 BR / RENTED
517 Linden - 5 BR / RENTED
1031 Michigan - 4 BR / RENTED
206 N. Thayer -4 BR / RENTED
1342 N. University Ct. - 3 BR /
RENTED
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #2 - 5 BR /
RENTED
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net

611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726S. STATE-1 LEFT
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320S. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1320 N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-l LEFT
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1320 S. University-1 LEFT
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)

HUGE 3 BDRM. bi-level apt. avail. in
prime location 1 & 1/2 baths. Heat and
water incl. $1999/ mo. 734-665-8825.
www.campusrealty.com
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $999/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
GREAT LOCATION, 2 doors east of
CCRB 5 bdrm., 2 bath, house has
screened front porch, giant Living
Room, d/w & microwave. Parking in
lot behind house. 2 bdrms. could be
used as doubles! Call Pat 734-663-4101.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614
080
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
_II atd090 -A
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
TEACHING ASSISTANTS
UM Northwood Child Development
Center is seeking individuals to assist
in our preschool classes. Experience
working with young children pre-
ferred. Must be available Wednesdays
11 - 6:00 pm with possibility of addi-
tional hours. Please call 764-4557 for
more information or email resume and
availability to hermansl@umich.edu
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
WEB DESIGNER NEEDED to re-
design website for Ann Arbor based
company. Flexible hrs./work from
home. Pay hourly or by the job. Please
call Jon (734) 677-5562.

IW 111summer Iploym_
093
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Wait
Staff, Salts Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meats avail-
able. Call Ryan 1(800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
SUMMER IN MAINE
Males and females.
Meet new friends! Travel!
Teach your favorite activity.
*Gymnastcs
*English ding
*Rocks
*Art j
*Potteryd
*Swim
*Sail
*Archery
*Copper Enamelin9
*Basketbal 
*Lacrosse
*Water Ski
Canoe and Kayak
*And More!
June to August. Residential.
Enjoy our website. Apply online.
Tripp Lake Camp for Girls:
1-800-997-4347
www.tripplakecamp.com


HAVE YOU CONSIDERED teach-
ing? Science and math teachers are in
dema d nationwide. Thousands of dol- w-1
lars in tuition scholarships are available
to become a science or math teacher.
Learn how you may qualify. Science or Sunday,
math degree preferred, with 2.7 G.P.A.
Information Session-Tuesday, Jan 27th M A
7pm - Malletts Creek Library
3090 E. Eisenhower Parkway
Ann Arbor, MI 48108
To RSVP or more info 419-530-2060
www.teachut3.utoledo.edu Co' me.
teachut3@utoledo.edu
Now is the time to become a teacher.

Child Care
095 . 2
BABYSITTER NEEDED AFTER-
SCHOOL. Must be friendly w/own car
& ref. 649-2401 or appelkraut@tds.net
CHILDCARE / DRIVER needed M,
W,F 2:45pm-6pm. Dan 649-7009.
HOME HELPER & driver for my 15
yr. old son needed, 10 min. from cam-
pus, 4-8 hrs./wk., light housework, sev-
eral meals/wk., grocery shopping. Own
reliable transportation. Call 761-8489.
SEEKING BABYSITTER FOR 2-
year-old. Hours wilt vary - mainly
evenings. Must have own transporta-
tion and references. Call 248-752-6889.
-'9'

For Saturday, Jan. 24, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is a strong time for you; you feel
good about yourself. Your inner confi-
dence combined with the work you're
doing (behind the scenes) will promote
your good reputation.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Relations with groups and casual
friends are excellent today. You might
talk to someone who is far away or in
another country. Count on others being
helpful to you.
GEMINI
(May 21 toJune 20)
No matter what you do for a living,
someone will ask for your creative or
artistic input about something. This
could relate to design, layout, office fur-
niture, landscaping - anything.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Opportunities to travel, take a course
or further your education or training in
some way might arise today. If so, take
advantage of this.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Romantic relationships are sweet and
tender. Financial matters can also favor
you, especially through the wealth of
others.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
This is a good day to discuss agree-
ments with partners. It's also a good day
to schmooze with others and enjoy good
times. People will be openly friendly to
you.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Since co-workers are particularly
cooperative today, now is the time to ask
for assistance or advice if you need it.
You might get a raise or praise today
from your boss.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Romance, love affairs and anything to
do with vacations, sports and show busi-
ness are all blessed today. Playful activi-
ties with children will be rewarding.
Enjoy your day!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Home and family are blessed today.
This is a good day for real estate, enter-
taining at home, family get-togethers or
redecorating.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Today you might appreciate just how
much love thgre is in your ordinary,
everyday world. It's easy to take this for
granted. But something makes you
aware of this today.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Business and commerce are favored
today. It's a good day to make money;
it's also an easy day to spend money,
especially on art, beautiful things or
goodies for yourself and loved ones.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
You're particularly charming and
diplomatic today. Others will enjoy talk-
ing to you because you're spontaneously
gracious and friendly to everyone. (It's a
good day to shop for wardrobe items.)
YOU BORN TODAY You have the
kind of magnetic energy that draws oth-
ers to you. Youre active, energetic and
interested in a wide variety of people.
However, your popularity sometimes
forces you to hide. (Sometimes you feel
that others expecttoo much of you.) This
year something you've been involved
with for about nine years will diminish
or end to make way for a new beginning
next year.
Birthdate of: Doug Kershaw, musi-
cian; Nastassja Kinski, actress; Mischa
Barton, actress.


4

8 - Friday, January 23, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wolverines can't handle
Braun, drop fourth straight

4

Junior DeShawn Sims has scored 17 points in the last two games. ~
Blue's post-play
woes begin and
end with Sims

Junior forward could
be the difference
tomorrow against
Northwestern
By JASONKOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
Before the Michigan men's bas-
ketball team's game against Ohio
State last Saturday, junior forward
DeShawn Sims hung a hand-writ-
ten sign over his nameplate in the
locker room.
It read, "I.M. Work."
After hitting just 4-of-13 shots
for 10 points in his team's 65-58
loss to the Buck-
eyes, Sims tore Northwestem
the sign off the
locker in frus- at MIChigan
tration. Matchup:
"I was sup- Northwestern
posed to work 10-6; Michi-
hard, but I ain't gan 13-6
do no work, so When: Satur-
I have to take day 8 P.M.
it down," Sims Where: Cris-
said. ler Arena
The loss was TV/Radio: BTN
the second in the
Wolverines' cur- Live Blog:
rent three-game http://thegame.
losing streak. dablcs.ohigan-
During the
skid, Michigan
has been dominated by physical
opponents. The Wolverines start
a four-guard lineup, with 6-foot-5
freshman guard Zack Novak often
playing the four position. Big Ten
teanms know Michigan lacks hig
men and have effectively pushed
the ball into the paint.
"They're bigger than I am, but
I just have to find a way to get it
done," Novak said. "Hopefully on
offense they got to guard me too
and they have to come out and step
up. I just have to do a better job."
In their last three games, the
Wolverines have been outscored
in the paint by 9.3 points per game.
Their lack of physical presence
down low has also led to seven
fewer free-throw attempts than
their opponents per game in the
stretch. Prior to that, Michigan
averaged 4.1 more attempts per
game than its opponents.
"What do you do? It's just really
tough," Michigan coach John Beil-
ein said. "Hopefully down the road
we'll continue to recruit and get
guys that are a little bigger there,
but now it is what it is, and we have
to find other ways - double teams,

different things. Alot ofstuff today,
you just can't stop."
The Wolverines' small lineup has
put more pressure on Sims, who is
often the tallest Michigan player
on the court at 6-foot-8. In losses to
Illinois and Ohio State, Sims com-
bined to shoot 7-of-27 for 17 points.
Illinois center Mike Tisdale and
Ohio State center B.J. Mullins eas-
ily handled Michigan in the paint,
combining to shoot 17-of-21 for 39
points.
Against Penn State on Tuesday,
Sims found his offensive rhythm,
hitting 10-of-14 shots for 21 points.
But the Wolverines still failed to
stop the Nittany Lions in the post,
giving up 36 points in the paint.
"We have so many guys under
200 pounds," Beilein said. "I mean,
we get in there and we get nudged a
little bit and it bothers us."
Beilein hopes that, despite giving
up size defensively, his small lineup
will create mismatches onthe other
end of the floor. But opponents have
adjusted their defense to keep the
quick Wolverine guards out of the
paint. Ohio State employed a 1-2-2
zone that prevented any of their big
men from defending Michigan's
guards on the wings.
Defensively, opponents have
exploited the Wolverines' 1-3-1
zone, lofting passes into the paint
to create mismatches as Michigan's
guards attempt to clamp down on
the ball.
"We're trying to do everything
we can to make up this lack of
size," Beilein said. "We're trying.
We're trying."
But Michigan has also failed to
knock down opetn shots. In the last
three games, the Wolverines are
shooting 35.6 percent, well below
their average of 42.8 percentbefore
the losing streak.
Tomorrow, Michigan faces
Northwestern, the Big Ten's hot-
test team. The Wildcats have upset
both No. 21 Minnesota and No. 7
Michigan State in the last week. If
the Wolverines are to end their los-
ing streak, they will need to over-
come their shortcomings in the
paint.
Back in the locker room fol-
lowing the Ohio State game, for-
mer Michigan standout Glen Rice
approached Sims. Rice gave Sims
a hug and whispered, "Dominate,
dominate."
And with such a guard-oriented
team, Sims is the Wolverines' best
hope to establish a dominant post
game, to defensively clamp down
on opposing big men and to break
them out of the slump.

Sluggish start
plagues Michigan in
upset bid of Big Ten
leader Indiana
By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Writer
It didn't matter if Michigan
women's basketball coach Kevin
Borseth had the brains against Big
Ten-leading Indiana last night.
Because Indiana had the Braun
- Jamie Braun, that is.
The junior point guard's play-
making ability helped the Hoosiers
hand Michigan a 60-50 loss at Cris-
ler Arena. She notched 16 points
and registered four assists as the
Wolver-
ines (2-6 INDIANA 60
Big Ten, MICHIGAN 50
9-10 over-
all) dropped their fourth straight
game.
"She's a WNBA player," Borseth
said. "She can just make plays on
her own. You put the best point
guardinthe conference on thefloor
(with their post players), and that's
a pretty doggone good team."
But it wasn't just Braun and her
athleticism thatcemented the Wol-
verines' four-game losing streak,
the longest for Borseth since
December 2003 when he coached
at Wisconsin-Green Bay.
After six of its first seven home
games, Michigan has dropped its
last two games at home, disman-
tling a hometown confidence that
was a huge push in early season
victories against ranked teams like
Vanderbilt and Notre Dame.
And with six straight losses
away from Ann Arbor, upcoming
road games against middle-of-the-
road Big Ten teams like Iowa and
Northwestern could mean the dif-
ference between an NIT berth and
a long offseason.
Offensively, the Wolverines'
reliance on the 3-point shot looked
like it was working in their favor as
they shot 40 percent from behind
the arc. But the Wolverines' 14
first-half turnovers gave the Hoo-
siers (7-1, 14-3) all the momentum

4

4

4

Indiana point guard Jamie Braun (left) gave the Wolverines fits last night, pouring in 16 points and dishing out foutassists.

they needed to secure the lead for
the game's entirety.
Michigan didn't die by the
3-pointer, but it couldn't live by it
either.
Borseth attributed the impres-
sive downtown shooting to their
attempted inside presence, which
had been invisible in the team's last
three losses.
"That's what it's supposed to
look like," Borseth said. "That's
what it needs to looklike: Whenwe
got it inside (in the second half),
we were able to score points."
Although Michigan did manage
to get the ball inside, it made just
seven baskets in the paint.
Earlier in the season, senior

forward Stephany Skrba provided
Michigan with the scoring it need-
ed down low. The Wolverines are
5-1 when the Toronto native fin-
ishes in double digits.
Skrba was held scoreless against
the Hoosiers.
The rest of the Wolverine post
players were outmatched in the
paint, even with their height
advantage. The Hoosiers dominat-
ed the offensive boards 17-6.
Indiana coach Felisha Legette-
Jack set a double-team on the
Wolverines' biggest post pres-
ence, junior center Krista Phillips,
who came off the bench in hopes
of exploiting the Hoosiers lack of
size. But Indiana muscled up the

Wolverines down low, using the
same aggressiveness that Borseth
has been preaching to his team all
season.
"These people rebound,"
Borseth said. "You have no idea
how good these kids are on the
glass. Have they lost any games?
Who beat them?"
Similar to many of its recent
losses, Michigan registered just
one solid half. But despite the slow
start to the game, Borseth said
he was proud of the way his team
played in the second frame.
"The first half, we just looked
lethargic," Borseth said. "It just
builds in a hurry, and when we did
stop it, we were too late."

4

4

Icers hope to find consistency at the Joe

Wolverines have
beaten Spartans four
straight times
By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Nobody in the country has
scored more goals than Michigan
top-line center Louie Caporusso,
who has netted 18, including two
natural hat tricks.
Yet the sophomore hasn't
scored in nearly half of the Michi-
gan hockey team's 24 games - an
inconsistency that has plagued not
just Caporusso but the entire team.
This year, the Wolverines have
scored four more goals per game
in wins than they have in losses,
in which they've posted less than
a goal on average.
Michigan's four CCHA series
splits reflect its volatile offense
night to night, but this weekend's
series against Michigan State

couldn't seemingly be any more
predictable.
Tonight's game will be played
at Joe Louis Arena, where No. 8
Michigan has won seven straight.
And the Wol-
verines have MSU VS.
defeated the Michan
Spartans four
straight times Matchup:
- including in Michigan
the Great Lakes State 7-14-3;
Invitational Michigan 16-8
championship When: Friday
game at the Joe 7:35 P.M.
in December - Where: Joe
for their longest Louis Arena
streak against TV/Radio:
Michigan State FSN Plus
in 13 seasons. Live Blog:
Michigan has http://the-
won the three game.blogs.
games this sea- michigandaily.
son by a com- com/
bined score of
16-5.
Which leads to tonight.
"I definitely expect something

different," said Caporusso, who
has two goals and three assists
against the Spartans this year.
"Any time this rivalry is so won by
one team, obviously you make the
other team really want to get back
at you."
As if the Spartans needed any
more motivation, they have a
chance to play spoiler for the Wol-
verines this weekend. Michigan,
in sixth place in the conference
standings, is essentially in a must-
sweep situation if itwants to finish
in the top four of the CCHA. Two
wins would give the Wolverines a
first-round bye in the conference
tournament and practically assure
an NCAA Tournament bid. Any-
thing but a sweep would add even
more pressure to next weekend's
matchup with No. 1 Notre Dame,
which hasn't lost in 20 games.
"It's going to be a hard-hitting
game," senior forward Tim Miller
said. "It's going tobe a close game.
Both teams have a lot to play for
right now."

And Miller, in particular, is
excited to return to the Joe.
In last year's February game
against the Spartans in Detroit,
Miller scored his first two goals
of the year. His other two scores
came in the CCHA playoffs, which
were also played at the Joe.
"I can't wait to go," Miller said.
"I'm kind of sad that it might be
one of my last games."
But Michigan coach Red Beren-
son isn't looking for Miller to spark
the offense alone. At the start
of practice this week, Berenson
shuffled the team's lines a bit more
and even changed up the top line,
which had been very successful in
the season's first half. Senior right-
winger Travis Turnbull (15 points)
is moving up from the third line to
replace sophomore Aaron Palushaj
(27 points) and rejoin Caporusso,
his linemate from lastyear.
"I don't know if (Berenson's)
sending a message, (or) more just
trying to get some going offensive-
ly," Caporusso said.

4

4

4

LaPlante brings hurdles expertise to head job

By ROGER SAUERHAFT
Daily Sports Writer
At the University, it's quite com-
mon for a scholar to produce work
meriting translation in other lan-
guages.
Even for the men's track and field
coach.
First-year Wolverine coach Fred
LaPlante's hurdling techniques
have been used across the globe in
places like Germany and Russia.
"His technical eye is incredible,"
former Michigan head coach and
current associate head coach Ron
Warhurst said. "I can watch a guy
and say he looks pretty good, and
he'll be like, 'His toe was down.' It's
like he's got a slow-motion camera
in his head."
Warhurst said LaPlante's frame-
by-frame vision for sprints and
hurdles is a unique talent that sepa-
rates him from other coaches.

When LaPlanteshareshisexpert
knowledge ofshort-distance events,
he speaks from wisdom accumulat-
ed outside of his mid-distance run-
ning career.
A 1972 graduate of Eastern
Michigan, one of LaPlante's Eagle
teammates was the national high
school hurdles record holder. His
teammate's talent sparked him to
write a biochemical analysis paper
on the act of hurdling.
After graduating, LaPlante
began dating female hurdler Debby
Lansky, who later became his first
wife. LaPlante said he feltnvery self-
conscious about his lack of knowl-
edge in her event, so he hit the
books again.
"I delved into this, and within
five years of that, I was the wom-
en's national coach," LaPlante said.
"I read a lot. I watched tapes, and I
went around interviewing coaches.
I wanted to get top people in the

world."
Before his stint as the women's
national hurdles coach, he was the
women's track and field coach at
San Diego State from 1979 to 1983.
LaPlante also used his research to
help Lansky reach the Olympics.
But LaPlante mentions none of
thistorecruits.Hedoubtsthatmany
of his players even know about this
part of his coaching career. He said
all that matters is what you've done
very recently.
And the Toledo native's lessons
don't end there.
Redshirt sophomore hurdler
Nick McCampbell likes LaPlante's
style because he has no specific
prototype of what he wants to see
- he just wants results.
"Ever since I started hurdling,
t've had issues with my lead arm
going wide," McCampbell said.
"He taught me to really empha-
size bringing the arm straight back

instead of other motions and I've
been usingthat since last year.
"He took a very pragmatic
motion and just took the arm back.
Not technically sound, but it hap-
pens to work for me so we contin-
ued to work with it."
LaPlante's recent accomplish-
ments include coaching 2007
individual national champion Jeff
Porter in hurdles. A Midwest hur-
dling champion is a rarity, since
champions are typically from the
South and the West Coast.
His overall record speaks for
itself - so he doesn't have to. After
coaching 17 Olympians and 25
national champions, few can match
his 32-season track record.
"You never get cocky," LaPlante
said. "You never feel like you know
it all. There's always thingsto learn.
I feel like there could be a 20-year-
old coach that could still teach me
something."

4

r


