Iit dICd4ygan haij

Ann Arbor, Michigan
BOARD OF REGENTS
Coleman:
No NCAA
f
in future
Regents consider president's
performance, campus
safetyand construction
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
At the monthly meeting of the University Board
of Regents yesterday, University President Mary Sue
Coleman downplayed speculation that she was in the
running to be the next head of the National Collegiate
Athletic Association.
Coleman's name has been among NOTEBOOK
those churning through the rumor
mill after NCAA President Myles
Brand passed away on Wednesday from cancer -
rumors Coleman said in an interview after the regents
meeting she had not heard.
"You know, newspaper people will speculate,"
Coleman said with a laugh. "I'm very happy here.
Very, very happy."
A report in the USA Today mentioned Coleman
as a possible successor, along with Graham Spanier,
president of Penn State, and Walt Harrison, president
of Hartford.
In spite of the speculation of Coleman's future
career options, the September meeting is also the time
every year when the regents discuss Coleman's job
performance and, usually, approve a raise for Cole-
man. But not this year.
In discussing the performance review, Regent
Andrea Newman (R-Ann Arbor) praised Coleman's
continued leadership of the University.
"The regents completed a review of the president
over the last few months," Newman said. "We are all
greatly appreciative of her leadership. We are in unan-
imous agreement that she is a great president."
Newman also said that the decision not to give Cole-
man a raise was per Coleman's own request.
Since becoming president in 2002, Coleman has been
given a small raise every year. The increases have usually
been on par with similar raises for faculty and staff, but
See REGENTS, Page 7A

Friday, September 18,2009

michigandaily.com

CHRI SiDZMBAK/Daily
Officials say that the hallways of the recently purchased and renamed North Campus Research Complex will bring together faculty and researchers from a wide range of disciplines.
At NCRC, plans start taking shape

Emphasis on expanded
research, collaboration
with private industry
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
University research officials are
starting to get a clearer sense of what
will become of the former Pfizer site
near North Campus that the Univer-
sity purchased last year.
Inthe mix is expanded space for Uni-
versity scientists, further partnerships
between private companies and public
researchers. and the addition of more

than 2,000 jobs over the next decade.
All in all, they are plans that Universi-
ty officials are hoping will reshape the
state's economy and become a breed-
ing ground for new technologies to
improve people's lives.
After approximately six months
of due diligence, the University com-
pleted the purchase of the $108 mil-
lion facility in mid-June. The almost 2
million-square-foottcomplex previous-
ly owned by Pfizer was renamed the
North Campus Research Complex. The
new space provided by the NCRC will
help expand the University's research
capacity by about 10percent.
In the last fiscal year, the Univer-
sity spent the most its ever spent on

research, $1.02 billion - a harbinger
for what role University officials see
their research sector playing in the
institution's future.
Dr. Ora Pescovitz, executive vice
president for medical affairs, said the
University's main objective in buying
the site was to have a location where
researchers from various disciplines
could collaborate on projects that ulti-
mately will benefit the state and beyond.
"The hope is we'll do ground break-
ing investigations that will enable us
to do innovations that will really have
great potential for the entire state of
Michigan," Pescovitz said.
Now that University faculty have
one central location to perform this

broad range of research, Vice Presi-
dent for Research Stephen Forrest said
scientists will be able to interact with
each other, which will increase the
potential for making big discoveries.
"We canattackmuchlarger problems
facinghumanitybecause large problems
take peoplewithmany differentlevelsof
expertise and different disciplines and
with different life experiences," he said.
During the summer, more than 200
faculty members worked together
to develop plans on how to best use
the 174-acre site and determine what
types of research will take place in the
laboratories.
Medical School Dean James Wool-
See NCRC, Page 7A


GETTING AROUND THE CITY
Ann Arbor, 'U' team
up on transit station

MUSEUM RESTORATIONS

FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
House approves
financial aid bill

Proposed center on
Fuller Road would
combine bus, rail
and bike services
By OLIVIA CARRINO
For theDaily
Many already consider Ann
Arbor to be a healthy town, but
a new project may make it even
healthier.
Fuller Intermodal Transporta-
tion Station (FITS) is the City of
AnnArbor'stransportationvision
that expands upon the existing
bus, rail and train systems and
emphasizes alternative forms of
transportation, like walking and
biking.
Phase 1 of the project will be
a facility located on Fuller Road
next to East Medical Drive. It
will feature a bike station with
storage, lockers, showers and
 rental services, a transit center
with bus loading platforms, a taxi
stand and patron waiting area,
and short-term and long-term
parking.
City officials also plan to make
improvements on Fuller Road,
adding intersections, turn lanes,
 traffic signal coordination, pedes-
trian non-motorized pathways

and crosswalks.
FITS is partnering with the
University planners and staff
from the Parking and Transpor-
tation Services as well as medical
staff to develop the transporta-
tion station.
Right now, FITS is still in its
conceptual stage and City offi-
cials are looking for community
feedback and input. Officials
ultimately hope to integrate
transit center, bicycle center,
train station and parking into
one place.
Future plans may include a
light rail and high-speed com-
muter train from Ann Arbor to
Detroit and also from Ann Arbor
to Howell.
At an open house held at City
Hall yesterday, Jeffrey Kahan,
the project manager of the
City Planning and Public Ser-
vices Departments, said when
the project is completed it will
make it easier for residents
to bike and walk around Ann
Arbor.
"This concept is one in which
multiple public agencies are look-
ing at opportunities to encourage
alternative modes of transpor-
tation, including rail and non-
motorized modes like walking,"
he said.
FITS's intent is to create a con-
See TRANSPORTATION, Page 7A

Legislation still
faces uphill battle
in the Senate,
sponsors say
Staffand WireReports
The House of Representatives
voted yesterday to pass what is
being hailed as the largest gov-
ernment investment in aid for
higher education.
The bill, which passed 253-171
would end subsidies for private
lenders and put the process in the
government's hands. This move
would save taxpayers an esti-
mated $87 billion, according to
the Congressional Budget Office,
which could be used to increase
the maximum annual Pell Grant
from $5,550 to $6,900 over the
next decade.
The measure will also shorten
the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid or FAFSA, the form
used by colleges to determine
how much a family is expected
to contribute to a child's higher
education costs. The form has
received much criticism for being
too long and complicated.
The bill, which fulfills almost

all of President Barack Obama's
campaign promises for higher
education according to The
Associated Press, will also cre-
ate grant programs to improve
community colleges and college
graduation rates.
"This plan would end the bil-
lions upon billions of dollars in
unwarranted subsidies that we
hand out to banks and finan-
cial institutions - money that
doesn't do anything to make
your loans any cheaper," Obama
said yesterday at a rally at the
University of Maryland in Col-
lege Park. "Instead we're going
to use that money to guaran-
tee access to low-cost loans no
matter what the economy looks
like."
Rep. George Miller (D-CA),
chairman of the House Educa-
tion and Labor Committee and
the bill's author, wrote in a press
release that the bill will help
return the United States to the
top of the list of country's with
the largest proportion of college
graduates by 2020 - a goal of
President Obama's.
The United States ranks
behind nine other industrial-
ized countries in the percent-
age of the population aged 25
See FINANCIAL AID, Page 7A

ARIEL BOND/Daily
A worker fixes tiles outside the University of Michigan Museum of Art yesterday.


WEATHER HI: 70 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail I'm a college student...feed me (good food).
TOMORROW LU: 48 news@michigandaily.cormandlet us know. MICHIGANDAILY COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE

INDEX NEWS .................2A CLASSIFIEDS...........A....6A
VolCXX,No. 9 OPINION................. ..4A SPORTS ........................8A
@2009 TheMichigan aily ARTS. .......................SA FOOTBALL SATURDAY. .. 1B


i

2A - Friday, September 18, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Friday, September18, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY:
Before You Were Here


LEFT Michigan Football Head Coach Rich Rodriguez hugs his son after the
-- game against Notre Dame on Saturday. Michigan won the game 38-34. (SAID
ALSALAH/Daily) ABOVE Juliana Paz of the women's volleyball team plays against
Morehead State at Clit Keen Arena on Sept. 11, 2009. Michigan woo the game 3-0.
(SAID ALSALAH/Daily) RIGHT School of Music, Theatre aod Dance junior Luisa
Lee lenes up for a shot yesterday in the billiard room of the Michigan Union. (ARIEL
BOND/Daily).

MORE ONLINE
For more photon offthe week, go
to michigandalycom.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 48109-t327
www.michigandaoitycom
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manaiger
734-647-3336 734-764-0500
geaca@michigaodaiy.com tmdbnsiness@gmaitcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Offe hors:Sun.-Thurs. 11 a.m. - 2a.m.
News Tips news@michigandailyucom
Corrections corrections@oichigandaity.com
Letters othe Editor tohedaiypnichigandailycomn
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section arnspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandailycomo
Sports Section aports@michigandaily.com
DispaytSales diaplay@michigandaiyucom
ClassifiedtSales classiied@nichioandaity.on
Online Sales onlinead@michigandailyucon
Finance finance~michigandaitynco
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtnep Ratkoniak Managingndinor ratkowiak@michigandaitycome
Jacob SnifoVito MonagingNews Editor smovitzn@michigandaily.com
ASI~SwNESEITORS: ONicoe e, iiMOialloryJns, EiyOly tpai
Robert Stave Editorial PagenEditor soave@niehigandaity.ean
Andy Reid Managing SportnEdinore rmid@michigandaityucom
SEIRSORSEIO S: Niolisuerbach, Mike Eisenstei, IniKayRuh
Linc,,lex Prsper.ie
Kai, is iMeszaro,.RaPodes
DaoidWatnick ManaeingAenn ditor watnick@michigandailycom
SOR ARTuoSnEDITORS: aeBock,BndonuiConris,,WhitineyPo-
ASnSITNTsARTnEOR:Johaayerws, Caroin K i n dr~iaewLapiin, eDadiv
ZacharyiMesnernand photo~mbhioondaityne
clif Reeder Managing Photo Edinors
nSsoENIRPOOnEDITORS:Sid Aiaah, ChanieoHbbuirg-Lohinen
ASS0ISTNTuPOOnEDITORS:MaxClnc,iisuomibak,nSamiWoison
Angeathihbariddesinminhigandaidyoa
MaueentStych Managing PhotonEditors
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazin ditor vosgerhian@michigandaily.ome
Katherine Mitchell Copy Chief mitchell@michdgandaily.ome
ASSOCIATE COrYoCHIE:eni Fieid,uadi woleiion
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak tales Manager
Ryan Businoki Clsssified Manager
Ben English Producction Manager
Alison Santacreu LayoutnManagee
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Bittany Moales CircuatnionoMnager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinanor
The Miigan Daiily(ISolS4-6ispuishedonday trough ridayduingegfllnd inter
temnsysudns titheeniiy o icigasn.neoyis availlhfre of heho al rds .
Addiionluoie epicked upiatthinsoffiefort$.sriinforfaller, startnin
Spemerniivia .t~~S. mi ae$10 ine em (anuarythrouhApil)is$15, ealng(Sptember
throuh Apilins 9. Uney afinis aesbj o reducedhsusrionrat. On-campus
subsripinnforflliermae $35.Subaipinne epaidni. TheihianDily is meof
Thensoiated ProeyosecandTeAsciaeCllgiatPes.,

4

I

CRIME NOTES
Bus door slams Wife, girlfriend
on 'U' staffer fight over patient

CAMPUS EVTENTS & NOTES

WHERE: State Street
WHEN: Wednesday at about
9:30 p.m.
WHAT: The doors tona Univer-
sity bus sbut on a scoff member
as sbe was trying to enter
tbe bus, University Police
reported. Tbe woman reported
minor injuries.
Rolls of copper
swiped
WHERE: Medical Science
Unit I
WHEN: Wednesday at about
1:10 p.m.
WHAT: Two unattended rolls
of topper were stolen from tbe
fourtb floor, University Police
reported. The items are valued
at $100.

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Wednesday at about
6:SS p.m.
WHAT: A figbt broke out
wben a man was visited at
tbe bospital by bis wife and
girlfriend, University Polite
reported. One of tbe women
reported a bloody nose.
Laptop, wallet
lifted from Grad
WHERE: Harlan Hatcber
Graduate Library
WHEN: Wednesday at about
9:55 a.m.
WHAT: A Macintosb I-Book
and a wallet were stolen from a
locked study room, University
Police reported. Tbe items are
valued at $1,060.

Talk on arts of
citizenship
WHAT: Assistant Prof., Ste-
pben Ward and Rick Sper-
ling, founder of Detroit's
Mosaic Theater, will give a
talk about their current col-
laboration.
WHO: Arts of Citizenship
WHEN: Today from 8:30
am, to 10 a.m.
WHERE: Multipurpose
Room, UMMA
Art exhibit
from 'U' profs.
WHAT: An exhibition fea-
turing different types of
-media from the Painting
Section of the University's
Women's Faculty Club.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Today at 1 p.m.
WHERE: 2nd Floor Wall
Gallery, Pierpont Commons

Billiards Club
mass meeting
WHAT: A chance to play
pool and get more informa-
tion about the Michigan
Union Billiards Club.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
liards
WHEN: Today from 5 p.m.
to 7 p.m.
WHERE: Billiards Room,
Michigan Union
Umix late night
WHAT: An event featuring
performances, free food,
movies and arts and crafts.
Mcard necessary for entry.
WHO: University Union Arts
& Programs
WHEN: Tonight from 10 p.m.
to 2 a. m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
Lions@michigandaily.com.

1About 40 percent of visitors
to British department store,
Debenhams' brow bars are
men, Reuters reported. The
brow bars offer a treatment
called "threading", which
removes hair from with a thin
twine of cotton.
2There have been more
deaths and accidents due
to underage binge drink-
ing since the National Mini-
mum Drinking Age Act made
the drinking age 21 in 1984.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
3 A Minnesota man was
ticketed for shoplifting
after he walked out of a
store wearing a stolen mini
skirt and bikini, The River
Falls Journal reported. The
man said he stole the items to
impress his wife.

I

I

MORE ONLINE
Lone Crime Notes? Get more online amichigandaily.com/og/the wir\{,.

I

4

4

The new Troa®2G0® condom card. Two premi um Trojancdos
one sleek package. Fits discreetly in yu wallet. Available at checkout. O
p 1 yourPOCETSHZEDCARD
To find Trojan 2G0 at a store near you, go to TrojanCondoms.com
W2009Church & DssghtCo., Inc. AflytiLle. Anywhere.

4


i



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 18, 2009 -- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, September 18, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Home for state
police uncertain
The feud over whether Michi-
gan State Police should move
into a new headquarters won't be
settled until next week at the ear-
liest.
The House passed a state police
budget bill by a 68-39 vote Thurs-
day. It's different from a Senate-
approved bill, so it's likely a joint
legislative committee will have
to come up with a compromise
version for lawmakers to vote on
before the Oct.1 budget deadline.
Neither the Senate nor the
House version provides enough
money to pay the about $4 million
annual average rent on the $40
million privately owned building.
Some lawmakers say the state
should occupy the building. Oth-
ers say the state would be allowed
to break the lease and spend the
extra money to rehire laid-off
troopers.
LOUISVILLE, Ky.
Football coach
found innocent in
player's death
A former Kentucky high school
football coachwas found notguilty
Thursday in the death of a player
who collapsed at a practice where
the team was put through a series
of sprints on a hot summer day.
Attorneys said the case was
the first time a football coach was
charged in the death of a player.
It was closely watched by those
involved in youth athletics and
has already resulted in changes to
Kentucky law and other efforts to
make practices safer for athletes.
Former Pleasure Ridge Park
High School coach David Jason
Stinson, 37, was charged after
15-year-old Max Gilpin collapsed
at an August 2008 practice as the
team ran a series of sprints known
as "gassers." He died three days
later at a Louisville hospital of
heat stroke, sepsis and multiple
organ failure. His temperature
reached at least 107 degrees.
The jury deliberated for about
90 minutes, and Stinson hugged
defense attorney Brian Butler
after the verdict was read.
KABUL
Suicide bomb kills
16, injures 55
A suicide car bomber killed six
Italian soldiers and 10 Afghan ci-
vilians Thursday in the heavily
guarded capital of Kabul - a grim
reminder of the Taliban's reach
amid political uncertainty in Af-
ghanistan.
The Taliban claimed respon-
sibility for the deadliest attack
for the Italian contingent in the
country.
Violence has increased since
the U.S. sent thousands more
troops to push back the resur-
gent Taliban and bolster security
for last month's still-unresolved
presidential election. The Tali-

ban made good on threats to dis-
turb the vote, and militant attacks
have risen not just in the group's
southern heartland but also in the
north and in Kabul and surround-
ing areas.
The bomber rammed his ex-
plosives-filled car into two Italian
military vehicles in a convoy about
midday. Four Italian soldiers were
also wounded, said ItalianDefense
Minister Ignazio La Russa. The Af-
ghan Interior Ministry said an ad-
ditional 55 civilians were injured.
MADRID
Alleged ex-Nazi
from Mich. indicted
A Spanish judge on Thursday
indicted a Michigan man and two
other alleged ex-Nazi death camp
guards who all lived for many
years in the United States, charg-
ing them with being accessories
to genocide and crimes against
humanity.
Judge Ismael Moreno of the
National Court issued interna-
tional arrest warrants for Johann
Leprich, Anton Tittjung and
Josias Kumpf. The 18-page indict-
ment says Kumpf apparently now
lives in Austria and the other two
are still in the United States.
Leprich is from Macomb
County's Clinton Township, near
P Detroit.
Joseph McGinness, a lawyer
in Cleveland, Ohio, said he repre-
sents Leprich and Tittjung.
"They are both mentally and
physically incompetent," McGin-
ness said.
-y Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obamarepeals
missile shield
from Bush era

U. S. cancels plans for
shield days before
meeting with
Russian president
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama abruptly can-
celed a long-planned missile shield
for Eastern Europe yesterday,
replacing a Bush-era project that
was bitterly opposed by Russia
with a plan he contended would
better defend against a growing
threat of Iranian missiles.
The United States will no lon-
ger seek to erect a missile base
and radar site in Poland and the
Czech Republic, poised at Russia's
hemline. That change is bound to
please the Russians, who had never
accepted U.S. arguments, made by
both the Bush and Obama adminis-
trations, that the shield was intend-
ed strictly as a defense against Iran
and other "rogue states."
Scrapping the planned shield,
however, means upending agree-
ments with the host countries
that had cost those allies political
support among their own people.
Obama called Polish and Czech
leaders ahead of his announce-
ment, and a team of senior diplo-
mats and others flew to Europe to
lay out the new plan.
"Our new missile defense archi-
tecture in Europe will provide
stronger, smarter, and swifter
defenses of American forces and
America's allies," Obama said in
announcing the shift, which U.S.
officials said was based mainly
on a May U.S. intelligence assess-
ment that Iran's program to build a

nuclear-capable long-range missile
would take three years to five years
longer than originally expected.
The replacement system would
link smaller radar systems with a
network of sensors and missiles
that could be deployed at sea or on
land. Some of the weaponry and
sensors are ready now, and the rest
would be developed over the next
10 years.
The Pentagon contemplates a
system of perhaps 40 missiles by
2015, at two or three sites across
Europe. That would augment a
larger stockpile aboard ships. The
replacement system would cost an
estimated $2.5 billion, compared
with $5 billion over the same time-
frame under the old plan. The cost
savings would be less, however,
because the Pentagon is locked
into work on some elements of the
old system.
The change comes days before
Obama is to meet with Russian
President Dmitry Medvedev at
the United Nations and the Group
of 20 economic summit. Medve-
dev reacted positively, calling it a
"responsible move."
"The U.S. president's decision
is a well-thought-out and system-
atic one," said Konstantin Kosa-
chev, head of the foreign affairs
committee in the State Duma, the
lower house of the Russian Par-
liament. "Now we can talk about
restoration of the strategic part-
nership between Russia and the
United States."
At the same time, Russia's top
diplomat warned that Moscow
remains opposed to new punitive
sanctions on Iran to stop what the
West contends is a drive toward
nuclear weapons.

Defense Secretary Robert Gates, left, accompanied by Joint Chiefs Vice Chairman Gen. James E. Cartwright take part in a
news conference at the Pentagon, yesterday.
GOP seeks Afghan war
info, Gates urgeAs patience

Defense Secretary
Robert Gates tells
Congress to
'take a deep breath'
WASHINGTON (AP) - Repub-
lican lawmakers turned up the
pressure yesterday for more details
on the war in Afghanistan, but
Defense Secretary Robert Gates
said "everybody should take a deep
breath" and let the administration
devise strategy at its own pace.
House Minority Leader John
Boehner said at a Capitol Hill press
conference that the U.S. and NATO
battlefield commander in Afghani-
stan, Gen. StanleyMcChrystal,was
not being allowed by the adminis-
tration to testify to Congress.
"We need to hear from him
soon," the Ohio Republican said,
adding that he believes McChrys-
tal doesn't have' enough troops
to turn around the faltering war
effort. Boehner said McChrystal's
testimony was needed to "help all
Americans and the Congress bet-
ter understand the situation on the

ground."
Gates urged critics to let Obama
take his time.
"There has been a lot of talk
this week and the last two or
three weeks about Afghanistan
and frankly, from my standpoint,
everybody ought to take a deep
breath," Gates told a Pentagon
press conference.
Gates was answering a ques-
tion on why a war assessment by
McChrystal hasn't been made pub-
lic. He said the assessment is part
of a larger re-evaluation on how to
handle the war and that President
Barack Obama deserves the right
to absorb it and have any questions
answered before the assessment is
made public.
"I think that we need to under-
stand that the decisions the presi-
dent faces on Afghanistan are some
of the most important he may face
in his presidency," Gates said.
Sen. Dick Lugar, R-Ind., chair-
man of the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee and a frequent
Obama ally, complained that the
administration declined invita-
tions to speak at committee hear-
ings this week about Afghanistan.

"I hope that the administration
will soon decide on the time for
its views to reach the American
people," Lugar said in a statement.
"In any event, it is critical that the
full force and voice of the president
lead the discussion around this
national strategic priority with
so many American lives and hun-
dreds of billions of U.S. dollars at
stake."
Lugar urged the president to
describe his thinking on the war,
now that he has received assess-
ments from commanders and the
Pentagon.
Democrats also have been criti-
cal of the Obama administration's
handling of the war and have spo-
ken out against the prospects of
sending more troops. McChrys-
tal is expected to submit a second
assessment in coming weeks that
is widely believed to ask for more
troops to fight the stalemated
war.
Obamaearlierthisyearapproved
sending 17,000 more warfight-
ers and 4,000 military trainers to
Afghanistan, bringing the total
number of U.S. forces there to
68,000 by the end of 2009.

Yale lab technician
charged- in murder
of graduate student


DNA evidence points
finger at 24-year-old
'control freak' in
Annie Le's murder
NEW HAVEN, Conn. (AP) -
As police charged a Yale animal
lab technician with murdering a
graduate student who worked in
his building, a portrait began to
emerge yesterday of an unpleas-
ant stickler for the rules who
often clashed with researchers
and considered the mice cages
his personal fiefdom.
Police charged 24-year-old
Raymond Clark III with murder,
arresting him at a motel a day
after taking hair, fingernail and
saliva samples to compare with
evidence from the grisly crime
scene at Yale's medical school.
Bond was set at $3 million for
Clark, who kept his head down
and said "Yes, your honor," when
asked whether he understood his
rights.
The muscular former high
school baseball and football
player is charged in the death of
24-year-old Annie Le, a pharma-
cology doctoral student at Yale
who vanished Sept. 8. Her body
was discovered five days later -
her wedding day - stuffed into

a utility compartment behind
a wall in the basement of the
research building where she and
Clark worked.
Authorities offered no details
about the crime yesterday. They
would not discuss a motive, large-
ly because Clark will not talk to
police, and would not disclose the
DNA test results or how they con-
nected Clark to the slaying.
The Rev. Dennis Smith, a Le
family spokesman, said he was
not authorized to comment on
the arrest. Smith said he did not
know whether Le had ever com-
plained about Clark.
Clark appeared in court with
two public defenders who were
new to the case. A private-prac-
tice attorneywho had represented
him during the investigation did
not attend the hearing and said
yesterday he no longer represents
Clark. The attorney declined to
give a reason.
Public defender Joseph Lopez
said he was still reviewing the
case and declined to comment.
Co-workers told police that
Clark was a "control freak" who
viewed the laboratory and its
mice as his territory, according
to a law enforcement official who
spoke to The Associated Press on
condition of anonymity because
the investigation is ongoing and
many details remain sealed.

TECHNICAL & COMMERCIAL CAREERS
The most successful problem salvers look at things differently and
see solutions no one else can. Who would have thought to use fish
protein to stop gas freezing in subsea pipes? One of our people
did. And right now we're looking for more people who can bring
a fresh perspective to the energy challenge. We'll provide training,
support and career choices to develop your potential. Well get you
working with some of our most accomplished problem solvers. And
together we can help build a responsible energy future. Think further.
For more information and to apply, visit
www.shell.com/careers/uscampus or stop by our
booth at the Engineering Career Fair (Sept. 21) and the
Meet the Companies Career Fair (Sept. 25).
Shell isonEqualOpportunity Employer

Explore the basics of biomedical technology innovation
through an intensive, hands-on fellowship at Stanford
University's Biodesign Program. Graduate Engineers,
Business Professionals, Bioscientists and Physicians leam
the key stages of the Biodesign Process: identification and
verification of clinical needs, brainstorming, invention,
prototyping, patenting and more.
APPLICATION DEADLINE October 16, 2009



0

4A - Friday, September 18, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU

L74c Mic4igan wily

BELLA SHAH

0

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

1E~ ntnewwn
a e- QaVQoIJ , Q t flfTE
YOUR cJT5( COULD E
Lost lin translation

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
The right to breathe freely
Appellate decision counters police intimidation of teens
Many college-aged students across the country are famil-
iar with the routine of the late night police encounter,
which often ends in the student being forced to take a
breathalyzer test on the vaguest of suspicions. But a series of recent
judicial rulings has found a Troy city ordinance that permits police
to conduct preliminary breath tests for minors without a warrant
to be unconstitutional. These rulings were correct to uphold the
protections that the Fourth Amendment provides against unwar-
ranted searches and seizures regardless of age, and when the case
makes its way to higher courts, these courts should rule in favor of
protecting young people's rights.

According to a Sept. 11 article in the
Detroit Free Press, the court proceedings
were spawned by an incident in which
a group of young adults leaving a party
was stopped by Troy Police officers. Sus-
pected of underage drinking, the police
administered preliminary breathalyzer
tests. According to testimony, members of
the group were told that failure to comply
could lead to incarceration. But in court,
the attorney for Emran Chowdhury -
one of those who were tested - was able
to block admission of the test as evidence,
arguing it was taken in violation of Chow-
dhury's constitutional rights. The court
ruled in Chowdhury's favor, stating that a
preliminarybreath testconstitutes asearch
as laid out in the Fourth Amendment, that
consent under duress does not meet the
legal requirements and that in such cases a
search warrant must be obtained.
Any incident where constitutional rights
are impinged is atrocious. The Fourth
Amendment guarantees citizens the right
to be "secure in their persons ... against
unreasonable searches." The idea that an
ordinance could be in direct conflict with
this important constitutional right is pro-
foundly distressing. The courts right to
recognize this breach of rights, and the
local governments - even those beyond

Troy - shouldn't hesitate to reform their
laws respectively.
In addition to their unconstitutional
underpinnings, such ordinances make
teenagers easy prey for law enforcement.
Teenagers are often unaware of their legal
rights, and can fall victim to intimidation.
Police shouldn't be afforded the opportu-
nity to stop and search every person under
the age of 21 who happens to be out at night.
In the Troy case, the police even admitted
that they didn't ask for search warrants,
and the court rebuked the officers for not
investigating how arduous it would be to
simply obtain a search warrant. Such a
case provides a clear example of why local
ordinances should not empower police at
the expense of young people's rights.
It's also a shame that these rights are
being trampled in defense of a drinking age
that may not actually be appropriate. It's
not clear that raising the drinking age to 21
has done anything to curb binge drinking.
In fact, there are more deaths and accidents
each year due to underage binge drinking
since the National Minimum Drinking Age
Act made 21 the de facto drinking age in
1984.
With any hope, higher courts will con-
cur that young people's Fourth Amend-
ment rights are worth protecting.

E veryone on campus has taken less because of language comprehen-
or knows someone who has sion and more because 3D geometry
taken a course in which the makes my head hurt.
graduate student But the most noteworthy trend
instructor's English among the aspiring GSIs was that
was less than per- they wanted us to tell them when we
feet. The prevalence found their English difficult to under-
of GSIs struggling stand. The graduate students asked
with English - , - specifically for language feedback
and that struggle's and eagerly wrote down any problem
effect on students' words we suggested they work on.
ability to learn - is The perception that GSIs don't care
the subject of many to learn how to speak English well
complaints, rants, JAMIE is clearly a myth, and undergradu-
excuses and jokes BLOCK ate students shouldn't get be ab;le to
around campus. get away with operating under the
But while many assumption that GSIs are apathetic to
students feel justi- improvement.
fied complaining about their GSIs' Even between lessons or while
language skills, it's often the under- walking to and from the teaching
graduates who are to blame for not sessions, the GSIs engaged the other
understanding the material. pretend students and Iin casual con-
Over the summer, I worked for versation. Maybe practicing English
the English Language Institute as a was their primary motive or maybe
undergraduate student in practice I'm just a really fascinating guy, but
teaching courses taught by aspiring regardless of why the GSIs struck
GSIs. All graduate students hop- up the conversations, they made a
ing to teach-in the fall are required notable effort to improve their lan-
to take this course if their previous guage skills during our chats. If we
education wasn't taught primarily in used a word or phrase they didn't
English. At the end of this intensive understand, they would ask us what it
course, there is an exam to make sure meant, and if they pronounced aword
the graduate students are qualified to incorrectly, we could let them know
teach. This exam tests not only peda- without them feeling offended.
gogy and classroom management Many of these GSIs said they hope
skills, but also language ability. And to find jobs in the U.S. after graduating,
because nobody likes failing any- and several wanted to continue teach-
thing, especially with a job and a lot ing beyond their graduate studies. It's
of money on the line, aspiring GSIs clear that these students' desire to
work incredibly hard on improving learn English is rooted in a passion to
their English. teach and to grow that goes far beyond
In my experience, there were no just passing an aptitude test.
graduate students whose English, on So when an undergraduate doesn't
the whole, was particularly difficult to understand something a GSI says but
understand. For each graduate student, doesn't ask for clarification, it's dif-
there were some individual words that ficult for me to find anyone but the
I didn't initially understand, but by the undergraduate to blame. These GSIs
end ofeach lesson I didn't feel like Ihad have - in a span of only a few short
missed anything - or, if I had, it was weeks - gone through an insane

amount of training, including over
200 pages of worksheets and practice
lessons. And the graduate students
have done it all with remarkable drive
and enthusiasm, so it's hard to fault
them for not achieving perfection.
As the omnipotent headmaster
in the "Harry Potter" series, Dumb-
ledore - who I would argue is even
more difficult to understand than
any GSI - so wisely said, "Soon, we
must all make a choice between what
is right and what is easy." And while
it may be easier to sit back, relax and
complain to your friends after class,
the right thing to do is to help your
GSIs, and, in the process, help your-
self. They wantto better their English
as much, if not more, than you want
to learn - or at least pass - organic
chemistry.
GSIs actually do
want to improve
their English.
I realize this is asking a lot of
undergraduate students. Often, ask-
ing a question or making a comment
in class is nerve-wracking and awk-
ward enough without the added fear
of either offending your instructor or
appearing insensitive to your class-
mates. But trust me when I say that
your GSI will appreciate you step-
ping up. And if your classmates don't,
maybe they'll change their minds
when they realize they understand
the material a whole lot better.
- Jamie Block is a senior
arts editor. Hean be reached
at jamblock@umich.edu.

I

I
I

4

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate writers to
join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing and
writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke,
Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
MSA meeting with SACUA Daily story wrong, students
addressed important issues preferred the Halfass

4

Asking the right question

TO THE DAILY:
As a senior, I have had plenty of experience
dealing with both Department of Public Safety
and the Ann Arbor Police Department. I must
admit, they both have relatively exceptional
crews and I have little to complain about indi-
vidual officers. What I will complain about, how-
ever, are the unnecessary exploitations that the
AAPD subjects students to - mandatory MIP's
for "Good Samaritans", trash tickets and noise
violations (Students, faculty promise cooperation
to solve campusproblems, 09/15/2009).
As students we have all probably been in situ-
ations when we were faced with an ultimatum:
slap our unconscious, vomit-choked friend awake
and off of Markley's community bathroom floor
or calling DPS and suffering the consequences of
saving a friend's life. It's a terribly scary situation
for an 18-year old kid. I think the "Good Samari-
tan" clause should be passed unanimously in
order to keep that18-year-old, scared-shitless kid
from making a life-or-death decision.
Then there are trash tickets. I have been a vic-
tim of the ridiculous $530 fine for my first trash
offense. Thishowever, hadbeenmyhouse'sthird
offense due to the tenants before me. Rather than
ticket students, the AAPD tickets the residence,
or landlord. The AAPD needs to figure out a sys-
tem where the tenants are ticketed, not the land-
lord or the residence. That will put an end to the
triple trash ticket.
A noise violation in Ann Arbor is a misdemean-
or. Playingyour music too loud after 10 p.m. lands
you in the same courtroom as those who have
committed crimes like theft, prostitution, minor
assault, disorderly conduct, trespassing, vandal-
ism, drug possession and MIP/DUI offense,s to
name a few. I have been exploited by the AAPD
because of bogus legislature that's in place to
reduce officers' workloads. Don't expect a pre-
liminary warningeither, unless you are a known
campus character or athlete. If you don't want a
misdemeanor clinging to your background check
for the rest of your life, you better end the party
at 10 p.m.
I'm glad that the Michigan Student Assembly
and faculty are pairing up to knock out some of
these injustices. There is nothing more frustrat-
ing than sitting in the 15thJudicial District Court
to face humiliation because you got a little loud at
a party, missed a few cups in your yard or called
DPS to save your friend's life.
Matthew Ashley
LSA senior

TO THE DAILY:
As a Residential College student, a former
employee of the Halfass and current employee
of the place that the Residential Dining Ser-
vices so tenderly calls "Retail," I felt enraged
to read the Daily's recent article aboutthe relo-
cation (East Quad's Halfway Inn converted into
student lounge, 09/16/2009). First of all, I find
it troubling that the article speaks on behalf of
employees of the establishment as well as Resi-
dential College students without ever actu-
ally interviewing any. I can attest not only to
my own anger over the end of the Halfass, but
also to tap the anger of many other Residen-
tial College students who have expressed their
discontentment the moment they step into the
converted south side cafeteria.
The article claims that the Halfass "was lim-
ited in its ability to provide customers with a
variety of options," and that "the move upstairs
has allowed for an expanded grill menu and
healthier menu options." This makes me ques-
tion the research put into the article since, had
the reporter visited either place, it would have
been apparent that neither of these statements
are true.
I'm disappointed because this front-page
article has neglected to dig, as a piece of excel-
lent journalism should. There is a frontpage
story here, but it is not "Let's Pat Dining Ser-
vices, Etc., on the Back for Their Progress!"
Though one LSA resident advisor in East Quad
may welcome the change, this is a story about
the death of yet another Ann Arbor favorite.
The Halfass, the article fails to report, has
existed since the beginning of the Residential
College, which was founded in 1967 and has
been called "The Halfass" since that time. The
story here is about why the kitchen of this long-
loved restaurant is now plastic-wrapped and
collecting dust while RDS lies to themselves
and everyone else that the move upstairs is an
improvement.
I'm deeply saddened by the rapid degrada-
tion of Ann Arbor in general. The city used
to swell with independent businesses. Now,
I watch its personality increasingly stifled by
lofts and chain stores. It's disturbing to me that
East Quad, once a beacon of free thought, is not
exempt from the fall, and even worse, that an
article at my school newspaper would so slop-
pily report on this coup d'etat.
Molly Roth
LSA skior

After watching herds of fresh-
men roam around campus with
those incredibly fashionable
lanyards attached
to their MCards,
it occurred to me
that I might try my
hand at an advice
column filled
with wisdom I've 3
gleaned in my three u
years at the Uni-
versity. But I didn't BRIAN
want to scrawl the FLAHERTY
same old- truisms:
Take classes you're
interested in. Try
new things. Figure out what you're
passionate about and do that thang.
Don't step on the 'M' before your
first finals or worms will devour your
brain! As wise as those statements
are, I'm instead going to urge stu-
dents to ask one of my favorite first
date questions, which also happens
to be a weird sort of analogy for what
I've learned at the University: "What
are you thinking?"
As obvious a question as that seems
to be, I can probably count on one
hand the number of times those sylla-
bles have been tossed at me. It's sur-
prising, because there are few, if any,
things that are more relevant about
a person than their thoughts. At the
University we're regularly accosted
by requests that don't tell the asker
much of anything about us: What's
your name? (Most people forget it
and ask again at a later date.) How are
you? (If you don't answer with some
form of "good," you had better brace
for an awkward silence.)
But the thoughts people are hav-
ing are often more worth talking
about than the forgettable, surface
details. Facing this looming question
has been one of the hardest and most

rewarding challenges I've faced in genuinely try to see what the world
college. looks like through others' eyes.
A truthful answer is easy to dodge. Universities can encourage people
What are you thinking? I dunno. End to attempt just that. In classrooms,
of thought. But life gets a lot more students can learn about topics like
complicated and exciting when you the Myer-Briggs typology - a theory
start posing critical questions about of personality based on the idea that
people's thoughts - about beliefs and people's brains function very differ-
values. ently on multiple dimensions, result-
During my third semester at the ing in a great deal of diversity in what
University, my philosophy professor what people think about and how
assigned a reading that argued the they think about it. Outside of the
suffering of animals should, based on classroom, students have plenty of
logic, receive the same consideration opportunities to meet many sorts of
we give to human suffering. I was people, choose from about hundreds
shocked to find I agreed. Just like that, of organizations, experiment and
my beliefs about eating meat were engage in various social activities of
torn to shreds, and I went through a questionable legality. All in all, there
brief bout of learning what it's like to are plenty of opportunities on cam-
be a vegetarian. Students who don't pus to learn about others if you have a
have professors and experiences on genuine interest in who other people
campus that change their beliefs and are and what they're thinking.
force them to see the world in a more
complex and enriching way aren't
getting their money's worth. But for The 'U' can offer
that to happen, you have to be willing
to ask what you're thinking withoutnew perspectives if
presupposing that your initial answer n Wp Yp~ i~ Si
is the right one. youo ask.
When applied to other people, o nly
"what are you thinking?" takes on
additional significance. It's very easy
for us to live in isolated worlds and When I entered the University as
relate to others only on our ownterms a freshman, I had never been asked
without trying to understand other to take a hard look at myself and my
peoples' worlds. Millions of years of main mode of thinking. But on cam-
evolution have made people's brains pus, I've gotten in the habit of asking
very good at recognizing patterns "what are you thinking?" every day.
and categorizing things, including It makes life much more meaningful
people. So, it's typical human behav- and fun, and I encourage other stu-
ior to arrive at an understanding of dents to do the same (or at least give
people by labeling them as this-or- it a try). The University isn't a perfect
that rather than as unique and com- place, but it is a great place to think
plex individuals. I suspect that one about thinking.
of the reasons I've rarely been asked
what I'm thinking by others is that - Brian Flaherty is an associate
it's not altogether common or easy for editorial page editor. He can be
people to look beyond themselves and reached at bfla@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity
and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send ldtters to tothedaily@umiciedu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 18, 2009 - SA

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, September18, 2009 -

Manic meets
mellow in
flashy 'Lights'

By SASHA RESENDE
Daily Arts Writer
If it wasn't already obvious
that YACHT's See Mystery Lights
would be consid-
ered the quintes-
sential summer
album of 2009 YA
by the indie-hip-
ster-trustafarian See Mystery
demographic, Lits
frontman Jona DFA
Bechtolt makes it
abundantly clear
on the album's aptly titled "Sum-
mer Song."
Over bubbly pop melodies and
quirky riffs, the song captures the
fleetingness of summertime while
simultaneously encouraging lis-
teners to put down their briefcases
and put on their dancing shoes. In
fact, Bechtolt makes this a com-
mand when he shouts, "Move your
feet to the summer song!" This is
an artist who certainly knows how
to get a party started.
Bechtolt is no stranger to elec-
tro-dance pop. He has been an
active collaborator in a variety of
synth-pop projects, most nota-
bly the Portland-based outfit The
Blow. Bechtolt, however, quit all
his prior commitments in 2007
to focus exclusively on YACHT, a
solo project he began in 2003. Fol-
lowing a string of well-received
releases, Bechtolt added vocalist
Clair L. Evans to his formerly one-
man show.
Evans and Bechtolt record-
ed YACHT's seventh release in
Marfa, Texas, using the area's iso-
lated scenery and a famed super-
natural phenomenon as a form of
inspiration for the group's most
recent compilation. When asked
in a recent Q&A with Teen Vogue
how the group would describe the
album in three words, the duo was
clear: "Raw Supernatural Power."
Bechtolt continued by identi-
fying Marfa as the album's single
greatest inspiration, describing
the area as "incredibly powerful
place, with blinding sunlight in the
daytime, lithium in the drinking
water and an unexplained optical
phenomenon called the 'Mystery
Lights' that takes over the sky
every night."
See Mystery Lights likely suc-
ceeds in capturing the area's
appeal, as it stands on its own
as a synth-heavy release with a
certain unearthly quality. From
upbeat ruminations about reli-
gious themes ("The Afterlife")
to brooding electro-pop incan-
tations ("Don't Fight the Dark-
ness"), the record triumphantly
ARTS IN BRIEF
Film
Perry does 'Bad'
**
"I Can Do Bad All By Myself"
Lionsgate
At Showcase and Quality 16
"I Can Do Bad All By Myself" is
a change of pace from Tyler Per-
ry's previous works, taking the
focus off the iconic, cantanker-
ous Madea (Tyler Perry, "Madea
Goes to Jail") in order to hone
in on depressed alcoholic April
(Taraji Henson, "The Curious
Case of Benjamin Button"). "Bad"
chronicles the transformation

of a young woman who, with the
help of her community, leaves her
rote world of drinking and soul-
searching to find true love.
The movie starts off nice
enough, fleshing out April and her
good-for-nothing, already-married
boyfriend. The film should even
catch the audience's attention with
a seemingly well-crafted plot.
Even so, "Bad" quickly degen-
erates for two main reasons:
First, toward the end, the movie
reverts to a superficial predict-
ability notorious in Perry's other
works. Second, "Bad" presents
too many heavy themes, from
improper parenting to drug
addiction to sexual abuse. This
makes the movie feel thin and
inadequately focused due to the
overwhelming amount of mate-
rial. While the "Bad" is definitely
a departure from the usual Perry
nonsense, it still lacks real imag-
ination and depth,
-HANS YADAV

recreates Marfa's eerie preternat-
ural splendor.
The influences of life in small
town America are clear in the
monster track "It's Boring/You
Can Live Anywhere You Want," a
nearly nine minute epic screecher
that uses a bare guitar riff over a
consistent drumbeat to emphasize
the simplicity - and at times tedi-
um - that comes with small-town
life. After a three-minute inter-
lude, the song sharply changes
direction, introducing some synth
burbles and a more dance-friendly
feel, fitting the album's general
electro-dance atmosphere.
The song later becomes a bit
repetitive and stale as it reaches its
last few minutes and it could have
certainly benefited from a sub-
stantial edit. Even still, the track
stands out for its raw post-punk
vibe and a strong emphasis on the
merits of life outside the bright
lights of a big city. These charac-
An album that
begs you to put
on your
dancing shoes.
teristics, particularly the song's
reliance on non-electronic based
influences, allow it to stand apart
from the rest of the album's more
pop-centric efforts.
While Bechtolt has recently
stated that most of his influences
tend to be "non-musical," the band
recognizes that an assortment of
outfits have indeed played a heavy
hand in influencing YACHT's most
recent offering. One of the more
comical musical references is "I'm
In Love With A Ripper," an elec-
tric wonderland that gives a sly
wink to T-Pain's own professed
love for exotic dancers. It shines
above the rest of the tracks, which
probably explains why the band
chose to release a remixed "Party"
version. Both tracks exemplify the
group's ability to churn out quality
electro-synth beats with moderate
triumph.
While the rest of the album
could have benefited from focusing
primarily on YACHT's electropop-
based talent, See Mystery Lights
certainly emphasizes the group's
ability to combine a wide variety
of musical influences and recon-
figure them into a unique auditory
experience.

MUSIC REVIEW
Left: On a box. Right: Not on a box.

 ENTERTAINMENT

Drake's coronation

New EP proves hip hop can
go on without Auto-Tune
By JEFF SANFORD
Daily Arts Writer
"Best I Ever Had," the first single off of
Drake's So Far Gone EP, is by itself worth the
price of admission. Not only
was it the hottest song of
the summer, it might have
changed the course of popu- Drake
lar hip hop. That's not hyper-
bole - listen to the hook. So Far Gone
Notice anything? You hear Young Money
how strikingly human that Entertainment
voice sounds?
That's right. Drake scored
this summer's mega-hit without the use of
the much-maligned, robotizing Auto-Tune
effect. When was the last time that happened?
"Umbrella"? So rejoice,
humans. We have reclaimed
the charts. And we have Drake
- not Jay-Z, whose "D.O.A. /
(Death of Auto-Tune)" made
a strong case but did little to
sway popular opinion - to
thank.
This achievement isn't lost
on Drake. On the EP's last
track, "Fear," he raps: "No
Auto-Tune / but you can feel
the pain / It all comes spillin'
out / like you hit a vein." All
over So Far Gone, Drake seems
similarly self-aware.
On "Successful,"he reflects
on his rising profile, one
that reportedly sparked an
intense bidding war between
several drooling labels: "The
young spitter that everybody
in rap fear / A lot of y'all are
still sounding like last year /

The game needs change and I'm the mother-
fucking cashier." When considering the facts,
lines like these - and there are a lot of them
- come off as more than the typical hip-hop
braggadocio.
So Far Gone, the first proper release by the
Canadian-born Drake, was first conceived as a
16-track mixtape. But due to the wild popular-
ity of the prenominate "Best I Ever Had," it was
reformed into an easier-to-market seven-track
EP. Considering that most of his songs tend
to go on for about two minutes too long (most
tracks hover around or above the five-minute
mark), the abridgement was a wise move.
The beats range from relatively minimal and
ambient ("Successful," "Houstatlantavegas")
to organ-driven Southern funk ("Uptown").
For the most part, they do little to distinguish
themselves as more than standard-issue. But
Drake could rap over spoons and a kazoo and it
would probably be more riveting than anything
from Soulja Boy Tell'em.

Ifanything,SoFarGoneis Drake's coronation
party, which makes it both completely spirited
and a bit unsure. The constant presence of the
avuncular Lil Wayne is a bit intrusive - he's on
three of seven tracks - and Drake seems con-
tent to ride his coattails throughout the entire
EP. It would be wise for Lil Wayne to step back
and lethis protege distinguish himself from his
Old Uncle Weezy.
Despite Lil Wayne's mentorship, Drake's
flow is closer to Kanye West's. Not a spot-on
rhythmic mastermind, Drake - like West -
spits every line with laid-back authority and
drops clever, accessible couplets that have the
peculiar ability to stick in your ear for days.
As he gets the growing pains out of the way
with this charming, uneven EP, Drake seems
prone to make a bigger, more rounded splash
with the release of his debut album Thank Me
Later in early 2010. Until then,blast "Best I Ever
Had" on repeat and hope Lil Wayne loosens his
overbearing grip on the emergingstar.

SED ON A TRUE STORY... I
UNFORTUNATELY


I

FROM THE BEST-SELLING BOOK
BY TUCKER MAX

I

IN THEATERS SEPTEMBER 25


0

6A- Friday, September 18, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

iB
Of SO :r
020
COUCH FOR SALE 8 ft long, 3 ft
wide. $35. Other assorted furniture for
sale also. 734-368-7459.

R E A LT Y

parking A
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing on Central Campus rates start at
$50 per month. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny ilthe
wiater.. (In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 50 steps tothe B
School. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1=5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
0esdu.2 oPizza s/ouSe
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.
917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Fully furnished 2
bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
gotiable and we'll help find a room-
mate. Call Varsity Management (734)
668-1 1010or
http://www.varsitywanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furrished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
APARTMENTS. 1 & 2 bdrm. Utilities
included. Free prkg. Near AATA down-
town and campus. Old west side. No
smoking, no pets. 734-426-7821.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101. -

1998 BMW 540. Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner. 734-
429-2850 or bcrider@aumich.edu
060
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furmished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !
6 to 12 bedrooms. Very close to
Campus. SIGN NOW for May 2010.
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370.
nancylatgumich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
http://www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdrm. fun. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
panty. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com

PRESE NTST HE
Online Classfed
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully frn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call'Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-1100 or
http://www.varsitymanagement.com
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to down-
town. Wsher/dryer in unit, $1000/mo.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
with full descriptions, features, and
prices
LG RM. SOUTH University. Short
walk to campus and CCRB. Prkg. 5
wonderful roommates. 269-352-9914.
GRAD STUDENTS & Professionals:
1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
ished, heat. watet,"parking included,
in unit washer/dryer avilale. CallVar-
sity Management for details (734) 668-
1100 or
http://www.varsitymanagement.con
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
Daily Classifieds:
serving the UofM
yOU'Ve community for
been hundreds upon
served hundreds or so
years.,
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. E-

tremely spacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air. Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealyco.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com

RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
ROOM FOR RENT on a horse farm.
20 miles from campus. $400/mo.
734-433-1057.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991
STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able for immediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Censtral Campas. Call 734-995-92110 er
stop by 616 Curch Street for more in-
formation.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min, walk. No Sept. rent.
Done the
Sudokuyet?

FUNDRAISE FOR THE Ul $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, conditions apply, no exp. nec.,
will train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforsttidents.com
PAID DISCUSSION $75. Non-choco-
late candy and mints. Sept. 22nd, 23rd,
24th. Please call 734-332-0241.
TENANT COUNSELOR WANTED.
Part time, 8-12 hr/wk, $12/hr, advise
tenants of basic rights and information.
Send resumes to psher@lsscm.org
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pab now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.

NEW SOCIAL NETWORK with
AMAZING Features--Get This...Self
destruct E-mail, Cool Games & Last
but not Least, earn a few dollars doing
nothing but what you do already.
http://www.ps101.info
Got 'em while they're freshten.
Ths won' haeimafnortnne

2,

17

4

4--

9
5

4
1

2
7

read the michigan
daily horoscope

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Agricultural 38 Couldn't make up 46 Link with
1 1988 tennis Grand worker one's mind 47 Philosopher who
Slam winner 5 State without proof 40 Belief in a non- was a pioneerof
5 Partnerof alas 6 Train maker in intervening God German idealism
10 "CityoflSeven the National Toy 41 Looking fatigued 50 Chanteuse Edith
Hills" Hall of Fame 42 Poe's"rare and 51 Shankar with a
14 Sitcom named for 7 Dirt bike radiant maiden" sitar
its countrystar relatives, briefly 43 Self-defense 52 Cyberzine
15 Supple 8 Friend of Fidel method 53 Pressures for
16 French state 9 Prefa i plunk 44 Family reunion payment
17 Cupid 10 Grain canter attendees 1111Batnerykbuyn
18 Hopetof one 11 Playful swimmer 45 Chalmers's 56 Cavs' and Mavs'
placing a 12 Computer business partner org.
personal ad? shortcut
20 Camera bag 13 Revolutionary ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
accessory Allen O[ T T S A X E.L.S E.STS
22 "Carmen," e.g. 19Traveler's haven W H I P M E DE A S P O T
23 uite large 21 Auto mechanicS LI R E O N E A T A T I M E
24 i n ionwrelativb NEW 3 C O N F E R E N C E
wrshiper? 25NewBalanterival O K D Y O N M E D A L
30 "... the two shall 26Falls behind R 0 0 F S T R A Y R T E
be __": "Wedding 27 Maui or Kauai O F F I C E P O O L W Y S S
Song" lyrics 28 Barrier at a zoo S O L I T A I R E
31 "SweetCaroline" 2Bignamein chips D E C K i N A D D I T I O N
ninger Diamond 32 Chicken _
32 Krazy of comics deep-fried dish A M 0 K E E L F 0 L L Y
35 Delighted 33Wood-shaping MUM BO E W E L D S
36 Former Alaska tool P L E A B A R G A I N I N G
Territorycapital 34Greenish blue M A S T E R C A R D C E O S
38 Bakedkbeans, e.g. 36 Navigatorsand O T T O T A B L E E S A I
39Collector'sgoal E Eplorers P E O N E S S E N S S T S
401 Ti : Mansolini 37 "Cool" rap artit?
41 Talk show host xwordeditor@aol.com 49/17/109
Gibbons 1 2 3 4 s 7 9 9 10 11 12 13
42 Knock a
motorcycle 13 15 16
daredevil flat? 1716 1
45 One you won't
find in afoxhole? 20 21 22
48 Prepares to shoot
49 Bank claims 4 24 25
50 Ready
54 Kid goingnuts 27 m
with building o 31 32 33 33
blocks?
57 Insolvent S&L 3s 39 37 30
company
58 Roman road 3941
59 Die down
60 Novelist Hunter a2 43 as
ei One and only 4s 46 37 38a
62 Hotel
conveniences 4I"50 l s152 s5
63 Archaeology
projects 64 5s 5657
DOWN T66seF 60
1 Austria's second 61 62 63
largest city
2 Sun _, Italy ByJack Mnturf s
3 Peek - c)209 Trbune MediaSerices,Inc. 09/18./09

080 d l
HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Introductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willew Run Airport. 734-781-565.
http://www.buzzardairservice.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization. format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or wrieonRiserv.net
help wanted
090
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
AA INTERNET FANTASY Sports
Co seeks student programmer. P/',
possible F/T Summer. Must know C,
Linux. supprt@onroto.com
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude Victoria's S type lingerie
photography. Flexible hrs, great pay.
Must be 18. For interview call:
734-678-4181.
AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.CO M

For Saturday, Sept. 19, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
You're keen to get organized! Think
about what you can buy or get a hold of
that will help you do a better job. After
all, you want great results!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Romance, vacations, playful activities
with children, the arts, sports and social
events all appeal now. Make sure you set
aside some time to have fun!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Home, family and 'your domestic
world continue to be your top priority.
Enjoy making your home more beautiful
and comfortable. After all, you have to
live there.
CANCER
(JTune 21 Ia July 22)
Short trips, increased activities with
siblings and relatives, reading, writing
and studying, plus many errands con-
tinue to keep you on the go! Get as much
done as you can.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Tidy up your money scene. Get on top
of your bills and figure out what you
earn and what you're spending. Take
charge of your life!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
The only New Moon in your sign all
year is taking place today. Do a reality
check about your appearance. Do a real-
ity check about your closest relation-
ships. (Don't kid yourself.)
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Work alone or behind the scenes so
that you have some private time to think
about what you want your new year to be
all about. Your new year is from birthday

0

to birthday.
SCORPIO
(Oct.23 to Nov. 21)
Increased popularity is supportive to
you now. You're enjoying talking to oth-
ers. Tell them about your dreams for the
future. Their feedback could be helpful!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs are
impressed with you, even if you don't do
anything special. Hey, make the most of
this!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Travel and an opportunity to learn
something new will appeal to you. Do
whatever you can to broaden your hori-
zons. At the very least, be a tourist in
your own city.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 21110 Feb. 18)
You're getting more serious about
things. You no longer want to skim along
on the surface of life. You want to "feel"
what you're thinking about. You're
unusually philosophical today.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Continue to think about how you can
improve partnerships and close friend-
ships. Instead of focusing on what is
wrong, focus on what is right!
YOU BORN TODAY You have a
tasteful air about you whether you try to
achieve this or not. In part, this is
because you appreciate beauty, and
you're interested in beauty. You like
beauty in your surroundings, and you
like diplomacy in your relationships. An
important choice this year will lead to
busy industry next year. You're going to
be doing something pretty big very soon!
Birthdate of: Kevin Zegers, actor;
Soledad O'Brien, journalist; Jeremy
Irons, actor.

2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for thelfirst issueand $1.75 per line for each additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequencyand Bulk contracts areavailable- contact our staff for details
" Studentsmay receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person witha
valid studentlID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
" All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, pleasecall onecof our Account Executives

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com r

Friday, September 18, 2009 - 7A

r REGENTS
From Page 1A
have never exceeded 4 percent. Last
year, Coleman accepted a pay raise
of 4 percent, a change from the year
before when she opted to donate a
3-percent increase back to University
graduate and professional programs.
In response to the performance
review,Colemanthankedtheregents
for their kind words and said that
many other people at the University
made the recent successes possible.
"I'm just grateful for their sup-
port," Coleman said of the regents
and executive officers. "Their sup-
port has meant everything to me."
NEW SAFETY SYSTEM
APPROVED
The regents approved $9 million
to replace manual locks in buildings
with electronic card readers. The
renovation is expected to increase
student and faculty safety by allow-
ing access to buildings during
potential lock-down emergencies.
The new electronic door locks are
also expected to cut down inefficien-
cies on campus. A central manage-
ment system will make it easier to
authorize users and to replace lost or
stolen keys, since keys will not need
to be redistributed to all key holders
when a building key is lost.
The upgrades to the buildings are
expectedtobecompleteinthespring
of 2011. University President Mary
Sue Coleman said she is enthusiastic
about the building access upgrades.
"I'm very excited about it," Cole-
man said. "I think it's a big step up
in safety."
Coleman said that as more
resources become available, addi-
tional upgrades will be made to
more buildings.
NCRC
From Page 1A
liscroft is leading the planning
process. Now that classes have
resumed, he said more faculty from
different departments are becom-
ing involved in the planning.
"It's a whole potpourri of things
that are being discussed by dif-
ferent committees," Woolliscroft
said.
Those committees have focused
on topics that range from perform-
ing research in the neurosciences,
drug discovery and health care
services to logistical needs like
food, transportation and informa-
tion technology services.
Woolliscroft said the com-
mittees are mostly determining
how to best organize the space to
strengthen collaboration between
faculty from different schools and
colleges.
"We really look at it as an oppor-
tunity to transform how we do
research - to really capitalize on
the tremendous breadth and depth
of expertise resident in the facul-
ty," he said.
Site planners are also exploring
ways of enhancing partnerships
with private companies, other uni-
versities and the government.
Additionally, the NCRC will
provide space for startup compa-
nies that evolve from University
research.
Throughout the last five years,
49 such businesses have emerged,
with more than 70 percent located
in Michigan.

"(The NCRC) gives us the
opportunity to experiment with
new models that we never had the
M luxury of doing before," Woollis-
croft said.

$34.7 MILLION IN
CONSTRUCTION APPROVED
At the University's Board of
Regents monthly meeting yester-
day, $34.7 million was approved
for renovations and construction
to the campus. The funding will
upgrade emergency power systems
and remodel existing space to cre-
ate an infusion suite at the Uni-
versity's Hospital, construct new
facilities at the Intercollegiate Soc-
cer Stadium and build new practice
facilities at Crisler Arena.
Regents approved $4 million
for renovations to the Hospital's
emergency power system. The
upgrade will include installa-
tion of electrical power trans-
fer switches and renovations to
approximately 3,400 gross square
feet. The construction project is
scheduled to be completed in the
fall of 2010.
A new infusion suite for the Hos-
pital was also approved and will
provide off-campus accommoda-
tions for adult, non-cancer patients.
The project will include 5,000 gross
square feet of renovations with 10
bays, a pharmacy, nursing stations
and office and support spaces. The
construction is scheduled to be
completed in the spring of 2010.
Regents also approved designs
for the Intercollegiate Soccer Sta-
dium. The 20,000-gross-square-
foot project includes construction
of restrooms, concessions, a press
area, locker rooms and grandstand
seating for 1, 800 spectators. The
construction is scheduled for com-
pletion in the fall of 2010.
The schematics for a two-story
basketball player development cen-
ter, to be built adjacent to Crisler
Arena, were also approved by the
regents. The addition will include
two basketball practice courts,

team locker rooms and areas for
athletic medicine and hydrother-
apy. It will cover approximately
57,000 gross square feet. Construc-
tion will be phased over two years
and will be completed in the fall of
2011. Approximately 150 parking
spaces will be displaced because of
the construction, however about 55
spaces will be available upon com-
pletion of the structure.
ALLEGATIONS OF ABUSE
MADE AGAINST DPS
During the public comment por-
tion of the University's Board of
Regents meeting yesterday, one
individual shared concerns about
the lack of oversight of the Univer-
sity's Department of Public Safety.
Douglas Smith, an alumnus ofthe
University, told regents the story
of Dr. Andrei Borisov - a former
research professor at the Univer-
sity who was acquitted of criminal
charges brought against him after
an incident with campus police.
Smith told regents that University
administrators were attempting to
cover up the incident, in which he
claimed Borisov was forced to resign
and was injured by University Police
in retaliation to allegations Borisov
had made about scientific fraud and
misconduct at the University.
Stephen Hipkiss, a member of
the Department of Public Safety
Oversight Committee, also spoke
to the regents about DPS, though
he argued the organization has
sufficient oversight and that there
is no need for immediate alarm.
In an interview after the meet-
ing, University President Mary Sue
Coleman declined to comment on
the situation regardingBorisov.
- Laura Brunner
contributed to this report.


Forrest said the NCRC will
improve Michigan's economy
through the startups and part-
nerships with private businesses
working with the faculty at the
research complex.
"Many companies depend on
commercializing the most recent
and most interesting new tech-
nologies, so if we can help com-
panies achieve market readiness
with a particular innovation, that's
a business, and that business will
help the economy," Forrest said.
One of the goals is to have stu-
dents participate at the site through
educational programs that will
include assisting scientists with
their studies.
"We very much anticipate that
it will be a warm and welcom-
ing environment for students,"
Pescovitz said. "I think it will be
a wonderful place for innovative
education to take place."
Although it will provide more
opportunities for students to par-
ticipate in research, the purchase
of the NCRC will hurt the city
of Ann Arbor by lowering its tax
base by 5 percent. The city previ-
ously received tax revenue from
Pfizer, but because the University
is a tax-exempt institution, it will
not be required to pay taxes to the
city.
In an article last December, Ann
Arbor Mayor John Hieftje told The
Michigan Daily that the city will
feel the impact of losing the tax
revenue.
"It'll be a serious hit. It'll be a
long time before the serious ben-
efits kick in," Hieftje told the Daily.
"On top of what's going on in the
economy, and then you have this
happen, it's going to make things.
that much harder."
Additionally, 2,100 people lost

their jobs when Pfizer closed the
site in November 2008. But the
University hopes to recover at least
some of those jobs by hiring 2,000
to 3,000 employees during the next
decade to fill faculty and staff posi-
tions.
So far, only 14 people have been
hired for security, building mainte-
nance and facility operations.
Faculty will begin occupying
office spaces and using laborato-
ries within the next few months.
However, officials do not expect
the facility to be fully populated
until 2018.
At this point, Pescovitz said
crews are still investigatingwheth-
er additional renovations are nec-
essary.
"Some of (the buildings) are
pretty much in working condition,
and some are going to need to be
renovated to meet our individual
needs," she said.
Even though the University is
the fifth largest research univer-
sity in the country, administration
and faculty hope the NCRC will
elevate the University's research
standing.
In the future, Pescovitz said she
anticipates large numbers of fac-
ulty and students will work side by
side at the site, pursuing common
goals.
"I would love to see the day
when we would have thousands
of very active people there doing
innovative research," she said.
But according to Woolliscroft,
there is still much to be done before
that day is reached.
"This is a story that's unfolding
as more people are involved, and
as more ideas come forward and
as more discussion occurs around
how best to really take advantage
of this opportunity," he said.


TRANSPORTATION
From Page 1A
venient area where people can easily
switch modes of transportation and
gain access to all areas of Ann Arbor.
City Transportation Manager Eli
Cooper said he is hopeful that Phase
1of the project willbe complete and
will accept travelers by mid-2012.
"In a broad sense, the goal is

to help lead this community as it
moves forward in the 21st cen-
tury," he said. "To attract people
here or go from here without using
a private automobile."
Ann Arbor resident, Ethel Potts,
who was at the open house last
night to learn more about FITS,
expressed some doubt about the
project, especially the new facil-
ity's potential location.
"I've had concerns all along

because it's down in the valley -
we value the valley," said Potts,
who says he has been living in Ann
Arbor "forever."
Steve Bean, who has lived in
Ann Arbor for 27 years, said he was
worried about future funding for
the project.
"We might just have a Phase
1 that is a parking structure and
that's it - we won't have money to
do the rest," he said.


FINANCIAL AID
From Page 1A
to 34 that has attained a post-
secondary education, according
to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development's
Education at a Glance 2008
report.
"No student in America should
have to mortgage their future to
get a good education," Miller wrote
in the release. "This legislation pro-
vides students and families with
the single largest investment in
federal student aid ever and makes
' landmark investments to improve
education for students of all ages -
and all without costing taxpayers a
dime."
The bill now goes to the Sen-
ate, where it faces a more difficult
battle, the bill's sponsors said on
a conference call ith reporters
Tuesday.

"Some people say it's going to
be more difficult in the Senate,"
Miller said on the call. "But I think
we're relying on students and oth-
ers to persuade the Senate that this
is the right thing to do."
He added: "And I think we're
going to be successful."
Miller said despite the struggle
in the Senate, he expects the leg-
islation to be on "the president's
desk before the holidays."
While the legislation is a histori-
cal overhaul of the higher educa-
tion aid system, it doesn't go as far
as some earlier proposals from the
president. Earlier this year, Obama
proposed making Pell Grants an
entitlement program similar to
Social Security or Medicare, which
would cost an estimated $117 bil-
lion.
But students shouldn't get too
excited, mostprobably won'tnotice
a large Iange in the aid they
receive.

Students generally go through
their schools to get aid, which use
subsidized loan programs more
often than direct government
loans. Last year private lenders
loaned $56 billion worth of aid to
6 million students, while only $14
billion came from direct govern-
ment loans.
The vote on the bill split largely
on party lines with only six Repub-
licans voting in favor and four
Democrats voting against.
Some Republicans expressed
concern that the measure will cost
the government more money than
it will save.
"Unfortunately, the numbers
just don't add up," Minnesota Rep.
John Kline, senior Republican on
the Education Committee told The
Associated Press.
- The Associated Press and
Daily News Editor Jillia Berman
contributed to this report.


0

8A - Friday, September 18, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0


r . r


STAFF PICKS
The Daily Football writers do their
best to predict what happens
in the 2009 football season.

Michael
Eisenstein

Ruth
Lincoln

Andy
Reid


Courtney
Ratkowiak

s


:;_

No. 25 Michigan (-24) vs. EMU
No.1 Florida (-29.5) vs. Tennessee
No. 2 Texas (-17.5) vs. Texas Tech
No. 3 USC (-20) at Washington
No. 4 Alabawa (-38) vs. North Texas
No. 5 Mississippi (NS) vs. SE Louisiana
No. 5 Penn State (-30) vs. Temple
No. 7 BYU (-26.5) vs. Florida State
No.8 California (-14) at Minnesota
No.9 LSU (-26.5) vs Louisiana-Lafayette
No.10 Boise St. (-7.5) at Fresno St
No.11 Ohio State (-20.5) at Toledo
No.12 Oklahoma (-17.5) vs. Tulsa
No.13 VA Tech (-5) vs. No.19 Nebraska
No. 14GA Tech (+5) at No. 20 Miami
No.15 TCU (-33.5) vs. Texas St.
No.16 Oklahoma St. (33) vs. Rice
No.17 Cincinnati (-1) at Oregon St.
No.18 Utah (+5) at Oregon
No. 22 Kansas (-22.5) vs. Duke
No. 23 Georgia (+1.5) at Arkansas
No. 24 UNC (-7.5) vs. E. Carolina
Last Week
Overall

Michigan
Tennessee
Texas Tech
Southern Cal
North Texas
Mississippi
Penn State
Florida State
California
LSU
Boise State
Ohio State
Oklahoma
Nebraska
Miami
Texas State
Rice
Cincinnati
Utah
Duke
Arkansas
North Carolina
13-9-0
29-14-0

Michigan
Florida
Texas Tech
Washington
North Texas
Mississippi
Penn State
BYU
Minnesota
Louisiana-Lafayette
Boise State
Ohio State
Tulsa
Nebraska
Miami
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Cincinnati
Utah
Kansas
Arkansas
North Carolina
13-9-0
27-16-0

Eastern Michigan
Florida
Texas
Washington
Alabama
Mississippi
Penn State
Florida State
California
LSU
Fresno St
Ohio State
Oklahoma
Nebraska
Georgia Tech
Texas State
Rice
Cincinnati
Oregon
Duke
Arkansas
North Carolina
14-8-0
27-16-0

Michigan
Florida
Texas
Southern Cal
Alabama
Mississippi
Penn State
BYU
California
LSU
Boise State
Toledo
Oklahoma
Nebraska
Miami
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Cincinnati
Utah
Duke
Georgia
North Carolina
10-12-0
21-22-0

Guest Picker:
Phil Rose
Eastern Michigan
Florida
Texas
Washington
North Texas
Mississippi
Penn State
BYU
Minnesota
LSU
Boise State
Ohio State
Oklahoma
Virginia Tech
Miami
Texas State
Oklahoma State
Cincinnati
Oregon
Kansas
Arkansas
North Carolina
12-10-0
26-17-0

0

I

_ ___I

I

I


To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail lincolnr@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.
uge, season-openng upset of Nebraska
has vaulted Michigan into upper echelon
Aft h bm

in
W
tarp
It v
MichiE
Rosen
of its
the be
zil. Th
week
volleyl
Junior
It w
verine
their
comin
all bu
second
Lexi Z
freshm
"I ti
really
tations
about
and wl
of doin
"Itv
else sa
"Th

per onet uteL Scar program to the next level," senior
program history, captain Megan Bower said.
The Wolverines (10-0) are cer-
olverines have a tainly on that path.
Michigan started the season
get on their backs ranked 16th, its highest preseason
ranking in program history after
back-to-back trips to the Sweet 16.
By RYAN KARTJE With higher national expecta-
Daily Sports Writer tions, Michigan's season opener
was the ultimate litmus test for
was the end of May, and the upcoming season - a rematch
gan volleyball coach Mark with Nebraska, the team that
gathered his team outside ended the Wolverines' season in
small bed and breakfast in three straight sets last December.
each town of Brzios, Bra- "Going into the match against
e Wolverines had spent the Nebraska, we knew from the
playing the best in Brazilian beginning by how we prepared
ball, including the Brazilian and how we played from point
National Team. one that we had a chance to beat
'as now dusk, and the Wol- this team," Zimmerman said.
s sat around the pool as Once again, the match only
focus turned to the forth- lasted three sets. But this time, a
g year. Michigan returned different team left the court vic-
it two players, including torious, and it rocked the college
i-team All-American setter volleyball landscape.
immerman and All-Big Ten "The Nebraska game shined a
san hitter Alex Hunt. big spotlight on us," Rosen said.
hink at that point, this team "The way we won: on national TV
started setting high expec- and everyone watching. You could
," Rosen said. "It was truly even hear it in the announcer's
what we saw in our team voice that they thought Nebraska
hat we felt we were capable was going to come back. But we
3g. just kept fighting. And then in the
wasn't about what everyone third game, we completely domi-
w in us." nated."
is team wants to take this Bower knew that the third set

was an important moment in the
Wolverines' short season, say-
ing it "broke a barrier" of being
hesitant toward embracing high
expectations.
"Walking away from the win,
we realized how good this team
could be," Bower said. "We can
beat good teams, and we can beat
up on top-5 caliber teams. We
could expect more out of our-
selves now."
Zimmerman said that last
year's seniors Beth Karpiak and
Kerry Hance, who played their
last collegiate match in the loss to
Nebraska, called her to congratu-
late her on the momentous win.
To receive those calls from
players who tried to elevate the
caliber of Michigan volleyball
for so long showed Zimmerman
that people truly "see where this
program is going" - in the right
direction.
A win on the national stage noti-
fied the nation that Michigan vol-
leyball posed a legitimate threat.
And now, the Wolverines have a
target on their back.
"Teams are really hungry to
play a team like (us)," Rosen said.
"We have something that they
want. And I've seen it this season
because these teams come out and
play like they have nothing to lose
when they come to play us."

The Wolverines are now ranked
sixth, the highest in school histo-
ry, which makes them the second-
highest ranked Big Ten school
prior to the conference season,
behind budding rival Penn State.
The Nittany Lions currently sit
atop the American Volleyball
Coaches Association rankings.
And it's no secret that Michigan
has circled Oct. 16 on the calen-
dar.
Penn State comes to Cliff Keen
Arena havingnotallowed the Wol-
verines to steal a set all last sea-
son. But the back-to-back National
Champions didn't lose many sets
last season.
"Whenever we're in practice,
we're saying things like, 'That's
not good enough to beat Penn
State,' " Zimmerman said. "We
understand where we need to be
for that, and I don't think we're
even there yet."
With high potential comes high
expectations, but when it comes to
having a target on their back, the
Wolverines wouldn't have it any
other way.
"Everybody really wants to beat
us," Bower said. "We looked at
it as an opportunity instead of a
burden. We want to see everyone's
best-game, so we can beat them at
their best."

4

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior Megan Bower and Michigan are ranked a program-best sixth in the nation.

I



Sister, sister! Bowery and Siebert
sisters square off on the soccer pitch
Amanda and Brianna pert. Klippert finished the play
with a goal.
Brianna has played in four
Bowery compete games for Oakland this season.
duri OaklandgameShe made her first career start
d O gam Sept. 6, when the Golden Griz-
zlies lost 2-0 to New Mexico.
By TIM ROHAN Amanda said shehopes she and
Daity Sporto Writer her sister, who are from Roches-
Witer Hills, can continue the family
With 19 minutes left to play, feud next year when Michigan
junior forward Amanda Bow- plays Oakland again.
Pvcwnfamiia far Ptr the

I

4

ery saw a ramiar race enter me
Michigan women's soccer game
Wednesday night against Oak-
land.
It was her younger sister, Bri-
anna Bowery.
Brianna is a freshman defender
for the Golden Grizzlies and was
forced to defend her sister on a
few occasions during the game.
Michigan defeated Oakland
3-0, and although the Wolver-
ines' victory was nearly in hand
when the younger Bowery came
into the game, it was still a spe-
cial moment for the Bowery fam-
ily.
"I was kind of nervous,"Aman-
da Bowery said. "It's just awk-
ward, because I want her to look
good. But I want to look good. So
it's hard."
Amanda assisted on the Wol-
verines' third goal before her
younger sister entered the game.
Freshman Holly Hein chipped
the ball from the left side of the
field to Bowery wlI headed it to
senior quad-captana Amy Klip-

The sibling rivalry theme will
continue when the Wolverines
(4-5) take on Miami (Fla.) Sunday
at 2 p.m. at the U-M Soccer Com-
plex.
Megan Siebert, the younger
sister of Michigan sophomore
Kim Siebert, is a freshman for
the Hurricanes. The Sieberts hail
from Troy.
Michigan coach Greg Ryan
was aware of Wednesday night's
clash of family members and he
said, "It should be fun," when
he talked about how the Sieberts
would be playing each other on
Sunday.
But Ryan knows the Wolver-
ines will have their hands full
with Miami.
"They're going to be a really
good team," Ryan said. "They're
in the top conference in the coun-
try, (an) AFC team. They're going
to be very talented."

i

4

junior Amanda Bowery can te4 sophomore Megan Siebert about sibling rivalry.


w w w w w w

.. _. _

s

W,

w

w

w



QAL
with EMU quarterback
Andy Schmitt
Name the one non-sports-related item you can't live
without - My car.
Perfect pregame meal - Some pasta, steak or chicken
and a potato.
Ideal superpower and why - Invisibility. For playing
football, you could sneak into practice and look at people's
gameplan. And on the field, no one would be able to take
you down.
What's a hidden talent - That's a tough one. Nothing
really pops up.
Most embarrassing football moment.- When we lost
last year to homecoming against Northern.
Worst school picture ever and describe it - Back in like
the sixth grade, I had a slick combover.
Biggest fear - I hate failure.
Favorite sports rivalry - Eastern Michigan and Central
Michigan.
Favorite class - Methods of Teaching of Individual Sport.
If we came to campus, we'd be most likely to find you
where? You could find me at the Convocation Center,
either getting treatment or watching game film.
What's the best option: Playoffs or BCS? Playoffs, I'd like
to see that.
Best meal you can cook by yourself - Stir fry or
pulled pork.
Favorite pro sports team - Tigers and Lions.
If you had three words to describe your coach, what
would they be? Intense, Passionate and detailed.
If you could only watch one movie for the rest of your
life, what would it be? Wedding Crashers.

PHOTO COURTESY OF EASTERN MICHIGAN ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT


U w w w w w


-v-

",W^

w- -Iqv

-W

v

w

I MWA l

September 19, 2009 Football Sa-tujrdav

WELCOME TO
THE SEASON
Unlike last season's Wisconsin game, Michigan's tri-
umphant, last-minute victory over Notre Dame feels like
it could be the springboard for a memorable season..
That is, if the Wolverines can avoid a monumental let-
down against Washtenaw County's other football team,
the Eastern Michigan Eagles. Although he's still a fresh-
man, Tate Forcier seems like he can get past the emo-.
tions of last week and focus on the Eagles. Plus, if the
Wolverines get a big enough lead, fans will be treated to
more of Denard Robinson's ridiculous athleticism in the
second half. That should be enough of an incentive for
Michigan to come out strong, right?
Michael Eisenstein - Ruth Lincoln
Courtney Ratkowiak - Andy Reid
HIGHLIGHTS
Roy Roundtree and Mike Shaw have played football
together since Pee-Wee. Find out how they wound up at
the same college.
7]Although Michigan and Eastern Michigan are in the
7 same county, these two teams are worlds different.
What's Eastern Michigan quarterback Andy Schmitt's most
awkward school picture? Biggest fear? Favorite class? Flip to
the back page to read our Q & A.

2009 MICHIGAN FOOTBALL SEASON
Sept. S Western Michigan: Before this win, it had been a while since Michigan
fans had anything to cheer about during the opening weekend.
Sept.12 Notre Dame: So charlie Weis doesn't like Big Ten officials. Boo hoo. Formal
complaints must be part of his "five-year internship" process or something.
t" ' Sept.19 Eastern Michigan: We expect former Michigan defensive coordinator Ron English, now
Eastern Michigan's head coach, to get a warm cheer from Wolverine fans. The Eagles, not so much.
Sept. 26 Indiana: Wait, what? Indiana still has a football team? We'll believe it when we see it.
Oct. 3 at Michigan State: Well, hey, Little Brother proved he's at least the
third best team in the state of Michigan this year. Watch out, Sparty - we
heard Detroit Country Day is fielding a pretty tough squad this year.
Oct. 10 at Iowa: Say what you will, Michigan fans, at least Iowa
pulled out a win in its close game with an FCS team.
Oct.17 Delaware State: As if Michigan students needed more motivation to
skip this game, the Athletic Department scheduled it during Fall Break.
Oct. 24 Penn State: There's only one college football coach in America that
leeks back fondly on the late Cretaceous Period - Joe Paterno.
s Oct. 31 at Illinois: The Fighting Illini are almost as lethargic as chief
Illiniwek, the school's mascot that was discontinued in 2007.
Nov. 7 Purdue: Think the Wolverines still have that hook-and-lateral on their minds?
Nov.14 at Wisconsin: Nothing beats a fall afternoon in Camp Randall - that is, of course, if
the Wisconsin Health services can nab that pesky H1N1 virus floating around. Madison.
Nov. 21 Ohio State: Remember when Matt Barkley led a game-winning drive on
you, Buckeyes? There's another freshman QB waiting for you on Nov. 21.

More thanjust miles
separate 'M' and EMU

MICHIGAN DEPTH CHART
VS.
EASTERN MICHIGAN

By ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editor
Only six miles separate Rynear-
son Stadium and the Big House,
second only to Rice and Houston
for the shortest distance between
two Division-I football programs
in the country.
Figuratively,
the two pro- t
grams couldn't
be farther apart. MihIgam
EasternMich- Matchup:
igan suffers from Eastern 0-2;
a lack of tradi- Michigan 2-0
tion, having When: Satur-
changed its nick- day 12 P.M.
name from the Where: Michi-
Normalites to gan Stadium
the Men of Ypsi
to the Hurons to TV: BTN
the Eagles over Blog: www.
the past cen- michigandaily.
tury. And as the com/the game
Western Mich-
igan-Central
Michigan battle thrives, the Eagles
are left stranded without a mar-
quee rival. Michigan is arguably
the most tradition-rich program in
the country, and its marquee rivals
go without saying.
Eastern Michigan suffers from a
lack of stability. They've had 40 all-
time coaches, including just two
that made it past the 10-year mark.
The Wolverines have had just 17
coaches in 130 years of collegiate
play, with famous names like Bo
Schembechler, Fielding Yost and
Lloyd Carr.
And, worst of all, Eastern Mich-
igan suffers form a lack of suc-
cess. The Eagles have won just 43
percent of their games all-time,
lost 37 since the beginning of the
2005 season and won just one Mid-
American Conference crown in the
program's history. Michigan is the
winningest program in the nation
and has claimed 42 conference
championships, 11 national cham-
pionships, three Heisman Trophy
winners and 150 All-Americans.
All signs point to a blowout, just .
like all eight previous meetings in
the Battle for Washtenaw county,
an epic - and somewhat sarcastic
- nickname for the game between
these two neighbors.
Even so, the Wolverines, after
their first 2-0 start since 2006, say
they aren't looking past the Eagles.
"Losing to Appalachian State
(in 2007) and Toledo (in 2008)
just makes us go into every game
regardless of who our opponent is,"

junior safety Troy Woolfolk said.
"We're going to go 100 percent,
because as you can see, you let your
guard down, a little bit, everyone's
good enough to come back. It's D-1,
and everybody's good."
The threat of a letdown always
looms after an emotional game,
and no game in Michigan recent
memory has been quite as emo-
tional and exciting as last week-
end's upset of rival Notre Dame.
To avoid disaster, Michigan coach
RichRodriguezhaspreachedtohis
young squad the necessity of prep-
ping as hard for Eastern Michigan
as it did for the Irish - every game
is the same.
First-year Eastern Michigan
coach Ron English, who spent the
2006 and 2007 season as Michi-
gan's defensive coordinator, has
the same mindset. The Eagles lost
to Northwestern last week 27-24,
will play Michigan on Saturday
and face lowly Temple next week.
English says he won't change his
coaching techniques for any of
them.
"As a player, I grew to really
dislike coaches who coached one
way one week and one way the
next week based on whatthey per-
ceived to be a bigger game than
another game," English said dur-
ing his Thursday press conference.
"So what we try to do is just stay
focused on being consistent.
"They're all big. And you only
get 13 chances to compete a year."
TheEagleshavestruggledtograsp
English's pro-style offense after exe-
cuting the spread fairly well under
former coach Jeff Genyk toward the
end of last season. If senior quarter-
back Andy Schmitt gets in a rhythm,
he can be dangerous, especially with
Michigan's documented concerns in
the secondary.
But with English's commitment
to the ground game, the Eagles
have managed just 165 passing
yards per game through their first
two games.
"They are playing with great
intensity," Rodriguez said. "You
can see that. Fundamentally, they
are blocking well, they are tackling
well. They obviously could have
won the last game (against North-
western). They lost on a field goal
in the last seconds,
"They are making improve-
ments. They made great improve-
ment from week one to week two in
several areas, and I'm sure they're
looking for the same progress this
week."

OFFENSE

QB
RB
FB

1. Forcier, Tate Freshman
2. Robinson, Denard Freshman
1Minor, Brandon Senior
2. Brown, Carlos Senior
1. Moundros, Marl Redshirt iunior
2. Grady, Kevin Fifth-year senior

W R 1. Mathews, GregSenior
2. Stonum, Darryl Sophomore
W R 1. Hemingway, Junior Redshirt sophomore
2. Savoy, LaTerryal Redshirt sophomore
LOT1.Odoms, Martavious Sophomore
2. Grady, Kelvin Redshirt sophomore
T E 1. Koger, Kevin Sophomore
2. Webb, Martell Junior

DEFENSE
E Hg esophomore
'j" Van Bergen, Ryan Redshirt sophomore
2. Banks, Greg Junior
1. Martin, Mike Sophomore
N Ti 2. Sagesse, RenaldoJunior
B 1. Roh, Craig Freshman
2. Herron,Brandon Redshirt sophomore
L B I. Ezeh, Obi Redshirt junior
2 Fitzgerald, J.B. Sophomore
W L .Mouton, Jonas Redshirt iunior
W L ac'Kevin Redshirt sophomore
1. Brown, Stevie Senior
2. Simmons, Floyd Redshirt freshman
LC' 1. Warren, Donovan Junior
2. Turner, J.T. Freshman
S 1.Woolfolk, Troy Junior
2Van Slyke, Jared Redshirt sophomore
S 1. Williams, Mike Redshirt sophomore
2.Kovacs, Jordan Redshirt freshman
1. Cissoko, Boubacar Sophomore
2. Floyd, J.T. Redshirt freshman

LT

1.Ortmann, Mark Fifth-year senior
2. Dorrestein, Perry Redshirt junior

- Like our pictures of
~Michigan football?
Get your own.

LG 1.Schilling, Steve Redshirt junior
2. Mealer, Elliot Redshirt freshman

C

1. Molk, David Redshirt sophomore
2. Khoury, Rocko Redshirt freshman

1.Ferrara, John Redshirt junior
2. Barnum, Ricky Redshirt freshman
RT 1. Huyge, Mark.Redshirt sophomore
2.Omameh, Patrick Sophomore

Commemorate the Wolverines' unforgettable
upset of Notre Dame by buying The
Michigan Daily's photos from the game.
Visit photo.michigandaily.com.

SPECIAL TEAMS
P

K

KR
1. Stonum, Darryl Sophomore
2. Odoms, Martavious Sophomore

1. Olesnavage, Jason Fifth-year senior 1. Mesko, Zoltan Fifth-year senior
2. Gibbons, Brendan Freshman 2. Wright, Bryan Redshirt junior

Note: Depth chart as predicted by Daily football writers.


T_.

w V


t

-W

-w

w

Football Saturcla Sep tember
19,20 09

TWO TOWNS
From page 5B
years in me."
At first, nostalgia seems to domi-
nate these Pee-Wee memories. But
Shaw and Roundtree's six years with
the, organization were far from kid
stuff. The coaches told Shaw's father,
Michael, that the only way the six-
year-old Shaw could start playing
for them was if his parents bought
him his own football equipment -
the team didn't have enough money
to provide for one more player.
Their league games were played
about an hour south, in the Cincin-
nati area. They traveled to games as
far away as Panama City, Fla., and
Atlanta, when the team competed
for national championships. Most
of the kids had never seen the beach
before, so Coach Carter showed
them the white, sandy beaches and
clear water.
Home games were daylong affairs
on Saturdays. Locals who had no
kids or relatives on the teams would
still stop by the games and pay to see
the Flames play. The crowd filled
both sidelines of the pot-holed field
as if the people were watching a Fri-
day night high school game in the
next suburb over.
"Around here, Pee-
Wee is like religious."
"Around here, Pee-Wee is like reli-
gious," Michael Shaw, Mike's father,
said. "Everybody takes it pretty
seriously and wants to go to a Super
Bowl and win a championship."
"To me, they were like profession-
als," said Sheila Roundtree, Roy's
mother.
They might as well have been,
with the intensity of their seasons.
Shaw and Roundtree played on sep-
arate teams, since Roundtree, eight
months older than Shaw, played one
age group ahead. They practiced
every weekday duringthe lastchalfof
summer and three days a week once
school started. Back then, the team
played in the coveted league Super
Bowl game for five straight years,
twice coming away with the golden
football trophy.
The kids learned how to play
physically and aggressively, with a
tenacity that allowed even the tiny
Roundtree to hit guys one-and-a-
half times his size while playing
offensive and defensive tackle. They
learned from their coaches that tim-
idness was unacceptable and tough-
ness was mandatory.
Shaw found that out when he was
about nine years old. On a routine
carry, askid from the other team ran
up to Shaw, wrenched the ball out of

his hands and ran to the other end
zone for a touchdown. Shaw started
to cry as his coach gave him an ear-
ful.
"Why'd you let him do that?"
the coach yelled. "You owe me two
touchdowns for that."
The Flames were losing at the
half. Shaw, done crying, suddenly
marched into the halftime huddle.
"They're gonna start paying for
all this dirt they did to us in the
first half," he angrily told his team.
"They're gonna pay. They're gonna
pay."
And Shaw meant it. He scored
four touchdowns in the second half
to help the Flames win the game,
leaving his parents and coaches to
marvel at how he turned his anger
into successful revenge.
"Football is not a powderpuff
sport," the 19-year-old Mike Shaw
now says, "and the coaches made
us tougher because they were on us.
They were hard. They got us ready."
TROTWOOD, OHIO -_
Listening to Maurice Douglasss
talk about the high school athletes
he coaches, you would almost think'
they were lazy.
"They live in this fake world
where their parents normally have
really good jobs and they have par-
ents who have been to college and
things like that, so they don't know
how to really work," said Douglass,
gesturing to his players as he stood
on the sideline of the Trotwood-
Madison High School practice field.
"They've never had to work for any-
thing."
That's why Coach Doug sees it as
his job to educate these kids, hold-
ing "in-school suspensions" where
he can teach them about issues they
haven't yet run into while living in'
this middle-class suburb.
"We're talking about girls today,"
he says, switching into lecture mode
as if he's talking to one of his play-
ers. "You want the girl that's in
the back of the classroom but she's
got a four-point average. We don't
want girls that have one-point aver-
ages but a great body. 'Cause she just
going to take your money in the end,
you know? So we want the girl who
doesn't look like the diamond right
now. She looks like a lump of coal.
But if we fine-tune her, she'll turn
into a diamond."
He's seenenoughofthereal world
to tell his kids how off-the-field
issues like girls, drugs or alcohol
can influence a young athlete. After
graduating from Trotwood High
School in 1982, Douglass played
defensive back at Kentucky and then
went on to play 11 NFL seasons with
the Chicago Bears and New York
Giants. And when that was all over,

They live in this fake world where their parents
normally have really good jobs and they have
parents who have been to college and things like
that, so they don't know how to really work."

he came back to where he started.
When Douglass began coaching
at Trotwood in 2001, he made it a
priority to transform the football
program. He worked for hours after
the team's practices so that he could
painstakingly patch together and
send out highlight tapes of his play-
ers, answer stacks of mail from col-
lege recruiters and take his athletes
on college tours. The offers started
rolling in, and so did the transfer
students - Trotwood-Madison had
one of the highest incomingtransfer
rates in the state as athletes flocked
him to play ball.
The results were obvious. Doug-
lass estimates Trotwood sent 97 kids
to play college football in sevenyears,
35 of them to Division-1 schools.
It was general knowledge around
Trotwood that if the kids took care
of their grades, Coach Doug would
help them get into college.
Meanwhile, Shaw was enrolled
in Archbishop Alter High School,
the private Catholic school that his
father, aunts and uncles had attend-
ed. It was big on tradition, and its
coaching was more by-the-book and
regimented than Douglass's laid-
back mentoring style. Shaw was a
star on the football team, and Alter
lost in the Ohio state championship
game by just one point when Shaw
was a junior. But as Shaw faced his
last high school season, he had yet
to receive even one college scholar-
ship offer. He felt like he was being
sold short.
Roundtree was attending Bel-
montHighSchool inthe city. During
the 2004-05 school year, when he
was a freshman, Belmont was classi-
fied as an "academic emergency" by
the state of Ohio. Over a quarter of
the students were considered to be
"students with disabilities", and the
school average on standardized tests
was over 50 percent lower than the
state benchmarks. The academics
were dismal and the football team
was just mediocre.
Both started looking around for a
better place to play ball. Roundtree
reached out, naturally, to his old
quarterback from the Flames - one
of his best friends, Domonick Britt,
the Trotwood-Madison quarter-
back who was already ge ting atten-
tion from Cincinnati and Jackson
State. Douglass was also interested
in Roundtree's ability, so the wide
receiver decided to make the jump.
Shaw looked at two other schools
besides Trotwood-Madison but
ultimately joined Roundtree and

Britt a few months later, in the sec-
ond semester of his junior year. The
Flames were together again, and
the scholarships started coming in
almost too fast to be true. Within
a month and a half of transferring,
Shaw had already received offers
from schools like Clemson and
Nebraska.
"To this day, I don'tget it," Shaw's
father, Michael,said. "I'mlike,'What
the - ? You haven't even stepped on
the field yet!' I don't know what the
difference is. I couldn't tell you. But
it's like night and day."
Shaw verbally committed to Penn
State and Roundtree to Purdue. But
on Signing Day, both had second
thoughts. While Shaw and his par-
ents were inside Douglass's office
late that morning, agonizing over
signing with the tradition-rich,
Joe Paterno-led Nittany Lions or a
Michigan team with a new, excit-
ing coach but an uncertain future,
Roundtree sidled past the office
wearing a maize-and-blue hat.
"Roy's going to Michigan!" Shaw
told his parents, shocked. He chose
the Wolverines a few hours later.
The two joined their Trotwood-
Madison teammate Brandon
Moore, who had never wavered
from his original commitment to
Michigan a year before he signed.
Roundtree likes to joke now
that he played a big part in Shaw's
last-second decision, but the wide
receiver's own last-minute college
switch ended up generating the
largest buzz. It prompted slighted
Purdue coach Joe Tiller to infa-
mously comment that Rodriguez
was a "guy in a wizard hat sell-
ing snake oil," luring players like
Roundtree from places they had
originally committed.
But Coach Douglass was con-
victed of peddling some snake oil
of his own just as the boys were
poised to graduate from high
school. Neighboring high school
players and coaches accused Trot-
wood-Madison of illegally recruit-
ing their best athletes. The Dayton
Meadowdale High School coach
accused Douglass of improperly
recruiting Shaw in particular, tell-
ing the Dayton Daily News in 2007
that the idea that Shaw would have
decided on his own to leave the suc-
cessful Alter team for Trotwood-
Madison was "off-the-wall stuff".
The Ohio High School Athletic
Association investigated the alle-
gations and found that Douglass
and his staff had persuaded stu-

dents to switch teams, and that
some of the transferred students
had never actually moved into the
district. Douglass was suspended
from coaching for three weeks in
2008, and his offensive coordina-
tor stepped down. The program
received two years' probation.
But by then, Roundtree and Shaw
were gone, preparing with Moore
for a new life in Ann Arbor.
It didn't take long for their new
team to have problems, too. Com-
pared to their past football families,
the Wolverines were more imper-
sonal and their flaws much more
exposed. Some of Shaw, Roundtree
and Moore's new teammates didn't
buy into Rich Rodriguez's vision
of the brand-new spread offense.
Roundtree and Moore were red-
shirted. Shaw scored the Wolver-
ines' first touchdown in their first
game of the year, but struggled
with the rest of the team during the
remainder of the 3-9 season.
As the Michigan "family" started
to fall apart, Coach Douglass called
the three every couple of weeks to
tell them to keep their heads up -
and, in typical big-brother fashion,
to makesure they didn't get mixed
up in things they shouldn't.
"'How's school going? How are
you dealing with being a scout team
guy?' " Douglass said, recounting a
typical conversation."That freshman
year, that redshirt year was a tough
year for those guys. And then Mike,
him getting a chance to play and him
fumbling the ball a couple times, his
self-esteem was getting low."
In that unfamiliar situation, play-
ing for a losingteam in a town three
and a half hours north of home, high
school teammates Shaw, Roundtree
and Moore stuck with what they
knew - each other. They signed
an apartment lease together for
sophomore year because they knew
exactly what they were getting
themselves into.
The night before this year's spring
game, the first chance for Round-
tree to showcase his talent in front
of a large audience in Ann Arbor, he
told Shaw that he really wanted to
come out strong the next day. Shaw
told him, "You can doit. We've been
doing it since first grade."
Thenextday,infrontoftheo,000
spring-game watchers, Roundtree
scored two touchdowns. Sure, it
was only the spring game. But one
of those routes he ran was the exact
same he had run in Trotwood-Mad-
ison's spread offense. Coach Doug
was in attendance and immediately
recognized Roundtree's play.
A juke to the inside, past the safe-
ty, running in the end zone to catch a
50-yard bomb..
He had been taught well.

Breakdown: Blue just too powerful for EMU

By RUTH LINCOLN
and ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editors
It may be easy to overlook East-
ern Michigan. But if the last two
weeks have taught us anything,
it's tough to bounce back from an
early-season marquee matchup.
After a close loss to Miami, Flor-
ida State limped to a 19-9 snoozer
against an FCS school last week-
end. Oklahoma State beat Georgia
in one of the Pokes' biggest wins
ever - only to be embarrassed by
high-powered Houston the next
week. And Colorado, after a heart-
breaking loss to rival Colorado
State, was run out of Toledo by the
Rockets.
Now, it's Michigan's turn.
Following the biggest win of the
Rich Rodriguez era, the Wolver-
ines have to refocus this weekend
to hold off an Eastern Michigan
squad led by former Michigan
defensive coordinator Ron Eng-
lish.
With a young roster and depth
concerns at some key areas, let's
see if the Wolverines have itin
them to avoid an upset and build
on their early-season momentum.
MICHIGAN PASSING OFFENSE
VS. EASTERN MICHIGAN
PASSING DEFENSE
A quick look at the Eagles' sea-
son stat sheet raises a huge red
flag for freshman quarterback
Tate Forcier. Washtenaw County's
other Division-I football team
is giving up just 83 yards a game
through the air, good for fifth in
the NCAA.
Wait - hold your horses.
First off, Eastern's first game
was against the triple-option
attack of Army, who compiled a
dismal eight yards passing. Not
because the Eagles were such
defensive stalwarts, but because
the Academy attempted just five
throws.
And last week, the Eagles faced
Northwestern quarterback Mike
Kafka, who relies much more on
his dangerous legs than his subpar
arm.
Forcier can use his legs to
manipulate the passing attack, and
his collection of lightning-fast,
talented receivers will present a
whole new ballgame. Expect the
Eagles' overrated passing 'D' stats
to be exposed ina big way.
Edge: Michigan
MICHIGAN RUSHING OFFENSE
VS. EASTERN MICHIGAN
RUSHING DEFENSE
The Eagles have allowed almost
500 yards rushing through two
games. Now they're lining up
against Brandon Minor. And Car-
los Brown. And Mike Shaw. And
Vincent Smith, Denard Robinson
and Forcier.

Freshman Tate Forcier has surprised everyone - except himself, apparently - with his quick 2-0 start as Michigan's starting quarterback.

That's a bundle of rushingweap-
ons to handle for s team that hasn't
shown the slightest ability to slow
down the ground game thus far
this season.
What makes things worse
for the Eagles is that they were
completely baffled by Army's
option attack, letting the Knights
accumulate 300 rushing yards.
Although there are a lot of big dif-
ferences between a triple option
like Army's and the spread option
that Rodriguez employs, the basic
concepts are the same.
Michigan is going to score a lot

For cornerbacks Donovan War-
ren and Boubacar Cissoko, the
thought of covering Eagles' wide
receiver Jacory Stone should bring
a sign of relief.
Sure, Stone has been Schmitt's
favorite target for the good portion
of their four years together. And 15
catches for 158 yards through two
contests isn't bad either. But after
covering Michael Floyd and Golden
Tate last week, Stone and company
will seem like gravy for Warren
and Cissoko.
Edge: Michigan

of points - throug
the ground.
MICHIGAN PASS
VS. EASTERN
PASSINGC
He's not the ferc
er Jimmy Clausen
quarterback Andy
carry a similar "I
sign.
The senior has a
set the national re
for single-game p
when he put up 58c
igan. His 2,644 yar
downs last season
think Eastern woi
better team.

h the air and on MICHIGAN RUSHING DEFENSE
VS. EASTERN MICHIGAN
Edge: Michigan RUSHING OFFENSE
Junior running back Dwayne
SING DEFENSE Priest put up a career-bestl127 rush-
MICHIGAN ing yards on 17 carries last week
DFFENSE in Evanston. Priest might take off
ocious Rottweil- once or twice, but don't expect any
was, but Eagles' breakout, jaw-dropping Eastern
Schmitt could Michigan runs.
Beware of Dog" .The Michigan defense needs to
redeem itself after allowing 154
tireless arm and rushingyards onthe ground against
'cord last season Notre Dame last week. The Eagles
ass completions look like the perfect rebound team.
on Central Mich- Despite returning four full-time
'ds and 15 touch- starters, the Eagles' offensive line
would make you leaves much to be desired. Want
uld have been a proof? Against Air Force, Schmitt
was sacked six times. And that was

to a Falcons team'
Jack Paulson, who<
last season.
Defensive end B
must -be livid he
anyone yet. This
week.
SPECIAL'
Yeah, Zoltan N
punted by Tate Fo
Yeah, Michigan mi
goal (from a toughe
might expect, I mi
But the special t
fold better than la
despite one bad p
Irish, is still one of
in the country. Ar
competition in the
the placekicker sit
itself out.
It's the return g
such dramatic lea
transforming from
gest weakness to a1
"Last year, we
catch the kick from
ber," Rodriguez s
happy to catch a kic
it seemed like."
Darryl Stonum
just catch the ball
against Notre- Dar
93-yard kick retut

randon Graham INTANGIBLES:
hasn't flattened The Wolverines have a chance to
should be his match their win total from a season
ago. And in a year when so many
Edge: Michigan expected them to be "down," isn't
that enough to play for?
TEAMS Last week's win against Notre
Aesko was out- Dame redeemed the Wolverines in
ircier last week. ways, but to match last year's win
ssed a short field total just 14 days into the 2009 sea-
er angle than you son would be numerically satisfy-
ght add). ing.
eams unit is ten- The Eagles are coming off a tight
st year's. Mesko, three-point loss in Evanston, which
unt against the could be deemed as some sort of
the best punters moral victory given their dreadful
nd with healthy past. But can the Eagles play that
e kicking game, well for two straight games? For
uation will work a mediocre MAC team to nearly
upset two Big Ten ' contenders,
sie that's made there has to be something funny
ps and bounds, in the Washtenaw County water
the team's big- supply.
huge strength. Play-by-play man Matt Shep-
couldn't even herd is in the booth for the Eagles
what I remem- this fall. You may remember Shep-
aid. ."We were herd's deep baritone as the voice of
ck and fall down, Michigan basketball. Advantage?
Only if you're lame enough to go to
definitely didn't tomorrow's game.
1 and fall down Edge: Michigan

which graduated
added nine sacks

down in the second quarter.
Edge: Michigan

me, racing to a
rn for a touch-

Score: Michigan wins 34-7




__

w

_1w

low

_'

--w

w


By Courtney Ratkowiak ! Daily Sports Editor
Photos by Ariel Bond I Daily StaffPhotographer

DAYTON, OHIO -
We're a movin'on up,
To the east side.
To a de - luxe apartment
In the sky -
Movin'on up
To the east side,
Wefinally got apiece of the pie.
oach Daryl McCleskey leans out of the
driver's-side window of his white con-
version van, casually referencing "The
Jeffersons" theme song as hetalks about
his Pee-Wee football team. He is parked on the
Hickorydale Elementary School field, which has
looked the same for years even though the school
itself was torn down long ago. The Pee-Wee Day-
ton Flames play in ragtag practice jerseys, the
eight- and nine-year-old kids hollering as they hit
each other. A tinny song blares from the speak-
ers of a nearby beat-up ice cream truck, and an
orange water cooler rests on the hood of a rusted
pickup truck parked next to the team.
Movin' on up in Dayton actually means mov-
ing about 15 minutes northwest. Turn left on
Shiloh Springs Road and you suddenly find your-
self driving through the middle-to-lower class,
predominantly black suburb of Trotwood, Ohio,
with cornfields and tall grass hugging both sides
of the street. Speed down another little two-lane
country road and there's nothing more to see
until a sprawling high school comes into view,

complete with a brand-new football stadium that
would makea small college team envious.
That highschool and that city are a step up the
ladder, a place you can go to sleep at night with
peace of mind, McCleskey says. But he almost
resents that.
"A lot of blacks moved to Trotwood when they
were successful in their lives," he says. "They
were more well off than the kids right here in
Dayton, and they acted like it out there. A little
more uppity."
His bitterness stems fromthe way people treat-
ed the Dayton Flames. He's quick to praise the
accomplishments of his underdog team, boasting
about its last Pee-Wee Super Bowl championship
like a proud parent. But he says that much of the
city's best athletes left to go play in the suburbs,
and Trotwood stole the glory after Dayton coach-
es developed the kids' talent.
The fact is, Roy Roundtree and Mike Shaw
wouldn't be playing for Michigan today if they
hadn't experienced the best of both cities. They
played for the Flames from the first grade to
junior high. Soon after, both moved to Trotwood
in order to play at Trotwood-Madison High
School, a known college football factory led by
a coach whose charismatic mentoring charmed
nearly everyone in - and who wished they were
in - the Trotwood-Madison family.
"Family" is a word they use liberally in both
Dayton and Trotwood, a common thread that
stretches through the entire area's tight-knit
football community. The Dayton Flames coach-
es were like Roundtree and Shaw's fathers, and
Trotwood-Madison coach Maurice Douglass
might as well have been the boys' big brother.
Candidness and closeness were the norm - the
players were "all in" without ever needing to coin

it as a team slogan.
Roundtree and Shaw may have kept movin' on
up all the way to Ann Arbor, but they still remem-
bered exactly where they came from.
Mike Shaw still watches the videotape almost
every time he comes back home. It's of a seven-
or eight-year-old Roy Roundtree, running a go
route during a Flames football practice. Round-
tree is so intent on trying to catch the ball that he
doesn't notice the coach's burgundy van in front
of him, and he runs into the back of it, falling to
the ground. After a second, he jumps up, the foot-
ball still in his hand after a perfect catch. "I got it!
I got it!" he squeals.
Brian Carter, Roundtree's former Pee-Wee
coach, has a basement full of old trophies and
photos. In one of those photos is Roundtree on the
day he showed up to a game with his face covered
in bright white face powder, his eyes blacked out
and paint covering his arms. It was Halloween,
and he played football that day wearing full skull
makeup and his orange Flames uniform.
As a freshman in high school, when Roundtree
was named the Dayton Daily News' Athlete of
the Week, the wide receiver talked in an inter-
view about how his on- and off-the-field Pee-Wee
experience had shaped him more than his experi-
ence in junior high or high school ever could.
"I had to pull over and get myself together
when I read that article," Carter said, shaking
his head. "Because it really touched me. When
you run an organization like this, you get kind of
burned out. And that article put about 10 more
See TWO TOWNS, Page 6B

TOP: Dayton Flames Pee-Wee players run to
the water cooler to get a break during a sum-
mer practice. NEAR LEFT: Trotwood-Madison
High School coach Maurice Douglass talks to his
players. MIDDLE LEFT: Dayton Flames players
walk past the Hickorydale Elementary School
practice field. FAR LEFT: Sophomore running
back Michael Shaw, redshirt freshman tight end
Brandon Moore and redshirt freshman wide
receiver Roy Roundtree grew up in the Dayton
area, graduated from Trotwood-Madison High
School and now live together in Ann Arbor.


