T wlJ8tjjV O

14be cLiigan4 hili,

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, March 11,2009

michigandaily.com

TOP OF THE TOWER

THE ECONOMICS OF EDUCATION
Obama ups
credit, loans
for students.

SAM WOLSON/Doily
Prof. Steven Bali performs the carillon on the 11th floor of the Burton Memorial Tower yesterday. Each weekday, a musician - either a student or professor -gives carillon
performances from the bell towers on both North Campus and Central Campus starting at noon. Anyone can travel to the bell tower for the free concert. Burton Memorial
Tower contains 55 bells, including North America's third-heaviest bell.
HOLLYWOOD ON CAMPUS
 launches new ilmoffice

In b
p
fed(
for I
For
loans a
college
financi
increas
private
recent
To
sibility
credit
Obama
expans
loan p
budget
Feb. 26
The
erated
educat
by the'
"A I
should
of col]
ing to
Ameri
ensure
not on
lege, b
obtain
The
the Ft

)udget proposal, gram from $1billion to $6 billion
per year. The number of colleges
resident frees and universities participating in
the program would increase from
oral funds to pay 1,800 to 4,400. The University of
Michigan already takes part in the
higher education Perkins Loan Program.
Mike Boulus, executive direc-
By NICOLE ABER tor of the Presidents Council State
DgilyStaffReporter Universities of Michigan, said the
increase in direct -federal loans
students dependent on will be more beneficial for stu-
tnd lines of credit to pay for dents than loans currently offered
, a lockdown on the nation's by banks and private companies
ial markets has made it facing crises during the current
singly difficult to access economic downturn.
funding for education in "The more money available
months. for loans and grants, the greater
maintain college acres- opportunities students will have
in light of the country's because the more federal dollars
problems, President Barack available, guaranteed fromrthe fed-
a has laid out plans for an eral government, the less students
sion to federal grant and will have to rely on private loans
rograms in his proposed which are becoming very, very
presented to Congress on scarce right now," Boulus said.
5. Terry Stanton, public informa-
Obama administration reit- tion officer for Student Financial
its commitment to higher Services at the Michigan Depart-
ion in a statement released ment of Treasury, also said the
White House yesterday. increase in federal loans is impor-
ack of financial resources tant during the current time, as
never obstruct the promise banks and private lenders struggle
lege opportunity," accord- to generate capital.
the statement. "And it's "There were anumber offinancial
ca's shared responsibility to institutions issuing student loans,
that more of our students and a number of states wrapped up
ly reach the doors of col- intheir programs orsuspended pro-
ut also persist, succeed, and grams, Michigan included, because
their degree." of the credit crunch," he said. "The
budget proposes to expand federal government stepped in to
ederal Perkins Loan Pro- See BUDGET, Page 7A

With producers
calling, office will
coordinate bids to
film on campus
By ERIK TORENBERG
For the Daily
The glitz and glamour of Holly-
wood is starting to shine in Michi-
gan thanks to tax incentives from
the state for the film industry, and

University officials say they're
ready to put the campus in the spot-
light.
University officials recently
announced the formation of a film
office to coordinate movies being
filmed on campus. Demand for
access to the University for filming
has increased since Gov. Jennifer
Granholm signed legislation offering
about a' 40-percent refundable tax
credit for movie productions spend-
ing at least $50,000 in Michigan.
To complement the state's
efforts, the University is looking

to help film studios by allowing
them to film on campus. However,
Lee Doyle, who heads the new film
office, said she doesn't expect the
University to make much of a profit
off filming.
"The University is a nonprofit
entity so we have to be mindful that
we're not in it for profit for every-
thing we do," she said.
Doyle said that while the Uni-
versity isn't in it for the money, it
will have the costs associated with
filming on campus covered by film
producers.

Instead of concentrating on prof-
its, the office is focusing on attract-
ing film producers by building a
strong reputation for Ann Arbor
as a great place to make movies
and portraying the University as a
strong partner to the industry.
"The state of Michigan is trying
to get a foothold in a new industry,
so part of the important work for
that to happen is that filmmakers
have to come here, like it, and then
tell their friends," Doyle said.
Doyle said the impetus for the
See FILM OFFICE, Page 7A


COMMUNITY SERVICE
University lands top-ten spot
in ONE Campaign Challenge

MSA votes to support
Stop the Hike initiative

School that wins
final round receives
a free concert by
Vampire Weekend
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
The indie-rock band Vampire
Weekend is providing an extra
incentive for college across the
country competing in the ONE
Campaign Challenge.

The band could perform a free
show on campus in mid-April if the
the University's chapter of the ONE
Campaign wins the competition.
The ONE Campaign is a non-profit
organization focused on ending
global AIDS and poverty. The Uni-
versity's chapter is currently among
the top 10 competitors.
The ONE Campus Challenge is
a competition in which college stu-
dents across the country attempt to
raise awareness of extreme poverty
and preventable diseases.
In the first round of the pro-
gram, the organization's national

headquarters gave each of the
thousands of competing schools a
weekly challenge, like calling as
many congressmen as possible a d
planning an event for World AIS
Day. The top 10 schools accumu-
lated the most points from winning
these challenges.
Each of the top 10 schools will
receive a $1,000 grant from the
group's national headquarters to
be used toward an event to raise
awareness on campus.
The grants will be used to "build
a project, program or event that
See ONE CAMPAIGN, Page 7A

DISCUSSING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
Nobel winner to speak on campus

Campaign calls on
'U' to freeze tuition
rate if state funding
remains constant
By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Student Assem-
bly passed a resolution at its week-
ly meeting last night that supports
the efforts of Stop the Hike, an
initiative that aims to help keep
tuition affordable for University
students.
Members of the initiative are
calling on the University to freeze
tuition, but only if the University's
funding from the state remains
constant.
Engineering senior Ashwin
Lalendran, who is working on the
initiative, said the group formed
after students discussed their
personal experiences with rising
tuition and explored possible solu-
tions to the problem.
"It started with informal dis-
cussions, with personal stories of
students in general in the current
economy and the understanding
of both sides: the University's side
and the state's side, the belief that
students can propose a solution,"
he said.
The group began the campaign
by formulating a survey to evaluate
student perspectives on a tuition

Economist Heckman
will talk about
adversity's impact on
children's growth
By CAITLIN SCHNEIDER
Daily News Editor
Economist and Nobel Prize
winner James Heckman will
speak about "The Economics
and Psychology of Inequality and
Human Development," on campus
tomorrow.

Heckman, a professor at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, will speak in the
Pendleton Room of the Michigan
Union at 3:30 p.m.
According to a press release,
Heckman's lecture will center on
recent research regarding the "eco-
nomics of human development."
Specifically, he will talk about how
inequalities within the family unit
and investments in children can
affect the development of a child
and how "optimal child investment
strategies differ depending on tar-
get outcomes of interest and on the
nature of adversity in a child's early
years." These strategies, according

to Heckman's research, can be used
to aid children's success.
The lecture is part of a two-day
conference called "The Long Run
Impact of Early Life Events II"
featuring economists, social epide-
miologists and developmental psy-
chologists.
Heckman won the Nobel Prize
for Economics in 2000 for his
development of a theory and meth-
ods regarding the analysis of selec-
tive samples. He has also been the
recipient of the John Bates Clark
Award of the American Econom-
ic Association in 1983, the 2005
See ECONOMIST, Page 7A

JED MOCH/Daily ,
Aria Everts, a student advocate for 'Stop the Hike' - an initiative to prevent tuition
increases at the University - addresses the Michigan Student Assembly last night.

freeze. It can be found at tinyurl.
com/stopthehike.
Though the initiative is unaf-
filiated with MSA or any other
student group, its participants said
they are looking for the support
of different student organizations
like the Interfraternity Council,
the Residence Hall Association
and LSA Student Government.
Lalendran said the best way'to
get the tuition freeze implement-
ed is by "approaching the student
governments, leveraging that
infrastructure and presenting one

unified voice to stand in solidar-
ity."
"And that's basically what we're
doing," he said.
Business Rep. Alex Serwer, who
is working on the initiative and
sponsored MSA'sresolutiontosup-
port it, said Stop the Hike wants to
implement plans that will not only
aid current University students,
but future ones as well.
"We need to create asustainable
infrastructure where people can
carry our torch into next year," he
See MSA, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 32
TOMORROW LO:16

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsddmichigandailv.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Michigan athletes taking home the hardware.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIIANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS ..............
Vol CXIX,No106 OPINION.........
'2009 The Michigan Daily ARTS...............
michigandailycom

............2A CLASSIFIEDS ......................6A
.4A SPORTS.. . ..A.........8A
..SE........5TA STATEM ENT.........................1B

..


0

2A - Wednesday, March 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Characters ExplainedBefore You Were Here Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0008
graa@michigandaily.eem bugli@michigandailyecom

Purposeful posting wall

Walking through cam-
pus, students are bound
to run into multiple con-'
crete cylinders covered
with bright-colored fli-
ers for everything from
concerts to fundraisers.
These structures, known
as kiosks, provide student
organizations with a per-
fect space to disseminate
information - but do they
serve another purpose?
The kiosks function
as more than just a post-
ing wall. According to
University Planner Sue
Gott, the kiosks provide
ventilation for a system
of underground tunnels
that connect Central
Campus to the Medical
School. The tunnels con-
tain pipes that carry hot
CRIME NOTES

water and steam to all
campus buildings.
Gott said that while
vents located closer to
the ground could have
been used to ventilate the
tunnels, they would have
blown away passersby
by directing air onto
walkways. The kiosks
eliminate this problem by
aiming air above people
on the sidewalks.
"(The kiosks provide)
a return for air, directing
air above where people
are walking," Gott said.
But Gott added that the
space the kiosks provide
for posting flyers is one
of their greatest assets.
With their large sur-
face areas and locations
near heavily trafficked

walkways, the kiosks
serve the dual purpose
of providing people with
a place for hanging fly-
ers and preventing them
from hanging informa-
tion on telephone and
light poles.
"They are kiosks that
function for people to
pin information on," Gott
said. "(They offer a) way
to keep people from post-
ing on light poles."
Kiosks are available
to all students for post-
ing, and no permission is
required for hanging fly-
ers. Maintenance of the
kiosks is fairly simple,
involving the removal
of all flyers at the end of
each semester.
- SARAH ZAWACKI

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom c
News Tips
Corrections
letterstothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

officehoursSun.-Thurs. IIa.m. - 2a.n.
snews@nihigsidaiy.eem
corectios@ihigadaiy.com
tothedaily@michiandaiy.com
photo@miehigandaily.com
arts@michigandailyecom
opinion@michiandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigasdailyeenm
onlineads@michigandaily.cem
finanemichigandaiy.com

These cylinder blocks seen across campus function as a ventilation system for a series of
intricate underground tunnels.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Hospital patient Truck hits pipe Talk on Jewish
punches nurse in carport prostitution

WHERE: Mott's Children's
Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about 3:30
p.m.
WHAT: A patient punched a
nurse while being treated at
the hospital, University Police
reported. The nurse suffered

WHERE: Fletcher Carport
WHEN: Monday atcabout 12:35
p.m.
WHAT: A truck hita low hang-
ing pipe causing damage to the
roof of the car, University Police
reported.

WHAT: Claire Solomon from
Washington University in St
Louis will give a talk on the
role of race in Jewish prostitu-
tion in Latin America.
WHO: Insitute for Research
on Women and Gender
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.

. WHERE: Room 2239, Lane
minor injuries. Subject steals Hall
Student injured gym shoes, car Lecture on
at CCRB keys from CCRB kids in the UK

Science cafe
WHAT: Physics Prof. Timo-
thy McKay will give a presen-
tation on dark energy.
WHO: Universe Theme
Semester
WHEN: Tonight at 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Conor O'Neill's
Traditional Irish Pub
CORRECTIONS
. An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (A
Lifetime of Achievement)
misidentified the group that
gave Prof. Ralph Williams
the Lifetime Achievement
Award. The Undergradu-
ate English Association
presented the award to Wil-
liams.
" A viewpoint in yester-
day's edition of the Daily
(Tuition increases must end)
misidentified the University
of Michigan Engineering
Council.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

At a Navy Federal Credit
Union bank in Maryland, a
Muslim woman was asked
to leave because the head scarf
she was wearing violated one
of the institution's policies of
"no hats, hoods or sunglasses,"
the Washington Post report-
ed. The Council on American-
Islamic Relations reported
that two Muslim women in
California were also refused
service for the same reasons.
Smithwick's, a red ale
pronounced "Smid-
dicks", was first brewed
in a 14th century monastery.
"FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
PAGE 6B
3A crossing guard at Mel-
bourne Australia's Deer
Park North School was
banned from high-fiing the
students and parents as they
cross, the Brimbank Leader
Newspaper reported. There had
been complaints about "physi-
cal contact with the children."

EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneytRatkowiak ManagingEdior ratkowiak@michigandaiy.com
Jacob SMiloVitZManagingNewsEditora smilovitz@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Catero, Caitlin Schneider,
Lindy Stevens
ASsSTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
RobertSoave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shuter
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Dan Feldman, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASISAN POTSEDTRS: Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
Alex Proseri, CotRoeneig
David Watnick Managing Arts Editor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:JamieBlock,BrandonConradis,WhitneyPow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS:Said Alsalah, ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak, RobMigrin,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaity.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@nichigandaity.com
DaVid Merian MultimediaEditor merian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copyChieft mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
MichaelSchrotenboer DisplayAdvertisingsales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, ChristiePhillips
Ryan Businski classified Sales Manager
Classified Sales Assistant Manager:Alison Thomas
Marissa Gerber OnlineesalesManager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Michigan Daily(IssN0745-967)ispublished Mondaythrough Friday duringthefalandwinter
termsbystudentsattheUniversityof Michigan.One copyisavalablefreeof chargetoallireaders.
AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupattheDaly'sofficefor2.Subscriptions forfallandwinterterm
(SeptemberthroughApril)via U.s.malaret$200.Year-roundsubscriptions(Fall,Winter,springand
summer issues)are225.Subscriptions must be prepaid. The Michigan ally is a member of The
AssociatedPresass ociated Collegiate Press.

WHERE: Central Campus Rec-
reation Center
WHEN: Monday at about 7:30
p.m.
WHAT: A student suffered
minor injuries while playing
basketball at the CCRB, Uni-
versity Police reported. He
suffered a minor injury and
was taken to the emergency
room for treatment.

WHERE: Central Campus
Recreation Center
WHEN: Monday at about 9:30
p.m.
WHAT: An unknown person
stole gym shoes and car keys
from the locker room floor
after the property was left
unattended for about 25 min-
utes, University Police report-
ed. The gym shoes were valued
at about $100.

WHAT: Bruna Galobardes, a
PhD Clinical Research Fellow
for the Department of Social
Medicine University of Bristol
in the United Kingdom will
give a lecture on socioeconom-
ic inequalities in UK children.
WHO: The School of Public
Health
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: 1690 SPH Cross-
roads


a

a

Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe addresses people during a church service yesterday in memory of Susan Tsvangirai.
Mugabe mourns death of rival's wife

President calls for an
. end to violence
following car crash
HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP)
- President Robert Mugabe
joined thousands of Zimbabwe-
ans mourning the wife of a rival

turned government partner, call-
ing yesterday for an end to politi-
cal violence and wishing Prime
Minister Morgan Tsvangirai
strength for the nation-building
work ahead.
Mugabe addressed about
1,000 government and politi-
cal leaders and diplomats in the
Methodist church attended by

Series of free student workshops
" Wednesday, March 11, Budget! Are You Kidding?
" Wednesday, March 18, Investing for Young Investors
" Wednesday, March 25, Landing a Job in a Difficult Economy
" Wednesday, April 1, Your Fork Is Not a Shovel: A Lesson in
Business Etiquette
All sessions are from 6-8 p.m., are free and include
dinner. Register now! Space is limited so make sure
you register early.
www.umalumni.com/students

Columbia's Summer Term offers a wide variety of undergraduate
and graduate courses for visiting students from across the nation.
The Summer Term offers fascinating, challenging courses taught by
Columbia and visiting faculty. Summer Term students have access
to a state-of-the-art student center, gym, and recreational facilities,
as well as one of the largest library collections in the nation.
SESSION ONE: May 26- July 3
SESSION TWO: July 6-August 14
? COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
Summer Term 2009

Susan Tsvangirai, who died in
a car crash Friday. Her husband
and children were also in the
church, where her body rested
in bronze coffin, as a crowd
massed outside.
"We are sincerely saddened by
the death of Susan and we hope.
that Morgan will remain strong,"
Mugabe said.
The president, who visited
the injured Tsvangirai in the
hospital the day of the wreck,
said their fledgling coali-
tion government has only just
begun efforts to bring rebuild
a country beset by political and
economic crisis.
"We shall do our best, our
possible best to ensure that the
environment that we create
in the country is a conducive
environment," Mugabe said in
calling for an end to violence.
Zimbabwe's long history of
political violence blamed on
Mugabe's supporters fueled
speculation that Friday's crash,
in which the prime minister
was slightly injured, was not
an accident. Tsvangirai sought
to quell those rumors Monday,
saying there was "no foul play"
in the crash.
Speaking to questions swirl-
ing about the car accident
and Susan Tsvangirai's death,
Mugabe said: "I plead with
you to accept it, it's the hand
of God," according to British
Broadcasting Corp.
Tsvangirai and, his children
and Mugabe all stood in turn
next to Susan Tsvangirai's open
casket, heads bowed.

4

4

4

Thanks to our sponsors:
Mutual. NION

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

I



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

(Ml

Wednesday; March11, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 11, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Most state officials
won't voluntarily
take pay cuts
Gov. Jennifer Granholm wants
lawmakers and other top elected
officials to join her in giving back 10
percent of their pay.
Butit's unlikelymorethan ahand-
ful will oblige.
The Democratic governor has
returned 5 percent or 10 percent of
her $177,000 salary to the state trea-
sury every year since taking office in
2003 as Michigan has struggled with
a weak economy and ongoing budget
deficits.
"This is all about leading by exam-
ple," Granholm spokeswoman Liz
Boyd said yesterday.
On Monday, a state panel recom-
mended that lawmakers, the gover-
nor, lieutenant governor, secretary of
state and attorney general take a 10
percent pay cut starting in 2011. But
that won't affect many of the current
officeholders because term limits
will require them to step down at the
end of 2010.
NEW YORK
Atty. says Madoff
will plead guilty
In a courtroom surprise, it was
revealed yesterday that Bernard
Madoff will plead guilty Thursday
to securities fraud, perjury and other
crimes, knowing that he could face
up to 150 years in prison for one of
the largest frauds in history.
The revelation came as prosecu-
tors unveiled an 11-count charging
document against the 70-year-old
former Nasdaq chairman, and as his
lawyer, Ira Sorkin, told a judge that
Madoff planned to plead guilty this
week without a plea deal.
Madoff has been under house
arrest in his $7 million Manhattan
penthouse since he was arrested in
early December after authorities
said he confessed to his family that
he had carried out a $50 billion
fraud. In court documents filed yes-
terday, prosecutors raised the size of
the fraud to $64.8 billion, an amount
recounted in apparently false state-
ments from November 2008.
WASHINGTON D.C.
Museum uncovers
engraving hidden in
Lincolnwatch
For nearly 150 years, a story has
circulated about a hidden Civil War
message engraved inside Abraham
Lincoln's pocket watch. On Tuesday,
museum curators confirmed it was
true.
A watchmaker used tiny tools to
carefully pry open the antique watch
at the National Museum of Ameri-
can History, and a descendant of the
engraver read aloud the message
from a metal plate underneath the
watch face.
"Jonathan Dillon April 13 - 1861,"
part of the inscription reads, "Fort
Sumpter (sic) was attacked by the
rebels on the above date." Another
part reads, "Thank God we have a
government."

The words were etched in tiny cur-
sive handwriting and filled the the
space between tiny screws and gears
that jutted through the metal plate.
A magnifying glass was required to
read them.
Jonathan Dillon, then a watch-
maker on Pennsylvania Avenue, had
Lincoln's watch in his hands when he
heard the first shots of the Civil War
had been fired in South Carolina. The
Irish immigrant later recalled being
the only Union sympathizer working
at the shop in a divided Washington.
ST. LOUIS
Church shooting
suspect left 'Last
Day Will' card
The manaccusedofgunningdown
an Illinois pastor during his sermon
as horrified churchgoers watched
left an index card marked "Last Day
Will" at his home, according to court
documents filed yesterday.
Other documents detail how the
Rev. Fred Winters tried to run from
accused gunman Terry Sedlacek at
First Baptist Church in Maryville, Ill.,
a St.Lous suburb,before the preacher
collapsed and bled to deathSunday.
Authorities say Sedlacek, 27, of
nearby Troy, fired four times from a
.45-caliber Glock pistol, hitting Win-
ters once in the heart.
The court papers indicate inves-
tigators have found an arsenal in
Sedlacek's bedroom, including two
12-gauge shotguns, a rifle and a box
of 550 .22-caliber bullets.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Congress sends $410B spending bill to Obama

Bill approved shortly
after $1.8 trillion
deficit announced
WASHINGTON (AP) - Con-
gress on yesterday sent President
Barack Obama a once-bipartisan
bill to fund the domestic Cabinet
agencies that evolved instead into a
symbol of lawmakers' free-spend-
ing ways and penchant for back-
home pet projects.
The Senate approved the mea-
sure by voice after it cleared a key
procedural hurdle by a 62-35 vote.
Sixty votes were required to shut
down debate.
Obama is expected to sign the
measure Wednesday to avoid a par-
tial shutdown of the government.
But the White House has kept the
bill at arm's length, calling it last
year's business. Obama is also set
to announce steps aimed at curbing
lawmakers' so-called earmarks.
The $410 billion bill is chock-
full of those pet projects and sig-
nificant increases in food aid for
the poor, energy research and
other. programs. It was supposed
to have been completed last fall,
but Democrats opted against elec-
tion-year battles with Republi-
cans and former President George
W. Bush.
The measure was a top prior-
ity for Democratic leaders, who

praised it for numerous increases
denied by Bush. It once enjoyed
support from Republicans such
as Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell of Kentucky.
Butthebill ran into anunexpect-
ed political hailstorm in Congress
after Obama's spending-heavy eco-
nomic stimulus bill and his 2010
budget plan forecasting a $1.8 tril-
lion deficit for the current budget
year. And Republicans seized on
Obama's willingness'to sign a bill
packed with earmarks after he
assailed them as a candidate.
"If it had not been for the stim-
ulus and the budget proposal it
might have been ... noncontrover-
sial," said House GOP leader John
Boehner of Ohio. "The stimulus
bill riled an awful lot of people up.
... And then the budget proposal
comes out."
Within Democratic ranks, there
was relief, not jubilation.
The 1,132-page spending bill
has an extraordinary reach, wrap-
ping together nine spending bills
to fund foreign aid and the annual
operating budgets of every Cabinet
department except for Defense,
Homeland Security and Veterans
Affairs.
It also contains numerous pol-
icy changes, including shutting
down a program allowing Mexi-
can trucking companies to operate
beyond U.S.-Mexico border zones,
easing rules on Cuban-Americans

traveling to the island to visit rela-
tives and allowing quick reversal of
Bush administration rules opposed
by environmentalists.
Described by lawmakers as a
$410 billion measure - but offi-
cially tallied by the Congressio-
nal Budget Office at $408 billion
because of technicalities involv-
ing heating subsidies for the poor
- the bill was written mostly over
the course of last year, with sup-
port from key Republicans such as
McConnell and Lamar Alexander
of Tennessee, the Senate's No. 3
Republican.
They sit on the Senate Appro-
priations Committee. McConnell
is the successful sponsor or co-
sponsor of $76 million worth of
"earmarks" not requested by Bush
when he president, according to
Taxpayers for Common Sense, a
budget watchdog group. Alexander
obtained a more modest 36 ear-
marks totaling $32 million.
Alexander supported the mea-
sure in the end; McConnell did not,
calling it a "missed opportunity" to
display fiscal discipline.
In the end, eight Republicans
voted with all but three Democrats
who were present, to advance the
bill.
At issue is the approximately
one-thirdofthebudgetpassedeach
year by Congress for the operating
budgets of Cabinet departments
and other agencies. The rest of the

budget is comprised of benefits
programs such as Social Security,
Medicare and Medicaid - as well
as interest payments on the swell-
ing $11 trillion national debt.
Adding in spending bills passed
last year for defense, homeland
security and the Veterans Admin-
istration - as well as $288.7 billion
in appropriated money in the stim-
ulus bill - total appropriations so
far for 2009 have reached $1.4 tril-
lion. And that's before the Penta-
gon submits another $75 billion or
so request for the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan.
Appropriated spending for 2008
was $1.2 trillion; Obama's budget
for next year calls for $1.3 trillion
in appropriations.
To the embarrassment of Obama
- who promised during last year's
campaignto force Congress to curb
its pork-barrel ways - the bill con-
tains 7,991 earmarks totaling $5.5
billion, according to the GOP staff
of the House Appropriations Com-
mittee. Republicans got about 40
percent of the earmarks.
Among the many earmarks are
$485,000 for a boarding school for
at-risk native students. in western
Alaska and $1.2 million for Helen
Keller International so the non-
profit can provide eyeglasses to
students with poor vision. There's
also dozens of projects awarding
state and local governments money
for police equipment and to combat

methamphetamine.
At the same time, the measure
chips away at several leftover
Bush administration policies.
It clears the way for the Obama
administration to reverse a rule
issued late in the Bush adminis-
tration that says greenhouse gases
may not be restricted to protect
polar bears from global warming.
Another Bush administration rule
that reduced the input of federal
scientists in endangered species
decisions can also be quickly over-
turned without a lengthy rulemak-
ing process.
The big increases - among them
a 14 percentboost for a popular pro-
gram that feeds infants and poor
women and a 10 percent increase
for housing vouchers for the poor
- represent a clear win for Demo-
crats who spent most of the past
decade battling with Bush over
money for domestic programs.
Generous above-inflation
increases are spread through-
out, including a $2.4' billion, 13
percent increase for the Agricul-
ture Department and a 10 percent
increase for the money-losing
Amtrak passenger rail system.
Congress also awarded itself a
10 percent increase in its own bud-
get, bringing it to $4.4 billion. But
the measure contains a provision
denying lawmakers the automatic
cost-of-living pay increase they are
due next Jan. 1.

9 11 suspects
on trial defend
terror attacks

Men cite violent
interpretation of
Islam as justification
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP)
- The self-professed mastermind
and four other men charged in the
Sept. 11 attacks declared they are
"terrorists to the bone" in a state-
ment that mocked the U.S. failure
to prevent the killings and pre-
dicted America will fall like "the
towers on the blessed 9/11 day."
In a rambling response to the
government's case, the men also
sought to justify the attacks, cit-
ing a violent interpretation of
Islam and a series of grievances
against the U.S., including sup-
port for Israel, the Iraq war and
abuses at Abu Ghraib prison and
in Guantanamo.
"To us, they are not accusations.
To us they are badges of honor,
which we carry with pride," the
men wrote in the six-page docu-
ment, which was released yesterday
by a military judge over the objec-
tions of the Pentagon-appointed
lawyers for two of the men.
"So, you are the first class war
criminals," they added, "and the
whole world witnesses this."
The five, who are among 245
prisoners held at the U.S. military
lockup in Cuba, include Khalid
Sheik Mohammed, the professed
architectofthe Sept.11 attacks, and
Ramzi Binalshibh, allegedly one of
his key lieutenants in al-Qaida.
Both men previously said
they were proud of their role in
the attacks on the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon - and
all five had said they wanted to
plead guilty. But this is their most
detailed statement to date.
The men do not go into details
of their roles in the plot, but
they call the charge of conspir-
acy "laughable" and mock U.S.
authorities for being unable to
prevent the attacks. "Blame
yourselves and your failed
intelligence apparatus."
They also predict defeat for
the U.S. in Iraq and Afghani-
stan and the overall collapse
of America. "Your end is very
near and your fall will be just
as the fall of the towers on the
blessed 9/11 day."
The five, who could face the
death penalty if convicted on
charges that include murder
and terrorism, were at a pre-
trial hearing in Guantanamo
when President Barack Obama
abruptly suspended all war-
crimes proceedings pending a
review of the much-criticized
system for prosecuting terror-
ists created by Congress and
the Bush administration.
They will still be tried, but
under what type of system has
not yet been determined. The
proceedings, however, will
probably not be at Guantana-
mo since Obama has ordered
the detention center closed
within a year.
Three of the defendants have
been acting as their own lawyers
but two of the men, Binalshibh

and Mustafa al-Hawsawi, still
have Pentagon-appointed military
attorneys pending a court ruling on
whether they are mentally compe-
tent to represent themselves.
Their lawyers, Army Maj. Jon
Jackson and Navy Cmdr. Suzanne
Lachelier, said they had not met
with their clients to discuss the
document and cannot say what
may have motivated the men
to sign it - or even vouch for its
authenticity. They said the judge
should not have released it.
Pentagon spokesman Navy
Cmdr. Jeffrey Gordon called the
filing "merely another attempt
by these detainees to garner
publicity."
Otherssaidthe statementprovide
some insight into the defendants.
"We must never be complacent
about this hateful, hateful group
of individuals who are out to harm
us," said Maureen Santora, whose
New York City firefighter son was
killed at the World Trade Center.
"They are unrelenting in their
mission to destroy America"
Brian Jenkins, a senior adviser
on terrorism at the RAND Corp.,
said the statement appears to be
aimed at attracting support and
recruits abroad by portraying the
men as Muslim warriors defend-
ing a religion under siege.
"You have to continue to cam-
paign even while you are in cap-
tivity, and the way to do that is to
broadcast your beliefs so you will
inspire others," Jenkins said.
Flagg Miller, a professor of reli-
gious studies at the University
of California, Davis, said he was
struck by the language of the Sept.
11 defendants, who write more
harshly than the top al-Qaida
leaders seeking to portray them-
selves in a more diplomatic light
as defenders of world justice.

ALTAF QAune;
Exiled Tibetan monks march to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the failed Tibetan uprising against Chinese raei that
sent their spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, into exile, in Dharmsala, India, Tuesday March 10, 2009
Dlai Lama says Tibetans are
0 4''sufferingf under Chinese rul

Spiritual leader
attacks Beijing for
50 years of suffering
and violence
DHARMSALA, India (AP) -
Life for Tibetans under Chinese
rule has been "hell on earth," the
* Dalai Lama said yesterday, attack-
ing Beijing in a speech to mark 50
years since the failed uprising that
forced him into exile.
The unusually harsh rhetoric
from the Nobel Peace laureate, who
accused the Chinese government of
treating his people "like criminals
deserving to be putto death," high-
lighted the widening gulf between
the two sides since last year when
violence engulfed the region and
talks broke down.
"These 50 years have brought
untold suffering to the land and
people of Tibet," the 73-year-old
Buddhist spiritual leader told some
2,000 Tibetan exiles gathered to
commemorate the 1959 rebellion.

Beijing, which accuses the Dalai
Lama of trying to split Tibet from
China and fomenting the recent
violence, denounced his speech as
"lies" and underlined the devel-
opment it had brought to the vast
Himalayan plateau.
The Dalai Lama's 30-minute
speech in Dharmsala, the two-
street town perched in the foothills
of the Indian Himalayas where he
set up his headquarters in exile,
was a systematic indictment of
Chinese rule in Tibet.
Decadesof China's communist
experiments, particularly the vio-
lent xenophobic Cultural Revolu-
tion, "thrust Tibetans into such
depths of suffering and hardship
that they literally experienced
hell on earth," he said, adding
that these campaigns led to the
deaths of hundreds of thousands
of Tibetans.
Tibet's unique religion, culture
and language are "nearing extinc-
tion," he said.
It was only the exile of 100,000
Tibetans to India that had allowed
them to preserve some remnants of

their heritage, he later told report-
ers.
"Now 50 years past, at least in
this planet there is one place where
Tibetan Buddhist studies and
Tibetan Buddhist culture contin-
ues with full freedom," he said.
Yesterday's ceremony was a
mix of somber prayers and hymns
mourning those who died, and the
pomp of Tibetan tradition.
Monks in ornate yellow head-
dress blew giant conches and long
brass trumpets to herald the arriv-
al of the Dalai Lama, while a band
played drums, cymbals and bag-
pipes as he made his way from his
residence to the main temple.
The Dalai Lama also charged
Beijing with overseeing a "brutal
crackdown" in Tibet since protests
shook the Himalayan region.
Last year, a peaceful com-
memoration of the 1959 uprising
by monks in the Tibetan capital of
Lhasa erupted into anti-Chinese
rioting four days later and spread
to surrounding provinces - the
most sustained and violent demon-
strations by Tibetans in decades.

Second Annual
Gramlich SHOWCASE
of Student Work
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2009
4:00 - 6:00 PM
Joan andl Sanford Weill Hall, it and 2nd floors, 735 S. State St., Ann Arbor, MI 48109.
Poster Session. Free and open to the public. Refreshments served.
join us as we highlight and celebrate the intellectual achievements of graduate and undergraduate students
at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.
Ford School faculty have nominated students for inclusion from among the best work produced at the
school this year. The posters on display will represent a wide range of student work: from local issues to-a
foreign policy, from social welfare policy to health care reform, from undergraduate work to dissertation
research. Students will beon hand to describe their projects and answer questions.
This annual event is named for long-time U-M faculty member and former Federal Reserve Board Governor
Ned Gramlich, as a tribute to his belief in'and commitment to the value of a public policy education.
Details: www.fordschool.umich.edu or 734-615-3893.
Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy
UNIVERSITY OF, ICHIGAN1


4A - Wednesday, March 11, 2009 Tpnaioi g

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

c l e Mc4'6',gan 43at*lu

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

. GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FRTE DAILY
Billof Rights 101
University should recognize professors' free speech rights
It's the job of professors at the University to broaden opinions
and stimulate discussion. As a result, students should be able
to assume their professors have the freedom to speak open-
ly. In their capacity as educators and public servants, professors
have a right and responsibility to express their opinions freely. But
due to recent legal decisions in which professors at other colleges
have suffered punishments for speaking out against their uni-
versities, the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs,
the faculty's governing body, has initiated efforts to stop similar
issues from ever becoming a problem here. As SACUA prompts
discussion, the University should be aware of the importance of

NOTABLE QUOTABLE
This is not culture. This is not custom.
This is criminal:'
- Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, commenting on the situation in Afghanistan where people receive
death threats for teaching women to read and write, as reported yesterday by CNN.
ROSE JAFFE E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU
VQTKA
E tA&
a0aa

6

0

professors' right to free speech.
Among other recent cases limiting
professors' First Amendment rights, the
University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee
reprimanded Prof. Kevin Renken after he
spoke out against how the administration
used a grant from the National Science
Foundation. Renken felt that his vocal
opposition was justified because the issue
was one of public concern. The Seventh
District Court and U.S. Appeals Court for
the Seventh Circuit supported the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin administration's actions
against Renken. The court decided that
Renken's opinions were not protected
under the First Amendment because he
was acting as a professor - a government
employee.
Renken's case sets a dangerous prece-
dent for other universities - one that could
infringe on professors' rights to speak out
against their administrations. All profes-
sors have a right to academic and intel-
lectual independence - more than that,
professors have a responsibility to their
profession and their students to share
these opinions. Turning a critical eye to
university affairs is every professor's duty
when a university administration makes a
poor decision. The ability for faculty mem-
bers to speak up is one of the safeguards
for ensuring that a university is running
properly and ethically.
Though there has not been any such

legal action at the University of Michigan,
cases like Renken's have prompted the fac-
ulty to start a conversation with the Uni-
versity about guaranteeing that the speech
problems faced at other academic institu-
tions will not develop on this campus. To
avoid any potential conflicts, SACUA will
present a report on the issue to the Board
of Regents. The discussion will hopefully
ensure that faculty members' opinions will
not jeopardize their relationship with the
University.
The faculty's concerns about the issue
should prompt an appropriate response
from the regents. The University needs to
recognize that academic freedom is pivot-
ally important to the student body and the
administration. That doesn't necessarily
mean a policy overhaul is called for, but it
does mean that the University should be
open and available to responsible dialogue.
If the University wants to maintain its
commitment to a climate of academic free-
dom, professors must feel free to voice hon-
est opinions. If professors have to worry
about losing their jobs when they speak
out against the administration, a healthy
academic climate can't exist on campus.
The regents should signal their support
for basic intellectual freedom after SACUA
makes its report. The University's academ-
ic climate must be one based on freedom,
not censorship.

Sorry, sports fans

0

Being more of the artsy and
emotional type, I've never
cared much for sports. I'm
the person who
will be completely
oblivious that a
Super Bowl has
occurred until
weeks after the
fact (although
I sometimes
become aware -
of it based onE
the average level EILEEN
of testosterone STAHL
in TV commer- _
cials). I remember
being excused from a question on a
10th grade geometry test because it
assumed I knew the rules of football.
In fact, I am still trying to figure out
what a "down" is.
Of course, back in high school,
I was the kind of person who was
extremely proud of their lack of
sports knowledge. If you told me you
liked sports, I would give you a look
as though you were currently in the
process of molesting some sort of
farm animal. That was me - except
after I'd self-assuredly sneered some-
thing about sports fans being Nean-
derthals, I would expound at length
about the latest episode of "Dragon
Ball Z."
Fortunately, like most people who
don't consider paint chips a major
food group, I realize that the per-
son I was in high school was about
as mature as your typical reality
television contestant. My contempt,
however, has been replaced with
confusion. Sure, I still don't care for
sports and don't feel there's anything
wrong with that, but when I see
people I care about huddled around
a plasma TV,I have to wonder: "Why

don't I like doing that?"
High School Me would have
argued it was because sports are
"a stupid waste of time" and then
promptly return to six straight hours
of "leveling up" in a video game that
primarily consisted of being mur-
dered by crabs. Let's face it: most
hobbies are stupid wastes of time.
$ut despite this revelation, I can
never seem to care about sports and
still find watching a bunch of people
fighting over a ball about as exciting
as professional nose-picking.
Oddly enough, I have fond memo-
ries from when I was small of my
dad taking my friends and me to
games at Tiger Stadium and the
Palace of Auburn Hills. I remember
clinging to his hands as the stadium
seats dwarfed my tiny body. I wasn't
entirely sure what was going on but
there seemed to be someone named
Cecil Fielder whom everyone was
very enthusiastic about, so I decided
to be enthusiastic, too. When Cecil
hit something called a "grand slam,"
I was one of the first ones to stand up
and cheer with my buddies.
It was the social aspect of sports
that I once enjoyed, and I think a lot
of their appeal is linked to this. Why
else would "Super Bowl Party" be in
our cultural lexicon? I'd throw my
heart into watching those games -
and I think that's the reason I can't
enjoy them anymore.
I realized this when I remembered
a story my dad once told me. Back
in the 1960s and '70s, there was, in
my father's words, sort of a Tigers
"dynasty". For years, the five or six of
them played the same positions inthe
outfield. They were local celebrities.
But when the Tigers traded away one
of those stars, the dream team was
unceremoniously broken up.

"And not two days later," my dad
told me, "there he was, playing for
the other guys! And that just ruined
it for me. How could I get into sports
after that?"
People like me
just don't get
your obsession.
Then it hit me: I have no say over
what goes on in sports. With a video
game, I can make my little dude kill
crabs better. What happens in a book
will be the same every time. But
sports are uncertain - I can't make
the players run faster or catch better,
and I'm sure as heck not rich enough
to buy a team and influence its deci-
sions. As I get older, I become more
sensitive and paranoid and can no
longer stand the risk of getting too
involved in things I can't change.
Which is not to say that I think
your love of sports is dumb. In fact,
I commend you for not being so anal
that you demand control over every
tiny aspect of your life. But I think
an enjoyment of sports is out of the
question for me because I can't get
emotionally invested in what I can't
control.
This could also be why I can't bring
myself to get too absorbed in politics,
which is probably not something I
should admit as an opinion columnist
af the Daily, as they could cut off my
column at any-.
- Eileen Stahl can be reached
at efstahl@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Edward McPhee,
Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
TAYLOR JOHNSON AND KRISTIN GODDARD I VIE INT
Stem cells save lives

I
I


LET T ERi

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Embryonic stem cell research is an issue
that has been on the minds of Michiganders
for many months now. After the battle to pass
Proposal 2 in the last election, we've all had a
longer opportunity to consider this issue than
most people in the U.S. On Monday, President
Barack Obama lifted the restrictions on fed-
eral funding for stem cell research. This move
will once.again bring the issue to the forefront
of American politics. As the debate heats up
again, it is important to understand the science
and the reality of stem cell research.
Since the creation of a human embryonic
stem cell line in 1998 by University of Wiscon-
sin researcher Dr. James Thompson, there has
been an ongoing debate regarding the ethical
use of these cells. A stem cell has the extraor-
dinary potential to develop into various cell
types, providing the basic recipe for life. These
starter cells are found in several places within
the body, most notably as embryonic and adult
stem cells. Research continues to be conducted
on adult stem cells, but the scientific under-
standing of these cells remains less advanced
than that of embryonic stem cells.
While embryonic stem cells have the poten-
tial to become any of the 220 different cell
types, adult stein cells are restricted in their
differentiation to only a handful of those types.
Many researchers believe that embryonic stem
cells hold the answers to solving some of the
most debilitating medical conditions, including
Alzheimer's, Parkinson's Disease and diabetes.
But since proper funding has not been allocat-
ed to this field of research, U.S. scientists have
been lagging behind in the worldwide effort to
uncover these solutions.
Stem cells are often donated to research as
a result of in-vitro clinics' surpluses. In-vitro

clinics have provided thousands of hopeful
women and couples with the chance to be par-
ents. This opportunity typically is achieved
by creating several embryos in the laboratory
and transferring two or three to the women in
the hopes that one will survive. It often takes
months and multiple attempts for an egg to sur-
vive. Regardless of the outcome, the unpredict-
ability of the human womb most often results
in an excess number of embryos. Similar to
the fate of the transferred embryos that didn't
survive, these embryos are discarded or frozen
indefinitely. Either way, these cells are no lon-
ger used - unless they are donated to stem cell
research.
Despite the important medical break-
throughs that could come from embryonic
stem cell research, the Bush administration
was committed to slowing this progress. The
ban imposed by President George Bush in 2001
limited federal funding only to existing embry-
onic stem cell lines, all of which were contami-
nated. This has proven to be a major hindrance
to researchers across the nation - especially in
Michigan, where the ban was compounded by
strict state laws regarding embryonic stem cell
research until Proposal 2 passed in 2008.
Nations around the world have been advanc-
ing their understanding of embryonic stem
cells, while researchers in the U.S. have been
limited by restrictive policies. But thanks to
Obama's recent decision to make embryonic
stem cell research more financially viable, the
U.S. has an opportunity to expand research in
this critical medical field.
Taylor Johnson and Kristin Goddard
are members of the Roosevelt Institution's
Center on Health Care Policy.

An immediate appeal to keep strong advocate o
ability and even in
tuition affordable for students energy from space
Just after the ti
of a world run by
TO THE DAILY: power not only sh
As of late, there have been many articles and editorials He is memorialize
regarding the financial crisis and its impact on students. ing helped George
I appreciate the opinion offered by the Daily in its recent enormous energy
editorial (Unreasonable costs, 03/02/2009) that urged the tists, Tesla said, "
University not to pass the baton of fiscal responsibility ate each one accor
onto the students once more. The present is the
As an out-of-state student, I knew what I was facing worked, is mine."
financially when I made the decision to come to the Uni- A bust of the in
versity. But I also know that I - and the student body as Electrical Enginee
a whole - cannot and should not have to bear the burden the early 1990s. Co
of another huge tuition increase to maintain the Univer-
sity's bottom line. Maureen Campb
If Provost Teresa Sullivan is reading this: I love this University library;
school. I love this town. I came to Michigan for a reason.
Please don't make me go back home because the Univer- Difference
sity can't or won't get creative with its budget.
Madeline Conway tojustify C
LSA freshman
TO THE DAILY:
Tesla's innovative contributions Last Monday, S
opportunity on tI
to science are often overlooked and were excited
Arch, by Ulrich's.I
of 8:30 and 10:301
TO THE DAILY: the audacity to r
Devon Thorsby's recent article (Speaker pushesfor electric board.
cars in the United States, 03/05/2009), stated that Michael What gives tha
Granoff of Better Place described using electricity "in a way right to remove os
the likes of Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Edison never why someone wos
could have envisioned." Well, Franklin and Edison might diverse, forward-
not have imagined electric vehicles, but one man - almost pro-life studentsn
forgotten by history - did: Nikola Tesla. All I want to k
We owe to him our alternating current system and many Diagboard's quest
other things thathelp run our modern world. In a time when if they used guns?
resources were treated as limitless, Tesla pondered the
future of humanity in relation to the planet's finite resourc- Lauren Bennett
es and realized the dangers of overconsumption. He was a LSA junior

f hydroelectricity because of its renew-
magined utilizing the power of "cosmic"
urn of the last century, Tesla conceived
free, wireless electricity, which would
ips at sea but also electric automobiles.
ed in two statues at Niagara Falls, hav-
e Westinghouse harness Niagara Falls'
in 1896. Speaking of his fellow scien-
Let the future tell the truth, and evalu-
rding to his work and accomplishments.
eirs; the future, for which I have really
nventor was placed in the atrium at the
ering and Computer Science Building in
nsider stopping by to say thank you.
ell
staff
of opinion isn't enough
'ensorsh4p or theft
tudents for Life paid for an advertising
he Diag. We turned our Diag board in
to see it just outside the Engineering
However, some time between the hours
p.m. this past Wednesday, someone had
emove (and thereby censor) our Diag
at person the idea that they have the
ur paid advertisements? I am confused:
Iuld take down our Diag board at such a
thinking, open-minded university? Do
not have the right to free speech, too?
now is the offender's response to our
tion: "Abortion: Would it bother us more

I
I

e


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 11, 2009 - 5A

COURTESY OF SUB POP
Married couple's pre-sex routine: Step one, take pulse. Step two, listen to heartbeat. If vital signs are normalcoitus is plausible.
*Ah nd ome ward


Samberg's LP
is incredibland
By JACK PORTER likely the most "featured" man on
DailyArts Writer Earth), lampoons hip hop's ten-
dency to flaunt material wealth for
Since The Lonely Island's main its own sake. The track comes com-
audience is college students, most plete with majestic synth strings
readers of The and T-Pain's signature auto-tuned
Michigan Daily vocals, providing a grandiose back-
are probably drop for silly lyrics like, "But this
already intimate- ain't SeaWorld, this is real as it gets
ly familiar with TheLonely / I'm-on a boat, motherfucker, don't
Andy Samberg's Island you ever forget."
musical comedy The rest of Incredibad is made up
act, be it through Incredibad ofeither older, lesspopular material
"Lazy Sunday," Universal Republic or new odds and ends recorded just
"Dick in a Box" or for the album. Predictably, these
the more recent other songs don't hold up to the
"Jizz in My Pants." The group mem- quality of the singles. Some tracks
bers have become Internet super- rely on overly simplistic jokes, and
stars over the last three years, with the subsequent riffing grows tire-
"Jizz in My Pants" alone garnering some. "Punch You In The Jeans"
over 30 million views on YouTube. stretches out the weak punch-line
The song is the first single for the of its own title for nearly three
group's long-awaited debut LP minutes. And "Natalie's Rap" starts
Incredibad. from a premise that's too easy -

After a promising debut,
Handsome Furs strike gold
with 'Face Control'
By DAVID RIVA
Daily Arts Writer
Have you ever wondered why people are
so unnerved by the concept of public surveil-

lance in the form of cameras
and wiretapping, yet never
hesitate to partake in the
process of self-monitoring
through Facebook and blogs?
Have you ever experienced
the frustrating feeling of dis-
connectedness as a result
of communicating through
technology that can't encap-
sulate pure human emotion?

Handsome
Furs
Face Control
Sub Pop

Russia is the locale of choice for the concep-
tion of Face Control, the Furs' second studio
release. The album's title refers to a practice
utilized in the Russian club scene: A person
must pay in advance (through a PayPal account)
to potentially gain access to a nightclub, but
must be approved by someone at the door based
on quality of appearance. In effect, the person
becomes an object - a mere pawn to satisfy
another's standards.
No song on the album expresses this concept
of materialism run rampant better than "Talk-
ing Hotel Arbat Blues." The melody is initially
reminiscent of Joan Jett's garage-rock hit "Bad
Reputation,"but ittakes on alife of its ownwhen
the refrain of"I don't know what I've been told
/ Every little thing has been bought and sold"
bursts in backed by a humbling guitar line and
a pulsating bass drum heartbeat. The simplic-
ity of the first refrain is absent the second time
around as a confusing mess of distortion leads
to a cliffhanger ending.
"(Passport Kontrol)" picks up on the leftover
momentum of "Arbat Blues," acting as a word-
less epilogue to its predecessor. Its whining
synthesizers make for an uneasy listen. The
ideas from "Arbat Blues" beg for reflection and
evoke a troubling question: What if the con-
cept of Russian face control were brought to
the border of countries and prevented people
from boarding flights because their appearance
wasn't exactly what a country was looking for?
The idea might seem ridiculous and relatively
inconceivable, but it forces an active conscious-

ness about the surveillance that people accept
every day without question. 1'
Boeckner obviously has some grievances
with the world around him and the people that
run it, but at no time does he appear preachy
or political. He conjures up obscure thoughts
that force people to think about their sur-
roundings through a different lens than they
previously had.
On "All We Want, Baby, Is Everything," and
"Nyet Spasiba," The Furs flex their pop muscles
with danceable drum beats, layers of seductive
synths and guitar lines that will latch onto your
musical consciousness for hours, if not days.
These upbeat tracks are especially refreshing
consideringthe esoteric, sonic realmthat Boeck-
ner's other band, Wolf Parade, often treads in.
Without bandmate Spencer Krug holding him
in check, Boeckner is free to express his inner
pop star to any extent he wants.
Throughout the album, Boeckner's vocals
consistently rise above the occasional mess of
frenetic synthesizers and clamorous guitars to
produce a lasting impression. The assertive and
vibrant vocals are exhibited on closer "Radio
Kaliningrad," which captures all the elements
that make Face Control such an impressive
album: thought-provoking lyrics ("I know you
love me baby / I know your heart is just a little
dry" and "We're all just waiting for the future
and uranium / and sleeping in the all red sky
/ You can wait outside"), synthy experimenta-
tion balanced by conventional guitar parts and
a danceable yet listenable beat.

The album is more or less a
greatest-hits compilation padded
with a few new songs and skits - a
bit disappointing for fans who have
likely heard the more famous songs
dozens of times before.
Here's a quick recap of the
Island's past for readers who may
be just now emerging from beneath
their respective rocks. "Lazy Sun-
day" relates the story of a carefree
Sunday afternoon spent munch-
ing cupcakes and watching "The
Chronicles of Narnia," delivered
with the pomp and vitriol of hard-
core rap. Revealing the group's
softer side,, "Dick in a Box" is a
smarmy R&B number about the
perfect Christmas gift for that spe-
cial someone: a package within a
package, so to speak. Finally, "Jizz
in my Pants" joins a banging Euro-
club beat to lyrics about, well, arriv-
ing unfashionably early.
However, the band's latest sin-
gle is a full-blown musical parody
piece, rather than a crude joke with
a musical style tacked on. "I'm on
a Boat," featuring T-Pain (now

Look, it's a disc
in a box.
Natalie Portman is secretly a sex-
addicted, drug-abusing gangster
- and uncomfortably pushes its
comic potential to the breaking
point (hearing Natalie Portman
yelling, "I'll sit right down on your
face and take a shit" is cringe-wor-
thy in any context).
But there are some surprising
winners as well, like "Ras Trent,"
about a WASP undergraduate who
convertstoRastafarianismandsings
a bastardized reggae tune about the
woes ofliving"inthe shanty dorms."
But even "Ras Trent" was originally
a skit performed by the group on
Saturday Night Live. More new
material would have been a boon
to the disc. As it stands, Incredibad
is only essential for fanatics and the
uninitiated.

These are the things that the members of
Handsome Furs - husband and wife Dan
Boeckner and Alexei Perry - ponder while on
tour in countries that don't necessarily contain
vast crowds of indie-rock enthusiasts. Boeck-
ner and Perry perform in these foreign places
to draw creative inspiration from alien cultures
firsthand. But their journeys are not just for
kicks -- they spark ideas for future recordings.
The Furs' 2007 debutPlague Park, for example,
was influenced by a trip to a mass grave of the
same name in Helsinki, Finland.

Palestinian films
reach Ann Arbor
By KAVI PANDEY they have to say about their coun-
DailyArts Writer try and culture."
In recent years, films from Pales-
For the most part, the world has tine have been making big splashes
had little exposure to the cinema at international film festivals. The
of Palestine. The Ann Arbor Palestine Film Festi-
2005 Oscar nom- Ann Arbor val's opening night film, "Salt of
inee for Best For- This Sea," was selected for the
eign Language 2008 Cannes Film Festival. The
Film, "Paradise Film Festival movie follows an American-born
Now," is arguably h daughter of Palestnian refugees as
the most famous Today through she returns to her family's home,
movie from Pal- Saturday which is now in Israel. Palestinian
estine, but in Various locations director Annemarie Jacir is becom-
recent years, the Free-$10 ing a leading voice in Palestine cin-
region has devel- ema, having already earned a 2003
oped its share of notable films. Cannes selection with short film
Such films will be on display start- "Like Twenty Impossibles."
ing tonight at the first Ann Arbor Other selections include "Driv-
Palestine Film Festival. The four- ing to Zigzigland," a tale about a
day event will feature a selection Palestinian cab driver in Los Ange-
of short films and full-length mov- les, and "Leila Khaled Hijacker,"
ies depicting the culture and con- an introspective documentary on
flict of Palestine. a member of a Palestinian libera-
Festival founder and co-director tion group who became the first
Hena Ashraf is a 2008 University woman to successfully hijack a
graduate, so it was an easy deci- plane. The festival will also show-
case a variety of short films, from
"Make A Wish," where a Pales-
tinian girl must overcome sev-
Offering new eral obstacles to find money for a
birthday cake, to the music video
cultural "People Not Places," inspired by a
Palestinian emigrant's reflection
perspectives on on homesickness.
"Slingshot Hip-Hop" is anoth-
the silver screen. er film screening at the festival
that has recently garnered a lot
of attention. The documentary
entered the global spotlight after
sion for her to choose Ann Arbor its premiere at the 2008 Sundance
to host the event. Film Festival. It follows a group of
"Ann Arbor is a really good place Palestinian rappers as they pur-
to have a Palestine Film Festival," sue their love of hip hop amidst
she said. "The town is liberal, pro- the political strife in Gaza and the
gressive and there's a lot of open West Bank. "Slingshot Hip-Hop"
dialogue. Ann Arbor represents will headline the festival's closing
a place where people can openly night on Saturday.
discuss (Palestinian) issues." Ashraf plans to hold the festival
Ashraf hopes to dispel common as an annual event in Ann Arbor.
views of Palestine by bringing Pal- "The first year it was difficult,
estinian films to a local audience. 'but it will become easier and easi-
"I think the reason why so many er," she said. "We have a lot of sup-
people misunderstand Palestinians port from sponsors, metro Detroit
is because if you just watch the reg- and people across the country that
ular news networks, they are not are really happy we're doing this."
fair and objective," she said. "Pal- The Ann Arbor Palestine Film
estinians are not given a voice." Festival begins tonight atthe Michi-
"Media plays a huge role in this gan Theater. It continues tomorrow
bias, and Hollywood movies do in the Natural Science Auditorium,
that, too. The best way is to coun- Friday in the Michigan League
ter that through films made by Ballroom and concludes Saturday
Palestinians. You should see what at Rackham Auditorium.

Something to not cheer about

ByKAVI PANDEY
DailyArts Writer
Cheerleading comedies have
been reduced to a series of direct-
to-video "Bring
It On" sequels its
recent years, but
"Fired Up!" had Fired Up!
the potential to
smack the genre At Qualityl6
upside its head Screen Gems
- the film has
genuinely funny
moments and its two leads have
impeccable comic timing. Still,
with its flood of teen comedy con-
ventions and a stupendously awful
supporting cast, it ends up amount-
ing to little more than a forgettable
high-school movie.
The premise of "Fired Up!"
isn't very hard to follow. Football
jocks Nick (Eric Christian Olsen,
"Eagle Eye") and Shawn (Nicho-
A noble attempt
at satire that
amounts to only
juvenile dreck.
las D'Agosto, TV's "Heroes") like
sex. They will do whatever it takes
to have sex with lots of beautiful
women. The two decide to forgo
football camp one summer in order
to attend cheer camp, since they
would be the only men among
hundreds of female cheerleaders.
Naturally, the girls all happen to be
athletic, promiscuous and smokin'
hot. At the camp, Nick and Shawn
begin their conquest of these
women until, rather unsurpris-
ingly, their real emotions kick in.
Shawn falls for Carly (Sarah Roem-
er, "Disturbia"), his team's captain,
and he must win her away from her
jerk of a boyfriend with his charm
and cheerleading prowess.
"Fired Up!" centers on the
strong, entertaining relationship
between Nick and Shawn. It's a
Hollywood convention to hire
older actors to play high school stu-
dents, so the amusing fact that the
actors playing Nick and Shawn are
31 and 28, respectively, is not very
distracting. The duo's rapid-fire

rapport will have viewers chuck-
ling constantly. It also creates a
natural chemistry that allows the
audience to believe that the pair
have been best friends for years.
Nick, in particular, dominates the
film with his quick wit and cre-
ative PG-13 profanity. His wide
range of pop-culture references
is impressive; he goes from joking
about the suckage of Nickelback
to inexplicably quoting "Hamlet
2." As Nick, Olsen resembles Jim
Carrey on Ritalin, with his subtle
physical comedy and speedily-
delivered dialogues.
But every supporting char-
acter in "Fired Up!" is an aggra-
vating stereotype. The worst
offenders include Gwyneth (Anna-
Lynne McCord, TV's "90210"), the
super-bitchycaptainofarivalsquad,
and Brewster (Adhir Kalyan, "Paul
Blart: Mall Cop"), the token gay
cheerleader. The only exception is
Rick (David Walton, TV's "Quarter-
life"), Carly's boyfriend and appre-
ciator of Chumbawumba, who uses
his limited screen time to become
one of cinema's greatest douchebag
boyfriends. Films like "Knocked
Up" have spoiled audiences by get-
ting accomplished comedians to fill
out even the smallest of roles, sothe
contrast is noticeable when movies
like "Fired Up!" pluck their actors
from third-rate CW shows and
give them ridiculously unorigi-
nal characters to play.
With its noble attempts at
satire, it's obvious that "Fired
Up!" is trying to rise above
dreck like "Meetthe Spartans."
An ingenious scene occurs dur-
ing a screening of "BringIt On,"
where the entire camp recites
the dialogue word-for-word.
The humor is occasionally
clever, with jabs at the declin-
ing status of network program-
ming and the unrealistic good
looks of all teenagers in movies.
Unfortunately, these sequences
are few and far between; most
of the film relies too heavily on
lame sexual innuendos. The
initials of the title, used heavily
in marketing, give audiences a
good idea of what to expect.
Ultimately, "Fired Up!" fol-
lows the same frustratingly
predictable formula as most
sports comedies. There is the
inevitable misunderstanding,
angry confrontation, last-min-
ute reconcilement, inspiring

"Careful with that right hand, please."
motivational speech and climactic
final competition. The banality of
the plot is remarkable.
With a little more work on the
script, "Fired Up!" could have been
a sharp satire in the vein of "Shaun
of the Dead" and "Hot Fuzz" -
films that parody a genre within

a story typical of the genre. Only
Eric Christian Olsen, who should
be graduating into lead roles in
the near future, really shines in
the film. Audiences will snigger
throughout "Fired Up!" but will
probably forget it as soon as the
credits roll.


Wednesday, March 11th
International Center, Rm 9
Congrats Michigan! A top Peace Corps college
800.424.8580 |1www.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will you go?


6A - Wednesday, March 11, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

;: 1

326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
f or rent
060
! 4 ELEVEN Lofts ! - win FREE
HOUSING for a year. - Just tour the
model at 400 E.Washington (@ Divi-
sion) by 3/20 to enter or call for details
734-998-4400, 4elevenlofts.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
'!AWESOME 4 bdrm near B-school.
offstreet prkg. Indry. Avail. Fall '09.
($2000/mo.) 734.223.7777.
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIAL RATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
I Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200.
Not Many Left! Act Now!
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurnished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.imsprop.com 769-7025.
***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
available for Fall. Central Campus. 214
N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-2096 or visit
www.um-housing.com
**AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Avail.
Fall '09. near Yost Arena. offstreet
prkg, Indry. ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
Studio & 1
" Bdrr. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quet & Secure Hghise - One ockfrom Campus
Call 8an msic'
734-663-1530

Wilson hite
MA NA G< M N T
611 CHURCH*
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WTTH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
(Upscale 5 bedroom
apartments @61 1
Curc6! Theg are
newtg constructed 5
bedroom, 2.5 bath
apartments, with all
t/e Latest and greatest
armenities, lie a
washer and dJrger in

-ow -nttere gon, getspizza
coupon for every new tour!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,'
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor2008
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ae.
Ann Arbor, M 48104
734-761-2680
www.uruversitytowers-m.com'
Univer~i4y
TowVer
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomangement.com
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2140;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
pe. 2 bath, A/C, Idry, prkg, fireplace,
ardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfis333@aol.com
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwitetnanagenent.com
5 BDRM HSE $2950, Incl. all utilities,
free ldry., prkg.. living/dinig root, 2
kiteel.,2 batt, 2 studies. 734-973-2349.
5 BDRM./2 bath. attractive house.
Close to central campus and stadium.
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
[TBDRM. & EFFAPTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609J
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 mn. walk to campus. 3 full
bths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $2700/mo. 734-320-1026.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE
Huge multi-use parking area
Packard at Greenwood
Mayto May $3000 717-2935
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
MAi A lson hiTe
I"rGI N

7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3400 neg. plus ait. 734-996-1991.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
aps. and smaller available too!Alt are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The ruh is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to se!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eft:, 1 bdrm., and 2 bdm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 1 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
catpus@wilsonwitemanagement.com
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent our 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
- $15,000
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
=$16,656
See what we mean...
Get $500 off all remaining May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
DISSATISFIED WITH WHAT you
seen already? Looking for something
nicer? Come check out our great sunny
two bedrooms. Fully furnished, heat,
-water and parking included some w/
wireless Internet!
www.varsitymanagement.coto
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. pritmesh.com
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + Indry incl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.

ECONOMY GOT YOU down? Well,
get down with Varsity's low rental
rates! 2 bdrm apts starting at $825/mo
at 801 W. Madison! $1295 at 917
Packard and 521 Walnut! One bdrm
by the business school for $925!
www.varsiymanagement.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most ncl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and alt
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchenphighlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
March 31st. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
r -r
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available,
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtypropertiescomr
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ]dry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtsengicomcast.net
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
GET $500 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LEASES!
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
universitylowers-m.com
734-761-2680
MAY-AUGUST SUBLEASE. 4
rooms available. Kingsley and State.
Call (248) 910-2286.
PICTURE THIS...FREE 42" Flat
Screen yours to keep! Sign today, 909
Church "The Abbey". Limited Time-
Offer expires Friday March 20th-Call
for details. 734-761-8000. priniesh.com
*Certain conditions apply
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.-
Clean, furnished, security. Call
248-877-0859 or 248-217-6896.

NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-1000
www primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
8 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaugho-Reded Rates
721 S. Forest-Rednced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)

a

a

4

*AVAIL SEPT 1ST 2009. 2 bdrm
house on State St across from Yost
arena. Furn, free pkg, wshr/dryer, dish-
washer. Signing bonus. Call now for
immed showing 734-434-6356.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house. two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. I
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
3 BDRM. HOME in Saline avail. im-
mediately in a lovely country setting.
$1500/mo. (505) 239-7063.
3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS!
Kerrytown or Geddes Rd. Large apts.
great for 3 - 5 people! Parking in-
cluded. (734) 668-1100.
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, $1500-$2100,
prking., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.

OPPENHEIMER PROPERTIES
still has houses and large apts. for rent
for Fall '09. Offering $500-$1000 sign-
ing bonus for available properties!
4 Bedroom
816 Brookwood. $2700 + utit.
1803 Hill St. 1.5 bath. $2650. Util. incl.
506 W Williams. 2 bath. $2100 + utit.
5 Bedroom
401 Lawrence Unit 2. Kerrytown. 2
bath. $2875 + electric.
401 Lawrence Unit 3. Kerrytown. 2
bath. $2950 +gas and electric.
6 Bedroom
416 Hamilton Place. 3 bath. Occ. 8.
$3500 +util.
126 Hill St. 2 bath. $3100 + util.
1803 Hill St. Unit 2. Bi-level. 1.5 bath.
All util. paid. May Lease. $3300
203 Koch. 2 bath. $2450 + util.
Please Contact 734-995-5575 or
www-oppenheimerproperties.com
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con-
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com
, F ~ r #theO AAA6I
11
0ned and
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
or Visit US at
1700 GeddeS Ave.

a

RELEASE DATE-Wednesday, March 11,12009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Magnitude 38 Bombards with 48 Not liquid or gas
1 Public relations 6 Greeted excitedly electronicjunk 49 Trapper's
concern 7 Neptune's 39 Sci-fi computer device
6 Takes the wrong domain 40 Driver's gadget 50 PC insert
way? 8 Source of a 44 "Sideways" 51 Wide open
10 Old atlas initials sitter's stress Oscar nominee 53 Long cut
14 Enjoy some 9 Adam'sthird Virginia 54 Immune
downtime 10 "That's cheating!" 45 Subject for Jane opening?
15 Plot for a house, 11 Loge Goodall 55 Strong wind
maybe components 46 Words after "On 56 Atop
16 Classic beverage 12Oft-pressed your mark" 57 "Eek!"
brand dress item 47 Quiet down 61 UAW H.Q.
17 Expect 13 Kansas Army fort ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
18 Without ice 21 DDE opponent
19 Fallshort 22 Sends out a o P o a B A W B I P
20 Queue 25Use a Selectric W R A P R O U T A I S L E
23 Sign on the Strip 26 Botanical anchor I N C U R A B L E F L O A T
24 Mathis classic 27 Bronxthird P E T R O L E U M J E L L Y
25 Missionary's baseman, to fans E R E S E R E R S A T Z
handouts 28 Disneycollectible S Y N T A X ENDS T1IO
29 Show signs of life 29Keep or name R A N G E M E M O
31 Days of ending L A D Y M A .R M A LAD E
32 Roman nose, 30 "__follypto be H I L O N E O C O N
e.g. wise": Gray I L L C O A T C O N S U L
34 -tzu 32 Without slack E Y E L E T Y U K A P E
37 Cue 33 Theyhave Xings P L A N T P R E S E R V E S
41 Itinerary abbr. 34 Represent G A U S S R E S T R A I N T
42 video game artistically A D I E U O N N O C O D A
function 35Citric __. T S A R S 13O10 MM E R S T
43 Kuwaiti bigwig 36 Cajun pod xwordeditor@aol.com 03/10/09
44 nhanc 1 2 5 4 5 6 5 8 9 10 t1 12 13
mlkshake
45 It may be hidden 14s 1 ts
47 One oft dia's
Senon Stster 17 19to
Stes 20 21t2
50 Superhero garb
52 Q 2 24
58 "Sadtosay ." 2 26 27 28 29 3
59 Ambience

6

Deadlinefor ne ads is 11:30am one business day p
Rates: $4.30 per linefor the first issue and $2.15 K
additional consecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk
Contact our staff for details * Students may receive
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (no
business ads only) n Al ads must be prepaid unles
have been established " We accept Visa, Masterco
Discover, cash, or check * For Classified Display ad
of our Account Executives
1 day 2 days 3 days

Iriorto publication, Classification:
010 - Lost Found
per line for each 020 - For Sale
k contracts are available- 25 Parkg
a~~2 25%Parkuntwhg
a 25%odiscount when 030 - Automotive
in-organizational, non- 040 Computers
s prior biling privileges
ard, American Express, 050-Fuour
Ivertising, please call one 050 - Furniture
060 - For Pent
070 - Sublet
4 days 5 days 080 - Services
21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
43.00 51.60 095 - ChiL Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
ccepted. Misprints: The liability of
g incorrect ads in a specified issue 123 - Websites
cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD 125 - Music

6

2lines 8.60
3lines 12,C9
4 lines 17.2C

25.80
39.40

60 Like fine cuisine
62 Lose strength
63 Telegram period
64 Become one on
the run.
65 Bltssulalne
66 mhere weep
strikes are called
67 Ideology element
DOWN
1 S&L offering
2 Whimper
3 Jai __,
4 Profit

31
37
41

35 38
32 33 f43
38 38 42

442% 64 4

Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD wil be a
TMD or falure to publish an advertisement for any reason, or for publshin
shall be limited to publishing in a subsequent issue and not more than the
wil be responsible for classified advertisement errors only if notified by'5:0
Rates: Al changes shown on the open rateslnes are consecutive inserti
consecutive rate if requested and paid in full by 11:30 am on originally sc
Advertisers may cancel an ad before publcation deadlne, but no refund
been published. Refusal: All ads are subject to editing and approval We
resale of tickets atrmore than face value. TMD reserves the right to reque
accepting advertising.

0 p
ons
ihed
will k
do
st s

n on the first day of publication.
An ad may be extended at a
ted ending date. Refunds:
s given unless the ad has not ye
not publsh advertisements for
rples of mail order items prior rto

130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainmen
150 - Personal
160 - Pets

-I-

- - - - - - - - - - -a -I

6

I85 88 I F-0 671 I I I I

L---A-



oy David W. cromer
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

03/1/109

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

N ewsiWednesday, March 11, 2009 - 7A

University forms Iran may have violated sanctions

office to handle
filming requests

From Page 1A
creation of the office was an influx
of requests from studios.
"We were starting to see a lot of
inquiries," Doyle said. "Without a
focal point, it becomes really com-
plicated to do this type of work."
The office currently con-
sists of Doyle, a film liaison and
an individual from facilities
and operations. The three have
been working together for eight
months, but only recently decided
they needed an official film office
to handle requests.
Several films have used the Uni-
versity as a backdrop in the past.
During spring break, "Betty Anne
Waters" was filmed on campus.
The movie, which stars Hilary
Swank, was filmed in different
buildings on campus, including
Angell Hall, Pierpont Commons
and the Duderstadt Center.
Approximately 600 students
participated in the filming -5most
serving as extras. The University
charged about $8,500 for the use
of the buildings and other servic-
es on campus.
While no other movies are offi-
cially filming on campus, Doyle said
there have been talks about Danny

Glover comingto film a movie.
In order for film producers to
gain access to use the University
for filming, they must follow cer-
tain procedures. First, the studio
must submit a copy of the script to
the University's film office, which
evaluates whether the film is in
conflict with the goals and the ide-
als of the University.
If the script is accepted, the
office then works with the produc-
er and director to see what scenes
will be filmed on campus, where
on campus they will be filmed
and what the office can do to help.
Other factors are also considered,
including whether the actors
will need additional security and
whether stunts will be performed.
Doyle stressed that although
the University is happy to help the
film industry, students' education
must come first.
"It is important (for) film pro-
ducers to know that our primary
purpose is education, but we are
happy to lend our services to film
producers," she said.
Doyle said that the office would
not allow filming during a class,
and that it will try to sched-
ule filming during the summer
months and vacations.

Officials say country
tried to circumvent
U.N. arms embargo
UNITED NATIONS (AP) - A key
Security Council committee report-
ed yesterday that Iran violated U.N.
sanctions by trying to send weap-
ons-related material to Syria on a
cargo ship now docked in Cyprus.
Japan's U.N. Ambassador Yukio
Takasu, chairman of the commit-
tee monitoring sanctions against
Iran, provided few details, but his
report marked the first official con-
firmation that the Cypriot-flagged
M/V Monchegorsk was trying to
circumvent the U.N. arms embargo
on Iran. The ship docked on Jan.29
and is still there, diplomats said.
France's U.N. Ambassador Jean-
Maurice Ripert described its ship-
ment as "explosives and ... arms."
Takasu said a U.N. member state
- identified by the United States,
Britain and France as Cyprus - sent
a letter to the committee in early Feb-
ruary"seekingguidancewith respect
to its inspections of cargo on a vessel
carrying its flag that was found to be
carrying arms-related material."

KENYAN PRIME MINISTER'S PRESS SERVIcES/AP
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad smiles during a meeting with Kenyan Prime Minister Raila Odinga yesterday.

The committee responded with
a letter saying the transfer of the
material was a violation of a 2007
Security Council resolution that
prohibits Iran from transferring
any arms or related material and
requires all countries to prohibit

the procurement of such items from
Iran, Takasu said.
He told the council that the com-
mittee sent letters "to concerned
member states" on March 9 asking
for "any relevant information regard-
ing this transaction" within 10days.

Copies of the letters to Iran and
Syria, obtained by The Associated
Press, said the ship's manifest indi-
cated that the Monchegorsk was
chartered by the Islamic Repub-
lic of Iran Shipping Line, that the
cargo was loaded in Iran.



ONE CAMPAIGN
From Page 1A
draws attention to the global cri-
sis of poverty and disease, inspires
people to action and helps build
the political will to encourage
elected leaders to support the
proven solutions to these prob-
lems," according to a press release
from ONE's national headquarters
in Washington, D.C.
LSA sophomore Stephanie Par-
rish, campus leader of the Uni-
versity's ONE chapter, said she
thinks raising awareness of global
poverty issues on college campus-
es should be the first step toward
improving such situations.
"I think it's really important to
first just raise awareness because
alotof students don't really under-
stand what's going on, and then
give them the tools so they can
take action themselves," she said.
"And I think the campaign does a
really good job of doing that."
The University's ONE chapter
plans to hold its event the week
of Mar. 25, though plans are still
in the beginning stages, Parrish
said. The theme of the event will
be "One Step at a Time."
Parrish said activities are likely
to include a Diag Day with activi-
ties like a barefoot walk to raise
awareness of life in poverty, peti-
tions, live music that relates to the
MSA
From Page 1A
said.
Though the resolution passed
18-8-2, there was opposition from
some assembly members.
General Council Michael Ben-
son said that, though a tuition
freeze seems beneficial on the
surface, he thinks it would create
future burdens.
"Our costs are going to have to
go up; (if not), that means some-
thing is going to have to get cut
to meet the budget, and we don't
know what's going to get cut," he
said. "What we need to do is look
at ways to reallocate."
Several other assembly mem-
bers argued that if moneybecomes
an issue, students' financial needs
should take priority over physical
University resources.
ECONOMIST
From Page 1A
Jacob Mincer Award for Lifetime
Achievement in Labor Economics,
the 2005 University College Dub-
lin Ulysses Medal and the 2005
Aigner award from the Journal of
Econometrics.
In addition to his numerous
awards, Heckman has also pub-
lished notable research. According

theme and a candlelight vigil to
remember lives lost.
"The Diag Day is really geared
justtomake everyone aware ofwhat
we're doing, get the word out there,
and have some fun," she said.
ONE President and CEO David
Lane said the challenge engag-
es students in international aid
efforts.
"The ONE Campus Challenge is
ONE's effort to empower, inform
and mobilize the next generation
of social justice activists," wrote
in a press release. "The students'
energy, idealism and creativity are
unmatched, and they are accom-
plishing great things on campuses
across the nation."
Parrish said she thinks the Uni-
versity's caring student body will
improve its chances of winning
the competition.
"I think U of M is just a great
campus in that we're so spirited
and we love our school and every-
one has their own kind of passions
and ideas," she said. "And I think
that having such a large, caring,
liberal student body is going to be
really helpful."
The other top 10 schools are
Wright State University, Sacred
Heart University, Baylor Univer-
sity, University of Southern Cali-
fornia, University of California at
Davis, Webster University, Curry
College, Wofford College and Uni-
versity of Florida.
"Yeah, it's true, some things
might be cut, but human capital
is the most important thing," LSA
Rep. Jason Raymond said. "If we
don't have the best and the bright-
est at this university, then what's
the point of having these great
programs?"
Stop the Hike addressed the
potential future problems of a
tuition freeze in a viewpoint in
yesterday's Daily (Tuition increas-
es must end, 03/10/2009), but the
group said it thinks the immedi-
ate benefits would outweigh these
future issues.
"A tuition freeze will allow con-
tinued access to higher education
for current and potential Univer-
sity students, many of whom are
pinned under the economic cli-
mate," the group wrote.
- Asa Smith contributed
to this report.
to his biography on the University
of Chicago's website, Heckman's
esearch on people who obtain
GED's was the source of much
debate across the country about
the benefits of the degree. Heck-
man has also published over 200
articles and several books.
Heckman served as an eco-
nomics advisor for the President
Barack Obama's campaign last
year during the 2008 presidential
election.

BUDGET
From Page 1A
ensure that students had the appro-
priate loans to attend college."
According to the University's
Office of Financial Aid, for the
2007-2008 school year there were
2,818 borrowers of private loans,
which totaled $52 inillion.
In addition to the increase in fed-
eral funding for grants and loans,
the budget proposal includes a $500
million grant program to create
partnerships between federal, state
and local governments. This will
aim to improve retention and gradu-
ation rates for low-income students,
accordingto a press release.
Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of
FinAid.org, a financial aid infor-
mation website, said the proposal
would also guarantee increased

funding for Pell Grants. This should
decrease the strain on students by
allowing the program to keep pace
with inflation, he said.
"It puts pressure on colleges
to start controlling their costs,
because if they know the Pell
Grants are only going to go up by
so much, then it means that they'll
either have to control their costs
or find other sources of funding to
help the students if the college costs
go up even faster," he said.
According to FinAid.org, college
tuition rates increase at about twice
the general inflation rate. Numbers
on the website show tuition rising
at about 8 percent per year on aver-
age, which leads to college tuition
doubling every nine years.
U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-Mich.)
said he also supports Obama's
efforts to increase the federal

direct student loan program, as
they would provide more reliable
loans for students.
"The White House has proposed
improving the federal student loan
program so that students will have
guaranteed access to student loans,
protecting students and their fami-
lies from any fluctuation in the
financial markets," Dingell said in
an e-mail interview. "Like Presi-
dent Obama, I believe our students
should not suffer as a result of tur-
moil in the market."
LSA senior Emily Golen, who is
receiving $5,500 a year in Perkins
Loans and$1,000ayear in Pell Grants,
said she is in favor of the increase in
federal aid because it would help her
pay for educational costs beside the
cost of in-state tuition.
"If it would have been there
before I was a senior, then I think

it would have helped," Golen said.
"Because predominantly I got loan
money, not necessarily to pay for
tuition, but to pay for other sup-
plies. And the money that I've got-
ten has notcompletely coveredthat,
so I think that if it was increasing it
would help definitely."
State Rep. Pam Byrnes (D-Lyn-
don Township) said she supports
the budget proposal because it will
make college more affordable in the
current economic recession.
"I am excited to see President
Obama's commitment to higher
education," Byrnes said in an e-mail
interview. "I support his efforts to
mandate funding for the Pell Grant
program and to restructure the fed-
eral Perkins Loan Program toward
need-based aid. Making college more
affordable is a critical component to
Michigan's economic turn around."

the michigan daily

OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church SI.
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2909
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
406 B. Jefferson $3,859
1229 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
952 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995
Offering a $500.00 gift card toa store
of your choice with every signed lease
of these available houses!!
TIRED OF SEARCHING for your
apartment or house? Wilson White
Management offers One Stop Shopping
with hundreds of apartments and
houses on Central Campus. Our leasing
agents are ready to help you the perfect
place to call home on campus. Wilson,
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus
sublet
070
** PERFECT SPRING/SUMMER
sublet. Hill &.Church, lots of prkg., 5-7
ppl. Call for more info 810-772-9691.
FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
cation for central campus right near bus
stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
080 A
HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

WRITING COACH/EDITOR--I'M a
Ph.D. author, writer, and psychologist
who can help you generate articles, dis-
sertations, grant proposals, and theses.
734-678-5512.
hel wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Stag Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarflnancial.com
ANN ARBOR RECONSTRUCTION-
IST Havurah seeks teacher for our Sun-
day morning religious school for 2009-
2010 academic yr. Exp. with children,
knowledge of Hebrew required. Send
resume to teacherjob@aarecon.org
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude, Victoria's S type lingerie
photography. Flexible bin, great pay.
Must be I8. For inerview call: 734-
678-4181 or emal photo to:
georgedl@provide.net
EARN EXTRA MONEY, Students
needed ASAP. Barn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
GET PAID CASH for taking online
surveys. www.cashtopsend.com
.MAKE MONEY AND provide others
with better health by starting your own
business. Please call 800-934-8534 for
more information.
MICHIGAN MENS SOCCER is now
hiring Managers! Be a part of Michi-
gan Athletics. For more info email:
grassie@umich.edu
OCCASIONAL HORSE BARN help,
strong fix-it type pref. 995-0092.
TUTOR IN PYTHON computer pro-
gramming for local 9th grade student.
Ability to also tutor Math and/or Latin
a plus, but not required.$20/hour. Con-
tact Jeannette or Doug at(734)662-3560.
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, Ml. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate. and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript to cambedu@aol.com
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu

INDOOR WATER PARK and/or
Summer Outdoor Lifeguard: Private
club accepting applications for life-
guard and swim instructor positions.
Experienceprferred and lifeguardcerti-

WANTED SEASONAL
Grill/Banquet/Beverage Cart Servers,
Pro Shop Workers, Grounds Crew
Workers. Stonebridge Golf Club, A2
-7 lf,01

ficatons ust bcur ent reymembr
ship included. Apply at Liberty ** -
Athletic Club, 2975 W. Liberty, Ann
Arbor. Phone Jan at 665-3738 ext. 18
for additional information.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ASSIS-
TANT. 10-20 hrs/wk. Track tasks and WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
project progress. Develop meeting Summer - Make life long friends. The
agendas and notes. Write reports and Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
communicate with project stakehold- Shops are looking for seasonal'help in
ers. Self-starter, organized, computer all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
experience (mac), great written and ver- Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
bal communications skills. Please send ings bonus, and discounted meals avail-
letter and resume to: able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
pm-asst@umich.edu www.theislandhouse.com

For Thursday, March 12, 2009
ARIES
(March21 to April 19)
You're extremely resttess today.
Because of this, get out and do some-
thing different. However, be very aware
ofyour actions and your words. Don't be
too hasty or rash in your speech or your
movements.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
A friend might surprise you today;
alternatively, you might meet somebody
who is bizarre, unconventional or differ-
ent in some way. You might also change
or amend your long-term goals.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Bosses, parents, teachers apd VIPs
(including the police) might surprise you
today. You feel independent and reac-
tionary. Something might happen that is
"the last straw." (Think twice before you
quit your day job.)
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Sudden and unexpected opportunities
to travel or get further education or train-
ing exist today. Whatever suddenly
arises, get ready to grab it. Your window
of opportunity is brief.
LEO
(oly 23 to Aug. 22)
Gifts, goodies, favors and advantages
suddenly might fall in your lap today. Be
ready to act fast. Take advantage of
whatever comes your way, because it
won't last long!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Partners and friends definitely will
surprise you today. Either they (or you)
will demand more freedom and inde-
pendence. Something unexpected is bub-
bling up here.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Interruptions at work are likely today.
Computer crashes, power outages, fire

drills, staff shortages and canceled
appointments are just par for the course.
SCORPIO
(Ocl. 23 to Nov. 21)
This is definitely an accident-prone
day for children under your care. This
applies to all Scorpio parents. Be extra
vigilant. Be extra patient.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Something unexpected will happen on
the home front today. Surprise company
might drop by. Unexpected events might
be canceled. Real estate deals can go
sideways.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
This is definitely an accident-prone
day! Slow down. Be extra cautious when
driving, walking or jogging. Be careful
with items that are breakable. Be careful
of words that pop out of your mouth!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You might find money today; you
might lose money. Something having to
do with your cash flow is unpredictable.
Keep your receipts. Count your change.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You're full of high energy. It's as if
there's too much electricity in the air.
You're independent, rebellious and fhull
of spontaneous notions. Easy does it.
YOU BORN TODAY You're coura-
geous about taking on big projects. It
seems like nothing daunts you. You're
daring, inventive and extremely creative.
You're constantly focused on the future.
Many of you are intrigued by meta-
physics and esoteric knowledge, in large
measure because you're curious about
everything! Your year ahead will be one
of the most powerful and perhaps impor-
tant years of your life. Dream big!
Birthdate of: James Taylor, singer;
Liza Minnelli entertainer/actress/singer;
Kay Nielsen, illustrator.

WANT TO WORK FOR
DAILY MULTIMEDIA?
E-MAIL
DAVAZAD@UMICH.EDU

C 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


0

8A - Wednesday, March 11, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

Rodriguez optimistic for
Forcier, mum on Threet

Sims deserved
All-Big Ten first team

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan football coach Rich
Rodriguez will talk all you want
about early enrollee Tate Forcier, a
rivals.com' four-
scar recruit. NOTEBOOK
The same goes
for redshirt junior quarterback Nick
Sheridan and his four career starts.
And the same for redshirt sopho-,
more David Cone, who has complet-
ed one career pass as a Wolverine.
But all you'll get out of Rodri-
guez regarding Steven Threet, an
eight-game starter last year who
announced his plans to transfer Feb.
16, is a smirk and the usual mantra:
"We just talk about the guys that
are here," Rodriguez said. "But Nick
has some experieriee. Then we have
David Cone, who's been in the pro-
gram, worked hard.
"Tate's kind of a gym-rat type of
guy that loves learning about the
game, has put the time in. I'm anx-
ious to see how they perform in the
spring."
When the Wolverines begin the
first of 15 spring practices Saturday,
Sheridan, Forcier and Cone will be
sharing repetitions under center.
"Nick'sobviously themost familiar
with it," Rodriguez said. "But Tate's a
quick learner, so we didn't bring him
here and didn't sign him and (incom-
ing freshman) Denard (Robinson)

to stand in the background. They're
going to get the chance, every oppor-
tunity to win the job."
The biggest difference between
this spring and last at the quarter-
back position is the experience of
the rest of the offense.
Michigan returns all of its offen-
sive startersfrom the end of lastsea-
son except tight end Mike Massey.
"It's different," Rodriguez said.
"Not only because obviously Nick
has some experience, but because
the guys around him now have some
experience. It's not like last year
where it was a little bit tougher on
the quarterbacks because they were
surrounded by a bunch of guys who
hadn't played in the system as well."
WELCOME, MR. ROBINSON: To
improve the Big Ten's second-worst
scoring defense, Rodriguez brought
in former Syracuse head coach Greg
Robinson as the Wolverines' new
defensive coordinator.
"Greg has been around enough to
know it's not all about the schemes,"
Rodriguez said. "This spring, just
as much as anything else, is teach-
ing tackling and fundamentals and
breaking on the ball and doing a lot
of those things we have to get bet-
ter at."
One of the biggest changes the
Wolverines will see in spring prac-
tice this year are in the defensive
schemes.
"We play so many different styles

of offense - both in the league and
out of the league - that you're not
playing in a traditional three-line-
backer scheme anymore,"Rodriguez
said. "Half the games you're playing
in, you're playing a nickel scheme
with an extra safety in there.
"That being known, and our
coaches being aware of it, there
will be a lot of times on defense this
spring where our first defense will
be a so-called nickel defense with an
extra strongsafety in there."
Rodriguez said senior free safety
Stevie Brown could move into that
spot. Though it is rare to practice
the nickel in the spring, "you better
prepare for it early," he said.
POCKET PROTECTORS: Though
the quarterback competition natu-
rally garners the most attention,
Rodriguez is particularly excited
about Michigan's depth on the
offensive line.
There was just one returning
starter entering last year: redshirt
junior right tackle Stephen Schil-
ling. Rodriguez likes to have eight
linemen he feels comfortable with.
This season?
"With our guys, that 0-line, we
may be able to have 10," Rodriguez
said.
The surplus of linemen is due to
Rodriguez's decision to redshirt all
six freshmen last year.
Read more at michigandaily.com.

he Big Ten men's basketball
coaches and a media vot-
ing panel announced their
2008-09 All-Big Ten first team on
Monday. Both sets of voters had the
same list.
Michigan forward Manny Har-
ris, Michigan
State guard Kalin ALEX
Lucas, Ohio State PROSPERI
forward Evan On men's
Turner, Penn basketball
State guard Talor
Battle and Purdue center JaJuan
Johnson.
The media named Michigan
junior forward DeShawn Sims to
the second team, and the coaches
named him to the third.
My All-Big Ten first team predic-
tion lastweek was the same as the
coaches' and media's. Knowingthat
the coaches and media wouldn't
leave out a player from the Big
Ten's second-best team, Illinois,
or third-best team, Purdue, Sims
didn't make the cut.
Butthe award should go to the
best five players, so Sims should
have been on the list over Johnson.
Michigan is only as good as
Harris and Sims. Without either
player, Michigan would have no
shot of makingthe NCAA Tourna-
ment. Harris averages 17.1 points
and seven rebounds per game. Sims
averages 15.3 and 7.3. Michigan's
third-highest scorer, redshirt fresh-
man Laval Lucas-Perry, averages
7.4, while Michigan's third-highest
rebounder, freshman Zack Novak,
averages 3.4.
While Johnson averages 13.2
points and 5.9 rebounds per game,
Purdue has three players aver-
agingdouble figures in scoring.

0

40

SAID ALSALAH/D
Junior DeShawn Sims was given second team All-Big Ten honors by the media.

And the Boilermakers' success on
offense depends more on all five
players on the court, notjust two.
Michigan has been searching for
a third scorer all season, but more
often than not, the bulk of the
offensive load falls on the shoul-
ders of Harris and Sims.
And although Johnson has the
advantage on the defensive end (2.2
blocks per game), his play is com-
plemented by Purdue's stingy team
defense, which is the third-best in
the Big Ten.
Sims not only deserves the
award over Johnson because he
means more to his team and can
also extend the floor with his out-
side shooting - but also because he
has been more productive.
Sims averages more points and

rebounds. Despite beingtwo inches
shorter, he has the same number of
double-doubles.
And Sims plays great in big
games. In wins against then-No.4
UCLAand Duke, Sims led Michigan
in scoring and rebounding. When
Michigan hosted No.9 Michigan
State, Sims was the lone Wolverine
that played well, scoring18 points
and grabbing four rebounds.
After Michigan dropped a heart-
breaker at Iowa, it needed to win
two of its last three games. Sims
had 29 points in a victory against
Purdue and 24 at Minnesota in a
must-win game.
Sims is more valuable to his
team and has better numbers. That
should mean he's on theAll-BigTen
first team.

6
6

Beerensons extension still
leaves recruiting questions

Seniors reflect before final home meet

By GJON JUNCAJ age against him and have told some
Daily Sports Writer recruits he doesn't even go on the
ice during practices.
Last Tuesday marked a return to Sophomore forward Aaron
a familiar scriptfor Michigan hockey Palushaj said other CCHA coaches
coach Red Berenson, who signed a emphasized Berenson's contract
one-year contract extension through status to discourage him during his
next season. Now in his 25th year as recruitment, but they never resorted
head coach, Berenson worked under to inappropriate scare tactics.
rolling, one-season contracts from Word-of-mouth also plays a role
his first year until 2006, when his in negative recruiting. Freshman
current three-year deal began. defenseman Brandon Burlon said
But the short-term extension recruits from other schools warned
won't mitigate all possible concerns him Berenson doesn't play freshmen.
on the recruitingtrail. But besides sophomore Bryan Hogan,
In the past five years, questions who played injustsix games lastsea-
about Berenson's eventual retire- son as the backup goaltender, every
ment have increased. Berenson, 69, member of this year's roster played
says it comes up in every conversa- at least 23 games as freshmen.
tion with a recruit's parents. And he Recruiting battles extend beyond
openly admits to players he may not the realm of the NCAA. Morals are
be coaching when they graduate. sometimes compromised when the
Recruits are often courted when Canadian Hockey League becomes
they are as young as 15 years old, involved in courting teenage ath-
whichheightensthe attentionregard- letes. The CHL consists of three
ing Berenson's uncertain future. And major junior leagues, most notably
it also serves as a weapon for other the Ontario Hockey League, all for
teams - both inside and outside the players ages 16 to 20.
CCHA - to discourage parents from The junior leagues are in compe-
sendingtheir son to Michigan. tition with NCAA schools for play-
"I've got a kid in this year, and he ers. Burlon suggested they can often
said it's definitely out there," assis- resortto disparagingthe level of play
tant coach Mel Pearson said. "They inthe college game to tryto persuade
ask; 'You don't even know how long parents there's only one clear path to
the Michigan coach is going to be the National Hockey League.
there, so why would you consider Before entering college, Ameri-
that school?' ... We hear a lot that can players often play in the United
Red's not involved in the recruit- States HockeyLeague, in some cases
ing at all, but that's false. We hear until they are 20 years old, to gain
that Red's going to retire next year. experience against top competition.
I think that's a yearly thing." CHL representatives sometimes try
Berenson suggested last \'eek to convince players that American
that opposingcoaches have used his junior leagues aren't as effective

in developing athletes, especially
those older than 18.
"That's their selling point," Bur-
ion said. " 'The OHL - you come in
early, you develop earlier. ... Obvi-
ously, they want you, and they use
the card that you're going to have to
play two years of juniors, which isn't
the same caliber of the OHL most
times before you go to college."
Berenson is openly critical of the
CHL's relaxed standards of decency.
He recalled when former Wolver-
ine Jack Johnson (2005-07), now
with the Los Angeles Kings, was
15 years old. A CHL representative
approached Johnson at 7 a.m. at the
golf course he was working atto talk
about his future on the ice.
The major junior leagues don't
always leave players alone after
they've arrived on campus, either.
Representatives sometimes target
active Wolverines with poor grades
to persuade them to leave school.
"It's relentless," Berenson said.
"We need informed parents, and we
need parents that we can trust. It's
usuallythe parents whogive intothe
pressure. The kid, he doesn't know.
The parents are guiding him."
The coaching staff maintains
their recruiting classes have been
mostly unscathed by other teams'
recruiting tactics. In the past five
seasons, 20 of 36 Wolverine fresh-
men entered college already select-
ed in the NHL Draft.
"If a kid has an interest in Michi-
gan, and we really like them, things
end fast," assistant coach Billy Pow-
ers said. "As soon as you get them in,
you take them."

By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
Four years ago, eight freshmen
gathered around a table at the
Michigan Union before classes
started. Like most other incoming
students, they were just trying to
figure out where they would fit in.
None of them knew that they
would become the face of Michi-
gan men's gymnastics immediate-
ly, and for the next four years.
They went from acquaintances
to fast friends, their distinctive
personalities complementing
each other as they made their way
through their freshman year.
"When you're first experienc-
ing something, the other seven
people around you are first expe-
riencing that situation, too," Phil
Goldberg said. "It kind of helps
with that stuff."
Goldberg is , the goofy, yet
mature co-captain. Kent Caldwell
is the artist and the mediator. John
Sawicki, known as J-Slick, is simul-
taneouslythe class baby - he won't
turn 22 until Aug. 20 - and the one
most known for an unshakeable
self-confidence.
There's Joe Catrambone, who
was loud even as a freshman, and
quiet Ralph Rosso, who Scott Breg-
man describes as "the three-year-
old brother I never had." Bregman
is the sarcastic one. Ryan McCa-
rthy is the extrovert who will
try anything in the gym. Jamie
Thompson is the social butterfly,

who, as an incoming freshman,
called every one of his prospective
teammates just to chat.
And sinice that first year, almost
half the regular lineup has con-
sisted of some combination of that
class. -
But Saturday night will be the
beginning of the end, when along
with fifth-year senior Paul Wood-
ward, the eight will walk onto
the Cliff Keen Arena floor for the
final time. Although three of them
- Caldwell, Goldberg and McCa-
rthy - have the option to stay one
more year, they wanted to experi-
ence Senior Night the same way
they had done everything else:
together.
"Even though it might not be my
last time, the fact that I'm walking
out with the teammates that I'm
the closest with, that's going to be
the killer for me," McCarthy said.
"It's going to be sad."
But the bond they developed
isn't one that will be broken any-
time soon. The eight seniors have
always stood out for the strong
individual attachments between
them.
"(Bregman) would always say
that - and this is something we
established freshman year - any
of us can hang out with any other
one of us, like one-on-one, and it
wouldn't be awkward," Caldwell
said. "I don't think you can quite,
say the same for any other class."
The seniors can seemingly com-
plete each other's thoughts, often

talking over one another.
And like most athletes at the end
of their college careers they can't
believe how fast their time togeth-
er time has flown.
"Everyone tells you how fast it
goes, but ... until you experience it,
you don't understand how fast it
really does go," Catrambone said.
"I still feel like I'm a freshman."
"You still act like one," Thomp-
son told him.
Even if most of them haven't
changed much, the seniors have
built up a huge store. of shared
memories.
There was the meet at Cliff
Keen in 2007 when Michigan beat
powerhouse Oklahoma in front of
an electric, standing-room-only
crowd. And the time Goldberg
dressed up as a unicorn for Hal-
loween. And the 25-hour road
trip to Utah to watch the women's
gymnastics team in NCAA cham-
pionships.Andwhen McCarthyled
teammates in stealing Thompson's
laptop in an elaborate April Fool's
prank. And finding each other in
the wee hours of the morning at
the West Quad-South Quad snow-
ball fight, even though they had
training at 6:30 the next morning.
They'll be doing their best to
make these last six weeks together
as memorable as possible.
"The only thing that could top
off our experience would be -
McCarthy began.
Catrambone finished the sen-
tence: "A (championship) ring."

I!!n!!.uuw . nq.T wwqyqu . '::,::e

4

1 ' ED2 DAYS ONLY: The Mall Outlet 2 DAYS ONLY: RESTOCKED
HOURLY Clothing WarehouseSale HOURLY
MEN'S ' LADIES' 2' N LADIES' MEN'S
ADIDAS RO 8QUNG MEN'S& LADIES' MEN'S BEBE AFFLICTION
$ 9$ 9 FRENCHCARG SPORTSWEAR SINFUL
2 CONNECTION SHORTS FROM5 $79
MEN-LADIES' MEN'S FROM 5 FROM MEN'S & LADIES' LADIES'
GRAB BAGS ZPY K & LADIES' JEANS LADIES' WILSON THEORY
S 9 E0MENT LUCKY, RKETOMMY SOCKS DRESSES
4-5 ITEMS PERBAG 4GSER EB&PAIR $5
LADIES' FROM 1LADIES' GEAR
JEWELRY SOFFE T-SHIRTS
FROM SHORTS
TAT 399 99
2 DAYS ONLY! LADIES' MICHIGAN UNION
TUES, MARCH 10th BEBE & BCBG 2nd Floor Ballroom
1Oam- 7pm LsA PURSES Ann Arbor
WED, MARCH 11th HANDBAGS Sponsored by Michigan Union
10am - 6pm BACKPACKS Arts & Programs

4

Wednesday, Marc 21
5:30 - 7:00 PM
Wolverine Room
Michigan Union
R WIL E SERVED!
Great infor a personal or
academic in epression and
other mental health topics. Unier Mchian
n Asso Cge

4


0

a

U U V U U U

v

a

a

U i

f


Personal Statement
My thrice broken heart ByElyanaTwiggs

am awakened by a green
nurse. Her features are
blurry and her voice is dis-
tant. She has four eyes. She makes
me repeat my name. I fail the
first test. I can talk now that the
breathing tube has been pulled
from my windpipe, but my voice is
harsh and barely audible. I think I
just swallowed sand coupled with
a handful of nails. I am sweating.
I am freezing. I am lifeless. The
sound of the machine next to me is
familiar and I hate the sound. I see
four dazzlingbags hanging quietly
on a metal pole beside me. I can't
read the long words printed on
them. I realize where I am - the
busiest place on earth.
The ICU buzzes around my
mechanicalbed;beepingmachines
conduct the orchestra of stressed
nurses and diligent physicians. A
diluted panic starts to spread over
me. Numb tears stream down my
colorless' cheeks. I don't deserve
this. You would- think after the
first two they would stop this tor-
ture.
My first open-heart surgery was
at five months old. The second was
at two years old. This agonizing
pain was because I was born with
a tiny defect: a hole in my heart,
which required that a hard, carbon
heart valve be inserted into my
tiny body. I underwent my third
MARTHA COOK
From Page 6B
in Oxford with every single door
closed, accounts of Martha Cook
made me realize that my resi-
dence hall experience is nowhere
near as enriching.
"It's just a really strong com-
munity," Humphrey said. "I have
made so many good friends. It
happens a lot that girls will live
here all four years, so it just really
adds to the community aspect."
Although Martha Cook has
been fulfilling for both Hahn and
Humphrey, they both stressed
that the lifestyle isn't for every-
one.
"We'll get a lot of freshmen
who will move out because they
want to join a sorority or decide
the lifestyle isn't for them," Hum-
phrey said. "But we also get a lot
of girls who really love it."
-EMMA JESZKE

heart surgery at 15 years old - the
day I recount here - to get my
heart valve replaced and a defibril-
lator to match. After this day, I will
have two new beautiful scars, both
of which you would probably stare
at unabashedly if you saw. Huge
scars that are mementos of three
heart surgeries before my 18th
birthday and a lifetime of medical
examination. You'd think living
with a congenital heart defect, I'd
get used to it. But you never really
get used to it.
The effects of the morphine
being pumped into my veins won't
allow me to comprehend my sur-
roundings. I feel groggy and slow.
I notice two thick tubes protrud-
ing from my stomach while a
brown liquid seeps into a bag at
the foot of my bed. I want to vomit.
I can't imagine what the liquid is,
since I haven't eaten anything in
30 hours. I still want to vomit.
I command my wrists to twist
around so I can see what is pinch-
ing me. The reaction is delayed;
moving my hands takes about two
minutes. Three IVs sprout from
my bruised wrists, and one of them
doesn't even lead to anything. The
thickest IVneedle springs from my
neck. I can't move my head to the
left because of it. My chest throbs
and my mouth hangs open. My
arms are being pulled in opposite
TOWN-GOWN
From Page 5B
city between the promise of new
jobs and tax revenue.
The property is probably in
more stable hands being owned
by the University than ifa private
company had purchased the site,
Bernstein said. But because the
University doesn't pay property
taxes, the city won't gain any tax
revenue in the deal.
Bernstein said he is hopeful
the city will eventually regain the
lost opportunity for tax revenue
through the new jobs and spin-off
projects that life science research
will bring to the city.
SHORING UP THE FUTURE
Ann Arbor seems to have all
the right ingredients for building
a knowledge economy based in
science and technology research,
but the catch is getting the hyper-

direct
My ba
contor
tion dt
I lo
runnir
button
my bo
them
a
ragge
hapha
ask th
just s
Her s
before
place.
fact m
vinced
one el
but th
smiles
hear

ions by an invisible force. and constant. I must accept that
ck burns from having been this will never be over. My eyelids
ted into an unnatural posi- won't open all the way.
uring a 12-hour surgery. The only thing I want is water.
ok down at the stitched skin I would sleep on the street for the
ng down my chest to my belly rest of my life just for a puny glass
. Steri-strips seem to hold of water. I beg the nurse - she
dy together. I want to rip gives me ice chips instead. I don't
off. I look like a monster or a want to die anymore. The last
one slides down my throat, drop-
ping into an empty stomach. My
parched esophagus thanks me.
w aking up My glazed over eyes can't read
fter my third the time. I assume it's the after-
noon since every light is shin-
open-heart ing directly at my eyes. It's 3 a.m.
- medication time. A syringe is
surgery in inserted into the I.V. through my
neck. I can feel the thin liquid
15 years seeping into my bloodstream. It's
cold and wet. I hope it will dull
the pain burning in my shoulder
blades so I can sleep. I can taste
the medicine. My eyelids droop
dy doll that has been stitched and I fall into a dreamless sleep. I
zardly after too much use. I thank God for this false escape.
e nurse some questions. She I wake up again abruptly. My
miles and tells me to sleep. nightmare is reality. It's been
mile is the same one I saw around six hours. I shouldn't have
I went to sleep in the first woken up. I look around and see.
I don't make sense. This something I have been missing.
akes me cry again. I am con- I recognize the shiny pupils and
d that I am trapped in some- white teeth of my mother, father
lse's body. I am screaming and sister. My beaten-up heart
he nurse just automatically swells. Everything in the room
, then walks by. No one can vanishes. My manipulated insides
me. My pain becomes dull and stretched open chest stop

throbbing. The tubes from my
stomach and catheter disappear.
The beeping machine stops beep-
ing. The blurry clock stops ticking.
I forget that I have a congenital
heart disease in the first place.
They are all I can see. They are all
I want to see. If it weren't for the
morphine, I would smile. Tears
are the only reaction I could mus-
ter. Tears of joy, tears of happiness,
tears of fear and tears of love.
My mom is crying, too. I don't
understand why. I don't care that
for the next two weeks, I would
be fighting to walk, and it would
be painful for me to sit up straight
for a month. I can't feel the bottom
half of my body butI can't care less.
I don't care how many times in the
future someone will ask me what
the long, pink line down my chest
is. I don't care about how if I don't
take my medicine regularly after
this day, I could be at high risk for
a stroke or heart attack. All I know
is that the people I love the most
are holding my limp hand and sit-
ting right next to me. I know that
life is truly beautiful. After this
point, I will know that my battle
is conquerable. At this moment,
I have never felt luckier. I am the
luckiest girl in the world.
- Elyana Twiggs is a reporter for
The Michigan Daily's News section.
turn to for a model in cultivating
an appealing environment for the
24-35 demographic.
In recent years, Ann Arbor offi-
cials have begun to warm to the
idea of high-density development
and developing the city's urban
core in hopes of luring in new busi-
nesses and investors.
Phrases like "walkability," "sus-
tainable growth" and "high-densi-
ty development" are buzzwords at
recent City Council and Downtown
Development Authority meetings.
But Glazer said there is room for
improvement on the city's part.
"It's still not at the right scale,"
he said.
Ann Arbor is uniquely posi-
tioned to become an example for
other cities on how to successfully
transfer to a knowledge economy,
said Hailu with the Land Policy
Institute.
"The only thing that might be
missing is the right investment,"
he said.

educated young professionals the
University turns out to stay in the
state and in the city.
The "brain drain" question is
one that Michigan researchers and
policy makers have struggled with
for years.
How important to the city's eco-
nomic future is it that this year,
Ann Arbor was named the third-
best "Walking City" by Prevention
Magazine? Or the top "College
Sports Town" by Forbes Maga-
zine? Or the "Best Place to Raise
Your Kids" by Business Week Mag-
azine?
More important than you might
think.
According to the report released
March 3 by the Land Policy Insti-
tute about attracting "knowledge
workers" - highly educated pro-
fessionals between 24 and 35 -
urban environments and cultural
attractions are crucial to new eco-
nomic growth.
Bernstein agreed, saying that

research increasingly shows that
the "knowledge workers" demo-
graphic first chooses where to live
based on quality of life and then
finds a job in that city.
Quality of life factors could
include everything from a city's
parks, schools, nightlife, art scene
or even the number of gyms per
capita.
Glazer cautioned that improving
quality of life as an economic strat-
egy is a relatively new approach
to city planning, so more research
needs to be done to understand
which factors weigh heaviest on
the minds of the coveted young
professional demographic.
To him, though, one thing is
clear..
"It sure ain't the weather," he
said.
The current top destination for
graduates from Michigan's public
universities is Chicago.
And it is large urban centers like
Chicago that city planners now

THE A.NN ARBOR
BUIBBLE
The city might seem isolated from Michigan's economic
troubles. But how secure is it, really? 4B


U U U U V V V V


-W

V

a

0

w


w

w

- -. " S..

The " Daily Wednesday, ""

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Angela Chih
Cover photo:
Zachary Meisner
The Statement is The Michigan
Dailys news magazine, which is
distrihated every Wednesday
during the academic year.

new rules
rule 188: If
your roommate
tries to bake
something,
you have to eat
it (or at least
be convincing
about pretend-
ing to). rule
189: Packing
up your stuff is
an acceptable
way to tell your
professor that
class is over,
rule 190:
Playing in the
Church Street
flood waters is
never a good
idea.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

CLASSY
ST PATY'S

e charm of green keg beer
>mbs on St. Patrick's Day,
a drink option that won't
in lecture next week. This
I from dusk to dawn.

m+

10 A.M.

12 P.M.

NOMINATE
SOMEONE FOR STUDENTS OF THE YEAR
The Michigan Daily is looking for nominations for the Students of the Year edition of
The Statement, which will feature people from every corner of campus whose personal
achievements or contribution to the community deserve special recognition.
Please e-mail vosgerchian@michigandaily.com with a description of the nominee's
accomplishments and the student's full name, college and year.

BAILEY'S
BREAKFAST
The easy thing would be to
just tilt a little Bailey's Irish
Cream into your morning
coffee, but that won't do if
you want to start the day off
with a buzz. To be safe, you
better mix in something
stronger. Try a Morning
with the Leprechauns: 1.5
ounces of Bailey's, 1 ounce
of Jameson Irish Whiskey, 2
teaspoons of cherry brandy
and 3 ounces of hot or cold
coffee. Or for a sugar rush,
take a shot of French Toast.
Mix together a shot with
one part Bailey's, one part
butterscotch schnapps
and one part DeKuyper
Hot Damn cinnamon
schnapps.

SNEAKING A
SWIG AT LUNCH
Between classes, why not
have a refreshing glass of
lemonade with lunch? To
make Danny's Delight,
first wash a lowball glass
with Angostura bitters
and ice and pour out the
excess. Then mix one part
sweet vermouth, one part
Irish whiskey, one part
Stone's ginger wine and
two parts lemonade. But
if bad weather foils your
plans to sip outside, the
brave among you might
attempt the Gloom Lifter:
2 ounces of whiskey, half
an ounce of lemon juice, a
squeeze of sugar syrup and
half an egg white shaken
and strained. It's sure to
make you feel something, if
maybe not actually better.

5P.M.
REDHEADED
HAPPY HOUR
Now that you're done
with classes or have given
up going to your last one,
it's time to celebrate
with a proper Irish brew.
Smithwick's, an Irish red
ale first produced in a
brewery that began in a
14th century monastery,
is one of Ireland's oldest
beer. Remember when you
order it that the "w" is silent
(say "Smiddicks"). If you'd
rather enjoy something
deeper and darker, go
ahead and get a Guinness
- 2009 marks the 250th
anniversary of the Irish
porter.

8PM.
CELTIC
COCKTAILS
While you're putting on
yourgreentightsorpainting
your chest as part of your
St. Pat's ensemble, sip on
one of these cocktails.
For something simple and
sweet, mix up an Emerald
Cocktail with one part Irish
whiskey, one part melon
liqueur and three parts
ginger ale, poured over ice
in a highball glass, stirred
and garnished with a slice
of lime. To try your hand
at more sophisticated
mixology, serve up some
Irish Riders. Combine an
ounce of whiskey, three
ounces sweet and sour mix
and a quarter ounce triple
sec. Shake with ice, pour
into a martini glass and
drizzle a quarter ounce of
raspberry liqueur on top.

2 A.M.
"IRISH NIGHT" CAP
The Irish Night, a period of
rioting in London during the
Revolution of 1688, hope-
fully won't have a ton in
common with your St. Pat's.
Regardless, you'll need to
wind down at the end of the
night. If your night goes well,
end with the St. Patrick's
Day: equal parts part green
creme de menthe, Green
Chartreuse and Irish whis-
key with a dash of bitters. If
it doesn't, go for the Angry
Irishman: equal parts Bai-
ley's and whiskey oversice.
SOURCES:
OrinksMixer.com
Smithwick.ie
Guinness.com

DEADLINE: MARCH 25


0

W--


w

a

a

9

0-

W.

The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, March 11, 2009

Wedneday, 2009Dail

,

. y mob.
. . ^ 9e. ,.c .
8,
'
4 F
:

ABOUT CAMPUS

is 3
I
LLg eT ssSYOH OUY

QUOTES OF THE WEEK
" Apparently, porn is right
up there with Mom and
apple pie. "
- MARK MILOSCIA, a Democratic State Rep-
resentative from Washington, on the public's
anger over his proposal to institute an 18.5 per-
cent sales tax on sex toys and explicit maga-
zines. Miloscia's initiative was part of an effort
to shore up the state's budget deficit

"The only thing green
about Peter Mandelson is
the slime coursing through
his veins."
- LELIA DEEN, a protester from the environmen-
tal group Plane Stupid, defending herself for dump-
ing a bucket of green liquid on the face of Lord
Peter Mandelson, business secretary in the British
government. Deen claimed Mandelson had been
involved in questionable dealings with lobbyists



ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN OQUIST

Martha Cooked
inside the mysterious
bastion of single-sex living
Recall your experience of liv-
ing in the residence halls. During
this rite of passage, you might have
encountered one or more of the fol-
lowing: nasty dorm food, a run-in
with a drunken (and possibly vom-
iting) roommate, gettingsexiled (or
sexiling someone else) and adjust-
ing to the awkward concept of com-
munity bathrooms. You probably
trudged through it, counting down
the days until you could adopt a liv-
ing situation that afforded you a
little dignity.
But there is a residence hall that
doesn't inspire that same repulsion
to on-campus living. It's a place
where the residents take pride in
their residence hall experience and
form a community of unique mor-
als and traditions. It's also a place
that, for many students on cam-
pus, remains shrouded in mystery
and confusion. The place is Mar-
tha Cook - a bastion of single-sex
housing that evokes a time in the
University's history when men and
women students slept on separate
sides of the Engineering Arch.
Laura Hahn, an LSA freshman
who lives in Martha Cook, agreed
to act as my guide to campus's
most enigmatic dorm. It's true that
men cannot enter the dorm with-
out a resident escort, but the same
goes for outside women. Only with
Hahn's help could I gain admit-'
tance to the hallowed hall.
After attempting to get in the
doors twice and failing, I opted to
wait outside for my escort to return
from class. There were just a few
people around me, looking about
as unsure of themselves as I felt
- a couple awkward-looking boys
fidgeting in their tennis shoes and
a girl with fiery red hair.
As I finally followed Hahn inside
to the dorm's lobby, I was amazed
by the tall ceilings, long hallways,
tapestries and wood-engraved
walls. It was as if we had jumped
out of Ann Arbor and into a Char-
lotte Bront8 novel.
People were talking in small
groups all around me - we had
come just in time for Martha
Cook's Friday night teatime. I was

surrounded by some of the most
delicious desserts I've ever seen -
freshtcookies, rice crispy treats and
beautiful rakes - all made by the
Martha Cook chef, whose specialty
is desserts.
Teatime takes place in one of the
large lobbies, called the Gold Room
for its dazzling floors, walls and
furniture. The picturesque room
was teeming with residents and
their guests, mostly young women
and visiting family members.
Despite the formal-looking room, I
didn't feel out of place in my brown
Converse and thermal shirt. The
room was so full of tea timers that it
took Hahn a couple minutes to find
us a quiet place where we could sit
and talk.
I figured the best way to break
the ice was to immediately address
the "Martha Cook" stereotype: a
"cookie-cutter, prim and proper
girl," as described by Hahn. She
said the girls are aware of the
stigma that surrounds their living
situation, and she thinks that a lot
of Martha Cook's mystique stems
from the moment students step
onto campus for their orientation
tour.
"I remember Martha Cook being
a part of the tours, but not a lot of
the tour guides even know much
about it," Hahn said. "So it's kind
of like they instill that mystery into
new students and it kind of just
continues on."
Martha Cook has a different
meal plan from other dorms, mean-
ing non-residents can't use their
M-Cards to eat in the hall. Lau-
ren Humphrey, Assistant Resident
Director for Martha Cook, said that
fact might give students the impres-
sion that the dorm is odd overall.
"You can't just wander in and eat

ti
here if you don't live
creates more of a n
makes people assume
snobby," Humphrey sai
Although there is a
of rules in place at M
- mandatory house m
hours for receiving m
and required work duty
oppressive as many pec
"I know there a lot o
conceptions," Hahn sai
whole curfew thing-tI
one. Most people are
would you want to do t
Martha Cook reside
required to be home

time. But there are
visitation hours
for men - 11:00
a.m. to midnight
on weekdays and
until 2:00 a.m. on
weekends. Anoth-
er rule stipulates
that each resident
does one hour of
tea service each
semester. Break-
/ ing the rules can
lead to being
kicked out, but
Humphrey, who
deals with most
resident issues,
said that such a
measure has rare-
ly been taken.
Teatime, the
main buzz on
campus surround-
ing Martha Cook,
is every Friday
and is one of the
major traditions.
But the women do
ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAvoGLIA a lot more than
just drink tea.
here, which Residents are given a detailed event
nystery and calendar at the beginning of each
that we are semester, complete with the spe-
id. cial teatimes, dinners, dances and
stricter set other events. Amongst other tradi-
lartha Cook tions, there are "sit-downs" every
neetings, set Wednesday, which can be formal -
sale visitors no jeans allowed - or informal.
- it's not as "We all gather outside the din-
tple think. ing hall doors that open at 5:15,

and then we would stand behind
our chairs," Hahn said, "Then,
we all would sing a song, and then
sit down at the same time and eat
together."
There is also ahistorical relation-
ship with the Lawyer's Club, which
Hahn explains is from having the
same founder - William Cook.
Once a year, Martha Cook invites
the lawyers over for lunch and ask
that they do not bring friends. In
the past, the strange coupling of
young undergraduate women and
older law students may have helped
young ladies in attaining their Mrs.
degrees - in other words, a fine
lawyer husband. But Hahn said
that the groups now associate out
of tradition, not to make matches.
"It doesn't have the same conno-
tation as it did in the past," she said.
"This isn't the '70s and they aren't
trying to pair us up."
tahn enjoys having the opportu-
nity to attend events put on by Mar-
tha Cook, all of which are optional.
"It has a little bit more of a com-
munity because they do have the
events set up for us," she said. "I
don't want to make a comparison
to a sorority because it's not. But we
do have Marion Law who is our res-
ident director, who does live here
with us, and we have compared
her to like a 'house mother,' as well
as our own cooking staff separate
from the university."
When compared to walking
through my whitewashed hallway
See MARTHA COOK, Page 8B

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Madoff's guilty plea
2. Bailout watchman Earl E. Devaney
3. Secret letters to Russia
And three things you can't
1. Michael Jackson's return
2. Kilpatrick's law suit
3. Brad Pitt on
Capitol Hill

"The fact that this happened at all is outrageous."
- JODY P. WEIS, superintendent of the Chicago police, condemning seven police officers who
failed to notice that a 14-year-old boy was impersonating an officer for five hours. The boy drove a
patrol car and helped arrest a subject by pinning the man down so he could be handcuffed

BY THE NUMBERS

YOUTUBE
VIDEO COF
THE WEEK
Marketing pranks
Let's face it: telemarketers are
annoying. They waste your time try-
ing to sell you worthless items that
you'll never use. Well, Tom Mabe has
decided to fight back.
In this video, the comedian Mabe
receives a call from Bob, a telemar-
keterfrom atlocal cemetery. Bob says
he's trying to give Mabe "peace of
mind" by selling him a prearranged
burial plot. After Bob is done making
his pitch, Mabe starts whimpering,
explainingtoBobthatherecentlylost
his job and that his wife left him. In
fact, Mabe says, he was contemplat-
ing suicide right before Bob called.
With his voice quivering, Mabe
tells Bob that he was praying to God
for a sign of whether or not he should
kill himself. This sign, Mabe says, is
Bob, who offered Mabe a burial plot
right when he was about to kill him-
self. Bob stutters nervously, plead-
ing with Mabe that he only called
because Mabe's on his list. But Mabe
remains defiant: "You're the angel of
death, man," he says.
Now, the fun begins. Mabe
inquires about the various deals Bob
can offer. Seeing his opportunity to
make a sale, Bob reassures Mabe of
the affordability of the plot.
Mabe then asks about financ-
ing options for the burial plot. Still
unaware that this is a prank, Bob
asks Mabe if he has a credit card or
checking account to pay for the plot.
But Mabe might not be able to hold
out for that long. Then Bob issues the
coup de grace of this video.
"If I got the paperwork out to you
this afternoon, do you think you
could hold off until tomorrow?"
-BRIAN TENGEL
See this and other
YouTube videos ofthe week at
youtube.com/user/michigandaily

f false mis-
d. "Like the
hat's a huge
like, 'Why
hat?"'
nts are not
at any set



Number of jobs California lost in January
Number of unemployed people in California
Percentage of the California workforce that is unemployed, the
highest in almost 26 years
Source: T e Los Angeles Times

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
R.I.P American Dream - Remember a year ago,
when the U.S. actually had a functioning economy?
Remember the American dream of owning a house
and a car? Apparently, those were the good old
days. Now, we're in the throes of an economic
meltdown. In this atmosphere, even listening to
Obama - once a beacon of hope - is unbearably
depressing. For this, there's only one remedy: jump
on board with that boom in alcohol purchases.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Doodlers may have better memory retention
People who doodle while listening to detailed information have a bet-
ter retention than those who don't doodle, according to a study recent-
ly published in the journal Applied Cognitive Psychology by Jackie
Andrade, a psychologist at the University of Plymouth in England.
In the study, Andrade selected two groups of 20 people who had just
completed a different psychology experiment to listen to a two-and-a-
half-minute voicemail recording that they were told would be boring.
The message was a fake invitation to a 21st birthday party.
While listening, both groups were supposed to write downthe names
of the party guests and the places mentioned. But half of the participants
were told to shade in little circles and squares while listening.
After the message, the participants were asked to verbally recall
the names and places mentioned in the voicemail. Those who doodled
remembered on average 7.5 out of 16 pieces of information, while those
who didn't doodle recalled only 5.8 items,
- BRIAN TENGEL


V U V V V V V


-4

-w

-9

a

m

w

w


w

w

I46 The M~~iciaDal-WensaM rh1,20

Wednesday, March 11, 2009 - The Michigan Daily 5B

An ivory tower's
protection
Tp he University's central
role in the city's pros-
perity is undeniable.
"I don't think the University
would be what it is without Ann
Arbor, and I don't think Ann
Arbor would be the same with-
out the University," said Jesse
Bernstein, president and CEO
of the Ann Arbor Chamber.of
Commerce.
But when asked if the city
was too dependent on the Uni-
versity, Bernstein answered
with a confident "no."
"There's an automatic flow of
commerce that'sbeen symbiotic
and self-perpetuating," he said.
The University functions in
two key ways in the region's
economy. First, the University
directly employs thousands and
brings in a student population.
of more than 41,000 to the city.
The University provides a
stable job base for the region,
said Lou Glazer, president of
MichiganFutureanAnnArbor-
based think tank that conducts
research on Michigan's tran-
sition to a knowledge-based
economy. A knowledge-based
economy is one that is centered
on high-skill jobs like those in
the technology sector rather
than manufacturing.
"For Washtenaw County, it's
a huge employment safety net,"
Glazer said.
But secondly - and perhaps
more importantly, according to
Glazer - universities generate
spin-off industries, businesses
and investments.
With this in mind, the Uni-
versity has recently formed
new centers and partnerships
with the city that are focused
on encouraging offshoot start-
ups, particularly in science and
technology.
These organizations include
MPowered Entrepreneurship, a
joint venture between the Ross
School of Business, the College
of Engineering, which supports
student entrepreneurs, and the
University's Office of Tech-
nology Transfer, which helps
University faculty and students
market their science and tech-
nology-related product ideas
According to a new national
report released March 3 by the
Land Policy institute at Michi-
gan State University, every new
patent in a metro county leads
on average to the creation of
nearly 500 new jobs. In addi-
tion, it raises the county's aver-
age income by approximately
$3, said Yohannes Hailu, an
associate director for land poli-
cy at the institute and co-author
of the study.
If this statistic holds true
for Ann Arbor, then University
programs like the Tech Trans-
fer Office could have a sizable
impact in bolstering the city's
economy. In the 2008 fiscal

year, the office had a hand in
13 new start-ups and 75 new
patents, according to its annual
report.
The key to Ann Arbor's suc-
cess isn't solely the presence of
'a college because this reasoning
fails to explain why Ann Arbor
is seemingly more prosperous
than its Michigan counterparts.
In December the unemploy-
ment rate in East Lansing and
Mount Pleasant was 8.6 and 7.1,
respectively.
Ann Arborites and econo-
mists alike tend to point to some
indefinite and elusive 'X' factor
that "makes Ann Arbor Ann
Arbor", but they disagree about
what that factor is.
The University's renowned
international reputation, the
health care industry, qual-
ity of life, green space, proxim-
ity to Detroit and easy access to
Detroit Metropolitan Airport
are all named as important fac-
tors to Ann Arbor's prosperity.
Glazer said it is the size of
the University's research opera-
tions and Ann Arbor's central
location in Southeast Michigan
that distinguishes Ann Arbor
from other college towns.
This combination is what
gives the University more
spin-off potential than other
schools, he said, adding that if
Ann Arbor was located a hun-
dred miles north or south, the
University would have a much
smaller impact on economic
development.
The University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, another
flagship research school, is an
example of academia's irrel-
evance if the school isn't in a
prime location, Glazer said.
"The University of Illinois in
Champaignhas almost no effect
because it's out in the middle of
a corn field," he said.
Glazer said the University's
growth should be a top concern
not only for the region but the
entire state as it tries to move
away from the auto manufac-
turing industry and toward a
high-tech economy.
"Our belief is that the asset
that the state has that can have
the greatest impact on Michi-
gan's transition to a knowledge
economy is the research uni-
versities, with the University of
Michigan being the mostimpor-
tant," he said.
It was precisely the impor-
tance of Michigan's research
universities that University
President Mary Sue Coleman
tried to impress upon the Mich-
igan House Appropriations
Subcommittee on Higher Edu-
cation during her testimony in
Lansing last week.
Coleman appeared with
Michigan State University
President Lou Anna Simon and
Wayne State University Presi-
dent Jay Noren to lobby for
more state funding for higher
education.


In her remarks, Coleman
stressed the University's recent
efforts to encourage students
and faculty to be entrepreneurs
and start businesses in the pri-
vate sector.
"We want to encourage and
reward professors who move
inventions and innovations into
the marketplace," Coleman said
during her subcommittee testi-
mony.
Together, the three presi-
dents represent the University
Research Corridor, an alliance
formed in 2006 with the state's
three largest research univer-
sities with the goal of guiding
Michigan toward a knowledge-
based economy.
In its 2008 report, the URC
credited the three schools with
the creation of nearly 70,000
jobs in the state. The report also
estimated that the URC was
directly andindirectlyresponsi-
ble for $13.3 billion of the state's
economy in 2007. This figure
includes both the earnings of
people directly employed by a
URC school and the earnings of
URC alumni in the state in addi-
tion to state tax revenue from
these earnings.

The day the bubble
nearly burst
A lthough the Univer-
sity provides the region
some comfort, the city
is by no means immune to eco-
nomic strife.
Margaret Dewar, a professor
of urban and regional planning
in the Ford School of Public Pol-
icy, said economic downturns
tends to be more gradual in
economies based in education
and health care.
"We're experiencing a reces-
sion, it is just not as extreme,"
she said.
Announcements like the Uni-
versity Health System's hiring
freeze for all non-patient care
jobs and layoffs at Borders Inc.'s
Ann Arbor headquarters stand
as examples of the recession's
eroding effect.
In the past month, the book-
seller has announced it is cut-
ting hundreds of jobs, including
92 corporate positions at its
headquarters.
But the single biggest bubble-
shattering blow to Ann Arbor
came on Jan. 22, 2007, when

pharmaceutical giant Pfizer,
Inc., suddenly announced it was
closing its research and devel-
opment facility near North
Campus.
The city lost 2,100 jobs that
day.
"Nobody expected that to
happen," said Bernstein, add-
ing that construction crews
were in the middle of remodel-
ing the facility on the day of the
announcement.
Not only was Pfizer the city's
largest employer outside of the
University, but it was also the
city's largest taxpayer (account-
ing for about five percent of its
tax base) and one of the city's
largest charitable contributors.
At the time, Ann Arbor mayor
John Hieftje was frank about
the shock the plant's closing
gave the city.
"This is certainly a blow to
the city, but it is not one from
which we cannot recover," he
said at the press conference the
day of the announcement.
Bernstein said that the bright
side of Pfizer's closing was that
it mobilized the city to find a
buyer for the property and new
sources of tax revenue to fill the

void.
For nearly two years, who
would take over the 174-acre
research complex was a topic
of nervous speculation around
the city until the University
announced last December that
it would purchase the Pfizer
campus..
After the president of the Bill
& Melinda Gates Foundation's
Global Health Program,
Tadataka Yamada, casually
referenced the Pfizer labs in a
presentation on global health
last April, the buzz was that the
Bill and Melinda Gates Foun-
dation was eyeing the site. A
local magazine, the Ann Arbor
Observer, even reported that
Bill Gates had been seen dining
at a nearby greasy spoon.
But in the end, it was the Uni-
versity thatshelled out $108 mil-
lion and reinforced the school's
role as Ann Arbor's economic
security blanket.
The University plans to use
the labs to expand life science
research and create 2,000 new
jobs over the next decade.
The deal is a trade-off for the
See TOWN-GOWN, Page 8B


