NEED FOR SPEED
Michigan players from Texas
year's best albums -but and Florida debate whose
u'll need Prozac for. home state has faster feet.
ARTS, PAGE 5 SEE SPORTS, PAGE 8
F1jEffillianwail

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, September 15, 2009

VISITING CAMPUS
How 'U',
protects
big names
When dignitaries visit Ann
Arbor, several agencies work
together to make sure
everything goes smoothly
By TORREY ARMSTRONG
Daily StaffReporter
When U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John
Roberts and his entourage entered a Law School
classroom Thursday afternoon, many in the room
thought the Secret Service had just walked in.
They were close, but wrong.
The "big men in suits," as one student reported,
were U.S. Marshals - federal law enforcement
agents within the Department of Justice who pro-
tect court officers and "ensure the safe and secure
conduct of judicial proceedings," according to the
agency's website.
And like the Secret Service, the U.S. Marshals
are one of several federal, state and local security
forces the University works closely with when a
high-profile visitor comes to campus.
Department of Public Safety spokeswoman
Diane Brown said -handling high-profile figures
like Chief Justice Roberts entails precise coordina-
tion of various law enforcement entities, like the
Secret Service and U.S. Marshals, as well as DPS,
state and local police, personal security and public
relations staff.
"Marshals, State Department officials, DPS offi-
cers - each group has different responsibilities,"
Brown said. "Sometimes they're responsible for
a particular geographic area, or a certain type of
crime."
While reducing the number of unplanned visits
and limiting the volatility of the visitor's activities
are among law enforcement's top priorities, Brown
said things go awry more often with lower-profile
See SECURITY, Page 2

FEASTIVITIES

UNIVERSITY BOARD OF REGENTS
Regents to
handle $44M
in proposals
Campus safety, REGENTIAL MATH
sports facility $9 MILLION
ELECTRONIC LOCKS
designs on to-do list $1.5 MILLION
By KYLE SWANSON GERIATRICS CENTER RENOVATIONS
Daily News Editor $4 MILLION
UNVERSITY HOSPITAL POWER SYSTEM
At its monthly meeting Thurs-
day, the University Board of $23.2 MILIN
Regents will take action on $43.7 CRISLER ARENA SCHEMATICS
million worth of campus con-
struction and renovations affect- +"O ILO
ing everything from campus SOCCER FIELD
safety to sports facilities to the $437 MILLION
University Hospital .TOTAL AMOUNT TO BE CONSIDERED

Among the items on their
plate, the regents will consider
two upgrades to campus medical
facilities, two recommendations
to alter planned Athletic Depart-
ment projects and a new proposal
to upgrade the locks on doors of
campus buildings.
Timothy Slottow, the Univer-
sity's executive vice president
and chief financial officer, will
recommend upgrading manually
locking exterior doors with elec-
tronic readers that would lock
and unlock the doors.
The proposal, outlined in a
memo released yesterday, would
include replacing traditional key
locks on exterior doors at more
than100 buildings on campus and
issuingnew, more technologically
advanced MCards to all members
of the campus community.
Upgrading the locks would

allow campus officials to better
respond to emergency situations
in which a building lockdown
may be necessary because the
doors could be locked from a cen-
tral point.
The project is expected to
cost $9 million and is scheduled
for completion by spring 2011. If
approved, representatives from
the University's Department of
Architecture, Engineering and
Construction will design the proj-
ect.
Slottow and Dr. Ora Pescovitz,
executive vice president for medi-
cal affairs, will seek approval
from the regents for two new
projects at University Hospital.
The regents will be asked for
approval of a renovation to the East
Ann Arbor Health and Geriatrics
See REGENTS, Page 7

The Muslim Students' Association hosted a free dinner in celebration of Ramadan last night at Rackham.


MSA, faculty to teamup
MIPs, trash citations
and smoking ban
on the table
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
In a robust discussion of the
issues facing campus - including.
trash violations on Football Satur-
days, revising the Student Code of
Conduct and the safety of Minor
in Possession citations - student
leaders and the top faculty govern-
ing board promised to work togeth-
er to find solutions.
Michigan Student Assembly
President Abhishek Mahanti and
Vice President Mike Rorro visited
the Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs weekly meeting
to raise their concerns and illicit
faculty help.
"Just us being here we realize
that we've got friends," Mahanti~
said. "That's a really reassuring
thing."
The two sides offered to help
each other accomplish their goals
that included revising the Student
Code of Conduct to make it more
practical, using Ann Arbor and
University Police more effectively JED MoCH/Oaily
to protect students from crimes MSA President Abhishek Mahanti meets with the faculty's leading body yesterday.
and avoiding possible fallout from and SACUA collaborate to revise to the statement. The addition
a new smoke-free initiative taking the Statement of Student Rights would solve some of the problems
effect in 2011. and Responsibilities, or the Student students encounter when a party
Code of Conduct - which is meant goes awry, like refusing to call for
MAKING STUDENT DRINKING to govern student behavior on cam- help for friends who pass out from
POLICY MORE PRACTICAL pus. drinking for fear of repercussions
This year, MSA is working on for themselves.
Once every three years, MSA adding a "Good Samaritan Policy" See SACUA, Page 7

Natural History Museum to
put away controversial exhibit

Native American
display to come
down in Jan. 2010
By JASMINE ZHU
Daily StaffReporter
The University Museum of Nat-
uralHistory'scontroversialNative
American Diorama exhibit will be
taken off display starting in 2010,
pleasing those who have, for years,
argued that the displays are inac-
curate and overly simplistic.
The exhibit places three-
dimensional depictions of Native
American life alongside fossils of
dinosaurs and other prehistoric
creatures as well as stuffed birds
illustrating Michigan's vast wild-
life.
"Both Native and non-Native
visitors have spoken out eloquent-
ly" against the exhibit, according
to a press release announcing the
closure.
In the press release, Museum
of Natural History officials wrote
that "Museums around the world
are wrestling with questions
about the representation of indig-
enous people in museum exhib-
its. Who decides how a culture is
portrayed? Does context matter?
What happens when members of
the community speak out against
museum exhibits?"
To answer some of these ques-
tions, the museum is creating

JED MOCH/Daily
LSA sophomore Sarah Rabinowe looks at Native American diorama exhibit.

an overlay exhibit titled "Native
American Dioramas in Transi-
tion," which, the press release says,
will explain why the dioramas are
being taken down and moved into
storage.
"Scholarship and museum
practices have changed since
the dioramas were made almost
50 years ago," the press release
reads. "Issues of concern include
their context in a natural history
museum and the stereotyping
and oversimplification inherent
in the diorama as a display tech-
nique."
The call to take down the
exhibit ultimately fell on the
shoulders of the museum's direc-

tor Amy Harris with the support
of LSA Dean Terry McDonald and
the faculty in the Native American
Studies Program as well as advice
from the Native American Advi-
sory Committee. But the move
will not take place until the end of
LSA's current theme year, called
"Meaningful Objects: Museums in
the Academy."
"I decided to wait to remove
the dioramas until the 2009-10
LSA Museums Theme Year, so
that there would be many oppor-
tunities for our audiences to learn
about the issues of concern," Har-
ris wrote in an e-mail interview
with the Daily.
See EXHIBIT, Page 7


WEATHER H i. 71
TOMORROW. LO:51

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Our comment spam problem (and a solution?)
news@michigandaily.com and let usknow. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE EDITORS

INDEX NEWS ................................2 ARTS- ... . . .........5
Vol. CXX,No.6 AP NEWS .......................... 3 CLASSIFIEDS ...................... 6
©2d9heMichianO aily OPINION ............................4 SPORTS..............................8


4

2 - Tuesday, September 15, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY: TE Y WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers f t-h B- Campus Clubs Before You Were Here Photos of the Week
The University's hidden testing round
Thousands of students pass through the door that's off the and its depth varies from 12 to 15 VOTS
under the West Hall Engineer- beaten track and is really an feet. It currently holds between
ing Arch on the way to or from engineering test to solve differ- 450.000 and 500,000 gallons of


classes every day, but few prob-
ably realize they are walking
by one of the largest and oldest
hydrodynamics testing tanks in
the United States.
The Physical Modeling Basin
of the University's Marine
Hydrodynamics Lab, part of the
College of Engineering's Depart-
ment of Naval Architecture and
Marine Engineering, has tested
everything from experimental
naval models for the government
and private industry to routines
for competitive swimmers to
even theories about the Bermu-
da Triangle.
"Our primary function is to
do research, education, and then
commercial testing," said Timo-
thy Peters, assistant director of
the MHL. "Anything that comes

ent problems always tends to be
really interesting and gives us a
chance to stretch a bit."
Located on the first floor of
the building and flooded with
sunlight beaming in through
glass-block windows, the tank
has been in use for 105 years
since its construction as a part of
what was then called West Engi-
neering in 1904.
"The building was pretty
much built around the tank,"
Peters said. "That's the reason
why we're the only engineer-
ing thing on Central Campus,
because they can't move the
tank, or else we'd be up on North
Campus with the rest of the
engineers."
According to Peters, the tank
is 360 feet long and 22 feet wide

Ann Arbor tap water, although
Peters asserts that "it can defi-
nitely hold a lot more than that."
On top of the tank is a car-
riage that can travel along the
tank at speeds of up to 22 feet
per second.
The MHL has a staff of ten
people who do testing two weeks
out of the month, and Peters said
there is a lot of testing scheduled
for the near future.
He added that students should
call the MHL to arrange group
tours of what he describes as "a
very unique environment."
"We're the second largest
tank in the United States," he
said. "To get a ride on the car-
riage of the second largest tank
is pretty neat."
- A. BRAD SCHWARTZ

WILL MOELLER/Daily
The Marine Hydrodynamics Laboratory is the only Engineering facility
still located on Central Camous. Their main facility is in West Hall.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-947-3339 734-764-0t58
graca@miehigandailycom tmdhusiness@gnnailteom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours:Sun.-Thurs. 11a.m..-2a.m.
y34-y63-2459
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
PhotographyDepartment photo michigandaily.com
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportsSection sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIALSTAFF
CourtneyRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSmilovitzManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Skoller, Kyle Swanson
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones; Emily Orley, Stephanie
Steinberg,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
Robert Soave EditorialPage Editor soave@michigadaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:EmllyBarton, BrianFlaherty, RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chanel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje,Chris Meszaros,RyanPodges
David Watnitk ManagingArts Editor watnick@michigandailycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:JoshuaBayer,Carolyn Klarecki,AndrewLapin, DavidRiva
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTOEDITORS:SaidAlsalah, ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS: MaxCollins,Chris Dzombak,SamsWolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
JessicalVosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell Copychie f mitchell@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Melanie Fried, Adi Wollstein
BUSINESSSTAFF
Katie Jozwiak sales Manager
SALESFORCEMANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: MichaelSchrotenboer
CLASIFIED ASISANTMANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English ProductionManager
Allison Santacreu LayoutManager
VivianLee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulationManager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daly (sN0745-967)is pubished Monday through Fridayduringthe fall and winter
terms by students at theUniversity of Michigan.One copyisavailablefreeof chargetoallreaders.
Additionacopiesmay be picked upatthe Dalysoffice for$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,startingin
September,viaU.mail are$110.Winterterm(January through Apriis$11ysearong(September
throughApril is $195.University affiliates are subject to a reduced subscription rate.On-campus
subscriptionsforalltealrmare3.Subscriptionsmustbe prepaid.The Michiganailyisamembero
he esated PrssandTheossiatd Ceiater.

0

4

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Laptop, bag Bike with bell Public health War exhibit
swiped from taken from talk with prof. WHAT: The Clements
Library will display ite
study table Union bike rack WHAT: Don Cacioppo, a from the French and It
professor at the University of War of 1759.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher WHERE: 500 Block of State Chicago, will give a talk on WHO: William L. Cle
Graduate Library street social isolation and its rela- Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 4:25 y p. tionship to health. WHEN: Today at 1 p.m
WHAT: A white folding bike WHO: CSEPH & RWJ Health WHERE: Main Room,
WHAT: A backpack, laptop valued at $300 was stolen from & Society Scholars Program liam Clements Library
and personal items were stolen a bike rack near the Michi- WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
from an unattended study table gan Union, University Police WHERE: 1655 SPH Cross- Ps hic
in the library, University Police reported. The bike had small roads, Henry F. Vaughn tsyc cto
rt- n ltnln...,Q.r ires and a yellow bell. School of Public Health

ndian
ments
.
Wil-


reporeat. 3e soentes a
valued at $350.

Building

Student attacked Lecture on the
Student pushed afotalgm eninet
at intersection


WHERE: S. State Street and
Hoover Street
WHEN: Saturday at about 5:15
p.m.
WHAT: A student was pushed
down from behind, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.

WHERE: Michigan Stadium
WHEN: Sunday at about 10:40
p.m.
WHAT: A student was assault-
ed at the football game Satur-
day, University Police reported.
The case is under investigation
and there are no suspects.

WHAT: Bill Weihl will dis-
cuss solutions for controlling
greenhouse gas emissions. The
lecture is part of Energy Fest.
WHO: Center for Sustain-
able Systems
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Room 1040, Dana
Natural Resources Building

answer queries
WHAT: Psychic Sylvia
Brown will speak and answer
questions from audience
members.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
CORRECTIONS
Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

When Taylor Swift wonthe
MTV Video Mu ic Award
for best female video Sun-
day night, rapper Kanye West
jumped on the stage and stole
the microphone from her,
claiming Beyonce should have
won the award over Swift, the
Associated Press reported.
West was booed off the stage.
Ann Arbor's Near North
affordable housing com-
plex will have 14 units
set aside for homeless persons
addicted to alcohol or drugs.
aFOR MORE, SEE OPINION PAGE 4
After purchasing and
allegedly taking drugs, a
man from Pennsylvania
became so intoxicated that he
couldn't find his car, abelo-
cal.go.com reported. The man
called the police to help him
search for the car, in which he
had left his six-year-old step-
son.

6


SECURITY
From Page 1
figures who don't bring in security
personnel.
"The bigger challenges come
with, for lack of a better term,
speakers who deal with controver-
sial issues or create controversy,
and don't come in with their own
security," Brown said. "They pro-
voke people or crowds, and most
of the unplanned occurrences are
reactionary."
Such figures include recent
visitors like political activist Bill
Ayers and controversial author
Norman Finkelstein, both of
whom spoke at the University
this past winter.
Though they heightened ten-
sions on campus, their visits
occurred without serious inci-
dent.
By contrast, Brown said visi-
tors like former President Bill
Clinton, who spoke at commence-
ment in 2007, the Dalai Lama,

who visited last year, and Rob-
erts follow meticulously planned
itineraries, which include the
publicly planned events, as well
as lodging, traveling routes and
hospital arrangements, should
they be needed in case of an
emergency.
"Any deviations from their
schedules are carefully moni-
tored," Brown said. "Bill Clinton,
for instance, had the reputation of
wanting to be involved with the
public, shaking hands and con-
versing. But he also realized that it
put pressure on his security detail
and the local law enforcement
when he does that."
Similar problems arise when
a Supreme Court chief justice
grants an impromptu overtime
question-and-answer session to
unsuspecting law students.
"Once he reached a level of
comfort with the people in the
classroom, he felt he could stay
longer, though it put pressure
on his crew of marshals," Brown
said.

Though he felt comfortable in
the classroom, Roberts, a Notre
Dame fan who attended this
weekend's game, took perhaps
the greatest risk on his way to
the football game on Saturday
- according to Brown, when he
walked to the stadium, just like
most of his maize-and-blue-clad
hosts.
The security forces that arrive
with visiting dignitaries are often
responsible for the person's imme-
diate protection, whereas DPS,
state or local officers are in charge
of securing the perimeter of areas
the person will visit and assisting
with any incident control, Brown
said.
"DPS is responsible for the
main security or investigating of
crimes on campus," Brown said.
"In the event of a threat to secu-
rity this weekend, (the U.S. Mar-
shals) would be responsible for
escorting Chief Justice Roberts
to a safe area, whereas we would
work with local police to secure
the surrounding area and its

crowd."
The U.S. Marshals are respon-
sible for similar duties as those
that protect the president, accord-
ing to Kevin Pettit, a deputy U.S.
Marshal stationed in the Detroit
field office.
"Chief Justice Roberts gets
around-the-clock protection -
there is a crew of Marshals with
him at all times," Pettit said.
Brown and Pettit said they were
not permitted to release the num-
ber of Marshals in Chief Justice
Roberts's detail.
Brown said the University
attracts enough important figures
to campus that DPS and the state
and local police can now smoothly
cooperate with the visiting secu-
rity forces.
"We work very closely with
DPS, and we can't say enough
good things about them," Pettit
said. "They supplement our man-
power, do external protection,
and they work with us in facili-
tating (the important person's)
movements."

Canada PM: Countrywili
withdraw troops in 2011,

Canada will pull out
of Afghan war, says
Stephen Harper
TORONTO (AP) - Canada will
not extend its mission in Afghanistan
even if President Barack Obama asks
him to when the countries' leaders
meet this week, Prime Minister Ste-
phen Harper's office said yesterday.
Harperspokesman Dimitri Soudas
reiterated ina briefing yesterday that
Canada will withdraw its troops in
2011.
One hundred and thirty Canadian
soldiers and a diplomat have been
killed in Afghanistan, where Canada
has 2,500 troops.
"Canada's position is clear," Soudas
said. "The military component of the
mission ends in 2011."
Canada first sent troops to
Afghanistan after the Sept. 11,
2001 attack on the United States
and increased its deployment
after declining a U.S. request to
dispatch troops to Iraq.
Although Canada has usually
served in more of a peacekeep-
ing role in overseas missions after
World War II, Harper has been a
steadfast ally in the post-Sept. 11
fight against al-Qaida.
In 2005, Canada assumed

responsibility for Kandahar, one of
Afghanistan's most dangerous prov-
inces. Last year, Harper said Canada
had done its part after serving in the
volatile region and announced Can-
ada's troops would be withdrawn in
2011, extending its mission by two
years.
Although Canada's participation is
slated to end in two years, critics are
growing increasingly wary of a mis-
sion thatthey see as too dangerous.
Soudas said post-2011 Canada will
examine what other contributions
it can make in reconstruction, aid or
training.
The Obama administration is con-
sideringwhethertoboostthe number
of U.S. troops in Afghanistan beyond
the 68,000 approved to be there
by the end of the year. Violence in
Afghanistan has soared to record lev-
els, requiring more troops to secure
wide stretches of countryside.
"We expect that the president will
have a chance to discuss with Prime
Minister Harper when they meet on
Wednesday our combined efforts in
Afghanistan, where Canada has made
significant contributions and sacri-
fices," U.S. National Security Council
spokesman Mike Hammer said.
"The two leaders have met more
than half a dozen occasions so far,
which reflects the strength and
breadth of the bilateral relationship."

6

S1 i

for more information call 734/615-6449
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Thirtieth Distinguished Senior Faculty Lecture

New Michigan/USA Resident?
We help new residents file taxes.
free taxplanningconsultation
Renaissatlce Financial Group
320 N. Main, #104, Ann Arbor .ph. 734-994-1288
www.refinancial.com

a

0

a

Wednesday
September 16, 2009
Rackham Amphitheater
4:10pm

LSA



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 15, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Health overhaul
plan's cost cut to
under $880 billion
Senate health care negotiators
said Monday they've cut the cost
of their 10-year coverage plan to
under $880 billion, but they're
not ready to shake hands yet on a
bipartisan deal.
Finance Committee Chairman
Max Baucus, D-Mont., said he'll
have a formal proposal by midweek
- maybe as early as Tuesday - to
meet a deadline for moving ahead
on President Barack Obama's top
domestic priority with or without
Republican support.
At the same time, Baucus said
the bipartisan talks could continue
even as his Finance panel begins
its formal bill-drafting session
next week. Talks continued during
the day Monday, and more meet-
ings were expected Tuesday.
KALAMAZOO, Mich.
Teen sentenced
after attack on boy
One oftwoteens accusedofbeat-
ing a 15-year-old boy because he is
gay will spend six to nine months
in juvenile detention after pleading
guilty to aggravated assault.
The 16-year-old defendant was
sentenced Monday in Kalamazoo
County Family Court.
Portage's Steve Harmon says he
was attacked Aug. 13 in a Portage
parking lot. He says his attackers
used anti-gay slurs as they struck
him about 20 times in the head and
face.
The attackers broke Harmon's
cheekbone and gave him two black
eyes, a swollen lip and scratches.
Police say he apparently was
targeted because of his sexual ori-
entation.
The two defendants weren't
charged with a hate crime because
Michigan's ethnic-intimidation law
doesn't address sexual orientation.
PLACERVILLE, Calif.
$30M bail for man
accused of 18-year
kidnapping
A judge on Monday set bail at
$30 million for a Northern Califor-
nia man accused of kidnapping a
girl and holding her captive for 18
years.
In setting the high amount, El
Dorado County Superior Court
Judge Douglas Phimister cited
the serious nature of the charges,
injuries to the girl and the fact
that Phillip Garrido was on parole
at the time of the alleged abduc-
tion.
Garrido, 58, and his wife, Nancy
Garrido,54,havepleadednotguilty
to 29 charges of kidnapping, rape
and false imprisonment charges
and have been held without bail in
an El Dorado County jail.

The couple are accused of kid-
napping 11-year-old Jaycee Dug-
ard from her home near South
Lake Tahoe in 1991 then holding
her captive in a backyard jumble
of tents and sheds for nearly two
decades. Authorities say Phillip
Garrido fathered two daughters
with Dugard.
LONDON
Four imprisoned
for suicide plot to
blow up plane
In a case that altered airport
security worldwide, three British
Muslims were imprisoned Mon-
day for at least 30 years each for a
plot to kill thousands by blowing
up trans-Atlantic airliners with
liquid explosives hidden in soda
bottles.
The judge described the foiled
suicide bombings - meant to
rival the Sept. 11 attacks - as "a
grave and wicked" conspiracy,
likely the most serious terrorist
case ever dealt with by a Brit-
ish court. The plot's disclosure
prompted an immediate ban on
taking some liquids onboard
passenger jets, a measure that
remains in place, inconvenienc-
ing passengers throughout the
world.
Abdulla Ahmed Ali - the plot's
ringleader - was given a minimum
of 40 years in prison, one of the
longest sentences ever handed out
by a British court. Assad Sarwar,
29, and Tanvir Hussain, 28, were
imprisoned for a minimum of 36
years and 32 years respectively at
London's high security Woolwich
Crown Court.
- Compiled from
'Daily wire reports

No replacement
yet for Kennedy

Challenge of short
race leads to lack of
big-name candidates
BOSTON (AP) - With the clock
running on a shortened election
calendar, the campaign to succeed
Sen. Edward Kennedy has become
notable for who's not running,
instead of who is.
Not his wife,Vicki Kennedy. Not
his nephew Joseph P. Kennedy II.
Not Martin Meehan, a former con-
gressman with a mother lode of $5
million in the bank. Not Andrew
Card, a former White House chief
of staff with the capacity to raise
millions himself.
On Monday, Rep. John Tier-
ney said he wouldn't run because
he was more valuable to the state
as a House veteran than as a Sen-
ate freshman. That was the same
rationale his fellow Democrat, Rep.
Edward J. Markey, gave Friday
when he bailed on a campaign.
So far, the field includes an attor-
ney general not three years into her
first statewide term, a state sena-
tor and a town selectman. Former
Boston Red Sox pitcher Curt Schil-
ling has talked about running, and
Stephen Pagliuca, co-owner of the
Boston Celtics, is said to be weigh-
ing a campaign.
"You can drool, but if the cake
is too expensive, you don't buy it,"
said Marc Landy, a Boston College
political science professor.
The dearth of big-name candi-
dates, said Landy, shows the chal-
lenge of competing in a short race,
and political calculations amid the
prospective field.
"The odds of a Democrat win-
ning this seat are overwhelming,
so the question for the Democrats
is, 'Can I win the primary?"' Landy
added.
"For the Republicans, the ques-
tion is, 'What is it worth to me to
get nominated, what is the value of
this nomination?' You don't have
to win for it to be valuable."
The primacy some candidates
have given to their personal and pri-
vate-sector lives also speaks to the
lost luster of serving in Congress.
Meehan said: "As I was consid-

ering whether to run, I was con-
sidering the job I was presently
in, and Joe Kennedy had the same
thought: We liked what we were
doing and the lifestyle of not being
in Congress, of not having to get
on a plane every week and go to
Washington."
Meehan's $4.8 million his
re-election account would have
helped in a quick campaign, letting
him advertise on television before
others had raised their first penny.
But in 2007, he resigned from
Congress to become chancellor of
his alma mater, the University of
Massachusetts-Lowell. His annu-
al salary increased from $165,000
to $280,000, and he got to be home
with his wife and two grade-
school sons. He now wants to keep
all that.
"There's been a trend, unfortu-
nately, away from people running
for office, the sacrifices people
make in terms of family life, per-
sonal finances, the increasing bit-
terness of the tone of American
politics today," he said.
Even before Kennedy died of
brain cancer Aug. 25, Attorney
General Martha Coakley kicked off
her campaign. The Democrat did
polling, hired a Washington media
consultant, fundraisers, acampaign
manager and a spokesman.
And three days after Dec. 8 was
set as the primary date and Jan. 19
as the date for the special election,
Coakley declared her candidacy.
Ever since, the sound emanating
from Boston has been the rumina-
tions of prospective candidates.
"My father called politics an
honorable profession, and I have
profound respect for those who
choose to advance the causes of
social and economic justice in
elective office," said Joseph Ken-
nedy, son of Robert F. Kennedy.
But, he said, he decided the best
way he could contribute to those
causes is by continuing his work at
a nonprofit organization.
Former Lt. Gov. Kerry Healey
declined a l;id for the Republican
nomination by citing her family -
even though her two children are
still teenagers, as they were when
she who ran unsuccessfully for
governor in 2006.

SUSAN WALSH/AP
Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Vice President Joe Biden before President Obama's Congressional speech on health care Wednesday.
ElectiOon trouble brewin
for House Dems in2010

Democratic party
could face huge losses
in next year's election
NEW YORK (AP) - Despite
sweeping Democratic successes
in the past two national elections,
continuing job losses and President
Barack Obama's slipping support
could lead to double-digit losses for
the party in next year's congres-
sional races and may even threaten
their House control.
Fifty-four new Democrats were
swept into the House in 2006 and
2008, helping the party claim a
decisive majority as voters soured
on a Republican president and
embraced Obama's message of
hope and change. Many of the new
Democrats are in districts carried
by Republican John McCain in last
year's presidential contest; others
are in traditional swing districts
that have proved tough for either
party to hold.
From New Hampshire to
Nevada, House Democrats also
will be forced to defend votes on
Obama's $787 billion economic
recovery package and on energy
legislation viewed by many as a job
killer in an already weak economy.

Add to that the absence of Obama
from the top of the ticket, which
could reduce turnout among blacks,
liberals and young people, and the
likelihood of a highly motivated
GOP base confused by the presi-
dent's proposed health care plan
and angry at what they consider
reckless spending and high debt.
Taken together, it could be the
most toxic environment for Demo-
crats since 1994, when the party
lost 34 House incumbents and 54
seats altogether. Democrats cur-
rently have a 256-178 edge in the
House, with one vacancy. Republi-
cans would have to pick up 40 seats
to regain control.
"When you have big sweeps as
Democrats did in 2006 and 2008,
inevitably some weak candidates
get elected. And when the environ-
ment gets even moderately chal-
lenging, a number of them are going
to lose," said Jack Pitney, a politi-
cal science professor at Claremont
McKenna College in California.
Since the mid-19th century,
the party that controls the White
House has lost seats in virtually
every midterm election. The excep-
tions were in 1934, when President
Franklin D. Roosevelt navigated
the Great Depression, and in 2002,
after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,

strengthened George W. Bush's
image as a leader.
With history as a guide, Rep.
Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., who
heads the party's House campaign
committee, said he has warned
colleagues to be prepared for an
exceptionally challenging environ-
ment going into 2010.
But Van Hollen said voters will
make their choices on the strength
of the national economy and will
reward Democrats for working
aggressively to improve it.
"We passed an economic recov-
ery bill with zero help from Repub-
lican colleagues," he said. "I think
voters will see that and will ask
themselves, 'Who was there to get
the economy moving again, and
who was standing in the way?"'
Democrats have gotten off to
a much faster start than Republi-
cans in fundraising for 2010. The
Democratic Congressional Cam-
paign Committee had $10.2 million
in the bank at the end of July, with
debts of $5.3 million. The National
Republican Congressional Com-
mittee had just $4 million in cash
and owed $2.75 million.
The economy poses the biggest
problem for Democrats, with job
losses of 2.4 million nationwide
since Obama took office.


New Haven police search for evidence linked tothe body found where missing Yale
graduate student Annie Le was last seen.
Inside job likely i
Yale student killing

HPV Fact:
It is estimated
t hat
B in the
new case of
There's something you can do.
1! eJ L" L

Police say Le's death
was a targeted act, no
suspects named
NEW HAVEN, Conn. (AP) -
Clues increasingly pointed to an
inside job Monday in the slaying of
a Yale graduate studentwhose body
was found stuffed inside a wall five
days after she vanished from a
heavily secured lab building acces-
sible only to university employees.
Police Monday sought to calm
fears on the Ivy League campus,
saying the death of 24-year-old
Annie Le was a targeted act. But
they declined to name a suspect or
say why anyone would want to kill
the young woman just days before
she was tobe married.
"We're not believing it's a ran-
dom act," said officer Joe Avery, a
police spokesman. No one else is in
danger, he said, though he would
not provide details and denied
broadcast reports that police had a
suspect in custody.
Yale officials said the building
where Le worked would reopen
under increased security. Still, some
students worried about their safety.
"I'm not walking at nights by
myself anymore," said student
Nato.a Peart, 21, of Jamaica. jIt

could happen to anyone, anytime,
anywhere."
Michael Vishnevetsky, 21, of
New York, said he did not feel safe
when he made a late trip to his lab
Sunday in a different building. "It
felt very different than how I usu-
ally felt," he said.
Twenty-year-old Muneeb Sultan
said he's shocked that a killingcould
take place in a secure Yale building.
"It's a frightening idea that
there's a murderer walking around
on campus," said Sultan, a chemis-
try student.
Police found Le's body about 5
p.m. Sunday, the day she was to
marry Columbia University gradu-
ate student Jonathan Widawsky,
lovingly referred to on her Face-
book page as "my best friend." The
couple met as undergraduates atthe
University of Rochester and were
eagerly awaiting their planned
wedding on Long Island.
Police have said Widawsky is not
a suspect and helped detectives in
their investigation.
The building where the body
was found is part of the university
medical school complex about a
mile from Yale's main campus. It is
accessible to Yale personnel with
identification cards. Some 75 video
surveillance cameras monitor all
doorways.

«.
i



0

4 - Tuesday, September 15, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

l e Iicl igan i[


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
S420 Maynard St.
_ Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Room for improvement
City Council shouldn't reduce height of Near North plan

Pres. Obama just called Kanye West ajackass' for his
outburst at VMAs ... Now THAT'S presidential:'
- ABC's "Nightline" co-anchor Terry Moran, tweeting during a CNBC interview with President Barack Obama
yesterday. The tweet was later deleted since the comment was from an off-the-record portion of the interview.
ELAINE MORTON ME-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
hw Witlhy eror. iocke LOtF your
cP kw+e i a nrhSmoking
f t
Health care from ages past

6
6
6

W hen designing an affordable housing complex, one
might think it important for low-income families to
actually be able to fit in the apartments. But if residents
have their way, overblown concerns about the height of the Near
North affordable housing project on Main Street will force the city
to scale back the building, making the individual apartments too
small for low-income families. And if Ann Arbor's City Council sits
on the proposal much longer, the project may forfeit tax benefits
and become less financially viable. City Council needs to approve an
appropriately large Near North by the end of the month to provide
low-income families much-needed housing downtown.

The Near North building would provide
housing for low-income residents and home-
less individuals. Plans include 25 regular
units and 14 supportive units that would
be specifically set aside for homeless per-
sons who are disabled or addicted to alco-
hol or drugs. All units would be for those
who make between 30 and 50 percent of
the median income. But a group of residents
signed a petition in opposition to the plan for
the building, citing the building's proposed
height as the main concern. The petition
means that eight city council votes instead
of a simple majority will be required to pass
the plan.
Concerns about the height of the build-
ing overlook the benefits of building up.
Height caps in the downtown area restrict
the amount of people who can live in the
city. This pushes lower-income residents to
the outer limits of the Ann Arbor and cre-
ates communities that are segregated based
on socioeconomic status. Worse still, those-
on the outskirts of town have to pay more to
commute into the city, further widening the
economic gap. The city of Ann Arbor should
foster cohabitation of all types of people,
and keeping buildings arbitrarily low to the
ground works against this goal.
As a result of the height complaints, the
developers have lowered the building plan
from five stories to four. This means that all

of the units will now be one-bedroom apart-
ments instead of the previously planned mix
of one and two bedroom apartments, effec-
tively excluding low-income families from
living there. It's a terrible shame that low-
income families will lose access to this hous-
ing just because of some residents misguided
obsession with "preserving the city's aes-
thetic."Weighed against the merits of having
multi-bedroom apartments for low-income
residents, lowering the building's proposed
height by one story seems laughable.
The Near North development project out-
line is now on the agenda for the Sept. 21Ann
Arbor City Council meeting, a little over a
week before the state Housing Association's
deadline for tax cuts on affordable housing.
CityCouncilshouldapprovethedevelopment
plan before it misses out on these tax breaks.
And despite what residents may think about
limitingthe height of buildings, City Council
should approve a plan that establishes plenty
of space for low-income families. '
While it's certainly true that low-income
residents need more affordable housing, it's
important for the city to remember its stu-
dents. After all, students drive down Ann
Arbor's average income, causing the city to
get more money for affordable housing proj-
ects. It's only fair that the city spend some of
its resources to provide better housing for
struggling students, too.

W hat do beer, American
health care and the Magna
Carta all have in common?
For most college
students, the link
between beer and
health care is pret-
ty obvious: con-
suming excessive
amounts of the for-
mer tends to lead
to needing more of
the latter.P PATRICK
Adding the O'MAHEN
Magna Carta to
the mix illustrates
a core economic
principle of functional markets. This
principle, in turn, will help explain
the need for Congress to pass major
health care reforms. A well-regulated
exchange protects consumers from
dirty insurance company tricks and
helps buyers save money.
But first, we have to go back to the
13th century.
The Magna Carta, or "Great Char-
ter," was an agreement signed in 1216
between the English King John I and
a group of barons. The agreement
affirmed the ancient rights of the
nobility against the King's attempt
to centralize power. Some scholars
regard it as a very early prototype for
the constitutions of modern democ-
racies.
Particularly interesting isthe char-
ter's 25th clause, which mandates a
standard measure of ale throughout
the entire realm. Practically speak-
ing, this means that when I order a
pint of London Pride at the Turf Tav-
ern in Oxford, I know it should have
the same amount of beer as a pint of
Green King served at the Boathouse
in Cambridge.
That pint-size piece of informa-
tion is critical for scholarly pursuits
but it's also an essential form of gov-
ernment regulation: setting standard
weights and measures. Without a
standard measure of ale or corn or
gasoline policed by the government,
a large amount of commerce would

dry up.
Why? Enforcing standard mea-
sures by an outside neutral party
provides trustworthy information.
Ironically, government intervention
helps facilitate a key assumption of
the free market economy: parties in
an exchange have "perfect" informa-
tion, which makes it more difficult
for, say, a cloth merchant to cheat his
customer.
And these standards are what are
needed in today's health care reform.
Currently, individuals who don't
have insurancethroughtheir employ-
er or aren't eligible for Medicare have
to search for health insurance plans
in the free market. In addition to fac-
ing higher costs, they face a dizzying
array of plans, choices and complicat-
ed language. This complexity creates
a situation with asymmetrical infor-
mation: consumers face reams of
paper with confusing terms created
by lawyers and specialists working
for the insurance company.
It's pretty clear consumers face
a heavy disadvantage under this
arrangement. Even if they can find a
competing insurer - which in some
regions they can't, because a single
company dominates the market - the
information imbalance persists.
One major purpose of the health
insurance exchanges is to provide a
standardized set of health insurance
policies for individuals and small
businesses that need to buy insur-
ance on the open market. Private
insurers compete for customers on
the exchange by offering plans that
meet certain basic criteria, which are
determined by law.
The upshot is thatby regulatingthe
types of coverage that can be offered
and setting minimum standards, the
government provides a set of stan-
dard measurements - akin to the
standard measure of ale - that helps
lower the information gulf between
consumers and insurers, benefitting
the consumer.
Second, government oversight of
the exchanges ensures that an out-

side enforcer is at hand in case insur-
ance companies attempt to break the
rules. Instead of facing the remote
possibility of an individual consumer
suing, the government could kick the
company out of the exchange and cut
it off from tens of millions of custom-
ers.
How the Magna
Carta can help
fix health care.
Of course, the insurance exchange
is only one important feature of
health care reform efforts. Another
is a mandate that requires individuals
to buy health insurance. Not allow-
ing healthy people to opt out of buy-
ing insurance spreads risk among a
greater pool and lowers premiums
for everyone. The final key feature
is the much-debated public option,
which would increase competitive
pressures to lower prices by giving
individuals and small businesses the
option of choosing a government-run
plan. (Medicare, the government-run
insurance program for senior citizens,
negotiatesfarlower prices for care and
runs with much lower overhead costs
than private insurance companies.)
Together, the exchanges, indi-
vidual mandate and public option
can combine to rein in health-care
costs, expand coverage and create
fewer headaches for consumers try-
ing to sort through massive amounts
of paperwork.
And all those things will help
lower the cost of Ibuprofen, which
may come in handy for anyone tak-
ing advantage of the standardized
24-ounce jars of Bell's Oberon at
Dominick's after acing an English
history midterm. Cheers!
- Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

0


SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Michigan Stadium needs to
play right music for fans
TO THE DAILY:
I wanted to respond with my thoughts about
the piped-in Michigan Stadium music and
Andy Reid's column (My pipe(d) dream: a better
Michigan Stadium mixtape, 09/14/2009).
I wasn't excited when I heard that there was
going to be piped-in music at the stadium, but
I have to say, it's quickly growing on me. There
are three tweaks to the idea, though, that need
to be made to make it better. And being a DJ, I
feel like I can lend some expertise.
First, I have to disagree with Reid's view of
slow ballads. This is football, not the senior
prom. I want music that's going to keep the
entire 110,000 fans pumped up for the next
play. Michigan Stadium has a reputation for
being one of the quietest stadiums, and music

that causes some to fall asleep won't help.
Second, there is no reason to play songs that
are already overused by other schools. I agree
that the student section sounded great when
chanting the baseline to "Seven Nation Army,"
but I know that's a Penn State song. So that
song should be cut, along with "Jump Around"
and "Zombie Nation." We're Michigan and we
don't copy others.
And cut the crappy intros that some songs
have. Cut the piano intro to "Lose Yourself"
(which, when played on Saturday, didn't allow
us to get to the actual song and lyrics). Also, cut
the intro to "Welcome to the Jungle."
Those are my opinions, but I'm pleased with
the effort. I am now on board with playing the
piped in music.
Still, nothing beats the Michigan Marching
Band. Go Blue!
MatE Darby
Alum and staffmember

MATTHEW SHUTLER I
Life as an undeclared sophomore

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

JASON MAHAKIAN

E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU

t4 a /C 'l O t C0 - ct 0,i
x aval _ablcotyiOf
/ c~w ourL A
u

You've heard it a million times when you start a class
or join a new club - monotonous icebreakers. Repetition
of certain, yet important, facts. So, in my fifth semester at
the University, I'll start this article off with the answers I
spout off every first day of a new course. My name is Mat-
thew Shutler, I'm a sophomore and my major is currently
undecided.
Moving into a residence hall, you end up meeting many
new people, and for some reason, living with complete
strangers leads to a lot of inevitable questions. "Where are
you from?" "What year are you in?" "What's your major?" I
would answer them again and again as I met the people who
would turn out to be my family away fromhome. "Dearborn
Heights, Mich." "Freshman." And, of course, "Ummmm ...
I'm not sure yet."
I always felt alittle embarrassed without a declared major.
Here at the University, I found myself competing with some
of the brightest men and women from around the world. I'm
surrounded by people who know that they have wanted to
become doctors or teachers since they were in diapers, and
I'm here, still trying to identify the one career that won't
cause me to go crazy. It should be understandable that I'm
feeling a slight inferiority complex.
I remember going to a banquet for students with LSA
scholarships in the first month of school last year. We lis-
tened to people talk about "how brave we are" for decid-
ing to enroll in LSA. Yes, they said brave. We didn't apply
to the School of Engineering or School of Kinesiology. We
applied to the school of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
which apparently means we don't know what we want to
do with our lives. Well, I was anxious to begin with, and
starting the year off with people telling me that I'm brave
for deciding to "find myself" before I choose a career

wasn't exactly a comforting feeling.
But there are benefits to having an undeclared major,
despite it being occasionally overwhelming. You have the
unique opportunity to take a wider variety of classes. How
many freshmen engineering students really have the room
in your schedules totake introductory courses for poetry,
sociology, history, French and archaeology? Another little
award you get from taking your time to pick your major
is that when you finally declare, you're more sure of what
you want. With any luck, when I finally decide what I want
to do with my life, there won't be too much wavering after
that moment. Fingers crossed, that is.
Recently, I've discovered that I have a preoccupation
with needing to know all the answers about what the
future will bring. Here I am, complaining about the anxi-
ety triggered by not having a plan for the rest of my life.
But there are hundreds of other students in this situation,
and most seem to find their way through the University
and graduate with a degree in something they know they
can work with. I have learned to forget about the pres-
sure of declaring this semester and focus on finding what
I love. I also learned that you can decide to be anxious and
only think about not having a plan, or you can look at it as
an adventure to find your own path. I think I'll go with
the latter and make my undergraduate career more of an
adventure.
I think I just realized why they called us brave at that
banquet. We're brave enough to say that we may not have
a certain career in mind, but we're going to search. I've
decided to embrace this bravery, and if you're an unde-
clared LSA sophomore, you should, too.
Matthew Shutler is an assistant editorial page editor.

0


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Aja Smith, Brittany Smith, R dhika Upadhyaya, Rachel fan Gilder, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 15, 2009 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September iS, 2009 - 5

Illustrating the sound

lbum art used to sell
music. Before music
preview blogs, before
Pitchfork, one of the primary
things that
spoke for the
music, besides
the music itself - ,
obviously, was
the illustration f
stuck to the
front of the LP, -
cassette tape or WHITNEY
CD. I specifi- POW
cally remember
being 12 and going to the record
store to pick up Oasis's Be Here
Now not because I knew any of
the songs, but because of the
album art.
The cover of BeHere Now
depicts a collage of images: a white
Rolls Royce sunken in the middle
of a turquoise pool of water, a
despondent-looking Gallagher
brother standing in the foreground
next to a European motorbike with
a gramophone aimed at him. The
surreal imagery, I think, is what
sold me. I assume that many oth-
ers have experienced the thrill of
strongly associating an album's
musical twists and turns with the
images provided on the album
cover. One of my most vivid child-
hood memories is listening to the
intro crescendo of "D'You Know
What I Mean?" while I, in my
mind's eye, floated around in a sur-
realist landscape ofsinkingcars
and motorbikes.
While album covers try to sell
you their musical contents with
images, with time these images
really do begin to speak for them-
selves - they become iconic. You
can spot the pop-art banana on
The Velvet Underground's album
The Velvet Underground and Nico
from 50 yards away and still know
which album it is. And, similarly,
Chicago's twin Marina City tow-
ers on Wilco's Yankee Hotel Fox-
trot have become so iconic that,
when I recently found myself
in the windy city and looked up
to find those towers above me,
hinged on the skyline, the first
thing I thought was "Wow, those

are or
"Wov
cobs.
Yo
then,
renov
ists cl
image
Youtl
albur
taken
by Ge
tial cc
ist. R
his p1
whici
tions
of am
quali
- usi
The i
dreamy
albur
Sonic
time
itself
captu
togra
An
cover
pl9
Rollir
memo
tight
bulge
conce
pre-e
1960s
cover
signa
the m
iconi
crash
have,
monp
on on
all tin
was t
visua
the al
conte

n the cover of YHF," not Similarly, the cover of Radio
w, those look a lot like corn Ethiopia by Patti Smith contains
" Because they really do. a striking image indebted to New
u wouldn't be surprised, York photographer Judy Linn.
that many bands have There's an almost a voyeuristic
wned contemporary art- quality present in the album art,
reate these iconic album where a skinny, waif-like Smith
es for them. Take Sonic sits on the floor in a windbreaker,
h's Daydream Nation - the looking away from the camera.
s's prominent candle was Linn was a close friend of both
from the painting Kerze Smith and her roommate, pho-
rhard Richter, an influen- tographer Robert Mapplethorpe,
ontemporary German art- and this intimacy can be seen
ichter is most notable for through the cover photo - there's
hotorealistic paintings in an odd sense of vulnerability and
h he emulates the imperfec- grace present in Radio Ethiopia's
of photography - the blur album art that perfectly matches
notion shot, the scratched the emotional frailty present in
ty of damaged negatives the album and the album's ballad,
ng careful brushstrokes. "Pissing in a River."
mage of the candle on Day- Album art is important not only
Nation, then, presents the to our immediate first impression
a's music visually, where of an album, but to the way in
Youth's purposeful, some- which we interact with the album
messy dissonance parallels as well, listen after listen. If it
with Richter's ability to weren't for Pink Floyd's cover art
ire the imperfections of pho- for Wish You Were Here, which
phy on purpose. depicts two businessmen shaking
other notable piece is the hands, one bursting into flames,
'of Sticky Fingers by The would the song "Have a Cigar" be
nearly as affecting? And similarly,
album covers themselves can
Visual art's become so iconic that we look at
them and are instantly transport-
ace in popular ed to the aural pathways of the
music itself. For me, the garishly
MUSIC, colorful cover of Magical Mystery
Tour by The Beatles instantly
takes me to the hot-green fields of
ng Stones. The album's "Strawberry Fields Forever."
orable photograph of a man's The visual and the auditory
jeans - complete with a are deeply intertwined in music
in the groin region -was albums. Even with the advent of
aived by Andy Warhol, the the MP3 and iTunes cover flow, it
minent pop artist of the still might be a better idea to go
and '70s. Sticky Fingers's out and buy the physical CD or
'reverberates with Warhol's LP just to be able to flip through
ture penchant for turning the liner notes and get the full
undane or odd into the musical experience. While music
c, from soup cans to car might be great, and art might be
es. On Sticky Fingers, we memorable, when the two are
an embarrassing, if not com- paired together, a whole new
lace happening emblazoned experience erupts from the scene.
e of the best rock albums of And why would you choose to
me. It seems like the band have one without the other?

She was involved in a botched drug deal with Justin Feagin.

'Sorority' sorrow

Big surprise: Sororities and
horror are an awful combination
By SHERI JANKELOVITZ
Daily Arts Writer
"SororityRow"is amovieofsuchstunningawfulness
that it has to be seen to be believed.
Actually, on second thought, there is
absolutely no reason for anyone to 7)
ever see this movie, unless you just
want to hang your head sadly over $0wnty
the state of horror films today. Row
The story features five sorority
girls who are such broad caricatures At Quality16
that names really aren't necessary, and Showcase
as they can effectively be identified Summit
with one-word character traits -
either slutty, bitchy or goody-goody.
The five ladies (led by Bitchy) attempt to play a prank
on an unsuspecting boy, involving faking the death of
one of their fellow sisters (Audrina Partridge of TV's
"The Hills," who is far more convincing as a corpse
than a real person). After dragging out this unfunny
prank for far too long, the poor sister is murdered with
a tire iron and the other five girls make the world's stu-
pidest decision: to dump the body down a mineshaft
and pretend it never happened. Have none of them
seen "I Know What You Did Last Summer?" That
would make them a pretty rare breed in the world of
Greek life.
And wouldn't you know it: Eight months later,
there's suddenly a serial killer stalking the girls with
a heavily modified (read: covered in really sharp shit)

tire iron. Rather than go straight to the police (as they
should've done long before) the girls decide to engage
in behavior that, for anyone who's ever seen a horror
movie or just existed as a human being, is downright
stupid. In particular, nobody should ever wander off
in the dark while asking, "Hello? Is anyone there?"
That's a sure way to get killed. The film also features
not one, but two moments in which someone snaps at
the other girls to stop moping about the murders and
just go "back to the party!"
The sisters seem far more preoccupied with party-
ing and drinking than the fact that they murdered a
friend. With portrayals like this, it's no wonder soror-
ity girls get a bad rap.
The film is visually quite hard to look at, making
the experience all the more painful to sit through.
Each scene seems to have been shot with a weird sort
of graininess, which makes no sense in an era when
even the crappiest films are shot in crystal-clear HD.
The poor visuals simply make it harder to care about
any of the characters, seeing as the viewer can hardly
tell who is who. The sisters' boyfriends, in particular,
all seem to resemble each other, making it hard to tell
which collar-popped douche is getting stabbed with
the tire iron.
To compete with other films of the same ilk, "Soror-
ity Row" has to find a way to creatively kill off its main
characters. Sadly, most of the time the tire iron is sim-
ply shoved into different body parts, complete with
gooey sound effects. Ho-hum, been there, done that.
But redeemingly, this may be the only horror film in
which one of the leads is killed by a flare gun while
wrestling in massive amounts of bubble bath.
Of course, the killer in this movie turns out to be
See SORORITY ROW, Page 10

rying to get at an unsettling
1 experience to advertise
bum, and, in fact, it sold the
nts very well.

Want to illustrate the album cover
of the soundtrack to Pow's life?
E-mail her at poww@umich.edu.


HPV Fct:
You boyfr
H PV-h

A strangely enjoyable 'Hospice'

By JOSH BAYER tially seem to laze by on sparse
Daily MusicEditor frameworks unveil themselves to
be lush fever dreams.
Hospice is an album's album. During an impromptu listen to
And it could easily be the downer the seven-minute "Atrophy," Sil-
of the year. Stark- berman's vaguely violent lyrics
ly chronicling a about castration threats and glass
man's angst as * bullets take center stage while the
he watches his ambient acoustics passively lull
wife empire from by. But with headphones and some
bone cancer in Hospice time, it becomes clear the music is
the'Sloan Ketter- Frenchkiss anything but an afterthought or
injg Cancer Ward, a vessel for Silberman's gutting
the record is an poetry. The album is like a "Magic
epic poem - an abstract narrative Eye" book for depressives, harbor-
pieced together through cutting ing dormant melodies in wintry
stream-of-consciousness imagery studio murk and icy guitar feed-
with raw confessional lyrics. back that doesn't whine so much
Establishing a clear-cut protag- as it weeps.
onist and immersing the listener in It's Hospice's largely funereal
what is essentially his nightmare, pace that makes its erratic sonic
Hospice boasts a narrative ambi- booms all the more rewarding.
tion that is incredibly refreshing in The album is all about context
today's let's-be-cute indie world. and juxtaposition, clambering
The lyrics possess a standalone along with a nervous energy of
quality and truly deserve their unpredictability, using its wint-
own rating (and CliffsNotes). ing restraint as a loaded spring for
Musically, Hospice is built like a its louder, more upbeat moments.
pressure cooker. Slapping togeth- The surges of straightaway rock
er chiming, straightforward pop during the choruses of "Sylvia"
with avant-garde tangents and and "Bear" are ejaculatory when
melodies shoe-hazed by glitch sandwiched between the sleepy
and drone, the album assumes wallow of warped dirges ("Wake")
a hauntingly unstable swagger and swirling ambiance ("Thir-
that chafes icily with the pro- teen").
tagonist's desperation. Intricate "Kettering" builds an uncanny
melodies and arrangements sulk pressure while Silberman sings
deep in the mix, wisping around about a significant other being
frontman Peter Silberman's amor- hooked up to tubes "singing mor-
phous tenor like a dense fog. Upon phine alarms out of tune" in a
repeated listens, songs that ini- velvety falsetto croon laced sinis-

that cau

terly with a subtle sexual menace
that clashes uncomfortably with
the grim lyrics. When Silberman
warbles "they told me that there
was no saving you" over the song's
sparsely unnerving piano line,
there's a spine-chilling beatbefore
the track explodes cathartically
into a well-earned heat chamber
of buzzing guitars, crackly drums
and ethereal shoegaze swoons.
The entire album functions on
these unstable cycles of emotion,
both lyrically and musically.
With such drab subject matter,
Hospice could've easily wound up
an overcooked pot of mawkishly
earnest doom and gloom. But Sil-
berman manages a stabbing brand
of dark humor that keeps the
album from taking itself too seri-
ously without ever compromis-
ing its bite. Lines like "and all the
while I'll know we're fucked and
not getting un-fucked soon" tread
an impeccably uncomfortable line
See THE ANTLERS, Page 10

There's somethi;
It _

1,
y.


0

6-Tuesday, September 15, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

-I

CHEAP AVAIL PARKING at
DPIIIE. $200/semester. 216-469-8936.
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
ing on Central Campus rates start at
$50 per month. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny in the
winter.(In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 50 steps to the B
School. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
030
1998 BMW 540. Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner. 734-
429-2850 or beridera umich.ed
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES "!l
6 to 12 bedrooms. Very close to
Campus. SIGN NOW for May 2010.
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370.
nancylat@umich.ed
www.nacylat.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010*
http://www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
'three bedroom house, two car garage,
suroom formal diting room, dish-
washer, hardwoodf Cooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.
917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Fully furnished 2
bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
gotiable and we'll help find a room-
mate. Call Varsity Management (734)
668-1100 or
http://www.varsitymanagement.com
ADVERT SE
WITH
MMICHIGAN DAILY

al
R EALT Y
Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
,,xt to Pi 'Z ~ ~
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
APARTMENTS. I & 2 bdrm. Utilities
included. Free prkg. Near AATA down-
town and campus. Old west side. No
smoking, no pets. 734-426-7821.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampsMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
DilyClassfieds:
sewving the UofMl
YOU(Ve community for
been hundreds upon
served hundreds or so
years.,
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions availale. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734)668-1100 or a
http://www.varsitymanagement.com
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore r Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to down-
town. Wsher/dryer in unit, $1000/mo.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.

PRESENTS THE
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
DRASTIC PRICE REDUCTION
$2200/mo for six br, 2 bath, furnished
house. Rms avail w/ whole house privi-
leges, $350-$450. LR, DR, kitch, cen-
tral air, carpeting, on-site parking.
Near business school. 926 Packard. No
Pets. 248-227-9210.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds

IMMEDIATE OPENINGS
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice, conditions apply, no exp. nec.,
will train. 734-677-2477.
http://www.workforstudents.com
NOW ACCEPTING
Applications
for Chef, Hostess, Bartender and
Waitress positions.
Apply at playhouse
#1 in Adult Fun
13201 Middlebelt Road
Between Northline and Eureka
Romulus, Mi 48174
734-941-3144
NEED A JOB? My garden needs to be
put to bed for the winter. Trimming &
painting. Must have experience. If you
are confident, reliable and like to work
fax resume to 734-663-7553.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Puh now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wail
and kitchen staff, and f8oorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
TENANT COUNSELOR WANTED.
Part time, 8-12 hr/wk, $12/hr, advise
tenants of basic rights and information.
Send resumes to psherdllsscm.org
UNIQUE MKTG OP
Need local college Rep for National
Company and popular product. Make
your own hrs. High returns, possible fu-
ture employment. Srs and grad students
in Biz or Mktg preferred. E-mail
pkc 1100@(iyahoo.com

LOOKING FOR NANNY
Executive couple seeks "Marry Pop-
pins" to care for children in our home.
3 boys, I girl. Ages 7-13. Live out posi-
tion requires, travel between AA &
Birmingham. Also willing to travel
with family as req. Occasionally stay at
residence while parents are away. Must
be dedicated to professional level of
service. Must be a college or graduate
student of U of M Ann Arbor. Pre-
ferred degree in Education. Work 5 Get 'em while they're freshmen.
days a week as follows:
Mon-Thurs 3-10pm, Fri 4-11pm. They won't be ripe for long.
Occasionally weekends as req. Able to
start October 15th. Pay doe, $15-20/hr
Benefits negotiable. Req to pass back-
ground check. Send resume In
sdodson@thdg.com

0



Done the
Sudoku yet?
9
1 7 6
4 7
94 2
251 7

6

See great places on an interactive map
with full descriptions, features, and
prices
FREE 1ST MO. rent, GREAT loc near
Athletic Campus, 4-6 Bdrms/Bsmt/Lg
Parking Area. sehilll@comcast.net
L Post Realty_____________ 1

announCemnents
1 20 ]O JI
INTERESTED IN ORG. Studies and
Advertising? Join MAOS: Michigan
Advertising and Org. Studies.
E-mail: arikalfi@umich.edu

1 23
NEW SOCIAL NETWORK with
AMAZING Features--Get This...Self
destruct E-mail, Cool Games & Last
but not Least, earn a few dollars doing
nothing but what you do already.
http://www.pslOl.info


6


Four great campus locations. 1- & 2-bed-
apartments and studioss Great locations,
well maintained, responsive mgmt.,
free internet & other amenities.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
GRAD STUDENTS & Professionals:
1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
nished, heat, water, parking included,
in unit washer/dryer available. Call Var-
sity Management for details (734) 668-
1100 or
lttp://www.varsitymanageinent.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
LG RM. SOUTH University. Short
walk to campus and CCRB. Prkg. 5
wonderful roommates. 269-352-9914.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealtyco.com
STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able for immediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Central Campus. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop by 616 Church Street for more in-
fornation.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734)769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

.1_


Los Angel
Edit

ACROSS
1 Actress Messing
of "Will & Grace"
6 Nothing, in Latin
11 6-Across suffix
14 Typical
15 Endangered layer
38 BostonuParty
37 Tonnrident
who's a British
secret agent
19 Long in the tooth
20 Scenic routes,
often
21 "Look Homeward,
Angel" author
Thomas
23 Attempt
24 Online birthday
greeting
26 Suitor's proposal
32 Baseball's"Big
Unit" _ Johnson
33 Cattle drive buddy
34 Dinghy propeller
predecessors
36 Bouquet
38 Litter weakling
39 Barely manage,
with "outf
40 German name
for Cologne
41 Cupforcafe
42 Shipwrecked
literary hero
46 directed":
medication
warning
47 Ship, to a sailor
48 Name
50 Mike Nichols's
comedy partner
56 Aardvark's snack
57 TV sci-fi series,
first aired
9/1511965, on
which a robot
spnhe the
catchphrase
formed by the
first words of 17-.
26- and 42-
Acros
59 Nipper's co.
60 Writer Bagnold et
al.
61 Pinball no-nos
82 Buddy
83 Thick
64 Two foursomes

es Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
ed by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
DOWN 32 Trailer park 44 Common
1 Bombs that don't resident, for short poolside chair
go off 36 Slugger Sammy 45 Bridle part
2 Actor Morales 37 Forms an 48 Ball field protector
3 1930s-'40s increasingly 49 Peruvian of old
German-American smaller circle 51 Former Ford cars
political group around, with "on" 52 DeMille film, say
4 Fury 380Co11. dorm VIPs ft3 Enhanced
4 In a wary way 40 Prepared to say milkshake
6 "Hold the 26-Across 54 Entr'. :
Hellmann's" 41 Seeks helpfrom intermission
7 Shirt that once had 43 Cuba or Aruba: 55 Mon., on Tues.
a reptilian logo Abbr. 58 Four quarters
8 Male servant
9 Aetna's business: ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
Abbr. C 1 S SP A U T C M 1
10 Moving toward the A N N E PA KAL.
calmerside, atsea K A D
11 "Shoulda listened T A IT E G A L L E R Y E E S
to me!" N T HS W 1 E L H A SA
12 Ego A RE T E T ONC O UN TY
13Created P I G I D S EAR N E R S
18 Actor Calhoun S P O C K J A R T R I 0
22 Hockey legend T I T L E P A G E
Bobhy
25 olfer'swheels M T N S HOT A R O M A
26 Loony one E R I C SON M C I R Ot
27 How a debater's T O T A L R E C A L L S U R
response is made L O R N A A X E L I N K
28 Mormons' gp. I P O T U T T I F R U T T I
29 Philly Ivy League F E U E F R E M 0 N E I S
sc.
30 Minister's home E R S SOUR S W A D E S
31 Art Decodesigner xwordeditor@aocom 09/14109

HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
Lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Introductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willow Run Airport. 734-780-5685.
http://www.buzzardairservice.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon()/Ciserv.net
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BABYSITTER-- FOR TWO kids,
spring/summer term. Needed for occas-
sional evenings. Flexible. Call
(734) 995-0494.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply a
telefhnd.umich.edu or 763.4400.

AFTER SCHOOL CHILD care
3:45-6:30 Mon.-Thur. Pick up 8 YR.
old from school; Drive to piano/swim
classes; Homework, supervision.
Contact Eve at losmang/ umich.edu or
734-327-0659.
BABYSITTER NEEDED AFTER-
SCHOOL. Must be friendly w/own car
& ref. 649-2401 or appelkraut@tds.net
AFTERSCHOOL BABYSITTER
NEEDED for a 7 year old boy and a 3
year old girl. Help needed in picking
them up from school and engaging
them in activities ater school. Please
contact Sonali at sonali.jv a gmaiacom
or at (734) 730-6390.
A D
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
7 6 4 -llllllll
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

For Wednesday, Sept. 16, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
You want more freedom at work.
Because of this, some of you are tempted
to quit your day job today. I don't advise
this. Not today. (You have to know what
you're really doing and what it entails.)
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Parents should be extra vigilant with
children because this is an accident-
prone day for children in your care. It's
also a rocky day for romance. (Gulp.)
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Relations with family members or par-
ents are stressed today because someone
wants more freedom. Nobody wants to
be told what to do today!
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
This is an accident-prone day. Slow
down, and be careful. Think twice before
you do or say anything. It's very easy to
blurt something out and later regret it.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Something is tricky with your finan-
cial situation. Perhaps you need to get
out from under some kind of oppressive
expense. You'll know what to do when
the time comes.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Either you or someone else wants to
have more freedom in a partnership or
close friendship. You feel restless, and
perhaps so does lie or she? Go slowly!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is not an easy time. Something
beneath the surface is bothering you.
You feel like you're waiting for the other
shoe to drop. Don't let an emotional
reaction get you in trouble.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23to Nov. 21)

Difficulties with friends or members
of groups might arise today. Quite likely,
someone will express a long-held resent-
ment. (You should listen.)
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Don't overreact with parents, bosses,
teachers or authority figures today. It's
very easy to do this. If you do, you'll
only make matters worse.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Travel plans might go sideways today
or tomorrow. Similarly, anything con-
nected with higher education could be
canceled or delayed. You might meet
someone unusual.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Don't walk away from discussions
about shared property, inheritances or
responsibility for other people's posses-
sions. You might be tempted to do this.
However, later you might regret it!
(Oops.)
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Relations with partnerships are so sti-
fled, you're tempted to bolt. It's best not
to do this while you're in such an emo-
tionally confused state of mind.
Important decisions require clarity, not
knee-jerk reactions.
YOU BORN TODAY You're gener-
ous and openhearted. People like you.
You're direct, honest and forthright;
you're never pretentious. People know
where they stand with you. You have the
courage to be yourself and go after what
you want in life. To you, life is an adven-
ture! This year, something you've been
involved with for about nine years is
ending or diminishing to mako room for
something new.
Birthdate of: B.B. King, blus musi-
cian; Peter Falk, actor; Katie Melia,
singer/songwriter.

I

0 2009 King Features Syndicate, inc.


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13
14 i5 16
17 18 19
20 21 22
23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
a2 33 34
35 36 37 38
39 40 41
42 43 44 45
46 47
46 49 50 51 52 53 54 55
56 57 58
5$ 60 6i
62 63 64

read the michigan
daily horoscope

Deadline for line ads is11:30am one business day priorto publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for the first issue and $1.75 per line foreach additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- contact our staff for details
* Students may receive a 20% discount whenads are placed in person with a
valid studentlID (non-organizational, non-business ads only)
.All ads mustbe peepaedunlessprior bi log privilegeshave been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Display advertising, please call one of our AccountExecutives

By Dtona . Levin
(c)2009 C ibuonMedi Serice, ncu .

09/15/09I1

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 15, 2009 - 7

The Michigart Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September15, 2009 - 7

SACUA
From Page 1

'U' researcher links air
pollution, heart problems

"If a student is intoxicated and
underage and calls for aid for
another student, he won't receive a
minor in possession simply because
he called in," Rorro said of the pro-
posed changes.
Currently, underage students
who have been drinking and call
for help while in a residence hall
receive a minor in possession - a
citation for minors who have had
any alcohol in their body. Rorro said
this deters students from helping
others in need of medical attention.
"If you do (call) and the cops
do come, then they will give you a
minor in possession as well," Rorro
said. "So in fact, instead of imme-
diately calling to save this person's
life, you would hesitate."
The goal of the new policywould
be to eliminate the fear of getting
an MIP and being punished for
helping a friend, Rorro said.
MSA will send its revisions for
the Student Code of Conduct to
SACUA by the end of the month.
The board will then make changes
to the document before sending it
to University President Mary Sue
Coleman for approval.
TRASH CITATIONS
DISTRACT FROM OTHER
CRIMES
According to Mahanti, there has
been an increase in the number of
fines students have received for lit-
tered lawns during football games,
at least in those reported to MSA.
"We've heard lots of complaints
from students that say literally 20
minutes after the big shift has gone
from the houses to the stadium, the
city officials come through and give
fines," Mahanti said.
Mahanti said students have been
receiving fines that range from
$500 to $700 - reporting that fines
increase with each violation and
messy renters who have received
tickets in prior years cause the hike
in fines, even if the current tenants
didn't live there before.
While MSA is working with the
Ann Arbor City Council on the issue,
SACUA members agreed that police
services could be used more effi-
ciently to improve campus safety.
Mahanti said students are con-
cerned about the recent break-ins
at fraternities, sororities and other
houses near campus where laptops,
iPods and football tickets have been
stolen. In yesterday's paper, the
Daily reported on a string of crimes
that occurred this past weekend,
some of which occurred during the
football game.
In an attempt to reduce break-ins
and robberies, MSA is looking to set
up neighborhood watch committees.
Rorro said the committees
would require students to keep an
eye out for suspicious activity in
their neighborhoods, as opposed to
relying on the police.
"We know it's much easier for
fellow students to recognize their
neighbors and fellow students than
it is for the police to recognize
a person who is breaking into a
house," Rorro said.
Statistics Prof. Ed Rothman,
who is a SACUA member, empa-
REGENTS
From Page 1
Center. The renovation will accom-
modate the projected number of
individuals needing access to non-
cancer infusion centers. Approxi-

mately 5,000 gross square feet of
space will be renovated to include 10
bays, a pharmacy, nursing stations
and office and support spaces.
The estimated cost is $1.5 mil-
lion and is scheduled for comple-
tion in spring 2010.
Additionally, regents will con-
sider approval for an improve-
ment of the emergency electrical
power system at the University
Hospital. The 3,400-square-foot
renovation, which is estimated to
cost $4 million, will provide a new
EXHIBIT
From Page 1
Harris added that University
officials are not the only ones deal-
ing with this issue.
"This change is part of a global
trend: Museums around the world
are wrestling with questions about
how to represent indigenous peo-
ple in museum exhibits," Harris
wrote in the e-mail. "The current
best practice is to collaborate with
communities and give them a voice
in determining how their culture is
portrayed."
Meg Noori, who teaches Ojibwe
language classes at the University,
said taking down the dioramas was
the right decision.
"What (Harris) has done is a
great way to work with educators
in the community," she said.
Noori added that while she
believes the 'exhibit wasn't

Even brief exposure
shown to increase
blood pressure
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
Researchers at the University's
Cardiovascular Center recently
uncovered the short-term effects
of air pollutant exposure on heart
health.
Led by Dr. Robert Brook, an
assistant professor of internal
medicine, the study documented
cardiovascular responses in sub-
jects who were exposed for two
hours to environmental levels of
ozone and fine particulate matter.
The results, they report, were
not promising.
Brief exposure was shown to
cause an increase in diastolic blood
pressure - the lower number in
general blood pressure readings
representing the pressure between
heart contractions. Brook said the
increase in blood pressure was
associated with vasoconstriction,
a narrowing of blood vessels.
The study also concluded that,
23 hours after the initial exposure,
subjects' blood vessels did not
function properly which could be
attributed, in part, to inflamma-
tion throughout the body.
"The bottom line evidence was
that the very rapid increase in
the diastolic blood pressure that
occurred within minutes of expo-
sure and lasted for up to two hours
was caused by a disruption in the
body's sympathetic nervous sys-

tem," Brook said.
Conducted in downtown Toron-
to and Ann Arbor, the study placed
subjects in a controlled experi-
mental chamber that drew in air
from outside, maintaining envi-
ronmentally relevant levels of air
pollutants.
"Even though we are living in an
area and time that is cleaner than
ever before, the levels we have
seen within Washtenaw County
still pose a discernible health risk
to people," Brook said.
As it turns out, the most seri-
ous offender in pollution-linked
heart disease is not ozone, as many
believe, but rather fine particulate
matter measuring a miniscule 2.5
micrometers in diameter or small-
er.
Over time, persistent exposure
to fine particulate matter could
lead to premature heart disease
or similar cardiac issues in peo-
ple with susceptibilities such as
underlying high blood pressure,
heart disease and heart failure,
Brook said.
Brook said the study aimed to
"see how it's possible that a tenth
of what you would encounter in
a smoky bar can trigger heart
attacks, stroke, heart failure,
arrhythmia or death in 24 hours."
Moreover, he said the findings
were intended to provide addition-
al support and plausibility to the
epidemiologic studies that have
shown a correlation between air
pollutants and heart disease.
Between 25,000 and 60,000
people in the United States die pre-
maturely each year from air pollu-
tion exposure, and, worldwide, air
pollution is the 13th leading cause

of mortality.
"Over the last few years, there
has been increasing levels of evi-
dence that air pollutants, even if
they're at lower levels here in the
United States and North America,
still pose a significant health risk,"
Brook said.
Brook cited epidemiologic stud-
ies showing that exposure over a
five-year period to ten micrograms
per cubic meter in fine particulate
matter increases the risk of dying
from heart disease by up to 75 per-
cent.
He said studies have already
shown that long-term effects of air
pollution can lead to atherosclero-
sis - a condition defined by hard-
ening of the arteries.
"Although the responses were
small and didn't cause problems in
healthy people, the thought pro-
cess is that this is something that
could be harmful if distributed to
tens of millions of people through-
out the United States," he said.
But Brook said he was confident
that the healthy student popula-
tion was unlikely to contract pre-
mature cardiovascular disease
as a result of air pollutants, but
susceptible people with underly-
ing conditions should consider
minimizing exposure whenever
possible. Avoiding long commutes,
second-hand smoke and major
roadways when outside are among
the best precautions, he said.
"I'm not asking people to wear
masks, and I'm not asking them
to move to completely pristine
areas," Brook said. "But there's a
lot of personal responsibility you
can take for the level of pollutants
that you're exposed to."

WILL MOELLER/Daily
Student leaders from the Michigan Student Assembly meet with SACUA, the leading
faculty governing body, in the Fleming Administration Building yesterday.

thized with the students who were
victims of the recent crimes.
Rothman said that he too was a
victim of a similar scenario during
Hash Bash one year, when someone
stole his computer from his office
while police were preoccupied
patrolling the Diag.
"This allocation of resources
between giving out tickets and
enforcing policy, potentially pro-
filing students and others is an
issue because that's a resource
that could be used to protect (stu-
dents)," Rothman said. "It would be
nice to see there be abetter balance
between those two."
AIRING COMPLAINTS WITH
SMOKE-FREE INITIATIVE
At the meeting, the two groups
touched on the smoke-free initia-
tive that will be enacted on campus
July 1, 2011. The policy - meant
to reduce secondhand smoke and
related health costs - will ban stu-
dents and faculty from smoking on
University property.
Both MSA and SACUA members
expressed frustration with the Uni-
versity's decision that was made
last April without their input.
"Wegottold aboutitthedaybefore
it was announced," said Michael
Thouless, SACUA chair and profes-
sor of Materials Science and Engi-
neering. "We weren't consulted."
Gina Poe, SACUA member and
associate professorofAnesthesiology
and Molecular and Integrative Physi-
ology, said the University pitched the
policy as something that will benefit
both faculty and students.

"When we were presented with
it, we were basically told it's a fan-
tastic thing the campus is doing,"
she said. "It's great for health and
welfare for everyone."
Regardless of whether or not
the initiative will positively affect
the University community, Robert
Frost, SACUA member and associ-
ate professor of Information Stud-
ies, said the decision will impact
faculty and students.
"It really does put everybody on
the campus community on notice
as to what proper behavior is,"
Frost said.
Rorro said he's worried that the
initiative is "just for show," because
he doesn't understand how officials
will enforce the policy.
"The fact is, if someone is smok-
ing on the Diag is someone really
going to go up to them and ask them
to please stop smoking?" Rorro said.
Rorro added that he's worried
students will not be motivated
to take action against the policy
because the majority of students
will have graduated by the year the
policy becomes enforced.
After the meeting, Mahanti said
that he was confident that the fac-
ulty would stay true to their word
and help solve these very impor-
tant issues for students.
"Faculty with their research and
with their efforts in teaching have
a pretty big presence on this cam-
pus," Mahanti said. "Having them
on the students' side with various
issues will help because these are
the people who work closely with
administrators, who set a lot of
policy at the University."

FOLLOW THE @michigandaily
DAILY ON @michdailynews
TWITTER @michdailysports

HPV Fact:

About

_ ;


uninterruptible power supply in
the event of an emergency.
Construction is expected to be
completed in the fall of 2010.
The Board of Regents will also
consider taking the next steps in
two athletic facility construction
projects that were approved ear-
lier this year.
Regents will consider the over-
all schematic design for a new
basketball practice facility. The
57,000-square-foot addition to
Crisler Arena will include two
practice basketball courts, team
locker areas, strength and condi-
tioning areas, space for medical
treatment and new coaching and
staff offices.
The addition is scheduled to be
completed in the fall of 2011 and is
expected to cost $23.2 million.

Approximately 150 parking
spots at Crisler will be temporarily
displaced due to the construction
and about 95 spots are expected to
be lost permanently.
Regents will also consider
authorizing the issuance of bids
and awarding of construction
contracts for the Intercollegiate
Soccer Stadium - a project the
regents approved in June.
The new field will include the
construction of restrooms, conces-
sion stands, press areas, team locker
rooms and grandstand seating for
approximately 1,800 spectators.
The project is expected to cost
$6 million and is scheduled for
completion in the fall of 2010.
- Fides Araneta
contributed to this report.

will get
genital warts after
having any kind
of'
with someone
infected.
So you have
to actually have
to get


intended to stereotype, the diora-
mas were created nearly 50 years
ago and are a product of the era's
attitude toward Native Ameri-
cans, which many may view as
racist.
"I don't think what (the muse-
um) did originally was disrespect-
ful, but to change and update
exhibits makes sense," Noori said.
LSA senior Joshua Voss, co-
chair of the Native American Stu-
dent Association, said despite the
dioramas' age, their representation
of Native Americans is inappropri-
ate.
"I support (the dioramas')
removal as not just a Native Ameri-
can matter, but a human rights
matter," Voss said. "Depicting
indigenous people as a backwards
race has greatly hurt various
groups throughout the course of
this nation's history."
The closing of the almost
S0-ye#-old exhibit is one of sev-

eral contentious issues between
the University and the Native
American community. In April, the
Native American Student Asso-
ciation decided to move its pow-
wow from Crisler Arena to Saline
Middle School in March, citing
University over-management of
the annual event. The move also
follows more than a year of contro-
versy surrounding the University's
possession of what is estimated to
be more than 1,900 remains and
artifacts in the Museum of Anthro-
pology. Several Native American
tribes have claimed ownership of
the artifacts and asked that they be
returned.
University officials claim they
can't return the artifacts because
they are not "culturally identifi-
able." Still, at a University Board
of Regents meeting last March, the
Saginaw Chippewa Tribe asked
officials to return artifacts that
they believe belong to terem.

There's something you can do.
lFus


0

8 - Tuesday, September 15, 2009
THE GREAT
RATE
................I

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0
6
6

T
,.:

,UWAI t
'M' players from Florida and
Texas are battling to see which
talent-rich state is the fastest.

By ANDY REID 40-yard dash speed Saturday, split-
Daily Sports Editor ting the Notre Dame kickoff unit
and racing 92 yards for the Wolver-
There's a new rivalry brewing on ines' first kick-return touchdown
the Michigan football team, and it since former Michigan return
has nothing to do with Columbus, specialist Steve Breaston took one
South Bend or East Lansing. back in 2005.
In fact, it's a chasm that's been For the electrifying touchdown,
widening within the team as Stonum received Big Ten Special
coach Rich Rodriguez continues Teams Player of the Week Honors.
to recruit heavily in talent-rich "I know where the wedge is
Southern states. But before you supposed to open up, and the kick
start thinking about any rumors of return guys did an excellent job of
team disharmony like those raised opening up that wedge," he said. "I
in Detroit Free Press allegations - just knew I had to make one guy
this is actually quite the opposite. miss, the kicker, and if I got tackled
States like Florida and Texas by the kicker, then I didn't need to
are known for producing some of be out there."
the fastest recruits in the coun- The wide receiver laughed after
try. And Wolverine athletes from his pseudo-dig on the 10 Wol-
those respective states are locked verines from the Sunshine State.
in a battle to prove that their native Senior punter Zoltan Mesko said
brethren are faster. the team is much closer and feels
"Texas has speed," sopho- more camaraderie this year - and
more Darryl Stonum, a native of this "rivalry" is an example of that.
Stafford, Texas, said after Satur- Junior safety and Sugar Land,
day's game. "All these Florida boys Texas native Troy Woolfolk said
up here talking about speed, Texas the rivalry used to be a three-state
has some too." race, but Texas, which boasts five
Stonum showcased his own 4.4 players on the Michigan roster,

and Florida have clearly distanced
themselves.
"There's the top three fastest
states in the nation: there's Califor-
nia, Texas and Florida," Woolfolk
said. "And California, we already
beat all them, so now there's
Texas and Florida, and you got all
the Florida boys up here claiming
they're the fastest, and the Texas
boys know the truth."
The competition also turns to
the track, because most if not all of
the Texas and Florida teammates
ran track in high school. Woolfolk
is also a sprinter on the Michigan
track and field team.
"There's some fast guys from
Florida, and there's some fast
guys from Texas," said sopho-
more wideout Martavious Odoms,
who hails from Pahokee, Fla. "You
know, there's one in each position
group, so there's always someone
who thinks he's the fastest guy on
the team."
Odoms, who runs a 4.5 40-yard
dash, also added that he should
probably be one of the fastest guys
on the team when asked if he was

high on the list.
One inevitable result of the
Texas-Florida battle is a footrace
between freshman quarterback
Denard Robinson and Woolfolk,
who was arguably the fastest man
on the roster before Robinson
came to Ann Arbor from his home
in Deerfield Beach, Fla.
"Yeah, that's something I would
like to see," Odoms said.
Back in March, Robinson, who
was still in high school at the time,
had Michigan fans all giddy when
he ran a 10.44 in the 100-meter
dash, the second-fastest time
recorded in the country.
"I was kind of disappointed in
myself to run a 10.44, but I will
accept that," Robinson told the
Miami Herald after the race. "Run-
ning the No. 2 time in the nation is
pretty good. I was trying to run a
10.3, but there was strong wind. I'm
working harder on it and expect to
hit a10.3 by states."
He did reach the sub-10.3 mark
at states, but that time is in dispute,
because it was allegedly hand-
timed.

And of course, there was also
that 43-yard sprint to the end zone
in the Western Michigan game,
the one where Robinson picked up
his fumble, broke to the sideline,
slipped a tackle, cut back in and
slipped through two defenders on
his way to a touchdown - all in
under 10 seconds.
"He's fast," quarterbacks coach
Rod Smith uttered at Michigan
Media Day. "He, well, he's, he's
fast."
So it sounds like Woolfolk has
every reason to be worried.
After all, Woolfolk, a 2008 First
Team All-Big Ten honoree in track,
boasts a personal-best 10.58 in the
100-meter dash. That's a whopping
.14 seconds slower than Robinson's
official personal best.
When asked if the race had hap-
pened yet, Woolfolk sighed, and
said, "Man, I knew that would
come up eventually."
No matter how hesitant Wool-
folk sounded, the safety's cockiness
eventually made an appearance.
"I tell the linebackers every day
in practice to let him loose so I can

try and catch him to prove a point,
but they're too aggressive, and that
never happens," Woolfolk said.
"But I'd love to race him, and one
day we're going to plan a day for us
to race, to clear all the questions
and doubts.
"I'm not sure (who'd win) - he's
fast. I'm not going to say I'll beat
him. I'm not gonna say I'll lose. Put
it like that."
Woolfolk couldn't help adding a
little quip about Robinson, who's
known for playing with his shoes
untied.
"I keep my shoelaces tied very
tight, extra tight, (my) feet turn
purple," he said.
The rivalry that has sparked is,
of course, all in good fun and a way
for teammates to participate in a
little extracurricular competition
- but each side really does want to
be the fastest.
"It's a playful thing, but at the
same time, we really mean it,"
Woolkfolk said. "So anytime they
want to race, we'll put our runners
on the block and we'll take that win
(over the Florida guys) with ease."

0

Rodriguez hopeful for league-wide injury reports a

Weekly NFL-style
reports could
potentially curb
sports gambling
By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez's impact on the Big Ten could
go beyond the playing field.
At last spring's conference
coaches' meeting, Rodriguez pro-
posed the Big Ten come out with an
NFL-style weekly injury report.
"I didn't stand on the table
and pound my fists or anything,"
Rodriguez recalled. "I just thought

it was a good idea, and most of my
colleagues did at the same time."
Such reports are useful infor-
mation for media and fans, but
perhaps more importantly, they
mitigate behind-the-scenes
scheming in sports gambling.
Rodriguez's
suggestion didn't NOTEBOOK
become league
policy, but individual teams can
adopt the measure on their own
terms.
The Wolverines released their
first-ever injury report last Thurs-
day before their game against the
Fighting Irish.
Northwestern adopted the pol-
icy last season, and Indiana also
currently releases weekly injury
updates.

Of the six major NCAA con-
ferences, just the Atlantic Coast
Conference releases a league-wide
report. Conference bloggers for
ESPN.com will often assemble
lists from various news sources
and collegeinjuryreport.com, a
free service which compiles inju-
ries from across the country.
If gamblers manage to learn
through unauthorized sources
which athletes are injured and to
what extent, they can gain an ill-
gotten advantage.
A 2003 USA Today story on
online sports gambling cited a
study conducted by the NCAA in
1998 that found that of 758 Michi-
gan student-athletes surveyed, 35
percent had participated in sports
gambling and five percent of male

ae iC igan ail RPRESENTS

college athletes "had either pro-
vided inside information for gam-
bling purposes, bet on their own
games or accepted money to play
poorly."
As college football coverage has
increased in recent years, so have
the stakes.
"That's a great fear for all of us
coaches is people that don't have
the best interest of the young men
at heart, maybe they'll ask some-
body, 'Hey, how's so and so doing?'
" Rodriguez said. "And we've told
our team, if it's outside our team
and your family, outside your fam-
ily asking about you, you don't talk
about that, because of that very
same reason.
"I think the policy protects the
young men, it protects the pro-
gram, and to me there's not much
you can do about it anyways. The
guy's shoulder is dislocated - it's
dislocated. It's not going to change
from tomorrow to today."
DENARD STAYING PUT: It
might seem tempting, but fresh-
man quarterback Denard Rob-
inson won't be using his blazing
speed on the Wolverines' return
team.
Although it seems his speed
could be used elsewhere, like as
it was at slot receiver on a couple
occasions against Western Michi-
gan, Rodriguez confirmed yester-
day that Robinson will continue
practicing at quarterback.
Despite freshman signal caller
Tate Forcier's dominance Satur-
day, Forcier, Robinson and redshirt
junior Nick Sheridan all still share
the No. 1 spot on the Wolverines'
depth chart.
"Robinson's a quarterback, and
he's going to play a big role for us
at quarterback this year and prob-
ably for several years to come,"
Rodriguez said. "Everybody wants
to anoint someone after two weeks
and, Tate played well, but Den-
ard's played well, too, and he's had
a chance."
MOOSMAN OUT: The Wolver-
ines will be without right guard
David Moosman this Saturday

0

SAIDALSALAH/daily
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez said that Denard Robinson will stay at quarterback.

against Eastern Michigan. Against
Notre Dame, the fifth-year senior
left the game in the fourth quarter
with a shoulder injury.
Last Saturday, right tackle Mark
Hugye slid over to cover Moos-
man's spot and left tackle Perry
Dorrestein replaced Hugye on the
right side.
Rodriguez mentioned right
guard John Ferrara or left guards
Elliott Mealer and Ricky Barnum
as possible replacements or mov-
ing Hugye over again.
"We rep our twos as much as
our ones on offense," Rodriguez
said. "Lots of people give their
first team maybe four or five reps
and the second team two reps.

We make it equal. Again, our pace
allows us to do that. But I think
it also helps develop our second
team."
AWARDS UPDATE: Forcier's
240 yards and two touchdowns on
22-of-33 passing Saturday earned
him the Davey O'Brien Founda-
tion's Quarterback of the Week
award. The award automatically
adds Forcier to the O'Brien Watch
List, which recognizes the nation's
top quarterback.
Six other quarterbacks received
votes this week, including South-
ern Cal's Matt Barkley and Central
Michigan's Dan LeFevour.
Forcier was also named Big Ten
Offensive Player of the Week.

0f

CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 15, 2009 - 9

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September 15, 2009 - 9

Blue more cohesive in
Ryan's second season

There are several reasons to get more excited about the NFL than college football - at least according to Daily editor Ian Kay.
Realfootball is played

Despite dropping
two on West Coast
road trip, 'M'
looking forward
By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Eight games into the season, its
apparent the Michigan women's
soccerteamcan applythe old adage
that a happy worker is a productive
worker.
Even though the Wolverines
are coming off a 2008 campaign in
which they finished with a 4-10-5
record, Michigan is feeling good
and playing well this season.
"The girls that I kept from last
year and the girls that have come
in have just a great camaraderie
and chemistry," Michigan coach
Greg Ryan said. "They love each
other. They love playing together.
... That's what we've really devel-
oped over the year and a half that
I've been here."
The Wolverines (3-5) are back in
Ann Arbor after losing two games
in California this weekend, includ-
ing a 2-1 loss Sunday against the
Southern Cal.
Michigan has had its share
of injuries, and six players who
started Sunday's game had primar-

ily come off the bench this season. Michigan gets a chance to
Each has started only three games match its win total from last year
or fewer games this year. Three against Oakland tomorrow in Ann
players made their first starts of Arbor. Last year, the Wolverines
the season over the weekend. beat the Golden Grizzlies 6-2 in
Ryan also said last week that key Ypsilanti. But Michigan also start-
players like senior quad-captain ed the season 3-4-1 in its first eight
Kylie Neschke and sophomore for- games and finished the rest of the
season with a 1-6-4 mark.
With or without a victory tomor-
row, the players helieve in Ryan's
They love each emphasis on camaraderie. And
despite the premature end to her
other. They season, Neschke isn't tuning out
1v pa g her coach's message.
ove playing "If yourteam chemistry is there,
t 1 you can do so many more things,
and make things possible,"Neschke
said. "I think it is areally important
aspect we are trying to build with
this team, on top of making it bet-
ward Claire Stachel are out for the ter as a program, talent-wise.We're
season with undisclosed injuries. trying to get everybody together
Stachel had not appeared in any as a team, making sure everyone's
games this season, and Neschke there with the same goals and the
had played in just three contests, same attitude."
but the team's work ethic indicates Michigan is certainly feeling
they are moving past it. the love, but after a season with
"What's kind of fun is that these only one Big Ten victory and just
guys are giving it a great go in four games overall, Ryan knows he
spite of the fact that we don't have doesn't have conference champi-
a complete set - the kind of depth onship-caliber talent yet.
other teams have," Ryan said. "... "Last year went about exactly
It's a fun challenge for us to contin- as I expected it to, based on the
ue to improve. We've said with this players that we have," Ryan said.
team all along, we're never goingto "This is a team that needed, and
judge ourselves in wins and losses still needs, a huge influx of talent,"
- just gettingbetter." Ryan said.

ike a lot of football d
hards in Ann Arbor,
trouble sleeping Frid
night.
Saturday promised Michi
most important football gam
over two years. Could Tate F
stomach the
pressure of his
first nationally
televised game?
Could Boubacar
Cissoko hold,
his own against
Notre Dame's
standout wide IAN
receivers? yY
Could Charlie
Weis devour
Michigan Stadium's entire s
of cheese nachos before kick
Those were the thoughts
ingthrough myhead as Icot
Denard Robinsons jumping
goalposts until finally driftii
to sleep.
Unlike most other people
campus, I also had trouble sl
ing Saturday night. Even aft(
Michigan football completec
Return to Glory, I had too m
gridiron fever to go peaceful
the night.
Why? Because Week One
loomed less than 12 hours av
You see, I'm an NFL junk
While I haven't missed a gar
the Big House in three years
college ball is a nice diversio
real football is played on Sur
Real football - with bone-r
collisions and rocket-armed
ers and TV-star wide receive
Real football - without mar
bands or triple options or clt
stopping first downs.
I realize we only have fou
years to be a true part of the
lege game. But that's certain
justification for ignoring the
superior pro product. Here a
few reasons why:
SUPERSTARS: College ce
has its heroes. Tim Tebow is
the most recognizable athlei
the country right now, and o
regions will never forget He
Walker or Barry Sanders. Bu
that's hardly the norm. Ham
by only four years of eligibili

on Sunday
ie- limited endorsement opportuni- their fa
I had ties, even the biggest college stars FANi
lay of one season can be gone from the ber whe
national consciousness within a Jenning
gan's few months - just ask 2004 Heis- down p
ne in man Trophy winner Jason White. Chicago
orcier Not so in the League. Tom hand. W
Brady is more than a football the end:
player. He's a celebrity, an icon. and unl
Whether you love Terrell Owens would h
and Chad Ochocinco or can't stand Woods.
them, they're undeniably recog- couldn'r
nizable. When you see an enor- game. B
mous man gesticulating wildly Jenning
over a fallen quarterback, you thatpla
know that's Shawne Merriman. point cc
As much as Roger Goodell tries to down it
curtail the endzone celebrations eral tra:
and silence the Twitter feeds, the ensued.
upply NFL and its players have personal- Ther
off? ity in a way that college football ball fan
float- can't holda candle to. NCAA's
unted NO CUPCAKES: When defend- teams,
over ing national champion Florida and fre
ng off took on Charleston Southern on likely p
Sept.5, the game kicked off with a esimat
on 73-point spread. Appalachian State will dra
eep- jokes aside, the question for the year, an
er Gators wasn't whether they would makese
d its win, but by how much. Asa fan, erwisei
uch how can you get pumped up for must-w
lly into that type of game? In the best case have a I
scenario, you're watching scrubs involve(
run halfback dives for the entire Whil
way. second half. Worst case, you're Saturda
ie. subjected to a defeat thattakes game at
me at years to live down. ups, I p
and The NFL prides itself on being to muc
n, a league of extreme parody. I didn't
ndays. While it's frustrating that more Michig:
attling and more teams seem to finish have ar
pass- with records between 7-9 and because
ers. 9-7 every year, the upside is in to watc
ching the unpredictability. The Lions NFL ga
sck- may have been the worst team are ske'
in the history of the sport last evancel
r season, but they're still likely to systems
col- beat a few opponents in 2009. tasy foo
ly no Maybe. Unlike in college, when touchdc
far- fans can circle a few rivalry NFL far
re a matchups every season and rest searchi
easy through the remainder of but I'll I
rtainly the schedule, every week is a big scoutin
one of one in the pro game. Every team me unc
tes in has players worth watching, and Colston
'ertain outside of that one torturous bye
rschel week, there isn't a single Sunday
it from September through Decem-,
strung ber that an NFL fan can wake1
ity and up and be 100-percent certain of r

vorite team's destiny.
TASY FOOTBALL: Remem-
en Aaron Rogers hit Greg
gs with a 50-yard touch-
ass Sunday night to beat
? I jumped out of my seat
as the ball left ogers's
lhen Jennings glided into
zone, I screamed "Yes!"
eashed a fist pump that
ave impressed Tiger
Packers fan? Nope,
t care less who won the
ut I have both Rogers and
gs on my fantasyteam and
y, along with the pair's
rely unnecessary two-
inversion hookup, locked
iy Week One victory. Sev-
sh-talking text messages
e's a small college foot-
tasy movement, but the
excessive number of
ever-changing rosters
quent lopsided scores will
revent college fantasy
ver going mainstream. An
ed 25 million Americans
ft NFL fantasy teams this
ad the reason is clear: it
every game exciting. Oth-
meaningless tilts become
atch nailbiters when you
key player from your roster
d.
e I'll watch the weekly
y night ESPN college
end other marquee match-
robably wouldn't tune in
h NCAA football, even if
spend my Saturdays at
an Stadium. I just don't
ooting interest. But
e of fantasy, I have reason
h almost every single
me. While college stats
wed to the point of irrel-
by specialized offensive
S and weak schedules, fan-
otball makes yardage and
'owns paramount to the
n. After all, I've never gone
ng for NCAA box scores,
pore over game logs and
g reports for hours if helps
over the next Marques
before everyone else does.
- Ian Kay roots for the New
York Giants and his fantasy
team, in that order. He can be
eached at iankay@umich.edu.

EVERY THREE WEEKLY,
WE'RE CALLING YOU OUT.
DAILY-E3W FLAG FOOTBALL GAME.
WE DARE YOU.

ANDYREID@UMICH.EDU

0 N iNmm Umm amwa wiM hIi 6 e n cHRIS DZOMB
THE FROZEN FOUR IS IN DETROIT
THIS YEAR. GET A JUMP ON THE
" ACTION BY BUYING MICHIGAN
HOCKEY STUDENT TICKETS.
SALES END SEPT.16.
GO TO MGOBLUE.COM/TICKETS
FOR MORE INFORMATION.


4

10 - Tuesday, September 15, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


The CW's bloody
mess of a series

4

Beautiful people, hideous acting skills.

'Meirose Place'
has nowhere to go

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily TV/New Media Editor
"Twilight" has our country
split more than it was during the
last presidential
election. Girls
from ages 12 to
18 absolutely h
love it - most
everyone else, DjarieS
not so much. But
hopefully every- Thursdays
one can agree at8 p.m.
that The CW's The CW
"The Vampire
Diaries" has
accomplished what most
"Twilight"-haters must've never
thought possible: It makes "Twi-
light" look good. Next to "Vampire
Diaries," "Twilight" looks like a
brilliant piece of Pulitzer Prize-
winning literature, and the movie
seems like a contender for an Oscar.
Yes, the show is that awful.
Elena (Nina Dobrev, "Degrassi:
The Next Generation") is a small-
town girl recently orphaned by
a car crash of which she was the
sole survivor. On her first day
back at school she catches the
eye of the hunky new guy, Stefan
Salvatore (Paul Wesley, "Army
Wives"), who also happens to be
a 170-year-old vampire. Their
budding romance may never pan
out, however, because Stefan's
brother Damon (Ian Somerhalder,
"Lost") has vowed to ruin every-
thing. Throughout the season,

Damon and Stefan will compete
for Elena's affection, and hints of
some plot-thickening supernatural
happenings are already sprinkled
everywhere.
Almost immediately, the hor-
rendous acting is evident. The
actors utter already-cheesy lines in
hushed tones as if everything they
say is the most important thing
anyone in their audience will ever
hear. But the majority of the hour-
long show is taken up by the char-
acters staring forlornly into the
distance - usually accompanied
by music from The Fray - while
contemplating how sad they are
and wondering if they'll ever find
happiness.
Stefan is clearly fashioned after
"Twilight" heartthrob Edward
Cullen, as all of his facial expres-
sions give that trademark look
which says: "I can't reconcile my
love for you with the fact that I
want to eat you. And the script
says to give a 'pained expression!"'
Elena, meanwhile, is the newBella.
She has one expression that's sup-
posed to say "I'm shy and nobody
understands me."'
When the characters aren't half-
whispering their thoughts to their
friends or staring away from the
camera, they're writing their triv-
ial motivations into their diaries.
Elena just wants to be able to smile
again, her ex-boyfriend (Zach
Roerig, "Friday Night Lights") just
wants to win her back, Stefan just
wants to exist peacefully in the

small town (and win over the girl)
and Damon just wants to wreak
havoc by pursuing Elena too. It's
not really clear why all these boys/
vampires are after the girl, but it's a
little exhausting to watch a bunch
of characters who all have only one
goal in mind. Unsurprisingly, it
makes for a painfully one-dimen-
sional plot.
Many people have called "Vam-
pire Diaries" the next "Twilight,"
or at least its TV analog. It's nei-
ther. "Twilight" was certainly not
classy by any means, but it was a
phenomenon that sparked a reviv-
al in the vampire sub-genre and
turned it into a bizarre adolescent
It even makes
'Twilight' look
respectable.
trend. Stupid? Perhaps. But pow-
erful? Definitely. Because of the
success of this new vampire move-
ment, the premiere of "Vamgire
Diaries" became the most viewed
program in the history of The CW.
"Vampire Diarles" does what it can
to imitate the "twilight" series,
hoping success will quickly follow.
But it does so with an inadequate
cast, meager writing and shallow
characters. And - lets be honest
- "Twilight" really wasn't worth
imitating in the first place.

The remake of the '90s
staple suffers from trying to
modernize too much
By JAMIE BLOCK
Senior Arts Editor
For better or for worse (hint: it's for worse), this
isn't your parents' "Melrose Place." Never before
would we have heard such evoca-
tive and intriguing dialogue as
"People will think we hooked up,"
retorted ever so wittily and mod- Merose
ernly with "It'll give them some-
thing to tweet about." mice
The new "Melrose Place" Tuesdays
appears to have been written by at 9 p.m.
a team of "cool moms" and "cool The CW
dads" who want to be "hip" to what
all the "bros" are saying on the
"strizzeets." Nobody in the cast acts his or her age,
instead reverting to a demeanor reminiscent of the
most obviously scripted scenes of "Laguna Beach."
But considering both shows are aimed at the same
demographic, that may not be so accidental - though
it's still very unfortunate.
With its primetime sloton The CW, the new "Mel-
rose" is not hoping to win back the loyal daytime soap
fans of yesteryear, but instead to cause a new genera-
tion to rise up in cries of "Not now, I'm watching my
stories," or something very similar but with more
teen slang in it. It has all the staples of the modern
teen drama: sex scandals, attractive lesbians (even
"Heroes" is rumored to be using this tactic now),
handsome heartthrobs and, obviously, murder.
Yes, murder is afoot. Sultry landlord Sydney
Andrews (Laura Leighton of the original "Melrose
Place") returns as an older, more experienced bad girl
only to be stabbed and dumped in the pool, much to the

shock of her many tenants - each of whom, of course,
seems to have some sort of motive to kill her. There's
rich-boy renegade David Breck (Shaun Sipos, "Shark"),
his partner-in-sexual-tension Ella Simms (Katie
Cassidy, "Harper's Island"), the charming indie film-
maker Jonah Miller (Michael Rady, "Greek") and his
new fiancee Riley Richmond (Jessica Lucas, "90210")
among others. But in a cast where everyone seems to
want to have sex with everybody else, it's hard to know
if any of those relationships will last more than a few
weeks. On the other hand, with all the characters so
irritating anyway, it's unlikely anyone will be heart-
broken if they start to break up and shuffle around.
Beyond the derivative writing and trashy cast
of characters, the show's editing and camera work
render the new "Melrose" difficult to watch even
if you can handle the sleaziness. In the blink of an
eye, the camera might cut between four or five dif-
ferent camera angles, none of which even features
the active character or object. While this is great for
people hoping to get motion sickness in the comfort
of their own homes, it's terrible for anyone hoping to
be pleasantly entertained for an hour.
And when it comes to sheer entertainment value,
"Melrose" just doesn't deliver. This could change
once it moves past its first few weeks, but at present
the show inspires a constant uttering of, "We get it.
They have troubled pasts. Let's move on." The inser-
tion of unnecessary flashbacks only exacerbates this
feeling. And whenever a big question is asked, such
as why Simms hates Andrews so much, it just gets
answered right away. The only major suspense left
is the main murder plot, which isn't enough to tide
viewers over from episode to episode.
The new "Melrose Place" certainly isn't the trash-
iest option on The CW lineup, but it will still satisfy
anyone looking for a promiscuous diversion. That
said, without some compelling cliffhangers and
believable dialogue, even the sex scenes may not be
enough to save the new "Melrose" from the remake
junk pile.

0

Plot hole No. 2,417: Vampires aren't supposed to be able to appear in photographs.


Patrick Swayze
1952-2009
Send us your
favorite Swayze
memories.

SORORITY ROW
From Page 5
both the most obvious choice and the least obvious.at
the same time. There are such big holes in the logic
at this point that a car could be driven through them
without touching the sides. But no matter: If you're
seeing "Sorority Row," it's clear that logic and rational
thinking mean nothing to you.
The saddest part of the whole film is how it com-

pletely wastes a talent like Carrie Fisher. As the house
mother, Fisher gives enoughspunk and energy to make
up for the rest of the cast's lethargy. Growling Come
*to mama" while wielding a shotgun, she'.begging
for more screen time. Sadly, the director must have
assumed (probably correctly) that the target audience
would rather see skimpily clad bimbos (even though
they can't hold a candle to Fisher in a metal bikini).
It is probably for the best that films like this will
be quickly madethen forgotten. If only the sisters had
dumped this film down the mineshaft and saved all of
us the trouble.

E-mail us at battlebots@umich.edu.

JiTCj,1Midigan Jai P R E S E N T S

"I swear it's just for a new role-playing scenario. Work with me."

THE ANTLERS
From Page 5

tion to the ever-growing genre of fantastic breakup
records. While the mangled lyrics can be taken quite
literally as the depiction of a man helplessly watch-
ing his wife die in her hospital bed as he lies beside
her, they work just as well as a gritty allegory for the
anguished deterioration of a highly dysfunctional
relationship. And when Silberman invites all you
hopeless romantics to be "buried awake" with him
in his hospital bed, you should probably just cave.
You'll feel better after.

between tongue-in-cheek jest and morbidity.
Hospice is a lot of things. It's a grower for sure. It's
a record that's meant to be listened to as a record.
It's a triumphantly tight combination of experimen-
tal decay and pop sensibility. It's also a worthy addi-

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandally.com/classifteds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.


The Antlers enjoy long walks on the beach, symmetry and looking bored.
, t a


