ie-H MIdEpAn BaiI
ON'\ 111.lND! 11) N E1 L\ 1 1,'TEE1E1RS11 E iTI LiE DM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, February 2,2009

anichigandailycom

ANN ARBOR FOLKLORE

TRANSFER ADMISSIONS
'U' to take
in more
transfer
applicants

JED MOCH/Daily
For a slideshow of other moments from this year's Folk legend Pete Seeger performs at Hill Auditorium to close the second night of the 32nd annual Ann
Ann Arbor Folk Festival, go to michigandaily.com. Arbor Folk Festival. The festival, a yearly fundraiser for The Ark, features many of the country's most
notable folk artists. Old Crowe Medicine Show and Wilco's Jeff Tweedy also appeared at this year's event.
CAMPUS TECHNOLOGY
Wireless security gets upgrade

Officials say that
economic woes have
forced students to
return to home state
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
The University plansto alter the
wayithandlestransferapplications
this year as economic hardships
pushed some Michigan natives
attending out-of-state schools to
transfer back to their home state.
University Provost Teresa Sulli-
van said she's watching the situation
very closely to see if students from
Michigan who attend out-of-state
schools need to transfer back in-state
because of financial constraints.
"We've been hearing anecdotes
about freshmen at other universi-
ties who've been told by their par-
ents that they need to come back
in-state and go to a state univer-
sity, like Michigan," she said.
University President Mary Sue
Coleman said the University does
not normally accept a large num-
ber of sophomore transfers, but
that she's willing to make excep-
tions this year. Last fall, 833 stu-
dents enrolled as transfer students
at the University, of which 32 per-
cent were sophomores.
"If there was a student who
had somehow looked at Michigan

and been admitted a year ago, but
decided to go to Dartmouth; and
now because of family circum-
stances or whatever said, 'Hey
can I come back to Michigan?' we
wanted to make sure that we were
paying attention to those stu-
dents," Coleman said.
Sullivan said students who were
previously admittedto theUniversi-
ty but chose to attend an out-of-state
school would likely be re-admitted
if they applied to transfer, though
there are no guarantees.
"Basically, if you were admit-
ted to Michigan a year ago, we feel
pretty friendlytowards you and are
notlikelyto re-think that (decision)
too carefully," she said. "It's not a
guarantee, but it's pretty routine:"
Sullivan said the tougher deci-
sions will come from students who
never applied to the University.
"I think the more difficult case
is the high school student who, for
whatever reason, did not apply to
Michigan, went out of state, now
wants to come back-and has never
applied here before," she said.
"That's a student for whom we
have to look at everything."
No official numbers have been
released yet, but Sullivan said she
has been in conversations with LSA
Dean Terrence McDonald about
how best to handle the situation.
The deadline to applyto the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts
as a transfer studentwas yesterday.
See TRANSFERS, Page 3A

University opts
for security over
expanding coverage
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
Daily StaffReporter
Students looking to check their
Facebook updates while outdoors
are currently better off relying on
their iPhones or BlackBerrys than
their personal laptop computers.
And University officials say they
shouldn't expect that to change.
According to Andy Palms, the
University's director of IT Com-
munications, the University has

no plans to broaden the reach of its
wireless Internet network on cam-
pus, but will instead focus on mak-
ing its coverage more secure.
With nearly a quarter of the U.S.
population owning a smart phone
- like iPhones or BlackBerrys -
Palms said the University has jus-
tified its lack of outdoor coverage
with the growing prevalence of 3G
networks and similar networking
systems offered by companies like
Verizon Wireless and AT&T.
"When you're walking across the
Diag, I don't know that you need
more capacity on a truly mobile
device than what a carrier provides
you," Palms said.
A push for expanded wireless
access on college campuses has

pushed some schools like Cornell
University and Dartmouth College
to offer campus-wide WiFi access
that spans a majority of indoor and
outdoors locations.
Palms attributes the difficulty
in coordinating a comprehensive
wireless Internet system to the
University's decentralized unit
structure. He said each school
and college consults with the Uni-
versity's Information Technology
Central Services but will ultimately
judge its own IT needs.
"The units are continuing to
make their own financial deci-
sions about how they spend stu-
dent tuition dollars, whether they
spend it on (WiFi) or on faculty or
whatever their local needs are."

said Palms. "It's a very autonomous
University."
The dorms have been one area
where students are particularly
concerned with wireless reception.
Mosher-Jordan Hall and Mary
Markley Hall have been among the
few residence halls equipped with
WiFi access in both public areas and
individual rooms. The same capacity
for wireless access will be extended
to Stockwell Hall and North Quad
when they officially open their doors
in 2009 and 2010, respectively.
Engineering sophomore Zach
Stoklosa lived on North Campus
last year in Baits II - one of many
residence halls lacking wireless
Internet access.
See WIRELESS, Page 3A


MICHIGAN'S PRISONS
State legislature considers
adjusting prison sentences

In keynote, entrepreneur talks
turning one's trash into profit
Szaky's company
'upcycles' used

Report proposes
shortening sentences,
could save $262M
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily StaffReporter
Michigan's state legislature
is considering a plan that would
shorten prison sentences and bring
them more in line with other states.
The plan, which is based on a year
long analysis of the state's prison
system, could provide a potential

savings of $262 million by 2015.
In a study published by the Coun-
cil of State Governments, an exami-
nation of the state's current process
of incarcerating prisoners revealed
that the average maximum sen-
tence in the state is three times as
long as the minimum, which is in
stark contrast to similar laws across
the nation.
With an approximate spending
of $32,000 per year on each individ-
ual prisoner, sentencing people for
seemingly extended periods of time
is costly and ineffective, according
to the report.

If Michigan's legislature enact-
ed the report's suggestions, 4,300
additional prisoners would be
released by 2015, which would be a
huge financial benefit for the state.
Prisoners would be reviewed by
the parole board and would not be
jailed any longer than 120 percent
of their minimum sentence.
However, the parole board would
be able to hold prisoners for more
than 120 percent of the minimum
sentence if they are deemed to be at
high-risk for re-offending.
According to the report, the
See PRISONERS, Page 3A

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Town hall provides forum for students

products into goods
By EMILY ORLEY
Daily StaffReporter
Tom Szaky, a 27-year-old Princ-
eton University dropout, launched
a multi-million dollar company
with worm poop.
Szaky, who co-founded Ter-
raCycle Inc. at the age of 21 in a
grungy basement of an old office
building, was the last keynote
speaker for the Ross Net Impact
Forum, a two-day event featuring
speakers from around the country
talking on environmental sustain-
ability.
Six years after its inception in
2002, Szaky's company is the lead-
er in upcycling, a process of recy-
cling "unrecyclable'' materials.
"There is no product that can't
be made from waste, and there is
no waste that can't be upcycled,"
Szaky said to a crowd of business-
clad men and women in the ball-
room of the Michigan League.
Szakyexplicitlyexplained what,
exactly, garbage is and how it can
be reused.
Contrary to what most people
think, Szaky said that most "unre-
cyclable" objects can actually be

MSA, LSA-SG and
others to hear gripes
tonight at 7:30 p.m.
By DANIEL STRAUSS
DailyStaffReporter
Students who have a beef with
their student government represen-
tatives will have the chance to let
them know tonight at a town hall

meeting organized by LSA Student
Government.
Representatives from the Univer-
sity's major student governments,
including the Michigan Student
Assembly, will meet tonight at 7:30
p.m. in Chemistry 1300 to field
complaints and thoughts from the
student body. The town hall is also
meant to inform students about
what the student governments have
been doing lately.
Megan Madison, LSA-SG's aca-

demic relations officer who orga-
nized the event, said the town hall
meeting is about accountability.
Madison said it's important for her
and her fellow representatives to
know what's important to their
constituents.
"I just think it's kind of like,
'duh, democracy,' " Madison said.
"We've sort of gotten used to this
culture of a one-party system and a
disconnect to student governments
See TOWN HALL, Page 3A

TerraCycfe Inc. CEO Tom Szaky speaks at the Ross Net Impact Forum on Friday.

recycled.
Terracycle partners with some
of the nations largest companies,
including Capri-Sun, Oreo and
Stonyfield Yogurt. The company
has exclusive rightsto collect these
companies' used products from
consumers like yogurt cartons

or juice pouches and use them to
make school supplies, lawn prod-
ucts and cleaning products.
TerraCycle's most successful
project, creating pencil cases out
of Capri-Sun juice pouches, was
the most popular pencil case sold
See KEYNOTE, Page 3A


WEATHER HI 24
TOMORROW Lo:7

GOT A NEWS TIP?.
Call 734-763-2459or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
What the Dailyisuptoon the weekends.
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX N EW S................................ 2A ARTS.............A...................5A
Vol. CXIX,No. 85 SUDOKU...........................3A CLASSIFIEDS.... ..........6A
©OOc5TheMichiganDaily OPINION.4A SPORTSMONDAY..............16
michigondoilycom

-Y

4


4

2A - Monday, February 2, 2009

Vy y The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Physicists teleport information

MR. SOUTH QUAD

Quantum physicists at the Uni-
versity of Maryland successfully
teleported information between
two ions, The Diamondback report-
ed. The results of six University
of Maryland physicists' study was
published in Science magazine last
month. The feat was achieved last
September.
Researcher Steven Olmschenk
said the long gap between success and
publication was caused by the amount
of proof required forcsuch a big claim.
"We couldn't do it just once,"
Olmschenk said. "To prove we
really did it, we had to do it a few
thousand times."
The team achieved successful
teleportation 1,285 times in more
than 250 consecutive hours of lab
time.
The physicists' success opens
doors to new computing technolo-
gies. Scientists are interested inusing
charged atoms ratherthan electronic
circuits to build computers.

UNIVERSITY PLAGIARIZES
DEFINITION OF PLAGIARISM
After suffering through several
plagiarism scandals, Southern Illi-
nois University released a 17-page
report on dealing with the issue. In
the report is a definition of plagia-
rism, explaining what constitutes
plagiarism, The Chronicle of High-
er Education reported.
But that definition appears to
be plagiarized. The 139-word defi-
nition used in the report is nearly
identical'to the definition adopted
by Indiana University in 2005.
Whole passages of the 139-word
definition match verbatim. Some pas-
sages areverysimilar, buthaveslightly
different wording. For instance, Indi-
ana University's policy says: "What is
considered 'common knowledge' may
differ from course to course." South-
ern Illinois's report changes the end
of the sentence to "subject to subject."
The chairman of the committee

that put the report together, Arthur
M."Lain" Adkins, said he didn't know
of Indiana University's definition.
FIRST-YEAR STUDENT
RETENTION RATES DROP
The overall percentage of college
freshmen who return to the same col-
lege for their second year of higher
education has declined - again -
according to the results of an annual
survey released last week, The Chron-
icle of Higher Education reported.
In the lowest overall retention
rate since 1989, the study found that
66 percent of first-year college stu-
dents returned to the same school
for their second year last year.
In the 2007-2008 academic year,
about 68 percent of first year stu-
dents returned,the study, conducted
by ACT Inc., a nonprofit testing-and-
research group, found.
JULIE ROWE

LSA sophomore Shinichi Rizzo, the winner of the Mr. South
Quad Competition, fake cries as he is announced as the
victor on Saturday.

my Mdioan DAMh
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINABUGLI
Editor is Chief Easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours:Sun.-Thurs. a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
torrections carrestions@michigandailypeom
Letterstothe Editor tethedaity@miehieaedaiy.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
734-764-0563
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
734-763-0379
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Safes display@michigandailacom
734-764-0ss4
Classified Sales classipd@michigandaily.com
734-764-0557
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneyRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob Smilovitz Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSnEDITORS:JillianBerman,TrevorCalero,tJulieRowe,Lindy Stevens
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Caitlin Schneider,
Jenna Skoller, Kyle Swanson
Robert Soave EditorialPage Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
AndyReid ManagingsportsEditor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Daelana, Chris
Herring, Ruth Lincoln
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ryan Kartje, Ian K ay, Jason Kohler, Chris Meszaros,
AlexaProsperi, Colt aosenweig
David Watndck ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, Brandon Conradis, WhitneyPow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:JoshuaBayer,Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
ZacharyMeisner and photo@mchigandailycom
Clif Reeder ManagingPhotoEditors
sSNIOaR OOaDIORnSaid Alalah, Chanel on absbug-tre5ingen
ASSIS AT POTO ETORS :Maains,Chri s nmbak,RobMi grin Wolon
Angela Chih and design @michigandaily.com
MaureenStych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe 1
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
DavidtMerian MultimediaEditor merian@michigartdaily.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandtaily.com
ASSOCIATE COPY CHIEF: Zenaida Rivera
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer oisplay Advertisinagsales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newman, ChristiePhillips
Ryan Businski classified sales Manager
ClassifiedSales Assistant Manager:AlisonThomas
Marissa Gerber online sales Manager
Ben English ProductionDesignManager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless FinanceManagers
The MichiganDaly(ISSN0745-967)itpubishedMondaythroughFridayduringthefallandwir ter
terms bystudentsatthe Universityof Michigan.One copy isavailablefreeof chargetoallreacers.
Additionalcopiesmay bepickedupattheDaily'sofficefors2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,startingi
September,viaU.S.mailaret1.Winttetrm(JanuarythroughApril)is$,yearong(September
throughAprilis$195.Universityoffiiates are subject to a reduced subscription rate.On-campus
suitl ,""alltems $3.tSbsiptiosmustberepaidTheMichiganDailyisamem1erof
nseoAssoitersos an hssociateCllegiatPrss.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

iPod Nano stolen Staff parking Ralph Williams
near Fishbowl permit stolen public lecture

WHERE: Angell Hall
WHEN: Friday at about 12:10
a.m.
WHAT: An Apple iPod Nano
was stolen from a student
between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m.,
University Police reported.
Hospital staff

from vehicle
WHERE: 2200 Hayward
WHEN: Friday at about 6:20
p.m.
WHAT: A University staff
member reported the theft
of her parking permit from
her vehicle, University Police
reported. The permit was sto-
len between 7 a.m. and 4 p.m.

WHAT: English Prof. Ralph
Williams, winner of the
Golden Apple Award, will give
one of his Of Human Bonding
lectures, which are open to
the public.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 9 p.M.
WHERE: Weill Hall, Room
1230

CORRECTIONS
. An article in last Mon-
day's edition of the Daily
(Student's new gadget has
the power to heal) misidenti-
fied Julia Samorezov as the
president of M-Heal. She is
the vice president.
. A photo caption in Fri-
day's edition of the Daily
(Starsfrom 'The Wire' dis-
cuss the show's characteriza-
tion ofAmerica's inner cities)
misidentified actress Sonja
Sohn as Kima Greggs.
* An article in Friday's edi-
tion of the Daily (After off-
ice incident, YostIceArena
to implement security mea-
sures) incorrectly reported
that the CCHA statement
said the University will
increase the security and
police presence in the arena.
It also incorrectly stated
that there are typically two
DPS officers standing near
the locker room.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

TripAdvisor.com named
Hotel Carter in New York
the dirtiest hotel, USA
Today reported. Based on
cleanliness ratings, this is the
' third time in four years the
hotel has been ranked Amer-
ica's dirtiest hotel. The 700-
room building contains rats,
black mold and roaches.
A law that forbids sex
offenders from staying
in homeless shelters that
are within 1,000 feet from
a school is being challenged
after a former sex offender
froze to death on the streets
of Grand Rapids.
sFOR MORE, SEE OPINION; PAGE 4A
Talking on Facebook.com
can lead to depression in
teenage girls, Telegraph.
co.uk reported. According to
the research report in The
Journal of Adolescence, girls
who excessively chatted online
about their problems showed
higher levels of depression.

LGBTQandtU'
member takes Burnt popcorn faculty lunch
drugs illegally ruins microwave WHAT: A social lunch for


WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Friday at about 5:50
p.m.
WHAT: A female staff mem-
ber was reported to have taken
narcotic medication without
permission, University Police
reported. The Detective
Bureau is heading an ongoing
investigation on the report.

WHERE: South Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Saturday at about mid-
night
WHAT: A student overcooked
popcorn in his microwave,
University Police reported.
The microwave suffered minor
damage.

the LGBTQ community and
University faculty. There is
no cost to attend, but partici-
pants must pay for their own
lunch.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Today from noon to
1 p.M.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
U-Club


0

0

4

4

.I

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 2, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, Fehruary 2, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Granhoim urges
tuition freeze for
public universities
Aides to Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm say she will urge public
universities and community col-
leges to freeze tuition rates in her
State of the State address.
The aides tell the Detroit Free
Press in Sunday editions that
schools keeping tuition at cur-
rent levels for the coming aca-
demic year will receive some of
the money Michigan expects to
get from the federal stimulus plan
pending in Congress.
Granholm spokeswoman Liz
Boyd says the governor will ask
the Legislature to work with her
to reduce state aid for schools that
don't hold the line on tuition.
Michigan's15 public universities
raised tuition for the current school
year by an average 7 percent.
House Minority Leader Kevin
Elsenheimer, R-Kewadin, says a
tuition freeze "makes sense,"but he
expressed misgivings about tyingit
to the stimulus package still pend-
ing before the U.S. Senate.
CHICAGO
Blagojevich fights
to stay out of prison
Now that he's been ousted
from the governor's office, Rod
Blagojevich is pinning his hopes of
staying out of prison on a father-
and-son duo of defense attorneys,
one of whom grabbed the lime-
light at R&B superstar R. Kelly's
sex tape trial.
"These are two of the most flam-
boyant attorneys in town," DePaul
University law professor Leonard
CavisesaysoftheteamofSamAdam
and his son, Samuel E. Adam.
Cavise predicts fireworks if
Blagojevichgoes to trial on federal
corruption charges, including al-
legations that he tried to sell the
Senate seat vacated by President
Barack Obama.
Federal prosecutors are ex-
pected to obtain an indictment by
April. Blagojevich was arrested
by FBI agents in December and
was booted from office Thursday
when a state Senate impeach-
ment trial ended with a 59-0 vote
against him.
Some are already question-
ing the Adams' legal strategy
- including their decision to let
Blagojevich go on a whirlwind
New York media tour before his
impeachment trial ended, fielding
questions about the criminal case
from Barbara Walters, Diane Saw-
yer, Larry King and more.
BLAKELY, Ga.
Inspection reports
from peanut plant
vary widely
AGeorgiahealth inspectorwho
toured the peanut butter plant
now at the center of a national sal-
monella outbreak noted only two
minor violations in October. Less
than three months later, federal

inspectors found roaches, mold, a
leaking roof and other sanitation
problems.
Food safety experts say the lapse
is a major concern and shows state
inspectors are spread thin and
might need more training on how
to spot unsanitary conditions.
"It's surprising to me that that
many major deficiencies were
observed at one time, and none of
these were picked up previously,"
said Michael Doyle, head of the
food safety center at the Univer-
sity of Georgia.
In October, state inspector
Donna Adams noted only two vio-
lations in her report on the Peanut
Corp. of America plant: tote con-
tainers with butter residue and
"black buildup" and "mildew and
possibly some static dust on ceil-
ing of butter storage room."
MOLO, Kenya
Kenya Red Cross:
89 dead in oil blaze
An oil spill from a crashed
truck erupted into flames yester-
day in Kenya, killing at least 89
people who were trying to scoop
up free fuel, officials said.
Patrick Nyongesa, the regional
manager for the Kenya Red Cross,
said 89 people died and more than
200 were injured died after a
crowd gathered around the crash
in search of free fuel.
The crash was in Molo, sev-
eral hours outside the capital,
Nairobi.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

TRANSFERS
From Page 1A
Colemansaid the reason the Uni-
versity doesn't usually accept many
sophomore transfers is because
attrition from the freshmen to
sophomore year is very low.
"Normally we don't have slots
for transfers at the sophomore level
because our retention rate is so high
from freshmen to sophomores,"
Coleman said. "We don't expect that
there's going to be huge numbers,
but we also don't want to let these
TOWN HALL
From Page 1A
and the actual students they're
supposed to be accountable to, so
hopefully this is one step in mend-
ing that rift."
One reason to have all the stu-
dent governments in one place
- besides allowing students to
complain at once - is to figure out
solutions to students' concerns
that might involve more than one
government, Madison said..
Gibran Baydoun, MSA's cam-
pus governance chair who worked
with Madison to plan the event,
said anyway to hear students' con-

student fall through the cracks."
Additionally, Sullivan said for a
sophomore to transfer to the Uni-
versity requires much more paper-
work than a junior transfer, as the
student's college and high school
career must be considered. When
a student applies for a junior trans-
fer, the University only considers
the student's college career.
On average from the fall of
2004 to the fall of 2008, about 840
transfer students enrolled at the
University every year. A little less
than 38 percent of those students
were sophomore transfers.
cerns and ideas is reason enough
to hold an event.
"Any time that we have the
opportunity to hear what's on the
students' minds is always a good
thing," Baydoun said. "Ifa student
comes and is complaining about a
dorm issue, (Residence Hall Asso-
ciation) is there. Ifa student comes
to complain about an LSA issue,
LSA-SG is there."
Engineering freshman Scott
Wilson said he's interested in going
to the event to find outwhy student
.government hasn't done all it said
it would during elections.
"Basically going is about hold-
ing them more accountable," Wil-
son said.

Congress mulls stimulus

Republican leader
Mitch McConnell
says both sides are
uneasy about bill
WASHINGTON (AP) - Repub-
licans suggested overhauling the
Senate's stimulus proposal because
they said it doesn't pump enough
into the private sector through tax
cuts but allows Democrats to go on
a spending spree unlikely to jolt
the economy.
"When I say start from scratch,
what I mean is that the basic
approach of this bill, we believe, is
wrong," said Sen. Jon Kyl of Arizo-
na, the No. 2 Republican. He added
that he was seeing an erosion of
support for the bill.
Senate Republican leader Mitch
McConnell of Kentucky said he
WIRELESS
From Page 1A
"It was a hassle if you just want-
ed to take your laptop somewhere
else to work," he said.
Currently living in West Quad,
Stoklosa and his friends have cho-
sen a more enterprising alternative,
using a password-protected wireless
connection from a router they pur-
chased earlier in the year. He said
having personal WiFi access means
not having "to worry about cables."
Stoklosa said he was aware this
is against dorm policy.
Alan Levy, ITCS director of
communications, acknowledged
that the issue of wireless Inter-
net access in the dorms has been
repeatedly discussed among Uni-
versity officials. He maintained
that with about 3,000 access
KEYNOTE
From Page 1A

doubted the Senate would pass the
bill, contending that Democrats as
well as Republicans were uneasy
with it. He renewed a Republican
complaint that Democrats had not
been as bipartisan in writing the
bill as Obama had said he wanted.
"I think it may be time ... for the
president to kind of get a hold of
these Democrats in the Senate and
the House, who have rather signifi-
cant majorities, and shake them a
little bit and say, 'Look, let's do this
the right way,"' McConnell said. "I
can't believe that the president isn't
embarrassed about the products
that have been produced so far."
Democrats defended their
almost $819 billion version ofPresi-
dentBarackObama's stimulus plan,
which is set for debate this week,
and said they were open to consid-
ering changes by Republicans. But
they said the unrelentingly bleak
economic news demanded action.
points and a continuous process
of upgrading the network, cover-
age at the University is typically
good.
Levy said ITCS has instead
focused its efforts on improving the
security of the network established
on campus by encouraging stu-
dents, faculty and staff to use the
new MWireless network, which is
more secure, over the existing UM
Wireless system, which has been
around for years.
"Our primary focus at this point
is establishing MWireless as the
WiFi environment for the vast
majority of campus," he said.
The University's developing
wireless Internet infrastructure
is just one aspect of a larger land-
scape of technological growth and
how that affects the current gen-
eration of students.
Engineering lecturer Jeff
dropped out of college and began
mass-producing worm poop to sell
as fertilizer.
"There is no such thing as gar-


PRISONERS
From Page 1A
plan's intention is not to save
money by decreasing safety but
rather to move toward rehabilitat-
ing newly released prisoners into
mainstream society rather than
keeping them jailed for unneces-
sary long periods of time.
The plan, which is supported
by Gov. Jennifer Granholm, would
put Michigan on par with the
other states around the country
including California, New Jersey
and South Carolina, states that are
currently looking at re-evaluating
their sentencing policies.
The analysis does not advocate
for releasing prisoners early but
rather that their minimum and
maximum sentences be more rep-
resentative to the crimes they com-
mitted, according to the report.
By creating a tighter timeframe
for which criminals can be jailed,
the state will only be keeping pris-
oners as long as necessary for the
sentence to be fully effective, the
report says.
John Cordell, a public informa-
tion officer in the Department of
Corrections, said the money saved
could be reinvested into other cor-
rections programs that are designed
to keep these prisoners from re-
offending. Cordell said the money
could also be used to fund other
strugglingstate departments.
"There is some reinvestment
that will occur into correctional
and criminal justice depart-
ments," he said. "Once that hap-
pens, we can free up those monies
for things like parks, education
and expenses for college."
Supporters of using the study's
findings to transform prison sen-
tencing laws hope to have the leg-
islature pass the proposal by April

and to have it melded into budget-
ary decisions for the 2009-2010
fiscal year.
State Sen. Liz Brater (D-Ann
Arbor) said that she supports mak-
ingthestate'sprisonsentencingmore
like other states but thinks the report
only addresses some of the issues
within the state prisonsystem.
"I think it's a good start," she
said. "I think we have to start from
here and then there's obviously a
lot more we can do. The issue of
people with mental illness is not
addressed, and these people are
ending up being criminalized."
Brater said that the legislature is
currently taking a look at the prob-
lem of people with mental illnesses
being put in prisons as opposed to
gettingthe care they need.
"We are currently doing a study
to analyze the incidence of men-
tal illness among the Michigan
prison population," Brater said.
"Hopefully this issue will lead us
to redirect that money to mental
health care. Treating someone
with a mental illness as an outpa-
tient would mean spending $8,000
to $11,000 each year as opposed to
$32,000 in the prisons."
With a reduction in the num-
ber of prisoners, some argue that
there is potential for a reduction of
the employees needed to maintain
the prison system.
Public Policy Prof. Paul Courant
said he thinks the legislature will
not only be debating the possibility
of having more previously convict-
ed felons free than in jail, but also
that legislators of certain constitu-
encies will have to consider the
potential loss of employment by
people who work in the prisons.
"The state budget is under pres-
sure, and there is a lot of interest
in cutting costs, but people in the
legislature don't want to appear
soft on crime," he said.

"We cannot delay this," said Sen.
Dick Durbin of Illinois, the Demo-
crats' No.2 leader. "Wecan'tengage
in the old political rhetoric of say-
ing, 'Well, maybe it could be a little
bit better here and a little bit better
there.' We've got to pull together."
Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.,
agreed that more could be done
in the area of housing, though he
said tapping money in the separate
financial bailout fund would be a
more likely way to pay for mort-
gage relief.
Under Obama's plan, strained
state budgets would receive a
cash infusion, projects for roads
and other infrastructure would
be funded, and "green jobs" in
the energy sector would be cre-
ated. In its centerpiece tax cut,
single workers would gain $500
and couples $1,000, even if they
don't earn enough to owe federal
income taxes.
Ringenberg said he has observed
the Internet playing an increasing-
ly important part of students' lives
in the last five years.
He added that wireless Internet
access in the classroom has been an
effective tool in delivering infor-
mation and facilitating "student-
driven learning."
Ringenberg noted that tech-
nology is a double-edged sword,
and the benefits of WiFi in the
classroom to supplement course
content must be weighed against
the inherent distractions of
access.
"I don't think it's important to
always be connected, but I think
it's important to always have the
option to be connected," he said.
"Everyone has to be able to unplug
atsome point, toturnoffthee-mail,
to just sit back and allow the mind
to relax."
panies and asked them if he could
collect their used products from
their customers and upcycle them
to create an entirely new product.
The companies, who were des-
perately seeking "green" solutions,
gladly accepted.
Since items likeyogurtcartons are
traditionally nonrecyclable, there is
no choice for the consumer besides
throwing them out. Through Terra-
Cycle, people now have the opportu-
nity to help the environment.
"There is nowhere in America
where people don't want to do the
right thing," Szaky said.

at Wal-Mart last year. bage," Szaky said. "We can even
When Szaky went home for fall sell our own waste."
break his freshman year, he said During his .keynote address,
he and his friends noticed that the Szaky said that most people would
"plants" they were growing in his prefer to use "environmentally
basement thrived when they added friendly" products, but they are
worm poop to them. usually much more expensive. .
This discovery gave Szaky the This is where Szaky said his job
idea that anything, even worm began. He figured out how to cre-
poop, could be recycled and used ate "green" products that didn't
for something useful. carry exorbitant price tags.
Shortly thereafter, Szaky He went to many big brand com-


WANT TO WRITE FOR
N EWS?
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com

4


A

4A - Monday, February 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

9

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Left in the cold

State should change shelter policies to protect sex offenders
Around 10 a.m. last Monday, 52 year-old Thomas Pauli was
found frozen and lifeless in a Grand Rapids parking lot.
As a registered sex offender, he couldn't enter two of the
city's homeless shelters because of their proximity to a local school.
His status as a sex offender left him nowhere to turn. While many
sex crimes are serious offenses, they should not be accompanied
by a legal and social stigma that leaves a human being with no
choice but to freeze to death. To ensure this never happens again,
the state government must change the way it treats homeless sex
offenders.

Two of Grand Rapids' homeless shel-
ters, the Guiding Light Mission and Mel
Trotter Ministries, can be fined or even
shut down for admitting sex offenders
like Pauli. That's because both shelters
are located within 1,000 feet of Catholic
Central High School. State law prohibits
sex offenders from living within 1,000 feet
of a school, and staying the night at Guid-
ing Light and Mel Trotter falls under this
category. On top of this restriction, Mel
Trotter can't admit sex offenders because
it houses women and children. Before his
death, Pauli was allegedly seen in line at
these shelters, but officials say they would
have had to deny him a bed.
It is tragic that Pauli could not enter
either shelter simply because of their loca-
tions. Restrictions on sex offenders should
be placed to protect civilians - not harm
the offenders themselves. But no matter
how much the shelters would like to help
these people, state law is preventing them.
The stigma placed over sex offenders is
life-altering, and regardless of one's stance
on sex offender laws in general, Pauli's
death should serve as an indicator more
must be done to balance the care of these
people with the state's safety concerns.
This is clearly a difficult matter for state
law, the shelters and homeless sex offend-
ers. On one hand, the state has some legiti-
mate safety interests at heart, and some
good reasons to keep school zones and
certain shelters safe from sex offenders.

But leaving sex offenders with no allow-
able homeless shelters during Michigan's
harsh winters is hardly an acceptable con-
sequence.
In this case, the homeless shelters'
proximity to a school forced them to turn
away Pauli. The best compromise would
be for the state to make sure all homeless
sex offenders have somewhere to turn.
Whether that means changing the law to
allow these shelters to take in sex offend-
ers, setting aside funding to build homeless
shelters outside the school's radius or some
other compromise, the state has a respon-
sibility to take care of these people.
Pauli's death was not the law's inten-
tion, but it was a consequence of policies
that discriminate against sex offenders
and leave them with no way to live in our
society. This mentality toward sex offend-
ers is inhumane - they may have made
mistakes, but they are still human beings.
Homeless sex offenders are in just as much
need as other homeless people, and laws
need to change to provide them with bet-
ter options for care.
This death could have been prevented
if the state government had not created
an environment in which Pauli could not
enter the available homeless shelters. By
paying attention to the location of home-
less shelters and how they relate to restric-
tions on sex offenders, society can provide
a more humane way of life for all homeless
people.

I had no idea waterboards were so heavy"
- Sen. Joseph Lieberman (I-Conn.), commenting on an injury sustained by former vice president
Dick Cheney while moving into his new home, as reported yesterday by The Washington Post.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI OUT AT E-MAIL CHRIS ATCSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
e would like to take a The abundance of tasty We thank you, sirs and
moentocon g laet ti ken,randseearian adam s, agt a e er
Mosher-Jordan Marketplace entrees ensures few students chocenassembibng your
for doing a great service for -IyT1 will choose to consum the men.
all bovine-kind. less-than-palatable haaburgers
" -o
** 7 0
p qs
4 0
Reconsidering GSI bias
S everal semesters ago, I was in itself a political decision. I teach ruled in 2000 that the state of Flori-
reviewing my teaching evalu- political science. If I don't introduce da violated this clause in its election
ations and encountered a curi- politics into the classroom, I fail to recount procedures and effectively
ous combination live up to my job title. handed the election to George Bush.
of comments. One Despite that trite statement, much Other important applications of the
student wrote I of what I teach isn't controversial. 14th Amendment have to do with
"was too hard on Last term, for example, I taught affirmative action, the right to a law-
the liberal students Introduction to Comparative Politics. yer and freedom of religion.
and favored the Some countries like Britain use sin-
conservative ones." gle-member districts, in which voters
A second observed elect a single local legislator to repre- o o
that I "clearly was sent their respective small geograph- ControVersy s
biased in favor ical districts. Other countries like the p
of liberal view- PATRICK Netherlands use proportional rep-
points." To top it O'MAHEN resentation. Under this system, the
off, a third wrote, country is one big legislative district, ClaSSroom
"The GSI was obvi- citizens vote for their preferred party
ously biased." and parties are allocated seats in the
Right. legislature based on the percentage I try to separate "positive" and
This set of evaluations demon- of the vote they win. Some, like Ger- "normative" analysis to defuse ten-
strates some challenges that most many, use a combination of the two. sion. Very loosely speaking, posi-
ihstructors at the University face. Boring, right? tive analysis tries to determine what
What do we do about political bias Well, even these mundane facts policies lead to what outcomes (e.g.,
in the classroom? What, precisely, have serious and controversial impli- British-style electoral systems lead to
is that bias to begin with? And more cations. Systems with proportional two-partysystems).Normative analy-
broadly, under what circumstances is representation often have more sis then debates the desirability of the
it okay to bring politics into the class- political parties represented in gov- means and outcomes (are two-party
room? ernment. That's why the German systems desirable?) Inthe classroom,
Bias is in the eyes of the beholder. Green Party often has a role in poli- my goal is for students to understand
Remember, the goal of any instruc- cymaking that American Green Party the positive processes behind a given
tor is to help students grapple with members can scarcely imagine. Also, outcome and then begin to consider
uncomfortable new ideas. In math- it's often easier for women and other the normative implications.
ematics, students can be uncomfort- underrepresented minority groups to It's okay to be a bit uncomfortable
able when learning new concepts. win parliamentary seats in propor- with those implications, but instead
But algebraic equations rarely court tional representation systems. Both of attributing that discomfort to a
charges of political bias. In the social of those outcomes have large - and conspiracy, at least attempt to engage
sciences, however, we expose under- controversial - influences on policy- these different conceptions of how
graduates to some questions that lead making. the world works.As instructors, we're
students to push back. If you come When we start debating which sys- generally not asking you to embrace
from a stereotypical family of hip- tem is best, it can open up the door to certain worldviews, but we want you
pies, you may have distaste for basic charges of bias. Often, controversy is to develop more sophisticated ones of
neo-liberal economics; if you come closer to the surface. Take the class your ownbyhelpingyou confrontand
from proverbial suburban America, discussion about the 14th Amend- understand competing ideas. That's
you might find it distressing to con- ment in my section of Introduction something to reflect on the next
front the state-of racial inequality. to American Politics last week, for time you're certain your instructor is
One way to remove problems of example. The text declares that U.S. "obviously" biased.
political bias in the classroom is to states must provide their residents
eliminate consideration of contro- with equal protection under the law. Patrick O'Mahen can be reached
versial issues altogether. But that is A majority of the Supreme Court , at pomahen@umich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and

accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
EDWARD MCPHEE E
Foreign lang uage frustration

4

4

4

4

4

0

I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca,
Satyajeet Deshmukh, Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke,
Sutha Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler,
Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Studentgovt leaders to host
Town HalltMeeting tonight

opportunity to
you want us t
concerns are a
or school spiri

TO TH E DAILY: resentattves th
The challenges facing student governments working to ad(
have been highlighted in recent weeks. This to listen. Toni
situation affords us an opportunity to reflect on to let you know
the work that we have been doing on behalf of made on some
the student body, how we have been doing it and might not ben
how we can better reach out and do more for the student concer
campus. To get straight down to the heart of the . but hopefully a
matter, we are students who are fired up about At the end of
campus issues - just like each one of you - and We want stude
we really do care about what you have to say. administrators
Not only do we care, but wehave a responsibil- evant governm
ity to listen. possible Unive
As governments representing the students each and every
at this University, we understand that we have cerns and give
more traction when we have full student sup- See you in 1300
port behind us. We also acknowledge that stu-
dents can't be behind us if they don't know what Sabrina Shing
we're doing. In all honesty, it is a struggle to Hsiao
keep you in the loop. It's a catch-22: when we The letter-write
are doing our job well, we're not newsworthy. Student Assem
Then, when we do something controversial, we and the Engine
make the front page. As one of our constituents
pointed out, we have the same marketing prob- Cartoon
lem as NASA - you only hear about them or care
about them when there is an explosion. Stm ceh
Some of you have expressed that this is a bro-
ken system that can't be fixed. On the contrary,
we passionately believe in the potential of stu- TO THE DAIL
dent governments to affect positive change and Elaine Mor
to constantly improve ourselves. This change formed, compl
is always more effective if it is a collaborative (Nature Calls,
process. We are flawed as governments without embryonicstem
informed constituents to keep a check on our pri- which is false.
orities, to hold us accountable to our campaign conducted on
promises and to demand that we are working have been disc
on a relevant agenda for students. Although we a living humai
stand behind the work we have done this year form is no excu
and in the past, we acknowledge that as hard as polarize the de
our individual members may work, we still need I ask that The]
constant feedback and a healthy dialogue so that in policing thei
we can make progress together. these opinions
Let's take the time to hear each other out. The
Town Hall Meeting this evening is an opportu- Tom Duvall
nity for us to do just that. Tonight, you have an LSA junior

stand up and tell us what exactly
o be working on. Whether your
bout classes,.the residence halls
it, the student government rep-
at have been and will continue
dress these issues will be there
ght, we also have an opportunity
about the progress that is being
important issues. This progress
newsworthy, but it is relevant to
ns. This meeting is a small step,
a step in the right direction.
f the day, we want the same thing.
nts to havea seat at the table with
. We want more effective and rel-
ents. We want to create the best
rsity of Michigan experience for
y student. Come voice your con-
us the chance to address them.
0 Chem at 7:30 p.m. tonight.
wani, Leslie Zaikis and Danny
ers are presidents of the Michigan
sbly, LSA Student Government
ering Council, respectively.
ifailed to portray
1issue accurately
LY:
ton's cartoon was wildly misin-
etely offensive and inflammatory
01/27/2009). It implied that an
ncellwouldhavebecome"achild,"
Embryonic stem cell research is
embryos that otherwise would
arded and would never become
n. Putting something in cartoon
se for blatant mistruths that only
bate and spread lies even further.
Michigan Daily be more vigilant
ir editorial pages, no matter how
are represented.

4

The University tends to make a big
deal about diversity, and that's great.
Diversity is a fantastic thing. But it's
really easy to have too much of a good
thing, and it sometimes results in a
burden on students' already rigorous
academic schedules. For LSA stu-
dents, this burden is most substan-
tially felt in the form of the foreign
language requirement.
As an LSAstudentworkingtowards
my degree, I am extremely frustrat-
ed by the school's insistence that I
achieve fourth-semester proficiency
in a foreign language. When I first
received my course guide last sum-
mer, I hoped the five years of Italian I
took in high school would be enough
to cover any sort of foreign language
requirement. Was I ever wrong.
Luckily for me, my limited skill in
the Italian language allowed for me
to skip out on the first semester -
that is, if you consider having to take
three more semesters of a language
you never wanted to hear again lucky.
The simple fact is that I'm never
going to use Italian, in any form. If I
do happen to take a vacation to Italy,
and if I actu-ally remember any of
the language,I can ask the tourist
shop cashier, "Do you have this shirt
in blue?" Yeah, Mom, all those thou-
sands of tuition dollars you spent
went toward that.
Quite frankly, this requirement is
a waste. While proficiency in a for-

eign language might be a nice skill,
it's hardly a necessity, especially in
a globalized world where it seems as
if everyone speaks English already.
And as an out-of-state student, I'm
basically spending $5,000 for each
foreign language course I'm forced to
take. I'd much rather put that money
towards courses I actually have a use
for.
Sure, a foreign language compo-
nent to a liberal arts degree has some
merit. It fits right in with the quota
of natural science credits that have
to be met, as well as the quantitative
reasoning requirement that basically
means you have to take some form
of math at some point to earn your
degree. The idea behind these quo-
tas is logical; a liberal arts degree
should be well-rounded and include
of fields.
But what's ridiculous is that stu-
dents are required to achieve fourth-
semester proficiency in a foreign
language. Unless you're already
talented enough to test out of some
(hopefully all) of these courses, you'll
have to spend one-eighth of your 120
total credit hours learning a language
that you'll most likely never use
again.
And what's worse is how much the
foreign language component seems to
outweigh the other components of the
degree. Why a student is required to
take over twice as many credit hours

in a foreign language than in either
science or math is beyond me. The
lack of an actual math component to
an LSA degree is another issue alto-
gether. Under the Bachelor of Arts
degree requirements, LSA students
don't have to take any math courses,
and I intend to take full advantage of
this absurdity.
Sadly, this foreign language
requirement is also driving students
away from LSA. I've met people who
have left LSA because they didn't
want to take four semesters of a for-
eign language, choosing to opt for
majors in other schools that don't
have this requirement. Students
shouldn't be driven away from an
education that might be best suited
for them simply because one of the
degree requirements is detestable.
Liberal arts degree requirements
should be challenging - but should
also not be a deterrence.
This isn't an attack on foreign
languages. They definitely have a
place in education. But their level of
emphasis in LSA's required curricu-
lum is preposterous. Sadly, regardless
of whether I'm right or not, I'm still
going to have to make it through Ital-
ian 232. In the meantime, it's going to
wreak havoc on my GPA, give me a lot
of tedious busywork and annoy the
crap out of me.
Edward McPhee is an LSA freshman.


The Michigan Daily - michigandailv~com

Monday, February 2, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, February 2, 2009 - 5A

Spray-painting on
the campaign trail

"Step one: Conquer Cuba. Step two: Conquer the T-shirt of every rebellious American 7th-grader."
A muddled

Soderbergh's mammoth
biopic lacks the focus to
reveal the nuances of its
legendary subject
By IMRAN SYED
Daily Arts Writer
Che Guevara is unquestionably one
of the most polarizing figures in human
history, continuing
even today to inspire
masses of both lovers *Ik
and haters.
The guerilla war- Gie
rior at the heart of At the Michigan
the Cuban Revolution, IFC Films
Guevara remains the
most enduring symbol
of the radical left, seen as a selfless libera-
tor by many and as a ruthless mercenary
by just as many others. Director Steven
Soderbergh's sprawling 257-minute trib-
ute to the man is similarly enigmatic,

with a lively first part to draw in audi-
ences and a grueling second part to drive
them away.
Most viewers will see the two parts
separately, but the "Special Roadshow
Edition" playing at the Michigan The-
ater through Friday is a chance to take
in a truly unique experience. For an
elevated ticket price ($12 for students),
viewers can see both parts with a
20-minute intermission and also get a
handy little collector's edition program.
If the thought of over four hours of gue-
rilla action is too daunting, the theater
is permitting viewers to leave at inter-
mission and return on a later day for the
second part.
Part one of the film is about the Cuban
Revolution, with a young Guevara (Bene-
cio del Toro, "Traffic") commanding
guerillas for Fidel Castro's 26th of July
Movement. Interspersed among the gritty
action sequences are cuts forward in time
to Guevara speaking to American report-
ers and to the United Nations on behalf of
Castro's Cuba. What emerges is a rather
complete image of a man convinced of his

I epic
cause and unrelenting in his methods.
Fart two focuses on Guevara's subse-
quent attempt to launch a leftist revolu-
tion in Bolivia. Older and - in the cold
mountain air - more prone to the asthma
attacks that plagued him his whole life,
Guevara is weaker, his efforts errant
and unsuccessful. Del Toro, whose work
earned him the Best Actor award at last
year's Cannes Film Festival, drives both
parts with an intensely focused, brooding
performance.
The film is appropriately dark and
elusive, yet also unfocused and mud-
dled. It embraces Guevara's immortal
persona, one del Toro wears very well.
But ultimately, there's no answer to the
questions of "why this film?" and "why
now?". Most directors who take on
ambitious projects about timeless icons
will have a deeply personal or socially
timely reason for doing so. If Soderbergh
feels such a connection to this work, he
certainly hides it well.
Just as he did with his abrasively naive
approach to "The Good German" three
- See CHE, Page 7A

Ilike graffiti. It's not because of the
allure of running around at ungodly
hours and spraying art all over estab-
lishments and alleyways,
or the danger of being
caught by "The Man"
for the sake of artistic -
creation. I like graffiti
because it's art made by
the people, seen by the
people. You can't get N9NTEY
better free visibility any- PW
where else than on pub-
lic property, because "public property," in
some circles, also means "public visibility."
While the passing of the Ann Arbor anti-
graffiti ordinance might suggest an urge to
repress graffiti art, I think we've begun to
see more of a cultural acceptance of graffiti-
type images in contemporary culture.
Take the Barack Obama "HOPE" poster by
Shepard Fairey, for example. Those bright
patches of solid red and blue and thick,
contrast-heavy lines are reminiscent of
spray-painted graffiti art stencils and silk-
screen prints, a la Andy Warhol's Marilyn
(Monroe) prints.
The iconic image of Obama was original-
ly created by Fairey in an attempt to get the
word out about the then-presidential can-
didate. Fairey is also a graffiti artist and the
person behind the Andr6 the Giant "OBEY"
graffiti posters that had begun poppingup
wheat-pasted to buildings in cities like New
York and Chicago.
Fairey mentioned in his interview with
Stephen Colbert on "The Colbert Report"
that, instead of resorting to illegal distribu-
lion tactics forhis Obama image, he wanted
to get the word out legitimately - he decid-
ed to wait for the support of the Obama
campaign administration. Once permission
was granted, his "HOPE" became the unof-
ficial image of the Obama campaign.
This legitimizing of graffiti art is intrigu-
ing because graffiti has classically been
labeled as illegal and somewhat of a nui-
sance to property owners. It's easy to get
mired down in all the political and prop-
erty-based arguments against graffiti, but
it's equally importantto look at graffiti art's
visibility and how Fairey's stencil graffiti-
style "HOPE" became so widespread and
iconic. I think it has a lot to do with two
elements - the image's stylization and its
extensive distribution.
Fairey's Obama stencil image manages
to find a middle ground between the pho-
torealistic and the abstract. Certain details
are made more prominent, like the detailed,
contemplative eyes that look off the plane
of the poster, and the mouth that's drawn
in a way that not only makes the face more
recognizable, but gives the image a more
regal, self-assured look. And certain details
are removed, like skin textures and hair

textures that may serve to smooth over indi-
vidualistic details, moving the image from
the realm of "individual portrait" to that of
"recognizable icon."
We've seen this in Warhol's Marilyn.
The lack of detail in the image, in conjunc-
tion with its recognizable quality, makes
the image pop out and become something
visible over a longer distance. It's simi-
lar, in a way, to logo branding. When you
simplify a restaurant chain's name into
two golden arches, you make an "M" that
people equate with "loving it," Big Macs
and fries.
Similarly, when you boil down a person's
image to its simplest parts, you create a
symbol. Marilyn Monroe's image became
a symbol for glamour and fame in the'60s.
Obama's image is equated with "HOPE"
or "CHANGE," as these are ideas his cam-
paign tried to introduce into the mass con-
sciousness.
But don't forget the visibility of the
image. The mass-produced quality of War-
hol's Marilyn prints is important to the
artwork as well. One of his pieces features
ten silkscreen prints of Monroe's face set
next to one another; each image is produced
using different colors for the lips, eyes, skin
and mouth. The repetition of the image,
The Obama
campaign left a
lasting mark on the
world of public art.
and the use of the image of a famous figure,
seem to recreate what happens when an
image is placed everywhere for the public to
see: It becomes immediately recognizable
by large groups of people.
Similarly, Obama's face has had incred-
ible visibility as a symbol and logo. The
red and blue"O"logo is more than just an
"O;" it represents the beliefs and slogans
-of the entire Obama campaign. The idea
of mass-visibility has also changed a great
deal since society placed more importance
on the internet as an information highway.
Fairey's poster was initially released online
for the public to use and distribute, and it
immediately went viral, spreading between
users through e-mail, forums and online
communities.
It's interesting to see the spread of image
visibility occurring primarily within a vir-
tual space. The internet was the starting
point that spawned stickers, T-shirt and
See POW, Page 7A

p

'0.. @0e
0@ 0

Everything Begins with an IDEA ...
And several U-M graduate students
recently won $10,000 for their "winning
ideas" related to environmental
sustainability.
It was all part of the Dow Sustainability
Innovation Student Challenge managed
by the Graham Institute.
Hats off to these award-winning students who
have proven that sustainability
really does pay.

BURRITO
WHEN YOU BUY ONE BURRITO AT THE REGULAR PRICE. Just take a picture of the
JAGTAG above with your AT&T or Verizon phone and send the picture to 524824 (iPhones
send to iphone@jagtag.net). We'll send a very delicious Buy One Burrito Get One Free
coupon right back to your phone that you can redeem at any Ann Arbor location (up to a
$6.50 value). Bring your phone with you when you come in and show us your coupon when
you check out. Yummm.


Now by North Campus!
Plymouth Road & Murfin Avenue
2252 South Main @ AA-Saline Road
Washtenaw Avenue & Huron Parkway

f
MEXICAN GRILL

www.graham.umich.edu

Coupon expires 2$/69. Available only to AT&T and Verizon customers. Standard messaging rates apply. Void where prohibited, taxed or restricted. Consumers must
pay any salesotax. Not responsible for misdirected, garbled, delayed, lost or late coupons. Certain other restrictions may apply. To view program Terms & Conditions,
visit http://www.jagtag,com/support/TermsConditions.htm.

4


6A- Monday, February 2, 2009
the michigan daily

Ls sl

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

parking
025 :
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300.
for rent
060
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refil-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
!2 BDRMS - Great campus locations!
1001 S. Forest, 526 & 917 Packard,
848 Tappan, & 521 Walnut. All fur-
nished, include heat, water, and park-
ing, some have free wireless!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
!2-BED 2-Bath!
515 Walnut: Huge apt., great for 3 or
4, tons of sunlight, furnished, new
kitchen, laundry and parking!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
!3 BEDROOM Apts!
1346 Geddes & 331 Catherine:
Fully furnished, parking, large bed-
rooms great to share.
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
!6-BEDROOM House!
331 Catherine: 2 full kitchens, 2 full
baths, great for 6 -8 people. Close to
Downtown, Zingerman's & summer
farm market! (734) 668-1100.
www.varsitymanagement.com
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments ***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
**AVAIL. FALL '09.3 bdrm house.
near Yost ($1500/mo.). 734.223.7777.

ilsonWhite
M A NAGEME N
U of M
Housing Fair!
02.0f.2009
Michigan (rnion
ballroom
12- :3FM
We will be there with
specials, deals,
freebies, and will be
dressed to impressi


I a mac3l. turn. apts. 4U r1i1 t. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Fum. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
406 EAST JEFFERSON
Fall Lease, 7 Bdrm., 2 Bath., 2 Kitchen
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
428 HAMILTON PLACE
8 bdrm. Fall lease, 3 bath., 3 kitchen.
Newly remodeled. Old Town Realty
734-663-8989. Oldtownrealty.net
6 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 2
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, no coin
laundry. 2 baths, basement, 2 fridges,
front porch & deck in back.
Call 248-214-8708!
6 BDRM. FALL '09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-320-1026.
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.

coupon for every new tour!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
University
oWCer
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BEDROOM
334 Catherine, 2 Kitchen, 2 Bath.
Close to Kerrytown 734-663-8989
Oldtownrealty.net
7 BEDROOMS
1220 Prospect, 2 Bath., Lots of parking.
Fall Lease. 734-663-8989.
Oldtownrealty.net
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENT PRICES HAVE
BEEN SLASHED ON
ALL2 BEDROOMS
**Don't miss out on the
Best Central Campus DEALS!
Get $500 off
on all May leases and H Style units
This will not last long, when they're
gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256. .
AVAIL. FALL 2009!!
Incredible location! I & 2 bedroom
apEs. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. -Aross
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
anfurnished avail. Laudry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking. Small management
company with excellent reord of per-
sonal service. We provide first rate ser-
vice! Lease with a
company that truly cares!
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245
isA
WisonWhire

APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009 (some with new prices!)
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard $1890
915 Oakland $2295
1015 Packard $1355
205 N. Division $1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard $2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division $2950
916 Sybil $3095
1021 E. University $2250
1307 S. State $2495
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison $3995
1014 Vaughn $3695
1814 Geddes $3595
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson $4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms apart-
ments available too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.coin
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE HOUSES AND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
BIG 2 BDRM. for 3 persons. 2 baths.
2 blocks from Union. Free heat/prkg.
Fall '09. $1400. 734-260-4003.
BIG HSE: 5 Ig. bdrms. (5-7 persons)
Living, dining rms. 2 kitch. 2 bath. 2
study, Free ldry. prkg. $3100. 717-2017.
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1199/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY
Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREEI Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!
(734) 761-8000 or primesh.com

4o4 -
ONfed an 4a
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
Or Visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (AboveAmers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now ne-
gotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
HOUSE FOR RENT @ 904 Packard.
5 or 6 people. Free prkg. No pets. Free
dry. $2650/mo.+util. 248-895-4818.
HOUSES AVAILABLE FALL 2009
3 bedrooms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $2995
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
701 Catherine $3525
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500
Wilson White Management 734-995-
9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
Apartments Available!

HUGE 3 BDRM. bi-level apt. avail. in
prime location 1 & 1/2 baths. Heat and
water incl. $1799/ mo. 734-665-8825.
www.campusrealty.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
MAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1320 N.University-I LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-I LEFT
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE
May to May lease. 952 Greenwood. 3
bath., big bedrooms. Old Town Realty

4

PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious I & 2
bdrm apts. with balconies or
patios. alk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimmningn unld Pat Viendivd

4

4

0

3 Bdrm Apt.
8 Month Lease
(Sept-May)
$1500/Month
1120 S. Forest
Copi Properties
734-663-5609

i

lower Plaza Condominium
(?ic Saa- Hgtvr ne w acn as
Call Brian Tosic
734-663-1530 I

RELEASE DATE- Monday, February 2, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 35 Shipbuilding wood 51 Backless
1 Celebrity 1 Arena cheers 36 Eyelid affliction 52 Sprayed with tear
skewering 2 Orchestral reed 38 Backed the gas
6 Jeff's partner 3 Startthe pot motion 53 Stood up
10 One-horse 4 Once in along 40 Placeforonline 54 Triangular Greek
carriage while gab letter
14 Mammy's boy 5 Hex- halved 43 "You'd better.":.58 Vision: Pref.
15 Swelled heads 6"M*A*S*H" chow "Please leave" 60 Right-hand man
16 "Brothers & area 44 Poly- ending 61 Sharp-edged
Sisters" actor 7 Exclamations of 46 Sign up 62 Old U.S. gas
Rob disgust 47 16th-centurystart 64 Wanted-poster
17 Frank Burns's 8 Playthe flute 50 Scurrier ina letters
heartthrob on 9 Nashville sch. maze 65 Officeholders
"M2ASH" 10 Careless, as ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 uird feedertfiller workmanship
21 Gal Fri. 11 Sounds from A SS I S T S F P D D B L
22 Left, at sea Santa CON N E D P R O S P E R O
23 Malt-drying oven 12In theloop E R A S E S R E P T I L E S
25 Ponderer's 13 Broadwayk REF I T LUAU S A T E
phrase matchmaker
27 Be a B-team 18 Turkish big shot B R U S H B A C K P I T C H
player 19 Gate fastener T EASES C O R A L
31 A prospector 24 PIN requester I M P B E D S O N O R A
mightgetalode 26Subi.including G U L F W A R D E N S I T Y
Ofnit grammar O C U L A R W I E X E S
32Lioness'slaak 27PrebOh berth T I T A N P A D D L E
33Hs a r 8n e L0 N G J O H N S I L V E R
37 Rx's rug
39 Dr. Mom's forte 29 Funny Foxx
41 Piecemarked 30 Shakespeare's A G R E E S O N E D I S O N
"piano, four Sir Toby D E A D L I N E S T R O N G
hands," obviously 34 "Star Trek E S T L E A S C O A R S E
42 ood-for-nothing crewman xwordeditor@aol.com 02/2/09
40 Sd. with a lab 1 2 a s 7 a 9 10 11 12 13
48 Hen doit
49 1967 Paul 14 1s 16
Newman title role
52 Virgin Mary 17 1s 19
55 Peter, Paul and
Mary, e.g. 20 1 22
56 "There _ 23 24 25 26
atheists in
foxholes" 27 2 29 o
57 Town name
ending 31 32 33 34 3s 38
59 Stop sleeping,
with "up' 7 3 3 0 4
63 Pre199
U.S -U.S.S.R.
strategies 49 s1
66 Spanish sunrise
dieio s2 53 54
67OGreen Horne's 50 58 s9 so oi 02
sidekick s rs es 2
68 Art class models 6s4465
69 in need of
charging, as a so67 66
cell phone
70 Elemental unit 7 71
71 Court reporter

Issa Properties
and Laudly.
Furnished~(optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
I-eaes fr Ma and Includes heal, waler, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
Readers
734-b 42-44462J
lnfo@issaproportios.com

I

Deadline for lneads is 11:30am one businessaday prior to publication. Classification:
010 - Lost Found

Rates: $4.30 per linefor thefirst issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional consecutve issue. " Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
ContaCt our staff for details u Students may receive a 25% discount when
ads are placed in person With a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only) u Al ads must be prepaid unless prior biling privileges
have been establshed " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check n For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives

- For Sale
- Parking

i day
2 lines 8.60
3 lines 12.90
4 lines 17.20
Policies:
Abbreviatiots: Only s de

2 days 3 days
12.0 17.20

4 days 5 days
21.50 25.80

040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050 - Furniture
060 - For Rent
070- Sublet
080 - Services
090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - Chid Care
100 - Tickets & Travel

39.40

bbrev

TMD for falure t
shal be mited t
will be responsib
Rates: All chan
consecutive rate
Advertisers may
been published.
resaleof tickets
accepting adver

.o pubish an advertisement for any reason, o
o publshing in a subsequent issue and not r
le for classified advertisement errors only if
ges shown on the open rates lines are cons
if requested and paid in full by 11:30 am or
cancel an ad before publication deadine, b
Refusal:Al ads are subject to editing and
at more than face value. TMo reserves the

TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
r for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue
more than the costof one incorrect insertion. TMD
notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication
/ecutve insertions. An ad may be extended at a
n originally scheduled ending date. Refunds:
ut no refund wil be given unless the ad has not ye
Sapproval. We do not publish advertisements for
right to request samples of mail order items prior to

140
150
160

- Music
- Roommates
- Food & Enter
- Personal
-Pets

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of Charge!! Check it out at www.michigandailv.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 2, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, February 2, 2009 - 7A

Tv igEHeEW
Saving' Heroes'

Manners vs. makeup

'Heroes' looks to
right itself in its
fourth season
By DAVE REAP
Daily TV/New Media Editor
While it's no secret NBC's
"Heroes" needs
resuscitation, Heroes
how to rescue the
super-powered Mondays
! action-drama at 9 p.m.
is one of televi- NBC
sion's greatest
mysteries.
"Heroes" creator Tim Kring
was once overwhelmed with
praise for the show's outstanding
freshman season. But after two
years, ithas become commonplace
for Kring to apologize to fans for
the series' rapid deterioration.
He does, after all, have plenty to
apologize for: beloved characters
have been mishandled, tiresome
plots have been recycled and sim-
ply uninspiring storytelling has
become the norm. Though Kring's
mea culpas are often laced with
promises of a forthcoming resur-
gence, this has yet to come, and
ratings have steadily declined as
viewers have grown impatient. All
this begs the question of whether
the series can survive if it doesn't

receive the much-needed boost.
A strong start to the show's
fourth season, titled "Heroes:
Fugitives" (which begins tonight),
could help put an end to such fatal-
istic thinking. Admittedly, this all
sounds familiar. The series's third
go-around, "Heroes: Villains,"
which began in September, was
supposed to atone for the show's
lackluster second installment -
but it didn't. With "Villains," Kring
and his creative team sought to re-
energize the "Heroes" fan base by
introducing characters who use
their powers for nefarious purpos-
es. They also promised a season-
long battle royale between these
new evil characters and their more
moralistic counterparts. Instead,
the "Villains"overloaded theseries
with empty new characters and
nonchalantly toyed with viewers'
conceptions of the originals. As the
season progressed, it became clear
"Villains" wasn't as much about
providing meaningful character
development - which fans have
beenyearning for - as it was about
merely shocking people.
Accordingly, Kring's declara-
tion that "Fugitives" will restore
"Heroes" to its former glory should
be taken with a grain of salt. Yet
there is also reason for his opti-
mism to be infectious. Racking
their brains to find the root cause
of the show's recent problems, the

"Heroes" creative team reached
a compelling diagnosis, and the
"Fugitives" storyline has been
designed to directly correct the ills.
Kring's theory is that his central
characters have become too much
like superheroes and less like nor-
mal people with superpowers, mak-
ing them less relatable. He recently
explained to Comic Book Resources
how "Fugitives" will help remedy
this problem: "Once (the charac-
ters) are on the run they become
much more ordinary. ... (We can
get) back no who these characters
are by making them fugitives."
NBC released footage online
that shows the cast blending back
into society and carefully using
their powers so they aren't discov-
ered. Essentially, Kring has devel-
oped a thoughtful way to make
his heroes less super by revoking
their status as masters of their
environment, putting them back in
the vulnerable position they were
in throughout the show's highly
acclaimed first season.
Undoubtedly, "Heroes" is at a
crossroads. It certainly seems that
Kring has the vision required to
save his show, and now it's just
a matter of execution. Perhaps
"Heroes" is cursed to never come
close to matching its opening act,
but if there was ever a time for
Kring to show us that it can, the
time is now.

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily Arts Writer
Reality shows have simply
become too formulaic in the past
several years.
It's easy to cre-
ate drama by *k
selecting the
right mixture of True Beauty
people (the crier, Mondays at
the instigator, 10 p.m.
the hot people A
who always hook ABC
up, etc.) and
then giving them a common goal
to fight over, whether it's the love
and affection of Mr. Sexy or being
dubbed the best singer/dancer/
model/hairstylist in America.
ABC's "'True Beauty" breaks that
mold and puts a new spin on the
overplayed, ordinary format.
The contestants of "True Beau-
ty" (four men and six women) think
they're being judged on appearance
alone for the prize of being featured
in the "100 Most Beautiful Peo-
ple" issue of People. Each episode,
they're given a challenge to prove
they're stylish, photogenic and
capable of being among the world's
most attractive people. Granted,
this follows the typical form of real-
ity television. And just as expected,
the contestants gossip, sabotage

and back-stab.
But here's the catch: The contes-
tants are actually being judged on
their "inner beauty." Each episode
contains several hidden challenges
to test their compassion, charity and
honesty - and thank goodness for
that. The contestants are conceited,
materialistic and in great need of the
lesson the show is trying to teach:
True beauty comes from within.
Lo and behold, the concept
makes for a surprisingly entertain-
ing show. In this grand-scale social
experiment, it's impossible not to
wonder who is going to hold the
door open for the man who has his
hands full and who is going to let
the door shut behind them, leav-
ing the man outside (yes, someone
actually did that, and it resulted
in her elimination). It's satisfying
knowing the contestants are going
to get what they deserve, and the
creators aren't just keeping the
annoying people on the show to
fuel the drama.
"True Beauty," however, is not
without flaws. The producers have
practicallycreatedtworealityshows
in one, which definitely poses some
problems. Unfortunately, the nicest
peopleontheshowaretheoneswho
suck at the petty, superficial beauty
competitions, and the contestants
are already getting suspicious as to

how those people weren't already
eliminated. Similarly, those who
lack inner beauty often perform
well in the beauty challenges, forc-
ing the judges to fabricate vague
reasons for why they should be
eliminated ("I just don't think your
look is unique"). The judges try to
solve this conundrum by episodi-
cally putting one contestant who
Barely deeper
than skin deep.
fails the beauty challenge and one
who fails the "hidden" challenge
up forelimination; but this makes it
unbelievably easy for the audience
to guess which of the two is going
to be kicked off.
Despite the show's many poten-
tial problems - "True Beauty" may
only take a few more episodes for
the contestants to figure out the
catch - itsunique and original con-
cept is refreshing and it compen-
sates for the imperfect execution.
"True Beauty" is an honest show
with an inspiring message, though
it's uncertain whether or not any of
the contestants will take this mes-
sage to heart.



the michigan daily
SPACIOUS 1 BDRMS at Hill and FUNDR
Church. $825 - $925. 734-260-4003. +/Hr. at
pus, flex
WE BUY CAMPUS RENTAL telefund.u
HOUSES want to sell your student
rental house (248) 626-0614. eded A
being aI
WE WILL BE there - will you? U of tact requ
M Housing Fair, Michigan Union ball-
room 02-04-09 12-4:30; we will HOUSE
have deals, specials, giveaways, and sional w
fancy dress! Stop by and find yoor of school.
housingd for next year..now! Wilson fsho
White Management 734-995-9200 sonstein
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com !'BART
tial, Age
WWW.800FULLER.COM tiaining
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet SCORED
5 min. walk, MED, DENT, and Campus GRILL
hardwork
and kitc
exp. nect
M dvnrr

CHE
From Page 5A
years ago, it seems that Soder-
bergh sees "Che" as a fun little
prerogative earned by his other
directorial achievements. He has
again created a unique film that

(with the intermission and pro-
grams provided with the ticket)
hearkens to the days of old Hol-
lywood. And again, he seems to
have no purpose for his travail
other than his own amusement.
Guevara was a monumental fig-
ure whose life affected millions; a
story about his life should be more
than a kickback for some hotshot

Hollywood director.
While far from essential or even
consequential, as it may have been
under a different guiding hand,
"Che" isreasonablyinterestingand
watchable. Still, it's hard to ignore
thefactthatGuevara'slarger-than-
life story and del Toro's uncanny
ability to embody it did not result
in something more.


AISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
Michigan Telefund. On cam-
ible hrs. Students, apply a
umich.edu or 763.4400.
EXTRA MONEY, Students
ASAP. Barn up $150 per day
mystery shopper. No experi-
uired. Call 1-800-722-4791.
CLEANER wanted for occa-
ork. Within walking distance
. Schedule flexible. $12/hr.
@,umich.edu
ENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
KEEPER'S SPORTS
& Pub now hiring talented,
ing individuals for our wait
hen staff, and floorman. No
tssary. Apply in person at 310
, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
ED PARENTHOOD AFFIL-
of Michigan (PPAM) is look-
motivated indiv. for P/T posi-
d in Lansing. Responsibilities
or gift recording and acknowl-
database mgmt., and general
pport. High school degree,
exp. and attention to detail are
id cover letter and resume to:
Parenthood, Human Resources
FA, P.O. Box 3673, Ann Ar-
06; fax (734) 973-0595; or
ruiter@ppmchoice.org EOE.
4 Student Lab Assistant. Age-
earch. Mouse husbandry and
ection. Holiday and weekend
ty needed. 10-15 hr/wk.

WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
LIFEGUARD (ON-CALL). Tht
Health & Fitness Center at WCC is cur
rently accepting applications for an On
Call Lifeguarding Position. To apply
please go to the Employment section o
our website, www.wccfitness.org, ant
complete the online application,
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

POW
From Page 5A
graffiti created by people interest-
ed in the Obama campaign. Virtual
accessibility of the image created
mass visibility. It's something
very different from Warhol's time,
where Monroe's face became icon-
ic because of its repeated presence
within the print media - Obama's
face became iconic because of its

repeated presence on websites and
places like Facebook. The media is
just moving online.
In this sense, Fairey's "HOPE"
poster has risen to its iconic
status because of both its pop-
art roots as well asits ability to
be quickly mass-produced and
spread. Just as the Marilyn prints
were created using silk-screening,
which is used to efficiently mass-
produce a single image, "HOPE"
was created by a graffiti artist
who utilized the internet to mass-

produce his own work.
While the idea of mass-visibility
might have once concerned print
publications and the placing of
graffiti tags or images where peo-
ple can see them (illicitly on public
buildings, for example), the Obama
poster has become a type of vir-
tual graffiti: an art for the people,
spread by the people.
Pow thinks Andy Warhol should've
been elected in 1968. To cast your
vote, e-mail her at poww@umich.edu.


NIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon'liserv.net
U-M PH.D. offers expert science/tech-
nology editing for dissertations, re-
search papers. SciTech, (734) 668-
7864 or srhtech@comcast.net
help wanted
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED. Make
$5-25 per survey. GetPaidToThink.com
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, MI. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pre-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergrduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and

maynara
PLANNE
IATESo
ing for a
tion base
incl. don,
edgment,
office su
database
req. Sen
PlannedI
- Dept.I
bor, 481
email rec
U OF M
ing Rest
data colt
availabili

HEALTH AND HEALING - A Spiri.
tual Approach. Free workshop on hoa
to avail the highest creative force fo
healing and reach a deeper perspectiv(
on your state of health. Crazy Wisdon
Bookstore, Main St, Ann Arbor, up
stairs meeting room, Sunday, Februar
8th, 2:30-4:00pm. 734-255-7691

WHTDO (-c-
HODESIMARSHALLIMITCHE
SCHOLARS
DO AFTER THEIR STUDIES Hel hsgybcm
Add --president.

For Tuesday, Feb. 3, 2009
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
You'll be more involved with group
activities, classes, clubs and organiza-
tions in the next two months. Some of
you will work on a project with a friend.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Your ambition is aroused in the next
six weeks. You're trying to prove your-
self to others, especially bosses, parents,.
teachers and VIPs.
GEMINI
(May 21 toJune 20)
Travel plans and matters related to
publishing, higher education, the media,
medicine and the law are a big focus in
the next two months. People from other
cultures are helpful.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
You're very focused on shared prop-
erty, inheritances, insurance matters and
how to divide something fairly with
someone else. You're also feeling rather
sexy!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Be patient with others in the next two
months. Four planets oppose your sign,
and one of them is fiery Mars. Disputes
can arise easily.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You're gung-ho to work hard now at
four job. Delegate as much as you can.
Don't be judgmental of others who
aren't as willing to work as hard as you.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You feel playful in the next few
months. This is a highly creativetime for
you. It's also a romantic, exciting time.
Woo, woo!

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Increased activity and some chaos will
take place at home in the next few
months. This could be due to renova-
tions, redecorating projects or residential
moves. (Be patient with family mem-
bers.)
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
The everyday pace of your life will
pick up in the next six weeks. You're
particularly keen to persuade others to
agree with you about something. (Don't
come on too hard.)
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
For some reason, you seem to identify
with something that you own in the next
few months. You feel that it represents
your status in the outside world.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You will be much more of a fighter for
your rights than usual in the next two
months. Make no mistake about this!
Your physical energy is quite high.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
A secret project is keeping you busy
right now. You're definitely working
behind the scenes or alone on something
that you prefer to keep quiet.
YOU BORN TODAY You're a perfec-
tionist; you notice details. Many of you
develop advanced technical skills in
your chosen field. Your fine sense of
timing makes music an obvious choice.
Despite your high standards in whatever
you do, you're surprisingly casual about
other areas of your life - easy come,
easy go. Set aside some time to learn or
study something important in the com-
ing year.
Birthdate of: Stephen Euin Cobb,
writer/futurist; Tiger Williams, hockey
player; Warwick Davis, actor.

What will you do?
Anything you want.
You've written your own game
plan so far in life. Why not take
it one step further and become
a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell
Scholar?

theia niteSn ufmtn, rea19o20
the United States of America, 1992-2000

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and ine
ads to clients
Obtaining and building client rela-
tionships
Gaining priceless sales experience
Improving your resum ,
Making a commission-based salary
...and having FUN at the same time
Please e-maildailyclassifed@gmail.com,
call (734) 764-0557, or stop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 2, 5:00pm
Don't LetThis Great
Opportunity Pass You By!

Come to a Rhodes/Marshall/Mitchell Orientation Session:
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 * 5:00-6:00pm
Koessler Room, Michigan League
Thursday, January 29, 2009 * 5:00-6:00pm
Pierpont Commons Center Room
Thursday, February 5, 2009 9 5:00-6:00pm
Kuenzel Room, Michigan Union
To learn more, please contact the Provost's Council on Student Honors at
734-763-8123 or visit the website at
WWW.provost.umich.edu/scholars/

2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


4

8A - Monday, February 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Monday, February 2, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

I

4

4

I

I

I

4

4

4

I

0

Q 200a PiceatehuseCopers LLP. Alrihts rserve~d. "Piewatehosnoopers"'refers to PiceaterhoseCopes LLP ar, as the contet reqies,t Piceaterose~ooer loal netork oothe tmembe fim of tenetwork, each of
whicht is a seearate ate itaeendenteal entity. We ae prod to be an Affimative Action acdEqutnal Oortnity Employr.


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com February 2, 2009

Ejection of
Harris ends
Michigan's
upset bid
By JASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
WEST LAFAYETTE - Purdue guard Chris
Kramer lay motionless on the floor inside
Mackey Arena, a pool of blood expanding under
his head.
Standing over him, Michigan sophomore
forward Manny Harris looked around in shock,
trying to figure out what had just happened.
With the Michigan men's basketball team
clinging to a two-point lead with 18:28 left in
the second half, Harris received the ball on the
left wing, squared up to the basket to clear space
and sideswiped Kramer's nose with his elbow.
"That's the hardest I've ever been hit," Kram-
er, who played football in high school, said after
Purdue's 67-49 victory. "That was as square as
can be, right on the side of my nose.... I wouldn't
go there and say that was definitely a dirty play.
Anybody would be frustrated in a game like
that, but it was just a basketball play."
Kramer fell to the ground, and the official
called an offensive foul on Harris. As the Pur-
due faithful harassed Harris, erupting in boos
and "throw him out" chants, the head official,
Jim Burr, decided the hit was intentional and
ejected Harris.
"It wasn't intentional at all," Harris said in
the locker room following the game. "I was just
ripping through, and his face happened to be
in the way. ... I feel like it was unfair but, at the.
same time, things happen."
When Harris left the floor, so too did Michi-
gan's chances of victory. The Boilermakers
dominated the final 18 minutes and cruised to
a 67-49 victory. It was Michigan's fifth loss in
six games.
See BOILERMAKERS, Page 3B

AREL BOND/Daily
Junior acting captain Chris Summers, sophomore forward Aaron Palushaj and senior forward Travis Turnbull argued with the referees in the final minute of Saturday's 3-2 loss to Notre
Dame. The call in question was an apparent goal by junior defenseman Steve Kampfer, which would have tied the score and likely sent the game into overtime.
Inco)nsistency mars 'M' in split

Ieers snap Notre
Dame's 20-game
unbeaten streak Friday
By GJON JUNCAJ
Daily Sports Writer
SOUTH BEND - For the Michigan
hockey team, last weekend's home-and-
home series with top-ranked Notre
Dame provided two nights of high-
quality drama.
The Wolverines snapped Notre
Dame's 20-game unbeaten streak on
Friday. Saturday featured a penalty shot
goal, and another tally off a skate that
arguably should not have counted. That

was followed by a disallowed marker
in the waning moments that arguably
should have stood.
Players and coaches from both teams
admitted the
series split MICHIGAN 2
was a "nerve- NOTREDAME 1
racking"
experience. NOTRE DAME 3
After win- MICHIGAN 2
ning Friday's
nailbiter at
the Joyce Center, Michigan nearly
completed an improbable comeback
during Saturdays third period. Power-
play goals by sophomore Aaron Palush-
aj and freshman Robbie Czarnik cut
Notre Dame's lead to one. Palushaj and
Czarnik, both of whom scored their
first goals of the semester, revived the

deflated atmosphere at Yost Ice Arena
after the Irish took an early 3-0 lead.
The early deficits against the Irish
has become an annoying habit the
past two seasons. In last yea's Frozen
Four semifinals, the Wolverines rallied
from a three-goal deficit before los-
ing in overtime. Earlier that season in
January, Michigan fell behind Notre
Dame by two goals before scoring three
straight for a thrilling win at Yost.
But this time, when Michigan's
comeback bid reached its peak, a third
party changed the game's outcome.
With 31 seconds remaining in the
game, senior forward Tim Miller fired
a point-blank shot into Irish goaltender
Jordan Pearce's pads. A scrum ensued,
and the puck came loose from under-
neath Pierce. Junior defenseman Steve

Kampfer batted the puck into the net,
only to have it waved off.
"I think I just wanted to crash the
net, and I was kind of just looking and
hoping that the puck would hit me on
the stick," Kampfer said. "But I looked
down and it was right in front of me. I
think I shot at the net three times."
Referee Brian Aaron, who was posi-
tioned near the blue line, blew the play
dead because he apparently saw the
net come off its moorings, even though
a video replay.showedno evidence of
movement.
Fellow referee John Philo' was sta-
tioned next to the post to the right of
Pierce for the would-be tying goal, yet
never blew his whistle. Despite his per-
fect positioning on the play, Philo didn't
See FIGHTING IRISH, Page 2B

Play on the ice should decide outcome, not refs

SOUTH BEND -
hough it sat in sixth place in
the conference just over a week
ago, the Michigan hockey team
still had a shot at defending its CCHA
regular-season title.
Despite playing poorly for the first
two periods Saturday, the Wolverines
still gave themselves a chance to beat
No. 1 Notre Dame.
Even against the nation's best scor-
ing defense (just 1.59 goals per game
allowed), No. 8 Michigan still nearly
overcame a three-goal deficit in the
third period.
All of that makes Saturday's 3-2 loss
completely agonizing because it came
down to poor refereeing - plain and

simple.
And it's not difficult to decipher
what Michigan.
coach Red Beren-
son thought about
its effect on the
game.
"I'm not here to ;
discuss the officiat-
ing, but this was
a big series, and
obviously you want MICHAE1
top officials here," EISENST
Berenson said. EISENST__
The referees in
question: Brian
Aaron and John Philo.
Before this season, Aaron had a

questionable reputation in many peo-
ple's books.
"(Referee Brian Aaron) needs a big
red nose and floppy feet," Northern
Michigan play-by-play announcer Dave
Danis commented during a November
loss to Michigan State in 2005.
Philo is a first-year referee and was
promoted to the position in the offsea-
son when the CCHA switched from a
one-referee to a two-referee system.
The game could have easily been a
3-1 Michigan win if it weren't for two
blatantly botched calls that stood out
in a contest filled with questionable
ones.
The first was Notre Dame's goal
midway through the opening period.

Freshman Irish forward Billy Maday
redirected a puck with his left skate,
and pushed the puck past sophomore
goalie Bryan Hogan's right leg.
The play was illegal - and there's
really no room for debate.
"A goal shall not be allowed if the
puck has been kicked or directed
into the goal off an attacking player's
skate," the NCAA rule reads.
The problem: was that none of the
officials saw the obvious play, and
when it went to video review, the kick
took place outside of the frame of the
camera hanging over the net. And
that's the only angle that Aaron was
allowed to look at, due to.CCHA rules,
See EISENSTEIN, Page 2B

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Purdue guard Chris Kramer was elbowed in the nose
by sophomore forward Manny Harris during Michi-
gan's 67-49 loss Saturday. Harris was charged with a
flagrant foul and ejected from the game for the hit.


Blue ties Wildcats, beats Hoosiers in physical meet

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
The battered Big Ten sign at
the scorers' table was a constant
reminder.
The physicality of this weekend's
conference meets started after
Michigan fifth-year senior Tyrel
Todd threw Northwestern's John
Schoen into the table Saturday.
And the dented sign foreshadowed
Michigan's grueling meet against
Indiana the next day.
The 18th-ranked Wolverines
salvaged a 17-17 tie against North-
western in a hard-hitting contest
Saturday before taking out Indiana
20-18 on Sunday afternoon.

The Wolverines were down by
six points or more heading into the
last five individual matches in both
meets.
Redshirt sophomore Eddie Phil-
lips (Heavyweight) pulled off a 3-2
win in double overtime in the final
match to tie Northwestern.
"We wrestled more confident
and with more intensity than IShave
seen all year," Michigan coach Joe
McFarland said. "It's a good time to
get into the Big Ten season."
Down six points against Indiana,
redshirt sophomore Aaron Hynes
(157 pounds) sparked the comeback
with a victory over 12th-ranked
Kurt Kinsler. Recovering from a
shoulder injury, it was Hynes' first-

ever win over a ranked opponent,
but he almost gave it away.
After going up 5-0 halfway
through the match, he gave up con-
secutive takedowns and the con-
test was eventually tied 6-6 when
time expired in the final period.
But because of his one-minute rid-
ing-time advantage, he earned the
extra point and victory.
"I used to have that problem
where I would let the momentum
of the (meet) carry into mine,"
Hynes said. "But then I was just
like, 'Hey it has nothing to do with'
me, I'm just gonna go out there and
wrestle."'
After losing to Northwestern
senior Jake Herbert on Friday, the

No. 1 wrestler in the country at his
weight, redshirt sophomore Antho-
ny Biondo (184 pounds) broke out
of his four-match losing streak and
beat Indiana redshirt sophomore
Nick Avery 10-0. During the match,
Avery gave the crowd a reason to
be upset. He repeatedly backed up
and failed to make moves, and the
fans at Cliff Keen Arena chanted
"staaaaaalling, staaaaaalling" for
much of the match.
The win gave Michigan a lead it
would never relinquish.
"I could've cut him and went
back up on my feet," Biondo said. "It
wouldn't have really made a differ-
ence, I would have just taken him
down a bunch of times. I wanted to
See HOOSIERS, Page 3B

WLI MOELLER/Daily
Sophomore Aaron Hynes upset the 12th-ranked wrestler in his weight class and
helped Michigan to a 20-18 win over Indiana.

FANS KNOW BEST BUCKEYES BLASTED
0 Why Nate Sandals thinks the Michigan 'UCheck www~michigandaiy.com for cover-
Athletic Department should let the Yost fans age of the men's swimming team's win over
monitor their own behavior. Page 2B. Ohio State and other events from this weekend.


4

2B- February 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - February 2, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

snaps losing streak
'Clammy Sosa'mascot p
mirrors dominating
Wolverine victory
By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer3
Early in the second half of theK
Michigan women's basketball game T
yesterday against Wisconsin, a base-e
ball-playing clam mascot named
"Clammy Sosa" walked onto the .
court during a timeout. The clam
walked over to a Wisconsin student
assistant and promptly "ingested"
him.
According to the official Clammy
Sosa website, the mascot "slurps up ;
and swallows everything in sight."p
The clam walked off the court-
when the timeout ended, the assis-
tant still trapped inside of it with his
feet dangling.
Like Clammy Sosa, Michigan
swallowed the Badgers - figuratively,
of course - winning the game 70-42
to snap their six-game losing streak.
Former players Katie Dierdorf
and Krista Clement, both 2008
graduates, were in attendance, and
they had no doubt the Wolverines
would come out strong..
"We are completely confident
they can pull it out tonight," Clem-
ent said before the game. "They
killed us a few years ago, so we have
some bad memories of Wisconsin."
Michigan didn't disappoint.
Wisconsin (4-9 Big Ten, 14-10
overall) may have been at Crisler
Arena physically, but it didn't appear
to mentally show up. The Badgers
were held went scoreless in the SAID ALSALAH/Daily
first five minutes of the game while Senior Melinda Queen was Michigans most effective presence in the paint Sunday.
Michigan (3-8, 10-12) jumped out to "We put a great deal of emphasis on The Wolverines hadn't scored 70
a quick 9-0 lead. getting it in there and being strong points since their second game of
The Wolverines found success by with the ball" the season, in a 70-60 win on Nov.
deviating from their normal game The Wolverines didn't let up in 15 against Kentucky. After watching
plan. Instead of desperately jacking the second half, drawing five Wis- the offense stall out in so many of its
up 3-pointers, they drove into the consin fouls in the first seven min- closelosses,thiswas exactlythe kind
lane and scored inside. Senior Carly utes. Senior Melinda Queen led the of offensive performance Michigan
Benson scored half of Michigan's charge in the paint and finished needed to get back on track.
first 14 points and found her touch with 11 points. She was one of five Everything seemed to go right
inside on two nifty left-handed Wolverines to score in double digits. for the Wolverines yesterday. Hicks
hooks. "That's the ticket," Borseth said. hit two 3-pointers that seemed to
The first half ended with Michi- "If you've got five players in double bounce around on the rim forever
gan holding a commanding 16-point figures in every game, then you're before falling through.
lead, thanks in part to a 58-percent good." "I like to think of it as shooter's
shooting percentage and 11 Wiscon- Sophomore Veronica Hicks led touch," Hicks joked. "As long as it
sin fouls. the way with 15 points, but Michi- goes in, I don't care if it bounces
"They're hard to score on inside," gan made a point of spreading the around 20 times, that's good enough
Michiganenh KevinBrsethsnid weanlth.form"

Keep Yost a
hands-on arena

No touching" is the rule
for visitors at prisons, at
least if Arrested Devel-
opment can be trusted. But the
Michigan Athletic Department
sent an email to students this
week that threatened to take the
first step toward making Yost Ice
Arena a hands-
off venue.
To set the
context for f
those of you
who have been
under a rock
for over a week
.now, here is a NATE
brief history S
of whathap-
pened: Late in
last Saturday
night's 5-3 win over Michigan State,
two Spartans viciously attacked
Michigan defenseman Steve Kamp-
fer. As Kampfer lay motionless on
the ice, a very loud chant started
rumbling from the student section.
"F.Y.S."would be an appropriate
acronymfor the chant.
Minutes later, Kampfer's father,
Bruce, entered the visiting locker
room and went after one of the
Michigan State players involved in
the incident.
On Thursday, the Athletic
Department announced increased
security standards around the visit-
ing locker room at Yost. That same
day, students received the afore-
mentioned e-mail with the not-so-
coded subject, "Fan Behavior."
Here is the key excerpt from
EISENS
From page 1B
meaning there wasn't enough
video evidence to overturn the
call.
"If that would have been
reviewable - the camera couldn't
see it - it would not have been a
goal," Berenson said.
Still, it's tough to argue the
referees mangled the entire game
with one bad call eight minutes
and 15 seconds into the game.
Michigan had plenty of time to
even up the score.
But the only thing to excuse
Aaron's premature blowing of the
whistle with less than a minute
left in the game is blindness. Hell,
that might not even be a good
enough explanation.
As junior defenseman Steve

that e-mail: "We believe the fan
conduct last week was not appro-
priate to Michigan standards
and will not be tolerated in the
future. The actions on the ice do
not excuse what was heard or
displayed.... We will eject, with-
out warning, individuals who use
profane language and/or make
obscene gestures."
That's all well and good in
theory, but part of being a fan at a
sporting event is reacting to what
takes place on the ice.
Clearly, what the Michigan
State players did was serious.
Otherwise, they wouldn't have
been suspended for the rest of the
season. When something serious
happens in the course of a game,
the players, coaches and referees
have an avenue to respond.
But so do the fans - and they
have to do it with words instead of
actions.
When tensions are high on the
ice, they should be high in the
stands, too.
If the fans weren't meant to
have a voice in how a game plays
out, why would the Athletic
Department be shelling out free
tickets to men's basketball games,
giving out thunder sticks at hock-
ey games and sending out count-
less e-mails urging students to go
to women's basketball games?
The Athletic Department
knows fans are important to cre-
ate a winning environment for its
teams, but now they're trying to
tie fans' hands.

Whatever the terms and condi-
tions listed on the back of each
ticket, the events at the end of last
Saturday's game more than war-
ranted the response the student
section gave. It's probably a small
miracle the animosity didn't man-
ifest in more dangerous ways.
And the real reason the Ath-
letic Department is so upset is
that "FY.S." was clearly audible
on television and YouTube videos
that have been viewed more than
300,000 times.
Of course, the Athletic Depart-
ment has the right to eject any
fan, at any time, for any reason.
But going too far down that path
threatens to take awayone of the
pillars of Michigan hockey - the
Yost student section.
No one is saying the student
section is perfect. Chants often
go over the line. But the well-rea-
soned majority always manages
to rein in the outliers. When some
students threw objects on the ice
after last Saturday's game, their
peers booed them.
The student section has proven
capable of policing itself.
If the Athletic Department
wants to play assistant principal
from here on out, well, there's not
much the students can do.
But the Athletic Department
has a choice here, and the right
one is to keep Yost a hands-on
arena.
- Sandals can be reached
at nsandals@umich.edu.

4

4

4

TEIN Refs stay out

Kampfer poked away at a loose
puck next to sprawled-out Notre
Dame goalie Jordan Pearce, Aaron
blew the whistle because he sup-
posedly saw the net come loose.
For what it's worth, he was
standing 60 feet away at the
blue line, and a scrum occurred
in front of the goal, obstructing
Aaron's view. Philo, who was
positioned right next to the goal,
didn't make a call on the play..
And a split-second later, Kamp-
fer put the puck into the net,
potentially tying the game and
causing senior forward Travis
Turnbull to throw his hands up
into the air in celebration. But the
play was ruled dead, and Aaron
reviewed the play and waved off
the apparentgoal. The Wolverines
had to settle for-the split when

they had a legitimate shot at mak-
ing a run at another conference
title.
"Now, if the net comes off
because their player pushed it
off, I mean that's a serious infrac-
tion in the last two minutes of the
game," Berenson said. "But I don't
know (whether) they pushed it .
off or if it was just the scrum that
pushed it off."
And he probably doesn't know
because not a soul in Yost Ice
Arena saw that post move a hun-
dredth of a centimeter except
Aaron, and that cost the Wolver-
ines the game.
How did he end up with a
whistle?
- Eisenstein can be reached
at mseiseniumichedu.

4

4

4

Junior forward Brian Lebler reaches for the puck in Saturday's loss to Notre Dame at Yost Ice Arena.

FIGHTING IRISH
From page lB
appear to contest Aaron's ruling,
which was upheld after an official
review.
The decision halted the Michi-
gan comeback and effectively
ended the game. Saturday's final
frame, where Michigan outshot
Notre Dame 14-3, marked the best
period the Wolverines played all
weekend.
The Wolverines set up three
scoring chances in front of the net
with crossing passes in the game's
final minutes, but couldn't get a
shot off any of them.
"You're never safe in this build-
ing," Notre Dame coach Jeff Jack-
son said of Yost. "(The Wolverines
are) a momentum team. The crowd
gets them going."
Michigan coach Red Berenson
said last week that he didn'tbelieve
in a "switch" that talented teams
can "turn on" during moments of
crisis. But if such a thing exists, it
certainly appeared off as the Wol-
verines entered the third period
down by three goals.
Tied for fourth place in the
CCHA standings, the Wolverines
are in good position for a first-

round bye in next month's con-
ference tournament. "Urgency"
remains the operative word for
the second half of this season, and
Michigan showed plenty of it dur-
ing Saturday's final 20 minutes.
"I think we played'with more
desperation in the third," Beren-
son said. "But you can't play one
period against a team like Notre
Dame."
Turnovers and defensive break-
downs throughout the first two
periods proved to be Michigan's
undoing. Eight minutes into the
game; Irish forward Calle Rid-
derwall intercepted a Miller pass
inside the Wolverine blueline. Rid-
derwall then slid the puck to.for-
ward Billy Maday, who redirected
it with his skate past sophomore
goaltender Bryan Hogan for the
critical first goal.
Four minutes into the second
period, Notre Dame forward Ryan
Thang took an outlet pass in front
of Kampfer, who was out of posi-
tion, and raced to the net. Kamp-
fer hooked Thang down before he
could get a shot on Hogan, draw-
ing a penalty shot.
Thang made good on his second
chance, beating Hogan glove-side.
It was the first penalty-shot goal
against the Wolverines since 1997.

The Irish, hailed last week by
Berenson as the best forecheck-
ing team in the conference, played
excellent positional hockey during
Saturday's first 40 minutes. Notre
Dame's forwards harassed Michi-
gan's skaters as they tried breaking
out into transition, and packed the
neutral zone to get into the passing
lanes and disrupt the Wolverines'
timing.
"That's where they generate
so much of their speed," Jackson
said. "Michigan's a great team....
They're great offensive speed in
transition and they're very skilled.
They take full advantage of it."
Wolverine acting captain Chris
Summers said Michigan simply put
on a better effort during the final 4
20 minutes. Palushaj and Czarnik
also indicated that the Wolverines
suffered from lapses in intensity in
the first and second frames.
Despite missing a golden oppor-
tunity for a sweep, the players
seemed to take solace from their
third-period performance.
"We showed glimpes of(energy)
in the first and second," Palushaj
said. "We showed a couple shifts
here and there, but it wasn't a full
two periods. (If) we come out like
we did in the third, we're a tough
team to play against."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

February 2, 2009 - 3B

iClfgan must step up on the roau From pageE

ifit wants to make tournament

WEST LAFAYETTE -
A Manny Harris exited
the Mackey Arena floor
follow-
ing his ejection
early in the
second half, the
crowd inside
the old, rickety
venue was deaf-
ening.
Boilermark-
er fans seemed RUTH
ready to jump LINCOLN
outoftheir seats
to hold a towel
to Purdue guard Chris Kramer's
bloody nose and, um, "escort" Har-
ris to the locker room.
I thought that might not be all
that bad.
The Wolverines' leading scorer
hadn't had a stellar game in awhile.
And in such a hostile environment,
maybe that could have been a spark
for Michigan.
"I gathered the team that was
there at the time," Michigan coach
John Beilein said. "I just said it was
a great opportunity for the guys
that had been waiting for time to
actually step up."
Maybe junior forward DeShawn
Sims would use his agility in the
post, or redshirt freshman Laval
Lucas-Perry's 3-point shot would
resurrect itself.
Even without Harris, maybe the
Wolverines would play solid team
defense like they did to upset Duke
last December.
Clearly, none of that happened,
and Michigan's then-two-point
lead turned into a 67-49 loss.
There was adversity on the
table, and the Wolverines didn't
respond.
As hundreds of fans stormed the
Crisler Arena floor after Michi-

gan's upset win over Duke on Dec.
6, Michigan looked like it might be
the real deal.
Then came the expectations, the
national rankings and the Big Ten
schedule - things haven't been the
same since.
Since the Duke game, the Wol-
verines haven't beaten anyone they
weren't supposed to, and more
importantly, they're 1-4 in confer-
ence road games. Let's be honest.
No one really expected an upset in
West Lafayette, but a clutch road
victory is a necessity for the team's
NCAA Tournament resum6.
And for this team to make the
Big Dance for the first time since
1998, something needs to change
in opposing gyms.
Of the 34 at-large bids in last
year's Tournament, not a single
one had fewer that two conference
road wins.
The Wolverines don't have to
be perfect in their four final Big
Ten road games, but they can't let
games unravel like Saturday.
Michigan matched the Bolil-
ermakers' intensity until Harris's
ejection. The Wolverines can usu-
ally count on Harris to take control
of a game, but when he was gone,
someone needed to make a play
and it was obvious no one did.
"Winningon the road, especially
in this conference, is pretty tough,"
fifth-year senior guard David Mer-
ritt said. "When you have a chance
to get one, you've got to get it....
(We need) to focus. Every single
person has to be willing to give it,
give it all for 40 minutes. You can't
have mental lapses."
And if the Wolverines are going
to erase their mental lapses, they
need a mental leader.
Harris, Sims and Lucas-Perry
have shown their ability in oppos-

Purdue held Harris to just two
points in the first half, but he
started the second with a quick
three points before being ejected.
With Harris out of the game,
the Wolverines (4-6 Big Ten, 14-8
overall) were forced to play with-
out two of their top four scorers.
Freshman guard Zack Novak rode
the bench, serving a suspension
for elbowing Ohio State's P.J. Hill
in the face in Michigan's 72-54
loss Wednesday.
With flagrant fouls in back-to-
back games, Michigan is receiving
criticism from basketball analysts
like Jay Bilas and Clark Kellogg
for playing dirty.
"Obviously, we can't be elbow-
ing each other in the face," Michi-
gan coach John Beilein said. "(The
foul by Harris) was just an unfor-
tunate accident."
Fifth-year senior guard C.J.
Lee filled Novak's spot in the
starting lineup, and he wasn't the
only Wolverine to see increased
playing time. Every player except
redshirt freshman forward Eric
Puls played significant minutes,
and even Puls clocked in a few
garbage minutes. Senior forward
Jevohn Shepherd filled in for
Harris and led Michigan with 10
points.
The Boilermakers (6-2, 17-4)
dominated the last 18 minutes
of the contest, and the fans that
were held at bay in the first half
went into a frenzy. The crowd hit
a high pitch-when Kramer, blood
HOOSIERS
From page 1B
pin him soit is a little frustrating,
but you just have to keep grind-
ing in the match and try to break
him."
With underclassmen occupy-

covering his face, popped off the
floor and pumped his arms to the
student section. The penalty gave
the Boilermakers what they had
failed to establish all game - the
momentum.
Following Harris's ejection,
Purdue outscored Michigan
40-20.
"There was some slippage in
our defense in the second half,"
Lee said. "To their credit, they
got out in transition and got some
threes and layups. We didn't com-
bat those or make any of our own.
Any time you're not getting stops
or not scoring, the scoreboard is
going to get out of hand."
Michigan shot 32 percent from
the field and was just 2-of-12 from
behind the arc in the second half.
On the other end, Purdue hit 46.2
percent of its shots in the second
frame.
"Obviously, without Harris
and Novak, you take away two
big options," Purdue coach Matt
Painter said. "Especially Harris -
he's such a talented guy, you have
to know where he is at all times.
They don't have the same type of
options."
Michigan was a team basking
in the glory of college basket-
ball a few months ago after wins
over Duke and UCLA. But now,
its NCAA Tournament hopes are
starting to fade.
"It's getting to that break-
ing point where we'll have to do
something," Lee said. "But there's
still time, we still have time right
now. We're not going to waste
time thinking about that and hav-
ing a negative attitude."
ingoseven of the 10 starting spots,
the encouraging opening week-
end is a confidence boost for the
young Wolverines. They will
have to continue growing up pro-
cess as Michigan will be on the
road next weekend in dual meets
against Minnesota and Michigan
State.

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Redshirt freshmanguard Laval Lucas-Perry has struggled away from Crisler Arena.

ing venues. Combined, they're
averaging just 0.2 points less on
the road than at home in confer-
ence play, but their effort needs to
be timely.
Someone needed to take control
of Saturday's debacle. The Wol-
verines must have a leader on the
road, whether it's Harris, Sims or
someone off the bench.
And what's Beilein's role in
this? His system emphasizes team
offense, but in these situations, he
needs spark. His plays should allow
his star players to shine.

Michigan has Northwestern,
Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota
on its remaining conference road
schedule. Trips to Evanston and
Iowa City looked like easy wins at
the beginning of the season, but
now nothing seems guaranteed.
Every road game needs to be
treated like a must-win. The Wol-
verines needs someone to step up
away from home and can't make
the NCAA Tournament without it.
- Lincoln can be reached
at lincolnr@umich.edu

Pruitt sets school record in shot
put for second time in two weeks

Michigan earns five
wins in Bloomington
By ROGER SAUERHAFT
Daily Sports Writer
Redshirt junior thrower Sean
Pruitt might as well just pour
White-Out all over the Michigan
men's track and field record book.
On Saturday, the second day of
the non-scoring Indiana Relays
in Bloomington, Pruitt won the
weight throw and set a new school
mark for the second time in just
two weeks.
Pruitt's 69.4-foot throw was
nearly three feet longer than his
NCAA provisional performance at
"The Dual" on Jan. 17. Which was
nearly three feet longer than his
previous school record set in Feb-
ruary 2007.
But Pruitt wasn't completely
satisfied with any of the throws.
"I'm getting a lot closer to being
able to finish it properly,". Pruitt
said Saturday. "On that (69.4-foot)
throw, I got in a little late. My left
leg kind of sunk down, so I defi-
nitely sacrificed some distance."
His throw wasn't the only posi-
tive experience of the weekend.
The 15th-ranked Wolverines
competed against several teams,
including Indiana and Notre
Dame, and won five total events.

Two Michigan runners set NCAA
provisional marks Friday night.
Senior Justin Switzer and red-
shirt junior Sean McNamara both
achieved provisional times and per-
sonal bests in the one-mile invita-
tional event.
The Wolverines also received a big
boost over the weekend with the sea-
son debuts of seniors Lex Williams

and Andre Barnes, an All-American.
"(Barnes) still isn't 100 percent,
as far as his fitness goes," head
coach Fred LaPlante said. "He's not
hobbling around the track, so he's
got four weeks to get as good as he
can get and it's really encouraging
for us."
The same can be said for Wil-
liams. After seeing him run a 4:11

mile Saturday, associate head coach
Ron Warhurst expressed hope that
his distance runner could get close
to four minutes flat.
LaPlante said that Michigan's all-
around success, and the experience
of running on a banked track for the
first time this season will help the
Wolverines prepare for the Big Ten
Championships later this month.

I

This summer,
put your knowledge to work in Boston.
Summer Study Internship Program Learn More.
May 19-August 14, 2009 617-353-0556
bu.edu/summer/internship

4


4B - Monday, February 2, 2009ThMihgnDly-mhgaalyo

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

V

p-"

4

4

4

4

4

4

:y4
I C°Yn .air E f2kr i h u es;1"vr' ^ 5' , r ~fin.;."~ . :-

4

4

II---------------------------------------

4

4

.r . . .... ..... , ... ,... .. ; r. , ,,,....,. ... ;... .. ... .. .... , .


