iC i Hll 4:)atIV

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, November 9, 2009

michigandaily.com

A SECOND HALF TRAIN WRECK

ATHLETICS ADMINISTRATION
Despite study,
Coleman says
Athl. Dept. is
under control

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Michigan quarterback Tate Forcier gets sacked during a two-point conversion late in Saturday's 38-36 loss to Purdue. For more on the game, see SportsMonday, inside.
CAMPUS CRIME i
Questions loom in Em St falout

Report: Many college
presidents say they
can't fix their athletic
departments' budgets
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
The majority of Division IA
presidents said in a recent study
that they feel they have no con-
trol over their respective athletic
department budgets. But Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman
says she's an exception to the rule.
The Knight Commission on
Intercollegiate Athletics issued a
report last month that found uni-
versity presidents feel powerless in
combating the rising costs associ-
ated with intercollegiate sports.
The KnightCommissionisacollege
sports think tank operated by col-
lege administration heavyweights
from around the country - includ-
ing University of Michigan Regent
Andrea Fischer Newman, who is a
member of the organization.
The report - which was based
on interviews this spring and sum-
mer with 95 of the 120 presidents of
Football Bowl Subdivision schools
- found the majority of college

presidents recognized a need to
restructure athletic departments
to reduce costs. But many of the
presidents reported that they don't
feel like they're in a position to cre-
ate that change.
"Presidents would like serious
change, but don't see themselves as
the force for the changes needed,
nor have they identified an alter-
native force they believe could be
effective," the report stated.
In an interview late last month
with The Michigan Daily, Univer-
sity President Coleman said she
could not remember if she hadbeen
interviewed for the study, but said
she had read the report and doesn't
think the findings are true for the
University.
"I understand that maybe a lot
of presidents feel like they can't do
anything, but I guess I don't feel
that way about myself at Michi-
gan," Coleman said.
She added: "Maybe I'm very
privileged to be in this circum-
stance', (but) I do feel like we have
good control."
While the Athletic Department's
finances are separate from those of
the academic operations of the Uni-
versity, Coleman said Michigan has
had a tradition of firm presidential
control over intercollegiate athlet-
See COLEMAN, Page 10A

Two students say
they gave AAPD
evidence, which the
police lost
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
More than a week after the
violent Halloween beating on
Elm Street that left a 19-year-old
man hospitalized, police won't
confirm whether any of the

alleged attackers have been iden-
tified or arrested.
Two students who witnessed
the violent beating said they
were able to take photos and a
video of the incident, which they
claim they turned over to the
Ann Arbor Police Department as
evidence.
LSA seniors Brian Barton and
Zachary Ward said they took
pictures of brutal beating on
Barton's digital camera shortly
before the attack, then a video
once it began. After giving a
statement to AAPD, Barton said

he handed over his memory stick
to be used as possible evidence.
The next day, Barton said he
received a call from an AAPD
officer who had been in posses-
sion of his memory card tell-
ing him that the memory card
had been lost before police had
viewed it.
Barton and Ward said they
believe the police department
has dropped the ball on the
whole situation.
Ward said he believes the
memory card could have been
essential in identifying the

assailants and that its loss dem-
onstrates the police department's
mishandling of the incident.
"Losing the memory card was
a vital piece of evidence," Ward
said. "That could have easily
identified the people involved or
at least been on the news to show
people and make them aware of
the current problems with vio-
lence on campus."
AAPD Sgt. Mike Lance, who
arrived at the scene of the beat-
ing, was unable to comment
on the loss of the memory card
. See ELM STREET, Page 9A


GETTING AROUND ANN ARBOR
With 'U' help, Fuller Rd.
parking project advances

LITIGATION REPORT
Citing Whistleblower Act, alum
suing'U' for dismissal from posi
Research assistant Regents in Washtenaw County radiological sciences, fired Mc{
Trial Court today for allegedly as his graduate student resea
says he was fired for being fired when he reported labo- assistant four days after Mc(

t
Gee
rch
Gee

University will cover PROPOSED INTERMODAL STATION
78 percent of costs
0 and get 78 percent of
parking spaces Station
By DYLAN CINTI
Daily Staff Reporter

fIermodal
Faiit

reporting violations
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
University alum Robert McGee
is suing the University Board of

ratory safety violations.
McGee is suing under the Whis-
tleblower Protection Act - an
act that protects employees who
report violations of local, state or
federal law.
Michael Hartman, assistant pro-
fessor of nuclear engineering and

reported Hartman had commit-
ted safety violations by dumping
chemicals down a laboratory sink,
according to a Nov. 6 annarbor.com
article.
The article also states Hartman
asked McGee to come with him to
SeeLAWSUIT, Page 10A

MITCHELL
FIELD

In a deal approved at last
V Thursday's City Council meeting,
the University will shoulder 78
percent of the costs to build a pro-
posed parking structure on Fuller
Road, and, in return, the Univer-
sity will receive 78 percent of the
spots available in the lot.
City Council also unanimously
approved a master design plan for
the 1,000-plus spot parking struc-
ture on Fuller Road, just north of
thehospital,whichisthefirstphase
oftheFuller Intermodal Transpor-
tation Station (FITS) - a project
that some view as the future of
transportation in Ann Arbor.
Councilmember Mike Anglin
(D-Ward 5) emphasized that
while construction will begin on
the Fuller Road parking structure
in the near future, the accompa-
nying transportation hub is still in
the initial design phase.
"The only permanent thing
we're getting is a parking struc-
ture," Anglin said.

Platforms
Potential Signature
Service Transit Line

HORSING AROUND

Future overhead
connection to
hospital
The structure will includeme
than 1,000 spaces, 78 percent
which will be reserved for Univ
sityuse, accordingto Jim Koste
the University's director of co
munity relations. That percenta
corresponds to the Universit
funding of the project, estimat
at around $45 million of the es
mated $60 million total cost.
The parkingstructure will a
include a covered bus waitingar
and space for bike racks and loc
in preparation for the possibil
of a transit center.
Kosteva said the structure w
most likely be operational by t
middle of 2012, in time for t


EAST MEDICAL CENTER DRIVE

UNIVERSITY
HOSPITAL 4 Source: City of Ann Arbor
ore opening of the new 12-story C.S.
of Mott Children's and Women's
er- Hospital.
va, He pointed outthatthe parking
m- structurewillprovidemuch-need-
ige ed parking to hospital employees,
y's patients and visitors.
ed Kosteva said that was the main
ti- reason the city approached the Uni-
versity regarding funding support.
lso He said that in 2005, the University
rea began planning a similar parking
ks, structure on Wall Street, near the
ity medical campus. However, the plan
fell through earlier this year, Koste-
till va said, when the University began
he negotiating with city officials about
he See TRANSPORTATION, Page 10A

WEATHER HI: 52 GOT A NEWS TIP?
LO: 35 Call 734-763-2459 ore-mail
TOMORROW news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

Medical School employee Pieter Kleymeer reaches for the ball during a game of bike polo yesterday on a basketball court near Palmer
Field. This three-year-old club is made up of University students and employees as well as students from other schools in the area.
BM INDEX NEWS .................................2A ARTS.. . . ..A...... A
es with Bloomberg Vol. CXX, No. 43 SUDOKU . ............................3A CLASSIFIEDS......................6A
GS/THE WIRE @2009TheMichigan Daily OPI N I O N.. . ..A SPORTSMONDAY. B
michigondaily.com4A SOTM NA.........1

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.CC
Video: Coleman talks 'U' financ
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOI

)


2A - Monday, November 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, November 9, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

. I DY:TUESDAY:
Othr-IoryTow rs Off the Beaten Path
A mini-skirt coi
Administrators at Bandeirante MARYLAND STUDE.
Univeroity in Sao Bernardo do PROTEST PROVOST'SF
Campo, Brazil cited disregard for
"ethical principles, academic digni- More than 600 students;
ty and morality" as justification for alumni and university offic
the expulsion of 20-year-old Geysi tested last Thursday the
Villa NovaeArruda, according to The of Cordell Black, associate
Associated Press. for equity and diversity at
The AP report said Arruda was versity of Maryland, The ID
escorted nut of clans by police last back reported.
month when she wore a pink mini- University of Marylan
dress and was taunted by hundreds dent Dan Mutt told T]
of students. During her departure mondback that the ren
students lined the halls and chant- the 30-year faculty mem
ed "whore." diversity administrator
The university took out anewspa- purely budgetary. Howes
per ad titled "Educational Respon- dents were told by Provo
sibility" Sunday to publicly state its man Farvardin that Black
opinion of Arruda's actions, accord- would continue to be an,
ing the AP. The ad claimed that the for the university, if hec
university had cautioned Arruda continue his work as a
against her clothing choices. French literature pr
Arruda said it was through the according to The Diamor
news media that she was informed Students and campus
of her expulsion. "I was the victim," will meet on Tuesday to pl
Arruda told Folha Online yesterday. course of action, accordinj
"How can thbe expelled? Its absurd." Diamondback.
CRIME NOTES
Blood sugar Elevator graffiti
meter stolen WHEN: Saturday at about 3:4t
WHEN: Friday at about 12 WHERE: Hutchins Hall
p.m. WHAT: Writing made with a
WHERE: University Hospital black marker was discovered
WHAT: A blood sugar meter inside an elevator, University
valued at $9oo was stolen, Police reported. There are no
University Police reported. suspects.
There are no suspects.
Cell phone taken
Scrub ants from Porta John
swiped
WHEN: Saturday at about 7:50
WHEN: Friday at about 4:25 p.m.
p.m. WHERE: University Golf
WHERE: University Hospital Course
WHAT: Scrub pants valued at WHAT: A caller reported her
$27 were stolen from the hospi- cell phone stolen after she acci-
tal gift shop sometime Thurs- dentally left it in a Porta John,
day, University Police reported. University Police reported.
There are no suspects. There are no suspects.

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

WHEELIN' AND DEALIN'

ntroversy

ENTS
FIRING
sfaculty,
cials pro-
removal
eprovost
the Uni-
Xamond-
d Presi-
bhe Dia-
noval of
hber and
wer, stu-
ost Nari-
kssalary
expense
opted to
tenured
rofessor,
ndback.
activists
Ian their
ig to The

UCONN STUDENT, ALUM
ARRESTED AT SEN. JOE
LIEBERMAN'S OFFICE
University of Connecticut stu-
dent Brittany Florio and UConn
alum John Mohrbacher were
among the nine people arrested
at Sen. Joseph Lieberman's (ID-
Conn.) office last Thursday while
protesting the senator's opposition
to health care reform legislation
that includes a public option.
On Capitol Hill, the students
demanded that Lieberman return
the money he accepted from Aetna,
a health insurance company, and its
employees.
According to Marshall Witt-
mann, communications director and
spokesman for Lieberman, the stu-
dents were disruptive and rejected
of staff. After disregarding warnings
from police, a number of the demon-
strators were arrested.
- JOELLE HECKER
LMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMTVAN
Editor in Chief Business Managee
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
gsaca@michigandailycom tmdbusinss@gmnaitecom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Ofiece hoars: Sun.-Thars. 11, ax. -2 am
News Tips news@nichigandaily.com
torrectiots s corectionsv@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor rertodaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@nichigandoity.con
Arts Section artspagegnichigandaiy.con
Editorial Pate opiione,@michigandaily.can
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com

Display Sales

display@michigandaily.com

9

TOHNSHARoANns/aily
Ann Arbor resident Stan taker displays his mralt at a pottery
demonstration at Clay G~atlery on Main Street Friday.

Blood battle Presentation on

0
L
l
-

competition voice habits

WHAT: University of
Michigan versus Ohio State
University in the 28th
annual blood drive competi-
tion.
WHO: Blood Drives United
WHEN: Today at 2 p.m.
WHERE: Stockwell and
Bursley Residence Halls
Translation
symposium
WHAT: A symposium
intended for students of all
majors features Ellen Elibs-
Bursac, War Crimes Tribunal
translator.
WHO: Comparative Litera-
ture
WHEN: Today at 10 a.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Euenzel Room

WHAT: Apresentation to
explore the importance of com-
munication in meetings, pre-
sentations and relationships.
WHO: The Center for the
Education of Women
WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: 330 E. Liberty
Music concert
WHAT: A concert of Ameri-
can music featuring different
quartets.
WHO: Phi Mu Alpha Sin-
fonia
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: E .V. Moore Build-
ing, McIntosh Theatre
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1The Transportation Secu-
rity Administration will
soon require names on
boarding passes to exactly
match names on identification,
ABC News reported.
2The University's Inno-
cence Clinic helped prove
the innocence of Michi-
gan resident Dwayne Prov-
ince, who served eight years in
prison for a murder he didn't
commit
FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
3'ACalifornia man stole
aRange Rover so that
he could makze it to his
arraignment for a previous
auto theft charge, The Boston
Globe reported. He said his
car had been impounded and
stealing the car was the only
way he could make it to court.

tlassitied Sates claaaifed@michigandaily.com
Onine Sales ontineads@mich~igaedaily.com
Finance financee@micthigaedaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Coantney Ratkowiak Manatingndinor ratkowniak@michigandaily.co
Jacob Snilooitz Managing esEditor smilovitzgmichigandaily.com
SENIORNEWxSEDITORS:eMa Aarsn,JilliannBe rn,,eor Calero, Jna
Skoller, Kyle Soanso,
ASSSTNTsNEsS EO S:Non icola Abe, ,Mallory Jons, nmily Orley, Stepanie
Steinber, EsnhwarThi,,navukkaraac
Rnbert Soave EditorialePae Editor saeemichigandaily.cem
ASSrOCITEnnnITORILoPEEDITnnORS: mnyntn,,Brian Fery,Rachel VansGilde
ASSISTAsNEITOnIALAEDITnORoSEmma Jeszke,nMatthewnhutter
Andy Reid ManaingSport ditor reidgmichigandaityecom
SNIsORnSPORTS EDIORnS:NicoleAuerbac,h Mik ini,Ian aya,nRut
LiclAlx Posperi
Kartje,,Chris Mesaro, Ryaneodges
David Wabnick ManagineArtsEditor watnick@michicandaiycom
SENIORnARToSEDITOS:aielock,WhitneyePow
ASSISTA5NTA EDT O~RS:sha Bar, Carlyn Klareki, AdrewLapinDaid Ria,
Zachary Meisner and photo@mich~igandailyecom
tiftReeder Managing Photo Edinors
SENIORPHOTO EDIOSSai Alalh,Chanl Vn abbug-Lohingn
ASSISTANTPHOTOsEDITORS:oa Cllin, ChisaDomak, Sam olsn
AngelatChih and design@michigandaity.com
Maureen Sych Manain esinintors
Jessica Vosgenchian MnagainenEditaorvosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchell topy Chirf oitceall@michigandaily.com
ASOCAE COYCHIEFelnieFied, Adiollstin
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lozwiak Sales Manager
nAE OnCEsMANAGER:nMolly Twigg
Ryan Businski tlassified Manater
CLASIFIED ASSISAT055MANAGR ayla La~ata
Den English ProductioeiManager
AlisonnSantacreU Layoar Mananee
Vioian LeeFinanenManaer
Brittany MralestCirclationManager
Brad WileyeProijecoordinatnr
The Michigan taily (ISSN 0745-9617 isnublihed Monday throgh Friday during thr tal and wintr
trmsnnby studentsattheUnvesitylofihinnecpy iavalabl feeof hanrgtall eadr.
Addtoalcopisnay brpikdpat thatlys offcefr $.Subseipiosforfalltr, atng in
Septebr,va U..alael$110nite teml(anuary thovh Al)s 1, elongoSepltember
thrvugh Aprl)lis $95. Unrsityvaffiliatsvarvbentto arddsbscipinat.O-ampus
subscriios r f all tem avelt3. Subscripioxnsut beprerpaid.ThreMichigan Dailyisa membr of
TherAsociated Prssand TheoiastdCllegatePes.

MORE ONLINE
Loon Crime Noes? Get more onlite at michiandaily.co/los/the wire\n.


0

0
0



10 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 9, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 9, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
" WASHINGTON
GOP officials say
Dems put agenda
ahead of country
Democrats just don't get the elec-
tion message from voters and are
pushing a liberal, big government
agenda at their party's peril, Repub-
lican officials said yesterday as they
predicted a political price after the
majority's victory on health care.
Voters are "tired of the borrow-
ing, the spending, the bailouts, the
takeovers," said Rep. Mike Pence of
Indiana, the No. 3 House GOP leader,
pointing to GOP victories in guberna-
torial races in Virginia and New Jer-
sey last week.
The Democratic-controlled House
narrowly approved a health care bill
Saturday night, with 39 Democrats
voting against it and a single Repub-
lican voting in its favor. President
Barack Obama's top domestic initia-
tive faces a high hurdle in the Sen-
ate, which must pass its own bill and
then negotiate a compromise with the
House to craft a final measure.
"On a narrow partisan vote, the
Democrats put their liberal, big gov-
ernment agenda ahead of the Ameri-
canpeople,"Pencesaid."IfDemocrats
keep ignoring the American people,
their party's going to be history in
about a year."
DENVER, Colo.
Man threatens
abortion doctor
With concerts and memorials
today, Germans will celebrate the day
the Berlin Wall came crashing down
20 years ago.
On that cold night, they danced
atop the wall, arms raised in victory,
hands clasped in friendship and giddy
hope. Years of separation and anxiety
melted intothe unbelievable reality of
freedom and a future without border
guards, secret police, informers and
rigid communistcontrol.
Germans are celebratingwith con-
certs boasting Beethoven and Bon
Jovi; a memorial service for the 136
people killed tryingto cross over from
1961 to 1989; candle lightings and
1,000toweringplasticfoamdominoes
to be placed along the wall's route and
tippedover.
On Nov. 9, 1989, East Germans
came in droves, riding their sputter-
ing Trabants, motorcycles and rickety
bicycles. Hundreds, then thousands,
then hundreds of thousands crossed
over the following days.
WASHINGTON
Obamato attend
memorial for Fort
Hoodvictirns

After weeks of debate, Iraq election
law passes, sets up national vote

Passage avoids crisis
that almost delayed
troop withdrawal
BAGHDAD (AP) - Iraq's parlia-
ment ended weeks of debate yes-
terday and passed a long-delayed
law paving the way for the planned
January election to go forward,
sidestepping a crisis that could have
delayed the U.S. troop withdrawal.
The decision appeared to resolve
a key sticking point - who will be
allowed to vote in the disputed,
oil-rich city of Kirkuk. The issue
had threatened to delay Iraq's key
parliamentary elections, which
in turn would affect how quickly
American combat forces could
leave the country.
In a sign of how intensely Wash-
ington was followingthe debate, U.S.
Ambassador Christopher Hill could
be seen shuttling between various
political factions before the law's
passage. President Barack Obama,
speaking at the White House, wel-
comed the new legislation.
"This is an important milestone
as the Iraqi people continue to take
responsibilityfortheirfuture.I want
to congratulate Iraq's leaders for
reaching this agreement," Obama
said. "The United States will con-
tinue to stand with Iraq as a strong
partner and as a friend."
Iraq's prime minister, Nouri al-
Maliki, in a statement posted on his
Web site, hailed the election law's
passage as a "historic victory of the
will of the people," and described it
as a strong response to the people
who are trying to undermine the

country's security.
The U.S. ambassador, speaking
to reporters after the vote, said the
American troop drawdown will
proceed asscheduled. Military com-
manders have said the U.S. troop
withdrawal would start in earnest
about 60 days after the vote, the idea
being that the country would be on
stable footing by then.
"What is important is that with
the election law, we are very much
on schedule for the drawdown," Hill
said.
Under the president's plan, all
U.S. combat troops will be out of the
country by the end of August 2010,
leaving about 50,000 trainers and
support troops, who in turn would
leave by the end of 2011.
It was not clear exactly when
the election would be held - Jan.

repeatedly delayed by sharp dis-
agreements over how voting would
take place in the northern city of
Kirkuk, claimed by both Arabs and
Kurds and a major flashpoint in the
country.
Kurds consider Kirkuk a Kurd-
ish city and want it part of their
self-ruled region in northern Iraq.
During the rule of former dictator
Saddam Hussein, tens of thousands
of Kurds were displaced under a
forced plan by Saddam to make
Kirkuk predominantly Arab, though
many of these have since returned.
The Arab-led central government
vehemently opposes anything that
would remove Kirkuk from its con-
trol.
Under the legislation passed yes-
terday, the vote in Kirkuk would

be held just like in other regions
around the country, but the votes -
and those in other disputed areas -
could be subject to a special review
if it is determined that there was a
large population increase.Arabs and
the Turkomens claim Kurds have
packed the city with immigrants to
tip the balance in their favor.
The legislation did not include
any guaranteed seats for Arab and
Turkomen lawmakers from Kirkuk,
something which had been dis-
cussed in earlier versions.
Both Kurds and Arabs appeared
to claim victory after the some-
times raucous parliament session
that was televised live on Iraq state
TV.
"This is a good law because it
occurred after broad agreement,

and it presents a solution to a prob-
lem that we have now solved. It
doesn't achieve all our (Kurdish)
ambitions, but it achieves a balance,"
said Mahmoud Othman, a Kurdish
lawmaker.
But Omar al-Jabouri, a Sunni
member of parliament, called the
voting "a great victory," because, he
said, Kurds were forced to accept
special circumstances in regards to
the Kirkuk voting.
The law passed with141votes, but
it was not immediately known how
many of the parliament's 275 mem-
bers voted against the legislation
or even attended the session. Low
turnouts are common in Iraq's par-
liament, which often does not have
enoughpeopletoformthenecessary
138-person quorum.

16 as originally planned or a later
date in January. The head of the
Independent High Electoral Com-
mission, Faraj al-Haidari, told The
Associated Press that he expected
the vote to be held within a week
of Jan. 16.
Deputy Parliament Speaker,
Khalid al-Attiyah said it would
likely be held January 21 or23. The
Iraqi constitution mandates that
the vote takes place inJanuary, but
does not specify which day.
Once the legislation is approved
by the president and his two vice
presidents, the election commis-
sion will decide how many days are
needed to hold the vote, al-Haidari
said. Then the commission will
send a letter to parliament and to
the prime minister to inform them
of their decision.
The law's passage had been

The Fr. Gabriel Richard Lectures
Cdlling us to exdmine current issues in light of our faith
Addressing Poverty in Troubled Times:
the U.S., North America and the World
4:00 p.m., Thursday,
November 12, 2009
Education Conference Center
School of Social Work
1 080 5. University Ave.,
Ann Arbor
Mary Jo Bane, Ph.D., Academic Dean
Kennedy School of Government,
Harvard University
Co-Sponsored By:
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
School of Social Work
St. Mary Student Parish
www.stmarystudentparish .org

rye $300 OFF
Review
ALL GRAD Courses:
M CAT #
10 Point - Avg Score Increase +MCAT +LSAT
12 Point -Top Quarter Increase
105 hours live instruction +GMAT5+GrRtEo
5 expert instructors
2010 MCAT Course
SO-2eviewPrincetonfleview.com start as arjye-ss Jan 6th.
Corner of S. University & S. Forest

President Barack Obama will
attend a memorial service tomorrow
honoring victims of the Ford Hood
shootings, an attack he described
as "all the more heartbreaking and
all the more despicable" because it
occurred on the nation's largest Army
post.
He praised those who ended the
shootings,whichkilled13 and wound-
ed 30 others, and lauded the armed
services' diversity - a move designed
to calm tensions about the suspected
shooter, Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan.
"They are Americans of every race,
faith and station. They are Christians
and Muslims, Jews and Hindus and
nonbelievers,"Obamasaid inhisradio
and Internet address Saturday, airing
the weekend before Veterans Day.
"They are descendants of immi-
grants and immigrants themselves.
They reflect the diversity that makes
this America. But what they share is a
patriotism like no other."
KALAMAZOO, Mich.
Western Michigan
opens Detroit-area
recruit center
Western Michigan University has
decided to open a recruiting office in
Royal Oak and plans to start offering
"new academic programming" in the
Detroit area as well.
The Kalamazoo-based school says
southeastern Michigan now supplies
37 percent of its students and says the
Royal Oak office gives it a presence in
the heart ofthe region.
The university says its three-year
lease starts Jan. 1.
New academic offerings in the
Detroit area would be through West-
ern Michigan's Extended University
Programs.
Vice Provost Keith Hearit says
Western Michigan has started talks
with Oakland Community College for
a partnership that could lead to stu-
dents starting their bachelor's degree
work at Oakland.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

H PV Fact:
It is estimatE
that ea
u Cin th
US, hereis
new case of


yCi I'

There's someth
Visi yoi


A


4A - Monday, November 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU

Je 1Jtit*gan &4atl

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

Let's say I'm uninsured, and I Will Obama's health caretbll I serious
ate out my eyes after " ive me new eyes
Lias blow halftime leads You need professionalhelp.
~f ~

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Justice in jeopardy
Innocence Clinic vital resource for wrongfully imprisoned
t's a sad reality that the justice system isn't perfect. One exam-
ple is the case of Dwayne Province, a Michigan man who
served eight years in prison for a murder he didn't commit.
But thanks to the involvement of the University Law School's newly
formed Innocence Clinic, Province is being released. This success
shows the importance of the Innocence Clinic, a group that works
to exonerate wrongfully convicted prisoners, and also highlights a
deeper problem within Michigan's justice system. Wrongfully con-
victed prisoners shouldn't have to depend on law student activists
to compensate for the mistakes of the justice system. Instead, the
state must reform its system of public defense and appeals.

Making the grade

Province was convicted in 2001 of the
murder of Rene Hunter. Province only
become a suspect after Larry Wiley, a key
witness for the prosecution, claimed that
Province and his brother were respon-
sible for the murder. But Wiley recanted
his testimony after being diagnosed with
cancer earlier this year. In response, Prov-
ince contacted the Innocence Clinic to
help him clear his name. After working on
the case for nine months, the Innocence
Clinic proved Province's innocence, using
Wiley's perjured testimony as proof and
uncovering police memos that incriminat-
ed a gang in the murder.
The Innocence Clinic is a great learn-
ing tool for law students, but it's also doing
important work to help wrongfully con-
victed people. Resources like the Inno-
cence Clinic fulfill a vital role in fixing the
mistakes of the justice system. The Inno-
cence Clinic has the potential to correct
those mistakes that get lost in the bureau-
cracy of the state's bloated justice system.
It is an invaluable resource for prisoners
who know they've been wrongly convicted
but can't make their case through conven-
tional channels.
But the Innocence Clinic can only do
so much, and it's unfair and unrealistic
to expect organizations like this one to
clean up the system's messes. Every indi-
vidual convicted of a crime deserves an
exceptional legal support staff. Michigan
is clearly in need of reforms to its justice

system so that innocence and guilt can be
fairly determined in every case.
One of Michigan's principal problems
is that its justice system suffers from
inadequate support for public defense.
Public defenders - lawyers appointed by
the state to defendants who can't afford
their own attorney - are overworked and
underpaid, increasing the number of mis-
takes made. In Detroit, public defenders
haven't been given raises in 30 years, so
many take more cases than they can han-
dle for the money. And funding for public
defense in Michigan is damagingly low,
so sometimes the necessary research to
prove a defendant's innocence isn't avail-
able. To make matters worse, Michigan's
court system is excessively restrictive and
rarely grants appeals.
These problems need to be addressed if
the state is going to reduce its number of
wrongful convictions - and eliminating
wrongful convictions should be the goal of
every justice system. People's lives hang in
the balance. It is a travesty of justice when
some people are incarcerated for years
for crimes they didn't commit because of
the barriers within the system to proving
innocence after a false conviction.
Dwayne Province was fortunate that
new evidence came to light and that the
Innocence Clinic was there to help him.
But all wrongfully convicted prisoners
deserve the same right to fight their con-
victions and prove their innocence.

There are wonderful things
about being a GSI.
Grading is not one of them.
For every hard-
ship we foist upon
students in the
form of an essay or
exam, our students
return the favor25,
50 or 75 times in
the form of exams
to grade or essays
to evaluate.
Some under- PATRICK
graduates - a dis- O'MAHEN
tinct minority, but
a vocal and annoy-
ing one - vigor-
ously question the qualifications of
GSIs to evaluate undergraduate work.
These studentseneedto take a deep
breath, count to 10 and realize that
GSIs and professors puta great deal of
work into developing clear, fair grad-
ing standards for exams and papers.
All GSIs have stories about stu-
dents who just couldn't accept their
grade. I once had a student formally
challenge six of the seven grades
she earned on essays. Another stu-
dent once followed me around for
10 months whining about the 'C'
he earned on his final exam essay
because he "needed" to get into law
school. He even thought it would be
a good idea to call my personal cell
phone before 8 a.m. to plead his case.
My personal favorite was the
student who failed a midterm and
refused to accept that there could
possibly be anything wrong with his
exam other than me not being able
to read his handwriting. He seemed
quite offended that I wasn't willing to
serve as his personal typist on future
exams to eliminate the problem.
So how did I justify his grade?
The blunt answer is I know a great
deal more than my students about the

topic I teach, and Ijudged his answer
worth a 'C-.' Deal with it, punk. E
The more nuanced answer is that
GSIs spend quite a bit of time devel-
oping questions that try to objective-
ly measure knowledge. We endlessly3
discuss grading rubrics and rigor-
ously cross-check our grades to bes
sure that we're awarding similarc
grades to similar answers. t
Last term, for example, I taughtt
a course in which the lion's share
of GSI-professor meetings were
devoted to discussing specific mul-
tiple choice questions for quizzes
and exams. After an hour, we would
leave the meeting having analyzed
and reworded each question within
an inch of its life. We were reason-
ably happy that we were asking clear,
challenging and fair questions about
the subject material.
That work was worth it, becausec
multiple choice questions are the best1
way to measure objective knowledge.c
A well-written multiple choice ques-
tion removes all of the subjectivity c
of grading. Jeffrey Mondak, a politi-
cal scientist at the University of Illi-t
nois who studies Americans' relatives
levels of political knowledge, wrote1
in an American Journal of Political
Science article entitled "Developing
Valid Knowledge Scales" that simply
asking someone to identify Joseph 7
Biden might lead to a number of cor-
rect answers including "U.S. Vicet
President," "a Democrat" and "thatc
guy with a really bad comb-over."
Scoring a correct answer introduces1
levels of subjective judgment. In
contrast, a multiple choice questionj
with four incorrect answers and
one answer stating "vice president"
clearly tests knowledge of Biden's
political significance.
The problem is that multiple
choice questions are only good at
testing simple forms of knowledge.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

0
Theycan'tdo much to measure deep-
er understanding and nuanced rea-
soning, which is the point of going to
college in the first place. That's why
we make you write essays and show
your work when you do calculus
problems: We want you to demon-
strate your mastery of more compli-
cated subjects. Of course, evaluating
these ideas necessitates the subjec-
tive judgment of an instructor.
Sometimes, you
really do deserve
that'C-' grade.
To cancel out unwarranted bias in
our subjective grading, GSIs spend
long hours working together to go
over essay questions after the tests
and papers get turned in. We look
over each other's students' papers,
arguing over what grade to assign
them. We usually agree quickly,
although a few cases always prove to
be tricky.
But even with all that work, we
still get questions. Many questions
are reasonable requests for expla-
nations and many students go away
with a better understanding of why
they earned a particular grade. And
occasionally, GSIs do make mistakes.
But at the end of the day, a few
blissfully ignorant and profoundly
stubborn students still want us to
justify an essay grade.
Again, here's the answer: Because
we're teachers, we know more than
you about the subject-of this course,
and we say so.
-Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Jamie Block,
William Butler, Ben Caleca, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
WILLIAM BUTLER I
Losing faith in the papacy

Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Daily letter's argument against Teach for America offers work
school millage was flawed experience, chance to give back

0

0

I went to Catholic school for six years and,
despite not actually being Catholic, I loved my
education there. Many of my friends berate
Catholicism for being a dogmatic and nar-
row-minded religion, but I usually defend the
Catholic Church and enlighten them on the
liberal stances the Church has on the poor, the
distribution of wealth, the death penalty and
war. But as Pope Benedict XVI's papacy has
continued, and with his recent announcement
to basically accept homophobic Anglicans back
into the Catholic fold, I am finding it harder
and harder to defend this religion.
On Oct. 20, 2009, the Vatican released an
Apostolic Constitution creating a new Angli-
can Rite within the Catholic Church. The
decree is aimed at those who are disgruntled
with the Anglican Church's acceptance of
homosexuality and ordination of gay and
female clergy. Pope Benedict XVI is allowing
Anglican Church members to join the Catholic
Church, and is seeing to it that certain Angli-
can traditions, like married priests and aspects
of their liturgy, are preserved. He is effectively
pandering to fundamentalist Anglicans. Catho-
lics should feel appalled by this. Not only does
it continue to diminish the Catholic Church's
stance within the secular world, it furthers the
image of Catholicism as a hateful and bigoted
religion.
The Vatican spun this as an ushering in of a
new era of Christian unity, using the papacy to
fill a bigger role in Christian dialogue. But Pope
Benedict XVI's offer is not a sign of openness
but a consolidation of hate, solidifying a coali-
tion of those who stand so fervently against
gay rights and female clergy. The pope is using
the new members he will receive to drown out
calls for reform and progress within the Catho-
lic Church, and his decision is marking a dark
day for anyone hoping for dialogue about social
equality within the Catholic community.
This decision comes shortly after Pope
Benedict XVI's reinstatement of four excom-
municated bishops in January. All belonged
to a Catholic society that stood in protest of
the modernizing reforms of the Second Ecu-

menical Council of the Vatican, which led to
speculation about the pope's support of Church
reformations. One reinstated bishop even made
comments denying the existence of the Holo-
caust, damaging years of effort to ease Jewish-
Christian tensions and furthering the disunity
caused by this papacy.
Both of these examples are evidence of Pope
Benedict XVI growing his conservative fac-
tion. By doing so, he shuts off communication
to progressives not only within the Church but
also in the secular world. This is more dan-
gerous than anybody seems to realize. A rel-
evant Catholic Church, one that speaks to the
secular world and acknowledges its stances as
well, can be an incredibly powerful voice. It
can become an advocate for increased human
rights, economic equality and non-violentreso-
lutions. Historically, the Church fulfilled this
role in the nineteenth century. After all, it was
the Catholic Church that played a major part in
workers' rights movements and gave voices to
oppressed people, such as those in El Salvador.
The Catholic Church doesn't have to stand
in accordance with every opinion of the secu-
lar world, and indeed it shouldn't. It has a
right to its own opinion. But as Pope Benedict
XVI's papacy reaches further and further into
the traditionalist base, the Church becomes
less and less significant to actual changes in
peoples' lives. It negates itself and becomes a
meaningless institution with no power outside
of itself.
A growing number of people will continue
to support the morality of homosexuality and
the ordination of women and gay clergy. This
is an inevitable truth. The Vatican has a choice
to either examine its own stance and begin an
open dialogue or simply ignore the opinions
of more progressive members. The choices of
Pope Benedict XVI, specifically with the cre-
ation of the new Anglican Rite,.reflect the lat-
ter, which ostracises non-traditionalists and
continues the Catholic Church on a dangerous
path toward irrelevancy.
William Butler is an LSA freshman.

TO THE DAILY:
The views expressed on the Daily's editorial page
on Thursday advanced several flawed arguments with
regard to student support for the millage and participa-
tion in the election that we, the College Democrats, must
address (Students wrong to push millage on property own-
ers, 11/05/2009).
The millage would have helped fill the gap in K-12 edu-
cation funding that the state legislature created with its
drastic cuts to the budget for this fiscal year. Tax revenue
has fallen due to the state of the economy which, com-
bined with the Republican-controlled Senate's decisionto
block any new revenue sources, made program cuts inevi-
table. Educated students are the foundation of Michigan's
economic recovery. Michigan's students will not only cre-
ate a more capable workforce but also spur the growth of
new industry in the state.
As University students, we recognize early education as
a stepping stone for higher achievement. Andrea Siklosi's
letter on student election participation was, therefore,
fundamentally flawed. First of all, she is simply incorrect
to assert that the millage would not have affected Uni-
versity students. Many students rent houses off campus
- the millage would have levied a tax on these proper-
ties and landlords would have passed it onto tenants as a
rent increase. Her reasoning reflects a fundamental lack
of understanding of basic economic principles and hous-
ing realities at the University.
But in any case, it's ridiculous to suggest that participa-
tion in the political process should be contingent on pay-
ing taxes. By Siklosi's logic, students probably should not
have the right to vote at all, because they do not contrib-
ute a significant amount to total tax revenues. Addition-
ally, her piece implies that votes cast by wealthier people
(who typically pay higher taxes) ought to be weighted
more heavily than votes cast by people of lesser economic
status. This backward logic is absurd. our country decid-
ed long ago that the franchise should not be conditional
on wealth or property. It's tragic to see that some stu-
dents on this campus have forgotten our nation's history
of restricted voting rights.
We are disappointed that the millage failed to pass and
students in Washtenaw County will suffer substantial
cuts in their education as a result of the voters' decision.
But policy debates aside, we are insulted that this edito-
rial page would carry pieces tarnished with such absurd
reasoning.
College Democrats is a group of students who are
interested in Democratic and progressive politics. We are
unashamed about any of our activism and we will con-
tinue to support efforts in Ann Arbor and throughout the
state of Michigan.

TO THE DAILY:
Students growing up in low-income communities, many
of whom are African-American or Hispanic, face daunting
challenges from the moment they are born. These students
frequently aren't given a sense oftheir potential to achieve at
high levels. I can personally remember countless incidents
of being labeled as less capable than others simply because
of where I was born and the color of my skin. It's clear to
me now that I was never less capable. But even with support
fromboth of my parents, I remember thinking I wasn't good
enough. Ijoined TeachForAmericabecause I realized I had
the opportunity to serve as an example of success for stu-
dents coming from similar backgrounds as my own. It's the
type of example that is tangible, not one that students hear
or read about but one they have the opportunity to develop
a personal relationship with. It's the type of example that I
craved as a child in order to truly believe I was capable of the
potential my parents said I had.
As a first-year teacher in the Houston IndependentSchool
District, I'malreadybeginningtounderstand howpowerful
this example can be for my first graders. One ofmy students,
who I will call Natalie, recently approached me and said,
"Ms. James, guess what? I want to be a teacher just like you
when I growup." Natalie is one of 31 students I willhave the
opportunity to work with this year.
The daunting and exciting thing is that there are so many
students like Natalie across our country - students who are
simply waiting to be given the educational opportunities
they deserve. Here in Houston, 77 percent of Caucasian 10th
graders in HISD met grade-level requirements on state-
administered exams, while only 41 percent of Hispanic
students and 35 percent of African-American students met
minimum grade-level standards on the same exams. There
is a desperate need in low-income communities for more
teachers who can serve as models of success in education
and in life and who will do whatever it takes to make sure
their students achieve at high levels.
Teach For America has given me the opportunity to help
fight one of our nation's greatest injustices. I will have the
chance to impact students that face challenges similar to
ones I encountered. As a Teach For America participant, I
have the opportunity to inspire a passion for learning and
a sense of self-esteem in each of my students. It's by far the
most difficult and rewarding challenge I have faced to date.
As University students, we are uniquely positioned to
expand the academic potential and life prospects of stu-
dents growing up in low-income communities. We know
what it takes to succeed and we are committed to making
sure others have the same higher education opportunities
we received. I urge you to join me in working to give every
student like Natalie the opportunity to someday attend the
University of Michigan and lead her own classroom.

Samuel Marvin Andrea James
Chair of the University's chapter of the College Democrats Alum

t

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 9, 2009 - 5A

The ichganDaiy -michganailcomMonay, oveber9, 009- 5

The death of the album

Making your music lo-fi doesn't make it sincere.
It doesn't make it more "authentic." The ramshackle
charm of Io-fi music can often add a nice sentimental
charge to an already-electrified song (Slanted and
Enchanted by Pavement, Bee Thou-
sand by Guided By Voices, the
early '90s in general). That said, it
should not be used as a crutch or a
substitute for dynamic songman-
ship. And really, it should not be a
genre, though it happens to lend
itself well to quirky, sleeve-on-
heart indie music.
But today, with Garage Band
" and the advent of laptops as portable,
do-it-yourself recording studios, the "lo-fi" aesthetic
has mutated into a bandwagon of egalitarian mim-
,icry and massive carrying capacity. Anyone can be
a musician now. And as much as I love free artistic
expression, the increasingly rapid rate at which gen-
uine ingenuity is flung into the populist meat grinder
for mass reproduction is dizzying.
A few years ago, Animal Collective was still
skimming the waters of the indie underground, pos-
sessing a sort of subterranean mystique. I remem-
bering hearing Collective for the first time and
being absolutely repulsed. The banshee wails and
possessed-baby gurgling noises turned me off to the
point where I deemed it "not music." While this was
largely a sign of my musical greenness at the time,
the point is that the music was subversive enough
to scare away aKid A-bred 12th-grader. And the
inimitable style of this truly unconventional band
has slipped on some lubricating hype, spread like
wildfire across the Internet though cattle-call blogs
and forums and been snatched up by rabid indie ama-
teurs across America to be stuffed and conventional-
ized for the "mainstream underground."
While chip-off bands like The Dodos provide for
some good, combustible freak-folk, they're a hell of a
lot less freaky than Animal Collective. The Dodos lift
the surface features of Animal Collective (the tribal
yells and frenetic, rim-clacking percussion) and
streamline them into more conventional song struc-
tures - which isn't to rip on The Dodos. It's simply
to say that technological advancements have made
it incredibly easy for anyone with sufficient passion
and drive to arrange the spare parts of their favorite
bands into serviceable but derivative pastiches.
This do-it-your-self mentality has even manifested
itself in the way we listen to music. While the art of
mix-making far outdates the On-The-Go playlist,
MP3 players have certainly stunted our dependence
on the album as a cohesive artistic statement. Back
in the age of the Walkman, there was no "shuffle." I
mean, most Walkmen came equipped with the ability
to listen to a single CD in random order - but, hon-
estly, what fun is that?
iPod nanos, with their relatively small storage
sizes, are far better suited to compiling an archive
of your personal greatest hits than stockpiling an
extensive album collection. And, with so many
people trafficking music on the Internet nowadays,
it's come down to the sheer logistical fact that songs,
with their compact file sizes, are going to enjoy way
more broadband movement than digitally bulkier

albums. We have entered the era of the single-serv-
ing song, and this cultural trend has been picked up
on and exploited by legitimate digital music super-
markets like iTunes.
This may seem like small potatoes, but when you
open up iTunes, the first chartyou're hit with is the
Top Singles chart. You have to manually scroll down
just to get to the Top Albums chart. And the store's
marketing technique of selling individual songs for
roughly twice the price of a gumball and promoting
them with 30-second preview clips has certainly
exacerbated our generation's cultural ADD. Not only
are people buying albums less, they're basing these
single-serving purchases on whether or not a micro-
ad can hook them instantly. No one is going to have
any conception for the scope and value of a 25-min-
ute jazz opus based on the hunk-of-piano-solo a
30-second preview provides. And, consequently, peo-
ple are going to be less inclined to buy iton iTunes.
What you get is the death of the album. Or, in
slightly less hyperbolic terms, the devaluing of the
album in the context of popular culture. The world
has caught rock star fever - everyone's either pining
to be the next bedroom indie darling or stir-frying
their own On-The-Go mishmashes of other artists'
work. This may all seem like a big load of apocalyptic
over-generalizing, but there's certainly been a grow-
ing streak of narcissism in music, an art form often
toted as the universal language.
Everyone's making songs,
and everyone's making
them badly. Computers
are killing music.
The "indie" genre, a faction of music typically cor-
related with artistic innovation and out-of-the-box-
ed-ness, has been busted open to the mainstream by
programs like Garage Band. Matt Bradish, owner of
local record store Underground Sounds, asserts that,
while he is a fervent supporter of local artists, he
doesn't feel inclined to sift through the landslide of
self-released music he receives.
"It's just too easy to make stuff and release it
(these days). There's a glut of releases out there that
have no place being released," he says.
French economist Jacques Attali even goes so far
as to wonder if there will ever be a point in the future
when the ability to compose music becomes so uni-
versal, and the world's musical library so vast, that
"musician" will lose its status as a viable career option
- everyone will simply be his or her own composer.
But, as terrifying as this sounds, we haven't
reached the end just yet - we still have Wavves. And
for that, we should be thankful.
Bayer wrote this column on Garage Band. Obviously
that doesn't make sense, but who cares? If you wanna
hang out with him, e-mail him at jrbayer@umich.edu.

Fashion 's birth

Co
lo
first
Coc
forefri
fashiot
at the
breaki
indust
ily in
men
simple
design
this bi
about
about
aspirat

co Chanel biopic way to the top.
"Coco Before Chanel"traces
oks at fashion's Gabrielle "Coco" Chanel's humble
journey from orphan to showgirl to
t lady before fame mistress to hatmaker. She becomes
the lover of two men and the wife
By JENNIFER XU of none. She never had a dream of
Daily Arts Writer being a fashion designer, and the
movie doesn't pretend otherwise.
o Chanel catapulted to the Not until the last few frames of the
snt of the film is her vast empire of clothing,
n world **** bags and fragrances even men-
age of 40, tioned. Instead, it features scenes
ng into an Coco Before from her younger years; clearly,
ry primar- C n the emphasis is on Coco before
habited by Chanel.
with her Atthe Playing the eponymous pro-
elegant Michigan tagonist is Audrey Tautou ("Ame-
s. But Sony lie"), gamine and aloof all at once.
opic is not Tautou is truly Audrey Hepburn
fashion or men. Instead, it's reincarnated, evoking an untouch-
a woman with high-society able elegance even while dressed
tions steadily clawing her in whoreish corsets and garish

frills. But where Tautou excels is in
the exploration of Chanel's ambi-
tion, her unquenchable desire to
be fabulous and rich and her will-
ingness to do anything to get to the
top. Chanel is not always a likable
person, or an admirable person, yet
Tautou is able to temper Chanel's
unstoppable determination with
her own doe-eyed innocence.
"Coco Before Chanel" is all
about female empowerment, yet
it doesn't go the predictable route
of chronicling Chanel forging her
way through a male-dominated
industry. Instead, she attains lib-
eration through independence
from love. The film's key conflict
lies in Chanel resolving whether
she wants to attain status through
hard work or remain a mistress in a
loving, yet stifling relationship. In
See CHANEL, Page 8A



-U

THERE ARE
THREE
KINDS OF WG
IN THIS eU O U
WORLD.
2 5 48 6
4 3 9
6 9 5 g
WEAREALL 2 7
OF THEM. 7 3
8 6 9
s 8
WRITE FOR 9
DAILY ARTS.

HPV Fact:
Yov CNu r b oyfriend
the virus
that causes
There's something you can do.
entrer.


For an application, e-mail
battlebots@umich.edu.



6A- Monday, November 9, 2009
0

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOR SALE
1 BDRM CONDO, 67 K, Packard Rd-
clean, quiet, new appliances. Email:
Lskrdla(i hotmail.com
PARKING
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
AUTOMOTIVE
1993 FORD ESCORT Low Miles
Very clean, Sharp looking $2695
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1993 PONTIAC GRAND Am Se
Sporty, dependable ride $1495
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 MERCURY MOUNTAINEER
AWD V-8, runs great $2995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1998 JEEP GRANDCherakee
4x4 Runs and loks great $5995
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1999 CHEVY MALIBU
Runs great, Very clean $2795
810-229-9750 www.ctnas.com
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC.
810-225-9750
100% Guaranteed Financing
BUY HERE PAY HERE, LEASE
TO OWN
FOR RENT
! 3 BDRM Apts on East U.!
Furn, high ceilings, hardwood irs,
deck off back, on site parking, heat &
water ml. Pepper Properties 810-231-
0229. www.uttcampushousing.com
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
vate baths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now, lock in great rates. Limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlfts.com
Now Taking
Reservations!
Large 2 Bedroom Apts!
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@posrealyproperies.com
! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.170
nancylatlg/umich.edu,
www.nancyla.com
"! CORNER HOUSE APTS !! 2 & 3
bdrms lts of closet space, flat screeu
tvs, todern frniture & ttch morel
741-9300 anarborapartments.net
!!!AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Avail.
on Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free prkg,
Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Locaion! Remdeled! Fireplacecol
kitchen. Free parkig. Must see (313-
215-8115. jkrizman@ford.com
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.

refthe 4 c
2 mOaced ando f
20 Locations to Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Sta
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome'
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
713 Church- 3 bedroom house
Across from East Quad- near B School
2 kitchens, 2 baths, full basement, laun-
dry, on site parking, furnished, no pets,
no smoking. Call Ann 734-320-1244
or cimgtlcg/yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurmished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtlc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!!! 4 BDRM house. May '10. Mary Ct.
IM bldg. Prkg. $2290. 845-399-9904.
m' 6-BDRM, 2 Bath. Colonial on
CENTRAL CAMPUS (1143 S.Forest
Ave.). 5 mn. walk to cllege with 2 Re-
frigerators/Microwave/toaster/Sink/
Free laundary/Private deck/Ample park-
ing. (MAY 2010)-Call (734) 578-4625.
Bdrm. Units
T9 ower Plaza Condominium
734-66313
10 BED HOUSE Beautifful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or email
ctraband?%archrealtyco.com
!!AWESOME 4 bdrm near B-schoo .
Free prkg. lndry. Avail. Fall '10.
734.223.7777.
* NOW LEASING FOR 2010
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
ww w.annarborapartments.net
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrms with 1.5
baths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
ern furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www.aunarbrapartsents.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
EXTRA LARGE HOUSES on Cen-
tral Campus near Hill and Oakland, can
accomodate up to 20 people. Several
options available for Fall 2010, Call
Arch Realty at 734-995-9200.

NOW LEASING
FOR 2010!
GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATI ON
TOUR TODAY!

15 DIFFERENT
LOCATIONS?!

1-4 bedroom apts.
$ 0artinfat cr
FREE stlUNCH!T
FREE high speed Internet
All utilities included
Fully Furnished
'"-U"'t Washe'/D'ye'
Ask yo u Can t ceive
$150 gift card and
FREE .UNCH!
TH COURTYARDS
ST TU D E N T A P AR TM E N TS
1780 Broadway (734) 994 - 6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DRINK
WITH EVERY NEW TOUR. Studio,
1, 2 or 3 bedrooms with great City
views could be yours - secure your
apartment today!!! 734-761-2680
info~au-towers.com
I BEDROOMS STARTING at
$553.00. This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 info(&,u-towers.com

CHOOSE FROM EFFICIEN-
CIES, 1, AND 3 BED-
ROOMS, 8I-LEVELSAND
TRI-LEVELS TOO!
Call today for an appointment
and visit our websitel
734-761-8000
wwwprimeshocom
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. Large modern kitchen, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and much more! 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement
wshr./dryer. No coin laundry, front/
back porch. 2 fridges. 502 Benjamin.
Call 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
www.varsitymonagement.com
S Varsit

www.varsitymanagement.com
Varsity
Management
625 ChurchSt.
(734) 668-1100
Now scheduling
appointments
November
13, 14, & 15
Call to schedule your tours!
1-,5 bdrms & Houses
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site *
parking. For mare information call
Laura at ChurchrStreet Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
in 2551 t II
Voted "Best
Apartments"
in 20091
Reserve your
fully-furnished room,
studio, 1, 2, or 3 bedroom
apartment for 201012011.
Save your style!

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Chevy muscle 34 Hwy. 47 Quick trip that's
1 Sends a car 35 Miley Cyrus, for "run"
duplicate to, for 3 Puts on, sa n ed 49 Foot-long stick,
shunt sham 38 Beady-tnt-the- often
4 Half-baked, as 4 Gators' kin worsstatus 50 Reeling from a
ideas 5 Steak order 37 Gobble down blow
9 Tended 6 Yours, in Paris 38 Wild blue yonder 52 Tibetan priest
14 Fink 7 Criticize in a witty 39 Camera type, for 53 Native
153:1 or 7:2, e.g. way short Nebraskan
16 asytn 8 Classic chocolate 42". So Fine": 54 "Law & Order"
understand drink brand 18036#1 h0t gy.
17 Thurman who 9 Picket line 431s 55 Jagged rock
played June in crossers 45 On fire 56 "Let's call _
"Henry & June" 10 Alan of 46 Hard to move day!"
18 Maine college "MAS*H" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
lawn 11 Afuent
19 Improvise lines 12 Sudden and F O O T R U B P A N A C E A
20Toythatmight precipitous T H R E E N O A N I M A L S
answer '"t in downurn S H A R I F S S T ! R E S
decidedly so" 13 Sphere
23 Puborders 21 Pacific islandon M E N D E N N Y S I M I
24 W.Hemisphere which a I N 0 A D I10S B E G
deense gp. memorableWIIT R E 5 5 A TT B O N N
25"Cats" poet's photo wastaken HYSSOP S E L O U T S
monogram 22 Audible dane
27 Average style I N RO OMFAX
28 Ancient moralist 26Job listing initials C R O S S O F F A N T E G G
31 Despair's 28 Northern diving R E N T S C A T D 0 U R 0
opposite bird A D E OSHA P R A T
32 Knight tightm 2 Aasrney abbr. F LAW T U T E E S O N O
34 Imus medium 30 Fill, asnwith
355Sly inquiry padding V I C E L C R BaRnEOW P 0 B
39Appearsnobe 31 Styling goo ENTREE AIC ERA H N L
40 Charlatan 33 Miltaryltraining D E 5 P I S EERIE T Y P C D
dl Helen otTroy's acad.ry g wordeditor@aol.com E Y11/wo
mother
42OneZipbag 1 2 3 4 6 6 7 a8 10 11 12 13
maker
44 Strung wind 14 1516
48 Cell
"messenger,
49 Critic Reed
hO Barbecue m2 25 a
equipment brand
51 Cesar Millan dog- 27 2 29 30 31
training
apparatus 32 33 34
00 Jutright
57 Packaging foam 35 36 37 36
prefix
58 Cavity fillers' org. " 40
59 Crooner Mel 4i 42 a 44 as 4sa 7
60November
bitsann 46 a46s
61 Meditative sect
62 Where many 51 62 64 54 5
vows are
exchanged 665
63 Covered with
marsh vegetation s6 6061
04 Finish
62 63 64
DOWN
1 Bread bits B ureavrsC.,Silk .11/09/09
(c)a009TribuneMdiaSie, Ine 1. 1/0

Management
Forest Edge Apartments ()hurchS st.
(734) 668-100
1315 Hill St. 1109 S. State St.
5-Bedroom House
Finished Basement
Beautifu hardvood floors,
right acrs t street from the tM
uildin, len f yrin!
502 BENJAMIN - 6 Bed/2bah house
on central campus. Great location. Up-
dates being completed. May or Sept '-
10 lease. $3200/month. 734-478-6061
Now Leasing for www.tillwoodpin.com
8 BEDROOM HOUSE I block from
May 2010!! Rackham, 2 blocks from the Medical
May Center Grea for Nursing Stdents!
3 and 4 bedrooms available! Furnished souse wit h2kithens, 4
bathrooms, Dishwasher, and parking.
Located near E. Ann and Ingalls. Call
734-995-9200 or email
Call TdaI rctraband(aarchrealtyco.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
WHY RENT-WB EN you can -Buy? parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Check out all of the available proper- Fall 2010. dklempnerdcomcast.ne
ties for sale in the area. ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768 room at $491. 2 bedroom at $714 w/ 2
&agthu..ree. Call Naw!? 73- t846. --
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
the shadow of U of M hospital on g
Fuller. Furmished, heat, water and park- Vauh 2 fridge, free flooparking f dple . 2
ing istcluded. Move in today. Call Cain- bath, i2 frdgSeptemfreaerkingarcas.
pu nag eent 734-663-410C1. am Easy in/nut. Septeimber lease. $3390.
pus Managemen734-734-426-9437.
5 & 6 BEDROOMS
AVAILABLE2010O
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
R REA L TY 852 BROOKWOOD - 4 Bedroom
ouse fr ren. Large roms, kitens
N ow Leasing it dishwasher, parking. Sept '10
N0 10 _2O 11! Lease - $2300/month. 734-478-6061
2010-2011! www.hildwoodp.com
SAAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
Apartments and Houses lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
A tmentHoseandsbaths. Add FREE internet, HD diecv
Up to 14 HoUses with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
5 Bedrooms ments! Call today to reserve your new
S22 M onroe home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.anarborapartmens.ne
611 Church (Brand New!) AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. frn.
1021 E. University apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
1709 S. Uni versity Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
9170S.nivAVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses.
9)6 Sy bil For pics/info call 610-952-5269 or
email loisbreskmanryahoo.con
6 Bedrooms AVAIL. FALL 2010, 1205 E. Univer-
1619 S. University sity, 6 ig bdrm. Furn., prkg., 3 full
baths, Irg. common room., ldry., dw-
917 S. State shr., $3795. 248-374-1688.
722 Packard NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
705 SDivision Drive-in garage. Cathedral ceiling livin-
groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo.
734-516-4291. gnnerbl7@aol.com
7 Bedrooms STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
722 rborwalking distance of central campus,
722 Arbor parking included. Avaiablei mmedi-
933 S. State ately. Call Campus Management 734-
1015 Packard 663-410.
8 Bedrooms
200 Ingalls
1302 S. Forest
9 Bedrooms City Convenience
1130 S. Forest
1619 S. University immediate
11 Bedrooms Openings!
1014 Vaughn SPACIOUS 1, 2,&3
BEDROOM TOWNHOMES
12 Bedrooms sindividuaiprivatc casemens
328 Williams Curronly gs feet-coin&bt water included
- Children & pets welcome
-Minus to downtown, shops & universities
14 Bedrooms :tid ay move-out noic
915 Oakland - 24iu'm"cyi "aitn"ac"
Rates from $4140 based on total household
-aincome. Equity shares range from$8080-998which
pt ~ aPZ71y/ei nrease in value the longer you reside in the m-
For details call erative. The shares are refundable upon moveout.
616 Church Street Forest Hills Cooperative
2351 ShadowoodDrive
734-995-9200 Ann Arbor
www.archrealtyco.com , 7349719270 ttiu99

INES! Your atention please!-
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and-some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
APARTMENTSAVAILABLE 10-11
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
*Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Ameities varies by location
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. F., I bdm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lnkers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
May 2010
Houses Available
7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3600
4 Bed. 505 Souer Ct. $2340
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPO/DEINCS
(734)996-1991
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Fer
prkg/Indry, by L aw School, $1550. 734-
717-6913.kyLiharrsitlc dlmcast.ne
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 Irg bdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/Indry, by Law School, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharislc@comcast.ne
AVAIL. MAY. 4 bdrm 2 bath. Wash-
er/dryer. Parking. $2120/mo + utl.
1037 Packard. (734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE NOW OR January 1 or
2 bdrm. on S. Forest near South U. 734-
996-2836.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010
1225 White-6 bdrm
1133 White-7 bdrm
734-564-2125
www.keysmanagement.net
LARGE 4 BEDROOMS, large living
room, large attic, approved for 6, 852
Brookwood. Prkg., porch, wshr./dryer,
no coin laundry, dishwshr., garage.
Basement. 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
FALL 2010 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
7 510 Catherine $3700
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 415 N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3600
6 605 E. Hoover $3600
6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $28000
4 509 Sauer Ct $2000
4 09 Sybil $2240
4 1117 S.Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer Ct $2000
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991

" Heat & Water Included
* Fitness Center & Pool
* 24 Hr. Lobby Attendent
* Secure Entmy Building
*Central U-M Campus
" Free Food & More!

3 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
slop, Avail. Now, MayFall 10, Heal
& water inel. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail an central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.con or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
!6-8 Bedroom Large Houses!
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 White St.~ & 1237
White Street. Close to campus. Furn.,
free on site Indry & prkg. Hardwood
firs, open basement, fenced in yards.
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
! CENTRAL CAMPUS !
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
www.HorvathProperties.com
LARGE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shsore Dr Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Car port,Wshr/Dyr, $950/mo.,
all appliances, water included. Call 734-
395-5288. Pfkiani@gmail.com
CJ e cd igan aily
P RE SE N TS TH E

0

Online Classified cl
Rental2Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

Is

lo

a

a

i


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 9, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 9, 2009 - 1A

"We're here for the gang bang."

- Dried-up 'Fo
1980s mainstays intention and soaring vocals -
ironic, considering frontman Ian
can't get with McCulloch's public condemna-
tion of stadium mainstay U2.
modern times Regardless, the song is refresh-
ing, fitting snuggly in the Bun-
By KEVIN MEYER nymen catalogue with its musical
For theDaily simplicity. The rest of the album,
however, feels like a frustrating
Despite what Echo & the Boo- attempt to repeat the magic of
nymen might hope, it's not the the song's opening four minutes.
'80s anymore. The British post- While some other cuts recapture
punk outfit formed in 1978 when bits and pieces of fleeting wonder
its original line- - like "Drivetime" with its soar-
up consisted of ing guitars and folksy vocals, and
three men and a the plain, upbeat "Do You Know
drum machine. E Who I Am?" - the inspiration is
The Bunnymen scattered sparingly among luke-
have come a long BuflYmef warm compositions.
way since then, The Fountain While most of the tracks offer
releasing 11 stu- Ocean Rain competent meat-and-potatoes
dio albums, most arena rock, they rarely rise above
of which climbed mediocrity and are simply for-
toward the summits of the UK gettable. Thanks to the unvaried
charts. On The Fountain, though, song structures and their lifeless,
Echo & the Bunnymen seem to detached execution, the album
have lost the creative juices that feels like a run-on sentence. As
made them so popular during their Fountain progresses, the tracks
'80s heyday. quickly become background
The Fountain jumpstarts with music.
"Think I Need It Too," a dreamy, Lyrically, the record offers
provoking track that feels like dull generalities about middle-
it came straight out of an arena aged apathy. Many of the tracks
_ benefit concert with its epic are full of repetitive verses and

intain'
half-baked choruses that sound
thrown together in a rushed stu-
dio operation. An exception is
"Shroud of Turin," an investiga-
tive track full of religious under-
tones. McCulloch expresses deftly
ambiguous lamentation over what
could be interpreted as either a
failed relationship or spiritual
cynicism with lines like, "It never
happens when you want it to / It
never does what it's supposed to
do."
Even the songs' thematic
expressions are pleated for the
mainstream, capturing love with
broad, facile lyrics like "Love /
Hate it / Want it," missing the
oddball metaphors that marked
the band's past work. It's as if The
Fountain was watered-down, with
neutrality in an attempt to appeal
to more listeners. Refusing to
break the band's routine of radio-
ready rock, the album loses the
edge that made Echo and the Bun-
nymen's previous albums worth a
listen.
While there is a certain comfort
found in consistency, it is Echo
and the Bunnymen's failure to
take risks that secures Fountain
as a passive, middle-of-the-road
album.

WANNA REVIEW VIDEO GAMES?
Join Daily Arts. E-mail battlebots@umich.edu for an application.
NINETEENTH ANNUAL
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN SENATE'S
DAVIS, MARKERT, NICKERSON
LECTURE ON ACADEMIC AND I ECTUAL FREEDOM
Maurice soil Hilcda Friedman Professor of Law
Columabia University School of Law
Monday November 9, 2009
4:00O p.m.
UNIVE.SrTY OPMIGCEIGAN LAW SCHOOL
HONIGMANAUDfTORIUM
ZOO HUTICE1NSHAIL
Mvi; avn( C ,n'er , U nrst 551 Mi'higeOfnieIo /,5e v Presi e U ni ity ihan0"',bi'c hePv,
734.764,5303 wwwv,.cmich.edlu/-~aflt

I I I I I I

[UJ! !i

I nunnnss'_n~ 0

ROOMS AVAILABLE. 100 STEPS FROM
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991. Three bedroom hou
sunroom, formal d
12 BEDROOMS + Study Unique early washer, hardwood
1900's old Ann Arbor Mansion located bath, full basement
1 block from campus near S. Division storage. Great for
and E. William. Furnished, Hardwood and/or EMU commi
Floors, Parking, Laundry, and extra spa- 4101.
cious living and Dining rooms. Call
734-995-9200 or email
ctraband45)archrealtyco.com.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
8 bdrm houses at 806 Arch & 335 E.
Jefferson. 4 bdrm houses at 217 N. SUBLETS
Thayer & 912 Sybil. 1, 2, 3 bdrm apts
on central campus. 734-769-7025. WE WANT YOU
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit THE WEEKEND!
www.jmsprop.com to stay with your fri
end. Earn $500-$3
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. letting us sublet yo
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking sured service rent
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992. apartments to alum
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011. ketball weekends a
Great Locations! Call (734) 668-1118 your pocket instantl
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com and property insura
more information en;
WWW.800FULLER.COM rentme a 'obluehoc
(734) 769-7520k
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
-2 BED/2 BATH bi-level: 515 Walnut
- huge apts. great for 4, large lining
rooms, new kitchens SERVICES
.3-Bedrooms: 1506 Geddes - Spacious
apts close to CCLittle and CCRB
"3 or 4-Bedroom: 1346 Geddes ALL THESIS EDITIN(
utilities included: heat, water, electric- organization, forma
ity, cable, wireless Internet 996-0566 or wt
"4-Bedroom Bi-Levels: 543 Church
Best location, new kitchens
-All include heat, water & furnishings.
*Varsity Management
W(734) 66-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com HELP WAN
BE IN A Movie as
how @ a FREE Indu
Wed 11/11 6:30p
all. RSVP www.JR
EARN EXTRA
needed ASAP. Earn
ing a mystery shopt
required. Call 1-800
RE ALT FULL/PART-TIME
needed at the Origin
tg or ply within Monday
Now Leasing atd5.512 E.Willia
FUNDRAISE FOR
+/Hr. at Michigan
21 pus flexible hrs.
www.telefund.umich
EarTtments G Ti
A e s your cours, listinga
Lian abouty
and Houses PART EAR
PART TIME WORF
Up 14 b dr ms Customer se
Up o 14 b dro ms ihle around classes,w
734-677-2477.
PART TIME SAL
usbce represent our compa
,xt to %2 selling Hookahs, Ho
616 Church Street related accessories
734-995-9200 rangement. We pro
you do the selling
www.archrealtyco.com able time. contact Ro
916-439-5951. rstay

Michigan Stadium
se, two car garage,
lining room, dish-
flooring, ceramic
w/ laundry and attic
UM football fans
vters. Call Pat 663-
UR HOUSE FOR
Get paid big bucks
lends for the week-
000 in 2-3 days by
ur house. Our in-
s out houses and
ni for football/bas-
nd puts money in
y. Cleaning service
nce included. For
tail
us.com.
G- LANGUAGE,
t. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
riteon(a iserv.net
TED
a Paid Extra. Learn
stry workshop
i @ UM Angell
RGalactic.com
MONEY! Students
up to $150/day be-
per. No experience
-722-4791.
SERVERS
al Cottage Inn. Ap-
-Friday between 2
um.
R THE U! $9.25-
Telefund. On cam-
Stuidents, apply @'a
.edu or 763.4400.
EKI/NOTES! IEmail
and a brief descrip-
y'ourself to
tescom S AR'
TODAY!
ce, great pay. Flex-
vill train.
ES opportunity to
ny on your campus
ookah tobacco and
on an exclusive ar-
vide the products;
during your avail-
bin Taylor
lorpstarstream.net

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
MICHIGAN DAILY HIRING Are
you ambitious, assertive and sociable?
Sell Advertising for The Michigan
Daily. It's Not Just a Job. It's the Train-
ing You Need to Succeed! We are hir-
ing display sales department account
executives for the Winter 2010 term.
Freshmen/Sophomores preferred. Con-
tact Molly Twigg at (734) 764-0554 or
email dailydisplay@gmail.com for ap-
plication materials and info. Applica-
tions due Nov. 20, 2009.
RESEARCH: THE UNIVERSITY of
Michigan School of Social Work is
seeking qualified applicants for the full-
time position of Research Area Special-
ist Associate, with responsibility for
the planning, implementation, and eval-
uation of a prevention focused commu-
nity response to domestic violence in
local Asian communities. The success-
ful candidate must have a bachelor's de-
gree in social work and educational
and/ar professional experience in re-
search relative to the cultural effects
and impact in seeking psychological
help in Asian populations; study of
multicultural issues in social work,
clinical psychology, community organi-
zation management, policy, evaluation,
and practical study of social policy and
evaluation and community and social
systems. For confidential considera-
tion, please send resume and salary re-
quirements to: Assistant Director of
Administration, School of Social Work,
1080 S. University, Ann Arbor, MI
48109-1106. Please reference job code
RA-EJL1.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring tulented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SUNDAYS AM HORSE barn help
wanted. Exp. pref. 995-0092.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com

H PV Fat
About 2ou o
peoplewill get
genital warts after
having, any kind
with someone
infected:.
So youdo' have
'to acualyhavese
tot get nial arts.
i

SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
Earn Cash aKd Go Free. Call for Group
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida.
Infornation/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

There's something you can do.
Visit your camp us

eumN., rmtvame N-smkg. room,
utils. included, 15 mins to UM, 10 to
EMU $450/mo. Call 846-4632 9-1 1pm

i


8A -- Monday, November 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

8A - Monday, November 9, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Flying the freak-folk flag

I am the Ghost of Christmas . oh, just pooped myself."
A 'Christmas'eer

Even CGI Jim Carrey can't save
this cold Dickens retread
By NICK COSTON
DailyArts Writer
There is a warmth within Charles Dickens's "A
Christmas Carol" that has made it a
beloved holiday story for 166 years. **
Successful adaptations of the book
have tapped into this sincerity and AChristmas
honored Dickens's original work of Caro
spiritual redemption. Unfortunate-
ly, this season's animated theatri- At Quality16
cal spin on "A Christmas Carol" is and Showcase
entirely devoid of the heart present Dsey
in other, better versions of the story.
As a result, its wildly impressive
CGIvisuals and aspirited digitalperformance fromJim
Carrey are powerless to accentuate the narrative.
This version of "Carol" does not diverge from its
traditional plotline. Mean old Ebenezer Scrooge is
haunted by three ghosts of Christmas, who lead him
on a journey through time and space to educate the
covetous old sinner of the Christmas spirit he has sum-
marily humbugged for so many years. Those ghosts,
along with the central role of Scrooge, are the tireless
work of actor Jim Carrey, who portrays all his char-
acters on-screen through the magic of motion-capture
technology. Though Carrey's Scrooge is appropriately
grumpy, his constant screaming in fear of the ghosts'
roller-coaster actions grow rapidly thin.
Carrey's ghosts, meanwhile, introduce a new but
woefully vague twist to the story. Traditionally, a dif-
ferent actor plays each of the three ghosts. If director
Robert Zemeckis ("Forrest Gump") is trying to sug-
gest the ghosts are a manifestation of Scrooge's mind,
or that the true meaning of Christmas has lived inside
of Scrooge all along, Zemeckis needed to take more
action than a mere pre-production casting decision.
Instead, he places Carrey in all four roles, ostensi-
bly for the actor's physical comedy, but doesn't employ
that decision thematically. Each ghost bears an obvi-

ous resemblance to Scrooge, yet the characters address
each other completely ignorant to their similarities.
The audience is left wondering what conclusions are
meant to be drawn from Carrey's quadruple role.
Zemeckis has made emotionally charged films
before; he's clearly capable of delivering a challeng-
ing and heartfelt story, and Dickens's tale of redis-
covering love and familial attachment lends itself to
such a film. But Zemeckis's film is depressingly cold.
It insists upon a bombardment of dazzling visual
spectacles in place of showing the gradual change in
Scrooge's emotional state.
Those visuals are so finely crafted and detailed that
the viewer can't help but acquire unrealistic expecta-
tions for an emotional output from the digital charac-
ters - one that's simply not technologically possible
within the boundaries of the CGI presentation. "A
Christmas Carol" is a dance in premature celebra-
tion of realism, as if Pinocchio never actually became
human but obliviously laughed and cheered as though
he had, and the result is altogether uncomfortable to
watch. We see individual little hairs sprouting out
of the pores on Scrooge's beaky nose, yet his cartoon
eyes are eerily dead even as his heart is supposed to be
breaking for the fate of Tiny Tim. That the audience
cannot discern change in Scrooge's heart is a fatal flaw.
That's not to say the visuals aren't impressive on a
purely aesthetic level. Scrooge's flight though moon-
lit London is spectacular, despite his continuous and
tiresome shrieking. The character animations are
liquid smooth, apart from those of Scrooge, whose
age precludes him from moving with much grace.
And Gary Oldman's brief turn as the remorseful
specter of Scrooge's former partner Jacob Marley is
genuinely spooky.
Robert Zemeckis has proven in the past that he can
compose a film driven by heart. A successful adapta-
tion of Charles Dickens's "A Christmas Carol" requires
such an emotional investment, but sadly, the creepy and
lifeless characters in Zemeckis's version simply don't
achieve the level of sincerity that preceding versions of
the story have. Don't be surprised if you see "A Christ-
mas Carol: The Ride" opening at Disney World some-
time soon.

By SHARON JACOBS
Daily Arts Writer
Devendra Banhart prefers the
term "natural-
ismo" over the *
"freak-folk" label
often attached to D
his music. But his
guitar-anchored Banhart
stoner musings What Wil
really are folky,
and his weirdly We Be
sexual outfits Watter Bros.
and makeup are
definitely freaky, so for now let's
leave the genre's name alone.
Labels aside, it's Banhart's gen-
tly vibrating voice and soothing
melodies that have always made
him stand apart, and What Will
We Be is clearly Devendra being
Devendra. Each release has found
him getting more accessible - no
doubt his relationship with Natalie
Portmangothimsome mainstream
attention - but he's managed to
keep his unique Northern Cali-
fornia hippie-ness intact, and the
result mostly works.
"16th & Valencia Roxy Music"
is the most fun track on What Will
We Be. Above a refreshingly funky
guitar pulse, Devendra sighs "I
don't know where to go / cause
I know where to go / But I know
where not to go / cause I know
where to go." Out of the confusion
comes images of white horses and a
beheaded king, and the self-aware
CHANEL
From Page 5A
this sense, Chanel's story
becomes more relatable to a
female audience, calling heed to
the age-old question of whether
women should put careers over
lovers.
As with any fashion-centric
film, the clothes (designed by
Catherine Leterrier) are striking,
but not striking in the traditional
"Chanel" way. The movie is more
focused on creating a contrast
between Chanel's fondness for
simplicity and the flamboyant
trends of the time, rather than
her amazing design skills in the

line, "I know I look high / but I'm complements his multilingual
just free dancing." It's hippiedom flair - plucky hymn "Walilam-
minus the idealism - peace, love dzi" is written in a dying Native
and happiness for the modern era. American language that adds sig-
This harder, more grounded nificance. Raised partly in Ven-
sensibility shows itself in the driv- ezuela, Devendra's never afraid
ing quality of the music, too. It's to bust out the odd Spanish love
what sets the Devendra of What song - back-to-back tracks
Will We Be apart from the harm- "Brindo" and "Maria Lionza"
less oddball who crooned, "Oh, benefit from the quiet, prettily
Michigan, Michigan state / How foreign sounds, but the songs are
I'd love to live in you / I've never too similar considering the side-
been to Michigan state / Still I'd by-side ordering.
love to live in you," on 2002's oh What Will We Be is hit-or-miss,
Me Oh My. Devendra's lived a bit and the misses are boring and
and learned a bit, and it sounds like meandering at best. "First Song
he's laid off the psychedelic drugs For B" is nothing but an emo whine
over dragging piano chords than
(word of advice to rising musi-
Peace, love and cians: never utter the line "Please
destroy me" - and never, ever
rambling hippies. repeat it four times - if you want
to be taken seriously). "Last Song
For B" is slower and replaces the
just a bit, too, for an overall more piano with guitar, but that's about
down-to-earth effect. the only difference.
Still, Devendra is a free spirit Devendra Banhart gets brownie
at heart. Hinging on epic mood points for having the balls to tack-
swings, two of the songs on What le hippie themes like love, life and
Will We Be completely switch trippy nothings in front of a wid-
directions midway through. On ening audience on his latest album.
"Angelika," a crooning love bal- He's clearly comfortable with him-
lad gets cut off by a colorful Bra- self, and that's fantastic. Most of
zilian piano-and-drams romp, What Will We Be is a lovely drug-
never to return. "Chin Chin & gy frolic, but the overemotional
Muck Muck" starts off as a jazzy, ramblings are what earned him
trumpet-powered tune and is the playground moniker of "folk
interrupted by a two-minute freak" in the first place. So if that
trippy and childlike ditty. This bothers Devendra, then it's time
typical Banhart genre-melding for him to rein it in..

future. As a result, modest-yet-
chic outfits dominate the screen.
The only sort of creativity mani-
fested takes the form of Chanel's
penchant for cutting apart men's
outfits to create a jaunty sort of
menswear, a far cry: from the
trademark clean-cut jackets and
little black dresses that Chanel's
empire is famous for.
Those who come into the film
solely for the renowned Chanel
designs, though, will be left wait-
ing until the end. The finale fea-
tures Chanel's first fashion show,
displaying models in a stream
of dresses cascading down the
stairs. For the first time, Chanel's
personality and personal life
have fused into a palette of fab-
rics and colors, all still contain-

ing her trademark elegance and
simplicity. It's as if the movie is
trying to say that true fashion is
ultimately reached with a com-
plete awareness of yourself. Only
until Chanel has liberated herself
from marriage expectations and
her societal aspirations can she
produce something brilliant.
"Coco Before Chanel" prob-
ably won't be the fashion confec-
tion audiences might expect, but
it's a nice alternative for those
who find period films too stuffy
or slow. More character sketch
than period love story, "Cha-
nel" is a film that marches deci-
sively past biopic conventions to
explore the fascinating woman
behind the brand - absent fash-
ion, absent men.

SENISM
Ison't iorgell
TAKE YOUR SENIOR PORTRAIT
and be pictured in the Michiganensian Yearbook
Monday Nov. 9- Thursday Nov.12
10am - 6pm
Bring this coupon with you and get
$2 OFF your Sitting Fee!!!
Michigane nsi~an
YEAR BO O K
Schedule your portrait online:
www.ouryear.com, School Code: 87156
Location: Sophia B. Jones Room, Union

WORD SEARCH
Find the following words below: GEL, CRUSTY,
CLUELESS, DIRTY, SPIKES, FLAKES, GREASY, HARD,
POOFY, CRISIS. Forward only. Horizontal, vertical and
diagonal are all fair game.
Y FC R US T YD Q

U E L K C P G P

I R

Y K O A Z

I R A R

T

T C L N K K E F T 0
A V E C U E A 0 Y I
H A R D B S S C PM
W P P 0 0 F Y R I A
J B0 J L A R I W 0
0 G R G N M T S A B
P I A E E K U I B T
A C L U E L E S S N
RXE
Brought to you by HAIR CRISIS
RELIEF


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 9, 2009 - 9A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 9, 2009 - 9A

Students: AAPD lost evidence

From Page 1A
when interviewed by a Daily
reporter last night, stating that he
was unaware one had been turned
over to police or which police offi-
cer would have taken it.
Ward said he believes the
AAPD has "made a mess" of the
incident.
"I don't know what other steps
the police took that night, but if
the memory card is indicative of
anything, I don't think they went
very far with it," Ward said.
Lance said he was unable to
confirm if AAPD is currently
" investigating the Oct. 31 inci-
dent, indicating that investiga-
tion of any incident is the victim's
choice.
"It's up to the victim to pur-
sue the case if they want to press
charges," Lance said. "If they

don't call to follow up, the case
pretty much gets put down."
Bartonsaid he and Wardviewed
the video before handing the
memory card in and that it showed
a good account of what happened
once the violence began.
Barton said that some of the
pictures he took showed college-
aged men jumping on the back of
the car the victim was driving just
prior to the incident, which he
believes may have been helpful in
identifying the attackers.
The amount of people in the
road forced the car to stop, Ward
said. Once the people in front
of the vehicle moved, the driver
accelerated and one of the men on
the back of the car fell.
"That's when they started to
throw things at the car and hit it,
trying to open the doors," Ward
said. "(The driver) couldn't go

anywhere."
According to Ward, the driver
then likely put the car in park,
exited the vehicle and was imme-
diately pushed to the ground. He
said between eight and 15 young
men were participating in the
attack when he and others stepped
in to stop the beating.
Other eyewitnesses who
described the incident to the Daily
estimated the number of attackers
from as few as five to as many as
30.
"I was trying to stop it. Some
girls that were there tried to stop
it as well," Ward said. "I don't
think (the girls) knew the guys
who were beating him up."
Eventually, the violence
stopped and the victim was car-
ried to a nearby porch, where he
remained until police arrived at
the scene.

HEAR THE STORY
BEHIND THE STORIES
Listen to Michigan Daily Radio on WCBN-FM-Ann Arbor
88.3 FM Tuesdays and Thursday 6 to 6:30 p.m.
ATTENTION: FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES!
ARE YOU AMBITIOUS, ASSERTIVE AND SOCIABLE?
Selad f4r
'The &il.


We need new account executives for
the Winter/Spring/Summer period.
Are you up to the challenge?
It's not just a job. It's the training you
need to succeed!
Where else can you learn to:
Build customer relationships
Close deals
Convince skeptics
Become a leader
and build a Killer Resume?

Please pick up an application at
The Michigan Daily
Student Publications Building
420 Maynard Street, first floor
or call
(734) 764-0554
or e-mail, attn: Molly Twigg
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Application deadline
for Winter zoso positions:
November 20, 2009


ha!t inr -rern
hair trns Da offe

w' ;,' ,
..:

*National survey of 2,500 girls 18-24
conducted by StrategyOne June and July 20

08.

GET GIRL-APPROVED HAIR

i


10A - Monday, November 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com .I

iDA - Monday, November 9, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 0

TRANSPORTATION
From Page 1A
the FullerRoadstructure.
Anglin confirmed that city offi-
cials considered the Hospital's park-
ing shortage as they mapped out the
transit station.
"The University definitely needs
the parking in that section," Anglin
said. "The structure will relieve that
parking burden."
In addition to providing hospital
parking, the transit station is also part
of an ambitious plan to both establish
a local commuter rail service and to
link differentforms of transportation
through what Councilmember Ste-
phen Rapundalo (D-Ward 2) called
"an intermodal center, bringing
together trains, cars, buses and inte-
grating cycling and pedestrians."
The ultimate goal, Rapundalo
said, is to reduce to number of cars
entering and leaving the city, as well
as those within the city itself.
Anglin said the transit center, with
its proximity to the Amtrak rail, will
help lay the foundation for a transpor-
tation hub by providing parking, bike

storage and busing for commuters.
"This center has the infrastruc-
ture potential for further develop-
ment," Anglin said.
Those potential developments
include establishing East-West and
North-South commuter trains to
accommodate the roughly 75,000
commuters who come into town
every day, Rapundalo said.
"We're definitelylooking at a much
broader transportation network (than
currently exists)," Rapundalo said.
BothRapundaloandAnglinpointed
out that these changes can't take place
without comprehensive community-
wide budget conversations.
"Ihopethatwecanmove forward,
but in this economy it's hard to tell,"
Anglin said.
The transit station is the first phase
in the city's broader plan to both
decrease traffic congestion in the
city and make Ann Arbor a more vis-
ible transportation hub. According to
Anglin, even high-speed rails aren't
completelyout of the question.
"At this point I think that's just a
pipe dream," he said. "But it certain-
ly could move in that direction if all
the pieces came together."

LAWSUIT
From Page 1A
another professor's lab to detect
radiation, the article reported.
The lab contained Cesium 137 -
a highly radioactive material -
but Hartman claimed he didn't
know if the Cesium was active.
McGee sent an e-mail to the
University's Radiation Safety
Service on Feb. 16, 2008 to report
his exposure to the radiation. He
also informed the University's
Department of Occupational
Safety and Environmental Health
that he witnessed Hartman dis-
posingchemicals ina sink McGee
thought led to a storm drain.
University spokeswoman
Kelly Cunningham wrote in an
e-mail interview that the alleged
safety violations were not true.
"Mr. McGee could not have
been exposed to radiation as the
machine in question was locked
and inactive at the time he and
Prof. Hartman were in the area,"
she wrote.
She added that an Occupa-

tional Safety and Environmental
Health investigation determined
the chemical waste Hartman
allegedly dumped in a sink was
properly disposed.
Though McGee claims he was
fired for reporting safety viola-
tions, Cunningham says that is
not the case.
Cunningham wrote that the
project McGee worked on was
completed before the end of his
appointment, and the depart-
ment decided not to reappoint
him for another term even before
the incident occurred.
"This decision was made long
before Mr. McGee raised any
concerns," she wrote.
McGee received full pay and
benefits until the end of his term.
However, the annarbor.com arti-
cle states he was denied employ-
ment with another professor
after he was terminated.
When reached last night,
McGee said he wouldn't com-
ment on the case until later this
week.
Hartman could not be reached
Sunday evening.

COLEMAN
From Page lA
ics, which is uncommon among
other universities.
"We are very fortunate here
that the presidents have been able
to sort of be in charge, and we've
had good administration and a
good athletic director who has put
us in an extremely good financial
position," she said.
Despite Coleman's optimism,
many university presidents who
responded in the report ques-
tioned how long they could sustain
their current athletic operations
given escalating athletic expenses.
Roughly half of the respondents
said their current athletic models
will impact the number of varsity
sports they will be able to main-
tain in future years.
Coleman said the University has
been "very conscious" about the
need to create sustainable athletic
operations.
She cited the work of Athletic
Director Bill Martin, who focused
on athletic sustainability issues


MAKE AD I
THING OF THE PAST.

An UCISIS
RELIEF

w

RI EXE HAE IA
AXE Hair is offering U of M guys
FREE HAIRCUS
SHAMPOOS & SIUNOS
at Nogginz Hair Shop hnm
Nov.9th -13th
GiRdI - you know the guys we're talking
about. Urge them to attend
GUYS -a few minutes of your time could
improve your game forever,


during his nine years as director.
In the 1999 fiscal year, the Ath-
letic Department suffered a $2.8
million deficit. According to docu-
ments from a University Board
of Regents meeting in 2008, the
department was projected to run
a $10.3 million surplus during the
last fiscal year.
Martin recently announced that
he will retire next September, and
Coleman said she is searching for a
new athletic director who will also
make fiscal stability a priority.
"One of the issues that I will
be looking for in the next athletic
director is somebody who can
articulate the ways in which to
keep what we do at Michigan sus-
tainable," she said.
In the report, many university
presidents cited the hardships asso-
ciated with mounting athletic costs.
Three-fourths of the presidents
interviewed for the study said that
athletics present a unique prob-
lem in controlling costs compared
to other schools, departments and
units at their universities.
At the University of Michigan,
costs appear to be similarly on the
rise. But unlike most other uni-
versities, the University of Mich-
igan's budget has been running
at a surplus of late.
Bill Martin and Jason Win-
ters, chief financial officer for
the Athletic Department, esti-
mated athletic revenue would
increase this year to about $94
million and expenditures would
be roughly $85.6 million, accord-
ing to documents prepared for a
June regents meeting.
Those numbers are both up
from the year before, when Mar-
tin and Winters budgeted rev-
enue from University athletics
to be about $90.5 million and
operating expenses about $80.2
million.
Factors affecting costs includ-
ed the rising salaries of coaches
and the number of coaches and
athletic personnel, according to
the report.
Eighty-five percent of presi-
dents responded in the interview
that they thought salaries for
football and basketball coaches
were too high and that salaries
are the "greatest impediment" to
athletic sustainability.
However, more than half the
presidents indicated they feel
they have no power to reduce
coach's salaries because of the
amount of private support that
funds those salaries.
About two-thirds of presi-
dents replied that policy changes
should be studied in an effort to
cut down on the number of ath-
letic personnel and coaches of
revenue-producing sports. More
than half expressed a desire to
decrease the number of coaches
of non-revenue sports.
Presidents also identified the
pressure to renovate and build
new athletic facilities as a factor
that impacts athletic spending.
University of Michigan Ath-
letic Department has spent heav-
ily on its facilities duringthe past
few years as well. Renovations to
the Big House are expected to
cost $226 million. Other major
athletic construction projects
include the $26.1 million Al Glick
Field House for football practice
and the new basketball practice

facility, which is estimated to
cost $23 million.
Despite these large price tags,
Coleman said the University is
responsible about its athletic
expenditures.
"Even though we have a lot of
construction and renovation going
on in athletics, I don't feel like it's
irresponsible," she said. "We've
met all of our budget targets."
While financing new con-
struction projects can be a
challenge in an economic reces-
sion, 62 percent of presidents
surveyed said the effect of the
economic downturn on athletic
budgets mirrored the effect on
other divisions of their institu-
tion. Reasons for this included
proportional cuts in athletic and
academic spending and a loss in
both public and private funding
to all units of universities.
Almost all the presidents
agreed that they felt confident
the financial information they
received from their athletic
departments was accurate. But
eight out of 10 presidents said
there needed to be greater trans-
parency in athletic operating and
capital costs.
One anonymous president
said in the report that transpar-
ency would help solve budget
problems.
"If our public is fully aware
of the money and other issues, it
will support proper values," the
president said.
Regardless of all the challeng-
es associated with maintaining
high-cost athletic departments,
the majority of presidents
believed athletics benefited their
universities by increasing the
number of applicants, generat-
ing more donations and raising
school spirit.

0

i


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com November 9, 2009

Purdue quarterback Joey Elliott and the Boilermaker offense racked up almost 500 yards against the struggling Michigan defense.
'M' collapses in second
half for second week

Will the Wolverines go
bowling this year?

By ANDY REID halftim
Daily Sports Editor time M
win ofa

All of the Michigan football
team's issues and concerns from
the last month seemingly vanished
right in front of the Big House
crowd shortly after the start of Sat-
urday's game.
Freshman quarterback Tate
Forcier, who hadn't thrown a
touchdown pass in more than a
month, threw a 43-yard strike to
slot receiver Roy Roundtree and
racked up 139 yards in the first two
quarters.
Senior Brandon Minor, after bat-
tling a pesky ankle injury all sea-
son, had already notched his first
100-yard performance since the
Notre Dame game, and he got it
before the break.
The defense broke its month-
long turnover-less streak, inter-
cepting two Joey Elliott passes
before halftime.
And the Wolverines finally
pounced on a apparently lesser
opponent, cracking open a 24-10

berth.
If on
a
and
r
For t
Michiga
all) out
opening
the sec
Boilerm
coach D
Wolveri
after lea
In th

e lead 748 days since the last verines have been outscored 58-6 in
tichigan grabbed its sixth the second half against teams that
season and clinched a bowl have compiled a combined 16-27
record over the past two seasons.
ly games lasted 30 minutes. "The effort may be good but the
execution's not," Michigan coach
Rich Rodriguez said. "And you just
can't give up cheap touchdowns....
[ don't have They were too late. Those are avoid-
able mistakes and I wish I could tell
." you why they happen. They cer-
m aglc wand tainly can't happen."
,}. With the loss, four teams cur-
[can't fix th1s rently have an unblemished 2-0
record in the Rodriguez era: Michi-
right now." gan State, Penn State, Illinois and
Purdue.
The Wolverines currently sit
at loth in the conference in pass
he second week in a row, defense, seventh in rush defense,
an (1-5 Big Ten, 5-5 over- ninth in pass offense, last in red
played an opponent in the zone offense, last in time of posses-
g stanza only to collapse in sion, last in turnover margin and
oand half, losing 38-36 to the 10th in the overall standings.
nakers and first-year head "I don't have a magic wand and
anny Hope. Last week, the can't fix this right now," Rodriguez
ines lost to Illinois 38-13 said. "I've said it a bunch of times.
ading 13-7 at the half. Some of our problems are going to
e last two games, the Wol- See BOILERMAKERS, Page 3B

Every Sal
ine fans
Brandon
leader of the M
team. With each
for loss or bone
it's clear Gra-
ham leaves
every ounce of
himself on the
field.
But when
the game ends
and he's all
alone, it's a dif-
ferent, more
emotional
Brandon Gra-
ham than the
monster who
levels opponents,
"I wait until I
it all out," Grah
go home and th
sometimes it'll be
sometimes a co
Sometimes theyd
Graham share
a disgruntled fan
how a 4-0 start

turday, Wolver- into a 5-5 debacle. Looking at the
ee defensive end state of the Wolverines, there's a
Graham as the lot to cry about.
ichigan football Five straight conference losses,
ferocious tackle putting the Wolverines tied for last
-shattering sack, in the Big Ten.
Three consecutive second-half
collapses in which opponents out-
scored Michigan 75-12.
And one major question that has
yet to be answered: After winning
their fifth game on Oct. 17, will the
Wolverines win one more game to
become bowl eligible? Or will they
miss the postseason for back-to-
back years for the first time since
RUTH the mid-1970s, when no more than
LINCOLN one Big Ten team could go to a
bowl per season?
If you watch Michigan's best
each week. players like Graham, junior cor-
get home and let nerback Donovan Warren and
am said. "I just senior tailback Brandon Minor,
ink about it and that answer to the former would
eon my mind and seem obvious: yes.
uple tears drop. Against Purdue, Minor ran for
don't." three touchdowns and 154 rush-
s those tears with ing yards on a bad ankle. Warren
a base wondering grabbed an interception, and Gra-
quickly spiraled ham had his typical timely tackles.

That's the talent, leadership and
drive you would expect from play-
ers set to play in late December or
January.
But week after week, the rest of
the Wolverines have left much to
be desired. Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez said before the season
that the Wolverines would make
a bowl only when they deserved it.
But examine the rest of the team,
and there's little reason to believe
that reward is coming.
Thelackofdepthatnearlyevery
position can't be fixed in the next
two weeks. Every Saturday, it's the
same mistakes. Rodriguez keeps
saying the effort is there but the
execution is missing. From what
Warrencalled"alot of mental mis-
takes" to completely blown sec-
ondary coverage, the Wolverines
simply don't look like a team that
can close out a game. With every
miscue, their bowl eligibility is
slipping further away.
For a senior like Graham, who
has been Michigan's brightestspot
during two seasons of constant
See LINCOLN, Page 3B


MEN'S SO~iCER
* Blue clinches No. 7 seed
in conference tourney
_with loss at Ohio State

RedHawks sweep Michigan at Yost

By CHANTEL JENNINGS
Daily Sports Writer
The Wolverines' plan needed
to be revised.
After almost 45 minutes, it
looked like the Michigan men's
soccer team would head into half-
time following an evenly played
opening stanza at Ohio State with
the teams tied 0-0.
But with just two seconds left
in the first half, the Buckeyes
changed everything.
Michigan freshman Noble Sul-
livan cleared an Ohio State corner
kick out of the box, but the ball
unluckily found the feet of open
Buckeye Chris Gomez on the far
side of the field. He sent the ball to
David Tiemstra, who fired a shot
from seven yards that ricocheted

off the underside of the crossbar
and to the back of the net.
"As a coaching staff, you kind
of have your plans formulated for
what you need to do differently
in the second half and then sud-
denly ... we have a quick amount
of time to reconfigure the plan for
the second half," Michigan coach
Steve Burns said.
The tally was the difference in
a game that decided much more
than a 'W' or a 'L.' The Buckeyes'
1-0 win gave them their first Big
Ten regular season title, buta loss
could have placed them as low as
seventh in the conference.
With the loss, the Wolverines
secured the No. 7 seed for this
weekend's Big Ten Tournament
in Bloomington. Michigan will be
See SOCCER, Page 2B

By RYAN KARTJE After the RedHawks took a
Daily Sports Writer three-goal lead in the third period,
the Wolverines began to lose their
Michigan coach Red Berenson composure.
lost his voice. Junior Tristin Llewellyn, senior
His team's 5-1 loss and subse- Chad Langlais and freshman Kevin
quent sweep at the hands of No. 1 Lynch all received 10-minute mis-
Miami (Ohio) on Saturday prompt- conduct penalties. The three major
ed Berenson to talk to his team penalties were all a part of Michi-
longer than usual in the postgame gan's 51 third-period penalty min-
locker room. With a raspy voice, utes.
after he had addressed the Wolver- "I'm embarrassed," Berenson
ines, he called the their weekend said. "We don't want to get into a
performance "the low point of the game like that. We played like a
season" thus far. bunch of spoiled brats, and we've
Following a rebound goal from got to suck it up. When you're get-
junior David Wohlberg, Michigan ting beat, you keep working hard
gave up five unanswered goals to for the team, you don't take it out
the RedHawks, who came to Ann on the other team or take stupid
Arbor with just three wins at Yost penalties that are going to hurt you
Ice Arena. further. That's not the way we play
But regardless of previous hockey, and this team' will learn
records, Berenson's concerns lie that."
strictly in the Wolverines' inability Adding to that loss of composure
to live up to their lofty potential. was an inconsistent performance
"It was like we were skating in in net from junior goalie Bryan
sand," Berenson said. "I don't know Hogan.
whether it was preparation, I don't After giving up a goal through
know if it was distractions, I don't the five-hole in Friday's 3-1 loss to
know, but that's what it was." See REDHAWKS, Page 2B

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Junior Chad Langlais missed on a penalty shot in Friday's loss to Miami (Ohio)..


The Managing Sports Editor was kicked
out of Yost Ice Arena for the 'C-Ya' chant.
He's not very happy about it. PAGE 2B.

The Michigan men's basketball team easily
took care of Wayne State in the Wolverines'
only exhibition of the year. PAGE 2B.




2B - Monday, November 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - Monday, November 9, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Why Igot booted from Yost

Yost Ice Arena is home to
my favorite student section
on campus.
It doesn't have disinterested
sorority girls engrossed in a BBM
conversation with their sisters at
the end of the
row, like at
Michigan Sta-
dium.
It doesn't
have spotty fans
who stereotypi-
cally only get
excited for the ANDY
Duke, Michigan REID
State and Ohio
State games,
like at Crisler Arena.
And - on top of all that - it's
rowdy as all hell.
But on Saturday night, my expe-
rience at Yost was not at all what I
would call fun. I was at the game
for about 10 minutes, when after
Miami (Ohio)'s first penalty, I par-
ticipated in what has come to be
known as the 'C-Ya' chant.
For those of you who have never
been to a hockey game at Yost, it goes
like this: "Ahhhhh, C-Ya - chump,
dick, wuss, douchebag, asshole, prick,
cheater,bitch, whore, slut, cock-
sucker." Racy?Yes. But it's nothing
comparedto Maryland basketball
fans chanting "Fucked your sister" to
former Duke star J.J. Redick, whose
sibling went to Maryland.
Like usual, I said the same chant
tons of times Friday night with
thousands of other fans and noth-
ing happened.
Saturday night, I got kicked out.
Not cool, dude.

Amidst an entire student sec-
tion doing the same thing, an usher
grabbed my elbow and told meit
was time to leave, unless I wanted
to be led out of the stadium in
handcuffs.
I will admit that I stood out from
the other Children of Yost. I may
or may not have had a megaphone.
And I may or may not have been,
ahem, dressed up - if you went to
the game, you might have seen a
six-foot chicken standing against
the glass in section 18.
But that's even more reason to
not kick me out. How is the team
supposed to focus and be motivated
without a yellow, fuzzy chicken
standing behind the glass? The
Wolverines lost 5-1, by the way.
So I walked home all by myself,
a very, very sad chicken. Now I
can empathize with you BBM-mad
sorority girls - a walk of shame is
a really embarrassingthing. Ijust
assured myself everyone would
think the weirdo in the chicken
outfit would be a member of the
Residential College and tried to get
home as quickly as possible.
To top it off, my parents, who
were in town for the football game,
just happened to drive by Yost at
the exact same time I was argu-
ing with a DPS officer outside. Ina
chicken suit. With a megaphone.
"That U in a chicken suit w/cops?
LOL" isn't a text message you can get
from a member of your family and
still maintain anybshred of dignity.
I was just trying to have fun
and enjoy a hockey game, but the
usher assured me that my wardrobe
played a major role in his singling

me out amid 4,000 people who all
used the same exact word that I
did. Though none of the other ush-
ers seemed to be following his lead,
he went on to kick out five more
people - and none of them were
dressed as chickens - including
one who stepped into the aisle in
front of him when he tried to enter
the section to find another person
to throw out.
First off, I know the main prob-
lem with the chant is the homopho-
bic slur "cocksucker." To all those
who are offended by it - I agree
with you. It has no place at Michi-
gan, and if you, asa hockey fan,
aren't already happy with shout-
ing douchebag, slut and asshole
at opposing players, the least you
could do is be a little more creative
than a Michigan State frat boy.
As I type this, I realize that I
said the word anyway. I probably
shouldn't have, but I did, and I
got caught up in the spirit of Yost
Arena. I would like to see that word
eliminated, too, but this isa dif-
ferent, more explosive issue. Right
now, I just want to talk about how
the ushers and the Michigan Ath-
letic Department have decided to
try and "fix" the problem.
I think it's completely imma-
ture and inappropriate for them to
single people out in this situation. If
I would have used the megaphone
to yell swear words and hateful
speech at the other - well, I called
RedHawk coach Enrico Blasi a
midget once, but that's not worthy
of expulsion, is it? - that would
have been one thing.
I didn't. I participated in a tradi-

tional Michigan hockey chant, one
that the Athletic Department has
sat and watched get increasingly
more obscene for the last 15 years -
and "cocksucker" has been around
for at least four of those, from my
experiences on campus.
They knew this was happening.
They knew students were adding
more words to it. And you did noth-
ing, other than try to have the band
play over it.
This is not the way to handle the
problem. Singling out students is
not the answer.
Have Michigan coach Red
Berenson address the section
before the game over the loud-
speaker, either live or pre-taped.
Or at the very least, do something
to inform us that you have decided
to crack down on the chant. Post
signs, make an announcement, send
an e-mail out to the students who
bought tickets. Something.
Kicking out six students isn't
going to solve anything. And if you
think the language was offensive
this week, just wait until Michi-
gan State comes to Ann Arbor this
weekend for the first time since
Steve Kampfer was maliciously
attacked by two Sparties last year.
You can't kick everyone out at
once, I know that - but there are
more preemptive ways to address
the problem than having crotchety,
rude old men picking on specific
students.
- Reid will be donning the
chicken suit again. Maybe the
megaphone is a bit much. He can be
reached at andyreid@umich.edu.

REDHAWKS
From page 1B
Miami, Hogan wo
two more RedHa
same fashion ther
With Michigan
sive hockey, Hog
shots on goal in Fr
ing it difficult
to stay focused
during long
stretches of
inaction.
Butafter see-
ing29 shots Sat-
urday, Hogan's
mediocre play
spoke to the
team's over-
all struggles
to beat ranked
competition.
"I think (Hoga
of like our team's!
sistent," Berenson
whole team is. TI
there that are eve
ing at their potent
The loss to h
Wolverines their s
against ranked opl
that dates back to
year. And junior fo
knows that withoi
SOCCER
From page 1B
facing off against
State.
If they pick up
Big Ten Tourna
verines will be o
makingthe NCAA
Michigan could p
their chances oft
nament would inc
With very littl
mulate a plan atl
knowing that O
would change d
derided to make
gan's attack by m
Hamoody Saad ar
Fuzetti to the c
positions.
The shift work
ines got off 10 sho
half, after tallying
first. Fuzetti led

to start the season, Michigan will
have trouble finding momentum
and an offensive rhythm.
"It takes having a little bit of
as victimized by success to loosen up the grip a
wk goals in the little bit," Rust said. "I thought we
next night. had that last weekend before play-
's style of defen- ing Miami. I just don't know what
an saw just 13 it was this weekend - maybe we
iday's loss, mak- were trying to be too cute."
With emo-
tions at a high
in the third
"There's nobody period Satur-
day, it will be
even Close to interesting to
.see how the
playing at their Wlvres
will handle
potential. next weekend's
matchup
against intra-
state rival
Michigan State - a series where
n's) game is kind now-senior defenseman Steve
game, it's incon- Kampfer go down with a serious
said. "And our neck injury after a cheap shot from
here's nobody in two Spartan players last year.
en close to play- But for now, senior defense-
ial." man Chris Summers says that per-
iami gives the forming better against teams of
ixth straight loss Miami's caliber starts in practice
ponents, a streak and falls on the upperclassmen's
February of last shoulders.
rward Matt Rust "Everything will be addressed
ut a marquee win on Monday," Summers said firmly.
seven shots in the game, four of
which were on goal
"I can't sit here and say that
we're feeling bad about it," Burns
No. 2 seed Penn 'said. "It's one thing when you play
poorly and you lose, but it's anoth-
one win in the er thing when you play to the best
ment, the Wol- of your abilities and they made the
n the bubble of one play that was the difference in
Tournament. If the game."
ick up two wins, The Wolverines lost to the Nit-
naking the tour- tany Lions 2-0 earlier this season
rease greatly. in State College. But Burns isn't
e time to refor- worried about the draw for Thurs-
halftime, Burns, day, since the team is coming off a
hio State's play 1-0 upset over No. 12 Northwest-
ue to its lead, erylast weekend and an evenly
a shift in Michi- played match against Ohio State.
loving freshman "I think we're in a good place,"
nd senior Mauro Burns said. "As I told the guys,
outside midfield we're really hitting our form rightI*
now. It tookusup'tilthis pointtobe
ed. The Wolver- playing our best soccer and I don't
its in the second think that'llgo away for the Big Ten
just three in the Tournament. I don't think there's
Michigan with anyone who wants to playus."

Wolverines easily cruise in exhibition win over WSU

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan men's basketball
team's 73-54 exhibition win on Fri-
day against Wayne State technically
didn't count.
Somebody forgot to tell Manny
Harris.
The preseason All-Big Ten first-
team selection cruised to 25 points,
five rebounds, four assists and three
steals, exactly the kind of all-around
performance Michigan fans have
come to expect.
The nagging hamstring injury

didn't keep him off the court - he
played a team-high 29 minutes.
"It was my first test in a minute,
because in the Eastern Michigan
(scrimmage) it was still sore," Har-
ris said. "It got a lotbetter."
Though Harris filled out the stat
sheet nicely, it was his presence that
impressed Michigan coach John
Beilein.
"His demeanor the whole game
was so positive," Beilein said. "He
showed great leadership skills
today."
Sophomore Zack Novak fol-
lowed up on last year's success from

beyond the arc, scoring 15 points on
just eight shots, all 3-pointers.
The game also gave fans their
first look at highly touted freshman
guard Darius Morris.
Morris started the game and
played 25 minutes, tallying four
points, three assists and three
rebounds in his first collegiate
contest. The lanky guard was
a presence on the perimeter
defense, hassling the smaller War-
rior guards.
"I like playing at the top (of the
zone), I'm still learning, learning on
the job," Morris said. "I like getting

a chance to get some deflections."
Though Morris said he wasn't
nervous once the game started, he
did have a freshman moment after
he scored his first points.
"I was really excited, like, 'Man,
that's my first college bucket right
there,' " he said. "But then I remem-
bered, 'Oh, we're in three zone.' At
first I was lost, but it was a great
experience."
Redshirt freshman Ben Cronin,
who Beilein described as "70 percent
to where we want him to be," played
just three minutes, scoring four
points and snaggingthree boards.

DYING TO HEAR WHAT RICH
ROD HAS TO SAY TODAY?
@MICHDAILYSPORTS FOR
TWEETS FROM THE PRESSER.


0

ANEW

dollars raised
projects

0

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

November 9, 2009 -- 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom November 9, 2009 -- 3B

GAME STATISTICS

PU's defensive adjustments stump '

Team Stats
First Downs
Rush/Yds
Co p/AT/nt
Offensive Plays
Total Offense
ck returns/Yds
Punts/Avg
Fumbles/Lost
Petes/Yards
Time of PHss
P IR
PASSING
Player
Forier
Totals
RUSHING
Player A
Minor I
SmithV.
Shaw
Robirsin D.
. Moosman
Totals 4
RECEIVING
Player M
Roundtree 1
Savoy
Mathews
" Hemingway
Tot
PUNTING
Player N
Mesko
Totals
KICKOFF RETURNS
Player
Totals
HUNTRETURNS
player
TD
Hemingway
TACKLES
williams,M.
Waren
Fitzgerald
NRRRRRk
Jones, T.
PraEm,
" riM
Moundo
Rogers, J.
Heron,
Conove
Totals
PASSING
Player
RUSHING
Bolden 1
Elliott R
Taylor
RECEIVING
Player
Smith,CK. 1
Lindsay
valenin
Bolden
-Adams
Oierking
Tota's 2
PUNTING
Player N
Sumnmers
Totals
KICKOFF.RETURNS
Plaer r
Totals
PUNT RETURNS
Gra-r*se
Tota
TACKLES
Player 5
Werner

Holland
Mclean
Gooden
Evans, A.
Maci
Higgs
render
Wigs
Tao,J.
Kin,EB.
TrownRK

Purdue
22
29/127
367
28/39/2
68
494
5/103
2/U
5/33,0
1/0
7/50
M I C H I G A N
C-A Yds
15/24 212
15/24 212

Michigan
22
44/215
212
15/24/0
68
427
3/46.3
2/1
200

Att
19
3
S1
1
0
44
No.
10
3
0
ats

Yds
154
12
2
-3
5
262

Avg
8.1
4
-3.0
0
4.9
Avg
12.6
14.7
0.0
.212

TD
1
i
LS
55
18
7
7
Z
0
0
55

Int
0
0
TD
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
4

Yds
126
44
28
1s

Lg
43
21
28
16.1

TD
1
0
43

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily SportsEditor
Purdue cornerback Brandon
King saw something critical in the
Michigan offense that made him
confident:
Confusion.
But it didn't show up until after
halftime.
In the first half, freshman quar-
terback Tate Forcier led Michigan
to a two-touchdown lead. The
offense looked unstoppable.
"They played
a lot of man (cov- NOTEBOOK
erage) in the first
half, and it showed," Forcier said
after the game. "We saw it, and we
picked it apart."
It showed especially when
Forcier found redshirt fresh-
man Roy Roundtree for a 43-yard
touchdown pass in the second
quarter. Purdue was playing zero
coverage in order to stop Michi-
gan's prolific run game, which left
sixth-year safety Torri Williams
vulnerable.
But once Roundtree beat Wil-
liams, the Boilermakers knew they
had to change their game plan to
have a chance.
After the break, Purdue played
much more zone coverage, which
threw off the Wolverines.
"We hadn't done that all sea-
son," Boilermaker cornerback
Brandon King said. "And so when
we changed the defense up, it kind
of startled them as a team.
"We changed a couple defen-
sive schemes, we changed a couple
calls up, and it worked to perfec-
tion."
After 24 points in the first half,
Michigan scored just 12 in the sec-
ond.
"They stuck with their game
plan - we adjusted ours," Purdue
senior cornerback David Pender
said. "I don't think that they were
ready for us to come out (like
that)."
QUESTIONABLE HANDSHAKE:
When Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez went to shake Purdue

coach Danny Hope's hand after
the game, Hope brought a strange
guest: fifth-year senior offensive
lineman Zach Reckman.
"(Hope) came over and shook my
hand, and then introduced me to
Reckman and said, 'Thanks, Coach,
I really appreciate what you did.'
Whatever." Rodriguez said.
Wait a second. What did Rodri-
guez do?
When the Big Ten suspended
Michigan linebacker Jonas Mou-
ton for throwing a punch at a
Notre Dame player on Sept. 12,
Rodriguez said he hoped the con-
ference would be consistent in its
criteria for suspensions.
A week later, Reckman threw
what was reported as a jab against
Northern Illinois. When Rodriguez
was asked the nextMonday whathe
thought of Reckman's questionable
action, he said "it probably" was "a
non-football act."
And then, just like with Mou-
ton, the Big Ten made Reckman
sit out a game. It's pretty clear who
Purdue blames for the fifth-year
senior's suspension.
"Their coach brought him over
like I was the reason his lineman
got suspended for that one game,"
Rodriguezsaid."Idon'tknowwhere
that came from. I talked to (Hope)
on the phone and said that wasn't
me and this was way back when. I
didn't have anythingto do with that
young man getting suspended.
"To come over and say some-
thing about that - whatever."
The Momentum Swing: After
Purdue got within six points in the
third quarter, the opportunity was
ripe for a comeback.
The Boilermakers lined up in
their normal kickoff formation but
caught Michigan off guard and
executed a perfect onside kick.
The Wolverine coverage team had
already turned away from the ball
for their regular blocking assign-
ments, allowing Purdue to easily
recover the ball.
"I never felt like it was going to
work (in practice)," said Pender,
who recovered the kick. "But it

No. Yds Avg Lg
3 139 46.3 63
3 139 46.3 63
No. Yds Avg Lg TD
6 170 28.3 55 0

No.
2
2

Yds
34
34

Avg
17.0
17.

Lgs
33
33

a
0

Solo Asst
5 4
4 3
4 2
3 2
3 2
3 2
3 2
2 2
1 3
2 0
2 0
1 1
1 1
1 0
0 1
0 1
0 1
0 1
35 28
Purdue
C-A Yds
28-39 367
28-39 367

Tot
9
7
6
5
5
5
5
4
4
2
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
63

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Freshman Tate Forcier and the Wolverine offense had trouble cracking the Purdue zone defense in the second half.
actually worked and it turned out and Hope took completely differ- Hope.
to help our offense go down and ent approaches to the 55thmeeting "We came here today to make
score, and it helped us come out between Michigan and Purdue. history as a football team," Hope
with the win." The Wolverines hadn't lost to said. "What a great motivating
Rodriguez was particularly dis- the Boilermakers in Michigan Sta- factor for a football team, to know
appointed on the play because the dium since 1966. we were coming up here to Ann
last thing the coaching staff tells "What's that got to do with Arbor, to the Big House, to make
the coverage team before it takes today's game?" Rodriguez said history. That has been the driving
the field is to watch the ball come after the loss. force all week long for us."
off the tee. But Hope had been preach- MISCELLANEOUS: Sophomore
"There are about 20 people ing history in practice all week. wide receiverDarrylStonumbroke
screaming, 'See the ball kicked, Forty-three years ago, Purdue the Michigan single-season record
no penalties,' " Rodriguez said. quarterback Bob Griese played a forkickoffreturns and yards inthe
"That's the first reminder and the critical role in the Boilermaker firstquarter. He currently has 30
last reminder we do, just for that win. Despite an average game returns for 803 yards. The record
reason. Freshmen sometimes play through the air, Griese forced a stood for five years. In 2004, Steve
like freshmen. Theybailed out." Michigan safety on his tower- Breaston returned 28 kickoffs for
That's when it fell apart for ing punt late in the third quarter. 689 yards. ... Senior wide receiver
Michigan. On the next play, Pur- Those two points were the differ- Greg Mathews's 28-yard, third-
due scored on a 54-yard pass to ence in the 22-21 Purdue victory. quarter catch was the 100th of
take the lead for good. Griese, who is now in the Col- his career. It was his only catch
"They got the momentum right lege and Pro Football Hall of Fame, of the game. ... Before Saturday,
after that," junior cornerback is father of former-Wolverine senior defensive end Brandon Gra-
Donovan Warren said. "It went quarterback and 1997 Rose Bowl ham hada sack in each of his last
down from there." MVP Brian Griese. four games. He didn't record one
HISTORY LESSON: Rodriguez The series' past wasn't lost on against Purdue.

Att
16
10
No.
4
4
24
2
1
28

Yds
98
20
9
127
Yds
84
85
74
68
38
13
5
367

Avg
6,1
20
21,3
18.5
17.0
19.0
6.5
5.0
13.

TD
2
2
lg
22
8
6
22
LS
14
54
56
30
35
8
5
56

int
2
2
TD
2
1
0
3
TD
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
2

Roundtree and Minor strong in loss

o. Yds Avg Lg
5 165 33.0 40
5 165 33.0 40
No. Yds Avg Lg TD
N 103 20.6 30 0
No. Yds Avg Lg TD
2 0 0.0 o0 o0
2 0 0.0 o0 o0

Soto
8
5
5
4
5
4
3
3
3
3
1
2
1
1
1
i
i
0

Asst
1
4
3
3
1
1
1
1
0
0
2
0
1
1
0
0
0
1

Tot
9
9
8
7
b
5
4
4
3
3
3
2
2
2
1
7
1

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
Daily Sports Editor
The last time a Michigan
receiver and running back both
posted over 100 yards, the Wol-
verines were on top of the world.
They upset Heisman Trophy win-
ner Tim Tebow and Florida 41-35
in the 2008 Capital One Bowl,
making up for a four-loss season
by playing with swagger against
the heavily favored Southeastern
Conference team. Lloyd Carr's
team carried him off the field in
celebration after his final game as
the Wolverines' coach.
On Saturday, with one more
winstill.neededtoevenbe eligible
for a bowl, Michigan matched
that 100-yard feat early in the
game against Purdue. But while
then-senior wide receiver Adrian
Arrington and then-senior run-
ning back Mike Hart steadily led
their team to a win in Orlando,
redshirt freshman Roy Roundtree
and senior running back Brandon
Minor mustered just 23 and 47
yards after halftime, respectively,
en route to yet another third-
quarter Michigan collapse.
The individual players' sto-
ries were comparable, even if the
game results were drastically dif-
ferent. In the Capital One Bowl,
Hart was truly healthy for the first
time since the middle of the sea-
son, where he missed three games
and was limited in two more after
suffering a high ankle sprain. He
predictably played well, running
for 129 yards.
Last week, Minor practiced the
most he had in a month, meaning
he was primed to be as healthy
as he could Saturday with what
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
has called a chronic ankle injury.
LINCOLN
From page 1B
struggles and who postponed enter-
ing the NFL draft to stay an extra
season, you want to hope there's
something thatcan be salvaged.
"Just all the goals we had this
year go down the drain a little bit,"
Graham said, describing what has
made him upset about this season.
"We just trying to get to a bowl
now. That's a big goal. I'll really
cry if we don't."
With a road game against Wis-
consin and Ohio State at home
remaining on the schedule, the
chances Graham's eyes wells up
after Nov. 21 are pretty high.
One ofthe Big Ten's quietest sur-
prises this season, the 20th-ranked
Badgers have elevated themselves

His health showed as he racked up
154 yards on 19 carries.
"Westruggledtoshutdowntheir
one-back running attack," Purdue
coach Danny Hope said. "Number
four, Minor, is an outstanding play-
er. I think he's one of the best run-
ningbacks in the nation.
"We knew him coming into the
game, he's going to be a difference
maker in the game, and he cer-
tainly was. He's a great player."
And Arrington, in the Capital
One Bowl, and Roundtree, against
Purdue, both posted career-high
numbers. The bowl game was
Arrington's 28th and final game
in a Michigan uniform - the
receiver bolted for the NFL after
Carr retired - and he posted a
personal record 153 yards and two
touchdowns.
Roundtree is in a completely
different point in his Michigan
career than Arrington was in
2008. The redshirt freshman
played in just his fourth career
game Saturday and made his sec-
qnd start, filling in for an injured
Martavious Odoms. Roundtree
made the most of his chance,
equaling his cumulative career
receptions (six) in the firstquarter
alone and finishing with 10 catch-
es for 126 yards.
On the Wolverines' first
drive, with the team down 7-0,
Roundtree snatched the ball from
a Purdue defender and made a
26-yard leaping catch to convert
on a third-and-15. That play set up
Minor's touchdown run.
"He's got great ball skills,"
Rodriguez said. "He's going to
keep getting better because he's a
thin guy playing for the first time.
Once he gains some strength, as
he matures and gets older, he's
going to be a very, very good play-
behind a solid rushing offense and
an impressive (5) turnover margin.
And considering Wisconsin is 5-1in
Camp Randall Stadium this season,
it's not likely the Wolverines come
out with a win there.
Should Michigan earn its sixth
win against Ohio State, it couldn't
be a more poetic ending. End a
five-season losing streak against
its most hated rival, qualify for
a bowl and deny the Buckeyes a
potential Rose Bowl berth?
Especially for Graham, his
freshman year game against
Ohio State meant more than just
another chapter in the rivalry. It's
hard to forget the No.1 vs. No. 2
matchup that seemed like just the
beginning. But a lot has changed
in three years.
There's a reason Ohio State

er for us, I think."
Minor's maturity and speed
was on full display early. The
senior started the game with a
gritty 29-yard touchdown run
where he broke multiple tackles,
stiff-armed a Purdue defender
and dove into the end zone to tie
the game at seven. His 55-yard
touchdown run on the first play
of the second quarter was the
longest of his career and gave the
Wolverines a 17-10 lead.
But he looked like he re-aggra-
vated the injury during the fourth
quarter, where he was pulled
down by his ankle after a run
and limped off the field. Furious,
Minor threw his helmet while
standing on the sideline. He came
back in the game a few plays later.
"I wish we could've pulled it
out for him," freshman quarter-
back Tate Forcier said. "Just the
way he plays, and him playing
hurt, it almost sends a message to
everybody else - if you're hurt,
just deal with it."
It only took eight games into
Carr's Wolverine coaching career
for a receiver and running back
to surpass 110 yards in the same
game (a 52-17 win over Minnesota
in 1995). Rodriguez, a proclaimed
offensive guru, had to wait 22
games for someone from both the
air and ground game to similarly
stand out.
But the fact that the defense
couldn't protect a 14-point lead
to win a bowl-clinching game
basically nullified Minor's near-
healthy play and Roundtree's
breakout performance. The 100-
yard achievement was a poor con-
solation prize - but in another
disappointing season, the Wolver-
ines may have to take what they
can get.
might play for the Rose Bowl and
Michigan is playing just to make
one. With the Wolverines' 2009
season already unraveling, not
much would sound better than to
win in two weeks. For that to hap-
pen, it'll take a different breed of
Wolverine than anyone has seen
these last six weeks.
Astthings stand,it's shapingup to
be a teary holiday season for many.
It's admirable Graham is saying
the Wolverines will keep fighting
week to week, but it's getting hard
to face what now seems like real-
ity. It would be a shame, but it looks
like come holiday season, Graham
will be singing "The Tracks of My
Tears" instead of "The Victors."
- Lincoln can be reached
at lincolnromich.edu.

BOILERMAKERS
From page 1B
take a little longer to fix than any-
body wants, but we're gonna fix
them. Just give us time. It's not
going to happen right now. ... I wish
it would."
Purdue (3-3, 4-6) was aggres-
sive in the third quarter, deflect-
ing a Foraer pitch-out, executing
an onside kick, throwing a 54-yard
bomb and scoring three touch-
downs to erase Michigan's two-
score lead.
Once again, the defense was the
center of Michigan's woes, giving
up almost 500 yards of total offense
- more than 100 yards above Pur-
due's average output this season.
And the negative attention is defi-
nitely getting to the Wolverines.
When asked for a comment by
members of the media after the
loss, defensive coordinator Greg
Robinson said, "Not today," and
briskly walked toward Schem-
bechler Hall.
Robinson and junior corner-
back Donovan Warren reportedly
shared strong words on the side-

line during the game's waning
moments.
Defensive line coach Bruce Tall,
whose squad has been the lone
bright spot of the struggling unit,
also declined comment.
"I don't know what's going on,"
junior cornerback Troy Woolfolk
said. "Everybody's just clueless.
We're trying out there. We still go
back every Monday and study. But
game day, we just seem to forget
stuff. I'm not sure what it is. We're
gonna get it fixed."
With games at Wisconsin and
home against Ohio State left, Mich-
igan's bowl hopes - even a spot in
the less-than-illustrious Little Cae-
sars Pizza Bowl - are dwindling.
But the team isn't going to give
up its postseason dreams.
"You're right there, and you
see it, and it's in your sights and
it's slipping away from you every
game," left guard Steve Schilling
said when asked about still being
just one win away from bowl eligi-
bility. "We're going to keep fight-
ing. We've got too much heart. And
I'm pretty confident in our team
and that we'll be able to get to a
bowl."

BIG TEN
STANDINGS
Team BijTenOverall
Iowa 5-1 9-1
Ohio Slate 5-1 8-2
PeRU State 4-2 8-2
Wisconsin 4-2 7-2
Northwestern 3-3 6-4
Michigan State 3-3 5-5
Purdue 3-3 4-6
Minnesota 3-4 5-5
Illinois 2-5 3-6
Michigan 1-5 5-5
Indiana 1-5 4-6
Big Ten Results
Purdue 38, Michigan 36
Michigan St. 49, Western Michigan 14
Illinois 35, Minnesota 32
Northwestern 17, Iowa 10
Wisconsin 31, Indiana 28
Ohio State 24, Penn State 7
WRITE FOR
* DAILY SPORTS.
E-MAIL
ANDYREID@UMICH.EDU

--UO


4B - November 9, 2009

The. Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN
M A IZE GAU GE The Michigan Daily football writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Mesk-o-Meter measures the success of special teams, the Rod-o-Meter
judges how emotional (positive or negative) Rich Rodriguez was following the game and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance.

0

9

MESK-O-METER
1/4 Mesko and Stonum had great games, but it didn't matter.
Saturday's biggest plays were Michigan's miscues. Ole-
Zolt ans snavage missed an extra point and field goal, and Michigan
misplayed an onside kick. Each directly altered the outcome.

ROD-O-METER
3 By now, you've probably heard Rodriguez wasn't exactly.
"pleased" with Purdue's Zach Reckman. Completely
4 unprovoked, the coach called out the lineman for his
snarky postgame remarks. It's tough tolose three straight.

HYPE-0-METER
4 I Well, it's true the game was against Purdue, but it's pretty sad
when Michigan has a shot to clinch a bowl and a chunk of the
student section didn't even see the Wolverines'first touch-
Big Houses down. Only the White Stripes could get the crowd going.

0


0

LOOKING GOOD

FEELING BLUE

THE CLAWWWWWWWWWWW!
Former Daily Sports Editor Naweed Sikora lost his battle with testic-
ular cancer in mid-October, and a memorial service was held in his
honor in Ann Arbor this weekend. He was just 27 years old.
When he worked for Daily Sports, Sikora led a campaign to change
Michigan fans' post-defensive stand cheer from a Florida State-like
Tomahawk Chop to what he deemed The Claw, invoking the feroc-
ity of a Wolverine. This was the trend for a while, but students have
reverted back to the Chop.
Against Ohio State, try the Claw. After all, the Wolverines need all the
help against the Buckeyes they can get.
THE CHOP
The true meaning of
this motion is not really
important here. The
point is, it's a thing of
the past!

SAIDALSALAH/Daily JAKE FROMM/ Daily
WIDE RECEIVER ROY ROUNDTREE OFFENSIVE LINEMAN MARK HUYGE
After feeling blue for falling a yard short of the end The line is already underappreciated, so getting
zone on a critical play last week, Roundtree stepped knocked off the boxscore on a replay is just rough.
up his game. He more than doubled his career On a last-ditch chance, Huyge's first-down run was
catches with 10 receptions for 126 yards and a score. reversed because he caught the ball on a forward pitch.

NOTABLE.
QUOTABLE
Just (when) all the
goals we had this
year go down the
drain a little bit. It's
not over. The last
two, we just trying
to get to a bowl
now. That's a big
goal. I'll really cry
if we don't."
- Michigan senior defensive end
Brandon Graham on what makes him
teary-eyed.

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP 10 POLL
The Michigan Daily Top 10 returns for its 10th installment this season. Each week, Daily
Sports staffers fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10 points, second-place votes
receiving nine, and so on. The results are published with first-place votes in parentheses.

6
6
6

1. Florida (6): The Gators
struggled to pull outthe
win, though only one
staffer predicted that.
., 2. Texas (3): McCoy passed
for 470yards and said C-Ya
(hockey style) to Barkley
inthe Heismanrace.
3.Alabama (4): The Tide
have a Dec. 5 date with the
Gators after beating LSU.
That's all we care about.
4. Cincinnati (1): It was
almost a Big East hiccup,
but the Bearcats were
mightier than the Huskies.
5. TCU:A focused Horned
Frog is the highest
form of Zen. Watch
out, BCS title game.

6. Boise State: The
Broncos are 9-0 for the
fourth time in six years.
Take note, Rich Rod.
a 7. Georgia Tech: Nesbitt
overcame a 4-of-14
game to win it in OT.
What agamer.
8. LSU: The Tigers did us
all a favor by losing to give
us the game we wanted:
Alabamavs. Florida.
9. USC: Barkley, future
Heisman winner, went
7-of-22. Hey, Arizona State
is a good team, right?
10. Iowa: Stanzi went
down, and so did Iowa's
BCS hopes - all because
of lowly Northwestern.

FILE PHOTO

THE ONE-HANDED
CLAW
Make sure to keep your
elbow up, your wrist
locked, and your mouth
open.

6



STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their
best to predict what happens in
the 2009 football season.

Michael
Eisenstein

Ruth
Lincoln

t-

Courtney
Ratkowiak

m

Andy
Reid


Michigan (-6.5) vs. Purdue
No.1 Florida (-35) vs. Vanderbilt
No. 2Texas (-34.5) vs. UCF
No.3Alabama (-7.5) vs. No. 9 LSU
No.4 Iowa (-16) vs. Northwestern
No. 5 Cincinnati (-17.5) vs. Connecticut
No. 6 TCU (-24.5) at San Diego State
No. 7 Boise State (-21) at Louisiana Tech
No. 8 Oregon (-7.5) at Stanford
No.10 Georgia Tech (-15) vs. Wake Forest
No.11 Penn State (-5)vs. No.16Ohio State
No.12 Southern Cal (-10) at Arizona State
No.13 Pittsburgh (-21) vs. Syracuse
No.14Utah (-27.5) vs. New Mexico
No.15 Houston (-2) at Tulsa
No.17 Miami (FL) (-14) vs. Virginia
No.1ISArizona(-32) vs. Washington State
No.19 Oklahoma State (-7.5) at Iowa State
No. 20 California (-7.5) vs.Oregon State
No. 21 Wisconsin (-11) at Indiana
No. 22 Notre Dame (-12) vs. Navy
No. 23 Virginia Tech (-13) at East Carolina
No. 24 Oklahoma (-5) at Nebraska
Michigan State (-20.5) vs. Western Michigan
Minnesota (-7) vs. Illinois
This Week
Overall

Michigan
Florida
Texas
LSU
Iowa
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Boise State
Oregon
Wake Forest
Ohio State
Southern Cal
Syracuse
Utah
Houston
Miami
Washington State
Oklahoma State
California
Wisconsin
Navy
Virginia Tech
Oklahoma
Michigan State
Minnesota
8-16-1
113-109-2

Michigan
Vanderbilt
Texas
Alabama
Iowa
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Boise State
Oregon
Wake Forest
Ohio State
Southern Cal
Pittsburgh
Utah
Houston
Virginia
Washington State
Iowa State
Oregon State
Wisconsin
Navy
Virginia Tech
Nebraska
Western Michigan
Illinois
11-13-1
114-108-2

Michigan
Florida
UCF
LSU
Northwestern
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Boise State
Oregon
Georgia Tech
Ohio State
Southern Cal
Syracuse
New Mexico
Houston
Miami
Arizona
Oklahoma State
California
Wisconsin
Notre Dame
East Carolina
Oklahoma
Michigan State
Illinois
9-15-1
115-107-2

Michigan
Florida
Texas
Alabama
Northwestern
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Boise State
Oregon
Georgia Tech
Penn State
Southern Cal
Pittsburgh
Utah
Houston
Miami
Washington State
Oklahoma State
Oregon State
Wisconsin
Notre Dame
Virginia Tech
Oklahoma
Michigan State
Minnesota
9-15-1
99-121-2

Guest Picker:
Rafael Nelson
Michigan
Vanderbilt
Texas
LSU
Iowa
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Louisiana Tech
Oregon
Gerogia Tech
Penn State
Southern Cal
Pittsburgh
Utah
Houston
Miami
Washington State
Oklahoma State
Oregon State
Wisconsin
Notre Dame
East Carolina
Oklahoma
Western Michigan
Illinois
9-15-1
111-111-2

........:............. ..

i



To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail lincolnr@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.


