be 13id~igan 4&iImj

* Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, December 8, 2009

michigandaily.com

SOUTH U. BLAZE
Charred South
U. building to
be torn down

ROLLING OUT A BUSINESS

STUDENT RIGHTS
Revisions to
student code
in the works

Demiolition will
begin on Dec.14
and could be
finished by Jan. 6
By DARRYN FITZGERALD
Daily StaffReporter
Demolition of the former Pin-
ball Pete's building - a well-
known campus landmark that
was damaged in a fire earlier this
fall - is set to begin next week
when classes end and students
begin leaving town for winter
break.
Dennis Tice, owner of the for-
mer Pinball Pete's property that
was charred beyond repair in
late October, said demolition of
the property will begin on Dec.
14 and is expected to continue
through Jan. 6. But, based on
advice from city officials, major
demolition won't begin until after
Christmas, when most students
have left campus. What follows

after the demolition, however, is
still up in the air.
The Oct. 24 fire that ravaged
the abandoned building on South
University Avenue took firefight-
ers from two departments hours
tofullyextinguishandtemporari-
ly displaced hundreds of residents
from the neighboring Univer-
sity Towers apartment complex.
Two men, who are thought to be
homeless, were arrested in con-
nection with the blaze Dec. 3 and
have been charged with arson of
private property. A court hearing
for one of the suspects is set to
begin tomorrow.
Shortly after the fire, Tice said
he received a letter from city offi-
cials acknowledging the incident
and inquiring about what his
plans were for the property.
Tice - who has beeninnegoti-
ations to sell the building for the
past five months - said though
the fire recently occurred, he
has been waiting for years for
city approval to demolish the
building.
See DEMOLITION, Page 7

One controversial
change would lower
burden of proof to
punish students
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter f
Significant changes are being
considered for the document that
governs student rights, responsi-
bilities and .the consequences for
policy violations
on campus. NOTEBOOK
Speaking
before the University faculty's
leading governing body yesterday,
E. Royster Harper, vice president
for student affairs, briefed mem-
bers of the Senate Advisory Com-
mittee on University Affairs on
several controversial changes to
the Statement of *Student Rights
and Responsibilities under con-,
sideration.

The Statement of Student
Rights and Responsibilities is the
official set of regulations that stu-
dents must follow while enrolled
at the University. The document
outlines the rights students have
at the University and details
potential consequences for some
violations including illegal drug
and alcohol use, hazing and sex-
ual assaults. Every three years,
amendments are introduced to
the document, usually with little
controversy.
But this year's proposed
amendments - including ones
to the burden of proof needed in
cases brought against students,
gender-neutral policy language
and the amendment process
itself - have been a source of
contention.
From April 1 to Nov. 1, 2009,
students, faculty and staff submit-
ted proposals to the Student Rela-
tibns Advisory Committee - the
student group that works with
See SACUA, Page 7

Touted as the sober person's option for late-night eats, South U. Pizza offers a more
upscale dining experience for those looking for a greater variety in choices and
toppings. Sirce opening threeweeks ago, business has been "steady," according to
owner Nizar Elawar and employee Serena Renda (above).


GETTING INTO GRAD SCHOOL
GRE sees 'most radical'
 changes since inception

CITY COUNCIL
Council passes long-awaited
plan to manage Huron River

With changes, good
scores expected to
stand out better
from the crowd.
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
After two failed attempts to
revamp the Graduate Record
Examination, Educational Test
Service announced Friday that it
is making drastic changes to the
test starting in 2011.
The test, which is used by
schools in admissions applica-
tions to graduate school, will still
include verbal reasoning, quan-
titative reasoning and analytical
writing sections, but each will be
slightly modified. In addition, the
scoring format will be changed.
Test takers will now be able to
use a calculator on the quantita-
tive reasoning section and will be
given 45 extra minutes to com-
plete the test. In addition, stu-
dents taking the computerized
version of the test will now be
able to skip questions and come
back to them.
The changes are part of a push
by ETS to increase the number of
admissions offices using the test
by making it similar to the GrAdu-
ate Management Admission Test
- the test most widely used for
admission to graduate programs
in business, including the Univer-
sity's Ross School of Business.
Andrew Mitchell, director of
0 graduate programs at Kaplan Test
Prep and Admissions, said the
changes are the most radical made
in the test's 59-year history.
"ETS, the test maker, has
announced changes to the scor-
ing scale, also to the content of the
test and even to the way the test is

navigated and to the tools that are
provided to take the test," Mitch-
ell said. "So we have pretty big
news in terms of what's going on
with the GRE."'
In 2006 'and 2007, ETS
announced changes to the GRE,
but never fully implemented them.
Those changes were supposed to
remove the antonym and analogy
verbal questions and switch to an
tnternet-based test, but only slight
changes ended up being made to
the verbal and quantitative rea-
soning sections in the fall of 2007.
The most recent changes, how-
ever, will be more far-reaching.
The new version of the test will
be scored on a scale from 130 to
170 with one-point intervals. The
current GRE is graded from 200
to 800 with 10-point intervals.
When the change is implemented,
students will be able ;o get one of
41 possible scores instead of the
current 61 possible scores.
Mitchell said the new grad-
ing system will make scores more
accurate because the more narrow
range will allow better scores to
stand out.
"It means with a smaller scale
you're going to work harder to
compete, to'differentiate yourself
based on your GRE score," he said.
"Because the scale is not as finely
tuned."
Neil Seltzer, who is in charge of
the GRE program for the Princ-
eton Review, said though the
changes will make better scores
stand out, the new system is "rath-
er insulting to admissions profes-
sionals," who have been admitting
students based on the current sys-
tem for years.
Many changes, are also being
made to the content of the exam.
Test takers will be able to use cal-.
culators on. the quantitative por-
tion of the test, which means the
questions will likely be more com-

THE NEW GRE
How the Educatiohal Test Service
plans to revamp the Graduate Record
Examination by 2011.
SCORED ON A SCALE OF:
WILL BE. 130-170
NOW 200-800
SCORED IN INCREMENTSOF:
WILL BE:one
NOW:10
TIME LIMITS:
WILL BE: 3 hours, 45 minutes
NOW: 3 hours
POSSIBLE SCORES: .
WILL BE: 41 possible scores
NOW: 61 possible scores
plex and more focused on data
analysis, according to Mitchell.
In addition, the computer-
based version of the GRE will now
allow test takers to skip questions
and come back to them. In its cur-
rent version, skipping questions is
not allowed because the difficulty
of the next question is based on
whether or not the previous ques-
tion was answered correctly.
Finally, the time limit on the .
GRE will be extended from three
hours to three hours and forty-five
minutes.
Seltzei said ETS is making the
changes in hopes of increasing use
of the GRE.
"ETS is trying to maintain the
relevance of the test and increase
their customer base," Seltzer said.
Part of this push to maintain
the relevance of the test, according
to Seltzer, relates to the growing
influence of the GMAT. ETS used
to own the rights to the GMAT, but
in 2006 Pearson bought the con-
tract for the test. Seltzer believes
the GRE's overhaul is part of ETS's
continued effort to entice business
See GRE, Page 7

t1
at

The
finally;
Impou
which
2006 -
ing mu
The
recomr
ter mat
30 rec
agreed
them,c
the Ar
The
sponso
Carster
Counci

Members table (D-Ward 4), was a motion to accept
the plan, which was created by the
)ugh questions Huron River and Impoundment
Management Plan Committee. The.
)out Argo Dam discussion on the plan lasted more
than an hour and every member on
By EMILY ORLEY the council used his or her entire
DailyStaffReporter allotted speaking times.
The Ann Arbor Environmental
Ann Arbor City Council Commission formed the Huro4
passed the Huron River and River and Impoundment Manage-
ndmentManagement Plan - ment Plan Committee three years
has been in the works since ago to formulate recommendations
- last night after implement- on how to handle the Huron River.
iltiple amendments. Hohnke opened the discus-
plan features 30 consensus sion by proposing an'amendment
mendations on how to bet- to the resolution to add. a clause
nage the Huron River. Of the to move forward on proposals
ommendations the council passed with broad support by City
to move forward'on 29 of Council members by forwarding
deciding to view the issue of the proposals to the HRIMPC.
go Dam separately. At the same time, proposals with
resolution, which was co- less consensus would be further
red by Councilmember discussed by councilmembers and
n Hohnke (D-Ward 5) and HIRMPC would present sugges-
ilmember Margie . Teall tions to City Council on how to do

so at a later time.
"We don't have resources right
now to do what we want to do, but
we have a good start," Hohnke said.
"So let's move, forward with those
others."
Hohkne said that a lot of time has
been spent trying to decide what
needs to be done with the river, and
now the focus needs to be directed
toward how those decisions are
going to be enacted.
.Mayor John Hiefjte, who said he
was unable to support a proposal
without a timeframe, proposed that
the amendment be given a one year
time period until the committee be
forced to have a final proposal for
the council. The suggestion was
passed unanimously.
Hieftje added if the council had
been voting on the status of the
Argo Dam last night, he wouldhave
voted to keep it.
Argo Dam is currently one of the
See HURON RIVER, Page 7

WAR STORIES

AAKON AUG'1BURGEK/Uaily
At Borders yesterday, Brad Leithauser, a Detroit born writer, reads excerpts from and signs his new novel "The Art Student's
War" - a book about an artist asked to draw portraits of wounded soldiers in Detroit hospitals during World War Two.


WEATHER HI: 38
TOMORROW LO:18

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us kndw.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS................2A ARTS ................................. 5A
Semen-related costs? Seriously Huffington Post? Vol. CXX, No. 62 SU DOKU .............. ...............3A CLASSI FI EDS ................... 6 A
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE Michioun Oaily OPINIO N ............................ 4A SPORTS.........................8A



2 - Tuesday, December 8, 2009

.The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, December 8, 2009 *The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

0O TEDY

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here' Photos of the Week

Seven thousand stars

Students bored with the
everyday environs of Ann
Arbor can head ever to the
Angell Hall Planetarium
and see 7,000 stars.
Patrick Seitzer, an asso-
ciate research scientist at
the University, said the
planetarium - located on
the third floor of the build-
ing - was built in the 1950's
to better serve astronomy
classes on campus. On Sept.
1, 2004, a new, computer-
run projector replaced
the manual one that was
installed in 1957.
Seitzer said the new sys-
tem displays 7,000 stars,
compared to the 1,000 that
could have been geen in the
manual projector. Accord-
ing to the Student Astro-
nomical Society's website,
the projector can show

other astronomical fea-
tures, including the moon,
planets, the Milky Way and
star clusters.
Throughout the week,
four undergraduate astron-
omy courses and one
minicourse meet in the
planetarium - the reason
why the facility was built in
the first place, Seitzer said.
"It is currently used
for undergraduate educa-
tion to teach the night sky
and how to navigate it,"
Seitzer said. "The plan-
etarium guarantees the
night sky for students in
the classes."
In addition to being used
by the astronomy classes,
the planetarium also holds
open houses organized by
the SAS for the general
public every other Friday.

LSA senior Nhein Nguy-
en said he enjoyed attend-
ing one of the planetarium
open houses.
"They give you a 15 min-
utt presentation about
the constellations that are
available that night, and
you go on the roof of Angell.
Hall which has telescopes
set up," Nguyen said. "I
thought tbe presentation.
was humorous and not
technical. Anyone could go
and understand it, and it
was entertaining."
Nguyen said he would
recommend anyone to go to
the planetarium. "It's one
of the things that a student
should do: go' to the obser-
vatory of Angell Hall and
the planetarium."
- JENNYZHANG

1420 Maynard St.
Ann'Arbsr, MI 48109-1327
www.michigasdaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0a5e
graca@michigasdaily.com emdbusisess@annait~cam
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours: Su,.-Thaes.51nea..- 2a.,.
News Tips news@eichigandaiy.cen,
torrectins correcin@michigandaity.com
Leters tothetditor tthedaitygeichigandaily.com
Photography Department photomichigandaeily.cm
Arts Section arspge@ichiad,iy.m
Editorial Page opinion@michigaedaity.eeoe
Sports Sins ports@mihigndaily.cm
Display Sales display@,ichigandaity.cen,
tlassified Sales ctassifiaulgeichigaendaity.om
Online Sales ontineads@michigandaity.com

01

Finance

finance@michigandaily.com

AARON 5Lyl500eGtt/Daly
The optical mechanical projectorcilathe Angell Hall Planetarium.

CRIME NOTES,

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Resident caught
smoking pot
WHERE: Helen Newberry
Residence Hall
WHEN: Saturday at about 1:10
p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported
a female resident smoking
marijuana, University Police
reported.

Valet scratches
patient's vehicle
WHERE: 1500 East Medical
Center
14~HEN: Sunday at about 6 p.m.
WHAT: A valet driver
scratched the right bumper of
a hospital patient's bumper,
University Police reported.

WdhdAnother car
mowsmasescratched

Holiday sale Dance showings
WHAT: The University's WHAT: Undergraduate
Com~puter Showcase has dance majors will perform.,
computers and accessories WHO: Dance major compo-
st discounted prices unetil sition class
Dec. 24. WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHO: Michigan Adminis- WHERE: Dance Building,
trative information Services Betty Peace Studio Theatre
WHEN: Today from 9 a.m.
to 6 p.m. Fg r
WHERE: Michigan Union Fg r drawing
Dreamweaver session
WHAT: Open figure draw-
workshop ing sessions with live models
each Tuesday and Thursday.
WHAT: Hands-on workshop WHO: Lloyd Hall Scholars
to teach participants to cre- Program
ate pages on Dreamwaver, WHEN: Tonight from 8I to
including how to add links, 9 P.M.
tables and graphics. WHERE: Alice C. Lloyd Hall,
WHO: Teaching and Tech- Art Studio on ground floor
nology Collaborative
WHEN: Today from 2 to 4 CORRECTIONS
p.m. 0 Please report any error
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher in the Daily to correc-
Graduate Library tions@michigandaily.com.

1A Tennessee man called
his sheriff's office Thurs-
day to complain that his
neighbor's cows had been
licking his house, The Associ-
ated Press reported. The cows'
tongues caused about $100
worth of damage, including
ripping off a screen window,
cracking the glass and pulling
down a gutter.
More than 1,200 residents
Jin Washtenaw C~ounty
were evicted last- year,
according to county officials.
>>FOR MORE,.SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3The Copenhagen climate
summit will bring in
3about 1,200 limousines
and 140 private planes, Tele-
graph.co.uk- reported. Den-
mark doesn't have enough
limousines in the country to
meet the demand so vehicles
have been driven in from as
far away as Germany and
Sweden.

.EDITORIAL STAFF
toartney Ratknniak Menaingeditne ,a5toeiak@,niuhigandaity.coe
Jacnb Seilnvitz Managines Em ditor snitanit@micigandaiy.m
SENInR sumS EDITORS: atsonsonn, Jillian ern,,e, Trevr Calr, Jene
.SkollerIKylSwanon
ASSISTANTNES EDITOS:eNicole Abnr, MalloryJos, , Emily Oey, Stehane
Sner,ucshwarhirunavunsue
Rohert Soave EditorialPae Editor ,caem ihigndaiy.eaer
AndyReid Manaing SprtsEditor ,eid@,nichigandaity.uom
SENIOR SORE DITOR: Nan icoleAuerb, M~ikenEisensein, Ian Ky,nnRu
ASSSTAT SORT EDTOR:Mrk uns, ~C1,,ntelJenning, Go uine,,Ryan
David Watnick Manging Atditor natnick@michigandaity.com
SENIORuARSsnEDIOS:Jamie Block, Whitne o
ASSISTNTun sASnOR:sua BaynerCarlynuln,,ui,Aew Lai,ODani i,,
Zachary Meisnenarnd photacfnhigandaity.,ee,
tif Reeder Manaeing PhotoEditos
SsnnENPHTOEDITORS:SidullS, Chael n efininrn-Lothriene
AuSSSTNT PHOOEn DITebORSMo,, llin, Chris azombk, SamWlsn
AngelatChih and design@rnichigandaitp.cen,
Maureenllych Managingeien ditno
Jessica Posgerchiar Maainetditor mgecian@micigadaiy.cm
Katherine MitchellConpy Chief einchett@michigandaity.or
ASSOCIATECOC HIEF:el Mueaieed,di llstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lozwiak Sates Manager
SALES FORCEsANAGR:uosMlly Seigg
Ryan lusinski ClassifiedManaer
inn English Production Manaer
Allison Sanlacren LayouteManagp
Vivian Lee Finance Manaer
Brittany MoralesCciultioneeManager
Bead Wiley ProjeecCoordnaor
The Michianaily(ISSN 0745-%7lispubishedMndaey throughFriday uinthefaII anditer
tems by students tto iersty o Mcgn One co~py ivilbetfeeof haneteell reders.
Additionacoeaybe p,,ickdp at lteDily'soffie for 2. Subsciptins frllterm5, tartingi
Septeervi S.uil ari~e $110. Winerterm (JanuathougApili $11, yearloneebe
through Aprlisnt195Unvesityeaffiatearesbet toa rmeuedsusritonate. O-apus
suscpinsforfalter ae 5. sriptions ut prepai. The Michganaly iaeberf
-Thessosnated Pess and The ssociated Collegiate Pes.

0

0

WHERE: 300 Block E. Hoover
WHEN: Sunday at about 6:30
WHAT: A staff member
reported the rear window
of his car smashed by an
unknown object, though noth-
ing was missing, University
Police reported.

WHERE; Lot M-29, 1400
Nichols
WHEN: Sunday at about 9:20
p.m.
WHAT: A woman reported
the hood of her vehicle was
scratched, University Police
reported.

MORE ONLINE '1
tune Crime Notes? Get more online atlmichigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


'SENIORS:
Burnt lisappoint

I

Your Parentsl.

TAKE YOUR SENIOR PORTRAIT
and be pictured. in the Michiganensian Yearbook
LAST CHANCE !!
Dec, 7th -11111
l0am - p
Bring this coupon with you and get
$2 OFF your Sitting Fee!!!
MIc i anensi n
Schedule your portrait online:
www.ouryear.com, School Code: 87156
Location: Sophia B. Jones Room, Union

HEARTH E STORY
BEHIND THE STORIES.
Tune in to Michigan Daily Radio on
WCBN-FM-Ann Arbor
Tuesdays and Thursdays
6 to 6:30 p.m.
WOLVERINE FANS!4
WATCH YOUR-WOLVERINES BATTLE
FOR THE 45th ANNUAL GREAT LAKES INVITATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY
Drive one.
COLLEGE' TUE. DEC 29, 2009
HOCKEY vs. I nvs.
Tickeots are available atlthe Joe 4:00 P'M 7:30 PM
Lois Arena Box Office, Campus
Boo Office, all lickefonasfer W E .D C 3 ,2 0
locationnsor tall 1-800-745- VYE .D C 3 ,2 0
3000. lOt purchase online at 3rd PLACE GAIVE - 4 PMI
CollegoHockeyathoioe.com.
FAMILY 4-PACK-$44 CHAMPIONSHIP GAME- 7:30 PM
41 General Admission Tickets,
4 sites of pizza & 4 soft drinks.
MARRIOTT DETROIT I
For te special College Hockey __, - ..rdff
Fan Rate Calf 1-80,0-352-0831.

0

0

0

6

6

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, December 8, 2009 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
. LANSING
MDOT warns
money running out
for Michigan roads
Michigan officials are delay-
ing future road projects because of
dwindling revenue.
The Michigan Department of
Transportation says in a recent
report that lack of money has forced
it to consider dropping more than
100 road projects and a similar num-
ber of bridge projects off the drawing
board from 2010 through 2014.
The state could lose hundreds of
millions in federal highway dollars
each of te next five years because
it can't raise enough to receive all its
matching funds.
It could go from spending more
than $1.4 billion annually on high-
ways this year with the help of fed-
eral stimulus money to less than
$600 million three out of the next
four years, costing thousands of
highway jobs.
WASHINGTON
EPA: Climate-
changing gases
endanger health
The Obama administration took a
major step yesterday toward impos-
ingthefirstfederal limits onclimate-
changing pollution from cars, power
plants and factories, declaring there
was compelling scientific evidence
that global warming from manmade
greenhouse gases endangers Ameri-
cans'health.
The announcement by the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency was
clearly timed to build momentum
toward an agreement at the interna-
tional conference on climate change
that opened yesterday in Copenha-
gen, Denmark.Itsignaled the admin-
istration was prepared to push ahead
for significant controls in the U.S. if
Congress doesn'tactfirst on its own.
The EPA finding clears the way for
rules that eventually could force the
sale of more fuel-efficient vehicles
and require plants to install costly
new equipment or shift to other
forms of energy.
WASHINGTON
Abortion is Senate's
obstacle in passage
ofhealth care bill
The divisive issue of abortion
emerged yesterday as an obstacle to
Senate passage of President Barack
Obama's health care overhaul as a
moderate Democrat proposed tough
restrictions that liberals said they
could not possibly accept.
The amendment by Sen. Ben Nel-
son, D-Neb., would bar any private
insurance company from offer-
ing plans to cover abortion if they
receive federal subsidies. In prac-
tice, the restriction would apply to
most plans within a proposed new
insurance marketplace, or exchange,
since most people shopping in the
exchange would be using federal
subsidies to purchase coverage.
The amendment also would block

a proposed new government insur-
ance plan from covering abortions
except in cases of rape, incest or dan-
ger to the mother's life.
CAMP LEJEUNE, N.C.
Mullen expects
casualtes to rise in
Mghanistan
The nation's highest-ranking mili-
tary officer told soldiers and Marines
Monday that the insurgency in
Afghanistan has grown in the last
three years and he expects casualties
to rise next year as additional U.S.
troops pour into the war.
"This is the most dangerous time
I've seen growing up the last four
decades in uniform," Adm. Mike
Mullen, the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, told about 1,000
Marines at Camp Lejeune.
Many attending Mullen's talks
at Camp Lejeune and Fort Camp-
bell, Ky., will be sent to Afghanistan
in President Barack Obama's plan
announced last week.
After the first of the year, the
Marines will begin sending an
additional 6,200 from Lejeune and
Camp Pendleton, Calif., the Penta-
gon announced Monday. The Army
will also begin sending in the first of
its forces in the spring - a training
brigade with about 3,400 soldiers
from Fort Drum, N.Y. Three bri-
gades from Fort Campbell's 101st
Airborne Division are also heading
to Afghanistan and about 4.100 sup-
port forces from various places will
deployearly.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Iran students protest leader

Pro
.1
TEH
thousas
ing "D(
burnin
leader,
than a
in the
protest
Riot
Basij m
cycles f
oughfai
with cl
tors hui
protest
cans ab
"Dea
er it's t
student
witness
parison
Ayatoll,
pro-U.S
since h
Islamic
. The
univers
force o
tion -
govern
mainsti
struggl
dent M
Iran's c
Insid
Tehran
out bet
line stu
ment.I
The As
wearin

tests echo riots pposition's signature color
had blood streaming down his
1979 I nian face after a beating. In another, a
young woman, overcome by tear
Revolution gas, slumped to the ground, as two .
other students tried to help her.
[RAN, Iran (AP) - Tens of Journalists working for foreign
nds of students, many shout- media organizations, including the
eath to the Dictator!" and AP, have been banned from covering
g pictures of Iran's supreme opposition protests, including yes-
took to the streets on more terday's demonstrations.
dozen campuses yesterday A fierce government crackdown
biggest anti-government crushed gigantic protests -by hun-
s in months. dreds of thousands that erupted
police and pro-government immediately after June's disputed
ilitiamen on fleets of motor- presidential elections, which the
looded Tehran's main thor- opposition says Ahmadinejad
res,beatingmen and women won by fraud. The wave of arrests
ubs as crowds of demonstra- swept up not only protesters but
rled bricks and stones. Some also many pro-reform politicians
ers set tires and garbage and activistsideeply damaging the
laze. movement.
th to the oppressor, wheth- Since the summer, the opposi-
he shah or the leader!" the tion has been able to hold only
s chanted, according to about one protest a month, all far
ses - making a daring com- smaller than the ones in June and
between Supreme Leader July.
ah Ali Khamenei and the Yesterday's mass mobilization AP Pt
. shah, despised inIran was unlikely to mean a new wave An anti-governwent Iranian student wears a scarf to oppose the clerical leadership at a protest yesterday at the Tehran Uni-
is overthrow in the 1979 of more frequent protests - activ- versity Campus in Tehran, Iran.
Revolution. ists say escalation remains diffi- University beginning at dawn, fear of retaliation. As riot police fired tear gas, m
protests reflected how cult under the crackdown. But the vowing to prevent any unrest from Authorities also slowed Internet tiamenchargedcthecrowds,beati
ity students - the driving large turnout showed that even spilling out into the streets. connectionsto acrawlinthe capital people on the head and back, w
f the 1979 Islamic Revolu- months of intense arrests and They sought to seal off the to stifle activists' communications. nesses said. The youths regroup
have revitalized the anti- intimidation have failed to stamp campus from the outside world, Still, large crowds massed in oii street corners, where they
ment movement even as out the movement. draping the university fence with the streets outside the university tires and garbage on fire and pelt
ream opposition politicians Opposition leader Mir Hos- banners and signs bearing slogans in support of the students, chant- the militiamen with stones a
e to dent the power of Presi- sein Mousavi declared the clerical from Khamenei to hide what took ing "death to the dictator!" and bricks, according to witnesses a
ahmoud Ahmadinejad and establishment was losing legitima- place inside. . taunting the - plainclothes Basij footage posted by the oppositi
lerical leadership. cy in the eyes of Iranians. Cell phone networks were shut militiamen. on the Internet.
le the walled campus of "A great nation would not stay down, and police and members Footage posted on YouTube Witnesses said many protest(
University, fistfights broke silentwhensomeconfiscateitsvote," of the elite Revolutionary Guard showed some protesters burning were arrested on yesterday, wh
ween protesters and hard- said Mousavi, who claims to be the surrounded entrances, checking pictures of Khamenei - breaking the semiofficial Fars news agen
idents loyal to the govern- real winner of the June 12 election. IDs to prevent oppositioan activ- a major taboo against insulting cited a judiciary statement sayi
In one photo obtained by Thousands of riot police, Revo- ists from entering, said witnesses. the supreme leader, who stands an unspecified number of arre
ssociated Press, a student lutionary Guard forces and Basij. They, like all those who spoke to at the pinnacle of Iran's clerical took. place and those in custo
g a green headband - the militiamen surrounded Tehran the AP, requested anonymity for leadership. were being interrogated.

ili-
ing
'it-
ped
set
ted
nd
nd
ion
ters
aile
ney
ing
sts
dy

Obama sending U.S.
envoy to North Korea

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
IooaSol/Nodellalfacif ice Specials All Night
£.,aw Pee ftcaa&
$2.50 Tequil Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25%Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER
310 Maynard St. - To Go Orders 734.995,0100 -Next to the Maynard Parking Strscture

U.S. to ask about
whether officials
will return to
disarmament talks
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -
After a year of tensions, President.
Barack Obama is sending a veteran-
diplomat to North Korea today for
the highest-profile talks between
Pyongyang and Washington since
he took office pledging to reach out
to America's adversaries.
A key quetion is whether Ste-
phen Bosworth can extract a firm
commitment from Pyongyang to
rejoin nuclear disarmament talks
- whether North Korea is seri-
ous, this time, about peace on the
peninsula.
Bosworth was .scheduled to
fly from a U.S. military base near
Seoul to the North Korean capi-
tal today to see if the North will
return to the international disar-
mament talks that it abandoned
earlier this year.
- Neither side has said which
North Korean officials Bosworth
will meet in Pyongyang during
his three-day trip, though he is
widely expected to sit down with
Kang Sok Ju, the first vice foreign
minister, who is considered the
chief foreign policy strategist for
reclusive leader Kim JongIl.
"The main question is whether
Bosworth will meet with Chair-
man Kim JongT," said Kim Yong-
hyun, a professor of North Korean

studies at Seoul's Dongguk Uni-
versity. "Such a meeting would
demonstrate that both the U.S.
and North Korea intend to resolve
the nuclear issue."
State Departoient spokesman
Ian Kelly told reporters yesterday
that Bosworth is seeking a meet-
ing with "appropriate officials,"
but not with Kim Jong I.
I The State Department has said
that the U.S. envoy has a narrow
mission - to find out whether the
North would return to the stalled
disarmament talks - and would be
carrying no inducements meant to
lure the North back to the negotiat-
ing table.While Chinese and North*
Korean officials have suggested
that Pyongyang might be willing
to return, U.S. officials maintained
that Bosworth did not know what
the North would decide.
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton told reporters yesterday
that she hoped Bosworth would
be successful in persuading the
North Koreans to return to the
nuclear talks and that the North
would work for "a new set of rela-
tionships with us and with our
partners."
This week's talks - the first
direct U.S.-North Korean talks
since Obama took office in Janu-
ary.- come after a year of threat-
ening rhetoric and rising tensions
on the Korean peninsula.
The two Koreas remain in a
state of war, their border guard-
ed. by hundreds of thousands of
troops, because their three-year
conflict ended in a truce, not a

peace treaty,in 1953.
While democratic South Korea
strives to become a global player
and has the world's 15th larg-
est economy, communist North
Korea has retreated into isolation,
with dwindling sources of aid in
the post-Soviet era and few trad-
ingpartners.
]'yongyang says it needs nucle-
ar bombs to counter the strong
U.S. military presence in South
Korea. The impoverished country
has also used the atomic threat to
finagle aid and other concessions
from regional powers wary of the
unpredictable neighbor.
]Fifteen years ago, Kang, the
chief strategist, himself negoti-
ated an agreement with Washing-
ton in 1994 to freeze Pyon'gyang's
nuclear facilities in return for two
light-water reactors safer for pro-
ducing electricity.
That pact fell apart in 2002 after
then-Assistant U.S. Secretary of
State James Kelly said the North
Koreansadmittedtohavirtgasecret
uranium enrichment program.
The North denied the charge.
Then, it withdrew from the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
and restarted its nuclear facilities,
touching off an atomic crisis that
led to the creation of broader, six-
nation disarmament talks.
The six-nation talks - hosted by
China and involving both Koreas,
Japan, Russia and the U.S. - yield-
ed a 2005 deal calling on North
Korea to abandon its nuclear pro-
gram in exchange for aid and the
other secuity guarantees.




SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandailly.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Tuesday, December 8, 2009
4WIC Igan al
(71 4C Aft 4 :43 * IV

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
AVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

GARY GRACA ROBERT SO)
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE

In my mind and in my heart,
it is not over until it's over.
- Former New York state Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno, referring to the guilty verdict
in his corruption trial, as reported yesterday by the New York Times.

Unsigned editorials reflect the officialrpositione ythe Daily's editorialboard. All other signed articles
snd illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
A home for the holidays
State government should expand efforts to aid homeless
ot everyone has a warm place to call home this winter.
As national homelessness rates rose last year, more than
1,200 Washtenaw County residents were evicted from
their homes, according to county officials. But thanks to the county's
recent commitment to provide assistance to those facing homeless-
ness, more local families and individuals will be kept off the streets.
Other Michigan municipalities should follow Washtenaw County's
example and expand their efforts to reduce the number of people
left out in the cold this winter.

ELAINE MORTON

E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

[- Aeser ice St~e e~an, vmVaeI ;VnCi vs'
f- 'Alsira- la O~i #-s', vm &ce in s d'sisna
-ta- 4+% -ksc WA~Ss ovde 1" -i e., t-oo

Keep your options open

The Washtenaw County Board of Com-
missioners approved $175,000 in funding
last Wednesday for an emergency relief
program for families confronted with the
loss of their home. A host of local Ann
Arbor non-profit organizations and reli-
gious groups are involved in the effort.
The money will support housing provid-
ers by supplying 10-year housing vouch-
ers for families close to losing their homes,
bringing stability to those in unpredictable
living situations. It will also help fund an
increase in beds at the Shelter Association
of Washtenaw County and provide support
services to families on the brink of losing
their homes. The goal is to house families
before this winter reaches full intensity.
Homelessness is a serious problem, and
it's on the rise as Michigan's struggling
economy fails to improve. In this difficult
time, some people need an extra hand.
Those who don't have to worry about
making ends meet this winter have an
obligation to help those who do. It's the
government's responsibility to facilitate
this by aiding the homeless through relief
programs.
And by helping the homeless find shel-
ter, the county can prevent harmful situa-
tions. According to the National Coalition

for the Homeless, more incidents of vio-
lence against homeless people have been
reported every year since 2006. It's impor-
tant to protect them by keeping them off
the streets. And last month in Ann Arbor,
two men who are thought to be homeless
started a fire that caused serious damage
to the former Pinball Pete's building on
South University Avenue. Had these men
had access to suitable housing, this unfor-
tunate event may not have occurred.
Washtenaw County has the right idea.
But the program simply isn't big enough
to handle the thousands of residents in the
area who lose their homes each year. The
county needs to make its emergency relief
program a higher priority and expand its
size and reach. And Washtenaw County
isn't the only local unit of government that
needs to prioritize care for the homeless.
Other counties should follow suit to pro-
tect their least fortunate residents.
During a harsh winter in a difficult time
for Michigan, everyone must do their part
to protect vulnerable members of society.
Local governments are aptly positioned to
offer meaningful relief programs for the
homeless, and Washtenaw County's pro-
gram should be imitated and expanded
across the state.

often spend much of my col-
umn attacking pseudoscience
or extolling the virtues of ambi-
tious or creative
projects. that use
technology for
good. This time,
since I won't have
another chance
before I graduate
this December, I'll
share my advice
for those of you
still trying to find BEN
a niche in college CALECA
or trying to get the
most of your time
here. Whether or
not you're. aware, there is plenty of
opportunity to take advantage of what
makes Michigan such a great univer-
sity.
A lot of freshmen are by now enter-
ing the dreaded phase of trying to fig-
ure out what they wish to major in, a
daunting prospect for many students
that is compounded by economic
frustrations about what majors night
leave them best able to find work. In
searching for a major, there is no bet-
ter reason than to pursue something
that you love. If you come here and
decide to slog through classes you
despise so you can have a job, 'vho's to
say you'll enjoy your work any better?
For someone with a passion, there is
always work to be had. Ask any Efig-
lish major who studied writing and
now makes more money than many of
their peers or any musician making a
living job-to-job but enjoying life.
Beyond simply picking a major, take
classes that you want to take. If you're
not sure what exactly you want to do,
your friends in other classes can be
valuable and your GSIs even more so
- after all, if mastering in your area
of study. they've been in your shoes
already. Once you finish your foun-
dation classes, your professors can
increasingly -guide your search for
what fits you. Don't be afraid to take.

classes outsideyour major, even if they
seem irrelevant, if you enjoy it and do
it well you can only be more knowl-
edgeable. The more I've met people
and learned about career options, the
more I have seen that we are really in
a global, interconnected world - there
are crossroads for almost any set of
interests you can imagine. Those who
can take advantage of these intersec-
tions are often very successful.
Always know your professors. They
are the people who will educate you,
and they're human just like us. If you
don't converse with your professors
at least occasionally, they'll never
remember who you were as a person
and will never be able to give per-
sonal advice. You may not realize it as
underclassmen, but it's not uncommon
to go out drinking or sharing dinner
with professors and grad students as a
senior. They like to know good people
as much as you do, and it's one of the
easiest means of networking. It also
makes sense if you're considering grad
school. For grad students, who you do
research with is often more impor-
tant than where you go to school. Not
to mention they know about great job
opportunities out there and might
help you get your foot in the door.
As far as networking is concerned,
be smart about jumping on any oppor-
tunities to meet new people. If there's
a physicist giving a lecture on some
obscure theory you'd heard of - that
you don't understand or even study
but you want to know about - go lis-
ten to it and see if you can talk to him
after. You never know what can come
of showing an interest in people's lives
and work. The same goes for career
fairs. If you see a company, and you
are interested in their field, even if
you think it's not suited to your skills,
talk to their representatives, ask them
about their work and ask them what
got them there. Expansive businesses
often have room for all kinds of people.
. Communication is the key when
it comes to standing out to people.

Professors and coworkers appreciate
someone who can explain their work.
It's better to be a good engineer who
can write agreatreportthan anexcep-
tional engineer who cannot explain
what he did - the most financially
successful artists can sell their work
byexplainingits esthetic andsymbolic
attributes. You'll also constantly learn
after college, and you will be expected
to ask questions when you don't know
how to do something or understand it.
This shouldn't be awkward - it's an
opportunity to get an understanding
of your work.
The last bit of advice is one that I've
gleaned by watching friends here who
seem to have a complex: they think
Some words of
wisdom from a
soon- to.-be grad.
theyneed to know exactly what they're
doing with their life after college. They
need to know their career, their spouse
and where they will live. Statistically
speaking, each of you will have several
careers, each with a few jobs, in the
next 20 years. You'll probably move
and meet new "true loves" at least two
or three times. College is about getting
the basic skills down - the real learn-
ing comes later.
If you made it to a school like Michi-
gan, then you've been given a fantastic
opportunity to learn and grow. It can
be for many people overwhelming, but
if you go out and look for whatyou love
to do, it really is easy to find your niche
and be successful. Even if you might
miss one chance there are always sev-
eral more waiting.
- Ben Caleca can be reached
at calecab@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emily Barton, William Butler, Ben Caleca, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszk'e, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers'to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
-E E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU
FOR MORE INFORMATION.
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
l dt g manipulation is certainly unethical and not
something I would ever defend, it is definitely
not grounds to suggest that his original data,
warming a hoax"u "iLolihtehs
warmng ahoaxmuch less the data of all the scientists in the
previously mentioned organizations, is in any
TO THE DAILY: way fake.
I have officially given up on climate change If anything, this is merely a demonstration
contrarians and their complete disregard for of the fact that scientists are no less susceptible
science, the scientific method and any applica- to personal motivations than any of the rest of
tion of logical thought. us, particularly in circumstances where cer-
Over the past few weeks, a pseudo-contro- tainty is demanded from a political perspective
versy has raged over the so-called "Climat- yet impossible from a scientific one. But these
egate" e-mail, which allegedly proves that the types of personal biases are acknowledged
entirety of climate science is an elaborate hoax and addressed by the scientific establishment
devised by liberals to turn the United States through the process of peer review and con-
into Nazi Germany (or something equally sensus.
inane and, frankly, unimaginative). Yes, some Let me be clear: I have no intention of treat-
people claim this single e-mail from one rela- ing the consensus of climate scientistls as some
tively obscure scientist contains enough evi- sort of religiously infallible and unquestionable
dence to overturn the consensus of thousands truth. If legitimate questions can be raised.over
of other experts, including the National Acad- how a climate model is constructed or how data
emy of Sciences, the Intergovernmental Panel is interpreted, such questions should absolute-
on Climate Change, the American Meteoro- ly be addressed in the interest of advancing our
logical Society, the U.S. Department of Defense understanding of this complex phenomenon.
and numerous other scientific organizations. But if the best argument climate naysayers can
As though this claim was not already ludi- construct is one based on factual and logical
crous enough to disqualify it from any seri- distortions, it does not serve any such interest.
ous consideration, when the actual content of Instead, it cheapens public debate of an already
the e-mail in question is reviewed, there is no intellectually challenging issue that has pro-,
evidence of data falsification. Rather, the mis- found consequences for the future.
guided scientist in question is talking about
doctoring one of his graphs to exaggerate the Eileen Divringi
trends in certain areas. While this type of LSA sophomore
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy.
All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.

ALEX SCHIFF
Hey, MSA make yourself matter

0

Each time I hear the Michigan Student Assembly men-
tioned, the words "Gaza," "apartheid" and "gag rule" are
sure to follow. If you believe the propaganda disseminated
in anti-Israel groups, there. is a mass conspiracy to stifle
debate and clandestinely support the racist, genocidal
actions of the Israeli Empire. In fact, there may be good
reason to believe that MSA leaders are engaged in a covert
operation with the Israeli Mossad, in which MSA silences
Palestinian supporters in exchange for a lifetime supply of
hummus. Israel understands that nothing poses a greater
threat to its stability thanthe army of anonymous Internet
activists leaving anti-Israel comments all over The Michi-
gan Daily's website.
Give me a break.
MSA has a reason for trying to avoid getting dragged
back into this debate. The last time they tried to interject
themselves into this conflict, it was a disaster. After spend-
ing hours debating the topic over the course of two meet-
ings, they finally passed a resolution suggesting that the
two opposing advocacy groups, American Movement for
Israel and Students Allied for Freedom and Equality, come
together in unity to watch a movie. MSA knows what must
be done to establish peace across the region - Mahmoud
Abbas and Benjamin Netanyahu, leaders of the Palestinian
Authority and Israel respectively, must grab their Snug-
gies, pop some popcorn and put aside their differences
with the power of film.
Maybe I'm just a naive freshman, but I think a student
government should be concentrating on things that affect
students, notweighingin on foreign affairs over which they
have no influence. MSA is not the United Nations - and
-even the UN has proved itself entirely impotent in solving
this problem. They have absolutely no power whatsoever
to do anything but say, "Boooo! We don't like you!" And,
even though I passionately disagree with such action, they
couldn't even do that - they suggested we watch a moyie.
Demanding that MSA promulgate foreign policy is only
going to delude representatives into thinking that they're
actually part of something more than a gloriffed middle
school student council with fancy websites.
Let's not kid ourselves. There's a reason MSA celebrates

when turnout exceeds 5 percent - no one cares. The low
turnout is a sign that the organization is already seen as
irrelevant by the studentebody.We have our choice between
the Michigan Vision Party, a bunch of "independents who
collectively express opinions" (in other words, a party) and
the Defend Affirmative Action Party. I think they are all
terrible choices for various reasons - repeating the word
"vision" over and over doesn't qualify you for office, the
independents are just like those emo kids in high school
that told you they don't have a label and DAAP represen-
tatives actually encourage the Gaza resolution madness.
But mainly, it's because I have trouble supporting an insti-
tution - andby extension its members - that broke state
law. MSA did this by appointing - not electing, as the law
stipulates - members to the Department of Public Safety
Oversight Committee. Then, they denied it and reversed
course when people found out. It gives me flashbacks of the
lies and deceit of the Bush years.
If MSA ever wants their representatives to draw more
votes than my high school class president did, they need to
start making themselves more relevant to the lives of the
student body. It started with ensuring that onlythose with
a valid MCard, i.e. only people actually affiliated with the
University, have the right to speak to them without prior
clearance. The "gag rule" so condemned by the activists it
targeted was a positive step toward concentrating MSA's
time on issues they have the power to affect.
MVP - you want my vision? Here it is: Lobby for poli-
cies that will positively affectthe lives of your constituents.
MSA has been doing a great job at helping to push through
the "Good Samaritan" law, ensuring that students won't be
afraid to call an ambulance to help a friend in trouble. I'd
like to see more things like that. Advocate for additional,
more frequent and later-running bus schedules on nights
and weekends so my North Campus friends stop spending
every Saturday night on my futon. Work with the Univer-
sity administration to find ways to lower the costs ofeduca-
tion for students. And for crying out loud, get us a theater
on campus that shows new movies.
Alex Schiff is an LSA freshman.

r7


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, December 8, 2009 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, Decemher 8, 2009 - 5

Corporate imposters
The Yes Men bring their
social crusade back to the big
screen in 'Fix the World'

The list disease

By Andrew Lapin I Daily Film Editor.
Who are the Yes Men? If you ask them, the
two public hoaxers and pro-
vocateurs with the aliases
of Andy Bichlbaum and
Mike Bonanno will tell you
they're physical manifes- The Yes Men
tations of the conscience Fix the World
the corporate world should
have. Ask anyone else Tonight, at the
and you're just as likely to Michigan
hear they're nothing more Shadow
than barbaric stuntmen
who leave trails of social
destruction in their wake - not unlike the very
corporations they're targeting.
Bichlbaum and Bonanno specialize in imper-
sonating representatives of powerful com-
panies and making fools out of themselves in
public, whether that involves giving erroneous
statements to the press or presenting insane
ideas at shareholder's meetings. They present
their stunts and then gauge the reactions to
them from the corporations, the general public
and the specific subset of the public the corpo-
rations have already damaged through their
own real, non-impersonated actions.
The Yes Men's latest movie, "The Yes Men
Fix the World," plays like a greatest hits collec-
tion of their shenanigans and acts as a sequel
to 2003's "The Yes Men." In the six years since
that first film, the pranksters have grown more
ambitious, so they're now able to blanket their
guerilla satire under the cover of "fixing the
world." Indeed, with all the exposure they're
giving themselves in these movies, not to men-
tion their appearances on countless news chan-
nels, the big unanswered question is 'Why they
haven't been recognized yet.
The movie is technically a documentary,
inasmuch as it's mostly composed of real foot-
age of the Yes Men performing their schemes.
However, Bichlbaum and Bonanno, who co-
direct with Kurt Engfehr (editor of "Fahrenheit
9/11"), mash truth with fiction in a manner that
alternates between admirable and obnoxious.
Because tteir entire goal is to use lies to expose
the truth, in some ways they're justified in only
- electing footage that pertains to their owne
narrative - hence the doctored chronology of
events they rely on. But the enveloping staged
scenes, in which they retreat to their "secret

He thought it was the perfect disguise, until he had to run.
underground lair" and go swimming in their movie. But amazingly, the audience buys into
business suits, are overly twee and patronizing. the idea and asks questions about the phony
Yet it's when the Yes Men are in their ele- device's further applications.
ment, going to any lengths to pull a ruse on Even in noteworthy segments like this, it's
people, even for only a few minutes, that the hard to guess what exactly the Yes Men are
film and the reasons for making it really shine. satirizing. The willingness of rich people to buy
Bichlbaum goes on the BBC on the 20th anni- ridiculous things to ensure their own safety?
versary of a Union Carbide-caused chemical Well, OK ... but making that point doesn't seem
spill in Bhopal, India to announce that Dow worth all of their effort. And that's ultimately
Chemical accepts full responsibility for the what's so hard to stomach about the Yes Men:
incident, forcing Dow to issue a statement say- Even when they succeed, it's difficult to tell,
ing they have no intentions of donating any- what they've accomplished. Some would even
thing to rebuild the city. He also poses as an argue they've harmed the world more than fix-
ExxonMobil spokesperson at an oil conference ing it, when the adverse snowball effects of the
to announce the productioq of candles 'made targeted companies' plummeting stock prices
out of human flesh. are taken into account.
And, in the film's most blisteringly hilari- So the Yes Men's stunts are certainly making
ous segment, the pair debut the."Halliburton the worldtake notice. Maybe once they find a
SurvivaBall" to a roomful of fascinated inves- way to channel all of their audacity and creativ-
tors. The ball, a giant, inflatable insect-like pod, ity into a constructive rather than destructive
appears to be straight out of a Charlie Chaplin project, some fixing could actually begin.

our favorite entertainment
publications have recently
fallen victimto a sweeping
epidemic of "Best-of-the-Decade-
itis." This seemingly harmless
disease deludes
the carrier into
believing that
he or she hears
the voices of the
thousands of
films released
over the last 10
years, all begging ANDREW
to be organized LAPIN
into sequential -
order. "Rank us!" they cry. "Rank
us, Richard Brody of The New
Yorker! Only you have the power to
properly analyze every one of our
benefits and flaws. Only you can
provide the definitive answer to
which of us will thrive in memory
and which of us will languish in
cinematic purgatory."
. The worst part of this disease
is that it's contagious. Once one
newspaper, blog or random guy in
his parent's basement starts doing
it, everyone suddenly realizes how
much they, too, need a list of their
very own. A list to be coddled, cared
for, protected against the harsh
winds of all those other disagree-
able critics who totally got their
own lists wrong. A list that will be
remembered by the adoring public
forever, or at leastuntil the next list
comes out later this afternoon.
The Michigan Daily may very
well have one of these lists within a
month, too. That's still up in the air.
I don't know what having our own
list will get us, exactly. All of your
adoring affection? Or maybe Roger
Ebert will be so impressed with
our pointed film criticism that he'll
invite us to be his escorts at Cannes.
Seems unlikely. .
I've surprised myself with my
own bitterness at all these 2000s-
end lists. Normally I love lists, like
my esteemed colleague, fellow
columnist and sworn enemy Josh
Bayer. All you have to do is prime
me and I'll rattle off my favorite
Spielberg movies, documentaries
and ragtag-sports-team-wins-the-
championship films, just like that.
But it's something about the mass
conglomeration of all these lists,
all at once, being positioned as life-
affirming proclamations of human-
ity's belief in the power of film that
disturbs me just a tad.
Not one "best of the decade"
list is more superb than any other,
though a select few are more inane
than the rest. Entertainment
Weekly, still my favorite magazine
despite their unquenchable "Twi-
light" obsession, recently came
out with their list of the decade's
top 100 ... things. As in, theytook
movies, TV shows, books, fictional
characters and music videos from
the past 10 years and lumped them
all together into a giant stew of
hierarchical madness. Finally we
can determine with absolutely cer-
tainty that, not only was "The Lord
of the Rings" this decade's crown
cinematic achievement, it was
also exactly six slots better than
Beyonc6's "Single Ladies" video.

That's not a list; that's pop-culture
heroin, a giddy sensory overload
that grants a temporary high and a
long-lasting pain.
But even the "serious" lists
are probletm-starters. Even as
they exert their own individual
opinions, the critics who make
them are naturally eager to prove
that they, too, loved universally
acclaimed films like "Children of
Men" and "WALL-E." So when you
read enough of these and see the
same movies over and over, slightly
reordered, your awareness of the
decade in film is actually shrink-
ing, not expanding. You're gradu-
ally, subconsciously honing in your
sights on the repeat customers,
which were most likely the films
you've already seen, thus mak-
ing them easier to debate among
friends and enemies. Look, I know
"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless
Mind" was awesome. I don't need
The Onion's A.V. Club asserting it
was the most awesome among all
the awesomes for me to know this.
And say you're angry about their
15th favorite film, "Y Tu Mama
Tambien," not being rated higher.
Why, just head on over to Michael
Phillips of "At the Movies," who
The only good
list is a dead list.
rated it fifth on his own authorita-
tive list that's so important it has to
be unveiled week-by-week. Prob-
lem solved. Now, instead of debat-
ing the merits of the film, you're
more than welcome to debate
the merits of the lists. (These are
all critical sources that I greatly
admire, by the way. The list-mak-
ing spirit just boils my blood.)
I will point out that there is a
difference here between the year-
end best-ofs and the decade stuff.
I firmlybelieve in the importance
of year-end celebrations because
they're deliriously in-the-moment.
The movies are still fresh inour
minds and we're just bursting with
the desire to share them with the
world. And no worries, because any
truly great films we leave out will
find a wayback to us eventually.
But the decade list undermines
this system by saying that now that
we've had time to "reflect on the
past years" (i.e. dismiss the 2009
releass as too recent while unfairly
legendizing the 2000 releases), we
can finally name, once and for all,
the only films worth remembering.
And in the process of nitpicking the
truly excellent from the merely very
good, we're forgetting why we love
movies so much in the first place:
the sheer thrill of discovery that
comes from watching something
unfamiliar.
So here's my Best Film of the
Decade: Any movie you haven't
seen yet.
Lapin came in 12th on our best
Arts columinss of the year list.
Console him at alapin@umich.edu.

Old formula, new haircut

By BRIGID KILCOIN
Daily Arts Writer
"Hey, I'm proud to be a fuckin'
guido!" These
immortal words
from cast mem-
ber Mike make
one thing clear: JerSey Shore
If you've been Thursdays
heartbroken at 10 p.m.
since A&E's MTV
"Growing Up
Gotti" went off
the air, MTV's new reality show
"Jersey Shore" will fill that void in
your life.
"Jersey Shore" follows eight
Italian-American 20-somethings
as they spend a summer in Seaside
Heights, New Jersey. It's like "Real
World," but with more hair gel.
"Jersey Shore" begins with the cast
moving into a house that serves as
a monument to New Jersey stereo-
types: Wall decorations include a
giant Cadillac emblem, an over-,
sized painting of the Italian flag
and a Scarface poster. There are
eight cast members, most of whom
come equipped with an absurd
nickname: Angelina (or "Jolie"),
Jenni ("J-WOWW"), Mike ("The
Situation"), Nicole ("Snookie"),
Pauly D ("DJ Pauly D"), Ronnie,
Sammi ("Sweetheart") and last,
but not least, Vinny. The paper-
thin plot in the two-hour premiere
follows the cast as they train to
work in a T-shirt shop on the shore
and gossip about various intra-
house hookups that have occurred.
The cast of "Jersey Shore" is its
primary drawing point: The train
wreck potential is so immense
that it creates wonderfully awful,

infinitely quotable television pep-
pered with use of the word "guido"
and gratuitous profanity. Spoiled
princess Nicole is the center of
many of the episode's funniest
moments: She states that life in
the shore house is "totally weird"
for her because she's used to being
the center of attention. Luckily,
she reclaims some of her lost glory
by climbing into the house's hot
tub clad only in a bra and leopard-
print thong. Angelina is shocked:
"Wear a thong bikini, that's a little
bit more classier if you're going to
wear anything at all!"
Classiness in hot tubs, and lack
thereof, is a major focus of the pre-
miere episode. J-WOWW raises
the question to her housemate DJ
Pauly D, who has brought several
girls over for a late-night hot tub
rendezvous: "How are you goingto
be 29 years old and make out with
three 20-year-olds in a hot tub?"
The Pauly-hot tub dynamic raises
further problems, as Sammi ques-
tions why her male housemates are
bringing "trashy skanks" to her
home.
"Jersey Shore," is unique among
most reality programming because
the producers seem in on the joke.
While the show will undoubt-
edly raise ire from Italian Ameri-
cans who want a more flattering
pop-culture portrayal, the cast
unashamedly, blissfully embraces
the lifestyle expected of them. One
opening montage shows every male
in the hast throwing mountains
of hair gel and protein power into
their suitcases. And multiple peo-
ple discuss their personal tanning
beds. The Jersey shore is presented
as a panacea for the cast members:

Vinny talks about the struggles of centerpiece. Mike's assistance
being underage at the Jersey shore, with the cooking upsets DJ Pauly
stating that it's "21 long years of D: "Girls are supposed to cook, and
anticipation to go to these plac- guys are supposed to eat, you know
what I mean?"
MTV's other reality shows are
Sp u t fairly interchangeable - low-'
"I'm proud to be budget, generic programs - like
a fuckin'guido' "NEXT" and "Parental Control"
a g squeezed in between reruns of
"The Hills" - but "Jersey Shore" is
nothing if not memorable. It's not
es, and once you get there its the high art; it'll never get nominated
sweetest fuckin' place on earth!" for an Emmy or lead to debates
Italian stereotypes also pop up. over different plot layers. But if the
The cast sits down for a family din- ultimate purpose of TV is solely to
ner of Italian sausages and peppers entertain, "Jersey Shore" succeeds
with a Bible serving as the table on multiple levels.

University of Michigan's
,LargestH
. .,
Selection of REALTY
Units Available forlimmediate Occupancy
Off aliDus Now Leasing for 2010-2011
m Houses up to 14 bedrooms
fl1B Church S1. 17341 995-9200
Housing wwacratc 0o
www.arChrealtyCo.Com

DUDE, YOU SHOULD
WRITE FOR DAILY TV/NEW
MEDIA. IT'S CHILL, MAN.
G-mail join.arts@umich.edu for
information on applying.


PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033, jmspropsbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 5 BDRM house, Avail August 2010:
833 Brown St: $2500/mo. Beautifal
House. Parking and on-site laundry.
Call Louis at1610-952-5269 or email
Jouisbreskman@yahoo.com
1 BEDROOMS $685-$765 and 2 bed-
rooms $840-$985.
Available August 27th, 2010.
We offer fully furnished apartment
at no extra cost!
For more info call 734-662-4446 or visit
www.issaproperties.com
! 3 BDRM Apts on East U.!
Furn, high ceilings, hardwood firs,
deck off back, on site parking, heut &
water incl Pepper Properties 810-231 -
0229. www.umcampUs1hoLusing.com
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for next year - NO MONEY
DOWN ill 2010. Sign by Dec. 1.
All-new, furnished, 2 blocks from Cen-
tral Campus, all utilities included, per-
person contracts. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
6-8 Bedroom Large Houses!
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 White St. & 1237
White Street. Close to campus. Furn..
free on site Indry & prkg. Hardwood
firs, open basement, fenced in yards.
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
921 PACKARD, Fall 110 3 story, 5
bdrm house for 6. Furmished, 3 full bthl,
3 kitchen, ]dry, prkg, (734) 272-1320._
' AVAIL now and/or Fall!
2 spacious 5 bedroom apt.
Call 734-665-2723 or vlsI
www.shahproperties.com
1 WINTER SEMESTER Rental:
One bdrm, large 850 sq ft, bi-level,
$765/mo, furnished option. Email
info@issaproperties.com or visit
www.issaproperties.com,
or call 734-662-4446.
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW forAug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
!! 6 BDRM HOUSE-Fall '10, Lg.
Bdrms., 2.5 bath, Furn., Parking,
Lndry, Updated, Nice. 717 S. Division,
$3660/mo. 734-662-1362.
!!!AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/-
cool kitch. Low Rent $ (313) 215-8115.

End of Year Special
$100 off 1St months rent
*must lease by 12-31-09
Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island Drink
with any new tour!
VotedBest
Apartments
in 2009 by
Michigan Daily!
CHEAPER AND
MUCH BETTER THAN
THE DORMS!
YOU DESERVE TO MOVE UP
Contact us for a tour today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
Universitytowers-mi.com
V1 Jniver ity
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnislhed/unfunmislhed., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.ciurchstreetrenthls.com
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tys, modem furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcoiorealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
!!TOO CLOSE TO BE TRUE!! Great
apts for large groups. Well cared for
and close to bus stop near CC Little.
May & Sept. '10 leases. 734-668-1118
or visit www.noplacelikejones.com
$ NOW AVAILABLE $
2 bdrim. spacious apt. Excellent,
convenient, great location, prkg.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 HiI11, 908 Sybil,
910 Packard, 1130 Oakland, 1026
Vaughn, etc. 734-769-7025.
jmospropg(&sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com

* 4.
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9 300
www.annarborapartments.net
***** MAY LEASES *****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May to August
1 bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Call today 761-8000!
Prime Student Housing
primesh.com
*aa3 BDRM TRI-LEVELuuu avail.
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartinents.net
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrns with 1.5
baths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
ern furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www.aniiarborapartmoents.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. -Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact 734-
276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrto
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*UP TO ONE MONTH FREE for a.
Limited time only! Call us for more
details. Were Much Better than the
Dorms! Check LIs out-and get a FREE
Bubble Island drink with any new toUrl
We have Rooms, Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bed-
room furnished apartments available
for Spring / Fall. Call us at 734-761-
2680 for an appointment.
UniversityTowers-micom
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

Just $4,599.00!
Spacious Penthouse with
all new amenities including
marble bathrooms, central air
conditioning, granite kitchens with
2 refrigerators, and laundry and
parking on site.
Campus Realty
1335 South University
Ann Arbor MI 48104
Tel: (734) 665-8825
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or email
ctraband@archrealtyco.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
10 BDRM HOUSE 433 1lamilton.
10 BDRM house 217 N. Ingalls.
ui-places.comn 734.478.2936.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com

Luxurious 6 Bedroom,
2 Bath, Bi - Level Apartment
616 Monroe D

34erfchipan Ba-11J
PRESENTS THE
Online lassfiel
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
5 BEDROOM APARTMENT 611
Church, Located on the comer of
Church and S. University above
Amers. Entire building has been com-
pletely renoveted. Completely Fur-
nished (leather couches!), Huge Clos-
ets! Washer and Dryer in unit, Granite
Counter Tops, Stainless Steel Appli-
ances, Dishwasher and Disposal, 2500
S.F., 2.5 Baths. Available May and Fall
2010 $665.00-$785.00/month per per-
son with 6 roommates. Limited num-
ber of units remaining call
734-995-9200 for a tour.
!!CARLSONPROPERTIES.COM!!
is finished leasing for 2010. Land-
lords call 734-332-6000 for assistance.
NAKAMURA COOPRM. Winter
'10. 517.775.2870. Food incl. $547/mo.
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modem appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modem, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

# Beds Location Rent
6 1121 Church $3200
6 543 S. Division #2 $2800
6 1221 S. State #2 $2500
5 1117 Church #1 $2900
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE intemet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
1029 VAUGHN
6 BDRM + STUDY
3 BATHS, $4000
MAY 20 10
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
AFFORDABLE 4-MONTH CON-
TRACTS, Available for Winter Term.
Rates Starting at $529; Includes all
meals, utilities and more.
ICC Student Co-op Housing,
www.ice.coop 734-662-4414.
AMAZING SIX BEDROOM
HOUSE in prime location. Two full
baths, private porch, newly renovated
kitchen and living room with hard
,wood floors. 6 free parking spots.
$3499/ month. Campus Reality 734-
26W8865 www.campusreality.com.
AVAIL. MAY 3 bdrm, 1 bath. S. U.
$2100/mo. + util. Wshr./dryer, prkg. 2
story duplex. 734-945-2822.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
CONIPROPERTIES
734-663-5609
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3/4 bedroom,
free pkg/Indry by Yost Arena, $1550,
734-883-8140.
skyharrislccomcast.net
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washe. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully fun, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.

0

I'O U-MnF. VAillIN

FreeRentuntil Feb. 1st
3 Bedrooms from $799
Call Sun Homes at 888-993-6851
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
www.sciofarms.com offer ExpNress
1Now Leasing

t

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 61 Caller'sdevice, 27 *Hotel offering 45 Wrinkle remover
1 Caughtsome z's and word that 28 Baldwin and 46 Blood typing
6 Solheim Cup can precede the Guinnes letters
co-sponsoring ends of the 29 Southfork Miss 47 Very, in Verdun
org. answers to 30 Discourage 48 Prefix with sol
10 With 10-Down starred clues 32 Stockpile 49 Schneider of film
and "and," rigidly 35 "Frasier' brother 50 Oz barker
formal DOWN 36lowacollegetown 51WWiI1weapon
14 Moth-eaten 1 NYSE units 40 Promise to marry 53 In favor of
15 Problems 2 Mythical trickster 42 Worn by wind 54 Egg producer
16 McEntire of 3 K-6 43 1984 Cyndi 55 Any of four Ottos:
country 4 X-ray alternative Lauper hit Abbr.
17 *Art class supply 5 Business big shot
19 Birthstone for a 6 Fall sign ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
6-Down, often 7 Tricky maneuver P R 0 P S A U N A S M U G
20 Wordsof 8 hine,inproduct E R C A N A L C 0 N E
apology names A R E R 0 D
21 Left, at sea 9 Inquire T I N G I N E
22 Nostra 10 See 1 5-AcrnssNTH MBR
3Not as ruddy 11*Dreadedend-o- N S N T M R A
25 Egyptian cityon semester
the Nile handout, perhaps S I AI
28Ukesome 12 Reinforcing beam P Y RAM I DS C HE ME
chocolates 13 Soda shop buy P L 0 Y 0 N E S H 0 T
Purchases 18 Slugger's stat: 0 0 U E G G S K A Y A K
31 Graceful bird Abbr. AT TAR TA A C E
32 Actor Delon 21 As a companion T H R E E C A R D M 0 N T E
33 Ohio A.L team, 23 Tests for jrs. I F T S a L I 0 A K I N
on scoreboards 24Big land mass N B S P L T 0 5 E V E
34Commercial 25Meatgarnish B G L Y Y E M E N T E E
suffix with Water 26 Frosting feature & .,,,, sams/7/

Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Bedrooms
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand'NewD
1021 E. University
916 Sybil
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
200 Packard
507 Walnut
1132 White
7 Bedrooms
331 - 333 E. Jefferson
335 E. Ann
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms +
1302 S. Forest (8 br)
1130 S. Forest (9 br)
1619 S. University (9 br)
1014 Vughh (11 br)
*only $480 per person
915 Oakland (20 person'
see dm PiZa sSom/
616 Church Street
For details call
734-995-9200
www.archr.ealtyco.com


2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.smileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469
2-BEDROOMS: 2 minute walk to the
Business or Law Schools, unique lay-
outs in spacious apts. new kitchens w/
dishwashers, heat, water, underground
parking included.
www.varsitymanagement.com
2drm. Units
FTower Plaza Condominium
0 eS": i 0 c, ck i o
734-663-1530
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
micsiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
72 15.
3-BEDROOMS: NEAR CCRB and
CC Little, balconies or patio, large liv-
ing rooms w/ new furniture. Ileat, wa-
ter, parking inct. Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100.
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. La'rge modern kitchen, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and much more! 741-
9300 www.annarborapartmnents.net
5 BDRM. FALL 2010. 530 S. Fourth.
2 bath. Free prkg & Idry.Few min walk
to Union. $2450 + util. 734-709-5709.

7 BEDROOM HOUSE $450 per per-
son with 7 Roomates, this amazing
house is located just South of S. State
Street on Packard. The home has 3
bathrooms, 2 Kitchens, and 7 Large
Bedrooms. Plenty of room for up to 10,
people' Fbr a tour call 734-995-9200.
8 BEDROOM HOUSE - $485/mo per
person with 8 roommates! Located just
about a 10-15 minute walk from the
diag this fully furnished house is a
great choice for those wanting to save
$$$$ and still he able to walk to cam-
pus. 2 Kitchens, 3 bathrooms, and
plenty of parking!!!!
Call 734-995-9200 for a tour today.
9 BEDROOM HOUSE $560/mo per
person with 10 roommates!!!!!! Lo-
cated just a 10 minute walk from the
Diag on 1130 South University. Hard-
wood floors, Dishwasher, 3 kitchdnis, 6
bathrooms, maximum occupancy 14
people. Call 734-995-9200 for a
showing.
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
FALL 2010 HOUSES
#Beds Location Rent
7 5102athrinn $3700
7 1129White St. $3400
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3600

# Beds Location Rent
6 1122 S. Forest $3500
5 1120 S. Forest $3000

35*Suitcase
attachment
37 Bottom-row PC
key
38 Rage
39 Apple models
40 Soft cheese
41 In the dark
43 Judaicfeast
44 Fourth estate, as
it's known
45 Thai bread?
47 Food that's filled
andfolded
49 Brockovich
portrayer
52 ".. my lips!"
53 *Arcade
attraction
56 Author
StanleyGgrdner
57 San , Italy
58 Furry aquatic
frolicker
59 Bought, to a
retailer
88 Jet-black stone

3-
34

"

7-T

By Timothy L. Meakera12/08/09
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.1/8/9



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, December 8, 2009 - 7

- Site of South U. fire to be
demolished this month

From Page 1
A construction company JC Beal
Construction was later hired, and
the company's president Stewart
Beal met with John Brink, project
manager fdr the city of Ann Arbor,
to discuss the demolition's timeline.
Brink, who manages street
permit guidelines and processing
times, said the city's only require-
ment was that the bulk of the
demolition be done over the Uni-
versity's winter break, in an effort
to minimize any disruptions or
inconveniences.
"ThatwasthecityofAnnArbor's
suggestion, and we were happy to
comply with it," Beal said.
To this end, smaller components
of the teardown will begin on Dec.
14, but heavy equipment will not
be brought in until Dec. 26, when
construction will take place every
day of the week.
"We're going to get it done as
quickly as possible," Beal said.
"We know the importance of get-
HURON RIVER
From Page 1
most controversial issues around
Ann Arbor. Councilmember Sabra
Briere (D-Ward 1) stated that the
dam has caused such serious divi-
sion within the city that neighbors
have stopped speaking to each
other.
City Council decided that Argo
Dam was too divided of an issue
for them to decide on at the time.

ting it dune."
Though construction is set to
finish on Jan. 6 - the same day
students return to class - the pro-
cess could be delayed if any major
snowstorms hit the area in the
next few weeks.
"In terms of a finite ending,
it's hard to say since this is the
worst weather time," Beal said.
"It's all weather related - if we
were 'to get a blizzard for three
days it would set us three days
back, or more."
Tice, 'who also owns Pizza
House, was less clear about what
would replace the former Pin-
ball Pete's property. He said that
previous plans were stalled as he
waited for the final passage of the
city's A2D2 zoning initiative, since
it would determine what types of
property could fill the space.
"My brother and I have been
waiting for five years to know,"
Tice said. "Now that it's voted on, I
anticipate a lot of properties being
sold or redeveloped."
The zoning changes, approved

-last month by 'the Ann Arbor City
Council, were created to imple-
ment new design standards for
downtown Ann Arbor, restructure
the city's parking system and help
simplify the land development pro-
posal process.
Tice said he would have torn
the building down years ago if the
city's new zoning regulations had
been set.
"That building had no or very
little value as it was," Tice said.
"The value is in the land."
For the past five months, Tice
has been negotiating a sales agree-
ment for the former Pinball Pete's
property with an undisclosed
developer, but he said the develop-
er was more interested in the land
than the building itself. Ticewould
not disclose who the developer is.
Tice said the building was so
run down and out of code that any
new property owners would have
likely demolished it.
Tice added, "I-don't believe the
fact that the building is gone is
going to change their mind." .

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daily
Mombers of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs meet yesterday in the Regents Room of the Fleming Building.


The AAEC decided that the dam
should be removed by a majority
vote. The Park Advisory Commis-
sion decided the dam should be
kept, also by a majority vote. Many
Ann Arbor citizens spoke at the
meeting during the public com-
mentary portion, which preceded
the discssion of the.resolution, to
express their views on the issue to
their council members and urged
them to vote consciously.
Ann Arbor resident David Bar-
ret, discussed reasons why the

dam shouldn't be removed. He
closed his remarks by asking the
council to "view the resolution
with skepticism."
John Rubin, another Ann Arbor
resident, argued why the dam
should be removed.
"Dams are inherently bad for
rivers because they alter the flow
function," Rubin said.
BytakingoutArgoDam,theland
would provide 28 acres of parkland,
which he said was a much better
use of the property.

SACUA
From Page 1
faculty and student government
organizations on student issues.
Harper said the "hottest item"
right now is a proposal to lower
the standard of evidence needed to
find a student responsible for a pol-
icy violation. The change calls for a
move from a "clear and convincing"
standard to a "preponderance of
evidence" standard.
Underthe proposal,preponderance
of evidence is defined as the "amount
of evidence that makes it more likely
than not that the facts demonstrate a
violation of college policy." The Uni-
versity's current standard requires
the reviewer of a case to be confident
that a violation occurred.
In essence, the change would
lessen the burden needed to punish
a student.
Accordingto the amendment, the
proposed change would bring the
University's standards in line with
those at other universities, which
primarily rely onthe preponderance
of evidence standard.
Harper said concerns about the
change primarily focused on sexual
assaultcases.
"It's been interesting because
usually people are pretty blas6 about
changes to the' Statement," Harper
said. "But this year; there has been
a lot of activity because of this par-
ticular issue."
Despite some resistance, Harp-
er told SACUA members that most
studetits are in support of the move
to the prepoiderance of evidence.
The other changes to the
Statement include revising the
document's langriage to be gender-
neutral - replacing terms like "his"
or "her" with "their" - and expand-
ing students' ability to propose an
amendment by allowing any student
to propose a change to the code at
any time. Currently, amendments
must be proposed by either MSA,
the Senate Assembly or the Univer-
sity's executive officeis.
Harper said the Division of Stu-.
dent Affairs is trying to discourage


the policychange because the office
doesn't want to minimize the roles
of students and faculty in revising
the Statement..
"(SACUA and MSA members) are,
elected by their constituents, and
we didn't want to create a process

"Sometimes we say stuff, and
(students) hear it very differently,"
Harper said.
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
OVERHAUL

GRE
From Page 1
schools into usingthe GRE as part
of their admissions criteria.
Mitchell said that according
to a Kaplan survey of 260 admis-
sions officers conducted this
past summer, only one-quarter
of business schools would accept

the GRE. Of the 75 percent that
don't accept the GRE, Mitchell
said only a small percentage were
considering adding it.
The Ross School of Business
currently doesn't accept the GRE,
but Admissions Director Soojin
Koh wrote in an e-mail interview
that the school is considering
adding the test next year.
The business schools at Har-

vard University, Yale University
and thei Wharton School at the
University of Pennsylvania all
began permitting the GRE as
a substitute to the GMAT .this
year. -
"This change in the GRE could
have an impact on whether indi-
vidual business schools decide to
accept the GRE for admissions,"
Mitchell said..

that wo
er then
Harj
ulty m
and in;
es, exp
iors an
over tit
Hart
ent no
sexual(
rent pu
"The
our nol
referrit
tors an
SAC
associa
ogy an
physiol
er Uni
involve
in the p
Harl
commi
theyw'
"I th
more d
did 10-
ally fac
we're tr
RobE
SACUA
Mardig
ty's De
er wha
the sak
Harl
should
diversii
versity
multira
differei
She
faculty
what h
be min

tuld in some ways disempow- Harper also outlined plans tocon-
n," Harper said. duct an audit that will address the
cleanliness and current condition of
A CHANGING -recreational buildings on campus,
STUDENT BODY admitting to SACUA members that
significant renovations are needed
per also discussed ways fac- to bring the facilities up to date.
embers can better relate to "We think if we can restore some
eract with students in class- of the hours, get it clean and get the
laining how student behav- equipment fixed and repaired that
sd ideologies have changed that will buy us another year to
me. really understand the nature of the
per said students have differ- problem and fix it," Harper said.
tions of gender identity and Statistics Prof. Ed Rothman, a
orientation, citing MSA's cur- SACUA member, expressed concerns
sh for gender-neutralhousing. that the quality of the University's
ey think we need to update recreationalfacilities does nottmatch
tions- of sexuality,".she said the amount faculty pay to use them.
ng to University administra- Harper agreed and said recre-
d employees. ation facilities are "less than what
UA member Gina Poe, an they should be in terms of hours,
te professor of anesthesiol- equipment .and cleanliness." She
d molecular and integrative acknowledged that many, faculty,
ogy, asked Harper wheth- staff and graduate students go
versity students are more elsewhere to work out like the Ann
d in University affairs than Arbor YMCA.
rast. Harper also said the University's
per said students are more facilities need to be improved before
tted to social justice than more University employees use them.
ere two decades ago. "The reAlity is the poorer the
sink students live in a much facilities Are, the fewer people want
liverse world now than they to go," she said.
20 years ago andthat actu- Rothman suggested reducing the
ulty and staff are behind, and cost of membership so more Univer-
rying to catch up with them." sity employees join.
ert Fraser, vice chair of However, Wayne Stark, a SACUA
and assistant director of the member and professor of electrical
ian Library at the Universi- engineering and computer science,
arborn campus, asked Harp- disagreed with Rothman and said
t SACUA could be doing "for faculty-memb'ro sonld-pay-mre
e of Universitystudents." for recreational services if they were
per replied that the faculty "worthwhile."
be- committed to issues'of "Faculty are not going to want
ty, saying that many Uni- to sign up when the treadmill is in
students are biracial or front of a brick wall," Stark said.
tcial and are aware of their Stark also questioned whether it
nces. is realistic to renovate recreational
said SACUA can encourage facilities when University adminis-
members to be sensitive to trators are planningto cut $100 mil-
appens in the classroom and lion out of the budget over the next
dful of what they say. three years.

JOI H IHGNDAILY
NEWS SECTION.
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com
to get started.

STU :ENT HOUS N3 , INC,
Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
* Central Campus locations
T *Fully Furnished
* ueat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
* Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!
*Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdri. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
HUGE 4-BEDROOMS: hardwood.
floors, 10ft ceilings, & fireplaces in a
beautiful converted mansion in quiet
Burns Park. Heat, water, parking &fur-
nishings included. Call Varsity Man-
agemest (734) 661-1100.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm
apt. 528 3. Fifth Ave. Furn, disposal,
dwshr, Indry, prkg. Walkout balcony.
$1175 + elec. 734-662-7121 or email
gpmiles@aol.com

- I
Beds Location Rent
6 1021 Church '$3400
6 541 S. Division $3200
6 930 Packard $3100
5 1101 Church $2700
4 1018 E. University $2400
'Copi Properties
734.663.5609
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768
LARGE FURNISHED 2aor 3 bdrm.
apt..at 1111 5. State. Near U-H bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1100-$1650, No smkg./so pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-671-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net -
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
NEWER-FURNISHED 6-BDRM
APTS. & ROOMS IN A 6 BDRM
APT. - WALK TO CENTRAL CAM-
PUS $665/BDRM-INCLUDES TV &
CLEANING (734) 418-2050
www.828greeneapts.com
NO MIIONEY DOWN!!' come in to-
day, sign a lease for next year and don't
pay anything until you move in! Things
are renting fast so call today!
Campus Reality 734-665-8825
www.campusreality.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-4101.

NOW LEASING 2010-11
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Btedrooms:
7265. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms: - .
726S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E.*Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms.
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
- 525 Walnut
1000 Oakland.
1320 S. University

BABY SITTER NEEDED for 2 kids
(2 & 6). 15-20 hrs/wk. Nursing/medical
exp. pref Trans req. Send resume to
jobs@weisernet.com
FUNDRAISE FOR tHE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
HOLIDAY HELP
Apply now, start after finals
734-677-2477
www.winterbreakwork.com
PART TIME NANNY, ironing,
cooking, and child care. Afternoons,
Monday thru Thursday. Call Katie at
734-709-1867.
PART TIME SALES position avail.
Great Commissions Selling Bottle-less
water coolers. Contact us @
bellaflnawater@gmail.com
ROCK/PUNK/POP BAND LOOK-
ING for online music promoter. We
have a networking promotional model
to help you start making money and re.-
cruit friends to work for you, if inter-
ested- email davesartroom@yahoo.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed-in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per-survey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com

For Wednesday, Dec. 9, 2009 SCORPIO
ARIES . (Oct. 23 to Nov. 21.)
(March 21to April 19) Someone might be working against
Disagreements with partners and close your best interests - and doing so
friends are likely late in the day, because behind the scenes. Just be careful about
you feel very passionately about some- this. Trust your gut instincts.
thing. Perhaps the situation needs a little SAGITTARIUS
breathing space. (Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
TAURUS . Don't get your belly in a rash if you
(April 20to May 20) start to have squabbles or differences of
Difficulties with a cd-worker (espe- opinion with a friend or members of a
cially a female) might arise today (espe- group today, especially later in the day.
cially this evening). You might want to You can sidestep this, right?
give this situation a wide berth. Who CAPRICORN
needs trouble? . (Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
GEMINI It is rarely to your advantage to have
'(May 21to June 20) an intense standoff with an authority fig-
Parents and educators must be patient ure - a parent, boss, teacher or the
with children today. Similarly, romantic Volice. Therefore, avoid letting this hap-
partners must be patient with each other. pen today and this evening. (You don't
It's easy for people to.have meltdowns, want to go there.)
especially this evening. - AQUARIUS
CANCER (Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
(June 21to July 22) Try not to get involved in heated argu-
Late in the day, family exchanges ments about politics, religion or racial
could be confrontational. People might issues today. They will just be emotional
use guilt or jealousy as emotional black- ego battles.
mail. Try to avoid this. (Ya think?) PISCES
LEO (Feb. 19to March 20)
(July 23 to Aug. 22) Disputes about shared property, differ-
Don't try to persuade others to agree ing values or the wealth or earnings of
with you today, because it isn't worth it. your partner could get nasty today. This
Instead of agreement, you'll get only an is not a good day to discuss these things.
argument. Just coast through your day. (Postpone this if you can.)
VIRGO YOU BORN TODAY You're like a
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22) character out of a movie. You want life
You might feel obsessed about finan- to be an exciting adventure, as well as a
cial matters or buying something today. romantic story. Naturally, in both cases
*That's generally not a good wayto make you are the hero or heroine. You're
a purchase or to make important money imaginative, sensitive and highly ener-
decisions. getic! (Privately, you nurture great,
LIBRA swashbuckling fantasies.) Ironically,
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22) your life often echoes your heroic
Do whatever you can to refrain from dreams. You have a highly entertaining,
getting emotionally carried away, espe- pleasant year ahead, especially with rela-
ciallythis bvening. Heated emotions will tionships.
blur your common sense. Not good. Birthdate of: John Malkovich, actor;
Judi Dench, actress; Douglas Fairbanks
Jr., actor.

LOOKI"IG FOR A deal on a trip to
Europe during Spring Break? The first
10 people to book a trip (flight + hostel
for 6 nights) to London, Paris or Ams-
terdam will receive $200 off their trip.
Call 734-769-2555 or visit PTA Travel
at the Union to take advantage of this
awesome opportunity on Dec. lth!

2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.


e0

8 - Tuesday, December 8, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Morris back on
track in 'M' win

BRETT FLASHNICK/AP
Clemson senior C.Spiller didn't make it into the Heisman top five, even with more than 2,500 all-purpose yards this year.
Spiter got snubbed

Jn the final weekend of the
regular season - one full of
conference championship
games, big-time matchups and
BCS bowl clinchers - some of
college football's biggest names
get one
final shot to
cement their
spots afthe
New York
Downtown
Athletic
Club for the
annual Heis-
man Trophy ANDY
presenta- REID
tion.
Last
weekend, some of the game's
current giants were given that
exact opportunity, and they
completely crumbled under the
national spotlight.
Texas quarterback Colt
McCoy almost cost the Long-
horns a spot in the BCS National
Championship Game, throwing
three interceptions and almost
letting time expire in the fourth
quarter with his team down two
points.
Texas barely slinked past
Nebraska, but that can be more
attributed to the Cornhuskers'
lack of offense (they only posted
five first downs) than McCoy's
heroics.
And the nation's Golden Boy,
Tim Tebow, was completely shut
down by Alabama. Can any Heis-
man voter really say they were
impressed with No. 15's perfor-
mance - or the measly 13 points
his offense put up in the SEC
Championship?
No, but he was invited to New

York. Same with McCoy.
I'm not saying they shouldn't
be - both players are good
enough to at least be considered
for the award. But there was one
player who blew up on Saturday,
who proved he may be the best
player in America, and he was
snubbed by the committee for no
apparent reason.
He's-Clemson's C.J. Spiller,
and he's arguably the most excit-
ing player in the nation.
A Heisman winner is sup-
posed to show up in big games,
and that's just what he did in last
weekend's ACC Championship,
which Clemson lost in a heart-
breaker, 39-34. What's bigger
than four touchdowns, a stag-
gering 233 rushing yards, 301
all-purpose yards and the career
record for single-season touch-
downs at his respective school?
And it's not like that was an
isolated incident. Spiller posted
a ridiculous 310 all-purpose
yards - including a 56-yard
touchdown and a 90-yard kick-
off return - in an overtime
upset of then-No. 10 Miami in
October.
With more than 2,500 yards,
Spiller is No. 5 this season in
all-purpose yards. He's gaining
almost 10 yards every time he
touches the ball. How has he not
garnered Heisman interest?
Toby Gerhart from Stanford
skyrocketed on people's lists
after a big game against lowly
Notre Dame. On the field after
the game, his coach publicly told
the nation that his running back
deserved to win the award. Does
it take shameless self-promotion
like that to get players from a

non-BCS Championship con-
tender into the mix? Apparently.
Well, Spiller isn't going to get
that kind of endorsement from
his more modest coach, Dabo
Swinney.
"He left it on the field and
that's all you can ask," Swin-
ney told reporters after Spiller's
awe-inspiring day in the ACC
Championship.
The fact is, C.J. Spiller is - at
the bare minimum - one of the
nation's five best players this
season. He's done more for his
team, a Tiger club that is on the
rise after firing coach Tommy
Bowden last season, than anyone
on the exclusive list. I mean,
how many people could say they
thought Clemson would be with-
in a few minutes of a BCS bowl
this year?
And for thefew people out
there that believe the Heisman is
some kind of career achievement
award - that Tebow or McCoy
should win it in spite of their less
productive senior years because
their whole careers deserve
acknowledgement - who has had
a better four years than Spiller?
He's second on the list of cur-
rently active players in all-pur-
pose yards, with more than 7,400
yards and 50 touchdowns.
For the record, that's just
four scores behind Tebow, who
touches the ball every play.
They've already decided
to retire his jersey number at
Clemson. The Heisman commit-
tee should have felt compelled to
honor him, too.
- Reid can be reached at
andyreid@umich.edu.

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
Darius Morris still has a lot to
learn on the Michigan basketball
team. After struggling against the
Wolverines' opponents at the Old
Spice Classic and Boston College -
he scored a combined 12 points in
all four games - he started to show
signs of growth
Saturday. NOTEBOOK
"(Michigan
coach John Beilein) has been tell-
ing me that there's goingto be some
bumps in the road early," the fresh-
man point guard said. "I'm still try-
ing to find my niche on this team
and on offense. But on the defensive
part, I just bring it every day. I just
feellike Iamgettingmore andmore
comfortable after each game."
The Los Angeles native tal-
lied eight points and three assists
against Arkansas-Pine Bluff Satur-
day, with most of his contributions
coming during Michigan's second-
half resurgence, where they out-
scored the Golden Lions by 14.
Morris's success came against
a lesser opponent, and Beilein
believes Morris's defensive perfor-
mance was more impressive than
his points.
"He's a better defender, he's just
in that delay where we're a step off
reading what's going on," Beilein
said. "That's just assimilating to col-
lege basketball. So the only way he's
going to get it more is by playing
more."
Morris's speed on defense was
one of the reasons for the Wolver-
ines' success in shutting down the
Golden Lions. Michigan forced 22
turnovers, and the freshman did a
good job with ball control, commit-
ting just two turnovers himself.
On Saturday, Beilein rewarded
Morris for his efforts. He saw the
court for 34 minutes, the second-
most behind junior forward Manny
Harris. Both Beilein and Morris
realizecthatfor the Michigan offense
to be functional, it needs Morris to
direct traffic in the backcourt.
"I've learned certain simple
things like when to attack, what
time on the shot clock are we going,
if we're going two-for-one," Morris
said. "The main part is confidence."
STRUGGLING SHOOTERS: It
MICHIGAN C
helping you
Follow us on

SAM WoLSON/Daily
Freshman Darius Morris played 34 minutes and showed improvement on Saturday.

was the firstthing Beilein addressed
in Saturday's postgame press con-
ference. And it has been one of his
team's glaring, recurring issues.
The issue is the 3-point struggles
of sophomore guards Zack Novak
and Stu Douglass, who seem to have
lost their touch on the deep ball.
Novak finished the game 0-for-4
from behind the arc, and Douglass
didn't fare much better, going just
l-for-7. In fact, Douglass had numer-
ous second-half opportunities from
deep that simply clanked off the
front of the rim.
"(Novak) didn'tshoot the ballwell
today. He was 3-for-9 the other day,
0-for-4 today," Beilein said. "We've
just got to keep working. Maybe
they're tired, I do not know."
There was one play in particular
that showed a lack of confidence.
Late in the game, with Michi-
gan trying to kill the clock, Novak
passed on a wide open shot. At the
next timeout, Beilein told his guard

to take the shot.
"We had said any fast break, we
weren't going to take any threes,"
Beilein said. "There was 17 seconds
left on the clock. He's being a good
-soldier there, he probably needed
to shoot that one when he was wide
open. He was a little bit too careful
there."
IT'S A GIRL: Even as senior for-
ward Anthony Wright played eight
minutes against Arkansas-Pine
Bluff, he probably had other things
on his mind.
The night before, Wright's girl-
friend Stefanie Mitchell gave birth
to a 7-pound, 4-ounce baby gill
named Jordyn Cherelle Wright.
"I was there the entire time,"
Wright said. "She was in there for
like 31 hours of labor. She ended up
having a C-section, so 'in total in
the past 48, SO-something hours,
I probably had about six hours of
sleep. Other than that, it was a great
experience."

Wolverine 'inconsistent in OSU split

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Coach Red Berenson is fine with
the Michigan hockey team's offen-
sive production - it's the defense
that concerns him.
The Wolverines , didn't give
Berenson any relief this weekend,
turning in another inconsistent
series.
Michigan gave up five goalsi
Friday night in
a 5-3 loss, but NOTEBOOK
the next night,
it surrendered only one goal with
11 seconds left in the game in a 2-1
win.
Friday marked the first time
in eight games this season that
the Wolverines lost when scoring
three or more goals.
"The Friday game was a tough
game to swallow, because we dom-
inated the game in terms of the
scoring chances and the shots,"
Berenson said. "And yet we found
a way to lose that game. That was a
tough game. But we bounced back.
"We needed (junior goalie
Bryan Hogan) to play better. We
needed our whole team defense
to play better, not give up those
unearned goals. And we did."
That improvement involved help,
in the defensive zone from both
the defensemen and forwards.
Berenson said that after the
team's five-game losing streak at
the start of November, the players
#tightened up their neutral-zone
defense.
Michigan's defense was key for
the team to get back in the win col-
umn, and it was also the reason the

Brown and Hagelin are tied for
the teamlead with 15 points,-and
Rust is third with 14 points. All
three have performed well during
Michigan's 4-1 run in its last five
games, with Brown and HAagelin
recording seven points apiece and
Rust notching five.
The Wolverines' other possibly
prolific scoring threat is the'line
that includes junior Louie Capo-
russo and sophomore David Wohl-
berg, Michigan's top returning
goal scorers from last season.
Caporusso's line saw its share
of good scoring chances over the
weekend but couldn't finish. Both
Hagelin and Rust were quick to
downplay the fact that the line
wasn't scoring.
"It will come," Hagelin said.
"They have a lot of good players
on that line, so you'll probably see
some change this weekend. And
they're going to do a good job."
Caporusso's line has been pro-
ducing more as of late, but if they
can finish like Rust's line did this
past weekend, then the Wolver-
ines' offense could be that much
more potent.
NOTES: Hogan lost a chance
to earn his second shutout of the
season Saturday when Ohio State
scored with 11 seconds remaining
in the game. ... Since the 2004-OS
season, Michigan and Ohio State
have split six out of the teams'
seven series ... Michigan has killed
23 straight penalties - a season
high - and the Wolverines lead
the nation with a 91.7 percent pen-
alty kill rate. ... Michigan is now
perfect on the penalty kill in 11
games this season.

MAX cOLLINS/Daily
Senior Chris Summers and the Michigan defense gave up five goals in Friday night's loss to mediocre Ohio State. The Wolverines currently sit at 10th place in the CCHA.

Wolverines split their series with
Ohio St4te last weekend.
"I think for now, it's really
important for our team to take
pride in defense," junior forward
Carl Hagelin said. "It feels like
games when we play good defen-
sively, we get a lot of good chanc-
es.
"if we're winning 9ne to noth-

ing we're happy with that. Take
pride in (defense), and offense will
take care of itself."
POWER PLAYERS, POWER
PLAY: The source of Wolverines'
offensive production was easy to
identify last weekend.
Look no further than the line of
junior Matt Rust, freshman Chris
Brown and Hagelin.

Brown and Hagelin notched
goals in Friday's loss, and Rust
scored on Saturday. They also had
two assists each, all coming on
goals scored by fellow linemates.
Perhaps the most crucial part
for the line was how it finished
its man-advantage opportunities.
The trio scored two five-on-three
power play go js, and it also lit the

lamp just as an Ohio State player
ca me back onto the ice after a
power play.
"Not only our forwards, but
our 'D,' we were moving the puck
quick," Rust said of the power
play. "We were keeping it simple.
We were getting shots to the net.
... That's half the battle is getting
shots through."


