be l id~gan 4hiIlj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, September 28, 2009

michigandaily.com

FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
Federal aid
overhaul on
the horizon
Students would see students at the University took di-
rect loans through the subsidized
more funds, but no and unsubsidized programs for the
2008-2009 academic year.
change in'U'policy Though many students wouldn't
see a significant change in how they
By NICOLE ABER receive their funds, they would be
Daily StaffReporter affected by an increase in funding
for Pell Grants, which will be in-
While state funding for higher dexed to the rate of inflation plus
education continues to be slashed one percent if the bill is signed into
because of the state's budget defi- law.
cit, students may see a glimmer of The bill would also increase the
hope with a possible increase in maximum amount for Pell Grants
federal financial aid for the next to $5,500 in 2010 and to $6,900 by
academic year. 2019. Fowler said 3,400 University
The Student Aid and Fiscal Re- students received Pell Grants to-
sponsibility Act of 2009 - a bill taling over $11 million during the
passed by the U.S. House of Rep- 2008-2009 academic year.
resentatives last week - would Cindy Bank, assistant director
eliminate government subsidies for of the University's government re-
private loans and instead put the lations office in Washington D.C.,
loans in the government's hands, said this increase would boost the
effectively cutting out the lending amount of money available for all
industry as amiddle man. students receivingthe grants.
By eliminating the tax subsi- This Pell Grant increase is es-
dies for private lenders, govern- sential as the costof college tuition
ment officials say they could save continues to rise, U.S. Rep. John
$87 billion over the next 10 years, Dingell (D-Mich.) wrote in a press
with only $7 billion in new costs. release.
These savings would then be used "We have all watched the tuition
to increase funding for higher edu- at public and private colleges dou-
cation, including a boost in money ble, then triple as time has passed,
available for Pell Grants. creating a burdensome gap for our
So what do these changes mean students to overcome," Dingell
for University of Michigan stu- wrote. "The students of this coun-
dents? try are our greatest hope ... To not
Although the bill has been ensure that they have an afford-
praised as a historic overhaul of able, quality education would be to
financial aid, there won't be many shortchange their success and the
changes in how the University con- success of our country."
ducts its financial aid operations, Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of
said Pamela Fowler, executive fi- Finaid.org, an educational website
nancial aid director. on financial aid options, said al-
According to Fowler, 9,769 un- though University students will not
dergraduates and 4,080 graduate See FINANCIAL AID, Page 7A

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior running back Brandon Minorfalls past the goal line for a second-quarter touchdown Saturday. A week after rushing for 380 yards, the most in Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez's tenure, the Wolverines put up only 149 yards on 50 attempts against Indiana. Despite the troubles, Michigan won 36-33. For more on the game, see SportsMonday, Page1B.
CITY COUNCIL
City: Argo Dam on back burner

Council delays
decision on what to do
about damaged dam
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
City Councilmembers Sabra Bri-
ere (D-Ward 1) and Mike Anglin
(D-Ward 5) said yesterday that the
removal of the 90-year-old Argo
Dam, despite its structural problems
of late, is quite unlikely at least in the
foreseeable future.
Built in 1920, the dam originally
created hydropower for the city of
Ann Arbor. Today, it is no longer

functional forcreating electricity. In-
stead, it just serves as a barrier to the
natural flow of the Huron River, mak-
ing the body of water before it, called
Argo Pond, suitable for recreational
activities. Five Ann Arbor-area row-
ing teams currently use the pond
for practice, including the Michigan
Men's Club Rowing Team.
Members of the rowing team had
expressed concerns that a potential
closure of the dam would pose seri-
ous challenges for their program.
"Everything in my college life has
come out of this team;' said team
captain Matt Zoufaly, an Engineer-
ing senior. "It is a big tradition for
me and to have it taken away from us
would justbe heartbreaking."

On Aug. 6, the State of Michigan
Department of Environmental Qual-
ity sent a letter to City Administrator
Roger Fraser stating that the dam's
embankment was in "poor condition
due to seepage of water through the
earthen embankment and due to the
extensive growth of trees and brush
on the embankment."
The letter demands the city reach
a decision regarding whether to re-
move the dam or repair it no later
than April 2010. If the city wants to
repair it, it must do so by Dec. 31,
2010. If the city wants to remove it,
it must do so by Dec. 31, 2012. In the
meantime, the flow to the millrace
- a rapid current of water - of the
dam must be shut off by Nov. 1, 2009

so the "embankment deficiencies"
can be better monitored.
The letter ignited a debate over
whether the dam should be removed
or repaired, which ultimately ended
in the city council tablingthe discus-
sion indefinitely.
Anglin said any decision concern-
ing the dam's removal will be ad-
dressed much further in the future.
"It is not a top priority right now
for decision-making," Anglin said.
"The critical area we are talking
about is the millrace.
"I am still in favor of keeping the
Argo Pond as it is, repairing the mill-
race, and usingthe gate structure,"he
said. "There is nothing that is show-
See ARGO DAM, Page 7A


ECO-FRIENDINESS ON A BUDGET
At Botanical Gardens,lessons
on the high price of going green

MSA gathers influential alums,
student groups for conference
White House staffers,
Domino's CEO among

0 Pa
t
imp
r
For
official
Garden
stave o
tion of
The
ficultie
cally ct
balanci
ship wi
In 2
drivew
hopes t
ter run
preven
wetlan
The
ing Cre
bor fac
Course
But
more p
gravel

vement removed, absorb runoff, which just ended up
back in the wetlands, as hadbeen the
hen replaced as case with the asphalt.
Officials are hopeful that by re-
erfect solutions to paving the driveways now - this
time reverting back to asphalt - they
can better control waterquality.
Botanical Gardens Director Rob-
By LILLIAN XIAO ert Grese wrote in an e-mail to the
For the Daily Daily that the cost of the repaving is
$360,000.
the second time in four years, In an e-mail response to a com-
s at the Matthaei Botanical plaint from an Ann Arbor resident
s are paving its driveways to about the project, Grese laid out the
ff concerns about the protec- problems with the gravel option.
nearby wetlands. "The gravel was not as porous as
episode highlights the dif- we had hoped," Grese wrote in the
s that even the most ecologi- e-mail that was passed along to the
onscious organizations face in Daily. "Once it was packed down,
ing environmental steward- something like 80-90 percent of the
ith the financial bottom line. water ran off rather than soaking
005 officials had the asphalt through much of the surfaces."
ays replaced with gravel in In addition to the gravel's inabil-
hat it would filter oil and wa- ity to absorb the runoff, April Pick-
ioff from the parking lot and rel, visitor services coordinator, said
t it from ending up in nearby the maintenance of the gravel also
ds. caused problems for the wetlands.
runoff often ends up in Flem- "We had to spraythe gravel with a
ek, a water source to Ann Ar- petroleum-based product," she said.
ilities like Radrick Farms Golf "Both the product and dust were
and Radrick Recreation Area. filtering into the constructed wet-
the gravel proved to cause lands."
roblems than it solved. As the in response to the complaint,
was packed down, it didn't Grese also wrote that the gravel

needed constant maintenance and
was often riddled with potholes. He
added that it was also difficult to re-
move snow in the winter.
Though Pickrel said one of the
reasons officials installed the gravel
was because it was better suited for
natural areas like the botanical gar-
dens, the problems with the gravel
seemed to outweigh the benefits.
She added that regular asphalt
isn't an ideal material for the project,
but it's the best they could afford.
"We would ideally have perme-
able asphalt;" Pickrel said. "(But) we
lacked the funds to properlyredo the
surface."
In addition to repaving the drive-
ways, officials are building more rain
gardens and managing vegetation to
encourage prairie species. Both ef-
forts will help filterthe runoff before
it reaches the wetlands, Grese wrote
in the e-mail.
"Even though the paving itself
isn't permeable, we try to handle
some of the water before it runs into
the stream," Grese wrote.
In addition to these projects, the
staff is currently overseeing the con-
struction of a children's garden. They
are also planning a labyrinth that is
expected to begin development in
the next two months.

guests at Leadership
Colloquium
By STEPHANIE BERLIANT
Daily StaffReporter
More than 100 student leaders
representing dozens of campus
organizations converged yester-
day to learn from eight distin-
guished alumni and University
affiliates, including four current
White House staffers and the
chairman and CEO of Domino's
Pizza.
The Michigan Student Assem-
bly sponsored the Campus Lead-
ership Colloquium, an invitation-
only event held at the University
of Michigan Museum of Art, dur-
ing which speakers briefly de-
scribed their leadership experi-
ences to the large group. Students
also had the opportunity to ask
questions in smaller breakout
sessions.
The represented organizations
ranged from mainstays like Dance
Marathon to lesser-known clubs
like the Michigan Backpacking
Club and Shmooze, a Jewish or-
ganization whose members meet

White House Special Projects Coordinator Eugene Kang speaks at the Campus
Leadership Colloquium at the University of Michigan Museum of Art yesterday.

to network and promote Jewish
culture.
"In the past, we've had this
event ... for the more political or-
ganizations on campus," said Ian
Margolis, an MSA representative
and event co-organizer. "This
year, we wanted to appeal to more
students, so we brought ina wider
variety of speakers:'
During a breakout session,
Domino's CEO and Chairman Da-
vid Brandon compared running
his company to leading a sports

team. Brandon, who played quar-
terback for the Wolverines in
the early 1970s under Bo Schem-
bechler, said that as an undergrad-
uate he had hoped to have a career
in teaching or coaching.
"But I spend most of my time
now actually teaching and coach-
ing," Brandon said. "We recruit,
we prepare, go out and execute.
We're a multibillion-dollar com-
pany, so we're competing at a very
high level. But now I worry about
See LEADERSHIP, Page 7A


WEATHER HI :58
TOMORROW LU 43

GOT A NE WS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
College of Engineering gives out alumni awards
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/THEWIRE

INDEX NEW S ................................ 2A SUDO KU............................ 5A
Vol. CXX, No.15 OPINION -.............. 4.... 4A CLASSIFIEDS..................6A
cil09ThnMichigansDaly ARTS................5A SPORTS MONDAY.........1......1B



2A - Monday, September 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, September 28, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
THURSDAY: FRIDAY:

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Clubs

Before You Were Here Photos of the Week
ses GETTIN' GROOVY

420 Maynard Sn.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEWMAN
Edinor in Chief Business Manager
734-847-3336 734-764-0858
graca@michigandaiy.com tmdbusiness@gnsail.cem

Budget cuts protested on California campu~

Snudenns, faculny and snuff mem-
bers on all tO campuses of the Uni-
versiny of California system snaged
walkouts and rallies Thursdayto pro-
nestncuns in nhe staesbudgen for uni-
versity support, employee furloughs
and rising tuiion, The Chronicle of
Higher Educaion reporned.
The largesn of nhe protesns was an
the Berkeley campus, where an esni-
maned 5,000 people gatheredto dem-
onstrate againsn nhe cuns, according
no nhe school's student newspaper,
The Daily Californian.
The Sanna Cruz Sentinel reporned
Friday than "several dozen UC Sanna
Cruz snudenns and workers" were
sill barricaded in nhe Graduate Snu-
denn Commons after caking over nhe
second floor of nhe building an 8 p.m.
Thursday.
Snane support for the universiny
was reduced by nearly 20 percenn
in the lastn year, according no nhe
Chronicle, "leading no furloughs,
enrollmen reductions, and tuiion

increases nhan are likely no approach
50 percenn over antwo-year period."
KANSAS BASKETBALL AND
FOOTBALL TEAMS BRAWL
A series of public altercanions
benween nhe basketball neam and
the football team an nhe University
of Kansas have leftnthe school's ath-
letic director confounded.
A sourcentoldnthe Kansas City Star
the firsn incidenn, which nook place
Tuesday night, was sparked by an
argumenn over a woman benween
foonball cornerback Anthony Davis
and basketball guard Tyshawn
Taylor.
The second altercation took
place on campus, and began after a
basketball player pushed a football
player down some stairs, according
to The University Daily Kansan.
Football coach Mark Mangino
has indicated that he would not
suspend any players, while basket-

ball coach Bill Self said Thursday
afternoon that the situation was
"very, very serious" and that he
would handle disciplinary actions
privately, according no the Star.
TUFTS BANS DORM SEX WHEN
ROOMMATE PRESENT
Tufts University officials modi-
fied the school's residence hall
guest policy to prohibit sexual acts
in dorm rooms when one's room-
mate is present, according to The
Tufts Daily. The stipulation also
forbids any sexual activity that
interferes with a roommate's study
habits, sleep or privacy.
Carrie Ales-Rich of the Office for
Residential Life and Learning at
Tufts told The Tufts Daily that the
policy change was brought about
after the department received
many complaints regarding room-
mates' sexual behaviors lastnyear.
- MATT AARONSON

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom c
News Tips
tarrections
LetestolhetEdilt
Photography Departmsent
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
tlassified Sales
Onine Sales

Ofice hoars:Sun-Thures. 11 a..-2 anm
news@ichigandiy.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@michigasdaiy.on
photo@michigandaiy.een,
artspage@wichitandaiy.een
opinion@michigandaily.omn
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaiy.on
onlineads@michigandaily.com

TOnRHANSHARMAN/Daly
Schosl of Masic, Theatre & Dance senisr Antwans Stanley
sings at tnplorth Friday on North Campas. Stanley is the
lead singer of Groove Spoon.

CRIME NOTES
Wallet stolen, Unknown subject
not found found trespassing

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Workshop on Women's free
using Google in game day

WHERE: Michigan Stadium
WHEN: Saturday at about 4
p.m.
WHAT: A walletncontaining
$300 and personal identifica-
tion was stolen from an indi-
vidual unaffiliated with the
University, University Police
reported. Police have ns sus-
pects.

WHERE: Cardiovascular
Center
WHEN: Saturday at about 7
p.m.
WHAT: An individual unaf-
filiated with the University was
found trespassing in the Car-
diovascular Center, University
Police reported. The subject was
escorted from the building.

Broken window, Drinker ejected

research
WHAT: This workshop will
explore how no effectively
use Google tools, including
Google News, Book Search
and Scholar to conduct aca-
demic research.
WHO: Teaching and Tech-
nology Collaborative
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHEEE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library, Room 206
Gender explorers
WHAT: A support and
social group meeting for
transgender, transsexual,
genderqueer, ransgender, usinn tdns
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight from 8 p.m.
to 10 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Room 3200

no suspects
WHERE: Buhr Building
WHEN: Saturday an about S
p.m.
WHIAT: Awindow was broken
from the outside on the west side
of the building, University Police
reported. A report was filed, bun
ther earenoas svsects.

11 VJ1I1 bi Luluill
WHERE: Michigan Stadium
WHEN: Saturday at about
11:45 a.m.
WHAT: A subject not affili-
ated with the University was
issued a ticket for possession of
alcohol and was forced to leave
the premises, University Police
rertred.

WHAT: Each Monday,
women are able to play
games at the Union for free,
including pool, foosball,
X-box and Wit.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
lards
WHEN: Today from 11:30
a.m. to 11:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Billiards Room
Poker game
WHAT: A weekly pokerntour-
nament with the chance to
win $20 in munchie money.
WHO: Michigan Union
WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
U-Club
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Itn the United States, diabe-
tes is most prevalent among
Southern and Appalachian
states, a recent study published
in Population Health Metrics
found. The study also showed
that the Midwest and North-
east have the lowest levels of
diabetes in the United States.
2If all of the premium seat-
ing boxes atnthe Big House
are sold, the IRS will give
a total of $3.5 million in tax
breaks to the purchasers.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
3The Examiner reports than
Disney World will no lon-
ger offer all-beef hot dogs
to its visitors. Instead, Disney
will sell hot dogs with a beef and
chicken mix.

Finance finance@michigandaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
toartneylatkawiak ManagingEditor ratowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacab Snilovitz Managing NewrsEioe smiitz@michigandaily.com
ASSISTNTsNEsWS EswoOnSs:,N inoeAe, Mattory Joees,, Emily Or,Stephasnie
Steinberg, ha hrnavu,,kkarasu
Rabent SoaaveEdioriltPageEditorn soave@micthigandaity.com
ASSISTNTTRAsnn oLPAEIORaS: Eas Jesk, MathewShutler
Andy Reid Managing Sport ditoe reid@michigandaity.een
ssston enChrs esrs, nodgsiels nh i,5~,~e ,nn
DavidWatnick ManagisgAeao ditooe watnicktmictigandailycoem
oSEORAnTS EIS: JnamiBlock,,ra,n Cnais,WhitnePo
AnSSSTNTsARTSnOS on hayero,nCalne Klanrecki,oAdre ain, DavidnRies
Zachsary Meisner and photo@mihiendailynesn
tliftReede Managing Phot onitr
SasENPOTOnEDITORS:SidAalah,ChaelVo~n HbsbuergLothringn
ASA NT HO O E DTOn S:nMaxCllins, Chris Dzobk, Sam owsn
AngelatChhand design@michigandaiycom
Maareen Stych Manain esignsditoes
Jessica Vosgerchian MagazinenEditor vosgerchian@michigan~daily.com
KatherineMitchell Copy Chief mithett@nmithigandaity.com
ASSOCIATEnCOPYCHIEF:MelanieFied, AdiWollstein
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lanwiak Salesansager
SALES FORCEMANAGER:MollyTwigg
Ryan Basiski Classified Manager
CLASSIFE SSSAeNaT MANAGER: Kala Laata
Ben EnglishtProuonaneagee
AllisonSantacreU ayoutsanaer
Visian Lee Finance Managee
Brittany MaralesCcaiosMansager
Brad Wiley Prot Coordinator
The MignnDaily (ISSN 074-%7)ispublished Mnday trough Frday duing the fllad winer
tems bystudensltst nesity toMigan. ne coy isailblsefese he tallees.
Aitionalopis my be piced up t the Daly ficetfr 2.sciptionsorall ter, sartnin
teptembe,vaiU. t.nmil ae$110.Winter terJnaryhouApiylis$5, yealng(eptemier
throgh April) is $195. Universityaffiliaes are subectto a reduced subscriptsrate. On-campus
subo:scritofoalOermae$3.tSubsciptionsst bepepai.The MichianDailyia member o
TheAoiatedPresanden Asoated ClleiatePrees.

0
0


LA ZAK1D
Cordially invites University of Michigan Juniors and Seniors
to a presentation and reception
On
Wednesday, September 30th, 2009
Ross School of Business - R2230
5:00PM
Analyst Interviews: Wednesday, October 21st, 2009
Summer Analyst Interviews: Wednesday, January 201", 2010
Seniors interested in interviewing for Analyst positions
in our Investment Banking Group
should submit resumes and cover letters through iMpact
by October 1St
For additional information, please contact:
Kristen.Holzerdlazard.com

0
"
0
0
"

I_

4'

:4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 28, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, September 28, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANDING, Mich.
Mich. panel votes to
cut prison spending
A legislative conference commit-
tee has voted to cut prison spending
in the Michigan budget year sched-
uled to start in four days.
The 5 percent cut would be met in
part by completing a previously an-
nounced plan to close prisons and
prison camps. Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm's administration has been pa-
roling more inmates to save money.
The Legislature could start pass-
ing the Corrections Department
budget when it returns to work to-
morrow. Lawmakers have until the
end of Wednesday to erase a $2.8 bil-
lion deficit.
It costs about $32,000 a year to in-
carcerate an inmate. Members of the
conference committee agreed Sun-
day to reduce per-prisoner costs by
$841 by trying to save on things like
inmates' prescription drugs and the
cost of moving prisoners from facil-
ity to facility.
TEHRAN
Under pressure for
nukes, Iran test fires
short-range missiles
Iran's powerful Revolutionary
Guard said it successfully test-fired
short-range missiles yesterday in
drills meant to show Tehran is pre-
pared to crush any military threat
from another country. ,
The display of force comes days
after the U.S. and its allies warned
Iran over a newly revealed nuclear
facility it was secretly constructing.
Gen. Hossein Salami, head of the
Revolutionary Guard Air Force, said
Iran had perfected its short range
missiles to make themmore accurate
in tactical battlefield situations and
defend the country from any attacks.
"We are going to respond to any
military action in a crushing man-
ner and it doesn't make any differ-
ence which country or regime has
launched the aggression," state
media quoted Salami as saying. He
said the missiles successfully hit
their targets.
The tests came two days after
the U.S. and its allies disclosed that
Iran had been secretly developing a
previously unknown underground
uranium enrichment facility and
warned the country it mustopen the
nuclear site to international inspec-
tion or face harsher international
sanctions.
WASHINGTON
Gates calls setting
Afghan withdrawal
deadline a mistake
Defense Secretary Robert Gates
says it's a mistake to set a deadline to
end American military actionassome
liberals have sought, and that a defeat
would be disastrous for the U.S.
In a stern warning to critics of a
continuedtrooppresenceinAfghani-
stan, Gates said the Islamic extremist
Taliban and al-Qaida would perceive
an early pullout as a victory over the
United States as similar to the Soviet

Union's humiliating withdrawal in
1989 after a 10-year war.
"The notion of timelines and exit
strategies and so on, frankly, I think
would all be a strategic mistake. The
reality is, failure in Afghanistan
would be a huge setback for the Unit-
ed States," Gates said in an interview
broadcast Sunday on CNN's "State of
the Union."
"Taliban and al-Qaida, as far as
they're concerned, defeated one
superpower. For them to be seen to
defeat a second, I think, would have
catastrophic consequences in terms
of energizing the extremist move-
ment, al-Qaida recruitment, opera-
tions, fundraising, and so on. I think
it would be a huge setback for the
United States."
ZURICH
Conservative Merkel
captures 2nd term
GermanChancellor AngelaMerkel
yesterday wonthecenter-rightmajor-
ity that eluded her four years ago -
nudging Europe's biggest economic
power to the right as it claws its way
out of a deep recession.
Voters sent the nation's main left-
wing party, the Social Democrats
of Foreign Minister Frank-Walter
Steinmeier, into opposition after 11
years as part of the government. It
was the party's worst parliamentary
electionresultsince World War II.
"Thereisno talkingaround it: this
is a bitter defeat," a subdued Stein-
meier said, vowing to lead a strong
opposition.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Michigan GOP
hopeful for 2010

Carlos Lopez Contreras, the foreign minister representing Honduras' interim government, answers a question during a press
conference at the presidential house in Tegucigalpa yesterday.
HondurascrISIS Intensifies

Interim government
expells OAS workers,
gives Brazil 10-day
ultimatum

because we are in the middle of
internal conversations."
Talks between Zelaya and
Micheletti's representatives have
produced no results. Zelaya, who
surprised the world by sneaking
back into Honduras last week,
called on his followers nationwide

said that, because Brazil has bro-
ken off diplomatic relations with
the interim government, it would
have to remove the Brazilian flag
and shield from the Embassy "and
it (the building) becomes a private
office."
Brazil - like the rest of the

Attendance reaches
more than 2,300 for
three-day Republican
conference
MACKINAC ISLAND, Mich.
(AP) - Michigan Republicans left
a three-day Mackinac Island con-
ference yesterday with high hopes
that 2010will be amuch better year
for GOP candidates than 2008.
State party Chairman Ron
Weiser said voters' concern over
the policies of Democratic Presi-
dent Barack Obama and the state's
economic woes are causing them
to look toward the GOP.
"People are scared," he said
as the event wrapped up at the
landmark Grand Hotel. "They're
worried about what's going on
in Washington, they're worried
about what's going on in Lansing.
They want change."
Hundreds of newcomers came
to the once-every-two-years event
for the first time, pushing atten-
dance to more than 2,300 - a
record, Weiser said.
Tenth District GOP Chairman
Randy St. Laurent said the same
thing is happening at the local
level, with 26 people joining the
Lapeer County Republican Party
this year. Fears about Democratic
policies in Washington and Lan-.
sing have "done wonders for our
recruiting," he said.
Obama won Michigan by 16
percentage points last year, and
Michigan Democrats nabbed
seats in Congress and the Michi-
gan House. They even managed
to upset a longtime GOP state
Supreme Court justice.
GOP strategist Tom Shields,
president of Marketing Resource

Group in Lansing, said Michigan
remains ablue-leaningstate, some-
thing Republicans won't be able to
change in the 401 days left before
the November 2010 elections.
But he said voters are consider-
ing all their options.
"We're seeing not necessarily a
shift toward the Republican Party,
but a shift toward Republican
ideas" of fiscal responsibility and
less govertnent intrusion, Shields
said as he left the conference.
"People are really concerned about
governme At spending. ... A lot of
it's being driven by Washington
because of Obatnacare."
State Democratic Chairman
Mark Brewer said the Democratic
president is energizing his party
and still drawing the support
of people who want the change
he promised. The state party is
having a easy time recruiting
candidates for 2010 races, from
statewide seats for governor,
attorney general, secretary of
state and the Supreme Court to
local races for legislative seats, he
added.
And even if voters' allegiances
are shifting, they can just as easily
shift back, he noted.
"This is a very competitive
state," Brewer said. "You can't take
anything for granted."
Republican National Commmit-
teewoman Holly Hughes of Mon-
tague said votei-s' determination to
head in a new direction is evident
in the number of people turning
out for the anti-tax "tea parties"
and showing up for local GOP Lin-
coln Day dinners.
That renewed excitement also
is evident in volunteers showing
up to help out in the Battle Creek-
Jackson area race for the state Sen-
ate seat formerly held by now-U.S.
Rep. Mark Schauer, she said.

TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras to mark today'sthree-month anni- international community - rec-
(AP) - Honduras' interim gov- versary of the coup with a mass ognizes Zelaya as Honduras'
ernment yesterday expelled per- march in the capital to demand legitimate president, and says it
sonnel from the Organization of his reinstatement, what he called wants to protect him.
American States looking to set up "the final offensive" against the But the Brazilian government
a mediation effort and gave Bra- interim government. said previously that Zelaya's
zil a 10-day ultimatum to decide A spokesman for Micheletti arrival took Embassy officials by
what to do with ousted President also warned Brazilian authorities surprise, and Silva asked Zelaya
Manuel Zelaya, who is holed up in to "immediately take measures to "to take care to give no pretext to
the Brazilian Embassy. ensure that Mr. Zelaya stops using the coup leaders to engage in vio-
OAS Special Adviser John Biehl the protection offered by the dip- lence."
told reporters in the capital, Tegu- lomatic mission to instigate vio- On Tuesday, the day after
cigalpa, that he and four other lence in Honduras." Zelaya's return, baton-wielding
members of an advance team - Brazilian President Luiz Inacio soldiers used tear gas and water
including two Americans, a Cana- Lula da Silva immediately reject- cannons to chase away thousands
dian and a Colombian - were ed the missive, saying his govern- of his supporters outside the
stopped by authorities after land- ment "doesn't accept ultimatums Embassy.
ing at Tegucigalpa's airport yes- from coup-plotters." Since then, the diplomatic mis-
terday. Biehl, who is Chilean, said Micheletti didn't specify what sion has been surrounded by police
he was later told he could stay, but he would do after 10 days. He has and soldiers. Zelaya and about 65
the others were put aboard flights said previously that he plans to supporters inside accused author-
out of the country. arrest Zelaya, who was deposed ities of temporarily cutting off
"A high-ranking official told us in a June 28 coup. Zelaya faces water and electricity early in the
we were expelled, that we had not treason and abuse of authority week, and later said the govern-
notified (the interim government) charges for ignoring court orders ment released an unidentified gas
that we were coming," he said. to drop plans for a referendum on that caused headaches, nosebleeds
"For reasons I completely do rewriting the constitution. and nausea.
not know, as we were getting in a Lopez said Brazil has 10days to Brazilian Charge d'Affaires
line for the flight (out), a colonel in "turn Zelaya over to the judicial Francisco Catunda confirmed that
civilian dress called my name ... authorities of Honduras"or decide Saturday: "Yes, it was released,"he
and said I could decide then and some other arrangement for him. said in a rare interview outside the
there if I wanted to stay." The government has said it has no building. "One of our officials felt
Biehl said he was in Honduras plans to raid the Embassy and that it, felt symptoms." Catunda added
to set up a visit by OAS Secretary- Zelaya could leave if Brazil offers that some people had throat prob-
General Jose Miguel Insulza, him political asylum. Flores also lems, but he did not give details.
who he said would arrive "at the
appropriate time."
Interim government Foreign
Minister Carlos Lopez said the
four were turned back because
they had been "clearly warned" AN*4A
that they had to give advanceiS
notice of their visit, and didn't.
He said Biehl had been allowed
to stay because he had played a .4
role in the San Jose talks medi-
ated by Costa Rican President *,*.
Oscar Arias.
Interim President Roberto
Micheletti has previously said
the OAS was welcome to come,
but suggested that represen-
tatives begin arriving today.
Flores said the team's arrival
didn't come "at the right time ..._

W 338 S. State St.
Ann Arbor
734.996.9191
E;VONTS

SaTURDN9
'Kegs and Eggs' Breakfast Buffet:
Open Early For Every Big Ten Home Game
Featuring Breakfast, Beer, and a Bloody Mary Bar

I

SIGA UP FOR IMIL UPDT1 aT www.ashleys.com
10 OUR TWITT@R: a2ashleys

If you answered "yes" to these questions,
you are a woman or man over the age of 18,
and NOT taking medications, you may be
eligible to participate in studies looking at
stress hormones.
Both studies involve multiple blood draws and
between 2 and 5 study visits of varying length.

Compensation provided
for study participation.
For further information, please contact
depressionstudies@umich.edu
or 734-972-6902


I I


4A - Monday, September 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

J11 1Jtdgan &i3


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIA( PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflectthe official position of the Daily's editorialboard. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A smarter loan system
Senate should pass bill to make college more affordable
hile the state government's commitment to education
hangs inthe balance withthe Michigan Promise Schol-
arship, at least things are looking better for students
nationwide. The U.S. House of Representatives recently passed an
education bill with plenty of benefits for students, including more
Pell Grant aid, a simpler FAFSA form and funding for numerous
educational programs. With education the key to economic recov-
ery, not just in Michigan but across the country, the necessity of
this bill is clear. The Senate should approve the bill immediately so
that students of all ages can finally catch a break.

You know what, you stood up for yourself, and I fuckin'
love you for that."
- New Saturday Night Live cast member Jenny Slate, accidentally using the f-word in a live skit during the SNL
season opener yesterday. It was the first time the expletive has been heard on the show since 1981.

ELAINE MORTON

E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

eBSONCO$tV IRISH AGLES ' ooS1iRSd'SPAsRtANd5

0

Subsidized sports fans

The House of Representatives voted
Thursday to pass a bill that would overhaul
student financial aid. The Senate has not yet
voted on the legislation, which would end
subsidies to private lenders for college lend-
ing and replace private lending with direct
government loans. The elimination of the
subsidies would free up an estimated of $87
billion over the next decade for educational
purposes by cutting private lenders out of
the picture. Much of the additional money
that would be available from the implemen-
tation of this bill would be used to increase
Pell Grants by $40 billion. Pell Grants are
the main source of federal college scholar-
ships for low and moderate income students,
and under the bill, the maximum award
amount is set to rise from $5,350 per student
to $5,550 next year, eventually increasing to
$6,900 in 2019.
With students facing tuition increases and
an ailing economy, increased financial aid is
a must for college students. A greater avail-
abilityofPellGrantswill allowmore students
to go to college and make it more affordable
for others. Opponents of the bill worry that
the elimination of the private college lending
sector would also cost almost 30,000 jobs.
But if the choice is between keeping college
affordable and propping up private middle-
men at students' and taxpayers' expense,
it's clear that Congress needs to put educa-
tion first and support students' aspirations to
attend college.

As an added bonus, the House bill also
includes provisions to streamline the cum-
bersome FAFSA form, which currently
creates bureaucratic obstacles for many stu-
dents seeking financial aid. The unnecessary
complexity of FAFSA paperwork discourages
many of the students in greatest need of aid
from applying for aid at all, effectively mak-
ing college less accessible for low-income
families. Simplification of the FAFSA is both
obviously necessary and long overdue.
But the proposed bill doesn't stop with
financial aid. It would also provide fund-
ing to modernize public schools ($4 billion),
enhance early education programs ($8 bil-
lion) and assist overcrowded community
colleges ($10 billion). In doing so, the bill will
almost certainly raise the quality of child-
care and the pre-school system. It would
also provide support to community colleges
struggling with an increased number of stu-
dents due to the economic situation. Funding
education at all levels is vitally important,
and these provisions will help the United
States improve its primary education system
and community colleges.
A concerted government effort to improve
the quality and affordability of the educa-
tional system is critical for the growth of
the national economy and the success of
students at all levels. The Senate should
pass the House's bill without delay - the
future of our education system is depending
upon it.

Picture the first game of the 2010
football season:
As hordes of excited fans
make their way to_
their seats in the
Big House, an IRS
agent waits by the
VIP elevator that
whisks elite ticket
holders to their
exclusive club
seats. As they enter
the lift, the agent PATRICK
gives each one a
crisp $100 bill. O'MAHAN
Smiling, he says,
"The U.S. govern-
ment appreciates your support of
Michigan athletics."
A donor acknowledges the agent,
adding, "Thanks, it really is a finan-
cial burden to show off my superior
social standing and watch big-time
college-football in world-class com-
fort."
Sound far-fetched? Well, thanks
to the marvels of federal tax deduc-
tions, luxury seating options at Big
Ten football stadiums alone will cost
U.S. taxpayers $17 million this year.
The only differences between this
scenario and reality are that the well-
heeled athletic boosters use direct
deposit, and they get a much bigger
break than $100.
Here's how the scam works: In
order to obtain any of the new lux-
ury seating options, a fan has to pay
the price of a season ticket, which
is $400. On top of that he makes a
mandatory "donation." For one of
the club indoor seats, that donation
runs $4,000 a year. Essentially, the
cost of season tickets are $4,400, but
with one catch - since the $4,000 is
technically a donation to a non-profit

organization, he doesn't have to pay
income tax on 80 percent of his con-
tribution. As a result, Uncle Sam kicks
in $1,120 toward the cost of the extra-
wide club seat specifically cushioned
for our donor's extra-special poste-
rior.
Oh, and remember those 82 luxury
boxes at the Big House? Those man-
datory donations range from $42,600
to $72,600. That means taxpayers
will shell out between $12,000 and
$20,000 per box year to the business
or individual leasing each one.
If the club seats and boxes sell out,
kickbacks - by which I mean "tax
benefits" - from the IRS to Michi-
gan's premium seat holders will total
roughly $3.5 million for 2010.
But wait - it gets worse.
Seven of the other Big Ten schools
are due to bring in at least $1 million
in subsidies from premium seating
this year. The total cost to the U.S.
governmentwill top $17 million. That
money would be enough to provide
more than 3,000 additional needy
students with the maximum Pell
Grant of $5,300 a year. Instead, we
use the cash to build exclusive pal-
aces at athletic stadiums so that fat-
cat donors don't have to wait in line
for the bathroom with the "regular"
fans. Says a lot about our priorities,
doesn't it?
The Big Ten is just the tip of the
iceberg. The other big football con-
ferences - the Pac-lO, the ACC, the
Big 12, the SEC and the Big East - all
have similar premium seating options
for their donors. Darrel K Royal Sta-
dium at the University of Texas, for
example, has 113 luxury boxes in
addition to five tiers of exclusive club
seating for big donors.
And don't forget that other sports,

notably men's basketball, baseball
and hockey, have premium seating
options of their own with similar pay-
ment plans. Many schools also make
regular season ticket holders provide
a mandatory 'donation" along with
their season tickets. At Michigan,
all new football season-ticket hold-
ers fork over from $50 to $500on top
of the price of a ticket to get seats. Of
course, 80 percent of that donation is
tax deductible. All those deductions
add up to an annual drain of several
hundred million dollars on the U.S.
Treasury.
Game day tickets
for the rich, paid
for by taxpayers.
There is one reasonable objec-
tion to my argument - the Michigan
Athletic Department will pay out $15
million in scholarships to athletes
this year, a significant chunk of its
projected $85.6 million budget.
'Fine - maybe we should carve
out a tightly capped exemption for
athletic scholarships not connected
to premium seating. But since big-
time college sports like football are
essentially a for-profit enterprise, at
least judging by the plush stadiums
we build for our teams, let's at least
make the boosters pay for the fair
market value of their club seats to
support it.
- Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

0
6

JASON MAHAAKAN E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU
AoN, 4AVIU
SEEN PJVN
4Hi Vk TpxTI-N 6
?S N GEN Its?-
- /-(
THAN 0Wo!
lj
U4 aVNIN>H1

6
6

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate writers to
join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing and
writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Brian Flaherty,
Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Harsha Panduranga, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith

6


SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

Medical marijuana may
be poor as painkiller
TO THE DAILY:
A much more important issue than the
one of marijuana access addressed in The
Statement article is if marijuana is a use-
ful medicinal substance (How Michigan
marijuana patients get their medicine,
09/23/2009). Marijuana's active ingre-
dient, THC, is available orally and is
approved by the FDA as an antiemetic,
usually for nausea induced by cancer che-
motherapy.
One needs to understand the THC con-
tent of marijuana. When smoked, small
amounts of THC are no big deal. But with
large amounts, the smoker is "spaced out."
Marijuana differs from alcohol and tobac-
co because of its unusual mind-altering
effects. When a person is "high," they do
not care about the pain of migraine or
their leukemia. Depending on the THC
dose, the psychic effects include eupho-
ria, emotional changes, altered asso-
ciations, altered time and space sense,
altered auditory and visual sensations,
illusions, memory loss, disorientation and
somnolence. If smokers do not obtain the
altered sensations and illusions, they have
probably used a poor grade of marijuana
with little THC content.

The danger of smoking or ingesting
marijuana is that some people will con-
tinually increase its use. Eventually, they
become "potheads" with an amotivation-
al syndrome. A recent study of Universi-
ty-related students indicated that even
36 hours after smoking marijuana, the
users had reduced regional brain activ-
ity, as measured by fMRI methods. The
gray matter neocortical areas of the brain
affected involve error detection. The
users mistakenly thought they were doing
great on various tests, whereas the non-
smokers could detect their own errors.
Clearly, it is much better for most people
to use more rational forms of medically
approved drugs than marijuana.
Edward Domino, M.D.
Professor of Pharmacology
Obama correct to take his
time on Afghanistan
TO THE DAILY:
In his column, Mr. Koslowski states
that President Obama may be stalling a
change in the Afghanistan war strategy
to prevent derailment of domestic plans
(The forgotten fight, 09/24/09). He argues
that American lives may be lost and our

country will appear weak for this. But
a Harvard study estimated that 45,000
Americans die each year as a result of
being uninsured. How many- Americans
did Al-Qaeda kill last year?
Our health care policies kill more
Americans and make the country seem
weaker than any terrorist organization
could dream of. The number of American
civilians dying from cancer is the equiva-
lent of 9-11 occurring every two days. I
believe that Mr Koslowski, despite his "if
_,the terrorists will have won" rhetoric,
holds a true desire to save American lives
and have a country deserving of pride.
For this end, strong health care reform,
a public option and government-funded
research can accomplish a thousand-fold
what any military operation could.
Dominic Terenzi
LSA senior
World education fund
needs U.S. support
TO THE DAILY:
The U.S. government awards the Presi-
dential Medal of Freedom to those who
have strenuously worked to positively
influence the world. Desmond Tutu,

Mary Robinson and Muhammad Yunus, promised $2 b
three "agents of change," were among cation fund a
those to be presented with these med- of State Hillar
als on August 12. But these global lead- All Act. Obam
ers have something else in common: they to creating int
are ardent supporters of the creation of a Global Fund ft
Global Fund for Education. your local men
In the poorest communities of the President Oba
world, families of 75 million children are ment to Educa
unable to spend 50 U.S. dollars to send act, 75 million
their children to school. More than 50 have the oppor
percent of them are girls and many are
living among civil unrest. The Global Josh Lee
Fund for Education is essential to produc- Businessjunior
ing healthier children, creating stronger
communities, and building an improved
world economy. Education is also strong-
ly associated with the prevention of HIV/
AIDS in these impoverished countries. LETTER!
Desmond Tutu, Mary Robinson, and Readers ar
Muhammad Yunus urged world leaders,
including President Barack Obama and letters to the
the G-8 leaders, to support a Global Fund less than 300
for Education. Thankfully, leaders of the
G-8 confirmed their commitment to the the writer's f
fund and agreed to raise over $1 billion to affiliation. Le
support basic education in the developing length, clarit
world. But their financial commitment is
by no means close to the $16 billion nec- missions beco
essary to achieve universal education this We do not p
year alone. Send letters
Even after 10 years of commitment to
a Global Fund for Education, progress
is often stagnant. President Obama has

illion for the global edu-
nd support for Secretary
ry Clinton's Education for
a's action will be integral
ternational attention for a
or Education. Write or call
mbers of Congress to urge
ma to fulfill his commit-
tion for All. If we do not
children will never even
tunity for education.

6
6
6

S TO THE EDITOR:
encouraged to submit
editor. Letters should be
words and must include
ull name and University
tters are edited for style,
y and accuracy. All sub-
me property of the Daily.
rint anonymous letters.
to tothedaily@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 28, 2009 -5A

The power of
suggestion

Television critics are
afforded a unique oppor-
tunity that film and music
critics have to
go without: the.
opportunity to
be wrong. y
Now, all
reviews are mat-
ters of opinion,
but that's not
what I mean by JAMIE
"wrong." There BLOCK
will always be
reviews that disagree with the
majority opinion, but the key fac-
tor that makes them as correct as
a review ever can be is that they
accurately reflect the views of the
critics who wrote them. And with
film and movie reviews, that's
where it ends. The critics say what
they have to say, and there's their
opinion on the page - constant,
permanent, unchanging. And that's
because movies and albums don't
change overtime either. Maybe
public opinion changes, but once
each individual album or film is
released, that's the way it's going to
be forever (unless George Lucas is
involved). TV shows, not so much.
A television show is in a con-
stant state of qualitative flux,
going through good seasons and
bad seasons, each of which has
its better episodes and worse epi-
sodes. It's an unrealistic expecta-
tion to assume that a pilot episode
will be indicative of a series as a
whole. Yet, for the sake of time-
liness, that's all TV critics can
really go off of when formulating
an opinion. So it often comes to
pass that critics may, partway
through a season or several sea-
sons through a series's lifetime,
come to disagree with their own
reviews.
I recently revisited the first
show I ever reviewed, "Fringe,"
to see how it was faring as it
entered its second season. I was
less than enthusiastic about the
pilot episode last fall and had
given it only 2 out of 5 stars. But I
had been hearing good things and
discovered, upon re-inspection,
the rumors are true. "Fringe" got
good. The characters were more
developed, the fake science jargon
was toned down, and everything
felt much more cohesive than it
all did in my brief exposure to the
world of televised fringe science
- just like I suggested. Or at least,
I should have.
What I've learned and hope-
fully adapted to is the fact that the
job of the television critic must
be, at least in part, to make sug-
gestions. We can't possibly hope
to write a review that stands the
test of a show's lifetime. (Any
review of "Heroes" from its first
season would be far too favorable
for any of the show's subsequent
disappointing, heart-destroying,
absolutely unacceptable seasons.)
But what we can do is help guide
a show to greatness or help it stay
there if it was lucky enough to
start out on a good note. Music

and film critics can't do that.
The content they critique is not
modified after release, barring
directors' cuts and the like, which
have nothing to do with critical
input. So enjoy your petty free
tickets and your awards shows
that people actually watch, you
foolish critics of other art forms
- bask in your little naive worlds
while we television critics exact
our true power upon our world.
Muahahaha!
But world domination aside, the
role of the TV critic is an impor-
tant one - and it's ajob well worth
sacrificing infallibility for. Televi-
sion criticism is at its most effec-
tive when it not only pokes and
prods, but also pushes and encour-
ages. Without forward thinking,
we can't claim to be really review-
ing a show, just an episode - and
that would be pretty much useless.
Sure, we'd escape the whole we-
can-be-wrong thing, but I'd rather
be always useful than always right.
(Then again, I don'tknow how
useful my reviews of shows like
"Coolio's Rules" and "50 Cent: the
Money and the Power" could ever
be, regardless of my tips for the
future.)
Obviously one review isn't
going to changea show's direction
- TV creators and writers look at
ratings and overall trends instead
of just reading The Daily (a flawed
system of aggregating feedback, to
be sure). But you read us, we tell
you not to watch, then the writers
figure out why you're not watch-
You don't have
to be Heart -
but you can still
have a monkey.
ing and try to win you over. To use
a TV metaphor, my colleagues and
I are Captain Planet and you are
the Planeteers. With your powers
combined, led by our witty criti-
cism and anti-pollution agenda,
you can make the television world
a better place as you clean up the
streets and stop watching shitty
reality shows. And as an added
bonus, I won't make any of you be
Heart (but you can still have a pet
monkey).
So go forth, loyal readers and
TV watchers. Let us agree to
each use our powers for good and
not for evil. I shall offer sugges-
tions, and not stretch my opinions
beyond their jurisdiction. And
you shall heed my words and not
support the tyrannical regimes of
awful television shows. Together,
we can make the world a better
place - then rub it in those film
writers' faces.
Block is starting a war on film
critics. To join the fight, e-mail
him at jamblock@umich.edu.

"Shut up! I'm trying to play 'H alo' in here!"

A bad imitation of life

'Surrogates' is just a
rehash of every robot movie
that came before it
By NICK COSTON
Daily Arts Writer
Five years ago, James Cromwell appeared in
the thoroughly mediocre "I,
Robot" as a reclusive genius
who invented a humanoid
robot and delivered cryptic
doomsday messages in the Surrogates
wake of his robot's global At Quality16
success. In "Surrogates," he and Showcase
reprises the role, seemingly Touchstone
word-for-word. Unfortunate-
ly, "Surrogates" isn't a sequel.
It's simply one of the most unimaginative films
to grace the silver screen in recent memory.
That "Surrogates" is bland and unoriginal is
neither surprising nor unique; science fiction
has historically been a victim of self-imitation.
But the degree to which "Surrogates" lifts its
plot, characters, dialogue, heavy-handed moral-

ity and ever-convenient deus ex machina from
other, better science-fiction films is unprece-
dented. If you ever find yourself watching "Sur-
rogates," you can still construct an entertaining
cinematic experience for yourself by identify-
ing how many scenes are stolen directly from
"Minority Report" and "The Matrix." Even the
titular machines are ripoffs of the replicants
from "Blade Runner": robots who resemble
humans perfectly and live among us as people.
One dead giveaway to a bad science-fiction
film's lack of precision is an ungodly vocabulary
of fake words and slang that existonly in its fan-
tasy bubble. You'll hear drivel like "meatbags,"
referring to humans who choose not to employ
surrogates and "surry" referring to the robots
themselves, because three syllables is just not
cool enough.
Plot is of minimal importance in "Surrogates."
Roughly: Seven years ago, everyone started
using human-looking robots they control with
their minds to live their public lives for them.
The first homicide in those seven years occurs
when someone fries a pair of surrogates and, in
so doing, kills the surrogates' operators despite
oft-cited fail-safe measures. It's up to FBI Agent
Tom Greer (Bruce Willis, doing his best impres-

sion of Barbie's Ken) to find the culprit.
The opening credits reveal that one of the
primary reasons for the popularity of surrogate
use is its facilitation of an attractive physical
appearance for its user. The resulting beauty,
then, is bound to be shallow and meaningless.
The filmmaker's challenge is to address and
confront this vapidity and let the viewer know
that the constructed world is not a utopia, but
a mess. Director Jonathan Mostow ("U-571")
simply ignores this responsibility. Bruce Wil-
lis's character notes the emotional detachment
brought about by the use of surrogates, but oth-
erwise there is little internal conflict among the
film's characters.
Perhaps the most frustrating aspect of the
film's overall weak presentation is that it refus-
es to answer any questions that the viewer
might have regarding its constructed universe.
For example, surrogates have not completely
replaced human beings in the film's world; real,
organic people still exist as the surrogates'
chair-bound operators. But the film doesn't
examine the moments in their lives spent apart
from their machines. Surely the human opera-
tors have to unplug from time to time to eat or
See SURROGATES, Page 8A

-V
t f S.

-III. o'ti
nc,t

Leaving hip hop behind

By SASHA RESENDE
Daly Arts Writer
Fans of WHY? may have been
skeptical when frontman Jona-
than "Yoni"
Wolf recently
proclaimed that
his band's fourth WH?
studio effort
Eskimo Snow Eskimo Snow
would be "the anticon.
least hip-hop" of
all his creations.
By the album's
end, it's clear that the group has
certainly deviated from its previ-
ous formula, producing a record
that is certainly new for WHY?
but ultimately less engaging than
the band's prior work.
WHY?, which formed in the
early 'OOs from the ashes of Yoni's
former experimental hip-hop
project cLOUDDEAD, had found
its niche within the admittedly
broad hip-hop genre. The band's
first two efforts had a distinc-
tive hip-hop flavor, tinged with
programmed drum machines,
tight guitar strings and electronic
beats. But while Yoni's musings
were often freestyled rather than
harmonized, WHY?'s efforts
defied simple definition, pre-

venting the from being pigeon-
holed into a hip-hop or electronic
genre.
With the group's third release
Alopecia, Yoni and his two backing
band members began to progress
further away from the hip-hop
influences that defined their ear-
lier work, approaching pure musi-
cal experimentation. With piano
flourishes and downright cutesy
bells, WHY? broke musical bound-
aries with little worry of whether
music critics or aficionados could
easily define its work.
This progression is even more
evident with Eskimo Snow, which
was put to tape in the same
recording session that produced
Metaphors for
masturbation!
2008's Alopecia. Although the two
albums were recorded at the same
time, each record has a very dis-
tinct sound. The newer release's
dreamy, subdued aesthetic drifts
away from its predecessor's rela-
tively heavy reliance on its electro-
based hip-hop roots.
See WHY?, Page 8A

IF
GLOBAL OPERATIONS
CON FERENCE
NOV@
2009
100tt hina Ncim
Register at www.tauber.umch edu goc LI
TAUBER INSTIT TE


6A- Monday, September 28, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0
0

7

REALTY

CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING:
Live far away? Park close! Many loca-
tions available. Call Varsity Manage-
ment (734) 668-lien or
www.varsitymanagement.com
COVERED AND UNCOVED park-
lag an Central Campus rates start at
$50 per nont. Call 734-995-9200 for
details.
PARK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS-
This space is worth every penny in the
winter. (In Michigan, winter can last
until April). Only 50 steps to the B
School. Call Arch Realty at 734-995-
9200 or stop into 616 Church Street to
secure your spot today.
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B School and Law School
734-222-9033. www.jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
030
1998 BMW 540. Good condition.
175,000 miles. Original owner.
734-429-2850 or bcrider@umich.edu
1998 SUBARU LEGACY Outback
Wagon 4WD, 5 speed, air,
AM/FM/CD/Cassette, power windows,
locks, alloy wheels. $2,850;
734-646-1375.
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC.
810-225-9750
100% Guaranteed Approval
LEASE TO OWN or Buy here pay
here.


Immediate
Occupancy
Prices Negotiable
Rooms/Studios
1-5 Bedrooms
Now Leasing for May 2009
rrend elm PZZca s'mte
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtycocom
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Avail now. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM foothall fass
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BR APARTMENTS $795 and up,
Available for Immediate Occupancy on
Central Campus Heat, Water, and Park-
ing Included. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop into 616 Church Street for more in-
formation. www.archrealtyco.com
3 AND 4 BR Units. Central Campus
and Kerry Town. Immediate Occu-
pancy. Best Locations, Best Prices,
Best Landlord. Call 734-995-9200 or
visit www.archrealtyco.com
917 PACKARD: REDUCED price
on Central Campus! Patty furnished 2
bedroom, heat, water and parking in-
cluded for 12 month lease. Terms ne-
gotiahle and we'll help find a room-
mate. Call Varsity Management (734)
668- 1100 or
www.varsitymanagement.com
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available tooldAll are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.

! CENTRAL CAMPUS !
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furnished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
HORVATHPROPERTIES.COM
'! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 to 12 bedrooms. Very close to
Campus. SIGN NOW for May 2010.
Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370.
nancylat/(fumich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904.
* NOW LEASING FOR MAY 2010
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000._
3 BDRM $1200/MO + util. Short term
avail. 1037 Packard. 734 996 1991.

Country Charm
City Convenience
Immediate
Openings!
SPACIOUS 1,2, & 3
BEDROOM TOWNHOMES
. Idividual private basements
" Curently gas heat-cooking & hot water included
" Chidren & pets welcome
- Minutes to downtown, shops & universities
. 60 day move-out notice
.24houremergencymaintenance
Ratesfrom$419-600basedontotalhousehold
income. Equity shares range from $8080-9985 which
increaseinvaluethelongeryoursideintheop.
eatie. Theshares arefundable uponnme-u.
Forest Hills Cooerative
2351 Shadowood nye
oAn Arbor
1=1 734,971,9270 SP099
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. hse. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
CONDO FOR RENT. 2 bdrm. 2 bath.
Recently remodeled. Fireplace on 3rd
floor. Pauline & Stadium. 248-318-9759
DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long-
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north
campus. Wshr/dryer in unit, $850/mo.,
water included. Call 734-395-5288.
Pfkiani@gmail.com
Four great campus locations. 1- & 2-bed-
apartments and studios. Great locations,
well maintained, responsive mgmt,
free internet & other amenities.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperies.com
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
miehigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
with full descriptions, features, and
prices
GRAD STUDENTS & Professionals:
1015 W. Huron, 2 bedroom fully fur-
nished, heat, water, parking included,
in unit washer/dryer available. Call Var-
sity Management for dtls (734) 668-
1100 or www.varsitymanagement.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
NOW LEASING FOR 2010-2011-
Arch Realty located at 616 Church
Street, for more details call 734-995-
9200 or see www.archrealtyco.com
e a a l ,studio & 1
BdrmUnits
Tower Plaza Gcoidorm r im
134-663-1530
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1l11 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water acl. Bale., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
$001650, No smkgno pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.

ehtseng@comcast.net
LUXURY APARTMENT AVAIL-
ABLE Near U of M Hospital. Ex-
tremelybspacious 3BR/2BA apartment
available for immediate occupancy
across the street from U of M hospital.
Amenities include Central Air, Beauti-
ful Hard Wood Floors, Dishwasher,
and On-Site Laundry. Carport Parking
Available. Call 734-995-9200 for an ap-
pointment, pictures available at
www.archrealtyco.com
94C ANcijigan Daiu
P RE SE N TS TH E
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

Now Leasing for
May 2010!!
3 and 4 bedrooms available!
LUXURY COMMUNITY 8 mins.
North of A2 has 2 & 3 bdrms. from
$585-$900/mo. 970-1279 sq. ft. Lots of
amenities. Ask about our special.
734-449-4213.
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apis. avail. at the carter of Hill
& S. Forest.aCull furdetails: 734-665-
8825. http://www.cainpuisrealty.coin
RECENTLY RENOVATED 2 BR
Near IM Building- Available for imme-
diate Occupancy, just 5 minutes walk
to the Union. Heat, Water, Furnishings,
and Parking Included. Prices starting at
$725/mo, call 734-995-9200 for details.
ROOM FOR RENT in 2000 sq. ft
house near U of M North Campus.
$550/month. A/C, wshr/dryer, dwshr,
garage prkg, basement storage, dogs
and cats welcome. 734-668-6152.
ROOMS AVAILABLE! CENTRAL
Campus/Kerrytown $395-$550; Heat,
Water, & Electric Included. Parking
available. Call 734-995-9200 or stop
into 616 Church Street. More info at
www.archrealityco.com
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
Immediate move-in. $450-$500. Two
locations near campus. 734-996-1991

Forest Edge Apartments
1315 Hill St.

NEW SOCIAL PORTAL that pays
help wanted $300-$500. Get on the ground floor...
Act Now! http://www.psl0t.info
0.
STUDENT WORK
$14.25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
A. SCOTT FOUNDATION is seeking vice, scholarships avail., no exp. nec.,
a part time Admin. Assistant. 10-20 irs will train. 734-677-2477.
a week. $10-15/hr. Taking calls, http://www.workforstudents.com
scheduling meetings, taking minutes,
paying hilts, etc. Apply at:
azad@ultralrans.com STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREF tonjoin. Click on Surveys.
!!!BARTENDING!!!t$300 /day poten
tiat. No nap. nec., training provided.r
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ACCOUNTING AND BIOLOGY *9
Students: Give Your Opinions About
Website, Earn $50
Looking for college students enrolled
in lower-level Accounting or Biology
courses to use an online resource for CHILD CARE NEEDED,.2-3 days a
taking assignments and give us your week. 6:30-6 AM. i year aid. Own
opinions. Earn $50 for a 1-hour re- transperation. Responsible references.
search session in Ann Arbor Sessions 734-769-1462.
held October 5-16. Research only, no
sates; your privacy respected. Visit CHILDCARE NEEDED: IN my
www.teced.com/study0909ms.him to home. Before/ after school. Driving e-
apply. quired. $10.00/hr. 747-9484.
DO YOU CARE about National Parks? IN-HOME CHILDCARE provider,
Mackinac Island was Americas 2nd Mon-Thurs., some Fri, 2:45 to 5:45.
National Park. It is really in trouble and Job incl. pickup from school & some
urgently needs YOUR help. driving. Close to campus, excellent
Rise up, UM, and lead! pay, some flex. Ref req. Contact
www.MichiganLeads.org 668.8327 or abrown@planningmi.org
www.MichiganCaresforMackinac.org
To Help: 1-866-MAC-ISLE
EXECUTIVE COUPLE SEEKING Done the
assistants to clean and organize base-
ment of local residence. Pay $10/hour.
Flexible hours. Must have excellent or- udgg et
ganization skills. Short term temporary
assignment lasting 1-2 weeks. To apply
email references and letter of interest/
resume to sdodson@thdg.com refer-
encing residential organization project.

i

FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @u,
www.telefund.unich.edu or 763.4400.

9

17

0

I'.

0

SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floonnan. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310 2 1
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100. 5 1 171

Looking for a House?
Have your
REALTY top pick...

616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

Now Leasing for
2010-2011

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Convent 36 Draw inferences 44 Like fine coifs
1 Disappear residents from 46 Notes after dos
gradually 6 Historical period 37 Farm output 48 Garage jobs
5 Prohibition agent 7 Kazakhstan, until 38 The bus stops 50 British machine
Eliot 1991: Abbr. here: Abbr. gun
9 Vatican-related 8 Assertions 41 Mythical 51 Baker's fat
14 Like deserts 9 Peel, as a rind man-goats 52 Stodgy old-timer
15 Heavenly bear 10 Opera highlight 42 "Va va voom!" 53 _ Four: Beatles
16 "_ you clever!" 11 Game played 43 Marlee _, Best 54 Every bit
17 Hobbes, to Calvin with a baby Actress winner in 55 Blubber
20 Motel restriction 12 "Raggedy" girl "Children ofea 56 "_ scale of 1 to
21 T-bone, for one 13 Inc., in England Lesser God" 10
22 Lock of hair 18 Appointment-
23 Med. plan choices confirming ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
25 Opposite of 'Huh? words
28 Damascus is its 19i and Knox: A P P T Y U M A SCOW L
cap. Ahbr. POOH W HEN HOWl1 E
29 Fashion's Gucci 23 Set with a T E L E C O L E H A M E L S
andactor Ray sharper picture, T T O P A H A MOMENT S
31 Nudge rudely briefly O S S I A N O M E
33 Makes a long 24 Inlaid designs H A L F T I M E H I P S
story short? 26 Traffic jam
34 City leaders honker J O 1 N T OWN E R E T R E
35 Ideal getaway 27"Isn'tthatcute!" A P R I O R I T U N I S I A
38 Takencare of exclamations Z I T S A N S E L A D A M S
39 "Rich Man, Poor 30 Prom car Z E S T S E C R E T E S
Man"novelist 31 Persistently M O N O S L E D S
Shaw worrying F I S H I N G R O D B C U P
40 Give body to, as 32 "_ Eyes":1975 E A S I N G I N T O E R N O
hair Eaglesnhit EGGED N EROD REIN T
41 Obous disdain 33 Poetic dusks EGGET NEYREDNGT
42 Meditator's 34 Bryn _ College T 0 T S Y E 0 A M G T 0 5
syllables 35 Heroic exploit xwordeditor@aol.com 09/2509

STUDIO'S AND 1 Bedrooms avail-
able for immediate occupancy, Great
Locations including Kerrytown and
Central Campus. Call 734-995-9200 or
stop by 616 Church Street for more in-
formation.
WANTED GRAD STUDENT/ profes-
soc. New 1 bdrm. Chelsea apt. $625.
Util, elec., cable, DSL. Country hse on
100 acre nature preserve. 734-475-0291.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. No Sept. rent.

For Tuesday, Sept. 29, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Good news! Things are returning to
normal with your job and your work
scene. All those crazy delays, goofy mis-
takes and errors will hugely reduced
now.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Difficulties with children, delays with
sporting events, and unusual situations
with old flames suddenly back in your
life will be greatly reduced or disappear.
Life is back to normal.
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
The past six weeks have full of trans-
portation delays, communication prob-
lems and misplaced items. All this silli-
ness is over now. Thank goodness!
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Your future is looking better! The past
month has been full of transportation
delays and silly errnrs, especially in year
communication wish ethers. This celes-
tial hex stops today.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Lots of financial information and cash
flow issues will start to flow more pre-
dictably and normally, because today
Mercury goes direct. For the past month
or so, Mercury has been causing prob-
lems!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Today Mercury isin your sign, and it's
making a major change. The good news
is this changes for the better! New busi-
ness can start to get off the ground with-
out delays.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You can continue to research old
issues; however, at the same time, your
ability to delve into new business will
start to nimprove as of today onward. This

is a good thing.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Beginning today, you will be more
successful at formulating future goals.
Furthermore, your interaction with
groups will become more efficient.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
All kinds of old business with parents,
bosses and authority figures, plus con-
fused communication, have been chal-
lenging in the past month! Lots of this
will settle down now.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
It will be a relief to know that travel
delays and confusion about educational
matters will greatly diminish as of today.
Now you can make plans with greater
certainty.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Beginning today, you will have more
success in dealing with shared property
issues, as well as dealing with the differ-
ent values of others. (Too much cnfu-
sion with all this lathe past!)
PISCES
(Feb. 191t March 20)
Mercury starts to move forward (in
relationship to planet Earth) today,
which will improve all your dealings
with partners and close friends. Time for
something new!
YOU BORN TODAY You're very
intense, and you love to commit yourself
to something wholeheartedly. The secret
is finding what you truly love! Many of
you acquire particular skills and tech-
niques. You're very capable; plus you
love to do research. Others generally
fnd you attractive. Work hard to build or
construct something this year - your
rewards will soon follow.
Birthdate of: Gene Autry,
actor/singing cowboy; Bryant Gumbel,
TV newsman; Jake Westbrook, baseball
pitcher.

6
I
I

i

45 Calculate sums
46 Coarse file
47 Rub dtin
49 Key in the sea
52 Defective, as
wiring
53 Armchair
quarterback's
hobby
57 Change
58 Summoned the
butler
59 Peace Prize
winner Wiesel
6 Fair-haired
61 Reauin
62 Between-your-
toes grains
DOWN
1 Passes out
2 Weapons
sorehouse
3 Baby seat cover?
4 Pieces jigsaw
puzzlers usually
start with

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1
14 16 16
17 18 t9
20 21
22 23 24
28 28 30 31 3
33 34
35 36 37
38 39
40 41
45 46 47 4
49 50 51 52
53 54 55 56
57 68 5
60 61 6
By Fred Jackson III
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

1 BEDROOM, 521 Walnut St.: Fully
furnished, brand new furniture, updated
kitchen with dishwasher. Great campus
location, heat, water, parking included.
Call Varsity Management -(734) 668-
1100.
seryice's
080
HORSES TO LEASE/RIDING
lessons. Dressage/pleasure. 995-0092.
LEARN TO FLY!
$40 Introductory lesson. U of M stu-
dent discount. Buzzard Air Service, at
Willow Run Airport. 734-780-5685.
http://www.buzzardairservice.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U M exp.
996-0566 or writeon(ceiserv.net
the daily classifieds.
they're kind of a big deal

0 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $3.75 per line for the first issue and $1.75 per linefor each additional
consecutive issue.
" Frequency and Bulk contractsare available- contact ournstafffor details
" Students may receive a 20% discount when ads are placed in person with a
valid studentID (non-organizational, non-business adsonly)
" All ads mustbe prepaid unless prior billing privileges have been established
" We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, cash, or check
" For Classified Displayadvertising, please call one of our AccountExecutives

09128/091



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, September 28, 2009 - 7A

A PRE-GAME PEP TALK

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily

Michigan football coach Rich Rodriguez speaks at the Homecoming Pep Rally on Friday. Rodriguez spoke about the team's future prospects.
will allowsome students to be eligible and 1,531 graduate students at the in an e-r
FINANCIAL AID for more aid. University participated inthe Perkins Commit
From Page 1A "The benefit of getting rid of the Loan Program for the 2008-2009 aca- and Pen

mail statement that the Senate
ttee Health, Education, Labor
nsions is still working on the

LEADERSHIP
From Page1A
gyrations in the price of cheese."
Brandon described a Wall
Street Journal article printed
after he was chosen as Domino's
CEO that highlighted his inex-
perience in the quick-service in-
dustry.
"I cut that article out, lami-
nated it and put it in the corner
of my desk for my first two years
as a CEO," Brandon said. "Every
day I saw this son of a bitch tell-
ing me I couldn't do it, and every
day it motivated me to prove him
wrong."
Grace Singleton, a managing
partner at Zingerman's Deli-
catessen, said she was excited
when MSA asked someone from
Zingerman's to speak. During
her breakout session, she offered
advice about students' struggles
with campus leadership. Single-
ton also described unusual busi-
ness decisions that Zingerman's
has made and how that has led to
the company's success.
Singleton said when the own-
ers of Zingerman's had the op-
portunity to franchise the busi-
ness, they decided to grow the
business within Ann Arbor in-
stead because franchising didn't
fit with the company's mission.
Zingerman's now has eight busi-
nesses in the Ann Arbor area.
Student leaders also heard
from three White House staffers,
all of who worked in different
areas of Barack Obama's presi-
dential campaign and graduated
from the University.
Lisa Ellman, who works in the
Office of Legal Policy in the De-
partment of Justice, described
the path that led her to work for
Obama.
"I went to the University of
Chicago Law School and had a
professor named Barack Obama,"
Ellman said. "After being voted a
delegate for John Kerry, I moved
back to Chicago and was a poli-
cy staffer during Obama's cam-
paign."
Business junior Lee Quack-
enbush said he was impressed
by the accomplishments of the
speakers, particularly Nick Col-
vin, special assistant to the White
House Counsel and a 2006 LSA
graduate.
"He's so young and yet he's al-
ready worked with the first lady,
the president and soon-to-be
(Supreme Court) Justice Sonia

Sotomayor," Quackenbush said.
White House Staffer Eugene
Kang, a 2006 LSA graduate, de-
scribed a few of his experiences
while working on Obama's presi-
dential campaign.
"Toward the end of the pri-
mary season, when they were
deciding if Michigan and Florida
would count, the decision came
out at 1 p.m. I was in a room with
Barack Obama, and he turned to
me to ask what we should say,"
Kang said. "He actually used one
of my lines in the press confer-
ence later that day."
The White House staffers, who
all worked in different areas of
Obama's presidential campaign
and currently work on his staff,
are recent University graduates.
Additional speakers included
President of the Alumni Asso-
ciation Steve Grafton and former
presidential candidate for the
Czech Republic Jan Svejnar, a
professor in LSA, the Ross School
of Business and the Ford School
of Public Policy.
LSA senior Anudeep Mukka-
mala, the executive director ofIn-
noWorks - an organization that
encourages kids to be involved in
math and science - said he was
impressed by the range of speak-
ers and student leaders who at-
tended the event.
"I'm trying to connect with
others. I wanted to hear about
their struggles and successes
and learn from that," Mukkamala
said. "I am planning to go back
and share what I heard here with
the rest of my organization."
Margolis said he hoped par-
ticipants could use the event as
a way to network with other stu-
dent leaders.
"Especially now, with the tight
financial situation, it'd be great
if a lot of these organizations
could collaborate and co-sponsor
events," Margolis said.
Engineering junior Ambreen
Sayed, chief of staff for MSA, said
she would like the event to con-
tinue in the future.
"Every year, we need to start
... with this," she said. "It spear-
heads the discussion for what
we have the potential to do. This
motivation needs to infiltrate
campus organizations."
- Daily News Editor Trevor
Calero, Editor in Chief Gary
Graca and Managing News
Editor Jacob Smilovitz attended
this event. None of these
individuals edited this story.

be directly affected by switching from
private lenders to direct loans, they
will feel the effects of other provi-
sions ofthe bill,like the simplification
of the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid form.
As part of the changes to the FAF-
SA form - which determines how
much of a student's education costs
their family is expected to contribute
- many questions about assets and
tax income will be eliminated, which
ARGO DAM
From Page 1A
ing me the advocacy of removal."
Briere said the council was mis-
taken in talking about removal of the
dam in the first place.
"The issue of getting rid of the
pond is no longer on the table," she
said. "The dam itself is not in trouble.
We were acting as if we had to take
care of Argo on an emergency basis -
when that was never the problem."
The Huron River Watershed
Council, anonprofit organization, has
been advocating for the dam's remov-
al since 2000.

asset questions means there will no
longer be any factual or perceived
penalty for saving for college or sav-
ing for any other purpose for that
matter," Kantrowitz said.
The bill also includes an expansion
ofFederalPerkins Loan Program from
$1.5 billion to $6 billion per year.
Kantrowitz said additional funds
would be available for Perkins loans
because the program will shift from a
private program to aloan program.
Fowler said 3,403 undergraduates

demic year, totaling over $8 million.
The Senate version of the bill con-
tains the same language as the House
bill regarding the Pell Grants, said
Bank, who expects this would likely
result in the increase in Pell Grants
from the legislation.
But Bank does not know what oth-
er provisions the Senate bill, expected
to be released this week, contains.
U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-
Mich.), who is in support of many of
the provisions in the House bill, wrote

Senate version of the legislation.
"I have been a long time propo-
nent of increasing Pell Grant funding,
expanding Perkins Loan criteria and
reforming loan repayment standards,
and will continue to follow the prog-
ress of this legislation in the Senate,"
Stabenow wrote.
As part of the House bill, changes
would go into effect in July 2010. Eli-
gible students would then see a change
in their financial aid packages for the
2010-2011 academic year, Fowler said.


HRWC Executive Director Laura
Rubin said the removal of the dam
would benefit the city financially and
environmentally.
"Basically, it's better for the envi-
ronment, it's cost effective and it will
increase recreational value," she said.
"More specifically, the dam is aging.
Dams have a finite life, and you need
to keep paying to clean it.
"The pond behind it is filling with
a lot of sediment coming from up-
stream which encourages a lot of
algae growth," she said. "It is a poor
quality fishery; fish that used to live
there can't survive there anymore. It
has the potential to be a high-quality
fishery. It would help in terms of wa-

ter quality - it would clean up the
river, it would restore flows and add
flood storage."
Rubin said from a taxpayer's point
of view, removing the dam makes
sense, as it could save "anywhere be-
tween $250,000 and $500,000" in
maintenance costs per year.
Questions over the dam's future
have left the Michigan Men's Club
Rowing Team concerned about their
program.
The team practices in Argo Pond,
which would be impossible if the dam
is removed. Removing the dam would
level the water, making it shallower,
and increase the flow of water to nat-
ural speeds, which are unsuitable for

rowing practice.
LSA senior David Horvath, a mem-
ber of the rowing team, said if the
team did not have Argo Pond as a
training site, they would most likely
have to use Barton Pond or Geddes
Pond, both of which are smaller than
Argo.
"There is no area for a dock or
boathouse in Barton Pond, and Ged-
des Pond has bridges, which make it
harder to row in," he said.
Horvath said the team already has
one of shortest home courses of the
top national rowing programs.
But according to Anglin, the row-
ing team's worries - at least for the
time being - are overblown.

A ONE-MAN BAND

k
I
i

TOREHAN5HARMAN/Daily
MrJoJangles, a multi-instrumentalist, performs on the corner of South State Street and North University Avenue yesterday.

WANT TO JOIN
DAILY NEWS?
E-mail smilovitz@michigandaily.com
ghe lfthigan ty (jP RE SE N T S
the ONLINE CLASSIFIED RENTAL MAP

Ln Arbor
""'$1'

"C 1G 31 ('11 E:
r ...:"f
t_
(3 y7
Ji o

i



Sunday, October 11
2 p.m. to 7 p.m. * Union Kuenzel
Monday and Tuesday, October 12 and 13
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. - Union Kuenzel
EXPERIENCE ZTA OPEN HOUSE
Monday, October 12 -7 p.m.
Union Ballroom
THINK A PINK!* THINK ZETA!
Tuesday, October 13 - 7 p.m.
League Second Floor Vandenburg and Hussey
ZTA PREFERENCE PARTY
Wednesday, October 14
By invitation
To schedule a 20-minute infoview with our National Officers,
call our Traveling Leadership Consultants at 317-997-8361, e-mail them
at MichiganZTA @gmail.com or visit us at www.joinZTA.com.

. ,, _ _

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.


I


8A - Monday, September 28, 2009

WHY?
From Page 5A
Less than two minutes into the record, a quick-
paced piano progression channeling a simplistic
folk-like beauty, makes it clear that Yoni had not mis-
spoke when he disavowed his group's ties to hip hop.
"January Twenty Something" welcomes an album
imbued with more piano harmonies and fewer drum
machines. These fresh influences are also evident on
"Berkeley By Hearseback," a similarly peaceful track
full of Biblical references and ties to Yoni's own Mes-
sianic Jewish heritage. The song opens with a grace-
ful keyboard intro, with elegant strings weaving
between the piano notes. The track is notably more
striking than anything the group has ever produced,
signaling a new sound progression for the group.
Unfortunately, the record's lush piano notes grow
stale after a few tracks, proving that a new direction
doesn't necessarily denote a more mature sound.
Thankfully, WHY? hasn't journeyed so far away
from its roots as to be completely unrecognizable.
The blunt lyrics are still fully intact, at times walk-
ing a thin line between self-consciously juvenile and

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
rawly disturbing. As Yoni lyricizes on "This Black-
est Purse," the album's first single: "Still sportin' my
ex-girlfriend's dead ex-boyfriend's boxers / I wanna
operate from abase of hunger/No longer be ashamed
and hide my /tears in shower water while I lather for a
pleasure."
Despite these continued lyrical allusions to mas-
turbation - most prominently seen on the band's
second LP Elephant Eyelash, which according to cer-
tain sources is a euphemism for vaginas - the lyrics
displayed on Eskimo Snow tend to be darker than
those on earlier efforts. Death and anguish are fre-
quent topics throughout the record, cropping up all
over the place. While these themes are fairly new for
the band, the light comical embellishments that fill
in the gaps signal thateven though the group's sound
has noticeably changed directions, its members still
recognize the route that took them to their current
formation.
While WHY?'s latest effort certainly highlights
the group's own musical progression, the record still
hints at past efforts, thereby allowing it to remain
accessible to fans. With Eskimo Snow, the group has
proven that the hip-hop genre is much broader than 0
the current MTV-sponsored club hits would lead
one to believe.

Peer pressure fail.
CBS has an accident

The TV lovechild of
'Sex and the City'
and 'Knocked Up'
stands up to neither
By BRIGID KILCOIN
Daily Arts Writer
Finally someone is reaching
out to that constantly overlooked
group of indi-
viduals: wealthy, **
30-something
white women ACcidentally
searching for P
love in a big
city. But there's Mondaysat
a twist this 8:30 p.m.
time. This par- CBS
ticular wealthy
30-something is
pregnant - with a younger man's
baby. CBS's new sitcom "Acciden-
tally on Purpose," while borrow-
ing heavily from HBO's "Sex and
the City," is a light, enjoyable piece
of fluff.
"Accidentally on Purpose"
focuses on Billie (Jenna Elfman,
"Dharma & Greg"), an attractive
career woman who wants nothing
more out of life than to get married
and settle down. In order to accom-
plish this goal, she spends large
amounts of her free time idling
in bars with two generic friends.
Youthful heartthrob Zack (Jon
Foster, "Stay Alive") offers to buy

her a drink, and before you know
it, their witty banter ("I think I'm
running out of charming. I think I
have some back at my apartment.")
and awkward attempts to dance to
Beyonc's "Single Ladies" lead to a
night of passion on Zack's fold-out
couch. Soon, Billie discovers she's
pregnant and struggles to incor-
porate Zack and his slacker friends
into her life. The premise might
be identical to "Knocked Up," but
the delivery is significantly more
female-aimed.
The older woman-younger man
relationship has become a hot topic
in the media recently, examined in
lackluster series like ABC's "Cou-
gar Town," and "Accidentally" is
strongly influenced by the tired
liberated-women-who's-still-des-
perate-for-a-man shtick, previ-
ously seen in the work of producers
like David E. Kelley ("Ally McBeal,"
"The Practice"). Despite having
a great job and a ridiculously spa-
cious apartment, Billie's only con-
cern is getting married. She goes
so far as to reveal that she got preg-
nant on purpose, hence the title
of the show. While it's played for
laughs, her neediness and singu-
lar focus on pinning down a man is
disheartening. One recurring joke
involves Billie saying "I love you"
to Zack and him meeting the utter-
ance with complete confusion each
and every time.
"Accidentally on Purpose"
depends almost entirely on star
Jenna Elfman's ability to carry the

show, and, to her credit, she man-
ages to act as a serviceable comedic
foil to the rest of the cast. While
her almost aggressive quirkiness
can wear thin at points, she's a
sympathetic character even when
placed in situations that seem
abhorrent. Her perkiness makes
her a sympathetic protagonist.
A weaker comedic presence
is found in Zack, who blandly
poses and pouts his way through
the show, raising the question of
why Billie would ever want to get
involved with him in the first place.
Billie's two friends are amusing in
their roles as confidants, though
they seem to exist on the show
solely to narrate past events and
aid in plot exposition.
Although it gets muddled in
generic sitcom dialogue from time
to time, the script is mostly strong,
poking fun at some of the sacred
cows oftheromantic comedygenre.
Billie bemoans her geriatric age of
37, stating that she's past her peak.
There are three stages of life, she
opines: Meg Ryan in "Sleepless in
Seattle," Meg Ryan in "You've Got
Mail" and Meg Ryan in the grocery
store, trying to convince people
she's Meg Ryan. It's not ground-
breaking, but the show fits in well
with the rest of the CBS Monday
night lineup and will undoubt-
edly appeal to its target audience:
women like Billie. "Accidentally"
isn't life-changing, but it succeeds
at what it's aiming for. The bar just
wasn't set particularly high.

SURROGATES
From Page 5A
use the bathroom, but the audi-
ence never sees this necessary
break from virtual reality. The
human characters just become as
artificial as the surrogates, and as

a result, the viewer has no emo-
tional stake in each character's
decisions or outcome.
Everyone has, at some point,
been frustrated by a cinematic
near miss - a film that, while
otherwise terrible, retained some
tantalizingly positive qualities.
Perhaps there was a compelling
performance by one of the actors

or a subplot of notable substance
and depth or even something
simple and aesthetic like a unique
visual style. "Surrogates" is not
one of those films. It is not the
worst movie ever made. It will
probably not be remembered as
the worst movie of 2009. But it
very well might be the least origi-
nal movie you will see this year.

SUFJAN SAYS 'YES' TO MICHIGAN

MORE ONLINE
For more photos of Sufjan Stevens at the Crofoot on Friday night, check online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the filter

WRITE FOR
FINE ARTS.
FIN ARTS.
FI ARTS.
F ARTS.
FARTS.
DIDN'T
FIND THAT
FUNNY?
PERFECT.
Send an e-mail
battlebots@umich.edu
for an application.

At Swiss Re we're looking for people with ideas, talent and the drive to realize their vision. If you're one of them, the graduates@swissre program
will enable you to do it. Swiss Re helps businesses around the globe to realize their vision, delivering innovative financial solutions and insurance
products to enable the risk-taking that is essential for enterprise and progress. This is a broad and dynamic business, so wherever your interests lie
there may well be a place for you in our interdisciplinary graduate program. In 18 intense months you'll have the opportunity to learn, hone your
creativity, develop your leadership skills and build an exciting career. This could be your greatest opportunity!
Find out more at www.swissre.com/graduates or visit us when we are on campus.
Expertise you can build OR. W S

0

6

0

6


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I September 28, 2009

SAID ALSALA
Freshman Tate Forcier leaps into the air for a go-ahead touchdown in the fourth quarter. In four starts, Forcier has led the Wolverines to two come-from-behind wins ncluding Saturday's 36 33 victory over Indiana.
BACK TOREALT

More ofa wake-up call
than afeel-good win
The feeling of a glorious come-from-behind win
should have been familiar - after all, it had oniy
been 14 days since it last happened. But this one
just felt a little sour.
Many students were already heading to the exits before
the clock hit zero. The postgame
rendition of "The Victors" was
disjointed, with some singing the song
and some already chanting "Beat the
Spartans." The Wolverines seemed -
to breathe a collective sigh of relief
instead of celebrating as they kept
their 4-0 record intact.I
That's because the 38-34 win over
Notre Dame on Sept. 12, complete COURTNEY
with a rousing rendition of the fight RATKOWIAK
song and a packed, screaming crowd,
seemed to convince fans that Michigan
was back. Saturday's win over Indiana
only seemed to pose the question of when the Wolverines'
luck will run out.
"Winning solves everything," punter Zoltan Mesko said
after the Notre Dame game.
See RATKOWIAK, Page 3B

MICHIGAN 36

Forcier's heroics
lead Blue inugly'W'
By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily SportsEditor
With his team down by four with less than five minutes
to play in regulation, Tate Forcier dove for a first down and
stood up like nothing was wrong. Seconds later, the freshman
quarterback fell to the ground, clenching his hand in pain.
Teamtrainers attended to Forcier's shoulder and he made
his way off the field. But before he stepped on the sidelines,
he met up with his teammate at midfield.
With his good arm, Forcier pulled fellow freshman quar-
terback Denard Robinson close.
"He smacked him on the head and told him, 'Let's go. It's
on your shoulders now, "sophomore Mike Shaw said, de-
scribing the moment. "It got me pumped up."
Robinson responded by running for a first down and ex-
tending the drive to the Indiana 26-yard line. Getting the
first down may have been Robinson's job, but winning the
game was up to Forcier.
To everyone's surprise but his own, Forcier came back to
lead Michigan four plays later and immediately helped ev-
eryone forget about his bruised shoulder.
See HOOSIERS, Page 3B

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Sophomore Martavious Odoms catches the game-winning touchdown pas against the Hoosiers.


WOMEN'S SOCCER
Own-goal dooms'M'
in conference opener
By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Sometimes even when you play your
best, the ball just doesn't bounce your
way. And the Michigan women's soccer
team felt the agony of bad fortune yester-
day in possibly the most painful way to
lose a soccer game.
The Wolverines fell 1-0 to No. 21 Ohio
State (8-1-1 overall, 1-0 Big Ten) yesterday
in Columbus - with the only tally an own
goal.
In the 19th minute of the first half,
Buckeyes junior midfielder Laura Steuer
crossed the ball into the box. Michigan
junior defender Sarah Stanczyk tried to
clear the ball out but hit it wrong. The
ball spun off the side of Stanczyk's foot
and beat unsuspecting redshirt freshman
goalie Haley Kopmeyer.
"It was just one of those bizarre own
SAID uLsALAH/Daiy goals that occur sometimes," Michigan
Michigan women's soccer coach Greg Ryan coach Greg Ryan said.
said his team fought hard in its 1-0 loss. See BUCKEYES, Page 2B

HIGH-FLYI.NG BLUE
* The Michigan volleyball
team started the Big Ten
slate on the right foot,
sweeping Purdue and
Indiana Page 2B.
REID: TAILGATIN'
a Mitch Albom says
tailgating has gotten out
of control. Andy Reid
respectfully disagrees.
Page 2B3.

FIELD HOCKEY
Wolverines topple Big
Ten champion Penn State

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Coming off of two overtime losses last
weekend, the Wolverines (3-10 overall,
1-1 Big Ten) lost to Iowa on Friday after
Hawkeye senior Meghan Beamesderfer
scored in the last five minutes of regula-
tion to make the score 3-2.
But when Penn State (2-7 overall, 0-1
Big Ten) came to town yesterday, the
Wolverines were determined not to lose a
fourth straight game. The Michigan field
hockey team snapped out of its losing
streak yesterday when it shut out defend-
ing Big Ten conference champion Penn
State 2-0.
Michigan coach Marcia Pankratz was
optimistic about her team's competitive
attitude heading into the rest of Big Ten
play.
"We have been through an awful lot of
good preparation," she said before yester-
day's game. "And I think they are excited
to rise to the challenge."

"We have been
through an awful
lot of preparation,"
Pankratz said.
The Wolverines did just that, play-
ing aggressively throughout the game on
both offense and defense.
The effort was obvious everywhere.
Junior Zara Saydjari chased a Penn State
player down the turf and recovered the
ball as her opponent's stick went flying.
Junior Meredith Way took a tumble,
rolled over and popped back up smiling
after being tripped trying to snatch the
ball away. Senior goalkeeper Paige Pickett
See NITTANY LIONS, Page 2B

I #


2B - September 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ere s more to pregaminhan
Tailgating is an
irreplaceable part of the x
football experience
M itch Albom, Detroit Free Press
columnist-turned-sappy book
writer, recently wrote an arti-
cle about tailgating. Because he saw one
YouTube video of two inebriated women
fighting at a Detroit Lions game, he isn
wholeheartedly against
drinking in preparation
for NFL and college
football games.
Frankly Mitch, I
wouldn't expect youa
to understand the true,
greatness of a Football
Saturday - or Sunday,
if you prefer profes- ANDY
sional athletes - as an REID
event, not just a game.
You were an undergrad>
at Brandeis University in Massachusetts,
which doesn't even field a football team,&
and you have spent your adult life cover-
ing sporting events, not attending them as
a fan. So you have probably rarely experi-h
enced the tailgating culture.
Let me tell you - tailgating is what
makes attending ballgames special. That's
especially true now that television cover-
age has become so all-encompassing that
your actual game-viewing experience is -
probably enhanced when you stay at homef7-
on your couch. b
For instance, there's no way Happy Val-,
ley would be nearly as fun if it weren't for
all 109,000 students and alumni conven-
ing in the rolling fields surrounding the
stadium as early as 6 a.m. on game days.
I've never seen anything like it. Stu-
dents and alumni are segregated during
pregame festivities at Michigan. But at:
Penn State, fans truly come together
as one, sharing food, drink and games,
including a pretty competitive dizzy bat
circuit.a
At Notre Dame last season, we were
enjoying a round of spiked apple cider"
when an elderly Irish fan hobbled up to us '
with a plate of gourmet cheeses. It was a
peace offering, and it was a pleasant inter-
action that would never have happened
had tailgating not been involved. FILE PHOTO
I even got offered a glass of beer by an The BOX House is part of the 900 block of houses on State St. that regulary throws parties on Football Saturdays.

e booze
Ohio State fan in 2006 in Columbus before
the Buckeye fan said, "You know, we're
not as mean as everyone says we are."
The fun of tailgating extends past alco-
hol consumption - one of my favorite pre-
game memories was watching my grandpa
try to teach a group of Florida fans "The
Victors" before the 2003 Outback Bowl,
even though he didn't know it too well
himself.
Tailgating is a unique experience, one
that helps make the game more enjoy-
able and maybe even more memorable. A
day spent drinking and hanging out with
friends before heading off to Michigan
Stadium? Sounds good to me.
But I'm sad to report to you, Mitch,
that your side of this argument notched a
huge victory this weekend in Ann Arbor.
I remember walking to games as a fresh-
man and being completely overwhelmed
by the maize madness spilling out of the
houses on the 900 block of State St. and
into front yards that had been pulverized
into mudpits.
There are very few people on campus
who don't know the BOX house and its
status as a tailgating staple.
This Saturday didn't feel like a Football
Saturday, because Senior Assistant City
Attorney Kristen Larcom sent cease and
desist orders to that clump of houses. And
although a few of them had a feeble group
of hangers-on, the scene was completely
destroyed by the order.
Marching Band, Go Blue Banner,
Winged Helmets, BOX House - taking in
the wildness surrounding the 900 block
of State St. is a vital part of the Michigan
game-day experience.
To take it away now just seems unfair.
Sure, there maybe a few underaged
undergrads involved with some beer-re-
lated paraphernalia, but this is Ann Arbor.
It's just disappointing to see a game-
day tradition that students have taken for
granted dissipate so quickly.
Honestly, I have full faith that the BOX
House and its neighbors will have things
kicked into full gear - at least by Nov.
21 (the date of the Ohio State game, for
those of you who haven't started count-
ing yet).
But Football Saturdays won't feel the
same without them.
- Reid can be reached at
andyreid@umich.edu

In toughest conference in nation, 'M' starts strong

The
ball tea
with a c
3 Nebra
to No. 6
ranking
had litt
ference
This
beginni
stretch c
most w
the nati
selves
ship co
performn
rivals.'
came al
noon.
Senic
had18
West L
S ' match e
15-25,2
Yeste
straight
mance,
AD ALSALAH/Daly time by
n over Purdue. ter Alex

Sophomore outside hitter Alex Hunt tallied 15 kills in Michigan's wi

BUCKEYES
From page 1B
From the start, Michigan (5-6
overall, 0-1 Big Ten) was already
at a loss of talent with several key
contributors lost to season-ending
injuries and the suspension of
senior Amy Klippert. The quad-
captain received her 5th yellow
card of the season in the Wolver-
ines' previous game against Miami
(Fla.), so she had to sit out yester-
day's game.
The bad luck continued when
Stanczyk was injured in the first
10 minutes of the game. She con-
tinued to play and was hurt at the
NITTANY LIONS
From page 1lB
made eightsaves onthe day,sprawl-
ing out across the goal, jumping
and kicking balls out of the circle
and diving to block en route to the
10th shutout of her career.
"This win gives us a lot of con-
fidence," Way said. "Penn State is
a really good team. They beat us
pretty good last year, and it wasn't
easy today. We didn't have our best
game today and still came away

time of the own goal.
After the depressing own goal,
and for the rest of the first half, the
Wolverines offense was stagnant.
Ryan said players weren't look-
ing to get open, weren't trying to
connect on passes and didn't work
hard enough to keep control of the
ball.
"We just didn't possess the ball
well enough to create enough
chances," Ryan said. "And if you
don't keep the ball, you're going to
end up defending the whole day."
Michigan was forced to play in
its own zone all day, and it shut
down an Ohio State offense that
controlled possession of the ball
in the first half.
with the win. We know we can play
with anybody now."
This season's schedule has been
tough from the beginning. Michi-
gan's first two games were against
two top-5 opponents, North Caro-
lina and Wake Forest. After hang-
ing with both teams for much of
the games and losing 2-1 to both,
the Wolverines were feeling good
about being able to compete with
top ranked teams.
But last weekend's disappoint-
ing overtime losses to No. 7 Syra-
cuse and No. 16 Louisville left them

The V
talize on
beginnin
second h
Ohio S
to 1 over
just one
Wolverin
previous
and Mia
that yeste
once agai
"It's a
we can sl
and then
State," R
goal was
defendin
game) wa
dissatisfie
"Somet
the way y
you do ev
ratz said
part of s
the game.
some im
didn't do
the game
things for
And it
least som
it didn't I
best field1

By LUKE PASCH outside hitter Veronica Rood (12).
For the Daily Junior setter Lexi Zimmerman
- - - also stepped up with a season-high
Michigan women's volley- 49 assists. The eighth-ranked Wol-
im opened up this season verines (2-0 Big Ten, 14-1) stopped
onvincingupset ofthen-No. a Boilermaker team that had upset
ska and climbed all the way No.16 Michigan State just two days
in the country, the highest prior.
in program history. But it "There were nerves, all night,"
le time to enjoy its noncon- Michigan coach Mark Rosen said.
success. "It was a tough match. There was a
weekend marked the big crowd. And we didn't play par-
ng of a grueling two-month ticularly smooth. But in the end,
of Big Ten play, possibly the our players were aggressive, and
ell-balanced conference in they were very composed in the
ion. In order to prove them- fifth set."
as conference champion- The fifth set started with sloppy
intenders, Michigan must play as Purdue jumped out to a 2-0
nagainst its proven Big Ten lead on Michigan errors. Then,
The Wolverines' first test Paz regained the momentum with
t Purdue yesterday after- two straight kills. The rest of the
set played out frantically back and
ir outside hitter Juliana Paz forth, until Paz stepped up with
kills, as Michigan won in the game-winning kill to clinch the
afayette in its first five-set match.
of the season (17-25, 25-23, The win at Purdue was a crucial
5-20,15-13). follow-up to Friday night's win at
rday marked Paz's fourth Indiana. Though Michigan has
double-digit kill perfor- finished with 21-plus win seasons
and she was joined this for each of the past three years, the
r sophomore right side hit- team has only posted a .500 win-
Hunt (15 kills) and senior ning percentage against Big Ten
Volverines couldn't capi- Even as the defense proved to
scoring chances at the be a strength again for Michigan,
g and at the end of the its offense continued to struggle.
alf. The Wolverines were shut out for
tate outshot Michigan 13 the fifth time this season and now
all, but the Buckeyes had average just 1.36 goals per game.
shot on goal all day. The Injuries, suspensions and inex-
es had shut out their two perience have left the Wolverines
opponents - Oakland without consistent offense.
mi - and Ryan thought "We're never going to win a
rday's defense was sound game if we can't score a goal," ju-
in. nior forward Amanda Bowery said
credit to the team that on Sept. 16.
hut out teams like Miami It may be obvious, but Michi-
we can shut out Ohio gan needs to take it to heart. And
yan said. "And their only mistakes like yesterday's own goal
a flukey goal. So from a could end up motivating the Wol-
g standpoint, I think (the verines as they continue to wade
as great." through Big Ten conference play.
d. to come up with a win after a three-
times things don't end up game drought, something the Wol-
you want them to even if verines desperately need if they
verything you can," Pank- are going to hold onto their goal of
after the two defeats. "It's winning the conference title.
ports. It's why you play And if Michigan plays the same
.... We are trying to make way - or better - in the rest of its
provements where we Big Ten matchups, it can do just
things perfectly during that.
You just try to fix those "We are more confident now
 the next time." that we have the win in the Big
looks like they fixed at Ten," Wiley said. "We can take it
e of those things. While into the next couple weekends. ...I
play what it considers its think we can win (the conference
hockey, the team was able title)."

opponents during that span. The
Wolverines had added motivation
heading into the weekend after
being swept by unranked Oregon .
State last weekend - a rare non-
conference loss.
"You have to be ready for every
individual match, not just the Big
Ten ones," Rosen said. "Any team
has the ability to knock off anyone
else."
The team momentarily suspend-
ed any doubt about how it would
perform in conference play as it
made quick work of the Hoosiers on
Fridaynight in astraight-setvictory.
Sophomore middle blocker Court-
ney Fletcher had a leading role as
she posted a career-high 11 kills.
The Wolverines hope that these
big wins in Big Ten play carry over
to next weekend when they come
home to face Northwestern on Fri-
day night.
10 Point -Avg Score Increase
12 Point -Top Quarter Increase
33 -Top 25% Avg MCAT score
105 Fours live instruction
5 expert instructors
LST
12.3 Point - Avg Score Increase

Live Games & Tournaments
$5 Buy In Wed, Thur, Fri
$10 Freezeout Saturdays

207 N. Main St.Ann Arbor
734-626-4621

4


The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

September 28, 2009 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom September 28, 2009 - 3B

GAME STATISTICS

M' finds third cornerback in J.T. Floyd

Team Stats
First Downs
Rush/Yds
Passing Yards
OfferlPays
Total Offense
Kick retuns/ Yds
Putreuns/ Yds
PuGTT/AAE
Fumbles/Lost
Penalties/Yards
Time of Poss
PASSING
Robinson
Totas
RUSHING
Player A
grown
Minor . 1
Robins n
Fortier 7
Tam
Totas 5
RECEIVING
Grady, Kel
Grady, Ke.
Bown
Roltree
Savoy
Hemigwy
PUNTING
Player N
Mesko
Totals
KCKOFF RETURNS
Payer
PUNT RETURNS .
Mathews
Totals
TACKLES
Player
Mouton
1513
Brown
Graham
Van Bergen
Cissoko
Martin
Woofolk
Herron
Warren
Fitzgerald
Leach
-otals
PASSING
Player
Chappel
Totals
RUSHING
Player A
Burgess
McCray
Pys
Totals 3
RECEIVING
Turner
- edmond
IBelcher
Willis
YEvans
IITotals
PUNTING
Player
Hagerup
Totals
KICKOFF RETURNS
Player
Ttals
PNT RETURNS
lenders
Toal
TACKLES
Player S
Mayberry -

Kirlew
Patterson
Thomas, A
Black
Replogle, A.
sher
Council
Thomas, T.
Belcher
Totas

MICH
20
50/197
223
13/24/1
74
372
8/232
1/8
7/48.1
3/1
9/58
29:08
M1I C H I G A N
23 39
13-24 223

ND
20
33/149
270
21/38/1
467
6/118
1/IT
6/37.0
0/0
6/SO
30:52'

0.
2

0
1

Att
11
12
11
10
2
4
50
No.
3
3
2
1
1
1
1
1
13
No.
7
7

Yds
833
5a
24
15
149

Avg
7s5
4.2
2.2
1.5
25
30

g9 TD
41 1
12 1
8 0
9 12
3 1
4b
TD
1
0
1
0

By ANDY REID
Daily Sports Editor
Surrounded by friends and family after
the game, J.T. Floyd bubbled with excite-
ment. He exchanged high-fives and hugs
with those close to him. The cornerback
happily signed kids' hats and footballs
when asked.
Floyd didn't seem to notice that most
autograph-hunters had to peruse their
game programs to figure out who he was
- this was his day to shine. After watch-
ing from the sideline for the first 15 games
of his career, the redshirt freshman was
finally in the spotlight. And he loved it.
In the first quarter, Floyd found him-
self subbing in for Boubacar Cissoko after
the sophomore gave up a 56-yard bomb to
wide receiver Tandon Doss. And as soon
as Indiana quarterback Ben Chappell saw
Floyd, he began to test the youngster.
Early and often, Floyd's number was
called, and nearly every time he answered
the challenge on the Hoosiers' deep-pass-
ing game.
"I know football, and I know they're
alwaysgoingto testthe inexperienced guy
when you got a guy like Donovan Warren
on the other side," Floyd said. "I mean,
who would you go at? So, I knew it was
coming, and I was just ready to get it."

He was called for one questionable pass
interference penalty on one of Chappell's
deep throws, but for the most part, his
coverage was solid.
"At first, he was a little nervous, but as
the game wore on, he got more and more
comfortable, and he did a good job," defen-
sive coordinator Greg Robinson said. "He
really held his own."
If Floyd can continue to progress, he
could shore up the third cornerback spot,
which has been a concern since the begin-
ning of the year. Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez has made no attempt to hide
his concern about the depth in the second-
ary, which has already seen some signifi-
cant injuries this season.
Free safety Mike Williams was dinged
up in the Notre Dame game, played limit-
edly against Eastern Michigan and sat on
Saturday, leaving the starting job to for-
mer walk-on Jordan Kovacs. And at cor-
nerback, Cissoko has struggled through
a few minor injuries and some execution
struggles.
"We got a lot of young guys, we got guys
younger than me, so we just gotta go play
hard," Floyd said. "We're real inexperi-
enced, but when it comes down to it, we're
all (good) players."
On Saturday, Robinson and Rodriguez
both said it was a coaches' decision to sit

SAID ALSyL'H/ss e
Redshirt freshman cornerback i.T. Floyd replaced BouhacaF Cissoko iT Satarday's first quarter.

24 19
8 18
1 1
Yds Avg
337 48.1
357 48.1

Cissoko after he gave up the big play.
While Floyd played opposite Warren for
the rest of the game, Cissoko roamed the
sideline near the defensive coaching staff.
"I think he was just having problems
with coverages," junior safety Troy Wool-
folk said of Cissoko's play. "So we just
had to try something new. Boubacar, he's
a great athlete, and once he comes back,
we'll be able to go back."
Even though Floyd and Kovacs held
their own on individual plays, having the

two regular starters on the bench definite-
ly disrupted the continuity of the second-
ary. Warren blamed many of the Hoosiers'
big plays - the 85-yard touchdown run in
the fourth quarter, for example - on mis-
communication within the unit.
"We had a really good defense, but if
you can't communicate and be on the
same page, then nobody can do anything,"
Woolfolk said. "We just had a little prob-
lem, and we fixed that later on and shut
the team down."

Ls
59

No YS Ag L TD
No. Yds Avg Lg TO
1 6 6 6 0
1 6 60 6 0
Soo Asst tot
5 6 11
3 3 6
1 5 6
3 0 3
0 3 3
0 2 2
0 2 2
1 0 1
1 0 1
21-3 27 1 . 1
21-38 270 0 1

Moosman's sloppy snaps a concern for Blue

By MICHAEL EISENSTEIN
Daily Sports Editor
You may not agree with the belief that
center is the second-most important posi-
tion on offense, the quarterback being the
first.
But Michigan's six botched snaps -
including two that resulted in 20- and 22-
yards - probably changed your opinion on
the matter.
Redshirt sophomore NOTEBOOK
center . David Molk,
whom Wolverine coach Rich Rodriguez
called "one of our best football players,"
broke his foot last week against Eastern
Michigan. With Molk out another three to
five weeks, fifth-year senior guard David
Moosman stepped in against Indiana.
"I thought the line did awesome," Moos-
man said. "I thought I did not do so well."
Moosman was certainly not shy in dis-
cussing his shortcomings.
"Put the blame on me," Moosman said.
"It was my fault, because I gotta put (the
snaps) right where they need themn. And
if they need them somewhere where I'm
not putting them, then that's on me and I'll
take care of it."
Granted, Moosman was returning from
a shoulder injury of his own that forced
him to sit out last week's game against
Eastern Michigan. And the ball was a bit
slippery from the misting rain. But Moos-
man was chosen to fill in because he had
played the position in spring and fall camp,

and Rodriguez felt "pretty comfortable"
with his snaps earlier in the week.
Moosman's bad snaps particularly hurt
Michigan in the third quarter, whentwo of
its three drives were essentially halted due
to the negative-yardage plays.
"It's a concern," quarterbacks coach
Rod Smith said. "We gotta get that honed
up, and that was probably the only concern
we had coming into the game, to be honest
with you. We knew we were good block-
and protection-wise, but the exchange is
a concern, which is natural, because it's a
new guy."
Moosman was also called for a five-men-
in-the-backfield penalty, which is another
part of the learningcurve.
"We like to think that we can roll anyone
in there and do as good as if we had Molk
in there," redshirt sophomore right guard
Mark Huyge said. "It's hard to replace Molk
- that's for sure - as you could see today."
WARREN'S "WILLED" PICK: With just
over two minutes remaining in the game,
Indiana quarterback Ben Chappell and the
Hoosier offense took the field needing a
75-yard comeback drive.
To start, Indiana went with a five-yard
in-route that, according to Chappell, "real-
ly had been open all game."
Michigan junior cornerback Donovan
Warren wasn't about to let that drive get
started.
"When the ball came, we both actually
had our hands on it," Warren said. "But I
tugged it, tugged it from the get-go and so

we were both wrestling for it, and - Bar-
wis, Mike Barwis."
Warren was referring to director of
strength and conditioning Mike Barwis,
who he credited for helping him become
strong enough to rip the ball free.
But just as much as Warren credits his
conditioning with Barwis, his third career
interception was caused in large partby his
determination to grab the ball - and poor
camera angles in the official review.
The six-foot, 185-pound Warren looked
like he fell to the ground with equal pos-
session of the ball with six-foot-five, 214-
pound receiver Damarlo Belcher. By rule,
that would be the offense's ball, but War-
ren popped up with the pigskin in hand.
As defensive coordinator Greg Robinson
put it, "all of a sudden, (Warren) just willed
it."
Indiana coach Bill Lynch was under-
standably furious after the play, screaming
along the sidelines and chucking his gum
out of his mouth in disgust. He said after
the game that he couldn't see the play from
his vantage point, and he wouldn't elabo-
rate on the play that sealed the win for
Michigan.
"He's a big-time player," senior defen-
sive end Brandon Graham said. "Big-time
players make big-time plays. That's all I'm
going to say with that one."
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS: Wide
receiver Darryl Stonum and punter Zoltan
Mesko have about as different skill sets as
they come, but they both helped Michigan

win the field-position battle Saturday.
Stonum racked up 218 kickoff return
yards against Indiana, including four for
30 yards or more. Former Wolverine Steve
Breaston is the only player who has tal-
lied more kickoff return yards in a game in
Michigan history, which he did in the 2005
Rose Bowl when he ran back six returns
for 221 yards.
So far this season, Stonum is averaging
32.6 yards on 12 returns. Breaston never
averaged more than 28.1 yards on kickoff
returns for a season.
But Rodriguez knew the sophomore,
who was playing with a nagging hamstring
injury, will feel dissatisfied nevertheless.
"He's probably going to be disappointed
because he was probably within one trip
up, two or three times, of taking it the dis-
tance," Rodriguez said.
Just as Stonum set the offense up with
good field position, Mesko gave Michigan's
defense room to work by pinning Indiana
deep in its own territory.
The redshirt senior averaged 48.1 yards
a punt, including one that pinned Indiana
on its owntwo-yard line and one that went
59 yards after Mesko kicked from Michi-
gan's own two-yard line.
Mesko became the Wolverines' all-time
leader in both punts and punting yardage
in the first game of the season. Against
Michigan State next week, he will likely,
become the only punter in Michigan histo-
ry to rack up over 9,000 yards, a milestone
that is currently 61 yards away.

Att
'8
1
3
3
1
21

Yds
151
41
13
1
-il
197
Yds
104
48
35
39
27
17
270

Avg
1.6
1.0
60
14
18
17
96

Cg
1
1s

TD
0
0

0
0
0


No. Yds Avg Lg
6 222 370 46
6 222 37.0 46
No. Yds Avg Lg TD
6 138 283 '89 0
NE, Yds Avg Lg TD
S 1 1I.0 11 0
1 10 ti 0

Soto
5
6
4
6
5
4
4
1
3
1
1
1
0'
0
1
0
0
44

Asst
S,
2
4
}
2
0
3
3
3
0'
2
2
0
1
0
32

Tot
an
8.
6_
7.
6:
6
4.
4
4
4.
3
2
2,
2
2
2
1.
i
b
76

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Dai
Freshman quarterback Tate Forcier led Michigan to another late-game comeback win.

BIG TEN STANDINGS
Team sioTew Overall

Iowa
Michigan
Wisconsin
Minnesota
Ohio State
Purdue
Indiana
Penn State
Northwestern
Illinois
Michigan State

1
1
,1 ,
1
1
0
0
0
0
{

0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
1

4
4
4
3
1
3
3
2
1
1

0
0
0
1
1
3
1
1
2
2
3

HOOSIERS
From page 1B
On third and seven, Forcier found
sophomore slot receiver Martavious
Odoms in the back of the end zone.
With a perfectly placed tight spiral
pass, Forcier led No. 23 Michigan to a
36-33 win over Indiana.
"The kid's got something about him
- he knows how to win ball games,"
quarterbacks coach Rod Smith said. "I
don't think pressure's going to affect
him.
"You don't get much more pressure
than being down late in a drive when
you have to make a play and on (third
down), they give you cover zero. He
stepped up and made a play."
Forcier's late-game heroics saved
Michigan (1-0 Big Ten, 4-0 overall)
from an early-season conference loss,
and his 184 yards on 11-of-21 passing
prevented the Hoosiers (0-1, 3-1) from
upsetting the Wolverines at Michigan
Stadium for the first time since 1967.
With his recent accomplishments,
it's easy to forget Forcier is just a
freshman and a long way from a fin-
ished product.
But during the last two games, the
San Diego native has shown signs of
inexperience, with inevitable flaws
becoming obvious.
"I got to get him to calm down his
feet in the pocket," Smith said. "We're
scrambling way too much. We're not
getting our reads in, and I think some-
times we're looking to run because
we're not getting our eyes downfield,

which causes us to get some negative
plays. We got to get that corrected."
Besides improving his decision-
making, Smith said Forcier can work
on keeping two hands on the ball at all
times and trusting the offensive line
more, which will give Forcier more of
a pocket presence.
Despite his shortcomings, Forcier
remains a true leader on the field. His
constant claims that he "doesn't get
nervous" seemed like a stretch at first,
but his poise and gutsy game-changing
plays continue to prove otherwise.
One of those plays meant sacrific-
ing his body early in the fourth quar-
ter. Forcier showcased his vertical
aptitude as he leapt over the throng
of defenders at the goal line for the
touchdown.
"I got a great view," sophomore wide
receiver Darryl Stonum said. "I was
blocking my dude. ... It was actually a
pass play, so I saw Tate scrambling. I
was trying to get open, and I just saw
him leap over my two defenders into
the end zone, and it shocked me, but
I'm glad he did it."
At the beginning of the season,
Forcier's youth seemed like a possible
liability.
Now, it might be more of an advan-
tage.
"I think a lot of times with young
guys, they don't panic as much," Rodri-
guez said. "Sometimes an upperclass-
man will think, 'Uh oh, what's going
on?' But the young guys go out and
play a little bit.
"Tate wasn't sharp all the time, but
he made some plays at the end."

RATKOWIAK
From page 1B
At the time, that felt so true. This
year's team is undeniably exciting to
watch. Its offense is flashy and glamorous,
and it calmly pulls through at crunch
time. Saturday's two fourth-quarter
touchdowns - freshman quarterback Tate
Forcier's acrobatic leap into the end zone
and his clutch last-minute touchdown
pass to Martavious Odoms - are proof of
that.
But it's obvious now there's only so
much longer the offense can continue to
cover up the defense's mistakes.
"To me, I felt like (the comeback)
should have never happened," defensive
tackle Ryan Van Bergen said. "We made
way too many mistakes, and I feel like all
we did was bail ourselves out. We were
able to get water out of the boat and stay
afloat."
Some of Saturday's offensive gaffes,
like the team's six muffed snaps, are
correctable. Although David Moosman
hasn't played center in a game since 2007,
he is surrounded by a strong offensive line
and the quarterbacks will soon adjust to
his style.
The Wolverines are currently leading
the Big Ten in both scoring and rushing
offense, two foreign thoughts at this time
last year. And, of course, Michigan has
already managed to surpass last year's
win total in just three weeks - the most
important indicator of all.
But Forcier's bruised shoulder may
potentially be more serious than he or
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez let on
after the Indiana game. And with the
Wolverines favored by just two points
against 1-3 Michigan State next Saturday,
the amount of time the Wolverine offense
can compensate for defensive weaknesses
looks like it might be almost up.
This weekend, the defense seemed to
have no sense of urgency until Indiana
had driven the ball inside the 20-yard line.
Other Big Ten teams with better offenses
won't be as easily held to field goals.
The scary part is that through four
games, last year's Michigan defense -
the one that allowed the most points per
game in school history - may have been
stronger than this season's. The 2009
Wolverine defense has given up 76.6 more
yards per game than it did last year, good
for ninth in the Big Ten.
The most striking indicator of how

much the offense has improved while the
defense hasn't maybe in points per game.
Last year, through four games:
Opponents 22.8, Michigan 20.8.
This year: Opponents 22.8, Michigan
37.5.
That may be a little misleading,
though. Even if it looks like the defense
has stayed stagnant on paper, the 2009
Wolverines have played stronger after
successful halftime adjustments. That has
manifested in just 31 total points allowed
in the second half of the four games,
compared to the 60 they have allowed in
the first two quarters.
Their problem is anticipating the need
for those defensive adjustments in the
first place. Michigan was burned by big
plays again early on Saturday, notably
on the Hoosiers' first touchdown play,
a wildcat formation that caught the
Wolverines completely off guard.
The Wolverines have talked for three
straight games now about how they're
a second-half team, and how strength
and conditioning coach Mike Barwis's
workouts have made it possible to outlast
their opponents when the game comes
down to the wire. But as they get into the
meat of the Big Ten season, struggling
to read out-of-the-ordinary plays - and
allowing 280 yards before halftime to a
three-touchdown underdog - just isn't
going to cut it.
"We dodged a bullet, but I think we
helped ourselves to do it - it wasn't just
luck," Van Bergen said. "We secured our
assignments, made one big mistake in
the second half, and then we were able to
rally back and make some plays for our
offense."
At this time last season, the Wolverines
went on to lose six straight games. Unlike
last year, they aren't about to completely
implode. But even though this Saturday's
game is against a Michigan State team
whose season looks like it's already over,
it's probably one of the Wolverines'
biggest tests of the year.
"You find out a lot about your team
and I think your team matures a lot in a
tougher environment, and we're getting
ready to do that," Rodriguez said.
Michigan will find out plenty - starting
with the fact that if the defense doesn't
start pulling its weight very soon, the
surprising 4-0 start may soon be a distant
memory.
- Ratkowiak can be reached
at cratkowi@umich.edu.

RigTen Results
Michigan 36, Indiana 33
Notre Dame 24, Purdue 21.
Ohio State 30, Illinois 0
Iowa 21, Penn State 10
Wisconsinh 38, Mich. State 30
Minnesota 35, Northwestern 24

,"


4B - September 28, 2009

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

0

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN

MAIZE GAUGE

The Michigan Daily football writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Mesk-o-Meter measures the success of special teams, the Rod-o-Meter
judges how emotional (positive or negative) Rich Rodriguez was following the game and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance.

b
41 Tt
C R
{ { No i
All,

MESK-O-METER

ROD-O-METER

Zoltans

Darryl Stonum came three yards short of breaking
Michigan's record for return yards ina game. And
to help the defense, Mesko hit a 59-yard punt and
pinned Indiana on its two-yard line on another kick.
He definitely let his foot do the talking Saturday.

2/
Rich Rods

Rodriguez wasn't particularly excited about the win.
When he was faced with tough questions, he tersely
said, "I'm gonna try to stay positive here." He also found
himself already fielding questions about Michigan State.
It's as if the Indiana close call never really happened.

HYPE-O-METER
2 If you thought the annual Homecoming game meant
wild parades, a lame dance and a to-die-for after party,
a Michigan Homecoming is a boring surprise. Well,
maybe not the after party part. But hey, at least the
alumni band and cheerleaders were entertaining.


LOOKING GOOD

FEELING BLUE

PL AY OF THF GAMF

sAID ALSALAH/Dai y cHi DZOMBAK/ Daily
CORNERBACK DONOVAN WARREN QUARTERBACK TATE FORCIER
As the star of a secondary with serious depth Like the rest of the country, we forgot quarterback
issues, it's rare that quarterbacks even look to his Tate Forcier is just a freshman. But we're not too
side of the field. But when Indiana quarterback down on his poor decision making at times - he'll
Ben Chappell dared to do so late in the game learn from that. It's the star's shoulder that has
Saturday, he watched Michigan's premier corner Forcier feeling blue this coming week. Sure, he
wrestle the ball away from a wide receiver who may have thrown a beautiful touchdown pass on it,
had a 30-pound advantage. The pick sealed the but after the swelling kicks in, there's no telling if
game, and a 4-0 start, for the Wolverines. Forcier will be ready to play against Michigan State.
THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP 10 POLL
The Michigan Daily Top 10 returns for its fourth installment this season. Each week, Daily Sports staffers will fill out ballots, with first place votes
receiving 10 points, second-place votes receiving nine, and so on. The results are published with first-place votes in parentheses.
1. FLORIDA (9): Tim 5. BOISE STATE: In their 9. OHIO STATE: The
Tebow's kryptonite: the flu first trip to the state of Ohio, Buckeyes scored a late TD
combined with a concussion. the Broncos tallied 529 yards. to make the score 30-0.
Take notes, LSU. E We like that. Keeping it classy, like usual.

a

2. TEXAS (4): The 6
Longhorns scored more n
points (64) than UTEP co
gained yards (53). Yikes. r
3. ALABAMA (1): To beat 7
Arkansas, 'Bama stopped B
the country's most efficient B
passer, Ryan Mallett. fo
4. LSU: The Tigers barely 8
stayed in the top five, y.
needing three late goal-line pi
stands to get a 'W.' b
STAFF PICKS
The Daily Football writers do their
best to predict what happens
in the 2009 football season. Michael
Eisenstein

*.VIRGINIATECH: Hokie
unning back Ryan Williams
arried this one alone,
ushing the ball 34 times.
. SOUTHERN CAL: Matt
arkley, you win this week.
ut we still like Tate Forcier
or Heisman in 2012.
. OKLAHOMA: Zero
ards of offense? No
roblem. Don't you love a
ye week?

10. HOUSTON: So what
does a one-point win over an
unranked opponent get you?
The No.10 spot, of course!
BYE, BYE: Well, that Miami
bandwagon emptied out
pretty quickly. It was fun
while it lasted.
6/g LOOK OUT: Cincy is about
to dominate the Big East.
See you in the top 10 soon,
, Bearcats.

0

NOTABLE QUOTABLE
In the first half, I think Tate's eyes were
everywhere. On the field, in the stadium, State
Street, you know, Schembechler Hall. I don't know
where his eyes were. They were everywhere."
- Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez on quarterback Tate Forcier's
play in the first half.,

Ruth Courtney Andy
Lincoln Ratkowiak Reid

Guest Picker:
Michigan
Marching Band
)rum Major
)avid Hines Jr.

Indiana Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan
Kentucky Kentucky Florida Florida Florida

No. 23 Michigan (-20.5) vs. Indiana
No.1 Florida (-21) at Kentucky
No. 2 Texas (-36) vs. UTEP
No.3Alabama (-17.5) vs. Arkansas
No. 4 Mississippi (-4) vs. So. Carolina
No. 5 Penn State (-10) vs. Iowa
No. 6 California (-5.5) vs. Oregon
No. 7 LSU (-12) at Mississippi State
No. 8 Boise St. (-16.5) at Bowling Green
No. 9 Miami (-3)vs at No.11VA Tech
No.12 Southern Cal (-45) vs. Wash St.
No.13 Ohio State (-14) vs. Illinois
No.14 Cincinnati (-17) vs. Fresno State
No.15TCU (-2.5) at Clemson
No.16 Okla. St. (NS) vs. Grambling St.
No.17 Houston (PK) vs. Texas Tech
No.18 Florida St. (-14) vs. South Florida
No.19 BYU (-17) vs. Colorado St.
No. 20 Kansas (-14) vs. Southern Miss.
No. 21 Georgia (-11.5) vs. Arizona State
No. 22 UNC (+3) at Georgia Tech
No. 24 Washington (+7) at Stanford
No. 25 Nebraska (-28) vs. La-Lafayette
Wisconsin 1-3) vs. Michigan State
Northwestern (-1.5) vs. Minnesota
Purdue (+7) vs. Notre Dame
Last Week
Overall

Indiana
Kentucky
UTEP
Arkansas
Mississippi
Iowa
California
I.SU
Boise State
Virginia Tech
Washington State
Illinois
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Texas Tech
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
North Carolina
Stanford
Nebraska
Michigan State
Northwestern
Purdue
11-15
54-36-1

Michigan
Kentucky
Texas
Arkansas
Mississippi
Iowa
California
Mississippi State
Boise State
Virginia Tech
Southern Cal
Illinois
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Houston
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
Georgia Tech
Stanford
Nebraska
Michigan State
Northwestern
Notre Dame Notre Dame
12-14
51-39-1

Michigan
Florida
UTEP
Arkansas
Mississippi
Iowa
Oregon
LSU
Boise State
Miami
Washington State
Ohio State
Cincinnati
Clemson
Oklahoma State
Texas Tech
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
Georgia Tech
Washington
Louisiana-Lafayette
Wisconsin
Minnesota
Notre Dame
11-15
50-40-1

Michigan
Florida
UTEP
Arkansas
Mississippi
Penn State
California
LSU
Boise State
Miami
Washington State
Illinois
Cincinnati
Texas Christian
Oklahoma State
Houston
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
North Carolina
Washington
Nebraska
Wisconsin
Northwestern
Notre Dame
9-17
42-48-1

Michigan
Florida
Texas
Arkansas
Mississippi
Iowa
California
LSU
Boise State
Virginia tech
Southern Cal
Illinois
Fresno State
Clemson
Oklahoma State
Texas Tech
Florida State
BYU
Kansas
Georgia
Georgia Tech
Washington
Nebraska
Michigan State
Minnesota
Notre Dame
11-15
48-42-1

I
6
6

To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail lincolnr@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll stay on for another week. The longest tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.


