1 e Ic 1 an 4:3at19

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, January 20, 2009

michigandaily.com

INAUGURATION DAY
Students head for Washington

College Democrats,
NAACP organize
buses to Inauguration
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily Staff Reporter
While many students will be
spending today glued to their
screens as Barack Obama is sworn
in as the 44th president of the Unit-
ed States, some lucky students will

have a chance to watch the action
firsthand in Washington D.C.
To celebrate the inauguration,
members of the University's chap-
ter of College Democrats cara-
vanned to Washington, D.C. for the
event - even though only a few of
the 15 students going actually have
tickets. The University's chapter of
the NAACP also organized a bus to
take a group of students to D.C., but
most of the students who rode the
bus don't have tickets either.
When Obama is sworn in today,

officials expect between one and
five million people to attend, even
though only 240,000 tickets were
made available to the general pub-
lic through members of Congress
and the Presidential Inaugural
Committee.
Ticket holders will watch the cer-
SEND US YOUR
INAUGURATION
PICTURES
InaugurationDay@umich.edu

emony from the steps of the Capitol
Building. Those without tickets will
be able to watch the event on big
screens throughout the National
Mall. This is the first inaugural
event in which the entire National
Mall will be open for the public.
Though mostof students going to
the Capitol don't have tickets, stu-
dents attending the inauguration
said they are looking forward to
being in D.C. on this historic day.
College Democrats Chair
See INAUGURATION, Page 7A

Google's
Page next
graduation
speaker


CELEBRATING MARTIN LUTfHER KING, JR. DAY

University alum,
Google co-founder
chosen to give
address on May 2
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
Larry Page, Google's co-
founder, will be the speaker at
this spring's commencement
ceremony,
University
President
Mary Sue
Coleman
said in an
interview
yesterday.
Page, LARRY
a Univer- PAGE
sity alum
and current
president of products for Google,
will deliver the commencement
address at this spring's ceremo-
ny on May 2.
If approved by the Board of
Regents at its monthly meeting
Thursday, Page will also receive
an honorary doctorate in engi-
neering when he speaks at the
ceremony.
"Celebrating the accomplish-
ments of the class of 2009 will be
all the more special with Larry
Page as our speaker," Coleman
said. "In a relatively short period

since his own graduation from
Michigan, he has made a mean-
ingful and lasting contribution
to society."
A native of East Lansing,
Page was influenced by his
parents and began his fascina-
tion with computers when he
was six years old. Page's father,
Dr. Carl Page, also a University
alum, taught computer science
at Michigan State University
for more than 25 years, before
his death in 1996. Larry Page's
mother, Gloria, worked as a
database consultant.
During his time at the Uni-
versity, Page served as the pres-
ident of the University's chapter
of Eta Kappa Nu - the national
honor society for electrical and
computer engineering students
- and was a member of Tau
Beta Pi, an engineering honor
society.
Page graduated with honors
from the University in 1995 with
a bachelor's degree in computer
engineering. He continued his
education at Stanford Universi-
ty, where he earned his master's
degree and began a Ph.D. pro-
gram. It was there that Page met
Sergey Brin and together they
founded Google in 1998.
Page served as Google's
founding CEO for three years
before assuming his current role
in 2001. Page also serves on the
company's. board of directors
See GRADUATION, Page 7A

NAACP Chairman Julian Bond delivers the keynote speech of the Martin Luther King Jr. Symposium in Hill Auditorium yesterday. ,CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
Bond: Rights fight ot over

NAACP chair says
Obama's election a
step but not the end
By CHARLES GREGG-GEIST
Daily StaffReporter
In the keynote address of the
23rd Annual Rev. Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. Symposium,
NAACP Chairman Julian Bond

told the large crowd assembled
in Hill Auditorium that while
Obama's election is a major vic-
tory for the Civil Rights Move-
ment, it is not the end.
"We know one man climbing
,to the top of the mountain does
not mean the end of the climb for
everyone else," he said to mur-
murs of approval. "The NAACP
is not the National Association
for the Advancement of one Col-
ored Person."

Throughout his speech, Bond,
a civil rights leader and founding
member of the Student Nonvio-
lent Coordinating Committee,
emphasized the challenges that
remain for the African Ameri-
can community. He pointed
specifically to high rates of pov-
erty, incarceration and homicide
among African Americans.
Bond, a former Georgia Dem-
ocratic state legislator, repeat-
edly criticized the Republican

Party for ignoring issues that are
important to minorities.
"The Republican Party has
focused almost entirely on its
base and marginalized the rest of
the country," he said. "As long as
they donotlooklike orrespondto
minority voters, the Republicans
will remain a minority party."
He was also vocal about the
fight for affirmative action.
"For most of us the idea that
See BOND, page 7A

REGENTS PREVIEW
Crisler to be
renovated

Comedian discusses black media

I

'Senior Black Wilmore spoke yesterday
to a crowd of over 300 in the
Correspondent' Michigan Union Ballroom
about his career, Barack Obama
talks about his and the state of race relations
in America.
rise to stardom "A lot of people have said that
now that we've elected Obama,
By EMILY ORLEY America isn't racist anymore,"
For the Daily Wilmore said. "I don't know if
I agree with that. I mean if we
In a speech to mark Martin elected Flavor Flav, that would
Luther King Jr. day yesterday, show that America is done with
Larry Wilmore, the "Senior racism."
Black Correspondent" for "The Despite his jokes, there was no
Daily Show with Jon Stewart," , humor in Wilmore's voice when
touched on the importance of he discussed the importance of
the day and discussed his rise the election.
from a stand-up comedian to Growing up in the era of Jesse
a correspondent for one of the Jackson, Wilmore said he knows
most watched comedy shows on firsthand about how hard it has
television. See WILMORE, page 7A

50,000-square-
foot, $23M project
to add practice,
training facilities
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
The University Board of
Regents will soon take the first
steps toward the construction
of a new practice facility for the
men's and women's basketball
teams.
In its monthly meeting
Thursday, the Regents will
consider a proposal from the
Department of Intercollegiate
Athletics to construct a new
basketball training and prac-
tice facility adjacent to Crisler
Arena, which hasn't undergone
major structural repairs since it
opened in 1967.
The new facility will address
the growing need for more prac-
tice space due to shared facilities
and difficulties with schedul-
ing. A letter sent to the Regents

signed by Athletic Director Bill
Martin and the University's
Chief Financial Officer Tim
Slottow sought permission for
a 50,000-square-foot addition,
which is estimated to cost more
than $23 million. Additionally,
the new facility will perma-
nently displace about 60 parking
spaces, along with an additional
90 parking spaces during con-
struction.
The proposed facility will
house two new basketball prac-
tice courts, team locker areas, a
strength and conditioning area,
an athletic medical space and
coaching and staff offices.
In a separate statement
released Monday, Martin said the
project is very important to the
future success of both basketball
teams.
"This is a major step forward
in improving our basketball
facilities," he said. "The facility
will allow our student-athletes
to practice later inthe day, giving
them more flexibility in schedul-
ing their academic classes."
John Beilein, the men's bas-
See CRISLER, Page 7A

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daiy
Larry Wilmore of "The Daily Show" speaks in the Union Ballroom yesterday.



WEATHEHR :28 GOTANEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail.
TOMORROW L. 20 , news omichigandaily.com and let us know.

ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
The 2008 University Salary Supplement
EDITORSPAGE.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEW S.................
Vol. CXIX, No. 76 SUDOKU...............
020NTheNMi.hi.an..a.ly OPINION.
michigandoily.com 1 " " "

.............2A A R TS A.................. ............ ..5A
... ........3A CLASSIFIEDS......................6A
.......... 4A SPORTSTUESDAY.................1B


2A - Tuesday, January 20, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: WEDNESDAY:

In Other Ivory Towers C apsCaat Explained,
Captain o the party bus

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

It wouldn'tbe a normal night
fur Benny Thomas Blevins, the
BTB party bus driver, if intoxi-
rated students, weren't falling
off of the bus steps ur usingsthe
luggage carrier pole as a strip-
per pole.
Blevins, known as Benny by
must students (and yes, his ini-
tials spell the name of the corn-
pany he works for), has seen his
fair share of bizarre moments
during his nightly routine.
One night Benny said he's
not soon to forget was when he
picked up a male student and
his girlfriend after a night out
at Studio 4.
Benny said he notited the
male student shrug down
his pants, but he thought the
student was getting comfort-
able for the ride. Then Benny
noticed that the student's girl-
friend had her skirt pulled all
the way up to her waist.
CRIME NOTES

"She was doing a lot of
bouncing all the way bark," he
said. "He asked me, How much
do I owe you,' and I told him
that the ride is only $2 a head,
but that motel fees are $50 at
least."
Benny said the student gave
him $50, which he accepted
only because he was offering
it.
But Benny has had to deal
with other customers who
weren't soigenerous. One night
after picking up a group that
exceeded the bus's capacity,
he- had to physically remove
a large, intoxicated male
customer. After the student
refused to leave and bet Benny
$20 that he couldn't get him
off the bus, Benny knew it was.
time to take action.
"He lost," Benny said. "I
didn't hurt him or anything.I
just walked down the bus and

grabbed him by the collar bone
and dropped him off."
As a former celebrity body-
guard, Benny knows how to
take care of what he refers to
as "bad apples." But in general,
he appreciates his student cli-
entele.
"I love them, they're great,"
he said. "They're all pretty cour-
teous. I never really have s hard
time with anybody because
most of them know me."
Benny said he finds driving
the party bus peaceful after
working as an Ann Arbor cab
driver for 20 years. He said
many of the students who ride
the bus are customers of his
from his days as a cab driver.
"If it weren't for my custom-
era we probably wouldn't have
ever started out this bus," he
said.
EMILY ORLEY
LARA ZADE

Benny Thomas Bevios, the BTB Party Bus driver, does his nightly rounds
on Central Cameos Friday night. The tormer cah drioer chautteurs stu-
deots as they travel from har to har.
w~MORE ONLINE
Fot a video sf lhs week's campus character, check oot
mnichiguodoilycom.

~the fihpan DAM1~
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 48090-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor is Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaiy.com bugli@miehigandaitycom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newoom Officehhurs: Sn.-Thsrs.11 a.m. - 2 a.m.
News Tips news@miahigandaily.com
torrections correctinsichigandaily.cm
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandailyaacom
Phatography Department photo@michigandaily.com,
Arts Settion artspage@michigandaily.om
Editnriat Page apinion@michigandily.com
SportstSection sports@michigandaity.cm
jDispaytSales display@michigandaily.cam
Classified Sales cass~ified@mihigandaily.com
OnlinetSales oineads@michigandaily.cm
Finante .finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ralkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@xhchigandaiiy.cax
JacobhtmilaoitZMannaingNesr ditor smiloite@michigandaily.aanm
SNIO SEDITsueanaORJlian Berma,,n, revoar, JulieRonwe, Linay Stevens
ASITN ESumsDIoTORS Matronson,, BnjaminS. Chs,Caitlin SchnOeidr
Robert Soaoe tditorialPe Eaditor suame@mhchigandaity.cax
ASSOCIATEDTnORIALPAGE EDIORSu:ilyrn rann.,OFlahr,,nRachelaanuGiane
Andy Reid. ManagngiSport ditora reid@mhchigandaily.caom
SENIRoSORTSnEDITORSicole uerbach, Mikesetin, n Feldan,Chris
Herring,nRh Licoln
DaidWatnick MannsineAntsoEditor watnnhck@mihigandailycm
SENIOR AnTSEDTORSam~ie Bloc, Brnannonradis,mWhitneyrPow
ASSISTNATSa EDIT:Josu a erso, nrew Lpin,nDnaRep, Bn nmagoner
Zachary Meiseand photo@michigandaitycom
tliftReeder ManagingePhototEditors
SNIsOnR PHO ~OIOS: Sid Asa, Cu~hnel onHsugLothringen
ASuSISATayPHOTO DIOuS:ax ,Collin, 0ChrsuDzombak, obiMign, Sam Wolni~
AngelatChih and design@mnhhigandaily.cam
Maureen Styth Managig DsintEditos
Jessita tosgerthian Magaintdiorogrcian@michigandaily.com
Daid Meian MulimediatEditsr merian@miahigandaity.aax
Katherine Mitchell topythief mitchell@michigasdaity.aam
BUSINESS STAFF
Mithael SchrotenboernDspnlay Advertisin esnaer
sNwmn,ChriitierPhillips
Ryan Bosinski tlassified SalnsManager
ClassifidSls itnatMnger: Aisn Tnhomas
MarissalGerber onlinSales Mnaer
Ben English Productionneign Manager
Mertl Blting Layout Manaer
Vioian Leerand Emily Looeless Finasne Mnagers
The Michgan taily 1I5SNo0as-967) is pubished onay thrugh Friydurng he fll ndnite
temsby studntsa Univer5nsity of Michn.One copyis available fienofncarge 5to llreain s.
Additionl copies ay is pickedupat the Daily' s offifr.Su5bscritinsr fltelrmn,satnai
Sepember,nvaU.mil are $110 tertrmaanathogApril)ist11,yarlng(etemt~ber
trogh nAil insi9. Unrsity affliats arsubject o a reduced subscritionrate On-campus
usaiptiinsrrall rmnntt.scripionsnmnstbeaarepai.TheichigatnDiisanebnrn
TheAssciaerssandThe oc~itd CollegiatePress

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

0

Hockey puck Students caught Roundtable for Celebrating
hits fan during with pot in student groups different winter

6
0
0
6

game
WHERE: Yost Ire Arena
WHEN: Friday at about 9:30
p.m.
WHAT: A student was hit in
the head with a puck during
the hockey game, University
Police reported. He was treat-
ed for injuries on the scene.

dorm room
WHERE: Mary Markley Resi-
dance Hall
WHEN: Saturday at about 3:00
WHAT: A male and female
student were found in posses-
sion of marijuana, University
Police reported. They were
released pending authoriza-
tion ofsa warrnt.n

Cash wiped Water damage in
from purse Grad Library

WHAT: A roundtable, which
will bring together student
leaders to learn information
about campus groups at the
University.
WHO: Student Activities and
Leadership
WHEN: Tonight from 5:30
p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Kuenzel Room,
Michigan Union
Inauguration
viewing and talk
WHAT: A viewing of the
presidential inauguration fol-
lowed by a discussion about
the ceremony and issues fac-
ing the country.
WHO: University Unions
Arts and Programs
WHEN: Today at 11:30 am.
WHERE: Underground,
Michigan League

holidays
WHAT: A celebration of
winter traditions from various
cultures.
WHO: Engineering Global
Leadership
WHEN: Tomorrow at 6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Chesebrough Audi-'
torium, Chrysler Center

1Police in Lawrenceville,
Ga. found more than $1
million in a car after they
stopped it for, a traffic viola-
tion, CBS Atlanta reported.
After pulling over Santiago
Valdovinos-Moreno for swerv-
ing police searched his car and
found the cash insa duffle bag.
2Former Daily managing
sports editor Nate San-
dals got hit in the head
with a puck at Friday night's

WHERE: University Hospital
Emergency Room
WHEN: Friday at about 12:30
p.m.
WHAT: A patient reported $10
stolen from a purse, Univer-
sity Police reported. The theft
occurred sometime between
Jan. 15 at 2 p.m. and Jan. 16 at
11:30 am.

WHERE: Hatcher Graduate
Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 8:30
p.m.
WHAT: A broken pipe caused
water damage in the library,
University Police reported. The
carpet, ceilingtiles and some
books were damaged.

CORRECTIONS hockey game against Bowl-
* An article in Friday's edi- ing Green University.
tion of the Daily (Photos of >>FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSTUESDAY,
the week) misidentified a car. PAGE 21
It is a Lamborghini Murcie-
lago AeBritish grandmother kid-
* A photo in last Monday's snapped a repair man after
edition of the Daily (Photos 3 he failed to fix her washing
of the week)was miscap- machine for three weeks, the
tioned. It is a Bentley Conti- Daily Mail reported. Tracey
nentl GC Sped. Fox, who does as many as two
nentl GC Sped.loads of laundry a day, had to
" Please report any error rely on family and friends to
in the Daily to corrections@ clean her clothes while the
michigandailycom. machine was broken.



.. . . . ,. .., ,.. _ .. . i :. . "r. , .F i . i . . : ,, > tF'( i rJ'S r to r°

q-f NIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

.0

WHAT DOy
1HODES/MARSHALLIMITCHEL
SCHOLARS4
DO AFTER THEIR STUDIES
Well, this guy became
president.

0

What will you do?
Anything you want.
You've written your own game
plan so far in life. Why not take
it one step further and become
a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell
Scholar?

I

TOB IAS WOLFF

the United States of America, 1992-2000

Come to a Rhodes/Marshall/Mitchell Orientation Session:
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 . 5:0O-6:O0pm
Koessler Room, Michigan League
Thursday, January 29, 2009.* 5:00-6:O0pm
Pierpont Commons Center Room
Thursday, February 5, 2009 . 5:00-6:O0pm
Kuenzel Room, Michigan Union
To learn more, please contact the Provost's Council on Student Honors at
734-763-8123 or visit the website at
www.provost.umich.edu/scholars/

I

I


4 A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 20, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January 20, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip
Hamas fighters
seek to restore
order in Gaza
Uniformed Hamas security
fteams emerged on Gaza City's
streets yesterday an leaders of the
Islamic militant group vowed to
restore order in the shattered Pal-
estinian territory after a three-
week pummeling by the Israeli
military.
Hamas proclaimed it won a great
victory over the Jewish state - a
view that appeared greatly exag-
gerated - and the task of recon-
struction faced deep uncertainty
because of the fear of renewed fight-
ing and Israel's control over border
crossings.
Cars and pedestrians again
clogged streets. Donkey carts
. hauled produce and firewood past
rubble and broken glass. The parlia-
ment building and other targets of
Israeli attacks were piles of debris,
while orange and olive groves on
the edge of town were flattened.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-
moon planned to travel to Gaza on
Tuesday to inspect damage and
visit U.N. facilities hit in the fight-
ing. Ban did not scheduled meet-
ings with officials from Hamas,
whose government is not interna-
tionally recognized.
WASHINGTON
Women less able to
suppress hunger
 Faced with their favorite foods,
women are less able than men to
suppress their hunger, a discovery
that may help explain the higher
obesity rate for females, a new
study suggests.
Researchers trying to under-
stand the brain's mechanisms for
controlling food intake were sur-
prised at the difference between
the sexes in brain response.
Gene-Jack Wang of Brookhaven
National Laboratory and colleagues
were trying to figure out why some
people overeat and gain weight
while others don't.
They performed brain scans on
13 women and 10 men, who had
fasted overnight, to determine how
their brains responded to the sight
of their favorite foods. They report
their findings in today's edition of
Proceedings of the National Acad-
emy of Sciences.
NEW YORK
Investigation of US
Airways jetliner
crash to take a year
The probe into the crash-landing
of a US Airways jetliner will take a
year, and the lessons learned from
the spectacular accident will last
much longer, a senior investigator
said yesterday.
"I think this one is going to be
studied for decades," said Robert
Benzon, chief investigator on the
case for the National Transporta-
tion Safety Board.
Benzon said the fact that all
155 people aboard the plane

survived removes the guilt and
finger-pointing that sometimes
accompany aviation accidents.
We said lessons learned from
the successful ditching into the
Hudson River could improve air
safety.
"In one like this, I think there's
potential for a lot of good to come
out of it, long-term good," he
said.
CHICAGO
* Ear, nose and
throat infections
on rise in children
Researchers say they found an
"alarming" increase in children's
ear, nose and throat infections
nationwide caused by dangerous
drug-resistant staph germs.
Other studies have shown ris-
ing numbers of skin infections
in adults and children caused by
these germs, nicknamed MRSA,
but this is the first nationwide
report on how common they are
in deeper tissue infections in the
head and neck, the study authors
said. These include certain ear
and sinus infections, and abcesses
that can form in the tonsils and
throat.
The study found a total of 21,009
pediatric head and neck infec-
tions caused by staph germs from
2001 through 2006. The percent-
age caused by hard-to-treat MRSA
bacteria more than doubled during
that time from almost 12 percent to
28 percent.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Bush pardons
former U.S.
border agents

cHARLES DHARAPAK/AP
President-elect Barack Obama visits a renovation project at Sasha Bruce Youthwork, a shelter for homeless or runaway
teens, in Washington, D.C. Monday, Jan.19, 2009.
Obama honors King on
final pre-presidency day

Obama takes part in
community
renovation project
WASHINGTON (AP) - Fresh
off a rollicking celebration in the
shadow of Abraham Lincoln,
President-elect Barack Obama is
shaping the final day of his pre-
presidential life around another
giant figure, the Rev. Martin
Luther King Jr.
Obama is taking part in a com-
munity renovation project in the
Washington area to honor King,
the civil rights leader who was
assassinated in 1968. Yesterday
was the federal holiday commemo-
rating the birthday of King, who
advocated peaceful resistance and
equality amongall races. He blazed
a trail for Obama, soon to be the
nation's first black president.
The vice president-elect, Joe
Biden, is also taking part in volun-
teer service on Monday. His wife,
Jill, and Obama's wife, Midhelle, are
helping with a service project, too.
Transition aides declined to
name the locations or details of
the projects.
The rtin-up to Obama's inau-
guration on Tuesday has, like
his election itself, been defined

by enormous public enthusiasm,
carefully choreographed events
and a lofty spirit of unity. What
awaits, as Obama often reminds
the nation, is many months, if not
years, of tough work.
Theweekendcelebrationsbegan
Saturday with Obama's whistle-
stop tour, from Philadelphia to
Washington, along the path Abra-
ham Lincoln took in 1861. Then
came a roaring celebrity-filled
concert at the Lincoln Memorial
on Sunday, where several hun-
dred thousand people flanked the
reflecting pool, hearing actors,
singers and then Obama himself
rally for national renewal.
Now Obama is askingthe nation
to honor King's legacyby making a
renewed commitment to service.
That has long been the goal of the
King holiday, even if many see it as
a day off.
The Presidential Inaugural
Committee has launched a Web
site, USAService.org, to help peo-
ple find volunteer opportunities
close to their homes.
"I am asking you to make a last-
ing commitment to make better
the lives of your fellow Americans
- a commitment that must endure
beyond one day, or even one presi-
dency," Obama said in a YouTube
appeal last week. "At this moment

of great challenge and great
change, I am asking you to play
your part; to roll up your sleeves
and join in the work of remaking
this nation."
The president-elect had a busy
evening yesterday, too.
He had to attend three private
dinners to honor the public ser-
vice of former Secretary of State
Colin Powell; Biden, a longtime
senator from Delaware; and Sen.
John McCain, the 2008 Republi-
can presidential nominee. Those
dinners will be held at the Hilton
Washington, National Building
Museum and Union Station.
Michelle Obama, the future
first lady, is hosting a children's
evening concert.
Meanwhile, with the nation's
transition of power now just
more than a day away, a new hero
has been invited to join the inau-
guration.
US Airways Capt. Chesley B.
"Sully" Sullenberger, who safely
crash-landed a failing jetliner in
the Hudson River on Thursday,
has been invited by the president-
elect to attend Tuesday's ainugu-
ration. So has Sullenberger's crew
and his family.
An aide to nOm aid.te
inaugural committee is working
on the details.

Two former border
agents convicted for
shooting a Mexican
drug dealer
WASHINGTON (AP) - In his
final acts of clemency, President
George W. Bush yesterday granted
early prison releases to two former
U.S. Border Patrol agents whose
convictions for shooting a Mexi-
can drug dealer fueled the national
debate over illegal immigration.
Bush, responding to heavy
pressure from Republican and
Democratic lawmakers alike, com-
muted the prison sentences of Igna-
cio Ramos and Jose Compean. The
tVuo guards from El Paso, Texas,
each were sentenced to more than
10 years for the shooting, which
they tried to cover up. They will be
released within two months.
Opposition to their convictions,
sentencing and firings has simmered
ever since the shooting occurred in
2005.
"After four years of fighting this,
it's taken a toll on me and my daugh-
ter, and really the whole family," said
Joe Loya, Ramos' father-in law, who
has received tens of thousands of
supportive e-mails and spent much
of the past two years traveling the
country to speak about the case. "We
wouldn't give up. ... I knew sooner
or later God would come through -
that finally it would happen."
Bush "has given us a chance to be
a family again and I want to thank
him for that," Ramos' wife, Monica,
told Fox News Channel.
The border agents' case became
a rallying cause for conservatives
concerned about border protection.
On talk shows, people sympathetic
with the agents argued thatthe men
were just doing their jobs, defend-
ing the U.S.-Mexico border against
criminals.
Bob Baskett, Compean's attorney
in Dallas, cited widespread congres-
sional support from the biparti-
...tdw1gfssional delegation from
Texas. "I think the president did the
right thing," he said. "An awful lot

of people did an awful lot of work to
get this done."
David Botsford, a lawyer for
Ramos in Austin, Texas, said he had
been guardedly optimistic that the
commutations would be granted
because of the support from Con-
gress and the thousands of people
who had sentletters of concern. The
president has shown "he's a compas-
sionate man," Botaford said.
Rep. John Culberson, R-Texas,
who called the agents' convictions
a "grotesque injustice," said he and
other lawmakers initially had hoped
to have the agents pardoned. "When
it became evident there was resis-
tance at the White House to a par-
don, that's when we shifted gears to
ask for a commutation," he said.
Culberson helped gather sig-
natures from 31 of the 34 current
members of the Texas congressio-
nal delegation and two former del-
egation members for a letter asking
Bush for the commutations. Culber-
son hand-delivered the letter to the
White House last week.
"I was beginning to really be
concerned that with literally only
hours left in the president's term,
this might not happen," he said.
"With this one decision, President
Bush has done more to improve his
popularity than any single thing he
could do."
Rep. Silvestre Reyes, D-Texas,
applauded the president's decision:
"I donotcondonetheactionsofthese
two men,but I believe the mandatory
10-year sentencing guidelines used
in this case were excessive."
Compean and Ramos were con-
victed of shooting admitted drug
smuggler Osvaldo Aldrete Davila
in the buttocks as he fled across the
Rio Grande, away 'from an aban-
doned van load of marijuana. He
remains in a low-security prison in
Fort Worth, Texas.
The border agents claimed at
their trials that they believed the
smuggler was ainmed andthatthey
shot him in self defense. The pros-
ecutor in the case, a U.S. attorney
who was appointed by Bush in
2001, said°there was no -eviece
linking the smuggler to the van of
marijuana.

Kellogg says FDA confirms
salmonella in crackers

Michigan-based
company recalls 16
products last week
MILWAUKEE (AP) - Kellogg
Co. said Monday federal authori-
tieshave confirmed thatsalmonella
was found in a single package of its
peanut butter crackers, as a Mid-
western grocer recalled some of its
products because of the scare.
Battle Creek, Mich.-based Kel-
logg recalled 16 products last week
because of the possibility of sal-
monella contamination.
The company said yesterday
that contaminationwas confirmed
by the Food and Drug Administra-
tion in a single package of Austin
Quality Foods Toasty Crackers
with Peanut Butter.
Food companies and retailers
have been recalling products with
peanut butter in them because
of suspicion of contamination
amid a salmonella outbreak that
has killed at least six people and
sickened more than 470 others in
43 states. At least 90 people have
been hospitalized.

Also yesterday, Midwestern
grocer and retailer Meijer Inc.
said it was recalling two types of
crackers and two varieties of ice
cream because of the possibility of
salmonella contamination: Meijer
brand Cheese and Peanut Butter
and Toasty Peanut Butter sand-
wich crackers, and Peanut Butter
and Jelly and Peanut Butter Cup
ice cream.
Golden Valley, Minn.-based
General Mills said Monday after-
noon that it was recalling two
flavors of snack bars: LARABAR
Peanut Butter Cookie snack bars
and JamFrakas Peanut Hutter
Blisscrisp snack bars. The compa-
ny said the recall affected 15,000
cases and no illnesses have been
reported. General Mills said the
recall did not affect any other
products it makes.
It was not immediately clear
how many packages of Kellogg
crackers had been tested, if more
tests were being made on other
products or if some had already
been found not to have salmo-
nella, Kellogg spokeswoman Kris
Charles said. A spokesman for the
FDA said the agency was not pro-

viding any new information Mon-
day.
The government on Saturday
advised consumers to avoid eat-
ing cookies, cakes, ice cream and
other foods containing peanut
butter until health officials learn
more about the contamination.
Officials said most peanut but-
ter sold in jars at supermarkets
appears to be safe.
Officials have been focusing on
peanut paste and peanut butter
made at Peanut Corp. of Ameriha's
plant in Blakely, Ga.
On Sunday, Peanut Corp.
expanded its own recall to all pea-
nut butter and peanut paste pro-
duced at the Blakely plant since
July 1.
The company's peanut butter is
not sold directly to consumers but
is distributed to institutions and
food companies.The peanut paste,
made from roasted peanuts, is an
ingredient in cookies, cakes and
other products sold to consumers.
Meijer, based in Grand Rapids,
said in a news release Monday it
was issuingits recallbecause mak-
ers of its products had announced
possible contamination.

WE WANT YOUR
INAUGURATION DAY PHOTOS
Going to D.C.? Just watching Obama get
sworn in from the comfort of your couch?
Send us your photos and reactions at
InaugurationDay@umich.edu.
In Wednesday's Daily, we'll run the best of
what we get.
Tuesdays Are South O The Border
Corona/Dos Equis Specials All Night
S7er S nSe eVodk 1Yin6
25% Off Mexican Fare & NO COVER
Ja oer Bomb S ocials 10 to Closo
X MaYW y1,d- A."34995OIO&o ettMOIYW4 sirfdws
fl-I,,,M

fhrihtiuait I

Department. Any questions?
tA

4


0

lln

4A - Tuesday, January 20, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM T HE DAILY
Service comes first
Students should give back to the community year-round
Yesterday, the nation honored the legacy of Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr. He may always be most remembered as
a passionate fighter for civil rights and equality, but he
was also concerned with volunteerism to improve everyone's life.
In recognition of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Barack Obama and
the King family asked Americans to participate in a National Day
of Service. Whether you participated or not, there's no reason to
limit King's spirit of community service to one day a year..All peo-
ple, especially the students who worked tirelessly to elect Barack
Obama, should transition their efforts to activism and work toward
a better community.

King was an adept community organizer
who successfully harnessed his supporters
to work toward greater goods. With this in
mind, it was suggested that Martin Luther
King Jr. Day be recognized as a National
Day of Service. This way, King's legacy
could inspire people to recognize this day
as one in which everyone should give back
to their community in some meaningful
way.
It's certainly worth recognizing the
amazing things that volunteer efforts on
campus have accomplished in the past few
months. Obama's campaign mobilized stu-
dents in a more substantial way than any
other campaign had in decades. Students
believed in the good that an Obama presi-
dency could do for the nation, and they
volunteered their time and energy to help
elect him.
Now that these efforts have been suc-
cessful, the responsibility of healing
the nation cannot be solely placed upon
Obama's shoulders. Campus activism must
be maintained in order to make our com-
munity a better place. It's up to us not to
lose sight of our goals now that such suc-
cesses have been achieved.
Throughout his presidential campaign,

Obama spoke of asking Americans to do
more to serve their country than simply
expecting good to come as a right of citi-
zenship. That passion should be re-direct-
ed toward cleaning up parks, helping the
homeless or any other job that will help
out communities around us. It is a continu-
ation of the work that Obama was encour-
aging his supporters to do all along.
There are plenty of places in the Ann
Arbor community that could benefit from
increased community service. Things as
simple as an hour at a soup kitchen or vol-
unteering at a daycare can do immeasur-
able amounts of good. volunteering can be
done right now and will produce immedi-
ate results for society.
A National Day of Service is a great way
to honor King's call to make the country
a better place for everyone. But we don't
need to wait for next January to start vol-
unteering again. Students must channel
the spirit of activism that propelled Obama
and continue our efforts to improve the
country, starting with the Ann Arbor com-
munity. Though it may only be officially
recognized one day of the year, there is no
reason why we can't treat every day as a
National Day of Service.

Shhh!"
- Joe Biden, silencing his wife after she said Barack Obama gave Biden the choice of
being either secretary of state or vice president, as reported yesterday by the Chicago Tribune.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I OUT T STRE E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
IHawdo you feel athe dan) .. He's tePreidentf 'e rtpee jurstces r
the a? ocai heatilare
ff succem means te wsnsfor- anosmm esionand~t~W
se op amton of meica inoa be ndoning ofIL
Sodlist mat o e onsFrvabe he ais
0 t! p8
* C*
** 0* *
What qualifies the GSIs
S everal years ago, during a rath- strate English-language proficiency. boundaries between us and our stu-
er difficult office hours meet- Department training sessions often dents.
ing, a student told me that I are a term-long course. In addition, This focus is important to under-
wasn't qualified to any GSI who grades an upper-level stand. Because GSIs are students s
teach political sci- writing course or teaches introducto- well, are close to the age of under-
ence because I was ry writing must go through semester- graduates and are something of a
earning a Ph.D. in long training courses at the Center middleman between students and
English. for Learning Research and Teaching. professors, boundaries tend to blur.
Theonlyproblem Beyond formal academic qualifica-
with this challenge tions and training, many GSIs have
was that the stu- relevant life experiences that help Get to know your
dent was wrong: I enrich their teaching.
was indeed earning PATRICK Three of my fellow GSIs had jobs instructors. They
a Ph.D. in political O'MAHEN as either community or political
science. This par- organizers before they came to grad m ight surprise you.
ticular student had school, which has influenced how
definitely earned they think and teach about politi-
the C- grade over which she was ques- cal mobilization and participation.
tioning my teaching qualifications. Another worked for a major polling By limiting the amount ofpersonal
However, there does seem to be firm, which comes in handy when information and access we give to our
a lack of knowledge among many you're talking about how public students, we give ourselves author-
undergraduate students about the opinion and voting works. Many of ity and autonomy as GSIs. My rela-
qualifications of their Graduate Stu- my colleagues who have taught the tionship, role as a parent and other
dent Instructors. Every term, I ask popular Arab-Israeli Conflict course aspects of my personal and profes-
my sections what they know about have an extensive background in sional life really aren't any of my
the background and qualifying pro- the Middle East. One spent a year in students' business. Also, by having
cess for GSIs. Almost without excep- Egypt on a Truman scholarship and designated office hours and e-mail
tion, I get blank stares. is proficient in Arabic. The second response times, we give ourselves
Here's a tip: on the first day of class, has lived in both Egypt and Israel the ability to say no to students who
askyour GSIs aboutctheir background. and is proficient in both Hebrew and ask for unreasonable appoint entsr
It's unwise to directly challenge their Arabic. The final one has studied in expect e&mail responses 24 touls
competence, but it's fine to express Egypt and Syria extensively, is fluent a day or call us on our personal cell
curiosity about their experiences. in Arabic and is pursuing research on phones when we haven't handed out
Although I can't answer questions how the social networks of Christian- our number.
for my colleagues, I can comment on and Muslim shopkeepers might affect Butifwebuild thebarriers between
the general qualifications for your religious tensions. our students and ourselves too high,
GSIs: theygained admissionto agrad- When I told several of my stu- then we might neglect to share some
uate program at the University, usu- dents about the activities of those of our personal experiences and
ally a top 10 program in the country GSIs, their mouths dropped open research interests that do have rel-
in a given field. Most departments are in surprise. Why don't more under- evance to the subject we teach. Some-
highly selective and admit less than graduates know about the depth of times those stories and information
15 percent of applicants. The great their GSI's qualifications? Often, it's illustrate a concept clearly or spark
majority of them teach in something because GSIs don't tell them. interest in our field. In short, they
closely related to their field - this I suspect our training influences help education.
term, I have sections in Introduction our decision not to talk about our . And then, perhaps, fewer students
to American Politics, not Shakespear- qualifications, previous experience or will tend to wonder about their GSI's
ran Dramatic Conventions. research relevant to teaching. When qualifications.
GSIs also go through multiple I took both the CLRT and my depart-
training courses before they enter ment's training course, facilitators Patrick O'Mahen can be reached
the classroom and have to demon- emphasized creating professional at pomahen@umich.edu.
Fraud behind thefractions

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.

T

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

University should abandon
outdated animal testing
TO THE DAILY:
As a cardiologist and senior medical adviser
with the Physicians Committee for Responsible
Medicine, I want to refute incorrect statements
quoted in your article ('U' under pressure for dog
testing, 1/14/2009) and clarify why PCRM oppos-
es the University's use of live dogs from Michigan
animal shelters in lethal trauma training classes.
The University Health Service falsely claims
that the majority of Advanced Trauma Life Sup-
port courses use animals. In truth, however, the
University of Michigan is one of the last institu-
tions in the country continuing this outdated
practice. In an ongoing nationwide survey of
ATLS courses, it was found that over 90 percent
of researchers exclusively use non-animal meth-
ods, such as cadavers or human patient simula-
HARUN BULANA

tors. In fact, the American College of Surgeons,
which accredits all ATLS programs, endorses the
use of simulators.
We oppose the use of dogs and other animals
in ATLS courses not only because it is inhumane
but also because it is not the best way to teach
participants how to treat acute trauma injuries.
The procedures taught in the University's ATLS
course include cutting into the airway, inserting
chest tubes, and sticking needles in the lungs,
heart, and abdomen. The anatomy is so differ-
ent in dogs that the techniques must be revisited
later - when human lives may be on the line.
The University's students deserve the most
advanced trainingmethods available. That means
immediately replacing the use of live dogs with
superior, human-based methods.
John Pippin, M.D., F.A.C.C.
The letter-writer is a senior medical research
adviser with the Physicians Committeefor Respon-
sible Medicine.
E-MAIL HARUN AT BULJINAH@UMICH.EDU

-M'AY: e~oRGiA PAP. 0WrNefn. PROD
T- NltfkTf (ot"If'PGORA MA To
cU fit. loosGEO RG IE,
' 'CAPJIc ATE Fomi.NC
A Ai

n recent weeks, the financial The problem arises when I can't go to
world has been rocked by a scan- the bank and claim my own money.
dal involving professional inves- When you buya stock or bond, you
tor Bernie Madoff. exchange an available good - money
Madoff lost as much - for the expectation of a future
as $50 billion of his good. In order to claim money from
investors' money your asset, you have to find a willing
and even caused a buyer. But with bank deposits, you
few nonprofit asso- . never exchange anything with the
ciations to close bank. The money is still your prop-
their doors. Mad- erty, and the bank simply guards it
off's embezzlement for you or facilitates transactions. If
scheme, however, everyone were to claim their proper-
pales in compari- VINCENT ty, there would not be enough money
son with the $7 tril- PATSY to satisfy the demand.
lion scheme being In the Madoff scandal, inves-
perpetrated by the tors were being paid using depos-
U.S. government via its from later investors. As long as
the fraudulent bank loaning policy there remained a constant flow of
known as fractional-reserve banking. new funds, the pyramid scheme kept
in fractional-reserve banking, bank working. But when the current finan-
managers are constantly deceiving cial crisis hit the economy, many
their clients, buying property and investors withdrew their funds and
other assets with what amounts to the system collapsed.
counterfeit money. Fractional-reserve banking works
There are essentially two roles the same way, using guarantees from
for banks: making loans and act- the Treasury Department and soci-
ing as warehouses to store money. etal pressure to, retain faith in banks
A fractional-reserve bank will only and preserve the existing system.
keep a portion of your money in your This deception is just as fraudulent as
account and will loan out the rest. Madoff's scheme. As soon as people
The basic reason why this is an ille- lose faith or withdraw their funds,
gitimate form of business is because the system collapses.
the banker attaches a false receipt to The typical argument in favor of
your money. It is akin to a person pay- fractional-reserve banking goes as fol-
ing me to draw them a square circle. lows. Suppose an entrepreneur builds a
This being impossible, I'm not deliv- bridge and he sells access to the bridge
ering on their request as promised to 1000 people, even though only 100
and have therefore committed fraud. people can cross at any one time. But
In a normal business, the own- since only 50 travelers cross each day
ers know approximately when they on average, there's no traffic prob-
have to pay workers and when they lem. If, however, some treacherous
will receive payments from clients. Visigoths were to attack and everyone
If owners owe $1 million on a cer- attempted to flee,thebridge's 100-man
tain date, they will try to rearrange capacity would not be sufficient to sat-
their funds so that they can pay off isfy demand. Since banks knowrough-
their debts. With fractional-reserve ly how much money will be taken out
banking, this strategy is impossible. and are not afraid of Visigoths, they
Although the assets come in regular- can estimate how much money they
ly in the form of loan payments, the need to have at all times.
bank deposits can't be anticipated. But the difference between this

example and fractional-reserve
banking is that with the bridge you
are paying for access, not ownership.
I can't go and claim 300 bricks of the
bridge. When you pay a cover charge
to a bar, you don't own some section
of the bar. Use and ownership are two
different things, and this method of
banking constitutes fraud.
Why the U.S.
Treasury is just
as bad as Madoff
The alternative and superior sys-
tem is to have 100 percent reserve
banking. The two functions of banks,
underthissetup,willbekeptseparate.
If a person wishes to save money, they
would investinsomethingresembling
a certificate of deposit. This would be
an investment because the saver can-
not claim his actual good before a
certain amount of time has elapsed.
In order to purchase goods, there
would be a separate checking account
where you would pay for the bank to
hold your money. One hundred per-
cent reserve banking may seem more
complicated than fractional-reserve
banking, but it's the only good way to
protect against crises where everyone
tries to withdraw their investments.
Fractional reserve bankers are
essentially counterfeiters. They buy
more goods than they can pay for
under the pretense of government-
sponsored stability. Traditionally,
counterfeiters would be on the run
from the U.S. Treasury Department.
With fractional-reserve banking,
though, it's the Treasury committing
the crime.
Vincent Patsy can be reached
at vapatsy@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 20, 2009 -5A

Bad in all dimensions

Unnecessary remake isn't
rescued by its archaic
visual gimmick
By BRANDON CONRADIS
Senior Arts Editor
"My Bloody Valentine 3D" is a rip-off in more
than one way. Not only is it a
horribly plotted, generic and
exploitative piece of shit, it
demonstrates Hollywood's My Blo
complete lack of originality
by both remaking an obscure Valetine 3D
1981 slasher movie and resort- At Showcase
ing to the age-old and long- and Quality16
defunct ploy of 3D to boot.
And another thing: It actually Lionsgale
has the audacity to hold out
its palm and ask for more money in return.
At Quality 16, there was an extra fee of $2 to
compensate for this "state of the art" 3-D expe-
rience (the fee varies depending on the theater).
Even in a time of prosperity, charging an extra
fee for a slasher film would be a laughable idea.
But to charge extra when the economy is as bad
as it is now - especially for a film as crappy as
this - is downright criminal.
As with most slasher movies, the plot is
simple. Jensen Ackles (TV's "Supernatural")
plays Tom, the son of a deceased mine owner
who returns to his hometown to sell his father's
business. He's still in love with his old flame,
played by Jaime King ("Sin City"). The thing
is, she's married to his old friend Axel (Kerr
Smith, "Final Destination"), who has somehow
managed to become sheriff even though he
looks like he's fresh out of college and wouldn't
know the difference between a handgun and
a blow-dryer. Meanwhile, there's a killer run-
ning around, dismembering innocent bystand-
ers with a pickax and sending their dislodged
hearts to the police in candy boxes.
To be fair, "MBV 3D" is entertaining for
its first third. But it's still the kind of trashy
movie that is completely devoid of any sense
of good taste or subtlety. Perhaps this is most
evident in the scene where one unlucky lass,
completely naked expect for a pair of stiletto
heels, runs around a motel screaming her head
off as the masked maniac closes in on her. It's
beyond ridiculous, but it's also humorous and,

"Hot damn! Driving in 3D is almost as crazy as driving or
yes, entertaining.
Unfortunately, as the film progresses it suf-
fers the same fate as a lot of drawn-out slash-
er films: It becomes boring. Honestly, once
you've seen one masked maniac chopping up
brainless victims, you've seen them all. "MBV
3D" doesn't just adhere to the formula - it
inadvertently spoofs it. It's perhaps the most
insipid, pandering and generic slasher movie
imaginable.
Clearly, a filmgoer has to have a sense of
humor when it comes to slasher movies. But at
this point, when the sub-genre has been virtu-
ally hacked to death by every country in every
setting imaginable, the filmmakers have to
have a sense of humor as well. 2006's "Hatch-
et" was a good example of a slasher movie that
could be scary, fun and smart. "MBV 3D," on
the other hand, takes itself painfully serious-

n acid!"
ly, never realizing how stupid it really is. The
film just doesn't grasp what makes the genre
work. There's no tension, no atmosphere and
no originality whatsoever. It relies solely on
splashy gore effects and sleazy elements to
keep the audierice awake. It's lazy, offensive
filmmaking.
With all that said, what about the 3D? After
all, that's the gimmick that will presumably
draw the crowds, right? Unfortunately, the
entire film is in 3D, meaning it feels like you're
looking at a hologram for two hours, and the
occasional flying pickax or geyser of blood
aside, the effects just aren't that impressive. In
fact, they're distracting rather than thrilling.
"My Bloody Valentine 3D" could very well be
the epitome of Hollywood laziness. Then again,
maybe that's giving more credit than what this
frankly inconsequential film really deserves.

The silver
screen s most
ofensive ilms
really don't like to throw the player simultaneously broke after
word "offensive" around. I've watching this awful gay-joke of
always assumed that it's used a movie. Serves her right. It's a
only by crit- mockery of gay rights for the sake
.ics who don't of an implausible scenario. We're
understand the , still laughing at two men kissing?
intent of other It's especially uncool after the
people's work. a' passage of California's Proposi-
But sometimes, tion 8.
some things "Rambo: First Blood Part "
are undeniably Offensive To: Liberals
offensive. BLAKE John Rambo goes to Vietnam in
Over winter GOBLE 1985 to kill a shit ton of Vietnamese
break, audiences and Russians? That's called a con-
spent $165 million to see one of servative wet dream.
the most insulting films of the "The Day The Earth Stood Still"
last decade. It was a manipula- Offensive To: Conservatives
tive, unintelligible wreck about The left does have its share of
a dull couple who happened to insulting propaganda, but "The
own a wacky dog. Yep, "Marley & Day" happens to be the most puer-
Me," offended me. Think of it like ile. When Keanu Reeves tells the
this: The film is supposed to be human race that we've treated the
about life lessons learned from a Earth so badly that he must destroy
pooch, but it was poorly conceived it, we get it. Even Al Gore wasn't
beyond belief. Sure, it was cute, this rigid.
but what did anyone get from it? "Audition"
Hem and haw all you want, but Offensive To: Good taste
folks who saw the movie know Violence can be a powerful
that the scene involving dogs cinematic device ("Bonnie and
being unleashed at the beach to Clyde," "Hostel"). But when a young
the tune of The Verve's "Lucky woman graphically saws off a man's
Man" was just awful. Insulting leg with a wire - gag - the only
to good ideas, good taste and all question to ask hereiswhy? Why!?
around cinematic competency,
the flick was just kinda, totally ...
offensive.
Now, offensive may seem a lit- Insulting the
tle harsh, but it makes sense. Any s n .l .
film that's deliberately insulting sensibi les
to the intelligence of film-going o bod
audiences ought to be considered of every d y
offensive. Yes, it can still be a
good film (see: "In the.Company everywhere.
of Men"). But what films are truly
offensive? I've been thinking
about this as objectively as pos-
sible. And I'm not talking about "Knocked Up"
blue talk, bare bodies, bloodlet- Offensive To: Feminism
ting or the debatable classics like Katherine Heigl gives up her
"Triumph of the Will" or "Broken fast-track career, her dream of
Blossoms." I'm talking about films meetinga decent guy and all of her
that deliberately ridicule their hopes and aspirations to rectify
audiences . - a horriblylif-alteringclne-night-~
Different things are offensive stand? Oh, and this sucked as a date
to different people, but here are a movie.
few films that, anyway you slice "The Other Sister"
them, offend: Offensive To: The mentally chal-
"Songofthe South" lenged
Offensive To: African-Americans When Robert Downey Jr.
Remember that episode of"The explained in "Tropic Thunder" that
Simpsons" where someone explains you "never go full retard" in a film,
the "evil gene" and how only Walt he was onto something. Mental
Disney and Adolph Hitler had it? retardation as a gimmick? See this
Well here's the proof for Disney, the film - or better, don't - and you'll
film's producer. "Song of the South" get it. It's self-explanatory.
is incredibly insensitive, was pick- "VanWilder"
eted by the NAACP for good rea- Offensive To: Education
son and has inspired a lifetime of Gratuitous flesh, bad Indian
deserved ridicule for Uncle Remus's accents, bulldogsemen consump-
rendition of "Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Da." tion and enough laxatives to almost
It'll make you cringe a helluva lot kill a dude: Yup, "Van Wilder"
more than "The Jazz Singer.", really is the voice of a post "Animal
"I Now Pronounce You Chuck & House" college generation isn't it?
Larry"
Offensive To: The LGBT com- Blake is also offended by
munity e-mails. Be polite if you e-mail
My sister said her TV and DVD him at bgoblue@umich.edu.



Bird flies to his ,usual ig

By JOSH BAYER
Daily Music Editor
Eight albums into a colorfully
protean career, Andrew Bird has
yet to release a
stinker, or even a
moderately bad-
smelling album. ew Bird
Noble Beast is no
exception. But Noble Beast
despite sporting a Fat Possum
brawny lineup of
consistently high-
quality tracks, something about
Beast feels a tad watered-down.
Maybe it's the gnawing sense that,
for the first time, Bird is primar-
ily taking stock of the sonic terri-
tory he has staked out on previous
albums instead of plowing forth into
uncharted terrain.
This isn't to say that all of Noble
Beast is self-derivative (and even
when it is, it's mostly salvaged by
Bird's keen ear for melody and
impressively ornate strong struc-
tures). But Bird is at his whimsical
bestwhenhe's spreadinghis wings.
"Anonanimal" starts out frigidly
beautiful, with arpeggiated violin
plucks and achy strings evocative
of a yawning ice cavern before it

spikes o
play of
proggyg
prickles
Bird ha
Instrum
sleepwa
ber ofz
violin lo
captivat
Much
tation co
eclectic
"Not aR
along on
clinking
and what
of seashe
U
But
"Master
brittle to
claps an'
On hi
Bird co:
truly live

ff into a hard-edged inter- erecting sprawling sonic mausole-
frenetic drumming and ums which invite the listener to get
guitar searing. The track lost. This exploratory quality gives
with a gritty intensity that the album's avant-garde songs a
s never explored before. high replay value, especially when
rental "Unfolding Fans" coupled with the swooping flux of
lks through a hazy cham- Bird's shapeshifting croon.
zipper noises and trilled The drawback is that a hand-
tops that shimmer with a ful of Beast's relatively standard-
ing otherness. issue cuts come off as a bit vanilla
of the album's experimen- in comparison with its more
smes in its inventive use of adventurous moments. "Effigy,"
kitchen-sink percussion. while possessing a tenderly wist-
obot, But a Ghost" scuttles ful refrain about "fake conversa-
a rhythmic spiderweb of tions on a nonexistent telephone"
silverware, treated static feels like a mere blueprint of the
t sounds like the shuffling more compelling barnyard bal-
ells. Labyrinthine standout ladry on The Swimming Hour.
"Natural Disaster," though plenty
pretty, sounds like it could have
been an outtake from any of Bird's
noriginal. last three albums, lending it an
.ua i expendable air. While these more
substantial. predictable tracks are anything
but bad, they do little to justify
Beast's plump 54-minute length.
This is especially true with the
swarm" clinks eerily on a gratuitously epic "Souverian," a
exture of castanets, hand- sleepy-eyed exercise in earnestness
d washboard scrubbing. that wanders adrift for seven min-
s more left-leaning tracks, utes without ever climaxing.- The
nstructs baroque pop that track is unfortunately placed at the
es up to the word baroque, end of the album, dragging it to a

close with an unbecoming sputter.
Moreover, the straight-laced som-
berness on "Souverian" represents
an underlying trend of "adult" seri-
ousness that permeates Beast, for
better and for worse.
Still, amid such a hearty song-
cycle, these are considerably minor
gripes. And while'Bird's trademark
feather-hearted quirkiness is in
shorter supply here than usual, the
album's more upbeat offerings still
sparkle with contagious optimism.
"Fitz & Dizzyspells" rollicks forth at
a stomp-along tempo, sandwiching
a free-fluttering violin solo between
relentlessly hooky verses. The hook-
factor is equally high on downy lead
single "Oh No." And Bird's book-
ish preference for literate, image-
conjuring lyrics rife with five-dollar
words is just as vividly wacky as
ever, as he warbles about everything
from "flailing fetal fleas" to chinless
men scratching theirbeards.
To call Noble Beast a disappoint-
mentcwould be way offthe mark;it's
chock-full of juicy substance. But in
a portfolio as strong and innovative
as Bird's, the album feels somewhat
minor. Regardless, it will definitely
give Birdwatchers a lot to sink their
talons into.

FILM REVIEW
Turning the banal into the brilliant

IOM0013119

By HANS YADAV
Daily Arts Writer
There is nothing more tragic or frightening
than not understanding your
purpose or place in the world.
Life moves fast - if you can't
stay above the hustle, the Last Chance
changes and even the fail-
ures, you end up alienated and Have
detached like Harvey Shine. At Showcase
"Last Chance Harvey" and Qualityl6
follows Shine (Dustin Hoff- Oerture
man, "Meet the Fockers") as
he drifts through his life like
a ghost. Lonely after a failed marriage, discon-
nected from his daughter and trodden upon by
the changing pace of his job, Shine accepts every
inadequacy in his life.
Enter Kate Walker (Emma Thompson,
"Stranger Than Fiction"), a kindred spirit who is
equally unhappy with her life. Her job at the air-
port - handing out post-flight surveys - prompts
constant rejection from fliers. She is single, and
her mother (who is equally lonely) refuses to
leave her alone. So it's only fitting for Harvey and
Kate to find each other in an airport and discover
mutual understanding in the process.
What sets this movie apart from similar films

about loneliness and soulmate-finding is its poi-
gnant subtleties. Take, for instance, the moment
when Harvey sees his daughter at her wed-
ding. They come together, embrace and then ...
nothing. There is a pause between them as they
search for words. The moment is only a few
short seconds, but the precious silence reveals
everything. The growing gap in their relation-
ship is undeniable. A father should have more
than enough things to say to a daughter who is
about to be married. And yet Harvey can't man-
age to say a sentence before awkward paralysis
sets in. Similar moments are scattered through-
out the movie and add a such a deft touch that
the movie survives without many extravagances
or convoluted plot twists.
of course, the subtleties wouldn't work
without superb acting from both Hoffman and
Thompson. The two add uncanny depth and life
to their characters. With his distant expressions
and beaten demeanor, Hoffman perfectly encap-
sulates a man whose life has no joy. Thompson is
a woman so accustomed to the disappointments
and banality of her life that she flees from any-
one and anything that will yank her out of her
unusual "comfort" zone. Her smiles are simple
and perfunctory, but closer attention reveals the
true sadness behind them.
But everything changes when Harvey and

Kate getctogether. Their silences melt into laugh-
ter and the two characters finally reveal a side of
themselves they have kept bottled up for years.
Love (and pain) know no boundaries, and the
two end up being perfectly quirky together.
Still, the movie does have a few out-of-place
scenes at the end. They are products of Holly-
wood's uncanny ability to ruin movies by adding
over-the-top, useless dramatic scenes to milk
even more emotion out of the audience. Luckily,
'Harvey' is full of
poignant subtleties.
these scenes manage to survive because of Hoff-
man's and Thompson's stellar performances.
"Harvey" is truly a great film because of its
characters. They are real people with real prob-
lems who are seemingly trapped in their own
lives. The movie is inspirational because pain,
misery, and desolation are all part of the experi-
ence that is life. But no matter howomany failures
or how many heartaches one may suffer, there is
always at least one more chance for redemption.
Af

I


6

6A - Tuesday, January 20, 2009
the michigan daily


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

parking
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central campus. 734-741-9300
PRKG SPACES 2 blocks from B-
School at Hill and Church. $75/mo.
734-260 4003.
PRKG. SPOT AVAIL. on central cam-
pus. $80/mo. 248-348-8205.
for rent
060 A
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
*** 2-BEDROOM apartments0***
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts, great location, Free
internet. 912 S. Forest. Call or email
Post Realty for showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
1 BDRM. & EFE APTS
$500-$600
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
02.04.2009 - START planning now! U
of M Housing Fair in the Michigan
Union ballroom; we will be there with
deals, specials, giveaways and fancy
dress! Stop by and find your housing
for next year...now! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200.
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.om
2 BDRM apt. 1004 S. Forest #B1.
May Lease. $800/mo.
Carlsonproperties.om 734 332 6000.
Z3 BDRM APT1,lA4-S Loet #33. i
May L655L$I200A5Yo.
Carlsonpropertiescom 734 332 6000.
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdrm.
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
6 Bedroom Apartments
$2400-2800
Sept. 2009
Copi Properties
734-663-5609

Wilson hite
611 CHURCH;
BRAND NEw
APARTMENTS
WITH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
Cipscale 5 bedroom
apartments @611
Curchl Thegj are
newj constructed 5
bedroom, 2.5 bath
apartments, with al/
the 1testancigreatest
amcntiea, like a
washer and drger in
unit'

sonWhire
We Have Moved!
Yes, we finally
moved onto
campus; you can
now find us next
to Pizza House
aft
Wilson White
Management
Campus Office
616 Church
Ann Arbor, Mich
48104

5 BDRM. FALL 09. 530 S. Fourth. 2
bath. Free prkg. & ldry: 5 min. walk to
Union. $2399 + util. 734-709-5709.
6 BDRM APPARTMENTS
Sept. 2009
$2400-$2800
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
954 568 2514
MUST SEE! BI-level duplex just one
block to Rackham. 3 bdrm., 3 bath. fea-
tures dishwasher, carpet, fireplace and
a separate Dining Room.
Parking included.
Call Pat 734-663-4101.

Offer applies for F, G, & H units when
you rent a two bedroom apartment
(Ends Friday, January 16, 2009)
We offer many amenities such as
Frea WireleIntnet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge
Outdoor Pool, TV Loung
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-76i1-268f0
www.unversitytowers-mi.com
Univer'sity
Towe
6 BDRM. HOUSE on N. Thayer 3
BATHS, Furn., free ldry, prkg. Sept.
lease. 734-786-0249.
7 BDRM. FALL 09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3500 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Bwn. State and 5th.
$3775 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
Studio & 1
S a i t B d rm . U n it s
Tower Plaza Condominium
aniet&senibre-Or alctkflites Call
CllBrian omsk:.
734-663-1530
7-BEDROOM HOUSE available for
Fall 09!! Awesome student rental on
Sylvan with 3 new full baths and
kitchen, parking, and laundry Short
walk from campus and stadium. Ten-
ants responsible for all utilities. Call
Tom (734)277-6748 fmo ure info.
904 S. FOREST # 2. May 09. 4 large
bdrms. 1350 Geddes for Fall 09. Large
house. Both fully furnished, A/C, free
laundry. Parking avail. 734-475-2577
or baltzellproperties.net
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished
Call today 741-9657
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co 734-368-0256-
SPACIOUS I BDRMS at Hill and
Church. $825 - $925. 734-260-4003.
Apartments Avlable!

nWilsonWhite
401 East
Madison
Bravodhiew (! r
BedKroo + Std
61prtrvv.evts -or F
2009, corwver of
McAsos avd
Pac oAro. Floor pLoyAs

6

100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
4 BEDROOMAPARTMENT:
To see it, isto say WOW! A Unique
and spacious apt. in a beautiful con-
verted house. Hardwood floors. high
ceilings, furnished, dishwasher, large
yard. www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '04
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
IMMEDIATE & FALL
OCCUPANCY
Great location: 1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Call Today!

II 734)761-8000 or primesh.com '

60


RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, January 20, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 "Strike three, _!" 38 Clip contents 52 Got emotional,
1 Blurttout 4 Brady Bill 39 Contented with "up
4 In the box enforcement org. kitten's sound 54 Occupied
9 Works with, as 5 Robber 41 Yellowstone 55 Unnerving
clay 6Alla __: in 2/2 herd 56 Old Scratch
14 "_ Maria" time, musically 44 Hapless sort 61 "What's up, __?"
15 Painful sensation 7 Buddy List user 46 Bowl game 62 Card game
16 Hunter among 8 Former Alaska venue whose play may
the stars senator Stevens 48 Job description proceed
17 Quite a distance 9 Corporate list clockwise or
from home leaders 50 Reebok counterclockwise
19 Beginning 10 Pasta sauce herb alternative 63 Short life story?
20 Like falling off8_ 11 Illuminated 51 One way to chop 64 Dieter'sconcern
21 Anticipatory time 12 Fetch player onions 65 MD's co-workers
22 Coffee holder 13 _. Balls: Hostess ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Profligate snacks
2Tropicaloiper !Ripnng agents MA 5 T A T E T 0
monologue, e.g. assciated with
31 C atch inalnet pea gpla t s ME I A nR E NZ N A R C S
32 Danced at Rio's 25 Big name in 7 R I C K 0 R T R E A T
Carnioul, tractors S OL OE D EE LE R
perhaps 26 Wine lover's TRAILO F T EAR S
6 October destination R I N S O R O N N M S G
hirthstone 27 Complainer
SStouspout 28Marine shockers I N G E 0 I L E R H OW L
40OHoliday 30 Klutz A GE SNEER I O N LA
evergreen 33ODiwinutive T WI S T OF FTOP S
42 Coretraining "Austin Puwers" Y A O M I S E S
4 uocles character T A K E O N E S T I M E
43 Longtime Stern 34ODustpan's T K N SIIM
rival partner A L I G N R E IN A R E A
45 'The OldMan 35 Motocross four- L I R A S M A L O T O L L
and the Sea,"for wheeler, briefly L E A P A L E R S E L F
one 37 Minor argument x
47 Si nificant musicx1209

Issa Properties
Furnished (optional) 1 & 2 Bdrm.
Includes heat, water, and parking
3 & 4 Bdrm. Houses Available
Now Leasing Fall 2009
Call Today for our Specials
734-066-4446
Info@issaproperties.com
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr./dryer. 2 fridges. front porch &
deck in back. no coin lndry. $3400. 502
Benjamin. Call 248-214-8708. Fall
2009.
6 BDRM. FALL 09. 716 E. Kingsley.
3 bath, 3 prkg. spaces. Off State St.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 mi. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $3000/mo. 734-3204026.
WlsoWht
How e: Available foll
2009
3 benaoms:
529 N. Division $1595
244 Murray $1765
510 Miller $1695
4 bedrooms:
1119 Granger $2395
337 Third $1895
113 Hill $2050
5 Bedrooms:
314 E. Summit $1995
515 S. Fourth $3145
6 Bedrooms:
504 Catherine $3495
804 Lawrence $3545
705 S. Division $3925
7 Bedrooms:
222 N. Thayer $3995
12 Bedrooms:
1307 S. State $5500

AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments with 3 to 6
bedrooms very close to central campus.
Lots of 2 bedroom apts. and smaller
avallable too! All are atrartively
priced, most include parking, many are
furnished and some include utilities.
The rush is on and we are actively
showing housing to hundreds of people
each week. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAILABLE MAY 1 bedroom. 428
S. Division. $875 negotiable. Call
734-996-1991 for viewing.
AVAIL. IMMED. 2 bdrm., hardwood
floor, full basement,.2 car garage,
$1150/month. Heat and water included.
Call (734) 662-9446.-
CAMPUS 2 BED, 2 BATH:
Exceptionally large apts., super loca-
tion:51 5W alnut St. (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
PERFECT
LOCATIONS!
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, era sparlding
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm a.. with balconies or
patios. Walk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.

FEE LUNCH!I
AVAILABLE HOUSESAND apts.
for fall. Contact PMSI at 734-665-
5552 or www.pmsiproperties.com
4 BLOCKS FROM Union. Big hse: 5
lg. bdrms. (5-7 persons) Living/dining
rms. 2 kitch., 2 bath., 2 study, Free
Idry. & parking. $3200 (734) 717-2017.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
34Bdrm. Apt.
0 S. Forest
$1500 Copi Properties
7-663-5609
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Great 5 bdrm., 2 bath luxury apt. Still
available at 1115 Willard. Free prkg.
$3299/mo. Campus Realty
1335 South U. (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
EVENING AND WEEKEND appoint-
ments available too if you need them!
Wilson White Management
734-995-9200.
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
NEED TO BE on N. Campus?:
Check out oar Walnut St. and Geddes
Ave. locations! 1, 2, & 3 bdrms near
CC Little bus stop.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
wed aet e a04o
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.ainiarbOrapartments.net
or visit uS at
1700 Geddes Ave.

a

Deadline for line ads is 11:30am one business day prior to publication.
Rates: $4.30 per linefor the first issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional consecutive issue. * Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contactour stafffor details u Students may receive a 25% discountwhen
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only) * All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
have been established a We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check * For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives
day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days

Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parkng
030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050 - Furniture
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
080 - Services

broadcast 1 2
medium
49 Cheez Whiz a1
maker
53 Black-and-yellow 17
instructional book 20
series 2
57 Actress Falco 2
5e Canonized Mle.
59Theatersupport
gp.
601482 caravel
61 Persian Gulf
emirate an as
64Astor, notably
66 Chilling '
67 Vietnamese, e.g. a
68Pint atthe pub 47
69 Falsifies, as 53
accounting books
70 High schooles
71 Pink Floyd
guitarist Barrett 61 82
DOWN es
1 Jungle adventure
2 Funicello's s
"Beach Party"
costar BynTodd
(c)2009I

3 4 5 6 7 a 9 10 11 12 13
15 1$
18 19
21 22
24 25 26 27 28
30 31
32 33 34 3s "6
48 49 50 51. s2
54 55 5$ 57
s5a s59 60
63 84 65
87 68
70 71
dMcClary 01/20/09
'ribune Media Services, Inc.

I
I
I

2 lines 8.60
3lines 12.90
4 lines 17.20
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abb
TMD for falure to pubish an adveti
shal be limited to pubishing in a su
wi. be responsble for classified adv
Rates: Al changes shown on the o
consecutive rate if requested and p
Advertisers may cancel an ad befor
been published. Refusal: Al ads a
resale of tickets at more than face v
accepting advertising,

?0.

1
r
G

1/.2U 21.5u 2.0u 090-
25.80 3225 38.70 093-
39.40 43.00 51,60 095-

reviations as defined by TMD wil be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
sement for any reason, or /orpublshing incorrect ads in a specified issue
bsequent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
ertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication.
pen rates unes are consecutive insertions An ad maybi extended at a
aid in full by 11:30 am on originaly scheduled ending date. Refunds:
ae pubication deadline, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
re subject to editing and approval We do not publish advertisements for
alue. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to

120-
123-
125-
130
140-
150-
160-

Help Wanted
Summer Employment
Chld Care
- Tickets & Travel
Announcements
Websites
Music
Roommates
Food & Entertainment
- Personal
-Pets

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


t

A,


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Tuesday, January 20, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January 20, 2009 - 7A

INAUGURATION
From Page 1A
Nathaniel Eli Coats Styer said he's
just excited to be in the city when
Obama is sworn in.
"I don't have tickets to the inau-
guration, but just going down there
and being in the city is worth it,"
he said. "For me it was like there is
no way I couldn't go down to D.C.
because I put so much work into
(getting Obama elected) this fall."
No matter the hassle in attend-
ing the inauguration, Styer said he
believes that many students have
such strong support for Obama and
politics that they were willing to
make the trek to D.C.
"You sawthatkind of outpouring
election night when everyone went.
to the Diag," Styer said. "On that
night everyone knew they needed
to go to the Diag. (Today) everyone
knows they should be in DC."
But College Democrats aren't
the only ones making their way to
D.C. The NAACP bus left yesterday
at around 5 p.m. to take 47 students
to the inauguration. The group

charged $40 for members and $50
for non-members to ride the bus.
Andrea James, president of the
University's chapter of the NAACP,
said the group will only be staying
in D.C. for a day in order to mini-
mize costs by not staying ina hotel.
"We will be leaving around 7
p.m. and getting back to Ann Arbor
at about 5 a.m.," she said before the
group left last night. "It's kind of
turnaround trip."
Hotel rooms in the city - if there
are any left - have rates starting at
about $1,000.
The 50 students who are in
Washington, D.C. with Multi-
cultural Understanding through
Non-traditional Discovery Oppor-
tunities (MUNDO) understand the
difficulty of finding lodging in the
city. They're staying an hour and
a half outside of D.C. at the Marlu
Ridge Conference Retreat and Con-
ference Center, in Maryland.
LSA freshman Nina Idemudia,
a member of the group, said that
despite staying outside the city, the
group is excited to take part in the
atmosphere.
"It's awesome to be in a city with

so much support for Obama and
where everyone is all about change
and excited for the next four years
to come is inspiring and awesome,"
She said.
LSA senior Jason Emmendor-
fer said he went to D.C. with some
friends on a charter bus, not as part
of an organized trip. He said that
to keep costs down his group won't
be staying overnight, instead it will
be leaving D.C. at around 1 a.m. on
Wednesday morning.
"This was kind of a last minute
thing for us that we would be able
to go," he said. "I am so incredibly
excited that we are going to be right
-in the heart of D.C. when all of this
is going on."
LSA senior Justine Herron,
who is going to the inauguration
with her family, said she was lucky
enough to get tickets to the event
from a U.S. senator. She added
that she won't have to worry about
shelling out the money for a hotel
because her sister lives in D.C.
"We have tickets to the actual
inauguration, but there are five of
us and we only have four tickets,"
Herron said.

BOND
From Page 1A
race should not be considered
in remedying racial injustice is
ludicrous," he said. "There are no
non-racial remedies for remedying
racial discrimination.
Bond made particular reference
to the University, which was a
focal point in the debate over affir-
mative action earlier this decade.
"This school - and not this
school alone, but particularly this
school - stood up for justice and
equality when affirmative action
was challenged," he said.
WILMORE
From Page 1A
been for black people to break into
presidential politics and the pride
that corresponds with their advance-
mentsinthe past few decades.
Although Wilmore began his
speech talking about the impor-
tance of Obama's election and the
inauguration, the session slowly
drifted away from topics related
to Martin Luther King, Jr. Day and
focused more on Wilmore's per-
sonal career.
Wilmore first decided to enter
show business when the roof of his
house literally caved in.
"It's funny how having nothing
really prepares you for anything,"
he said.
Early in his career, Wilmore
began to do stand-up comedy
about race and politics, but he felt
the job didn't quite fit and decided
instead to write for television.
He said his first big break was
working on the show "In Living
Color." The most remarkable part
of working on the show, Wilmore
said, was that there was a predom-

Encouraging the audience to
continue working for social jus-
tice, Bond said that King did not
win civil rights victories on his
own.
"We must not forget that Dr.
King stood before, and with, thou-
sands," Bond said. "This movement
made Martin, Martin did not make
the movement."
Amie Snapke, an Ann Arbor,
elementary school teacher who
was at the event, said she plans to
use some of Bond's ideas to teach
civilrights historyto her students.
She said students are more inter-
ested in civil rights after Obama's
election.
inantly black staff.
"It really instilled pride in what
I was doing," he said. "White writ-
ers at the time had no problem get-
ting jobs on black shows, but it was
impossible for a black writer to get
a job on a white show."
From there, Wilmore moved
on to work for many well-known
shows, including "The Fresh
Prince of Bel-Air," "Sister, Sister"
and "The Jamie Foxx Show."
Wilmore said he then wanted
to take his career even further and
decided to stop being a staff writer
and start being a show writer. The
first show to credit him as a writer
was "The PJs."
"It was almost like the black
Simpsons," he said of "The PJs." "I
really wanted to do a black satiri-
cal show, I really felt that really
quite hadn't been done."
Wilmore then paired up with
Bernie Mac to create "The Bernie
Mac Show," which he character-
ized as a show with some realism.
Despite earning an Emmy for
the show, Fox Broadcasting Com-
pany fired him from "The Ber-
nie Mac Show" six months later
because of content disagreements.

"The kids are super-excited. It's
great to see the kids excited," she
said.
LSA senior Vanessa Andre said
she was glad Bond pushed people
to keep fighting for civil rights.
"He was saying that we're not
done yet," she said. "I think that's
probably the most important part.
of the whole speech, and we've got
to keep saying that."
Bond ended his speech by echo-
ing Obama's campaign slogan.
"Now we know we can, if only
we will."
John A. Weiss, Jr.
contributed to this report
After shortly writing for NBC,
Wilmore was contacted by "The
Daily Show with."
Duringthespeech,Wilmoresaid
that when he first started working
at "The Daily Show," he thought to
himself "Man, Iam home."
"It has been a destination that
was in the making from years
before." he said, "All the stuff I had
done, all the satire and politics and
racism really all came together in
'The Daily Show."'
After Wilmore spoke ofhis career
in television, he opened up the floor
for questions, which focused pri-
marily on his personal life.
After the event, several students
expressed displeasure about the
focus of the questions posed by
members of the audience, saying
they failed to address the issues at
the heart of the day.
"None of the questions were
really inspired by what this day is
about," said University alum Josh-
ua Ward.
"I wanted to ask him, 'Why
are you here on this day and what
does it mean to you?"' said Steph-
anie Somerman, a Public Policy
graduate student.


GRADUATION
From Page 1A
and was named the 14 wealthiest
American by Forbes Magazine.
Coleman described Page as a role
model for University students and
said she has been thinking of him as
a potential commencement speaker
for some time..

"I think he's just the epitome of
the kind of student that we pro-
duce at Michigan that goes on to
change the world," Coleman said.
Coleman added that she feltvery
fortunate to have Page delivering
the commencement address.
"It's incredibly wonderful," she
said. "The stars just aligned and we
were able to get on his calendar and
he thought it was just a wonderful

opportunity himself"
There is no word on what
Page will discuss in his address,
although when he delivered the
College of Engineering gradua-
tion address in 2005, he talked
about a broad range of issues,
including Google's mission and
innovation in the workplace, and
told students to save the world by
building their dreams.


CRISLER
From Page 1A
ketball coach, said in a statement
on Monday that the facility would
greatly enhance the University's
basketball program.
"Having our coaches' offices,
strength training, video theatre,;
training room and practice court
all connected to Crisler Arena will
only enhance student-athletes'
development and our efficiency as a

staff," he said.
In the same statement, Kevin
Borseth, the women's basketball
coach, echoed Beilein's comments.
"Thegoal ofourprogramis tocre-
ate an environment that will foster
what's best for the development of
the student-athlete and their suc-
cess, both on the court and in the
classroom," he said. "This facility,
and everything that it will bring to
our program, will help us achieve
those goals."
When.asked about the proposal,

Regent Julia Darlow declined to
comment, saying the proposal had
not yet been presented to the Board
of Regents. Darlow said she looks
forward to receiving the proposal
on Thursday.
Jickling Lyman Powell Associ-
ates, Inc., an architectural firm
out of Troy, will be responsible for
designing the facility. If the project
is approved Thursday, a schematic
design and construction schedule
will be presented to the regents at
a later time.


WANT TO WORK FOR THE DAILY?
COME TO OUR LAST MASS MEETING.
TODAY, JAN. 20, 8 P.M.

420 MAYNARD ST.

the michigan daily

APARTMENTS AVAILABLE
FALL 2009
3 Bedrooms
727 Packard (Furnished) $1890
915 Oakland (Grand Victorian Home)
9 $2295
1015 Packard (Near State and Packard)
$1355
205 N. Division (Cathedral Ceilings)
$1995
4 Bedrooms
1203 Oakland $2825
929 Church $3195
731 Packard (Newly Remodeled)
$2695
5 Bedrooms
205 N. Division (Historic Home) $3125
916 Sybil (Brand New House) $3295
1021 E. University (Across From Sgt.
Peppers) $2495
1307 S. State $2595
6 Bedrooms
401 E. Madison (Brand New!) $3995
1014 Vaughn (Plenty of Parking)
$3695
1814 Geddes (Close to Diag) $3795
8 Bedrooms
325 E. Jefferson (Victorian Mansion)
$4295
Many Studio, 1, and 2 bedrooms
apartments available too! Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.
GREAT PACKARD LOCATIONS:
526 and 917, large balconies/patios,
heat, water, parking, furnished, dish-
washers, laundry. Huge 2 bedroom
apartments great for 3-4 people!
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100.
HISTORICAL BLDG- 1.5 blocks
from campus. 6 Bdrm.-$2,800. Avail.
Sept 1, 2009. 3 Parking spaces in-
cluded. Unique, convenient. Call (734)
649-5549 anytime.
HUGE 3 BDRM. bi-level apt. avail. in
prime location 1 & 1/2 baths. Heat and
water nl. $1999/ mo. 734-665-8825.
www.campusrealty.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Bale., A/C, prkg., ldry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
SMAY LEASES AVAILABLE
$500 OFF FIRST MONTHS RENT!
Up to $500 on select 2 bedrooms
Ends 1-16-09
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680.
ONE MONTH FREE!!!
Plus get up to $500 off your first
months rent!
This ends 1-16-09
*Rent a full 2 bed, get 1 entry
for the drawing
Ends 1-16-09
*applies to F, G, and H only
734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com

HOUSE FOR RENT @ 904 Packard.
5or 6 people. Free prkg. No pets. Free CAMP
ldry. $2650/mo.+util g248-895-481 8F AVAIL
FALL 2009. PEPPERS Properties. 3 3 Bedrooms
bdrm. apts. East U. furn. heat/water
incl. on site prkg. 810-231-0229. 720 West W
umcampushousing.com West Side Ho.
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. 911 Oakland (
Visit www.CampusMgt.com for the 1116 Hill (A
most detailed listings in town! RENT $1785
ANY OF THESE AVAILABLE 5 Bedruoms
HOUSES OR APARTMENTS AND
WE'LL KNOCK $500 OFF THE 611 Church (A
FIRST MONTH'S RENT WHEN 743 Packard (
YOU MENTION THIS AD. Things 816 Packard
are moving quickly so call 663-4101 $2995
now to schedule a personal showing! 1014 Vaughn
Houses and Large Apartments:
515 Catherine - 6 BR / 2 Studies / 2 6 Bedrooms
BA / $3495
203 N. Ingalls -3 BR / 3 BA / $2595 921 Dewey
516 S. Fourth Ave. - 5 BR / all utils. $3095
incl. / $2525
809 Lawrence #1 - 4 BR / 2.5 BA / Studios, 1, an
$2245 able; and so
1334 N. University Ct. - 5 BR / 1.5 negotiable to
BAI/$3295 Mngmn
1211 Washtenaw Ct. #1 - 3 BR / wwwilonw
$2270 campuswilss
912 E. Ann St. - 4 BR / RENTED campss@wil
1349 Geddes - 5 BR / RENTED
811 Catherine - 6 BR / RENTED WE BUY
535 S. Fifth Ave. - 4 BR / RENTED HOUSES wa
1331 Geddes --6 BR / RENTED rental house
934 Greenwood #2 - 4 BR / RENTED
408 E. Jefferson #1 - 6 BR / RENTED
511 Lawrence-6 BR /RENTED WWW.
517 Linden - 5 BR / RENTED (7
1031 Michigan - 4 BR / RENTED 1 & 2 bdrm
206 N. Thayer - 4 BR / RENTED 5 min. walk, I
1342 N. University Ct. - 3 BR /
RENTED
1218 Washtenaw Ct. #2 - 5 BR /
RENTED
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
MAY - MAY 2 BEDRPOM:
331 Packard, large eat-in kitchen w/
dishwasher, tons of sunlight, furnished,
parking, laundry. (734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com

'US PROPERTIES FUNKY AND DRAMATIC 2 bdrni. PART-TIME ITALIAN tutor needed
ABLE MAY 2009 700+ sq. ft. 2 bath 507-. Fifth Ave. for 7-year-old child. E-mail.
May or Sept '09. $1400. 734-260-4003. mhamarc@comcast.net
GREAT LOCATION, 2 doors east of
ashington (Charming Old CCRB 5 bdrm., 2 bath. house has tiICets & trave
me) $1795 screened front porch, giant Living
Furnished) $2395 Room, d/w & microwave. Parking in
cross from South Quad) lot behind house. 2 bdrms. could be 100
used as doubles! Call Pat 734-663-4101.
SPRING BREAK 09 TRAVEL FREE
Above Amers!) $3995 sev'iCes wHottest Destinations, Hottest Parties
Packard and State) $2995 LOW LOW Prices!!Before its too late!!
d (Remodeled Kitchen) BOOK NOW!! 1-800-426-7710
)0 $295www.sunsplashtours.com
(Furnished)$2995

HAVE YOU CONSIDERED teach-
ing? Science and math teachers are in
demand nationwide. Thousands of dol-
lars in tuition scholarships are available
to become a science or math teacher.
Learn how you may qualify. Science or
math degree preferred, with 2.7 G.P.A.
Information Session - Tuesday, Jan
27th
7pm - Malletts Creek Library
3090 E. Eisenhower Parkway
Ann Arbor, MI 48108
To RSVP or more info 419-530-2060
www.teachut3.utoledo.edu
teachut3@utoledo.edu
Now is the time to become a teacher.
WOMEN'S CHAMBER CHORUS
seeking new members, all ages. Mon,
10-11:30 am, call 734-761-5471.

(Furnished, Dishwasher)
nd 2 Bedrooms also avail-
.me May rates are now
ao! Wilson White
:734-995-9200
hitemanagement.com
sonwhitemanagement.
CAMPUS RENTAL
nt to sell your student
248).626-0614.
800FULLER.COM
734) 769-7520
m., modern, clean, quiet
MED, DENT, and Campus

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
help wanted
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BABYSITTER NEEDED AFTER-
SCHOOL. Must be friendly w/own car
& ref. 649-2401 or appelkraut@tds.net
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
TUTOR NEEDED FOR 5th grader
Monday, Tuesday and Thursday
evenings 5-6:30 p.m. @ $20/hr. Quali-
fied candidates MUST have proven
teaching/tutoring experience. Sessions
to be conducted at Ann Arbor resi-
dence. For consideration email
sdodson@thdg.com. No attachments
please.
WE PAY UP to $75 per online survey.
www.cashtospend.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas.
Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800)626-6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
Chl I CaFe
095
AM CHILDCARE 2-3 days/wk. 6:30
- 8:30AM. References. Responsible.
Own transportation. 734-769-1462.
HOME HELPER & driver for my 15
yr. old son needed, 10 mm. from cam-
pus, 4-8 hrs./wk., light housework, sev-
eral meals/wk., grocery shopping. Own
reliable transportation. Call 761-8489.
BABYSITTER AVAILABLE DUR-
ING the week- very flexible hours!
Any hours from 2:30- Monday, Tues-
day, Thursday and from 12 pm on
Wednesdays. Many weekend days
available. Have years of experience
with children and babysitting. Unfortu-
nately do not have a car, but live on
campus. aleight@umich.edu if inter-
ested.

PANAMA CITY BEACH, FLORIDA
Beachfront hotel with pool. Great
Rooms, Great Rates! Within walking
distance to area attractions including
Spinnaker & Club LaVela. Stay 6
nights, 7th night FREE! Mention code
48104 for discount. www.lollye.com
1-888-565-5931.

For Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
As the day wears on, you become
more and more excited about something.
You're very ambitious right now.
Perhaps a new plan will promote your
name and reputation in the right circles.
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20).
Something to do with publishing, the
media, travel, dealing with foreign coun-
tries and all things to do with education,
medicine and the law really turn your
crank today. You're putting a new spin
on things.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Unexpected gifts and goodies might
fall in your lap today. It will be a surprise
and likely benefit you. (Nothing wrong
with that.)
CANCER
(June 21 to0July 22)
A disagreement or dispute with part-
ners and close friends might arise today
because you're determined to get your
way about something. You're very
excited. Remain reasonable.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
New technology or new contacts on
the job might give you a surprising
advantage today and in the future. Be
open to whatever is happening.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23to Sept. 22)
Unexpected flirtations and the begin-
ning of a new romance could make your
heart go pitter-patter. Others will be sur-
prised by pleasant news about sports or
children.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
You might make some surprising
changes at home today. Or perhaps a
family member will surprise you. Quite

likely, the introduction of new technol-
ogy will excite you.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
This is a powerful day for you if you
teach, act, promote, sell or rely on your
communication skills in any way. You're
aggressive and ambitious today!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Your cash flow definitely jumps today.
Something unusual will happen. You
might find money; you might lose
money. You might see a new source of
earning money, or you might decide to
spend some on a major purchase.
CAPRICZ3RN
(Dec. 22 oJan. 19)
New ideas coming in from left field
are exciting. Be careful. A few surprises
will catch you off guard today. Stay
alert.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Some kind of secret might suddenly be
exposed today. It might involve you in
some way, perhaps because you discover
the secret or you're the subject of it.
(Oops.)
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Meetings, conventions, conferences
and anything related to groups (espe-
cially sports) will take a surprising turn
today. Be ready to jump in either direc-
tion.
YOU BORN TODAY At times you're
so colorful, you're bigger than life!
You're also bighearted and generous
with loved ones. Although you have a
star quality about you, you're not always
comfortable being the leader. You pro-
tect your privacy. You work very hard to
accomplish whatever you attempt. This
year will be wonderfully social and
excellent for partnerships.
Birthdate of Dany Heatley, hockey
player; Christian Dior, fashion designer;
Ueena Davis, actress.

Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726S. STATE-1 LEFT
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. UNIVERSITY
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1320 N.University-1 LEFT
1021 Vaughn Street
1000 Oakland-1 LEFT
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1320 S. University-I LEFT
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
0 Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
VARSITY MANAGEMENT
734-668-1100, Studios, 1, 2, 3 and 4
bdrms. 09/10 on Central Campus!

READER
KNOWS
BEST.
Vote for the
Best of Ann Arbor
before January 23
on our web site.
michigandaily.com/aabest

0 2009 King Features Syndicate; Ins;

il


8A - Tuesday, January 20, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

To combat recent spike in graffiti, City
Council hopes to pass new legislation

Businesses would opment Authority and city staff to
consider revisions to the proposed
have up to nine days ordinance.
During that meeting, they
to remove paint decided that the fine for having
graffiti on your property was too
steep.
By LARA ZADE The revised ordinance also
Daily StaffReporter extends the period of time that
property owners have to remove
Many buildings that line the graffiti. Now business owners
blocks of State Street feature cryp- would have seven to nine days to
tic spray painted messages and remove any graffiti on their prop-
designs that may seem playful and erty as opposed to the two-to-four
humorous to some. But for many day limit after the city issues a
Ann Arbor business owners and notice under the old ordinance.
city officials, the recent increase Failure to clean up the graf-
in.graffiti is a public nuisance that fiti would result in the issuance of a
needs remedying. ticket of up to $500 under the origi-
To combat the recent rise in the nal ordinance.
graffiti, business owners worked Another change in the new ver-
with City Council to draft a new sion of the ordinance is that if
anti-graffiti ordinance, which property owners fail to remove the
passed at its first reading on Dec. graffiti in the given timeframe, the
15. But after further discussion city will remove the graffiti itself
with local business owners, coun- and the cost of removal will be
cil members decided that a revised passed on to the property owner.
version of the ordinance was need- City Council Member Chris-
ed. That amended version will be topher Taylor said the proposal
considered at tonight's meeting. would shift the focus of the current
If approved, the ordinance will city regulations regarding graffiti,
take effect 90 days after tonight's which are now targeted exclusively
meeting. at people who apply graffiti, not
After the approval of the pro- property owners.
posal's first reading in December, Taylor also said businesses
sponsors of the new ordinance met expressed concerns that some
with Ann Arbor business owners, property owners don't care enough
the Ann Arbor Area Chamber of to remove graffiti from their prop-
Commerce, the Downtown Devel- erty.

6
0
6

The graffiti-covered alley located behind the Michigan Theater on Liberty Street is well-known for its street art. It won't be affected by the city's new ordinance

a

Economic panel discusses how
financial crisis affects 'U' students

UN: Hundreds of
millions needed
for Gaza support

Three speakers field
questions about
admissions and
money management
ByJENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
To help give students a better
understanding of the economic cri-
sis, a panel was held Friday to dis-
cuss how the crisis not only affects
those on Wall Street, but also those
on State Street.
LSA Student Government and
the Michigan Economics Society
held "The Financial Crisis and You"
Friday in the Rackham Amphithe-
atre as a way to keep Michigan stu-
dents informed about the financial
crisis and how it may impact them
directly.
The event began with a few pre-
pared remarks about the economic
crisis from each of the three speak-
ers for the night - Chair of the
Economics Department Prof. Linda
Tesar, Economics Prof. Jim Adams
0 , 1Lrs

and Provost Teresa Sullivan.
Tesar gave her take on the finan-
cial crisis and urged students to use
the difficult economic times to build
up their resumes by pursuing a mas-
ter's degree or looking into service
options like the Peace Corps.
"This is a very good time to invest
in your human capital," Tesar said.
"It's going to be a rough market out
their for a while."
When Adams took the psdium
after Tesar, he used the time to
place the financial crisis in the con-
text of a college student.
"I want to focus on you as a stu-
dent and what it means to have the
University as an experience, as an
opportunity to think of the finan-
cial crisis in a way that is very dif-
ferent," Adams said.
Both Tesar and Adams stressed
the importance of looking to the
past in order to help people cope
with the present.
"Some of this is diji vu all over
again, and I think sometimes we
forget to look back into history for
the lessons that are right there in
front of us," Tesar said.
Sullivan took the podium next
with a PowerPoint presentation and

a fewwords abouthow the crisis may
impact student finances. She then
explained where the University bud-
get comes from and for what aspect
of an education each part is used.
Following these prepared
remarks, a question-and-answer
session commenced. The questions
were fielded by the three speak-
ers, along with Margaret Rodri-
guez from the Office of Financial
Aid and Beth Blanco from the UM
Credit Union.
One audience member asked why
the University doesn't increase the
number of out-of-state students to
make up for the lost money from
declining government funding.
Sullivan responded that radi-
cal changes in the number of out-
of-state students accepted would
inevitably anger people who believe
students from Michigan should
take priority in the admissions pro-
cess. She added, however, that this
might change as the economic situ-
ation worsens.
"I think that hard times might
(result) in general changes in that
policy," Sullivan said.
Another question touched on the
issue of how students can educate
themselves about financial issues.
"The University does provide
entrance counseling and exit coun-
seling for students who borrow
money," Sullivan said. "We are also
trying to educate students that if

they do need to borrow money,
we're the place to start."
LSA senior Ruotao Wang, who
attended the event and serves on
the Student Budget Advisory Com-
mittee - a group primarily made up
of students convenedby the Provost
to discuss budgetary issues - said
he felt this event was important to
help educate students on how their
tuition is spent.
"I feel like a lot more students
are now aware of where (tuition
money) actually goes, where it can't
go and some of the issues we are
currently facing," he said.
LSAjuniorFiona Spezia, who was
also at the event, said she agreed
that it was useful, but wished the
panel had provided more concrete
answers.
"I think that it went really well,
and I got some good information,"
Spezia said. "But I also feel like
some of the questions weren't real-
ly answered, that the answers were
kind of fluffy."
Karey Quarton, who serves on
LSA Student Government's Aca-
demic Affairs Committee and was
one of the event's organizers said
that she thought it was a success, but
hopes the discussion will continue.
"I think starting a dialogue was
important," Quarton said. "But I
hope students will continue to ask
questions, because this is the first
step, this isn't the solution."

400,000 in region
still without
running water
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -
Hundreds of millions of dollars in
humanitarian aid will be needed
immediately to help Gaza's 1.4
million people and billions of dol-
lars will be required to rebuild
its shattered buildings and infra-
structure, the U.N. humanitarian
chief said yesterday.
John Holmes said some neigh-
borhoods have been almost
totally destroyed, there are huge
medical and food needs, sewage
is flowing in some streets, and
unexploded ordnance is posing a
big problem.
While100,000peoplehad their
running water restored on Sun-
day, 400,000 still have no water,
electricity is available for less
than half the day, and 100,000
people are displaced from their
homes, Holmes said.
"It may not be very clear who
actually won this conflict, if such
a concept means anything in
Gaza, but I think it's pretty clear

who lost and that was the civil-
ian population of Gaza..." Holmes
told reporters at U.N. headquar-
ters.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban
Ki-moon said over the weekend
that he was sending a U.N. team
to assess the humanitarian needs
and wanted a report in 10 days so
the U.N. can issue an emergency
appeal for funds.
Speaking to reporters at U.N.
headquarters, Holmes said U.N.
staff in Gaza are already trying
"to find out as much as they can
about how great the damage is
and how great the needs are."
Asked to estimate the costs,
Holmes said he couldn't give
exact figures until the assess-
ments are completed.
"I think on the purely humani-
tarian and early recovery side ...
it will be hundreds of million of
dollars," he said, "and no doubt
the overall reconstruction costs
will be numbered in billions of
dollars, but I wouldn't; want to
put a figure on it beyond that."
Holmesstressed,however,thatto
successfully rebuild Gaza, the cur-
rent "temporary and fragile cease-
fire" must be transformed into
a permanent and durable truce.

Russia, Ukraine sign
gas deal, end standoff

Deal ends two-week
cutoff of natural
gas shipments
MOSCOW (AP) - Russia and
Ukraine pledged to restore natu-
ral gas supplies to Europe after
signing deals yesterday to end a
bitter dispute that led to a chilling
two-week cutoff of shipments.
Europeans, who normally get
about one-fifth of their gas from
Russia" via Ukrainian, pipelines,
anxiously awaited for the fuel to
start flowing.
Russian Prime Minister Vladi-
mir Putin and his Ukrainian
counterpart Yulia Tymoshenko
yesterday signed the documents at
Putin's government headquarters
on the Moscow river. They result-
ed from an outline agreement they
had clinched in late-night talks
Sunday as heads of Russia's state-
run natural gas monopoly Gaz-
prom and the Ukraine's Naftogaz.
"As a result of intensive and
lengthy talks we have reached
agreement on all issues concern-
ing natural gas supply to Ukraine
and its transit to Europe," Putin

said. He said Gazprom had been
instructed to resume shipments
bound for Europe that had been
halted since Jan. 7 as Moscow and
Kiev argued over 2009 gas prices
and allegations that Ukraine was
stealing gas destined for Europe.
Tymoshenko said the gas would
be pumped toward Europe as soon
as it enters the Ukrainian pipes.
Early today, Gazprom chief
Alexei Miller ordered the resump-
tion of deliveries bound for Europe
via Ukraine to begin at 10 a.m. (2
a.m. EST) Tuesday.
In a directive issued before
dawn, Miller told company offi-
cials to ensure the neighboring
countries' pipeline systems are
synchronized to get the gas fiow-
ing at the designated time.
Officials said the restored gas
shipments could take up to 36
hours to cross Ukraine, which
is the size of France, and reach
European customers.
EU officials were taking a wait
and see attitude.
"We now need an indication of
the precise time that gas deliver-
ies will be resumed. Our monitors
will verify when the gas actually
starts to flow," the European Com-
mission said.

READER
KNOWS BEST.

i


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com January 20, 2009
OHIO STATE 65, MICHIGAN 58

(ABOVE) Freshman Zack Novak reaches for a rebound in Saturday's loss to Ohio State. The Wolverines were dominated in the paint by the much-taller Buckeye big men. (BELOW) Sophomore Manny Harris chipped in a game-high 21 points in the loss.CLIF REEDER/Daily
0-H-OH, NO!

Michigan's season hinges
on Penn State game

Throwback jerseys
can't help 'M' in loss

f you thought wins over UCLA
and Duke were statement
games, you haven't seen any-
thing yet.
The Michigan men's basketball
team's biggest moment so far this
season won't
happen inside
storied Madi-
son Square
Garden or amid
hundreds of
students rush-
ing the Crisler
Arena court.
The Bryce RUTH
Jordan Center
in State College LINCOLN
will do just fine.
Yes, those two upsets provided
national attention and reinvigo-
rated a frustrated fan base. But
tonight's matchup at Penn State has
the makings to be Michigan's loud-
est statement this season.
Coming off back-to-back losses
against Illinois in Champaign and
Ohio State at home Saturday, the
Wolverines (3-3 Big Ten, 13-5 over-
all) are at the lowest point of the

season.
Tonight, Michigan has some-
thing to prove.
A win in a hostile environment
would prevent this two-game skid
from becoming another one of the
Wolverines' lackluster conference
campaigns every Michigan fan
would like to brush away, bury and
never speak of again.
Everyone thought the team that
beat UCLA and Duke was different.
It wasn't the team that suffered a
program-record 22 losses last sea-
son or fell into a downward spiral
in conference play under former
coach Tommy Amaker. This new
team made an NCAA Tournament
bid after an 11-year absence look
like a real possibility.
"(The program's) getting
rebuilt," sophomore forward
Manny Harris said after Michi-
gan's win over Duke on Dec. 6.
"We're trying to put it back on the
map, and that's where I think we're
going."
Harris echoed the swagger
and confidence his teammates
See LINCOLN, Page 4B

By ALEX PROSPERI
Daily Sports Writer
A night of celebration ended in
utter disappointment at Crisler
Arena Saturday.
While wearing blue replica jer-
seys to honor the 1989 National
Championship team, the Michigan
men's basketball team suffered a
gut-wrenching 65-58 loss to Ohio
State. The defeat dropped Michi-
gan from the Top 25 in both nation-
al polls.
Michigan made a 9-2 run to end
the first half and cut the Buckeyes'
lead to four. And after a riveting
ceremony to honor the 1989 team,
with appearances by Sean Hig-
gins, Mark Hughes, Glen Rice and
Rumeal Robinson, Crisler Arena
was buzzing. The Wolverines fed
off the extra energy and came back
to take their first lead of the game
with eight minutes left.
But the Buckeyes went on a 17-3
run and took a 57-47 lead with
about a minute left, leaving fans
and players stunned.

"I'm not sure (what happened),"
said junior DeShawn Sims, who fin-
ished just 4-for-13 from the field.
Sophomore Manny Harris led all
scorers with 21 points, while fresh-
man Stu Douglass tied a season
high with four 3-pointers.
The Buckeyes' 1-2-2 matchup
zone defense proved troublesome
for the Wolverine offense, which
mustered up just seven first-half
field goals.
Ohio State's tall, athletic guards,
combined with a duo of big men
in the paint, made it difficult for
Michigan's offense to establish a
rhythm. In order to break the zone,
the Wolverines had to get the ball to
Sims in the lane. But his shots were
long on nearly every jumper and he
failed to convert easy layups.
"(They were) shots I'd normally
make," Sims said. "It's just one of
those things where I'm critiquing it
mentally too much and I just need
to keep shooting."
His 10-point performance
marked his second straight tough
See BUCKEYES, Page 4B


FOOTBALL
Tryout finds five,
potential walk- ons

By ANDY REID
Daily SportsEditor
A far cry from last February's
turnout of60-plus students, a small
group of 26 University students
gathered at Schembechler Hall
Friday afternoon to showcase their
skills in front of the Michigan foot-
ball coaching staff.
But Rich Rodriguez and his
coordinators learned more about
the difficulties of playing football
with a tennis ball than what the
potential walk-ons could bring to
the team.
* With their hectic schedule,
including recruiting visits and last
week's American Football Coach's
Association conference in Nash-
ville, Tenn., Rodriguez and his staff
convened together in Ann Arbor for

the open walk-on tryout. Because
of early-season NCAA restrictions,
which prohibit coaches from par-
ticipating in certain drills, the staff
couldn't use actual footballs in the
tryout.
"I feel bad for the kickers, punt-
ers and specialists that came
today," Rodriguez said. "We had to
send them home. They'll come back
and try out for spring ball, because
with NCAA rules (we couldn't use
a ball today)."
Instead, wideouts, the most
represented position at the tryout,
ran routes and tried - and most
times failed - to catch tennis balls
thrown by offensive coordinator
Calvin Magee or one of the three
quarterback hopefuls. But Magee
still used the exercise to weed out
See TRYOUT. Page 4B

Sauer
By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Writer
Senior goaltender Billy Sauer
finally got the goal support he
needed
to win BOWLING GREEN 3
Satur- MICHIGAN 0
day.
One
goal. MICHIGAN 1
But BOWLING GREEN 0
for
a netminder whose team had
just 11 goals of support from his
offense in nine games this season,
it's better than usual. Michigan
didn't score in three of those nine
games.
Sauer hadn't won a game since
No. 8 Michigan's series against
Ohio State Oct. 31, but Sauer shut
out the Falcons 1-0 Saturday to
salvage a split against Bowling
Green.
In a series- that was clearly
dominated by goaltending, both

salvages series split
Sauer and the Falcon's Jimmy
Spratt proved to be the differ-
ence makers. The Bowling Green
netminder held the Wolverines
(10-6-0 CCHA, 16-8-0 overall) to
just one goal on the weekend off
68 total shots. Spratt earned the
3-0 shutout win Friday night at
Yost Ice Arena.
Sauer has just a 3-6 record, so
getting the win in hostile terri-
tory was an improvement this
season.
"I haven't (won) in awhile, so it
felt great," Sauer said. "Especially
in a game that close, to know that
you were the difference, it feels
good."
Sauer last played in the team's
3-0 loss to Wisconsin Nov. 28.
Michigan coach Red Berenson °
named sophomore Bryan Hogan
the starter after that game, and
Hogan rewarded his coach with
a 6-0 record before losing to the FILE PHOTO
Falcons Friday. Senior Billy Sauer shut out Bowling Green 1-0 on Saturday in his first start since
See FALCONS, Page 3B Nov 28. Before this weekend, his last win came on Oct. 31 against Ohio State.

I


2B - January 20, 2009

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com '

2B - January 20, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom I


What I learnedfrom
getting hit with a puck

I

Watch out for flying
pucks."
That advice is post-
ed at Yost Ice Arena in at least four
places, warning spectators that the
sport they're watching involves a
frozen, rubber disk moving at high
speeds.
But it's easy
to ignore such
a warning. A
layer of glass,x
netting behind
the goals and an
overwhelming
sense that the
action is sepa- NATE
rate from the SANDALS
stands removes
fans from the
action on the rink.
How often does a puck make it
out of the stands anyway? Once or
twice a game, tops.
That was certainly what I
thought last Friday night while
watching Michigan's 3-0 loss to
Bowling Green from the student
section. One of my friends men-
tioned during the third period how
he would like to get his hands on
a puck.
"Impossible," I said. We were
sitting in the first row behind the
glass. For a puck to land anywhere
near us would take an act of God -
or at least a couple crazy bounces.
Less than 10 minutes later, I was

proven wrong.
You see, somehow the impossi-
ble happened. A puck jumped over
the boards, probably deflected off
the netting, maybe the glass, and
knocked right into my head.
My first instinct was to go for
the puck, which was right in front
of me on the ground. About two
seconds later, I saw the first drop of
blood land on my hand.
"Weird," I thought. "Who's
bleeding?"
It took just a few more seconds
for me to realize the blood was
mine.
As I walked around Yost's south
stands to get some medical atten-
tion, I saw the warning for what
must have been about the thou-
sandth time: "Watch out for flying
pucks."-
We see so many warnings in
our life that it's pretty hard to take
most of them seriously.
How many of us are more care-
ful when we see one of those yel-
low, "Caution, Wet Floor" cones in
Mason Hall?
How many times have you got-
ten to the intersection of Arch and
Packard late at night when there's
no traffic and said, "Why is it right
turn only here? I'm going straight."
How many text messages have
you sent in class, probably in clear
view of the professor or GSI, even
though you were explicitly told on

the first day of class that no cell
phones are allowed?
We're old enough to make smart
choices, and even when you follow
warnings it doesn't always prevent
that bad thing from happening.
I was watching Friday's game
closely before that puck hit me in
the head. But the puck popped into
the air, and I lost track of it (ask
anyone who was sitting with me; I
wasn't the only one surprised when
it landed in our row).
So now I have five stitches in my
head, reminding me that the next
time I go to a hockey game, I prob-
ably should "watch out for flying
pucks." Maybe those stitches are
telling me to find a safer seat when
I go back to Yost.
But one bad experience doesn't
mean you stop trying. It doesn't
mean you move from the first row
to the back of the section because
it's a "safer" place to sit.
If there's one thing we all learn
in college, it's that mistakes do
happen - alot. So what?
When Michigan plays Michigan
State on Saturday at Yost, I'll be
there.
And while "watch out for flying
pucks" will probably be in the front
of my mind, I'm not giving up that
front row seat for anything.
- Sandals can be reached
at nsandals umich.edu.

0

Senior Adam Harris lost the 200-meter dash, which he won in "The Dual"last year, by just one-hundredth of a second-
Harris and Co. bested
Buck isn close races

I


By ROGER SAUERHAFT
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan men's track and
field team appeared to be cruising
before a packed crowd during "The
Dual" showdown against rival
Ohio State, winning six of the first
11 events.
But the 17th-ranked Wolverines
dropped off quickly, never winning
another event. Michigan dropped
its last four events, and lost 85-77 to
the Buckeyes at the Indoor Track
Building Saturday.
"We knew when the date of this
meet was a year ago, so we have
no excuses," Michigan coach Fred
LaPlante said. "When you win, it's
a tremendous feeling of brother-
hood. When you lose, you lose
together and you have to get ready
for the next meet."
The Wolverines came up just
short on a number of close finishes
in the loss, which dropped them
to a 20-4 all-time indoor record
against Ohio State.
None illustrated Michigan's
tough luck better than the 200-
meter dash, the third-to-last
event.
The score was knotted at 66
after Michigan finished a close
second in the 800-meter run. The
anxious crowd was ready to erupt
as senior All-American sprinter
Adam Harris prepared to defend

his crown in the sprint.
With the event separated into
two heats based on seed time,;Ohio
State junior Stephen Robinson tied
"The Dual" record with a time of
21.68 in the slower heat. Harris
then won the faster heat handily,
but finished second overall.
His time was just one-hundredth
of a second slower than Robinson.
"You don't know what's going to
happen in their heat," Harris said.
"You're just trying to run your fast-
est trying to go against a time. It's
always hard to lose by a hundredth
of a second. (Running against a per-
son rather than a time) gives you a
bit more to run with."
Even though Harris said run-
ning separately made a difference,
his 21.69 time was the fastest of
his career on Michigan's indoor
track.
Michigan also dropped the final
two events, the 3,000-meter run
and the 4x400-meter relay.
Standout individual perfor-
mances helped the Wolverines
jump ahead early.
Redshirtjunior SeanPruittwon
the firsteventoftheday,theweight
throw, and led after every round.
He obliterated the competition in
the fourth round by throwing the
weight 20.27 meters (66.6 feet), as
Ohio State throwers exchanged
words of amazement. The mark
extended his own school record

by nearly three feet and provided
Michigan with its first NCAA pro-
visional mark of the season.
"I'm just focusing on getting
it set up nice and then smack-
ing the stuffing out of it," Pruitt
said. "Even though it was a school
record, it really.wasn't that solid
of a throw for me, so that means
there's a lot more in the tank."
Sophomore jumper Robert Ped-
dlar, who missed most of last sea-
son due to injury, won both the
long jump and the triple jump.
The Jamaica native won the triple
jump by nearly a meter and a half
(14.34 meters).
The other three Wolverine wins
were courtesy of redshirt senior
John Kipf in the high jump, red-
shirt sophomore Nick McCamp-
bell in the 60-meter hurdles and
Harris in the 60-meter dash. Kipf
and Harris both defended their
2008 titles.
LaPlante said that competing in
"The Dual" will help prepare his
team for the Big Ten and NCAA
championships this spring.
"You'vegottobeattheotherguy,
it's head-to-head competition,"
LaPlante said. "Often in track and
field, the emphasis is on statistics
and guys look at where they rank
on a list, (so) often in a champion-
ship meet, they can't compete.
"This is the perfect format to
prepare for those kinds of meets."

Rare wood-and-rubber track
gives Blue speed to succeed

4

rILE PHOTO
SophomoreTyler Clary broke several pool and meet records, despite eing disqualified in the 200-yard backstroke, to help the
Wolverines tinish first in this weekend's Southern Methodist Invitational.
Clary runs headfirst into wall but
recovers to help Michigan topple Gators

By RYAN A. PODGES
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan sophomore Tyler
Clary didn't start swimming at the
Southern Methodist Invitational
on Saturday quite the way he had
one day before.
On Friday, Clary's first-place
finish in the 400-yard individual
medley broke both the pool and
meet records set in 2004 by three-
time Olympic gold medalist Ryan
Lochte.
On Saturday, he was cruising
through the first length of his 200-
yard backstroke race when he hit
his head on the wall. Quickly, he
turned over and pushed off on his
stomach, a mistake that disquali-
fied him.
But the way Clary finished the
swim, racing to finish first even
though he knew he'd been disqual-
ified, inspired the No.. 2 Michigan
men's swimming and diving team
on their way to a first-place team
finish at the competition in Dallas.
Clary shook off the disquali-
fication by breaking another set
of meet and pool records set by
Olympian Eric Shanteau in the
200-yard individual medley.
Later that day; senior co-captain
Matt Patton stood up on the block
for his race when his goggle straps
snapped. With no time to get a new
pair, he threw them on the ground
and was forced to swim without
them.
But like Clary, Patton swam
hard and finished a close race in
third. Michigan coach Mike Bot-
tom called the two the "swimmers
of the meet," and the setbacks were
so atypical that they became rally-
ing points for the Wolverines.
The meet featured a six-team
field that included No. 6 Florida,
No. 14 North Carolina, No. 20

SMU and No. 21 Southern Califor-
nia. It marked the second consecu-
tive week Michigan has beaten the
country's sixth-ranked team. Last
week, the Wolverines defeated
then-No. 6 Tennessee in a dual
meet.
It was also Michigan's third
straight victory over the Gators
this season. The Wolverines
defeated then-No. 4 Florida in a
dual meet in October and again at
the U.S. Short Course Nationals
meet in December. This weekend,
the Gators kept many of the races
tight but the Wolverines won the
close swims.
The invite had a special format
that allowed each team to bring
just eight swimmers and one diver
to the competition. Each event fea-
tured a championship and a con-
solation final, with one swimmer
from each team in each heat. Bot-
tom's goal was to have the smaller
group of swimmers at the meet
operate better as a team and sup-
port each other.
"Today, the idea was to practice
our peripheral vision,"he said. "And
that means don't just look out for
yourself, open yourself up and-ask
yourself, 'What do my teammates
need right now and how can I help
the other guys around me?"'
Clearly, that small-team support
translated to better swimming.
An energetic group of swimmers
on the pool deck jumped as they
cheered each other on during each
race. Clary described the atmo-
sphere on deck as fun and posi-
tive. Overall, Michigan won both
the championship and consolation"
heats in seven of the 12 individual
events.
Like Clary, Patton also won a
pair of individual events. Patton
won the 200-yard freestyle and
continued his dominance in the

500-yard freestyle by taking the
event for the third straight meet.
"The team's positive, attitude
definitely held strong," Patton said.
"With the smaller group of guys, I
think we were all really support-
ive of each other and it definitely
showed in our races. We're going
to try and bring that whole atti-
tude back to Ann Arbor."
Bottom was particularly
impressed with the team's finishes
in the tightest races of the meet.
Executing strong finishes are
something the Wolverines have
been working on in practice - and
it showed.
Eleven of the 19 heats they won
were decided by less than one
second, including the 200-yard
medley relay where the team of
sophomore Neal Kennedy, juniors
Alon Mandel and Chris Brady and
senior co-captain Bobby Savulich
touched out the Gators by six-hun-
dredths of a second.
In addition to winning the
invite, Michigan has won the col-
legiate division of the USA Swim-
ming Short Course Nationals
meet and has an overall dual meet
record of 4-1, with its only loss
coming against No. 1 Texas.
The team moved up from No.
4 to No. 2 in last Week's national
polls, jumping ahead of Stanford
and defending national champion
Arizona. But the Wolverines said
despite the difficult competition,
the victory was simply a measur-
ing stick for their training prog-
ress.
"This win to us would probably
not matter as much as a dual meet
with Texas or one of the other
more highly ranked teams," Clary
said. "That's not to say that we
weren't keeping an eye on Florida
all day, but we used this meet more
to sharpen our skills."

ByAMY SCARANO
Daily Sparta Writer
Jumping 13.6 meters into a sand
pit apparently wasn't enough to
tire out senior Casey Taylor Satur-
day at the non-scoring Blooming-
ton Invitational. After landing and
learning how far she'd jumped,
the Michigan women's track and
field captain got up, high-fived
her coach and kept jumping - this
time, up and down.
She had not only set a personal
best in just the second meet of the
season, but also set both a program,
and an Indiana Harry Gladstein
Field record. And she did all that
in addition to meeting the NCAA
provisional mark for the long
jump, which ranked her nationally
in the event.
"It was definitely in God's
plans for that to happen yesterday
because I had the support of every-
body," she said. "You know, it was a
good feeling."
Taylor was just one of many
Wolverines in the spotlight. Mich-
igan claimed 11 first-place finishes.
Captain Tiffany Ofili reached
the NCAA automatic qualifying
standard in the 60-meter hurdles
and captured an NCAA provisional
qualifying standard in the 60-me-
ter dash. Teammate and captain
Geena Gall ran an NCAA qualifier
time in the 800-meter race, run-
ning away from her competition
in four short laps and blowing out
the field in an exciting race for
spectators.
No. 3 Michigan went into the
non-scoring meet with a competi-
tive mindset to see where it stood
against the three other Big Ten
schools - Michigan State, Indi-
ana and Purdue - in the contest.
The Wolverines succeeded
despite a number of injured reg-
ular competitors. Two starting
pole vaulters, Abbey Breidenstein
and Carly Schiffer, were out after
Breidenstein injured her quad
and Schiffer sprained her ankle.
Alisha Cole, a short sprinter for

A

A

FILE PHOTO
Senior Tiffany Ofii posted an NCAA automatic qualifying standard time in the
60-meter hurdles in this weekend's Bloomington Invitational.

Michigan, was out with a strained
hamstring, and distance runner
Linda Montgomery was out sick.
Physical therapy, assisted
stretching and rest should yield a
healthy team in time for the con-
ference championships at the end
of February.
Gladstein Fieldhouse in
Bloomington is different from
typical venues because its track
is banked, meaning the track's
curves are raised. Bloomington,
the location of the conference
championship meet later in the
season, and the Randal Tyson
Track Center in Arkansas are
the only banked tracks that the
Wolverines will race on this year.
After the Wolverines practiced
on the track Friday night when

the team arrived in Indiana, they
took to the change smoothly. The
inclines allow runners to run the
curves at the same pace instead of
slowing down to turn, thus allow-
ing for faster times.
The banked track at Indiana
is also made of wood with a rub-
ber coating, unlike the tracks on
which the athletes are accus-
tomed to running. The different
surface made the runners' feet
sound more like a car or horse
race.
"It sounds like thunder when
they run on it and it is a loudbang-
ing sound," assistant coach Anne
Takacs-Grieb said. "It is kind of
like an Indy race. It vibrates and
shakes you ... it adds another level
of excitement."

I


I The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

January 20; 2009 - 3B

 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom January 20,2009 - 3B.

Free throw woes doom Blue

Senior Chisako Sugiyama beat Duke's and Vanderbilt's top singles players in this
weekend's home opener, the Michigan Invitational.
Sugiyama rattles
ranked opponents

By MARK BURNS and
CHARLES CLINTON
Daily Sports Writers
Those who have played tennis
against senior Chisako Sugiyama
know how frustrating she is to
compete against. The way she
makes her opponents run, uses her
skillful backhand and withstands
long matches make her a tough
foe.
And Duke's Ellah Nze, the
nation's 43rd-ranked singles play-
er, found that out the hard way.
After losing in straight sets (7-6,
6-4) to Sugiyama Sunday, Nze took
a tennis ball, whipped it at the back
wall of the Varsity Tennis Center
and slowly walked to shake hands
with Sugiyama.
"I knew (Nze) was going to be
a good player," Sugiyama said. "I
knew I still had work to do on my
shots and still be better in the sec-
ond set to beat her."
Sugiyama's showing was one of
the bright spots for the Michigan
women's tennis teamthis weekend
during the three-day Michigan
Invitational, a non-scoring tour-
nament. The Wolverines faced off
against No. 12 Vanderbilt, No. 24
Tennessee and No. 9 Duke.
She also able to upset 21st-
ranked Jackie Wu of Vanderbilt
in straight sets (7-5, 7-6) on Satur-
day.
On Sunday, the second day of
the tournament, sophomore Rika
Tatsuno and Sugiyama were the
only singles players to beat the
Blue Devils. Yesterday Tatsuno
and sophomore doubles partner
Whitney Taney took on Nze and
Reka Zsilinszka in a hard-fought,

back-and-forth match. The Duke
duo took a 7-6 lead and needed
to win one more game to take the
match. Tatsuno and Taney won
three of the remaining four games
to take the match 9-8 and give the
Wolverines their sixth win in the
nine doubles matches.
"We've been doing really well at
breaking serve and returning (so)
I told our players we have to get
better at holding serve," Michi-
gan coach Ronni Bernstein said.
"We've had some excellent com-
petition this tournament and we
feel that we're ready for the dual
match season."
Tatsuno was the top singles
player of the invitational with 20
points. The Ranchos Palos Verdes,
Calif., native placed ahead of Sugi-
yama, Wu and Caitlin Whoriskey
of Tennessee.
Taney lost badly in the first set
of her singles match against Maria
Sorbello, but dominated the sec-
ond and third set to take the match
from Tennessee (1-6, 6-3, 6-2).
"After the first set, I decided to
refresh and start over and came
into the second with a new strat-
egy," Taney said. "When you lose
the first set 6-1, you have to have a
sense of urgency. Coach Bernstein
helped me get through it."
As a result of the top-notch
competition in the invitational,
Bernstein believes the Wolverines
are poised to make a run to the
NCAA Tournament in May.
"We are going to take every-
thing match by match," Bernstein
said. "The preseason rankings are
nice, but they don't mean anything
now. Where we rank in May is
what is goingto matter."

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
They are called free throws,
right?
The Michigan women's bas-
ketball team tried to win the hard
way: by not taking a single free
throw against Minnesota.
Michigan (2-5 Big Ten, 9-9 over-
all)fell52-46 tothe GoldenGophers
(5-2, 13-5) at Williams Arena Sun-
day, a loss that was atcleast partially
due to the team's inability to get to
the charity stripe.
After falling to Michigan State
on Jan. 15, Michigan coach Kevin
Borseth said the team's poor free-
throw shooting (41 percent) was
the"whole
game." MICHIGAN 46
He said MINNESOTA 52
the same
thing Sunday.
Sunday marked the first time
in the Borseth era that Michigan
failed to shoot a single freebie.
Minnesota was a solid 12-of-15
from the line. Even though the
Gophers didn't exactly shoot
lights-out from the field, their 12
points from the line were the dif-
ference.
The Wolverines sprinted to a
10-2 lead out of the gates and held
Minnesota without a basket until
nearly five minutes into the game.
Michigan's defense forced turn-
overs and missed shots early in the
game to help build its quick lead,
and the Wolverines' 3-point shoot-
ing also contributed to the run.
Michigan shot 54 percent (6-of-
11) from behind the arc in the first
half and 50 percent from the field.
The deep ball helped build an
eight-point lead at the break.
But the accuracy didn'tlast.
In the second half, Michigan
watched its lead disappear as it
shot a dismal 14 percent (2-of-14)
from 3-point range and 35 per-
cent overall. The Gophers grabbed
their first lead with 6:48 left in the
game in front of the home crowd.
Thanks to the Wolverines' ice-
cold shooting, Michigan couldn't
finish down the stretch and was
outscored 11-4 in the final five min-
utes and 30 seconds, once again
failing to win its first conference
road game. Minnesota kept going
inside, something Borseth wishes
his team would have done.
"We're not scoring," Borseth
said. "We're not putting the ball
where we need to be able to put it.
We're not aggressive enough in the
scoring zone ... Right now, the only
way we are going to win games is
to shut teams right out. That's our
only hope."
The Wolverines didn't get the
ball inside in the paint, some-
thing Borseth said would have led
to more points. Getting the ball
inside also helps to draw fouls and
more free-throw attempts.
Michigan's defense has been
solid as of late, but Borseth said
the Wolverines won't win games

unless they start scoring.
The Wolverines continued their
recent trend of starting games
with hot shooting but falling short
as the game wore on.
Sophomore guard Veroni-
ca Hicks led Michigan with 15
points. Minnesota center Ashley
Ellis-Milan scored a game-high 19
points and converted nine of ten
free throw attempts.
Now riding a three-game los-
ing streak, the Wolverines host
the Indiana Hoosiers (5-1, 12-3) at
Crisler Arena Thursday. The Hoo-
siers come in tied with Ohio State
for the conference lead.
"We are doing a good job of
keeping the other teams in check,"
Borseth said. "Teams get a little
more determined late in the game.
You have to get stops, we haven't.
... It would help if we (score) more
points."

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
(TOP) Sophomore Veronica Hicks poured in a team-high 15 points in Michigan's
loss to Minnesota. (ABOVE) Michigan coach Kevin Borseth still cannot explain the
Wolverines' road woes. Michigan has yet to wina conference road game this season.


ICE HOCKEY
Gan Blue pull it together?

FALCONS:
Sauer finally
gets '0' support

With a disappointing
weekend split against
Bowling Green, Michi-
gan sits in sixth place in the CCHA
standings. And 24 games into the
season, the Wolverines remain
their own worst enemy.
During the
first period Fri- GJON
day, Michigan JUNCAJ
looked nothing
like a team that On Ice Hockey
had outscored
opponents 30-6
in its six previous games. The
Wolverines were uncharacteristi-
cally sluggish, struggling to get to
the net and pressure Falcon goalie
Jimmy Spratt.
By the end of the first frame, the
Wolverines had just four shots on
goal and matched their second-low-
est output in a period this season.
Michigan woke up after the
intermission. In the final five peri-
ods of the weekend, Michigan out-
shot Bowling Green 64-33, but just
one of those shots found the back
of the net.
"We had good scoring chances,"
sophomore defenseman Chad Lan-
glais, who scored the Wolverines'
only goal of the weekend, said after
Saturday's 1-0 victory. "I wouldn't
call them quality. I think we only
had a few quality ones. We did
enough to win, I guess."
That was against a Falcon team
that is next-to-last in the confer-
ence in scoring defense.
Bowling Green is ninth in pen-
alty-kill percentage, but Michigan
went scoreless in 13 power play
opportunities. Spratt entered the
weekend with a.882 save-percent-
age. Against the Wolverines, he
stopped 67 of 68 shots.

be on the team to tell there was
something wrong," Summers said.
"Whether it was guys being too
loose or talking about the wrong
things, it's a combination of a lot of
different things.
"It's kind of a personal thing.
Some guys still have to be loose
before the game. No matter what
you do, you have to do it. Not every-
one was ready."
Summers said he hoped Fri-
day's loss wasn't due to simply
overlooking an inferior opponent.
He acknowledged the possibility
that the team was still riding high
from its sweep of Miami (Ohio) last
weekend and that "maybe we were
a little loose in practice."
Whatever the reason for the Wol-
verines' performance Friday night,
it's clear they haven't completely
solved their problems regarding
mental preparation. And there's not
much time left for introspection.
Michigan has 12 games left in
the regular season, six against
teams above them in the confer-
ence standings.
Just five points separate the
Wolverines from second-place
Miami. Despite their puzzling sea-
son, Michigan is still in excellent
position to nab a first-round bye in
the CCHA Tournament in March.
But with two-thirds of the sea-
son behind them, the Wolverines
still have plenty of questions to
answer. Have they finally learned
their lesson?
"I hope so," senior goaltender
Billy Sauer said Saturday. "I think
everybody gets the picture. And
whether we do what we say, we'll
find out next weekend. I think we
will. I think it really opened our
eyes this weekend."

From page 1B
Though Sauer faced just 19
shots and didn't make the jaw-
dropping saves that Spratt
made on the other end, Sauer's
workman-like performance was
enough to keep Bowling Green off.
the scoreboard.
And when Bowling Green
(5-10-1-0, 8-13-3) had a power play
in the final minutes, Sauer made
the stops to secure the win. In
the waning seconds of the game,
Sauer stopped a shot right off the
faceoff, displaying his awareness
for the situation and helped him
earn his first shutout of the sea-
son.
"I felt very into the game,"
Sauer said. "I felt nervous, but
an excited nervous. I didn't ever
feel like I was out of the game
just because I wasn't seeing a lot
of shots. I hadn't played in two
months so it was tough getting
out there, but I ended up feeling
pretty comfortable."
While Hogan showed some
flaws Friday, Berenson says that
Hogan is still his top man.
"Bryan Hogan has done a great
job," Berenson said. "I would tell
you that he's still our No. 1 goalie.
But I think it was a time where
you needed to put the other goal-
ie in and challenge your team and
challenge him.
"Billy has looked good in prac-
tice. He's worked hard. He's not
played poorly, he just hasn't been
able to win. Finally, the team

scored a goal for him."
The Wolverines weren't at their
best for either game, partly due to
the phenomenal play by Spratt.
Michigan also missed some key
opportunities.
Sophomore Louie Caporusso
missed on a rebound chance with
Spratt out of position Saturday,
and Tim Miller had a goal taken
off the scoreboard by the referees
Saturday.
In Hogan's shutout loss Friday,
the team looked out of rhythm
and failed to generate opportuni-
ties against Spratt.
"We just couldn't get the puck
in the net and ... it is about men-
tal preparation," sophomore for-
ward Carl Hagelin said. "If we
were ready to go, we would have
popped a couple (goals) in dur-
ing the first period. This was the
worst first period we have had all
season."
The series was similar to
Michigan's series against West-
ern Michigan earlier this season.
After losing to a team much fur-
ther down in the CCHA stand-
ings.
Michigan had to come back on
Saturday to salvage a split. The
Wolverines particularly strug-
gled on the power play and went
0-for-13 in a weekend where 46
total penalties were assessed.
But this weekend's difference
was that instead of Sauer coming
up on the short end of the stick,
he received enough goal support
to get the win.

While Michigan didn't have any
puck luck around the net last week-
end, there was a noticeable differ-
ence in intensity levels between
games. The Wolverines statistically
dominated Saturday and forced the
Falcons to scramble in their own
zone all night.
All the energy the Falcons spent
diving in front of shots and fighting
for loose pucks along the boards
seemed to drain them. Bowling
Green had a 6-on-4 man advantage
for a 70-second stretch the final

moments but only mustered two
shots.
Berenson and Langlais said
physical one-goal victories on the
road can only help the team, and
that's absolutely true, no matter the
opponent.
But Saturday's hard-fought win
remains overshadowed by Friday's
shutout loss.
From the players' standpoint,
the better team did not show up for
Friday's opening faceoff.
"I don't think you even have to

i

1


4B - January 20, 2009

0

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TRYOUT: Coaching staff returns
to campus for walk-on evaluations

I

From page 1B
the competition. Many potential
walk-ons rounded off cuts in post
and corner routes or didn't actively
fly back to.the ball on comebacks.
The smallballs did provide some
excitement, though. In the waning
minutes of the hour-long session
- cut down from 90-minute try-
outs last year - Kinesiology junior
Zac Baker ran a deep post route,
dove and made a spectacular one-
handed grab, barrel-rolling on the
Onsterbaan Fieldhouse turf.
The coaching staff erupted in
"Yeah, Bakes!" cheers for Baker,
a manager for the team the last
two seasons. The catch must have
made an impression on Rodriguez,
because Baker, along with four
others, was contacted yesterday
and asked back for further evalu-
ation and training. It was the first
time in three auditions that Baker
has made it past the first round
of evaluations in Rodriguez's try-
outs.
John Guerriero, Patrick Collins,
Jack Kennedy and Jordan Kovacs
(who ran the fastest 40-yard dash
at the tryout) are the other four.

Unlike last year, when the walk-
ons immediately went through
academic and health checks and
began working with strength and
conditioning coach Mike Bar-
wis, those who made the cut this
weekend will be asked to continue
working out on their own to get
in shape for further evaluation
before March.
On the first day of spring prac-
tice, the coaches will see what the
walk-ons can do with a real foot-
ball. And that's when this crop of
potential Wolverines will be given
a chance to make the 2009 roster.
"That's a couple months, but it
gives them some time to work on a
couple things and get ready to go,"
Rodriguez said. "Today was just
a small part of our walk-on pro-
gram, but we're really trying to be
more aggressive overall with it.
"You know, identify guys
throughout the state, throughout
the country that maybe could be
the next (redshirt sophomore full-
back) Mark Moundros, who was
an outstanding player who walked
on here."
After the tryout, Rodriguez
emphasized that the most impor-

tant thing about coming to Michi-
gan - whether the students made
the team or not - was earning a
degree from the University. But
talking to the tryoutees after-
wards, Michigan football clearly
held a special place with them.
"The other (team) managers,
they all feel the same way about
this as I do," Baker said following
the tryout. "This is our passion.
This is what we grew up on. This
is, like, Michigan football."
For Kovacs, the opportunity
is a dream come true. His father
was a walk-on Wolverine when he
attended the University. Kovacs
was asked back after September's
tryout but wasn't allowed to con-
tinue after the coaches found out
about a knee surgery Kovacs had
in January.
And if Kovacs continues to
impress the coaches, he might even
see the Michigan Stadium field on
game day.
"Once you're good enough to
win with, you'll play," Rodriguez
said. "Whether you're a former
walk-on, a walk-on, a fifth-year
senior or whatever, the best guys
will play."

4

4

WILL MOELLER/Daily
LSA freshman Jordan Kovacs was asked back by the Michigan football coaching staff to try out during the team's first spring
practice. Kovacs, who tried out as a defensive back, ran the fastest 40-yard dash during the session.

Thuener-Rego, Wolverines
two-step to victory in Crisler

Tumblers breeze to
first in Windy City

By JAKE FELDMAN
For tbe Daily
As the Michigan women's gym-
nastics team rotated from the bal-
ance beam to the floor for its final
event Friday night, senior Tatjana
Thuener-Rego stayed behind.
She shook her shoulders, did a
quick two-step and flashed a smile
to the crowd. Then she jogged
with an unmistakable swagger to
catch up with her teammates.
"You gotta play around and
have fun," Thuener-Rego said.
"That's how you keep everyone's
spirits up and the energy up. You
just dance."
After an injury-ridden junior
year, Thuener-Rego has become
Michigan's most consistent gym-
nast through three meets.
She collected three event titles
and the all-around crown as
the Wolverines romped to a win
in their home debut. Michigan
posted a score of 194.325 to beat
No. 25 NC State's 191.15 and Kent
State's 193.525.
The Wolverines (2-0 Big Ten,
6-2 overall) built a sizable lead
after the second event, as four
of Michigan's gymnasts earned
scores of 9.8 or higher on the
uneven bars. Junior Kelsey Knut-
son's graceful performance on the
balance beam earned a title and
Thuener-Rego ended the meet
with a nearly flawless floor rou-
tine (9.825).
"Tachi has really stepped up as
a senior and she's had a great atti-
tude this year," Michigan coach
Bev Plocki said. "I think it's great
to see a senior still improving,
still adding in difficulty. We've
just gotta keep her body healthy
to keep her in the lineup."
Injuries have haunted Michi-
gan throughout the season, and
the team's future success may
rely upon the development of its
reserves. Junior Jaclyn Kramer

Cameron takes all-
around, pommel
horse and rings titles
at Invitational
By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
CHICAGO - Senior co-captain
Phil Goldberg stepped forward
and accepted the glass, flame-
shaped trophy, raising it over his
head with a grin.
The No. 6 Michigan men's gym-
nastics team had won the season-
opening Windy City Invitational.
But before the Wolverines left
the floor, they had one more task
to do:
Sing.
As second-place Illinois and
third-place Minnesota dispersed
through the Illinois-Chicago P. E.
Building, the sounds of The Vic-
tors - written in 1898 after Michi-
gan beat the University of Chicago
in football - reverberated in the
city where it was born. The gym-
nasts on the floor pumped their
fists. From the fan section, seven
teammates and four members of
the women's gymnastics team
belted the song back at them.
Michigan last won the Windy
City Invite two years ago, when
the Wolverines were ranked first
in the nation most of the season.
This time, the Wolverines post-
ed a 346.10 score to comfortably
beat their five opponents, which
included No. 3 Ohio State and No.
4 Illinois.
To cap the night, sophomore
Chris Cameron took home the all-
around crown, beating out Ohio
State's Jake Bateman and Tai Lee

and Illinois's Paul Ruggeri, with a
score of 58.1.
"It's the best feeling I've had,"
said Cameron, who notched
career-best scores and event titles
on pommel horse and rings. "We
worked in the offseason to get that
good, and now it's, 'We hit, we
win.' "1
Michigan hit when it mattered,
especially at the finish..Gymnasts
may often say that event order
doesn't matter, but on Saturday, it
did.
In the final rotation, Michigan
was hanging onto the lead head-
ing into parallel bars. Third-place
Ohio State moved to the low-scor-
ing pommel horse, effectively nar-
rowing the race to the Wolverines
and the second-place Illini.
And all that mattered was
whether Michigan's parallel bars
team was better than the Illinois
ring squad.
The Wolverines didn't do it the
easy way, absorbing misses on two
of their first three routines. Then
senior Ralph Rosso put together
a routine marred only by several
steps on the dismount.
Junior co-captain David Chan,
who had missed his vault in the
previous rotation, more than made
up for it with a 14.7 set and a sec-
ond-place finish. Cameron's hit
routine (14.65) finished the night.
Illinois still had three ring men
to go, but Michigan had already
clinched it - and the Wolverines
knew it. Fifth-year senior Paul
Woodward lifted Cameron onto
his shoulders as their teammates
roared, "Let's go Blue!"
"Illinois was good motivation,"
Chan said. "They were really going
at it, and they didn't want us to do
very well on (parallel) bars either.
You could hear them from the

sides.. I just wanted to stick it to
them."
But it was far from a perfect
meet. Michigan had to recover
from a shaky start on high bar,
where it managed just two hit
routines. Sophomore Ben Baldus-
Strauss peeled off the bar early
in his set and appeared to injure
himself. He returned to the floor
on crutches. The extent of his
injury will not be determined until
receiving the results of an MRI.
Before the meet, Goldberg had
declared that anything less than a
win would be "unacceptable." But
victory seemed far away after the
first rotation, with Michigan in
fourth place.
The Wolverines got going on
floor exercise, the next event.
Rosso knocked out his leadoff set
and his energy fed the rest of his
team. Michigan ended up going
five-for-six on the event, with
sophomore Ian Makowske placing
second overall with a career-best
score of 15.3.
"The wheels came off, but we
had to put them back on and go,"
Michigan coach Kurt Golder said.
"I think they were prepared to do
that."
Michigan began a steady climb
up the rankings and moved into
a tie for second with Ohio State
going into the fifth rotation.
Despite a less-than-stellar vault
showing, the Wolverines sat in the
top spot going into parallel bars.
Once they had a hold on first, they
refused to let go.
Cameron wouldn't reveal whose
idea it was to sing The Victors, but
he promised it would become a
regular feature at meets this year.
"We hit, we win," he had said.
"When we win," he added, "we
sing."

4
4

I
I

Senior Tatjana Thuener-Rego kept the mood light in Michigan's win this weekend
by dancing and making sure her teammates had fun during the meet.

has competed in vault, beam and
floor all year in place of injured
sophomores Trish Wilson and
Kari Pearce. After junior Sarah
Curtis fell twice on the beam,
Kramer maintained Michigan's
lead with a season-high score of
9.7.
"I just felt a little bit more con-
fident going in, especially with
the pressure, trying to pick up a
fall," Kramer said.
Added Plocki: "Beam is one of
those events that is most affected
by competition pressure. We try

to simulate pressure situations in
the gym, but there's nothing you
can really do that simulates 2,000
people sitting there watching you
and judges."
With exuberant smiles and
loose body language, Kramer and
her teammates exuded confidence
under pressure.
"We want to be loose. We've
got to go out there and perform
and have fun," Plocki said. "This
is our party."
And despite the injuries, the
Wolverines plan to keep dancing.

I


LINCOLN
From page 1B
exemplified in the following games.
But that swagger has faded, and
it needs to reappear for Michigan to
win down the stretch.
The Wolverines have to regain
that good feeling.
"We've got to come out and
believe in ourselves right off the
bat," freshman guard Zack Novak
said, echoing Michigan coach John
Beilein's message following Satur-
day's seven-point loss. "We've got
to do the little things better - come
out for Penn State ready to go."
But what are those little things?
For one, the balanced offensive
attack that picked apart the Bruins
and Blue Devils isn't there any-
more.
In Michigan's last two losses, it
has been Harris's second-half hero-
ics that gave the Wolverines their
best chance to win.
Michigan's leadingscorer all sea-
son, Harris previously shared that
scoring burden with long-range
shooters Novak, freshman Stu
Douglass and redshirt freshman
Laval Lucas-Perry. On any given
night, those shooters can be on
target, but the trio is 7-for-24 from
3-point range in the Wolverines'
last two losses.
It's not rocket science, but when
Beilein's offense looks like a well-

oiled machine, multiple players get
open looks and sink their shots.
That includes junior forward
DeShawn Sims.
A vocal leader, Sims's pregame
and halftime speeches have moti-
vated this team when it has faced a
challenge.
But it's Sims's agility in the post.
that's irreplaceable and needs to
shine.
In the last two losses, Sims is
7-for-27 with just eight rebounds.
That says a lot about a player who,
before last Wednesday's loss to Illi-
nois, led the Big Ten in rebounding
with 8.7 rebounds per game and
was third in scoring (16.5 ppg).
The Nittany Lions (3-3, 14-5), the
Wolverines' Big Ten cellar-dwell-
ing companion last season, have
improved greatly this year. They've
played well at home, knocking off
Purdue and nearly upsetting Michi-
gan State.
Talor Battle, the conference's
leadingscorer, can control an entire
game.
It's clear from this young con-
ference season that every game is
competitive. It's a longseason, and
the last two games could be just
small blemishes on what can be a
successful season.
The Wolverines just need to real-
ize that.
- Lincoln can be reached
at lincolnr oumich.edu

BUCKEYES
From page 1B
game. He logged a season-low seven
points in last week's loss to Illinois.
Michigan's 1-3-1 zone proved
ineffective against the Buckeyes
(3-2 Big Ten, 13-3 overall).. Ohio
State shot 55 percent from the field
and hit 16 shots in the paint, includ-
ing numerous dunks by center B.J.
Mullens and forward Dallas Lau-
derdale.
It didn't help that Michigan (3-3,
13-5) had another slow start. The
Wolverines trailed by as many as 11
in the first half and shot just 7-of-26
from the field in the first 20 min-
utes.
The loss gave Michigan its first
losing streak of the season. The
Wolverines lost 66-51 to Illinois
last Wednesday.
"This is really a tough stretch
right now,"Beilein said. "Obviously
I've been through it tbefore, but I
don't remember this type of thing."
In the next three weeks, Michi-
gan plays seven games. Four will
be on the road, and three will be
against ranked teams, notably No.
3 Connecticut and No. 7 Michigan
State.
Losingto an unranked opponent
at home won't bode well for the
Wolverines' tournament hopes in
March, and it only gets harder from
here for the Wolverines.

a

4

4

Junior DeShawn Sims was held in check by the Buckeyes' 1-2-2 zone defense, scoring a lowly 10 points.

I


