be l3id~iig1 an I

0 Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, December 2, 2009

michigandaily.com

MSA ELECTIONS
. MVP continues
election gains

Thrnout matches
last year's election at
around 9 percent
By MALLORY JONES
and JENNA SKOLLER
Daily Staff Reporters
The Michigan Vision Party won
a majority of open seats in the
Michigan Student Assembly's elec-
tion that ended at 11:59 p.m. last
night.
Voter participation in the elec-
tion remained steady over last year,
despite expectations from officials
that turnout would rise.
Fourteen different colleges held
elections for a total of36 open seats,
including 11 open LSA seats, seven
open Rackham seats and four open
Engineering seats. Students could
only vote for candidates in their
own college.
Of the 17 seats with available
results at 2:15 a.m. this morning,
11 were filled by MVP candidates,
two by Defend Affirmative Action
Party candidates and four by inde-
pendent candidates.
The remaining winners need to

be validated by election officials
either because the student won by
write-in voters or because voters
cast ballots for schools that were
not their own.
The 11 open LSA seats were
filled by nine MVP candidates, one
DAAP candidate and one indepen-
dent candidate.
Of the two open Business seats,
MSA Rep. Jason Raymond was
re-elected as an independent, and
MVP candidate Thomas Stuckey
filled the other seat.
LSA senior John Lin, message
chair of MVP, said last night's
gains show students approve of the
party's actions.
"We came out last year and we
said we would make the assembly
more efficient and more transpar-
ent," Lin said. "It's not there yet but
we're definitely on that track and
students have seen that."
Though election officials and
MSA representatives hoped for a
high voter turnout, 3,565 students
out of an eligible 39,671 students
- roughly 9 percent of the voting
population - cast ballots in this
election, according to MSA Elec-
tion Director Emily Winter.
See MSA ELECTIONS, Page 7A

CORTESY OF AARODAVIDMILLER
TOP LEFT Aaron David Miller with then-leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization Yasser Arafat during a visitfto Ramallah in 1998. TOP RIGHT Miller with former Israeli
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in Jerusalem in the late 1990's. ABOVE Miller, former President Bill Clinton and others during the opening session of the Wye River Peace Conference.
A life on both sides of the table

AT H LE TIC F AC ILITIE
. Soccer stadium gets
rezoning go-ahead

University alum
Aaron David Miller
has spent his career
negotiating for peace
ByJILLIAN BERMAN
Daily News Editor
WASHINGTON - In the first
chapter of his recent book "The

Much Too Promised Land," Uni-
versity alum Aaron David Miiler
sets the scene for the announce-
ment in Jerusalem of one of the
most historic Middle East peace
conferences.
For nine months leading up to
the 1991 Madrid Conference, Mill-
er dealt with "headaches of vary-
ing sizes" that accompanied the
formation of the first ever meet-
ing between representatives from
Syria, Israel, Lebanon and a joint

Palestinian-Jordanian delegation.
"There wrm no such precedent
for anything like that," Miller said
of the conference ho an interview
this summer.
As an adviser on the Arab-Israe-
li conflict to then-Secretary of
State James Baker, Miller played
a role in setting up the framework
for the historic meeting. But sit-
ting cross-legged and relaxed in
jeans and a blue blazer, Miller
joked that he had the most influ-

ence on American foreign policy
earlier in his career - while on the
tennis court.
"During a doubles match in
Cairo, (former Secretary of State
George) Shultz was my partner,
and I hit him in the back with one
of my serves," he said. "It was the
See AFTER THEY WALK, Page 2A

Pa
Com
hea

The
mission
nightt
Arbor
approv
ing of
of the1
cer con
a stadia
The
South

st City Planning prised of three fields - two for
practice and one for competition.
imission, proposal The stadium, for which prelimi-
nary construction has already
ds to City Council begun, will seat approximately
2,000 people and include grand-
By EMILY ORLEY stands, concession stands, a press
Daily StaffReporter area and restrooms.
Construction on the site began
Ann Arbor Planning Com- last May after the Board of Regents
n voted unanimously last approved the project. Troy-based
to recommend to the Ann architectural firm Jickling Lyman
City Council that the body Powell Associates, Inc. designed
e the annexation and rezon- the plan for the building and the
12.5 acres of land at the site Athletic Department provided the
University of Michigan soc- $6 million in funding.
mplex for the construction of The University petitioned for
um. the site to be rezoned for public
complex, located at 2323 land because of the variety of zon-
Main St., is currently com- See SOCCER STADIUM, Page 3A

Asp
W
a

sembly officials port of gender-neutral housing at
its weekly meeting last night, in
ill lobby 'U' to an effort to influence University
.ing Housing to better accommodate
mend housing transgender students in the resi-
dence halls.
regulations The resolution - authored by
Business Rep. Alex Serwer, LSA
y JENNA SKOLLER Rep. Chris Armstrong, LSA Rep.
Daily News Editor John Oltean and Engineering Rep.
Pat Pannuto - calls for the LGBT,
Michigan Student Assem- Peace and Justice and Campus
ssed a resolution in sup- Improvement Commissions to

work with the Spectrum Center to
lobby the University for a gender-
neutral housing option by next fall.
University Housing currently
assigns housing by birth gender
unless students have undergone
sex reassignment surgery, accord-
ing to the University Housing
website. Students seeking gender-
neutral housing are given excep-
tions on a case-by-case basis,
though the University doesn't
guarantee accommodations.

"Housing's policy of assignment
according to birth gender until sex
reassignment surgery ignores the
needs of transgender-identified
students who have not pursued sex
reassignment surgery," the resolu-
tion stated.
The resolution follows an initial
gender-neutral housing proposal
from the Spectrum Center Stu-
dent Advisory Board introduced
last April. In the beginning of this
See GENDER-NEUTRAL, Page 3A

M SA backs gender-neutral housing

B
The
bly pay


WORLD AIDS DAY 2009
Peace Corps event highlights
impact of HIV/AIDS abroad

Peace Corps official
recounts his experiences
with disease in Namibia
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
Yesterday marked the 21st annual World
Aids Day, held every Dec. 1 to draw aware-
ness to the deadly disease that afflicts 33.4
million people worldwide.
To commemorate the day, the Univer-
sity's Peace Corps office invited a panel of
University graduate students and former
Peace Corps volunteers to speak about
their experiences dealing with the HIV/
AIDS crisis overseas.
At the event, held last night at the Uni-
versity International Center, Alex Pompe,
a Rackham graduate student and the Uni-
versity's Peace Corps campus coordina-
tor, spoke about his experiences as a Peace
Corps volunteer in the southern African

country of Namibia.
"It's a tremendous opportunity to be able
to go somewhere for two years. And you're
going to be taken care of while you're there
and you're going to be given the chance to
make meaningful impact on people's lives,"
Pompe said. "And at the same time you're
going to be receiving so much culturally."
Pompe worked in Namibia from 2006 to
2008, helping to teach children and young
adults about HIV/AIDS and malaria aware-
ness and prevention.
"(HIV/AIDS) manifests itself in almost
every facet of a Namibian's life," Pompe
said, explaining that many of his students
were born HIV positive and were unknow-
ingly carrying the disease.
"These are people who hadn't made a
decision in their life that led to them devel-
oping the disease," Pompe said.
Pompe said he would try to educate stu-
dents about HIV/AIDS by integrating math
problems using real-world examples based
on infection rates in his village.
See HIV/AIDS, Page 3A

AARON AUGsBURGER/Dail'
For a full story on the carolersd 9 J ersity medical students carol oustide U.S. Rep. John Dingell's (D-Dearborn) office in
efforts, visit the Daly's news blog at Ypsilanti to mar World AIDS Day. The students rewrote the words to 'Jingle Bells and
michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire th.. grppularcarols to protest prooisions of health cae reform legislation that could pre-
michganailycnmblns/Ih Wie.vent generic drues that treat HIV/AIDS and other diseases from entering the market.

x


WEATHER HI: 38
TOMORROW LU0:7

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 orne-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
An Arts Editor's take on Nick Jonas' solo tour.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS.......
Vol. CXX, No. 58 OPNION..,
)2009Th MichiganDaily ARTS........
michigondoily.com

.... 2A CLASSIFIEDS............
S..........4 A SPO RT S. ..................
.......................5A THE STATEMENT......

A.6A
8A
..IB


2A - Wednesday, December 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY:. TUESDAY:W
In Other Ivory Towers Off the Beaten Path
Against the odds

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

. SERVING SWIRLS

Prompted by personal
experiences with fam-
ily members and friends
who have autism spectrum
disorders, LSA, sophomores
Maressa Criscito and Allison
Stein founded Autism Speak-
sU this past summer.
"Autism spectrum disor-
ders hit close to home for
(both) of us," Criscito said.
The two were driven to
create the group after, much
to their surprise, they could
not find any active groups on
campus that focused on the
issue.
"It ga've us a sense of pride
that we could unite with
other students in an effort
to raise awareness," Criscito
said.
Criscito and Stein said
they feel the club's creation
is vitally important now, in a

time when autism spectrum on fundraising for research
disorders are on the rise. 'and increasing awareness of
"Autism affects many these disorders.
people throughout Michi- The fundraisers the group
gan, throughout the nation, has planned for this year
throughout the world," Cris- include small events like
cito said. bake sales and events at BD's
According to the national Mongolian Barbeque and
Autism SpeaksU organiza- Studio 4.
tion - of which the campus The culmination of the
group is a chapter - one in fundraising however, will be
every 91 children is affected the Walk-A-Thon, which will
by autism. Autism is more take place in April.
prevalent among boys, how- At the walk, all of the
ever, affecting one in 58. In proceeds will be donated to
2007, the Centers for Dis- Autism SpeaksU.
ease Control and Prevention Because the club is still in
reported the figure at one in its infancy, Stein and Criscito
150 children. said they are pursuing a rea-
Although relatively new, sonable yet substantial goal
the group already has 40 this year.
members who gather for bi- "We hope to raise at least
weekly meetings. $1,500 during the course of
Criscito and Stein said the year," Criscito said.
the group will concentrate - CAITLIN HUSTON

Ben Saginaw makes a latte and decorates it with a pattern in the foaw at
Comet Coffee in Ann Arbor yesterday.

C, h eMidciganlOaiIy
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARYGRACA DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmailcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours:Sun.-Thurs.11 a.m. -2 a.m.
y34-y63-2459
News Tips rnews@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
PhotographyDepartment photo@michigandaily.cor
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaiy.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales ditplay@michigandaiy.com
Classified Sales classifed@michigandaily.com
OnlineSales ontineads@michigandaiy.com
Finance flnancc@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Courtney Ratkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaiy.com
Jacob SmiloVitZ ManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@rnichiganqaity.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Jenna
Skrller,KyleSwanson
sITAN wS rTRS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Emily Orley ,Stephanie
Steinberg,ti,5o,,rTirunavuOk,,,,r
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaiy.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel Van Gilder
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:rEmmaJeszke,MatthewShutler
AndyReid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPQRTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Ian Kay, Ruth
Lincoln, Alex Prosperi
ASSISTANT SPORT1 EDITORS: Mark Burns, Chantel Jennings, Gjon Juncaj, Ryan
Kartje,OChrisMaszaros,iRyan Podges
DavidWatnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SEIRRso IO S:0Ja0i Blocrk,,rdon oraii, WhitneyrPow
ASSTNTARTEDO R:JoshuaBayerCarolyK ackiAndrew Lapin, David Riva
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
Clif Reeder Managing Photo Editors
SENIOR PHOTO E DITORS: Sa id Alsalah,'Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTAN 0PHOTOEDITORS: Max Collins, ChrisDzombak,SamWolson
AngelaChih and design@oichigandaiy.com
MaureenStych Managing DesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghiaman
Jessica Vosgerchian MagazineEditor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
Katherine Mitchel CoyChie itchell@michigandaily.com
ASSnO IATEcoy CrIEF: Melanrieid,Adi Wollstein
BUSINESSSTAFF
KatielJozwiakSales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFI ED ASSISTANT MANAGER Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project coordinator
The Michigan Daily(ISsN 0745-%7)is published Monday through Friday during the fall and inter
terms by students at the University of Michigan.One copy is available free of charge to all readers.
Additional co pnstbepickedupat the Oily'soffice for$2.Subscriptionsforfatermiatingir
Septembervia u.S. maiares110 Winter term(anuary through April)is$ilt, yearong tSeptember
trough April) is1 95University afftsaresubjectreducedsubscrinatenrpu
u6eptionsforfaltermre$3. surssicin'erete eaid. TheMian yism
The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

0
0
0
0


Was that pole MCard pinched 'Cape Wind' Documentary A man tried to rob a Wen-
dy's restaurant in Dearborn
always there? WHERE: Intramural Sports discussion screening EHeights, Mich. Saturday
Building night while his mother, the man-
WHERE: University lot NC-46 WHEN: Monday at about 3:45 WHAT: Author Robert WHAT:Screening of the film ager, was working there, msnbc.
WHEN: Monday at about 8:30 p.m. Whitcomb discusses the "The Take," a documentary com reported. Police said he went
p.m. WHAT: A student's MCard debate around the "Cape about factory occupations through the drive-through with
WHAT: A staff member dam- was stolen from a locker which Wind" off-shore wind farm in Argentina, followed by a a sawed off shot gun and a ban-
aged her car after driving it he had not locked while he project in the Nantucket panel discussion. datinaover his face. His mother
into a pole while trying to was using the weight room Sound. WHO: College Socialists later helped police arrest him.

park, University Police report-
ed. No one was injured in the
accident and there were no
passengers in the car.
Bike swiped
WHERE: Shapiro Library
WHEN: Yesterday at about
12:30 a.m.
WHAT: A student's white
mountain bike valued at $350,
along with its lock, was stolen
from a bike rack near the library,
University Police reported.

between 3 p.m. and 4:30 p.m.,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.
Tire trouble
WHERE: 2700 block South
Industrial Ave.
WHEN: Monday at about 5:45
p.m.
WHAT: A vehicle was dam-
aged after hitting a tire in the
road, University Police report-
ed. No one was injured.

WHO: Ford School of Public
Policy
WHEN: Today from 4 p.m.
to 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall
Winter festival
WHAT: There will be per-
formances, food and dance
at the third annual winter
holiday celebration.
WHO: Michigan Student
Assembly
WHEN: Tonight from 7:30
p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
WHERE: Stamps Atdito-
rium

WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 9:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League
Performance
WHAT: Singer, songwriter
and composer Lindsay Toma-
sic will perform.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-'
tions@michigandaily.com.

Motown Records found-
er Berry Gordy was in
Detroit this month film-
ing a documentary for the 50th
anniversary of Motown.
>aFOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
3A manrecently broke into a
home in Crestview, Fla. to
take a shower. When the
two children who lived there
walked into the bathroom, the
man told them "Obama let him
in" and to "getout," the nwfdai-
lynews.com reported. When
police entered the house, they
foundthe manwearingnothing,
but a towel.

MORLONLINE- -
Love Crime Notes? Getlmoreonline at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

Aaron David Miller: A career of negotiations

0

From Pagel A
greatest impact I had on the Secre-
tary of State."
Since Shultz, Miller has worked
for five other secretaries of state,
advising them on one of America's
toughest foreign policy issues: the
Arab-Israeli conflict.
Sitting in his downtown Wash-
ington office ornamented with
framed photos of Bill Clinton and
Colin Powell, Miller described his
time working for secretaries of
state from 1989 until 2003 as "one
constant trip or negotiation after
another."
"Those 15 years were really quite
historic, and in the end disappoint-
ing and very frustrating," he said.
"Most of what we tried to do ended
up collapsing. But nonetheless,
they were extraordinary years."
Following the Madrid Confer-
ence, Miller was part of the U.S.
team that helped 'facilitate the
Oslo Accords. The 1993 confer-
ence held in Oslo, Norway estab-
lished a framework for future
negotiations between Israel and
the Palestinians, and was consid-
ered a major breakthrough in the
peace process.
In 1996, Miller helped to broker
two agreements to keep the Oslo
process on track, but looking back,
he said he now realizes the process
was essentially futile. The assas-
sination of Israeli Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin by a Jewish funda-
mentalist completely changed the
climate.
Rabin, a war hero turned peace-
nik and a major player in the Oslo
Accords, inspired asense of hope in
the Israeli and Palestinian public,
which died along with him.
"It was dead, we didn't really
understand it,"Miller said. "Rabin's
death, the nature of roles Israelis
and Palestinians played as occupier
and occupied - and they're each
responsible in their own way for
the collapse of Oslo - really made
it very long odds."
Miller said that despite the col-
lapse of Oslo, he was part of a team
that advised then-President Bill
Clinton to "go for broke" with the
Camp David Summit in 2000. The
conference aimed to establish a
final status agreement between
Israel and the Palestinians and
brought Clinton, then-Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Bara and

then-leader of the Palestinian Lib-
eration Organization Yasser Arafat
together.
"I was one of the 12 Americans
there," Miller said. "Sadly, and
despite all these commitments
and good intentions, it was not
well managed. There was never a
chance. We had to watch in the fall
of 2000 after first Intifada broke
out, the collapse of everything
Israelis and Palestinians tried to
achieve - we tried to help them -
essentially be destroyed."
Robert Malley, the Middle East
and North African program direc-
tor for the International Crisis
Group, worked with Miller as a
White House adviser on the Arab-
Israeli conflict during Miller's time
at the State Department.
Malley remains a close personal
friend of Miller's, and called him
"an exceptional colleague."
"Whether people agreed with
him or not, they always respected
what he had to say because he came
to issues with an open mind and a
questioning mind," Malley said.
He added that Miller rarely let
the parties involved in negotiations
off the hook, including himself.
"Not only would he listen and
question others, he would also lis-
ten to and question himself, he was
very introspective in that sense,"
Malley said. "What he applied to
others, he applied to himself."
A CHANGE OF SCENERY
Miller no longer sits at the nego-
tiating table.
He resigned from the State
Department in 2003, deciding that
Ariel Sharon, Israel's Prime Min-
ister at the time, and Arafat, head
of the Palestinian Liberation Orga-
nization, had other goals in mind
besides establishing alasting peace.
"Neither of them were inter-
ested in doing anything other than
setting up the other for destruc-
tion," Miller said. "I made the deci-
sion at that point that I had had
enough. Twenty-five years was all
I needed."
Miller now occupies an office at
the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars in downtown
Washington, D.C., a few floors
above amammothbustofWilson in
the lobby. The nonpartisan center,
which is tucked away in the Ronald
Reagan Building and International
Trade Center, a Irre three blocks

from the White House, brings
prominent thinkers to Washington
to do advanced study.
A NON-ACADEMIC SCHOLAR
Though his title is "Public Poli-
cy Scholar," Miller said he doesn't
consider himself a scholar in the
traditional academic sense.
"I'm not here to diss the acad-
emy. I love goingto university cam-
puses to speak, I really do," he said.
"I love students, but after 24 hours
on a university campus - and again
I'm just speaking personally - I'm
ready to go. I'm ready to go because
the world is a much more complex
place."
Ironically, it was Miller's profes-
sors at the University who made
him realize he wanted to make
policy instead of lecturing about it.
Miller transferred to the Univer-
sity after spending a year at Tulane
University in New Orleans on a ten-
nis scholarship and another year
in England on a history exchange
program. Once he arrived in Ann
Arbor, Miller became a very seri-
ous student, quipping that he went
to only one Univerity of Michigan
football game during his eight
years at the University.
He became close with two histo-
ry professors, Richard Mitchell and
Gerald Linderman, who both had
careers as foreign services officers
before coming to the University.
Linderman, who has since
retired from the University but still
resides in Ann Arbor, stays in touch
with Miller. He said knowing Mill-
er as a student, he wasn't surprised
that he rose to such a position of
prominence.
"He was very interested in the
foreign service and we talked about
it a lot," Linderman said. "But I
think the important factor there is
that I had discovered in my time as
a political officer that it was a mat-
ter of observing other countries
and analyzing as well as you could
and reporting them to Washing-
ton."
FIRST-HAND EDUCATION
But according to Linderman,
that wasn't enough for Miller.
"I was an observer rather than
a participant, and Aaron, I think,
was always more dedicated to
participating himself and espe-
cially trying to influe ce matters of

University alum Aaron David Miller with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in Washington D.C. earlier this decade.
Miller spent most of his career negotiating a resolution to the Arab-Israeli conflict.

American foreign policy," he said.
Miller began his career at the
University pursuing a degree in
American history, but after start-
ing work for his Ph.D he realized
his calling lay elsewhere.
"I was proceeding merrily along
studying Civil War history, which I
was very interested in, still am. But
then around the time I should've
received my master's degree, I had
a change, I'm not even entirely sure
why. I didn't really want to study
American history. I had been inter-
ested in the Middle East," he said.
Miller convinced the history
department that he could learn the
languages and topics necessary to
become a Middle East historian,
and he could think of only one way
to accomplish that goal.
"I got married in May of 1973,
and we packed up and left the coun-
try and went to the only place that
you could study Arabic and Hebrew
as living languages in 1973, and that
was Jerusalem," he said.
Shortly after he arrived in Israel,
the 1973 Arab-Israeli War broke
out, which provided Miller with an
experience he wasn't expecting.
"(The war) put my wife Lind-
say and miin a situation in which

we had never been, in a society
that was mobilized for conflict
in a strange way," he said. "And
that year with all of its dislocation
really changed my worldview again
and made me more determined to
become interested in the Middle
East."
Miller became familiar with the
conflict at a young age, growing up
in Cleveland, Ohio with parents
and grandparents who were very
active in the Jewish and Zionist
communities.
"That provided a base," Mill-
er said of his Jewish-American
upbringing. "My academic educa-
tion and my experiences then drew
me, pushed me, forced me and
compelled me to try to understand
the problem in more of its entire-
ty, which meant of course that it
wasn't just one-hand clapping."
"SHAPER OF DEBATE"
Miller's commitment to under-
stand both sides of the conflict
has brought him criticism from all
corners. In addition to public criti-
cism, Miller receives what his wife
calls, "fan mail" - letters frompeo-
Vle on every side of the coikflict full

of personal attacks.
"The fact that I'm out of gov-
ernment doesn't matter, they still
continue and they come from
everybody," he said. "The pursuit
of truth, if that's a wayto explain it,
is never easy. Separating yourself
from the group, the tribe, is never
easy. But it's necessary."
Despite the criticism, Miller
said he wants to remain part of the
"public conversation" on the issue
for a longtime to come, though he's
turned his professional attention to
a different topic - he's currently
working on a book about presiden-
tial greatness.
Miller, who has appeared as a
commentator on CNN, FOX News,
Al Jazeera and many other media
outlets said he takes his role as a
"shaper of debate" on the issue very
seriously, because the issue itself is
very serious.
"The notion thattrying and fail-
ing is better than not trying at all,
I once bought that, I don't buy it
anymore," he said. "The Michigan
football team can govern by that
principle, but the United States
can not. Every time a super power
fails, it costs it its image and its
creditability."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 2, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, December 2, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
US November auto
sales struggle to
gain ground
U.S. auto sales struggled to
gain ground in November and big
improvements aren't expected until
people stop worrying about losing
theirjobs.
Sales were flat compared to
last November, according to Auto-
data Corp. Even higher incentives
couldn't push the needle much
beyond the dismal lows seen a year
ago, when a credit freeze and the
financial meltdown kept car buyers
at home.
Fuel-efficient cars showed con-
tinued strength, as did crossovers,
which are as roomy as SUVs but are
built on lower car frames, bolster-
ing fuel economy. Truck sales were
again weak.
Last month's big winner was
South Korea's Hyundai, which post-
ed double-digit sales growth. Sales
at the top three sellers in the U.S. -
General Motors, Ford and Toyota -
held steady, while Chrysler struggled
for yet another month.
Sales were down 11 percent from
October. But Jeff Schuster, executive
director of automotive forecasting
for J.D. Power and Associates, said
the industry is encouraged by the
seasonally adjusted sales rate, which
takes into account perennial factors
like higher sales in the spring and
summer.
EAST LANSING, Mich.
Michigan State
suspends 8 more
football players
Michigan State University has
suspended eight more football play-
ers for being present at a distur-
bance at a campus dorm.
The university says in a statement
that Coach Mark Dantonio yester-
day suspended starting receivers
Mark Dell and B.J. Cunningham
and defensive back Chris L. Rucker.
Others suspended are reserves:
running back Ashton Leggett,
receiver Fred Smith, defensive back
Brynden Trawick, defensive line-
man Ishmyl Johnson and linebacker
Jamiihr Williams.
Dantonio imposed the suspen-
sions pending the outcome of an
investigation by campus police
into the Nov. 22 incident at Rather
Hall. The university says police
have identified 10 suspects and are
attempting to identify five others
present at the disturbance.
Dantonio earlier dismissed run-
ning back Glenn Winston and
defensive back Roderick Jenrette.
SEATTLE
Seattle police kill
suspect in officer
slayings
A lone officer on patrol in the
middle of the night Tuesday spotted
a stolen car, its hood up and engine
running, and pulled over to check it
out.Asthe patrolman sat in his cruis-
er, a burly man with a large mole on

his cheek came up from behind.
The officer turned and instantly
recognized the most wanted man in
the Pacific Northwest - the ex-con
accused of gunning down four cops
at a coffee shop.
Moments later, Maurice Clem-
mons,37,lay dead inthe street,shot by
the patrolman after Clemmons made
a move for a gun he had taken from
one of the slain officers, police said.
Clemmons' death brought to an
end two days of fear across the Seat-
tle-Tacoma area and one of the big-
gest manhunts the region has ever
seen. Dozens of police officers milled
around at the scene afterward, some
solemnly shaking hands and patting
each other on the back.
WASHINGTON
DC Council takes
first vote on same-
sex marriage
In the first of two votes on allow-
ingsame-sexmarriageinthenation's
capital, the District of Columbia City
Council has passed the bill 11to 2.
The D.C. Council voted for the
first time Tuesday. The bill had
been expected to pass, as 10 of the
13 council members co-sponsored
its introduction. A second, final vote
is expected later in the month, and
D.C.'s mayor has promised to sign
the bill.
Marriages would begin in the city
as soon as the bill passes a period of
Congressionalreview. Congress like-
ly will not alter the law.
- Compiled from
Dpily wire reports

Obama will
boost troop
levels in
Afghan war

In this July 10, 2009 file photo General Motors Corp., Fritz Henderson addresses the media during a news conference at the
company's headquarters in Detroit. People familiar with the matter yesterday said Henderson is resigning as CEO.
Fritz Henderson resigns
as General -Motors CEO

Chairman Ed
Whitacre Jr. will
serve as interim CEO
DETROIT (AP) - General
Motors' CEO Frederick "Fritz"
Henderson has resigned after
eight turbulent months as head
of the largest U.S. automaker.
The company said Tuesday
that Chairman Ed Whitacre Jr.
will serve as interim CEO. The
company plans an international
search for a new president and
chief executive.
At a press conference here, Whit-
GENDER-NEUTRAL
From Page 1A
semester, the University's under-
graduate chapter of the American
Civil Liberties Union worked to
move the proposal forward.
Though it passed by alarge major-
ity - 23 votes in favor to 3 opposed
- some representatives disagreed
with the premise of the resolution.
Business Rep. John Lin, who
voted against the proposal, said
he felt non-LGBT students would
take advantageof the system by
taking up space that could be used
for those who truly need it.
"I do not have a problem with
LGBT students," Lin said. "I have
a problem doing this for all stu-
dents on campus."
Armstrong, LGBT Commission
chair, said MSA and the LGBT

acre read a brief statement thanking
Henderson for his work during a
period of challenge and change.
Henderson, 51, succeeded Rick
Wagoner on March 29 after the
Obama administration ousted
GM's former CEO as the com-
pany worked through a govern-
ment-led reorganization.
Henderson spent the next few
months working with the gov-
ernment to reorganize the auto-
maker outside of bankruptcy, but
eventually took the company into
Chapter 11 protection in June.
With the government's help,
the company emerged from court
protection injust4o days cleansed
community share a similar goal
of improving student life on cam-
pus, and by working together, they
have the potential to implement
positive changes at the University.
"If this is an option a lot of peo-
ple are interested in, I think it will
enhance a lotofpeople'sexperience
with housing," Armstrong said.
Serwer, chair of MSA's Campus
Improvement Commission, said
MSA members are working with
representatives from the Resi-
dence Hall Association, the Spec-
trum Center Student Advisory
Board and other student groups to
gain support for the proposal.
"We're proving to Housing that
we have student support behind
this," Serwer said. "So we're talk-
ing to as many student organiza-
tions as we possibly can."
MSA is encouraging student
organizations to fill out a state-

of massive debt and burdensome
contracts that would have sunk it
without federal loans.
Henderson continued to
downsize the automaker after
its emergence from bankruptcy.
He sought to scale down GM to
just four core brands: Chevrolet,
Cadillac, Buick and GMC.
While he has largely succeed-
ed in that goal, attempts to sell
the company's other brands have
hit obstacles.
The company is winding down
Pontiac and was successful in
winning a tentative sale of Hum-
mer to a Chinese construction
machinery maker.
ment of support for the campaign.
"We join the Gender-Neutral
Housing Student Campaign in
calling for expanded gender-neu-
tral housing options because we
believe that the University's com-
mitment to diversity and inclu-
siveness necessitates this policy
change," the statement read.
University Housing Spokesman
Peter Logan said in a Sept. 30 arti-
cle in The Michigan Daily that he
has been exploring the option of
gender-neutral housing based on
the experiences of other universi-
ties already offeringthe option.
"We're watching those schools
and are in touch with them so we
can see what their experiences
and successes have been," Logan
told the Daily at the time.
- Daily Staff Reporter Stephanie
Steinberg contributed to this report.

President says forces
will begin coming
home in July 2011
WEST POINT, N.Y. (AP) -
Declaring"our securityis at stake,"
President Barack Obama ordered
an additional 30,000 U.S. troops
into the long war in Afghanistan
Tuesday night, nearly tripling the
force he inherited as commander
in chief He promised an impatient
public he would begin bringing
units home in18 months.
The buildup to about 100,000
troops will begin almost immedi-
ately - the first Marines will be in
place by Christmas - and will cost
$30 billion for the first year alone.
In a prime-time speech at the
U.S. Military Academy, the presi-
dent told the nation his new policy
was designed to "bring this war to
a successful conclusion," though
he made no mention of defeating
Taliban insurgents or capturing
al-Qaida terrorist leader Osama
bin Laden.
"We must deny al-Qaida a
safe haven," Obama said in spell-
ing out U.S. military goals for a
war that has dragged on for eight
years. "We must reverse the Tal-
iban's momentum. ... And we must
strengthen the capacity of Afghan-
istan's security forces and govern-
ment."
The president said the addi-
tional forces would be deployed at
"the fastest pace possible so that

they can target the insurgency and
secure key population centers."
Their destination: "the epicen-
ter of the violent extremism prac-
ticed by al-Qaida."
"It is from here that we were
attacked on 9/11, and it is from here
that new attacks are being plotted
as I speak," the president said.
It marked the second time in
his young presidency that Obama.
has added to the American force
in Afghanistan, where the Tal-
iban has recently made signifi-
cant advances. When he became,
president last January, there were
roughly 34,000 troops on the
ground; there now are 71,000.
After the speech, cadets in the
audience - some of whom could
end up in combat because of
Obama's decision - climbed over
chairs to shake hands with their
commander in chief and take his%
picture.
Obama's announcement drew
less-wholehearted support from'
congressional Democrats. Many
of them favor a quick withdrawal,
but others have already proposed
higher taxes to pay for the fighting.
Republicans reacted warily,
as well. Officials said Sen. John
McCain, who was Obama's Repub-
lican opponent in last year's presi-
dential campaign,told Obama at an,
early evening meeting attended by'
numerous lawmakers that declar-
ing a timetable for a withdrawal
would merely send the Taliban
underground until the Americans,
began to leave.

get a tall brewd
coffee for $1.,00,..,
1741 Plymouth Rd * Ann Arbor L..
BIGGBY
for franchise info www.biggby.com CO FFEE
Good at this location only. Not good with any other offer.
No copies of this coupon will be accepted. Offer expires 12/08/09.
H,-,,M

CHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily
University Director of Community Affairs Jim Kosteva speaks during the Ann Arbor Planning Commission meeting last night.

SOCCER STADIUM
From Page 1A
ing districts on all sides of the par-
cel. Currently, the facility does not
comply with the city's master plan
recommendations, which allots
the space for parklands.
By rezoning, the University
would be able to continue to use
the space for a sports venue and
continue construction, allowing
the facility to be connected to the
city's sewer and water systems.
Homeowners in the area were
notified of the proposal by post-
cards in the mail but there have
been no complaints, accord-
ing to Thatcher. One resident
HIV/AIDS
From Page 1A
He would also work to pre-
vent the spread of HIV/AIDS by
informing the large number of
pregnant teenage mothers in his
class how to take care of them-
selves and limit the chance of
passing the disease to their babies.
"(We wanted) to empower a
mother to understand that if she is
HIV positive she is capable of liv-
ing a normal life and that she can
take steps to make sure her baby
will not be HIV positive when it's
born,"TPompe said. J

did request clarification about
entrance into the stadium and
how it might crowd that area
of Main Street during games,
Thatcher said.
Jim Kosteva, director of com-
munity relations for the Univer-
sity, said he has held multiple
neighborhood meetings since the
plan was formulated.
Kosteva said access to the sta-
dium will be limited to South
State Street to avoid heavy traffic
on the Main Street side. This will
be done to prevent interruptions
to local residents and stop busi-
nesses from losing parking spots
to sports fans. The Main Street
side will only be used for mainte-
nance and care purposes and will
Pompe said the mothers could
do this by regularly taking anti-
retroviral medication - which
he said is abundant and free in
Namibia - and to stop breastfeed-
ing. Pompe said breastfeeding is
the primary way HIV is spread
from mother to child.
When babies start eating solid
food for the first time they often
develop micro abrasions in their
esophagus. If a mother continues
breastfeeding at this point, the
disease could be spread through
the breast milk when it comes
into contact with these abrasions,
Pompe said.
Mahima Mahadeyn, assis-

be fenced off, he said.
The planning commission also
addressed noise levels of the new
facility. Kosteva said he did not
foresee noise being a problem.
Planning Commissioner Jean
Carlberg said she was concerned
that night games would disturb
families in the proximity.
Kosteva said the complex has
had night games for the past two
years and no complaints have
been filed, and that of the 15 to 20
home games between the men's
and women's teams, only between
30 and 40 percent will be night
games.
Kosteva said the complex is
expected to be completed in time
for the upcoming fall season.
tant coordinator at the Univer-
sity's Peace Corps office, said
that around 21 percent of Peace
Corps volunteers choose to work
on projects in the field of health
and HIV/AIDS, second only to
education.
Pompe said, however, that a
much greater percentage of volun-
teers deal with HIV/AIDS, even
though they don't specifically go
into that field.
"The statistic is that 80 per-
cent of all Peace Corps positions
now are either going to be facing
HIV/AIDS in some way," Pompe
said. "That's across the globe, not
just Africa.")jy

Global Policy Perspectives Symposium:
Media, Public Opinion and Foreign Policy
Elizabeth Mary Talbert Moderator
MPP Candidate 2010, Ford School of Public Policy
University of Michigan
Matthew Baum Panelist
Marvin Kalb Professor of Global Communication, John F. Kennedy
School of Government and Department of Government
Harvard University
Adam Berinskv Panelist
Associate Professor, Department of Political Science
Massachusetts Institute of-Technology
Phil Potter PanelistE
Assistant Professor, Ford School of Public Policy and Department
of Political Science
University of Michigan
Sponsored hy:
Thursday, December 3, 2009
4:00-5:30 p.m. Reception to follow.
Ford School of Public Policy
Annenberg Auditorium, 1120 Weill Hall inerafItal Policy(enter
For moreminfo, callZanaat (734)674-3429 e64sairsh,'otvscvln


4A - Wednesday, December 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

74Lie 1JC idigan wialJ

ROSE JAFFE

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
The road to regulation
High insurance rates a problem for low-income drivers
ichigan Democrats want to alleviate some of the pain
low-income drivers experience when they pay their
car insurance premiums. On Monday, they announced
a plan to create more governmental protections for low-income
drivers by increasing regulations on auto insurance companies,
including which criteria could be used to calculate a driver's pre-
mium. While there can be little doubt that low-income people are
suffering in today's economy, not all aspects of the Democrats'
plan are advisable. The government should empower regulatory.
agencies that can force insurance companies to offer fair rates,
rather than pass a bill completely revising, perhaps unwisely, the

He N, r r ,Yow) OFAIHA alF s H ra
l-ejMaej c4I )O 0v 4441 C if-)
rmi1 iese? a. e- 'I': I a, a (
.-' ~~~~~ sfsA,. "! "/ jisi
C5r AD j il!
WOW 5ae od dde

Don't ditch term limits

way rates are calculated.
According to the Detroit Free Press, the
plan proposed by state Democrats would
mandate that insurance companies offer
cheaper auto insurance to low-income
drivers with good driving records. The bill
would also include regulations that prevent
insurance companies from raising rates
on drivers with good records and prohibit
using education level, occupation and credit
rating to determine drivers' rates. And the
state insurance commissioner would be
given more freedom to check rate increases.
While reminders that Michigan's econ-
omy is in trouble may be getting tiresome,
they are still true. And low-income resi-
dents are the ones least able to weather the
storm. With the auto industry in turmoil
and a quick rebound unlikely, jobs will be
scarce for the foreseeable future. Low-
income people could be greatly benefitted
by lower auto insurance premiums.
And some of the practices of insurance
companies could be discriminatory. Look-
ing at a driver's level of education, profes-
sion and incomearen't necessarilyair wsys
of determining an individual's likelihood of
being involved in an accident.
But while low-income drivers can't afford
to pay more than everyone else, insurance
companies shouldn't necessarily be barred
from making determinations about wheth-

nly Michigan legislators could
be stupid enough to actually
suggest that the state's bud-
get crisis is any-
one's fault but their
own. Astoundingly,
an op-ed in last
Tuesday's Detroit
Free Press writ-F
ten by Tim Bled-
soe (D-Grosse
Pointe) and LarryJ
Deshazor (R-Por-
tage) reveals a seri- ROBERT
ous streak of denial SOAVE
in the state House
of Representatives.
The op-ed claims
the implementation of term limits is
to blame for the inability of lawmak-
ers to produce workable budgets over
the past few years. By extension, since
term limits were approved by voters
viaballot referendum in 1992, the bud-
get crisis is the fault of the taxpayers.
The Detroit Free Press followed up
with an editorial a few days later that
blamed voters more directly, writing,
"Michigan voters have themselves to
blame, at least in part, for the budget
bedlam in Lansing." The argument
is this: Michigan's term limit laws
(three two-year terms in the state
House and two four-year terms in
the state Senate) result in heavy turn-
over in the legislature. With so many
freshmen each year, it's difficult for
legislators to establish the long-term
working relationships critical to the
legislative process. In short, because
of term limits, "everyone in Lansing
is a short-timer."
Yeah, right. Being able to spend
up to 14 years in the statelegislature
doesn't make anybody a short-timer.
If you can't do your job right in that
amount of time, you really shouldn't
be asking for another term. It is the
job of legislators to implementa work-
able budget for the upcoming fiscal

year each year. To say that they can't
accomplish this task because they
haven't learned how to do their jobs
yet is incredibly naive.
Think about it: In what private sec-
tor job are you guaranteed to keep
your job for at least two years?.Inwhat
private sector job are you expected
to take multiple years to be qualified
enough to fulfill the position's basic
requirements?
We certainly wouldn't apply this
logic to other unpopular politicians.
I don't think anyone would have
explained President George W. Bush's
failures by saying, "Well, this is real-
ly the fault of term limits that hold
the president to eight years in office.
He'll get it right in years nine through
twelve. By then, his administration
will finally have that long-term work-
ing relationship thing going for it." '
The most fervent of Bush-haters
might grimace at such a comparison,
and consider it wrong - offensive,
even - to compare the disastrous
Bush presidency to the Michigan leg-
islature. But Gov. Jennifer Granholm
and state legislators have consider-
ably damaged Michigan, probably to
a greater extent than Bush ever did to
the nation as a whole.
Michigan's oppressive tax struc-
ture - namely, the Michigan Busi-
ness Tax - drives more businesses
away from the state each year. This, in
turn, has contributed to a steady rise
in unemployment, and the state cur-
rently has the worst unemployment
rate in the country (15.1 percent as of
October, according to the U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics). With businesses
leaving the state in droves and jobs
disappearing, it should come as no
surprise that the state's tax revenue
streams are plummeting, resulting in
a multi-billion dollar budger deficit.
Without an economic plan that makes
Michigan attractive to businesses
again, the state will face even bigger

deficits in subsequent years.
My point is that the state govern-
ment has consistentlyfailed to address
these problems.' Diminishing term
limits will only allow the legislators
who are responsible for such failures
to extend their stays in office.
14 years is plenty
of time to learn
how to do a job.
It's common knowledge that
incumbency comes with a multitude
of built-in advantages in elections.
Incumbents almost always have more
available funds and better name rec-
ognition. In recent years, they have
been re-elected 90 percent of the time
nationwide. Term limits are one of
the most effective political tools the
challenger has at his or her disposaL
In some cases, it is the only method of
assuring that voters will eventually be
rid of an ineffective lawmaker.
I'll grant that Bledsoe and
Deshazor's proposal for changing
termlimits is mild - theyonlywantto
change the law so that a legislator can
serve all 14 years in either the House
or the Senate, rather than six in one
and eight in the other. But how about
this: We'll think about shifting term
limits after legislators have cut the
budget deficit in half or fixed the tax
structure.
Until then, Michigan's financial
problems will remain the fault of law-
makers, not the citizens who voted to
put a check on their power.
- Robert Soave is the Daily's
edilorial page editor. He 'cS be
reached at rsoavePumich.edu.

0I

er drivers will be able to pay if they are
involved in an accident. The line between
blatant discrimination and sound pricing
policy may not be as clear-cut as the Demo-
crats' plan would have you believe. Indeed,
it seems that the Democrats are trying
to score easy political points and haven't
thought through all the ramifications of
passing a law that micromanages the way
insurance companies calculate premiums.
Instead, legislators should expand the
ability of regulatory agencies to make those
determinations. Regulators should be given
a strong mandate to make sure that insur-
ance premiums are being calculated fairly
and that low-income drivers aren't getting
the short end of the stick. Such a mandate
would be able to protect the less fortunate
while making sure that insurance compa-
nies don't pass the costs on to middle-class
families.
The state government has a responsibil-
ity to protect lower-income groups during
tough economic times. Keeping a closer eye
Qp how much they pay in auto insurance is
one way of doing that. But the Democrats'
plan should be carefully examined if it's
introduced to the legislature. Regulators
may be able to do more to balance auto
insurance rates than a complete reform
package.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emily Barton, Jamie Block, William Butler, Ben Caleca, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
ALEX SCHIFF
Compromising on abortion

40

IASA overstepped bounds by
using spraypaint on campus
To the Daily:
After the sun goes down and the traffic has
subsidedthe time is right. Equipped with a buck-
et of chalk and a catchy phrase, most all student
organizations have done it.
Chalking the Diag to promote an event, donut
sale or just to tell passersby to have a great day
can be a very quick and effective way to get your
message out. And most students don't mind it. It
gives us something to look at on the cold, dismal
trek to class at 8:15 a.m. on a Mondays. It's a con-
stantly changing news feed that updates every
two to three days depending on the placement
and the rainfall - unless it's spray paint.
I have nothing against the Indian American
Student Association and I loved the cultural
show they put on, but over three weeks after their
advertisements first appeared across campus,
they are all still as prominent as ever. Everyone
who walks by still reads that they can buy tickets
for the "IASA SHOW AT HILL AUDITORIUM
11/13/09!" The fact that "TICKETS ARE AVAIL-
ABLE AT MUTO"has been ingrained in my mind
in orange spray paint graffiti. I understand that it
maybe frustrating if you have to re-chalk your ad
two or three times to keep it standing out if you
want to start advertising a week in advance, but
it is just disrespectful to use spray paint on such a
Michigan staple and tradition as the Diag.
The deed is done, and there is no use crying
over spilled milk, but I at least think IASA should
take responsibility for its action and clean it up.
It is one thing to want to promote your event, but
seriously? This is Michigan. Expect Respect.
Justin Blaty
LSA sophomore
Minaret ban in Switzerland
is unjust toward Muslims
To the Daily:
On Sunday, to my horror, I discovered that
Swiss voters had decided to ban all future con-
struction of Minarets. Minarets are towers tradi-
tionally used to call Muslims to prayer five times
a day. The initial referendum passed by over 57
percent. Given the Swiss system, due to the mar-
gin by which it passed, the ban is now part of the
Swiss Constitution. The Swiss Federal Council
opposed the ban at first, but jt has now accepted

the will of the people.
To put this issue into perspective, imagine if
the United States banned all crucifixes in church-
es. Neither Minarets nor crucifixes are strictly
necessary for religious practice, but they are
representative of the religion and hold a special
significance for the faithful. This vote represents
a violation of religious civil liberties and human
rights as setout by the United Nations's Universal
Declaration of Human Rights.
This referendum was portrayed as complying
with strict new laws regulating construction,
but it's much more than that. It unfairly singles
out Minarets even though the calls to prayer
don't use speakers, and the Minarets thus cause
little disturbance. There are no bans on church
bell towers or even mounted speaker systems in
Swiss cities - just Minarets.
Advocates of the ban argue that Minarets
are political, not religious. According to sup-
porters, the structures represent a growing
trend of attempts by Muslims to use politics
for religious gains. The main target is the sup-
posedly nonintegrated, unassimilated and
backward Muslims falsely accused of trying to
create a parallel society.
The Swiss people took away the rights of
hundreds of thousands of their legal, taxpaying
citizens. Prior to the election, the United Nations
Human Rights Committee condemned the cam-
paign against Minarets, stating that the ban
would violate international law. Inthis case, since
these edifices don't fall under the stipulations of
Article 30 of the Declaration of Human Rights,
i.e. violating or destroying the rights of others,
the ban violates Articles 19 and 27. It denies Mus-
lims the right to express themselves 'through
any media" and to fully participate in their com-
munity - in this case, the national community of
Switzerland. Therefore, it unequivocally violates
international law.
I join with my Muslim brothers and sisters in
solidarity to ask for international intervention
against this travesty of democracy. This isn't an
issue about whether you like Minarets or even
Muslims - it's an issue about whether you feel
that the right to free thought and expression are
acceptable.
Even living across the ocean, I can't enjoy my
religious and intellectual freedoms when I know
that other people have lost theirs. It is our duty
as members of the international community to
try to right this wrong.
Speak out and be heard for those who are now
without a call.
RickaDurance
LSAimnior

By some miracle, the United States managed to get
through both a presidential election and Supreme Court
justice nomination without reigniting the fight over
abortion. But of course, that couldn't last forever. The
great health care debate of 2009 has finally awakened
the sleeping giant of the American Culture War, and the
clash between pro- and anti-reproductive rights groups
has resumed as fervently as ever.
For those in the pro-life camp, abortion is taking a life.
It doesn't matter if the child hasn't been born yet or even
if it's so early in the pregnancy it doesn't have brain waves
or a heartbeat. If life begins at conception, then taking
that life away before birth is the moral equivalent of pre-
natal homicide. A doctor that performs abortions is mor-
ally analogous to a serial killer. In short, if you follow the
logical progression of this line of thinking, then society is
allowing a full-blown genocide of babies to occur legally.
It is a simple - but compelling.- argument.
Advocates of reproductive rights have a much more
diverse set of arguments. Some contend that life begins
at birth. Others believe life starts at the point where the
fetus is sentient or that life does begin at conception, but
it is not the place of the government to prohibit abortion.
Starting with this view, abortion is in no way, shape or
form murder because a fetus is not the same as a human
being like you or me. A fetus cannot survive outside the
womb as a separate entity until very late in the pregnan-
cy, and thus is wholly different from a fully developed,
birthed human being. Additionally, women must retain
sovereignty over their own bodies and pregnancies. The
state has no right to intrude into the private lives of indi-
viduals, least of all someone's uterus.
Abortions generally stem from accidental pregnancies.
To keep that fetus is to bring an unwanted baby into the
world with possibly devastating, psychological impacts
for both parent and child. Often, these accidental preg-
nancies are the result of teenagers and young adults hav-
ing unprotected sex. It is abominable to force someone to
choose between going through a pregnancy only to give
away the baby for adoption, or to penalize her indefinite-
ly for one mistake. Banning abortion and, by extension,
restricting its practice, transforms having children from
a blessing to a burden.

Abortion is a zero-sum game - either human life
begins at conception, in which case abortion is killing a
human, or it begins after conception and it is not murder.
In a debate as emotionally and often religiously charged
as this one, no amount of discussion and argument will
ever objectively answer the question of where life (or
personhood) begins. For that reason, the focus should be
on reducing the number of unintended pregnancies that
lead to abortions. That means comprehensive sexual edu-
cation needs to be implemented nationwide to empower
teenagers and young adults with knowledge, which will
to diminish the number of people engaging in unprotect-
ed sex.
This is the best way to reduce unwanted pregnancies
and the abortions they engender. The only thing absti-
nence-only education accomplishes is sending unpre-
pared young adults into the real world, where sex isn't
quite so taboo. A 2007 study conducted by Mathematica
Policy Research Inc. on behalf of the U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services illuminates the utter
uselessness of such programs. Following 2,000 children
randomly assigned to receive either abstinence-only
counseling or no counseling at all over four to six years,
the two groups were shown to have no statistically sig-
nificant differences in sexual abstinence rates, the age
of first sexual encounter and the number of sexual part-
ners. It's about as effective as telling kids that babies
come from the stork. It may be difficult for parents tolet.
their kids learn about things like sex and contraception,
but ignoring that conversation only ends up being a mis-
take as children grow older and the situation inevitably
arises.
I may be a fervent advocate of abortion rights, but I
understand the rationale of the other side and recognize
the endlessness of the debate. If we are consistent with
our principles, whether we are pro-life or pro-choice we
can agree that reducing the number of unintended preg-
nancies is the only way to move beyond this battle of
the American Culture War and heal the divisions in our
society. Maybe then we can have a rational debate about
health care policy.
Alex Schiff is an LSA freshman.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
)kT

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 2, 2009 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, December 2, 2009 - 5A

Nothing can stop
Annie's newest

"It makes sense, I promise. Umbrellas on sunny days. Sunglasses on rainy days."
Love and sufferi

By KRISTYN ACHO
Daily Arts Writer
Because of overly hyped
paparazzi magnets like Cheryl Cole
and Lily Allen,
today's Euro-
girl-pop genre
feels like it's built Annie
upon synthetic
tabloid stories Don't Stop
rather than genu- Smalltown
ine musical tal- Supersound
ent. Then there's
Norwegian pop princess, Annie.
Her distinctive brand of pop is the
kind of music her attention-loving
peers wish they made. Anniemal,
her critically acclaimed debut,
landed Annie with an intimate and
devoted fanbase instead of count-
less scandalous press exposas.
- For these fans, Annie's sopho-
more album Don't Stop has been
a long time coming. The record
has been floating in obscurity for
almost a year due to Annie's split
with Island Records last Novem-
ber. Don't Stop proves to be worth
the wait. The released album's
tracklist deviates from the original
listing, featuring new tracks and
eliminating weaker songs like "I
Can't Let Go," "Sweet" and, most
riskily, "I Know UR Girlfriend
Hates Me." These songs appear
on a special edition bonus disc, All
Night EP, released with the album.
Cutting "UR Girlfriend," Annie's
lead single last year, from Don't
Stop is a pretty daring move. But it's
justifiable. The track proves to be a
throwaway compared to the glossy,
revamped slices on the rest of the
album.
The overhaul seems to have
been a success. The album art-
work's quirky, electro-pop guise
is reason enough to give Annie's
music a listen. The cover waxes
her candy-coated, electronically
hyped sound, featuring Annie's
fluorescently scribbled signature
and the artist, clad in a neon-haute
number, seductively peering at the
camera out of the corner of her eye.
It's bound to make any electro-pop
devotee weak in the knees.
Don't Stop is the definition of
"noise candy" - you know you
shouldn't give into its sweet-and-
sticky-ness, but you just can't help
yourself. On the record's first track
"Hey Annie," her chant-like vocals,

poppy as bubble gum, are sung over
fizzy synthesizers and xylophones,
surely satisfying listeners' sweet
tooths.
Still, Don't Stop marks Annie's
gradual departure from her sig-
nature guilty-pleasure sound to
the realm of avant-karde electron-
ics and experimental glamour
pop. In "Take You Home," Annie
coos the flirty lyrics, "looking for
trouble, that's what I am / playing
a game we both understand" with
a swig of confidence and addictive
charm. The track has a mesmeriz-
ing, intense quality, layering care-
fully planned synths and loops that
would make electronic veteran The
Knife swoon.
Annie's albumis still full of poppy
tracks like the ones that made her
famous - but they're not all gems.
One sure misfire is the annoying,
overly cutesy "The Breakfast Song."
The track is a pointless slice of
electro-junk in which Annie grat-
ingly and repeatedly chants, "What
do you want for breakfast?" I don't
know Annie, cereal?
But the most blindingly appar-
ent misstep is one of the final
tracks, the sappy, woeful "When
the Night." The song sounds like
anything heard at the end of a John
Hughes movie, utilizing a stereo-
typical, slow-paced'80s pop sound
to create a real yawner. The bro-
Girl power at
its finest.
kenhearted track feels dejected and
inconsistent with the album's bub-
bly, women-in-power demeanor.
But Annie thankfully brings the
album's theme of female empower-
ment full-circle in the final track
"Heaven and Hell," with the lyr-
ics, "Tell me, tell me what did I do
wrong? / Oh baby, I am perfect."
Girl power at its finest.
With Don't Stop, Annie is creat-
ing pop in the tradition of artists
Kylie Minogue and Madonna, but
with her own indie-electro spin.
Listeners can only hope that Annie
will follow self-guidance she pro-
claims in Don't Stop and continue
experimenting with peppy, sugary-
sweet beats.

* 'Still Walking' takes an
honest look at the
turmoil of family life
By NICK COSTON
Daily Arts Writer
Michigan students returning from Thanks-
givingbreakmayhavenoticed
that the air in Ann Arbor is
markedly colder than it was
a few days ago. Piles of work Still Walking
and sleepless nights await
in the short weeks before At the
the respite of winter vaca- Michigan
tion. It's times like these that 1FC
people need warmth and ref-
uge more than ever, and there is no place more
tranquil and inviting than within the frames of
Hirokazu Kore-eda's "Still Walking."
"Still Walking" brings together the Yokoya-
ma family for its annual ritual honoring Jun-
pei, the eldest son who drowned 12 years ago
while rescuing a young boy. The ceremony's
participants' moods range from unapologetic
disdain for the tradition to false cheer for the
reunion, but everyone is clearly uncomfort-

able, especially Junpei's surviving brother Ryo
(Japanese actor Hiroshi Abe).
This discomfort bristles in sharp contrast to
the gorgeous scenery surrounding the conten-
tious family. The cinematography of this film is
so beautiful that it's difficult to pay full atten-
tion to the narrative - the interiors are warm
and inviting despite their grouchy inhabitants
and crumbling bathroom tiles. The nature
depicted outside is also vibrant and colorful.
The film's central theme, the turmoil that
brings the Yokoyama family together, lacks
the intimacy of the house in which the char-
acters converge. Kyohei (Japanese veteran
Yoshio Harada), the aging patriarch of the
family, makes explicitly clear his preference
for the departed Junpei. Kyohei's wife Toshiko
(Kirin Kiki) admits to her living son that she
invites the now-grown boy whom Junpei res-
cued to their home every year just to watch him
struggle with the guilt of his own survival. But
there is no rage here, only a stale and linger-
ing depression, and the Yokoyamas' aging grief
cannot dim the beauty of their surroundings.
The architecture of the family's home
lends itself to exceptional shot construction.
After the customary greetings and small talk,
the Yokoyamas kneel at a table obviously not
intended for such a large dinner party. The gri-

macing family eats in silence, cramped within
the wooden beams of the dining room and
eager for the meal to end. Ryo and his stepson
bathe together after a forceful suggestion from
Grandma Toshiko; the tub is cramped, and
both man and boy's knees poke out of the water
as they each stare blankly and awkwardly at
the wall in front of them.
The outdoor imagery is as sharp as it is
lovely - at the graveyard, Ryo's stepson's face
appears between the crook of his mother's arm
and Junpei's headstone, indicating that he is
caught between families.
Even with subtitles, "Still Walking" thank-
fully delivers. An American audience's possible
lack of familiarity with the Japanese language
might mask some deficiencies in-performance
by a film's actors, but there is no mistaking the
genuine emotion of the cast of "Still Walking."
These do not look like people reciting lines for
a role. This is a real family with real love and
real disappointment.
Anyone in Ann Arbor could look out a win-
dow right now and it would be difficulttablame
that person for feeling depressed at the sight. If
you find yourself swamped with work or cold
or tired and you have two hours to spare, use
them to see "Still Walking." The warmth will
last long enough to see you home.

Warming upto hip hop

By LEAH BURGIN
Daily Arts Writer
Mike Averill is a man of shift-
ing identities. Known over the
years as "Lit-
tle Mikey,"
"Oliver Hart," Eyedea &
"Eyedea" Abilities
and as a col-
laborator w/Themselves
with multiple Tonight, 9:30 p.m
underground Atihe Bind Pig
hip-hop $12
groups
including
Face Candy and Sage Francis,
Averill is in a constant flux of cre-
ative energies and personas.
While such a roller coaster ride
of an emceeing career might seem
unsettling to most, Averill thrives
on the chaos and avidly seeks an
ever-changing environment.
"One way has never been ful-
filling enough for me. I'm always
starting new bands, starting new
ideas. To be honest, talking, sing-
ing, fucking, making art, it loses
its mystique for me sometimes.
So, I have to force myself to figure
out new ways to enjoy it," Averill
said in a phone interview with
the Daily.
Averill is currently touring
with DJ Abilities (Gregory "Max"
Keltgen), his longtime friend and
collaborator. The duo, Eyedea
& Abilities (formerly known as
Sixth Sense), will perform at the
Blind Pig tonight with other hip-
hop groups Themselves, Bedroxx
and Station DJs.
As for why Averill decided, out
of all his other projects, to recom-
bine with Keltgen for their first
album together in five years, the
answer is simple.
"It was time fir us to make a

new record because everything
else was boring," he said.
If Eyedea & Abilities's new
album, By the Throat, can be rep-
resented by the music video for
"Junk" featured on the group's
Myspace page, Throat is rough
and raw. Heavily distorted gui-
tar and dense drums combine
with lyrics oozing dark "urban
intellectualism": "Load me up,
fall in love / We are America's
favorite choice of drug / It's all in
your hands so kill us while we're
young / You don't need to push
me I'm ready to jump."
When asked why hip hop is
the best way to explore the ideas
and influences the duo lists on

"My judo chop is lethal...sometimes."
ARTS IN BRIEF

On set at the world's coldest photo shoot.

its M
nature
creep,1
- Ave
answer
"It's;
can be
it's a f
R
"It's ea
move it
thing t
long. It
nitely a
In f
improv
trulye
As theN
Scribbl
Battlei
of exp

ySpace page - "earth, even if he now believes the expo-
freedom, the queen, the sure he had as a young rapper is
human suffering and you" embarrassing.
rill again had a simple "I feel like alot of my mistakes as
r: It isn't. an artist have been pretty well doc-
a format that me and Max umented," he said. "I mean, I wasn't
really creative in because smart enough at 19 tobe on TV."
ormat we know," he said. Yet, no matter how embar-
rassed he may be by his earlier
freestyle experiences, Averill
must be somewhat relieved that
Eyedea: A his earliest work - lip-syncing on
0 the school bus or during backyard
k~enaissance metal concerts - has escaped
documentation.
an of gemres. "I would have concerts in my
yard as a kid where I would just
lip-sync Poison songs," he said.
sier to poke holes in it and "And that's how I started with
t around because it's some- rap too. I would steal other peo-
that we've studied for so ple's raps and say them on the
's not the best, but it's defi- school bus."
way." As for the future of hip hop as
act, Averill believes that a genre, Averill has no comment,
'isation is the best way to While it may seem arrogantly
xpress his creative ideas. blas6 at first, his lack of opinion
winner of freestyle battles makes sense after further consid-
e Jam in 1999 and Blaze eration. With such a wide arrayof
in 2000, Averill has plenty interests and so many outlets for
-'Hence with improv -- expression, Averill has r> reason
nej nhhas rV

to feel concern for a single genre.
Even if hip hop began waning in
popularity, he would most likely
expand into another branch of
music.
That being said, Averill seems
to have a soft spot for the impro-
visation hip hop allows. With
bottled excitement, he describes
what he loves about his current
genre of choice.
"Hip hop has a great history
of improvising - the MC free-
styling it and the DJ scratching,
even dancing -the whole thing. I
think improvising is when you're
testing yourself and when you are
experiencing the expression of
those things that we're talking
about (the duo's influences)."
Despite his love and talent for
improvising, Averill has a sur-
prising lack of confidence in his
ability to best other wordsmiths
in an impromptu freestyle battle.
When asked who would win in
such a situation, him or Jason
Mraz, Averill amusedly admit-
ted, "Not me, but that goes for me
against anyoneA

FILM REVIEW
'Rome' falls on
the silver screen
When in Rome
At Quality 16 and Showcase
Touchstone
It's a shame when movies try
so earnestly to distinguish them-
selves from the debasement of
the "B-movie" designation that
they ruin a perfectly good idea.
Such is the unfortunate plight of
"When in Rome," a collaboration
between the writers of an eclectic
array of screenplays (David Dia-
mond and David Weissman, "The
Family Man," "Evolution" and
"Old Dogs") and the director of
an eclectic series of movies (Mark
Steven Johnson, "Daredevil" and
"Simon Birch"). The resulting
movie is something that simply
doesn't reflect the ambition of its
creators.
In the film, Beth (Kristen Bell,
"Forgetting Sarah Marshall") is an
awkward, hopeless romantic who
dreams of one day finding a rela-
tionship that surpasses the superfi-
cialityofthe aff irs she observes on

a daily basis. When she is abruptly
snubbed by her umpteenth suit-
or - the witty, equally awkward
Nick (Josh Duhamel, "Transform-
ers") - at her sister's wedding,
Beth removes the coins thrown by
several other hopeless lovers from
Rome's famous "fountain of love"
under the drunken assumption
that she'll save these people from a
similar fate as her own.
When Beth inadvertently acti-
vates a curse that causes an array of
men to fall deeply in love with her,
however, she must quickly find a
way to reverse the ill effects of the
curse and repair her fragmented
love life. Danny Devito's perfor-
mance as one of Beth's suitors
temporarily bolsters the movie's
comedic appeal as well.
The script and premise start
with a grandiose effort, proclaim-
ing a profound underlying mean-
ing in their attempt to answer the
age-old question: Does true love
really exist outside of fantasy? It's
just too bad that a wannabe seri-
ous romantic drama ends with all
the absurdity of a Kevin Smith flick
- the beginning and end are too
incongruous to belong to the same
movie. Be forewarned that .this
experience won't venture beyond
the realm of the typically mediocre.
TIMOTHYRABB


0

01

PARKING
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Cam-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
5 BDRM house Avail August 2010:
833 Brown S: 2650/mo. Beautiful
House. Parking and00-site laundry.
Call Louis at 610-952-5269 or email
louisbreskman@yahoo.com
1 BEDROOMS $685-$765 and 2 bed-
rootms $840-$985.
Availale August 27th, 2010.
We offer fully furnished apartment
at no extra cost!
For more info call 734-662-4446 or visit
wwwissaproperties.com
3 BDRM Apts on East U.!
Furn, high ceilings, hardwood firs,
deck off back, on site parking, heat &
water incl. Pepper Properties 810-231-
0229. www.umcampushousing.com
! 6-8 Bedroom Large Houses!
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 White St. & 1237
White Street. Close to campus. Furn.,
free on site Indry & prkg. Hardwood
firs, open basement, fenced in yards.
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.Aucampushousing.com
. 921 PACKARD, Fall '10 3 story, 5
bdrm house for 6. Furmished, 3 full bth,
3 kitchen, ldry, prkg, (734) 272-1320.
! WINTER SEMESTER Rental:
Otte drt, large 850 sq f, i-level,
$765/to, furnished5optsin. Etail
ifowissaproperiesscom or visit
www.issaproperties.com
or call 734-662-4446.
H BEAUTIFUL HOMES !t
6and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
lease. APPLY NOW for Aug/Sep
2010. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nacylat~e/urich.edu,
www.nancylat.com
!!!AWESOME 3 bdnn house. Free
prkg, Indry. water incI. 734.223.7777.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
!!AVAILABLE FALL 20O !!
715 Church- 1,2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry free
prkg free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimugtlicg/yahoo.com
sws.churchstreetrentals.coms
!!CARLSONPROPERTIES.COM!!
is finished leasing for 2010. Land-
lords call 734-332-6000 for assistance,
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/-
cool kitch. Low Rent $ (313) 215-8115.
!!LG RM., Hill St off State. Prkg.
For male. $375/mo. 845-399-9904.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. ,
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HIRPAA.com 996-4992.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !l! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
ts, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarboraprtments.net

End of Year Special
$100 Off 1st months rent
*must lease by 12-31-09
Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island Drink
with any new tour!
Voted Best
Apartments
in 2009 by
Michigan Daily!
CHEAPER AND
MUCH BETTER THAN
THE DORMS!
YOU DESERVE TO MOVE UP
Contact us for a tour today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
Unverstytowers-mi.com
fl Univer ity
!!TOO CLOSE TO BE TRUE!! Great
apts for large groups. Well cared for
and close to bus stop near CC Little.
May & Sept. '10 leases. 734-668-1118
orvisit www.noplacelikejones.com
. 0- 4 Bedrooms!
VARSITY MANAGEMENT
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734) 668-1100
Ai aps. are fitus risher( hare new
kitchens w/ dishwashers, incuric hea
water, most inch. parking, some incl.
wireless/
'BI-LEVEL 2 BED 2 BATH:
515 Walnut, huge aps. perfect for 4!
Close to CCRB and CC Little.
-FOREST TERRACE: 1001 S. For-
est, huge, sunny, 2-bedrooms large
enough for 4! All w/ big beautiful
kitchens.
.543 CHURCH ST: 2 & 4 bdrm bi-
levelsand huge 2-hdrms for 4. The per-
fect location! Parking extra for this lo-
cation.
'PARK TERRACE: 848 Tappan, cor-
ner of Tappan & Oakland, huge 2-bed-
rooms w/ new kitchens and great bal-
conies! Underground parking.
-BURNS PARK: 1039 Baldwin, mas-
s3v, gjr us aps. in a converted man-
t a ood floors, 10f. cetlings,
fireplaces. Yu've got to see these!
Studio, 2 bdrm, & 4 bdrn avail.
$ NOW AVAILABLE S
2 bdrm. spacious apt. Excellent,
convenient, great location, prkg.
734-883-7771 or 734-476-5453.
u**3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. Hardwood floors, fully fumished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.nnarborapartments.net
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrms with 1.5
baths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
ern furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NEWER 2 BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace.
Drive-in garage. Cathedral ceiling livin-
groom. Wshr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo.
734-516-4291. gunnerbh7@aol.cotu

oed and 090
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
PetsWelcome
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
camnpus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact 734-
276-3876.
*FALL2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were Cheaper and
MUCH Better than the Dorms! Don't
lose $100 CASH, ask us how to get it.
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appointments.
www.UniversityTowers-Mi.com
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
minute walk to the Diag, plenty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or email
ctraband@archrealtyci.com
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
suflroos, formal dining roos, di-
washer hardwood flooring, ceranic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat, water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
Vaughn. 6 bdrm, first floor of duplex. 2
bath, 2 fridge, free parking for 5 cars.
Easy in/out. September lease. $3390.
734-426-4772.
A
R E ALT Y
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Bedrooms
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)

.1021 E. University
916 Sybil
6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
200 Packard
507 Walnut
1132 White
7 Bedrooms
331 - 333 E. Jefferson
335 E. Ann
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms +
1302 S. Forest (8Bhr)
1130 S. Forest (9 br)
1619 S. University (9 br)
1014 Vaughn (11 br)
*only $480 per person
915 Oakland (20 person)
616 Church Street
For details call
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

FALL 2010 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
7 510 catherine $3700
7 1129 White St. $3400
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3600
6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $2800
4 1117 S. Forest $2440
CAPPOIDEINCO
73.4-996-1991
2 & 3BDRM APARTMENTS avail-
able for Fall 2010 915/919 South Divi-
sion, Apartments are north of Hoover
and south of Benjaimin, across from El-
bel Field, Furnished, Heat&Water in-
cluded, Free onsite Parking, Laundry
Facilities, Balconys. 1BD-$840
2BD-SII100. 3BD-$1750, Spacious
Bedrooms and Living Room. To sched-
ule a viewing call 248-996-7524 or
734-302-7830, email-
A2mnanagementcomcast.net
2 BDRM.APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.snmileyproperties.conm
(734) 761-4469
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).
Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
721 5.
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. Large modern kitchen, 1.5 baths,
filly firiihed aid iuchsmore!741-
9300 www.annarhorapartents..et

(14 ftcioan Dai
Onine (flusiflegl
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
8 BEDROOM HOUSE - $485/mo per
person with 8 roommates! Located just
about a 10-15 minute walk from the
diag this fully furnished house is a
great choice for those wanting to save
$$$$ and still be able to walk to cam-
pus. 2 Kitchens, 3 bathrooms, and
plenty ofparking!!!!
Call 734-995-9200 for a tour today.
9 BEDROOM HOUSE $560/mo per
person with 10 roommrates!!!!!! Lo-
cated just a 10 minute walk from the
Diag on 1130 South University. Hard-
wood floors, Dishwasher, 3 kitchens, 6
bathrooms, maximum occupancy 14
people. Call 734-995-9200 for a
showing.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrs with 1100 sqft & 1.5
batis. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartmens.net
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroomr
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
iig, many uwe furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us hy phone o
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
ICC Studio & 
Bdr. Units
ITower Condomiwurn
734-663-1530 4
AFFORUABLE 4-MONTH CON-
TRACTS, Avaiable for Winter Term
Rates Starting at $529; includes all
meals, utilities and more.
CC Student Co-op h ousing,
www.ice.coop 734-662-4414.o
AMAZING six BEDROOM
HOUSE in prime location. Two full
baths, private porch, newly renovated
kitchen and living room with hard
wood floors. 6 free parking spots.
$3499/ month. Campus Reality 734-
766-8865 www.capusreality.com
NO MONEY DOWN!!! come in to- -
day, sign a lease for next year and don't
pay anything until you move in! Things
are renting fast so call today!
Campus Reality 734-665-8825
www.camnpusrealitycom
'I
F/

Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
' Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
SContemporary Furniture
' Clone tin B
' Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
wVrp e 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

s T 2 iN i 0 L5 GI N C,
Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
* TFully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*Vaes by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat,. water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water mc., fully furmished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
1029 VAUGHN
6 BDRM + STUDY
3 BATHS, $4000
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street. Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 ath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com,
CUTE HOUSE AT Hl15 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo
+ utIlites..734-260-4003.
FALL '1 RENTAL. 5 Bdrm, 2 bath.
at 811 Sylvan. 10 min walk to campus.
5 min to baseball field and track.
Major appliances. 734-834-1680.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm aps at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil,
910 Packard, 11300Oakland, 1026
Vaughn, etc. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 orerail
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call aove numhers or email for
showings or please stop by!
MAY LEASES STUDIO-I bdrms
avail on cetal campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
ROOMS AVAILABLE.
$450-5500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
10 BDRM HOUSE 433 Hamilton.
10 BDRM house217 N. Ingalls.
u-places.com 734.478.2936.

# Beds Location Rent
6 1122 S. Forest $3500
5 1120 S. Forest $3000
4 715 Catherine $2200
Copi Properties
734.663.5609

I I

1
1
1
1
1
2
e
e
G
2
2
3
4
4
4
4
4
4
5
5

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Construction 35 Ease off 58 Razor brand
1 Square after beam 40 Piano's 88 59 Exam for an
Connecticut 4 Baltic country 42 Reduction plan aspiring D.A.
Avenue 5 One who'll be 45 Frenzied 60 It's a lock
5"Take a hike!" comin' round the 47 Valuable violin, 62 Tennis score
10 Wax remover mountain, in for short 63 Important
14 Jessica of "Sin song 50 Write, as music periods
CRy' 6 Bellyache 51 Steering device 64 "Thisjust - my
15Iisraeli seaport 7Teemingm(with) 54Co e VIP da'
16 Choice in a booth 8 Get an- effort 55 Merit 66 Afternoon break
17 *Nightly news 8 Henner of "Taxi" 5Memal 6Afte
show segment 10 Home shopping 56 coors walt 67 One ofihe
tO Match starter channel beverage Bobbsey twins
Ad Purger 11 Small hopper ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
22 Add color to 13 --hatsp
3 Veiled consent? 13lk icon Seeger H A S A T F R E T 0 U I T
5" Abner" 18bsen's" AMOCO R AR A U N D
27 *Big Apple show Gabler" RO TS ODIC I C E D
36 HoustonAeros' 19 Beethoven's MRP I CKWI C L A D
org. "FOr," A N N 0 L I K E L Y
37 Brass or pewter 24 Mice catchersK
18 Overplayparpu 26 Arm, e.g.INAL
9 Breaka tcorner 27Clichd CAH E TERM NAL
1t Long Island 28 Neighbor of Mary C H A I 0 I L C A T 01
43 Poker Flat 29 Prayer starter P S Y C H I C S P 0 K I E R
chronicler Harte 30 Tons K E N T T U S L E D
44 To the point, in 31 Hall of Famer C L I F F S S A LIT
law Robinofithe I D o L T R I C K Y 0 I C K
16 Author Nin Milwaukee T A E R I E
8 Evian, par Brewers E C E M A C
exemple 32 Mimicking bird
19 *1955 Disney 33 Chick of jazz S A C K E 0 0 A R 0 5 E S
animated film 34 First-stringers xwordeditor@aol.com 12/01/09

Beds Location Rent
6 1029 Vaughn $4000
6 1021 Church $3600
6 541 S. Division $3400
6 930 Packard $3100
5 1101 Church $2900
4 1018 E. University $2600
Copi Properties
734.663.5609
5 BDRM. FALL 2010. 530 S. Fourth.
2 bath. Free prkg & ldmy.Few in walk
o Unioi. $2450 +- sIl. 734-709-5709.
5 BEDROOM APARTMENT 611
Church, Located on the corner of
Church and S. University above
Amers. Entire building has been com-
pletely renoveted. Completely Fur-
nished (heather couches!), Huge Clos-
ets! Washer and Dryer in unit, Granite
Counter Tops, Stainless Steel Appli-
ances, Dishwasher and Disposal, 2500
S.F., 2.5 Baths. Available May and Fall
2010 $665.00-$785.00/month per per-
son with 6 roommates. Limited num-
her of units remaining call
734-995-9200 for a tour.
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE $450 per per-
son with 7 Roomates, this amazing
house is located just South of S. State
Street on Packard. The home has 3
bathrooms, 2 Kitchens, and 7 Large
Bedrooms. Plenty of room for up to 10
people! For a tour call 734-995-9200.
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
room at $491. 2 bedroom at $714 w/ 2
months free. Call Now! 734-663-8463.
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. faurn.
apts. 402 1i11 St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL NOWAND/OR Fall
2 spacious 5 bedroom apt.
Call 734-665-2723 or vis
www.sahproperties.comr
NEWER-FURNISHED 6-BDRM
APTS. & ROOMS IN A 6 BDRM
APT. - WALK TO CENTRAL CAM-
PUS $665/BIDRM-INCLUJDES TV &
CLEANING (734) 418-20511
ww.828greeneapt.com
L *,2 t
# Beds Location Rent
O 1121 Church $3400
6 543 S. Division #2 $2800
6 1221 S. State #2 $2500
5 1117 Churcht#1 $2900
Copi Properties
734.663.5609

0

0

featuring Darling
Dear
52 -cone
53 Show about
Capsote

1 2:18 6 i8Sm0 1 1 1
14 15 16 I~ II


54 Candyin 12-pie 212
dispensers
57 Pisa place 2i 24 25 26
61 Two-time 2
opponent of Ike 23 28 39 30 31 32 33 34 3
65 Comedown in3
buckets; also, EI
when appliedin u- 40 4443i
sequenceto the
answers to 44 4 4 48
aned clues this
puzze'sltheme 1916
68 Witty Bombeck 2
69 Light retrain
70 Equallydivided 54 5 6 51 5 ss m 1 82 3s4
71 Gingercookie 6 6
720Gohbledup
73 Doctor's advice W89 70_
DOWN 71 72 73
1 o)bLile
2 Not windward ByEdra 12/2/0
(c)2009 Tibune MdiaSrvics,sIn.120.9

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 2, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, December 2, 2DD9 - 7A

F amilies,
troops mixed
over Obama's
Afghan surge'

7 BEDROOM HOUSE for8. 3 Bath, WWW.800FULLER.COM
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor- (734) 769-7520
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo. I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003. 5 twin. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

JACKSONVILLE, N.C. (AP)
- Battle-weary troops and their
families braced for a wrench-
ing round of new deployments to
Afghanistan, but many said they
support the surge announced
Tuesday as long as it helps to end
the 8-year-old conflict.
As President Barack Obama out-
lined his plan to send 30,000 extra
troops to Afghanistan - while
* pledging to start bringing them
home in 20tt - soldiers, Marines
and their families interviewed by
The Associated Press felt a tangle
of fresh concerns and renewed
hopes. Some took in the televised
announcement as they played
darts in a barroom near their base,
while others watched from their
living rooms.
"All I ask that man to do, if he
is going to send them over there,
is not send them over in vain,"
said 57-year-old Bill Thomas of
Jacksonville, N.C., who watched
Obama's televised speech in his liv-
MSA ELECTIONS
From Page 1A
This was a slight decrease from
the 9.6 percent of the student vot-
ing population that voted in MSA
elections last fall. Both years
were a major increase over the
5.3 percent of the student voting
population that took part in the
Fall 2007 election.
Winter attributed the lower
voter turnout to the timing of the
elections right after the Thanks-
giving break.
She said she had planned on
advertising the election with a
link to the voting website on the
desktop of 41l campus computers
but the logos were not created in
time for Information and Tech-
nology Services to implement it.
"It's something that ITS
agreed to do and unfortunately
we couldn't get a logo put togeth-

ing room, where photos of his three
sons in uniform hang over the TV.
One of his sons, 23-year-old
Cpl. Michael Thomas, is a Marine
based at neighboring Camp
Lejeune. He'll deploy next year to
Afghanistan.
An ex-Marine himself, Thomas
said he supports Obama's surge
strategy. But he shook his head
when the president announced a
201t transition date no begin pull-
ing out troops.
"If I were the enemy, I would
hang back until 2011," Thotnas
said. "We have to make sure that
we are going go stay until the job is
done. It ain't going to be as easy as
he thinks it is."
Military officials say the Army
brigades most likely to be sent as
part of the surge will come from
Fort Drum in New York and Fort
Campbell in Kentucky. Marines,
who will be the vanguard, will
most likely come primarily from
Camp Lejeune.
er in time for it to get it set up,"
slie said.
The election had been resched-
uled for this week after the origi-
nal dates - Nov. 18 and 19 - were
deemed in violation of the MSA
Compiled Code.
MSA members acknowledged
prior to the election the difficulty
of holding an election immediate-
ly following Thanksgiving break,
since candidates weren't able to
campaign as much immediately
before the election.
MSA President Abhishek Mah-
anti said the voter turnout is good
when the holiday is taken into
consideration.
"I'm happy with the way we
did. I think the Thanksgiving
holiday . is definitely hard to
overcome in terms of people's
schedules;" he said. "The fact
that we had really good candi-
dates for the-elections-helped
voter turnout."

IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.tnichcomrealty.coma or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
NOW LEASING 2010-11
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.pritnesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Purest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
t Bedraoms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
726 . State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 K. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
6108S. Forest
411 HigI
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 OaklIand
1320 5. tUniversity
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*tree Ethemnet
Free heat and water
(a At most locations)
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat
& water mcl. Baic.,kA/C, prkg., dry.,
$1 100-41650, No stnkgi/no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng /fcomcast.net
LARGE ONE BEDROOM apartment
available immediately, 2 blocks east of
the business school. Heat, water and
parking included. Call Campus Man-
agement 734-663-4101.
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus.
parking included. Availahle immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734-
663-410L
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Chepi out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSelIA2.com 734-476-9768

CHILDCARE FOR 7YR old son of
UM professor and entrepreneurial wife.
Care in A2 home for 12 hrs a week.
Great ref(s) req., 1-2 yr. commitment
pref, must have car. Email resume to
cherylb@humaxnetworks.com

SUBLETS
WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks
to stay with your friends for the week-
end. Earn $500-$3000hin 2-3 days by
letting us sublet your house. Our in-
sured service rents out houses and
apartments to alumni for football/bas-
ketball weekends and puts money in
your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
more infonnation email
rentme@goblueltouses.com.
SERVICES
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon50iserv.net
SERVICES
BABY SITTER NEEDED for 2 kids
(2 & 6). 15-20 hrs/wk. Nursing/medical
exp. pref. Trans req. Send resume to
jobs@weisernet.com
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x d125.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Teleftind. On catm-
pus. flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
HOLIDAY HELP
Apply now, start after finals
734-677-2477
www.winterbreakwork.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
PART TIME NANNY, ironing,
cooking, and child care. Afternoons,
Monday theu Thursday. Call Katie at
734-709-1867.
SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
$5-$25 per sutrvey.
www.GetPaidToThink.com
THE WORLD IS going green. R U?
Sales position avail. selling green alter-
native bottleless macel- coolers. C6tttact
bellafinawater@gmail.com

LOOKING FOR A deal on a trip to
Europe during Spring Break? The first
10 people to book a trip (flight + hostel
for 6 nights) to London, Paris or Ams-
terdam will receive $200 off their trip.
Call 734-769-2555 or visit STA Travel
at the Union to take advantage of this
awesome opportunity on Dec.11th!

For Thursday, Dec. 3, 2009
ARIES
(March 210to Apei 19)
This is a pr day far important dis-
cussions with partners and family mei-
hers. Peopte feel stifled in their mo-
tins. You can't make ideas fly!
TAURUS
(April20 to ay 20)
Negative thinking is prevalent today.
Ifs the kindrf day where your glass is
hatf-empty instead af half-fall.
Nevertheless, it's aony your paint uf
view that makes thines this may.
GEMINI
(May 21 Ia June 20)
Your finances mre crunchy today. You
might be cancerned abaut earnings. Why
is there always so much month left at the
end of the money?
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
The Moon in your sign today makes
you more emotional than usual.
Unfortunately, a harsh aspect to stem
Saturn puts a damper on things. Oh well.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
It's easy to fall into negative thinking
today. A little trick is to take your three
top worries and rephrase them in a posi-
tive way. For example, "I'm so happy to
be losing weight." Write them down.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Someone older or more experienced
than you might he critical of your ideas
today. Dan't let this get you down.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is a poor day to approach bosses,
parents, teachers and VIPs for permis-
sion, a favor or approval. The response
likely will be, "talk to the hand."
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)

Something having to do with travel,
higher educatian or publishing and the
media feels like a burden today. Avaid
serius discussins abaut politics, reli-
gion and racial issues.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nay. 22 to Dec. 21)
You might feet unfairly treated in get-
ting your fair share af something. Or you
feet that others have been stingy with
pan. If this is the case, wait a day ar nsa
to discuss this.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 Ia Jan. 19)
Be tolerant in discussions with part-
ners and close friends today. It's easy for
people to feel bummed out about things.
It's like there are negative spores in the
air!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Don't let the criticisms or the negative
attitude of co-workers, (especially peo-
ple who are older or more experienced
than you) get you down today. Just keep
things light.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Romance is in the toilet today.
Children might feel like a burden or a
heavy responsibility. Vacations and
sports might encounter obstacles.
YOU BORN TODAY You're creative
and are often passionately absorbed with
whatever you are creating. You're
extremely private and can become
obsessed about your work. You believe
yau should explare yaar ideas and use
your gifted talents, often tothe exclusion
of other things. In the next year, you will
wrap up or finish something you've been
involved with for the past nine years.
Birthdate of: Octavia Hill, social
reformer; Ozzy Osbourne, singer;
Amanda Seyfried, actress.

C 2009 King Features syndicate, Inc.


GARDASi L.
[Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent
(Types 6,11,16,and 18) Vacdne, Recombinant]
6ARDASIL IS WIDELY AVAILABLE AND
PRIVATE INSURANCE PLA*COVER I.
TALK TO YOUR CAMPUS H TN CENTER
OR OTHER HEALTH CARE PROrESSIS


*I

8A - Wednesday, December 2, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

M' feels early urgency in ACC/Big Ten Challenge

star
ke
The
win" i
ber. Bu
record
gan m
ball tea
finds
a low
for ei
cially
confer
that in
games
top-rar
in the
weeks.
Con
a pair
Old

Vith undersized the Wolverines are taking a mea-
sured approach into tonight's
ters, outside shots ACC/Big Ten Challenge matchup
against Boston College, a game that
y against Eagles now carries much more weight
than it did just one week ago.
By GJON JUNCAJ "There's probably a little more of
Daily Sports Writer a sense of urgency," sophomore for-
ward Zack Novak said.
re's no such thing as a "must- The Eagles (4-2) enter Crisler
in Novem- Arena in a similar bind. They have
t with a 3-2 BC a also already dropped two games
, the Michi- . and are in need of an early-season
en's basket- Midhigan statement win to prevent any serious
im suddenly Matchup: BC blemishes from staining their NCAA
itself with 4-2; Michi- Tournament r6sum6.
'er margin gan 3-2 Boston College also brings some
rror, espe- When: Tonight potential schematic advantages over
with a non- 7:30 P.M. the Wolverines. Coach Al Skinner's
ence slate Where: flex-motion offense emphasizes
icludes road Crisler Arena repeated screens down low to free
at Utah and up shooters in the high post and cut-
nked Kansas TV: CSPN2 ters along the baseline. It's an attack
next three Live Blog: that Michigan coach John Beilein
michigandaily. admits he had a lot of trouble plan-
ning off com ning against when coaching at West
of losses in last weekend's Virginia, and the Wolverines' 1-3-1
Spice Classic tournament, zone defense struggled at times last

weekend in reacting to opposing
guards slashingthrough the lane.
"I think our understanding of it
(must improve)," Beilein said. "A lot
of it is trying to figure out who plays
well in areas (of the floor). You don't
know until you get to playing against
really good teams who's goingtto per-
form the best in it."
Senior forward DeShawn Sims
said the Wolverines struggled
against the flex during the two
teams' last meeting, in the 2007
ACC/Big Ten Challenge - a 77-64
loss - and said the key this time will
be having a strong feel for the game
flow.
"Everyone knows the flex
offense," Sims said. "(It's) just dis-
cipline and not watching the ball,
because there's so many cuts in a flex
offense. If you watch the ball, that's
how you get buried."
Boston College also features a
bulky frontcourt, led by juniors
Corey Raji and Joe Trapani, who has
been fighting illness recently but is
expected to playtonight. The two are

averaging a combined 30 points and
13.5 rebounds per game, and lead an
aggressive corps ofbigmenthathave
dominated the glass this season with
a plus-11 reboundingimargin.
Despite that, Beilein said he will
stick with his four-guard lineup and
focus on ball movement to create
open looks from the outside. Novak
has attempted just 23 shots in five
games, and the Michigan coaching
staff wants to give him more touch-
es along the perimeter in hopes of
jumpstarting a three-point attack
that shot just a combined 5-of-45
behind the arc against Marquette
and Alabama.
"t's a given that if we're not
shooting 37 percent from three or
making eight to 10 a game, it's very
difficult for us to win," Beilein said.
"With our size, it's hard to stop some
people because they're going to get
offensive rebounds.
"There's times we need to out-
score people when we're playing
against really huge teams that can
get us on the backboard a little bit."

0
"

I I

verit gpwireless

SS
, I
Great gifts all on
America's Best Network.

CLI REEDER/Daily
Sophomore Zack Novak has attempted just 23 shots through five games this year
after averaging the third-most points per game (6.7) on the team ast season.
Caporusso's leap
to second line
pays offfor Blue
By NICK SPAR formed line hasn't looked back
Daily Sports Writer since.
In the last three games, it has
If the Michigan hockey teami produced five goals, none more
has any chance of extending the imnportant than the game win-
nation's longest active streak for net last weekend by Caporusso
consecutive NCAA Tornament against then-No. 15 Wisconsin.
appearances, junior center Louie Treis and Wohbergeach earned
Caporusse Will probably need assists on the play.
to be the team's mose itmportant But what's clicking for Capo-
player on offense. russo with Wohlberg and Treais
The Wolserines are clearly that didn't clik with Hagelin
a better teaim when Caporusso and Brown?
finds his scoring touch. A victory He was clearly surrounded
over Niagara in late October was by talent before the switch was
the last gamre they won without made. After all,MHagelin leads the
CaporUsso registering a point. team in points and Brown is tied
Since then, he has netted seven for second. Treas, on the other
points in the teamt's five wins and hand, had only one point in nine
just two in the team's six losses. games before the line change.
So it should come as no sur- "They have learned to play off
prise that Caporusso's recent of each other," associate head
rise in production coincides with coach Mel Pearson said. "I think
Michigan's first three-game win- we're just starting to see some of
ning streak of the season. Last the benefits of that. But as time
year's Hobey Baker finalist is cur- goes on, they have the poten-
rently riding a four-ganue Point tial to be an even higher scoring
streak, which came after Michi- line."
gan coach Red Berenson made a The possibility of the line
key lineup change. becoming a more proficient
Caporusso had been on the offense force is contingent on
first line with junior Carl Hagelin Treais' maturation. While Beren-
and freshman Chris Brown, argu- son has enough confidence to
ably Michigan's two most prolific play him with Caporusso and
offensive threats so far this sea- Wohlberg - Michigan's top two
son. But after four straight losses goal scorers a season ago - he
that included just four Wolverine still believes there is room for
goals, Caporusso was moved to improvement.
the second line with sophomore "I have seen (his game) grow,"
David Wohlberg and freshnan Berenson said. "I'm pretty criti-
A.J. Treais. cal of players. I am expecting
"I put Treais with Caporusso an end product probably sooner
because A.J. is really good s ith than we are going to see it."
the puck, and I thinkbhe canimake one of the major obstacles for
plays to Louie," Bereson said on Treas is his move from center to
Nov. 16 after he made the switch, right wing. Center is his natural
"Wohlberg and Caporusso had a position, andBerenson thinksthe
good history last year, but they shift will teach him to contribute
both got off to slow starts this without the puck.
year. Now we're putting them And playing alongside some-
back togeher and hopefully one of Caporusso's caliber is
they're ready to take off." another challenge that will ben-
Immediately, the trio shaved efithis level ofplay.
Berenson's line change was wise. "When I'm playing with good
Caporusso put Michigan on the players like (Louie), it elevates
board off a pass fro Wlohlberg my game," Treas said. "I have to
within 10 minutes of the line's be faster and I have to compete a
first game together against Bowl- little better when I'm with him.
ing Green. There's pressure on me to play
- Despite the fact that the Wol- good when I'm playing with him,
verines went on to lose their because I look to him as a leader
fifth straight contest, the newly on this team and asa goal scorer."

N EW! samsung Rogue
Verizon Wireless 30 Exciusve
A touch screen gem with
slide-out keyboard
$799
$179.992-yr.price-$100mail-in
rebatedebitcard.RequiresaNationwide
Calling Planwithdatapak$9.99orhigher-

NEW! H TC OzoneM
Verizon Wireless 3G Excusive
Wi-Fi capable global smartphone
$4999
$149.99 2-yr. pric- $100 mai-in rebatedebit
card.SAdd'l phone $t00t2-yr. pitet-lilt
mail-in rebatedebitcard. Requires a voice plan
with emailfeature persmartphone.

NEW! BlackBerrym Storm2 -
Verizon Wireless 3G E:clsive
Wi-Fi enabled. Ultra-responsive. Tons of apps.
$279.992-yr. price - $100 mai-in rebate debitcard.
Freephone must be of equal or lesser value. Requires
a voice plan with email feature perwsmartphone.

/1/

If

r-
~[NEW! OROID ERIS by HTC
Vcriaon Wireless 3G Exclusive
The all-touch Android wonder
$9999
$199.992-yr. price - $100 mail-iwn rebate debit card.
Requires a voice plan with email feature.
The Best DestinatJon For Holiday Gifts.

MICHIGAN DAILY
U 2O YEARS OF HELP
PROCRASTINATE DURIP
BUT NOW WE DO IT O
FOLLOW US ON TV
@MICHDAILYSPORTS, Al
BOSTON COLLEGE BASKI

All phones and devices require new 2-yr. activation. While supplies last

Call 1.877.2BUY.VZW Click verizonwireless.com/holiday isit any Communications Store
Activation fee/line: $35 ($25 for secondary Family SharePlan'lines w/ 2-yr.Agmts).
IMPORTANT CONSUMER INFORMATION: Subject to Customer Agmt, Calling Plan, rebate form & credit approval. Up to $175 early termination fee/line ($350 for advanced devices) & other charges. Device
capabilities: Add'l charges & conditions apply. Offers & coverage, varying by service, not available everywhere. While supplieslast. Shipping charges may apply. Rebate debit card takes up to6 weeks & expires in
12 months. All company names, trademarks, logos and copyrights not the property of Verizon Wireless are the property of theirrespective owners. DROID is a trademark ofLucasfilm Ltd.and its relatedcompanies.
Used underlicense. Network details & coverage maps at verizonwireless.com. 2009 Verizon Wireless. CPHA


0

0

0

0

Th .ihgnDiy-W dnsaDcm e ,20

A lesson from Berry Gordy

s I made my way from Ann
Arbor to Detroit, I was
expecting to get up close
and personal with Motown his-
tory. With the other members my
project group in CAAS 458: The
Music of Motown, I was headed
to a salon on West Grand Boule-
vard to conduct an interview with
Mary E. Moore, an 81-year-old
beautician who had styled the hair
of David Ruffins of The Tempta-
tions.
I just didn't know how close we
would actually get to that history.
The salon, Beauty Box, is on the
same block as the small house that
had served as the first base of oper-
ations for Motown Records. The
house, which Motown Records
founder Berry Gordy dubbed
"Hitsville USA," now houses the
Motown Historical Museum. Hav-
ing known the Gordy family dur-
ing the height of Motown, Moore
was sure to have a wealth of first-
hand accounts to share- with my
project group.
As we pulled up to Beauty Box,
we passed a film crew in front of
Hitsville USA. I wondered what
might be going on, but didn't think
much it. My uncle had told me
there is always something happen-
ing in front of the studio - if it isn't
a camera crew, then it's a group of
foreign tourists carrying the torch
of Motown fandom. With this
year being the 50th anniversary of
Motown, the production in front
of the building was more than
LISTSERVS
From page 7B
"You used to only be able to tell
. your four friends what weird thing
you had for breakfast, but now you
can put it on your Facebook and all
300 of your friends can see it," he
said.
Resnick said it ultimately comes
down to personal choices and dif-
fering views on what is and isn't
appropriate to share with a wide
number of people. I
"If you complain about a cus-
tumer service problem and make
a big stink about it and get a large
audience, sometimes the company
notices and fixes the problem," he

appropriate.
Before visiting Moore, my group
and I decided to tour Hitsville to
see what we could learn from the
exhibits. But we didn't even have
to enter the house before a larger-
than-life spectacle stopped me in
mytracks. ItwasBerryGordy-the
man, the legend - standing at the
corner, surrounded by a posse. We
learned later that he had brought
the film crew for a documentary
he is making about Motown. All
I could do was stare as I tried to
reconcile my excitement with my
knowledge of his notorious career
of building musicians up just to
undercut them when they became
profitable.
Snapping out of my daze, I
went inside to begin the tour in a
video room, where we watched a
montage of Motown artists dis-
cuss fond memories from their
early days. Our tour guide then
escorted the group upstairs and
started explaining how Gordy's
family experiences influenced
how he later managed Motown -
coming from a family of eight, he
learned to foster both communal
bonding and fierce competition
among his musicians.
We were upstairs for about five
minutes when the elevator door
opened. Gordy and his entou-
rage flooded out just feet from us.
One of my group members, Carol,
immediately introduced herself. I
followed suit, and as he took my
hand, Gordy said, "I know you
said. "On the other hand, a lot of
people would find out what your
custumer service problem was and
it may be embarrassing."
Steven Jackson, assistant pro-
fessor of information and com-
munication, agreed that the divide
between what is public and private
information on the Internet'is at a
"fairly unsettled point."
"I think it's really uneven," he
said. "You can certainly point to
examples like listservs or Face-
book sites and other things like
that that share things we would
have traditionally thought of as
private."
Jackson said those shifting
expectations are leading to much

weren't born when this music was
made." The guided tour was over
for me then. All I wanted to do was
listen to the man responsible for
delivering a litany of songs that
crafted my musical tastes when I
was just a child. I wanted to simply
observe this historic figure.
I stood there, struck with the
realization that I was receiving
history from the original sources
A surprise
meeting with the
Motown mogul
left a lasting
impression
(albeit, a slightly skewed ver-
sion). Radiating passionately as
he described his company, Gordy
maintained that above all else,
Motown was built on the love and
compassion that he had first expe-
rienced in his own family. He con-
tinued, saying, "My goal was not
just fame for the artists but lon-
gevity." This priority comes across
in the prolific careers of his clas-
sic groups: The Temptations, The
Four Tops, The Supremes and The
Miracles. This success could only
happen because the song lyrics
more sophisticated options for
sharing and privacy on network-
ing sites.
"The broad direction is that a lot
of media like Facebook, social net-
working sites, and even things like
listservs are going to have a finer
grain of contextual control," he
said. "Not all public and not all pri-
vate. I think people will be able to
choose which groups or particular
audience they want to share some
bit of information with."
Untilithe University adopts some
Facebook-style sharing controls
and filters for its e-mail system,
though, don't be surprised that
"reply all" will probably continue
to cause a fracas in your inbox.

were so simple and the rhythms
so crisp and moving. Beyond that,
Motown music was the "sound of
young America."
Listening to all of this, I recog-
nized a lot of information I had
learned from class and elsewhere.
But in that moment, everything
held more weight. Either I felt this
way because of the serendipity
oozing out of this chance meeting,
or Gordy was, honestly, being sin-
cere. What really affected me was
when Gordy gave reasons for his
success: "I was happy with myself.
I've been happy since I was an
eight-year-old little boy," he said.
At that point, I was suddenly
overcome by emotion. I was moved
by his frankness, but also by the
stark contrast between his per-
spective of himself and Motown
and common history's view of his
career. Even today, Gordy's noto-
riety still reminds us of his disre-
gard for copyright or intellectual
property and his refusal to credit
and regularly pay jazz musicians.
But I found it powerful that
Gordy had the ability to set aside
what other people thought of him
and still carry on. He doesn't see
the Berry Gordy paradox. When
he said that being happy with one-
self is all that matters, he meant it
as his life's code. It seems that, as
human beings, we tend to associ-
ate complexity with worth - the
more complex something is, the
more we value it. But here was a
pioneer of American music telling

me that Motown was derived from
pure, sweet, personal satisfac-
tion. Motown itself is not overly
simplistic, but its lyrics allowed
the Motown sound to be univer-
sal, reaching both white and black
audiences.
This quality is the reason
Motown still reaches a broad audi-
ence, even ones that are removed
from any historical or cultural
connection of the times. That's one
of the reasons why foreign tourists
march up to Hitsville's doorstep
each year.
Especially in academic-minded
settings, we are constantly evalu-
ated on what we are lackingso that
we can fill that void and move on to
addressing another one. It is this
very idea of constant striving that
made me so emotional in Gordy's
presence.
I rarely concentrate on the pres-
ent. The simplicity of being happy
with oneself is so obvious in my
mind, yet it is a constant chal-
lenge. Personal improvement and
self-satisfaction are not mutually
exclusive - allowing yourself to
be happy with what you have done
and with who you are only allows
your potential to flourish. That
was an idea reiterated by the great
Berry Gordy, who told us as we left
Hitsville USA: "Keep yourself sim-
ply. Keep yourself simply because
the world is complex."
-Chanel Von Habsburg-
Lothringen is a senior photo editor

TELL US
HOW TO
LIVE
E-mail suggestions for new rules
to vosgercj@umich.edu


S0 S " 0 "



Wedesay Dcebe 2 .209 -hMiignDd

Magazine Editor
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor.
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
The Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Corey DeFever
Cover photo:
Sam Wolson

new rules
rule 230: Who-
ever turned the
TV on gets to
control what the
rest of the house
watches unless
something is on
that is obviously
much better. rule
231: After the
fifth time your
roommate calls
you to come home
and open the
door, you can start
charging a lock-
out fee. rule 232:
You're never really
obligated to bring
something you
baked yourself to
a potluck.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatement@umich.edu

Do you want the
Daily to put on
another kind of
cor petition.?
E-mail suggestions to
TheStatement@umich.edu
FOLLOW
THE DAILY
ON
,..,,... FACEBOOK.

7:7f 7

By Veronica Menaldi / Daily Statement Writer
Illustration by Laura Garavoglia

The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year

(fhitMhi i an ail PRESENTS

n the days before e-mail,
if your classmate had a
question on punctuation,
you were unlikely to hear about
it. But now, you, your profes-
sor, and your entire department
could easily be the recipients of
an extended e-mail thread on
the matter.
Almost every student at the University is
part of at least one e-mail listserv. Listservs
are usually used to send event notices and
distribute general information to its mem-
bers - but this isn't the only use students
have found for them.
One of the most recent examples involved
the School of Information listserv on N ov.
19. The original sender asked if there should
be one or two spaces after a period, and went
on to inquire if paragraph indentations have
become "old-school thinking."
In the six replies, a few students, a pro-
fessor and an administrator attempted to
answer the questions while conveying per-
sonal accounts of their experiences with the
period-spacing rule.
"I too had heard that the standard had
changed, but it feels weird to me," one stu-
dent wrote. "I haven't come up against any
problems for using 2 so I can't see it being
worth the trouble to slow down my typing by
remembering to only hit the space bar once."
John King, the vice provost of Academic
Information, said the reason the two-space
rule - a holdover from the typewriter era
that became unnecessary with more sophis-
ticated spacing in modern word processors
- remained the norm until recently was
because "nobody asked, nobody told."
He went on to explain that this began to
change at the same time the "convention
against split infinitives started to erode,"
throwing in Star Trek references to make his
point.
"Recall that the original Star Trek in the
'60s "boldly went" to the split infinitive,
and generations of grammar teachers were
phasered in the process (phasers not set on
"stun" either)," he wrote. "It's now common

wisdom that the '60s changed everything."
Suzanne Shuon, assistant director of the
doctoral program, then chimed in, remi-
niscing about her typing experiences in high
school in the'60s.
"Those were the days," she wrote. "(No
white out, manual typewriters only, cute
little wheel shaped erasers with a little brush
attached!)"
The thread of e-mails concluded with a
reply from a student of just one sentence.
"Idi dnot take tipyng in high sckool and I
turn ed out fien," the e-mail said.
Not all extracurricular use of e-mail
groups is focused on trivial matters. On Oct.
29, Brittany Galisdorfer, a master's student in
Public Policy, sent out an e-mail to the Public
Policy listserv.
"The Mayo Clinic recentlydenied myaunt's
request for an appointment," she wrote. "For
the past two years my aunthas seen countless
doctors for numbness in her feet and hands
and special disorientation. She also had an
MRI that showed severe brain degeneration
for her age, 44. My aunt can still walk and
climb stairs with assistance but fears she will
be in a wheelchair soon. Other than these
specific and severe problems, my aunt is per-
fectly healthy. If anyone has any connections
at Mayo that might help her get an appoint-
ment, my family and I would really appreci-
ate it if you could send them my way. Thank
you!"
The e-mail concluded with her contact
information.
Galisdorfer said she received about 20 pos-
itive responses that helped her understand
the process at the clinic and gave her ideas on
how to get her aunt around the process.
"As a student in the Public Policy school,
I realized that my classmates and professors
are generally well-connected people and
have direct work experiences that could help
me out," she said.
Galisdorfer said this was the first personal
e-mail of this sort that she sent to a listserv,
thoughshe has used theminthe past for event

notices and to clarify questions in classes. ENTIRE GROUP TO BE REMOVED. Seri-
"Usually I think (listservs are) a better way ously learn some email etiquette."
of asking questions because there's always The studentwhowrotereplyNo. 73 offered
someone else that shares your concern," she a link to a YouTube video titled "Prank War
said.
She added that she has only had positive
experience with listservs, even when she "'IsWerthat ifany one
receives irrelevant e-mails because students
accidentally click "reply all." else repheS0to all I Will hunt
"It doesn't bother me too much," Galisdor-
fer said. "It's just so easy to just click delete. yOuddwn On the umich
You kind of feel more embarrassed for the
person than it really bothers you, since usu- directory and disable every
ally they didn't realize they were responding
to all." electronic device that (you)
However, some "reply all" situations can
get undeniably out of hand. For example, a OWR "
request to fill out a seminar group research
project survey was sent to two listservs. The - Response to a runaway e-mail
e-mail said the survey would take just 30 sec- thread started by a research survey
onds to fill out. The first e-mail was sent on
April 8 at 4:25 p.m. By 7:33 p.m. of the same 6: The Infamous Yankee Prankee," explain-
day, the thread had 79 replies, many within ing that if "people feel obliged to continue
seconds of each other. sending emails," they "might as well have
Over just a three-hour span, a flood of some fun with it."
people responded to the e-mail with com- Once the thread count hit 74, one student's
ments like, "Take me off the mailing list" or frustration boiled over into an attack on the
"Don't click reply all." Some pointed out how original sender.
"obnoxious" the replies were or questioned "You people who started this are abso-
whether the thread was a joke. lutely IDIOT freshman who should not be
By the time the reply count hit the fifties, allowed access to mass email," the e-mail
some users were driven to threats. read. "You're extremely irresponsible and
"If I get one more email I will murder obviously unintelligent and need to learn a
someone. I'm officially declaring my email to few things about conducting surveys. Maybe
be the last one. The end," reply No. 53 read. when you turn 19 you'll actually have accu-
It wasn't, of course, the end. Later on, mulated some intelligence."
the 65th response took frustration to a new Interspersed between these longer e-mails
level. there were also many short contributions,
"I swear that if any one else replies to all I such as, "Whoever started this I actually hate
will hunt you down on the umich directory you," "I actually love you," "Hey spud," and "I
and disable every electronic device that they really like apricots."
own.," it read. "I will convert your keyboard Professor of Information Paul Resnick
layout to Swahili. / The person who sent out said people may feel comfortable sharing
the original e-mail spammed a group that she questions and information with large groups
does not control. SHE CANT TAKE YOUOFF through listservs because it's easy, quick and
THE MAILING LIST. You have to e-mail the has a wide reach.
owner to be removed. DON'T EMAIL THE See LISTSERVS, Page 8B

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Vicit mirhin d lilu -

vsi micngan miy.com/ciass eas to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pages for other great properties.



0

0

0

00
QUOTES OF THE WEEK
I know all too well what the "I forgave them all
tradition demands must because it's in my blood,
happen to me." and it's in my heart for
- DIDAR ERDAL, a 23-year-old gay man from the Lord Jesus Christ."

To the Reeds' joy and bewil-
derment, though, that fight never
came. On Aug. 11, 2009, Marvin
and Deshawn went to court for
what they thought was going to be
a routine appeal. But the prosecu-
tor simply stood up and dismissed
all charges - there was no case, and
therefore, never should have been.
It took the judicial system nine
years to realize 'hat they had made
an appalling mistake.
WHEN THE WORLD WENT
ON WITHOUT THEM
That Aug. 11 court date, too,
played out like a surreal dream -
but a happy one, the happiest there
ever was.
The first thing on the Reeds'
minds upon being freed: fam-
ily, food and all the comforts of the
home that they had been taken from
all those years ago.
Deshawn was craving lasagna
and salad, while Marvin wanted to
eata little bit of everything.
"Whatever they sat in front of my
face, I was going to eat it," Marvin
said.
The Reeds' family and friends
were more than happy to oblige
their wishes at a welcome home
party they threw for the men. Even
though the justice system had writ-
ten off the Reeds' claims of inno-
cence for years, Deshawn said they
never lost the support of their com-
munity.
"After so many years, usually
people forget about it," he said. "It's
on the back burner. Like forget that,
and lose hope, but they never lost
hope."
Deshawn's children were the
most ecstatic about their father's
release. Deshawn described the
reunion with his kids as "a bunch of
tears." Marvin said that Deshawn's
youngest son - who never knew
his father outside of prison visiting
rooms - still refuses to get off his
father's lap.
But after the party ended, the
Reeds were leftwith the task of dust-
ing off what remained of their long-
stalled personal lives. While they
were suffering the horrible monot-
ony of prison, the outside world had
kept changing. The World Trade
Towers in New York had fallen. A
costly United States war had begun.
There was now a black president in
the White House.
Even once-simple daily activities
had become barely recognizable.
Fresh out of jail, Marvin ran into a

he encountered a self-checkout sta-
tion for the first time. Deshawn,,
meanwhile, couldn't wrap his head
around society's obsession with text
messaging.
But what had most drastically
changed for the Reeds were their
families. Faced with the prospect
of waiting two decades to continue
their relationships, Marvin's wife
and Deshawn's fianc6 had both
left them. Deshawn's toddlers had
grown into older children who he
really didn't know. He had missed
the birth of his youngest son, now
eight years old. Both the uncle and
the nephew had missed funerals
of relatives and close friends they
never got to say goodbye to.
But on top of the pain of missed
moments, the Reeds had to deal
with the practical problem of sup-
porting themselves. After granting
the men their freedom, the state jus-
tice system released them without
further assistance. If it weren't for
their supportive family, the Reeds
said they would be homeless.,
"We'dbe onthestreets,"Deshawn
said. "We'd be livin' with somebody
up under a bridge somewhere. We'd
be in a box. We'd be somewhere,
livin' in a vacant house."
Now four months out of jail, the
two are slowly piecing their lives
back together.
"It's like turtle steps," Deshawn
said.
For Marvin, getting back on his
feet is a clerical headache. He is in
the process of re-obtaining vital
forms of identification like his birth
certificate and Social Security Card,
which were taken from him in pris-
on and never returned. Without
those documents, he faces even a
harder time reestablishinghis claim
to Social Security money that he had
depended on before prison. After he
was found guilty, he lost his right to
those benefits and now must nego-
tiate a tangled web of bureaucracy
to get them back - a challenge that
his learning disability makes even
harder.
Today, he receives $200 in food
stamps every month, but noth-
ing else. Having remarried a few
months ago, Marvin said he's lucky
he has his wife to support him.
Deshawn also struggles with
depends on his family financially,
since household funds had beentight
to begin with. He wants to support
his children like he had before the
incarceration, but with his decade-
old resume and the state's record-
high unemployment rates, finding a

way to do that has been slow.
"The man's supposed to be the
one take care of the household, and
we not in the position because we
got eight years taken out of our lives
and just got kicked back out to soci-
ety with nothing," Deshawn said.
RECLAIMING DREAMS
DEFERRED
The thought of his children made
Deshawn fight harder to get out of
prison. It had always been his desire
to make sure his children had better
opportunities than he had, and the
last thing he wanted was for them to
grow up without a father.
Deshawn, who only finished
school through the ninth grade,
is determined to see his children
escape an environment that so often
sets people up to fail. It hurts him to
think that if he hadn't been falsely
convicted, he would be working
in real estate with his brother and
their ambition to send their children
to private school might have been
realized.
"It was our dream," he said. "It
really weren't about me no more.
When those kids came, it was about
them kids."
But Deshawn is grateful that
he escaped his sentence with time
to help his children on the road to
success. During his time in prison,
their grades had slipped and they
had been actingup in school.But his
children, ranging in age from 8to 12
years old, are still young enough to
overcome much of the disadvantage
of having an incarcerated father
- something that would have got-
ten harder with every passing year
Deshawn was in jail.
"Now my kids can be happy,
and they can get on the right track
and they can go and have a future

instead of with this hanging over
their head like this for some more
years," Deshawn said.
But getting back on track is easi-
er said than done, especially in the
same environment that allowed
Deshawn and Marvin to go to jail
in the first place. With not enough
money to move out of Ecorse, the
Reeds expressed resentment at
being stuck in the city.
"We gotta go back to the same
neighborhood who put us in this
predicament," Deshawn said. "You
know, you see the same officers who
lied on you, and they smirk at you,
and they do things, but you gotta be
around these people. You don't want
to, but you have no choice."
Despite their rightful freedom,
the Reeds live in constant fear that
they could be re-incarcerated at any
moment. Deshawn makes it a point
to meet the owners and managers
of places he frequents, like the local
gym, so that he can build trust with
people around town. Marvin said
he calls his sister four to five times
a day so that someone always knows
of his whereabouts in case he needs
to prove his alibi.
"I really don't feel comfortable
because I think someone else is
going to tryto do somethinglike that
again, so I just want to make sure
that next time, I have some kind of
way to prove (my innocence)," Mar-
vin said.
While the Reeds will never forget
the circumstances that led to their
incarceration, they have forgiven
Gholston, the drive-by shooting vic-
tim who wrongly identified them as
the driver and shooter in the attack.
After Deshawn's release, Gholston
visited to apologize. The two former
schoolmates made amends by going
out to the club.
"He apologized several times to

the point I told him that I accept
your apology," Deshawn said. "You
don't have to apologize. Let's go on
with our life and put that behind us,
and let's just move forward because
we out, but you still in the condition
that you in."
While the Reeds have endured
years of heartache and encountered
an array of obstacles, they said they
don't harbor bitterness over the
time they have lost. It could be a lot
worse -they, and the Innocence
Clinic students, well know there are
other innocent people still suffering
in prison right now.
"When I even feel like I'm getting
bitter, I think of all the other inno-
cent ones in prison that I met that
don't have the opportunity to get
the representation and get the bless-
ing me and Marvin got," Deshawn
said.
The road to reclaiming the lives
they lost a decade ago still has many
bumps ahead, but Deshawn still
wants to realize the career aspira-
tions he had started to pursue in
his 20s. He would like to obtain his
real estate license and use the dis-
mal economy to his advantage by
purchasing depreciated houses that
should rebound in value after the
repression.
Butmostly, Marvin and Deshawn
aren't too worried about kicking
into hyper speed to try to make up
for lost time. After spending the last
eight Christmases in prison, they
want to spend this holiday season
savoring every moment with their
family.
"Prison makes you appreciate
the small things," Deshawn said.
"Not living your life watching your
back every second of a minute, every
minute of an hour, every day of the
year. You can justbe around normal
people and you're just free."

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. Maurice Clemmons
2. Med Grow Cannabis College
3. White House security
And three things you can't:
1. Tiger Woods sexting
2. Republican "purity tests"
3. The Salahis
-
BY TH E NUMBERS
The number of civilians who were murdered in election-related
violence in the Philippines last week
The number of murder counts faced by Andal Ampatuan Jr.,
a Philippine city mayor who allegedly helped spur the violence
The number of people who have been
implicated in acts of violence

Istanbul, explaining the brutality faced by gay men
in Turkey, whose conservative Islamic families view
homosexuality as an affront to their honor. A gay
man was recently killed there by his father in what
was called the country's first gay honor killing.
"It's inappropriate at best."

- LENNY KING, a 52-year-old homeless
man from Akron, Ohio, explaining why he
forgave some teenagers who set him and
his sleeping mattress on fire last year. King
suffered burns from the incident

- LENNY ADAIR, a man from Mooresville, Ind., describing the conduct of a 41-year-old former high
school softball coach who was taped on a cell phone getting his toes sucked by a player. The teacher,
Jody Monaghan, has also been accused of sending unseemly texts and groping high school girls.
YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK

A carp's nightmare
If you ever feel like irritating
animal rights activists, this is a
pretty effective way to do it.
Last week, organizations like
PETA, an animal rights group, pub-
licly condemned this video, which
features a group of people eating
a live fish in a Chinese restaurant.
According to a story in The Daily
Telegraph, the chef had fried only
part of the carp, placing a wet
towel over its head to ensure it kept
breathing during the cooking pro-
cess. .
The video begins with the carp
lying helplessly on a plate, its head
and tail intact while the middle
is visibly fried. The people begin
poking and prodding the fish with
their chopsticks, playing with its
lips and mouth. Suddenly, after
more poking, the fish's gills-expand
and its body writhes. The crowd
utters sounds of amazed delight, as
if they're surprised that it's actu-
ally alive.
Before long, someone starts to
devour the carp with a set of chop-
sticks. With each new piece of flesh
that's extracted from the body, the
carp's squirming increases.
Meanwhile, the laughing crowd
seems to get progressively louder,
which makes it appear as if these
people are really, really enjoying
eating this carp alive.
Maybe you shouldn't watch this
video.
BRIAN TENGEL
Ve,

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION

"I

Day of rest - Thanksgiving is over, but you're
probably still nursing your wounds from Black Fri-
day. The lingering sleep deprivation, bruises, aches,
perhaps even broken bones. No one ever said
bargain shopping was easy. Before finals start, you
should host a rest and relaxation gathering. You
should watch movies, drink tea, and lounge around
in your pajamas all day-anything to minimize your
physical and mental activity.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Obesity produces 100,000 cancer cases annually
Obesity is the cause of more than 100,000 cases of cancer in the
United States every year, according to a study published by the Ameri-
can Institute for Cancer Research.
The study used research from AICR findings that examined the
relationship between physical activity, diet, weight and cancer, and
also evaluated surveys about obesity and cancer. The researchers then
calculated the percentage of certain cancers that could be prevented if
people in the U.S. remained fit.
In the study, the researchers found that an excess of body fat causes
almost half the incidences of endometrial cancer (which involves the
uterus) and one third of esophageal cancer cases. Moreover, if people
stayed healthy, cases of pancreatic cancer could be reduced by 28 per-
cent and those of kidney cancer by 24 percent, the study found.
Other researchers estimated that diseases related to obesity are
responsible for $147 billion, or 10 percent, of U.S. medical spending.
- BRIAN TENGEL

ource: CNN







-f

-W

-w

r, 11] 1

I

[t

I I

Alt

I

"

nt ad

:hey made amends.

Imagine that tomorrow, you will barely exist. You
will spend the next 20 years in a cell so claustropho-
bic that the walls seem to creep toward you. It's so
hot you can barely move or breathe. The smell of body
odor, urine and shit is so strong that it seeps into your
skin. in order to stay alive, you eat slop a dog wouldn't
touch. Every morning you worry you might not make it
through the day alive.
Welcome to prison. It's just as bad as it sounds - and
for prisoners who are locked up for crimes they didn't
even commit, it's even worse.
Marvin Reed and his nephew, Deshawn, know that
all too well. It was their hellish reality for nine years
after they were wrongly convicted of assault with intent
to murder.
Last August, though, they walked out of prison as
free men. Their convictions were overturned thanks
in part to the Innocence Clinic, a Michigan Law School
student program that litigates cases for which new evi-
dence could prove a convicted prisoner's innocence.
The Reed case, the clinic's first success, is a beacon of
hope for several other prisoners who the clinic is in the
midst of defending.
But the Reeds' story didn't end on the day of their
release, when family members cried tears of joy and the
former prisoners counted their blessings for being alive
and liberated. Often passed over in the heartwarm-
ing tale of an innocent man set free is the struggle of
rebuilding a life that was suadenly puton hold. Dropped
into free society in the midst of the worst economic cri-
sis since the Great Depression, Marvin and Deshawn
must now piece together a livelihood in aworld that has
been forbidden to them for almost a decade.
A FATEFUL ACCUSATION
Ten years ago, Marvin and Deshawn were a couple
of family men living in Ecorse, Mich., a suburb outside
Detroit.
Marvin, then 32 years old, was married and raising
his stepchildren with the Security Disability Insur-
ance that he received because of a learning disability
that prevents him from holding a job. As Marvin puts

it, he was "just living day by day (and) staying out of
trouble."
At 24 years old, Deshawn was busy working as a
party promoter in Detroit and completing the process
of obtaining his real estate license. He had recently
become engaged and had three children, with his fian-
c6 pregnant with a fourth.
But on March 12, 2000, their world came crashing
down on them when they were accused of attacking
their neighbor Shannon Gholston, who was paralyzed
from the neck down in a drive-by shooting that night.
"About 100 police are outside my house saying, 'You
were in a drive-by,' or something," Marvin said about
the day the shooting occurred. "And I'm like, 'When
did this happen,' you know? You're just messing my
head up, you know. (I started) running around explain-
ing to them you got the wrong person."
Gholston identified the Reeds as the assailants, but
that was the only piece of evidence against them. No
physical evidence tied them to the crime scene, and
other prosecution witnesses fingered another sus-
pect who police had found with the gun that was used
in the shooting. But despite that evidence, a Wayne
County Circuit Court judge found the Reeds guilty on
Aug. 27, 2001 and sentenced them to 20 years in prison.
Gholston later recanted his testimony, but the appel-
late court denied a request for a retrial.
Deshawn said that while in custody, he fully
believed he and his uncle would be found innocent.
When the judge announced a guilty verdict, he was
dumbfounded.
"We were like, 'OK, this is gonna blow over once
we go to court and we get found not guilty, 'cause we
never did this. But when we got found guilty, it was like
a dream," he said.
SEEKING FREEDOM FROM BEHIND BARS
Deshawn's dream quickly became his reality. The.
seemingly impossible guilty verdict turned into a one-
way trip to a Level 4-security prison, which is just one
level lower than maximum security. Ins4 Level 4 prison
- which holds prisoners with longer sentences - Mar-

vin and Deshawn had to stay in their cells for 23 hours
a day for four straight years.
"Just imagine being in a real, real deep hole, and
you yelling for help, and it like don't nobody hear you,"
Deshawn said. "And when somebody do hear you and
they look down - and you thinkin' that they gonna
help you, give you the help you need - and they just
walk off."
Throughout their decade-long incarceration, the
two men moved frequently from one prison to another,
but never together. Every time they entered a new pris-
on, they were stripped naked and searched for smug-
gled goods - a reoccurring humiliation that Deshawn
still bitterly resents.
The roughly 6-by-8-foot cells they lived in reeked
of human waste, or what the Reeds called "boo boo."
During the summer, the walls themselves sweated in
the stifling heat.
Every waking moment, Deshawn worried if he
would be alive by the time he went to sleep that night.
He described a typical days as "just waking up, just
praying, just hoping I don't get killed or have to defend
myself - have to end up, you know, doing something
that's not even me (and) hurting somebody just to
defend myself."
He feared that if he was put in a situation where he
needed to protect himself, he might commit a violent
crime against another prisoner and blow his chances
at a retrial.
One time, an inmate ambushed Deshawn from
behind a door, stabbing him in the arm with a make-
shift knife called a "shank." Deshawn believes he was
mistaken for someone else and that the attack had not
been intended for him. But no matter the reason for the
violence, Deshawn was left to fend for himself.
"It's like everybody don't see nothing," he said.
"They turn it off. When I got stabbed in my arm...a lot
of people see it, but ain't nobody seen it."
Marvin, who called his incarceration a "nightmare,"
was dogged by the same constant threat of violence
without adequate protection from the guards. One of
the worst experiences he remembers is when he was
put in an isolation cell for two days after he got into a

fight with a fellow inmate.
"I mean, when I say a nightmare, you know you can
only deal with this so long," he said. "You justgettired.
You wanna just get about ready to break. I just wanna
end all this pain and suffering and all this stress, you
know? It was terrible."
While solitary isolation was soul-crushing for Mar-
vin, it was probably safer than being with his cellmate.
Marvin and Deshawn were placed in cells with men
who were convicted of rape and murder, among other
violent crimes.
"You might be put in a room with a guy who's been
in prison for 40 years, probably killed four people...and
he might be a homosexual and he got no respect, not
even for himself," Deshawn said.
To deal with the unbearable, Deshawn busied him-
self by studying law and scrutinizing his case, while
Marvin helped with prison yard work and played bas-
ketball.
"You gotta occupy your time doing something busy,
to get out of prison mentally," Deshawn said.
But finally, one day in 2008, hope showed up at
Deshawn's jail cell in the form of a dozen Innocence
Clinic law students. They had decided to investi-
gate Deshawn's case after learning about it from his
friend. At first, the Innocence Clinic only planned to
work on Deshawn's case because of the concern that
the prosecution might try to offer Marvin a deal to
testify that Deshawn was the shooter. But Deshawn
refused to accept their assistance if they did not help
his uncle, too. Family came before anything, even his
freedom.
The Innocence Clinic agreed to take on both cases,
and worked diligently to attain a retrial and build
a case for the defense. Without the clinic's help,
Deshawn said, "we wouldn't be sitting here. Period."
After the clinic took their cases, Marvin and
Deshawn agonized and fantasized over the idea of
freedom for 14 months before their appeal began.
When they met in Wayne County Circuit Court in
2008 - the first time they had seen each other in nine
years - they expected a bitter fight from the Wayne
County Prosecutor's office.
See LIFE DEFERRED. Page 6B



