46F 46F
Ic I an 1 IV

0 Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, November 13, 2009

michigandaily.com

PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT

FINANCING YOUR EDUC ATION
Gran hoim:
Bring back
Promise
Gov. urges students dents across the state and 6,096
University of Michigan students
to lobby legislators were set to receive money from
the Michigan Scholarship Pro-
to restore program gram next year. If maintained, the.
program would have cost the state
By NICOLE ABER approximately $100 million.
Daily StaffReporter Despite signing the higher edu-
cation bill into law, Granholm said
Michigan's governor is trying she is determined to restore fund-
to revive a political battle over the ing for the program.
funding of the Michigan Promise Granholm said the Michigan
Scholarship - a popular, merit- Promise Scholarship is not only
based program that was among meant to ease the burden of pricey
the casualties of a prolonged bud- tuition for students and families,
get fight in Lansing that ended late but also to improve Michigan's
last month. economic climate by educating its
In a conference call yesterday citizens and creating competitive
with college newspapers across employees to be retained by busi-
the state, Democratic Gov. Jenni- nesses in the state.
fer Granholm discussed the impli- "All of our manufacturing
cations of cutting the Michigan businesses and jobs are in cri-
Promise Scholarship and urged sis because of the global shift in
students across the state to rally manufacturing jobs as a challenge
against state representatives and to our auto industry," Granholm
senators to reinstate the program. said. "The way we will emerge is
Granholm signed the higher to diversify this economy and edu-
education bill for the 2010-2011 cate our citizens. And if we don't
fiscal year that included cutting educate our citizens we are not
the Michigan Promise Scholar- going to be able to diversify. We're
ship and general cuts to higher not going to be able to attract the
education at the end of last month.. best providers, the knowledge jobs
Throughout October, the state that we want."
operated under an interim budget The Michigan Promise Scholar-
that was adopted after state law- ship faces its strongest opponents
makers failed to pass a final bud- in the Republican-controlled
get at the end of September. state Senate, where legislators
Students eligible for the pro- have been hesitant to continue a
gram were set to receive $500 program that doesn't have a clear
to $4,000 - as determined by a source of funding.
standardized exam taken in high In the call, the governor said
school - over the course of four that despite the questions over
years to help cover some of their funding, education must continue
tuition costs. to be a central focus for support
More than 96,000 college stu- See PROMISE, Page 7

Students practice last night on the eve of "Vistaara," the 26th annual Indian American Students Association cultural show at Hill Auditorium. The event, which will begin
tonight at 7 p.m., showcases the efforts of 250 participants who have been practicing their routines since September. For more on the event, see Arts, Page 5.
PRESIDENTIAL OUTREACH
Coleman to visit China again

Trip marks continued
push by 'U' officials
to strengthen
relations with China
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
University President Mary Sue
Coleman is heading back to China,
a trip that reinforces an ongoing
effort by University officials to
increase the school's international
outreach.
In an interview earlier this week,
Coleman said she will embark on
her second official trip to China

this coming June.
"I'm going to be going to China
again next June to solidify the rela-
tionship that we have there with
several institutions," Coleman said.
Over the last four years, the Uni-
versity has focused on strengthen-
ing its relationship with China. As
part of the initiative, Coleman trav-
eled to the country in 2005, and, in
2008, created The Task Force on
China, comprised of faculty mem-
bers interested in building stronger
relationships with Chinese institu-
tions.
This summer, Coleman plans
to travel to Shanghai Jiao Tong
University - where the University
has a Joint Institute in Engineer-
ing. The relationship was forged

between SJTU and the Universi-
ty's College of Engineering during
Coleman's 2005 visit.
Coleman said she feels SJTU has
emerged as the University's strongest
international entity and that collabo-
rations between the two universities
have been"extremely robust"because
of faculty involvement.
"That was really related in inter-
est from the faculty - really getting
something started on both sides
and the willingness of both institu-
tions to invest," she said.
Over the last few years, the Uni-
versity has wtorked to spread its
international presence through
the formation of institutes and
programs abroad and on campus.
Its most recent endeavor was the

opening of the, University's Confu-
cius Institute last week.
Coleman said she is "particu-
larly pleased" that the Confucius
Institute will be unique in its focus
on art and music, compared to the
other 60 institutes in the United
States that concentrate on language
and culture.
Referring to China, Coleman
said there's "a lot of activity going
on all over the place."
The University is exploring the
possibility of developing joint proj-
ects with Chinese universities that
would take place at the North Cam-
pus Research Complex, which is
scheduled to open officially this
spring. University Vice President for
See CHINA, Page 3


Testimony continues in
Whistleblower lawsuit

'U' holds first forum on smoke-free campus

McGee and others
differ on details of
lab radiation incident
By DYLAN CINTI and
STEPHANIE STEINBERG
DailyStaffReporters
Yesterday marked the third day
of trial in a wrongful termination
lawsuit brought by a former gradu-
ate student against the University's
Board of Regents,
Robert McGee, 54, is suing the
regents under Michigan's Whistle-
blower's Protection Act for alleg-
edly being terminated from his
graduate research student assistant
position after filing allegations of
safety violations against the pro-
fessor he was working for.
McGee testified Tuesday morn-
ing at the Washtenaw County
Circuit Court, speaking to the sev-
en-member jury about the griev-
ances he suffered throughout the
process.
McGee alleged in detail that
Assistant Prof. Michael Hartman,
who works in the nuclear engineer-
ing and radiological department,
violated safety codes and put him at
risk of exposure to Cesium 137 - a
highly radioactive isotope.

On Feb. 16,2008, Hartman asked
McGee to assist him ilBinstalling a
door in Nuclear Engineering Prof.
Kimberlee Kearfott's laboratory,
located adjacent to his Neutron Sci-
ence lab on North Campus.
Because it was a Saturday, Hart-
man and McGee were the only two
people in the lab. McGee agreed
to help, but was concerned about
entering the lab because Kearfott
had previously told him that her lab
had restrictive access.
Before entering Kearfott's lab,
McGee asked Hartman if the Uni-
versity's Radiation Safety Services
and Kearfott knew they were going
in the lab. According to McGee's
testimony, Hartman replied, "RSS,
what a joke" and then stated RSS
and Kearfott both knew about their
entrance.
The two then entered without a
survey meter or dosimeter - two
safety devices that detect radiation.
The men found they could not
install the door as planned, but
Hartman walked further into the
lab toward the area with the Cesi-
um.
Prior to the incident, McGee said
Kearfott had told him that she had
concerns her safety equipment did
not always function properly. With
this mind, McGee said he had "no
See LAWSUIT, Page 3

Students express
concern that official
didn't know how
policy came about
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
University officials held the
first public forum last night to dis-
cuss the University's decision to
make campus entirely smoke free
by July 2011.
Ken Warner, dean of the School
of Public' Health, told students,
faculty and community members
that the University will be going
"cold turkey" when it comes to
smoking on campus.
Warner spoke in Palmer Com-
mons as part of a presentation from
the Smoke-Free University Initia-
tive, which aimed to announce for-
mally the University's plan to ban
smoking on campus. According to
presenters, this informational ses-
sion is just the beginning of the
"implementation process."
"Regents are in support of the
policy," Warner said. "We are
striving to make sure that all
(implementation) subcommittees
have smokers and nonsmokers on
them."
"It is not an attempt to ostracize
smokers or make them feel bad

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Engineering freshman Andrew Covert smokes a cigarette outside of Palmer Commons yesterday afternoon to protest the
campus-wide ban on smoking that was being discussed inside. The ban is set to take effect in July 2011.

about themselves," he added.
The main concern addressed
at the session was how this large
change in campus policy will be
regulated - more specifically,
what to be done to people who
don't comply with the regulation.
Simone Himbeault Taylor, asso-
ciate vice president for student
affairs, said students who break
the rule won't be punished with
tickets, but they'llbe offered cessa-
tion workshops instead.

"Our general philosophy isn't to
be punitive but to level educational
opportunities," she said.
Taylor said that this would allow
the rule to be enforced while still
respecting students' rights.
"There are choices that students
need to make,"she said. "The objec-
tive is not to take a law-and-order
approach to' this. The objective
is helping them make thoughtful
choices about their own lives."
Warner said non-compliance

won't be an issue. He cited a recent
study, which found that there was
a 97-percent compliance rate at
four universities where similar ini-
tiatives have already been imple-
mented. However, he added that
the other 256 colleges where the
initiative was implemented haven't
been studied.
Warner said that although the
policy has been successful at other
universities, the origins of the poli-
See SMOKING BAN, Page 7


WEATHER
TOMORROW

HI: 62 GOT A NEWS TIP?
LO: 46 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

UGANDAILYCOM INDEX NEWS.........2 SUDOKU.................S
ne's list of top college presidents. Vol. CXX, No. 47 OPINION ............................4 CLASSIFIEDS....... .....6
ILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE 02009 The Michigan Daily ARTS ........S.................5 SPORTS. . .....,.....8
michigandoily.com " " "


2 - Friday, November 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Friday, November 13, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Off the Beaten Path

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs Before You Were Here

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA DAN NEnWqM
Editor inChief Business Manaoger
734-647-3336 734-764-0000
gaca@michigandailycom oodbusineoo@gsooit.com

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsrooma
News Tips
Corrections
letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classitied Sales
Online Sales
Finance

734h-763-Tsss~naw-2459.
new's@chiandaity.com
corrctions@wichigandaiy.com
tothedaily@mchtgasdaity.com
photo@michigandaiy.cow
arnspage@michigandaily.cow
opinion@michigandaiy.com
sports@mihigandaiy.cow
disptay@michigandaiy.com
classified@msichigandaiy.com
ontineads@eichigdaiycom
fiance@michigandailycome

0

LEFT Students walk under she arch at she Randall Iak, yester-
day. (ARtIEL BOND/Daily). ABOVE Daily activities at Campus
Student Bike un 33k Maynard St, Wednesday. (JAKE FROMM/
Daily) RIGHT Empty seats in Hill Auditorium during a rehearsal
for the Indian American Students Association cultural show.
(MAX COLLINS/Daily).

CRIME NOTES
CCRB patron Wallet swiped
throws papers from chair

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Circle K hosts Discussion
Service Day on race

WHEN: Wednesday at obout
10:05 am.
WHERE: Central Campus
Recreation Center
WHAT: An unknown person
threw a stack of newspapers
at a taff member stationed at
the front entrance when they
requested identification, Uni-
veruity Police reported.

WHEN: Wednesday at about
11:55 am.
WHERE: Shapiro Undergrad-
uate Library
WHAT: A wallet was stolen
from a coat on a chair, Univer-
sity Police reported. The owner
of the wallet was siting nextcto
the coat studying.

Wallet stolen Bus hits vehicle

WHAT:.The organiza-
tion is doing 24 hours of
various community service
to complete 2,000 ser-
vice hours and raise $700
with 500 participants.
WHO: Circle K
WHEN: Saturday from
8t am. to Sunday 8t am.
WHERE: Ginsberg Cen-
ter, 0024 Hill Street
TVistaar'
performance
WHAT: The annual
IASA culture show. This
year's theme uses vivid
colors, sung and dance to
show the Indian culture
throughout history.
WHO: Indian American
Student Association-
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m..
WHERE: Hill Auditorium

WHAT: In response to
President Obama's dec-
laration for a national
conversation on race,
the discussion aims to
bridge the gaps between
secular and religions, and
town and gown issues.
WHO: Center for the
Education of Women
WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Rack-
ham auditorium
CORRECTIONS
" A correction in yester-
day's edition of The Michi-
gan Daily, gave an incorrect
year for the establishment.
of the United States Navy
and Marine Corps. They
were established in 177S.
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandailycom.

1A Fox affiliate reported
that a Texas police depart-
ment mislabeled a fruit
delivery to the Segovia Unite
Prison and sent 25 pounds of
marijuana instead. tt came
from a produce truck that was
searched by police in which
they confiscated 1,000 pounds
of marijuana along with the
fruit. tt was discovered by
inuates unpackingethe crate.
2 University Athletic
Director Bill Martin
apologized this week for
shoving two student DPS staffers.
>>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3 The New York Times
reported a New Jersey
judge ruled that a quadri-
palegic man had the right to
bear arms and buy a gun to go
hunting, after a police chief
rejected his application last year.
The man will mount the gun on
his wheelchair.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Courney Ratkowiak ManagtsgtEditor ratowiak@mdehigasdaily.cow
Jacob Smilooitz ManagingtNewstdiore smilovitz@michigndaity.eze
SEORucNEWSEDIORS:oMatt Aansnc, airlianeran,eTresor Caero, assna
uSSINN EWnSownEDInTOSNisc umrMesall soebs, Emily wrle, Stethani
RohettSoaoe tditorialtPage Editor soavee@michigadaiy.com
uSSOunCIAEDIORIuLPEEu DITlORS:oEily tnBrian Flahert. Relessnutaer
ASSISTNTnEDITORIA PE EDITRS:nEaes zkes~is, MathewScccle
Andy Reid MsnaginSots E ditof' reidtpmichigandailycomw
ScsIORcSeORTSEIORno :Nicoltcuerc, MikeEisestei, Ian Kteyesuth
Lincoln, AlePrsper~i
ASSSTTSPneOnTSEDITOS:Mr Bs,CheeJenntsis, Gouis aj,eRyan
csrte, Chris Meszaros, Ryn Poes
DavddWatnidt MsssgingArtstEditor catnies@mieiiadaityeow
SEcNO SuEIORS:miaesi ock, Whitseyesw
Zachary Mesner and - phte@michitandailycom
OOifReeder Managing PhotoEditors
SceENIRPOOu EDIOS:SidAsla, helon Habts~ug-Lotisnce
AcSSSTANePHnTOoEITORSMCollin, Crsombak, SamsWsn
AngeaaChih and desino@ihgswtilpeaw
Maoreen Stych ManagingtDesignctditors
Jessica Vosgerchian Magazine Editornvoserahian,@michigandailycoam
EathernelitchllCoppChieft mitchet@mihigandaily.cam
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Sates Manager
SALonESOCEc MANAGED: MlyTwigg
Ryan Businski tlassified Manager
Ben Eglsh ProductincManger
Alison Santacreu LayoutManager
Vivian Lee Fnace Macsen
Brittany Morales Circultn Macager
Brad Wiley ProecstCoordicnao
Th Micn Dil ISN 074-%7is ublishe day ough sidaydaiwflstall andwiner
temwstudens at theUniverst fMian.ssOn opyisiabestfreecgetoleder.
Additacies my e ied uat e Dly's offie for $. Ssiptmfo all rsabisi
Septemer via USailsre 11. interterm (anar6y tg piDtins1, yeadon Sptembe
thrug Aprlis $ t.Uvrity aflae r jc oa rnas e sbsritin a e. n s
susitin forIfll trwae$3. Sbcrpimmstibeprpad. heMotrgnDl isa mmbrof
Th soitdPesadTAscated Collegitss.

0

WHEN: Wednesday at about
2:30 p.m.
WHERE: Law Quad
WHAT: A wallet left in the din-
ing hall was stolen after being
left unattended for three hours,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.

WHEN: Wednesday at about
3:25 p.m.
WHERE: 200 Block of Fletch-
er St.
WHAT: A University bus hitsa
vehicle and continued without
stopping, University Police
reported.

MORE ONLINE
Lone Crime Notes? Getmoreonline at michigndaily.crn/lgs/the wire\,n.

WANT TO WRITE, FOR NEWS?
Send an e-mail to
smilovitz@michigandaily.com
ATTENTION: FRESH MEN & SOPHOMORES!
ARE YOU AMBITIOUS, ASSERTIVE AND SOCIABLE?
Sell as for
The DE~ty.

0

0

0

I

We need new account executiveB for
the Winter/Spring/Summer period.
Are you up to the challenge?
It's not just a job. It's the training you
need to succeed!
Where else can you learn to:
Build customer relationships
Clone deals
Convince skeptics
Become a loader
and build a Killer Resume?

Please pick up an application at
The Michigan Daily
Student Publications Building
420 Maynard Street, first floor
or call
(734) 764-0554
or e-mail, attn: Molly Twigg
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Application deadline
for Winter zoio positions:
November 20, 2009

Is

a

- t
4 -1 9


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 13, 2009 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, November 13, 2009 -3

NEWS BRIEFS
" ALMA, Mich.
Bleach washed out
as disinfectant in
Alma due to cost
officials in this mid-Mighigan
city would like residents to have
bleach in their water instead of
chlorine gas.
But after getting an unexpect-
edly high bid for bleach, they're
sticking with chlorine gas as a dis-
infectant and looking at alterna-
tives.
Alma City Manager Phil Moore
tells the Morning Sun of Mount
Pleasant that the city had budgeted
$60,000 for bleach but received a
bid for $256,000. He says ultravio-
let light is among the options under
study.
Alma officials want to dis-
infect city water with bleach
because they say it's safer than
chlorine gas, a toxic irritant to
the respiratory tract that was
used as a weapon in World War I.
CAPE MAY, NJ.
Search halted for 3
missing fishermen
Nearly a day after a commercial
fishing boat sank off New Jersey,
the Coast Guard ended its search
yesterday for the three crew
members.
The presumed deaths of the
captain and two others aboard the
44-foot Sea Tractor bring to nine
the number of commercial fisher-
men based in Cape May who have
died at sea this year.
Boats, planes and helicopters
began searching the storm-tossed
ocean shortly after the boat went
down around 7:30 p.m. Wednesday
in treacherous weather due in part
to the remnants of Tropical Storm
Ida.
There are no plans to resume
searching today morning, when
conditions are expected to be even
worse, a Coast Guard spokeswoman
said. Seas were topping 20 feet in
the search area, with winds gusting
to 55 mph Thursday.
"This is nine guys now; this is
really hitting home, and it hurts,"
said Bruce Barto, who knew the Sea
Tractor crew for 22 years through
his marine supply business and
counted them among his customers
and friends.
NEW YORK
0 Dog thrown from
roof, still survives
Oreo was called a miracle dog
when she was thrown off the roof
of a six-story Brooklyn building this
. summer and survived.
But nearly four months later, the
1-year-old brown-and-white pit bull
mix growled and lunged at people
gathered in a playroom to see her,
then turned and lunged at a female
handler who had pulled back furi-
ously on the 62-pound dog's heavy
leash.
After months of working to reha-
bilitate Oreo, the American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals said it had determined she is
too dangerous to ever be placed in

a home or even to live among other
dogs.
The organization said it plans to
euthanize heryesterday.
"Everything we've tried to do for
her has not worked," said Ed Sayres,
 the president and CEO of ASPCA.
"And she hasgotten more aggressive."
OSLO, NORWAY
Munch artwork
 stolen from Oslo art
dealership
Police say thieves stole a valu-
able artwork by Norwegian painter
Edvard Munch from an Oslo art
dealer.
Police spokeswoman Britt Boerve
said today the thieves stole "Histo-
rien" - or"History" - fromNyborgs
Kunst, a private art dealership in
downtown Oslo, after smashing one
of the dealership's windows with a
stone.
The owner, Pascal Nyborg, says
the hand-colored lithograph is worth
"in the millions" of kroner.
Boerve says the crime was report-
ed by witnesses late yesterday. Police
W have found agetawaycar,but arestill
searching for suspects.
Munch's emotionally charged
painting style became a major influ-
ence in the birth of the 20th-century
Expressionist movement.
In 2004, gunmen stole his master-
 pieces "The Scream" and "Madon-
na," in a brazen raid on a museum in
Oslo. Police recovered the paintings
over a year later.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Officials delay
Palestinian vote

rA-LU iAn iNt/Z MUNIVAIS/AP
President Barack Obama during a rally with US troops in Elmendorf Air Force Base in Anchorage, yesterday'
Obama meets troops
en route to Asia visit

Obama promises to
gather public support
before dispatching
more troops into war
ELMENDORF AIR FORCE
BASE, Alaska (AP) - Nearing a
decision on sending more troops
off to war, President Barack
Obama told a military audience
yesterday that he will not dis-
patch them into conflict without
proper support - including the
backing of the American people.
"That is a promise that I make
to you," Obama told more than
1,000 troops and their families
gathered at a hangar here, as
the president stopped briefly
for refueling en route to a four-
country trip to Asia.
The president made no direct
mention of Afghanistan or his
weekslong review, now nearing
completion, of how to revamp
the struggling war effort there.
Obama is expected to send in
thousands more troops.
Facing a daunting array of

Asian challenges, Obama was on
his first major trip to the region,
where a surging China and
newly assertive Japan are chip-
ping away at America's standing
on diplomacy and trade.
At home in recent days, from
a somber memorial for the 13
people shot to death at Fort
Hood in Texas to a Veterans Day
ceremony at Arlington National
Cemetery, Obama has lauded the
determination of the all-volun-
teer military.
But his assurance yesterday
about public support was new,
and it was unclear how he would
rally it.
An Associated Press-GfK
poll this week showed that 48
percent of people disapprove of
Obama's handling of Afghani-
stan, up from 41 percent in
October. More than half of all
Americans - 54 percent - now
oppose sending more troops to
Afghanistan, an increase from
50 percent last month.
"I want you guys to under-
stand that I will never hesitate to
use force to protect the American
people and our vital interests,"

Obama told the troops. "But I
also make you this promise: I
will not risk your lives unless it
is necessary to America's vital
interests."
"And if it is necessary," Obama
added, "the United States of
America will have your back.
We'll give you the strategy and
the clear mission you deserve.
We'll give you the equipment
and support you need to get the
job done. And that includes pub-
lic support back home."
Already the most traveled
first-year president ever, Obama
took off for Tokyo on an Asian
journey that will add four coun-
tries - Japan, China, Singapore
and South Korea - to the 16 he's
already visited. The trip also will
highlight a dramatically chang-
ing continent.
Obama was arriving in Japan
a day later than planned, his
schedule scrambled by Tues-
day's memorial for the shooting
victims at Fort Hood. His stop in
Singapore for the annual Asia-
Pacific economic summit, origi-
nally scheduled for two days,
was cut back to a mere 20 hours.

Opposition from
Hamas drives election
commission to delay
January elections
RAMALLAH, West Bank (AP)
- Palestinian President Mahmoud
Abbas, who last week said he didn't
want to run for re-election, may get
to stay in office without a single ballot
beingcast.
The Palestinian Election Com-
mission ruled yesterday that Janu-
ary's scheduled vote should be put
off because of opposition from the
Islamic militant group Hamas,
which controls the Gaza Strip and
is a rival of Abbas' Fatah faction.
Abbas raised international con-
cern last week when he declined to
run for another term, suggesting he
wasfrustratedoveral10-monthstale-
CHINA
From Page 1
Research Stephen Forrest will also
travel to China in the near future to
look at possible researchprojects and
create technology transfer offices.
In addition to its efforts in
China, Coleman said the Univer-
sity has been collaborating in the
humanities and social sciences
with African universities in Ghana
and South Africa, two countries
she visited in February 2008.
Coleman also mentioned Mark
Tessler, vice provost for interna-
tional affairs and a professor of
political science, who has led a
project in the United Arab Emir-
ates to establish an institute simi-
lar to the University's Institute for
Social Research.
Coleman said University faculty
members are working in all parts
of the world. In fact, upon giving
a lecture at Zayed University in
Dubai in March 2008, Coleman
said she was surprised to find Uni-
versity faculty there too.
"They're everywhere!" Cole-
man said. "You can go anywhere in
the world, and they all come out of
the woodwork."
At the same time as this growth
in the international presence of

mate in Israel-Palestinian peace-
making. His departure would have
thrownpeace efforts intoturmoil.
Now it appears Abbas may have
been signaling his need for more
backing from the U.S. against Isra-
el since Hamas' rejection of a vote
was likely.
The Palestinian Election Com-
mission blamed Gaza's Hamas rul-
ers for forcing the postponement.
Hamas overran Gaza in 2007,
expelling Fatah forces loyal to
Abbas. Hamas leaders oppose an
election organized by Fatah, and
without Gaza a complete election
cannot be held.
Abbas has insisted that talks
with Israel cannot resume until
Israel halts all construction in its
West Bank settlements. Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netan-
yahu countered that the issue
should be dealt with in the nego-
tiations.
institutes and faculty, the Univer-
sity is beginning to see a rise in the
number of international applicants.
In the interview, Coleman cited
an increase in the amount of under-
graduate applicants from Asia last
year, but didn't know if the numbers
will further increase in the future.
"It's kind of fascinating to see
whether it continues this year," she
said.
Coleman said more and more
families across the world are look-
ing to provide the best college edu-
cation for their children, and with
the University's "internationally
high-profile," parents are interested
in sendingtheirkids to AnnArbor.
"I think it's kind of nice for the
University to have that reputa-
tion," Coleman said. "It's good the
block 'M' is known everywhere."
According to Coleman, interna-
tional outreach efforts are not only
important for creating a diverse
student body, but also for helping
students attain a well-rounded
global perspective.
"I think to be successful in the
future we really need to have an
awareness of and understanding
of the rest of the world," she said.
"The goal is to create great oppor-
tunities for students who come
to the University of Michigan to
emerge as citizens of the world."


LAWSUIT
From Page 1
confidence in her safety systems"
and became nervous about ventur-
ing deeper into the lab.
His fears were further height-
ened when Hartman asked him
if he knew whether the machine
containing the Cesium was on or
off. Since Hartman didn't know if
it was emitting radiation, McGee's
first instinct was to get out of the
area as quickly as possible, and he
immediately vacated the premises.
McGee said he knew there was
a 50-50 chance he had a received
a dose of radiation because the
machine was either on or off.
Turning to the jury, he started
to choke up as he explained how he
got in his car and called his wife to
inform her of what had happened.
He said he was scared because
radiation can cause immediate
effects or produce cancer 10 years
down the road.
"I was upset," McGee said. "I
was mad. I was thinking about my
safety."
He added he was disappointed
by Hartman's actions.
"I trusted him," he said. "Just
a myriad of let downs were going
through my head."
McGee went home and tried
finding a 24-hour radiation service.
Unable to reach anyone and des-
perate to figure out if he had been
exposed to radiation, he called
Joseph Miklos, an Occupational
Safety and Environmental Health
coordinator for the University.
After hearing what happened,
McGee said Miklos became upset
and started to raise his voice and
swear.
Miklos told McGee only four
people were allowed in the area of
the lab he and Hartman were in,
and that the two of them were not
part of the four.
In response to McGee's inquiry
into whether he had been exposed
to radiation, Miklos said he didn't
know if the machine was on or off
and that the only people who knew
were Kearfott and her students.
Yesterday, University attorney
David Masson called Miklos to the
stand as a witness for the defense.
Miklos testified that McGee
called him on Feb. 16 and expressed
concern about possible exposure
to Cesium 137. He said he assured
McGee that radiation exposure
was impossible because the Cesi-
um 137 source had been inactive

since the previous December.
Nevertheless, Miklos told
McGee that he was free to call the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
and speak to one of its specialists.
According to Miklos, McGee
refused to call the NRC because he
didn't want to get Miklos in trouble.
"I told him, 'There's no trouble
because you did not get a radiation
dose,"' Miklos said.
McGee did not contact the NRC,
but sent Miklos an e-mail reiter-
ating his concerns. In response,
Miklos met with McGee the fol-
lowing Tuesday and restated that
radiation exposure was impossible.
"I once again said, 'You have the
right to notify the NRC,' " Miklos
said. "To my knowledge he never
did."
Miklos talked about the safety
system in Kearfott's laboratory
that protects against exposure to
the Cesium 137 source. According
to Miklos, warninglights and signs
activate when the Cesium source is
in use.
"If the source had been func-
tional all the warning lights would
have been working," Miklos testi-
fied.
Miklos explained that he had
approved Hartman to work in Kear-
fott's laboratory on Feb. 16 because
the radiation source was inactive at
the time. Since the source wasn't
active, Hartman and McGee's pres-
ence didn't violate NRC regulations
that require researchers to carry
radiation detection devices in high-
radiation areas.
Miklos said he would not have
permitted access to the lab if the
source was active.
On cross-examination by
McGee's attorney, Christine Green,
Miklos said he hadn't prepared
an incident report about McGee's
phone call or e-mail because he
felt the event didn't warrant filing
a report.
Miklos explained he didn't con-
sider McGee's e-mail an official
report because, according to Mik-
los, McGee did not get a radiation
dose.
Green asked about McGee's
prior safety concerns, and Miklos
responded he thought McGee had
good ideas about safety measures
- some of which were implement-
ed in the design of the neutron cell
lab.
In his testimony earlier this
week, McGee said he called Kear-
fott the Monday following the inci-
dent to discuss the situation. He
said she started swearing and told

him she didn't give Hartman per-
mission to enter her lab, and they
had "no right to be there."
"She was so upset I thought she
was going to have a stroke," McGee
said.
The two agreed to immedi-
ately meet each other at the lab to
inspect the machine, which Kear-
fott found to be off.
Kearfott told McGee that he
had not been exposed to radiation.
However, he reported the inci-
dent to Radiation Safety Services
through e-mail on Feb.16.
In Kearfott's testimony yester-
day, she said the source was not
functioning properly at the time
McGee and Hartman entered her
lab - which would have made it
more difficult to be exposed. She
explained a person was required to
lift a rod, which would prop up the
source and cause radiation expo-
sure.
Kearfott said she hadn't talk-
ed to Hartman about the prob-
lems with the source because she
claimed he didn't need to know.
"He doesn't need to use the
source in his work," she said.
After hearing that Hartman and
McGee had been in the lab, Kear-
fott asked Hartman to come to her
office.
She said "(Hartman) either
denied or dodged around it in
some way," when asked if he had
been in her lab without following
safety protocol.
"He did not answer my ques-
tion," she said.
Upon returning to the lab that
week, McGee said in his testimo-
ny that his friendly relationship
with Hartman changed "dra-
matically."
The two did not speak to each
other while working in the lab,
and McGee said the atmosphere
was very tense.
"This was such a 180-degree
change from the complimentary
relationship that we had," he
said.
However, Miklos said in
his cross-examination that he
observed "friction" between the
two as early as October 2007.
McGee said he started to
worry that Hartman suspected
that he had reported the safety
violations.
Hartman is scheduled to tes-
tify in court today.
On Feb. 20 McGee contacted
Christine Gerdes, an assistant
general counsel in the Univer-
sity's Office of the Vice President

and General Counsel, because he
was afraid he might lose his job.
McGee said Gerdes assured him
that he would not be fired and that
the University doesn't fire GSRAs
unless they do something wrong
- like take drugs at work or steal
from the University.
Later that day, McGee received
an e-mail from Hartman saying
he was being terminated from his
position, effective immediately.
McGee said the e-mail took him
by surprise.
"I literally threw up," he said.
"Everything that I had feared and
everything that I had tried to avoid
just went up in smoke."
McGee sent an appeal to Wil-
liam Martin, professor and chair of
nuclear engineering and radiologi-
cal sciences, who told McGee he
would look into the situation.
Because he had spent three
years working on his project before
Hartman took charge of it and
because Hartman dismissed him
shortly before the project was
finished, McGee proposed he be
allowed to complete it.
"'I have so much blood, sweat
and tears with this,"' McGee said
he told Martin. "'Let me finish
this.'

Martin agreed he would talk
with Hartman and get back to him,
but McGee said Martin never did.
Hartman said he would pay
McGee for the rest of the semester.
When McGee contacted Gerdes
after being fired she said she could
not help him because the Univer-
sity was still paying him. If it was
not, then she could get involved.
Since the incident, McGee has
not finished his Ph.D. at the Uni-
versity or been able to obtain
employment in the field - though
he said he sent his resum6 to more
than 30 companies.
If he had been able to finish his
degree, he said he would ideally be
working in a laboratory and pub-
lishing papers. His ultimate goal
was to become a professor ata uni-
versity where he could continue
research and do consulting work.
Now unemployed with a house
and two kids, McGee began to cry
during his testimony as he admit-
ted he's making zero income and
his wife is working two jobs to pay
the bills.
"I'm very upset and very ner-
vous about my future," he said.
- Daily Staff Reporter Mallory
Jones contributed to this report.

When your boss is after your fiancee,

. The Marriage of
UMusic,Daance
By Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Lorenzo da Ponte
Sung in Italian with projected English translations
University Opera Theatre directed by Robert Swedberg
University Symphony Orch. conducted by Kenneth Kiesler
Nov. 12 at 7:30 PM- Nov. 13 & 14 at 8 PM - Nov. 15 at 2 PM
Power Center 'Tickets $24 and $18 - Students $g with ID
League Ticket Office - 734-764-2538

N


4 - Friday, November 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C 14e Mic4igan +aily


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR

I've never seen anything like this. We used to
pretty much be an open door."
- LaGuardia Community College President Gail O. Mellow, commenting on having to turn prospective students
away because of the recent flood of students to two-year colleges, as reported yesterday by the New York Times.

GARY GRACA
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position ofuthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofntheir authors.
Pushing the limit
Appropriate behavior a must for University leaders
T he University prides itself on projecting an image of
integrity. An important component of this image is the
example provided by the University's leaders. But the
recent behavior of University Athletic Director Bill Martin com-
promised this image. On two separate occasions, the athletic
director shoved students working for the Department of Public
Safety as part of the Michigan Stadium safety staff during foot-
ball games. Though Martin has since apologized for the incident,
his rash behavior reflects poorly on the University and its admin-
istration. This incident should serve as a reminder that Univer-
sity leaders are role models for the University community and
must be held to the highest standards of behavior.

BELLA SHAH
s '

E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU


l1ov '

0

fons yao,
,',tS.lc LO

0

The fastest growing minority

This week, Martin apologized for shov-
ing students working for DPS at Michigan
Stadium on two separate occasions. At the
games against Notre Dame and Delaware
State, DPS student staffers denied Mar-
tin entrance to the Regents Guest Area,
requesting he present identification. On
both occasions, Martin responded that
he was the athletic director and after a
stand-still, pushed the students aside. He
released a written statement on Monday in
which he apologized for the incidents, not-
ing protocols caused his frustration.
Martin's claim that his actions were the
result of confusion over new safety protocols
is a dubious defense. As athletic director,
Martin should have been aware of the rules.
His lack of knowledge exposes a breakdown
of communication that reflects poorly on the
University - especially since it happened
twice. He should have made the effort after
the first incident to understand why he had
been denied immediate entrance.
But no amount of confusion would
excuse Martin's actions in these cases.
He shouldn't have responded to the safety
staffers - who were simply doing their
jobs - in the way he did, and it was wholly
inappropriate to use physical contact to

force them out of his way. Martin's posi-
tion as athletic director doesn't exempt
him from interacting with those around
him in a respectful manner. Using physical
force in such a situation isn't acceptable for
anyone - and Martin, especially.
That's because the public faces of the
University should be held to the high-
est standard. Martin, President Mary Sue
Coleman, coaches and administrators rep-
resents the University and must be cogni-
zant of the fact that other people will make
judgments about the University based on
their actions. Martin's actions reflected
poorly on not just himself, but also on
the institution as a whole. And those who
speak for and lead the University must
never be derelict in their responsibility to
live by and demonstrate the positive quali-
ties they want others to emulate.
While it seems as though Martin under-
stands the severity of his offense and has
apologized to the workers he pushed,
officials should remember never to forget
their responsibilities. Shoving students is
not acceptable behavior for any member of
the University community, let alone a high
level official who represents the institu-
tion.

ne of the most impor-
tant criticisms that I have
received for writing columns
primarily about
racial oppression
between blacks
and whites has
been that I do not -
address Latino
issues. After all,
Latinos are the
fastest growing
minority popula-
tion, and whites MATTHEW
oppress them. This HUNTER
nation's social and
economic prog-
ress depends on
Latinos. And certainly, all oppressed
groups and their unique social strug-
gles deserve more attention in popu-
lar media.
For every racial struggle unique to
black Americans, there exist compa-
rable oppressive forces against Latinos.
Latinos in the U.S. must bear being
stigmatized continually because they
are seen as people who don't belong
in the U.S. - with illegal immigrants,
with stupidity, with people who want
to strip our nation of American values
and impose their inferior language.
Rush Limbaugh, host of America's
most listened to radio show, weighed
in when speculating as to whya Mexi-
can won the New York marathon: "An
immigration agent chased him for the
last 10 miles." Racism against Latinos
runs rampant, when perhaps they have
a greater claim to our land than whites
do.
Limbaugh's sentiments are echoed
in hate crime cases across the nation.
This year, on May 1, two men were
acquitted of aggravated assault, reck-
less endangerment, ethnic intimida-
tion and third degree murder for the
death of Luis Ramirez, according to a
May 3 CNN.com article titled, "Some

satisfied, others outraged with ver-
dict for immigrant's death." Ramirez
died of blunt force injuries after a con-
frontation with Derrick Donchak and
Brandon Piekarsky. They were both
only found guilty of simple assault.
The legal leniency given to these
whites, from an all white jury, echoes
countless court cases where the law
doesn't protect minorities with guar-
antees of justice. Why was anyone sat-
isfied with a verdict that put two racist,
violent men back on the streets when
they are obviously a danger to society?
There are countless examples of
oppression against Latinos in every
nook of white America, from edu-
cation disparities to dehumanizing
immigrants, legal or otherwise. But
rather than fret about the depressing
status quo of our nation's racial track
record, I have two recommendations
that will increase cultural under-
standing and Latino acceptance and
thus decrease racism and the numer-
ous disparities Latinos face.
First, immigration reform should
include mandates to empower
respectable, racially conscious, Span-
ish speaking officers, who seek the
best interests of Latino immigrants
while acknowledging the difficulties
of overcrowding in important immi-
grant cities. Immigrants should not
be treated inhumanly - we should
instead understand that they are
either looking to be with their fami-
lies in the Land of Freedom or trying
to escape their own country's evils,
like whites did when they came to
America. Conversely, Latinos are
not looking to enslave or massacre
anyone. Rather, they have populated
our workforce to the point where the
survival of most Americans depends
on Latinos in the U.S. going to work
everyday. Legalization should be a
prospect possible for all Latinos who
want to live a respectable life, which

is, of course, the vast majority.
Second, Spanishshouldbe made an
official language of our nation, along-
side English. Despite the cultural
differences between various Latin
American people, their language
unites them. If all schools in the U.S.
were required to teach a comprehen-
sive Spanish curriculum comparable
to the English curriculum, we could
better identify with Latinos. In addi-
tion, intelligent children who are held
back in school because they don't
understand English could advance
Latinos face their
own civil rights
struggle.
in classes alongside American chil-
dren who struggle with Spanish.
This is better than letting our Latino
children fail and be stigmatized as
stupid and lazy, which perpetuates
the cycles of educational disparities
in which Latinos live. These chil-
dren need proper preparation for our
nation's leadership positions.
An Aug. 13, 2008 CNN.com article
titled "Minorities expected to be the
Majority in 2050" reported that the
Hispanic population is expected to
triple, making Hispanics 30 percent
of our nation's total population. They
are the fastest growing minority, and
rather than framing the relationship
as "us" and "them," learning their
language will allow Americans to
gain cultural understanding through
being able to talk to one another.
- Matthew Hunter can be
reached at majjam@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, William, Butler, Ben Caleca, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Emma Jeszke, Raghu Kainkaryam, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
A better fix for state roads to put us on a better path.
would be privatization Alexander Franz
Business junior
TO THE DAILY:
The Daily's prescription for Michigan'sfpiped-in music is here to
crumbling public infrastructure (The road not m st
taken, 11/11/2009) overlooked a significant stay, make itaood
potential remedy: privatization. Any funding
for repairs or mass transit is constrained by
the state's collapsing budget, but privatization TO THE DAILY:
offers the government a considerable source Whether we like it or completely hate it, it
of revenue. The lease payments from priva- appears that the Athletic Department has decided
tized highways could be invested into roads, piped-in music is here to stay. So that's where we
bridges or green initiatives. stand - every week we are subjected to some mys-
The idea of private infrastructure isn't terious DJspinning"Jock Jams, Volume 76". Most
new. In 2005, the city of Chicago leased the students eat it up, falling victim to a mob mentality
Chicago Skyway to private investors for $1.8 that forces them into an inane chant or "8-mile"-
billion. The new owners gained control of the inspired hand motion. A smaller sect pine for the
toll road for 99 years, and are responsible for days of the Michigan Marching Band being the
maintenance expenses. Anticipating returns sole auditory component to the game.
for over a century, the owners have an incen- But if we are going to go down the piped-in
tive to invest in high-quality materials that music rabbit hole, one thing we should all be able to
create future savings, rather than push pot agree on is that we need to do it right. There needs
hole repairs from one budget to the next. If to be more thought behind what is being played.
road conditions are bad, drivers will commute Anyone who watched the Ohio State-Penn State
elsewhere. game may have noticed that Penn State's band
Michigan is a major junction for trade with plays The White Stripes' "Seven Nation Army" in
Canada. A 2004 study by the Border Transpor- between nearly every play. This is nothing new -
tation Partnership determined that $13 billion Penn State has been playing "Seven Nation Army"
in goods crosses through the Detroit-Windsor for years now. When you catch the Ohio State-
border every year. Highways along this trade Iowa game this Saturday you may again hear
route could attract significant attention from "Seven Nation Army" during kickoffs - an Ohio
private capital. The steady traffic tolls would State gameday tradition. Anyone who's been up
make these investments less risky for inves- to Michigan State for a game knows that they play
tors and more lucrative for the government. AC/DC's "Thunderstruck" as their entrance song
With hundreds of millions of dollars in and have been doing so for years.
cash, local roads in Washtenaw County and For all the problems there have been with the
elsewhere could receive the attention they music at Michigan Stadium - poor sound qual-
desperately need. And just as Chicago used a ity, playing at inopportune times - the biggest
portion of its revenue to pay down debt, Lan- problem is lack of originality. There are thousands
sing could invest in energy efficient reforms to of songs out there; why can't we find something
reduce its carbon footprint and future expens- unique to Michigan? We are supposed to be the
es. "Leaders and Best." It seems that we've instead
Privatization offers a proven, viable alter- settled on copying our rivals - following, not lead-
native to budget fights and higher taxes. ing.
Decades of public monopoly have driven
our roads to their current condition, so Tom Ward
don't overlook the power of private capital LSA senior

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

I

TRISHA JAINI

Stupak isn't so stupid

It was an eleventh-hour addition. Here's what happened:
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi needed another chunk of votes
for the health care bill to pass. She knew that the Stupak
Amendment, which would trim abortion coverage from
subsidized insurance plans, would reel in support from the
pro-life Democrats. She agreed to let the House vote on the
amendment. It passed with flyingcolors and swept 41 more
signatures onto the health care bill, which then just barely
passed (220 votes to 215).
And then pro-choice America wentberserk.
They argued that President Barack Obama violated his
promise - he had promised that no one would lose his or
her present coverage with the advent of health care reform,
didn't he? Currently, more than 85 percent of insurance
plans cover abortion, but the government will deprive all
of these plans of subsidies. In the new "exchange" - the
market of blended public-private insurance policies created
by health care reform - an unsubsidized plan will find it
too costly to survive. Consequently, the plan will "sell out"
abortion coverage for a subsidy in order to stay competi-
tive, or else languish and die. Obama promised, though, and
abortion is a medical procedure like any other that should
be readily available. Will we stop covering tonsil removal
next?
The problem is that abortion is not a procedure like any
other, and the Stupak Amendment is, both morally and
practically speaking, a sound and intelligent piece of policy.
I am pro-choice, but not pro-abortion. I wholeheartedly
support your right to choose abortion, but I would strongly
encourage you not to. It would have been none of my busi-
ness - your private insurance is exactly that, yours and
private - but when we as a nation pleaded for health care
reform at any cost, we pleaded to make it my business. We
removed the line between public and private and made it
our collective business. Now, my tax dollars will subsidize
your insurance policy to make it affordable, and yours mine.
And unlike the choice to remove your tonsils, your choice

to undergo abortion is heavy. It's loaded with religious and
moral significance - make it, by all means, but please don't
ask me to pay for any part of it.
Granted, my tax money is already used for wars I don't
support, but at the very least, those wars are intended
to protect me and every other citizen. Your abortion is a
decision that affects only you. To present an exaggerated
analogy - emphasis on exaggerated - would you, in turn,
subsidize my purchase of a gun? A government that recog-
nizes a right is by no means obliged to provide for it.
It is fascinating that this issue has the most liberal of the
liberals speaking in Republican tongue. Planned Parent-
hood opposes the entire reform bill on the grounds that
it strips women of this crucial choice and that these sub-
sidized insurance plans should not be the only available
options - and right there, they have drifted onto Republi-
can grounds. Strangely, though, most of us share their atti-
tude. We liberals are still incredibly idealistic in imagining
the consequences of reform. The reality is, even Obama's
comforting rhetoric cannot change the fact thathealth care
reform will, without a doubt, whittle down the range of
available policies. The Stupak amendment is just the first
controversial cut.
But by garnering the votes of pro-life Democrats for the
health care bill, the Stupak Amendment has essentially
given 47 million Americans access to insurance. As for the
whittled-down range, I have no doubt that a private organi-
zation with thick-walleted, pro-choice donors will emerge
shortly to fund abortions for those who cannot afford them
out of pocket. It is not and was never the government's place
to do so. It is the government's place to ensure that the low-
income woman with a high fever can see a doctor, and that
medical care for the rest of her body is not held hostage for
the sake of her ovaries. In that regard, Stupak is anything
but stupid.
Trisha Jain is an LSA freshman.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 13, 2009 - 5

VH1's filthiest
sex therapy

A pec acle of culture

The 26th annual IASA
Cultural Show spotlights all
varieties of Indian dance
By KAVI SHEKHAR PANDEY
DailyArts Writer
"I'm really sorry, I'm on one hour of sleep
right now," said Engineering
senior Apurva Lingnurkar, Vmstaara
co-coordinator of the 2009
Indian American Students At Hill
Association cultural show, as Auditorium
he put the finishing touches Tonight,7 p.m.
on the show, hurriedly tweak- $12-$20
ing dance moves, fixing light-
ing cues and organizing chaos. And add to all
this a last-minute interview. Lingnurkar was
understandably distracted - he and fellow
coordinator Engineering senior Nishi Shah
have been planning the spectacle since Feb-
ruary. All this work, time and sweat is culmi-
nating in a single performance tonight at Hill
Auditorium.
"Vistaara," the title of this year's show (the
26th annual installment), showcasesthe efforts
of 250 participants who have been practicing
their routines since September. The show spot-
lights various dances that encapsulate aspects

of Indian culture, including the traditional
dances of "Bhangra," native to the state of Pun-
jab, and "Raas," a folk dance from South India.
New to this year's show is an all-girl progres-
sion, which fuses several dance forms together,
as well as a men's tribal dance.
A multi-sensory experience of great music
and elaborate choreography, the show is also
for a good cause. All proceeds from "Vistaara"
will go toward Pratham, a charity that works
to give illiterate and impoverished children in
India an education.
"Vistaara," translating to "development" or
"progression" in Sanskrit, precisely correlates
to the theme of the show.
"We wished to portray how various styles of
Indian dance have changed over time," Ling-
nurkar said.
"We plan on doing that through different
music and different dance steps, featuring
newer and older types of dance."
Planning the intricacies of the dances - some
of which feature dozens of participants danc-
ing simultaneously - is the job of the show's
dedicated choreographers. LSA seniors Kriti
Samaymantri and Manika Agarwal have been
planning their dance portion since April. It
represents the evolution of the Bollywood film
industry.
"(To embody the theme) we chose songs
from the '70s through present day - popular

songs that the audience and dancers would be
able to get in to," Samaymantri said.
Even audience members who speak no South
Asian languages will be able to follow the "pro-
gression of time" in the songs of this dance. The
upbeat, vivacious songs stretch from a jazzy
prelude entirely in Hindi to a very modern,
club-hopping groove featuring lyrics recogniz-
able to English speakers like "Ain't nobody like
my Desi girl." (Desi means "Indian.")
Although the performance's leaders devote
tremendous effort to perfecting the show,
there's an absolute "wow" factor to the com-
plex composition and precise that can only be
credited to the devotion of the dancers. The
participants have been vigorously practicing
since September, putting six to eight hours
every week. But LSA senior Yash Chauhan,
member of the "Bollywood" dance troupe,
doesn't fret about the sizeable practice obli-
gations.
"You'll sacrifice the hours cause you're hav-
ing so much fun at practice," he says. "It's going
towards a good cause, and the show is such a
big deal for (the university) - it's the biggest
student run production on campus."
On stage, this enthusiasm translates to an
exuberant event, where the performers will
be whirling and pulsating with a wide grin.
The only people having more fun will be in
the audience.

By ANT MITCHELL
Daily Arts Writer
Congratulations are in order
for VH1's newest creation. Not
every network
can claim to
have produced
the reality-show $ex Rehab
equivalent of a
used condom. w -th Dr.
In the realm of Drew
trashy TV, "Sex
Rehab with Dr. Sundays at
Drew" has got 10 p.m.
to be up there VH1
on the hierarchy
of shows that drain an audience's
faith in humanity, which includes
"A Doubleshot at Love" and "Fla-
vor of Love."
This sinking feeling of dis-
gust and disbelief is not directed
toward any of the cast on the
show, but rather toward the audi-
ences that supported "Celeb-
rity Rehab with Dr. Drew," thus
enabling the creation of "Sex
Rehab with Dr. Drew."
"Sex Rehab" follows the
rehabilitation of eight individu-
als, three men and five women,
including pseudo-celebrities like
Jennie Ketcham (a.k.a. Penny
Flame when she's moonlighting
as a porn star), Playboy Playmate
Nicole Narain and professional
surfer James Lovett. While try-
ing to sexually detox, some of the
women still make a living as Play-
boy Playmates, porn producers or
adult entertainers.
The whole scenario makes it
hard not to ask: Exactly what are
these people going to do career-
wise when they get out of rehab?
It doesn't seem like returning
to a livelihood of freelancing
as a dominatrix is conducive to
staying on the sex rehab wagon.
Following a summary of each
addict's claim to fame, Dr. Drew
has a session with each partici-
pant and he or she is welcomed
into the rehab center (a welcome
consisting of the filmed confisca-
tion of sex toys, skin magazines
and dildos named Jeremy).
Despite the incredibly uncon-
vincing melodramas and overly
contrived dialogue each patient
fuels, many of the sex addicts
actually seem genuinely messed
up, and it's hard noct to feel bad
for them. But sympathizing with
the participants isn't the point of
the show, nor is the point to shine

a light on real issues with which
people struggle.
Instead, the point of "Sex
Rehab" is to extract as much
shock value as possible from
everyone's problems. The show
makes a point of unearthing as
many participants' past sexu-
al abuses as can fit in an hour
(apparently seven) and by creat-
ing as many situations as possible
to set them up for failure.
The latter is achieved by room-
ing the guys and girls right across
the hall from each other, which is
basically the same thing as put-
ting out a table full of brownies
on "The Biggest Loser." If not
for the absolute transparency of
these tactics, the show might be
stomachable, but as it is, it's dis-
gusting.
While the show pretends to be
.concerned about each person's
recovery, "Sex Rehab" mostly
depends on the audience's desire
to hear about how Nicole can't
stop whacking off or how Smith
has STDs on his uvula.
One of the most disturbing
aspects of "Sex Rehab" is that Dr.
Drew himself doesn't seem to be
a very reliable therapist. Anyone
who has taken Psych 101 knows
that it's never a good idea to tell
patients how they feel, and then
A used condom
of a show.
frown if they try to disagree. His
later insinuations thathis patients
are lying makes him come across
as smug and pretentious, espe-
cially when he says things like,
"Although Phil claims he didn't
suffer childhood abuse, his grief
over his mother's death has cer-
tainly affected his addiction. I'm
certain that as Phil progresses in
treatment a more complete story
will unfold."
If any plan to brave this nause-
ating hour of pity, dreadful dra-
matics and clumsy mind poking,
be sure to bring knee pads (no -
not for that!).
Undouhtedly, hours will he
spent following the unfortunate
exposure of this show kneeling
before the TV-watching public,
begging forgiveness for having
fueled the production of filth of
this caliber.

The Macpodz get spiritual at the Pig

By KRISTYN ACHO
Daily Arts Writer
Tonight, Ann Arbor's own the
Macpodz are "landing their dance-
party mother
ship" at the Blind The
Pig. Or at least
that's how they P~dZ
put it. At the
But is this Blind Pig
going to be a
dance-party Tonight, 9:30 p.m.
mother ship
worth riding?
The Macpodz formed in Febru-
ary of 2006 with bass player and
vocalist Brennan Andes serving as
the hub of the wheel, getting the
band started by playing house par-
ties at Black Elk co-op on Baldwin
Ave. Since then, the Macpodz have
released two psychedelic, dance
friendly albums that have had mid-
dle-aged jazz fans grooving across
the region.
As self-proclaimed "disco-
beboppers," The Macpodz' live
performances employ '70s fusion
and electric jazz in the supposed
tradition of American Rock ("think
Booker T. & the M.G.'s and Miles
Davis" Ross Huff, University alum
and Macpodz spiritual junkie bold-
ly - and misleadingly - claims). It's
music that would make your par-
ents nostalgic for the good ol' days.
So what the hell is "disco-bebop"
anyway? Huff, who sings and
plays trumpet and flugelhorn for
the band, chatted with the Daily
to answer this burning question
and to dish about how the band is
musically influenced by everything

from yoga to 2 a.m. treks to Fleet-
wood Diner.
"We're influenced by so many
types of music - everything we can
get our hands on: jazz of course,
salsa music, rock'n'roll. We're tak-
ing things from Motown and reg-
gae - even elements of classical
music," Huff boasts in hopes of
defining the band's jumbled, "dis-
co-bebop" sound.
Although the Macpodz's sound
is largely based on jazz and impro-
visation, rock'n'roll was Huff's
strongest influence. Either way, it
would be pointless to try to stick
The Macpodz into one musical
genre, as each track feels bogged
down by a clunky disjointedness of
Latin, rock, and jazz influences.
The seasonings of rock'n'roll
throughout the band's tracks have
surprisingly enabled the Macpodz
to display their rock chops at rock-
heavy fests like Rothbury. But
it's hard to imagine the Macpodz
garnering the same types of fans
who came to hear rock anthems
performed by bands like the Black
Crowes and the Hold Steady.
Still, according to Huff, going to
diverse music fests like Rothbury
"gives us a chance to get in front of
audiences that may not have heard
of us, but maybe were there to see
Umphrey's McGee. And being in
front of music fans of that open-
minded nature, that are excited
about music and the community
surrounding it is a really positive
thing for us," he says.
But The Macpodz are really
about their small town roots. Just
as Huff described his admiration

of the s
at Roth
up with
mate,
like BI
Music I
"It's
thing t
Rothbu
are gre
networ
ple in d
we're it
Keep
values,
ridicule
the sec
get a d
studies
jazz cu
psycho
yoga an
Wh
"A lo
underst
and bo'
um and
or the f
exactly
what I
what th
just ent
ing deg
"I th
meanin
ects tha
one wa

pectrum of music displayed nection with the university."
bury, he was quick to follow Apparently, a degree from the
h his fondness for more inti- University really does prepare you
smaller Michigan festivals for the future.
issfest and Grand Marais Still, even if you're not seeking
Festival. a spiritual connection this Friday
nice to be onstage at some- night, it's bound to be an interest-
hat is not as big of a scope as ing endeavor.
try. Local-oriented festivals "Ifa person wants to come to a
at for building up a local show purely for the entertainment
k and getting to know peo- value, they can have that angle ful-
ifferent towns or areas that filled. But sometimes if a person
n," Huff says. wants to come to a show in order
ping in line with his folksy to search for that connection with
the University alum has a other human beings or searching
ously spiritual side. He was for that connection with a higher
ond University student to being those things can be available
legree in jazz comparative too," he says.
, which combines the basic Huff seems to be hoping to
rriculum with the study of reveal his deeper understanding of
logy as a creative process, "someone you might call God," he
id spiritual development. states. Dude, how profound.
When asked about his musical
influences, Huff keeps it local. He
claims that musicians and compos-
sere yoga and ers in the ever-growing Ann Arbor
music community influence him.
"If you're sitting, having cof-
fee with somebody you can realize
what the genesis behind their song
t of it catered towards the was and really get inside each oth-
tanding of how the mind er's work and understand it more
dy work in a creative medi- deeply. When you're a ticket holder
that goesbeyond justmusic the person on stage seems to be ina
ine arts. It prepared me for different world, they are very liter-
what I wanted to do. I view ally and clearly on another level,"
do as a trumpet player and he says.
e Macpodz do as more than But it's not all about self-
tertainment and the differ- enlightenment. For Huff every-
rees of that," he says. thing's an influence: "The subway,
ink there is amore profound the sound of the highway, or the
g. All of the current proj- restaurant you're eating in - the
at I'm involved with branch Fleetwood! The Fleetwood is a
y or another from my con- main influence."

WRITE FOR ARTS.
IT'S COOL
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu for an applicationon.
All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
/ - &9cat 77/ 'c i 10-CL
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
310 Ma nard St.-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Maynard Parkin Structure

ARTS IN BRIEF

CONCERT PREVIEW
Electro beats hit UMMA
The Flashbulb
At UMMA
Tomorrow, B8p.m.
Free
Benn Jordan could be called a lot of things,
but "complacent" isn't one of them. At a cre-
atively throbbing 31 years old, the bipolar
electronica artist has already released and dis-
tributed music under more than ten different
pseudonyms, and has pumped out a whopping

14 LPs in just the last decade.
The most prolific of these monikers has been
the Flashbulb, Jordan's primary outlet for exor-
cising his creative juices - and the label he's
deciding to wear when he plays at the UMMA
for free on Saturday night.
Stylistically, Jordan is in constant flux. Never
content to rest on his laurels, the electro-smith
is currently in creative transit from snare-pum-
meling, trip-over-your-shoelaces breakcore to a
more plaintive, string-laden breed of IDM (intel-
ligent dance music) inspired by classical music.
Jordan certainly deserves his classification
in the IDM genre - his music, while rhythmi-
cally arresting, has a meditative, cerebral qual-

ity that's better suited to aquarium-like trances
than ecstatic club-grinding. A multi-instrumen-
talist with a background in jazz guitar, he often
records organic instrumentation and then filters
it through electronic programs, creating a sound
that's alluringly alien without ever feeling syn-
thetic.
He refers to his music as "acousmatic," allud-
ing to a French artistic movement that attempt-
ed to make sound with no clear originating
cause, in order to move away from instrument-
driven music. And, whether you buy this or not,
Saturday night's sure to make you think while
creatively throbbing, too - free of charge..
JOSHUA BAYER


6- Friday, November 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOR SALE: 4 tickets for Ohio State
game, section 7, row 84, $70 each.
Call Bill at 858-350-5182
PARKING
PARKING AVAIL. CENTRAL Caon-
pus, near B and Law School 734-222-
9033. jmsprop9(sbeglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
AUTOMOTIVE
CARS, TRUCKS & MORE INC.
80-225-9750
10% Guaranteed Financing
BUlY HERE PAY HERE, LEASE
TO OWN
1994 FORD EXPLORER 4 door
****REDUCED****
4x4, runs great $899
810-229-9750 www.ctnas.com
2003 TOYOTA COROLLA $6999
Like new, Excellent Gas-saver
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1993 CHEVY BLAZER 4x4
runs great, $899
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1993 PONTIAC GRAND AM Se
REDUCED
Sporty, dependable ride $1295
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1997 DODGE INTREPID
***REDUCED** a
Dependable Transportation $899
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
1999 FORD TAURUS RUNS GREAT
****REDUCED****
Flex fuel engine, Sharp looking $1695
810-229-9750 www.ctmas.com
FOR RENT
3 BDRM Apts on East U. !
Furn, high ceilings, hardwood fIrs,
deck off back, on site parking, heat &
water incl. Pepper Properties 810-231-
0229. www.omcampshosing.com
! 4 BDRM House w/ 6+ prkg 1512
Geddes., 3 full baths, New, window &
Carpet: $2100 Avail Sept. 2010;
Contact Info: (734)776-0646
liu.prperies4)yahoo.com
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2010. Private bedrooms, even pri-
ate haths. All-new, furnished, 2
blocks from Central Campus. Reserve
now lock in great rates. limited 2009
spaces available - ask about specials.
734-998-4400 4elevenlofts.com
! CENTRAL CAMPUS!
6 & 7 BEDROOM HOUSES
Updated, beautifully furmished
Parking, free laundry
Leasing now for May 2010
(734) 972-7368
www.HorvahProperties.com
!! BEAUTIFUL HOMES !!
6 and 7 bedrooms Near Campus, 8 mo
(ase. APPLY NOW for Ag/Sep
2011. Central Air, Free Laundry, Free
Parking. 734.663.1370
nancylat@umich.edu,
www.nancylat.com

NOW LEASING
FOR 2010!
GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATION
TOUR TODAY!
-4 bedroum apts
slarln a| $9
FREE high speed intemel
All utIlIes Included
Full Furnish d
In-Unit Washer/Dryer
Ask how you can receive
$150 gift card and
FREE LUNCH!
THE
" COURTYARDS.
S TU DE NT "A PA RT ME NT S
1780 Broadway (734) 994 - 6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
!! CAMPUS FALL 2010. Large 6
bdrm. tse. Walnut St., near mudbowl.
Prkg. for 6 cars, easy in/easy out.
Fure., Idry., 2 baths., central air. All
new!! $3700/mo. Call 426 4772 ask
for Jim.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!!!! 6-BDRM, 2 Bath. Colonial on
CENTRAL CAMPUS (1143 S.Forest
Ave.). 5 mm. walk to college with 2 Re-
frigerators/Microwave/Toaster/Sink/
Free laundary/Private deck/Ample park-
ug. (MAY 2010)-Call (734) 578-4625
ww.varsitymanagement.com
Varsity
Management
25 CharchSt.i
734 6600
119 S. State St.
5-Bedroom House
Finished Basement
aeautiful harw ood floors,
right acr>ss the street rom the IM
building. pno-aking-
!!!AWESOME 3 bdrt house. Avail.
on Dewey, near Yost Arena. Free prkg,
Indry, water inct. 734.223.7777.
!AWESOME 4 bdrm near B-school.
Free prkg. Indry. Avail. Fall10.
734.223.7777.
!* NOW Leasing FOR 2010 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
1205 E. UNIVERSITY. Avail. Fall
2010. 6 Irg bdrm. Furn., free prkg/ldry.,
3 full baths, Irg. common room., dw-
shr., $3650. 248-374-1688.

tht bit
0ed and O efp4
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
***CARRIAGE HOUSE*** NEXT
to CC Little. 2 & 3 bdrms with 1.5
baths, flat screen tv, dishwasher, mod-
ern furniture & private balcony. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND DRINK
WITH EVERY NEW TOUR. Studio,
1, 2 or 3 bedrooms with great City
views could be yours - secure your
apartment today!!! 734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
1 BEDROOMS STARTING at
$553.00. This includes your heat, wa-
ter and your furniture. Don't delay in
making your decision this year. 734-
761-2680 infog/u-towers.com
1, 2, 3 00 APARTMENTS availahle
for FALL 2010. 915 SOUTIDIVI-
SION, Apartments are north of Hoover
and south of Benjamin, across from El-
bel Field, Furnished, Heat&Water in-
cluded, Free onsite Parking, Laundry
Facilities, Balconys. 1IBD-$840
2BD-$1100, 3BD-$1750, Spacious
Bedrooms and Living Room. To sched-
ule a viewing call 248-996-7524 or
734-302-7830, email-
A2managementicomcast.net
10 BED HOUSE Beautiful home lo-
cated on S. University less than a 5
-mnltewalk toes ieg nty of park-
ing, fully furnished, Nice kitchen with
dishwasher, laundry on site. Call
734-995-9200 for a tour or email
ct rba941,rs re ryco.gi .. .
! 6-8 Bedroom Large Houses 
214 Packard, 710 McKinley, 712
McKinley, 1229 White St. & 1237
White Street. Close to campus. Ftrn.,
free on site Indry & prkg. Hardwood
firs, open basement, fenced in yards.
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampusliousing.com
ARM
RE A LT Y
Now Leasing
2010-2011!
Apartments and Houses
Up to 14 Houses
5 Bedrooms
522 Monroe
611 Church (Brand New!)
1021 E. University
1709 S. University
916 Sybil

6 Bedrooms
1619 S. University
917 S. State
722 Packard
705 S. Division
7 Bedrooms
722 Arbor
933 S. State
1015 Packard
8 Bedrooms
200 Ingalls
1302 S. Forest
9 Bedrooms
1130 S. Forest
1619 S. University
11 Bedrooms
1014 Vaughn
12 Bedrooms
328 Williams
14 Bedrooms
915 Oakland
For details call
616 Church Street
734-995-9200
www.archrealtyco.com

ah ,iigan 43AJl
PRESENTS HE
Online lassified
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Great for UM football fans
and/or EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-
4101.
! AVAILABLE FALL 201s!!
715 Church- 1, 2 bdrm aparments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/nfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtlcs yahoo.com
www.clturchstreetrentals.com
May 2010
Houses Available
7 Bed. 1129 White St. $3400
6 Bed. 417 N. Thayer $3600
6 Bed. 829 Packard $3700
4 Bed. 505 Sauer Ct. $2340
4 Bed. 1037 Packard $2120
CAPPO/DEINCO
(734) 996.1991
12 BEDROOMSk+ Study Unique early
1900's old Ann Arbor Mansion located
I block from campus near S. Division
and E. William. Furnished, Hardwood
-Me k g, Laundry5ande pa--
cious living and Dining rooms. Call
734-995-9200 or email
ctraband iarchreltyco.cm.
May 3-bed apt!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperies.com
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010 !!
713 Church- 3 bedroom house
Across from East Quad- near B School
2 kitchens, 2 baths, full basement, laun-
dry, on site prkg. Avail as furn./unfurn.
no pets, no smoking. Call Ann 734-320-
1244 or cimgllcyahoo.com
www.curchstreerentals.com
2 BDRM APARTMENT available in
the shadow of U of M hospital on
Fuller. Furnished, heat. water and park-
ing included. Move in today. Call Cam-
pus Management 734-663-4101.
2010 HOUSES AND apartments at
great locations (1018 Church, 1020
Church, 545 Packard, 517 Benjamin,
516 Walnut and 52 other locations).

Thoroughly updated. Please check
michiganrental.com or call (734) 260-
7215.
The Choice is Yoursl
Now Renting Inmediately
" I, 2& 3 Bedrooms
+ 2 City Parks on Property
+ High Speed Internet
" AATIA Burs Line
+ Fitness Center
+ Covered Parking
" Flexible Lease Trms
" Apartments &"Town Etoomes
* Pool & Sauna
* Pets Welcome
" 21-Ptr. Emergency Maintenance
- Beautiful Grounds
* Business Center
" Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
" W-Fi Ready
*Restrictions Apply
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
734-663-7633
wwwu.w odburygardens.com
*Aenities ar
byPropery

Univerity
STower
Voted "Best
Apartments"
inl 2009!
Reserve your
fully-furnished room,
studio, 1, 2, or 3 bedroom
apartment for 2010/2011.
Save your style!
" Heat & Water Included
 Fitness Center & Pool
" 24 Hr. Lobby Attendent
" Secure Entry Building
 Central U-M Campus
" Free Food & More!
536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor
734-761-2680
3 BDRM, 2 baths. Newly remodeled.
$1800/mo.903 Sylvan. 248-798-4755.
4 BDRM BI-level near kerrytown avail
July. Large modern kitchen, 1.5 baths,
fully furnished and much more! 741-
9300 www.annarborapartmens.net -
5 BDRM. FALL '10. 530 S. Fourth. 2
bath. Free prkg. & (dry. 5 min. walk to
Union. $2450 + util. 734-709-5709.
Studio & 1
Bdrm. Units
Tower Ploza Cosdominism
IQu t meH e neaddmCasI
734-663-1530
6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 bath, basement,
wshr./dryer. No coin laundry, front/
back porch. 2 fridges. 502 Benjamin.
Call 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.
7 BDRM HSE on Kingsley and State-
for 2010. Free parking. (248) 910-2286.
8 BEDROOM HOUSE I block from
Rackham, 2 blocks from the Medical
Center, Great for Nursing Students!
Furnished house with 2 kitchens, 4
bathrooms, Dishwasher, and parking.
Located near E. Ann and Ingalls. Call
734-995-9200 or email
ctraband7narchrealtyco.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
.parking, laundry, .$2 0.0/tooth. Avail
Fall 2010. dklemptnr@comcast.net
921 PACKARD. 3 story. Fall '10. Oc-
cupancy for 6. Ldry. & prkg. 27-1320.
5 & 6 BDRM HOUSES
FOR 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD direct
with DVR, fitness room. study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
ANN ARBOR WESTSIDE I bed-
room at $491. 2 bedroom at $714 w/ 2
months free. Call Now! 734-663-8463.
Country Charm
City Convenience
Immediate

Openings!
SPACIOUS 1, 2, & 3
BEDROOM TOWNHOMES
Individual private basements
 Currently gas heatcooking & shot water included
. Children & pets welcome
*Minutes to downtown, shops & universiies
o 60 day move-nut notice
".24 hour emergency maintenance
Rates from $419-600 based on total household
income. Equity shares range frm $8080.985 which
increase invaluethe longer you reside in thecoop-
erative. Theshares are refundable upon move-out.
Forest Hills Cooperative
2351 Shadowood rive
Ann Arbor
734971 9270 mSP09

Forest Edge Apartments
1315 Hill St.
I
Now Leasing for
May 201 0!!
3 and 4 bedrooms avaIlable
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
o visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best seecion of
apartments and oses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too!bAlt are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL FALL '10: Five bdrm houses.
For pics/info call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com
ww.varsitymanagementcom
1*Varsity
Management
625 Church St
(7341668-1100
Now scheduling
appointments
November
13, 14, & 15
Call to schedule your tom~s
-5 bdrms & Houses
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & DI-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. 9/1/10. WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. 6+ bdrm. he. Gallatin Realty Co.
734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3 bdrm, Free
prkg/Indry, by Law School, $1550. 734-
717-6913. skyharislc@comcast.net
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 4 Irg bdrm, 2
bath, accommodates 5 people. Free
prkg/Indry, by Law School, $2250. 734-
717-6913. skyharrislc@comcast.net
AVAILABLE FALL2010
1225 White-6 bdrm
1133 White-7 bdrm
734-564-2125
www.keysmanagement.net
STU.; i i - T 0L 6 i NC.
Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!

" Central Campus locations
" *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS
1 Apply lightly
4 Alice doesn't
work there
anymore
8 Spring
12 Oft-named time
13 Some trick-or-
treaters
15 Annual spring
race, for short
16 "Smoking or_?"
17 Park official who
tickets speeding
beats?
19 More than upset
21 Dickinson output
22 Smallest
allowable bet?
26 Pinnacle
27 It'll grow on you
28 Tennis court ploy
31 Like some
stockings
33 Drop the hall, e.g.
34 Course-plotting
"Star Trek"
crewman
38 Steals a
plumbing supply?
39 Cubist Juan
40 Provide support
for
41 Columnist
Noonan
42 Tax form ID
43 Parsley relative
44 Field of study
48 San Fernando
creator of fake
van Goghs?
49 Zeal
52 They help get the
lead nut
53 Burrowing critter
cited for
excellence?
87 "Mazel_"
88 Big picture
59 Pictures ona
60 Nile snake
61 "Forget it!"
62 Low islands
63 Some appliances
DOWN
1 Casual fabric
2 Commercial
suffix suggesting
pasta

3 Stereotypical
pratfall cause
4 Web surfing tool
5 Pablo's "that"
6 USPS delivery
7 Turkmenistan,
once: Abbr.
8 Eyelid
application
8 Certain Caltech
grad: Abbr.
10 Citrus drinks
11 Combustible heap
13 They're
scheduled to be
awarded at the
Staples Center
on 1/31/2010
14 International
Court of Justice
site, with 'The"
18 Declare as fact
20 Wealth
23 Sweet-talk
24 Seniors' D.C.
lobby
25 Miss
28 Identifier seen on
a carousel
29 Jackie's designer
30 Hide, dog-style
31 PDA entries
32 I'mall_"


34 Derisive looks 47 Irregularly
36 Suspect's notched
concem 48 Much of a
37 Sledding spot bride-to-be's
38 Hullabaloos mail, for short
43 Scurry 49 "Right on!"
44 "Parties must 50 Seized
ever exist in _ ' wheels
mctry": 51 Crashing bore
Edmund Burke 54 Pen name
45 Spokesperson 55 Doc bloc
46 Hoods with safe 56 Word with care
jobs? or dream
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

I
6

xwordeditoreaol.com 11/12m9

19 20 21
5 no853ntn3n
39O*5T 40Mobaortr4,l1

I
I

11/13/09


I'


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 13, 2009 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, November13, 2009 - 7

SMOKING BAN
* From Page 1
cy are still unknown.
"The policy was made by the
president,"he said. "No one knows
how this decision was made."
Warner added that the goal of
the policy is to promote a health-
ier community.
"Secondhand, smoke-related
illness is not the principle issue,"
he said.
Laurita Thomas, associate
vice president and chief human
resources officer, said one of the
reasons the University is imple-
menting the policy is to save money
on health insurance for faculty.
"We are about creating a cul-
ture of health," she said. "There
is a compelling interest of the
University community regard-
ing a culture of health and health
insurance costs."
. LSA senior Jonathan Slemrod,
who was in attendance at the
event and is the president of the
University's chapter of College
Libertarians, said he believes this
policy shows a complete disregard
for students' rights.
"It's one thing if the University
said that there shouldn't be smok-
ing in high traffic areas, smoking
outside doors, but this policy goes
way beyond that," he said. "To
completely ban something that's
legal is going way too far in my
mind."
"I'mnot a smoker myself, but it's

a violation of my individual rights,"
Slemrod added. "There is a rea-
sonable middle ground and some
sort of compromise that can be
reached."
Engineering senior Sarah Led-
ford, who also attended the event,
said she is weary of the policy
because it could stifle the student
body's freedom.
"I don't like this whole idea
that they are coming and intrud-
ing into our lives and telling us
what we can or can't do," said
Ledford. "I don't think they
should be dictating what we can
do with our own bodies. It's kind
of ridiculous."
LSA junior Graham Kozak, who
attended the event, said he is also
anxious about the initiative, espe-
cially the fact that Warner said he
was unsure of how the decision
was made to implement the policy.
"It was kind of bizarre that they
didn't know who originated the
policy," he said.
"Questions should have been
addressed with somebody who
actually decided on the policy,"
Ledford said, referring to War-
ner's comment.
Kozak added that the policy
strips students of the chance to
make individual choices.
"It was all about promoting
the culture of health on campus,
as opposed to encouraging us to
make responsible decisions as
adults," said Kozak. "They need to
respect us as adults. We don't need
to be babied by this University."

Speaker: Learn for learning's sake

Notre Dame prof.
says online tools
could boost cheating
During a lecture last night,
Susan Blum, author of "My Word!:
Plagiarism and College Culture,"
said sociocultural pressures to suc-
ceed in college are a driving force
for students to seek easy and effi-
cient means for achievement.
The event was sponsored by the
Center for Ethics in Public Life,
which provides funding for research,
seminars and symposiums centered
on promoting the discussion and
awareness of ethical issues.
Blum, an anthropology pro-
fessor at the University of Notre
Dame, told the 70 people gathered
in the Hussey Room of the Michi-
gan League that plagiarism may be
symptomatic of a larger issue.
"Individuals function in a sys-
tem or structure that they them-

selves did not make," Blum said.'
"Our high-achieving students have
learned how to compete ina system
that teaches efficiency, speed and
temporary attention."
Blum said rules for plagiarism
exist as part of an unspoken con-
tract when students enter an aca-
demic institution. She described it
as an understanding that students
offer tuition, effort and completion
of requirements in return for cre-
dentials and a degree.
"By plagiarizing, students
remove the effort - they don't do
the actual task and the contract is
violated," she said.
She identified two types of pla-
giarism - inadvertent and delib-
erate. Inadvertent plagiarism
involves errors in citing, an issue
which Blum attributes to problems
of education. Deliberate plagiarism
is when a student intentionally
steals work from another source
and takes it as their own.
But Blum said that solving the

problem is a matter of fixing mixed
incentives.
"It's happening because faculty
are really busy," Blum said. "They are
rewarded for writing. They'rereward-
ed for grants. They're rewarded for
research. They're not rewarded for
spending 10 hours tracking down
sourcesofpapersthatlooksuspicious.'
She added that most students get
away with cheating or plagiarism
because it may be overlooked due
to discrepancies in training and
standards of plagiarism in other
countries.
With the recent surge of online
media offering pre-written essays
and the convenience of SparkNotes,
Blum said educators are concerned
that these tools are fostering an
increase in plagiarism.
"It's not necessarily making it
easier to plagiarize," Blum said in
an interview. "If people want to
plagiarize, they will."
Blum said instead that the Inter-
net has altered our perceptions of

sharing. She adds that definitions of
authorship are also changing, blur-
ring the line between what is con-
sidered plagiarism and what isn't.
She added that students should
embrace education for the sake
of learning, which would ideally
decrease plagiarism.
"Students have accomplishments
such as grades, and accomplish-
ments such asunderstanding,"Blum
said. "Celebrate learning for its own
sake, not just for high GPAs."
Though policy for the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts
doesn't require plagiarism to be
reported by professors or faculty,
LSA senior Justin Bristol, president
of the LSA Honor Council, said the
University has about150to 200 cases
of reported plagiarism every year.
Bristol, who spoke at the event,
said cases turned in to the dean's
office are subject to a hearing with
honor council members in addi-
tion to community service require-
ments and educational sanctions.


HEAR THE STORY
BEHIND THE STORIES
Listen to Michigan Daily Radio on
WCBN-FM-Ann Arbor 88.3 FM
* Tuesdays and Thursdays 6 to 6:30 p.m.

PROMISE
From Page 1
from the state.
"There certainly isn't a consen-
sus on the part of legislature and
the governor about the priorities,"
Granholm said. "I believe we must
invest in education. The legislature
believed it was more important, or
at least the Senate, believed it was
more important to cut then to pro-
vide the funding that would protect
education from being deeply cut.
We disagree. It is a philosophical
disagreement."
Some senators have identified
the possibility ofslowingthe phase-
in of an earned income tax credit to
help fund business tax cuts. Gra-
nholm said the Senate should use
this revenue to fund the Michigan
Promise Scholarships instead.
"They have already made a
commitment to raising revenue,
although for a different purpose,"

Granholm said. "Because the earned
income tax credit can only be
phased in, or frozen, flowed down,
that revenue can only be used for
specific purposes, and not for busi-
ness tax cuts. What we need to do is
persuade the legislature to redirect
those savings to the Promise."
Last year the earned income tax
credit was at 10 percent, and is sup-
posed to increase to 20 percent next
year, which would cost the state $150
million. But, under the proposal, that
percentage would be dropped to 12.5
percent to raise money for the state
- money Granholm says should be
re-routed to resuscitate the Promise
Scholarship.
Despite already cutting $1.9 bil-
lion from the state's 2010-2011
budget, lawmakers in Lansing are
facing a looming $1.4 billion deficit
projection for next year.
Some colleges in the state like
Saginaw Valley State University
have already decided to provide
funding for students who lost the

Promise Scholarship. However, the
University of Michigan will only
provide the scholarship for those
students who demonstrate finan-
cial need for the scholarship, Cyn-
thia Wilbanks, vice president for
government relations for the Uni-
versity told the Daily in October.
Despite this effort on the part of
the universities, Granholm said the
responsibility to finance the schol-
arship program lies on the shoulders
of the state legislature, noting that if
universities provide funding to stu-
dents for the scholarship, they will
be taking money away from other
important university programs.
"This is a state commitment and
the universities that have made
that decision are doing that out of
tremendous leadership and benev-
olence" Granholm said. "This is a
state commitment and the state has
to make a commitment to higher
education."
The state legislature will take
the time between now and the end

of the year to "do clean-up work"
on decisions that were made during
the year, Granholm said, predicting
those projects being cleaned up will
include the reinstatement of the
Promise Scholarship.
The state Senators have said
they will not reconsider any bud-
get items from last year, a fact Gra-
nholm acknowledged. However,
Granholm said she thought with
pressure from students across the
state, state senators would recon-
sider their stance.
"This time the legislature really
blewit,"Granholmsaid.,"We didnot
have to rob students from the Prom-
ise Grant and jeopardize Michigan's
future - especially with respect to
diversifying our economy and creat-
ing a skilled workforce."
"We need students to know that
this fight is on and that we can win
it and that these legislators are per-
suadable," Granholm continued,
"but they won't be persuaded if
we're quiet."

FALL 2010 HOUSES
# Beds Lsction Rest
7 510 Catherine $3700
6 412 N.Thayer $3600
6 415 N.Thayer $3600
6 418 N.State $3600
6 605 E. Hoover $3600
6 716 E.Kingsley $3400
5 1024 Packard $2800
4 509 Saner Ct $2000
4 809 Sybil $2240
4 11 17S. Forest $2440
3 507-Sauer Ct $2000
CAPPOIDEINCO
734-996-1991
AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE
Occupancy 2 Bedroom, Central Cam-
pus with newer kitchen and dish-
washer. Price Negotiable. Heat, water,
parking, and furniture included. Call
734-995-9200 for details.
AVAILABLE NOW OR January 1 or
2 bdrm. on S. Forest near South U. 734-
996-2836.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrmapt. inprimelocation, private bal-
cony, heat/water incl., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
AWESOME LOCATION 2, 6 & 9
Bedroom, fully furn, large kitchens,
full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
BEAUTIFUL CAMPUS 6 bdrm.
house S. Forest. All amenities: new
kitchen,fireplace,furnished, prkg., free
ldry. Fail '10 $3,300. 426-4772 ask for
Jeanie.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
EAST U & Vaughn. 5 bdrm for 6. Lrg
bdrms, very nice condition. Furn, fret
idry + prkg for 4 cars. Easy in/out.
$2750. 734-426-4772.
EXTRA LARGE HOUSES on Cen-
tral Campus near Hill and Oakland,can
accomodate up to20 people. Several
options available for Fall 2010, Call
Arch Realty at 734-995-9200.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
8 bdrm houses at 806 Arch & 335 E.
Jefferson. 4 bdrm houses at 217 N.
Thayer & 912 Sybil. 1,.2, 3 bdrm apts
on central campus. 734-769-7025.
jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or visit
www.jmsprop.com
GREAT LOCATION EAST U &
Vaughn. 6 bdrm, first floor of duplex. 2
bath, 2 fridge, free parking for 5 cars.
Easy in/out. September lease. $3390.
734-426-9437.

*2 BED/2 BATH bi-level: 515 Walnut
- huge apts. great for 4, large living
rooms, new kitchens
-3-Bedrooms: 1506 Geddes - Spacious
apts close to CCLittle and CCRB
.3 or 4-Bedroom: 1346 Geddes ALL
utilities included: heat, water, electric-
ity, cable, wireless Internet
-4-Bedroom Bi-Levels: 543 Church
Best location, new kitchens
-All include heat, water, &furnishings.
*Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com

NOW SIGNING FOR '10-11 school
year! 1 & 2 bdrm apartments, 3 to 4
bedroom houses. We offer fully fur-
nished at no extra cost! Email
info@issaproperties.com or visit us
on the web www.issaproperties.com
or call 734-662-4446.
LARGE 4 BEDROOMS, large living
room, large attic, approved for 6, 852
Brookwood. Prkg., porch, wshr./dryer,
no coin laundry, dishwshr., garage.
Basement. 248-214-8708. Fall 2010.

!!!BARTENDING!!!.$300 /day poten-
E REP tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
171 yr. old lubrica.ion company STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
needs straight commission Paid survey takers needed in A2.
experienced closer 10 take over 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
profitable territory near Ann Arbor. SURVEY TAKERS NEEDED: make
Indutria agrcultral$5-$25 per survey.
Indlslrial, agrciCltural, www.GetPaidToThink.com
commercial accounts.
Must be able 10 start immediately.
Call Rich Ellis at
800-432-1645
TICKETS& TRAVEL
PART TIME SALES opportunity to
represent our company on your campus SPRING BREAK 2010. Sell Trips,
selling Hookahs, Hookah tobacco and Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group
related accessories on an exclusive ar- Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed!
rangement. We provide the products; Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun,
you do the selling during your avail- Acapulco, BahamasS. Padre, Florida.

MAY LEA
avail on cent
www.annar
LARGE ON
available im
A PA RTMENTS & TOWERS the business
parking incl
IMMEDIATE MOVE INS agement 734
SPRING/SUIMMER LEASES AVAILABLE
MAY TO
734.769.1 313 DOWN-LE)
bdrm. apts..
& S. Forest.
w W8825. http.:
NEWER 21
SEE FCFOR DETAILS Drive-in gara
groom. Wsh
734-516-429
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520 NORTH CA
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet Incl. Heat/W
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi. www.HRPA
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY. NOW LEA
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart- Great Locat
ments on Central and North Campus, or visit www
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment. NOW
LARGE 2 BDRM 2 story on Long- PRIME
shore Dr. Half a mile to UM Med.
School and Hospital. One mile to north w
campus. Car port,Wshr/Dyr, $950/mo., Call today
all appliances, water included. Call 734-
395-5288. Pfkiani@gmait.com Efficiencies:
LARGE FURNISHED 2 or 3 bdrm.
apt. at 1111 S. State, Near U-M bus 3
stop, Avail. Now, May, Fall '10, Heat 5
& water incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., ldry., 1 Bedrooms
$100-$1650, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
3
CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME-Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitchen. Free parking. Must see! (313)- 13
215-8115. jkrizman@ford.com 2 Bedrooms:
1330
ROOMS AVAILABLF.
$450-$500. Two locations near cam-
pus. Deinco, 734-996-1991.
SEPT. LEASE - 4 bdrm. house, 2
bath, 4 prkg. spots, central air, near 5
Business & Law school. $2450/mo.
Free washer/dryer incl. Max 5 people. 3
Call 312-543-0741.
13
STUDIO APARTMENT WITHIN
walking distance of central campus,
parking included. Available immedi-
ately. Call Campus Management 734- 3 Bedrooms:
663-4101. 1330
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-J
ties for sale is the area. 13
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768 4 Bedroom:
WINTER SEMESTER RENTAL:
One bdrm, large 850 sq ft, bi-level, *Fully Furnis
$765/mo, furnished option. Email *Parking
info@issaproperties.com or visit *Free
www.issaproperties.com * Free heat a:
or call 734-662-4446. (* At most lo

SES STUDIO-3 bdrms
ral campus. 741-9300
rborapartments.net
tE BEDROOM apartment SUBLETS
mediately, 2 blocks east of
school. Heat, water and WE WANT YOUR HOUSE FOR
,hded. Ca1lCampus Man- W ATYU OS O.
uded-0.alCmuH THE WEEKEND! Get paid big bucks"
-663-4101 to stay with your friends for the wee
end. Earn $500-$3000 in 2-3 days by
MAY NO-MONEY- letting us sublet your house. Our in-
ASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5 sured service rents out houses and
avail. at the corner of Hill apartments to alumni for football/bas-
Call for details: 734-665- ketball weekends and puts money in
//www.campusrealty.com your pocket instantly. Cleaning service
and property insurance included. For
BDRM, 2 bath, fireplace. more information email
age. Cathedral ceiling livin- rentme@gobluehouses.com.
hr/dryr in unit. $1100/mo.
1. gunnerbl7@aol.com
.MPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
ater/Parking
AA.com 996-4992.
ASING FOR 2010-2011. SERVICES
ions! Call (734) 668-1118
.noplacelikejones.com THESIS EDITING-LANGUAGE,
LEASING 2010-11 organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
STUDENT HOUSING 996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
761-8000
ww.primesh.com

'to see your new Home!
726 S.State
610$S. Forest
344 S. Division
15 E. Lawrence
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 E. Hoover
20 S. University
0 N. University Ct.
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
15 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
26 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
20 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
:s
ON. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
20 S. University
720 S. State
shed apartments
Included
Ethernet
nd water
cations)

EARN EXTRA MONEY! Students
needed ASAP. Earn up to $150/day be-
ing a mystery shopper. No experience
required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
GET PAID TO TAKE NOTES! Email
your course listing and a brief descrip-
tion about yourself to
umich@sharenotes.com START
EARNING TODAY!
MICHIGAN DAILY HIRING Are
you ambitious, assertive and sociable?
Sell Advertising for The Michigan
Daily. It's Not Just a Job. It's the Train-
ing You Need to Succeed! We are hir-
ing display sales department account
executives for the Winter 2010 term.
Freshmen/Sophomores preferred. Con-
tact Molly Twigg at (734) 764-0554 or
email dailydisplay@gmail.com for ap-
plication materials and info. Applica-
tions due Nov. 20, 2009.
PART TIME WORK
Customer sales/service, great pay. Flex-
ible around classes, will train.
734-677-2477.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.

For Saturday, Nov. 14, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
Surprise gifts and goodies will come
to you from others today. You can bene-
fit from the wealth or resources of oth-
ers. Whatever happens likely will be
unexpected.
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Partners and close friends suddenly
want more freedom! Or possibly, this
works the other way, and you want more
space or freedom in a relationship. Be
prepared for this.
GEMINI
(Msy 21 to June 20)
New opportunities or new technology
might be introduced to your job today.
You likely will see a way to make
improvements or reforms. People are
excited and rebellious!
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Surprise flirtations could be thrilling
today. A new romance might begin. A
sudden chance for a vacation could drop
in your lap. Children will be hard to pre-
dict; therefore, parents should be vigi-
lant.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Unexpected company might drop by
at home today. Something unexpected
will definitely occur. Small appliances
might break down. New technology at
home could be exciting.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You're full of bright, geniuslike ideas
today! You're thinking outside the box.
Expect to meet new acquaintances and
new contacts who are different from
you.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 toOct. 22)
New sources of income might occur
today. Anything having to do with your
cash flow is a bit unpredictable. Keep

your receipts. Keep an eye on your
money.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You feel highly independent today!
You don't want other people telling you
what to do. You want the freedom to do
your own thing and explore new ideas.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
You're restless for adventure today!
Travel plans will appeal. Similarly, why
not explore any chance for further edu-
cation or training? You need a change of
scenery!
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
You could be a real character today.
Your relationship with groups or casual
acquaintances will be different today.
Somebody might throw you off guard.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Be open to unexpected opportunities
to promote your good name with others
today. Something surprising might sud-
denly happen that boosts your reputation
in a positive way.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Grab any chance to travel somewhere
or to get further education if it suddenly
opens up for you. Today is full of all
kinds of unexpected, unusual opportuni-
ties to expand your world.
YOU BORN TODAY You're obser-
vant about your surroundings and the
society around you. Because of this, you
want to make improvements if possible.
By nature, you're curious. You're also an
excellentjudge of character, and because
of this, you surround yourself with sup-
portive, quality people. After wrapping
up something this year, next year, new
paths will open up for you. Open any
door!
Birthdate of: Prince Charles, Prince of
Wales; Josh Duhamel, actor; Claude
Monet, artist.

0 2009 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


8 - Friday, November 13, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Camp Randall might
pose challenge for Blue.

By COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
DailySportsEditor
Under Michigan football coach
Rich Rodriguez, the Wolverines are1-7
on the road.
It won't be easyto get road win No.
2tomorrow.
Camp Randall Stadium in Wis-
consin is known as one of the nation's
tougheststadiumsto play in. Yes, Wis-
consin coach
Bret Bielema Michigan at
needed to send
an e-mail before Wisconsin
the Badgers' Matchup:
Big Ten opener Michigan 5-5
against Michi- Wisconsin 7-2
gan State to ask When:
studentstoarrive Saturday 12 P.M.
to the game on Where: Camp
time (five min- Randall
utes before kick-
off, to be exact). TV/Radio:
But that's only B
because the tail- Live Tweets:
gate culture is @michdailysports
alive and well
in Madison -
and by the second quarter, the rowdy
crowd is loud enough that opposing
coaches need to prepare especially for
them.
Rodriguez said Monday the coach-
es would pump in crowd noise as
usual at this week's practices, but get
a little more intense toward the end
of the week to prepare the team for
the "Jump Around" crowd tradition.
Between the third and fourth quarters,
the entire crowd at Camp Randall Sta-
dium jumps to the House of Pain song,
and the upper deck of the stadium
sways under its force.
"We'll play the song and all jump
around for a little bit," Rodriguez
quipped Monday, drawing laughs
before turning serious. "Naw, not in
the mood this week. I probably won't
jump as high."
He likely wasn't in the mood the last

MAX cOLLINS/daily
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez has guided the Wolverines to a 1-7 road record in his first two years in Ann Arbor.

Point guard
battle ongoing
By GJON JUNCAJ on defense."
Daily Sports Writer Morris started in the Wolver-
ines' exhibition game against
Now in his third season coach- Wayne State last Friday, andlBeilein
ing the Michigan men's basketball said yesterday he is leaning toward
team, John Beilein started each the same plan fortomorrow. Beilein
year by addressing a problem. suggested Lucas-Perry's improve-
Two years ago, it was transi- ment this offseason in defending
tioning a woefully inexperienced other point guards off the ball has
team from a motion offense to a put him ahead of Douglass - but
perimeter-shooting attack. behind Morris - for now.
Last year, it "A lot of people think they can
was convincing N. Michigan play defense,- Beilein said. "And
players they at MiChigan then when you've got big guys set-
could compete ting screens on you, and people who
in the Big Ten chigan 0-0 don't miss much that you're guard-
under a sys- N. Michigan 0-0 ing, it's difficult.So that's a big thing.
tem that many ...(Laval's) made good strides."
thought didn't rdhyn: P.M. Though each has different
match the ros- aturday 7 P.M. strengths, Lucas-Perry and Doug-
ter's makeup. Where: Crisler lass are likely to be combo-guards
But this fall, Arena this season. Lucas-Perry's chal-
it's a favorable TV/Radio: BTN lenge will be finding a balance
dilemma. Live Blog: between slashing to the rim and
Beilein will michigandaily.com simply letting the set plays run
struggle to through the progressions. For
distribute minutes to three point Douglass, the hardest part about
guards he believes are capable of the transition is shaking the per-
running his offense - freshman ception thathe is a one-dimension-
Darius Morris, redshirt sophomore al, spot-up shooter.
Laval Lucas-Perry and sophomore "I worked a lot on trying to get
Stu Douglass. It's an issue of luxury into the lane and creating more in
instead of urgency, and one that the open gyms, and who knows how
coaching staff will let play out in much that'll do this year, since
Michigan's season opener tomor- we have playmakers already,"
row against Northern Michigan. Douglass said. "In open gyms, I
Morris was recruited to play tried not to really shoot threes
point guard but has just one pre- this summer, but it's what the
season game of experience. Mean- team needs me to do."
while, Lucas-Perry and Douglass Though Douglass said he's
are natural shooting guards who grown more comfortable with
have been immersed in Beilein's what's expected of him at the point
system for more than a year. now, Beilein indicated that Doug-
For the coaching staff, the idea lass must remember in games he is
of whateach player's role should be a shooting guard at heart.
will take a while to show itself on "We can'thave Stu out there run-
the court. ning the team sometimes when he
"It's a different mindset," Bei- has a dagger of a jumpshot," Beilein
lein said at Big Ten Media Day. "I said. "He's got to know his talent,
say, 'Stu, you're a shooter who can what it is and look for that. And he's
help us as a point guard. Laval, passed up several shots thinking
you're a scorer who can help us as like a pointnguard, and we can't have
a point guard.' Whereas Darius is him passing up shots in practice, in
a point guard that can help us as a scrimmages and in our game.
scorer and a shooter. All three of "Everybody would like to do
those guys can get it done if you more, but it's about what you do for
take care of the ball and you guard us right now."
Penn State edges
'M' in Big Tens

time he went to Camp Randall, either,
whenhis 2002WestVirginiateamlost
to the Badgers 34-17 in his second year
withthe Mountaineers. Butthatgame
was the first of just three regular-sea-
son losses, en route to West Virginia's
9-3 turnaround after finishing 3-8 the
previousyear. Saturday's game doesn't
give Rodriguez as much of a margin of
error.
Again, he's facing the Badgers as a
second-year coachbutunder much dif-
ferent circumstances. His road record
is dismal compared to past Wolverine
coaches in their first two years - Bo
Schembechler posted a6-2roadrecord
in his first two seasons, Gary Moeller
was 9-1and Lloyd Carr was 6-4.
Michigan's 4-0 start this year has
turned into a distant memory, and Sat-

urday's road game has become more
important than ever to seal bowl eli-
gibility and take some of the heatnoff of
Rodriguez.
"Losing wears on a lot of people,"
Rodriguezsaid."Itwearsonthecoach-
es morethan anybody. I know fans are
frustrated, coaches are frustrated,
players are frustrated. But what are
you going to do? You don'thave a reset
button. Just got to learn from it, move
on to the next one."
Last week's close loss to Purdue,
which may have been Michigan's best
shot to gainbowl eligibility, seemed to
hurt the team more than the others.
Senior defensive end Brandon Gra-
ham, who has alwaysbeen this team's
emotional leader, talked after last
Saturday's loss about how much the

disappointment from this season has
weighed on him and his coach.
"(Rodriguez) is holding itntogether,"
Grahamsaid."Hehasn'tbrokedownin
frontofusornothing.He's beenstrong,
and we've all been strong. I haven't
broke down yet - I always waituntil I
get home."
That doesn't sound like a player
or program that will be coming into
Wisconsin with the confident swag-
ger needed to tune outnthe Camp Ran-
dall crowd. But in typical fashion, the
Wolverines insist they'll keep plugging
away.
"We learn from our mistakes and
we're going to be fine," freshman quar-
terback Tate Forcier said. "Like I said,
we've just got to win these next few
games."


Icers shoot for seventh straight over MSU

By TIM ROHAN and I wasn't familiar with that."
Daily Sports Writer No. 6 Michigan takes on one of
its biggest rivals in No. 13 Michigan
Last year, the Michigan hockey State ina home-and-home weekend
team donned the uniforms that series, starting tonight at Yost Ice
coach Red Berenson used to wear Arena. The Wolverines are looking
when he to rebound from a disappointing
played for sweep at the hands of No. 1 Miami
the Wolver- Michigan St (Ohio) last weekend, and are riding
ines. When at Michigan a six-game win streak over the Spar-
Berenson was tans.
an upper- Matchup: Berenson liked the way his team
classman at MSU 7-2-1;4 played against the RedHawks for
Michigan fractions of periods, but he said
wearing the When: Friday Michigan (2-2-0 CCHA, 4-4-0 over-
same sweater, 7:30 P.M. all) looked like it was "skating in
nearly fifty Where: Yost Ice sand" at times.
years ago, it Arena The lethargic defense, coupled
was the last with a few soft goals given up by
time a Wol- michigandaily.com junior goalie Bryan Hogan, played
verine knew a role in last weekend's 3-1 and 5-1
the feeling losses.
of defeating Michigan State seven Several players talked about
times in a row. picking up the intensity and effort,
"I just remember we were the especially in the defensive zone.
stronger program at that time," Berenson emphasized defense this
Berenson said. "I didn't know much week in practice.
about Michigan State, but I found "It's easy to blame the goalie (for
out real quickhowhard they battled giving up goals)," Berenson said.
in these games. It was a real rivalry, "And in some cases it is his fault.

But when the rest of your players
are standing around not doing what
they're supposed to do, not doing
what they practice, not doing (what
is expected). That's their job.
"Don't worry about our goalie,
he'll make the saves he can make.
But we have to play better defen-
sively."
Berenson and junior forward
Matt Rust agreed that the effort and
strong play on defense has to start at
the top. If Rust and other members
of the top lines struggle defensively,
it could be another long weekend for
Michigan.
Michigan State (4-1-0, 7-2-1) is
first in the CCHA in scoringoffense
(3.5 goals per game) and the power
play (25.4 percent).
"Michigan State might show us
that they are the most talented team
we've played this year," Berenson
said. "I say that just watching the
tapes. And I think they might have
more skill, more talent, than Miami
has, and more than (Boston Univer-
sity). If that's true, we're going to
have to be atcour best defensively."
Michigan's penalty kill has been

its strength early in the season, even
though the Wolverines gave up two
power-play goals to the RedHawks
last weekend. Michigan is second
in the CCHA and sixth in Division I
on the penalty kill with a 90 percent
success rate.
Berenson said he has confidence
in his starting goalie, and Hogan
said he is no longer thinking about
last weekend's series against Miami.
This weekend's outcome depends
on how well the defense supports .
Hogan and if the Wolverines can
slow down the potent Spartan
attack.
If Michigan can stay out of the
penalty box, the Wolverines would
avoid adding insult to injury. Even
though they have had success on the
penalty kill, they have accrued far
too many penalties. The Wolverines
are second in the country in penalty
minutes, with more than 24 minutes
per game.
Something has to give - whether
it's Michigan State's power play or
Michigan's penalty kill. And the
Michigan defense could be key in
turningthe Wolverines' fortunes.

Six freshmen will see court for first time

By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writer
In his 27years of coaching, Kevin
Borseth has never seen this before.
For the Michigan women's bas-
ketball team, the 2009-10 cam-
paign may be the most important
one in program
history. Ball State at
At the very .
least, with six Michigan
freshman on Matchup:
the team, this BSU 0-0;
first-year class Michigan 0-0
is the building When:
block for the Friday 7 P.M.
future of the Where: C.n-
program. or Arena
"Other than
Live Blog:
junior college, LieBg:
junor colleg, michigandaily.com
when I had to
recruit my first
class, I've never had a year where
I've come in and we haven't had
a lot of experienced players com-
ing back," Michigan coach Kevin
Borseth said. "No, I've never been
in this spot. But I think it's fun.
There are a lot of unknowns. We're
trying things we've never tried
before."
While he recognizes the team's
potential pitfalls, Borseth remains

positive about the team's future.
"It's going to work," Borseth
said. "It's worked every other place,
and it's going to work here."
With the Wolverines picked to
finish last in the Big Ten in both the
media and coaches' poll, a success-
ful season would serve as the cata-
lyst for a rebuilt program.
"I think Coach did a really good
recruiting job, because these play-
ers that came in, they're smart,"
redshirt senior forward Ashley
Jones said. "They've picked up
everythingvery quickly and they're
being vocal as well."
The team's ranking is based on
the unknown of so many first- year
players. And this season's success
will depend largely on whether
Borseth can find a balance between
playing his more experienced vet-
erans and talented freshmen.
"Generally I favor upperclass-
men," Borseth said. "Kids that
have been through the rigors, that
understand the sense of urgency
that's involved at this level of play."
By looking purely at the num-
bers, Borseth won't be afforded
that luxury with a team that has
more freshman (six) than upper-
classmen of any kind (four).
"We don't necessarily want to

have to count on young kids too
often, but we're in that position
now in our program," Borseth said.
The team will rely heavily on the
leadership capabilities of those few
upperclassmen if it hopes to have
any amount of success.
"I think all the upperclassmen
are really picking up their vocals,"
Jones said. "I wasn't as vocal in
previous years, but now that I
understand the game more, I'm
more confident that I can just, you
know, direct people. And I noticed
that from all the upperclassmen."
Even sophomores Courtney
Boylan and Carmen Reynolds will
need to lead on the court and off
it, vocally and by example.
"It's weird because being a
sophomore, I feel like I'm an
upperclassman because we have
so many freshmen," Boylan said.
"So I think my role this year is just
going to be to be a leader and to
do whatever I can to help us not
only get better every day, but start
winning games."
The Wolverines will take their
first step today in the season
opener against Ball State. The
Cardinals won the Mid-American
Conference Tournament last sea-
son, made their first NCAA Tour-

nament appearance in history and
upset two-time defending cham-
pion Tennessee as the 12th seed.
"We're playing against a team
that thinks they can win the
NCAA Tournament, because they
beat Tennessee last year," Borseth
said. "So that really carries a lot of
weight. You look atla team coming
in that thinks they're ready to tear
the world apart and a team com-
ing in that's not really sure what
happens in a game scenario."
Ball State returns three of their
top four leading scorers from last
year's team and will be a legiti-
mate test for the young squad as
Borseth figures out which combi-
nations work best on the floor in
actual game situations.
"It still feels, kind of like,
extended reality almost," fresh-
man Kate Thompson said. "Just
like so far in the future but I'm
getting so amped because 'it's
here."
This season probably won't
be the best in the program's his-
tory, considering struggles com-
monplace for any young team-are
expected.
But that doesn't alter the
importance of this year, for the
present and future.

By CHANTEL JENNINGS
Daily Sports Writer
No one had ever heard of Patrick
Krispin.
He's a reserve defender on the
Penn State men's soccer team, and
he came in for an injured team-
mate in yesterday's game against
Michigan.
The soph- MICHIGAN 0
omore PENN STATE 1
took just
five shots all season, and only one
went in.
And it just so happens that the
one mark on his stat sheet was a
game-winnerthat gave Penn State a
1-0 victory over Michigan in the first
round of the Big Ten Tournament,
all but eliminating the Wolverines'
hopes of a postseason berth.
The Wolverines saw an early
exit at Armstrong Stadium in
Bloomington with Krispin's shot
from 24 yards out in double over-
time, a game Michigan coach Steve
Burns described as a must win for
a spot in the NCAA Tournament.
Michigan had 10 shots com-
pared to Penn State's 25, and the
Wolverines couldn't capitalize on
any of them, a problem that has
plagued them all season.
"Well, we didn't get it," Burns
said. "We didn't get it. We lad
chances to get it. So that was kind
of a recurring theme - that in the
big games we had the chances, but
didn't score the goals we needed
to. And eventually, we weren't able
to hold them off and the opponent
found a way to score."
Even though Krispin's lucky
break - an open shot that came off
a Wolverine clearance of a corner
kick - ended the game, the Wol-
verines suffered a damagingloss in
the second half when junior Justin
Meram was given a red card on a
very questionable call.
In the game's 52nd minute,
the Wolverines had an offensive
opportunity when Meram cor-
ralled a Penn State free kick.
Meram charged forward as the
Wolverines held a four-on-three
attacking advantage, but a Penn
State defender came from behind
and pulled on Meram's uniform.
Trying to keep his momentum,
Meramtried to wave off the defend-
er and break free fromthe opposing

player's grip. Meram made contact
with the defender's shoulders and
sent him to the ground.
Penn State sophomore Mark
Fetrow proceeded to intentionally
shove Meram. The referees issued
red cards to Meram and Fetrow
and held the yellow card out
towards the original offender, but
never actually gave him the card.
Thanks to the two red cards,
both teams were forced to play a
man down for the remaining 54
minutes. The change caused both
teams to switch to a more conser-
vative tempo, as both teams uti-
lized the extra space on the field.
Krispin netted his goal with just
four minutes to go in regulation
play. The game would have then
gone to a shootout and regardless
of the outcome from that, the con-
test would have counted as a tie in
the teams' records. That tie could
have been the difference between
an NCAA Tournament berth and
the end of nhe season.
"Are we good enough? Sure,"
Burns said. "And I think Penn
State would say that. I think Ohio
State would say that. I know Indi-
ana is certainly saying that. ... But
when it comes down to it, you got
to have enough wins on your sea-
son so you're not on the bubble."
The team's difficulties in finish-
ing shots dates back to part way
through the season. Once the Wol-
verines entered the second half of
the season and Big Ten play, they
struggled to grind out wins and
finished the latter part of the year
with a 4-5-1 record.
"We had a lot of ups and downs
this year," senior Mauro Fuzetti
said. "We got unlucky a few times.
We knew we should have won
games that we lost."
Now, the Wolverines have to
wait until Monday when ESP-
News will announce the field of 34
for the NQAA Tournament. Until
then, they will have to wonder if
the games they should have won
will end up being the games that
ruined their post season chances.
But Burns remains hopeful and
is planning a practice session for
this weekend.
"Tears are salty, and sweat is
salty," Burns said. "But one gives
you consolation and the other gives
you results."

0


