4jbF

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, March 18, 2009

michigandaily.com

Elizabeth Jones has dinner with her son Harrison at Tios Mexican Cafi yesterday afternoon. After the city purchased the building that currently houses Tios, the restaurant's
owners were forced to find a new home for their eatery. But financial troubles have left restaurant management scrambling months before they will be forced to move out.

City to ios: Get out by June
Restaurant forced Ann Arbor purchased the building one's name engraved on a stool in to the space formerly occupied by
next to city hall, where Tios Mexi- the restaurant. Salsarita's Fresh Cantina on East
to find new location can Caf6 has been located since Seaver said Tios' owners were Liberty, or the former location of
1985. The restaurant will have to surprised by the purchase since The Metro Cafe in Kerrytown.
after city buys spot vacate the building by June 30, they were not aware that their Seaver said he's confident that

y
;t
>f
it

By MALLORY JONES
DailyStaffReporter
The lingering scent of refried
beans and hot salsa will soon clear
the air of East Huron Street when
Tios Mexican Caf6 moves out of
the building it has occupied for
over 20 years.
In July of last year the City of

when its current lease is up.
After the city bought the build-
ing, Tios launched a campaign
to raise the $50,000 it needs to
finance its move. So far, it has
about $20,000, according to owner
Tim Seaver. As a part of the cam-
paign, customers can make dona-
tions ranging from $50 to $5,000,
each paired with benefits includ-
ing monthly discounts to getting

building was up for sale. The busi-
ness learned that the building had
been purchased and that they
would have to move from custom-
ers and from the Ann Arbor News,
longtime employee Pauline Slate
said.
Dean Zahn Properties LLC, the
restaurant's landlord, was unavail-
able for comment.
Therestaurantishopingtomove

his business will raise enough
money for the move.
"It's going to be touch-and-go
but I think we're going to make it,"
he said. "We're optimistic."
Seaver said his major complaint
with the situation is that the city
is not helping the restaurant with
the move. He said that he would
not mind moving if it wasn't such
See TIOS, Page 3A

Picking an MSA president
Abhishek Mahanti Gibran Baydoun

By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
Abhishek Mahanti, an Engi-
neering junior from Okemos,
Mich., is the Michigan Vision
Party's presidential candidate.
Mahanti joined the Michigan
Student Assembly last year as an
Engineering representative and
currently serves as its Commu-
nications Chair.
If elected, Mahanti said his
main goal is to increase the
transparency and visibility of
MSA. He said he wants to ensure
that the assembly has a positive
impact on as many students as
possible "whether that's with
student organization funding,
whether that's with the fresh-
man who comes in with no idea
what to do and finds resources
on our website, or if somepody
goes to a concert that we put on
or an event that we put on and is
positively affected."
Mahanti also emphasized that
he thinks it's important for MSA
to focus only on University-cen-
tric goals like helping students
get jobs and obtain financial aid.

He said he would work
toward this goal by implement-
ing a weeklong event before the
career fair in which students
can find help with resumes, take
part in mock interviews and
attend career workshops.
The Michigan Vision Party
is different from other parties
because of its emphasis on find-
ing the best candidates pos-
sible rather than simply trying
to fill the slate, Mahanti said.
He said the party only chose
See MAHANTI, Page 7A

By LINDY STEVENS
Daily News Editor
An LSA junior from Las
Vegas, Nev., Gibran Baydoun is
running as the presidential can-
didate for the reMichigan Cam-
paign. Now in his third year on
the Michigan Student Assembly,
Baydoun said if elected he plans
to refocus student government
and advocate for the student
body.
Baydoun said his primary
focus as president would be to
make the University affordable
for students of all backgrounds. Muv coLLIs/Daly
"No. 1 is tuition and financial rates us is we're not just talking
aid," Baydoun said. "We need to about lofty goals and ideas and
advocate for a tuition freeze in visions," he said. "We're more
the short-term, and in the long- than that."
term think about some creative Baydoun said he also plans to
options for the way that we engage in more extensive out-
make the Michigan experience reach to student organizations,
affordable." provide students with more
Though tuition costs are a academic guidance and increase
concern for both parties, Bay- access to internship and job
doun said his party plans to take opportunities through the Uni-
a more proactive approach than versity.
the opposing party in solving He added that his plans for
campus problems. MSA also include efforts to cre-
"The one thing that sepa- See BAYDOUN, Page 7A
Stenvig said DAAP is unique administration," she said. "We
because of its persistence in sup- recognize that there are going
porting its to be differences, that we're not
members' always going to agree."
opinions, DAAP supports increasing
emphasizing opportunities for minority and
student opin- lower income students to attend
ions rather the University through increas-
than the ing financial aid and freezing
administra- tuition among other things, Sten-
tors' views. vig said.
"I think "We want affordable educa-
what's dif- tion," she said. "We want the
ferent about DAAP is that we're money that's coming for public
not afraid to disagree with the See STENVIG, Page 7A

Kate Stenvig

By JENNA SKOLLER
Daily StaffReporter
Kate Stenvig, a Rackham
graduate student from Royal
Oak, Mich., is the Defend Affir-
mative Action Party's candidate
for president of the Michigan
Student Assembly. She has been
a member of DAAP since 1999.
Stenvigsaid DAAP emphasizes
the importance of maintaining a

"diverse, integrated, affordable"
campus.
"That means opening up U of
M to really make it what a public
university should be, a univer-
sity that is accessible to everyone
and is not exclusive," she said.
"We want an increase in minor-
ity student enrollment. We want
the campus to be a sanctuary for
immigrants. We want affordable
education."



WEATHER HI:46 GOTA NEWSTIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO n 23 news@michigandaily.comand let us know.

NEWONMICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS............................2A CLASSIFIEDS.....................6A
Never heard of the Collegeinsider.com tournament? Vol. CXIX, No. 111 O P I N I O N .............,....4A SPORTS........8A. ..........8A
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM (12009TheMichigan Daily ARTS......... 5A THE STATEMENT. ..1B
michigondaily.com



2A - Wednesday, March 18, 2009

N ew sThe Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Characters Explained _Before You Were Here Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0 8
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandailyeom

4

wI|

DNS WORt

JAMMING TO A JIG

Casting your vote on campus

Following a barrage of e-mails
from the Michigan Student Assem-
bly, during the last two weeks
encouraging students to vote, the
virtual voting booth for elections
opened at midnight last night. Only
a few students, however, know
exactly how the process for MSA
elections actually works.
Student General Counsel Michael
Benson said students vote for can-
didates running within their own
school or college.
"If you're a student in LSA, you
can vote for MSA representatives,
your LSA studentgovernment repre-
sentatives, as well as the executives
for both LSA student government
and MSA," Benson said.
MSA elections are conducted
through a system of weighted vot-
ing, where candidates win based on
the number of points they receive.
Students' first choice candidate

receives three points, their second
choice two points, and their third
choice one point.
The MSA Constitution states that
there should be one representative
for every 850 students. Half the
MSA representatives are elected
in November, and the other half in
March, when executive positions
are filled.
Benson said the results of the
election will. be available immedi-
ately after the voting ends at 11:59
p.m. tomorrow, but that the results
won't be official until Sunday at 6
p.m.
The election board consists of
both MSA members and nonmem-
bers. After the board meets, 12
hours are allotted for appeals. The
board will meet on Friday.
The new representatives, new
vice president and president are for-
mally seated during an MSA meet-

ing on the Tuesday following the
election, as long as no issues are
raised concerning the validity elec-
tion.
"If there are issues, then it would
go the Central Student Judiciary.
They can delay the seating of repre-
sentatives," Benson said.
This happened after last fall's
election, when there was a contro-
versy concerning graduate students
who voted for both Rackham rep-
resentatives and their own school's
representatives. Seatingwasdelayed
a week while the votes were prop-
erly allocated. In the end, the real-
location did not change the results.
"For exactly this reason, the
information on every student's vote
is stored. The MSA Election Board
does not have access to this informa-
tion unless results are questioned,"
Benson said..
- ELIN BERGMAN

CONTACT INFORMATION
NewsroomC
News Tips
Corrections
Letters tothe Editor
Photography Department
ArtsSection
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
tiassified Sales,
Online Sales
Finance

Officehours:Sun.-Thurs.1a.m.-2a.m.
734-763-2459
news@michigandaily.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
photo@michigandaily.com
arts@michigandaily.com

display@xichigandaityon
classifiied@michigandaity.omn
onlineadsgmichigandaily.com
finance@michigandailyxcom

LSA sophomores Seth Buchsbaum, Alistair Hayden,
and Richard Boehnke play the cello, violin and guitar,
respectively, to promote St. Patrick's Day spirit in
the Diag.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

$8 fundraiser Camcorder lifted Conference on Discussion on
jar stolen from from Angell Hall college campus women and the
Mott's Hospital auditorium depression economy

WHERE: Mott's Children's
Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about 8:30
p.m.
WHAT: A fundraiser jar was
stolen from a nurse's station
on the fifth floor of the hospi-
tal, University Police reported.
There are no suspects.

WHERE: Angell Hall, Audi-
torium C
WHEN: Monday at about 3:30
p.m.
WHAT: A Panasonic GS-180
camcorder valued at $450
was stolen from Angell Hall,
University Police reported.
Police have no suspects. The
event is under investigation.

Thief swipes
$54 in soda from Flood in Social
Lorch Hall Work building

WHAT: Keynote presenta-
tions, poster sessions, panel
discussions and discussions
dealing with depression on
college campuses
WHO: University Depression
Center
WHEN: Today at12:00 p.m. to
4:00 p.m.
WHERE:. Rackham Graduate
School
Medical school
information fair
WHAT: An information ses-
sion for first and second year
students on undergraduate
preparations and co-curric-
ular activities for medical
school.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from 3:00 to
6:00 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union

WHAT: A discussion on race
and gender bias in economics
education.
WHO: Institute for Research
on Women and Gender
WHEN: Today from 4 to 5:30
p.m.
WHERE: Lane Hall, Room
.2239
CORRECTIONS
* An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (Faculty
puhfor morepro"ection),
incorrectly attributed the
author ofthe article. It was-
written by Kyle Swanson.
* A photo caption in yes-
terday's edition of the Daily
(MSA candidates talk plat-
forms) misspelled the name
of Abhishek Mahanti.
* Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

A spring breaker in Orlan-
do, Florida survived a
6-foot-tall fall off a build-
ing, the Click Orlando reported.
Police said the man had no inju-
ries and was showing off to his
friends by standing near a chair
at the end of the balcony.
Michigan Law School
alum Jordan Harbinger
foundedTheArtofCharm,
a social coaching program with
24 million podcast listeners.
FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT.
3In Latvia, a new restau-
rant has opened with
a hospital theme, New.
com.au reported. The restau-
rant serves food resembling
body parts and then custom-
ers eat the food with tweezers
and scalpels. Mixed drinks are
served in test tubes, according
to the article.

EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneyRatkowiak ManagingEditor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
JacobSmilovitz Managing News Editor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SNIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Caitlin Schneider,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
KyleSwanson
Robert Soave Editorial PageEditor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATEEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EmilyBarton,BrianFlaherty,RachelVanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS; Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid ManagingSports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mike Eisenstein, Deand , Chris
ASSISvTv SPORTSEDTORS:Ryan Kartje, Ian Kay, JasonKohler,ChrisMeszaros,
A:ex Prosperi, Ct Rosei
David Walnick ManaingurtstEditoe sanhk@micldiadaity.cm
SEOR ARTSEDITORSJamieBok ,BrandonConradis,WhnnesPow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joshua Bayer, Andrew Lapin, Dave Reap, Ben VanWagoner
ZacharyMeisnerand photo@nchih dail.com
Clif Reeder Managing Photo Editors
SENIOR PHOTOEDITORSSa salaChane Von Habbug-Lothrin
AngelaChih and design@mchigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
Jessica Vosgerchian MagazineEditor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian MltimediaEditor merian@michigandaity.com
Katherine Mitchell copychief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display Advertising Sales Manager
DISPLAY ADVERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Ryan Businski classifiedsales Manager
Classfie -ea-ntaageruli-sonhomas
Marissa Gerber Onlinesales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Michigan Daly(ISSN0745-967)is published Mondaythrough Friday duringthefallandwinter
terms by studentsat the Universityof Michigan.One topy is avalablefreeo charge toalreaders.
AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupatvthecDalystoffiefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallandwineterm
(septemberthroughAprl)via U.S.mailare$200.Year-round subscriptions(Fall,Winter,Springand
Summer issues)are225.Subscriptions must be prepaid. The Michigan Dailyisa member of The
AssociatedPressandTheAssociatedCollegiatePress.

0

WHERE: Lorch Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 9:15
a.m.
WHAT: Several cases of soda
were stolen from a storage
room in Lorch Hall, Univer-
sity Police reported. The inci-
dent is under investigation.

WHERE: School of Social
Work building
WHEN: Monday at about 3:45
p.m.
WHAT: Two Dell com-
puter monitors and a laser jet
printer suffered $900 worth
of damage, University Police
reported.


On Africa trip, pope says
condoms aren't necessary

Catholic leader says
a moral attitude
toward sex will fight
the HIV epidemic
YAOUNDE, Cameroon (AP) -
Pope Benedict XVI said condoms
are not the answer to the AIDS epi-
demic in Africa and can make the
problem worse, setting off criticism
yesterday as he began a weeklong
trip to the continent where some 22
million people are living with HIV.
Benedict's first statement on an
issue that has divided even Catholic
clergy working with AIDS patients
came hours before he arrived in
Cameroon's capital - greeted by
thousands of flag-waving faithful
who stood shoulder-to-shoulder in
red dirt fields and jammed down-
town streets for a glimpse of the
pontiff's motorcade.
In his four years as pope, Bene-
dict had never directly addressed

condom use, although his position The late Cardinal Alfonso Lopez
is not new. His predecessor, Pope Trujillo made headlines in 2003
John PaulII, often said that sexual for saying that condoms may help
abstinence - not condoms - was spread AIDS through a false sense
the best way to prevent the spread of security, claiming they weren't
of the disease. effective in blocking transmission
Benedict also said the Roman of the virus. The cardinal, who died
Catholic Church was at the fore- last year, headed the Vatican's Pon-
front of the battle against AIDS. tifical Council for the Family.
"You can't resolve it with the Three-quarters of all AIDS
distribution of condoms," the pope deaths worldwide in 2007 were in
told reporters aboard the Alitalia sub-Saharan Africa, where some
plane heading to Yaounde. "On the 22 million people are infected with
contrary, it increases the problem." HIV - accounting for two-thirds
The pope said a responsible of the world's infections, according
and moral attitude toward sex to UNAIDS.
would help fight the disease, as he Rebecca Hodes with the Treat-
answered questions submitted in ment Action Campaign in South
advance by reporters traveling on Africa said if the pope is serious
the plane. His response, was pre- about preventing HIV infections,
sumably also prepared in advance. he should focus on promotingwide
The Catholic Church rejects the , access to condoms and spreading
use of condoms as part of its overall information on how to use them.
teaching against artificial contracep- "Instead, his opposition to con-
tion. Senior Vatican officials have doms conveys that religious dogma
advocated fidelity in marriage and is more important to him than
abstinence frompremaritalsexaskey the lives of Africans," said Hodes,
weapons in the fight against AIDS. head of policy, communication and
research for the group.
Hodes said the pope was right
that condoms are not the sole solu-
I tion to Africa's AIDS epidemic, but
added they are one of the very few
proven measures to prevent HIV
infections.
Even some priests and nuns
working with those infected
with the AIDS virus question the
church's opposition to condoms
amid the pandemic ravaging Afri-
ca. Ordinary Africans doas well.
Domesti cztrafts "Talking about the nonuse of
-iS i condoms is out of place. We need
condoms to protect ourselves
against diseases and AIDS," teach-
The BEST Place To Watch ger Narcisse Takou said in Yaounde.
College HOOPS t T Stanley Obale Okpu, a civil ser-
Mcla March Madness Package! vant working in the ministry of
Catch Any Crime, urban development in Cameroon,
We'll Carry Them ALL! said: "What the pope says is an
ideal for the Catholic church. But
he needs to look at the realities on
the ground. One should be aware of
these realities. In the case of Cam-
eroon - and Africa as a whole -
condoms are very necessary ... You
need condoms to prevent AIDS and
birth control."
BUFFALO WILD WIN A crowd of photographers and
cameras flashed as the 81-year-old
O H' T B pontiff stepped off the plane into
the steaming 88-degree heat, with
humidity levels measuring a wilt-
ing 90 percent.

President Barack Obama and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, second from right, meet with small business owners and
community lenders and members of Congress on Monday in the Roosevelt Room of the White House.
Oba-ma plans lending boost
for smallbsns owners

in
fees
WA:
ing to4
py Rep
Street
Obama
are tal
making
availab
small b
Oba
tary T
day pl
packag
small-1
an inc
some S
tion lo
dent's
intervi
confid(
funda:
upbeat
mocke
"Th
in the
worke
capital
nology
who ha
cil of E
Oba

resident's plan embraced the role of "confidence-
builder in chief," as one business
cludes reduced leader asked him to become. One
week after his budget director
and better loan declared "fundamentally, the
economy is weak," Obama's eco-
guarantees nomic advisers offered up a buoy-
ant assessment.
SHINGTON (AP) - Seek- Larry Summers, the director
counter a chorus of unhap- of the National Economic Coun-
sublicans and nervous Wall cil and an Obama adviser, quoted
investors, President Barack the president: "It's never as good
a and his economic team as people say it is when they say
king a cheerier tone while it's good and it's never as bad as
g billions in federal loans people say it is when they say it's
tle to the nation's struggling bad."
usinesses. Dealing with a severe reces-
ma and Treasury Secre- sion, Obama has turned to a
imothy Geithner on Mon- public face that emphasizes the
anned to announce a broad potential for recovery instead of
ye that includes reduced its limits.
business lending fees and To that end, the government
rease on the guarantee to plans to take aggressive steps to
Small Business Administra- boost bank liquidity with more
ans. A day earlier, the presi- than $10 billion aimed at unfreez-
advisers said in television ing the secondary credit market,
iews that they remained according to officials briefed on
ent in the nation's economic the plan who demanded anonym-
mentals, at times adopting ity to avoid pre-empting the presi-
rhetoric the president once dent's announcement.
d. Administration officials con-
e fundamentals are sound firmed they would unveil details
sense that the American Monday.
rs are sound, we have a good "We know that small business-
stock, we have good tech- es are the engine of growth in
," said Christina Romer, the economy, and we absolutely
eads the White House Coun- want to do things to help them,"
conomic Advisers. Romer said Sunday morning,
ma, for his part, has speaking broadly on the outline

of the plan. "There are already a
lot of things to help them in the
recovery package, and some of
what will be coming out are the
things that were in the recovery
package: increasing the SBA loan
guarantees, lowering fees."
The move comes as Repub-
licans have sought to build on
some bipartisan misgivings over
Obama's ambitious spending blue-
print. In particular, Republicans
say Obama's budget proposal to
raise taxes, starting in 2011, on
individuals earning more than
$200,000 and on households
earning more than $250,000 will
hurt small businesses, which face
higher dividend taxes and limits
on itemized deductions.
"We've got to do something to
help these small-business people.
We know that they're the job cre-
ators in this economy," the House
Republicans' No. 2 official, Rep.
Eric Cantor, said Sunday. "And the
problem... I think we're seeing out
of the Obama administration is a
lack of focus on how to get things
going again."
The new measures taking effect
Monday focus on opening up
small-business lending, seen as
critical to cities' growth. While
the SBA typically guarantees $20
billion in loans annually, new
lending this year is on track to fall
below $10 billion, according to the
administration.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 18, 2009 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 18, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Experts: universal
health care will
cost $1.5 trillion
Guaranteeing health insur-
ance for all Americans may cost
about $1.5 trillion over the next
decade, health experts say. That's
more than double the $634 billion
'down payment' President Barack
Obama set aside for health reform
in his budget, raising the prospect
of sticker shock at a time of record
federal spending.
Administration officials have
pointedly avoided providing a ball-
park estimate, saying it depends on
details to be worked out with Con-
gress.
"It's impossible to put a price tag
on the plan before even the basics
have been finalized," said White
House spokesman Reid Cherlin.
"Here's what we do know: The
reserve fund in the president's bud-
get is fully paid for and provides a
substantial down payment on the
cost of reforming our health care
system."
ANTANANARIVO, MADAGASCAR
Army gives control
to opposition leader
In one tumultuous day, Mada-
gascar's top generals handed over
control of this Indian Ocean island
nation to the opposition leader yes-
terday, hours after the president
himself stepped down and tried to
put the military in charge.
In a ceremony broadcast from
a military camp in the capital,
Vice-Admiral Hyppolite Rarison
Ramaroson said he and two other
generals rejected President Marc
Ravalomanana's attempt to trans-
fer power to a military directorate.
Instead, Ramaroson said the mil-
itary was installing the president's
bitter rival, opposition leader Andry
Rajoelina, as the country's leader.
For months, Rajoelina - a disc
jockey turned broadcasting mag-
nate who had been mayor of Anta-
nanarivo, the capital - has been
leading anti-government rallies
and pressing Ravalomanana to step
down. Some of the protests have
led to deadly clashes.
CALGARY, Canada
Bush: Obama
"deserves my
silence"
Former President George W.
Bush said he won't criticize Presi-
dent Barack Obama because Obama
"deserves my silence," and said
he plans to write a book about the
12 toughest decisions he made in
office.
Bush declined to critique the
Obama administration yesterday in
his first speech since leaving office.
FormerVice President Dick Cheney
has said that Obama's decisions are
threatening America's safety.
"I'm not going to spend my time
criticizing him. There are plenty of
critics in the arena," Bush said. "He
deserves my silence."
Bush said he wants Obama to

succeed and said it's important that
he has that support. Talk-showhost
Rush Limbaugh has said he hoped
Obama would fail.
"I love my country a lot more
than I love politics," Bush said.
"I think it is essential that he be
helped in office."
ATLANTA, Ga.
Assisted suicide
networkleader
defends practice
A former assisted suicide net-
work leader being prosecuted in
a Georgia man's death is defend-
ing his group's practice of guiding
people who want to kill themselves
because they're suffering but not
necessarily dying.
Atleastthreeofthepeopleknown
to have committed suicide through
the Final Exit Network were not
terminally ill. In his most extensive
remarks since his arrest last month,
Ted Goodwin told The Associated
Press yesterday that people with
just months to live aren't the only
ones who should be able to seek help
committing suicide.
"These people who are termi-
nally ill are blessed in a small way
- there's a finite time for their
suffering," said Goodwin, who
stepped down as president of the
network after his arrest. "But there
are many, many people who are
doomed to suffer interminably for
years. And why should they not
receive our support as well?"
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Dems in Senate:
AIG bonuses
won't stand

The storefront of Ties Mexican Cafe will soon be replaced by parking space after the city purchased the building in July.

TIOS
From Page 1A
an uphill struggle financially.
"I'm sorry, I think it's just fair
and ethical and intelligent to help
us find another spot," he said. "As
far as (the city is) concerned, if
you can't open somewhere else:
tough."
AnnArbor City Councilmember
Sabra Briere (D-Ward 1), said that
there was no discussion among
council members about help-
ing Tios financially. She said the
property was offered to the city,
which purchased it for $605,000.

The city plans to use the property
for parking.
To improve business once the
move is made, Seaver said he has
plans to apply for a liquor license.
Seaver said the landlord of the
property on East Liberty would be
willing to help obtain a license.
In light of the economy, Tios'
day business has fallen to a frac-
tion of what it once was and
having a bar would hopefully
improve profits, Seaver said.
Compounding the problem are
recent layoffs at Guy C. Larcom
City Hall and The Ann Arbor
News building - both of which
are located in close proximity to

the restaurant. These changes
have taken massive bites out of
Tios' revenue, he said.
Slate, a Tios employee for seven
and a half years, said that the city
will be losing a source of revenue
if Tios can't relocate. She said
that people come from areas sur-
rounding Ann Arbor to eat at Tios
and they spend money in the city
while they are here.
"It's unbelievable at a time like
this when so many people are
becoming unemployed and your
spending dollar is shrinking that
the city would take away a source
of revenue," she said. "It makes no
sense to me at all."

Bill approved shortly
after $1.8 trillion
deficit announced
WASHINGTON (AP) - Talking
tougher by the hour, livid Demo-
crats confronted beleaguered
insurance giant AIG with an ulti-
matum Tuesday: Give back $165
million in post-bailout bonuses or
watch Congress tax it away with
emergency legislation.
Fresh details, meanwhile,
pushed AIG outrage ever high-
er: New York Attorney General
Andrew Cuomo reported that
73 separate company employees
received bonus checks of $1 mil-
lion or more last Friday. This at a
company that was failing so spec-
tacularly the government felt the
need to prop it up with a $170 bil-
lion bailout.
And while Democratic lawmak-
ers talked tax penalties, Republi-
cans declared the Democrats were
hardly blameless, accusing them
of standing by while the bonus
deal was cemented and suggesting
that Treasury Secretary Timothy
Geithner could and should have
done more.While the White House
expressed confidence in Geithner,
it was clearly placing the responsi-
bility for how the matter was han-
dled on his shoulders.
The financial bailout program
remains politically unpopular and
has been a drag on Barack Obama's
new presidency, even though the
plan began under his predecessor,
George W. Bush. The White House
is well aware of the nation's bailout
fatigue - anger that hundreds of
billions of taxpayer dollars have
gone to prop up financial institu-
tions that made poor decisions,
while many others who have done
no wrong have paid the price.
AIG chief executive Edward
Liddy can expect a verbal pummel-
ing Wednesday when he testifies
before a House subcommittee.
On Capitol Hill late Tuesday,
House Democrats directed three
powerful committees to come
up with legislation this week to
authorize Attorney General Eric
Holder to recover massive bonus
payments made by companies like
the ones paid last week by Ameri-
can International Group Inc.
Senate Democrats, meanwhile,
suggested that if the AIG execu-
tives had any integrity, they would
return the $165 million in bonus
money. One leading Democrat
even suggested they might honor-
ably kill themselves, then said he
didn't really mean it.'
Whatever the process, lawmak-
ers of all stripes said, the bonus
money belongs back in the govern-

ment's hands.
"Recipients of these bonuses
will not be able to keep all of their
money," declared Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid in an unusually
strong threat delivered on the Sen-
ate floor.
"If you don't return it on your
own, we will do it for you," echoed
Chuck Schumer of New York.
Not all Democratic leaders were
racing in that direction. Penalizing
people with the tax code is inap-
propriate, declared Rep. Charlie
Rangel, D-N.Y., chairman of the
taxwriting Ways and Means Com-
mittee. He said, "It's difficult for
me to think of the code as a politi-
cal weapon."
Others saw the connection as
reasonable and relevant. House
Financial Services Committee
Chairman Barney Frank, D-Mass.,
noted that the government,
through the bailout, is now an 80
percent owner of the company and
suggested that was grounds to sue
to recover the bonuses.
Republicans said President
Obama and his administration
should have leaned harder on AIG
executives to reject the extra pay,
raising some speculation over Gei-
thner's future.
"I don't know if he should resign
over this," said Sen. Richard Shelby,
R-Ala. "He works for the president
of the United States. But I can tell
you, this is just another example
of where he seems to be out of the
loop. Treasury should have let the
American people know about this."
The administrationquicklymoved
to quash talk of Geithner's ouster.
White House spokesman Robert
Gibbs said Obama retains full confi-
dence in his treasury secretary.
There was a daylong rush to the
microphones on Capitol Hill - a
bipartisan campaign to out-out-
rage each other.
Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa,
led the stampede with a statement
Monday night on a radio show that
AIG executives should either return
the money or commit suicide in
what he described as the Japanese
style of taking responsibility. He
spent much of Tuesday backtrack-
ing but still calling for corporate
titans to take responsibility for
grievous errors in judgment.
Other Republicans said Demo-
cratic leaders last month killed a
plan that would have forced finan-
cial institutions to compensate
taxpayers if they paid their execu-
tives large bonuses after receiving
federal bailout money.
Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine,
a co-sponsor of the amendment to
Obama's stimulus bill, said strik-
ing it "left open an escape hatch of
golden parachutes for top execu-
tives on Wall Street."

IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman arrives on Capitol Hill in Washington, yesterday, to testify before the Senate Finance
Committee hearing on tax issues related to Ponzi schemes.
Ma dof victims won't pay taxes
on lost investment earnings

IRS Commissioner
sets new guidelines
for Ponzi Scheme
victims

Determining the amount
and timing of losses from Ponzi
schemes is "factually difficult"
and it can take years to determine
the prospects for recovering the
lost money, he noted. -
Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.,
a member of the Finance Com-

have sided with the victims,"
Schumer said. "These victims
were not only sophisticated finan-
cial professionals, but also ordi-
nary people who believed they
were making safe, responsible
investments for their future. The
steps announced today mean vic-
tims won't owe taxes on income
they never received."
If deductions claimed this year
result in a "net operating loss" for
taxpayers, meaning they would
owe no taxes, they can apply
excess deductions to prior years.

WASHINGTON (AP) - The mittee who has been pushint
Internal Revenue Service issued for tax relief for victims of Ponz
guidelines yesterdaythatwillallow schemes, said that with the ne
tax relief and refunds for some guidelines the IRS "has done th
Bernard Madoff victims who were right thing here."
levied for investment earnings that "In most every area where
turned out to be nonexistent. there was a major dispute, the)
IRS Commissioner Douglas
Shulman told Congress the new
guidelines are for taxpayers who A i AT Ai
have suffered losses from Ponzi GMAT GR i LSAT
investment schemes such as the.
massive Madoff swindle. 1
He said the guidelines will
apply to victims of all Ponzi
schemes - financial scams in
which early investors are paid
returns from money put in by
later investors. But given the
scope of the Madoff scandal, the
IRS wanted to establish an easy
system for investors to recover
taxes they paid on "fictitious
income," Shulman said.
Madoff investors should have
reported earnings from their
investments with him through
the years - the scheme stretched
from the early 1990s to Madoff's
arrest on Dec. 11 - and thus paid 8 6
taxes on those earnings. Given
that some of those were "phan-
tom" profits, investors have said
they shouldbe entitled to refunds
of the taxes they paid. 6
Investors in some of these cases
areentitledto a"theft-loss"deduc-
tion, not subject to the limits on
normal capital losses from invest- 4
ments, accordingto the IRS guide-
lines, Shulmantestified at aSenate
Finance Committee hearing.2 1 3
The theft-loss deduction can be
taken in the year a fraud is discov- 7 9
ered, except to the extent an inves-
tor has a "reasonable prospect" of
recovering the lost money, Shul-
man said. Investors will be able to
deduct 95 percent of their losses
immediately. If they are unable to
recover the remaining 5 percent,
they can claimthose deductions in
subsequent years.

lg
w
ie
"e
.y

OnlyKaplanOffers: Kaplan's programs
The Most Personalized Prep go virtuall!GMAT prep
Unmatched Expertise is now available Live
Guaranteed Results Online.
Visitkaptesatom/150rebate
or call1-800-KAP-TEST


Opinion.

4A - Wednesday, March 18, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

74eMictc ian Bathjl
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE . COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed arti-
cles and illustrations representsolely the views of their authors.
FR 1 TE DAILY
Mahanti, Rorro for MSA
Schepeler, Wojcik have necessary experience for LSA-SG
T he Michigan Student Assembly has probably had a bet-
ter year than last - none of its members were convicted
of felonies and its president wasn't forced to resign in
disgrace as a result of a serious lapse in judgment. But despite
avoiding the flashier scandals of the past, MSA has still garnered
significant negative attention and student frustration. This year,
representatives found themselves bogged down in divisive ideo-
logical debates that frequently consumed the time they should
have allotted for addressing student's real concerns.

ROSE JAFFE


THE RESURRECTION

a

Bard madness

a

MSA's troubles, however, weren't iso-
lated to the meeting room. The Michi-
gan Action Party, MSA's strongest party,
disbanded after it became clear that it
lacked the ability to lead MSA to fulfill
its potential. In MAP's wake emerged
the Michigan Vision Party and the
reMICHIGAN Campaign, which have
both produced candidates for the MSA
presidential seat.
Both parties seem enthusiastic about
reforming the assembly. Both also get
bogged down by lofty rhetoric. But this
is where the similarities end - for the
most part, MVP and reMICHIGAN rep-
resent very different approaches to stu-
dent government. In MVP, voters have
the choice of a party that's wildly moti-
vated but short on experience. ReMICH-
IGAN's leaders, on the other hand, have
a stronger track record of working with
the administration but don't inspire as
much confidence in their dedication to
the cause. The stark difference in the two
party's strengths and weaknesses makes
it tough to determine which party is, on
the whole, better for students.
MVP, led by presidential candidate
Abhishek Mahanti and vice-presidential
candidate Mike Rorro, prides itself on
having sought student feedback around
campus. Though the repetition of this
"vision" theme is slightly tiresome, it's
certainly true that MVP has put in the
time and effort to reach out to students,
swarming the Diag for days straight and
interacting with other student groups.
It's unclear, however, if Mahanti and
Rorro know what to do with that input.
This is partly because Mahanti and
Rorro don't have the experience working
with the University administration that
reMICHIGAN does. This makes it dif-
ficult to determine how effectively they
could advocate student concerns to Uni-
versity officials. It also seems like they
might struggle to navigate the University
bureaucracy - a necessary component of
the job if they want to accomplish their
goals.
But despite these struggles, MVP has
put forward a set of goals that, while
seemingly small, have a good chance of
coming to fruition. In recent years, MSA
has seemed incapable of implementing
the things students most want to see -
like a working website. Though MVP
aims small, it has proposed goals that
it could reasonably meet. These include
installing LCD screens in buildings to
let students know when the next bus is
coming, holding more workshops on how
to apply for financial aid and reaching
out to student groups to offer them more
funding.
MVP wants MSA to do a better job of
reaching out to students, and it plans to
do this by holding office hours and by
sending representatives to the meetings
of student groups. While reMICHIGAN
has made similar promises, MVP has
better credibility here because of the
substantial outreach effort that Mahanti
and Rorro made during the campaign.
Mahanti and Rorro have also expressed
their unhappiness with the current
structure of MSA and seemed enthusi-
astic and ready to encourage the neces-
sary cultural changes to the institution
that could lead to an effective student
government. Reorganizing the Steering
Committee in order to prevent certain
resolutions from ever making it into the
MSA agenda is a major priority of both
parties, but MVP's eagerness to restruc-
ture MSA is decidedly more genuine.
But the reMICHIGAN Campaign also
has a lot to offer students. Though the
decision to call the new party a "cam-
paign" is gimmicky, reMICHIGAN
presents students with a more knowl-
edgeable choice. Presidential candidate
Gibran Baydoun has a better idea of how
to work with the University administra-
tion than MVP does. A three-year mem-
ber of MSA, Baydoun is responsible for

the recent resurrection of Homecoming,
which required a significant amount of
collaboration and negotiation with Uni-
versity officials.
Baydoun demonstrated he was some-
one who administrators would take seri-
ously but he didn't prove that he would be
able to convince them to heed student's
concerns on issues like tuition. While his
inside knowledge and history of working
with the administration shows promise,
his comparative lack of genuine dedica-
tion to students is troubling. It's easier
to imagine reMICHIGAN degenerating
into another MAP than it is to picture
MVP doing so.
Though institutional savvy seems to
be reMICHIGAN's strong suit, it isn't
enough to override the fact that students
want a student government that's moti-
vated to fix things. While reMICHIGAN
might know more about how to achieve
this, MVP's higher level of motivation
is enough to somewhat overcome its
comparative inexperience. Both options
certainly come with advantages and
disadvantages, and picking MVP over
reMICHIGAN is admittedly a tough call.
In addition, the long-shotDefend Affir-
mative Action Party is continuing its
historically futile quest to win the presi-
dency. Simply put, DAAP presidential
candidate Kate Stenvig and vice-pres-
idential candidate Alanna Owagbemi
have no grasp of what student govern-
ment's role is. Their unnecessarily ideo-
logical arguments were a distraction this
year at MSA. There is every reason to
believe that, under DAAP's leadership,
issues that distract from the campus
agenda would be even more widespread.
SA student government might not
get as much press as MSA, but this
year it did make the news when
representatives decided to run for seats
without party affiliations. Despite this
change, the LSA-SG presidential elec-
tion is once again uncontested. Christine
Schepeler and Jeffrey Wojcik are run-
ning for the presidential and vice presi-
dential seats, respectively.
Though a contested election would
havebeen ideal, Schepeler and Wojcik are
undeniably qualified candidates. Wojcik,
current LSA-SG Treasurer, was involved
in cutting administrative spending. This
allowed LSA-SG to fund more student
groups this year. Schepeler, chair of the
Communications Committee, worked
with committees in MSA to improve syn-
ergy and created what she has dubbed the
LSA Pride Campaign, which has worked
toward a comfortable community in the
college. The campaign aims to reach out
to freshmen at convocation and includes
a Senior Send-Off party.
And the pair's apparent dedication
to LSA-SG and their constituents is
encouraging. Schepeler and Wojcik have
focused on supporting student groups
rather than stepping on their toes. They
outlined plans to address the rising cost
of bike registration on campus and to
work with academic departments to cre-
ate more minors by providing concrete
evidence for why departments should
make the switch. They even demonstrat-
ed viable plans to tackle bigger projects
that MSA seems incapable of making
progress on - like the ever-popular chal-
lenge of improving campus lighting.
Despite the fact that Schepeler and
Wojcik are running unopposed, they
have a history of dedication to the student
body and possess innovative solutions.
As was the case last year, MSA would
benefit from emulating LSA-SG's practi-
cal approach to improving academic life,
one small project at a time.
The Daily's Editorial Board endorses
ABHISHEK MAHANTI and MIKE
RORRO for MSA president and vice
president. We also endorse CHRISTINE
SCHEPELER and JEFFREY WOJCIK
for LSA-SG president and vice president.

Bard Blog (Live)
"The Bard, or not the Bard?
That is the question posed by yes-
terday's unveiling of a
centuries-old portrait
of a dark-eyed, hand-
some man in Elizabe-
than finery... 'We're
90 percent sure that
it's Shakespeare,' said
PaulEdmonson,direc- ,
tor of learning at the
ShakespeareLearning
Trust... 'You'll never WILL
be entirely certain. GRUNDLER
There will always be
voices of dissent.' "
- Associated Press,
Portrait of Shakespeare unveiled, but is it
him?,03/10/09
LONDON - Cheers from the Globe
Theatre, where the annual meeting
of the Association of Shakespearean
Scholars for Enacting Standards is
about to begin!
The Association, for you non-Eng-
lish majors out there, is famous for its
fiery, theatrical debates over the prop-
er interpretation of William Shake-
speare's life and literature. Indeed, its
members dress and act like their favor-
ite character while attemptingto make
logical arguments, though the acro-
nym of "Association of Shakespearean
Scholars Who Enjoy Role Playing" is
rather inappropriate.
The meetings, like many of Shake-
speare's tragedies, consist mainly
of name-calling, swordplay and tea
breaks, and they attract record audi-
ences - right now, I'm surrounded by
thousands of screaming Brits.
Since Professor Ralph Williams
was swamped by lectures and I was
the only Daily staff member who dis-
played any fencing skills (in case the
debate escalated), my editors drove me
to the airport and, after an awkward
hug goodbye... Oh, it's starting! Here
we go...
18:02 -Thelightshave been dimmed
and some Mozart is playing. The audi-
ence is only getting more excited. The

Association's stance on Shakespeare's
new and improved portrait - i.e., if it's
him or not - could elevate the play-
wright to the status of Literary God
and make for a really good party or,
keeping with tradition, reaffirm him
as a talented but unattractive writer.
And the lights are up!
18:04 - Professor Plympton is
making his way onstage dressed as
Julius Caesar. Behind him is Profes-
sor MacDougall clothed as Macbeth.
He is arguably the finest swordsman
of the assembly and there is thunder-
ous applause from the audience. Now
comes Professor Hucksberry, brilliant-
ly playing the senile King Lear - he
just triedto shake hands withhis chair.
And the crowd has leapt to their feet
and started cheering, which can only
mean Professor Filliwippet, who plays
Romeo and is the only member under
30, is onstage. Yes, he just took his seat
and is waving at a group of teenage
girls. Last is Professor Morrow, who
plays the depressed Hamlet, and the
audience falls silent out of respect. It
appears he is already crying.
18:05 - The new portrait has just
been brought onstage. We're await-
ing opening remarks. Professor Mor-
row - oh, how are you supposed to
remember which one he is? - Hamlet
has started pacing around the paint-
ing, furiously muttering to himself.
Oh! He just embraced the portrait
and sobbed, "What a piece of work is
this man!" and we've officially begun.
Macbeth just responded with derisive
laughter and expressed his opinion
that the work is at besta sorry sight. It
appears the two might duel quite early,
much to the delight of the audience.
Yes, Hamlet just told Macbeth to go
to a nunnery. King Lear, however, just
stepped absentmindedly between the
two and is now stroking the portrait.
One hopes it's not the original.
18:06 - Julius Caesar, in an attempt
to gain order, asked everyone to lend
him their ears. Macbeth just correctly
informed him that the line belongs not
to him but to Marcus Antonius and

that he, Caesar, is a poisonous bunch-
back'd toad. It looks like we're defi-
nitely going to see some action soon.
Where's Romeo? He's left the stage...
There he is. He's in the audience talk-
ing to some young females. And now
it looks as though a duel is imminent.
Yes, Caesar, Macbeth and Hamlet are
drawing their rapiers. One wonders if
they'll have enough time before the...
18:07 - Tea break.
A glimpse of the
high-tension world 6
of Shakespeare.
18:07:12 - The tea break has just
been interrupted for the first time in
the entire history of the assembly by
Hamlet, who spilled his tea intention-
ally on Macbeth's tunic. Macbeth is
furious and - oh! He just took a swipe
at Hamlet and hit Caesar instead, who
had enough poise to say, "You.brute!"
before falling. For this display of grace
the audience has awarded him much
applause. Macbeth is now after Ham-
let, who is running away, sobbing. The
audience is chanting, "Headcase!" I've
just been informed that Romeo has
left the theatre with three women, so
Hamlet won't have any help from him,
and King Lear is licking the stage cur-
tains. Hamlet, desperate, is now in the
audience and appears to be heading
directly toward me. There is Macbeth,
now. He looks fairly mad. I might have
to defend...
Editor's Note: This is all that was
written. We have yet to hear back from
Will, though we never sent him to Lon-
don in thefirstplace. We don't give awk-
ward hugs.

- Will Grundler can be reached
at sailgull@umich.edu.

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
- Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Satyajeet Deshmukh,
Brian Flaherty, Matthew Green, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke, Shannon Kellman, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer,
Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler, Jennifer Sussex, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder
LETTERS TO TH E EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accu-
racy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
ERIKA MAYER |VIEWPOINT
Campus Day nightmares

I

There is no better way to kick off
your Saturday than walking through a
crowd of middle-aged men while clad
in only a towel. Or at least that seems to
be what the University thought when it
scheduled part of the campus tours for
prospective students the dorms.
Everyone has seen the tours on cam-
pus - a bunch of high school students
and their parents clutching pamphlets
about our great establishment and scut-
tlingaround like ducklings while follow-
lng a student in a yellow coat. They stop
in the middle of the hallway in Angell
Hall to point out the Fishbowl and block
the sidewalk in front of the Union to
point out the building's historic appeal.
Many University students even went
on tours themselves when they were in
high school. I went on two.
Having tours block the hallways
and sidewalks can be irritating when
you are late to class and it's 27 degrees
below zero yet again and you can feel
your blood slowly freezing in your
veins. But five minutes later, warm
and inside a building, you forget about
strangling all of them and move on.
This is a luxury you don't have when
they follow you home to South Quad.
The tourists block the front doors to
hear about safety, sneak a peak in the
dining room, take up the entire lobby
to talk about residence halls and then
march upstairs to a vacant third floor
room directly across from the girls'
bathroom. A collective groan rises

from the inhabitants of the third floor
when a tour arrives.
Not only do the tours block the hall-.
way, making it impossible to get to
your room, they don't move when you
politely request to get by. The tour guide
announcesatthetopofhislungsthatthis
floor is currently under "quiet hours"
due to exams (completely disregard-
ing said quiet hours), comments on the
messy state of the other rooms and then
blatantly lies to the tour group, asserting
that all rooms have wood floors and this
is the average size of a room at the Uni-
versity (have you seen Markley?).
All this is after you've been woken
up at 9 a.m. on a Saturday morning by
a someone singing the praises of Uni-
versity housing. You stumble - bleary
eyed, with messy hair and make-up
from the night before - out of your
room and right into a group of high
school boys who are trying to look like
they aren't trying to be cool. You don't
even want to imagine what a walk of
shame would feel like if you ran into a
tour.
Dashing to the shower between
tours is ultimately thwarted when
another tour arrives as you are step-
ping out of the shower. And, somehow,
it's always the dads in the hallway that
you have to awkwardly weave through
toward the safety of your room while
clutching your towel. Don't forget to
multiply this tragic situation - there
are always several tours going through

the building at the same time. You have
the joy of running into a group in front
of the building, in the lobby and out-
side your room. The sad thing is that
these descriptions aren't worst-case
scenarios - they're reality.
When Campus Days started after
winter break, the number of tours
increased. Tours now run on Mondays
and Tuesdays in addition to Fridays
and Saturdays. Campus Day tours have
added lunch in the dining hall to their
rounds, just in case you happened to
miss them. If you wanted to be dragged
out of bed and thrown into a group of
giddy high schoolers who thinkthey're
the next big thing, this is your dream
situation. For the rest of us, it's another
reason to sleep until the afternoon (for
those not being rudely awakened at 9
am.). But, no matter what you do, it's
impossible to escape them.
Of course, touring the University is
a great way to get a feel for the cam-
pus. We should be excited that so many
people want to tour our school. And it
isn't really reasonable to end tours just
because the third floor of South Quad
is miserable. Maybe it's our punish-
ment for living in a great dorm with
an awesome location. Or maybe we are
just such wonderful people that they
want to show us off. Either way, tours
will continue. And I will continue to
despise them.
Erika Mayer is an LSA freshman.

As the Michigan Student Assembly examines its own
future on campus,the Daily would like students to voice their opinions
on what should be a part of its agenda.
E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO ROBERT SOAVE AT RSOAVE@UMICH.EDU


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 18, 2009 - 5A

ALBUM REVIEW
Indie rock's best
acts reinvent the
compi ation disc
By MIKE KUNTZ But what makes Dark Was The
DailyArts Writer Night stand out from other com-
pilations - aside from its vast
Charity compilation albums amount of indie star power - is
just aren't what they used to be how amazingly well each col-
- and thank- laboration between artists came
fully so. Gone together. "Train Song," an intimate
are the over- * duet between Feist and Death Cab
the-top "We Various for Cutie's Ben Gibbard, is rivaled
Are The World" only by Conor Oberst's reinterpre-
sing-a-longs ArtiStS tation of his own "Lua" with the
with celebri- Dark Was help of strong and smoky tenor
ties-turned- The Night of Gillian Welch. Feist reappears
philanthropists, later with Brooklyn heroes Griz-
phony promo 4A z zly Bear on the late-night bedroom
videos and all hush of "Service Bell."
that jazz. Charity albums of late A few songs on the album dip
have been strikingly relevant, into the more obscure catalogs
from the annual Bridge School of its artists, such as Spoon's
and War Child compilations to "Well-Alright" and Arcade Fire's
last month's Dark Was The Night, live favorite "Lenin," but several
which tops them all. tracks are either newly written or
Released as the 20th compi- newly collaborated on. Many of
lation benefiting the. Red Hot these were specially recorded for
Organization, an international Dark, including The National's "So
charity battling HIV/AIDS, Dark Far Around the Bend," Yeasayer's
Was The Night features some of yelp-some "Tightrope" and Griz-
the most engaging and creative zly Bear's rousing full-band ver-
voices in contemporary music. sion of their own "Deep Blue Sea."

"First one to blink has to watch this movie."

Toils and troubles

These artists lend their efforts
and skills to help a noble cause -
and Bono is nowhere to be found.
With production left to the deft
hands of Bryce and Aaron Dess-
ner of The National, Dark Was
The Night features a who's who of
folk-leaning indie acts compiled
on one startlingly fluid album.
Aided by a daily song leak
on the album's MySpace page,
the hype for Dark started early
and grew into a huge buzz.
Separated between two discs -
aptly named "THIS DISC" and
"THAT DISC" - the compila-
tion includes a total of 31 tracks
(with one extra for iTunes shop-
pers, who are treated with Beach
House's take on Queen's "Play
the Game"). Other notable cov-
ers include Jose Gonzalez and
the Books' take on Nick Drake's
"Cello Song," Antony (of Antony
and the Johnsons) and Bryce
Dessner's take on Bob Dylan's "I
Was Young When I Left Home"
and Sufjan Stevens's experimen-
tal pop rendering of Castanets's
"You Are the Blood."

Featuring Feist,
Arcade Fire,
Sufjan Stevens
and Spoon.
Whilecharityalbumsofthe past
relied on traditional covers, a hit
single or mediocre songs thrown
together at the last minute, this
compilation shows considerable
care and precision. It presents an
exceptionally well-crafted and
winninginterpretation of modern,
guitar-driven indie rock. With
nearly every track worthy of con-
siderable praise, there is seldom
a weak moment on either disc.
Sporting such an arresting and
eclectic mix of artists, Dark Was
The Night is assuredly just as safe
on a Starbucks music rack as in a
trendy Manhattan apartment.

Overdone special effects
can't save Disney sci-fi
remake from its aimless plot
By EMILY BOUDREAU
DailyArts Writer
Since when do aliens who can read minds,
levitate objects and control their molecular
density need to wear seat
belts? And why do they even
need to travel in a taxi in the
first place? "Race to Witch Race to
Mountain" leaves the audi- Vitd
ence lost in many plot-worm-
holes like these. A remake of Mountain
the lovable 1975 film "Escape At Qualityl6
to' Witch Mountain," "Race
to Witch Mountain" is sadly and Showcase
shallow. Disney
Jack Bruno (Dwayne John-
son, "Get Smart") is a taxi driver in Las Vegas
who is haunted by his corrupt past. For the first
few minutes of the film, he's chased by a mob
boss, but this detail - like too many others -

doesn't end up being particularly relevant.
Bruno's life changes forever when he finds
Seth (Alexander Ludwig, "The Sandlot 3")
and Sara (AnnaSophia Robb, "Bridge to Tera-
bithia") in the back seat of his cab. These oddly
robotic-sounding tweens turn out to be aliens
who are trying to save their people while being
hunted by a creepy U.S. government official
bent on dragging them back to ahlab somewhere
and dissecting them. There also happens to be
some sort of alien assassin trying to kill them,
but that's yet another sub-plot that doesn't go
anywhere: It's up to Bruno and spacey-but-
good-looking astrophysicist Dr. Alex Friedman
(Carla Gugino, "The Unborn") to save the day.
"Race to Witch Mountain" has pretty much
the same plot as the 1975 movie, but it's jam-
packed with lame stunts and special effects.
The original, though, was enjoyable precisely
because it had such unrealistic effects. Real-
ity is never a crucial element in a movie about
aliens. No matter how realistic the car crashes
and space ship take-offs are, "Race to Witch
Mountain" was never going to be redeemed
from its other shortcomings.
The whole film comes across as haphazard
and thrown together in its final minute. Gugi-

no's character is obviously squeezed-in only to
make a painful attempt at being Bruno's love
interest, and several characters appear once
never to be explored again.
On top of these failings, the acting is terrible
and the writing is beyond stale. At one point,
Bruno says to Seth, "You know how to fly this
thing, right?" in reference to the space ship,
to which Seth responds, "How do you think
we got here?" Bruno wittily retorts, "Well you
crashed, remember?" OK, so maybe it could
potentially be funny, but Dwayne Johnson dis-
plays absolutely no comedic talent. He comes
across as the dad at his kid's party who's trying
to be funny and cool, but just isn't. It's pretty
painful at times. Also, Anna Sophia Robb
doesn't distinguish herself in her role as Sara,
which is a shame considering the promise she
showed in "Bridge to Terabithia."
Of course, there isn't much room' for charac-
ter development within the plot frame anyway.
Most of the characters - from the suave and
menacing government agent to the eccentric
mad scientist - are flat and familiar. When it
comes down to it, "Race to Witch Mountain"
is just another live-action Disney movie that's
only slightly better than "The Shaggy Dog."

TV REVIEW
'Chopping Block' can't cut the mustard

By BRIGID KILCOIN
For theDaily
With its new program "The Chopping Block,"
NBC attempts to bring culinary entertainment
to network television to
compete with Travel Chan-
nel and the Food Network's
dozens of food-centered The choppng
offerings.
"The Chopping Block" Block
focuses on eight pairs of Wednesdays
contestants who want to at 8p.m.
open their own restaurants
and win the show's grand
 prize of $250,000. In the
series premier, they were divided into two teams
of four duos apiece. Each of these teams was then
given its own restaurant in Manhattan and told
to have it open to the public in just one week.
Each week, an incognito food critic comes
to judge the cuisine at both venues. The critic
analyzes the successes and failures of the meal
in tandem with chef Marco Pierre White, best
known as the belligerent star of the U.K. version
of "Hell's Kitchen." After the critic finishes judg-
ing the meals, one pair from the losing team is
eliminated.

"The Chopping Block" plays like a low-bud-
get, quickly produced midseason replacement.
The bizarre opening credits, which prominently
feature White's pair of checkered Vans wander-
ing past poorly-done CGI billboards - all while
Duffy's "Mercy" plays in the background - are
emblematic of the show as a whole: There's no
cohesive focus. Random, eerily half-lit inter-
views with White are interspersed with inspi-
rational contestant profiles and lengthy shots of
the teams working the kitchen.
The storyline is a patchwork of elements from
other, superior shows including "Top Chef" and
"Hell's Kitchen." Even the weekly elimination
scenes appear to be drawn directly from "The
Apprentice," all the way down to set design.
Cooking shows tend to focus on one vibrant
personality - chefs like Alton Brown and Paula
Deen have succeeded in large part due to their
charisma. White, on the other hand, is not an
especially compellingfigure. Hisgruff demeanor
is reminiscent of an unfunny Dr. Gregory House,
and his character of the no-nonsense television
chef is an unsuccessful retread of dozens before
him, like Anthony Bourdain, Travel Channel's
resident foodie, and Chef Gordon Ramsey of the
U.S. version of "Hell's Kitchen."
While his cooking ability is touted endlessly,

White never actually prepares food on screen.
He is an undeniably talented chef, but his role
here is limited to weak one-liners ("This tastes
like a home ec experiment") that he doles out a
few bites into each dish.
Strangely enough, the primary focus of "Chop-
ping Block" doesn't seem to be food. Large parts
of each episode are dedicated to intra-team
squabbles and the selection of team leaders rather
than the actual execution of the dishes. The cui-
NBC challenges Food
Network - and loses.
sine is pedestrian and offers no insight into the
culinary world. And the large number of contes-
tants makes pickinga pair to root for a non-issue:
They're all tragically generic and unmemorable.
Television's current glut of cooking shows
means that any new program needs to be out-
standing to succeed, but the uninspired monot-
ony of "Chopping Block" makes it unlikely to
flourish in an already overcrowded field.


YARR, THERE BE A JOB
OPENING IN THE FINE
ARTS DEPARTMENT.
WALK THE PLANK WITH
US TO LOCAL ARTS
EVENTS.
E-mail battlebots@umich.edu
for an application.

i


6

6A - Wednesday, March 18, 2009
the michigan daily

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

"1
J

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACES AVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825.
PARKING SPOT AVAIL immed. on
central campas. 734-741-9300.
for rent
J60
! 4 ELEVEN Lofts ! - win FREE
HOUSING for a year. - Just tour the
model at 400 E.Washington (@ Divi-
sion) by 3/20 to enter or call for details
734-998-4400, 4elevenlofts.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directv with'DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CHECK OUT OUR NEW SPE-
CIALRATES!! AVAIL FALL 2009!!
1 Bdrms. as low as $675 and 2 Bdrms.
as low as $1200.
Not Many Left! Act Now!
Incredible location! 1 & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
Beautiful, spacious, quiet. Furnished/
unfurmished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
$560 FOR YOUR OWN BEDROOM!
ONLY A FEW AVAILBALE.
GET $500 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LEASES! This special will not
last long, when they're gone, they're
gone! universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***
4 Bdrm. apt at 912 Sybil, 1-3 bdrm.
apt avail. www.jmsprop.com 769-7025.
N\Varsity
Management
625 Church St.
(734668-1100
We've got nice, sunny, large apartments
and unlike the other's, we include utilities
and parking for most locationst
Studios, 1,2 & 3 bedrooms still available
swww.orsitymonagement.com


WilsonWhite
MA AG NFi
61 1 CHURCH;
BRAND NEW
APARTMENTS
wfrH
EVERYTHING
YOU NEED - IN
UNIT!
(,upacale 5 bedroom
apartment 6l 1I
Churc Tegare3
newig constructed 5
bedroom, 2.5 bath
apartments, w/t/ a//
tMe late.stanlgreatest
amenites, lice a
washer and Jrger in
unit.

Ff1r Food every areek
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why! I
536 S. Forest Ave. I
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
University
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water oct. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site ldry. $2450 neg +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2040;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.
5 BDRMJ2 bath. attractive house.
Close to central campus and stadium.
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI-
BLE leases, f6rnished or unfurnished.
Call today 741-9657.
r sutudo & 1
- - rm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
7 Quie hpa s-Qgree- e anknximps
(Af Mran Tnmsic
7346631530
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New(!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in uit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitenanagement.com
7 BDRM FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.

AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, mary are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rsh is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
[ BDRM. & EFE APTS
$450-$6501
SEPT. 2009
COPI PROPERTIES
734-663-5609J
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.allmandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
APARTMENTS AVAIL 2009-10.
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. ELf, 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent our 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
= $15,000
Dorm 2 bedroom for 8 months
= $16,656
See what we mean...
Get $500 off all remaining May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
un ivers itytowers-mi. cm
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + lndry mcl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
TRAVEL
Book your flight to Europe
for the summer during
March, and get your 1st
hostel night free!
STA Travel, Inc.
530 South State St
Ann Arbor MI 48109
T:(734)769.2555
UMI@statravel.com
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet,sbeautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl., heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
March 31st. That's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
cappomanagement.com for a list of
available properties.

CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furnished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
rathe bj"
)' ed a0d sty
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.7419300
www.annarborapartmenta~net
or visit us at
1700 Geddes Ave.

NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
PICTURE THIS...FREE 42" Flat
Screen yours to keep! Sign today, 909
Church "The Abbey". Limited Time-
Offer expires Friday March 20th-Call
for details. 734-761-8000. primesh.com
*Certain conditions apply
ROOM AVAILABLE IN 5 bdron.
house $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
Post Re alty
properties
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Spacious apts., great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
NOW LEASING
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
ONE BEDROOM AVAILABLE lo-
cated in a quaint residential neighbor-
hood in the Old West Side of Ann Ar-
bor. Balconies, central AC, laundry.
Heat and water included. Take our pic-
torial tour at
www.smartfloorplan.com/mi/v280580
or visit oar website at
www.michcomrealty.com Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500. EHO.
TIRED OF SEARCHING for your
apartment or house? Wilson White
Management offers One Stop Shopping
with hundreds of apartments and
houses on Central Campus. Our leasing
agents are ready to help you the perfect
place to call home on campus. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
TWO -BR M.nhuses vaiablan

6
I

***LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts. avail
for Fall. Furn. Free heat. Central Cam-
pus. 214 N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-
2096 or visit www.um-housing.com
**AWESOME 3 BDRM house. Avail.
Fall '09. On Dewey, near Yost Arena.
offstreet prkg, Indry. ($1500/mo.).
734.223.7777.
*AVAIL SEPT 1ST 2009. 2 bdrm
house on State St across from Yost
arena. Furn, free pkg, wshr/dryer, dish-
washer. Signing bonus. Call now for
immed showing 734-434-6356.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom, house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal dining room, dish-
washer, hardwood flooring, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry and attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. I
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, $1500-$2100,
prking., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.

FABULOUS BRAND NEW 6 bdrm.
apts avail. June 2009. Hardwood floors
in living area, granite countertops, all
stainless steel appliances, 2 full-size
fridge, I-pod stereo system, closed-cir-
cuit entry viewing, wshr./dryer, add.
storage, parking avail. Call (734) 995-
0600 or (734)-668-8888 for an appt.
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR-
NISHED five bedroom house located
near Geddes and South University.
Stricklands Market, Central Campus,
CCRB, University Hospital, and all
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your
doorstep. Unique attic space and large
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents.
Kitchen highlights include a dish-
washer and new flooring! Laundry and
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.
EHO.
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne-
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet,
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today!
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl Balc., A/C, prkg., idry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg.no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net
MAY-AUGUST SUBLEASE. 4
rooms available. Kingsley and State.
Call (248) 910-2286.


RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, March 18, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 32 Inthe thick of 46 Let go
1 High-speed PC 1 Central Illinoiscity 34 Colorado native 47 Appended
option 2 Penthouse view, 35 Apathetic 49 Mideast neighbor
4 Put on a perhaps gesture of 3-Down
pedestal 3 Mideast neighbor 38 Be of _: aid 51 Veal cuts
9cff-road rides, of 49-Down 39 Parts of lbs. 54 Delivery
briefly 4 Chocolate type 40 For sometime specialist, briefly
13 Just make, with 5 City onthe Rio 41 Horseshoes 55 WWI sub
"out" Grande scores 56__ au vin
14 Foil maker 6 Closely 42 Tooth tissue 60 "Hey, over here!"
15 Sits in judgment monitored hosp. 45 Irish pub 62 Spying org.
of area features? 64 Washington's bill
17 "lade Runnef" 7 "O Gulden
im genre Pond Oscar ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Try to strike winner F LAG PARTY B E L T
20 "Northern 8 Comedian R I P A O N I C E E R O0
Exposure"setting Smimoff A M O R T E C H N O L O G Y
21 Common 9Zeus' daughter TOP D R A W E R H O S E S
cathedral feature 10 Numerical prefix E E G K A N
23 "Now I get it!" 11 A, B or C, e.g. T R A N C. E S A I R G U N S
24 Kipper holders 12 Old TVseries BERET A P P L E S A E
31 Barbershop with a ACID GREEN FACT
collectible scuba-diving hero
28 Game based on 16 Putson, as a
crazy eights show S P E E DIE E P R O N E T O
29 Egg.._,,yung 18amalommctame D U E A I D
3Leathernek 2 klcopymachine B LAME A L LI NA R O W
31 Kidney-related 26Mezzo Marilyn R E V O L U T I O N J U K E
33 Trojanhorse, e.g. 27 A, B or C, e.g. A M E N F A L C O O L L A
360Dwetlemsander 29 lhuwman C AR 0 O N I ON B E A N
tiny hills Ziegfeld xwordeditor@ao.com 03ls09
37 Oregon volcano 1 2 3 4 IS 7 e s 9 10 a 12
40 Actor __Ray -
known for macho 13 1411
rles
43 Crystal gazer 17 1a 19
44 Gridiron VIP, o 21 a 2
slangily
48 Hot dog 24 2 27
50 Battleship letters2
52 Cintionati player
5t3Doesn'tgive in 31 30 a334 35 3
56 Hard of heart
57 Bank acct.entry 37 a 39
58 Lynda Bird's so am 42 3 a 5 a Or
married name
59 Orbital extreme as a 0 51 on
61 Olympus rival
63 This puzzle's title5
65 Banks a.k.a. "Mr. so8
Cab"
66 Rebs' foes 1 t2
67 Teresa's "that"
68 Flippered
mammal as 6 m
69 H-bomb trial, e.g.
70 D.C. VlP By EdoSessa
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Deadline for line ads is 11:3
Rates: $4.30 per line for
additional consecutive iss
contact our staff for detail
ads are placed in person
business ads only) Al ad
have been established *V
Discover, cash, or checko
of our Account Executive
I1day
2 lines 8.60
3 lines 12.90
4 lines 17.20
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbre
TMD for failure to publish an advertise
shall be limited topubi shing in a subs
will be responsible for classified adver
Rates: All changes shown on the op
consecutive rate if requested and pai
Advertisers maycancel an ad before
been published. Refusal: All ads are
resale of tickets at more than face val
accepting advertising.

l0am one business day prior to publication. Classification:
010 - LostFound
the first issue and $2.15 per linefor each 020 - For Sale
ue. Frequency and Bulk contracts are available- 025 - Parking
Is* Students may receive a 25% discount when 0300- Automotive
with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non- 040 - Computers
s must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
045 - Technology
We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
'For Classified Display advertising, please call one 050 - Furniture
060 -For Rent
070- Sublet
2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 080 - Services
12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80 090 - Help Wanted
19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70 093 - Summer Employment
25.80 39.40 43.00 51.60 095 - Child Care
100 - Tickets"& Travel
120 - Announcements
viations as defined by TMD will be accepted. Misprints: The liability of
ment for any reason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue 123 - Websites
equent issue and not more than the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD 125 - Music
tisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of publication.
yen rates lnes are consecutive insertions. An admay be extended ata 130 - Roommates
d in ful by11:30 am on originally scheduled ending date. Refunds: 140 - Food & Entertainment
publication deadline, but no refund wll be given unless the ad has not yet
subject to editing and approval. We do not publish advertisements for 150 - Personal
ue. TMD reserves the right to request samples of mail order items prior to 160-Pets

6
6

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

N ew s Wednesday, March 18, 2009 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom INC\X7S Wednesday, March 18,2009 - 7A

ENDOWMENT
From Page 1A
country's policies.
The University of Michigan was
one of the schools to divest, pulling
its investments in the late 1970s.
More than 20 years later, in 1999,
many in the University community
voiced concerns over the endow-
ment's investments in tobacco
manufacturing and tobacco-related
companies. In response, a tempo-
rary committee of faculty, staff,
students and alumni, the Ad Hoc
Advisory Committee on Tobacco
Investments, was created to assess
whether the endowment's tobacco-
related investments were irreconcil-
able with the University's teaching,
research and service missions.
The ad hoc committee ultimate-
ly recommended to the Univer-
sity Board of Regents to "sell all of
the University's currently owned
shares of stock (and not to purchase
any new shares) in companies that,
either themselves or through their
subsidiaries, manufacture sig-
nificant quantities of cigarettes or
other tobacco products," the Uni-
versity Record reported.
Soon after, then-Chief Financial
Officer Robert Kasdin instructed

behalf of the University as a share-
holder, can voice their opinion is
through proxy voting - or voting on
resolutionsintroducedbysharehold-
ers on issues of concern - without
having to attend actual shareholder
meetings. That means the Univer-
sity could still vote on issues relating
to a company located in Hong Kong
or Moscow using the proxy votes it
receives as a shareholder.
Because outside investment
managers make the actual invest-
ment transactions for the Univer-
sity, those outside groups are the
ones dealing with proxy votes for
the companies in which the Univer-
sity's endowment is invested. Even
then, the University could still have
a voice in the governance and poli-
cies of these companies by instruct-
ing its outside managers to vote
certain ways on different issues.
Rightnow,theUniversitydelegates
its proxy voting authority to its out-
side managers and gives them writ-
ten directives on how to vote on proxy
resolutions pertaining to broader
issues like anti-takeover measures,
preserving "one-share, one-vote"
standards and dealing with proposed
mergers and acquisitions.
But in proxy votes concerning
social and political issues, the Uni-
versity instructs all of its outside

Business and the School of Natural
Resources and the Environment.
Peterson said he believes that
instituting an advisory committee
makes sense from a business stand-
point, because it urges companies
in which the endowment is invest-
ed to be more transparent about
their practices, like releasing infor-
mation on a company's emissions or
environmental impact.
An advisory committee could also
signal to companies and corporation
specific issues of concern to the Uni-
versity, Peterson said, while also pro-
viding students with the opportunity
to learn about issues of shareholder
responsibility and proxy voting.
A number of other major colleges
and universities have similar share-
holder responsibility advisory com-
mittees, according to data from the
Sustainable Endowments Institute.
Columbia University's Advisory
Committee on Socially Respon-
sible Investing makes proxy voting
recommendations to the school's
Board of Trustees and hosts an
annual meeting at which the uni-
versity community can express its
opinions on issues concerning the
committee. Harvard University has
two such committees: The Corpo-
ration Committee on Shareholder
Responsibility and the Advisory
Committee on Shareholder Respon-
sibility, a committee that includes
students, faculty and alumni.
SUBSTANCE OR SYMBOLISM?
Whether shareholder activism
through proxy voting actually has
any impact is unclear.
As Business School Prof. Gerald
Davis explained, shareholder votes
are advisory, meaning a company's
leadership can legally ignore the
results of those votes.
"To be brutally frank,"Davis said,
"shareholder votes are mostly sym-
bolic and have no real effect on what
companies do. That and the Univer-
sity is too small to be a significant
shareholder in any company."
Davis cited a case from the 1990s
in which restaurant chain Cracker
Barrel Old Country Stores Inc. insti-
tuted a policy saying that it refused
to employ workers "whose sexual
preferences fail to demonstrate nor-
mal heterosexual values." The com-
pany subsequently fired multiple gay
employees, according to a 2002 jour-
nal article co-authoredby Davis.
Despite a proxy proposal sub-
mitted by one of the company's
institutional investors saying
Cracker Barrel Old Country Stores
should prohibit discrimination on
the basis of sexual orientation, the
company downplayed the proposal
and tried to prevent shareholders
from voting on it. After multiple
years of fighting over whether to
hold a shareholder vote on the pro-
posal, Cracker Barrel's sharehold-
ers finally did, with a vast majority
opposing the proposal and uphold-
ing the existing policy.
Davis added, however, that he

believes shareholder voting can have
a symbolic importance on the part of
the University, and that a permanent
shareholder responsibility advisory
committee could be beneficial.
"The final product of how (the
University will) vote won't make
much difference," he said, "but the
process of deciding what is proper
standard for corporate behavior,
that could be illuminating."
Morgan Simon, the executive
director the Responsible Endow-
ments Coalition, a nationwide
network of students, faculty and
alumni committed to promot-
ing socially and environmentally
responsible endowment investing,
said she believes shareholder
responsibility advisory committees
can exert influence both on campus
and in the boardroom.
"Overall, we see that these advi-
sorycommittees are win-win situa-
tions for the universities protecting
their investments; it's a way of put-
ting money toward proactive use in
society; and it helps corporations
move in right direction," she said.
Simon added that her organi-
zation has helped to start similar
advisory committees at schools like
Columbia University and Amherst
College, and is advising the Univer-
sity of Michigan students currently
advocating for an advisory commit-
tee here in Ann Arbor.
In addition to shareholder voting,
investors are increasingly bypass-
ing the shareholder voting pro-
cess and exerting direct pressure
on executive managers to address
social, political and environmental
issues and policies.
Toffel, of the Harvard Business
School, and Harvard BusinessSchool
doctoral student Erin Reid have
described in a recent working paper
among other findings that sharehold-
ers are successfully pushing compa-
nies in which they invest to provide
more information on emissions and
other environmental issues without
usingshareholder votes.
"Some activist shareholders,"
they write, "have begun bypassing
the formal process of shareholder
resolutions, which are formally
addressed to fellow shareholders
and members of boards of direc-
tors, by directly requesting execu-
tive managers to provide more
information about corporation
social actions."
On Thursday, University grad-
uate student Peterson will be
presenting the student group's pro-
posal for a shareholders responsi-
bility advisory committee to the
Board of Regents during the "Pub-
lic Comments" section at their
monthly meeting.
Ultimately, he said that even
though numerous other colleges and
universities have similar advisory
committees, the value of having a
similar committee at the University
of Michigan is important.
"I think that our goal is to really
make the case for it on its merits,"
he said. "It's worth doing."

Facing bankruptcy,
GM could liquidate

CEO says prolonged
bankruptcy would
scare away customers
DETROIT (AP) - If General
Motors Corp. were forced into
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection,
the company would end up being
liquidated because a long bank-
ruptcy would scare customers
away, Chief Executive Rick Wag-
oner said yesterday.
Speaking at a breakfast in
Washington, D.C., Wagoner said
restructuring the company out of
court would accomplish 99 per-
cent of what could be achieved in
bankruptcy, but without the risk
of losing customers or the huge
expense of Chapter 1L

Wagoner's statements came
as members of President Barack
Obama's auto task force told
Michigan lawmakers they would
signal next week what direction
they plan to take to restructure
GM and Chrysler LLC.
Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., who
met with members of the panel on
Capitol Hill, said they would make
"a significant statement" by the
end of next week on the restruc-
turing. Levin said it would not be
definitive but would show "the
direction that it needs to go."
Rep. Sander Levin, D-Mich., the
senator's older brother, said the
task force made clear they expect to
present a "framework" that would
take into account the companies,
their debtholders,suppliersand the
United Auto Workers union.


BAYDOUN
From Page 1A
ate a closer relationship with Uni-
versity administrators.
Baydoun said he plans on
"meeting with the administra-
tion, challenging the admin-
istration, working around the
administration, working with the
administration and having solid
plans and backup plans to really
tackle these tough issues."

Largely responsible for plan-
ning this year's "Go Blue, Live
Green" homecoming campaign,
Baydoun said he would like to
involve more students in activi-
ties on campus - including MSA.
"I envision an assembly that is
mobilized and that is in touch with
students, that students can really
believe in and that really is able to
go to bat and knows what's going
on and is really able to fight for stu-
dents in a way that has never been
seen before on campus," he said.


the University's investors to sell
all stock holdings pertaining to the
tobacco-related investments within
the next 10 months.
One of the only major divestment
campaigns since then came in 2006
when a group of University students
called on University officials to
investigate the possibility of divest-
ing from any investments with
companies doing business in Israel.
There was no official action on the
part of the University and its inves-
tors in response to this campaign.
SPEAKING UP AS
A SHAREHOLDER
Divestment is one of the more
severe forms ofshareholder activism.
Indeed, there are other ways the
University, as a shareholder, can
speak out about how the companies
in which it is invested operate and
can weigh in on issues of social,
ethical and even environmental
responsibility as they arise within
each company.
One of the main ways Univer-
sity officials and investors, acting on

managers to not vote at all and not
voice the University's position on
such issues, according to a Univer-
sity policy approved by the Board of
Regents in December 1994.
A MORE CONSCIOUS VOICE
A group of University students,
however, wants to change that.
These students want to create a
permanent University shareholder
responsibility advisory committee
that would evaluate proxy resolu-
tions coming from companies in
which the endowment is invested.
The committee would then advise
University officials and outside
investment managers on how to
vote on those resolutions..
So rather than abstaining from
proxy votes involving social and
political issues, the University
could have much more of a voice as
a shareholder.
"We're not advocating for the
University to file proxy resolutions,
but advocating that they vote on
them," said Arthur Peterson, a grad-
uate student in the Ross School of

MAHANTI
From Page 1A
11 candidates out of the 35 they
interviewed, leaving some repre-
sentative positions open.
"These were the 11 that were
most qualified and most passion-
ate for student government," he
said. "And we didn't want to have
anybody else that we thought
might flake out or would not be
effective."
Mahanti said MVP is also try-
ing to involve more perspectives
fromstudents notinvolved in MSA

in its approach to student govern-
ment. MVP has been approaching
students directly to ask them what
their vision for MSA is, he said.
"We've gotten a lot of informa-
tion about where people stand on
the issues, and we've kind of cul-
tivated our platform around those
issues," Mahanti said. "And we
think that we can really deliver on
them later on."
In addition to being an MSA
representative, Mahanti has taken
part in Dance Marathon, MPow-
ered, Michigan Pops and was a site
leader for an Alternative Spring
Break trip.


STENVIG
From Page 1A
education to mean more acces-
sible education for all students, for
minority students, for immigrant
students and for poor and working
class students."
DAAP formed in 1997 in
response to the affirmative action
cases that were brought against
the University around the same
time. The party's website cites
the importance of maintaining a
diverse atmosphere.
"The current policies that

result in the exclusion of talented
minority, immigrant and poor and
working class students are not
only unjust, they are unviable and
harmful to the advancement of
society and human progress,"'the
website reads.
"We cannot allow so many of
America's most talented youth to
be excluded from our campuses
and denied an education because
they are black, Latina/o or poor,"
the website continues. "If we are
to advance as a society and solve
the vast problems facing human-
ity. We cannot simply afford to
throw away talent and potential."


the michigan daily
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & OPPEN
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C, still has h
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735. for Fall '0
ing bon
4 Bedroom
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime 816 Brook
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo. 1803 Hill
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com 506 W Wi
5 Bedroom
401 Lawr
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully bath. $287
furnished, lg modern kitchen, covered 401 Lar
porch & much more. 741-9300. bath. $29
www.annarborapartments.net 6 Bedroom
416 Hami
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com- 1803 Hill
plex. 2 bath, A/C, ldry, prkg, fireplace, All util p
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo- 203Koch.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com Please Co
www.appe
!!EFFICIENCY! w
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin- WW
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405. 1 & 2 b
5 min. wal

'HEIMER PROPERTIES
ouses and large apts. for rent
9. Offering $500-$1000 sign-
us for available properties!
wood. $2700 + util.
St. 1.5 bath. $2650. Util. incl.
lliams. 2 bath. $2100 + util.
ence Unit 2. Kerrytown. 2
5 + electric.
ence Unit 3. Kerrytown. 2
0 + gas and electric.
ilton Place. 3 bath. Occ. 8.
. bath. $3100 + util.
SA Unit 2. Bi-level. 1.5 bath.
aid. May Lease. $3300
2 bath. $2450 + util.
ntact 734-995-5575 or
enheimerproperties.com
W.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
drm., modern, clean, quiet
k, MED, DENT, and Campus

OLD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St. U
(734) 663-8989
www.oldtownrealty.net
Houses Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House FREE SUBLET FINDER. studio-3
428 Hamilton Pl. $4,400 bedrooms; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
7 Bedroom Houses www.annarborapartments.net
406 E. Jefferson $3,850
1220 Prospect $3,850 MAY - AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
334 Catherine $3,850 bdrm 2-3 ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
6 Bedrom House fully furn. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
952 Greenwood $3,600 cation for central campus right near bus
(May or Fall Lease) stop. 513-315-6273. estesb@umich.edu
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300 -r -
942 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2.995_

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
_ |want ed
!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude, Victoria's S type lingerie
photography. Flexible hrs, great pay.
Must be 18. For interview call: 734-
678-4181 or emal photo to:
georgedl@provide.net
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
GRILL SERVERS WANTED. Stone-
bridge Golf Club, A2. Apr. through
Oct. Call 734-429-8383.
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, MI. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pre-gradu-
ate student takingda year off between
undergraduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript to cambedu@aol.com
GET PAID CASH for taking online
surveys. www.cashtopsend.com
PRO SHOP WORKERS needed. Golf
knowledge required. Stonebridge Golf
Club, Ann Arbor. April through Oct.
Call 734-429-8383.

SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
SEASONAL GROUNDS CREW
workers needed for Stonebridge Golf
Club, Ann Arbor. April-Sept. Call 734-
323-8790.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted mealsavail-
able. Call Ryan 1(800)626-6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

For Thursday, March 19, 2009
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
You might be involved in something
secretive or very private today. You're
working behind the scenes or doing
something on your own. Whatever it is,
you'll get alot done!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Your efforts in any kind of group
dynamic today will be successful. Enjoy
classes, conferences, conventions, meet-
ings or even casual get-togethers. You
rock!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Your ambition is strong today. Don't
be afraid to go after what you want,
because you'll probably get it. You're
keen to make improvements somewhere.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Today you can come up with better
ideas about travel or higher education.
You're keen to explore new avenues and
adventures, and now you can see a better
way to do it. Yay!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
You want to do something to improve
yourself, especially with respect to how
you handle shared property, taxes, debt
and a lot of red-tape stuff. In other
words, you want to clean up your act.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
New approaches to collaborations or
partnerships with others are on your
mind today. You want to improve your
level of cooperation with others. And
vice versa.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Your ideas about how to make
improvements at work are probably
excellent. Don't be afraid to suggest
something. Similarly, you might

improve your health today as well.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Sports, playful activities, social diver-
sions, show business and fun times with
children will delight you today. You've
got energy to burn, and you're looking
for a better way to do things.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
You can accomplish a great deal at
home today. Renovations, home
improvements and family gatherings
will be productive and certainly worth
your efforts.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Your communication skills are hot
today. You can sell, market, teach, act
and persuade anyone to do anything.
Who could resist you?
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Trust your moneymaking ideas. You
also might have great cost-cutting sug-
gestions for your family or where you
work. (Let's hope others listen to you.)
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You're prepared to work very eagerly
for your goals today. You've got the
energy, motivation and follow-through
necessary to do a great job. This is also a
good day for physical workouts or any
attempt to improve your body strength.
YOU BORN TODAY You're amaz-
ingly persevering, often to the point of
being a perfectionist. You work hard,
and you set high standards for yourself.
Personally, you have much charm and
grace. You have big visions, and you're
confident about making them a reality.
You're a hard-nosed, realistic dreamer.
Your year ahead is full of fun, social
activities and warm relationships.
Birthdate of: Wyatt Earp, 19th-century
gunfighter; James Redfield, author;
Bruce Willis, actor.


0

FREE WORKSHOP. FRIDAY,
March 20th, 4 to 6pm. U of M Michi-
gan League Kalamazoo Room. Dream
Experts share their secrets.
www.TrustYourselft s
"The Dream Team" gives a powerful
and entertaining interview! The phone
lines were jammed! Lila Lazarus
FOX2 Topics include: A dream
technique to overcome in-somnia &
anxiety - No RX. Nightmares are good
for you! 3 steps to make the right
choice. Featured on A&E, E! VHL.
pe r sonl
A BABY IS OUR DREAM.
Help fill our home with laughter and
love! We are young, happily married &
hoping to be parents. We care about
you, please call us anytime. Toll free
(877) 533-3817. Erin and Tim.

Offering a $500.00 gift card to a store
of your choice with every signed lease
I of these available houses!!
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios to 6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.

DELICIOUS TREATS
DELIVERED - To order visit
home.comcast.net/-sweetswithlove/site
NEED HELP WITH programming in
MATLAB and STATA. Will pay if I
can afford your rates. Please write to
sarkar.vanorder@gmail.com.

0 2009King Features Syndicate, Inc.


8A - Wednesday, March 18, 2009T nd

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


0

0

I

S"OCKEY
Rust's resurgence
bolsters second line
By GJON JUNCAJ tion of both me being so bad, you
Daily Sports Writer couldn't possibly get any worse,
and me getting a little bit more
During the past 10 weeks, soph- confidence," Rust said. "Normally,
omore Matt Rust has been the you go (to World Juniors) and you
exception to a strange rule. play the best-of-the-best talent....
When the center on the Michi- I thought I got my scoring touch
gan hockey team joined Team USA back over there, and was able to
in December for the 2009 World carry it over here."
Junior Championships in Ottawa, Rust's resurrected offensive
Ont., he was stuck in the worst output has been linked to marked
slump of his collegiate career. improvement in the circles. Rust
In his 13 games prior to the has won a stellar 54.7 percent of
international tournament, Rust his drawsathis semester, something
had managed just two points, both he attributes to sharper focus, bet-
assists. ter luck and his linemates reaching
His offensive rut stemmed in in for pucks that result in a faceoff
part from struggles in the faceoff win.
circle, where the Bloomfield Hills Whatever the reason, Rust is
native was converting an uninspir- defined as an offensive player by
ing 48 percent of his draws. his success on the draw.
In theory, taking a temporary "If you're stealing some points
leavefromDivision-Ihockeywould and some goals, and you're not
serve as a nice mental refresher. playing well (overall), then you're
But Michigan coach Red Berenson really kidding yourself," Berenson
said he has seen plenty of players said. "That's like winning games
leave for the World Junior Cham- you don't deserve to win. Pretty
pionships during winter break and soon, that'll catch up with you. My
come back with bad experiences, whole thing with Rust was getting
which can carry over once the sec- him to play harder and to be more
ond semester begins. prepared every night to play well,
But in Rust's case, the tourna- and to keep it simple."
ment jump-started one of Michi- Rust's offense has been given
gan's most impressive second-half a huge lift by sophomore wingers
performances. In eightgames with Carl Hagelin and Aaron Palushaj,
Team USA, including two exhibi- who also played alongside Rust last
tions, Rust notched four goals and year. The three were reunited Jan.
four assists. 23 against Michigan State, and the
And Rust brought the surpris- line has since tallied a combined 19
ing offensive success back to Ann goals and 29 assists in 14 games. Of
Arbor with him. In 17 games this those totals, Rust is responsible for
semester, Rust has scored nine eight markers and four assists. He
goals and five assists. attributes those stats to the line's
His 14 points since January are chemistry that has developed over
tied for third-highest on the team the last two seasons.
in that span, and he's currently "Them knowing the type of
in the middle of a four-game goal player I am, it makes things a lot
streak. easier," Rust said. "I can have my
Rust said his 180-degree turn head down and pretty much know
for the better was inevitable. where both of them are on the
"I think it was a combina- ice."
Medical School
Information Fair
TODAY!
3-6pm at The Michigan Union
Meet informally with M.D. and D.O.
medical school representtaives
Lemn about MD-Ph.D poramis
Explore post-baccalaureate and special
masters progrlams
Visit our website for a list of schools
r, schedudc ito attend
Pecaus...one day oan make all the dferene!
Fmare inforatin ontact w at:
3200 sa
(7 )7 44eCareerCente

AS'


Strong pitching and defense key
in Wolverines' blowout of Eagles
By TIM ROHAN. performance was good enough to of the game. Cislo finished 3-for-5 defensive plays behind Sinnery
Daily Sports Writer record his first collegiate victory. with two runs batted in and three which saved several Eagle runs
Eastern Michigan freshman runs scored. from scoring.
YPSILANTI - The Michigan pitcher Jordan Glover's day would "It was good to get that (big In the second inning, sopho-
baseball team powered its way be much shorter as he worked inning) so that everybody could more shortstop Anthony Toth
through its game against East- less than three innings and was feel good again, because we didn't made a backhanded grab on a
ern Michigan in more ways than charged with all eight of the Wol- really feel good this past week- sharply hit groundball head-
one yesterday afternoon. An 11-3 verines' third-inning runs (six end," Maloney said. ing away from second base. Toth
win is impressive, but the devel- earned). Sinnery continued to remain in jumped and made a quick throw
opment of a few pitchers could Michigan ended the game with control even though Eastern was to second base to save a run.
pay dividends for the Wolverines junior first baseman and reliever getting on base. After a leadoff "The defense has to be a staple
down the line. Mike Dufek on the mound. Malo- single in the bottom of the third, for us," Maloney said. "Reality is,
This season, Michigan expects ney said he was glad to give Dufek Sinnery turned and picked off the we got to play good defense, and
to be guided by its starting rota- some work and liked how hard he Eastern Michigan base runner. we got to pitch well. And today,
tion. But it might be a freshman was throwing, but admitted the But in the fourth inning, Sinnery's we did those two things."
and a newly converted relief junior wasn't as crisp as Maloney control faltered. After allowing a Bouncing back with a win after
pitcher who make a surprising would have liked. Dufek allowed a one-out double, he hit the next last weekend's disappointment
impact. single and walk to start the inning batter. A single and a sacrifice fly was important for the Wolver-
The Wolverines (11-5) won eas- before striking out the next three later, Eastern had two runs on the ines. But Sinnery's performance
ily at Eastern Michigan's Oestrike batters to close out the game. board. might have been just as important
Stadium, sparked by an eight-run Last Saturday, Michigan was Sinnery said he had been work- as Michigan looks for its first-year
third inning. the victim of a six-run third ing on his changeup recently, and players to continue to improve
The matchup featured two inning against Arizona in the it seemed to be keeping batters off and settle into a starting role.
freshman starting pitchers. In midst of being swept by the Wild- balance after he threw his fast- "I thought Brandon Sinnery
five innings, Michigan's freshman cats in the three-game series. On ball. was excellent today, which was
starter Brandon Sinnery allowed Tuesday, the Wolverines had a big "It was nice to have three pitch- very encouraging," Maloney said.
just two runs and struck out three third inning of their own. es today instead of just (being) "Because we think he is a guy that
batters, even though he had base In the third inning, senior tri- dominant with slider and fast- can really help us, and might have
runners threatening in scoring captain Kevin Cislo had two dou- ball," Sinnery said. to do it sooner than later. ... We
position throughout the game. His bles off of Glover to chase him out The Wolverines made solid needed that from somebody."
Bregman rehabs after two season-ending injuries

By COLT ROSENSWEIG
Daily Sports Writer
On Jan. 30, senior Scott Breg-
man stepped onto the floor exercise
in a meet for the first time in almost
10 months. His right ankle was
wrapped tightly in several layers
of tape, and his left foot bore a scar
resembling a pink centipede.
Bregman saluted, ran across the
floor, performed a perfect Arabian
double pike and stuck the landing.
The fans cheered, but his team-
mates went wild.
As if he has never left competi-
tion, Bregman flowed through the
rest of his routine, finishing with
a tiny hop on his dismount. He
earned a 14.85 score and the floor
title in his first meet back.
Behind Bregman's two minutes
of triumph were the result of nearly
two arduous years of rehab from
a pair of separate, season-ending
ankle injuries.
For Bregman, just stepping on
the floor as a competitor was a vic-
tory that went against all odds.
On Mar. 10, 2007, the then-soph-
omore landed his competition vault
short. A few days later, he stood in a
surgeon's office, waiting for a diag-
nosis that he knew might mean the
end of his career.
He had sustained a Lisfranc dis-
location in his left foot, a serious
tendon injury that usually prevents
people from ever returning to the
peak of their athletic career.
The surgeon couldn't even look
Bregman in the eye, staring at the
floor as he informed the gymnast
that he might never compete again.
Gymnastics had been central to
Bregman's life since he was a little
boy, and all of a sudden, everything
could be finished. Bregman held his
emotions back as athletic trainer
Bill Shinavier drove him from the

doctor's office to practice.
When teammate Jamie Thomp-
son asked how the appointmenthad
gone, emotions came flooding out.
"It was the first moment that I
had to really contemplate what it
would mean to me," Bregman said.
"I just broke down. It's not one of
my strongest moments. I was liter-
ally unable to form a complete sen-
tence for about 30 minutes."
His teammates soon surrounded
Bregman, offering hugs and words
of reassurance.
"I think it's harder to hear that
later (in your career)," Thompson
said. "To hear that you're just going
to have to be done, not by your own
choice, not by your own timeline,
takes a toll."
But soon after, Bregman's innate
stubbornness took over. Nobody
was going to tell him when or how
his gymnastics career would end.
He threw himself into his rehab,
and a few weeks into hisjunior sea-
son, he was back at his peak.
It was as if the injury hadn't hap-
pened.
Then came March14,2008 -just
over a year since his first injury.
At practice, Bregman decided
to perform a second, full floor rou-
tine, ending with his usual full-in
dismount, even though he was a bit
tired. His right ankle landed just
before his face hit the carpet.
"I saw his back handspring and I
knew that it wasn't good enough to
get two flips and one twist around,"
junior Evan Heiter said. "My initial
reaction was that it would be hard
for something not to be wrong."
Bregman knew he was hurt, but
he thought it was just a sprain. He
picked himself up, limped to the
training room, and almost casually,
called for Shinavier.
His ankle was broken, and his
season, once again, was over prema-

turely. And though a broken ankle
didn't seem as serious as his earlier
tendon injury, for the second time,
Bregman's career almost ended.
Though Shinavier and Breg-
man's teammates just remember
the Lawrence, Kan., native's wry
humor and determination to come
back, Bregman said he had serious
doubts.
"I just can't do this again," he
thought after learning he would
need surgery on his right ankle. He
knewexactlyhowlongand difficult
the road back would be - he'd been
there before.
"I thought a lot about not com-
ing back," Bregman said. "But the
truth of the matter is, you have to
do the rehab if you want to exist as
a human being. ... Then my body
started to feel better and better,
and I was like, 'Well, I've come this
far, so I'll give it a shot."'
Just as they'd supported him
through his first injury, Bregman's
teammates rallied around him. And
the second time around, Bregman
remembers, he milked it for all it
was worth.
"The second time, I'd be like, 'I
can't move that, so you're going to
have to,' " Bregman said. "I'd make
(Heiter) drive me. ... I could drive
with my legs trossed, but it was
really awkward, probably unsafe,
probably illegal, I'm not sure."
Sophomore Ben Baldus-Strauss,
who broke his ankle just a month
and a half after Bregman, can empa-
thize with the struggles of a come-
back.
"It's probably less than 50 per-
cent physical," Baldus-Strauss said.
"You're trapped. When you can't
walk, you're dependent on everyone
and it's mentally draining.... I don't
know where I would have gotten
the motivation to go through it all
over again."

Now, each day before practice,
Bregman arrives early and stays
late to get treatment and do main-
tenance rehab for his ankle. Not
including the time spent actually
doing gymnastics, it takes about an
hour and a half.
But Bregman knew he couldn't
ever cut corners in his rehabilita-
tion. If Shinavier thought some-
thing should be easy for Bregman,
the gymnast would convince him-
self it was. If the trainer asked him
to do more repetitions, Bregman
wouldn't protest.
"He really exemplified what
an athletic trainer expects and
hopes for from an injured ath-
lete," Shinavier said. "He was very
diligent, always willing to do more.
He worked hard, he never com-
plained."
He'll still be glad once April and
the postseason arrive without an
incident.
After joking that he'd like to
bubble wrap himself during the
second week of March, Bregman
sailed through the week with no
problems, though he did tape both
his ankles instead of just one.
On March 14, he hit his floor
routine in his final appearance at
Cliff Keen Arena. It was exactly
one year after his second injury,
and in exactly the same scenario
as his first - the Senior Night meet
against Illinois.
All through the monotonous
rehab, Bregman had motivated
himself with a mental image of
sticking those floor passes.
With his first pass against Iowa
in January, it was as if everything
had come true. And Senior Night
made it even better.
"To go out and nail it, tonail floor,
was really good," Bregman said. "It
was the moment that I'd been envi-
sioning during my rehab."

www.ca.rCMUaT.Umich.edu

MMMOiS of iStmieWtffa



0

-U-



a.

U.

4w

-W

-W

-a

I B h Mchgn aiy - dedaMrc 8 009


15 seconds of fame

was walking through the door
to Angell Hall one day a few
weeks ago as a young man and
woman walked out. With a casual
flip of his tousled hair and a con-
fident gaze through his Woody
Allen-esque glasses, he said to her,
"They told me absolutely no hipster
clothes. Nothing even resembling
hipster is allowed."
The student was talking about
the same event that lured a lot of
us who were stuck on campus dur-
ing Spring Break: the chance to be
an extra in "Betty Anne Waters," a
drama about a working mother who
earns her law degree to defend her
brother. If you were in Ann Arbor
over break, you might have noticed
the huge trailers blocking an entire
side of State Street and the fluores-
cent pink signs with bold arrows
helping the film crew navigate
campus.
I was surprised and then
intrigued by the casting e-mail for-
warded to me by my advisor in early
February. With a "why the hell
not?" attitude, I sent in my head-
shot, age and contact information.
A few weeks later, I received notice
that I had been selected to be one of
the anonymous people necessary to
produce a large-scale movie. So on
Feb. 24, I showed up for the 2 p.m.
crew call, dressed in the requisite
"90s law school attire" and ready to
be a blurry face in the background
of any scene that needed me.
Being an extra meant more to me
than the possibility of meeting the
stars of the film, two-time Acad-
emy Award winner Hilary Swank
and Emmy Award-nominated Min-
nie Driver, and I didn't harbor any
whimsical dream of being picked
out of the crowd for instant star-
dom. I simply wanted to be on the
movie set. In comparison to my
own experience working for the
student-run M-agination Films,
'89 CHAMPS
From Page 5B
The celebration at the Ohio State
game was organized by an Athletic
Department that is trying to rees-
tablish the tradition of Michigan
basketball, remind students that
losingseasons are not the norm and
encourage students to purchase
season tickets.
But last Sunday, it was a differ-

I wanted to see how bigger com-
panies make multi-million dollar
films, what equipment they use and
how the director interacts with his
crew and cast. Butmy romantic side
also knew that I just wanted to be a
part of it that exciting, mysterious
and glamorous movie industry that
has shaped so much of American
culture and my own life. I wanted
to be "in the movies".
Considering my enthusiasm, it
was a little jarring to arrive at the
crew call and find a lot of people
standing listlessly around, looking
confused and lost or gloating about
their non-hipster clothes. Having
brought a book and some snacks, I
settled in for the long haul. From
my experience with film, a ton of
set-up and technical adjustment
needs to happen before the scene is
ready to shoot. I looked around at
the rest of the extras. Some I knew
from campus, but a lot of people
seemed older than your typical
undergrad. It was strange to be in
such a familiar setting with none of
the people who made it familiar.
Our '90s garb had a strange
effect. Gone were the social cues
that allow you to judge someone
at first sight. Even though we were
only extras, we were all in on the
charade of "Betty Anne Waters."
Our appearances were no longer an
expression of ourselves but props
in the movie. We weren't people
anymore; we were little more than
"large ficus tree, stage left."
As the day wore on, a few ran-
domly selected groups were called
in to film before a vigorous shout
of "ROLLING!" would silence the
rest of us. A woman from the film
crew nicknamed Pittsburgh told
us where to go and when. The gra-
cious extra herder told us that our
complimentary lunch would be
arriving soon and expressed how
appreciative the crew was of the
ent kind of rally that united stu-
dents for the first time in years to
celebrate the basketball team.
In a moment not all that different
from the celebration after the 1989
championship, students gathered
with the team to watch the NCAA
Selection Show.
As team after team was
announced before Michigan, the
doubt of the last 11 years began to
surface.

large number of extras that came
out. Other than that, we were
left to our own quiet devices for
hours. I waited patiently with my
book, which I occasionally used as
a cover for people-watching and
eavesdropping. One girl behind me
gushed about her acting experience
- she used to do pageants and had
realized at a young age that act-
ing was her life's calling. The girl's
My big break
as Girl With
Bag in "Betty
Anne Waters"
friend listened absentmindedly
while reading for her law school
class. Another extra who had
made friends with a security guard
entertained himself by borrowing
the guard's crew ID and pretend-
ing to direct his fellow extras: "Can
you carry that notebook in your left
hand? No ... maybe the right ... No,
definitely the left. OK, yeah, that's
good. Don't mind me, guys, I'm
just looking for the right person."
Meanwhile, the clock ticked on.
Finally, at 6:30 p.m., the crew
announced they would be filming
the final scene of the day and that
anyone whohadn'tbeen in ashotyet
would be needed. I waited in line at
the exit of our holding hall. In small
groups, we filed into the lecture-
hall-turned-movie-set across the
corridor. When I entered, a man
directed me to sit in the second row.
More people filtered in and were
told to act like they were coming
to the start of class, to make small
talk as they came in and sat down.
"I was so nervous," fifth-year
senior guard David Merritt said.
"My stomach was turning over just
to think that there was a chance we
wouldn't make it."
And then Michigan's name
flashed on the screen and the Wol-
verines began dancing around the
court, exuberantly hugging one
another.
Martin called it one of the top
moments in the rebuilding of the

About 10 of the crew assembled at
the front, making adjustments here
and there, listening attentively to
director Tony Goldwyn or waiting
around until their specific job was
required.
Then, Minnie Driver walked in.
A hush settled over the lecture hall
as the brown, curly-haired actress
in a green top, black skirt and black
Uggs pranced in and sat down in
the second row (my row!). As the
crew was setting up, a man named
Nick talking to the director began
to scan the lecture hall, searching
for something. Suddenly, I was real-
ized that he was the guy who could
get me on the big screen. I started
waving at Nick and smiling uncon-
trollably, and even jumped up a lit-
tle in my seat. He continued to scan
the room until, noticing my bag, he
smiled and asked me to come up
to the front. My role was to stand
in front of Minnie Driver, looking
through my bag for "a thing," until
Hilary Swank got so far down the
aisle, which was my cue to leave the
scene.
The assistant director (or direc-
tor's assistant) asked me my name.
While he fumbled to pronounce it,
I found myself squarely in front of
Minnie Driver. With surprisingly
clear hazel eyes, she shot me a big
smile and said in a delightful Brit-
ish accent, "That's pretty, where is
your name from?" I told her I was
from India but that I used to live in
Pittsburgh. She asked if my parents
had met in America. I told her no,
they'd had an arranged marriage.
She said, "You know, I think I'd like
an arranged marriage. Two of my
best friends have an arranged mar-
riage and it's one the happiest mar-
riages I know."
I was taken aback. "Really?
You'd want an arranged marriage?"
I asked her.
"Well, after enough horrid love
basketball program. He also said
the joy of making the tournament
feels all the better after the despair
of not making the tournament for
more than a decade.
To the players on the 1989 team,
it seemed only a matter of time
before the Wolverines returned to
the Big Dance.
"Michigan has tradition, so I
always knew they would come
back, in terms of the basketball pro-

affairs, yeah, I kind of do."
"Well, my mom could probably
set you up."
"Oh, really? Well, I want an
arranged marriage with Brad Pitt!"
she said.
We talked a little more after
that, about how sometimes mar-
riage is really just the "coalescing
of resources" as it was in the case
of my parents. But something in
the way she said Brad Pitt's name
struck me. When Driver first start-
ed talking to me, it seemed to be a
very sincere interaction. But to use
such a sensational name in conver-
sation - she does not know me, I
do not know her, and I sure as hell
don't know Brad Pitt enough to use
his name on a conversational level
- it was as though she assumed I
was a starstruck Midwesterner
who adored her, Brad Pitt, Swank
and even Nick, the assistant direc-
tor. Thewayshe said "Brad Pitt" felt
so much like a show, but she obvi-
ously knew that the nature of her
work makes it necessary to uphold
a "good" public image. In the end,
though, I think the Minnie I met
was something of a mix between
kindness and pretense.
After they filmed the scene and
moved on to another one with
Swank and Driver, I was moved
frommyprimespottothesideofthe
auditorium. I watched the produc-
tion crew fiddle with equipment,
move a reflector and put the boom
in the correct place, with everyone
moving like a machine with one
mind. The girl who was now sit-
ting next to me was from Adrian, a
freshman and really, really excited
to be in the movie. I smiled, and
thought, "large ficus, stage left."
Maybe that was the case, but we
were all mostly just thrilled to be
"in the movies."
-Yasaswi Paruchuri is an LSA junior.
gram," Higgins said. "Just because
of the expectation here in the Ath-
letic Department."
And on the night of celebration,
an 18-year-old freshman looked
up in the rafters and dreamt about
having a chance of putting another
banner up there.
"It's all we've worked for," guard
Stu Douglass said. "Just to have that
chance is something I've dreamt of
all my life."


U U U w w


--IV

-w-

-6

v

w

- 3 - - : 3

Magazine Editor:
Jessica Vosgerchian
Editor in Chief:
Gary Graca
Managing Editor:
Courtney Ratkowiak
Photo Editor:
Sam Wolson
Multimedia Editor:
David Azad Merian
Junk Drawer:
Brian Tengel
Center spread design:
Lan Truong
Cover photo:
Sam Wolson
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, which is
distributed every Wednesday
during the academic year

new rules
rule 191: No
matter what,
your friend's
new haircut
is a cute new
haircut. rule
192: You don't
have to answer
the door when
your obnoxious
neighbor comes
over looking
to drink your
beer. rule 193:
If you're going
to skip class
to enjoy the
weather, don't
even bother to
e-mail your GSI
an excuse.
- E-mail rule submissions to
TheStatementumich.edu

Seduiction 101
No post-graduation plans? A University alum thinks you should attend his charm school
By Stephen Ostrowski ( Daily Staff Writer

WHO'S YOUR NOMINEE
FOR STUDENT OF THE YEAR?
The Michigan Daily is looking for nominations for the Students of the Year edition of
The Statement, which will feature people from every corner of campus whose personal
achievements or contributions to the community deserve special recognition.
Please e-mail vosgerchian@michigandaily.com with a description of the nominee's
accomplishments along with the student's full name, e-mail address, college and year.
DEADLINE: MARCH 25

W ith Tila Tequila booze-
hounding on MTV, Bret
Michaels collecting groupies on
VH1 (along with, most likely, the
occasional venereal disease) and
Flavor Flav all but putting Solo-
mon's Biblical harem to shame on
"Flavor of Love," it would seem as if
the adage "chivalry is dead" hardly
stands upon skanky - er, shaky -
ground.
But if cable television has killed
chivalry, Jordan Harbinger plans to
bring it back - and then some.
The 29-year-old Michigan Law
School alum is one of the found-
ers of The Art Of Charm, a New
York-based program claiming to be,
as described on its website, "The
World's Authority on Dating and
Relationships". That's a rather bold
statement, but the company has
some credentials to back itup.With a
bevy of popular programs and semi-
nars, a Sirius satellite show reaching
24 million listeners and a clientele
that Harbinger said includes Aber-
crombie models, a millionaire and
gold-medal-winning Olympians,
The Art Of Charm seems to be doing
something right.
The "charm school" - or at least
the first inkling of it - originated
in Ann Arbor. While in law school,
Harbinger realized that the major-
ity of his acquaintances didn't nec-
essarily make friends out of choice
but rather out of circumstance
- they formed "proximity-based"
relationships with other students in
his classes.
From here, the first cogs of The
Art Of Charm were set into motion.
"There'sgottobeasciencebehind
this," Harbinger said. "There's got to
be a science behind meeting people
and gettingthem to like you."
Looking online, Harbinger stum-
bled upon a self-described "under-
ground community of guys" trying
to figure out the "science" of attrac-
tion. Citing Neil Strauss's pickup
manifesto "The Game" as an impe-
tus, Harbinger began to apply his
research to his own interactions

with women. Soon after, Harbin-
ger recruited friend and soon-to-be
business partner AJ Kaczorowski
in an effort to refine their charisma
into a science. Harbinger and Kac-
zorowski featured their findings on
their podcast show "Pickup Pod-
cast".
"People started asking us, 'Hey
man, can you teach me this in per-

... that type of advice is ineffective,"
Harbinger said.
The self-promoted master
charmer knocked the aforemen-
tioned motherly advice, which he
said hides one's "true self" from a
woman and consequently leads to a
shaky relationship.
"It's not just keeping the girl
interested and reeled into you, it's

times more perceptive than males,
and consequently, poor body lan-
guage from men alerts women of
uneasiness.
"If I can teach you how to com-
municate that (self) value to other
people more effectively, and -to
check in with those people to see if
they are actually on the same page
as you, that's going to fix your inse-

Art Of Charm sort of comes off like
a "get chicks quick" scheme aimed
at gullible shy guys.
"I don't think charm is some-
thing you can be taught, no matter
how much money you put out," LSA
sophomore Jamila Sharif said. "It's
something you're born with."
Students of The Art Of Charm
pony up a considerable sum of
money for supposed social enlight-
enment. While "Get Her Number"
seminars start at $97 (as listed on
theartofcharm.com), the One-Week
Live-In Program, which invites cli-
ents to "live the charismatic lifestyle
with all of the executive coaches at
The Art Of Charm New York City
Headquarters," comes at a cool
$3,997. Admittedly, the program's
premise is unique, but should top
dollar be spent to essentially learn
romance?
"I don't know if I would respect
(a male client) any less," LSA
sophomore Melissa Brown said. "I
would just hope we connected on
some other level than just what he
learned."
Sharif, though, finds the whole
idea of a charm school-trained lover
creepy.
"Some women would be happy
with a guy who got trained to be
the way he is," she said. "But I just
wouldn't."
Perhaps most disturbing is the
website's promotion of the "Win-
dow Shopping for Women eBook,"
which teaches Internet users how
to set up their Myspace or Face-
book profiles to catch a woman's
attention - which the website says
allows clients "to meet tons of high
quality women from the comfort of
your own home."
Regardless of what you think of
Harbinger's science of seduction,
you at least have to respect his confi-
dent, life-affirming philosophy that
has helped him create a successful
online business - even if he profited
off of other people's insecurities.
"Go for what you want," Harbin-
ger said. "And take it to the max."

son? The podcast changed my whole
life,' " said Harbinger of the pod-
cast's initial success.
As a lawyer on Wall Street, how-
ever, Harbinger hardly had time to
branch out beyond the radio waves.
Harbinger reeled in two relationship
coaches he had met through work,
and combining his system with
theirs, cultivated the rapid growth
of a popular coaching business.
The Art Of Charm, simply put,
stems from unconventional - and,
some mightsay, brash - wisdom.
"If you ask your mom - which
you probably never do - how you
would meet women, she's going to
tell you to justbe yourself, be nice to
the woman, buy her some chocolate

about understanding what moti-
vates people at a primal level," Har-
binger said. Armed with a team of
"highly trained social dynamists
and psychologists," Harbinger and
his company have analyzed many
types of human interaction to see
which types of relationships are
most likely to succeed.
According to Harbinger, The Art
Of Charm "fixes people's insecu-
rities at core levels". This leads to
higher confidence and better com-
munication, two intangibles that
greatly factor into the success of
relationships. The program's cur-
riculum, for example, stresses the
importance of body language. Har-
binger said women are five to ten

curity," Harbinger said. "So instead
of giving you a fish so you can eat for
a day, we teach you how to fish so
you can eat for the rest of your life."
As expected, The Art of Charm is
not without criticism - but despite
what one might expect, it's not from
the women who are the target of
pursuit, Harbinger said.
"It's from guys who don't want
to admit to themselves they can
change," he said.
Still, one cannot help but wonder
whether social interaction can real-
ly be boiled down to a science. With
a website advertising programs
called things like "Get Her Num-
ber," "Three-Day Boot Camp" and
"One-Week Live-In Program", The


Vol*,


fillw- - - 1- 11 -- - - - Amor- - -ww.

IRW

v

w

w

v

0

6B Te ihia Diy enedyM rc .8,20

Wednesday, 2009- The Michigan Dail

m " V.
i

ABOUT CAMPUS

t'..A
C . - ' -_ -

> -
_


QUOTES OF THE WEEK
Are you ready to get on
the Purim party bus?"
- SAADYA NOTIK, a 25-year-old rabbi from
the Chabad-Lubavitch movement, shouting to
women from Mount Holyoke College to join
in a mobile celebration of the Jewish holiday
Purim. In an effort to get students involved in
the celebration, Notik and other rabbis drove
to five Massachusetts colleges on a bus that
featured costumes, food and dancing

"I used an iron bar about
that long and about as thick
as my big toe."
- HIM HUY, a 53-year-old Cambodian man on
trial for his role in the Khmer Rouge killings from
1975 to 1979, explaining his duties as a guard
and executioner at the Tuol Sleng Torture facility
in Cambodia. Under the threat of death, he was
forced to swing an iron bar at the back of kneeling
prisoners' heads, prompting them to fall forward
dead into the mass graves


i

ILL..TRATION. BY JOHN O.UIT

I drunk I'm not
swear, Proseffor
Buzzed in class: a time-
honored St. Pat's tradition
Almost every year, there is a push
to move the celebration of St. Pat-
rick's Day to the weekend, eliminat-
ing the inherent conflict between
"workday" and "drunk all day".
Last year, the Irish Catholic
Church switched the date of St. Pat-
rick's Day to Saturday, March 15 so
that the national saint day wouldn't
interfere with the first day of Holy
Week. The injunction manifested
on campus as two separate, equally
riotous holidays.
It goes to show that you can't
move St. Patrick's Day - for many
students, the Saturday before a
weekday St. Pat's is only St. Practice
Day.
This, of course, leads to the issue
of how to treat the school day. Some
students just decide to blow off
class. But others think, why take
an absence just for being a little
sauced? And besides, that pitcher of
green beer from Charlie's might be
just what they need to finally pon-
tificate their thoughts in discussion.
It's perhaps not the best idea, but
evidently a popular one.
Business school senior Brandon,
who asked that only his first name
be used, said that he and his friends
would probably hit the bars around
8 a.m.this Tuesday and thensplitup
to P- n eac .HPaid ~anin. rdrunk

to class hasbeen an annual tradition
that started his first year on cam-
pus.
"It was a Friday," Brandon said of
St. Patrick's Day his freshman year.
"Half the class was drunk. I mean
they were wearingbeads, they were
wearing St. Patrick's Day stuff. You
could just tell when someone was
drunk. They weren't sober - I'll tell
you that much. Teachers expect it,
though, so it's not that big a deal."
Whether lecturers expect it or
not is questionable. Most instruc-
tors interviewed for this article said
that they never notice a difference in
their students or that all they notice
is a dip in attendance.
But an LSA lecturer, who asked
for anonymity because he is up for
review, had an experience on St.
Patrick's Day two years ago that he
couldn't ignore. One student in his
8:30 a.m. American Culture seminar
drunk dialed him - duringthe class
- and told him to bring the other
students to Ashley's to meet her.
Weekday St. Patrick's Day cel-
ebrations are generally more dis-
creetthan theirboisterous weekend
counterparts. And considering
some of last Saturday's St. Practice
Day festivities, that's sure to be the
case last year.
Anyone who walked past many
of the University's fraternity hous-
es on Saturday likely saw the entire
brotherhood, along with their many
friends, keeping the green-adorned
pseudo-holiday in full throttle
- like Chi Psi, which roasted a
luo-nmind nip ;+n ts nA 'c frn+t

, vAoYv'

TALKING
POINTS
Three things you can talk about this week:
1. American International Group
2. Negotiations with the Taliban
3. The Forbes drug lord

"He was almost speaking metaphorically."
- CLIFFORD RUSSELL, a spokesman for Detroit mayoral candidate Dave Bing, defending Bing's
recent admission that he lied about having attained an MBA. Russell said that Bing felt as if he had
earned the degree based on his knowledge of business and the "hard knocks" he has endured

4r . r
v
w .

And three things you can't:
1. Earmarks
2. Twitter-esque Facebook
3. "American Idol" being fixed

YOUTUBE
VIDEO OF
THE WEEK
Creative dissent
With nearly 1.4 million viewers
and a story about it on the front page
of The New York Times, this video
about the mythical grass-mud horse
in China has made some big waves.
With a joyful chorus of children
singing in the background, the video
tells the seemingly innocuous story
of the grass-mud horses, which
resemble alpacas, and their quest to
defend their grassland from the dan-
gerous river crabs. The grass-mud
horses eventually triumph and their
grassland is saved from destruction.
Harmless enough, right?
Well, not exactly. As the captions
on the screen inform us, some of the
words or phrases in the video sound
very much like obscenities in Chi-
nese. For example, grass-mud horse
sounds like "fuck your mother". The
grassland, Ma Le Desert, sounds an
awful lot like "your mother's vagina".
And "river crabs" sounds like both
"censorship" and "harmony".
With this translation, the story
reads a bit differently: "Fuck your
mother" has defeated "censorship"
and "harmony" in order to preserve
"your mother's vagina".
Given its new meaning, the video
becomes a direct rebuke of the Chi-
nese government's repressive cen-
sorship. Constraints foster creativity,
right?

lawn on State Street.
Tuesday, meanwhile, revolved
around bars like Mitch's, Charley's
and Ashley's that opened extraearly
to accommodate the college crowd
before classes began. For many stu-
dents, it was the one day of the year
to get up early - they made sure to
have time to catch a good buzz so
they could spend the rest of the day
in a celebratory haze, decked all in
green and skating through class
happily and imperceptibly drunk.
Ofcourse,eachyear, some aren't
so inconspicuous.
When he was an LSA junior,

Vinny, a law student who asked not
to be identified, made a scene in his
English class - and not just because
he came in wearing green glow
sticks.
"My phone was on ringer, which
I didn't know, and in front of my
15-person discussion, it was just
going off and I had no clue that it
was my phone," he said. "I kept
looking around. The girl next to me
kept like kicking me and looking at
me. Finally, I realized that it was my
phone."
Vinny tried to play it off
like he hadn't been celebrating

ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAVOGLIA
before class. It was unsuccessful.
"I used the word convoluted - it's
a good English word whenever you
have nothing to say - and the GSI
quickly passed over me," he said,
Perhaps LSA senior Chris Orrhas
a better approach. Like Vinny, Orr
started drinking early and took a
few Nalgene bottles filled with Kil-
lian's Irish Red to class just to "keep
the buzz going." Orr gets regularly
bored in class on St. Patrick's Day.
"Generally most of the classes
on St. Patrick's Day I leave half-
way through," Orr said. "Once I
was leaving and the teacher made a
point out of it because I was wear-
ing green."
Orr suslgts that the lecturer's
comment alluded to more than
just his festive clothes.
"I may have been wobbling a
little bit," he said.
In response, Orr just laughed
and walked out of the auditorium.
"I was in no condition to say
anything smart or have a retort
ready so I just admitted that I was
pretty much pegged - she pretty
much pegged me," he said.
-DANIEL STRAUSS

BY THE NUMBERS

Cost, in dollars, of a VIP ticket to one of Michael Jackson's
SO final concerts
Total number of tickets sold for the concerts
Number of hours it took for all the concerts to sell out
Source: CNN

THEME PARTY SUGGESTION
St. Patrick's Day detox - It's no surprise that
you're still hung over from yesterday. After all, you
probably spent all day drinking green beer and tak-
ing shots of Bailey's and Irish whiskey, Instead of sit-
ting through lecture with a throbbing headache, go
back home and relax. Put on pajamas, make a cup
of tea and and get in bed. Drink lots of water. After
replenishing, try to drift off to sleep. Then remem-
ber that you have a paper due the next day.
Throwing this party? Let us know. TheStatement@umich.edu
STUDY OF THE WEEK
Obese people as likely as heavy smokers to die early
People who are obese at age 18 are just as likely as heavy smokers to
die by age 60, according to a study recently published in the British Med-
ical Journal led by Martin Neovius, a postdoctoral fellow at the Karolin-
ska Institute in Stockholm.
In the study, the researchers charted the mortality rates of 45,920
Swedish men over age 38. They discovered that men who were over-
weight when they joined the Swedish Army in 1969 and 1970 were more
than twice as likely to die by age 60 than recruits who had a normal
weight. This risk increase is about the same as that of people of normal
weight who smoke half a pack of cigarettes a day or more, according to
the researchers.
The study found that overweight recruits who did not smoke were
one-third more likely to die by age 60, which is about the same risk
increase as that for normal-weight men who smoked as many as 10 ciga-
rettes a day.
- BRIAN TENGEL


mommom.- twmammmmwdb - -- I----,,--,,--'-- - - - - I - - - --

-w-~ -

w

-W

v

mw

The Michigan Daily - Wednesday, March 18, 2009

WenedyM rc 1,209 - h Mchgn aly 5

CHAT ITS
WITH THE MICHIGAN BASKETBALL TEAM IN THE NCAA TOURNAMENT FOR THE FIRST TIME IN A DECADE,
THE BURIED, DRAMA-FILLED STORY OF THE '89 NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP TEAM IS BOTH A LESSON TO
EMULATE AND A CAUTIONARY TALE. BY JASON KOHLER

FILE PHOTOS (LEFT TO RIGHT): The '89 basketball team celebrate after the win that got them into the cham-
pionship game; police watch unruly crowds on South University Avenue after the Michigan won the national
title; Steve Fisher leads the team to the Final Four; students swarm the streets after the championship.

NCAA Tournament.
"I think you get nervous every game, whether
it's your firstgame as interim head coach, or you're
in your 20th year as a head coach," Fisher said in
a phone interview in January. "I didn't weigh a lot
to begin with, but I lost 10 to 15 pounds in those
three weeks in doing the whole process of what
we had to do."
With Frieder out, Fisher wasn't sure of his role.
So he turned to the one man he knew every Michi-
gan athlete respected - Schembechler.
Schembechler sat the team down in the bleach-
ers on the south side of Crisler Arena and told him
his expectations. He went down the line compli-
menting every player. He paused when he got to
forward Sean Higgins, who the Ann Arbor News
had reported would transfer if he wasn't pleased
with whoever was selected as the new coach.
"If you want out, be my guest," Schembechler
recalled in the book "Bo's Lasting Lessons," co-
authored by University lecturer John U. Bacon.
"I have the transfer papers right upstairs on my
desk. We can go up there this minute, you can sign
those papers, and we'll have it done by lunch."
Higgins was caught off guard. But the Ann
Arbor native wasn't willing to say noto his child-
hood idol.
"We were like, 'Wow,' " Higgins said. "We had
never been talked to like that by anyone. Our
coaches were more laid-back, and Coach Schem-
bechler came down with his old football mystique
and gave it to us. It fired us up a bit because he had
that raspy voice and had the respect from us also.
It did something to us in that it ignited us."
Schembechler followed the team from stop to
stop as it made its way through the tournament.
He had no choice. He didn't want the athletes to
unfairly bear the brunt of the media hoopla sur-
rounding Frieder's departure.
"If he didn't come, all the pressure would be on
the players and he was the one that had to take
the questions," Madej said. "If Bo's there, they'd
ask him. If he wasn't, then they'd ask the players.
We had to fly Bo in. And he's a football coach at
the time."
The Wolverines narrowly defeated Xavier
92-87. But if the outcome had been flipped, the
future of Michigan basketball would have been
vastly different.

"At the time, Petey Gillen was the Xavier coach,
and he was the one that they thought would suc-
ceed Frieder," Bacon said. "If they had won, Petey
Gillen would've been the next coach at' Michi-
gan."
The more Fisher won, the more fans wanted
Schembechler to hire the former assistant coach.
But the Athletic Director had no such desire-he
didn't like some of the people associating with the
program under Frieder and wanted to go ina new
direction by hiring someone from the outside.
Indiana coach Bob Knight was rumored to have
counseled Schembechler to hire a big-name guy.
"I'm not sure if Bo would have hired Fisher if
we didn't win that last game and win the champi-
onship," Madej said.
The night before Michigan's opening game of
the tournament, Fisher skeptically asked Madej if
he even had a shot at getting the job.
"Just win six games and it's yours,"Madej replied
with a straight face.
Fisher did just that.
Back in Crisler during the post-championship
game rally, in front of a crowd holding signs that
read "Fisher: 6-0", Schembechler patiently wait-
ed for students to settle down as he finished his
speech.
But he kept being cut off. The crowd wouldn't
stop yelling, "Fisher, Fisher".
Bo had no choice.
"I told Schembechler, 'You're Athletic Director,
you make the decision,'" James Duderstadt said,
who was University President at the time. "'But if
you are not going to hire Fisher, give me 48 hours
to get out of town."'
THE INFAMOUS FAB FIVE
Schembechler hiredFisher a week later to usher
in a new era of Michigan athletics, the effects of
which still haunt the program to this day.
In the Athletic Department, there was no doubt
that Fisher was a good in-game coach, but there
were questions regarding his ability to recruit.
"Obviously, with the Fab Five, he was able to do
that," Duderstadt said.
In fall of 1991, Fisher put together possibly the
most heralded recruiting class in the history of
college basketball.
Michigan was the first team to ever start five

freshmen, and those five freshmen started in the
Final Four.
Duderstadt called the Fab Five a phenomenon.
The quintet captured the imaginations of sports
fans at a time when ESPN and television sports
journalism were blossoming.
The Fab Five were the first to wear baggy pants.
They bragged. They trash talked. They brought
streetball to the court.
But despite going to two straight championship
games, they never won it.
"They were something very unusual in college
basketball, and they affected all of college bas-
ketball, whereas the '89 team was a very talented
team that was very well-coached that happened to
win it all," Duderstadt said.
The players on the '89 team often get mistaken
for the Fab Five. When forward Terry Mills was
once asked if he was a part of the Fab Five, he
responded, "No, we were the team that won it."
Mills and his teammates often refer to them-
selves as the "forgotten team".
"We like to consider ourselves the team that got
the job done," Rice said. "We didn't get nearly the
hype that the Fab Five got or the notoriety. Our
legacy that we want people to remember is that we
set our minds to go out and accomplish winning
a National Championship. We put ourselves on a
mission and we went out and got it."
TAINTE LGAY
"I told the players to look at the spot for the 1989
championship banner because it was reserved for
Michigan," Fisher said, looking up into the rafters
as he addressed the crowd at the championship _
rally.
A banner was hung at midcourt, where the Big
Ten Championship banners currently hang, but it
wasn't visible to fans sitting inthe current student
section.
For many students, it was out of sight, out of
mind.
And the legacy of all Michigan basketball play-
ers was tarnished when the star of the Fab Five,
Chris Webber, was discovered to have allegedly
received $280,000 in cash and gifts from booster
Ed Martin while he was a student at Michigan.
Martin was one of the "shady characters"
hanging around the program that Schembechler

ON APRIL 4,1989, Michigan Athletic Director
Bo Schembechler stepped to a microphone inside
Crisler Arena to address 10,000 frenzied fans.
He could barely speak without being interrupt-
ed by impromptu cheers.
The night before, the Michigan men's basket-
ball team had knocked off Seton Hall 90-89 in
overtime to cap an incredible run and capture the
NCAA National Championship.
In his 20 years at Michigan, Schembechler had
never won a national title as the football coach. It
was the only championship he oversaw as Ath-
letic Director.
"I've been around here a long time, and this
championship by this basketball team will go
down as one of the great accomplishments in all
of Michigan athletics," Schembechler told the
crowd.
Two decades later, with the basketball team
in the NCAA Tournament for the first time in
11 years, few students are aware of the dramatic
events that unfolded on the way to the title.
Few remember forward Glen Rice scoring

184 points to set the record for most points in an
NCAA Tournament. Or forward Sean Higgins's
put-back against Illinois with just a few ticks left
in the semifinals. Or guard Rumeal Robinson hit-
ting both foul shots on a one-and-one with three
seconds left to win the national title.
Perhaps few would believe that before Michi-
gan State and Ohio State became known for
drunken riots, eight students were arrested as a
mob took over South University Avenue, flipping
over cars and swinging from live power lines in a
celebration after the championship game.,
Instead, students remember the Fab Five and
the ensuing scandal surrounding a booster's
monetary gifts to star players that crippled the
program for years. True Michigan basketball
fans can still hear the chants of "NIT, NIT" from
opposing fans.
But it all relates back to a group of underdogs
that banded together, led by an interim coach and
inspired by a football coach to "shock the world."
"No students remember," said Associate Ath-
letic Director Bruce Madej. "That was 20 years

ago. Anyone who was born and going to school
can't remember it anyways."
A FATEFUL HIRE
Three days before the Wolverines' NCAA Tour-
nament first-round matchup with Xavier, Detroit
Free Press columnist Mitch Albom saw Michigan
coach Bill Frieder board a red-eye flight to Arizona.
The journalist promptly called Schembechler
to inquire why his basketball coach was traveling
across the country on the brink of the team's big-
gest game of the season.
Schembechler didn't know.
A day later, Frieder announced he would be
leaving Ann Arbor to take the top job at Arizona
State. He planned on finishing out the tournament
with Michigan before packing up for the desert.
Schembechler had other plans - he fired Frie-
der before he could resign, famously saying, "A
Michigan man will coach a Michigan team."
Assistant coach Steve Fisher was hired as the
interim head coach. All of a sudden, Fisher was
the only person to ever coach his first game in the

was worried about when he hired Fisher.
A six-year investigation uncovered that three
other players received money from Martin.
Michigan went on probation for two seasons,
withdrew from postseason consideration in the
2002-03 season and was penalized one schol-
arship for four years. It also erased the team's
records for all or part of five seasons, including
the Fab Five years.
And it cost Fisher his job in 1997.
And the scandal all dates back to one shot in
1989 - the one that earned Michigan a national
title and Fisher his coaching position.
With three seconds left in the National Cham-
pionship game and down by one, Michigan guard
Robinson was fouled driving to the basket. If he
would have missed his first free throw, the game
probably would have been over.
Robinson had made just 67 percent of his free
throws in his career and had missed a free throw
earlier in the season against Wisconsin that lost
the Wolverines the game.
In the huddle during a timeout before the foul
shots, no one talked to Robinson. They left him
alone and gave him no encouragement - they just
knew he was going to make them.
Robinson coolly made both and Michigan
returned to celebrate in front of a packed house in
Crisler Arena.
"Because of that shot, Steve Fisher stays on and
Steve Fisher's a nice guy, but the Fab Five was the
best and worst thing that ever happened to them,"
Bacon said. "That's when coaches lost control, in
my opinion. It became so player-driven, so talent-
driven.... I hate to say it, but they have not won a
Big Ten title since I was a student, and I am not a
young man any more."
It's been over 23 years since the last conference
title.
And although the '89 team indirectly led to the
scandal, none of the players were ever found to
have taken money.
"It's unfortunate for one, what happened,"
Higgins said. "But adversity makes you stronger.
That's what it did for us. You have to come down

sometime. And everyone was hunting for us any-
way. I mean, the NCAA was trying to get us back
when we played. But we were squeaky clean."
Many fans have associated the scandal sur-
rounding Webber and the other players who
received money with the '89 players just because
Fisher coached both teams.
Many in the Athletic Department would dis-
agree.
"No relationship whatsoever between those
teams," Athletic Director Bill Martin said. "These
are the guys that won it. They did it. And that's the
pleasurable part about it for us. And that's why we
have a banner up there with a light on it."
But it wasn't until 2001 that the National Cham-
pionship banner was moved from the rafters in
midcourt to its current location in the south cor-
ner of Crisler, visible for every fan to see.
And Higgins, who returned to Crisler for the
first time in January since leaving for the pros,
couldn't help but marvel at it.
"That's the biggest one right there," he said.
"That's the one that decorates this place."
RETURNING TO GLORY
On Jan. 17, 2009, as Michigan hosted Ohio State,
the 1989 National Championship team was hon-
ored for the first time in Crisler Arena since their
post-championship game rally.
There were no speeches. No impromptu cheers.
And students who either weren't alive in 1989 or
were too young to remember it stood up and rec-
ognized a forgotten team.
It was a rich ovation from a student body that
hadn't experienced an NCAA Tournament game
in over 11 years.
And though Michigan lost by seven to the Buck-
eyes that day, the moment was still special for the
current batch of Wolverines.
"It's sort of like seeing your older brothers
come to the game for the first time, so you try to
give them something to be happy about," junior
forward DeShawn Sims said after the loss. "But
unfortunately, we couldn't."
See '89 CHAMPS, Page 8B


