NOT AS CLASSIC CASSB
Zack Snyder 's "Watchmen" tries to Whni omst-S
recreate acomic' book masterpiece, but
adds nothing.E See Ars, Page5SA --0.~in
1 11\)s1 N N I \X .1 II DI(IX iRE)A

Ann Arbor, Michigan
ACADEMIC FREEDOM
Faculty to
seek speech
protections
Governing body concerned
about national trend it says
infringes on the right to dissent
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily StaffReporter
The state of academic freedom on college campuses
has changed, some argue, after several recent court
cases have arguably infringed on professors' right to
publicly disagree with their university's administra-
tion.
However, the University's leading faculty gover-
nance body is taking the first steps to prevent a similar
scenario from playing out on campus.
LSA Prof. Bruce Frier, a member of the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs, said the
body will present the Board of Regents with a faculty
governance update report at this month's meeting.
The report focuses on faculty rights to dissent against
the University and its administrators without fear of
retribution - such as a decrease in pay or demotion.
Some have argued that several recent court cases
around the nation have restricted the right of pro-
fessors to speak out against their university while in
their official capacity, often citing that because they
are public employees, their rights are restricted.
Frier, who also teaches in the Law School, said the
court decisions represent a fundamental shift in fac-
ulty members' rights and protections.
"The basic question is a series of recent court deci-
sions that have altered some traditional understand-
} ings of the role of faculty members in governance of
the university," he said. "The general drift of these
decisions is that faculty members can be disciplined
for protesting administrative decisions that are
made."
See DISSENT, Page 3A

Monday, March 9,2009

michigandaily.com

SEALING THE DEAL?

THE ECONOMICS OF ALCOHOL
As economy
tanks, booze
sales boom
Owners say boost started," said Tim Kramer, man-
ager of Beer Depot. "What do you
in city alcohol sales think people run to? It's easier to
drink than go out."
not mirrored in It's one of the oldest remedies
known to man, and while people
campus customers may not necessarily be able to
afforda $30 bottle of Grey Goose,
By EMILY ORLEY theyare by no means cutting alco-
Daily StaffReporter hol from their shopping list.
"If we've seen anything, it's not
As the old saying goes, "When less sales," said Victor George, the
the going gets tough, the tough owner of Stadium Market. "We've
get drinking." just been selling less expensive
Well, not exactly. liquor."
But with today's economy, the George said cheaper vodkas,
sentiment is becoming more of a like Smirnoff and Burnett's, have
reality every day. been selling much better than the
As the stock market contin- more expensive ones.
ues to fall - hitting lows that Liquor stores that attract a stu-
haven't been seen since the mid- dent clientele are experiencing a
1990s - and economic stabil- slight decrease in their alcohol
ity deteriorates, Americans are sales, and while many factors
flocking to bars and liquor stores could contribute to this opposite
in record numbers. Studies have trend, tighter budgets could be an
shown that throughout history, obvious explanation.
in the United States and around "(Students) are staying home
the globe, increased ;economic and buying a case of beer from
turmoil has resulted in a spike in the corner store as opposed to
alcohol sales. going out and buying pitchers,"
Many businesses in down- said an employee at Scorekeep-
town Ann Arbor have reported ers Sportsgrill & Pub, who asked
an increase in alcohol sales to remain anonymous because he
recently, while some campus hot wasn't authorized to speak for the
spots, however, have seen inverse company.
effects. He said that at Scorekeeper's,
"(Our sales) have been increas- students just aren't spending as
ing since the economic situation See ALCOHOL, Page 7A

AN5A BAKPMAN/Daily
Fifth-year senior and captain CJ. Lee goes up for a layup in Michigan's 67-64 win at Minnesota Satur-
day. With the victory - Michigan's first road win against an RPI top-50 team - the Wolverines clinched
the seventh seed in this weekend's Big Ten Tournament and likely an at-large bid to the Big Dance.


POVERTY POLICY
Controversial sociologist
talks latest book, poverty

SOCIAL NETWORKING
New Facebook application pairs
prospective, random roommates

Wilson says poor are
in part to blame for
their place in society
By CHRIS HERRING
Daily StaffReporter
After spendingnearly 50 minutes
touting the main points of his lat-
est controversial book, renowned
sociologist William Julius Wilson
finally got to the part of his lecture
he had been most excited about: the
question-and-answer session.
And even though Wilson was
supposed to be the one taking the

inquiries - about a dozen people
had lined up at microphones to
pose questions to him - the Har-
vard University professor couldn't
help but ask the first one.
"Do you think the book will get
nailed?" Wilson asked an audience
member. The inflection in Wilson's
voice hinted that he wanted the
book to create a stir.
So when the woman standing
before a microphone answered
Wilson's question with a "maybe,"
it prompted a wave of laughter from
both the scholar and the crowd of
about 400 in the Rackham Audito-
rium Friday afternoon.
Echoing the central theme from

his new book, Wilson told attend-
ees that even though discrimi-
nation limits the progress of the
inner-city poor, people from that
social class need to shoulder some
of the responsibility for their place
in society. The book, "More Than
Just Race: Being Black and Poor
in The Inner City," hits bookstores
today.
Wilson, arguably the nation's
most prominent black academic,
said he favors President Barack
Obama's nuanced stance on race
and social policy. Simply blaming
racism without looking at a group's
troubling statistics - soaring high
See SOCIOLOGIST, Page 3A

RoomBug uses
personality profiles
to create matches
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily StaffReporter
While Facebook's infancy con-
sisted merely of students find-
ing friends they already knew
and making their relationships
truly "official," a new application

offered on the social networking
website goes so far as to help its
users find their college roommate.
RoomBug is a new application
developed by U-Match - a room-
mate matching website - that
aims to give students the oppor-
tunity to find a random roommate
who fits their unique profile. The
application involves users making
a profile for themselves and then
being automatically presented
with a list of people who match
different aspects of their profile.

The application offers students
who attend schools like the Uni-
versity, which does not have a
roommate questionnaire, to room
blindlywith someone with similar
interests. The University has been
added to the list of schools on the
RoomBug site, but currently no
students are registered.
Chief Marketing Officer for
U-Match, Robert Castellucci, says
RoomBug gives students control
over their roommates rather than
See ROOMMATES, Page 7A

PULLING FOR A CAUSE

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Curry cures? University researchers
uncover truth behind natural remedy

Tumeric ingredient
said to cure common,
human illnesses
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter
When a child gets sick, most par-
ents usually opt for traditional rem-
edies like Vicks VapoRub to break
up their child's congestion, instead
of taking the child to campus eat-

ery Shalimar for spicy jhinga curry.
However a recent study found that
tumeric powder may actually help
boost the immune system.
Turmeric powder, the main
spice that gives curry its distinctive
taste, has been used in India and
other Asian countries as a remedy
to combat fevers, colds, coughs and
wounds for thousands of years. But
now, after two years of research,
Ayyalusamy Ramamoorthy, a pro-
fessor of chemistry and biophysics,
believes he has uncovered the sci-

entific reasoning behind the pow-
der's mysterious health benefits.
Ramamoorthy and a team of
University researchers released
a study last week explaining how
turmeric's main ingredient, cur-
cumin, works to cure illnesses in
the human body.
In the study, the researchers dis-
covered that curcumin interacts
with cell membranes, causing cells
to exhibit antitumor, anticancer,
antiviral and antioxidant effects.
See TUMERIC, Page 7A

Teachers and K-Grams supporters compete ina game of tug-of-war at the K-Grams Kids Fair in Crisler Arena on Friday. Each
year, around 900 elementary school children from Ann Arbor and other area schools celebrate the year in Kids Programs.


WEATHER HI: 40
TOMORROW LO:39

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Sizing up Michigan hockey's 2nd round opponent.
THEGAME.BLOGS.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

INDEX NEWS.....................
Vol.CXIX, No. 105 SUDOKU ...............
02009 The Michigan Daily OPINION ........
michigandailyrcom

..2 A ARTS......5A
..3A CLASSIFIEDS......................6A
.4A SPORTSMONDAY.................1B


2A - Monday, March 9, 2009

les

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, March 9, 2009 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom I

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
GARY GRACA ELAINA BUGLI
Editor in Chief Easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
graca@michigandaily.com bugli@michigandaily.com

I

Study finds greater cheating in B-schools

DON'T STEP ON THE 'M'

Two studies conducted by HARVARD STUDENT PROTEST
Rutgers University Prof. Donald POTENTIAL LAYOFFS
McCabe found business school
students cheat more than students Last week, more than 150 Har-
enrolled in other schools, The vard students, staff and union
Hoya at Georgetown University workers congregated outside
reported. Harvard's Labor and Employee
Results from the first survey of Relations Department to protest
54 universities in the United States potential layoffs due to Harvard's
and Canada from 2002 to 2004 budget reductions, The Harvard
found business school graduate Crimson reported.
students cheat more than graduate While no Harvard staff mem-
students studying different sub- hers have been letgo yet, The Crim-
jects. McCabe's second study sur- son reported that union workers
veyed undergraduates from 2002 led protesters in confrontational
to 2008, and the results showed chants of "They say lay off we say
similar findings. back off" and "Hey Harvard, you've
"I hate to say (business school got cash, why do you treat your
students cheat more) because I workers like trash?"
teach business students, but I Harvard administrators estimate
think it's something about the the endowment for the university
kind of people who are attracted will decrease 30 percent by the end
to that kind of field," McCabe of the fiscal year. The university's
told The Hoya. "There's a bigger budget cuts have also initiated the
reward for the risk for business development of early retirement
students." packages, which are reportedly

available to 1,600 staff members.
UNIVERSITY OF LOUISIANA
ACCUSED OF ANIMAL ABUSE
ABC News aired a report last
Wednesday accusing the New Iberia
Research Center at the University of
Louisiana at Lafayette of mistreat-
ing chimpanzees, The Chronicle of
Higher Education reported.
During nine months of under-
cover investigations by ABC News,
The Humane Society video recorded
staff members forcing chimpanzees
to take medicine and knocking the
teeth of stubborn animals.
The United States Department of
Agriculture said ina statement that
they found no abuse of primates
during a federal inspection of the
center on Jan. 27, yet they will start
a new investigation as a result of
the Humane Society's claims.
- STEPHANIE STEINBERG

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom O
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

Officehours u.-Thuors. 11a.m. - 2a..
ews.@nichigadaiy.comn
crrections@nichigasdaiy.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.omn
photo~icigadaiy.com
artspage@icigadaiy.com,
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com,
display@nichigandally.con
classified@michigandaiy.com
onlineads@nichiandaily.com
finance@icigandaily.com

4

WILL MOELLER/Daily
From front to back Hillary Newman, a junior, Seth Buchs-
baum, a sophomore, and Alistar Hayden, a sophomore, per-
form on the Diag to promote an Irish dance concert on Friday.

CRIME NOTES
Student's bicycle Skateboarders
stolen outside of scram after being
South Quad scolded by cops

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: South Quadrangle
WHEN: Friday at about 10:15
a.m.
WHAT: An male student
reported his bicycle was stolen
outside South Quad, Univer-
sity Police reported. There are
no suspects.

WHERE: Parking lot SC-33
WHEN: Saturday at about 1:36
a.m. .
WHAT: Six skateboard-
ers were told to stop skate-
boarding outside the Tennis
Building, University Police
reported. The skateboarders
immediately left.

Photography
exhibit by
Detroit native
WHAT: Detroit native Pat
O'Malley will display his pho-
tos that have been featured in
the Detroit Institute of Arts.
WHO: University of Michigan
Health System
WHEN: Today from 8a.m. to
5 p.m.
WHERE: Cancer Center, level
1 east side
Talk on
education policy
WHAT: Former direc-
tor of education research,
evaluation and statistics will
discuss headinga research
agency for President Bush.
WHO: Center for Local, State
and Urban Policy
WHEN: Today from 4 p.m. to
5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall, O'Neill
room 1230

Poetryreading
WHAT: Reginald Gibbons,
finalist for the 2008 National
Book Award, will be reading
as a part of the Zell Visiting
Writers Series.
WHO: Department of Eng-
lish Language and Literature
WHEN: Tonight from 5 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Graduate
School Amphitheater
Artwork Display
WHAT: Glassblowers from
the College of Creative Stud-
ins will present their work
thathasbeen shown through-
out the world.
WHO: University of Michigan
Health System.
WHEN: Today from 8 a.m. to
8 p.m.
WHERE: University Hospital
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandailycom.

The International Union
for Conservation of Nature
said two-thirds of the
world's population will suf-
fer from water shortages by
2025, UPLcom reported. More
than 25,000 policy makers and
international policy makers
and conservationists will meet
this month in Istanbul, Turkey
to discuss the water scarcity.
Michigan Promise
Grants provides up to
$4,000 to eligible stu-
dents. On Tuesday, Gov. Jen-
nifer Granholm called for
an increase in funds for the
program by $59.5 million.
>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
An albino bottlenose dol-
phin was discovered in
Lake Cacasieu in Louisi-
ana, guardian.co.uk reported.
The dolphin has been spotted
swimming with four other
dolphins and appears to be
healthy despite its rare inher-
ited skin color.

EDITORIAL STAFF
CourtneyRatkowiak Managing Editor ratkowiak@michigandaily.com
Jacob SmiloVitnZManagingNewsEditor smilovitz@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Jillian Berman, Trevor Calero, Caitlin Schneider,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Matt Aaronson, Benjamin S. Chase, Jenna Skoller,
Kyle Swanson
Robert Soave Editorial Page Editor soave@michigandaily.com
ASSOCIATE EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emily Barton, Brian Flaherty, Rachel VanGilder
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Emad Ansari, Emma Jeszke, Matthew Shutler
Andy Reid Managing Sports Editor reid@michigandaily.com
SENsIOnSPORTEDITOnS:iole Auerbac,sikesestein,Dan Feldma,Chris
Herring,oRuth Lincoln
ASISTAsNSPORTS EDIORS RyanKj, ~Ian Kay,JasoshlarChis Mesaaras,
Alex Prsperi, ColtRssoenwei
David Watnick ManagingArtsEditor watnick@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Block, BrandonConradis, Whitney Pow
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:JoshuaBayer,AndrewLapin,Dave Reap,Ben VanWagoner
Zachary Meisner and photo@michigandaily.com
clif Reeder Managing Photo Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EIOSSaid Asal,hChasne o asburgothr,5inen
AsISANTPHoEO EDTOR MaxeColinshrisnDzombak,RobMigrinSam Wolson
AngelaChih and design@michigandaily.com
Maureen Stych Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Hillary Ruffe
JessicatVosgerchian Magazine Editor vosgerchian@michigandaily.com
David Merian Multimedia Editor merian@michigandailycom
Katherine Mitchell copy chief mitchell@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Michael Schrotenboer Display Advertising Sales Manager
DISPLAY ADERTISING ASSOCIATE MANAGERS: Daniel
Newan,,,Christi~ePhillips
Ryan Dsinshi CtassaifiedSatesManagee
ClassifiedSaleoiAssisMnger:Aisonshos
Marissa Gerber online sales Manager
Ben English Production Design Manager
Meryl Hulteng Layout Manager
Vivian Lee and Emily Loveless Finance Managers
The Michigan Daly(SSN074-95967)is published MondaythroughFriday duringthefaland A nter
termsby studentsat the University of Michigan.Oneopy isavaiaberee ofr charge toallreaders.
AddtoalopiesaybiedptatthneDaisoffiefor$2.Subsiiptionsfrall ndsmnt em
(SetemsbrtroughApva UtS.eailtt20. Yerroundnsuscionvs (a,Winer,Spingaani
Summer issuesare $22.Subscriptions must be prepaid TheMiigonDalys a member oThe
Associated Pressand The Associated CollegiatePress

I

4

Large rug stolen Hospital worker
from unattended hoards keys
loading dock WHERE: University Hospital

4

WHERE: East Quadrangle
WHEN: Saturday at about
12:15 a.m.
WHAT: A six-by-five foot oval
rug was stolen from a loading .
dock, University Police report-
ed. The rug's estimated value
ip$20.

WHEN: Saturday at about
11:30 a.m.
WHAT: A former University
Hospital employee refused
to return his keys after leav-
ing his job, University Police
reported. Hospital adminis-
tration will contact the person
for the keys.,

4

[

Renowned. Respected.
And really close to home.

4

Oakland University offers more than 100 prestigious graduate programs in the hottest fields,
including master's degrees and short-term certificates so you can:
Stand out from colleagues
Increase your career options
Quickly retool your credentials
Plus research shows those with master's degrees enjoy higher pay, increased employee
benefits, and a better work/life balance than their peers without this credential*
Convenient locations in Oakland and Macomb counties,
and flexible payment options make earning a ._.
graduate degree easier than you think.
*"Your Big Payday"by AJ Fante: published in Yahoo! Education200$,
basi 0n a stodyby rh lnstitute of Higher Education Policy.
Get more information
or apply online at
www.oakland.edu/gograd
or call (248) 370-3167.
C
Master of 7
O0ak and Dsi
UNIVERSTY ____________________


i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 9, 2009 -- 3A

 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, March 9, 2009 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
GOP official: No
more money for
GM without plan
House Republican leader John
Boehner said yesterday he doesn't
support handing over more fed-
eral money to keep General Motors
Corp. afloat unless the automaker
develops a viable and long-term
business model and can pay back
government loans.
"Anything short of that is just
throwing good money after bad,"
Boehner said on CBS's "Face the
Nation."
As part of the deal that provided
$17.4 billion in federal aid to Gen-
eral Motors and Chrysler LLC,
the companies must seek changes
in their contracts with the United
Auto Workers by March 31. The car
companies, which have asked for
an additional $21.6 billion in fed-
eral money, must bring their labor
costs in line with those of foreign
competitors' plants in the U.S.
Although Ford Motor Co. has
not sought federal assistance, it
has reached an agreement with the
UAW to freeze wages and make
other concessions. Union members
were expected to finish voting on
the proposed agreement today.
BAGHDAD
U. S. announces
12,000 troops to
leave Iraq by Sept.
The U.S. military has announced
that 12,000 American and 4,000
British troops will leave Iraq by
September.
Maj. Gen. David Perkins says
that will reduce U.S. combat power
from 14 brigades to 12 brigades. He
also said yesterday that the U.S. is
turning over more facilities to the
Iraqi military as part of the draw-
down.
President Barack Obama has
decided to remove all combat
troops by the end of August 2010
with all troops gone by the end of
2011. The 4,000 British troops due
to leave are the last British soldiers
in Iraq.
There are currently about
3K,000 U.S, troops in Iraq.
ST. PAUL, Minn.
-Months later,
still no winner in
Minn. Senate race
What lasts longer than a Minne-
sota winter? The struggle to choose
the nation's 100th senator.
More than four months after
Election Day, Minnesota vot-
ers are only marginally closer
to knowing whether Democrat
Al Franken or Republican Norm
Coleman will represent them in
Washington.
The stakes go beyond Minneso-
ta: Franken would put Democrats
in position to muscle their agenda
through with barely any Republi-
can help, and he could be a differ-
ence-maker on the federal budget
and a proposal giving labor unions

a leg up on management when
organizing.
Some Minnesotans, like actor
Jared Reise, are past caring who
wins and just want the state to
regain its second senator.
"This is a very important time
to have everybody there, with the
way the economy is," said Reise,
of suburban Eagan, who didn't
vote for either man on Nov. 4. "It's
a little long-winded, this whole
recount."
MARYVILLE, Ill.
One dead in Illinois
church shooting
Illinois state police say a man
has shot a pastor to death and
injured others at an church dur-
ing a service in the community of
Maryville.
Illinois Master Trooper Ralph
Timmins says the man walked
down the aisle during the early
Sunday service at First Baptist
Church in Maryville.
He said the man exchanged
words with pastor Fred Winters
and then pulled out a .45-caliber
handgun.
Timmins said the man fatally
shot Winters once before the gun
jammed, then pulled out a knife
and wounded himself.
Churchgoers tried to subdue the
attacker and two of them suffered
minor injuries.
Timmins said officials don't
know if Winters and the suspect
know each other.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama to overturn
Bush's stem cell policy

Bush, supporters
claim restrictions
were defending
human life
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama's announce-
ment today that he is overturning
his predecessor's policies toward
embryonic stem cells also will
include a broad declaration that
science - not political ideology -
would guide his administration.
Obama planned to reverse Pres-
ident George W. Bush's limits on
federally funded stemcell research
through the National Institutes of
Health and to put in place safe-
guards through the office of Sci-
ence and Technology Policy so that
science is protected from political
interference. The moves would
fulfill a campaign promise.
"We've got eight years of science
to make up for," said Dr. Curt Civin,
whose research allowed scientists
to isolate stem cells and who now
serves as the founding director of
the University of Maryland Center
for Stem Cell Biology and Regen-
erative Medicine. "Now, the silly
restrictions are lifted."
Bush limited taxpayer money
for stem cell research to a small
number of stem cell lines that were
created before Aug. 9, 2001. Many

of those faced drawbacks. Hun-
dreds more of such lines - groups
of cells that can continue to propa-
gate in lab dishes - have been cre-
ated since then. Scientists saythose
newer lines are healthier and bet-
ter suited to creating treatments
for diseases, but they were largely
off-limits to researchers who took
federal dollars.
"We view what happened with
stem cell research in the last
administration is one manifesta-
tion of failure to think carefully
about how federal support of sci-
ence and the use of scientific advice
occurs," said Harold Varmus, a
Nobel Prize-winningbiologistwho
is chairman of the White House's
Council of Advisers on Science and
Technology.
Bush and his supporters said
they were defending human life;
days-old embryos - typically from
fertility-clinic leftovers otherwise
destined to be thrown away - are
destroyed for the stem cells.
Obama's advisers sought to
downplay the divisions.
"I think we all realize, and the
president certainly understands,
there are people of good faith on
both sidesofthis issue," said Melody
Barnes, the White House's domestic
policy adviser. "We recognize there
are a range of beliefs on this."
Rep. Eric Cantor, the No. 2
Republican in the House, said the
focus should be on the economy,

not on a long-simmering debate
over stem cells.
"Frankly, federal funding of
embryonic stem cell research can
bring on embryo harvesting, per-
haps even human cloning that
occurs," he said Sunday on CNN's
"State of the Union." "We don't
want that. ... And certainly that is
something that we ought to be talk-
ing about, but let's take care of busi-
ness first. People are out of jobs."
The long-promised move will
allow a rush of research aimed
at one day better treating, if not
curing, ailments from diabetes
to paralysis - research that has
drawn broad support, including
from notables such as Nancy Rea-
gan, widow of the late Republican
President Ronald Reagan, and the
late Christopher Reeve.
The move also will highlight divi-
sions within the Republican Party,
now in the minority and lacking
votes in Congress to stop Obama.
The proposed changes, which
Obama planned to sign around
noon Monday, do not fund cre-
ation of new lines, nor specify
which existing lines can be used.
They mean that scientists who
until now have had to rely on
private donations to work with
these newer stem cell lines can
apply for government money for
the research, just like they do for
studies of gene therapy or other
treatment approaches.

DISSENT
From Page 1A
Frier used the example of a pro-
fessor at the University of Wis-
consin at Milwaukee who was
disciplined after he publicly pro-
tested university administrators'
handling of a federal grant.
In the case, Renken v. Gregory,
Prof. Kevin Renken argued that
officials from his university had
retaliated against him for com-
plaining about the way his univer-
sity decided to use federal grant
money from the National Science
Foundation.
Renken argued his protest
against the university was pro-
tected under the First Amendment
because he was protesting a mat-
ter of public concern. He asserted
that the university should not have
been allowed to take disciplinary
action against him. Despite his
claims, the Seventh District Court
and the U.S. Appeals Court for
the Seventh Circuit both held that
Renken's complaints were not pro-
tected under the First Amendment
because Renken made the com-
plaint as part of his official duties
as a professor.
Frier said if a university can pun-
ish a professor for disagreeing with
administrators at the university,
then faculty will likely not express
their true concerns.
"If, for instance, I was in a dis-
pute with an administrator over,
for instance, a grant or something
like that and the administrator had
the capacity to say at the end of the
day 'If you don't go along with me, I

will lower your salary,' that makes
a considerable difference to the
discussion," he said.
University Spokeswoman Kelly
Cunningham said she doesn't
believe the recent court cases at
other universities would influ-
ence anything at the University of
Michigan.
"Nothing in the recent court
decisions affects or diminishes the
University's deep commitment to
academic freedom," she wrote in
an e-mail.
Frier said there is no immediate
fear that this might happen at the
UniversityofMichigan. Instead, he
explained that SACUA is address-
ing the regents because the body
wants to avoid a potential future
conflict.
"We're talking about this in
terms of what might happen down
the line," he said. "There's no
immediate question."
Frier said SACUA doesn't have
a specific course of action in mind
right now, but is open to several
approaches to prevent faculty at
the University from being threat-
ened by the court decisions.
"Everybody agrees this should
be negotiable," he said. "There are
a number of specific forms."
Although the report will be pre-
sented to the regents, Frier said he
doesn't expect they will take action
on the issue. Instead, Frier said
he thinks most of the work can be
done between faculty and admin-
istrators.
"It's really just a courtesy to the
regents," he said. "This is an issue
of current concern to the faculty
and so we wanted to convey it."

"Some of these problems (in
SOCIOLOGIST the black community) have gotten
From Page 1A so severe now that it would be in
our nation's best interest to have
school dropout and teenage preg- specific, targeted programs to
nancy rates - is naive, Wilson deal with them," Wilson said in an
argued. Likewise, the author said interview while signing booksfor a
one must consider the discrimina- line of fans. "Even if the programs
tion that impoverished inner-city don't necessarily apply to every-
residents face daily. one, it's in our best interest."
He praised the president's He said such government
speech on race from last summer, assistance would be necessary in
saying it struck a balance between Detroit, a city that is more than 80
the two ideologies. percent black and has an unem-
"Unlike Bill Cosby or the talk ployment rate of nearly 11 percent.
show hosts you see on TV, Barack Wilson said the area's situation
Obama does not isolate structure is even more dire because of the
from culture," he said. "Obama sputtering auto industry. Two of
sees that they are very much tied the Detroit Three automakers,
together." Chrysler LLC and General Motors
The 73-year-old, who was Corp., have both raised the specter
named one of Time magazine's 25 of bankruptcy in recent weeks.
Most Influential People in 1996, "If that happened, it would have
has consulted the Obama admin- a devastating effect on the black
istration frequently,' prescribing community," he said. "I shudder to
solutions for the problems plagu- think what would happen if they
'iAinwrica'1 cities. ' °" "dup filing bankruptcy.
Wilson, who holds 41 honorary The audience seemed split by
degrees including doctorates from Wilson's talk, but most agreed that
Columbia University, Dartmouth his new book would raise debate.
College, the University of Penn- Laura Norton-Cruz, a gradu-
sylvania and Princeton University ate student in the School of Social
used lofty rhetoric during his talk. Work, said the author seemed to
Rather than talking freely, he read overlook key aspects from his talk
from a 40-page stack of papers and and book.
cited 15 books and studies. Many "I'm sure it will be a goodbook,"
in the crowd - largely comprised said Norton-Cruz, who has read
of graduate students and profes- Wilson's award-winning "The
sors - had pens and notebooks out, Truly Disadvantaged" from 1987.
writing down Wilson's key points. "But it just sounds like he neglect-
About midway through his lec- ed the gender issue, and that pisses
ture, Wilson said the government me off because a lot of researchers
should implement policies spe- of urban inequality leave that part
cifically aimed at helping impov- out."
erished blacks. The statement Kim Lijana, a graduate student
marked a departure from Wil- in the School of Education, put it
son's previous philosophy, which bluntly:
favored programs that benefited "It's absolutely controversial,"
all poor people. Lijana said of the book's premise.

In this Feb. 11, 2009 file photo, thousands of people line up at a federal government job fair in downtown Atlanta. If the current
recession lasts into April 2009, it will be the longest in postwar history.
Recession on track to be
longest in postwar period

If recession lasts
into April, it will
pass the 16-month
mark from 1981-1982
WASHINGTON (AP) - Fac-
tory jobs disappeared. Inflation
soared. Unemployment climbed
to alarming levels. The hungry
lined up at soup kitchens.
It wasn't the Great Depres-
sion. It was the 1981-82 reces-
sion, widely considered America's
worst since the depression.
That painful time during Ron-
ald Reagan's presidency is a grim
marker of how bad things can
get. Yet the current recession
could slice deeper into the U.S.
economy.
If it lasts into April - as it
almost surely will - this one
will go on record as the longest
in the postwar era. The 1981-
82 and 1973-75 recessions each
lasted 16 months.
Unemploymenthasn'treached
1982 levels and the gross domes-
tic product hasn't fallen quite as
far. But the hurt from this reces-
sion is spread more widely and
uncertainty about the country's
economic health is worse today
than it was in 1982.
Back then, if someone asked
if the nation was about to expe-
rience something as bad as the
GreatDepressionthe answer was,
"Quite clearly, 'No,"' said Murray
Weidenbaum, chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers in
the Reagan White House.
"You don't have that certain-
ty today," he said. "It's not only
that the downturn is sharp and
widespread, but a lot of people
worrythat it's going to be a long-
lasting, substantial downturn."
For months, headlines have
compared this recession with

the one that began in July 1981
and ended in November 1982.
-In January, reports showed
207,000 manufacturing jobs van-
ished in the largest one-month
drop since October 1982.
-Major automakers' U.S. sales
extended their deep slump in
February, putting the industry on
track for its worst sales month in
more than 27 years.
-Struggling homebuilders have
just completed the worst year for
new home sales since 1982.
-There are 12.5 million people
out of work today, topping the
number of jobless in 1982.
"I think most people think it is
worse than 1982," said John Steele
Gordon, a financial historian. "I
don't think many people think it
will be 1932 again. Let us pray. But
it's probably going to be the worst
postwar recession, certainly."

The 1982 downturn was driv-
en primarily by the desire to
rid the economy of inflation. To
battle a decade-long bout of high
inflation, then-Federal Reserve
Chairman Paul Volcker, now an
economic adviser to President
Barack Obama, pushed interest
rates up to levels not seen since
the Civil War. The approach
tamed inflation, but not without
suffering.
Hardest hit was the industrial
Midwest; the Pacific Northwest,
where theloggingindustrylagged
from construction declines; and
some states in the South, where
the recession hit late.
Frustrated workers fled to the
Sunbelt to find work. In Michi-
gan, which led the nation in job-
less workers, newspapers offered
idled auto workers free "job want-
ed" ads in the classified section.


4A - Monday, March 9, 2009
L7 e 4 6 ldli an al

0-'pinion

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu
GARY GRACA ROBERT SOAVE COURTNEY RATKOWIAK
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
The wrong cut
State should rethink consolidation of scholarship programs
T he cost of higher education has been a prominent part of Gov.
Jennifer Granholm's agenda these days. On Tuesday, she called
for an increase in funds for the Michigan Promise Grant pro-
gram. But coupled with this declaration was the unfortunate decision
to cut need-based scholarships. Providing more funding for merit-based
scholarships is welcome, but the state has a responsibility not to fall
behind on its need-based coverage either. With an increasing number of
students depending on both merit-based and need-based scholarships
to attend college, the state should look elsewhere for budget cuts and
keep financial aid levels as high as possible.

N -TA .E QUTABLE
Close them down, get them out of business.
If they're dead, they ought to be buried:'
- Sen. Richard Shelby (R-AL), explaining how the new administration could
respond more strongly to the banking crisis, as reported yesterday by CNN.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I OUT TO PASTURE E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
SI.1aA!Woae yo No u won't I'll rle yu! ' ude Ihad aerra ledrat! a
..,. ".This plastic bag baa, City
Im a plastic cup, an as soon as Ann , Fat chance!I m polystyrene auncil's got it all wrong
Arbor leans plastic bags my kind # plastic. Non-recyclable in
will be free to take er! Today Ann Arbor. You're powerlessne
bEser ong. tomorrow the world! to stop us! Muahahaha e et:";..
G e be s
Gender bias in the classroom

The proposal is the latest in a string of fis-
cal measures proposed by Granholm as the
state seeks to reduce government expenses
while keeping college affordable for residents.
Last month, universities were urged to freeze
tuition and the Michigan Promise Zone Act
was passed in an effort to increase merit-based
scholarships for students in low-income areas.
If adopted, this proposal would increase fund-
ing for the Michigan Promise Grants - which
provide scholarships of up to $4,000 to eligible
students - by $59.5 million. But Granholm also
wants to lump need-based programs into an
overarching fund called the Michigan College
Access Grants and decrease funds for need-
based scholarships by 5.8 percent.
The legislature should continue to support
merit-based scholarships. The Kalamazoo
Promise, which inspired the Michigan Prom-
ise Zone Act, has already shown the effective-
ness of merit-based funding. Recipients of these
scholarships experienced higher graduation
rates. And enrollment, according to Public Pol-
icy Prof. Susan Dynarski, tends to increase by
5 to 7 percent as a result of merit-based schol-
arships. Clearly merit-based scholarships serve
a vital role in helping students opt for a college
education.
The increase in funds for the Michigan
Promise Grants should not, however, come at
the expense of need-based scholarships - a
necessity for students disadvantaged by an
economy in recession. Granholm claims that
the new Michigan College Access Program
would increase the number of students eligible

for aid, but merging the state's six need-based
scholarship programs into one increases the
number of dependents and reduces the funds by
$18.8 million. Now students in need of aid will
have to deal with less money for an even greater
number of overall students.
The low-income students who are ineligible
or unqualified to receive Michigan Promise
Grants are the clear losers in this situation.
Last month, the government increased funds
for Federal Pell Grants by $14 billion. But the
increase will result in very little extra money
per person - scant consolation for students
who will now find scholarship opportunities
even harder to come by on the basis of need
alone.
If the state wants to signal its commitment to
providing inexpensive higher education for its
residents, need-based scholarships should not
be subjected to budget cuts. Last week, Wayne
State University announced it was going to
double funds for need-based scholarships while
simultaneously increasing merit-based schol-
arships to ease the burden on its students. The
state should be similarly mindful of students'
economic difficulties. Instead of saving on edu-
cation, Granholm needs to stick to cutting other
unnecessary expenditures. I
A decrease in funds for need-based scholar-
ships is also likely to have implications for the
state economy. A large, competitive and edu-
cated workforce is key to the state's revival. If
the state fails to facilitate higher education for
its residents in their time of need, it forgoes an
opportunity to improve its future prospects.

W hen students walk
into my classroom at
the beginning of each
semester, one of the first things
they notice about
me is that I'm
male.
No, I don't
sprinkle testos-
terone on my
cornflakes or use
Axe body spray. -
Gender is just
something we
naturally notice PATRICK
about other peo- O'MAHEN
ple. And based on
that observation,
students immedi-
ately derive assumptions about what
sort of teacher Ilam goingto be.
These perceptions were the sub-
ject of an informative workshop
put on by ADVANCE last week in
the Political Science department.
ADVANCE is a University program
that aims to foster gender equality in
science and engineering. The work-
shop's facilitators, Psychology Prof.
Abby Stewart and ADVANCE con-
sultant Diana Kardia, worked with a
group of male and female GSIs, lec-
turers and professors to address and
solve gender challenges that teachers
may face in the classroom. For me,
the workshop was a welcome depar-
ture from some training experiences
I've had in the past.
One frustration with my prior
training was that sessions degener-
ated into a laundry list of possible
problems that female teachers might
encounter in the classroom instead
of a useful discussion about gender
dynamics.
This approach upset me for two
reasons. First, it didn't help me deal
with issues I could personally face in
the classroom. The training session
seemed to implicitly indicate that as
a man, I would instantly command
authority and respect. It seemed that
it would be my fault if I failed, but if
I succeeded, it would be just because
I was a man. I once had a fellow GSI

dismiss a successful teaching tech-
nique I had used, saying it worked
because I "was a guy."
And that type of training didn't
seem to help my female colleagues,
either. Due to trainers' haste to ham-
mer home the gravity of the chal-
lenges female GSIs would face, I
could see several women becoming
visibly nervous. Instead of focusing
on ways to overcome challenges,
this approach increased their self-
consciousness and sapped their self-
confidence - clearly notthe best way
to help anyone establish authority.
I remember an incident where I
helped mediate a dispute between a
female GSI and a male student. The
student clearly needed an attitude
adjustment, but I also could see how
an overly defensive reaction by a GSI
exacerbated the situation. The result
was that everyone lost - my col-
league lost more self-confidence and
may have become more defensive in
the classroom, and the student's per-
ception of female teachers probably
became worse.
Fortunately, the ADVANCE
workshops, attended was part of the
solution - a proactive, not defen-
sive, conversation about gender that
focused on tools to use in teaching.
For example, Stewart said, and
several of my colleagues have
noticed, that females tend to have
to work harder in the classroom
to establish authority. It's not that
women can't gain respect as teach-
ers or that men will always retain
authority, it's just that many stu-
dents are more likely to give male
teachers the benefit of the doubt at
the beginning of the term.
This puts females in a difficult
position because even though they
have to work harder to establish
their authority with students, they
also risk getting labeled as a "bitch".
Other differences include how
accessible students perceive their
GSIs and professors to be. One of my
female co-workers reported that stu-
dents seemed to view female teach-
ers as more accessible and nurturing

than men,
There are trade-offs to this differ-
ence in perception. On one hand, my
female colleague might face more
unwarranted appeals for leniency
on grades or deadlines. On the other
hand, students mightfeel more com-
fortable bringing serious problems
to her attention than they would to
mine - somethingthat could hinder
my ability to be an effective teacher.
And there are other stereotypes
men face, too - for example, the lin-
gering suspicion fueled by the actions

GSI training
doesn't address
the real issues.

0

CHRIS ARMSTRONG AND BRITTNEY JACKSON I VIEWPe NT
reMICHIGAN will rethink MSA

of a small minority of my colleagues
(shame on you) that we are likely to
take advantage of female students.
That stereotype can sometimes make
office hours a bit awkward ..*...g..k
But the point here isn't to drawa
moralequivalence between the chal-
lenges that men and women might
face as teachers in the hs odim.
Instead, I want to highlight the need
to properly address these issues
in GSI training in a way that gives
teachers tools to overcome them.
One of those tools is very simple.
Professors: support your GSIs. On
the first day, introduce them and
their accomplishments and say you
have faith in them. Enforce the poli-
ciesonyoursyllabus and don'tunder-
mine your GSIs by changing grades
or granting extensions behind their
backs. GSIs: back each other and your
professors up. And male GSIs, espe-
cially, speak well of the competence
of your female colleagues and make
it a point to emphasize the authority
of any professor who you work with.
- Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

For many years, student government has sought
to define its role on campus and in students' lives.
Today, the Michigan Student Assembly finds itself at
an important moment in its history. With 40,000 of
the most active and diverse students in the country,
we deserve a student government that reflects the
energy that is the University of Michigan.
MSA has the potential to be an active and vibrant
student government that is focused on real issues
that matter to campus. We deserve astudent govern-
ment that is relevant and engaged ina conversation
with students. We also deserve a student govern-
ment that is mobilized, is committed to being a
stronger advocate for students and has a more pow-
erful voice that reflects the intellect and diversity of
our campus population.
In order for studentgovernment to work, students
must be able to have faith in MSA representatives
and their potential to actually do something. This
election can be the first step toward a government
that is engaged with campus in a constant conversa-
tion that extends beyond Election Day.
The reMICHIGAN Campaign can be that first
step in the right direction.
The reMICHIGAN Campaign is focused on a new
idea about the way that student government elec-
tions should work: a party is about people, but a cam-
paign is about issues. The reMICHIGAN Campaign
is a movement for student issues and incorporates
the kaleidoscope of voices that make the University
what it is. We are more than just a vision - we are
the action, experience, talent and leadership needed
to propel our student government to a new era of

student activism.
We believe knowing the answer to "how" prob-
lems can be solved so our entire team of candidates
can be ready to go on day one. For each one of our
goals we have viable plans and other ideas that are
being internally tested. These goals include work-
ing on tuition and financial aid, improving sustain-
ability on campus, creating more job and internship
opportunities for students, enhancing Michigan
spirit and traditions, facilitating academic guidance
and improving the lives of student organizations.
We must have the ability to go beyond simply talk-
ing to the administration and instead develop strong
coalitions of students, faculty and administrators in
order to get things done. Studentgovernment candi-
dates must practice what they preach and shouldn't
have to wait for a title in order to begin working on
such important issues.
We know that we can't do this alone and that
we need every possible voice at the table. Over the
next two weeks and beyond, we will ask you how to
achieve these goals, and how you, as a student at this
University, can contribute to revitalizing and reen-
ergizing student government.
You can check out our diverse candidates from
eight different schools and colleges, take a look at
our comprehensive plans for moving student gov-
ernment forward and join the movement today at
www.reMICHIGAN.org.
Chris Armstrong and BrittneyJackson
are communications directors for
the reMICHIGAN Campaign.

MATTHEW SHURI P eW T
L GBT identity through Judaism

JASON MAHAKIAN E-MAIL JASON AT MAHAKIAJ@UMICH.EDU
AR CH MADNESS
Are you on
the list?
God, we
hope so...

Growing up in a reformed Jewish family has provid-
ed me with a solid moral foundation based on respect,
empathy and compassion toward others. While my fam-
ily belongs to a synagogue, and my mother even works at
one, I have always been more humanistic than religious
while relating to Judaism. But Jewish culture, ethnic-
ity and history still remain an essential part of my being
and the key to understanding my ancestry to its fullest
extent.
When I came out to my family and friends during my
sophomore year of high school, obstacles pertaining to
religious acceptance were the last issues on my mind -
and for this I am very thankful, especially considering
the adverse coming-out experiences faced by several
of my friends. My family lives in a Southeast Michigan
town with a rather substantial reformed and conserva-
tive Jewish population, which generally identifies as
socially liberal.
While I have never felt ashamed or hesitant to step
into a synagogue or to proclaim that I come from a Jew-
ish heritage, I've undergone a slight religious transfor-
mation over the past few years. As I mentioned, Jewish
culture and tradition have always offered me enrich-
ing and comforting insights into my roots. But when I
examine my religion as opposed to my ethnicity, I tend
to think of myself as more of a secular humanist, which
I feel allows me to be the most empathic and respectful
person I can be. In fact, humanism lies at the foundation
of every ancient religion and is called for by every sacred
text - it is no obscure philosophy.
When I settled into the University campus, the last
thing I expected to do was become involved in religious
groups or student organizations. But I soon defied my
expectations and surprised myself. Upon visiting both
Gayz Craze and Festifall, I discovered a student group,
Ahava (meaning "love" in Hebrew), which connects and
explores the intersecting identities of Jewish and LGBT-
identifying persons. I received an instant feeling of grati-
fication when I chatted with the Hillel liaison, who left

me with a permanent impression of kindness and com-
passion. These are two virtues I have sought for and val-
ued in forming my beliefs. I. decided to attend Ahava's
first meeting and am definitely glad that I did so.
Having attended multiple Ahava meetings, which
take place in a laid-back, open atmosphere, I felt I had
reaffirmed and reestablished my connection to my Jew-
ish background. During these meetings, group members
would engage in constructive dialogue pertaining to our
Jewish and LGBT identities and discuss any obstacles,
inquiries or positive experiences we had encountered.
Not only was I able to share my own values and beliefs
in this setting, but I thoroughly appreciated being able
to hear about different perspectives and diverse back-
grounds relating to both identities - Ihad seldomspoken
with Jewish, LGBT-identifying individuals beforehand.
Before I knew it, I'd made many new friends and acquain-
tances, as well as established ties to welcoming faculty
members at Hillel and throughout the Ann Arbor area.
Through Ahava and alongside other Jewish student
organizations on campus, I soon became involved in pre-
paring for the arrival of Danny Savitch, a champion of
LGBT rights in Jerusalem and Israel as a whole. Ahava
members also welcomed a director from the Jewish Gay
Network of Michigan in a screening of"Hineini", a docu-
mentary about a young Orthodox girl who comes out as a
lesbian to her friends and instructors in her high school.
Aside from these events, Ahava held a personalized
Shabbat dinner, which to me exemplified the warmth
and hospitality that is so integral to Jewish culture.
Judaism has continuously offered me enriching and
convivial experiences, and my time as a first-year student
at the University has only strengthened my bond with
Jewish ethnicity. Even if I tried, I would not be able to
ignore my characteristically Jewish mother, who cooks
for an army and calls me five times a day to ask if I've
eaten. She drives me meshugeh (but I still love her).
Matthew Shur is an LSA freshman.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Emily Barton, Elise Baun, Harun Buljina, Ben Caleca, Satyajeet Deshmukh,
Brian Flaherty, Emmarie Huetteman, Emma Jeszke, Sutha K Kanagasingam, Shannon Kellman,
Jeremy Levy, Edward McPhee, Matthew Shutler, Neil Tambe, Radhika Upadhyaya, Rachel Van Gilder

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 9, 2009 - 5A

Surrealism
slices eyeballs

A graphic, novel film
'Watchmen'succeeds simply on the strength
of its source material
By Blake Goble I Daily Arts Writer w

Gigantic melting watches in
a barren, desert landscape
can only mean one thing:
surrealism. Dali's 1931 painting The
Persistence of Memory is probably
the first thing that comes to mind
when imagining the odd, character-
istically trippy
imagery of sur-
realists. This
idea of using
bizarre imagery
as a counterpoint
to conventional
perceptions of 'wINEY
reality was point- PW
ed at obliquely in
"Un chien andalou"
("An Andalusian Dog"), a film Dali
and prolific filmmaker Luis Bunuel
collaborated on in 1929.
In this short film's opening
scene, a man smokes the stub of a
cigarette as he sharpens a straight
razor. When he steps outside onto
a balcony, a woman's face suddenly
appears in his hands. He stretches
open her left eyelid gently with his
fingers, and then he slowly runs the
razor blade across her bare eyeball,
splitting it open upon contact. The
contents of her eye ooze all over her
white skin: the lens, the iris, the
whites; all a translucent jelly.
I've watched this film at least
three times in my film theory
classes, and I haven't yet been able
to sit through it without cringing.
The beginning sequence serves
as a warning about the rest of the
film, which contains unbelievable
imagery including dead donkeys
stuck inside of grand pianos that
are beingpulled by priests and
live ants crawling out of a hole in a
man's hand.
Dali and Bufluel seem to say, in
those unsettling first 30 seconds,
that they are slitting your eyeball;
they are taking your comfortable
view of reality and maiming it with
the film's unsettling imagery and
subversive themes. For example,
the priests trying to pull the dead
donkeys (they are, ultimately,
unable to ud ge the awkward )oad)
could be commentingop the futile
purpose of mainstream religion and
faith. This subversiveness was just
as impottant to surrealisms as its
incredible imagery.
Pixies song "Debaser" pays hom-
age to this particular Dali film.
Frontman Black Francis howls,
voice as scratchy as sandpaper, "Got
me a movie /I want you to know
/ Slicing up eyeballs / I want you
to know ... Don't know about you /
but I am un chien Andalusia." This
surrealist ideology seems to have
been adopted and respected by the
likes of the now-legendary rock
band at the turn of the '90s, where,
similar to the song's title, the band
attempts to debase the idea of real-
ity in its music.
This surrealist theme echoes in
songs like "Wave of Mutliation,"
where the lyrics cryptically map
out odd beach landscapes that one
might be able to find in a Dali paint-
ing: "I've kissed mermaids, rode the
El Nifio /Walked the sand with the
crustaceans / Could find my way to
Mariana / on a wave of mutilation."
What does this mean? The imagery

might be solid and tangible (versus
the cloudy ether of some Radiohead
songs, like "Sail to the Moon": "I
sucked the moon / I spoke too soon
/ And how much did it cost?"), but
the presence of solid images doesn't
require that meaning is obviously
inherent in them.
Surrealism is really a mental-
ity more than an aesthetic. It's the
idea of subverting expectation and
making audiences realize that what
is not immediately present in their
consciousness is really there with
them, lurking behind their eyelids.
The "sur" in surreal alludes to that
which is on a plane above reality.
And giving voice to these hidden
impulses and inclinations through
surrealism is not only somewhat
scary and unsettling to internal-
ize, but it also reveals, to a certain
extent, the untamable qualities of
the id (if I may indulge in Freudian
terms).
Strange and irrational imagery
can create meaning and under-
standing through the id, accord-
ing to surrealists. This, if you
think about it, is the purpose of
Dead donkeys
are subversive.
the Rorschach print - to bring
out mental associations that arise
from our subconscious minds. A
butterfly-type pattern on a print
might take you back to fields of
honeysuckle, but it could also
bring to mind allusions to bloody
"butterflied" meat. Either way,
these interpretations lend expres-
sion to what is behind our reali-
ties: our inner minds, the ones
of which we are not completely
aware, and the ones that are not
consciously perceptible or con-
nected with the outside world.
While at times slightly disturb-
ing and unsettling, surrealism still
bought about amzing advances of
innovative films and visual art dur-
ingthe 20th century. Keep in mind
that Dali was active in the early
'1h00s, just foIosing the period
where the impressionists had fin-
ished muddling their shoes in poin-
talism and tossing photorealism by
the wayside; the surrealist move-
ment was way ahead of its time.
We could not have landmark
films like Guillermo del Toro's
"Pan's Labyrinth," with its odd,
dreamlike themes and imagery,
or self-portraits by Frida Kahlo,
where vines grow around her
neck and a monkey sits on her
shoulder, without surrealism. We
wouldn't even have albums like
Pink Floyd's The Wall (and its
ensuing film adaptation) without
there first being the idea of sur-
realism as an aesthetic, and, more
importantly, a way of thinking.
These works of art have all been
slicing up eyeballs for years, one
eye at a time.
Pow is writing a sequel to "Un
chien andalou." E-mail ideas to
her at poww@umich.edu

For those who have devoured
"Watchmen" in book form, noting

and nitpicking the
intricacies of Dave
Gibbons and Alan
Moore's graphic
opus is unavoid-
able. It's !exhaust-
ing to compare
the comic with
Zack Snyder's
new adaptation,
but many folks

Watchmen
At Quality16
and Showcase
Waner Bros.
and Paramount

haven't read the book and will see
this film free of the burden of expec-
tations, leaving one wondering how
"Watchmen" will be received by the
uninitiated. But the real dilemma
lies not in the audience, but the
filmmakers' intentions.
"Watchmen" is a canonical book
already legendary in its legitimiza-
tion of the comic genre and a Hugo-
winning work Time magazine
called one of the "100 best novels
from 1923-present." It's already a
visual masterpiece, and there's no
real need for a film version. But it
entices nonetheless.
Always engrossing but not quite
satisfying, Snyder's "Watchmen"
is a divisive experience. First pub-
lished in 1986, the "Watchmen"
comic series is the intricate saga of
an alternate '80s and its "heroes."
Masked vigilantes are banished by
a fifth-term Richard Nixon, and the

flawed members of the Watchmen
are deconstructed in the face of
crisis. At the very surface, "Watch-
men" is about the reunion of these
heroes in the wake of a former col-
league's death.
The death prompts former
Watchman Rorschach (Jackie Earle
Haley, "Little Children"), a bor-
derline psychopath, to investigate
and warn his old team of possible
foul play. Among the disbanded
group, The Nite Owl (Patrick Wil-
son, "Lakeview Terrace") is a
wannabe Batman suffering from
impotency and insecurity brought
on from retirement. Silk Spectre
(Malin Akerman, "27 Dresses")
is the token female, forced into
tights by her mother. She dates Dr.
Manhattan (Billy Crudup, "Almost
Famous"), the only member with
actual powers. A naked, blue, deific
figure, Manhattan is the product of
"intrinsic field subtraction." He can
see past, present and future at the
same time, while turning bad guys
into a million gory pieces with the
flick of a wrist. And he's incredibly
emotionless. Those are just the most
present characters - to go further
would probably spoil everything.
Snyder ("300") slaves to pres-
ent images with a Holy Grail sense
of fidelity, giving the audience a
comprehensive experience. Second
viewings might be necessary, as

"Shit. The costume department forgot the eye holes!

"Watchmen" is a film about detail.
Snyder wisely lingers in countless
shots, focusing on the minutiae of
the character's lives. Papers, photos,
buttons, apartments and numerous
other items become entire stories to
themselves, and it's truly effective.
The Nite Owl's gadgets and
underground lair perfectly encap-
sulate the hero's need to remember
his former glory, but the lair's dusti-
ness forces him to remain stagnant.
Rorschach's lava lamp-like mask is
a work of art in itself. It's a shame
Snyder loves slow motion, which he
liberally employs in the inevitable
action and sex scenes.
The movie succeeds because of
the richness of the source material,
and that's what makes "Watchmen"
worthwhile. When Snyder steps in
and slings gratuitous extremities (a
guy's arms get sawed off), the expe-
rience is slightly demeaned.

Attempting to condense the
original 12 issues of the comic,
the movie feels rushed and needs
breathing room. Surely, slow
motion isn't the only way to notice
the little drop of blood falling onto
a smiley face button. in, the end
there's a bigger story, but "Watch-
men" is about all the small stuff,
which is engaging regardless of
previous attachments.
The filmmakers shouldn't be
credited with making the best
presentation of "Watchmen." The
whole thing was already perfect in
1986. See "Watchmen" and enjoy it,
but consider just reading the origi-
nal inseand

Dogg After Dark' has no class, no substance

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Daily Arts Writer
Though Snoop Dogg was once a prominent
pop culture figure boasting a
successful career as a rap star
and even making surprising
strides in acting and produc- Dogg After
ing, it's clear that his days as an
A-list celebrity are over. Unfor- Dark
tunately, Snoop refuses to slip. Tuesdays
into the abyss without a fight at 9 p.m.
and feels compelledto produce MTV
MTV's "Dogg After Dark."
The osries is part talk show,
part sketch comedy, part musical showcase and
completely terrible. For a half hour, Snoop Dogg
walks around a club, makes awkward small-talk
with tabloid figures, fails at making offensive
subjects funny and holds musical performances
with the worst sound quality imaginable. During
this time, he desperately tries to convince view-
ers he's still relevant by thrusting his celebrity
friendships into the spotlight.
The show promises interviews with celeb-
rities, but those interviews end up as nothing
more than Snoop Dogg standing next to some-

one famous assuring everyone howtight they are
and making his "subject" visibly uncomfortable.
When the victims of these "interviews" do speak,
it's inaudible, due to the fact the show is hosted in
a club and the sound crew apparently sucks at its
job. During the rare occasions where it's possible
to determine what people are saying, the conver-
sations are boring and irrelevant.
The awful setup of the interviews could pos-
sibly have been remedied by Snoop Dogg getting
more prominentgpeys.tgt pqoe wants to hear
Paris Hilton freestyle rap or listento Spencer and
Heidi of "The Hills" pretend to argue so Snoop
Dogg can play marriage counselor.
But the conversations with Snoop Dog s}
celebrity friends aren't even the worst part of
the show. Snoop attempts to humorize some-
what sensitive issues and simultaneously show-
case his not-so-noteworthy acting skills through
short comedy skits during the show. The skits
are drawn out to a ridiculous length and Snoop
Dogg's acting is completely dreadful. The sketch-
es lose all possible humor and, as a result, those
that were meant to satirize racial stereotypes and
the objectification of women just end up perpetu-
ating these negative generalizations.
The premiere of "Dogg After Dark" ended

with musical performances by Pharrell Williams
and Kid Cudi. It was impossible to tell if these
performances were any good because the sound
was again mostly inaudible. It shouldn't be crazy
to assume a show producedby a successful musi-
cian would not only have decent sound quality,
Snoop: struggling to
get back on the A-list.
but wouidalso have a respectable thinesong
rather than the repetition of the three title words
in varying order to Kenny G-style saxophone
music. Snoop is visibly - and audibly - losing his
touch.
Snoop Dogg's quest to reclaim his relevance
produces what could only be called a complete
mess. Evidence of low production value is seen
in everything from the terrible (or sheer lack
of) writing to the shoddy technical execution. If
"Dogg After Dark" succeeds as a show, it's only
because audiences are mesmerized by how ter-
rible television programming can be.

for more information call 734/615-6449
The University of Michigan College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts presents a
public lecture and reception

Monday, March 9, 2009
Alumni Center, Founders Room
4:10pm

LSA



6A-- Monday, March 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the michigan daily

020
$91,900 CONDO FOR sale in down-
town Saline. 8 miles S nf 1-94band \X ilcO \ i*
State. 3 bdrms, 1 1 /2 bath, foil base- llJ,,IVYlld
ment, completely updated. Online M A N A G E NT
Realestate Inc. 734-355-0394.

*******PARKING 2009-10*******
Great locations and Rates!!
726 State Street
721 S. Forest
326 E. Madison
520 Packard
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
515 Lawrence
819 Brown
Call today....734-761-8000
PARKING SPACESAVAILABLE
Please Call 734-665-8825,
PARKING SPOT AVAIL. immed. on
central cmnu. 734-741-9300.

!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!AWESOME!!! 2 bdrm bi-level w/
1.5 baths, furniture & balcony. FREE
HD directs with DVR service & inter-
net included w/ each apt. game room,
fitness room and much more. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CORNER HOUSE APTS!!! 2 & 3
bdrms fully furnished, lots of closet
space, garage pkg, HD Directv with
DVR all included. (734)741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!EFFICIENCY!!
Spacious remodeled apt. with refin-
ished hardwood floor, new kitchen and
bath. Available Fall. 734-944-2405.
5 BDRM HSE $2950, Incl. alt atilities,
free Idry., prkg., living/dining room, 2
kitch., 2 bath, 2 studies. 734-973-2349.
properties
2-bedroom apartments
Fall and May leases available.
Sp ts apts.; great location,
Free internet. 912 S. Forest.
Call or email Post Realty for
showing or more
information: 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
***VERY LARGE 3 & 4 bdrm. apts.
available for Fall. Central Campus. 214
N. Thayer. Call (734) 657-2096 or visit
www.um-housing.com
*AVAIL SEPT 1ST 2009. 2 bdrm
house on State St across from Yost
arena. Furn, free pkg, wshr/dryer, dish-
washer Signing bonas. Call now for
mmed showing 734-434-6356.
1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. &
1313 S. State. Sept. 09. Ldry., A/C,
heat, free prkg. Call 734-904-6735.
3 OR 4 bdrm. homes, updated, w/
prkg., walk to campus. 734-649-7571.

stow until theyre gone, getoa pizza
coupon tar"very new tsar!!!
We offer many amenities such as:
Free Wireless Internet
Free Food every week
Workout room, Study Lounge,
Outdoor Pool, TV Lounge,
Laundry room, and
Great Maintenance!!!
Voted Best Of
Ann Arbor 2008!
Stop by today and
find out why!
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
www.un iversitytowers-mi.com
University
3 BDRM HOUSE. 502 Benjamin. 1
bath, basement, wshr./dryer, free laun-
dry. Fridges, front porch & deck in
back. Call 248-214-8708!
3 BDRM. APTS. East U. $1625/mo.
Furn. heat/water incl. On site prkg. Fall
09. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS!
Kerrytown or Geddes Rd. Large apts.
great for 3 - 5 people! Parking in-
cluded. (734)668-1100.
4 BDRM APT. avail. fall '09. 2 prkg
spaces avail. on-site Indry. $2450 +
elec. 321 S. Division. Call 734-996-
1991 or visit cappomanagement.com
' .Studio & 1
' + . Bd rm. Un its
Tower Plaa Condoinimp
al Brian Tomsic
734-663-1530
4 ELEVEN LOFTS - win FREE
HOUSING for a year. - Just tour our
model at 400 E.Washington (@, Divi-
sion) by 3/20 to enter. Call for details
734-998-4400, 4elevenlofts.com
4-5 BDRM House. Near athletic com-
plox. 2 bath, A/C, dry, prkg, fireplace,
hardwoord floors, jacuzzi. $2200/mo.
Avail 09/01/09. bfish333@aol.com
401 EAST MADISON - NEW PRICE
(!) on Brand New (!) apartments featur-
ing: 6 Bedrooms + Study, 2.5 bath-
rooms, washer and dryer in unit, and
off street parking, corner of Madison
and Packard. Floor plans available.
$3,450/month. Wilson White Manage-
ment 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
5 BDRM./2 bath. attractive house.
Close to central campus and stadium.
$2250/mo. 734-665-2538.
GET FREE PARKING where avail-
able when you sign a new lease by
March 31st. that's a $300 savings. Act
now! Call 734-996-1991 or visit:
capponanagement.corn for a list of
available properties.
***FOR SEPT. 2009 Lease***

6 BDRM. HOUSE just off Packard.
Less than 7 min. walk to campus. 3 full
baths. New kitchen. Free prkg., laun-
dry, cable, 40" flat screen tv, and inter-
net. $2700/iso. 734-320-1026.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE
Huge multi-use parking area
Packard at Greenwood
May to May $3000 717-2935
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 1129 White St. 3
bath, 2 kitchens, 6 prkg. spaces, paved
drive and lot. By Packard and Arch.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM. FALL '09. 510 Catherine. 3
kitch., 3 1/2 baths, A/C, 4 prkg. spaces,
2 living rms. Btwn. State and 5th.
$3400 neg. plus util. 734-996-1991.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Managemeit, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. The rush is on and we
are actively showing housing to hun-
dreds of people each week. Contact us
by phone to schedule a personal show-
ing with our rental agent. Ask for Pat.
663-4101.
ALLMAND PROPERTIES: '09
Spring and Fall 6 Bdrm 3 bath houses,
2 & 3 Bdrm Apartments. Visit our web-
site at www.alimandproperties.com for
more info or call 734-973-7368.
AVAILABLE FALL.
BeautifiIl 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
GREAT 2 BDRM apt in prime loca-
tion. Heat/water included. $1249/mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
Aptments Availab/e!

Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL. 9/1/09 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
FBDRM. & EFE APTS
$450-$6501
IEPT. 20091
PROPERTIES
4-663-5609
CHEAPER, BETTER & SAFER
than the Dorms!
Rent our 2 bedroom and save Big!
Our 2 bedroom for 12 months
= $15,000
Don 2 bedroom for 8 months
=$16,656
See what we mean...
Get $500 off all remaining May leases
This special will not last long, when
they're gone, they're gone!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
DON'T MISS Out-2 Bed. North
Campus Affordable reduced rates-
Quiet, beautiful location! 411 High
Street Call today to see your new
home! 734-761-8000. primesh.com
EFFICIENCY AND 1 bdrm. apts.
avail. Fall 09. Prices range $675-$925.
Most incl:-.heat and water and have
prkg. avail. for $25/mo. 734-996-1991
Visit CappoManagement.com
4 BDRM. HOUSE for fall; $2240;
715 McKinley; info at 904-1103.
PERFECT
ANN ARBOR
LOCATIONS!
Lots -of -Amenities!.
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation
areas, a naturally wooded
green space, or a sparkling
river view. Spacious 1 & 2
bdrm ap. with balconies or
patios. Ialk-in closets. Free
storage. On-site laundry.
Swimming pool. Pet friendly!

,oca the Oft,
'an004%,I0d
19 Great Locations
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Avail.
Spring & Fall 2009
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
or visit US at
1700 Geddes Ave.
CAMPUS PROPERTIES
AVAILABLE MAY 2009
3 Bedrooms
720 West Washington (Charming Old
West Side Home) $1795
911 Oakland (Furnished) $2395
1116 Hill (Across from South Quad)
$1785
5 Bedrooms
611 Church (Above Amers!) $3995
743 Packard (Packard and State) $2995
816 Packard (Remodeled Kitchen)
$2995
1014 Vaughn (Furnished) $2995
6 Bedrooms
921 Dewey (Furmished, Dishwasher)
$3095
Studios, 1, and 2 Bedrooms also avail-
able; and some May rates are now
negotiable too! Wilson White
Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com
campus@wilsonwhitemanagement.com
DISSATISFIED WITH WHAT you
seen already? Looking for something
nicer? Come check out our great sunny
two bedrooms. Fully furnished, heat,
water and parking included some w/
wireless Internet!
www.varsitymanagement.com
ECONOMY GOT YOU down? Well,
gel down with Varsity's tow rental
rates! 2 bdrm apIts starting at $825/mo
at 801 W. Madison! $1295 at 917
Packard and 521 Walnut! One bdrm
by the business school for $925!
www.varsitymanagement.com
FREE HEAT, 2 baths, 2 bdrm, suit-
able for 3, prkg + lndry incl. 2 blocks
from SAB, $1400. 734-260-4003.
HUGE 3 BDRM. apt. avail. in prime
spot. Heat and water incl. $1799/ mo.
734-665-8825. www.campusrealty.com
WE HAVE ALL your housing needs
from studios tof6 bdrm. houses in all lo-
cations. Please contact Michigan Realty
734-662-5500 or
www.michcomrealty.com for details.

I Bdrms. as low us $675 and 2 Bdrms.
asiow as $1200.
Not Many Left! Act Now!
Incredible location! I & 2 bedroom
apts. (can live 2 or 4 people) 715
Church St. & 721 Church St. - Across
from East Quad!!
B meautiful, spielotis, quiet. Funished/
unfurmished avail. Laundry,
free parking, free heat and water, no
pets, no smoking.
CALL C & I Management, LLC-ask
for Bobbie: 734.320.1245.
100 STEPS FROM Michigan Stadium
Three bedroom house, two car garage,
sunroom, formal diniig room, dish-
washer, hardwood floorimg, ceramic
bath, full basement w/ laundry aind attic
storage. Over $2,000 in annual football
parking revenue can offset rent/utili-
ties. Great for UM football fans and/or
EMU commuters. Call Pat 663-4101.
2 BDRM AVAIL Fall 09. Heat and wa-
ter incl. Prkg. avail. Coin ldry access.
Located on N. State, Catherine and W.
Liberty. $975-$1500. 734-996-1991.
CappoManagement.com
KERRYTOWN 4 BDRM house- fully
furnished, Ig modern kitchen, covered
porch & much more. 741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net

RELEASE DATE- Monday, March 9, 2009
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 34 Rock guitarist 47 Humiliate
1 Honey-flavored 1 Scratch or dent Mann 48 Shortentfurther,
flagonful 2 Earth-friendly 35 All set as a film
5 Bee's cousin prefix 37 Aries animal 50 Mintycocktail
9 Looks toward 3 Swiss peak 38 Spielberg, e.g.: 52 At any time
14 Rightsadvocacy 4 Book borrower's Abbr. 53 Island in the Java
org. concern 41 Breathe Sea
15 Johnson of 5 Strolls in the 43 Alan who plays 56 Call routing no.
Laugh-In" shallows Snape in "Harry 57 Lillyof
16 Instant 6 Yankee slugger, Potter" films pharmaceuticals
messaging for familiarly 45 Exchange where 58 Entirely
Macs 7 Additive sold at YHOO istraded 59 Drano
17 Ali boxing style Pep Boys 46 Lady of Spain ingredient
19 Mall unit 8 In a lather
20 Went kaput 9 Dangle a line ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Part of SUV from a dock, say Y O U B E T CH A SPAN S
23 Large scissors 10 __ speak louder
26 Tyrannosaurus _ A R R I V E S A T U L N A E
27 Gave one's 11 Tightly packed P I G G E D O U T L A T K E
blessing to, 12 Grammy-winning P A E A N N T H K N E E D
briefly country star ENOS S K EE SAND L
28 Nasty, as Steve N B E A UE
remarks 13 Jouster's horse
29 "Express 18 Breezy C X R O A D W A Y S
Yourself' singer 22 Genesistfollower P O PS I E P LECASIE S
31 At a portime 3Hunyalog U N G L E SIA M P L E
32 Droid 24Vietnam'scapital C E E T R E B E K B S S
33 Expel from the 25 Artistic kid's toy K 0 A A M A R S S E T A
legal profession 26 Machine gun ESA A U G U R
36 Magic show sound
reaction 29 Rioting crowd R 0 M P 5 F U Z Z Y D I C E
37 Drumming noise 30 Pen point UNAPT R E E L A N C E
39 Fib 32 More bogged PEPYS E N D A N S O S
40 Pageant crwns down at work xwordeditor@ao.com 03/09/09
42 "Mywonry....of
thee..." 1 a a a s e 8 a a 10 11 12 13
43 Pear-shaped ,, ,1
tomato
44 Advanced 17 1
colegeacourse
46 Likeartsina a 21 22
frozen dinner
47 Torah holders 23 2 as 26 27
49 Consume
50 Derby rider 28 29 3
51 Paging gizmos 12 as 3 42as2
53 Cowhand's bed
54 When Carmen as 7 an
dies
55 Richard an 41 42 23
Simmons diet
system with as 5 as
or- coded 47 as 49 so
cards
an Bolivian capital 1 52 53
81 Wheels
connector sa ss ss s7 s9 s9
82 Treaty partner
83 Bygoe 6n 51 62
anesthetic
64 Swab name sa 2 s
65 Aswan High Dam
site By Todd Mciary.. -//

Iwww.Bartonibrook.com, 734-665-56201

I

Deadlinefor line ads is 11:30am one business day p

irior to publication.

I

m

Rates: $4.30 per line for the/first issue and $2.15 per linefor each
additional consecutive issue. " Frequency and Bulk contracts are available-
contact our staff for details * Students may receive a 25% discount When
ads are placed in person with a valid student ID (non-organizational, non-
business ads only) * All ads must be prepaid unless prior billing privileges
have been established " We accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express,
Discover, cash, or check " For Classified Display advertising, please call one
of our Account Executives
1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days
2 lines 85.60 12.90 17.20 21.50 25.80
3 lines 12.90 19.35 25.80 32.25 38.70
4 lines 17.20 25.80 39.40 43.00 51.50
Policies:
Abbreviations: Only standard abbreviations as defined by TMD wil be accepted. Misprints: The lablity of
TMD for failure to publsh an advertisement for anyreason, or for publishing incorrect ads in a specified issue
shall be limited to publishing in a subsequent issue and not morethan the cost of one incorrect insertion. TMD
wl be responsble for dassified advertisement errors only if notified by 5:00 pm on the first day of pubcation.
Rates: A changes shown on the open rates ines are consecutive insertions. An ad may be extended at a
consecutive rate if requested and paid in full by 11:30 am on originaly scheduled ending date. Refunds:
Advertisers may ca an ad before pubication deadline, but no refund will be given unless the ad has not yet
been published. Refusal: All ads are subject to editing and approval We do not publish advertisements for
resale of tickets at more than face value TMID reserves the right to request samples of mail order items priorto
accepting advertising.

Classification:
010 - Lost Found
020 - For Sale
025 - Parking
030 - Automotive
040 - Computers
045 - Technology
050 - Furniture
060 - For Rent
070 - Sublet
080 - Services
090 - Help Wanted
093 - Summer Employment
095 - hild Care
100 - Tickets & Travel
120 - Announcements
123 - Websites
125 - Music
130 - Roommates
140 - Food & Entertainment
150 - Personal
160 - Pe/s

All line ads are placed in our online edition free of charge!! Check it out at www.michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, March 9, 2009 - 7A

I The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, March 9, 2009 - 7A

In line with economic theories,
alcohol vendors report sales up

New York Times
reporter to speak
at event today

From Page 1A
much as they used to.
Eddie Gilyano, the manager of
Strickland's Market, a liquor store
located on Geddes Avenue, said the
store's alcoholsales have decreased
significantly since the economy
took a turn for the worse.
But just as campus areas are not
representative of the rest of Ann
Arbor, they are not representative
of the rest of the country, which
has technically been in a recession
since Dec. 2007.
Last year in Pennsylvania, wine
and liquor sales were reportedly
up 4.7 percent.
Similarly, Connecticut reported
that tax revenue on alcoholic bev-
erages was up 4.7 percent for the
fiscal year that ended last June.
The Division of Liquor Control
for the Ohio Department of Com-
merce, as reported by the Ohio
University Post, announced that
alcohol sales grew $32.6 million
from 2007 to 2008, an increase of
4.75 percent.
Alcohol companies across the
country - especially wine compa-
nies - are also reporting sales are
skyrocketing.
Brown-Forman, one of the
largest American-owned wine
companies, stated that its income
has grown 4 percent in the sec-
ond quarter this year. And Liquor
Group Michigan, a liquor and wine
distribution company, reported a
78-percent increase in wine case
ROOMMATES
From Page 1A
simply being placed with someone
by their school's housing services.
"Your search results will auto-
matically be filtered by people
who fit within those desired pref-
erences," Castellucci said. "The
other aspect is very much the user
going in and being interested in a
person, clicking on their Facebook
profile and doing their own search-
es - trying to get an idea for what

By SAGAR DESHPANDE
For the Daily
Peter Baker, a long-time jour-
nalist and well-known Washing-
ton, D.C. reporter, will be giving a
speech on campus today about the
new presidential administration
and the issues that it faces.
The address, titled "President
Obama and the First 100 Days," will
focus on the challenges and press-
ing questions the Obama admin-
istration will encounter in its first
few months in office.
Baker, a White House corre-
spondent for The New York Times,
is giving the talk as part of being
awarded the 2008 Gerald R. Ford
Journalism Prize for Distinguished
Reporting on the Presidency. He
received this honor for "The Imper-

fled Presidency," a series he wrote
while with the Washington Post.
Baker is a long-time Washing-
ton veteran. During his 20 years at
the Post, he helped break and cover
stories like the Monica Lewinsky
scandal and Bill Clinton's impeach-
ment, as well as the second term of
the George W. Bush presidency. He
is often consulted for his knowl-
edge of D.C. politics and appears on
many television and radio shows,
like "Washington Week" on PBS.
The talk will be held at 7:30 p.m.,
at the Gerald R. Ford Presidential
Library, located on North Campus
at 1000 Beal Ave. After Baker gives
his speech, the floor will be opened
for questions and discussion. Event
admission and parking are free
and the event will be followed by a
reception.


WILL MOELLER/Daily
Tim Kramer, the home brew manager, checks a customer out at the Beer Depot on William Street Sunday. Kramer said that
during the recession over the past year, the store has seen its sales increase.

sales in Michigan for 2008.
The recent spike in alcohol sales
as the nation's economy falls into
a tailspin is not unique, said Eco-
nomics Prof. John Bound.
In 1991, Bound said the collapse
of the Soviet Union and the end of
the Cold War directly resulted in
soaring alcohol sales.
they're like as a person."
The application also aids the
schools because it sorts through
potential roommate matches and
gives the students the chance to
choose rather than having housing
administrators spend time match-
ing people who could have very
little in common.
While the application connects
people with potential roommates,
they must still request the person
on their formal housing forms.
Unlike most questionnaires
that simply ask about students

"Alcohol use went up dramati-
cally in Russia after the fall of the
Soviet Union," Bound said.
London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine Prof. Martin
McKee, in his journal article titled
Alcohol in Russia, discussed the
effects of the government's col-
lapse on alcohol consumption
sleeping habits and tidiness,
RoomBug also finds matches for
students based on their lifestyles,
whether or not they want visi-
tors in their rooms and how they
describe themselves and their
ideal roommate.
School of Music, Theatre &
Dance freshman Alyssa Krentzel
said she would have found the
application helpful if it had exist-
ed last year, since she began the
year with a incompatible room-
mate and has since switched
rooms.

With the collapse of the com-
munist government, McKee said,
there was a collapse of anti-alco-
hol campaigns, which resulted in
heavy drinking across the coun-
try. There was even evidence that
alcohol consumption levels in the
1990s far exceeded pre-Soviet
Union levels.
"My roommate and I had abso-
lutely nothing in common and if
I had any part in it I never would
have chosen her," she said. "I had
things I wanted in a roommate
and there was no way I could have
found those in random choosing.
I would have wanted someone I
could actually be friends with."
Castellucci developed the appli-
cations, which first launched at the
University of Florida. Three weeks
later it was also implemented by
Florida State University and the
University of Central Florida.

TUMERIC
From Page 1A
"Studies have shown that people
who have a lot of spicy food with
turmeric powder have less neuro-
logical disorders or Alzheimer's
disease," Ramamoorthysaid. "That
led us to this problem of under-
standing what it does to the biolog-
ical system like cell membranes."
Ramamoorthy said curcumin
directly binds to a cell's mem-
brane and hardens the lipid mole-
cules, which gives the cell greater
protection.
"In the end, it makes the mem-
brane more rigid so that anything
that attacks the membrane finds
it very hard to damage the mem-
brane," he said.
LSA senior Michelle Fritz and
LSA senior Jeffrey Barry are two
undergraduate students who assist-
ed in the research and both contrib-
uted to the paper published in the
Journal of the American Chemical
Society last week.
Fritz said she had never taken
biology or organic chemistry

courses at the University before
participating in the research, but
said she became involved in the
study because of her "(interest) in
doing something that pertained to
the medical field."
Fritz said she and Barry worked
to understand how curcumin inter-
acts with the membrane to cause
the death of cancer cells and how it
affects proteins.
"One of the theories is that it can
changethebilayerproperties," Barry
said. "Andbydoingthatitcanchange
how each protein functions."
Ramamoorthy said he's not inter-
ested in capitalizing on the medici-
nal effects of curcumin by creating
a product for public consumption,
but other researchers atthe Medical
School are synthesizing derivatives
of curcumin to see if it can poten-
tially be used as a drug.
"I am a chemist, and I am also a
biophysicist," Ramamoorthy said.
"I'm interested in knowing how it
functions, what are its properties,
how it targets the cell and what
kinds of properties makes this more
relevant to biology and medicine in
pharmaceutical applications."

the michigan daily
TIRED OF SEARCHING for your MAY
apartment or house? Wilson White GET $50
Management offers One Stop Shopping
with hundreds of apartments and This spr
houses on Central Campus. Our leasing the
agents are ready to help you the perfect ut
place to call home on campus. Wilson
White Management 734-995-9200
www.wilsonwhitemanagement.com PScTUey
IMMEDIATE & FALL Occupancy Church
Great Location: 1320 S. University Ne- Offer exp
gotiable Rates & Flexible Term for details
Furnished, Parking, FREE Internet, *C
1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms, Call Today! OPPEN
(734)-761-8000 or primesh.com still has I
FALL AVAILABILITY: FUR- for Pall '1
NISHED five bedroom house located ing bot
near Geddes and South University. 4 Bedroo
Stricklands Market, Central Campus, 816 Brook
CCRB, University Hospital, and all 1803 Hill
Sorority and Fraternity Houses at your 506 W W
doorstep. Unique attic space and large 5 Bedroon
front porch. Can sleep 6 residents. 401 Law
Kitchen highlights include a dish- bath. $28'
washer and new flooring! Laundry and 401 Lawm
parking. Contact Michigan Realty at bath. $295
734-662-5500 or 6 Bedroo
www.michcomrealty.com for details. 416 Ham
EHO. $3500 + u
126 Hill S
NOW LEASING 1803 Hill,
Prime Student Housing All util. p
761-8000 201 Koch.
www.primesh.com Please Cc
www.oppE
Call today to see your new Home!
OI
Efficiencies:
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms: w
520 Packard
515 E. Lawrence Hous
326 E. Madison-Reduced Rates
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms: 42
909 Church-Reduced Rates
1021 Vaughn-Reduced Rates
721 S. Forest-Reduced Rates 40
1320 S. University
411 High-Reduced Rates
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartment 9
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms
avail on central or north campus.
741-9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. Offering
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking of your c
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992. oft
LARGE FURNISHED 3 bdrm. apt. at
1111 S. State, Near UM bus stop,
Avail. Now or Fall 2009, Heat & water
incl. Balc., A/C, prkg., Idry.,
$1450-$1750, No smkg./no pets.
734-996-3539 or 734-678-7250.
ehtseng@comcast.net ** PER
AVAIL IMMEDIATELY- FLEXI- sublet. Hi
BLE leases, furnished or unfurnished. ppl. Call I
Call today 741-9657.
FREE S
ROOM AVAILABLE IN S bdrm. bedroc
house. $650 per month. 734-665-8825.
STUDIO APT. 1/2 blk from diag.- ww
Clean, furnished, security. Call MAY -
248-877-0859 or 248-217-6896. bdrm 2-3
TWO 7 BDRM. houses available and fully furn
several one bdrms. avail. for fall. Con- cation for
tact PMSI at www.pmsiproperties.com stop. 513-

'LEASES AVAILABLE
;00 OFF ALL REMAINING
MAY LEASES!
ecial will not last long, when
y're gone, they're gone!
iversitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
RE THIS...FREE 42" Flat
ours to keep! Sign today, 909
The Abbey". Limited Time-
pires Friday March 20th-Call
s. 734-761-8000. primesh.com
ertain conditions apply
NHEIMER PROPERTIES
houses and large apts. for rent
09. Offering $500-$1000 sign-
nus for available properties!
)m
kwood. $2700 + util.
St. 1.5 bath. $2650. Util. mcl.
illiams. 2 bath. $2100 + util.
)m
rence Unit 2. Kerrytown. 2
75 + electric.
rence Unit 3. Kerrytown. 2
50 + gas and electric.
)m
ilton Place. 3 bath. Occ. 8.
til.
i. 2 bath. $3100 + util.
St. Unit 2. Bi-level. 1.5 bath.
aid. May Lease. $3300
t.2 bath. $2450 + util.
ontact 734-995-5575 or
penheimerproperties.com
LD TOWN REALTY
612 Church St.
(734) 663-8989
ww.oldtownrealty.net
es Available for Fall 2009
All Prices Reduced!!
8 Bedroom House
28 Hamilton Pl. $4,400
7 Bedroom Houses
36 E. Jefferson $3,150
1220 Prospect $3,850
334 Catherine $3,850
6 Bedroom House
52 Greenwood $3,600
(May or Fall Lease)
4 Bedroom Houses
1116 Packard $2,300
42 Woodlawn $2,060
624 Church $2,995

WRITING COACH/EDITOR--I'M a
Ph.D. author, writer, and psychologist
who can help you generate articles, dis-
sertations, grant proposals, and theses.
734-678-5512.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp."
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
APPLYING TO MED school? Expert
help available for the entire admissions
process from a former admissions com-
mittee member. Email:
intomedschool@gmail.com
hel pw ant ed
090
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial, Age 18+ ok. No exp. necessary,
training provided. 800-965-6520 x 125.
EARN EXTRA MONEY. Students
needed ASAP. Earn up $150 per day
being a mystery shopper. No experi-
ence required. Call 1-800-722-4791.
FUNDRAISE FOR THE U! $9.25-
+/Hr. at Michigan Telefund. On cam-
pus, flexible hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
ANN ARBOR BASED company,
Gold Star Financial, is looking to hire
individuals for our Manager Develop-
ment Training Program. Work hand-in-
hand with the #1 and #2 loan officers
in the state. We will be holding inter-
views weekly; please submit resumes
to rrichter@goldstarfinancial.com
ANN ARBOR RECONSTRUCTION-
IST Havurah seeks teacher for our Sun-
day morning religious school for 2009-
2010 academic yr. Exp. with children,
knowledge of Hebrew required. Send
resume to teacherjob@aarecon.org
INDOOR WATER PARK and/or
Summer Outdoor Lifeguard: Private
club accepting applications for life-
guard and swim instructor positions.
Experienceprerredand lifeguard certi-
fications must by current. Free member-
ship included. Apply at Liberty
Athletic Club, 2975 W. Liberty, Ann
Arbor. Phone Jan at 665-3738 ext. 18
for additional information.
ONE YEAR INTERNSHIP with im-
migration law firm in Farmington
Hills, MI. Full Time. Outstanding op-
portunity for highly motivated and in-
telligent U of M pre-law or pe-gradu-
ate student taking a year off between
undergraduate and graduate studies.
Please email resume, cover letter, and
transcript to cambedu@aol.com
PARTICIPANTS FOR A psychology
experiment on simple perceptual judg-
ments at U of M. One 2-hour 15 min.
session, pays $25. To qualify, must be
18+, a native English speaker, and have
vision correctable to 20/20. IRB #:
HUM00020435. Email Natasha at
nkalaida@med.umich.edu

GET PAID CASH for taking online
surveys. www.cashtopsend.com
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ASSIS-
TANT. 10-20 hrs./wk. Track tasks and
project progress. Develop meeting
agendas and notes. Write reports and
communicate with project stakehold-
ers. Self-starter, organized, computer
experience (mac), great written and ver-
bal communications skills. Please send
letter and resume to:
pm-asst@umich.edu
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & Pub now hiring talented,
hardworking individuals for our wait
and kitchen staff, and floorman. No
exp. necessary. Apply in person at 310
Maynard, Ann Arbor. 734-995-0100.
TUTOR IN PYTHON computer pro-
gramming for local 9th grade student.
Ability to also tutor Math and/or Latin
a plus, but not required.$20/hour. Con-
tact Jeannette or Doug at(734)662-3560.
WANTED SEASONAL
Grill/Banquet/ Beverage Cart Servers,
Pro Shop Workers, Grounds Crew
Workers. Stonebridge Golf Club, A2
734-429-8383
www.stonebridgegolfclub.net
SUMMER ENGINEERING POSI-
TIONS available: Summer Engineer-
ing Academy (SEA) & Michigan Sci-
ence, Technology, Engineering & Math
Academy (MSTEM)!
Learn more about available positions:
Instructors, Academic Facilitators,Resi-
dential Director, Residential Facilita-
tors, Staff selection process, Program
specifics.
Tuesday, March 10, 2009 5:30PM
Location: 1200 EECS
EECS -Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science Bldg, 1301 Beal Ave
For questions, please contact:
Lucie Howell (734)-647-7124 or
Michele Randolph (734) 647-7120.
Michigan Men's Soccer is now hirng
Manas s! n
Be a part of Michigan Athletics
For"oreinfoe'mail:
grassieSumich.edu
WORK ON MACKINAC Island this
Summer - Make life long friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Wait
Staff, Sales Clerks, and Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals avail-
able. Call Ryan 1 (800) 626 - 6304.
www.theislandhouse.com

SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: n n oUn Ce ens
Make a difference in the life of a child!
Summer therapy camp for children
with physical disabilities. Located on
shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI.
Positions available for Couselors,
Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ Arts
& Crafts/ Recreation, Nurses, Thera-
pists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. DEAR FELLOW ALUMNI: If you
Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and are considering donating your old car
love children. June 14 through August to charity, please consider donating it
9. Salary, room & board, and experi- to me. I have my BA from U-M, but I
ence of a lifetime provided. Call or am now finishing my MBA degree. I
write for application and information. can't afford to stay on campus, soI must
Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O Box 310 commute from Detroit to A2. Please
Big Bay, MI 49808, (906)-345-9414, consider my situation as an alumni who
e-mail BaycliffHC@aol.com. Visit us is in need of a car! I can be reached at
at www.baycliff.org (313)-247-9132.

For Tuesday, March 10, 2009
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Tension on the job might arise because
of the Full Moon today. Similarly, you
might feel concerns about your own
health. (You'll easily communicate your
concerns to others.)
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Be extra patient when dealing with
children. The Full Moon creates tension
for them as well as for you. The same
goes for all romantic involvements,
which also are intensified today.
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
It's hardto know whoto put firsttoday
- the concerns of home and family or
your career and your outer world.
Today's Full Moon highlights this
choice. Tough call.
CANCER
(June 21 to0July 22)
This is a mildly accident-prone day for
you. Take it easy. Slow down. You don't
have to have an accident; however, the
stress of today's Full Moon might affect
you.
LEO
(July 23 10 Aug. 22)
You wan tto get your ducks in a row,
financially speaking. You're focusing on
debt, earnings, cash flow, inheritances,
shared property and wills.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
This is the only Full Moon in your
sign all year. That's why you feel
increased stress and tension when talk-
ing to partners and close friends. Stay
cool.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Today's Full Moon makes you a bit
edgy and nervous, and you might not
even know why. Itlcould create problems
dealing with co-workers. Be patient and

tolerant.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 toNov. 21)
Conflict with friends or members of
groups might arise because of today's
Full Moon. (It's hard to keep your shirt
on when you're getting something off
your chest.)
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Conflict with sports, show business
and the entertainment world, social
events, parties and romantic partners
easily arise because of today's Full
Moon. Chill out.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
It's hard to know what to put first:
your home and private life or your job
and your public life. Despite the con-
flicts due to today's Full Moon, you can-
not ignore home and family.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Avoid disputes with others about
money, cash flow, earnings and shared
property. Because of the Full Moon,
today is a poor day to discuss these mat-
ters.
PISCES
(Feb. 191to March 20)
Be exta patient with partners and
close friends. Today's Full Moon is the
only Full Moon that opposes your sign
all year. Stay frosty.
YOU BORN TODAY You're very
sensitive; particularly to the misfortunes
of others. If you can help, you always
will. You know how to enjoy yourself.
You love life; and you love to have fun,
especially in social, intimate settings.
You value the internal rather than the
external. You will love the year ahead
because it's wonderfully social! It's also
a lovely year for partnerships.
Birthdate ofh Chuck Norris, actor;
Pauline Johnson, poet; Edie Brickell,
singer/songwriter.

XECT SPRING/SUMMER
ll & Church, lots of prkg., 5-7
for more info 810-772-9691.
UBLET FINDER. studio-3
ams; 19 locations to choose
from. (734) 741-9300
.annarborapartments.net
AUG Sublet. 726 S. State. 2
ppl. heat/H20/direct tv incl.
. Rent negotiable. Perfect lo-
central campus right near bus
315-6273. estesb@umich.edu

02009KingFeatures Syndicate,Inc.


8A - Monday, March 9, 2009

4

4

Series of free student workshops
" Wednesday, March 11, Budget! Are You Kidding?
" Wednesday, March 18, Investing for Young Investors
* Wednesday, March 25, Landing a Job in a Difficult Economy
* Wednesday, April 1, Your Fork Is Not a Shovel: A Lesson in
Business Etiquette
All sessions are from 6-8 p.m., are free and include
dinner. Register now! Space is limited so make sure
you register early.
www.umalumni.com/students

I

Thanks to our sponsors:
Liberty C'REIT )1
Mutual UNIN.

ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

U

Earn your degree faster by taking summer classes at
OAKLAND UNIVERSITY

4

If you're spending the summer in the Metro Detroit area, keep moving
toward graduation as a guest student at Oakland University.
You can choose from 1,000 diverse courses in several convenient sessions -
courses that can transfer to your home institution. Check the Michigan Transfer Network
to learn what courses will transfer at www.michigantransfernetwork.org.
Registration begins March 16. Free applications for guest students are available
online at www.oakland.edu/guest.
At OU, you'll find the total college experience - with challenging academics,
Division I athletics and hundreds of student orgs - all for a great value. You'll quickly
see how OU makes an exceptional education available at a truly affordable price.
And remember, at OU, students don't pay any fees. So when you need
transcripts sent to your home institution, you won't spay a thing!

Oakland offers 129 undergraduate degree programs in:
" Arts and Sciences
" Business Administration
" Education and Human Services
. Engineering and Computer Science
" Health Sciences
" Nursing
Important summer dates:
. Summer full session: May 4 - August 15
. Summer I session: May 4 - June 20
. Summer I session: June 29 - August 15

0

4


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I March 9, 2009

ICE HOCKEY
Seniors lead Blue into playoffs
By NICOLE AUERBACH go down, and (Michigan coach Red The situation is fitting since both
Daily Sports Editor Berenson) was like, 'Miller, Turn- Miller and Turnbull have played in
bull, stay up here. You got a game all of Michigan's 160 games since
With 20 minutes remaining in disqualification,'" Miller said. "We their freshman year. They have
the final regular-season game of were like, 'What?'" both battled minor injuries and ill-
their collegiate hockey careers last The duo was forced to watch the ness to keep that streak alive, and
Saturday night, Michigan senior rest of the game from the stands, neither is the kind of player who
forwards Travis Turnbull and Tim while worrying that the penalties shies away from a fight.
Miller were confused. would lead to an automatic one- So though it was interesting that
They grabbed their helmets, game suspension - which would the closest both came to a game,
sticks and gloves, thinking they keep them out of the team's first disqualification was last weekend,
were headed back to the ice to fin- game of the CCHA Tournament it's more surprising that neither
ish off their Senior Night. They'd this Friday. player has ever been suspended for
almost forgotten their scuffle with Miller and Turnbull eventually a game.
Ferris State players before the set- found out they only received game "We were a little worried," Turn-
ond intermission. misconduct penalties, so they will, bull said with a laugh. "We'd never
"Turnbull and I were ready to not serve any suspensions. See SENIORS, Page 4B

WRESTLING
Three grapplers grab conference titles

By MIKE FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
After four months, 27 matches
and more than a few bruises, three
members of the No. 18 Michigan
wrestling team found themselves
in a familiar position at the Big Ten
Championships Sunday - with
their hands raised.
Michigan (5-2-1,10-8-1) used
its three individual conference
championships to vault itself to a
third-place finish in State College,
behind undefeated Iowa and two-
loss Illinois in the team standings.
With limited expectations at
the beginning of the year because

of seven underclassmen, the team
exceeded preseason predictions
and matched its finish of a year
ago.
"We have a tough team," said
fifth year senior Steve Luke, who
won the 174-pound conference
title. "But people didn't think we'd
come in the top five here.
"We had three Big Ten champs,
which is more than any other Big
Ten team. Even the guys who lost
were fighting hard and going after
the people."
Sophomore Kellen Russell start-
ed the individual championship
run with a 6-4 overtime win over
Wisconsin's Zach Tanelli at 141

pounds. By beating Tanelli, Russell
defended his championship title by
beating the top-ranked wrestler in
his weight class.
After a late escape by Tanelli
sent the match into overtime,
Tanelli got hold of Russell's legs
and appeared to be in a position
for a takedown in the extra period.
But Russell escaped and scrambled
around to score the takedown and
the win.
"Once he got in, I put myself in
kind of a crackdown," Russell said.
"He was a lot shorter than me, so I
knew if I could get him extended, I
could elevate his hips and roll him
See BIG TENS, Page 3B

BIG TEN CHAMPS N.Y. STATE OF MIND
The Michigan women's club lacrosse team After a 4-4 tie against the New York Mets
dominated the field to take the Big Ten crown in an exhibition game last season, 'M' took
this weekend. Page 2B. _: them on again. See how it did. Page 3B.


2B - March 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

Dance bid would Blue cruises to Big Ten title

0

give campus a real
March Madness

Michigan's win over Min-
nesota on Saturday was
a major step forward for
.en's basketball program.
It could also be the start of two
very fun weeks
for students.
Nothing is
set in stone, but
Michigan great-
ly increased s
its chances of F
making the
NCAA Tourna- NATE
ment with that SANDALS
win (fingers_
crossed). A win
in the Big Ten
Tournament this week will help
solidify that spot in the Big Dance.
None of us were here the last
time Michigan's name was called
on Selection Sunday (except those
10th-year seniors). That could very
well change in six days.
If Michigan's name is called, the
excitement level on this campus is
going to reach a level it hasn't seen
since the football team went to
Columbus with an 11-0 record in
2006.
Students are primed to succumb
to March Madness, and this year
the basketball team is giving them
the chance.
The Wolverines spot in the tour-
nament and many of the following
events depend on what happens in
conference tournaments around the
country, but here are a few ideas for
how the Athletic Department can
take advantage of the opportunity
to make this campus live and die by
Michigan basketball in the next two
weeks:
The students should get to enjoy
the fun of March Madness, too,
startingwith a Selection Show party
at Crisler Arena on Sunday. After
years of watching students on cam-
puses across the country celebrate
their team making the tournament,
Michigan students have earned
their chance to do the same.
In general, pep rallies are lame.

But if Michigan makes the tourna-
ment, the student body should get a
chance to send the team off before it
heads out for its first game.
And if Michigan gets placed in a
regional within reasonable driving
distance, the Athletic Department
should arrange buses to take as many
students to the game as want to go.
Only a few hundred students
bought season tickets this year, but
that number will go up for next sea-
son. Winning always builds a bigger
fanbase, and involving the fans in
the excitement of this experience
will help itgrow even more.
And those are just the possibili-
ties before Michigan even plays a
tournament game.
If the Wolverines happen to play
on Thursday afternoon, the Uni-
versity may as well cancel classes
because every student is going to be
watching, even the ones who don't
usually care about basketball.
Provided the Wolverines make
the tournament, it will be exciting
to see how March Madness takes
over this campus.
Just consider how nuts this cam-
pus goes for March Madness when
Michigan isn't in the field. The bars
are always packed, bracketsrare lit-
tered around campus, lecture halls
are empty on Thursday and Friday,
and students who do go to class are
watchingthe games online.
By adding a significant rooting
interest in the results, March Mad-
ness on this campus is going to reach
a scale we've never seen.
It's been 10 years since Michigan
last made the tournament, which
means a lot of students have gradu-
ated without getting to enjoy what
we may get to this March.
If we get that chance, let's not
take it for granted.
- Sandals reminds readers of
his Jan.26 column to go watch the
Michigan water polo team in the
Wolverine Invitational this weekend
at Canham Natatorium. He can be
reached at nsandals o umich.edu.

By JASON KOHLER
Daily Sports Writer
The women's club lacrosse team
jogged onto the field in the Ooster-
baan Fieldhouse, giving each other
high-fives with their sticks and
yelling cheers of encouragement.
Twenty yards downfield, the
Wisconsin players quietly walked
to their positions.
No cheers. No exuding sense of
confidence.
Judging by the difference in
demeanor, the game was already
over. No. 4 Michigan looked like it
knew it was going to win, an atti-
tude that was obvious all weekend
against the powder-puff field in
the Big Ten Tournament.
The Wolverines (8-2) trounced
the Badgers 16-2 and outscored
opponents 58-14 all weekend to
easily take the tournament crown.
Michigan's offensive produc-
tion made freshman goalie Emmy
Scheidt's work in the net a bit more
relaxing than usual. Wisconsin
had just three shots on goal, large-
ly because the Wolverines were
too busy scoring and the Badgers
didn't have many possessions.
But the Wolverines are not
invincible. Early in the season,
Michigan lost by a goal to both No.
2 Cal Poly and No.3 Colorado.
"Personally, it's tough to stay
focused in games like these just

"It's tough," Dunbar said about
working both jobs. "You definitely
have to work with schedulingcon-
cerns,bothplanningaroundgames
and when the practices start. It's a
long season."
Despite the pressure of coach-
ing two teams, Dunbar embraces
the challenge and has come to
appreciate the maturity and love
for the game that her collegiate
players possess.
The team's maturity showed in
its first game of the season against
Division-III Adrian - one of just
two varsity teams in the state.
The Wolverines knocked off the
varsity squad 8-7 in a exhibition
match.
"We think we can play against
the top-level Division-III teams,"
Dunbar said. "Being able to play
against Adrian and beat Adrian,
I think it legitimizes us a little
more."
Although the game didn't count
toward Michigan's record, it
meant everything for players who
decided to give up the chance to
play varsity when they came to
Michigan.
"It's an awesome thing for the
student athletes to be able to play
club sports because a majority of
them wouldn't be playing a Divi-
sion-I sport," Dunbar said. "And I
wouldn't be a coaching a Division-I
team."

Sophomore Britt Boehm is Michigan's second-leading scorer (20 goals) this season.
because there's not a lot of oppor- verine club duties.
tunity to help out," Scheidt said. Dunbar's high school gig helped
"We still work on things. It's not her recruit for Michigan. When
just a cakewalk out there. We have Scheidt decided to come to Michi-
to challenge ourselves." gan, her coach prodded the goalie
In 2007, Scheidt led Birming- to give the club team a shot.
ham Seaholm High School to' "It was more of an encourage-
the team state championship in ment," Dunbar said. "'Hey, do you
Michigan. Both Michigan coach hear the coaches are pretty cool?
Jen Dunbar and assistant coaches You should come out for the team.'
Ginny and Kasey Hughes coach at But jugglingtwo jobs also has its
Seaholm in addition to their Wol- drawbacks.

Tiebreaker trouble dooms Wolverines

By ANDREW CLAUW
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan men's tennis
team had already lost the meet, but
its No. 5 singles had the intensity
of a championship game. Wolver-
ine junior George Navas, facing
off against Wake Forest freshman
David Hopkins, won the first set
6-4 and dropped the second set 7-5
to leave the match to a10-point tie-
breaker.
The crowd was silent as both
teams watched from a distance.
Navas went up 8-4, but his oppo-
nent refused to give up. With a 9-8
lead and the chance to finish the
smatch, the junior stepped up to
serve. He hit a well-placed, cross-

court approach shot off of Hopkins'
quick return to win the tiebreaker
10-8 and earn a point for No. 28
Michigan.
Unfortunately for the Wolver-
ines, Navas' point was Michigan's
only one of the meet. The Wolver-
ines were down 6-0 to No. 23 Wake
Forest by the time Navas started
the tiebreaker.
"I don't worry about everyone
watching, but it's difficult once
the match is clinched by the other
team," Navas said. "I was (just)
tryingto salvage one point."
The match started off on a sour
note for Michigan. The Demon
Deacons came out strong with
4-1 leads at No. 1 and No. 3 dou-
bles. Sophomore Jason Jung and

Navas appeared overwhelmed by
the nation's No. 1 doubles team of
Wake Forest junior Steven Forman
and senior Cory Parr and Michi-
gan lost 8-4.
Coupled with Michigan's 8-5
loss at No. 3 doubles, the Demon
Deacons sealed the doubles point.
Wake Forest's momentum
hurt Michigan early on in singles
competition. The Wolverines fell
behind early, losing No. 1and No. 2
singles in straightsets, with both of
senior Andrew Mazlin's decided by
close tiebreakers at No. 2 singles.
"We were in every match, and
we competed very hard," Michigan
coach Bruce Berque said."We were
losing a lot of tiebreakers (and) a
lot of close ones tonight."

Senior co-captain Peter Aarts's
match was also drawn out to a
10-point super tiebreaker for the
decisive set after splitting 7-5, 6-7.
Aarts failed to clinch a victory and
lost the tiebreaker 10-6 at No. 4
singles.
"I think we played decent,"
Aarts said. "I'm not going to say
well and I'm not going to say bad
- obviously not the level that we
want to play at."
Berque feels that there is a lot
of potential for his team, but as
the season continues, there will be
fewer opportunities for players to
prove themselves.
"We're a good team despite our
record, but we're not our best yet,"
Berque said.

TWO FREE EXHIBITIONS E E
Enjoy two great exhibitions and 900 works of art from Cleveland's renowned collection-all for free

4

4

4

4

11150 East Boulevard www.clevelandart.org General admission is free
cUnA RTUniversity Circle 1-888-CMA-0033 Open Tue-Sunl10a.m-5p.m.
Cleveland, Ohio 44106 216-421-7340 Wed, FrilOa.m.-9 p.m.
Closed Mondays
FRIEDLANDER is organized by The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Made possible by Fred and Laura Ruth Bidwell, Agnes Gund, Toby Devan Lewis, and Mark Schwartz and Bettina Katz.
ART AND POWER IN THE CENTRAL AFRICAN SAVANNA was organized by the Cleveland Museum of Art. Support for education and public programs for At and Powerhas been provided in part by members of
the Friends of African and African-American Art and the African-American Advisory Committee.
CAPTIONS: FRIEDL ANDER C Lee Friedlander Lake Louise, Canada, 2000. Gelatin silver print. Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of tre photographer New York CiNy 1966. Gelatin silver print. Museum of
Modern Ar t, New York, Carliacobs Fund. Las Vegas, evada, 2002. Gelatin silver print. Museum of Modern Art, NewyorkGift of the photographer. AR TAND POWER Male Figure. Chokwe, Angola. Wood, hair.
Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth (AP 1978.05) iPhoto: Kimbell Art Museum, Michael Bodycomb

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

March 9,2009- 3B

Cislo unable to spark Blue 'M'finds hythm
By FELIX CARREON
Daily Sports Writer aft earl loss

The Michigan baseball team
took a break from its busy col-
legiate schedule to play the New
York Mets in an exhibition game
yesterday afternoon at the Tradi-
tion Field Complex in Port Saint
Lucie, Fla.
After sweeping Siena in a three-
game series, the Wolverines found
themselves on the other side of the
ball.
The Wolverines were blown out
18-7 by the Mets in a stark depar-
ture from last year's game.
Last February, the Wolver-
ines battled to a 4-4 tie with the
Mets and received attention from
national media outlets for all the
wrong reasons.
Then-junior second baseman
Kevin Cislo attempted a bunt in the
fourth inning, trying to advance a
runner on second with just one out.
The play drew the ire of then-Mets'
closer Billy Wagner.
"If he got that bunt down, I
would have drilled the next guy,"
Wagner said after the game. "Play
to win against Villanova."
This time the Mets exploded
for seven runs in the bottom of the
second for an early 8-0 lead.
But Michigan quickly respond-
ed, turning to no other than
Cislo, now a tri-captain, to pro-
vide the offense. And this time,
the senior wasn't looking to bunt.
Cislo knocked in a single down the
middle to lead the attack. Junior
first baseman Mike Dufek sent a
ball over right field for a two-run
homer, triggering a five-run inning
to cut the lead to three.
But that would be as close as
it got. The Wolverines' pitching
was no match for the big bats of
the major leaguers, and the Mets
scored seven more runs in the next
two innings.
"Everyone was looking forward
to the game," Cislo said. "It was a
fun game last year and a fun game

. i v

Senior Kevin Cislo was the source of controversy in last season's exhibition against the New York Mets after bunting in a 4-4 tie.

this year."
But all was not lost for the Wol-
verines on the weekend, with a
sweep of Siena (1-11) in Port St.
Lucie, Fla.
Senior pitcher Chris Fetter col-
lected his 200th career strikeout
with an 11-strikeout performance
on Friday in the first game against
the Saints. Michigan's defensive
play stifled the Siena offense,
allowing just three runs off eight
hits.
"It shows that I've been able to
pitch quite a bit in these last four
years," Fetter said of the milestone.
"I credit my teammates around
me and the teams I've been on
that have allowed me to pitch that
much."
Despite strong pitching by Fet-
ter in the first game of the series,
the Wolverines found themselves
down 1-0 to the Saints after the
first inning.
A two-run homer in the sec-
ond inning by freshman shortstop
John Lorenz sparked the offensive

attack and gave Michigan a one-
run lead. Junior second baseman
Nick Urban continued the offen-
sive production with a three-run
homer in the fifth inning, and
another three-run performance in
the eighth-inning sealed the 11-3
victory over Siena.
The strong defensive play in
the first game against the Saints
was a sign of things to come. Last
weekend, Michigan was plagued
by inconsistent pitching and poor
defense. But in this series, the Wol-
verines' defense stepped up when
pitching wasn't there.
Michigan gave up a total of 12
hits to Siena in the second game,
the first in Saturday's doublehead-
er, but it allowed the Saints offense
just three runs.
The Wolverines' offensive out-
put came from an unexpected
source. Freshman Coley Crank
earned his first collegiate RBI to
put Michigan on the scoreboard
first.
And he wasn't done for the

Michigan earns two provision
Tauro Taylor :
excel in final tuneup s
before NCAA Indoor U w

night. Crank went 3-for-3 with two
RBI in the winning effort.
"He was making good contact
and was able to find holes," Michi-
gan coach Rich Maloney said. "I
think he's a really good hitter and
he has a chance tobe a good really
player for us. He gave our team a
good lift."
The second game of Saturday's
doubleheader and the last game of
the series was more of the same.
The Wolverines lit up the score-
board with 19 runs to overpower
the Saints.
This time, the offense came
from sophomore outfielder Ryan
LaMarre, who pulled in a three-
run homer to extend his hitting
streak to eight.
And again, Crank went 3-for-3
with an RBI single to help Michi-
gan in its 19-6 win over Siena.
"We're trying to win and gain
experience at the same time, which
isn't easy to do," Maloney said.
"But so far, the kids have been able
to do it."
al marks
guaranteed spots in the champion-
ships.
Senior co-captain Tiffany Ofili
has the nation's best time in the
60-meter hurdles, and seniors
Geena Gall (800-meter run) and
Bettie Wade (pentathlon) are sec-
ond in the nation in their respective
events.
If Tauro and Taylor don't get
in, the highest the Wolverines can
score at the championships is 30
points. And if Ofili, Wade and Gall
turn in performances consistent
with their current national rank-
ings, the three will pick up 26points
for Michigan.
Last year, the Wolverines sent
four athletes to the championships
and came in third place with 39
points, the highest score in Michi-
gan history in the NCAA Indoor
Championships. Arizona State won
the with 51 points.'
"We have three athletes in a
position to win individual national
titles," McGuire said. "So maybe all
three of them will win and maybe
none of them will win. We recog-
nize they're ina position to win, but
there are other outstanding athletes
in their events and that was why it's
the national championships. Obvi-
ously, you can't score without bod-
ies in there."

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Somewhere between the Michi-
gan softball team's first game of the
weekend and its last, things started
to click.
The Wolverines started this
weekend's tournament with an
extra-inning, 3-2 loss to Louisville
and ended with a a 13-0, five-inning,
mercy-rule shutout of Tennessee
Tech.
"A team that plays with confi-
dence plays twice as good as asteam
without confidence," Michigan
coach Carol Hutchins said. "In the
Tennessee Tech game, they played
like they practice. It was very pleas-
ing to watch."
Michigan finished 3-1 at the two-
day University of Louisville Tourna-
ment in Louisville, Ky. After a close
loss Saturday morning to Louisville,
the Wolverines finished the day by
pulling out a 3-0 shutout with acom-
plete-team effort against Bradley.
Not only did junior pitcher Nikki
Nemitz strike out 11 against the
Braves, but the entire defensive field
played with increased confidence.
Nemitz's performance boosted her
to fifth place for career strikeouts at
Michigan.
After an 11-hour, two-game day,
with the Wolverines arrived at their
hotel with just enough time for a
good night's sleep before Sunday's
back-to-back games.
While playing four games in a
BIG TENS
From page 1B
through and that is what I ended up
doing."
But Russell almost didn't make it
to the finals. It took him two over-
times to beat third-ranked Alex
Tsirtsis from Iowa.
Luke also defended his title by
beating Penn State freshman Quen-
ton Wright. The final score read
12-, but Luke willingly gave up
many of those points only to score
more takedowns.
"That's the second time I wres-
tled the Penn State kid," Luke said.
"So I knew his style and knew what
he liked. He liked the under-hook to
the single, and I just made sure to
stay low and keep good position."
Luke has spent the entire season
at No. 1 in the 174-pound weight
class. He extended his undefeated
streak to 27 matches Sunday.
"I was real proud of the way he
wrestled," Michigan coach Joe
McFarland said of Luke. "I can hon-
estly say that is probably one of the
best performances I've ever seen.
To win his third Big Ten title the
way he did it, it was nonstop attack,
it was really fun to watch and it was
fun to be in the corner."
Despite all of his successes, Luke
still has something to prove at the
NCAA tournament. He lost by just
two points in last year's champion-
ship final.
Luke's co-captain counterpart,
fifth-year senior Tyrel Todd, took
home the 197-pound Big Ten Cham-
pionship in his first season at the
+LAT

weekend is both physically and
mentally taxing, it is useful for the
team to prepare for the demanding
tournament schedules.
"It's what we were trained to do,"
Hutchins said. "It is as hard as they
make it. They are all very capable.
We often play five games in a week-
end, so these kids need to get a lot
of credit for the amount of time they
put into the sport."
On Sunday, the Wolverines'
confidence continued to build and
Hutchins said the players began to
trust themselves and their team-
mates.
Michigan won the day's first
game 3-2 against Ohio, and scored a
season-high 13 run against Tennes-
see Tech.
Sophomore pitcher Jordan Taylor
threw her second-career no-hitter
against Tennessee Tech, a result of
a shared team effort.
Junior right fielder Angela Find-
lay had a season-high three hits and
junior centerfielder Molly Bausher
had three RBL
"We needed our confidence and
demeanor to get better, and I think
it did," Hutchins said.
"Their attitude and their
approach to the game - how they
approach each pitch. We are look-
ing to be a team that approaches
each pitch with confidence, and we
got a little better at being confident.
There is a certain air and swagger
by the team that trusts that they can
do that."
weight class.
After tearing his ACL in the
beginning of the year, he put off sur-
gery until after this season to put
himself in the best position for suc-
cess. He didn't disappoint.
"It's really been a blessing that
I'm able to compete and that my
knee's been strong enough to really
to be able to wrestle my best, Todd
said. "I feel like I'm really on top of
my game right now."
Todd won 5-4, in his Big Ten
swan song against Wisconsin's Dal-
las Herbst. He controlled the pace of
the match throughout until he gave
up a last-second takedown, making
the final score appear a lot closer
than the match indicated.
"I didn't feel threatened by his
offense at any point in the match,"
Todd said. "Being able to ride him
and control the tempo on my feet
was really key."
The three champions were not
the only ones scoring points for the
Wolverines. Michigan has at least
six wrestlers who have qualified
for the NCAA Tournament, and the
young team may pick up more when
wildcard selections are announced
Wednesday.
"We hope we can get at least one
more, ifnot two more guys," McFar-
land said. "How realistic is that? I
don't know."
But the celebrations won't last
long with the NCAA Tournament
just two weeks away.
"Our main focus is going to be to
put this behind us," McFarland said.
"We're going to celebrate, and then
tomorrow we'll start focusing on
the NCAAs."

Championships
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
one hundred and fifty meters
before the finish line of her mile
race, sophomore Danielle Tauro
realized her last chance to capture
an indoor NCAA automatic quali-
fying time this year was quickly
slipping away.
Tauro had started the race strong
but lost momentum on her fourth of
five laps at Saturday's Alex Wilson
Invitational, in which six Wolver-
ines participated in an attempt to
get NCAA qualifying times before
the Indoor Championships Mar. 13.
Then, 1,450 meters into the race,
Tauro saw Michigan assistant
coach Mike McGuire on the upcom-
ing curve. He was pointing to a girl
far ahead of her and shouting, "This
is 4:39 right here! Go get her!"
When she heard her coach yell-
ing, the sophomore realized that
she might be able to finish with an
automatic time and, with her sec-
ond wind, passed five girls in the
last lap to finish fifth (4.38.7). The
time was a personal best for Tauro,
beating her Mar. 1 Big Ten Cham-
pionships, time (4:44.47) by nearly
seven seconds.
But the provisional qualify-
ing time she turned in was seven
tenths of a second slower than the
automatic qualifying time for the
NCAA Indoor Championships.
That means Tauro's spot is con-
tingent on how many mile runners
nationwide have an automatic qual-
ifying time. Each event is capped at
a certain number of participants.
Once all the automatic qualifiers
have a spot, the nextfastestrunners
get spots in the championships.

co Is DZOMBAK/Daily
Sophomore Danielle Tauro ran a personal-best 4:38.7 in the mile Saturday.

Last year, her 4:38.7 would have
been fast enough to snag a spot in
the championship meet. But the
field of participants is deeper and
the mile has become much more
competitive.
once the results from the rest of
the country's final meets come in
this week, Tauro will know if she
will be running in her first NCAA
Indoor Championships.
"I am biting my fingers waiting
for the results of the other meets to
come out," Tauro said. "But either
way, it's exciting to start running
these times and knowing that I am
in the field now that I can compete
with the best in the nation."
Tauro isn't the only Wolverine
hoping for a little bit of luck. Senior
Casey Taylor jumped 13.07 feet in
the triple jump to notch an NCAA
provisional mark and win the event
at the same meet. The automatic
qualifying mark for the event is
13.30 feet.
"Casey has been tremendously
consistent all year," McGuire said.

"Jumping two centimeters behind
her best jump coming off emotions
from the conference meet last week
was really impressive. It wouldn't
surprise me if she got a bigger mark
next week."
While Tauro and Taylor await
the results that determine if they'll
be competing this upcoming week-
end, three Wolverines already have

University of Michigan Institute forrComplexAdaptiveMatter
and Orety of WoM0or iPhysics
Public Lecture
High - Temperature Superconductivity:
From Broken Symmetries to The Power Grid.
Laura H. Greene
Swanlund Professor of Physics
University of Illinois
Tuesday, March 10th, 2009
340 West Hall
1085 S University Ave
An Arbor Ml 48109
4:00PM - 5:0PM
Refreshments prier to the lecture
Po oeinfomatonvsit:
hpV/ssumitheda!

ne Uepartment of
Communication Studies
and The Howard R. Marsh Center
present a lecture by
FARA WARNER
2008-2009 Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism
THE BLOGOSPHERE.
THE FUTURE OF JOURNALISM?
Wednesday, March 11, 2009
Reception 5:00 pm - Lecture 6:00 pmn
H ussey Room in the Michigan League
911 North University AVenue /Anrn Arbor, MI 48109-1265
Please see http://owow.unich.edt/-league/mnsps for directions
Contact the Department of Communication Studies
(734-764-0423) for more information.


4B - March 9, 2009

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

olverines finally
have more on line

After dismal first
year, Beilein's squad
now excels under
late-season pressure
By RUTH LINCOLN
Daily Sports Writer
MINNEAPOLIS - All season,
the Michigan men's basketball
team has remained hopeful. In
Saturday's 67-64 win at Minne-
sota, that hope was pretty clear.
The Wolverines shed their tra-
ditional warmup shirts for white
ones with the Spanish phrase,
"Queme los barcos."
Translated as "burn the boats,"
the phrase was the mantra of
16th-century Spanish conquista-
dor Hernando Cortez, who led his
small but mighty army against the
Aztecs. Cortez allegedly burned
his own boats, eliminating the
means to retreat.,
"We burned everything," fifth-
year senior guard C.J. Lee said
with a laugh. "We were throwing
everything at them to get a win."
Against Minnesota, the Wol-
verines fought until the final
buzzer. They competed with
poise and confidence on the road
to overcome a 12-point second-
half deficit.
They will play this weekend in
the Big Ten Tournament in India-
napolis. But No. 7 seed Michigan
is in good position to garner an
at-large NCAA Tournament bid,
its first since 1998, even without a
conference tournament run.
"When you get into March,
in some way, shape or form you
are about to play your last game,
at some point," Michigan coach
John Beilein said. "We don't want
to do that yet."
Michigan is still fighting, but
last March, most of the Wolver-
ines could not wait for the season
to end.
Last year, after a program-
record 22 losses, Michigan's sea-
son finished in Indianapolis.
There were no postseason
hopes or lofty aspirations. Even
a National Invitational Tourna-
ment bid was out of the question.
"We were at a different place,"
sophomore forward Manny Har-
ris said of last season. "We were
playing to try to get better, make
a miracle happen in the Big Ten
Tournament and go to the NCAA
Tournament. There wasn't an
NIT or anything.
"This year is different because
we're playing for something.
There's a lot more on the line."
This time around, the Wolver-

REID
From page 1B
No more "NIT Dynasty" jokes.
No more "maybe next season." No
more "close, but no cigar." They're
in.
I know a win against Iowa on
Thursday in the Big Ten Tourna-
ment will make a lot of Michigan
fans breathe a little easier - but
trust me, they're in. I saw the
drive, the determination and the
will of this team as it clawed back
from a 12-point deficit halfway
through the second half Saturday.
With that focus, there's no way
the Wolverines are going to slip up
against the Hawkeyes.
Michigan can sense the history
behind this season.
The Wolverines know how
much good for the program can
come out of an NCAA Tournament
bid - and how much bad could
come out of having to wait at least
another year for one.
Almost 200 different schools
GOPHERS
From page 1B
bid before Saturday's game, so one
win at the Big Ten Tournament will
almost certainly lock up an at-large
bid.
But that postseason security
wasn't easily achieved.
Minnesota (9-9,21-9) led by three
at the half and went on a 10-3 run to
start the second frame. The Golden
Gophers extended their lead to a
dozen with 13 minutes remaining,
and the crowd at Williams Arena
could sense an NCAA Tournament
berth for their Golden Gophers.
Somehow, the Wolverines found
a way to steal a big road win in the
Big Ten.
"Because we had to, in all hon-
esty," said fifth-year senior C.J. Lee
on how Michigan pulled out the
win. "We never talked about it in
the huddle, we knew what was at
SENIORS
From page 1B
really been in that position before.
We wanted to be out there so bad,
especially because it was Senior
Night."
Berenson joked after the game
that at least Miller and Turnbull
"got to rest" on the night that hon-
ored them.
The recent ejections weren't the
only times the two have come close
to breaking the streak.
Just three weeks ago, Turnbull
almost missed a game against Ohio
State when he woke up feeling mis-
erable. He rushed to get medical
attention, was prescribed antibiot-
ics and played in the series.
Miller, on the other hand, has
been a constant fixture on the team
for nearly four years.
But three seasons ago, he had a
sharp pain in his back from sleep-
ing weirdly one night and almost
missed his collegiate debut. Miller
tat out a practice and had to
prove he deserved a spot in the
lineup on the day of the game.
And the Michigan coaching
staff and their teammates are
grateful that Miller and Turnbull
haven't missed games.
"Those two guys play hard,
play hard every night," Michigan

assistant coach Mel Pearson said.
"So it's not that they're just get-
ting through games. They're put-
ting their bodies on the line every
night.
"Itgoes to show the other guys
that if you play hard, there's no
reason you can't play every game.
Obviously, you have to have some
luck, too, with injuries and what-
not."

have sent a team to some far-off
destination to appear in the NCAA
Tournament since Michigan's last
appearance in 1998. The need to
suit up for the Big Dance has been,
at times, overwhelming, especially
for the handful of players destined
to bring the Wolverines back to
prominence - Daniel Horton,
Dion Harris and, most recently,
Manny Harris.
Every year Michigan doesn't
make the tournament, it cripples
the program more and more.
Coming into this year, the Ath-
letic Department practically had
to get on its collective hands and
knees and beg students to buy
tickets.
But that doesn't matter any-
more.
They are in.
Even if the game is at Idaho or
Miami or another place that's a
20-plus hour drive away, and even
if the Wolverines bow out in the
first round, they made it. They're
in the tournament. That's all that
matters.
stake the entire time."
Added Beilein: "We were just
trying to keep our composure at
that point in a very great setting,
that was our big thing. Our coach-
ing staff, as much as we could, was
trying to show a 'yes face' in the
huddle. 'Just hang in there guys,
hang in there. We have to make a
couple of baskets and get stops."'
Minnesota coach Tubby Smith
said he can't recall a time his
team outrebounded the opponent
(30-13), shot 55 percent from the
field and lost. Under Smith, the
Golden Gophers were 33-1 when
leading at the half before Satur-
day's game.
With its backs against the wall,
Michigan was fortunate that Lucas-
Perry scored in the double digits
for the first time since Feb. 15. The
guard hit back-to-back-to-back
3-pointers in the midst of a 28-13
Michigan run in the final 13 min-
utes of the game. Minnesota failed

Player and coach morale will
explode. Student interest will, too.
It'll help recruiting and schedul-
ing and ticket sales. Hell, it'll even
help T-shirt sales. Just getting in,
just hearing the name "Michigan"
on Selection Sunday, will com-
pletely alter the course of Michi-
gan basketball.
It's the one thing the program
needed. It's the one thing the play-
ers - those like fifth-year seniors
David Merritt and C.J. Lee -
deserved.
"The Duke win was pretty cool,
but this is probably my personal
No. 1," Merritt said after the game,
reflecting on his career as a Wol-
verine with a smile on his face.
It's a lot of people's No. 1 game. I
mean, it's not every day you clinch
a spot in the NCAA Tournament -
especially if you're at Michigan.
- Reid has heard there's
nothing to do in Boise, Idaho.
One friend told him, "It's just like
Utah, but worse." Reid can be
reached at andyreid@umich.edu.
to score for almost the last five min-
utes.
ForHarris, Lucas-Perry's perfor-
mance was a long time coming.
"We've kind of been on him
because he hasn't been playing his
best like we expected him to play,"
Harris said. "We kept saying, like,
'One of these days is going to be
your big game.' Today, when we
needed (it) the most, it was his big
game."
Lucas-Perry's heroics allow
Michiganto prepare for the BigTen
Tournament. knowing the Selec-
tion Committee will look favorably
on Michigan's recent performance
over the past week and a half --beat
No. 19 Purdue, nearly knocked off
Wisconsin and topped Minnesota.
But equally importantly, the
Wolverines may have finally found
a consistent third scorer all year
behind Harris and Sims. Head-
ing into postseason play, Michigan
hopes Lucas-Perry can be that guy.

4

ANNA BAKEMAN/Daily
The Wolverines grapple for aloose ball in their 67-64 win at Minnesota.

ines are more mature and better
able to handle the pressure.
The younger players, who last
March were only looking ahead
to the summer and next season,
now have praiseworthy postsea-
son hopes.
Harris and junior forward
DeShawn Sims have grown up in
just one season. They took control
of Saturday's game when it mat-
tered most. Along with redshirt
freshman guard Laval Lucas-Per-
ry's 19 points, they accounted for
85 percent of Michigan's offen-
sive output.
"We just did a great job as a
unit and doing some things in a
more mature manner," Sims said.
"Not like we did last year. We
were more mature in game situ-
ations."
Sims pointed to shot selection
and getting stops on defense as
signs of the team's growing matu-
rity. A year ago, Michigan's youth

was obvious as the Wolverines
learned Beilein's system. The
growing pains were evident from
the inadequate shots, the five- or
six-minute scoring droughts, and
the inability to close out halves.
Now, it's easy to forget last
year's 10 victories. After all, the
Wolverines collected the season's
10th win Dec. 29 against North
Carolina Central - before confer-
ence play even began.
"That's what you have to go
through to become a better team,"
Beilein said. "You need to. And
you can have a growth mindset:
'If adversity is going to make me
better, or adversity is woe is me.'
At times we've had those issues,
but at the same time, we've grown
a great deal."
Playing in March is guaranteed
for all, but it becomes a privilege
for just 65 teams. And like Cortez
against the Aztecs, Michigan isn't
yet ready to retreat.

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Senior Tim Miller and senior Travis Turnbull have played in 160 games.
The streak began when the two found success on lines with a vari-
freshmenwerethird-line forwards. ety of teammates this year. The
As the streak has progressed, their two have been interchangeable at
skill sets - and roles on the team - times. From top-line right winger
have evolved. Now, they sit just 13 to third-line center, they have been
games behind Ted Kramer (1989- swapping positions all season.
1992), who holds Michigan's record Turnbull currently centers the
for games played. team's third line and sparked its
In the meantime, Miller has recent surge. The line has scored
emerged as one of the Wolverines' four goals total in Michigan's last
top penalty killers with his tough, two series.
physical presence, anticipation and "Wherever the coaches put us,
shot-blocking skills. Turnbull has we just try to make the line better,"
flourished on the other side of spe- Miller said. "It's not really about
cial teams: the power play. getting promoted or demoted."
"(Miller's) kind of the leader of. In essence, the under-the-radar
the penalty kill unit," senior goalie streak of games played encapsu-
Billy Sauer said. "When we get a lates this idea of just doing their
penalty in a game, he actually gets jobs. And the Wolverines are now
pretty excited to go out there and hoping that Miller and Turnbull
kill penalties. When you talk to him can add a few postseason games to
about it, he's really excited about it their run.
and takes his role very seriously. "If you would have asked me, I
"You see the same thing with would have assumed they missed
Travis and the power play. He's games atsome point," Pearson said.
always talking to guys, figuring out "But I'm glad their streak is intact
what they can do better." because we definitely need them in
Both Miller and Turnbull have the first round of the playoffs."


Wednesday, Marci
5:30 -7:00 PM
Wolverine Room
Michigan Union

Great infor personal or
academic in epression and
other mental health topics. Unversit'of'Mi'hig
Depression Center


