Illic1 i n at 1

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, October 27, 2010

michigandaily.com

COLD CALL JUGGLE
ti.

TATE OF THE UNIVERSITY
In State of'U,
Coleman to
talk cost cuts,
faculty hiring

ARIEL BOND/Daily
LSA freshman Evan Kasal simultaneously calls three registered voters in Michigan for the College Republicans yesterday. College students and members of the Republican Party
have been making calls since August of 2010. College Republicans National Committee Field Representative Brad Alexander predicted a total of 250,000 calls madejust last night.
PEACE CORPS 50TH ANN IVERSARY
After fanfare, officials design new
University-Peace Corps program

University president
to deliver annual
address at 3 p.m.
today in UMMA
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Mirroring themes from past
addresses, University President
Mary Sue Coleman is expected to
focus on the
core topics of
cost contain
ment, faculty
hiring and
academic
excellence i
her annual KYLE SWANSON
State of the
University Covering the
speech later Administration
today.
Coleman will deliver her
speech at a special ceremony
in the University of Michigan
Museum of Art auditorium at 3
p.m. Details surrounding exact-
ly what she will say during the
speech have been tightly guard-
ed, but core topics were shared
with The Michigan Daily yester-
day. In the past, the speech has
been used to launch major initia-
tives in a variety of areas, includ-
ing those Coleman is expected to
talk about today.
In a statement issued to the
Daily, University spokesperson

Kelly Cunningham shared the
three areas Coleman would focus
on and explained the purpose of
the annual speech.
"President Coleman uses the
State of the University address
as an opportunity to update the
community and engage in con-
versation about important Uni-
versity topics," Cunningham
wrote. "She looks forward to it
every year.'
While Coleman focused a
great deal of her speech last year
on environmental sustainability,
the themes expected to he fea-
tured in her address today have
been staples of previous State of
the University addresses.
Last year, Coleman
announced she would require
University officials to continue
extensive cost containment
efforts, saying she wanted to
eliminate $100 million in recur-
ring. expenses from the Univer-
sity's General Fund over the
next three years.
"Now we must double our
intensity. Double it," Coleman
said sternly in her address last
year. To date, the University's
ongoing cost-cutting measures
have helped to eliminate more
than $135 million in annual
recurring costs.
But last year, Coleman's
address came after the sobering
news of a $1.6 billion drop in the
University's endowment.
"No organization can absorb
See COLEMAN, Page 6A

Parternship allows
students to take part
in Peace Corps and
earn master's at 'U'
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Peace Corps director Aaron
Williams helped the University
announce a new partnership with
the Peace Corps at the 50th anni-
versary for the organization earlier
this month, and now that the fan-
fare is over, University officials are
gettingto work hammering out the

specifics of the new program.
The partnership, known as The
Master's International program,
allows graduate students from
the schools of Natural Resources
and Environment, Education and
Social Work to spend a year at the
University prior to joining the-
Peace Corps, followed by a semes-
ter or two at the University upon
return.
Rosina Bierbaum, dean of the
School of Natural Resources and
Environment, said the Master's
International Program expands on
already available options for over-
seas study.
She said their work overseas
counts as six credits and counts as

their rdquired'master's thesis.,
Officials haven't decided how
the school will maintain con-
tact with students while they're
abroad, though some have suggest-
ed blogging as an option, she said.
Bierbaum said the school first
applied to participate in the pro-
gram because officials noticed there
were six to seven returning Peace
Corps volunteers a year enrolled
in master's programs at SNRE. She
added that she sees "great potential"
with the new Master's International
program as well. 1
The application process and
general features of the program
are the same in all three of the
schools now involved with the pro-

gram, Bierbaum said.
She said the categories of the
work have the potential to be
"blurry."
"Someone from our school
could work on environmental edu-
cation or something from public
policy, for example," she said. "I
don't think there will be crisp lines
between them."
SNRE master's student Abigail
Hyduke, took part in a different
Peace Corps partnership program.
She said though she finds the Mas-
ter's International program benefi-
cial to many, it isn't something she
would have chosen.
Hyduke completed her Peace
See PEACE CORPS, Page 3A


ANN ARBO EATERIES
Five Guys to hit State Street

MSA MASQUERADE

Restaurant started
by 'U' alum latest
to enter Ann Arbor
burger scene
By BRIENNE PRUSAK
Daily StaffReporter
A red- and white-checkered
burger joint hailing from Wash-
ington D.C. will soon try to carve
a niche in the crowded campus
burger scene.
Five Guys Burgers and Fries will
open a new location at 311 South

State St. - the space previously
occupied by Shaman Drum Book-
shop - on Nov.15.
Owners Brian Adelman and
Michael Abrams are in charge of
nine Five Guys locations in Michi-
gan, including a restaurant in East
Lansing that opened earlier this
month.
Adelman said he and Abrams,
who have been friends since child-
hood, decidedto go into the restau-
rant business together after seeing
how "wildly popular" Five Guys is.
Five Guys is most famous for its
hamburgers, which customers can
customize with a variety of vege-
tables - including lettuce, tomato,

mushrooms and peppers - and
condiments for no additional cost.
French fries are also served as a
side.
As for vegetarian options, Five
Guys offers a veggie sandwich and
grilled cheese sandwich.
Adelman said the restaurant
only uses fresh ingredients. The
hamburgers are made to order, the
vegetables are brought in each day
and the hamburger buns are made
five days a week.
He added that customers return
because of the good service and
reasonable prices. A hamburger
costs $4.79 and a cheeseburger
See FIVE GUYS, Page 3A

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Lasers, helicopters, heat-seaking missiles:
'U' prof. probes military defense systems

MSA President Chris Armstrong at last nights MSA meeting. For a full story on the meeting visit michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire
FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
Warren: New consumer
bureau will help students

Researcher says
lasers throw sand in
* 'the eyes of missiles
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporter
Lasers, helicopters and heat-
seeking missiles.

While the combination of those
three things may not be that sur-
prising in a big-budget action
movie, some might be shocked to
find they are in fact the focus of one
University professor's research.
Mohammed Islam, a professor
in the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Sci-
ence at the University, is develop-
ing a way to use lasers to defend

United States military helicopters
from heat-seeking missiles. The
research is in collaboration with
OmniSciences Inc., an Ann Arbor-
based technology startup founded
by Islam.
Islam said the mid-infrared,
super-continuum fiber lasers are
designed to "essentially throw
sand in the eye of the missile."
See DEFENSE, Page 6A

'U' prof. says CFPB
will add to student
loan costs
By CHELSEA LANGE
Daily StaffReporter
In an effort to get the word
out to students about the new-

ly-formed Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, Elizabeth
Warren, assistant to President
Barack Obama and special advi-
sor to the secretary of the trea-
sury on the CFPB, discussed how
the bureau will effect students
in a conference call with student
journalists last night.
The CFPB was created as part
of the Consumer Protection Act

of 2010, which Obama signed
into law on July 21. The bureau
aims to improve the clarity of
financial contracts and pro-
tect consumers from hidden
charges. Supporters of the new
bureau say it will provide con-
sumers with much needed pro-
tections that weren't available
to them during the 2008 finan-
See WARREN, Page 6A


WEATHER W HI:49
TOMORROW W,, LO: 46

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEWON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Rob Steele to hold Diag rally today.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS..................
Vol CXXI, No. 35 OPINION .............
X2010 The Michigan Daily A RTS...................
michigandaily.com

....2A CLASSIFIEDS....................6A
........4A SPO RT S ...... ...................7A
.5A THE STATEMENT..................1B

:


0

2A - Wednesday, October 27, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Michigan Myths

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmailcom

Tech. teacher hearts humans

In a university with more than
41,000 students, many undergradu-
ates' early academic experiences
include massive lecture halls and a
sense of anonymity from their profes-
sors. However, in Professor Fawwaz
Ulaby's electrical engineering classes,
namelessness is not an option.
Ulaby meets with every student
in his classes at least once during the
semester to help the student in any
way he can, offering advice for every-
thing from course material to a career
path. Many students return to Ulaby's
office, meeting with him several times
throughout the semester.
Though this may seem fairly sim-
plistic, Ulaby currently teaches an
introductory electrical engineering
class of approximately 185 students.
For him, the time commitment cre-
ated by student meetings is signifi-
cant, but worth it.
"I find (the meetings) to be exceed-
ingly rewarding because it's some-

thing the students really need," Ulaby
said. "They're making so many criti-
cal decisions, and yet we do not have
an easy mechanism for someone who
understands the discipline they're
working in (to) guide them in the
direction that is of interest to them."
Ulaby began his career by majoring
in physics at the American University
of Beirut in 1964. He then earned a
Ph.D. in electrical engineering from
the University of Texas and began
teaching as a professor immediately
after, at age 24. Ulaby's long career
has produced 14 textbooks and many
accolades.
In addition to the 26 years Ulaby
has taught at the University, he spent
two years in Saudi Arabia contributing
to the creation of a new scientific uni-
versity for graduate study.
Ulaby heldthe position ofVice Pres-
ident for Research at the University
prior to his departure, and returned in
2009 as theArthur Thurnau Professor

of Electrical Engineering and Com-
puter Science.
Ulaby added that he prefers to
teach in a traditional style and places
an emphasis on human interaction
instead of technology. He said that in
his experience, most students favor
familiarity with their professor over
websites like CTools.
"I'm not very keen on all of the
emphasis on new technologies
because even though they're intended
to make things more available to stu-
dents, it has become excessive," Ulaby
said.
Ulaby's passion for furthering
students' education is evidenced by
the 115 graduate students who have
earned a Ph.D. with his sponsorship.
Though he has worked with students
and educators all over the world,
Ulaby said he considers his decision to
come to the University the "best (he)
ever made."
- HALEYGLATTHORN

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports ection
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

Officehous:oSun.-Thurs. 11a.m. 2.ms.
734-418-4115 opt.3.
news@ic~igandaiy.omn
corecetiona@michigandaily.om
tothedaily@ichigandaity.ome
photo@michigandaily.com,
artspage@michigandaily.com

sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@mnichigandaily.com
onlineada@moichigandaily.omn
finane@michigandaiy.oon

ARIEL BOND/Daily
EECS Professor Fawwaz Ulaby poses in his office in the
tECS building on North Campus.

CRIME NOTES
iPad lifted from ThinkPad taken

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Peace Corps Film screening

lost and tound
WHERE: College of Phar-
macy
WHEN: Friday at 4:30 p.m. to
Monday at 6:20 a.m.
WHAT: An iPad was stolen
from the lost and found office
in the Pharmacy Building
after being left unattended,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.
Backpack jacked
WHERE: Duderstadt Center
WHEN: Monday around 1 p.m.
WHAT: A backpack was
stolen after its female owner
fell asleep, University Police
reported. Two textbooks,
two notebooks and a calcula-
tor were inside the backpack.
There are no suspects.

WHERE: Duderstadt Center
WHEN: Monday at about 12
p.m.
WHAT: A male student's
ThinkPad was stolen from
a room in the 2300 corridor
after he went to lunch and
left it unattended, University
Police reported. The ThinkPad
is valued at $1,100. There are
no suspects.
Sign damaged
WHERE: Ginsberg Learning
Center
WHEN: Between Friday and
Monday
WHAT: Half of a sign placed
outside the garden area that
said "community garden" was
broken off, University Police
reported. There are no sus-
pects.


panel
WHAT: A discussion of
Peace Corps services in
Eastern Europe and Eurasia
with a panel of University
students and Immigration
Specialist William Nash
from the Career Center.
WHO: Center for Russian
and East European Studies
WHEN: Today at 12 p.m.
WHERE: School of
Social Work, room 1636
Student and
faculty dinner
WHAT: Third annual stu-
dent-faculty dinner to raise
awareness about cultural
and social issues in Haiti.
Donations are encouraged.
WHO: Youth Hope
Organization
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union Ballroom

WHAT: Screening of "Lion-
ess," a film about female
Iraqi soldiers fighting in
ground combat, despite
government prohibition
of their involvement.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today at 12 p.m.
WHERE: Hatcher
Graduate Library
State of the
University
WHAT: University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman
delivers the annual State
of the University address.
WHO: Office of the President
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: Stern Audi-
torium, UMMA
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

The United States recently
lost its spot in the Trans-
parency International list
of top 20 least corrupt nations,
according to Yahoo! News. The
United States lost its place due
to the recent financial scandals
and the perceived influence of
money in politics.
Michigan gubernatorial
candidates Rick Snyder
and Virg Bernero agree
on a few issues, mainly that the
states economy and the brain
drain need to be fixed.
D FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENTINSIDE
Fifteen past Nobel
Peace Prize winners co-
authored a letter to Hu
Jintao, President of China, ask-
ing forthe release of the newest
Nobel Peace Prize winner, Liu
Xiaobo, from prison, accord-
ing to The Atlantic. Xiaobo has
been in prison for 11 years.

EDITORIAL STAFF
MattAaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
So snIO kkNESEDORS Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thinavukka,,,DvonwThsbn
ASSSA~NNEWS EonnRS :ehany Oirn, nDyl,,an Cini, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramr, Jseph Lihen, Veroanica Menldi, Einna Tnigs
Rachel VanGilder EditorialPageEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL PAGE EITORS:WiliButlerWillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje Managing SportsEditor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: MarkBurns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS Ben Estes, Stephen Nesbitt, Luke Pasch, Zak Pyzik,Amy
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandafy.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,JeffSanford
ASSInSnARTSEDITORS:KristynAcho,LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,KaviShekhar
Max Collins and photo@michigandaiy.com
San Watson MaagigPhototEditors
SEnIO Oo nEDTO:Aoilond,n aissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinski and design@michigandaily.com
SarahSquire ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR:Maya Friedman
TreonTGaEero Magaie nkditorcalero@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
AdiWollstein CopyChiels
BUSINESS STAFF
JltiannatnrinSalrs Maoager
SALES FORCE MANAGER:Stephanie Bowker
MARKETINGMANAGER: G ionoJuncaj
Hillary Szawalaclassified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason MahakianProduction Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin FinanceManager
Chrissy WinklerCirCulation Manager
Zach YancerWeb Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan.One copyis available free of charge to al
readers. Additionai copiesmay be pickedupat theDaly's officefor 2.Subscriptionsforfall tern,
startinginseptemberviaU.Smalaret110.Winterterm(anuarythroughApri)is$11syearonsg
(September through April)is$195.University affiliatesaresubject toareduced subscriptionrate.
On-campssubscriptionsforfatermare$sSsubscriptionsmustbeprepaid.TheMichianDaily
is a member ofiTheAssociated Prss and nhe Associated Collegiate Prss.

0

0

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Getymoreonline at michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire


Sene n rd Tchnoly

Discover
King Abdullh University of Science and Technology
A research university unlike any other.

Discover bold, collaborative research initiatives in science, engineering and technology with state-of-the-art facilities,
globally renowned faculty and students from over 60 countries. KAUST is a merit-based university dedicated to signifi-
cant high-impact research. Embark on a new era of scientific achievement for Saudi Arabia, the region, and the world.
Scholarships for Science and Engineering students
Complete a Master's or Ph.D. program with full tuition support, free housing, living stipend, medical insurance and
relocation support.
Applied Mathematics and Computational Sciences, Bioscience, Chemical Sciences, Chemical and Biological Engineering,
Computer Science, Earth Science and Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Environmental Science and Engineering,
Marine Science, Material Science and Engineering, Mechanical Engineering.

0

Visit the KAUST website for information on Program Specializations www.kaustedu.sa

For more information about applying to KAUST please visit our web site at
www.kaust.edu.sa


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 27, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 27, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT -
Toyota, Honda lead
quality rankings
The most problem-free cars and
trucks are made by Honda and Toy-
ota, but U.S. automakers Ford and
General Motors are closing the gap
in quality, according to an annual
survey by Consumer Reports mag-
azine.
Ford and GM continue to narrow
the disparity that once separated
Asia-based atomakers from their
Detroit rivals. Large overhauls of
American car companies in the last
few years have resulted in fewer
brands and better vehicles from
Detroit.
For the third year in a row, Toy-
ota's Scion had the fewest prob-
lems of any brand in the survey. It
was followed by Porsche, Acura,
Honda, and Nissan's Infiniti luxury
brand. The Toyota brand ranked
sixth down fromthird last year. It
was followed by Subaru and Volvo.
Lexus, which had been a top finish-
er in past years, fell to ninth. Ford
waa 1th, ht rose from 16th the
previous year.
YAKIMA, Wash.
U.S. District Court
delays toxic cleanup
The U.S. District Court in Spo-
kane has approved a new schedule
that delays the cleanup of radioac-
tive waste from the nation's most
contaminated nuclear site by about
20 years.
Watchdog groups have com-
plained that the delays are too
long, but state and federal officials
said the agreement imposes a new,
enforceable and achievable sched-
ule for removing the toxic waste
from underground tanks at south-
central Washington's Hanford
nuclear reservation.
The two sides began negotiat-
ing in 2007 when it became clear
that the federal government would
be unable to meet required dead-
lines, and Washington state filed
suit in 2008 when those negotia-
tions imploded. The consent decree
resolves the lawsuit, allowing the
federal government more time for
complex environmental cleanup
but requiring it to answer directly
to the court if new deadlines are
missed.
5AN FRANCISO, Calif.
Soros donates $1M
to legalize weed
Billionaire financier George
Soros has thrown his weight
behind California's marijuana
legalization measure with a $1
millin donation a week before the
vote. The contribution reported
yesterday by The Sacramento Bee
is the single biggest donation from
an individual other than Proposi-
ion 19's main sponsor, Oakland
nedical marijuana entrepreneur
Richard Lee.
Soros, a high-profile liberal and
philanthropist, has long backed
drug law reform. He was one of the
top financial backers of Califor-
bia's first-in-the-nation measure
hat legalized medical marijuana

in the state in 1996.
But Soros held off on openly
endorsing the current measure
until writing an op-ed published
yesterday in The Wall Street Jour-
nal. in the piece, Soros said legal-
izing and taxing marijuana would
save taxpayers the costs of incar-
ceration and law enforcement
while raising revenue for the state.
NEW YORK
Charges dropped in
anti-gay attacks
Prosecutors yesterday dropped
charges against three people
accused of taking part in anti-gay
attacks on two men and two teens,
titing a lack of evidence.
Bryan Almonte and Brian
Cepeda, both 17, and Steven Cara-
hello, 16, had been charged with
robbery, gang assault and unlawful
imprisonment as hate crimes in the
Oct. 3 attacks.
Eight other people remain
accused in the case, which city
officials called the worst anti-gay
attacks in recent history. It's pos-
sible more people will be arrested
because investigators are still
Working.
Family members and friends
cheered outside court after the
pharges were dismissed, and the
three boys' attorneys said they
were pleased with the outcome.
4lmonte's attorney John O'Connell
said his client thought he was at
a party in the abandoned home
where prosecutors say three of the
'aictims were assaulted.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

A TDN ORAIO' S UD
EFETV
.AMU

Villagers who live on the slope of Mount Merapi gather at a temporary shelter in Pakem, Yogyakarta, Indonesia. Indonesia's
most volatile volcano started erupting after scientists warned that pressure could trigger its most powerful eruption in years.
Indonesian earthquake
triggers deadly tsnua-mi

Disasters could be
sign of future
volcanic eruptions
MOUNT MERAPI, Indonesia
(AP) - A volcanic eruption and
a tsunami killed scores of people
hundreds of miles apart in Indone-
sia - spasms from the Pacific "Ring
of Fire," which spawns disasters
from deep within the Earth.
Yesterday's eruption of Mount
Merapi killed at least 18 people,
forced thousands to flee down its
slopes and spewed burning ash
and smoke high into the air on the
island of Java.
Meanwhile, off the coast of
Sumatra, about 800 miles (1,300
kilometers) west of the volcano,
rescuers battled rough seas to
reach Indonesia's Mentawai
islands, where a 10-foot tsunami
triggered by an earthquake Mon-
day nightswept away hundreds of
homes, killing at least 113 villag-
ers, said Mujiharto of the Health
Ministry's crisis center. Up to 500
others are missing.

The twin disasters happened
hours apart in one of the most
seismically active regions on the
planet.
Scientists have warned that
pressure building beneath Mera-
pi's lava dome could trigger its
most powerful explosion in years.
But Gede Swantika, a govern-
ment volcanologist, expressed
hope the 9,737-foot (2,968-meter)
mountain, which sent rocks and
debris cascading down its south-
ern slope, could be releasing
steam slowly.
"It's too early to know for
sure," he said, adding that a big
blast could still be coming. "But if
it continues like this for a while,
we are looking at a slow, long
eruption."
A 2006 eruption at Merapi
killed two people, one in 1994
killed 60 people, and a 1930 blast
killed 1,300.
After refusing to budge from
the volcano's fertile slopes, saying
they wanted to tend to their crops
and protect their homes, villagers
started streaming by the thou-
sands into makeshift emergency

shelters late yesterday. Many car-
ried sleeping mats, bags of clothes
and food as they settled in.
Officials said earlier that by
closely monitoring the volcano
310 miles (500 kilometers) south-
east of the capital of Jakarta, they
thought they could avoid casual-
ties. But the death toll rose quickly.
Police and volunteers were
shown on Metro TV pulling at
least 14 ash-covered bodies and
carrying them to waiting vehicles.
Among the dead was a
2-month-old baby, said Mareta,
a hospital worker who goes by
only one name. The infant's tiny
body was draped in a sheet as his
mother cried.
Three people at Panti Nugroho
hospital died of burns after being
hit by a searing cloud of ash, said
Agustinus Parjo, a spokesman.
Even as they contended with
the volcano - one of 129 to watch
in the world's largest archipelago
- officials were trying to assess
the impact of Monday night's
7.7-magnitude earthquake off
Sumatra that triggered the killer
tsunami.


FIVE GUYS
From Page 1A
costs $5.29, according to the Five
Guys website.
Five Guys was founded in
Arlington, Va. by University alum
Jerry Murell, who opened the first
location in 1986 with the help of
his four sons. Though Five Guys
mostly sells burgers and fries,
Murell believed quality was more
important than offering a bunch
of different options, Adelman said.
Five Guys will bring about 50
jobs to Ann Arbor. The managers
of the State Street location will
hold interviews for part- and full- '
time jobs a week before the res-
taurant's opening.

Adelman said Ann Arbor is a
good city in which to open a new
location because of the diversity
and density of people - especially
on State Street where there is a lot
of foot traffic.
"I don't think we're compet-
ing with other businesses," Adel-
man said. "We just give a choice of
something different than what's
already there."
Varujan Arman, owner of
Quickie Burger on State St., said
Five Guys won't be a threat to his
business.
"I don't think it will affect our
business because we're complete-
ly different," Arman said. "Their
menu is very limited, and ours has
75 options. We have a great selec-
tion."

He added that the only thing
Five Guys has that Quickie Burger
doesn't is a corporate name.
LSA junior Katharine Zurek
said she thinks there is something
for everyone at Five Guys.
"As a vegan, I'm excited to see if
they have good fries," Zurek said.
LSA sophomore Cassidy Dan-
iels said she is disappointed that
Five Guys doesn't sell milkshakes,
but is still excited to see some-
thing new move into the space
formally occupied by Shaman
Drum.
Adelman said he expects stu-
dents to make up a major portion
of their customer base, but he also
predicts that families will eat at
the restaurant because they can
order a lot of food for cheap.


PEACE CORPS
From Page 1A
Corps work prior to attending
graduate school and said her
overseas experience aided her in
determining what she wanted to
study in graduate school.
"I wasn't exactly sure what
I wanted to do and the Peace
Corps helped me figure that
out," Hyduke said.
The School of Social Work is
one of four social work schools
in the country to have a Mas-
ter's International program,
according to Srinkia Jayaratne,
director of the office of Global
Activities in the School of Social
Work.
Like with the SNRE program,
Jayaratne said officials are still
trying to figure out how students
abroad will communicate with
the school, adding that students
will be assigned an advisor from
the School of Social Work who
previously volunteered in the
Peace Corps.
Jayaratne said the school also
offers a special orientation class
for all Social Work students who
will be working abroad, includ-
ing those participating in the
Peace Corps. It is designed to
prepare them for the different
cultures and contexts they will
be facing. Upon return the stu-
dents will meet again and share
their experiences.
He said the program is a great
opportunity for students who
want to receive a master's degree
and take advantage of what the
Peace Corps can offer.
"It's an integration of what
it really means to live in a dif-
ferent country, live with the
people, work in pretty difficult
situations and then think about

the theories and concepts that
we'll be teaching in the class-
room prior to going abroad," he
said.
All students will be working
in some way with children and
youth programs, he said.
Jayaratne said since there is
no precedent for this program in
the School of Social Work, there
are bound to be challenges, but
said he is optimistic.
"There's a lot of interest," he
said. "We have had as many as 15
to 20 students inquire about the
program so far."
He added that there is a "long
window" before the school can
fully evaluate the effectiveness
of the four-year program since
the first set of students will be
coming in fall 2011.
Educational Studies Pro-
gram Chair Addison Stone said
the specifics of the program in
regards to the School of Educa-
tion are still a "work in prog-
ress," including the details of
maintaining contact with the
students once they are abroad.
He said the general set-up of
the program is similar to that of
other schools, with the student
spending at least one semester
at the University before going
overseas for his or her Peace
Corps work.
Stone said the idea behind
students spending time at the
University both before leaving
and after they return is to "deep-
en understanding of educational
issues" not only for themselves
but for the master's students
who aren't involved in the pro-
gram.
Stone said half of the Educa-
tion School students partici-
pating in the Peace Corps are
involved in second language
instruction while the other half

is involved primarily in math
and science instruction.
Stone said he hopes having a
Master's International program
will help the School of Educa-
tion establish a relationship with
the Peace Corps.
"We of course have had some
Peace Corps veterans apply to
our school but they are few and
far between," Stone said.
Social Work graduate student
Tim Polakowski said it's a "great
opportunity" for interested stu-
dents.
"One of the benefits of the
program is that before it (the
experience), a lot of people who
are doing the Peace Corps or
who want to are afraid to do it
because they don't see what to
do with their Peace Corps expe-
rience afterwards and how it
ties into an academic program,"
Polakowski said.
Carrie Rheingans, dual mas-
ter's student in the schools of
Public Health and Social Work,
said she would have applied for
the program had it existed when
she was applying for graduate
school.
She said it's "really exciting"
that a Peace Corps experience
could be combined with an aca-
demic program.
The only critiques she has of
the program are the amount of
credits given for the two years
of overseas work and, since the
program is roughly four years,
she suspects returning students
may feel disconnected.
"Being here for three years,
I know what it's like to not be
around the people I started
with," Rheingans said. "I feel
disconnected and people who do
the Peace Corps in the middle
for two years will feel that when
they come back."


4A - Wednesday, October 27, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRISTINA AT CHSUHgd)UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor; MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

CHRISTINA SUH

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
The right connection
Michigan needs network of high speed railways
ublic transportation connecting populated cities in Mich-
igan and other areas of the Midwest is fairly limited.
Trains are slow and expensive and bus routes between
cities are inadequate. But a $160-million federal grant to the state
will change transportation in Michigan by providing the funds
to create a new, high-speed rail line between Kalamazoo and
Dearborn. Other plans to create lines between Ann Arbor and
Detroit and from Detroit to Chicago are already underway. But
these projects individually are only bits and pieces of the kind
rail system Michigan needs. Organizations creating high-speed
lines should work together to give the Midwest a comprehensive,
fast and affordable public transportation system.

tt
440
corg tr
Revamprecruitig
he athletic recruiting process my first college visit to the University get in academically or fail to develop
is an organized way for high of California at Berkeley the sum- as much as they had hoped over their
school students, their fami- mer after my freshman year, and the coming high school years. What hap-
lies, their future next 18 months were a whirlwind of pens then? Either a coach lives with
college coaches activity that ended in February of my his or her "mistake" by taking a player
and teammates to junior year when I finally made the who isn't likely to help the team, or
communicate and decision to commit to the University worse, they yank the rug out fro41
decide if they are W p of Michigan. under the prospective student-athlete
a good match for By the end of it all, I had made 13 by withdrawing the scholarship offer
one another. The college visits - and been to a couple prior to signing day, which, for vol-
NCAA has a thick 0 more than once. I missed school leyball, is in early November. This
book of rules on dances, spring breaks and much of practice, while ethically questionable,
how a coach can summer break to practice, compete isn't illegal, since verbal commitments
contact a player, COURTNEY or visit schools. The travel, finances aren't legally binding.
when they can FLETCHER and stress of making the "right" deci-
mantimesetc hIwsoneaoftheuckoInes . myIfam
.one of the most ily, high school and college coaches College athletic
important dates in this process is were an excellent support system and
Sept. I of a player's junior year. This didn't put too much pressure on me. reruiin sa ts
is the date after which schools can But I was certainly the exception to
contact you via email and snail mail the normtoo0early
as much as they want. Prior to this As a whole, I think the recruiting
date, a school can only contact a play- process is incredibly flawed. Recruit-
er once through the mail with a let- ing is a business - I get that. Coaches
ter of interest and a questionnaire, or and programs need to make sure they Unfortunately, I don't see the pro-
through an intermediary, like a club's have good recruiting classes so they cess changing any time soon. if one
recruiting coordinator. can have good seasons and ultimately school decides not to actively recruit
These rules weti re eated so that keep their jobs. But I don't agree with freshmen and sophomores, they could
college coaches wouldn't take advan- how early it starts. lose gifted athletes that commit early.
tage of prospective student-athletes I think making such an important Similarly, the athletes don't want to
or monopolize their time. It's meant decision as early as your sophomore get left behind when they see their
to allow high school athletes as much year is a dangerous thing not only for peers verbally commit at 15, 16 or 17
of a typical high school experience coaches, but for players as well. I don't years old, so sometimes the pressure
as possible. The problem is that the see how a sophomore in high school an athlete feels to commit early is self-
recruiting process is focusing more can make a legitimate life-changing induced. The process is't likely to
heavily on sophomores and freshman decision when the law says they aren't change without NCAA intervention.
for many sports such as volleyball even responsible enough to drive by At least half of my former high
and soccer. More and more players themselves yet. Plus, they have two school and club teammates are either
are making verbal commitments by years of athletic development left, not happy, no longer attending te
the end of their sophomore year and have to take the SAT or ACT and could schools they committed to or no lofi-
essentially ending the college search very likely get injured. And two years ger playing volleyball. I think a lot of
before it even begins for their peers. down the road the schools and pro- this is a direct reflection of the flawed
I wasn't immune from the rigors of grams they are evaluating could look recruiting process. But again, I'm
early recruiting. y journey started completely different than they were lucky I didn't meet this fate.
as a freshman in high school, when I when they commit.
received my first questionnaire in the It's equally risky for coaches. A - Courtney Fletcher can be
mail from Duke University. I made player could get hurt, not be able to reached atfletchco@umich.ed.
e the Check out the Daily's opinion blog for the launch of the new feature
Healthy, Happy Women, in which Anny Fang focuses on women's
Podiuhealth issues. Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Podiumo

0

According to an Oct. 26 Detroit Free
Press article, the state of Michigan
received over $160 million to fund the con-
struction of high-speed rail lines in Michi-
gan. Of this, $150 million is to be used to
establish the route between Kalamazoo
and Dearborn. The money, awarded under
the federal Department of Transporta-
tion's High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail
Grant Program, will fund the restoration
and completion of a 135-mile track pass-
ing through Ann Arbor, Ypsilanti, Jackson,
Albion and Battle Creek, according to an
Oct. 25 article on Annarbor.com. Accord-
ing to the Free Press article, the restored
rail lines would allow trains to travel
at speeds up to 79 miles per hour. Later
upgrades could allow trains to travel at
speeds of up to 110 miles per hour.
Currently, train rides are often too
expensive and slow to offer much appeal
to potential passengers, even though they
are more environmentally friendly than
the use of low-occupancy vehicles. Michi-
gan's current mass transportation systems
aren't wide-spread enough to cut back on
the carbon footprint.
High-speed rails are meant to provide
service faster than a car at a reasonable
price. For Michigan's high-speed rail to
be a success, the state must work quickly

to increase speeds over 79 miles per hour.
Travelers will be inclined to stick with the
comfort of their own vehicle if trains are
going only slightly over the state's highway
speed limit (typically 70 miles per hour).
Rail lines that significantly decrease travel
time will appeal to riders.
The rail line will also be good for the
economy. Jobs will be created in construc-
tion, maintenance and operation of the lines.
And easier connectivity between cities also
makes business expansion and cooperation
easier, which will facilitate the state's eco-
nomic growth. Current plans are underway
for a line between Ann Arbor and Detroit
and another between Detroit and Chicago.
But alone, none of these railways can offer
passengers the connectivity that would lead
to real economic growth. The state should
use the planned line between Kalamazoo
and Dearborn to start a more inter-connect-
ed rail system that spans the Midwest.
If high-speed rail lines offer multiple des-
tinations at a reasonable price, people willbe
more inclined to choose environmentally-
friendly public tiansportation that will cre-
ate jobs and encourage economic growth.
The Michigan Department of Transporta-
tion must start plans to expand and connect
high-speed rail lines to offer Michigan resi-
dents a wide range of destinations.

0

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's
full name and University affiliation. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu

The myth of stupid'

BRIAN RAPPAPORT I
Table the trays

As I walked into North Quad for the first
time several weeks ago, I was impressed by its
chic architecture, its state of the art technology
and its international cuisine. There is no doubt
North Quad is agreatdormitory and an achieve-
ment in student housing. But I would be remiss
if I didn't mention that these achievements were
overshadowed by one disappointment.
The trays thatspilled through the dining hall,
loaded up with more food than students could
handle, contained 'an extraordinary amount
of waste. The opportunity for the University
to take a stand and show its contemporaries
its leadership in sustainability was missed. A
recent study showed that almost three quarters
of the 300 universities in the nation with the
largest endowments have implemented trayless
dining. Sadly, the University isn't one of them.
Of course, it's not just the desire to make a
statement that should promote trayless dining
here at the University. Grand Valley State Uni-
versity, a school of 19,000 students, has reduced
water consumption by 31,000 gallons per year,
used 540 lbs less of detergent per year and saved
$79,000 per year since it went trayless in 2007.
The benefits of ditching trays are concrete.
There have been recent pilot programs intro-
duced at University dining halls. In Mary Mar-
kley Residence Hall, trays were removed as
part of a pilot program to reduce food waste.
There is also a student initiative called "Tray
Free Tuesdays." On Tuesdays, students eat
trayless at the Hill Dining Center and encour-
age others to eat trayless as well. Most recently,
the pilot program at East Quad placed trays at
less convenient locations throughoutthe dining
hall, which produced a significant decrease in
food waste.
What I then wondered was whether there is
student support for trayless dining. Well, stu-
dents polled at East Quad showed a 70-percent
satisfaction rate with trayless dining. Ninety-
two percent of students said it was important to
reduce their environmental impact. The initia-
tive clearly has student supoort.
If there is all this evidence to support trayless
dining, why doesn't the University implement it
on a broader scale?
To be fair, according to the Integrated
Assessment, the University has a decentral-

ized approach to food on campus. There are
84 licensed food eateries that operate on cam-
pus and 200 different on-campus entities that
each has their own approach to food production
and waste management. What this essentially
means is that change is difficult to implement
at such a large university with such a decentral-
ized approach to food.
To this claim, I would say that trayless din-
ing is one of the simpler implementation efforts
of sustainability on campus. This effort doesn't
include implementing a new composting sys-
tem, or finding farms that are willing to imple-
ment large scale food operations, (although
these large scale efforts have been proven possi-
ble as well). This is simply going trayless, which
by all accounts will have a positive financial
effect on the University as a whole.
Another claim is that implementing trayless
dining would get rid of the positive effects of
trays, mostnotably aid for students with disabil-
ities and reduction of mess in the dining hall.
This claim, while valid, could be worked
around by tweaking the trayless program itself.
Trayless dining could be optional, and students
who may need atray could get one upon request.
However, something like that hasn't been tried
at the University either.
East Quad is supposed to be the model for
sustainability . on campus, with sustainable
local food and a more sustainable environment
overall. But East Quad has trays in their dining
hall today and its sustainable practices pale in
comparison to other universities nationwide. At
Yale University, one dining hall was made into a
completely sustainable dining hall with a multi-
tude of local food options and sustainable prac-
tices. This experiment was so successful that
students are now pushing for all dining halls at
Yale to be sustainable as well.
This proves that sustainable practices, if con-
ducted in the right environment, can be suc-
cessful. I believe that the lack of progress made
with trayless dining at the University shows
that there aren't sufficient sustainability goals.
Until the University's goals are set higher, a
simple sustainable practice such as trayless din-
ing won'tbe achieved, and that really is a shame.
Brian Rappaport is a Public Policy senior.

efine "stupid." Really try to
define the word "stupid" or
"dumb" as you would use
these words among
friends. If your
definition includes
some variation on
"the opposite of
intelligence," then
try to define intel-
ligence as a follow-
up.
Unless your
verbal prowess is ERIC
more precise than SZKARLAT
most intelligence
theorists and psy-
chologists for
decades, you probably can't exactly
define "intelligence." The best we
have may be early 20th century psy-
chologist Edwin G. Boring's dictum:
"Intelligence is whatever intelligence
tests measure."
Reflect on that for a moment. It may
sound silly, but it's actually an accept-
ed explanation of intelligence in psy-
chology. After all, intelligence really is
a purely human and social construct,
and therefore it is judged by human
standards. Boring is saying just that.
Do you remember when your st
grade teacher told you there's no
such thing as a stupid question? I
would agree. There are many alter-
native explanations for what might
make a question a bad one, butI can't
think of anything that might make a
question stupid. You might be mis-
informed about the content of the
course, or perhaps your question was
just ill-timed. But neither of these
things makes you stupid. They are
errors and we are humans.
Many people struggle with self-
esteem and think of themselves as
stupid. We've developed a culture in
which failure in school means failure
as a member of the most highly rational

and thoughtful species on the planet.
But reason is one of the most historical-
ly prized faculties of the human mind
throughout all of history, from Aristo-
tle to the endearing Forrest Gump.
And there is sometimes an idea of
hierarchy associated with it as well.
If one person calls another stupid,
they are implying that the other per-
son is inferior. Historically, those of
higher order have consistently tried
to divorce themselves from the lower
classes. But rather than their intelli-
gence, their education is what truly
set them apart from the others. Their
intelligence had nothing to do with it.
"Intelligent" is in many ways a buzz-
word, an adjective devised to make
them feel intellectually superior
because they were better educated.
The words "stupid" and "dumb" are
also buzzwords. We use them to dis-
tance ourselves from things that do
not seem like valuable contributions to
society. But even this idea exists only
under the assumption of Western cul-
ture.Of course, culture isn't inherently
bad, and while we can prize contribu-
tions made that greatly advance West-
ern society, we should never diminish
those that don't work. The concept of
intelligence is fine, as long as we do not
negate contributions. In other words,
don't say something is stupid.
Take autistic savants, for instance.
Many people might characterize
autistic people as being convention-
ally "unintelligent." Yet many autis-
tic individuals exhibit remarkable
talents. Their skills of day-to-day
function don't align with the norms
of our society, but they are capable of
incredible and profound things when
confronted with a piano, canvass or
mathematical proof.
And what about children? I
watched a lecture online by one
Adora Svitak, a well-known author.
In her lecture, entitled "What Adults

Can Learn from Kids," she states that
we are short-changing children and
their creativity. By the time they are
old enough, they want to be just like
everyone else, Svitak says. They no
longer want to think outside the box.
All this because, as it was once put by
someone I know, "You can't listen to
the things children say."
Intelligence is
not an objective
quality
Did I mention Svitak turned 13
years old this year?
What does this tell us about the
word "stupid"? If Svitak had been less
creative or successful, if it had been
any other child, would you have lis-
tened? or would you have dismissed
what the child said simply because
you believe their mental capacity to
be inferior to yours?
The word "stupid" is simply empty.
It's like saying, "I'm bad at math."
Well, there are a lot of different
aspects to math that you might be
bad at. Are you bad at computationy?
Algebra? Geometry? "Stupid" tells us
nothing in the same way that "bad"
tells us nothing. Inflicted upon the
self, it's an excuse. I've used it many
times, as have my friends. But instead
we should speak up. We should say
something in class because it's not
stupid. It can't be. Nothing is.
Then again, perhaps there is one
thing in the world that is actually stu-
pid - the very idea of stupidity.
- Eric Szkarlat can be reached
at eszkarla@umich.edu.

EDITORIA L BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis,
Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Laura Veith

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 27, 2010 - 5A

Countdown show
is 'Tough' to take

'ma let you finish, but Jackson Pollock was the greatest expressionist painter of all time.
1-Swi z rows.up

By JACOB AXELRAD
For theDaily
From Super Delicious Productions
comes "That's Tough," a new reality series
on G4 that's a count-
down of all things - you *
guessed it - tough. Epi-
sode one takes us through "liWj'
three categories: the
world's toughest pris- TWO
ons, "little dudes" and Wednesdays
armored cars. An unseen at 8:30 p.m.
narrator describes each G4
category in detail and
experts in each respec-
tive field lend their knowledge. Videos
and re-creations are used to highlight the
selections for whatever has been chosen
as "most badass." This is an OK premise,
but there's one small drawback: the show
is, almost in its entirety, offensive.
The premise is fine - picking a catego-
ry and determining who or what stands
out within it. But what's frightening is
the system used to determine "tough-
ness." Without giving away spoilers, it's
safe to say that the show's producers have
crossed a line when it comes to what's
morally appropriate.
A heavy metal soundtrack accompa-
nied by grainy black-and-white footage
opens the episode, giving the feel of a
low-budget music video, until we learn
the first group to be judged: prisons. The
tone shifts drastically as we're taken
from Mendoza, Argentina to the Gulags
of North Korea. We're subsequently edu-
cated on what it means to be a "tough"
prison. The images and facts used in mak-
ing this deduction are hard to digest, as
they should be when the misery of human
beings is turned into a supposedly enter-
taining segment of a countdown show. Rat
infestations and death by infection are
just some of the delights that await pris-
oners at what G4 has labeled the world's

"toughest prisons." The commentary and
narration make it seem as though the
grisly details of horrific prison life are
somehow impressive, but the fact is, it's
just plain shocking that a show would use
these statistics in awarding top slots in
any type of category.
The second installment in the episode
is hardly any better. The "toughest little
dudes," as they're affectionately referred
to, are little people who revel in sadism
and "get their asses kicked." This segment
is distasteful, not because the subject mat-
ter is little people, but rather because the
winners deserve no kind of recognition.
No person, big or small, is tough because
they force their unwilling girlfriend to
shoot her eye out or get sent to prison for
assault. G4 evidently thinks otherwise.
The final portion, armored cars, is the
only interesting (read: not sickening) part
of the entire episode. From Pope Benedict
XVI's "Popemobile" to President Obama's
What should be
entertaining turns
pretty offensive.
"The Beast," vehicles are judged on dura-
bility, expense and style. If this really is
a countdown show, then this is what the
producers need to stick with - solely
objective material that doesn't run the
gamut from offensive to shocking.
While it's understandable that G4 is try-
ing to branch out further from its video-
game coverage into rival SPIKE's teritory,
the channeliscurrentlyonlyshowingitself
to be a ratings whore. If any of its future
material is as poorly conceived as "That's
Tough," there definitely needs to be a
return to the drawing board.

On'Speak Now,' Swift
takes on more celeb exes
with musical flair
By ARIELLE SPECINER
DailyArts Writer
This is a warning to all boys: If you
date Taylor Swift, expect a song to be
written about you.
When country prin-
dess Taylor Swift pens
lyrics about her pastT
r'elationships, she's
* uthless. And her third Speak Now
,ibum Speak Now is no Big Machine
exception. Swift takes
a stab at the boys she's
kissed through bittersweet lyrics that
will make you think twice about how
sweet this sugar-pop singer really is.
Since the release of 2008's Fearless,
Swift has gone through a lot. Though
rany musicians of Swift's celebrity stat-
ure may hide their public humiliations,
she chooses to sing about all of them.
Swift's candy-coated voice laces every
track of Speak Now, though some of her
lyrics may be lined with acid. On the
album, listeners take a journey through
Swift's diary, complete with intense
detail and beautiful sounds.
- Her songwriting skills on Speak Now
are at their best. She tells meaningful,
autobiographical stories fans can relate

to. Whether she's singing about under-
dogs, letters to old loves or apologizing
to people she's hurt, the Nashville native
is not afraid of telling the truth. Bottom
line, this girl's had a lot of boy trouble in
the last few years.
The gutsiest of all boy-troubled tracks
is "Dear John," a six-and-a-half-minute
overview of her brief relationship with
the infamous John Mayer. She sings
"Dear John / I see it all now that you're
gone / Don't you think I was too young
to be messed with / The girl in the dress
/ Cried the whole way home / I shoulda
known." The inclusion of Mayer-esque
guitar riffs in the beginning of the track
makes the song that much more sassy.
Another ode-to-ex-boyfriend track
is the apologetic "Back to December."
Most likely a tribute to her ex-beau Tay-
lor Lautner, "December" is graced with
a string section reminiscent of. a cold,
December night. On the track, Swift
showcases her vocals, which, compared
to previous albums, have clearly pro-
gressed. The track, like the album as a
whole, exhibits strength and growth for
the singer/songwriter.
On Speak Now, Swift steers away from
her pop-tart princess mold and venture
into different genres. The rocking "Bet-
ter Than Revenge" is scornful and bitter
- and it totally works. Swift channels her
inner Hayley Williams (Paramore) with
snarky lyrics ("She's not a saint and she's
not what you think / She's an actress /
She's better known for the things that

she does / On the mattress") and hard-
hitting drums - well, at least hard hit-
ting for her. The rock star sound may not
be her forte but she pulls it off.
Still, fans of Swift's quintessential
pop persona need not fear: Speak Now
still holds those country-twang acous-
tic tunes Taylor Swift devotees know
and love. The title track stays in Swift's
plucky guitar-stringed comfort zone
as she sings lyrics about a lover marry-
ing the wrong girl. She uses her gift of
evocative storytelling as she sinisterly
describes a wedding gone wrong: "The
organ starts to play a song that sounds
like a death march."
Speak Now, however, isn't just one
big "love story" - Swift shows definite
maturity. The album offers peeks into
the darker side of Swift's mind, as she
complains about losing her innocence
on "Never Grow Up" and takes the high
road in the Kanye West VMAs conflict by
assuring West that "Who you are is not
what you did / You're still an innocent."
Though Taylor Swift may not be
regarded as the most talented musician
on the planet, one thing's for sure: This
girl can hold her own. The once-silly
teenage starlet who got her big break by
professing her love for Tim McGraw is
now venturing into the reality of love and
the hardships that go with it. Speak Now
warns the world that Taylor Swift will
not back down no matter how many boys
break her heart - because when they do,
she'll just write a hit song about it.

Time for the sun to
set on Kings of Leon

~.Burgers with nausea on the side

By LINDSAY HURD
Daily Arts Writer
Once again, Guy Fieri got a job as the
host of a new competition show. This
time, hardcore tail-
gaters compete to win
the title of "Tailgate
Warrior," whatever
that means. This week,
teams from Seattle and Warrors
Green Bay "face off." Wednesdays
Each team is told to at 10P.M.
make a heart-attack-
inducing amount of Food Network
food, including an appe-
tizer, a main course, two sides and a des-
sert, all in one hour.
The amount of food prepared on "Tail-
gate Warriors" is nauseating. From brat-
wurst to salmon to crab to elk (which are
only the main courses) there's just way too
much to keep track of, let alone attempt
to watch people try to make or consume.
The cooks are running around so quickly,
it feels like you're going to get whiplash.
Nauseating with a risk of whiplash -
sounds just like a bad carnival ride.
Despite this, one thing "Tailgate War-
riors" has going for it is the food itself.

With the fresh salmon and elk burgers,
the competitors know their food and their
way around the grill. Unfortunately, the
focus, which starts on the fresh ingredi-
ents, quickly turns into a fixation on the
fascinating competition - or lack thereof.
Instead of concentrating on how the food
is prepared, the attention veers off in the
direction of creating drama by focusing
only on how no one is going to finish.
Too much food combined with too
much competition leads to way too long
of a program. After 20 minutes, everyone
is ready to see how the food turns out, but
instead you get stuck watching another
half hour of so-called fierce competition.
By the time the judges taste the food, no
one even cares.
The most annoying part about "Tail-
gate Warriors" is the fact that winning
the competition leads to absolutely noth-
ing. The contestants don't win money,
game tickets, or a trip - absolutely noth-
ing but glory which will only last until
the next episode airs, if that long.
Still, avid watchers of other Food Net-
work competition shows will enjoy "Tail-
gate Warriors" because it's exactly like all
their other programming. Two teams try
to prepare tasty dishes in a small amount

of time, no one thinks they will ever finish,
but they do, and then one team wins. It's
the exact same format, with nothing else
to offer except for some cheesy football
puns like "I fumbled with that burger"
and instant replays of footage that really
does not need to be seen twice.
And once again, the judges are peo-
ple who don't really seem to be expert
Just another Food
Network show
with Guy Fieri.
enough to be on Food Network. A former
football player along with a couple self-
appointed BBQ and tailgate experts leave
feedback that any regular Joe Shmoe
could have given. Unimaginative and
amateurish comments like "this tastes
good" (seriously) are so vague that the
whole fun of watching Food Network is
gone. The focal point is lost, and you're
stuck watching just a bunch of dudes eat-
ing burgers.

By EMMA GASE
DailyArts Writer
One thing is for certain: the guys from
Kings of Leon take themselves very, very
seriously. The band's new record Come
Around Sundown proves there is no self-
awareness in sight for the dudes that hit
it big with their fourth
album, only by the Night,
in 2008.
From the rumpled ings of
haircuts that probably
cost more than their Leo
amplifiers to the skinny Come Around
pants and the vests worn Sundown
over bare chests, there isR
no doubt that these guys
worship the idea of being
"rock stars." Nothing Kings of Leon does
appears effortless, yet that seems to be
precisely the image they desperately want
to project.
The album begins with "The End."
Those cheeky bastards, could this be a
modicum of humor? As the song strides
in with screechy, ethereal guitars and
then cedes to a lone bass-line and simple
drumbeat, you realize there is no intended
irony here, just overreaching, inflated sta-
dium production. Lead singer Caleb Fol-
lowill laments, "This could be the end /
Cause I ain't got a home / I'm out here all
alone / I'll forever roam." Deep shit.
"Mary" is Kings of Leon's borderline
offensive attempt at retro-rock balladry.
The rhythm recalls The Beatles'"Oh, Dar-
ling!," but then again, the Fab Four could
belch out their lyrics over a xylophone
and it would still be more innovative than
Kings of Leon. The bluesy '50s guitar riff
and harmonized "aahs" are not enough
to distract from the whining scream of
Followill's voice, which he intentionally
cracks like a pubescent teenage boy at the
end of every chorus. Lead guitarist Mat-
thew Followill busts out a competent,
albeit boring and predictable, guitar solo
during the middle eight. .
All the tracks on Sundown have some-
thing in common (other than their glaring
mediocrity), and that's reverb. Perhaps
the band thinks that dousing every chorus
and opening guitar riff in reverb gives its
music an authentic, serious sound. Sorry,
Kings of Leon, but reverb a good record

does not make.
Since the guys hail from Tennessee
and their dad is a preacher, that means if
they lay down a fiddle track underneath
the guitars and repeatedly sing "I'm
going back down south now," then they're
authentic Southern-fried rockers like
Lynyrd Skynyrd and have automatic cred-
ibility. Or at least that is what they appear
to believe on "Back Down South."
When their songs become boring to
the point of annoyance (which inevitably
happens on every track), their go-to fix
is a reverb-soaked crescendo of guitars
accompanied by Followill's strained voice
crying out something forlorn and pro-
found, e.g. "I won't ever be a cornerstone."
To be fair, there was a time when Kings
of Leon didn't suck quite so badly. Once
upon a time (a.k.a. 2003), they recorded
songs like "Molly's Chambers," a two-
minute punk-influenced tune with a
kickass guitar riff and unaffected vocals,
instead of moody sleepers with melodra-
matic production like "Pyro" or ridicu-
Here's a Grammy.
Now go away.
lously over-the-top single "Radioactive."
But alas, we Cannot live in the past.
Some fat cat record exec probably pro-
nounced them the new U2 after the inor-
dinate amount of Grammys they won, and
the band's ambition seems to have taken
over to make sure that became a reality.
There are precious few moments on the
album that do not sound contrived, manu-
factured and calculated. The moments that
don't, notably found in the drums, are so
fleeting that they are forgotten when the
next spectacularly average song begins.
Kings of Leon appears more concerned
with matching the success of "Use Some-
body" and being old school "rock stars"
than spending time artfully construct-
ing original songs. Perhaps the success of
the tasteful and subtle 2008 single "Sex
on Fire" has gone to their heads. or not.
Maybe Kings of Leon really is the most
affected band in the universe. Is there a
Grammy for that?


;' ,
't.

,;
.,.

DO YOU HATE GETTING FREE IPODS?
DON'T TAKE OUR HOUSING SURVEY.
But if you DO like free iPods,
go to michigandaily.com/housing-survey.

"All right boys, let's run the 'Make Me More Famous' play on three"


6A - Wednesday, October 27, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam 0

6A - Wednesday, October 27, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

COLEMAN
From Page 1A
a 20-percent loss in investments
and not feel it," Coleman said last
year. "But we are slowly recov-
ering because of an investment
strategy that is conservative and
yet focused on long-term perfor-
mance."
The University's endowment
has seen significant improvement
in the past year, regaining $600
million of the prior loss this year.
Despite this gain, Coleman has
emphasized in numerous public
appearances and interviews with
the Daily that she believes cost
containment is necessary to pre-
vent tuition increases from sky-
rocketing as state appropriations
continue to fall. State legislators

voted last month to cut funding to
public universities by 2.8 percent.
In addition to finances, faculty
hiring - another topic Coleman is
expected to address in tomorrow's
speech - has been a prevalent
theme in past State of the Univer-
sity addresses.
In her 2007 address, Coleman
announced a plan to hire 100
interdisciplinary junior faculty
members over the course of five
years. The initiative included allo-
cating $30 million of central fund-
ing - $10 million for salaries and
benefits of the new hires and $20
million for start-up costs.
The program put the Univer-
sity in a situation that is somewhat
unique among peer institutions
by allowing officials to seek new
faculty members for the past sev-
eral years as the economy took a

tumble. At the same time, other
institutions across the country
have implemented hiring freezes
to cope with losses in endowment
revenue and cuts in state funding.
University Provost Philip Han-
lon told members of the Senate
Advisory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs last month that he
would like to see the student to
faculty ratio decrease in the future
- something that would only be
possible if the University enrolled
fewer students or continued to
increase the number of faculty
members.
Coleman is also expected to
address the University's academic
excellence in her speech today.
No details about what she
will say on the topic have been
released. However, University offi-
cials boasted about the freshman

class's high academic performance
in a release about enrollment on
Monday.
According to the press release,
30 percent of the students in the
freshman class scored between 31
and 36 on their ACT test - a feat
achieved by only four percent of
students nationwide.
Additionally, 13 percent of the
2010 incoming class earned a
perfect 4.0 grade point average
in high school, while the average
grade point average was 3.8.
University officials also high-
lighted the success of students
once they reach the University in
Monday's data release. According
to the same press release, the Uni-
versity has "one of the country's
best" six-year graduation rates,
with 89.4 percent of students
graduating within six years.


WARREN
From Page 1A
cial crisis. But critics argue that
the CFPB will lead to too much
regulation that may end up cost-
ing consumers.
Finances like mortgages, pri-
vate student loans and credit
cards often include fine print
and unnecessary fees that hurt
consumers and benefit banks,
according to Warren. The CFPB's
job is to help consumers by get-
ting rid of this fine print, she said.
"We believe it ought to be a
level playing field," Warren said.
"Not a playing field that is choked
with fine print, buta playing field
where everyone can see ... what
the terms are up front and that
there's some basic fairness."
Warren also discussed the
CFPB's plans to improve student
loans for higher education by
supervising private lenders.
"Right now in the world of stu-
dent loans, you're pretty much on
your own," Warren said. "What
this new agency will be able to

do is to review the procedures
used by private lenders of pri-
vate student loans ... and work to
rebalance the power between the
borrower and the lender."
The CFPB intends to not only
regulate laws that are already in
place, but also to impose new laws
to better protect consumers.
"The time for hiding tricks and
traps is over," Warren said.
Paolo Pasquariello, an associ-
ate professor of finance at the
Ross School of Business, said
he disagrees with Warrant's
approach. According to Pasquari-
ello, the federal government's
regulation of banks tends to
result in more expenses for the
banks, which are then passed on
to consumers. These costs include
those that come with the banks'
hiring lawyers or accountants to
follow the new regulations, he
said. Pasquariello's critique of the
CFPB is a common refrain among
critics of the new bureau.
"In economics, an externality
is when you do something, which
has a positive impact, but there is
also a side effect," Pasquariello

said. "And we need to be aware
of this side effect. The side effect
is that banking as a business has
become more expensive."
Pasquariello said an example
of this side effect is that many
banks previously allowed con-
sumers to open checking accounts
free of charge, but because of
the expense of complying with
new regulations the banks now
require fees for this.
Instead of the government
providing more financial regula-
tion, Pasquariello said economic
reform should be based more on
financial education.
"Rather than needing an agen-
cy that protects us, we need an
effort to educate people when
they make financial decisions,"
Pasquariello said. "(The reform)
was mostly driven by the idea that
financial institutions are bad and
they're trying to screw people up,
and people are good and need to
be protected. I think a lot of peo-
ple are lazy and ill-prepared and
I think we need to think about
what to do about that."
Either people need to become

more financially literate, he
said, or the government needs
to make decisions for people in
order to protect them. For exam-
ple, Pasquariello said in the case
of retirement, people in some
countries can either invest their
money in stocks or bonds them-
selves or allow the state to invest
their money for them.
"If you don't do it on your
own, the state will do it for you,"
Pasquariello said of these coun-
tries. "And that's what most peo-
ple end up doing. They just don't
know much about it or they're
too lazy, so they state decides for
them, and maybe that's where we
have to go."
During the conference call,
Warren also said financial edu-
cation should play a large role in
economic reform.
"We have two problems simul-
taneously," Warren said. "One is
that Americans need more finan-
cial education, more information
about how to survive ina complex
financial world. But, at the same
time, financial products need to
be more readable."

DEFENSE
From Page 1A
Heat-seeking missiles, or
"smart missiles," target the hot
metal and the plume of a helicop-
ter engine. By using lasers that
emit the same wavelengths of
light as the engines, Islam said,
helicopter operators will be able
to effectively hide their aircrafts
from missiles.
"What our laser does is put out
a signal from roughly one to 4.5
microns that can basically fool
this missile or that can emulate
the heat of the engine," he said.
According to Islam, the heat
waves emitted by the lasers are
comparable to the heat waves
coming off of a barbeque.
Islam sent the first prototype
of the laser system, which he said
was about the size of a DVD play-
er, to the U.S. Army in 2008. The
army responded by recommend-
ing that he acquire more funding
for his research.
The Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency and
every branch of the Defense
Department that uses helicopters
have since contributed funds for
Islam's research.
Since submitting the first pro-
totype, Islam said he's focused on
developing higher-powered lasers
that will be able to better emulate
the heat from a helicopter engine
and will be able to target missiles
from farther away. He said he's
also been working on specializ-
ing the lasers so they have more
energy in certain wavelengths that
missiles might be more sensitive to.
"What we do is we provide (the
military) with the capability to put
it on whatever modulation they
want and we can also customize

the optics to what they want," he
said.
Islam said he plans to send the
second prototype to the military
sometime nextyear.
Having received his B.S., M.S.
and Sc.D. degrees in electrical
engineering from the Massachu'
setts Institute of Technology,
Islam said he decided to focus his
research on fiber optics and lasers
because "the technology is very
mature and very solid."
Over $10 billion dollars was
invested in telecom research,
including fiber optics and its appli-
cations during the telecommuni-
cations boom that came with the
invention of the Internet, accord-
ing to Islam.
Islam said he wanted to "use
telecommunications and technol-
ogy for anything but telecom."
He began his work with laser-
based missile defense in 2004 in
response to the heightened cond
cern for helicopter safety in Iraq
and Afghanistan after the Sept. 1i
terrorist attacks.
According to an April article in
Defense Industry Daily - a news
source for military purchasing
and defense procurement - heat,
seeking missiles are responsible
for 90 percent of all U.S. air com-
bat losses over the last 25 years.
Islam said his work demon-
strates how academic research
can have large-scale impacts
beyond the University.
"I think it's a great example of
where we've taken basic research
from the university setting and
used it to solve a problem in our
defense arena," he said.
Islam is now looking into other
uses of mid-infrared super-con-
tinuum lasers, including appli-
cations for border control and
remote sensing of explosives.

FRIEND THE DAILY ONK


665-8825

! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Reserve now
for 2011 (Spring or Fall). U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space for 2011 today with no
lease obligation. 2 blocks from Central
Campus and downtown. 1 to 4 bed-
room, private baths avail. Rates from
$660. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 9964992.

625 Church St. (734) 668-1100
Now Taking Reservations for
Fall 20101
1-5 bdrms & houses
See our23 locations at
www.varsitymonagement.com
!NOW RESERVING FOR FALL
2011! 1 & 2 bedroom apartments. 3
bedroom house on Church. C & I Man-
agement, LLC. Call Patty 734-320-1245
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011*!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, Qetober 27,2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2Online 37'Hushr to Romeo 52 Search for and
I One of a marketplace 38'_bienr Sfind,as a CD tack
"Sesame Streef 3 Easy win 40 Cereal Mikey 56 1492 trio member
duo 4 Hefty volume liked, inads 57 How some NFL
5 Tizzy 8 USFS delivery 41 Abundant games are
11 Chest muscle, 8Mir6 onthewall 48 Numberone Hun resolved
briefly 7 Second-deepest 48 Movie souvenir 58Circus sight
14 Bugtail? U.S. lake 49 Period 59 Prince William's
15 Injury requiring 8 "Fasterr 50 Seuss's school
emergency room 9 Hammed it up environmental 61 TV monitor
treatment 10 Like cnwdit6s advocate 62 B-Fconnecturs
16 Everyone 11 "HitMe With 51 Sadat's faith 63 _ Lingus
17 Track and field Your BestShot"
event singer ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Double 12 Hall of Fame
standard? Broncos c ZY JET SHAWLS
20 Hardly laid-back quarterback AVIA ADO REDHOT
21 Morsel 13 Intimate BANKON IT OLDA E
22 Corp. exec 18Leisure RITE SALON
hopefuls 22 Afcancuntry PAYACOMPL MENT
23 Agreed nearestaSpan JEWELER EOINS
27 Dilettante 24 BMW rival J
31"Nuts!" 25Smallsongbirds ERA T JE R K AR F
32 Baby Arp's first 26 Colognethat SPRIN FORDI N N E R
word? sounds wrong? SE OI Y 01
33 Metricprefix 27 Tacksron g U 0 0 MI A E V I E NT
36 Talk big 28Trading center DRUMUP U S INESS
39 Lou Gossett Jr. 29 Sefor's sendoff R A P A T S C 0 T
played one in "An 30Happy hour O V E R L Y R 0 L L C A L L
Officer and a reqaest E N T E D D R A L 0 E
Gentleman" 34 CB lorensic T S A T M I N X
42 Ketel One drama
altemative, 35Not to won-y wrddear@ael.com 10/2 1
familiarly 2 a e 7 a 10 12
43 Sefor's
'Certainty[" 14 1 6 s
44 Bistro
46 Crash site?
47 In a way 20 21
49Airtraveler's
need
53 Main Web page 2
54 Nashville sch. or a a a
H5 Bond 3
60 Jackie's second
61 Folder holder s
64 Droop
65 Composer 42 44
Debussy
66 Oppositeofr43- 4
Across as 51 U
67 Prefiwith
skeleton 5054 55 5N 57585
68 Counselor's
69 Mai-ruting
abbr.I
DOWN
1 Thai currency By Dan Naddor
(c)2010 Tribune MediaServices,Inc/1

STU FU H NTsO es ;Y6. IillC
Rates Now AVailable
for Fall 2011-2012
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
" Central Campus locations
" *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!
'Variesbylocaion
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
AFTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Ares.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
526 Packard Rd.
Fall 2011
Brand new 3 bedrooms,
hardwood
Varsity management
[1341008-1100
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath homes. For moreinformation-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskmangyahoo.com.
CAMPUS 6 BEDROOM HOUSE.
Furnished, Fireplace & Parking with
Garage. Very Nice. 702 Arch St. May
2011. $3250. 734-426-4772.
Ask for Jim at Spring Valley Farm.
FALL 2011 FINE 6 bedroom house.
523 So. Fourth Ave, furn, dwshr, dis-
posal, launrdy, parking, central A/C,
high speed internet, hardwood floors,
alarm system, heat and water included.
734-662-7121 or gpmiles@aol.com
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Court $2340,
tenants pay all utilities call Cappo
Deinco 734-996-1991
848 TappanSts.
Fall 2011
Remodeled bi-level
4 & 5 bedrooms
Varsity Management
11341608-1100
wwwevrstvmanagomsnLcolu

the biffep 920 Dewey Ave.
Fall 2011
CoII3 5 bedroom w/ finished
attic & basement
RIM MANURNT Varsitymanagement
%1+ IM adO1141608-1100
*ed and swww.varsntvmalavgeint.com
S9LoationsBervo921 PACKARD FALL '11 3 story 5
Studio - 4 Bedroooms bdrm house for 6 furnished 3 full baths
Clotvt.l .11- s I-a D wrown 3 kitchens laundry parking 7342721320
Let Oar Fuerdy lake fare of boors FALL 2011 6 br, 3 bath, fully remod-
Let ,u r F .m r y Take Care of Yrrs eled, furnished $3500 248-798-4755
Private ResidetShuttle Contemporary Fornitufe
On Siee-faunn OL;kwlcme!a
",. O,,d, r'Stdounis NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
734.741 .9300 Studio apartments to large houses,
www.annwboprtmuts ndallis prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealty.com
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail 734-665-8825
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300 WWW.SO0FULLER.COM
www.annarborapartments.net (734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modem, clean, quiet
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in- 5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide AMAZING NEWER PROPERTY-
teletion of apartments and houses. We located just 8Rminutes N of Ann Arbor
specialize in houses and apartmsents has 2 & 3 BR from $585/mth. 970 -
very close to central campus. All are at- 1279 sq ft. 24 Hr Fitness Ctr, Pool,
tractively priced, most include parking, Volleyball, Playground. Washer/Dryer
many are furnished and some include & 2 Full Baths in each home. Please
utilities. Contact us for details. Com- call 734.449.4213.
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Comultant, Pat at 734-663-4101. 1109 S. State St.
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn. Fall 2011
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry 5 bedroom
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735 w/ finished & basement
Varsit Management
5 & 6 BR Houses134 8-1100
May 2011 www.varsuvmanagemontcom
www.Copiproperties.com
!!!!!!2011/12 LEASING Has
734-663-5609 Started!!!!!! Appointments to view be-
ginning Friday October 29th! Great lo-
MAY AVAILABILITY 6 bedroom cations throughout central campus!
$3275 rooms $600. 701 Catherine Call 761-8000 primesh.com
(near kerrytown). 734-777-3687 !! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
***BDRM HI-LEVEL house near ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern mdry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and MAY 201 . Horvath roperlies.com or
much more! 741-9300 call 734-972-7368.
wwwannarborapartments.net !"FALL201"! 5to9bdrm.
houses. Keysmanagement.net
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1007 S. State. Furnished, FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
free laundry, free parking. on State St./Athletic Campus. First
$4300/month. Call 734-678-0122 time available in three years! 6 bed., I
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Famished, APARTMENTS AVAILABLE 2011-
A/C, free laundry, free parking. 12 Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122 *Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet! Call today
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3800 Kings- for an appointment to see! Prime Stu-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286. dent Housing 761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location

BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial No exp. nec., trmining provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in backr
ground for a major film production.
Earn up to $200/day. Experience not rer
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
FULL/PART-TIME SERVERS
needed at the Original Cottage Inn. Ap-
ply within Monday-Friday between 2
and 5. 512 E. William.
PERSONAL ASSISTANT NEEDED.
Im currently looking to employ a Part
time assistant whom would work
for me from home. You would be re-
quired to do some bookkeeping for me.
I'll have my mail diverted to your home
as some would need immediate
attention. Its attract good pay $500 per
week. Interested should EMAIL
cdcross012@gmail.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & PUB now hiring individuals
for our kitchen staff and office staff.
Apply in person at 310 Maynard, Ann
Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed inA2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

COLLEGE STUDENT STEALS -
SAVE BIG! Get the campus daily deal
sent directly to your cell phone! Just
TEXT WOLVERINES to 69302 for
college area exclusive special offers
and discounts!
EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates,
734/996-0566 or writeonliiserv.net

920 Dewey Ave.
Fall 2011
5 bedroom w/ finished
attic & basement
Varsity Management
1134 08-1100
ww.varslnanagfegneticgm

ANN ARBOR FAMILY looking for
experienced, responsible, non-smoking
student for reg. afternoon childcare for
18 month old son. Must come w/ good
references. Regular Tues/Thurs after-
noons starting next semester, w/ more
flexible once/week options starting
ASAP. $12/hr. (734) 834-0375 or
Janeglazer@gmail.com
the daily classifieds...
they're kind of a big deal.

3 BDRM 2 bath $1299/month washer
dryer 2 walk out patios fireplace NICE
Nov - April call Jeanne 734 775 5232
email dialjdial@yahoo.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 27, 2010 - 7A

Walk-on DeBlois shows
promise early in season

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
Sophomore quarterback Denard Robinson underwent an MR I for a nagging shoulder injury Results showed no structural damage
Robinson ready to play,
Bolden a question mark

CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
As he stepped off the ice for a
post-practice interview on Monday,
a couple teammates teased fresh-
man forward Derek DeBlois about
keeping a level-head on his shoul-
ders.
"Don't forget where you came
from, man," they joked.
But talking with DeBlois reveals
pretty quickly sees that the "stay
humble" commentswere only made
in good fun. Less than one minute
into the conversation with DeBlois,
any questions of his early success
and development were immediately
attributed to teammates, linemates
and the upperclassman leaders on
the team.
DeBlois, who walkedon to the No.
4 Michigan hockey team this season,
is beginning to show those around
him why he is ready to fill a role.
Saturday's game against then-No.
10 Nebraska-Omaha marked just
the third regular-season game that
DeBlois has skated in, but the Rhode
Island native has wasted no time
makinghis opportunities count.
Playing on the Wolverines'
fourth line with senior right wing
Scooter Vaughan and senior center
Ben Winnett, DeBlois' two assists
on both of Vaughan's goals led the
freshman to the first multi-point
game of his career on Saturday.
"It's great playing with both
(Vaughan and Winnett). They're
seniors with great leadership,"
DeBlois said yesterday. "They tell
me what to do, put me in the right
spots. It's good to go out and play
hard because good things happen
when we put it on net. We were for-
tunate to get a couple lucky bounc-
es, and I was able to get a couple
assists (Saturday)."
With so much veteran talent
taking the ice each game this sea-
son for the Wolverines, Michigan
coach Red Berenson can take the
time to develop all of his freshman

JED MOCH/Daily
Freshman forward Derek De~lois had two assists in two games thispast weekend
in the Wolverines' two-game split with Nebraska-Omaha.

Tea
im
dl

m has focused on tormake
damage,
proving defense "An
was goo
uring bye week Mic
day may
Penn
JOE STAPLETON Bolden
Daily Sports Editor able," b
Paterno

In the first five games of the
Michigan football team's season,
sophomore quarterback Denard
RtJbinson looked unstoppable and at
times otherworldly. In the last two
games, however,
he has come back NOTEBOOK
to earth along
with the rest of the Wolverines.
And while this is partially due to
better competition, it has come to
light that Robinson has been deal-
ing with a nagging shoulder injury,
one that took him out of Michigan's
game against Iowa on Oct. 16 in
4nn Arbor.
The injury sidelined him and
paved the way for sophomore quar-
terback Tate Forcier to enter the
game and lead what was almost a
Wolverine comeback, one that fell
just short.
But Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez wants to emphasize: Forcier
played because Robinson was
iojured - not because the offense
was lookingstagnant.
-"Ifinditamusingthatpeopleeven
question that we have a quarterback
controversy," Rodriguez said at the
Monday press conference. "Denard
Robinson's our starter."
Luckily for the Wolverines, Rob-
inson said during Monday's press
conference that he's "100 percent"
after the bye week and hiscoach
has said he'll be ready to go against
Penn State.
Yesterday during the Big Ten
teleconference, Rodriguez gave
more information on the matter,
saying the team had an MRI done
on the sophomore's shoulder and
found it to be healthy.
"We did allthe tests with the MRI

ence th
not play
The it
terbacki
of injur
suffered
"The'
they'vev
of all the
SHOR
weeksa
an,
dar
wa
nities fo
more ti
their tea
ForF
that area
defense.
With(
the coun
with aq
terback,
time for
needed:
"We"v
whole s
ing ant
defensiv
during N
"It may
the field
improve
they sho

sure there was no structural way." '
," Rodriguez said. Roh said he has seen marked
d there wasn't any, so that improvement in making the right
d news." reads, breaking on balls faster and
igan's opponent this Satur- learning the defense asa whole.
not be so lucky. The coaching staff has been
State quarterback Robert making adjustments, evidenced by
has been listed as "prob- the switch of sophomore defensive
ut Nittany Lions coach Joe lineman Will Campbell to offense
said during the teleconfer- and freshman offensive lineman
at Bolden most likely will Quinton Washington to defense.
Rodriguez said he hoped the
njury to the freshman quar- open week would allow some of
is just the latest in a string the freshmen defensive backs to
ies the Nittany Lions have improve and catch up to where they
i. need to be, given that most will
y've had a shell of what probably be playing on Saturday
wanted to play with because given the team's depth issue in the
e injuries," Rodriguez said. defensive backfield.
RING UP THE DEFENSE: Bye "Particularly the freshman
are usually good opportu- defensive backs," Rodriguez said.
"They've gotten in there a little
bit but where we're at depth-wise
we got to play more guys and I'm
There wasn't hoping the open week will help get
those guys more ready to play."
iy (structural DAVEY O'BRIEN AWARD SEMI-
FINALIST: Despite the fact that
mage), so that Robinson'sproduction has slowed
gW in recent weeks, the football team
S .6.d news. announced on Monday that he is a
semifinalist for the Davey O'Brien
award, given to the nation's best
quarterback.
)r coaches to spend a little Robinson is one of 16 semifinal-
me on certain aspects of ists, joining fellow Big Ten quarter-
im that isn't working. backs Kirk Cousins, Terrelle Pryor
Rodriguez and Michigan, and Ricky Stanzi on the list.
a would be almost the entire Robinson also remains a con-
tender for the Heisman Trophy,
one of the worst defenses in though another speedy quarterback
try goingup against a team has stolen the spotlight.
questionable mark at quar- Auburn's Can Newton has been
the week off could provide dismantling SEC opponents, run-
the defense to get a much- ningmore than200 yards and three
tune-up. scores against Arkansas twoweeks
ire been making steps this ago and doing nearly the same in a
eason, we've been improv- win over then-No. 6 LSU on Satur-
d improving," sophomore day.
'e lineman Craig Roh said Robinson, for his part, thinks
Monday's press conference. Newton has been spectacular.
not show itself exactly on "Cam Newton played a great
I but we're slowly making game," Robinson said on Monday.
ments it's just how quickly "He was outstanding. Great guy,
ow up on the field in a big great player."

forwards, since he isn't counting on
them to score a ton of goals in their
rookie seasons.
But DeBlois already has three
assists to his name - two from
Saturday and one from an Oct. 9
matchup at Bowling Green - and
he has played in both of Michigan's
marquee matchups against then-
No. 9 New Hampshire and Nebras-
ka-Omaha.
"I think (DeBlois) mayhave been
a little bit of an unknown coming in,
compared tosome of the other high-
profile freshmen," Winnett said
yesterday after practice. "But it's
always nice to see a walk-on come
in and not really expect a whole lot
but work really hard and then end
up gettingup rewarded for it.
"You see kids like (junior for-
ward) Luke Glendening come in as
a small role as a freshman and look
at him now as a junior, he's grown
so much as a player. Someone like
(DeBlois) has the maturity and the
outlook that I think he can do the
same sort of thing."
Glendening has been an obvious
role model for DeBlois, as the two

played together at the Hotchkiss
School in Connecticut, along with
freshman defender Mac Bennett.
The familiar faces undoubtedly
helped his transition to Michigan.
In 47 games at Hotchkiss, DeBlois
tallied 25 goals and 37 assists.
While DeBlois admits he still
needs to "get stronger" to match
the physicality that persists in the
college game, he has made great
strides in preparing to become
a competitive collegiate player.
Berenson called DeBlois "recep-
tive" and "hungry ... to do the right
thing."
"Every game he's played, I've seen
some good things from him, wheth-
er it's his work ethic, his position-
ing - he's very aware," Berenson
said. "He knows what he should be
doing, trying to do the right thing.
He's been pretty patient with the
puck, and he made that nice play to
Vaughan onVaughan's firstgoal.
"I like his puck touches and I like
his work ethic and it's just a matter
of him growing along as the sea-
son goes on ... right now, he takes
advantage of his ice time."


Heralded 'M' recruiting class
expected to make big impact

Bernstein, Rossi,
Buzzi and Franks
make Blue's best
class in history
By ALEX STEINHOFF
For the Daily
The Michigan men's tennis
team's 2010 recruiting class is one
of its best in program history. Col-
lectively, the group ranked third
in the country. And having already
recorded eight wins together at
the Cliffs' NCAA Tennis Classic in
late September, the group is look-
ing forward to making an even big-
ger impact when the spring season
kicks off in January.
Because of the team's small size,
the four freshmen have had to step

in and contribute early. Three of the
four could easily see plenty of time
come January, and for this team to
excel, the recruits need to assert
their presence.
"I'm pretty confident and pretty
hopeful," Michigan coach Bruce
Berque said. We have nine players
and four of them are freshmen, so
we're going to need them to have a
pretty big impact. Most of them are
going to have to be contributing in
the line-up in every match we play."
"This is the most mature and
hardest-working class we've ever
had," Berque added.
For Shaun Bernstein and Justin
Rossi, both considered blue-chip
recruits, as well as Alex Buzzi and
Barrett Franks, the superlatives are
unimportant.
"No. 3 in the country doesn't
have too much of an impact on how
we think we're going to do," Bern-

stein said. "For now it's just focus-
ing on improving and hopefully
gearing up and getting ready for the
season."
Coming off a season in which
Michigan fell short in the Big Ten
Tournament and in the NCAA
Regionals, this class hopes to push
Michigan over the hump. Although
it is unknown whether any of these
freshmen will push veterans Evan
King and Jason Jung, these fresh-
men know they will have to work
hard to make a lasting impact on
this team.
At the Cliffs' NCAA Tennis Clas-
sic, Bernstein recorded three wins
in singles, while going 1-1 in doubles
with sophomore Chris Cha. Rossi
also notched two singles victories as
well as one victory in doubles with
fellow freshman Barrett Franks.
"I think we can make big things
happen this year," Rossi said.

GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKE N
Monday 10/25 - Friday 10/29
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
The sitting fee is just $15!
This price includes your portraitfeatured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu
Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
0
@MICHDAILYSPORTS

Michiganensian
YEARBOOK

I


8A - Wednesday, October 27, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

ST '.NNIS
Bolender shows
athletic pedigree
in fall season

By MATT KRASNOFF
Daily Sports Writer
For most parents, sending a
child to college to be a Division-I
athlete is a pretty big deal. But for
Brooke Bolender's parents, it's all .
they know.
Bolender has seen three older
brothers play Division-I football,
so when she decided to take her
talents from Delray Beach, Flor-
ida to Ann Arbor, no one in the
family blinked an eye.
Now, as the fall season nears
its end, Bolender has gone from
naive freshman to seasoned
varsity athlete on the Michigan
women's tennis team. And Michi-
gan coach Ronnie Bernstein isn't
the leastbit surprised.
"She had a lot of experience
coming in," Bernstein said yes-
terday. "So the fall has been a
really good time to see where
she'll fit in on the team."
Playing on a team that gradu-
ated only one senior last year,
the odds were against Bolender
to make a name for herself as a
freshman. But the former blue-
chip recruit made it clear this fall
that she is ready to compete, cul-
minating with her competitive
loss on Monday to Michigan's top
singles player and ITA Midwest

Championship runner-up, senior
Denise Muresan.
This past weekend the Wol-
verines hosted the USTA/ITA
Midwest Championship where
Bolender met Muresan - last
year's Big Ten Player of the Year
and the No. 12 singles player in
the country - in the quarterfi-
nals. The freshman got off to a
quick start, taking the first set
6-1. She then took a 3-0 lead in
the second set, before the vet-
eran Muresan made her come-
back. The senior won nine
consecutive games and 12 of the
final 13, taking the match 1-6,
6-3 and 6-0.
"It's hard playing against your
teammate," Bernstein said. "It
was a difficult situation for both
of them, but I think it was benefi-
cial, too."
Bolender hopes to finish out
a successful fall season so that
she is prepared to help the team
in the spring. Michigan will be
a top-10 team when the regular
season comes around and Bern-
stein insists that the spots in the
starting lineup are up for grabs.
"It's really going to be who-
ever is playing the best," Ber-
nstein said. "We have some
options, but Brooke is definitely
in the mix."

Senior Denise Muresan made it to the finals of the ITA Midwest Championships before being eliminated.

Muresan's run in individual
championship ends in finals

Want a free iPod shuffle?
Fill out the Daily's housing survey
for a chance to win
*off-campus residents only
www.michigandaily.com/housing-survey

By IAN SHEETS chance to serve for the set.,
For the Daily But Muresan faltered and lost
her serve, and Frilling then raced
Michigan women's tennis out to a 5-0 lead in the tiebreak.
senior Denise Muresan's long run With a 5-0 deficit, Muresan
at the USTA/ITA Midwest Cham- couldn't come back and force the
pionships ended in the finals match to a decider.
against No. 8 Kristy Frilling of "Usually I'm in control of the
Notre Dame, 6-2, 7-6 (2). points, and I'musually an aggressive
"I didn't really feel like I played player," Muresan said. "I think that
that well today on the court," she was playing really aggressively.
Muresan said this week. "(Frilling) I was trying to go for too much and
is a really good player, and I need- just missingearly in the point where
ed to play a little differently. And I usually keep the balls in the court
I really wasn't feeling it too much and wait for the right shot."
today especially in the beginning, Muresan defeated players from
but she played really well." Notre Dame and Northwestern on
Muresan found herself behind the way to the finals, she also had
at the start when Frilling took an a close three-set win against a fel-
early break at 3-2 and went on to low Wolverine, freshman Brooke
take the set, 6-2. Bolender, in the quarterfinals. It
A similar situation unfolded in was the only time Muresan lost a
the second set as Muresan went set leading up to the finals.
down 5-2 before clawing back But Muresan has another
to take a 6-5 lead and having a chance to get some big wins com-

ing up. As a result of her semifi-
nal run at the ITA All-American
tournament in California, VIure-
san qualified for the USTA/ITA
National Indoor Intercollegiate
Championships held Nov. 4-7 in
Flushing, N.Y., where she will
compete against the nation's top
collegiate tennis players.
"My game has a lot to do with
the mental side," Muresan said.
"I think that I just need to keep
gaining confidence and keep
believing in myself so that I can
beat these next few top players. I
need to work on a few things like
coming in more and finishing off
the point but I think that a huge
thing for me is just confidence
and the mentality on the court."
Michigan will rely on Muresan at
No.1 singles to help the team a great
deal in the spring season to try and
win back-to-back Big Ten titles.
"She is going to give us a chance

for that point pretty much every
match we play and that's what
you want," Michigan coach Ronni
Bernstein said. "I'm really happy
for her. She's worked hard and
definitely deserves the results
that she has had."
Two other Wolverines, sopho-
more Mimi Nguyen and Bolender,
made it to the quarterfinals of sin-
gles play. In doubles play, the Wol-
verines had two teams advance to
the quarterfinals.
The team will travel to the ASU
Thunderbird, Nov. 5-7, at Arizona
State to end fall play.
"I'm really pleased with how
we performed," Bernstein said.
"We had the best players in our
region at the Varsity Tennis Cen-
ter and for us to have three girls
in the quarters of the singles and
then two doubles teams in the
quarters of the doubles is a really
good showing for our team."


0

0

I


AOL


. 0

86 Wednesday, October 272010/TheStatement

SNYDER
from Page 4B
candidates, Snyder says he tries not
to focus on labels of Democrat and
Republican, but rather on policy.
"I don't use labels," Snyder said.
"I don't think they have any value.
I'm focusing on the issues that really
matter in this election, which by far
is the jobs issue. I've done over 60
town halls, and when you do those,
you find out the top issue by far is
the need for more and better jobs,
followed by the issue of keeping our
young people in our state."
Snyder believes that his non-polit-
ical background is actually an advan-
tage in providing new, innovative
ways of governing. He said he plans
to emulate his business attitude in
governing the state, particularly in
developing systems that yield more
money for the state rather than con-
tributing to the vast deficit.
"We need somebody with a new
approach and attitude, and coming
from the business world there's a lot
of things that have been really suc-
Aessful there that we should be doing
in government," Snyder said. "The
goal of government is not to make a
profit, but I believe the government
should be showing a positive return
on investments from citizens and
society and that's true of a lot of busi-
ness in America."
"We need to show real results to
real people instead of just spending
dioney which is the current prob-
lem," he added.
Snyder looks at his election as a
way to completely reinvent the state
rather than just fix the problems
within it.
"People are fed up with the cur-
rent system, it's a broken model for
our government and people are ready
for a significant change," Snyder said.
"That's why I say fixing Michigan is
not good enough, we need to reinvent
our state."
Charles Bogren, chair of the Uni-
versity's chapter of College Republi-
cans, said he believes that Snyder's
ability to develop policy based on
a business perspective is crucial in
helping transform the state.
"He's not a career politician,"
Bogren said. "He comes from the
private sector, an area where you
have to be much more efficient, much
more up to date, and it's something
"!hat the state of Michigan hasn't had
in a long, long time. It's something
FAN
THE DAILY
ON
FACEBOOK

that we really need very badly."
Bogren said he thinks that Sny-
der's ability to deal with employees
who were not performing well or to
fix failing initiatives translates into
work at the government level and
can be used as an advantage to help
Michigan.
"Someone like Rick who has in the
private sector had to deal with peo-
ple who were underperforming or
simply weren't getting the job done,-
someone who can bring that perspec-
tive in is going to have a much better
chance and opportunity to fix the
system," Bogren said.
As a University alum who has
had a successful career, Bogren said
Snyder serves as a role model for stu-
dents who might be thinking about
leaving the state to look for careers.
"It's great not only for kids who
want to be public servants, but for
kids who want to go into the private

sector, because (Snyder) represents
both of those so admirably," Bogren
said. "He's a completely self-made
man, and the education the Univer-
sity of Michigan gives you is world
class, it's second to none, and I think
that's a great message for the kids
who go to the University of Michigan
right now."
In regards to the notion that Sny-
der has been viewed as moderate in
this election, Bogren said that Sny-
der has clearly supported Republican
viewpoints, but that voters should
focus more on his passion for fixing
the state of Michigan and stimulat-
ing the economy.
"He's stated before that he's pro-
life, he's obviously very pro-business,
he's a good Republican and that's
really all that matters at this point,"
Bogren said. "All that should matter
in this case is that he's what's best
for the state of Michigan."

BERNERO
From Page 5B
fied. The candidate has received sup-
port from a wide-range of groups and
leaders, including the UAW, Gov. Jen-
nifer Granholm and the University's
chapter of College Democrats.
Granholm wrote in an e-mail to The
Michigan Daily that she thinks Ber-
nero is the right man to lead Michigan
going forward.
"Virg Bernero has a Main Street
agenda that is the right agenda for
Michigan," she wrote. "I support him
and remain hopeful that voters will
look at his plan for Michigan before
November 2."
Brendan Campbell, chair of the Uni-
versity's chapter of College Democrats,
said the student organization backs
Bernero as the next governor because
he represents ideals important to stu-

dents.
"We're proud to support Virg
because we recognize he represents
students views," Campbell said. "He
knows that we need to bring back the
Michigan Promise scholarship so that
more Michiganders have access to
higher education."
In fact, Bernero's commitment to
making college a reality for Michigan-
ders strikes a personal nerve for the
candidate.
Though he didn't attend either
university, as the father of both a
Michigan State student and a Univer-
sity of Michigan graduate, Bernero
said he is "always rooting for one or
the other."
As the election's close quickly
approaches, Bernero said the race itself
has been a hectic, exciting ride.
"It's been an incredible adventure,
from a personal perspective for myself
and my family," he said.

Republican gubernatorial candidate tick Snyder speaks at the Ford School
Policy on Sept. 9.

Democratic gubernatorial candidate Virg Bernero speaks at the Ford School of Public
Polcy on Oct. 22.
THE TI"MASM
L)wscLINI
OPEN
HOUSE
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 28
You are cordially invited to attend a Cooley Law School fall open
house at our Ann Arbor campus.Cooley administrators, department
representatives, students, and faculty member will be available to
answer your questions about Cooley Law School, applying to and
attending law school,and entering the'egal'profession.
Learn about Cooley at cooley.edu/annarbor
IT .s!' -e a co i "rmtdMa Ur A, o ct-A fns 5 , Poiy, sicoSa ce imilaa , ,,, .
"vA : ik, a ol,,. , 1 . sbA fx, , a rl ,.ss e ada ,s 21 a , ,wk e at * ,awshols




The Stteen / Wedn esdy Otbe 7,21

statement
Magazine Editor:
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief:
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor:
Jenna Skoller
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor:
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year. To contact The
Statement e-mail calero@michi-
gandaily.com.

THEELECTIONISSUE
random student interview by will grundler

Wednesday October 27,2010 // The Statement
DINGELL, STEELE BRING DIFFERENT LEVELS OF
EXPERIENCE TO 15TH DISTRICT CONGRESSIONAL RACE
BY MICHELE NAROV

elcome to the Random
Student Political Inter-
view, in which we will
gauge whether most students are
liberal or extremely liberal. We're
at the circulation desk in the south
entrance of the Graduate Library.
Please state your name and class
standing for the record.
Nazifa, and I'm a senior.
on which side of the face does Gov-
ernor Granholm have that mole?
Right side.
Correct. And who are the two can-
didates for governor of Michigan?
Um, Idon't know.
Any guess?
I've seen those commercials being
all, like, this guy is evil and laying off
people.
Who are you going to vote for on
Nov. 2?
Is the 2nd a Tuesday? (Checks sched-
ule.) I'm probably not going to vote. I
have class from ten to seven.
Would you say you're pretty lib-
eral?
I'm pretty liberal.
Socially, fiscally, relationship-
wise?
What does that mean? You need to
define that before -
When you see a person wearing a
"Michigan Republican" shirt, do

you give them a disapproving look?
No. They can be Republicans if they
want to be.
At the University of Michigan?
it'd be surprising, but they do have a
table on the Diag.
It's a really small table. I think they
actually have the smallest table.
Anyway, you work here. When I'm
on "Ask a Librarian" is that you?
That's not me. That's one of the second
floor reference librarians who actu-
ally know what they're talking about.
Because I've asked them out on
dates and they always say no. Are
they adults?
They are. They have degrees in library
science.
You're joking. There's no degree in
libraryscience.
Look it up!
Maybe at Michigan State.
I'm pretty sure there's one here.
(Checks online.) it's in the School of
Information.
What a waste of$80,000.Whatkind
of scare tactics would you use to
keep Republicans away from polls?
I don't think I'd use scare tactics.
That's unfair.
What ifyou said -
Like, "If you vote, you'll die?"
No, no, they wouldn't go for that,
but what if you said the Rapture is

happening today, or something like
that?
So they stay home and prepare?
(Laughter.)
Exactly. How long would you keep
Obama in office? Untilhe dies?
I would keep him around until Sarah
Palin, for whatever reason, wasn't eli-
gible to run for office.
Did you see Bill Cosby this weekend
at Rackham?
You mean Bill Clinton?
So you do know a little bit about
politics. How many senators do we
have in Congress?
Well, it's like a 60 person majority, so...
would it be like 110?
Maybe you don't. Do we let people
from the U.P.vote?
Yeah.
But should we let them vote?
Because they're close to Canada? Is
that the argument?
That's one of the arguments.
I mean, if you let people from the
South vote, why not the U.P.?
Well, that's a whole other issue,
what with the Civil War and all.
Who did you vote for in the MSA
elections?
I didn't vote in the MSA elections.
Do you vote in any elections?
I voted in the presidential election.
But the president is asking you to

vote in this election, so he can get
re-elected.
That's true. Honestly, if my Tuesday
wasn't 10-7 class, I'd be more likely to
vote.
I actually wrote in Albus Dumb-
ledore for the last MSA elections.
Seriously?
Yes. Should we consider socialism
as a system of government?
It works for the UK.
What about in America? Don't you
want free tuition?
I don't see many problems with the
socialist system.
You get a free pass from the gov-
ernment, basically, I think.
Well, even communism isn't that bad
of a system when you look at it in its
ideal form -
Woah, woah. You're on record here.
Lastquestion: Sum upyourpolitical
philosophyinthreeto1Owords.The
three words can't be, "I don't care."
I like Obama. Sarah Palin frightens
me. I'm going to come off like a total
moron in this interview.
That's allright. Most people do, but
nobodyreads it.
Does it ever get frustrating, writing
for a publication that nobody reads?
This interview is over.
- Nazifa is an LSA senior.

ith 55 years in office, Rep-
resentative John Ding-
ell is the longest serving
member of Congress. His opponent
in Michigan's 15th district, however,
is quite the opposite, having never
before run for office.
But despite his inexperience as a
politician, Republican Rob Steele, a
cardiologist, emphasizes his role as
a community member and career
man as attributes that will aid him
in office,
Steele varies greatly from Dingell
in his opinions on political over-reg-
ulation. Steele says that government
interference has lead to less action
in several areas and that his lack of
knowledge about Washington will
serve as a strength rather than a det-
riment.
While Dingell defends Medicare,
Steele calls the Medicare system
"broken" and believes that the new
government health care system will
only create more red tape problems
for citizens, according to his cam-
paign website.
Elizabeth Barrett, communica-
tions director for Dingell's cam-
paign, wrote in an e-mail to The
Michigan Daily that Dingell whole-
heartedly supports these systems.
She wrote that Dingell hopes not
only to protect Medicare for citi-

zens, but also to continue to work
for better health care within the
parameters of the new government
plan.
"He will be a watchdog for health
care reform to protect the patients'
bill of rights, which he authored,"
she wrote. "And he will work to
make sure it is effectively imple-
mented for a solid, lasting and help-
ful reform."
Steele and Dingell also differ on
their education reform objectives.
The former feels that government
funding is not the problem with edu-
cation and instead points to proper
schooling as the larger issue.
Dingell, on the other hand, hopes
to fight for more government funds
to make higher education more
available.
"He will protect the Direct Loan
and the Pell Grant Award Programs
for Michigan higher education so
that more young people have access
to higher education to keep the great
minds of the future here in the Unit-
ed States," Barrett told the Daily.
According to his campaign site,
Steele believes Dingell has not
done enough to protect the district
against unemployment problems
plaguing the state, but Barrett wrote
that Dingell aims to continue to
focus on this issue in the future.

"He knows the job situation is dif-
ficult for young people right now,"
she wrote. "That is why he is work-
ing with new industries to bring jobs
back to Michigan.
Steele cites fair taxes and govern-
ment accountability as other impor-
tant issues, writing on his website
that government spending in Wash-
ington is out of control and must be
curbed.

n Dingell (right), candidates for U.S. Representa
In an October -5, interview with
The Michigan Daily, Steele said he
feels his opponent is too consumed
with larger government interven-
tion.
"(Dingell has) been in the posi-
tion where he thinks every solution
starts and ends in Washington D.C.,
and that's just not the case," Steele
said.
Because of the vast differences

tive for Michigan's 15th Congressional district
between the candidates, Barrett
urged students to become informed
and vote. She wrote that Dingell
feels it is important for students to
be involved in the election.
"He wants to make sure students
are aware and vote on Tuesday," she
wrote. "As he says, our young people
are only a quarter of our popula-
tion, but they are 100 percent of our
future."

PROPOSAL 2: PROHIBIT FELONS FROM H OLDING ELECTIVE OFFICE
BY CLAIRE GOSCICKI

BREW YOUR.
OWN BEER?
Want to know if it's any good?
Enter it into the Daily's
second annual
Home Brew Competition.
E-MAIL CALERO@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
FOR MORE INFORMATION

One of two statewide proposals
on the upcoming November
ballot, Proposal 10-2 is reconsider-
ing the state's current criteria for
who can and cannot run for elect-
ed office or work in certain public
positions.,
If approved, the proposal would
amend the state's constitution by
prohibiting people from holding
future elected, appointed or public
employment if they have committed
a crime in the preceding 20 years.
The crime has to have involved dis-
honesty, deceit, fraud or a breach of
public trust related to that person's

official capacity in an elected or
governmental position.
The new legislation comes after
Michigan government officials
Kwame Kilpatrick and Monica
Conyers, among others, received
criminal charges in recent years for
felonies committed while serving
the city of Detroit.
State Senator Tupac Hunter (D-
Detroit), in an interview with The
Associated Press, said the proposal
is about "sending an anti-corrup-
tion message to officeholders and
policymakers statewide."
In a Sept. 23 press release issued

by his office, Hunter - who spon-
sored the proposal when it was in
development in the Senate - said
the proposal will give voters the
chance to "clean up government."
"Proposal 10-2 will give voters
the chance to...say, once and for all,
that they will not tolerate politi-
cians who use their office or their
jobs at the expense of the people
they serve," Hunter said in the
release.
Senator Mark Jansen (R-Grand
Rapids) has also voiced his support
for the proposal, calling to attention
the importance of integrity in pub-

lie officials:
"Integrity is of the utmost impor-
tance for our public officials who
have the responsibility to impact
public policy or spend taxpayer dol-
lars," he said in the Sept. 23 press
release.
Vincent Hutchings, a professor
in the University's political sci-
ence department and a research
professor at the Institute for Social
Research, said he doubts there are
a large number of voters who are
particularly interested in the issue
at hand.
"It seems to me that there's a con-

cern out there that the people who
are currently in office are engaged
in corrupt actions," he said, "...not
that people who are guilty will get
into office."
Hutchings, who has studied vot-
ing issues, added that the general
public is probably mostly unedu-
cated about the proposal.
"People aren't combing the
Internet to find out what sort of ini-
tiatives are on the ballot," he said.
"They're concerned about far more
weighty matters."
The proposal, if approved, will
take effect on Dec. 18.

BREW YOUR OWN BEER?
Want to know if it's any good? Enter it into the Daily's second annual Home Brew Competition.
E-MAIL CALERO@MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR MORE INFORMATION.


6BWednesday, October 27-2010 // The Statement
CANDIDATES FOR THE 18TH DISTRICT SENATE SEAT
FOCUS ON THE STATE'S ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
BY RACHEL BRUSSTAR

0

0

7 Wedesda, Ocober27,. 010s/o Th Staemen

news in review

Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance

s the general election for the
18th District state Senate seat
approaches, Democratic can-
didate Rebekah Warren and Repub-
lican candidate John Hochstetler
appear to agree on one primary issue
- the need to revitalize Michigan's
economy. They just have different
ideas on how to go about doing so.
Throughout the campaign period,
Warren - who currently represents
the city of Ann Arbor as the state
tnpresentative for the 53rd House
District - has focused on environ-
mental issues, while Hochstetler has
pushed to expand localized agricul-
ture in Michigan to boost the state's
economy.
As a candidate for the state Senate,
Warren continues to emphasize the
issues she advocates for in Lansing,
like legislation to facilitate the cre-
ation of new jobs in Michigan. She
stressed that of all the issues her cam-
paign focuses on, economic develop-
ment and job creation are at the top
of her list.
"I am dedicated to investing in
education and job training programs,
expanding the Venture Michigan
Fund to give technology start-ups
access to capital and closing outdated
corporate tax loopholes that have
only benefited a small group of spe-
cial interests," she said.

Warren served as chair of the
House Great Lakes and Environ-
ment Committee, through which she
Norked to protect Michigan's natural
resources.
"I am proud of my work to pass the
Great Lakes Compact, which protects
the Great Lakes Basin's water sup-
ply," she said. "I also look forward to
continuing to work toward the pres-
ervation of our farmland and green
spaces and the elimination of invasive
species like Asian carp."
Warren has held various other
positions within the state House
since 2007, as co-chair of the Legisla-
tive Biotechnology Caucus, member
of the Subcommittee on Biosciences
Industry Development and co-chair
of the Mental Health Caucus.
Michael Traugott, professor of
communication studies and politi-
cal science at the University, said fie
thinks Warren has a "considerable
advantage" in the election because of
this experience in the House.
Hochstetler, a resident of Man-
chester, Mich., wants to focus on
restoring the business climate of
Michigan by supporting local agri-
culture and other small business in
the state.
if elected to the state Senate, Hoch-
stetler said he hopes to generate jobs
in farming, shipping, distribution and

A story about Democratic Rep. Billionaire George Soros donated $1
Gene Taylor of Mississippi went vi- million to the campaign to legalize
ral this week after he told the Biloxi, marijuana one week before citizens
Miss. Sun Herald that he voted for voted on a Calif. ballot measure
GOP candidate John McCain over that would allow anyone 21 or
Democrat candidate Barack Obama older to grow and possess up to an
in the 2008 presidential election. ounce of marijuana.

A**
Senate Republican nominee and for- A crowd of 14,000 at a sold out
mer CEO of Hewlett-Packard Carly Women's Conference booed
Fiorina will not be able to take part in California Republican gubernatorial
her final week of campaigning. She candidate Meg Whitman after she
was hospitalized yesterday because verbally attacked her Democratic
of an infection from reconstructive opponent and refused to take down
breast surgery she had last summer. her negative television ads.

A volunteer for Kentucky Republi-
can Rand Paul's Senate campaign
stepped on a liberal activist's head
outside a debate in Lexington. The
volunteer was dismissed and Paul's
campaign fired its Bourbon County
campaign coordinator.

LEFT: FILE PHOTO/Daily RIGHT: CoURTESY OF THE HOCHSTETLER CAMPAIGN
Democrat Rebekah Warren (left) and Republican John Hochstetler (right), candidates for the 18th District state Senate seat.

inspection by creating start-up pro-
grams. In particular, he emphasized
the importance of buying food locally
from farmers for the benefits to the
state's overall economic situation.
The 10 Percent Washtenaw cam-
paign - an initiative working to
expand the business of local agri-
culture within the county - has
been one of Hochstetler's priorities
throughout his campaign.
In response to Washtenaw county
residents spending upwards of $1 bil-
lion on groceries each year, the cam-
paign aims for the county to locally

produce 10 percent of all of the food
consumed here, creating a business
that would generate $100 million
each year and create 1,500 jobs for
Michigan residents to grow, process
and deliver the food, Hochstetler
explained.
"Agriculture in America is shut-
ting down," he said.
By purchasing foods at a local
level, Hochstetler argues, consumers
would stimulate the state's economy
while reaping the health benefits of
foods that are naturally produced.
The national initiative to phase out

genetically modified foods, which
would ostensibly help the campaign
for localizing food production, has
already started in some grocery
stores, including Wal-Mart.
This could be a major flip in the
economy, Hochstetler said. Part of
ensuring this progress will be edu-
cating the public and showing people
what is really going on in the industry
of food production, which, he said,
operates under a veil of secrecy.
Hochstetler also advocates for tax
reform and a lower level of regulation
of businesses throughout the state.

PROPOSAL 1: CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION TO DRAFT REVISION OF STATE CONSTITUTION
BY JOSEPH LICHTERMAN

0 1 11 11" 1 21 1 1 :1 i4 56781
quotes of the we keon the cheap
"Do you want a senator that strikes a pose, or do you want a campaigning on a budget
senator that's a certified public accountant, to preserve the
bottom line and protect the American Dream for the future?"
JOE DIOGUARDI, New York Republican candidate for Senate, during a debate
with his opponent Democrat Kristen Gillibrand about her recent spread in
Vogue magazine.
"We're just a bunch ofwusses."
ED RENDELL, Democratic governor of Pennsylvania, about how his political
party should stand by the issues it supports.
"He could take his endorsement and really shove it, as far as
I'm concerned."
PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY KATIE EBERTS
FRANK CAPRIO, Rhode Island Democratic candidate for governor, after
President Barack Obama did not endorse him. ith elections finally here, it's more important than ever to show your support
V to help your candidate of choice pull out a last-minute win. But it's not always
necessary to break your budget doing it.
the rules One of the most expensive ways to show your support for a candidate is to buy
apparel from their campaign. But there are other ways to wear your support without
spending so much money. Try making your own T-shirt. Ask a bunch of friends and/
No. 278: No. 279: No. 280: or fellow supporters to put in a large order of apparel at a local printing shop so you
t's alright liberals, Yes, we've already Vote. (Or at least can get a bulk discount. Or, if you don't have friends to order with, just take a plain T-shirt and
It'sairlht es, e've(Orat last paint your candidate's name on it.
we know you're registered. Stop say that you did.) Also, if you want to raise awareness for your candidate, you don't need to have a professional
voting for Snyder. asking. sign made. Instead, make a creative and colorful sign with items you already have around the
house, like an old sheet or a piece of poster board you used for a project. You can also make use of
social networking sites like Facebook and Twitter to get the word out without spending a dime.
Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know E-mail onthecheap@umich.edu.
by the numbers COURTESY OF BBC.COM
The number in billions of dollars that the House The percentage of Republicans who say The percentage increase of funds that Congres-
and Senate candidates have nearly spent cam- they are more excited about this midterm sional candidates for the House are spendingecom-
paigning for this election. election than they have been in the past. pared with the 2008 race.

L ansing Mayor Virg Bernero, the
Democratic candidate for gover-
nor, and Republican nominee Rick
Snyder agree on very little. Howev-
er, they are unified in their opposi-
tion to Proposal 1.
Prop. 1 is a constitutionally man-
dated measure that appears on the
ballot every 16 years and requires
Michigan voters to decide whether
or not to convene a constitutional
convention to rewrite the state's
constitution.
This will be the third time since
the state's constitution was rewrit-
ten in 1962 that a proposal for a
ConCon has appeared on the ballot.
The two previous proposals were
handily voted down in 1978 and
1994.
All indications show that this
year will be no different.
According to an article in the
Detroit News, a poll conducted
earlier this month by Mitchell

Research and Communications
revealed that 44 percent of Michi-
gan voters oppose a constitutional
convention, while 25 percent sup-
port it. Thirty-one percent of voters
were undecided.
In an interview with the Daily,
Communications Prof. Michael
Traugott said the proposal will
likely not pass.
"My suspicion is that this is an
issue that involves a lot of inertia
and the public will probably con-
clude that the risks (of having acon-
stitutional convention) outweigh
the probable benefits, and therefore
it will fail again," Traugott said.
Bernero said he opposes Prop.
1 for financial reasons. Estimates
show that the ConCon could cost
the state $45 million and Bernero
said the state simply can't afford
that at this time.
"Writing a whole new constitu-
tion diverts state leaders' attention

from what should be every leaders'
top concern right now - creating
jobs," Bernero wrote in an e-mail
to the Daily. "Also, a constitutional
convention could cost tens of mil-
lions of dollars, money the state
doesn't have right now."
Snyder, meanwhile, said he
believes the ConCon would cause
special interest groups to bring up
controversial issues that would
divide the state at a time when the
state should focus its attention on
things like the economy and job
creation.
"The reality is that special inter-
ests from across the country would
flood into Michigan and turn the
whole convention into a circus at a
time when our state, both elected
officials and citizens, need to be
focused on the immediate eco-
nomic and government fiscal crisis
before us," Snyder said on his cam-
paign website.

on the other hand, Traugott
said, ConCon supporters argue that
a constitutional convention would
allow the state to address issues
with the legislature, the state bud-
get and the economy.
"The people who support this
argue, primarily, that the current
constitution is outdated," Traugott
said. "We need to have a general
revision to update the constitution
to be able to deal with contempo-
rary economic issues in particular."
Democratic Gov. Jennifer Gran-
holm is one of the main proponents
of the ConCon.
Graham Davis, a spokesman for
Gov. Granholm, said in a telephone
interview that Granholm supports
Prop. 1 because she believes the
current constitution is outdated.
"Gov. Granholm is supportive
of Proposal 1 because she believes
the state of Michigan is very dif-
ferent than it was in 1961 and we

need a foundational document that
reflects the 21st century," Davis
said. "Having a constitutional con-
vention would set the stage for
a streamlined government that
moves Michigan forward in a com-
prehensive way."
If the measure passes, another
election will beheld within the next
six months to elect 148 delegates
to the ConCon. One delegate from
each state House and Senate dis-
trict would be elected. Then, after
the new document is drafted by the
convention, another statewide vote
would be held to ratify the new con-
stitution.
Ultimately, nobody knows how
long the process of rewriting the
constitution would actually take.
In 1962, the process took seven
months, but according to The
Detroit News, some estimate it
could take over a year to complete,
and ratify, a new constitution.




0

.0

4B The Statement // Wednesday October 27, 2010

Wednesday, October 27, 2010/ The Statement B

On a snowy evening last January, Rick and Sue Snyder bun-
dled up in their warmest winter attire and headed to downtown
Ann Arbor for a long-awaited romantic evening. As they began
eating and talking about the events of the week, Sue suddenly
proposed that Rick run for governor of Michigan.
The University alum and businessman took a second to rumi-
nate on the thought mid-bite before making the decision that he
was going to become a contender in the 2010 gubernatorial race.

"All of a sudden (Sue) said we
need to talk," Snyder said in a recent
interview with The Michigan Daily.
"Then she brought up the idea, say-
ing she could see I was going crazy
about how the state was going and
she thought I was the best person
to change it, and that we should talk
about me running for governor as a
family."
The Snyder family spent the
remainder of January discussing
the implications of Rick's campaign
before the Snyders decided that it
"was the best thing to do for the
state." Together they believed thathis
lack of experience in the political field
would actually prove to be beneficial
in starting a campaign for governor
of a state that has been struggling for
many years.
"I got involved and went after it
because I don't believe career politi-
cians were the right answer and we

needed to have an outsider come in
and bring new, fresh ideas," Snyder
said.
According to his campaign web-
site, the self-proclaimed "nerd"
began reading magazines like For-
tune and Business Week before age
10 and even placed investments in
the stock market as a teenager. He
graduated from high school a semes-
ter early and then attended the Uni-
versity, where he graduated at age 23
with undergraduate, MBA and JD
degrees.
Since graduating from the Uni-
versity, Snyder has worked at for
various companies including the
computer company, Gateway, where
he served as president and chief oper-
ating officer. He later became the
first chairman of the Michigan Eco-
nomic Development Corporation in
1999, and also launched the economic
development program Ann Arbor

SPARK and HandyLab - a company
that specializes in creating technol-
ogy that detects diseases.
"What inspired me to run ... it's
an opportunity to come in and hope-
fully be a catalyst to get Michigan on
a positive path, by bringing in some
real world common sense solutions,"
Snyder said.
These common sense solutions, as
Snyder says, are the foundation for
his 10-point plan for the state, which
includes initiatives like creating an
environment for job creation and
preventing the "brain drain"- the
mass exodus of students from col-
leges and universities in search of
more economically flourishing areas
to embark upon careers and start a
family.
To achieve this goal, Snyder wants
to reduce taxes for small businesses
because he says the "current tax
environment is a job killer, not a job
creation model."
"The comeback in Michigan is
not going to be a few big out-of-state
companies," Snyder said. "It's going
to be Michiganders creating and
growing small businesses."
He hopes that by establishing a
stronger job market in Michigan, stu-
dents will be more willing to stay and
serve the state. He said a pivotal part
of this is lowering the tuition of uni-
versities to provide more opportuni-
ties for students to attend college.
"I can remember how much I paid

for my first semester at Michigan and
it would surprise you," Snyder said.
"You could actually work your way
through school and pay for it, like I
did. That's not possible today very
easily."
The Snyder family has played a
critical role in supporting Rick and
helping him during his run for gover-
nor. Since his wife proposed the idea
that spurred the campaign, she and
their three children have helped gar-
ner support for him within Michigan
communities and at various political
events.
"They've all been great about com-
ing to events and helping out, they're
excited," Snyder said.
Inspired to improve the lives of his
children, Snyder hopes to improve
the state of education in Michigan,
from early childhood education to
higher education. He refers to higher
education as "one of the gems of our
state" and says that we need to focus
on improving the system to increase
the quality of education, rather than
spending vast amounts of money..
"We need tobe much more focused
on the system that's much more
about getting outcomes and results
and actually educating the kids, ver-
sus just spending lots of money," Sny-
der said.
While many Michigan citizens
have viewed Snyder's campaign as
more moderate than past Republican
See SNYDER, Page 8B

HOMETOWN:
Battle Creek, Mich.
ALMA MATER:
University of Michigan
CURRENT OCCUPATION:
CEO of Ardesta LLC
ENDORSMENTS:
League of Conservation
Voters
* Bill Ford, Jr.
* Business Leaders for
Michigan
* Michigan Chamber of
Commerce
* The Detroit News and
Detroit Free Press
SOURCE: RICK SNYDER CAMPAIGN

As mayor of Lansing, Bernero takes
pride in his accomplishments while
in office, like not raising taxes while
maintaining his campaign promises
of increased public safety and youth
services.
Though Bernero says he appreci-
ates how far Lansing has come as a
city, he said he thinks he would be
able to spark positive influence on a
much larger scale - across the state -
if he were elected governor.
"I feel as mayor a little bit like the
guy in the engine room of a big ship,"
he said. "No matter how much fuel
I put on the fire, I can't control the
effect so much which direction the
ship is going.
"I just think if I could get up on the
deck and get my hands on the wheel I
could do more to really turn the whole
state around," he added.
As part of his campaign platform,
Bernero wants focus on making uni-
versities in the state more affordable.

Lansing Mayor Virg Bernero - Democratic candidate for
governor - has been involved in politics since high school.
At that time, he helped campaign for his aunt to win her
incumbent position as county commissioner. And his per-
sonal political career soon followed, first as a state repre-
sentative for two years, then a position as state senator and
finally taking the reigns in Lansing.

"I intend to bring back the Michi-
gan Promise," he said. "It will not be
easy. But it is a priority."
With this in mind, Bernero empha-
sized the role students could play in
the outcome of this election. Student
votes could impact the outcome of an
election with many student concerns
at the heart of it, he said.
"well, what's at stake is the kind of
Michigan that they want to grow up in
and graduate into," he said. "Do they
want a Michigan of opportunity for
everyone, an opportunity for folks on
Main Street, or a Michigan of oppor-
tunity for only people at the top?"
Bernero, like his opponent Repub-
lican Rick Snyder, thinks one of the
key aspects of maintaining this level
of opportunity is to reduce Michi-
gan's brain drain - the phenomenon
of students leaving the state after they
graduate from higher education insti-
tutions to seek better opportunities
elsewhere.

However, Bernero says, keeping
college graduates in Michigan goes
beyond creating economic opportuni-
ties because graduates are often look-
ing to go to, as he puts it, "cool cities."
"It starts with economic oppor-
tunity, but some people, even if they
had a job offer here [and] a job offer
in Chicago, they would take Chicago
because of the city that it is," he said.
Because of this desire to develop
more interesting destinations after
graduation, one of Bernero's goals
is to focus on making Michigan cit-
ies more attractive to graduates and
young adults.
"Our cities need to be the hub of the
wheel instead of the hole in the donut,
I know what that means, that's more
than a slogan," he said.
With all of these goals, Bernero
said he recognizes the- difficult road
that lays ahead if he wins the elec-
tion. But he is eager to tackle those
difficult tasks.
"I'd love to have the opportunity to
lead," he said. "If I get this job, it'll be
a big challenge. I like a big challenge."
But before he gets there, Bernero
has a big fight ahead. Recent polls
show him trailing Snyder by a signifi-
cant margin. The fact that he is clearly
behind hasn't defeated the current
mayor though.
"I'm going to work damn hard until
the minute the polls close, until 8
p.m.," he said.
Moreover, Bernero said he refuses

to throw in the towel because elec-
tions are historically volatile.
"Elections have turned very quickly
in other races," he said. "It's still any-
body's game as far as I'm concerned."
Despite his convictionthathe could
still pull out a win, Bernero said if he
is unsuccessful, he would definitely
return to his position as mayor of Lan-
sing. On the question of whether or not
he would consider running for gover-
nor again if he loses, he answered that
it is "impossible to say."
Brenda Lawrence, Bernero's run-
ning mate and current mayor of
Southfield, said she thinks Bernero is
the ideal candidate for governor, even
more so because of the challenge that
running Michigan in its current state
will bring.
She said Bernero's vast experience
would help him succeed in office, par-
ticularly during these tough economic
times.
"When you're ina crisis, and Mich-
igan is truly in a crisis, you don't put
someone in that position who does
not have experience," Lawrence said.
"Experience does matter."
Lawrence added that Bernero's
"driven" personality would help him
propel the state in the right direc-
tion. She said he is the type of person
who doesn't simply talk abouttaking
action, but actually does it.
His running mate is not the only
person who thinks Bernero is quali-
See BERNERO, Page 88

4.- .
HOMETOWN:
Pontiac, Mich.
ALMA MATER:
Adrian College
CURRENT OCCUPATION:
Mayor of Lansing, Mich.
ENDORSMENTS:
* United Auto Workers
" AFL-CIO
" Michigan Governor Jen-
nifer Granholm
m American Federation of
Teachers Michigan
* Ann Arbor Mayor John
Heiftje and Detroit Mayor
Dave Bing
SOURCE:VIRG BERNERO CAMPAIGN


