College Democrats and
Wolverines for Rick Snyder each '
~ D ELNG IE POITSmake acase for why you should
DU~lNG IEW OIN S ****"''r** o'sou' The Daily's basketball beat gives
gubernatorialpredictions for the 2010-2
candidate when you go to cast eason and breaks down the Big
your vote today. Ten competition
PAGE 4A NSIDE

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, November 2, 2010

michigandaily.com

ELECTION DAY 2010
A MAP TO CAMPUS VOTING

On election eve,
College Dems,
GOP rally to
get out the vote

E HURON ST.
WAR 2 COUZENS
MOsHER-
MICHIGANfl VPALMER : m
LEAGOJ COMMONS

a

0

z
ZC

N. UNIVERSITY AVE. STOCKWELL
z THE
Aqc MAC
MICHIGAN DIAG
UNION
SWEST L S.UNIVERSITY AVE. -v
QUAT

LUW

Candidates from
both parties discuss
Value of student vote
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
In anticipation of today's mid-
term elections, both the University's
chapters of College Democrats and
College Republicans took part in
political rallies yesterday featuring
last minute words from candidates
highlighting their visions for the
state and encouraging students to
turn out at the polls.
The University's chapter of Col-
lege Democrats hosted an "Election
Eve Rally" at the Michigan Union

starting at 11 p.m. last night, which
included music and speeches from
candidates and their supporters.
Earlier in the evening, members
of College Republicans rallied at a
local Fix Michigan Center, which
is a state-wide organization that
promotes Republican ideologies
and has campaigned for Republican
support in the midterm election.
Republican gubernatorial candidate
Rick Snyder spoke at the College
Republicans event.
The College Democrats rally
featured talks from State Repre-
sentative Rebekah Warren (D-Ann
Arbor), who is currently running
for state Senate, Democratic candi-
date for Secretary of State Jocelyn
Benson and Debbie Dingell, politi-
See VOTE, Page 6A

w
Q
U-M
CO I5EL M

SOUTH


9 rN ANGELL 9
SCHOOL
a'ce

This Election Day, many local poling
locations have moved. In the map on
the left, yoa can find nhere yoa're
supposed to vote based on where you
live. Locate your residence on the map
and see what color your wardis Then
find the pollingplace of the same
color. That's where you vote.
First though, remember that voters in the
state of Michigan are required to present
valid photo identification at the polls
on Election Day in order to vote. Mcards
count asa valid form of photolD at
pollinglocations. Also the pollsopenat7
a.m.and close at 8 p.m. Voice Your Vote
says there are two key things to remem-
ber on Election Day. First, give yourself
time in casethere arelonglines. And,
second, don't let anyone tell you that
you cannot vote.
In Ward1 (again look at the map and see
whereyoulivetofigureoutwhich ward
and precinctyou're in), Precinct 7 voters
should goto PierpontCommons- not
Bursley Hall. Ward2,Precinct2vot-
ers should go to Palmer Commonsnot
Markley Hall. Voters in Precincts1 and 2
in Ward 3should head to the Michigan
League. Those votersused to go to East
Quad. In Ward 4, Precinct1, voters
shold goto the Michigan Onion - they
used to vote in South Quad.
Northwood Community Center is still the
polling locationfor Ward 2, Precinct1.
Also, Ward1, Precinctsland 2remain in
the Michigan Union and Ward 4, Precinct
3 polling is still at the Coliseum at the cor-
ner of Fifth Ave.and Hill Street.
GRAT HCB YSARAHSQUIRE

ROSS EAST .=
scsoot OI^0
HILL-ST.
OAKLANDAVE. 0

F
tn
z
Q
vi

MARY STOf
POLLING
YOST ICE '
ARENA us

-I
.1Q

WELLS ST.

 WARD 1-3 WAR YD 1-4 WACRND 3-3
COMMUNIT Y H.S. L COMMUNIT Y CENT ER ~ TAPPAN MIDDLE SCHOOL
401 N. DIVISION 62S N. MAlN ST. 2251 E. STADIUM BLVD.
WARD 4-4 Fl1WARD 5-1
PIONEER H.S. ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
60 W. STADtUMBLVD. 343S. FIFTH AVE.


Ombuds talks concerns
over grievance process

When to cut off? Area bars
navigate rules on their own

Michael Welsh to
SACUA: Some
faculty allege
unfair treatment
By CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter
University Faculty Ombuds
Michael Welsh, who's also a biol-
ogy professor, discussed concerns
about the faculty arbitration pro-
cess in a speech to members of the
Senate Advisory Committee for
University Affairs yesterday.
Welsh addressed the issues he
has often seen as the University
faculty ombuds - an intermediate

who deals with members of fac-
ulty who file grievances against
their peers and the administra-
tion - at yesterday's SACUA meet-
ing.
Though Welsh told the leading
faculty governing body that the
majority of incidents he sees are
unique, he has dealt with many
complaints from faculty who
alleged that they did not receive
fair treatment from the Univer-
sity when they were faced with an
accusation. Faculty complained
they were not privy to the nature
of the accusations made against
them or to the identity of the
accuser, Welsh said.
Welsh added that he recogniz-
es the need to protect the safety
of the accuser but that the current

process may be too biased against
the accused.
"I can understand the need for
(confidentiality) in that there is a
concern for retribution, but who
are you going to go overboard in
protecting?" Welsh asked. "The
person who comes up with the
accusation? Yeah, I think you
need to protect those people, but
some people will use that protec-
tion and that shield to unjustly
accuse someone."
Ed Rothman, SACUA chair
and professor of statistics, said he
brought Welsh before the assem-
blybecause he wants the commit-
tee to play a more active role in
faculty grievances. He added that
if common issues were identi-
See SACUA, Page 3A

Unclear state laws
give little guidance'
on how to deal with
intoxicated patrons
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
It's not uncommon at 1:30 a.m.
on a Saturday morning to find bar-
tenders at South University estab-
lishments politely telling certain
patrons it would be best if they
didn't take that next shot.
Though bartenders are mandated
by Michigan state law to "cut off"
these excessively drunk customers,
owners and managers of South Uni-
versity bars say they largely navi-
gate the enforcement guidelines

themselves.
Every bar and restaurant with
a liquor license is regulated by the
Michigan Liquor Control Commis-
sion. However, the commission has
no defined guidelines detailing how
bar owners and managers should
enforce liquor provisions.
Shannon Bush, Liquor Control
Commission district supervisor for
Lansing, said a commission data-
base tracks the certification of bar-
tenders and bar managers within
the state. Bush said at least one cer-
tified staff member must be in the
bar at all times, but heor she can be
certified by several different state-
approved programs.
One state-approved program is
Techniques for Alcohol Manage-
ment. David Puck, education coor-
dinatorat TAM, said thecurriculum
focuses on the clinical effects of

alcohol. Classes are taught in a
classroom, and certification must be
renewed every three years. While
there is no state-mandated cur-
riculum that teaches alcohol safety
and use, Puck said TAM teaches its
students how to enforce Michigan
state law.
"There really isn't a law that says
how to do it," Pucksaid.
Brad Wilson, the bar manager at
BTBCantina -theonly18and older
bar on South University Avenue -
said he is TAM certified. Accord-
ing to Wilson, BTB serves about
150 patrons on a busy night and the
staff cuts off alcohol service to about
a dozen of those patrons for being
intoxicated. Cuttingoff patrons is a
"touchy process,"Wilson said.
"It's my discretion," Wilson said.
"They kind of put it on my shoul-
See BARS, Page 6A


Boosting cognitive function could
be as easy as chatting with a friend

Link found between
social interaction,
cognitive tasks
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
Daily StaffReporter
Increasing cognitive function
could be as easy as chatting with
a friend, according to a University
study released last week.
The study, led by psychologist
Oscar Ybarra, a researcher at the
University's Institute for Social
Research, measured 192 under-
graduates' performance on cog-
nitive tasks following 10-minute
conversations with one another.
The tasks measured mental pro-
cessing speeds, general knowledge
or executive functioning in the
brain.

Ybarra and his colleagues found
that friendly conversation boosted
memory, self-awareness and the
ability to suppress external and
internal distractions - essential
problem-solving skills.
The study also found that stu-
dents who conversed in a com-
petitive tone did not benefit
cognitively.
"We believe that performance
boosts come about because some
social interactions induce people
to try to read others' minds and
take their perspectives on things,"
Ybarra wrote in a University press
release.
In an interview, Ybarra said the
goal of the study was to show a
casual link between social interac-
tions and cognitive function.
"Much of the prior research is
survey-based and correlational, so
part of my motivation was to show,

with experiments, that there's a
causal influence which runs from
the social act or social connec-
tions to cognitive functioning," he
explained.
He added that he was surprised
to find that just a short period of
interaction can result in improved
mental functioning, and he plans
to continue exploring the rela-
tionship between socializing and
cognitive function, specifically
focusing on whether social inter-
actions can bring back lost cogni-
tive skills.
"One direction (for future
study) is to examine how social
connections can serve as a restor-
ative device ... such as looking at
the potential for social interactions
and social connections to help you
focus and maybe help restore cog-
nitive functioning," he said.
See STUDY, Page 6A

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Business sophornore Sam Magidsohn (left) and LSA sophomore Mitch Garnett raise a banner for the UM vs. OSU Blood
Battle outside the Michigan Union yesterday.


-------------- -.-- - -- ---

WEATHER HI:52
TOMORROW O 40

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ONMICHIGANDAILY.COM
Will Grundler talks dumb Facebook people.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE PODIUM

INDEX NEWS... . . . 2A SPORTS...........................7A
Vol CXXI,No.39 OPINION ............................ 4A ARTS.. . . ..t...... 8A
200 The Michigan Daily CLASSIFIEDS...................... 6A TIPOFF.. . .. ...........1B
michiueedaile.oee


S

2A - Tuesday, November 2, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

Tri'ck-or-treating at the President's House

Almost everyone can rememher dress-
ing up and going out to trick-or-treat as a
child, traveling from door to door, asking
those in their neighhorhood for the per-
feet remedy to their craving for candy.
For some University students that
Halloween tradition offered the oppor-
tunity get some face time with Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman and
prove a campus myth true in the process.
The myth that Coleman welcomes
trick-or-treaters who stop hy on Oct. 31
to the University's President's House at
815 South University Ave. is quite liter-
ally true. Coleman's front door actually
sits open on Halloween, while the porch
light horns brightly to let students know
she's home and handing out candy.
And Coleman continued the tradition
Sunday night. Sitting in her first floor
living room and doing work on her W~ad
on Halloween, Coleman jumped up as a
group of students walked up to the front
door, and welcomed the students inside.
The students, four LSA sophomores,

came in full costume. Coleman was via- 1 X . tI U.

ibly pleased to see the students dressed
up and noted that many visitors came in
costume.
"People are doing very inventive cos-
tumes," Coleman told The Michigan
Daily at the President's House on Sunday.
"One guy who did a lot with aluminum
foil. And then we had some witches and
we had Justin Bieber."
And after pointing out that she wasn't
wearing a costume, Coleman proudly
talked about her two grandchildren
dressing up for Halloween - one as Buzz
Lightyear from the movie "Toy Story"
and the other as a kitten.
Coleman also told the Daily that there
have been a fair number of trick-or-treat-
ers who have come "dressed as Michigan
students," though she's happily given
them treats too.
Motioning to a tray of candy in the
foyer of her home, Coleman proudly
pointed out that the treats include apples
that were grown in Michigan - saying

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
University President Mary Sue Coleman meets, treats and treats students an Halloween.
they were the most popular treat - rai- day, adding she planned to leave her door
sins and an assortment of candy bars like open until about 9 p.m. "I've had proba-
Three Musketeers and Krackle bars. bly 30 or 40, maybe SO (trick-or-treaters)
"I've had lots of people so far," Cole- stop by."
man said at approximately 7 p.m. on Sun- -KYLESWANSON

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIIEJOZWIAK
Editsr is Chief easiness Manager
734-418-4110 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 eat 1241
smilaniee@miehigandaity.eem emdbuiseaass aiteeom
CONTACT INFORMATION
NewsomOofie houris:Sn-Thurs.11lass. - 2 am.
734-418-415 o p.3
News Tips neeo@emichigandaityaae,
torrectioss oarections@nmichigandaity.cem
Letersltolte Editor tothedaity@eihigandaity.aae,
Photography Department yhoto@mikhigandaity.eae,
Arts Section artspage@nmichigandaiy.aae,
Editorial Page opinion@emichigandaiy.coe
Spurts Section ayaortsichigandaityaaom
Display Sates disytay@emichigandaiy.om
tlassified Sates classifedgemiciandaiy.coe,
Online Sales aetineads@emichigandaiy.ome
Finance finance@emichigandaity.aae,
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattlAaronson Managing Editoe aaraoongeicigandaity.oo
Jllian Berman ManaeingoesEditoe ysnman@emichigandaiy.om
SENIORNEW EDITnORSieAbe, tphaetiber,sKyle Ssone, shwar
rhirunvuekkar,eon horsby
ASSISsTANTsaWS EDITOR5~S: ehan Biw, Dylan Cio nti, insons, Lindsay
Krae,oepehLihte,eoneica Msnsldi, E5nasnigs
Rachel Van Gilder EditorialtPageEditoe naneitder@esichieandaity.aae,
SENIOREDTORIALPAGEsEDnOS:mihllesWi,nsilyOe, Laura neih
Ryan Kantie ManagiongSoets Editor sarsje@,eichieandaity.tan,
SEOStO TS E DInTeORS : Mark Burs, Michael Floe,Chantela Jein,im ha,
Nicka, oe aetono
ASSISTnANSPORSnEDITORS e stees,Sephen Nesbit, LuePasch, Zk Pyik, Amy
Jamieloack MasseioeAesEditor bock@esichiodaiy.com
SENRAToSaEn DInORS: oln stsrski, dew LapiJeff a for d
ASSISTAsNTASETRS:noessy AhLehBrgin Sho Jaobs,Rai Sekhas
Maxstollins and photo@micigandaity.coes
SamWalSen Managing hotonEditors
stSEOOTOEDITnOR eail Bod, MasaMcnlain
ASSISTnANPOO EDITORS:akeeFrom,Jed Moh
Anna Lein-bielinski and desise@,ichigandaiy.eaen
Sarah Squire Manain esinEaditoes
Tesantalen0 agazoineaEditoe caaero@michiaailyeen,
MelanieFried and eayydesk@michinaity.eenn
AdiWallslein Copy Chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
luliannatnrim Sales Manaee
SALSOREoe MAAER:Stephanie ase
MARKsoNGa M ANAGER: ona s aj
Hillary Szawala Classified Mnagser
JasnMahakiannerodution Meaner
Meghan Raoney Layout Managee
Nick MeshkinFinance Masnager
thrissy WinklernCirculation Manaer
Zach Yancen WebPnoecttCoordieator
ThesMicigan DiOSISs ona5-s67) is publsd Modaysthrough Fidasduringthefall aed
wnter termshbystuentsateUniersityttfhichigan.One op is aailale freesof hare tall
reades. Additional tepiesmay be piied up at the Dail'sfie for$2. Subsriptinsteortall 5e,
stating in Seateeber, vaaU.S.nail ae $1110. Wite teml(Jnuarythrugh April) is51115.seariong
(Septemberthrough April)lis$195.Uiersit affliatsarsbct toareducedsbsriptinrate.
On -taepessubscriptions fortfall tem ae$35.Subscriptions east besprepaid. The Michgan DOil
is ameberofTnhe AssociatedPress and Thessocated CllegietPrss.

0
1
1

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVTENTS & NOTES

Bag bagged
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 2:30
p.m.
WHAT: A bag was reported
stolen on the second floor of
the graduate library when a
student left it unattended for
five to ten minutes, University
Police reported.
_Pot holder caught
green-handed
WHERE: Vera Baits I, Smith
House
WHEN: Sunday at about 9:30
p.m.
WHAT: A subject was found
in possession of marijuana
after he was reported by hous-
ingastaff, University Police
reported. The subject is still
under investigation.

Suspect read
rights in library
WHERE: Undergraduate Sha-
piro Library
WHEN: Yesterday at about
3:30 a.m.
WHAT: A female suspect was
arrested and taken to jail for
an outstanding warrant for
trespassing, University Police
reported. The subject was
reported by library staff.
Drunk duo cited
WHERE: Vera Baits I, Hub-
bard House
WHEN: Yesterday at about
12:40 a.m.
WHAT: Two male minors
in possession of alcohol were
found in a dorm room and
arrested on site and given
citations, University Police
reported.

Cognitive
workshop
WHAT: A seminar about dis-
torted patterns of thinking
will be held, entitled "Stink-
in' Thinkin."' The workshop,
which is for students only
will explore strategies for
cognitive restructuring.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today at 1 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union, Room 3100
Meditation
workshop
WHAT: Student sessions
designed to teach funda-
mental mental skills that
may reduce daily stresses
and overcome obstacles.
Introductory yoga and
meditation will be taught.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today at 12:15 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union

Health lecture
WHAT: A lecture on how
social networks can affect
various health practices will
be conducted by Damon Ceo-
tola of MIT's Sloan School.
WHO: Center for the Study
of Complex Systems
WHEN: Today at 12 p.m.
WHERE: West
Hall, Room 340
Film screening
WHAT: A documentary
will be screened about the
2004 assassination of Cam-
bodian union leader Chea
Vichea and controversy
surrounding the event.
WHO: Epidemiology
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandailycom.

1Actor Zach Galifinakis
stunned fellow guests
when he lit up a marijuana
joint on HBO's "Real Time
with Bill Maher," The Huff-
ington Post reported. Galifi-
nakis' stunt occured during a
live panelist discussion about
Proposition 19.
2Michigan's men basket-
ball season begins this
Friday in an exhibition
against Saginaw Valley State
University.
>> FOR MORESEE TIPOFFINSIDE
3 Astruggling mother who
wrote to President Obama
about her difficulties
received a handwritten note of
encouragement, the New York
Post reported. The woman
was then able to sell the auto-
graphed note for $7,000, aiding
her financial recovery.

MORE ONLINEL
Lone Crime Notes? Get more oyline at ichigadaily~com/blago/The Wire


Dreams. Realities.
PLEASE JOIN US FOR CITI'S INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS
GROUP PRESENTATION
DATE: TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2,2010
TIME: 6:00PM - 7:30PM
LOCATION: ROSS SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
COLLOQUIUM, 6TH FLOOR
. .. .. .. .. .. .SPEAKER: STEVE WAGMANe MANAGING DIRECTOR,
CAPITAL MARKETS ORIGINATION
BUSINESSES IN ATTENDANCE:
-S CAPITAL MARKETS ORIGINATION
- GLOBAL TRANSACTION SERVICES
- INVESTMENT BANKING
*SALES, TRADING & QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS
TARGET AUDIENCE:
FRESHMAN, SOPHMORE & JUNIORS
Citi never sleeps&
C tIb
4 /

i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 2, 2010 - 3A

NEWSBRIEFS
COLUMVBUIS, Ohmo
Teen's family killed
during Halloween,
found morning after
A 16-year-old boy thought he
stumbled onto a Halloween prank
when he found the bloodied bodies
of his brother, mother, and stepfa-
ther in his family's home in Martin
in northwest Ohio, authorities said
yesterday.
His stepbrother, who authorities
say has a history of mental health
problems, was arrested in the slay-
ings.
Devon Griffin had spent the
night out and returned home Sun-
day to change his clothes before
church, authorities said. After
returning from church, he dis-
covered the bodies of his brother,
Derek Griffin, 23; their mother,
Susan Liske; and her husband, Wil-
liam Liske.
The teenager told authorities it
looked like a joke from a Halloween
party, Ottawa County Sheriff Bob
Bratton said.
But he soon realized the bodies
weren't decorations. He ran out-
side and called an aunt, who called
911.
"My nephew came home and
there's blood everywhere," Grif-
fin's aunt told a dispatcher on the
911 call.
BERLIN, Germany
Germany suspends
flights from Yemen
due to terror threats
Germany's aviation authority
says the country has extended its
ban on cargo aircraft from Yemen
to include passenger flights amid
the current terrorist threat.
One of the bombs that was
mailed from Yemen and found by
authorities was routed to London
through the UPS hub in Cologne.
German aviation agency spokes-
woman Cornelia Cramer said yes-
terday that passenger flights from
Yemen were being suspended until
further notice.
Yemenia spokesman Eugene
Lopez says the airline flies Tues-
days and Saturdays from San'a to
Frankfurt.
Germany stopped package deliv-
pries from Yemen over the week-
end.
WASHINGTON
U.S. seeks common
ground with China
amid disagreement
The Obama administration
aces a sea of obstacles, setbacks
and conflicts with China as Sec-
retary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton heads to the emerging
global powerhouse Saturday for
talks.
The two countries, with a long
history of mutual antagonism, are
at odds over many big issues: from
currency and trade policy to the
U.S. naval dominance of the Asia-
Pacific region, from U.S. arms
sales to Taiwan to China's human

rights record and its territorial
disputes in the South China Sea.
But the Obama administration
says it has not given up on build-
ing stronger bonds with Beijing,
one of the world's fastest growing
economic and military powers.
In a speech in Honolulu Thurs-
day, Clinton talked tough, lump-
ing China with North Korea and
Myanmar as sources of concern
about "deep-seyted challenges"
facing the Asia-Pacific region.
DETROIT
Halloween weekend
fires hit three-year
high at total of 169'
Detroit's fire department
responded to 169 blazes over the
Halloween weekend, a jump from
last year but nowhere near the
number that hit the city during
the notorious Devil's Night two
decades ago, city officials said
Monday.
The fires, most of which hit
Vacant houses or buildings, were
reported from Friday through
Sunday, Fire Commissioner
James Mack said. The number
compares to 119 fires reported in
2009, and 136 two years ago.
The city promotes volun-
teer neighborhood patrols each
Htalloween, dubbing the effort
Angel's Night, to prevent a repeat
of the so-called Devil's Night in
1984, when more than 800 fires
were started in Detroit during the
Halloween period.
Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

U.S. teams to aid anti-terror push in Yemen

White House weighs
response to terrorist
mail bomb plot
WASHINGTON (AP) - Teams
of U.S. anti-terrorism and secu-
rity experts headed for Yemen
to help search for suspects in the
mail bomb plot and to train cargo
screeners at the San'a airport.
A U.S. Transportation Security
Administration unit will provide
new screening equipment and
assist with cargo leaving Yemen,
TSA administrator John Pistole
said yesterday.
The White House's top coun-
terterrorism official, John Bren-
nan, is holding daily meetings
via secure video teleconferences
with the agencies involved in the
investigation. Brennan has kept
President Barack Obama updated
round the clock, but the White
House said no changes are being
made to the president's upcoming
to-day trip to Asia as a result of
the terror threat.
As investigative teams search
for clues, the national security
focus is also moving to how to
strike back at the al-Qaida off-
shoot suspected of shipping
explosive-laden cargo to the U.S.
The Yemen-based al-Qaida in
the Arabian Peninsula has been
linked to the bomb plot because
of its signature use of the explo-
sive PETN, which figured in last
Christmas Day's bombing attempt
of a Detroit-bound airliner. U.S.

authorities also had intelligence
that Yemeni al-Qaida was plan-
ning this operation, according to a
U.S. official who spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity to discuss mat-
ters of intelligence.
Brennan assured Yemen's pres-
ident over the weekend that his
country has the lead in respond-
ing to the terrorists, according to
a top Yemeni official. The brief
phone conversation between
Brennan and Yemeni President
Ali Abdullah Saleh Saturday. The
Yemeni official spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity to discuss high-
level conversations between the
U.S. and Yemen that have taken
place since the bombs, hidden in
packed computer printers, were
found Friday on planes.
The new incident presents an
opportunity for the White House
to persuade Yemen to widen its
war on terror by allowing the
Americans a more active role.
Yemen's government has
worked closely with U.S. coun-
terterrorist advisers from mili-
tary special operations units,'and
Yemen's president acknowledged
Saturday that his government is
working with the CIA, according
to a translation of his remarks by
Yemen's embassy in Washington.
But Saleh has been reluctant
to allow expanded use of armed
drones or regular raids by U.S.
special operations units on Yeme-
ni soil, for fear of being accused of
beinglabeled an American stooge,
by the militants or his own people..
The mail bomb plot could pres-

RICHARD DREW/AP

Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh talks during a press conference on Saturday in San'a, Yemen.

sure him to reconsider, according
to Chris Boucek, a Yemen expert
with the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace.
"The next attack, if something
actually blows up, the U.S. won't
be able to be so restrained," he
said.
The danger, Boucek added, is
that the U.S. might overreact and
push Yemen to accept participa-
tion so overt that it undercuts
Yemen's perceived legitimacy.

The Obama administra-
tion launched a clandestine
war against Yemen's al-Qaida
branch just months after Presi-
dent Barack Obama took office,
and stepped up the tempo in the
aftermath of the Christmas attack
and AQAP's growing role in other
plots against the U.S. That war
has been waged mostly in secret,
at the demand of Saleh's govern-
ment.
Yemeni government minis-

ters did, however, acknowledge
publicly that the U.S. carried out
cruise missile strikes last Decem-
ber against al-Qaida targets.
And while Yemeni officials
have complained bitterly about
collateral damage from some of
the attacks, U.S. administration
officials insist the Yemeni gov-
ernment signs off on those mis-
sions at the highest level, as part
of combined counterterrorist
operations.

Today's election could see shift in political balance

GOP looks to
reclaim critical
seats in Congress
WASHINGTON (AP) - How
early will America know if it's a
Republican romp or if Democrats
somehow minimized their dam-
age? There should be plenty of
clues Tuesdayevening - and long
before bedtime. Final results in
some states might not be known
for days. But trends could be evi-
dent from the Midwest and South
- especially from Indiana, Ken-
tucky and West Virginia - even
before most of the nation has fin-
ished dinner.
Six states have polls that close
at 7 p.m. EDT, and 16 more close
by 8 p.m., featuring plenty of tell-
ing races in the East and Mid-
west. First up:Indiana, Kentucky,
South Carolina, Georgia, Virginia
and Vermont, offering the first
hard evidence of just how big a
night it's going to be for Republi-
cans.
Not even their mothers expect
the Democrats to gain ground. It's
just a question of whether they
fall back or over a cliff.
If the GOP can unseat Demo-
cratic Rep. Baron Hill in Indiana's
always-hard-fought 9th con-
gressional district, for example,
that's a good sign for the expect-
ed Republican takeover of the
House. And if they can capture all
SACUA
From Page 1A
fied across several cases, SACUA
could help construct rules for
dealing with the specific prob-
lems to eliminate doubts over
proper procedure.
Rothman said another issue
he often encounters concerns the
similar language used to describe
faculty titles across different
schools. The common underly-
ing language leads some faculty
members to believe they have
certain rights that are not spe-
cific to their departmental role,
Rothman said.
Robert Frost, SACUA member
and associate professor of infor-
mation studies, said experts of
the arbitration process ought to
be brought in to SACUA meet-
ings to further define the rules of
grievance policies.
WHITMAN TALKS
DISCRIMINATION
HARASSMENT POLICY
At the meeting, Vice Provost
Christina Whitman and Associ-
ate Vice Provost Anthony Wales-
by later discussed changes to
the University's discrimination
harassment policy standard prac-
tice guide.
Walesby said the revised poli-
cy features language taken from
both the sexual harassment poli-
cy and the previous interim poli-
cy, adding that all changes follow
discrimination policies outlined
by federal law. These changes, he
said, were approved by the Uni-
versity Board of Regents.

three seats they've got an eye on
in Indiana, that could well signal
a GOP hurricane.
On the other hand, if Demo-
crats hold their ground in Indi-
ana, and if their Kentucky Senate
candidate, Jack Conway, can beat
back Republican Rand Paul, it
could be an early indication that
GOP gains won't challenge the
record books and that the tea
party is serving weak brew.
A few tips on what to watch as
the returns roll in Tuesday night
(all times are EDT):
HOUSE
Expectations are high that
Republicans will pick up at least
the 40 seats they need to retake
control of the House after four
years of Democratic rule. That
should start in the Midwest.
In Ohio, where polls close at
7:30 p.m., six Democratic-held
seats are in jeopardy. In Penn-
sylvania and Illinois, where polls
close at 8 p.m., 10 more are at
risk.
If Midwestern incumbents
such Joe Donnelly in Indiana
and John Boccieri in Ohio fall,
Republicans are probably head-
ed for huge gains nationwide.
Measure Democratic resilience
if the party manages to hold on
to a pair of imperiled Georgia
seats, and if Rep. John Spratt can
win a new term in South Caro-
lina.
Worth watching in Florida
(an 8 p.m. poll close): a rematch
Whitman said the Univer-
sity previously relied on its 1992
interim policy to address issues
of discrimination harassment.
For procedural questions, inter-
ested parties were referred to the
more specific sexual harassment
policy, he said.
Walesby said that under the
current practice guide, the Uni-
versity approaches a person
immediately after an accusation
is made against them to keep
both parties updated throughout
the investigation process.
Biology Prof. John Lehman,
who is also a member of SACUA,
said he was concerned about the
due process system in place at
the University, which leaves the
accuser unaware of the potential
consequences of a guilty verdict
until later in the investigation
process.
SACUA Vice Chair Gina Poe
echoed Lehman's sentiments,
suggesting that the accused per-
son be made aware of all of the
consequences initially.
Following federal regulations,
the standard practice guides pro-
hibits discrimination based on
height, weight, color, age and sex.
Poe raised a suggestion first put
forth by one of her students, pro-
posing that the categories all be
encompassed under the heading
of all physical characteristics.
Rothman said he was also con-
cerned that the existing catego-
ries are not defined, so that they
do not specify an age or height
range.
"The clarity issue I think is
really a challenge in figuring out
what the class is that's defined by
this," Rothman said.

between Democratic Rep. Ron
Klein and Republican Allen West.
A loser two years ago, West rides
anti-incumbent sentiment and is
easily outspending his opponent.
Even if Republicans demon-
strate early strength Tuesday
night, it will take time for them to
lock in enough districts to ensure
a GOP majority. That's because
the West Coast states of Cali-
fornia, Washington and Oregon
are home to 67 House districts.
In 2006, it was 1 a.m. before it
became clear that control of the
House had passed from Republi-
cans to Democrats

SENATE
It would take a true blowout
for Republicans to pick up the 10
Senate seats they need for control.
The first should be an easy one,
in Indiana. But if Paul can't keep
Kentucky in the GOP column, it
would be a sign of strength for
Democrats and a symbolic set-
back for the tea party activists.
Republicans should have an
easy time holding onto one of
their own vacant seats in Ohio,
where former Republican Rep.
Rob Portman is favored. But keep
an eye on West Virginia, another
7:30 poll close state, where Dem-

ocratic Gov. Joe Manchin and
Republican millionaire industri-
alist John Raese are tussling over
the seat long held by the late Dem-
ocrat Robert Byrd.-A Republican
victory there could keep alive
GOP hopes of a majority.
Three-term Sen. Blanche Lin-
coln could be the first Senate
Democratic incumbent to fall,
when polls close in Arkansas at
8:30 p.m.
Polls close atlop.m. inthe most
closely watched race of the night:
Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid's battle in Nevada against tea
party favorite Sharron Angle.

IL~etoil 201.0
FOR AT TORNEY GENERAL
Tough. Fair. Independent.
DAVID LEYTON is the
only prosecutor running for
Attorney General. He has
tried 20,000 cases as Genesee
County Prosecutor with a 95%
conviction rate.
Leyton has a 5-point plan
to reform Michigan's
government and make it work
for the people, not powerful
special interests like big
insurance companies.
As Attorney General, Leyton
will cut politicians' pay
and end their free, taxpayer-
funded lifetime health
benefits. He will cut his own
pay by 10% and refuse to
accept outrageous lifetime
health benefits.
Learn more at DavidLeyton.com!
Endorsed by former Attorney General Frank Kelley,
the Detroit Free Press, the Lansing State Journal,
the Kalamazoo Gazette and many others.
Paid for by Dr. Benjamin and Estelle Kaufman


4A - Tuesday, November 2, 2010

C fiic ioan a
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ELAINE MORTON

PAST
'/Vo gf~Y
WEUWLL
O
2

PKESENT
lbI only
PTre yoe
7-

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINEAT EM0RTOIUMICH.EDU.
L ET YOUR VOICE 13 E ARD

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A cheat sheet for voters
The Daily's guide for voters heading to the polls
n 2008, then-Sen. Barack Obama mobilized the youth vote to
win the presidency. It was a glamorous election. This elec-
tion cycle, without such a charismatic figure up for election,
student enthusiasm is down. But these elections are no less impor-
tant. At the federal level, Democrats face pressure from Republi-
cans to maintain their control of Congress. And Michigan voters
will elect a new governor who they hope will pull the state out
of its economic slump. Today, you have the opportunity to decide
who will lead your government. So head to the polls. And keep
these things in mind when you're filling out your ballot.


A policy deal for Snyder

*j

The race for the Michigan governor's
office has been long - and dominated by
Republican Rick Snyder. But despite his
popularity, Snyder's plan to reform taxes
won't help to balance the budget. Democrat
Virg Bernero has the executive experience
as mayor of Lansing to bring jobs to Michi-
gan and manage the state's troubled budget.
Vote VIRG BERNERO for governor.
You can't argue with 55 years of experi-
ence. As the U.S. representative from the
15th District, JOHN DINGELL brings a
wealth of knowledge about D.C. politics and
the ability to maneuver legislation through
Congress. Once again, he is right for the job.
In the race for the 18th District state Sen-
ate seat, Republican John Hochstetler's
lack of progressive enthusiasm and inter-
est in tax abatement isn't going to get him
the needed support to take the vacant
seat. His Democratic opponent and cur-
rent state House representative from the
53th District, REBEKAH WARREN, has
experience and a background focused on
pushing for progressive social change like
a woman's right to choose to have a child,
sEgom cgl,lreArgb,,nd marriage equality
for everyone.
Vying for Warren's recently-vacated seat
in the 53rd District in the state House, the
experience that Democratic candidate Jeff
Irwin boasts far surpasses his Republican
opponent, Chase Ingersoll. JEFF IRWIN
missed the 53rd District debate against his
opponent, but his stances on social issues
and experience as a member of the Washt-
enaw County Board of Commissions will
benefit area residents.
Though incumbent Republicans Andrea
Fischer Newman and Andrew Richner
are experienced members of the Univer-
sity Board of Regents, new opinions are.
needed. Democratic challengers PAUL
BROWN and GREG STEPHENS will
fight against tuition increases and bring

new voices to a board disconnected from
students' needs.
Independent challenger Steve Bean,
who is running for Ann Arbor mayor, has
ideas to educate about green policies. But
he doesn't have a wide understanding of
how to keep young professionals within
city borders. Mayor John Hieftje's last 10
years in office have proven him worthy of
re-election. His dedication to making Ann
Arbor environmentally friendly has gotten
the city government to run on 20 percent
renewable energy. Because of his desire to
create a vibrant city culture and expand
green initiatives, you should vote JOHN
HIEFTJE for mayor.
Ann Arbor residents should vote for
TONY DEREZINSKI for Ward 2 and
CARSTEN HOHNKE for Ward 5 of the
Ann Arbor City Council. Incumbent Der-
ezinski is one of the most knowledgeable
members on the council. He has unique
plans on how to manage the budget and
is dedicated to continuing to increase the
number of miles of bike lanes in the city.
Also an incumbent, Hohnke's personal
businesses,,afford him the experience to
adequately manage the budget. He has
also expanded recycling projects around
the city.
Vote YES on PROPOSAL 1 to update
the Michigan constitution. The passage
of this proposal would allow voters the
option to call for a constitutional conven-
tion. While holding a constitutional con-
vention is expensive, removal of particular
amendments could grant more civil liber-
ties for Michigan citizens, especially mem-
bers of the LGBT community.
Vote NO on PROPOSAL 2, a policy that
would prevent people who have been con-
victed of violating public trust from being
allowed to hold public office. Voters should
have the prerogative to decide whom they
deem suitable for elected positions.

ick Snyder, we need to talk.
First, congratulations on
winning the Michigan gov-
ernorship. Yes,
I know the polls
don't close until
8 p.m., but face it:
You're going to
win - by a lot. of
course, it helps that
between the prima-
ries and the general
election that you'veL
only had opponents PATRICK
who are crazy, OMAHEN
incompetent or
both. Still though,
it's not every day
you become governor.
But seriously, Mr. Snyder, we need
to talk policy. In 2011, you need to
introduce a new business tax - specif-
ically a tax on carbon emissions. Com-
prehensive federal legislation to fight
global warming is bogged down, thus
we need to start at the state level to
reducegreenhouse gas emissions now.
Yes, I get it - you are a Republican.
Yes, I know you think taxes are stran-
gling businesses. Yes, I know you prob-
ably think reviving the economy comes
before protecting the environment. But
hear me out - I havea deal for you.
You're a University graduate and
hopefully you're smart enough and
have enough intellectual honesty
to understand that global warming
is real and will have horrific conse-
quences for the planet. But, you want
to cut business taxes.
I'm a Ph.D. student - I know
enough economics to understand
that taxes and unnecessary regula-
tions drag down economic growth
and entrepreneurs. But I want a car-
bon tax. Here's my proposal: Let's do
both. Institute a carbon tax and use
its revenues to reduce taxes on busi-
nesses and individuals.
This isn't a crazy idea, Infact, it,
makes alot of sense.
Taxes provide a disincentive to do

something by raising an activity's
costs. Levies on businesses reduce
the profits of entrepreneurship and
decrease economic activity. In gen-
eral, moderate (or sometimes even
high) levels of taxes on businesses,
consumption and individuals are rea-
sonable because they help the gov-
ernment provide public goods. Public
goods are positive things like infra-
structure, public security and educa-
tion that simple market interactions
do a poor job providing. They also
often help economic development
more than the taxes depress it.
Ideally, however, we wouldn't tax
"good" things like economic activ-
ity. We need to start directly taxing
destructive things, like smoking,
water pollution or carbon emissions.
This strategy accomplishes three
things. First, it provides the govern-
ment with the necessary revenue
to provide public goods. Second, it
keeps the burden off of entrepreneurs
who drive economic growth. Finally,
taxing harmful activities reduces
their occurrence and therefore, their
harm to society.
Take cigarettes, for example. In
1970, according to the Centers for
Disease Control, the average national
excise tax on cigarettes was $1.08
(adjusted to reflect the dollar's current
value). By 2009, the average tax had
more than doubled to $2.19. During
that time the adult smoking rate in the
United States decreased from 37.4 per-
cent to 20.6 percent, according to the
CDC. Though there were other factors
as well, cigarette taxes have brought
in billions in revenue while reducing
the economically harmful activity of
smoking, which causes vast increases
in health care costs and a loss of eco-
nomic productivity.
A tax on carbon consumption
would do the same thing. It would
nudge businesses and individuals to
reduce their use of carbon-intensive
fossil fuels by making those fuels
more costly and it would promote

cleaner policies. It would also provide
the state the necessaryrevenue topro-
mote economic development. Finally,
we could use the revenue from a car-
bon tax to cut taxes on businesses.
Michigan's next
gov. should rethink
carbon policy.
And this isn't pie-in-the-sky eco-
nomic theory - we have a case study
thatshowsthis canwork. In2008, the
Canadian province of British Colum-
bia began to phase in a $30-per-ton
tax on carbon emissions targeted at
carbon-intensive fossil fuels. As the
tax has been ramped up over the past
two years, the province has taken in
$860 million from the carbon tax. All
of that revenue has been refunded
to taxpayers in rate cuts, including
a 20-percent cut in the tax rate for
small corporate businesses in addi-
tion to cuts in personal income tax
rates. The carbon tax encourages
organizations to re-evaluate alter-
native energies and invest in energy
efficiency projects - like the Uni-
versity of British Columbia, which
is investing $43 million in projects
that will drastically curtail its energy
use. Additionally, all this has hap-
pened without noticeable effects to
the province's unemployment rate in
comparison to the rest of Canada.
So how about it, Mr. Snyder? Take
the burden off of innovative busi-
nesses and taxpayers, safeguard state
revenues and strike a blow against
global warming. That sounds like a
legacy any governor would want to
leave his state.
- Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

i
I

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for
clarity, length and factual accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
YONAH LIEBERMAN
Each and every vote counts

ONE CAMPAIGN I
Join the ONE movement

Halloween is an exciting time at the Univer-
sity. With crazy parties and students dressed
in costumes, campus is electrified for about
five days each October. But while everyone was
heading out to Salvation Army to put the last
touches on their costumes, we couldn't help
but think about what's really scary this Hal-
loween season: the reality that more than 1.4
billion people are living in poverty worldwide.
Today, living in poverty means living on less
than $1.25 per day, which is the cost of a small
coffee at Espresso Royale. Not scared yet?
Then maybe this will scare you: Every day,
more than 1,000 babies are born with HIV and
more than half will die before their second
birthday. What's even worse is that there is a
way to stop transmission of HIV from mother
to child, and we simply aren't doing enough.
Antiretroviral treatment for HIV/AIDS is
inexpensive (about $0.40 per day, actually)
and if administered correctly before birth and
during breastfeeding, the risk of transmission
from mother to child is as low as 2 percent. And
this is a decrease from 35 percent from just a
few years ago. With the science and technology
in place, all we need to build is the political will
to provide access to these life-saving medica-
tions to those who need it most.
Have you ever purchased a shirt from GAP
that says INSPI(RED)? or bought a coffee at
Starbucks with your (RED) giftcard? These pur-
chases support Product (RED) - anorganization
that raises awareness and funds for the Global
Fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
The Global Fund is one of our most powerful
tools. In less than a decade, it has saved 5.7 mil-
lion lives by providing AIDS treatment for 2.8
million people, tuberculosis treatment for 7 mil-
lion people and 122 million bednets to protect
families from malaria. The successes are abun-
dant. We know the solution. It is working. And
this is where college students come in.
As leaders of ONE - a poverty-fighting
grassroots advocacy organization on cam-
pus - we work to educate University students
about the hardships of extreme poverty. More
importantly, though, we provide students with
the opportunity to help. Our job as members of
the organization is to pressure local, national
and international institutions to join this fight.

This fall, instead of hitting up numerous resi-
dence hall pregames and fraternity houses, we
will be hitting up the residents of Ann Arbor to
talk about our role in ensuring that no child is
born with HIV by 2015. You will have seen us
as the only students dressed up as "education"
or "HIV/AIDS" on Halloween.
Instead of asking for candy at residents'
doorsteps, we will have a different request:
Help Ann Arbor become the first city in Mich-
igan to become a "City of ONE." As a City of
ONE, Ann Arbor, along with the support of our
city council and mayor, will lobby members
of the U.S. Congress and the state and federal
administration to create the change we need.
We will become a leading district of ONE's
membership (currently over 2.7 million Ameri-
cans), giving us more legitimacy and backing in
Congress. As we educate Ann Arbor residents
and University students about our cause and
their ability to affect real change, we will gath-
er signatures on a letter to Ann Arbor Mayor
John Hieftje. ONE members will present this
information to the Ann Arbor City Council on
Thursday evening to begin the process of offi-
cially proclaiming us a City of ONE.
The University has been a leader in ONE's
movement since its introduction to campus in
2008. Last year, we gathered thousands of let-
ters and petitions and made phone calls to our
senators. In response, U.S. Senator Carl Levin
signed on to the International Affairs Budget
Request, citing the pressure from University
students as his motive. Our chapter beat over
2,000 schools across the country to be named
the number one poverty-fighting school in
America based on our advocacy and education
efforts. We must continue our tradition as the
leaders in the fight against global poverty by
doing our part this season.
Please take a few minutes in between cos-
tume changes to think about what is really
scary about the world today. Don't let the
daunting and horrific numbers get you down,
though. We have the ability to end extreme
poverty and disease. All we need is your voice.
Go to www.one.org for more information.
Stephanie Parrish is the founder of ONE
Campaign at the University of Michigan.

I can still feel the energy that penetrated every corner
of our country during the 2008 presidential election. It
was a story filled with drama, celebrities, political ads,
millions of doors knocked on and thousands of volunteers.
Unlike "The Sopranos," we all know how the story ended
- then-Sen. Barack Obama, winning 365 votes from the
Electoral College, almost 67 million votes and 53 percent
of the popular vote to become our nation's 44th president.
There were record numbers of college students
involved in that election: both volunteering or simply vot-
ing. Many would argue that we were a large part of the
reason that Senator Obama became President Obama.
I wasn't in Ann Arbor in 2008. I was still in Washing-
ton, D.C., a senior in high school during that historic time.
I cannot claim to be part of the college campus movement,
but I was still a student. Along with dozens of friends
from my school, I spent weekend after weekend leading
up to election day going to Virginia to talk to voters. And
so, in some way, I can connect to the many stories I have
heard from upperclassmen about those months.
Election day is today. In these midterm elections, we
have a chance to have our voices heard once again.
But this year, there's as little hype on campus for the
election as there was for the fourth "Shrek" movies. This
all leads me to ask a question to students: Where is the
energy?
This election day is important. Today voters across the
country will re-elect or replace their House representa-
tive. Voters in 36 states will do the same for one of their
senators and 37 states, including Michigan, will choose
new governors.
But we can't forget that Michigan also has other state-
wide races going on: secretary of state, attorney general,
Supreme Court justices, every state House and many state
Senate positions, ballot proposals, mayors, county com-
missioners, school district positions and state education
positions that will all be decided by your vote.
Your vote today is important. Do not let anyone tell
you that "One vote doesn't matter." That is completely,
patently false. In the 2000 presidential election, Florida's
voters chose George W. Bush by 500 votes, giving him the
state and propelling him over the 270 Electoral College
votes needed. On a state level in 2008, Al Franken won
his U.S. Senate seat by only 318 votes. This past summer,

Yousef Rabhi won the Democratic primary election for
11th District Washtenaw County Board of Commissioners
by one vote - 998 to 997. Elections, especially local ones,
are decided by a tiny percentage of the electorate.
Additionally, the offices you are filling with your vote
are important for two reasons. The first is practical: The
decisions made by these men and women will directly
affect you, your friends and your families. Will we have a
congressman that supports the recent health care reform
bill or one that wants to repeal it? Will we have a secre-
tary of state who will improve access to voting or one that
will use their energy to fight against election deception
and fraud? Your vote can decide the answer to those ques-
tions and many more.
The second reason is more ideological. The vast major-
ity of people in the United States, myself included, believe
in democracy as a theory and an ideal. We cry out against
brutal dictatorships across the world, which prevent their
citizens from the same rights we have. And yet, over 50
percent of us nationwide forget the reason why we have
this democratic political system in the first place: democ-
racy inherently gives every citizen a way to be heard in
our society. If we hold these beliefs and make these claims
about the power of democracy and don't participate in our
own democratic government, then we are a nation of hyp-
ocrites, fighting for free elections all over the world and
then not participating in our own back home. We are a
nation of whiners, perpetually complaining about current
conditions and the state of our lives, but making no move
to change them.
ButI believe we are also a nation of doers, taking action
when it's deemed necessary. We are a nation of concerned
individuals, speaking out about things that will affect
both us and the generations to come. I believe in a nation
where people participate because they know it is their
right to be heard. I believe in the nation where we allvote.
Today, from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., go vote. Go to mgovote.
umich.edu to find your polling location. Bring your Mcard
(or some other form of ID) and your friends. To paraphrase
Gandhi, vote for the change you wish to see in the world.
Yonah Lieberman is a member of Voice Your Vote, a
nonpartisan Michigan Student Assembly commission
dedicated to voter registration and education.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Laura Veith

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 2, 2010 - 5A

COLLEGE DEMOCRATS

ELECTION 2010
THE RACE FOR GOVERNOR

WOLVERINES FOR RICK SNYDER I

Virg can revitalize Michigan

Rick is the right choice

Democratic gubernatorial candidate Virg Bernero
has consistently demonstrated his support for the
interests of Michigan's young people. With a wife
who serves as an elementary school principal and
two daughters who attend public universities, the
challenges of underfunded public schools and rising
tuition costs directly impact his everyday life. This
elevated consciousness of the condition of our state's
educational system has become the foundation of his
campaign platform.
"Education is economic development," Bernero
likes to remind his audiences as he travels around the
state. Such a seemingly simple observation embodies
a much deeper and highly crucial understanding of
the need to improve Michigan's educational oppor-
tunities. By adopting this phrase as his campaign slo-
gan, Bernero is simultaneously making a promise to
students that he will invest in education.
Bernero realizes that Michigan's educational
system has the potential not only to improve the
futures of the young people who participate in it, but
also restore Michigan's economic prosperity. The
strength of this conviction translates into his sup-
port for university students and his desire to provide
them with tools for success.
Specifically, Bernero would like to empower stu-
dents by making higher education more affordable.
Many students are concerned about falling educa-
tion appropriations coupled with drastically ris-
ing tuition. Bernero wants to fight to keep tuition
down and financial aid up because he understands
the realities of a knowledge-based economy.
Bernero has promised state universities a fair,
stable and predictable revenue stream in exchange
for a tuition freeze. This will allow the University
to maintain a quality education experience that
students are able to afford. He will keep the broken
Michigan Promise Scholarship, a $4,000 grant for
high-achieving in-state students that had its funding
taken away by lawmakers in the state Senate.
When Republican Rick Snyder speaks about edu-
cation, he approaches the topic with the stance that
our system needs to be "more efficient." Efficiency
sounds nice, but its implications are grave. Efficiency
essentially means that he wants schools to do more
with less. It means that if Snyder wins the governor-
ship, it's possible that he will support lowering the
University's appropriations with the hopes of incen-
tivizing a reduction of spending.
Faced with that scenario, what would the Uni-
versity decide to do? Would it begin cutting the
programs that make it one of the highest ranked
public schools in the nation? Or would it raise
tuition even higher in order to make up for its
insufficient state appropriations? Either way, we'll
have to sacrifice either the quality of our education

or its affordability, both of which hurt students. If
Snyder is elected, he could cripple our education
system even further. Without investment in edu-
cation, the state will have no chance to build a
21st-century economy.
Bernero will serve student interests by fur-
thering his record for job creation and bringing
new business investment to Michigan. As mayor
of Lansing, he has leveraged more than half a bil-
lion dollars in new business investment, which has
resulted in over 6,000 new jobs. Recently, Lansing
was named a top ten city for young people to live -
largely due to its expanding job market.
In addition to his proven ability to work with
businesses to bring jobs to the state, Bernero has
also proposed creating a state bank. This innovative
proposal would ensure that Michigan businesses
have access to credit and that they are able to rein-
vest their profits here in the state. Over the long
term, a state bank would
help build a better business "
environment and incen-
tivize increased economic
development. Michigan n
Finally, though both Sny-
der and Bernero have largely pull the sta
ignored party labels during disaster. Wh
their campaigns, it's impor-
tant to remember each par- today? Stud
ty's traditional values. This both can
is especially importantgiven
the lack of policy specifics
offered by the Snyder cam- -
paign. Year after year, Dem-
ocrats in Lansing have fought to prevent or minimize
cuts to public universities and student financial aid.
Sadly, Republicans - for whom it seems no amount
of cuts to public services will ever be sufficient -
have repeatedly outmaneuvered them. In light of
this reality, sending anyone who is dependent on
support from the Republican establishment - with
its strong party discipline - is a risk that students
cannot afford to take.
The election today presents a clear choice for
those concerned about education. Students and
those who value the success of our state's economic
future should think twice before sending Rick Sny-
der to Lansing. Only with Virg Bernero will the state
keep its promise of affordable, accessible and quality
education for all.
Polls are open today from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Polling locations can be found at http://michigan.
gov/vote. Make sure your voice is heard today.
Brendan Campbell is the chair of the,
University's chapter of the College Democrats.

eeds a
te out
o is th
ent st
ididate

This is not a typical election. Year after year,
Michigan has been presented with candidates
indebted to the same special interest groups. Year
after year, residents have heard the same tired
attack ads and seen gridlock, budget battles, gov-
ernment shutdowns and short-term fixes in Lan-
sing. Our economy continues to grow weaker and
many college graduates struggle to start their
careers in Michigan.
Today, we have a new choice. Rick Snyder is the
only candidate who has refused donations from
special interests. He is the only candidate with
widespread support from Democrats, Republicans
and independents. His successes in the private sec-
tor - as an accountant, the manager of a Fortune
500 company and venture capitalist - give him the
pragmatic, long-term approach to governing that
this state desperately needs. His plans to reignite
business, government and education are dramat-
ic enough to reawaken
our state and put us on
course for meaningful,
lasting success.
t governor to As governor, Snyder
. would work to make
of economic Michigan one of the most
e right choice economically competi-
tive states in the nation.
upporters for Our current business
s face off. tax is a cobweb of excep-
tions, formulas and
favors, charging 4.95
__ percent of net income,
0.8 percent of modified
gross receipts, 1.25 percent of gross insurance pre-
miums, 0.235 percent of banks' net capital, and
adding a 21.99-percent surcharge on top. The tax
discourages hiring and is infamous for charging
companies even when they lose money.
At a time when businesses are already facing a
difficult economic climate, burdensome taxes can
significantly harm income and payrolls. To make
Michigan instantly more attractive to outside firms
and potential entrepreneurs, Snyder would replace
our current business tax code with a simple, flat
6-percent corporate income tax. The campaign esti-
mates this would lower the tax burden by $1.5 bil-
lion, returning an enormous amount of money back
to companies for investing, saving and hiring.
Reinventing Michigan goes far beyond tax poli-
cy. To end the cycle of gridlock in Lansing, Snyder
will push for multi-year, "value for money" bud-
geting - a process used by private sector compa-
nies and many state governments. Value for money
budgeting will ask the citizens-we, the people
- what priorities we want in government services,

and then work to ensure that each dollar of fund-
ing returns at least a dollar of value to us. Taking
a long-term, citizen-supported approach will give
greater momentum to the issues we find impor-
tant, and help reduce partisan stalling and get
things done. This will also draw the blueprint for
a smaller, more responsive state government that
works with citizens, not against them.
Another key issue for Snyder is improving the
quality of education in Michigan because better
education translates into better opportunities and
careers. Snyder knows the benefits of public edu-
cation - he earned a bachelor's degree, MBA and
JD from the University of Michigan by the age of
24. He wants to work with educational leaders at
every level to ensure the focus stays on student
performance, and not institutional funding bat-
tles. He will encourage universities to adopt value
for money budgeting, while also providing honest
assessments about how much the state can afford
to fund higher education, so that universities aren't
caught off guard by changes in revenue from the
state. The era of broken funding promises - much
like the fiasco surrounding the Michigan Promise
Scholarship program - will come to an end.
As governor, Snyder would work to make Michi-
gan more attractive to young graduates across the
state. On the campaign trail, Snyder often laments
the loss of 70,000 University of Michigan and
Michigan State University graduates to Chicago.
His early support for urban renewal - particularly
in Detroit - set him apart from other Republican
candidates in the primary, and underscored his
desire to work across party lines to make Michigan
the ideal workplace for young citizens. Snyder's
emphasis on bringing innovative industries to the
state will also raise demand for educated workers
in Michigan, providing more graduates with better
long-term career prospects.
A return to the politics and policies of the past
isn't going to move Michigan forward. A dras-
.tically simplified tax code will create surging
business growth, not minor alterations to a funda-
mentally unsound formula. A bold, citizen-driven
approach to budgeting will solve the annual fiscal
crises, not the status quo and its debts to special
interest groups. Fresh starts with educational and
city leaders will put our students on a better path
to 21st century careers, not continued reliance on
jobs of a bygone era.
Today, only one man - a Michigan man - has
the vision, plan and actions to make this turn-
around happen. Vote Rick Snyder for governor.
Alexander Franz is the chair of
Wolverines for Rick Snyder.

COLLEGE REPUBLICANS I
Take back Washington

ROSE JAFF E

E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF dIUMICH.EDU.

7 )

Today, voters across America
will send a message to Washing-
ton, D.C. It won't be one of approv-
al. it won't be one of thanks. And
it most certainly won't be a vote to
reward President Barack Obama
and the Democrats on Capitol Hill
for ramming their radical legisla-
tive agenda down the throats of
the American people. The Repub-
lican Party will regain control
of thousands of elected offices
across the nation. With their
new control, particularly in Con-
gress, they will put the brakes on
Obama's runaway liberal agenda.
But why is this election so impor-
tant for so many Americans?
In 2008, Americans were fed
up with two seemingly endless
wars overseas, congressional
scandals and increasing doubts
about the economy. In casting
their votes for Obama, they voted
for change from the status quo.
They didn't vote for European-
style, big-government socialism.
Obamaand congressional lead-
ers like Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.)
and Harry Reid (D-Nev.) began
at once to churn out the far-left
legislation that would become
their political death knell. They
started with the stimulus pack-
age, and then cap-and-trade leg-
islation in the House, followed
by an overbearing and uncon-
stitutional health care "reform"
bill. Even in the face of enor-
mous public opposition, Obama,
Reid and Pelosi pushed forward,
going to whatever ends neces-
sary and making whatever back
room deals required to pass their
dream legislation.
The American people woke
up. It's not difficult to under-
stand that this legislation, taxa-
tion and deficit spending can only
harm our country in the long
run. Every American today owes
$40,000 toward the national
debt. Every child born owes that
amount as well, and the number
rises every day. The generational
theft currently being perpetrated
by big spenders in Washington,
D.C. and by the Democratic Party
is simply immoral and won't be
tolerated. Shame on Congress for

failing to represent their constit-
uents and engaging ina spending
binge while everyday Americans
are cutting back.
The healthcare "reform" leg-
islation will lead to higher pre-
miums, more individuals losing
coverage and eventual bankrupt-
cy of remaining insurance com-
panies, leading to a single-payer
system. Frivolous regulations
imposed onvirtuallyeveryindus-
try in the United States under the
cap-and-trade bill - which has
yet to fully make its way through
Congress - will raise prices in
every sector of the economy and
force many companies to cut jobs
or go out of business.
Today, Democrats will be
punished for being too heavy
and liberal in their use of power
and for going too far. They will
be punished for spending away
their constituents' money before
it was earned, and for squander-
ing their children's future. Today,
the American people will send an
emphatic and clear message to
Washington, D.C. that we don't
want European-style socialism,
more government interference in
our lives or higher taxes and fees
at every level of government. They
will tell Congress and Obama loud
and clear that they don't want
the government to plan out their
future or the economy, that they
don't want the government to tell
them whatto buy and that they
don't want to be taken care of by
government from cradle to grave.
It's critical that voters exer-
cise their franchise today. This
is the most important election of
our lifetimes thus far. Silence is
complicity: If we fail to resound-
ingly reject the false virtues of
government largesse and liberal
extremism, we risk going fur-
ther downhill into a future full of
unemployment, disastrous fiscal
policies and little or no hope for
economic growth, with an ever-
growing and over-regulating
government. We risk losing our
national identity as the land of
opportunity, and we risk losing
the American dream.
Our country was built on

the virtues of self-reliance and
personal responsibility. These
virtues inspired the Founding
Fathers to create a government
that would protect the rights
and freedoms of every American.
These freedoms and virtues have
allowed us to become the greatest
nation on earth and have seen us
through our toughest times and
greatest triumphs. The Ameri-
can people cherish and protect
these freedoms and values, and
don't respond kindly to an out-
of-control and out-of-touch Con-
gress that tries to violate those
freedoms and values. And they
will do what is necessary to pro-
tect those freedoms and values by
voting out the Democrat majority
in Congress today.
In 2008, the American people
didn't vote for what they got, and
they didn't get what they voted
for. Today, they're taking the first
steps to correct those mistakes.
This viewpoint was written
by Brian Koziara on behalf of
the University's Chapter of
the College Republicans.

t, IJl

-the
podium

Not News: Will Grundler is annoyed at spiteful Facebook
commenters and provides you with an awesome random link.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Podium.

Interested in Global Health? Curious about what's happening?
The Center for Global Health, the MHIRT Program, and
Global REACH invite you to join us at the
Second Annual Student Global Health Day
November 5, 2010; Events from 9am-7pm
P. Palmer Commons 4 level
+- More info
http://www.globalhealth.umich.edu/
2 Register
angelay@umich.edu
Know the latest UM insurance and travel requirements?


6A - Tuesday, November 2, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Tuesday, November 2, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

BARS
From Page 1A
ders."
A new drunk driving law took
effect over the weekend, which
increased legal consequences for
drivers caught with a Blood Alco-
hol Concentration above 0.17. While
police use breathalyzers to measure
a person's level of intoxication, bar
employees can only use their own
judgment.
BTB provides a party bus to trans-
port patrons home. As part of his
TAM training, Wilson said he gives
intoxicated patrons water and time
to sober up before leaving. He said
he also talks to friends of the intoxi-
cated customer and the management
at Good Time Charley's-- a bar locat-
ed beneath BTB - to make sure the
patron is cared for and does not seek
drinks downstairs.
School of Public Health gradu-
ate student Christopher O'Rourke
was at BTB Friday night and said
"there's a strong divide" between the
South University Avenue bars, where
undergraduate students frequent,
and Main Street bars, where gradu-
ate students tend to go.
"I would say that around here, in
the undergrad area, they are much
more unlikely to cut off someone,
and I've seen many people that
should be cut off that are not cut off,"
O'Rourke said.
University Law School student
Matthew Zita, who is friends with
O'Rourke and was at BTB Friday,
said he agrees that bars don't inter-
vene when they should.
"I probably should have been cut
off a couple times and have not been,"
Zita said. "I've never seen anybody
get thrown out."
Kyle Froelich, the night manager
at Charley's, said the bar doesn't
have a specific policy for cutting off
intoxicated patrons, but employees
use their discretion.
Charley's head bartender Michael
Pangbornsaid patronsafetyis a"con-
stant thing" on his mind. Accord-

ing to Pangborn, Charley's staff
- including bouncers, bartenders
and managers - may cut off about 30
intoxicated patrons on abusynight.
"We don't want to have people
here that are too drunk in here,"Pan-
gborn said. "It's just bad business."
Katie MacDonald, a bartender at
The Brown Jug on South University
Avenue, said that balancing business
and safety is an issue.
"You don't want to lose a custom-
er, but you don't want someone to get
sick," MacDonald said.
MacDonald said she and the rest
of the bartendingstaff at The Brown
Jug are certified by Training for
Intervention Procedures - another
state-approved program that pro-
vides alcohol service education.
MacDonald said staff usually have to
cut off about one patron each week-
end.
"It's South U., so you're going to
have a lot of drunk college kids,"
MacDonald said..
Chris Hesse, Rick's American
Caf6 bar manager, said Rick's takes
a different approach when it comes
to intoxicated patrons. Hesse said
the staff is certified by ServSafe -
another alcohol service program
approved by the state - and is told to
keep intoxicated people from enter-
ing Rick's.
"The biggest thing for us is stop-
ping those people before they get in
the bar," Hesse said.
Engineering graduate student
Chris Schoeps, who was at The
Brown Jug Friday night and was
dressed as a penguin for Halloween,
said the bar is one of his favorites in
Ann Arbor. Schoeps said the South
University Avenue area is "dominat-
ed by undergrads."
Rackham graduate student Erik
Ventura was dressed as a caveman
and sat next to Schoeps at the bar.
"I could arguably say that the
SouthU.areaisalittlebitmorerowdy
than for instance Main Street," Ven-
tura said.
He said he thinks some patrons
aren't cut off when they should be,
but that it happens "everywhere."

VOTE
From Page 1A
cal activist and wife of United States
Rep. John Dingell (D-Mich.), who is
currently up for re-election. Demo-
cratic candidate for the Univer-
sity's Board of Regents Paul Brown,
Democratic candidate for Attorney
General David Leyton and Brenda
Lawrence, Democratic candidate
for Lieutenant Governor, also spoke
at the rally.
The candidates spoke to an
almost full Pendleton Room, liven-
ing up the crowd and generating
cheers from the audience. Dingell
spoke abouther anger over polls that
are already claiming Democrats will
lose a larger number of seats across
the country.
"Are you outraged like I am about
the polls and how everybody thinks
the votingstarted three months ago
and everybody writing off what's
going to happen already?" Dingell
asked the crowd. "We cannot let
that be the story."
Dingell argued that Republi-
cans who claim President Barack
Obama's administration has failed
to help the ailing economy are ignor-
ing the job growth and economic
stimulus that has occurred since he
took office, when the nation was in a
dire state. She said voters must elect
Democrats in order to continue pro-
pelling Obama's agenda forward.
"We've just begun," Dingell
added. "Are we going to let (the
Republicans) go backwards?"
Dingell lauded the importance
of community and unity within the
Democratic Party and scoffed at
Republicans who have tried to cre-

ate schisms within the party.
"Community is the strength of
democracy," Dingell said. "One of
the things that I dislike the most
about this election is the way the
Republicans have tried to divide us.
It's not right."
Warren, the state Senate candi-
date, highlighted the importance
of the student vote and encouraged
students to use social networking to
encourage friends to vote. She said
all efforts leading up to tomorrow
have "been a practice round" and
tomorrow determines which poli-
cies will actually be enacted.
"What we do now sets the course
for the next decade," Warren said.
"We need a Democrat in the gover-
nor's mansion. We need Congress-
man John Dingellbackin Congress."
Chair of College Democrats
Brendan Campbell said the group's
intention in planning the event was
to generate excitement and give stu-
dents more information about the
candidates before they went to vote.
"We thought there's no better
way for studentsto get excited about
voting - and voting for Democrats
- than bringing in these candidates
onto campus," Campbell said.
Democratic contenders in this
year's election view student voters
as a crucial part in winning their
seats, Campbell said, and look at
campus events as opportunities, to
show student voters why they are
important to the state and how the
Democratic Party aims to serve
them.
"They know that students are the
key for Democrats to win tomor-
row," Campbell said. "Without
student support and the support of
young people across the state, Dem-

ocrats face a much more difficult
road."
Recent polls have shown that
Republican candidates in Michi-
gan are expected to win many key
offices in the state, most prominent
among them is the race for the gov-
ernor's mansion that pits Republi-
can candidate Rick Snyder against
Democratic candidate VirgBernero.
Campbell said these polls aren't
necessarily accurate because they
fail to include student voters, who
are often left out because they are
believed to have a low tendency to
vote in non-presidential elections.
"When you look at polls, you
have to recognize a key distinction,"
Campbell said, "and that's that a lot
of these polls are using likely voter
models that are based off the fact
that students and young people will
not turn out to vote tomorrow. "
"I think if students come out
strong for Democrats like they did in
2008, we're going to see polls at the
end of election night wildly different
from the polls right now before the
election," Campbell added.
Republican gubernatorial can-
didate Rick Snyder and Republican
lieutenant governor candidateBrian
Calley spoke to College Republicans
earlier in the evening. In addition,
Republican Secretaryof State candi-
date Ruth Johnson and Republican
candidate for Supreme Court Jus-
tice Mary Beth Kelly were among
those in attendance.
Charles Bogren, chair of the Uni-
versity's chapter of College Repub-
licans, said the candidates focused
their speeches at the rally on how
best to fix the issues plaguing the
state rather than placing blame on
anyone.

"They don't want to focus on the
blame or the problems, they want to
focus on the solutions," Bogren said.
"And they were talking about what
they're going to do once they're in
office to fix the state of Michigan, to
reinvent the state of Michigan."
"It's a really positive message and
it's something they're going to bring
to Lansing in January," Bogren
added.
Bogren said while he supports
the College Democrats rally last
night and their other get out the vote
efforts, he thinks their attempts to
garner support are futile as demon-
strated by their losing projections
the latest political polls.
"I think it's too little too late for
the Democratic ticket," Bogren said.
"It's great that they're having a rally,
I just think it's sort of alittle party for
the end of their campaign because
they're not going any farther."
Bogren said tomorrow's elec-
tion will provide an opportunity for
students to elect Republican candi-
dates who will reverse problems he
believes were created by the Obama
administration. He said an increase
in Republican power in the U.S. Sen-
ate and House of Representatives
would be a major step toward re-
establishing a more traditional form
of government.
"The best way to save our genera-
tion, to save our country, is to vote in
fiscal conservatives," Bogren said.
"People who want to restore gov-
ernment back to it's traditional and
proper role, which is to stand beside
you and help you, not stand in your
way and tell you what to do:'
"It should be a great day for
Republicans in Ann Arbor and on
campus," Bogren added.


STUDY
From Page 1A
Ybarra added that the findings
of his study can be relevant on a
daily basis.

"I think the cognitive outcomes
that we studied are very basic in
the sense that they are useful in
problem solving and daily life," he
said. "These outcomes are a core
ingredient in our ability to prob-
lem solve."

Irene Yeh, a Rackham and
School of Social Work Ph.D. stu-
dent and research assistant for the
study, echoed Ybarra's comments
in an e-mail interview.
"By understanding the mech-
anisms through which our

sociality influences general cog-
nition, we can develop strate-
gies that incorporate the mental
benefits of social interactions in
problem-solving, education, and
mental fitness interventions,"
Yeh wrote.

PARKINGAVAILABLE

5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2011 1
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609
I! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furmi-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE. Furnished, 2
baths, free laundry, large porch, free
parking w/garage, great location. 702
Arch St. May 2011. $3350. 734-426-
4772, Jim at Spring Valley Farm.
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
* NOW LEASING FOR 20110!
www.carlsouproperties.com
734-332-6000.
!**FALL2011**! 5to9bdrm.
houses. Keysmanagement.net

! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Parents Week-
end events Thur-Sun Nov 4-7: restau-
rant tasting, tours, and more; visit and
sign with a parent and we'll buy you
dinner! U-M's best housing sold out
early for 2010, reserve your space 1o-
day. 2 blocks from Central Campus
and downtown. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. HeatlWater/Parking.
www.HRP'AA.com 996-4992.

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, November 2,2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS 4 Lash cosmetic 38 Pile-
1 Throaty attention 5 One who'squick place
getter to anger 39 Steet
5 Contemptile 6 Sportater Pee'
persot, in slang Benmon 'The"
11 Brewery cask 7 Therefore 42 Hom
14 Mideast's._ 8Total 44_ VC
Strip 9 Nadir's opposite prodi
15 Set inwaves, as 10Netherlands city 46 Tweh
hair 11 Plymoush Reliant, meet
16 Prompt on stage e.g. 47 Stuff
17 Being convincing 12 Continental 48 Do a
via coercion currency 51 Certa
20ISki resot 13 Jeweler'sstc
gooming vehicle 18 Mou n lake ANSW
21 Yves'snyes 19 Brief fight a a A
22 Bow-toting god 24 Daggeroftyore a P F
23 Boxerasounds? 26 Whip math U I
25 Food package 7'Happyrthday B A R
measn. ..
27 Making a 28 iRacersAl or
comeback, say Bobby E X T
33 Gossipy Barrett 29 Decide to playfor G E o
34 Vintagetar pay N M
35 Ship-locating 30 Kuwaiti neighbor A F
system 31 Keepfrom
36 Yiddish laments flowing, as a e 1
37 Sticks to, asasue ream D R 0
task 32 "Otnoco Flow" A I L
40 One of the "Little New Age singer T A I
Women" 33 Univ. military E T S
41 Pail of a front- program R A H
end alignment 37 Heal, as bones
43 Mississippior 1srded
Mersey: Abbr. 1 2 5 4 85
44 WatershadeT
45 Sneering 14 15
49 "Was _ loud?" 17 18
50 Drawerfeature
51 Actress Chase a0
54 Mier' find
56 Genetics pioneer 24
Mendel
60 Telling a little a7 "
white lie as4a
63 Pasture call
64 Wobble a 37
65 London art
museum 41 1
66 When one hand 4
is upandthe a s
other is down as
67 Doctor's
directives 1 u s s
68 Melville's 'Typee"
sequel so 1
DOWN 6 " 84
1 FBI investigators E67
2 Goldie of"The
Banger Sisters" By Bruce venzke
3 Opera star Pinza (,)2010 Tribune Media services, Inc.

of-dishes 52 First of 13 popes
53 Fort featured in
d and Mrs. "Goldfinger"
s show, with 55 Cigarnsffix
1" 57 Largest ofthe
eric war epic Mariana Islands
35: beauty 58 Director
uct Preminger
ve o'clock 59 Prefix with stat
ing 61 Skater Midoti
ed with food 62The Beatles'"I
laundry task Saw _ Standing
in PCs There"
YER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
R S T H E FT S E W
O REM OIL E S 1 NEO
B A IRAIH A L E S 0
EIte T C 1s 1NL T 0H 1D
G EM N YE 2W1
P A STU
S P E R M A 8 A TS
TH R E E C H E E R S
D G MIANOIR RI I N
Y P Y NN T T P
iltorestol.com12
is
20110 2/132

Rates Now Available
for Fall 2011-2012
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
* Central Campus locations
" *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
* Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
!!Bleautifl Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!NOW RESERVING FOR FALL
2011! 1 & 2 bedroom apartments. 3
bedroom house on Church. C & I Man-
agement, LLC, Call Patty 734-320-1245
1109 S. STATE St.- 5-bedroom house
across from IM building. Very large
bedrooms can be used as doubles. Fully
furaished, 2 " baths, and a basement
w/free washer & dryer! Hardwood
floors & a large kitchen w/dishwasher.
Huge backyard w/lots of parking!
734-668-1100
www.varsitymanageent.com
305 PACKARD -Very cute 3-bd
house close to campus and downtown!
Bonus den w/a private bathroom and
formal dining room. Large kitchen,
hardwood floors, and basement w/
washer & dryer. Fully furnished and
parking incl. Perfect for 3-6 people!
734-668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
921 PACKARD FALL '11 3 story 5
bdrm house for 6 furnished 3 full baths
3 kitchens laundry parking 7342721320
the
Ie
C M
PROPeVRY MANAcERUNT
Owed and09
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
;Central CaLs oDownton
Let Our Family Take Care of Yours
24 hr Nbintepance staff High srved 1in1enxwt
Oil-Site laulldr, lk Welcome
734.741 9300
wwwaanuoraparments net

For Hest
Selection,
Reserve
TODAY!
Spring & Fall
ON CAMPUS, FeNISHOED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMSs
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus
for 2011/2012
-University
536 Soth Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-76-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MCOM
INFO@U-TOWERSCOM
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1007 S. State. Furnished,
free laundry, free parking.
$4300/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber, 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished $3500 248-798-4755
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2011. dklemptner@comcasl.ne
920 DEWEY - A Large 5-bd house
mcl. a finished attic and a full base-
ment! A short bike ride to central cam-
pus. Large living room w/fireplace and
a 42" flatscreen TV! Huge yard and
plenty of parking!
734-668-1100
www-varsitymanagement~com
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 l&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State Idry
prkgheat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State St./Athletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., I
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
WE HOLD THE KEY.....
To Your New Home!
Prime Student Housing
734-761-8000
primesh.com
FREE BUBBLE ISLAND TEA, with
every new tour. We are now taking
Reservations. For best selection come
in today, we sold out early last year.
Don't miss out on the Best of Central
Campus! We have Rooms, Studios, 1,
2 & 3 bedroom furnished apartments
for Spring/Fall 2011. Call usToday at
734-761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit us at: www.UniversityTowers-MI.-
com

FALL 2011
Huge house in prime locations!
6 Bdrms, 3 studies, 3 1/2 baths
$4899/month
7346658825 SERVICES
www.campusrealty.com
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed. EDITING: Language, Organization,
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer Format, Pre-Press Packaging. 734-996-
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Court $2340, 0566 or wrteon@iserv.net
tenants pay all utilities call Cappo PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT;
________734-996_1991 __ LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
MAY AVAILABILITY 6 bedroom - perfect 180 on LSAT
$3275 rooms $600. 701 Catherine - Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
(near kerrytown). 734-777-3687 - licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
NEWER 6 BD RMS FURNISHED - hundreds of delighted students
Apts AVAILABLE, walk to CEN- 734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
TRAL CAMPUS. For VIRTUAL
TOUR and INFO call 734-418-2050 or
log on www.828greeneapts.com

NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check out our ful 11t at
Campusrealtycom.
734-665-8825
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modem, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-*
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listng for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
0003 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3800 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, - free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskman@yahoo.com.
FALL 2011 FINE 6 bedroom house.
523 So. Fourth Ave, furn, dwshr, dis-
posal, launrdy, parking, central A/C,
high speed internet, hardwood floors,
alarm system, heat and water included.
734-662-7121 or gpmiles@aol.com
FALL 2011. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
-NOW SHOWING
APARTMENTS-
For 2011-12!
18 great locations
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Furnished, Heat & Water Included,
1 Parking Pass & FREE Internet.
Call today to see your new home!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
*Amenities Vary By Location

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. net., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520x 125.
15 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS for 2-3
month temporaryswork for persons
bilingual in Spanish and English for
customer service call center. $10/hr.
Send resume to jeanw@mastersonper-
sonnel.com
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them, www.AdCarDriver.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & PUB now hiring individuals
for our kitchen staff and office staff.
Apply in person at 310 Maynard, Ann
Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Pald survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

:O

ANN ARBOR FAMILY, 1 mi. from
UM campus, looking for kind, fun,
compassionate female stud. to drive 13
yr. old daughter to Tappan M.S. in am.
Must have good references & a car.
Please Call 734-665-1651.

e~hc ~ ~1~i 0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 2, 2010 - 7A

Rodriguez says staff on
defense will not change

Michigan football
coach denies rumors of
defensive coordinator
Greg Robinson's firing
By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Writer
Rumors of staff changes swirled
throughout message boards on
Sunday after yet
another defensive NOTEBOOK
* disappointment,
Wbut Michigan roach Rich Rodriguez
laughed them off yesterday.
"I just met with the defensive
staff the last three hours or so,"
Rodriguez said just after noon dur-
ing his weekly news conference.
"We all feel like we have to do all
we can to have success. Our coaches
work very hard."
Rodriguez repeated that he has
not made any changes to his defen-
sive staff. He said he first heard of
the rumors about a half hour before
meetingwiththe media.
"We've dealt with quite a few
(rumors) over the last few years,
haven't we? That happens in sports
and life in general," Rodriguez said.
"You deal with it, so I don't mind
answering the question. We're
working hard. We're all frustrat-
ed. To everyone's credit, no one is
pointing fingers, nobody's got their
heads down."
Defensive coordinator and line-
backers coach Greg Robinson,
* who is in his second year with the
Wolverines, was the subject of the
rumors. Michigan has allowed
more than 400 yards of offense to
opponents in five games so far this
season. The Wolverines are ranked
near the bottom of most national
defensive statistical rankings -
106th in total defense (440.3 yards
a game) and 117th in pass defense
(290.5).
Michigan leads the Big Ten in
total offense and rushing yard-
age, so the Wolverines' three con-

Michigan defensive coordinator Greg Robinson has been under fire recently due to Michigan's defensive struggles.

secutive losses automatically draw
attention to the defense.
When asked what an offensive-
minded head coach like himself can
do to help the struggling defense,
Rodriguez said he would spend
more time with defensive players
and in defensive meetings.
"I probably should do that
because we have more inexperi-
enced players over there," Rodri-
guez said. "I'm not going to be able
to wave a magic wand and fix some
of the issues defensively. Some of
the problems are not going to get
fixed overnight. You can't make a
guy experienced just by practicing
with them. We have a lot of inexpe-
rienced players defensively.
"I have a critical view of every-
thing - every coach, every player,
everything in our program every

day. That's what we do. That's what
head coaches do."
RICH "THE SITUATION" RODRI-
GUEZ: Rodriguez's love for Lion
King references is well documented
by the media.
His most recent pop culture ref-
erence was a bit more current - and
hilarious.
"Everybody wants to focus on
the negative," Rodriguez said.
"Nobody ever wants to talk about
the positive. I guess that gets
people's interest. It sells papers. It
gets people to turn on the TV. If
it's a negative story coming on, the
world's coming to an end. There's a
bombing, something tragic. But if
it's positive, it doesn't sell.
"It's why everybody watches
reality shows, right? To seethem get
in cat fights? Jersey Shore, whatever

you call it. People want to see two
people get into an argument and
boy, if they get to the point where
they actually try to swing at each
other, that's going to get great rat-
ings."
INJURY UPDATES: Rodriguez
said he expects defensive lineman
Mike Martin's ankle to heal enough
so he could begin practicing yester-
day or today.
Rodriguez hopes the other
injured players will be healthy to
practice and play this week. The
list includes: offensive tackle Perry
Dorrestein (knee), tailback Mike
Shaw (knee), tailback Fitz Toussaint
(shoulder), cornerback J.T. Floyd
(stinger) and quarterback Denard
Robinson (hip).
Rodriguez also said Shaw's injury
limited him against Penn State.

sALAM RIDA/Daily
Senior defenseman Chad Langlais has played in 137 games in his four years in
Ann Arbor. This year, he's in the Wolverines' top defensive pairing,
With experience,
Langlais serves as
defensive mentor
By CASANDRA PAGNI of things that rubs off on these
Daily Sports Writer players."
FALLON'S FIRST SPARKS
In his 137-game Michigan TEAM: In Friday night's road
career, matching up against some contest at Ferris State - a game
of the towering power forwards in which the Wolverines (3-0-1-0
of college hock- CCHA, 4-1-3 overall) were out-
ey hasn't been NOTEBOOK played from the start - Fallon's
a problem for third-period goal proved to be
senior defender Chad Langlais. just the spark that Michigan was
While the forwards may win searching for through the first
the size advantage, at 5-foot-9- two periods. The freshman's first
inches, Langlais usually wins the career goal put the Wolverines
puck. on the board, and cut the Bulldog
Langlais has anchored the lead to one.
Wolverines' top defensive line The goal was quirky - Fallon
all season, playing alongside admitted that he was trying to
freshman defender Jon Merrill. pass the puck back to sophomore
Described as a "workhorse" for center A.J Treais when the goal
No. 6 Michigan, the senior has went in. But according to junior
seen a ton of ice-time, playing co-captain Luke Glendening, it
on both the power play and pen- didn't matter.
alty kill, in addition to his even- "That was a huge goal for us,"
strength spot. Glendening said. "It wasn't pret-
"I like playing a lot," Langlais ty, but they don't ask how, they
said. "I feel like I ask how many.
get into the game It did the job
a lot more if I'm and really got us
playing a lot more. "He shows you going."
Conditioning The team
leve, T'feel like he'sa 'senior by sav ''tiae puA
I'm fine right now. for Fallon, who
Me and Jonny are the way he plays received a flood
logging a lot of f text messages
minutes, but I feel thegame." andcongratula-
like we're playing tory phone calls
better and better after netting

L. Young Wolverines claim doubles title
in impressive showing at Big Tens

By MATT RUDNITSKY
Daily Sports Writer
It didn't take long for the Michi-
gan men's tennis team's third-
ranked 2010 recruiting class to
start making some noise.
At the early-season Big Ten
Indoor Championships in East
Lansing this weekend, the fresh-
man duo of Justin Rossi and Bar-
rett Franks claimed the flight 'A'
doubles title after winning four
straight matches.
"It was a really big deal," Rossi
said. "Me and Barrett have high
expectations this year and we
knew we could do it, we just had
to play well and put everything
together and stay focused and
energized.
"And we did that, and came up
with the title."
Despite the implications of
the tournament, which crowns a
player as the Big Ten Champion, a

slew of the conference's top play-
ers didn't participate. Michigan
didn't send any of its top-three
competitors - seniors Jason Jung
and Chris Madden and sophomore
Evan King.
"You know, this tournament is
interesting," Michigan associate
coach Sean Maymi said. "Some
teams send a lot of guys and oth-
ers don't. When comparing to the
bulk, I thought from my perspec-
tive that we had a lot of youth. We
brought all our freshmen and our
oldest guy was (junior Duncan
Muil), and it's just as new to him
as it is to the rest of them."
Rossi - a blue-chip recruit -
won three matches in the singles
main draw, eventually falling in
the quarterfinals to Ohio State's
six-foot-seven sophomore Peter
Kobelt, 6-7 (3), 6-4, 6-2.
Michigan sophomore Chris Cha
made the Round of 16 by winning
two consecutive matches, but he

dropped his next match, ending
the tournament with a 2-1 record.
Another freshman, blue-chip-
per Shaun Bernstein, dropped his
first match, but went on an impres-
sive four-match winning streak in
the back-draw.
His run ended in the semifinals
with a 6-3, 6-4 loss to Indiana's
Jeremy Langer.
The team recorded a respect-
able 12-10 overall record in singles
and a 6-2 record in doubles.
"I think as a whole we repre-
sented ourselves well," Bernstein
said. "We had one quarterfinal-
ist in Rossi, and the kid that beat
him is in the final. Cha also beat a
really good player from Penn State
in the second round.
"No one made too huge an
impact, so as a team we definitely
need to improve, but to this point
in the season, when we've all been
worried about exams and stuff, I
think we've done well overall."

And though the team may not
have shown its full potential, it
showed it's ready to compete for
a Big Ten title this season, Maymi
said.
"I think we're right in the thick
of things, as far as the level, in the
Big Ten," he said. "And hopefully
by the spring, we'll be doing bet-
ter."
This weekend's event marked
the end of the Wolverines' fall
season, with the lone exception of
King.
On Thursday, King will com-
pete at the USTA/ITA National
Intercollegiate Indoor Champion-
ships in Flushing, NY, the site of
the U.S. Open. The tournament
includes the nation's top 32 colle-
giate players.
The Wolverines' dual match
season commences on Jan. 15,
when Western Michigan visits
the Varsity Tennis Center in Ann
Arbor.

each game."
In the Wolverines' weekend
matchup against Ferris State,
Langlais flashed the offensive
side to his game as well. Lan-
glais picked up two assists on the
weekend, on freshman forward
Jacob Fallon's lamplighter on Fri-
day and sophomore left winger
Kevin Lynch's power play goal on
Saturday.
Langlais's performance Sat-
urday night earned him the first
star of the game, but the Spo-
kane, Wash. native has been a
leader for the entire season. With
three true freshman defenders in
Merrill, Mac Bennett and Kevin
Clare, the veteran Langlais is a
role model Michigan coach Red
Berenson expects the rookies to
turn to consistently.
"(Langlais) is an experienced
player who really shows his
experience," Berenson said. "He
doesn't show you he's a senior
because he looks old or because
he's that much bigger than any-
body. He shows you he's a senior
by the way he plays the game.
"The way he competes, the
way he battles, the way he plays
in situations, how he's got the
coaches trust. He goes out there
with the ultimate confidence that
'I can do this job.' That's the kind

his first goal as
a Wolverine. But Fallon won't
dwell on that moment, knowing
that he still has a ladder to climb
to be successful at this level.
After playing in just four
games this season, Fallon is
aware that he - like the other
freshmen on the team - need to
find a way to match the size and
strength of the opponents Michi-
gan faces each weekend.
"You have to think a lot quick-
er," Fallon said. "But the game is a
lot more physical too, bigger bod-
ies out there. You can't dominate
the game the way I used to when
I was 15, 16. I just take weight-
lifting very serious and try to get
bigger and better every day."
NOTES: Looking ahead to the
Wolverines' upcoming series at
Alaska-Fairbanks, Berenson said
after yesterday's practice that
senior Shawn Hunwick will get
the nod in goal on Friday, with
senior Bryan Hogan starting Sat-
urday. ... In practice yesterday,
the top offensive lines remained
as they were on Saturday against
Ferris State, with seniors Carl
Hagelin, Louie Caporusso and
Lynch playing together, and
senior Matt Rust, junior David
Wohlberg, and sophomore Chris
Brown on the second line.

CHECK ONLINE FOR WEEK SIX OF
DAILY SPORTS POWER RANKINGS

atraves yreset..ts
work across borders
Compuls we Liars
IMPACrDANE
Thursday November 4th
8 PM Angell Hall
Auditorium D


8A - Tuesday, November 2, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Keeping count ofyour
Kodak moments

ince the beginning of the
school year, my friend
Elana has been bugging
me - relentlessly - about the
dearth of photos of us on Face-
book. Recently,
my roommate
Kelsey has
joined in the
pestering.
Despite their
insistence that
we need to
"document our LEAH
friendship," BURGIN
I've been put-
ting them off
(somewhat successfully) for a
while.
My relationship with photog-
raphy is weird. As a medium, I
love photography. I appreciate
the technical aspects that go into
creating an image. In high school,
I took an intro to photography
class. I learned how to load film
into an SLR camera and develop
pictures in a darkroom. We also
dabbled in digital SLR cameras,
which would seem less difficult
but nonetheless require some
essential "know-how" - you still
have to understand the way light
can be manipulated.
And I appreciate the power
that photography can have. When
I was in Washington D.C. last
year, I visited the Newseum, a
fantastic museum dedicated to
the history of journalism. One of
the exhibits displayed a collec-
tion of Pulitzer Prize-winning
photographs. My family and
I spent a large chunk of time
wandering through the gallery,
and I was shocked at the emo-
tions I felt looking at some of the
images. Maybe it was the scale
of the prints (many were HUGE)
and the concentration of all these
famous photographs that made
the experience so intense, butI
walked out of that gallery affect-
ed. It's weird for me to think that
a representation of something can
have the same effect on me as a

concret
Yet, d
for phot
issues w
my first
when I'
school a
for the f
them do
"Self, w
camera
front of
Europe.
pid tour
accepte
take go(
friends,
shots th
postcar
But t
my trip
took mo
tures ds
were in
in front
exampl
I
of her a
face. An
the exa
ways! 0
hair thi
one wit
It bothe
out of r
and, ins
tiple du
mornin,
memor
It ma
to me. I
Europe
every si
ence. ER
can beu
and tha
raphy ft
mentini
was cre,

e, 3-D object. she didn't have. Her European
lespite all this appreciation experience was taking pictures of
:ography, I still have some herself in front of famous things.
rith it. My parents gave me And that's really sad.
non-disposable camera So, getting back to my friends
was a sophomore in high and their insistence that we
bout to travel to Europe need to "document" our friend-
irst time. At first, I turned ship. My retaliation was always,
wn. I thought to myself, "We are friends. Let's just be
hat could I possibly use a friends. Why do we need to
for? I'd rather not pose in document that? We know it's
every noteworthy thing in happening and we'll remember
I don't want to be a stu- the good things for a while." I
ist." But I'm glad I finally was wary that "documenting
A the camera. It was fun to our friendship" would turn into
ofy pictures of me and my taking-pictures-of-us-every-
and I took some beautiful single-time-we-go-out-or-do-
at wouldn't be found on anything-equally-insignificant
ds. - a Facebook-fueled epidemic. I
here was this one girl on had seen the dark side of photog-
(there's always one) who raphy, and in no way did I want
re than a thousand pic- something super important to
iring the seven days we me to be compromised. I did not
Europe. She would stand want my friendships to be turned
of the Eiffel Tower, for into a false experience.
e, hold the camera in front So I avoided it. Looking back,
I missed documenting some
important events. There are no
pictures from my birthday last
will break year or my first day of classes as a
freshman. With my friends' nag-
)ur camera. ging in mind, as well as a bit of
my own regret, I reconsidered my
annoyance with photography for
nd snap a picture of her this year's Halloween festivities.
id then, she would take I volunteered to take pictures of
ct same picture different me and my friends in our cos-
ne smiling, one with her tumes. And I have to say, it wasn't
s way, one straight-faced, the awful experience I had been
h her hair that way, etc. dreading. I realized something
red me. She even ran that I knew all along - there is a
oom on a memory card balance. It doesn't have to be pho-
tead of deleting the mul- tography or no photography. You
plicates, spent an entire can still experience something
g searching for another even while taking two seconds to
y card. snap a shot.
de absolutely no sense Too bad I forgot the camera
would rather experience cord at home and can't download
than try to document the pics to my computer. Have
ngle facet of my experi- fun waiting for the memories,
verything in this world Elana and Kelsey!

FILM REVIEW
COURTES OF PARAMOUNT VINTAGE
She sees 32 colors. He sees 32 flavors.
e documentary of steel

Guggenheim explores
the ills of the public
education system,
By CARLY STEINBERGER
Daily Arts Writer
We've heard it from count-
less politicians: Public education
in America is
a disgrace. Yet
most of us don't
understand Waitingfor
exactly what's S r
wrong with it.
Filmmaker At the Michigan
Davis Guggen- Paramount Vintage
heim ("An Incon-
venient Truth")
delves deeper than political rhetoric
and begins to explore our ruined
education system in the documen-
tary "Waiting for'Superman'."
The film is an overwhelming suc-
cess. While it can't address all the
complexities and failures of pub-
lic education in a little under two
hours, it gives a solid introduction.
Guggenheim provides astound-
ing statistics, demonstrating just
how dire the situation is. It's unbe-
lievable, for instance, that only 12

percent of eighth graders in Wash-
ington D.C. read at a proficient
level. or that among 30 developed
countries, American students rank
21st in science and 25th in math.
The film features inspiring edu-
cation reformers and activists who
show us that change is possible,
but not without great difficulty.
Michelle Rhee, the recently resigned
chancellor of the D.C. public school
system, is faced with obstacles, like
her inability to fire bad teachers with
tenure. Geoffrey Canada, founder of
several successful charter schools,
shows that students from impover-
ished urban areas can achieve high
marks, provided they have the right
environment.
But Guggenheim's choice to
focus on the stories of children
struggling to get a decent education
proves tobe the most effective way
of getting his point across.
Guggenheim is no novice; he rec-
ognizes that individual stories are
much more likely to pull at heart-
strings than statistics. We feel for
Daisy, a fifth grader in Los Angeles
with big dreams of becoming a doc-
tor. If forced to go to a failing mid-
dle school, Daisy most likely will
never achieve those goals. We feel
for Francisco, a first grader attend-

ing public school in the Bronx, who
goes to a private reading tutor due
to the lack of attention he gets in
school. Guggenheim features three
other children whose families
share the discontent with the public
school system. Each of these fami-
lies hope to enroll their children in a
successful charter school, yet their
fate will be decided by a lottery.
While the tales of these chil-
dren may be dramatic, it's their
truth that makes them both heart-
breaking and compelling. We get
the sense that Guggenheim didn't
have to dig too hard to uncover
these stories. It's this blatant, pure
truth, this lack of sensationalism,
that gives the film its strength. It's
certainly not like Michael Moore's
documentaries, which, though they
focus on pertinent issues, feel a bit
contrived. Moore goes to exhaust-
ing measures to get the answers he
wants out of people and ultimately
prove his point. With Guggenheim,
the whole process feels natural.
The documentary's sole weak-
ness is minute - "Waiting for
'Superman' " depicts charter
schools as flawless. It does causally
mention that many charter schools
offer as bad of an education as reg-
ular public schools, yet it should
have made this point clearer and
more prominent. Also, the film ide-
ally should have focused on other
types of effective schools - per-
haps one of the renowned magnet
schools in New York. Or a public
school that transcends conflicting
federal and state education policy,
or one with an abundance of com-
mitted teachers.
Nevertheless, "Waiting for
'Superman' " is a film that every
American citizen should see. It
inspires us all to step into the role
of "Superman," campaigning for
change and saving future genera-
tions from poor education.

ised for good or for evil,
it girl was using photog-
sr evil. She wasn't "docu-
g" her experience, she
ating an experience that

Burgin is trying to pick her
MySpace profile pic. To tell
her MySpace sucks, e-mail
Irburgin@umich.edu.

---------------

ARE YOU INTO IT? JOIN DAILY ARTS.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for information on applying.

0

A


~---~-~


0

0.

0

8B Tpoff/ TuesdyNovember2 2010

HOOSIERS
From Page 5B
Like Stu, Zack spent last summer
reworking his shot into a more com-
pact style and prepared himself to
return as a starting guard, which for
at least one Big Ten big man, is a posi-
tive thing.
"He's always feisty, you know, he's
always battling for rebounds. On film,
fhey always talk about how every year
he's got a couple rebounds over me.
My coach makes fun of me about it,"
Illinois forward Mike Davis, who has
five inches on Zack, said of Zack's play.
"He pushes you and he fights you. He
plays better than he is."
And in Chesterton, the bars pay
for the Big Ten Network so they can
watch Zack play on TV. Kids ask Pel-
jer, what do I need to do to be as good
as Zack?
His response: You've always got to
try to be better than you are.
It's not as though
Stu and Zack are the first to come
from Indiana. And while being a
Hoosier separates them from others
in some ways - they're not the kids
who grew up playing in the streets of
enormous cities - in a much bigger
way, being a Hoosier bonds them to
those who came before them and led
as great players and coaches.
Players like Larry Bird, who grew up
in rural Indiana, playing on unpaved
driveways, shooting baskets when
the rim was crooked and attached to
a garage. A man who faced adversity
only to become known as one of the
greatest shooters ever in the NBA.
Stu and Zack grew up during the
Michael Jordan/Larry Bird era,
where finesse faced off against hard-
nosed play. Michael Jordan was the
epitome of flashy court play. Bird was

never that, he never jumped the high-
est or ran the fastest. His photos don't
appear on any kind of brand names,
but his blue-collar work ethic made
him one of the most recognizable ath-
letes, and men, of his time.
And by the time Larry Bird left for
the East Coast in 1978, a new face had
taken over Indiana basketball and
what it stood for.
While Bobby Knight was an Ohio
native, he embodied the passion and
drive - in his early years - that Hoo-
sier basketball desired to be. He was
"The General," a man who demanded
perfection.
But most important, they come
from the home of the late John Wood-
en. A man who revolutionized what
it meant to be a collegiate basketball
coach - a man who held true to his
Indiana values when he was in the
middle of Los Angeles.
He told his players: Be more con-
cerned with your character than your
reputation, because your character is
what you really are, while your repu-
tation is merely what others think you
are.
And for Zack and Stu, maybe the
whispers remind them of that. The
whispers they hear every summer
when they return home. When their
parents and coaches tell them that a
young kid asked about them or they
realize just how far they've made it,
how their dream of playing Big Ten
basketball seemed so far away such a
short time ago.
It is this humility and passion that
will, like their Hoosier background,
bind them and separate them from the
leaders wrho have come before them in
Crisler Arena.
As freshmen they watched and
learned from C.J. Lee as he took
a team that had finished 10-22 in
the previous year and led them to
unthinkable heights. Lee was not the
prolific scorer, averaging less than 2
points a game that year. But his pres-
ence was an undeniable force that led

that team to a place they could not
have reached.
"They have a chip on their shoul-
ders," Beilein said. "I don't think
there's any doubt both of them came
here t6 prove that they could help us
win at the University of Michigan."
In an arena where so much weight
is put into the wins and losses, a young
team will be led by two young men
who have seen what basketball has
done in their lives and their home-
towns. They've changed where they
came from and seen how single play-
ers have changed Michigan.
When Zack entered
high school, Chesterton had won two
sectional championships in 50 years.
According to Peller, Zack's perfor-
mance during the years, on and off the
court, changed all of that.
"He helped elevate everybody's
perception of basketball around
here," Peller said. "It was an exciting
time around here and we hadn't had
that. Besides being a good leader on
the floor, he was an example to a lot
of the younger kids. He just elevated
the game."
And in the Carmel High School
locker room there's a framed 8x1O
portrait of Stu in one of his first games
at Michigan. It's one of the last things
the players see before they walk out
on the court that Stu once ruled.
And so the whispers continue to get
louder as the season approaches.
The Big Ten will be the strongest
conference in the country. Michigan
is young and inexperienced. The Wol-
verines will be the underdog in almost
every game.
Stu and Zack aren'tgoingto say any-
thing. They're one step ahead of you.
They smirk. The whispers they want
heard are the ones they carry with
them from Carmel and Chesterton.
Let the whispers of the underdog
persist, they say. A whispering dog
still bites.

FILE PHOTO/Daily
Junior guard Stu Douglass has been known to show up in high-pressure games for the
Wolverines in his two years on the team.

Junior guard StuDouglass was told by his high school coach that he couldn't play at Michigan. After two years Junior guard Zack Novak was the third-leading scorer in the state of Indiana in his senior year of high school and
as a Wolverine, Douglass is expected to be one of Michigan's leaders. has the most points in Chesterton High School history.




0

0

Tuesday Novembe , 2 20 // The Michigan Daily 7B
The basketball season is right around the corner and the Big Ten
- like last year - seems to be the deepest and most competi-
tive conference in the nation. It boasts four teams in the AP Top
25, and two more that received votes. Michigan will look to garner
wins in a conference in which nearly anyone can come out on top should be low but
this year (perhaps anyone but the Wolverines).
Below are the five Big Ten contenders that are predicted to make h ef ih i eli
a run in the NCAA Tournament.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
BLAKE'S BULKING UP: With the absence of any proven big
men, Blake McLimans will try this season to show that he's
ready to step up.
4 TWO HOOSIERS AND A WHISPER: In Indiana, the land of
basketball giants, how Zack Novak and Stu Douglass became
Wolverines.
BIG TEN PREVIEW: We break down every Big Ten team's odds
of making it to the Tournament, identify crucial players and
weigh in on what Michigan will have to do to beat them.
PUT FAITH IN BEILEIN: Ben Estes admits that Michigan's bas-
7m ketball team probably won't be good this year. But that doesn't
mean you should lose your faith.

It's Beilein's fourth year in Wolverine territory and he
faces the daunting task of turning a bunch of young guys
into Big Ten players. He's proven himself as a coach who
turns things around before. But can he replace the talent of
Manny Harris and Deshawn Sims?
Daily Basketball Beat
Ben Estes, Chantel Jennings, Luke Pasch, Zak Pyzik
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. Year Hometown
0 Zack Novak G 6-4 210 Jr. Chesterton, Ind.
1 Stu Douglass G 6-3 190 Jr. Carmel, Ind.
2 Jordan Dumars G 6-5 220 So. Detroit, Mich.
4 Darius Morris G 6-4 190 So. Los Angeles, Calif.
5 Eso Akunne G 6-3 220 So. Ann Arbor, Mich.
10 Tim Hardaway, Jr. G 6-5 185 Fr. Miami, Fla.
13 Matt Vogrich G 6-4 190 So. Lake Forest, Ill.
15 Jon Horford F 6-9 220 Fr. Grand Ledge, Mich.
20 Josh Bartelstein G 6-2 205 So. Highland Park, Ill.
22 Blake McLimans F 6-10 240 RS Fr. Hamburg, N.Y.
23 Evan Smotrycz F 6-9 225 Fr. Reading, Mass.
32 Corey Person G 6-3 200 RS So. Kalamazoo, Mich.
45 Colton Christian F 6-6 215 Fr. Bellevue, Wash.
52 Jordan Morgan F 6-8 240 RS Fr. Detroit, Mich.

Purdue
Boilerakers
First Matchup:
In Ann Aror,
* December
28, 2 p.m.
It uses the talent that it has (which is arguably
the best in the country). So the Boilermakers lost
senior forward Robbie Hummel to an ACL tear.
The Wolverines lost Ben Cronin and they're dealing
with it; injuries happen. And though Hummel is a
tad bit better, an injury is an injury. Purdue still has
two of the five preseason all-conference team play-
ers - seniors JaJuan Johnson and E'Twaun Moore.
Johnson and Moore, along with Hummel, were pre-
dicted by many to lead the No. 1 team in the con-
ference prior to Hummel's tear. But after the injury,
Michigan State and Ohio State leapfrogged the
Boilermakers. With six upperclassmen, the Boiler-
makers should be just fine come tournament time.
To unranked teams in the Big Ten. It is necessary
for Purdue to beat everyone that it's expected to
beat because it's unlikely that it will win the games
it's not supposed to win. For instance, Purdue
dropped both contests to Michigan State last year
by an accumulative 21 points and split with Ohio
State. Since Purdue is returning essentially the
same team minus Hummel, it's likely that the Boil-
ermakers will have ddjA vu, unless they get their act
together and just beat the eight teams they're sup-
posed to be better than. It's simple, but genuine.
Purdue plays sloppy. More specifically, Boiler-
maker coach Matt Painter said at Media Day that
the team struggles to rebound. Painter said that if
his squad doesn't rebound well then teams at the
bottom of the pack like Michigan and Penn State
might have a chance to pull off the upset. It doesn't
seem likely that the Boilermakers will have issues
treating Michigan like a younger sister, especially
since Michigan is pretty short compared to the five
Purdue players that clock in at six-foot-eight or
greater. Then again, it gives the Wolverine faithful
some hope.

BY ZAK PYZIK |DAILY SPORTS WRITER
Wisconsin
Badgers
First Matchup:
In Madison,
January 5,
8:30 p.m.
Coach Bo Ryan has anything to say about it.
Ryan is entering his loth season as the Badgers'
coach, and he joined the 600-win club after defeat-
ing Wofford in last year's NCAA tournament. Ryan
has won 71 percent of his games in the Big Ten -
better than any other coach in the conference. He is
the second-fastest coach in history to reach 100 Big
Ten wins after collecting that third digit against
Indiana last year. Ryan's basketball genius in addi-
tion to a Badger roster of six seniors should get the
job done in the conference. Also, given an easy out-
of-conerfence schedule, it looks like Wisconsin is
en route to its 10th tournament appearance under
Ryan. (Yes, you read that correctly. Every year).
At home. That's Wisconsin's strength. The Kohl
Center in Madison is arguably the most difficult
road venue in the conference. Wisconsin has won
93 percent of its home games under Ryan - a total
record ofe136-11. If Wisconsin can win15-plus home
games as it's done this entire decade, then it is very
likely the Badgers will be fine. But if they let their
home dominance slip from underneath them, the
veterans may find themselves ina situation they've
never been in before. Ultimately, don't count on
Wisconsin blowing it at home this season.
Dr. Emmett Brown of Back to the Future builds
a modern time machine that can take the Wolver-
ines' 12 freshmen and sophomores and make them
seniors. Maybe then they'll be ready. Michigan
was actually really close last year to pulling off the
upset. In the Wolverines' matchup against Wiscon-
sin in Madison, Michigan lost just 54-48. That's
kind of close. And in that game, the Wolverines
looked good. Manny Harris and DeShawn Sims
racked up 34 of the 48 total points. Maybe they'll do
the same thing this year. Oh no, wait ...

J

Center spread design by Maureen Stych
Cover photo by Sam Wolson

STAFF PICKS
The Daily basketball
writers do their best
to predict what will
happen in the world of
college basketball this
season.

"He's always going to have things that
you weren't prepared for, so you almost
have to put yourself in his head.... there's
a little bit different angst in your stom-
ach when you're coaching against him.
There's no doubt about it."
hen Indiana coach Tom
Crean said this at Big Ten
Media Day, he wasn't talk-
ing about esteemed
Michigan State
coach Tom Izzo, the
coach of six Final
Four teams, nor was
he referring to other
household coach-
ing names like Ohio
State's Thad Matta,
or Minnesota's
Tubby Smith. BEN
He wasn't even ESTES
referring to coach-
ing against tough
Big Ten players as
Spartans guard Kalin Lucas, who was
chosen as the conference's Preseason
Player of the Year for the second
straight season, or other stars like Pur-
due center JuJuan Johnson and Illinois
guard Demetri McCamey.
No, Crean was talking about a man
set to lead a team that is nothing more
than an afterthought in most analysts'
minds for the upcoming basketball sea-
son: John Beilein.
Everyone has the same question
for the Wolverines as they are set to
embark on what almost promises to be
a rough year: how is Michigan, which
lost its two best players, supposed to
outperform last year's disappointing
15-17 team?
If the Wolverines couldn't compete
in the Big Ten with all-conference ath-
letes like Manny Harris and DeShawn
Sims, how are they supposed to do bet-
ter without them?
The short answer is simply that they
won't.
It's a harsh reality, but it's a reality
nonetheless. The Wolverines are too
inexperienced and too unskilled (at
least in terms of veteran talent) to real-
istically compete for an NCAA berth.
Even the NIT could be a stretch as far
as any possibility of postseason play.
It's never a good thing for a teamto
not have any seniors, and in Michigan's
case, even the two upperclassmen they
do have - juniors Stu Douglass and
Zack Novak - certainly aren't, by defi-
nition, stars.
The Wolverines will be forced to rely
on many players who haven't played
in a single collegiate basketball game.
Beilein has already said that all six of
his true and redshirt freshmen will get
significant playing time, and at least
two will likely be in the starting lineup.
All in all, those yearning for the days

of the Fab Five or even the 2008-09
NCAA tournament team will have to
wait at least another season.
But it won't be all doom and gloom
for this team. There's a refreshing
energy surrounding this group of play-
ers. They will tell you that chemistry
problems on last year's squad are over-
blown, but it's clear that this team is
much tighter and more cohesive than
the last edition - perhaps the only bers-
efit of losing Harris, who didn't always
seem to buy in to the "team concept."
And the fact that they are young
and that they won't know any better
could actually be a positive - they
aren't experienced enough to realize
that they're "supposed" to lose games.
They'll make plenty of mistakes, sure,
but it won't stop them from getting
right back up and fighting some more.-
Most important, Michigan has
Beilein. The coach enters his 33rd season
as a head man for a reason - as Crean
and all his other peers have recognized,
Beilein's ahell of a coach. Despite the
struggles of his first and third seasons
in Ann Arbor, his overall track record
speaks for itself, and now the team is
finally made up of his own players.
Beilein - "the wizard of college
basketball," according to Illinois coach
Bruce Weber - is widely regarded as
a great teacher, and this season he has
the ultimate group of pupils: young and
inexperienced, but ready, willing and
determined to learn.
The mistakes will be copious, but
so will be the improvement. Make no
mistake, these youngsters are talented
- freshman guard Tim Hardaway Jr.
might even already be the Wolverines'
best player - and they'll show their
potential plenty of times.
The Big Ten is as strong as it's ever
been, but Michigan will be scrappy
enough to compete with everyone
it plays, especially considering how
sophisticated Beilein's schemes are.
The Wolverines may be at least a year
away, but they'll progress closer to
where they need to be much more than
most think as the season unfolds.
So don't expect excellence. Don't
expect the Wolverines to threaten for
a conference title, and don't expect a
miracle run to the Big Dance. Expect
poor play at times, perhaps a lot of the-
time.
But also expect plenty of improve-
ment. Expect Michigan to get as much
out of its ability as humanly possible.
Expect that by the time March rolls
around, this team and program will be
in a much better place.
And if you expect that these Wolver-
ines won't play inspired, expect to be
surprised.
-Estes can be reached at
benestesumich.edu

Bien Chantel
Estes Jennings

LUKe dK
Pasch Pyzik

Michigan regular season record 13-18 16-15 14-17 17-14
BigTen Champion Michigan State Michigan State Illinois Michigan State
Big Ten second place Illinois Illinois Michigan State Purdue
Big Ten third place Ohio State Furdue Ohio State Wisconsin
Michigan finish 9th 7th 8th 7th
Ohio Slate Iino no Illinois
SBig Ten MVP Demetri McCamey, Illinois Kahin Lucas, Michigan State McCamey Lucas
Bg T h of th Tom Izzo Izzo Bruce Weber Tom Crean
Big Ten surprise team Indiana Minnesota Minnesota Penn State
Michigan MVP Zack Novak Tim Hardaway Jr. Novak Hardaway Jr.
National playerof the year Jacob Pllen, Kansas State Kyle Singler, Duke Fallen Singlet
Mchigan' season ends here CI st roundI 2nd round CBI Quarterfinas NIT 2nd round
NCAA "Bracket Buster" Murray State BYU Old Dominion Cornell
NCAA Final Four Pitt Michigan State Duke Duke
Michigan State Pitt Michigan State Michigan State
Florida Duke Illinois Purdue
Illinois Baylor Kansas State Cornell

IOWA MINNESOTA
The Hawkeyes are in trouble. Iowa's roster has just Assuming that senior captain Al Nolen remains stu-
two seniors. T.J. Sayre is a walk-on who has almost no dious, the Golden Gophers should finish better than
game experience, but forward Jarryd Cole could possi- last season. Nolen missed the final 17 games of the
bly help Iowa win some games. Last year, Cole averaged 2009-10 season because of academic ineligibility. So
eight points and five rebounds a game. His presence in long as there are no surprises, he will start when he
the post can only help the Hawkweyes in conference returns. According to coach Tubby Smith at Big Ten
play, but don't expect any miracle out of Iowa - it's in Media Day, Nolen's ball handling skills and defensive
a rebuilding phase. On the bright side, the Hawkeyes patience have improved. Smith also commented that
should be a contender in 2012. They have six true fresh- Nolen has matured. With his skill and leadership, he
men just waiting for their chance to play. is a serious threat.


0.


0

0.

BIG TEN BASKETBALL
PREVIEW

Tueday I.oveber2, 010 / Te-iciganD 3B E

Bulked-up Blake McLimans
ready for Big Ten spotlight

THIS TEAM
WILL
MAKE THE
TOURNAMENT
THEY CAN'T
AFFORD TO
LOSE...:
M ICHIGAN 
CAN UPSET
IF....

Michigan St.
Spartans
First Matchup:
In East Lan-
singJanuary
27, 7 p.m.
Hell doesn't freeze over and a meteor doesn'
Earth. But all jokes aside, Spartan coach TomI
isn't only trying to make his 14th straight tou
ment appearance at the helm of Michigan State
is looking to win it all this year. Senior guard K
Lucas was chosen as the Big Ten Preseason Pl
of the Year. It will be no surprise if the Spart
win their seventh Big Ten Championship un
Izzo and advance to the Final Four again, butI
time they won't lose to Butler ... well, Michi
State fans are hoping they won't lose to Butler.
Lucas... again. The star guard is too clutc
a player for the Spartans to play without. Li
ruptured his Achilles tendon in March and,
sidelined for five months. The injury causedI
to miss the remainder of the season, and no
truly knows if he'll be 100 percent come g:
time against Saginaw Valley State... Maybe Lu
being just 99 percent will spark a Cardinal up
Though I don't see that happening any time be
the Michigan football team posts a shutout, Li
is a player that the Spartans seriously do not w
warming the bench.
The Wolverines lower the rims to throw
Michigan State's shots. And even then it's a stre
But last year, the Wolverines did throw the SI
tans for a loop. Michigan dropped its riv
matchup, 57-56, in a thriller at Crisler Arena.Y
even though the chances of that happening ai
are slim, junior Zack Novak said at MediaI
that we shouldn't be surprised if this team p
off some upsets. Novak said that the squad's in
ligence could overcome its lack of athleticism
games against teams like Michigan State.'
extra IQ points probably won't help the Wolver
too much when they tip off against Little Brot
But with team chemistry, they may hang in th

I

ON* State
Buckeyes
First Matchup:
In Ann Arbor,
U gJanuary'12,
6:30p.m.
t hit Someone can step up and replace the leadership
zzo of last year's Big Ten Player of the Year Evan Turn-
rna- er. Though the Buckeyes have exceptional talent,
;he whether they will have the leadership necessary
alin to replace the nation's most reliable go-to-guy is
ayer unclear. That guy could be senior Jon Diebler, who
ans drains 42 percent of his threes. If Diebler remains a
ider consistent shooter, the Buckeyes will be one of the
this most versatile teams in the Big Ten. With post play-
gan ers like Dallas Lauderdale and freshman Jared Sull-
inger, the Buckeyes could be downright scary. Solid
big men and consistent shooting will be the key for
Ohio State.
h of Fifth-year senior David Lighty. The guard missed
tcas most of the 2009-10 season because of a broken bone
was in his right foot and then missed most of the offsea-
him son after re-injuring the same bone. But Ohio State
one says that Lighty should be ready to play in the Buck-
ame eyes' first game. Lighty will be one of the many can-
icas didates to fill Turner's shoes, both as a leader and
iset. running the point. For 10 seasons, Buckeye coach
fore Thad Matta has guided his team to at least 20 wins,
ucas and Lighty has been there for four of them. He has
rant the most familiarity in Matta's offensive scheme
and is the oldest player onthe team. If Lighty doesn't
play, the Buckeyes will have about the same chances
of making the Final Four as Boise State does making
the National Championship game.
off it uses its athleticism. The Wolverines aren't the
tch. most experienced or the most athletic guys on the
par- court. However, Michigan is faster than the mam-
alry moth post players Ohio State will attempt to use to
And its advantage all season. Besides those post players,
gain the Buckeyes need Lighty and junior Nikkola Kec-
Day man to run the hardwood. But Lighty missed a ton
'ulls of time in the offseason and Kecman is out indefi-
tel- nitely after tearing his ACL in June. If those inju-
a in ries continue, Ohio State may have to start women's
The basketball senior Jantel Lavender. She won Big Ten
ines Player of the Year for the 2009-10 season and Mich-
-her. igan doesn't have the physicality to keep up.
ere.
PENN STATE
Some call them the Nittany Lions and some call them
Talor Battle. The senior guard returns for one more year ac
in an attempt to regain the pride that the entire Penn co
State team lost last year. After winning just three Big Ten tic
games in the 2009-10 season, two of which came against ye
Northwestern and one against Michigan, Battle and four Do
other seniors make up a dark horse in the conference. gl,
Remember, they did win the NIT just two years ago, and pr
the roster still has seven players who were there during w
that era. Maybe the Nittany Lions will rebound. tri


Iinois
Fighting Illini
First Matchup:
in Champagne,
February 16,
7:3 0 p.m.
There is any justice in the world. Seniors Deme-
tri McCamey and Mike Davis are two of the most
prolific players in the conference. Davis was the
2009-10 leading Big Ten rebounder after collect-
ing nine boards per game, and McCamey was on
last year's all-conference team and led Illinois in
scoring, averaging 15 points per game. Together
the two work as the sickest duo since Kobe and
Shaq. Not to mention that Illinois coach Bruce
Weber is in his seventh year and is one of the many
Big Ten teams known to blow up brackets come
March.
Mr. McCamey. There is nothing more valuable
to Illinois than its all-star guard. McCamey is in
contention with Lucas in for the Big Ten Player
of the Year award. But unlike Lucas, McCamey
seems to be as healthy as ever. As last year's team
MVP and this years team captain, McCamey will
need to be the go-to guy for Illinois. He needs tobe
the backstop for the Fighting Illini. Secondly, Illi-
nois can't lose its new defensive mentality. Weber
has preached nothing but 'D' throughout the
offseason to avoid another 11-game slide, which
caused the Illini to miss the Big Dance last season.
The 1-3-1 works. If the Wolverines' aggressive
defense can slow down a very fast-paced Illinois
offense, Michigan has a shot. Last year, Michigan
lost 51-44. But a number worse than the score was
the rebound ratio. The Illini out-rebounded the
Wolverines 50-35. Even with-that, Michigan kept
it close by forcing 17 turnovers. That's the defense
upon which the Wolverines must capitalize if they
are going to upset the 13th-ranked tean in the
country, and that's if those turnovers can be con-
verted into points - something that Beilein has
noted as a weakness of last year's team.
INDIANA
At Big Ten Media Day, Hoosier coach Tom Crean
knowledged how difficult it is to play against a "Beilein-
'ached" team. But Crean's sincerity has reason tobe ques-
oned, as few teams struggled against the Wolverines last
ar. Also, Crean has a competent leader in junior guard
aniel Moore, who played alongside Michigan's Stu Dou-
ass in high school. Moore put up 18 points in the team's
eseason scrimmage, and he should be a force to reckon
ith in conference play. In the end, it may not matter how
icky Beilein's scheme is. Crean has his card.

By LUKE PASCH
DailySports Writer
Take one look at Michigan's depth
chart, specifically the big men down
low, and try not to shudder.
It's an uneasy truth for Michi-
gan fans: the Wolverines' frontcourt
options are downright inexperienced.
There are just five of them, none of
whom has stepped on the hardwood
at the collegiate level. And those
five - two redshirt freshmen and
three true freshmen - will match up
against some of the most formidable
low-post talent in the nation.
The team's depletion of big bod-
ies obviously wasn't planned. The
coaching staff couldn't have antici-
pated the career-ending hip surgery
that seven-footer Ben Cronin under-
went prior to last season, nor the
abysmal all-around performance of
last year's squad, which eventually
nudged Manny Harris toward the
NBA a year early.
Still, Michigan coach John Beilein
doesn't appear overly concerned
without an established force down
low to start the season. His hope
is that at least one player from this
humble coalition of forwards will
grow up quickly to become a reliable
body in the frontcourt.
And he may just find his go-to guy
in redshirt freshman Blake McLi-
mans, a 6-foot-tO power forward
from Worcester, Massachusetts.
When McLimans was recruited,
he had nearly all the qualities of an

elite Division-I forward - he worked
the post effectively, floated to the
perimeter to drain mid-range jump-
ers and the occasional three-pointer
and averaged a remarkable nine
rebounds and five blocked shots per
game at Hamburg H.S. in New York
(where he played for three years
before moving to Worcester).
He resembled a young Dirk Nowit-
zki.
"Dirk's obviously my favorite
player," McLimans said last month.
"I guess I can see myself playing like
him, working the inside and outside.
I've played a few three-on-three
tournaments in Buffalo, and people
called me Dirk's brother."
But there was one significant dif-
ference between McLimans and
Nowitzki - bulk.
When McLimans arrived on cam-
pus in 2009, he weighed in at a mere
215 pounds. Scouts labeled him skin-
ny, lanky and awkward - not the
typical adjectives used to describe a
future starter in the Big Ten. Small-
framed bodies wouldn't bode well
against such premier forces down
low as Purdue's JaJuan Johnson,
Michigan State's Draymond Green
and Illinois's Mike Tisdale.
But after a year of matching up
against All-Big Ten stars in Har-
ris and DeShawn Sims every prac-
tice and a grueling offseason during
which he put on nearly 25 pounds of
muscle, McLimans may be ready for
those key matchups.
"Blake's made great strides,"

Beilein said at Big Ten Media Day in
Chicago last Thursday. "He's getting
the body of a 6-foot-10 center in the
Big Ten. (He) still has not had enough
experience with the lights on for us
really to know what to expect ... but
he's got a really nice outside shot that
could help us spread the floor."
And to complement his shot,
McLimans will be paired with a solid
talent underneath in Detroit-native
Jordan Morgan, a 6-foot-8, 240-
pound redshirt freshman who aver-
aged more than 10 rebounds a game
in high school.
Morgan will be expected to make
his presence felt in the key when
McLimans drifts outside.
"Jordan and I go at it in practice
every day," McLimans said. "He
makes me better, and I make him bet-
ter. Even though we're competing for
time, we definitely encourage each
other because it's all about the team."
It seems like a perfect match for
the Beilein system which puts a high
premium on shooting - Morgan will
flex his muscles in the paint, allow-
ing McLimans to show off his out-
side shot, as well as some finesse in
the post.
That's at least the ideal scenario
for the Wolverines. With such a
young corps of forwards, nobody -
not even the coaching staff - can
offer a confident prediction of what
will work and what wont.
But early on, don't be surprised
if it's the relatively unknown McLi-
mans who starts turning heads.

Want a free
i Pod shuffle?
Fill out the Daily's
housing survey
for a chance to win
(off-campus residents only)
www.michigandaily.com/housing-survey

NORTHWESTERN

o specific
er, the Daily
esses the
ngths and
aknesses of
remaining
Ten teams.

Kevin Coble - the Wildcats' leading scorer for three
years - quit the team this July, and he will not suit up for
his fifth-year senior season. Coble gave Northwestern its
best shot to make its first tournament in school history.
Now', Coach Bill Carmody is back at square one without
a definitive leader, But don't count the Wildcats out quite
yet. Junior forward John Shurna returns after earning
All-Big Ten Second Team honors last year. Shurna set the
program record for points in a season with 619 in 2009-10,
and looks to score even more this year.

Redshirt freshman Blake McLimans is expected to establish his position in both the post and along the periweter this season



AlfA AM6 Amok -,&&

S

S


I

u

A constant
whisper once
surrounded
talented
hi h school
across the
country.
It was the whisper of expectations and
dreams for a community. Those whispers
acted as a blanket in the tough reality of a
world: We are here for you.
That whisper was drowned out by pro-
fessional athletes and by competitive trav-
eling sports teams. Suddenly it was not as
important for athletes to take their commu-
nity with them. The idea of community was
lost and with it, the whisper.
But in Indiana that whisper lives on. It
charges through the rows of golden corn
and bounds off the new high tech build-
ings those cornstalks back up to in the cit-
ies until it resonates and roars, filling the
spaces that most people allow silence to fill.
In his 1997 book 'Where the Game Mat-
ters Most,' William Gildea wrote that Indi-
ana high school basketball "is as universal
as the freight whistle there."
"The game binds people and places,"
Gildea wrote. "They're all Hoosiers."
And in the Indiana towns of Carmel and
Chesterton that whisper is as loud as Bobby
Knight was fierce. It fills newspapers and
feeds coffee talk from town to town.
In Carmel's massive gymnasiums,
12-year-olds shoot with one thought in
their heads.
I want to shoot like Stu Douglass.
And 160 miles northwest in Chesterton,
the city still knows Zack Novak simply as
Zack - there's no need for last names of
high school stars who started signing auto-
graphs as freshmen in high school. Young
kids approach Novak's old coach and ask,
"What do I need to do to be as good as him?"
And while those whispers of Stu and
Zack in Indiana are murmuring votes of
confidence, the whispers in Big Ten basket-
ball circles concerning the Michigan bas-
ketball team are a defeatist inquiry: What
in the world are you going to be able to do this
year?
And for the team's two junior co-cap-
tains: Where are yougoingto lead this team?
They smirk. They're one step ahead of
you. You don't have to talk about the low
expectations most have for this team or the
fact that they, as juniors, are the oldest and
most experienced players this year.
Because it doesn't matter. They know
that and they've moved past it.
Both have been the underdog before.
They know what it feels like to be over-

looked, and they refuse to be rattled by the
expectations of others. Rather, they'd love
to silence the critics and allow those Indi-
ana whispers to travel a little farther north.
We're standing in the
tunnel of Crisler Arena when Stu asks me
whether I know how to start this story.
Absolutely not, I tell him.
He throws back his head, laughs and
tells me he has the perfect start for the
story.
Would that work? He asks me with a
crooked smile after telling me an inven-
tive tale that clearly could never be print-
ed.
Stu is the one whose emotions are writ-
ten on his face, the one who smiles with
his eyes. His high school coach Mark Gal-
loway described him as a coach's dream
- he had an ability to set high goals and
against all odds, achieve them.
Whenever Stu wouldn't succeed Gallo-
way would tell him, "You can get bitter or
you can get better."
He would always get better. He always
pushed the envelope. He always stepped
back once more to see if he could hit the
shot when it was just a bit farther out.
But four years ago, before Stu signed
with Michigan, Galloway told Stu that
his goal of playing Big Ten basketball was
too big of a dream - he was too small, he
wasn't an IndianaAll-Star. Galloway was
all for Stu setting high goals but he want-
ed them to be realistic. Stu could settle
for a smaller Division II school or Har-
vard, which he had also visited, where
his talents would be of immediate impact.
Stu could understand where Galloway
was coming from. But when his mother
told him that he should set his sights
lower, he decided he had heard enough
from the "realists."
"I was like,'There is no question, Mom.
I'm playing at Michigan'," Stu tells me.
He had faced this kind of skepticism
before. After a less than impressive fresh-
man campaign on the varsity basketball
team at Hamilton Heights High School,
Stu's family moved and he transferred
to the affluent Carmel High School, one
of the best schools in the state, both aca-
demically and athletically, with a student
body of more than 4,000.
Galloway put him on the JV team his
sophomore year. By his junior year he'd
earned a starting spot on the varsity
squad, and when his senior year rolled
around, he was known across the confer-
ence as a kid whose shot was dangerous
anywhere past half court.
His freshman year at Michigan, Stu
started 23 games and unsurprisingly his
best stats in most categories came in the
biggest and most pressure-driven games
of that year. In a close loss to then-No. 1
Connecticut, Stu scored a career-high 20
points and was 6-for-8 on three pointers.

in a huge upset over then-No. 4 UCLA
at Madison Square Garden, Stu had five
assists and in the second round of the
NCAA Tournament he had five rebounds.
He showed up big when realists didn't
expect much of him, when the whispers
around Ann Arbor were dismissive, when
his team was the underdog.
"It's a position that I've grown to love,"
Stu says. "Especially freshman year, I
loved it, because of the opportunity it
gave us to surprise people and just with-
out any expectations - that's what Ilove,
that's how I love to play. My best teams
have been like that."
During this long offseason he spent
substantial time in the gymtrying to alle-
viate the pain of his sophomore year that
witnessed the struggle of streaky shoot-
ing. He spent time at the Champions
Academy in Zionsville, Ind. working out
alongside 2010 NBA draft picks Gordon
Hayward and Patrick Patterson on skill
and strength training.
Those who don't know Stu well may
wonder what his junior year will bring,
but not Galloway. He says he's never
coached a shooter like that, never had
the honor of having another player who
could create a shot for himself like Stu
could. And when Stu decides something,
you better not be in his way.
But the better person to ask would be
Galloway's 8-year-old son. He can be
found in the gym with Stu's style of baggy
shorts. Still, three years after the depar-
ture of the Carmel star, he continues to
watch reruns of Stu's senior season.
Why?
He wants to shoot like Stu.
I get off the highway
an start driving down a two-lane road
before turning right onto a small street
lined with houses and small businesses. A
sign points to the YMCA Building down the
road - a building resembling an old ware-
house.
Just blocks later I'm driving through
fields of corn that despite having died due
to the recent burst of cold air still continue
to feebly stand up against the desolate grey
sky. I pass a small church on my left before
coming upon an enormous athletic com-
plex.
The expansive practice and competi-
tion fields encroach on the cornfields sur-
rounding the school, but the corn probably
doesn'tmind. They were able to witness the
development of a player that changed the
way Chesterton loved basketball.
"What kind of a player was Zack?" I ask
Chesterton High School coach Tom Pel-
ler as we sit in his beautiful gymnasium
- another testament to the significance of
high school athletics in the state.
"He learned at an early age the most
important thing: how to compete and how
to compete the right way," Peller said. "Not

dirty, just play hard and play smart and do
it the right way. He didn't want to lose no
matter what it was - if we were playing a
little three-on-three game or if we were
playing Valparaiso in the championship."
Peller points to the corner of the stands
where Zack's dad, who was his first basket-
ball coach, sat at every game. He motions to
the sidelines and talks about the intensity
Zack brought to the bench when he, very
rarely, had to be there.
He tells of the summer before Zack's
freshman year of high school when he
approached Peller and asked: What do
I need to do to be a starter on the varsity
team in the fall?
Zack not only made the team but start-
ed as a freshman on varsity averaging
15.9 points a game and setting the Porter
County record for freshman scoring. Zack
quickly became well known and respected
on his team as both the best player and the
hardest worker.
"He may not have had the most talent
but he got the most out of his talent," Pel-
ler said. "It's just one of those stories where
you have a special kid and he worked to
maximize what he was given rather than
sit on his laurels."
Nearby Valparaiso University quickly
noticed Zack's talent and potential and
offered him a scholarship. He didn't com-
mit, but he also didn't not commit - he
wanted to wait longer to see if he would be
noticed by any Big Ten schools.
By his senior year he was averaging 26.9
points per game and had shattered Chester-
ton's all-time leadingscorer record by more
than 500 points. He was the third-highest
scorer in the state of Indiana that season.
But still, no offers, and when he decided
to accept Valparaiso's offer, it was no longer
available.
Valparaiso had given away the scholar-
ships to other players who committed more
quickly and told Zackthat he could play one
year as a walk-on and secure a scholarship
as a sophomore.
He considered walking away from his
dream of playing college basketball until
Tom Peller got a call from Michigan bas-
ketball coach John Beilein, who wanted to
see Zack play.
Beilein showed up at a Chesterton High
School practice one day and asked Zack to
take a step behind the three-point line and
shoot10 shots. He was on fire.
And near the beginning of Zack's senior
season of baseball, he signed on to play
Michigan basketball.
As a freshman he started asa two guard
before promptly moving to the four spot
where he's been ever since. He started the
final 22 games of the season and before his
freshman campaign ended, several coach-
es, includingthose at a few Big Ten schools,
approached Peller telling him what a mis-
take they'd made in overlookingthe 6-foot-
4 Indiana boy.
See HOOSIERS, Page 8B

,=


