Remember how Michigan
! football was supposed
to have a 'committee' of
running backs? It hasn't
worked out that way.
PAGE 5A

iC ipaYi 4,3at IV

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, October 28, 2010

rii.igiaiiaiiyAcori

ACADEMICS AND ATHLETICS
Michigan grad.
r rates in line
with national

0

Div. I average
According to NCAA data, the University's student-
athlete graduation rate is 75
data, 79 percent of percent, outpacing the national
average of 64 percent.
'student-athletes A recent University press
release boasted that the six-year
graduate in six years graduation rate for the entire
student body was 89.4 percent -
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN more than 30 percent higher than
Daily StaffReporter the national average for four-year
institutions, 'according to the
The National Collegiate Ath- University's statement.
letic Association released data The University's GSR rate of 79
yesterday on student-athlete percent, however, is equal to the
graduation rates, showing that 79 national Division 1 GSR rate for
percent of University of Michi- student-athletes.
gan student-athletes who entered In an interview last night,
thneUniversity between 2000 and Athletic Department spokesman
2003 graduated within six years David Ablauf said the Athletic
- a figure that is on par with the Department was pleased with
graduation rate for Division I the student-athlete graduation
schools nationwide. rate, but acknowledged they are
The NCAA uses its own for- always motivated to advance.
mula, known as the Graduation "(The Athletic Department)
Success Rate, to measure the always strives to improve. That's
rate of student-athlete gradua- the key objective," Ablauf said.
tion. The United States Depart- "We place. a high priority on
ment of Education, meanwhile; graduating out student-athletes.
uses its own model - the Federal The fact that we're at the nation-
Graduation Rate - to determine al average is good, butI think we
student-athlete graduation rates. always want to strive to do bet-
The NCAA figures, unlike the ter."
Department of Education ones, Student-athletes who entered
don't penalize schools when ath- college in 1998 were the first to
letes in good academic standing be measured using the GSR. The
transfer. So, typically, the GSR University's GSR peaked in 1999
rates are higher than the FGR at 87 percent. However, the data
rates. released yesterday is the first
According to the government See ATHLETES, Page 3A

University President Mary Sue Coleman talks with audience members during the question-and-answer session at her annual State of the University address yesterday.
Coleman: Officials working
to Cut,$120M Lout o udget

University president
also talks plans to
hire 50 new faculty
in State of'U' speech
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
University President Mary
Sue Coleman announced plans to
cut an additional $120 million in

annual recurring expenses from
the University's budget and dis-
cussed an initiative to hire 50 new
faculty mem-
bers as part
of her State of
the University
address yester-
day.
Speaking
before a crowd KYLE SWANSON
of University
administra- C tri the
tors, faculty, Admiirtio

staff and even afew students, Cole-
man also praised the academic
work of students on campus dur-
ing her speech in the University
of Michigan Museum of Art audi-
torium.
In last year's speech, Cole-
man announced that' University
officials would double their cost-
cutting efforts and cut $100 mil-
lion in recurring expenses from
the budget over the course of
three years. However, yesterday's
announcement essentially tripled

the University's original cost cut-
ting goals.
"Because of economic forecasts
and a decline in state support that
we do not expect will reverse any
time soon, we now know that we
must identify another $120 million
in savings by 2017," Coleman said
in her speech.
In an interview after the speech,
Coleman stressed the cuts would
be focused in non-academic areas
as much as possible, in order to
See COLEMAN, Page 6A

UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES
UGLi lobby to become less so

Renovations slated
to be completed in
Feb. will transform
lobby into lounge
By MALLORY BEBERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
The Shapiro Undergradu-
ate Library may, in part, lose its
aesthetic namesake in the com-
ing months. This past Tuesday
marked the start of construction
for the UGLi's new updated lobby.
The lobby, which will show-
case new technology and seating
options, is slated become a study
lounge for students in the winter.

Laurie Alexander, the direc-
tor of the Shapiro Undergraduate
Library, said the project has been
discussed ever since the addition
of Bert's Cafe to the lobby in Janu-
ary of 2008.
"It's a natural progression to
think about the rest of the lobby,"
she said.
Alexander said the new lobby
is designed to be more open and
inviting, adding that clusters of
chairs, tables and sofas will sur-
round the circulation desk, which
will be located in the center of
the area. She said she hopes that
as students become comfortable
working in the lobby, they will
move the furniture around to bet-
ter suit their needs.
Alexander added that there

would be large television screens
situated around the room that stu-
dents will be able to plug their lap-
tops into when working on group
projects and other sorts of assign-
ments.
"When you look at the space
you'll see it really promotes col-
laboration and connection and the
technology will support the work
that students are already doing,"
she said.
Alexander added that the
screens would be "a wonderful
opportunity" to display student art
installations, films or PowerPoint
presentations. In addition, the
screens will show international
news feeds.
In order to design a lobby that
See UGLI, Page 6A

SAM mOLSOs/onjly
Dr. Rob Steele speaks at a rallyon the Diag last night. Steele, a Republican, is challenging United States Rep. John Dingell (0-Michi-
gan) to represent the15th district in the U.S. House of Representatives.
At rally, Steele supporters say
it's time for Dingell to 'go home'

ANN ARBOR EATERIES
Latest hot spot for dinner, dancing
and drinks? Employees say Sava's

Steele says youth Democratic United States Rep.
John Dingell to represent the 15th
have the most to congressional district.
Steele, accompanied by other
lose in midterms prominent state Republicans,
spoke out against the current
By MIKE MERAR political landscape of Washing-
Daily StaffReporter ton and what he described as the
threat posed to youths across the
A few hundred supporters country. Steele's opponent is the
gathered on the Diag last night longest-serving member of Con-
to rally for Dr. Rob Steele; the gress, having occupied an office
Republican who is challenging in Washington for 55 years.

Though the latest poll on the
race published by the Detroit
Free Press and WXYZ-TV shows
Dingell leading Steele by about
a 20-percent margin, that pales
in comparison to the 45 percent
margin the Congressman won
by in 2008. Another poll released
on Oct. 8 had Steele ahead by 4
points, but Dingell staffers criti-
cized the poll, calling it partisan.
At the rally, Thayrone X, a local
See STEELE, Page 3A

Cafe recently
secured liquor and
dancing licenses
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily StaffReporter
Though most walk in the door
of Sava's Caf to grab a meal,
employees at the restaurant are
hoping that new dance and liquor

licenses will keep patrons coming
in throughout the night.
Sava's was issued its liquor
license in June and a dance permit
over the summer. Day manager
Cyndi Bertsos said she isn't sure
the dance permit means Sava's will
be throwing any wild parties, but
it does provide the chance to host
events, like Friday Latin Nights,
withoutbreaking any laws.
"I don't know if they have any
crazy plans for it," Bertsos said.

"We just wanted to comply with
the city so when we have a DJ and
people were dancing, we wouldn't
be breaking any laws."
But Bertsos said that doesn't
mean they've ruled out the pos-
sibility of hosting larger events in
the future.
"We are making a lot of chang-
es that have been thought of but
haven't been carried through to
execution yet," she said. "I'm sure
See SAVAS, Page 3A


WEATHER HI:49
TOMORROW LO: 46

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Student groups promote breast cancer awareness.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS......
Vol. CXXI, No. 36 OPINION..
J20 The Michigan Daily SPORTS....
michigandoilycom

................ 2A C LA SSIFIED S ................
.................4A FALL REALTY SECTION..
...... .. 5A THE B-SIDE..................

6A
7A


2A - Thursday, October 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cmfn 0

2A - Thursday, October 28, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycem 6

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:FRIDAY:
Professor Profiles Campus Clubs Photos of the Week
Unconditional support
Students with Crohn's resources on campus or organization such as the
disease or ulcerative coli- simply offer empathy. Crohn's & Colitis Founda-
tis - two inflammatory Green said within this tion of America, as well as
bowel diseases affecting environment, there is an a volunteer project to men-
the gastrointestinal tract opportunity to develop tor young patients at the
- may face their share of friendships while par- University Hospital who
challenges, but LSA senior ticipating in an open, have been recently diag-
Elan Green, who is a mem- non-judgmental forum for nosed with one of the con-
ber of the Crohn's and discussion. ditions.
Colitis Student Initiative "When things aren't This year, Green said
on campus, is encouraging working out, the empathy the group will continue to
students to seek comfort in you receive from someone build its presence on cam-
numbers. going through the experi- pus with specific plans to
"It's helpful for us to ence is different than the develop internal leader-
hear the stories of hope sympathy received from ship.
and success," he said. others," he said. The most important
The club, which wel- Outside of the group's task, though, is maintain-
comes students as well as meetings in Angell Hall, ing the sense of cama-
their friends and family to members serve as advo- raderie between group
its monthly meetings, func- cates for educating oth- members, he said.
tions as a support group, ers about the conditions, "When you share an
Green said. Members may Green said. experience, it creates
Mily choose to share advice Special activities of the inherent community," he
r or tips, provide informa- group include a yearly said.

SAL AMF
LSA junior Jazzmin Weathers serves pink lemonade to attendees ofea breast
awareness auction put on by her sorority, Alpha Kappa Alpha, in the Union.

tion about health-related

fundraiser for a health

- CLAIRE GOSCICKI

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editsr is Chief Business Mansager -
734-41e-415a ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilavita@miehigandailyeeom emdbsinessfgnai.em'
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:sun.-Thurs.11 a.me. -2a.*."
734-418-4s opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@ichigandaily.cbm
Letterstothe Editor othedaity@michigandaiy.caae
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.cola
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.co t
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaiy.Aed
DisplaySales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.ceon
Online Sales ontineads@nichigandaiy.cpo
Finance finance@michigandailywmm
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattAaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.co
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
sIe Ws eono StNiol eAber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshar
hiuneakkar, evo,,, he,,byI
SSISTANT NEWS EDITORS Bthany Biron ,Dylan Citi, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kaer, oep, h Lite,Veron5,eic enad, lana Te,, iggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial PageEditor vangilder@michigandaily.co,
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Will ButlerWillGrundler, HarshaPa nduranga
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Edior kartje@michigandaily.cop
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, MichaelFlorek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohod;
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANTSPORTSEDITORS:BenEstes,StephenNesbitt,LukePasch,ZakPyzik, Amy
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor btock@michigandaiay.cm
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,JeffSanford
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:Kristyn Acho, Leah Burgin,Sharon Jacobs, Kavi Shekhdr,
Pandey, David Tao
MaxCollinsand photo@michigandaiy.oaO
SamWoison ManagingPboto Editors
SeOoePoTOnEegnoe:iteod, MarissaMcClain
ASSIS'rANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaity.con;
Sarah Squire Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Maya Friedman
TreEortTaleroMg i JeEdinto k calero@michigandaily.e,
MelanieFriedand copydesk@michigandaiy.cop
AdiWotlistein Copy chies
BUSINESS STAFF
JuliannaCrinsales Manager
AES EOREM NAGERoephnieBowker
HillarpSzawala cta ed Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian ProduonoMoager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
thrissy Winkler Circulation Manager
Zach YancermWeb Project Coordinator
The Michigan DailyItsSN 0745-%7) is published Monday through Friday during the fall ana
winter terms by studentsat the University of Michigan.One copyisavailable free of charge toatl
readers.Additional copies may bepickedup at the Daily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,
startinginSeptemberviaU.S.alare$110.Winter term(anuary through April)is$15, yearlonig
(September through Aprl)is$195.University affiliatesare subject toareduced subscriptionrate.
Onaamp s subscriptinsfor a termare $35. Subscriptions mu t be pepaid.The Michigan Dail
is a emer of TheA ssociated Prnns and The Associated Colegiae Press,

0
0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Student laptop Oaf swipes loaf, Field study
swindled origami figures presentations

WHERE: School of Social
Work
WHEN: Tuesday at about 5:30
p.m.
WHAT: A female student's -
laptop was stolen, University
Police reported. There are cur-
rently no suspects and the lap-
top has not been recovered.

WHERE: Taubman Medical
Library
WHEN: Tuesday at about 8:45
a.m.
WHAT: A University staff
member had a loaf of bread
and origami figures stolen
from a desk, University Police
reported. The objects were
valued at $9.

WHAT: Students will be
discussing the research
they conducted in Kenya
on Africa's sustainability.
WHO: Graham Environmen-
tal Sustainability Institute
WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Dana Natural
Resources Building,
Room 1040

Veritas forum A report by the U.S. Geo-
WHAT: The Veritas logical Survey states that
Forum will be discuss- Alaska's untapped oil
ing the role of suffering reserves contain 90 percent
and its effect on life. less oil than originally esti-
WHO: Campus Chapel mated, according to a CNN.
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m. com article. The new estimate
WHERE: Power Center puts the number of barrels at
for the Performing Arts 896 million.

Walletwisped iPhone thief . c
away, cash taken eludes face time Cmatechange
WHERE: East Hall discussion
WHEN: Tuesday at about 2:30 WHERE: Chemistry Building
p.m. WHEN: Tuesday at 1:15 p.m. WHAT: Dan Lashof
WHAT: An unattended wal- WHAT: A student's iPhone will lead a discussion
let containing $50 was stolen, was stolen, University Police on the United States's
University Police reported. reported. There are no sus- global warming policy.
There are no suspects and the pects and the gadget has not WHO: School of Natural
wallet has not been recovered. been recovered. Resources and Environment


Oz's Legacy
WHAT: Students and
panelists will discuss Oz's
influence on the LGBTQ
community and Garland's
portrayal of Dorothy Gale.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m
WHERE: East Quadrangle,
Room 126
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Dailyto
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

On Sunday at 3 p.m.,
members of the Uni-
versity Symphony and
the University Philharmonic
Orchestra will perform a Hal-
loween concert in costume.
g> FOR MORE, SEETHE B-SIDE, PAGE 3B
On Monday, Kimberly-
Clark introduced tubeless
toilet paper, a USATODAY.
com article reported. Kim-
berly-Clark assures consum-
ers even the last piece will be
usable and glue free.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get moreonline at michigandailycom/blogs/The Wire

WHEN: Today at 4p.m.
WHERE: Dana Natural
Resources Building,
Room 1040

r GOP candidates planning
and hoping for 2012 success

Hank Choate, co-owner of Choate's Belly Acres farm, introduces Republican candidate for governor Rick Snyder after the pair
toured the farm in Liberty Township near Jackson, Mich. yesterday.
Snyder, Bernro declare
plan for diverseI cabinets

Mich. gubernatorial
candidates promise
to pick bipartisan
cabinet if elected
LANSING, Mich. (AP)- Wheth-
er voters pick Democrat Virg Ber-
nero or Republican Rick Snyder
as Michigan's next governor, the
state's new department heads will
likely be a diverse group.
Bernero said Wednesday that
he kept a mix of Republicans and
Democrats on board when he
became Lansing mayor five years
ago and likely would do that as gov-
ernor if he wins Nov. 2. And both
he and Snyder said they will name
a cabinet that represents a wide
spectrum of viewpoints.
"We want a cabinet that looks
like the state of Michigan and it
will," Bernero told The Associated
Press in a Wednesday phone inter-
view between campaign appear-
ances. He added that he'd appoint
"the best and the brightest."
Snyder also said he'll choose his
cabinet based more on merit than
political affiliation, and expects to
have some Democrats in the mix.
"We'll look for a broad back-

ground in terms of all the diver-
sity criteria, with gender, ethnic
groups, to get a wide representa-
tion. Because I view that as a posi-
tive," he said earlier this week after
campaigning at a Jackson County
dairy farm.
The official governor's residence
in Lansing could remain unoc-
cupied during the next admin-
istration. Snyder, who lives in a
gated community in Washtenaw
County's Superior Township and
has a large vacation home on Gun
Lake near Hastings, said he won't
live in Lansing until his young-
est daughter graduates from high
school. She just started ninth grade
at Greenhills Academy, a small pri-
vate school in Ann Arbor for grades
6-12. Snyder also has two older
children.
The Ann Arbor businessman
said he'd like to investigate rent-
ing out the 8,700-square-foot gov-
ernor's residence, located in an
upscale Lansing neighborhood, for
various events.
The residence, which under-
went a $2.5 million addition and
improvements in 2003, now has
five bedrooms, a private family
room that includes a kitchenette,
a fully commercial kitchen, a large
dining room and a sunken living

room that looks out on extensive
flower gardens and a vegetable
and herb garden used by the resi-
dence's current chef. Gov. Jennifer
Granholm, her husband and three
children moved into the residence
in 2003.
"Is there a way we can leverage
the residence in a positive way for
people to do events there, other
things that would be worthwhile?"
Snyder asked. "Again, I'm a cost-
efficient guy. How can we get value
for money?"
Bernero, who lives in a more
modest house a couple blocks away
from the governor's residence,
said he hasn't thought yet about
whether he'd move there if elected.
His wife, Teri, is the principal at
an elementary school in the neigh-
borhood and plans to keep that job
whether he's mayor or governor on
Jan. 1. The couple's two daughters
are out of high school.
Both candidates concentrated
their efforts Wednesday on cam-
paigning in west Michigan.
Snyder held afternoon campaign
rallies in Holland and Muskegon,
while Bernero stopped at a Battle
Creek coffee shop to greet voters
before holding rallies in Benton
Harbor, Muskegon and Grand Rap-
ids.

Republicans look to
gain political ground
closer to elections
WASHINGTON (AP) - Get
ready for the big tease.
Republicans positioning for a
possible presidential run are, to
varying degrees, courting donors,
testing messages and plotting
strategies. They're visiting early
primary states, wooing key activ-
ists and, all the while, stirring
interest as they gauge whether to
launch full-fledged campaigns.
"We can see 2012 from our
house," Sarah Palin quipped
recently, setting off another round
of will-she-or-won't-she specula-
tion.
But even though Nov. 3 is the
unofficial start of the 2012 cam-
paign, don't expect a surge of
Republicans to declare their inten-
tions anytime soon.
From Mitt Romney to Tim
Pawlenty, few if any GOP aspirants
plan to officially get into the race -
or formally bow out of it - before
year's end. And many, like Newt
Gingrich and Haley Barbour, are
expected to wait even longer -
spring or beyond - to announce
whether they will launch candi-
dacies for the chance to challenge
President Barack Obama in his
likely re-election race.
It's a sharp contrast to the last
presidential race, when Republi-
cans and Democrats alike jumped
in just days after the 2006 midterm
elections, a flurry of activity kick-
ing off a frenetic two-year sprint
that ended with Obama's election.
Not this year.
There's a general consensus in
Washington - and among Repub-
licans close to the potential candi-
dates - that the last White House
race started too soon and cost too
much.
By delaying disclosure of their
plans, prospective candidates will
have more time to build campaign
organizations withoutthe scrutiny
that comes with being a declared
entrant. They also put off the enor-
mous expense that comes with
launching a presidential operation
more than a year before the GOP
presidential nomination contests

start with the Iowa caucuses in
February 2012.
Uncertainty is a huge factor,
too, as Republicans make up their
minds about whether the climate
is right..
No one knows whether the tea
party that wreaked havoc on GOP
primaries will be a force beyond
the Nov. 2 elections. Or whether
Obama's popularity will stay mired
under 50 percent. Or whether
unemployment will still hover
near 10 percent. Or, perhaps most
importantly, how Republican lead-
ers in Washington position in their
first months in office should they
win control of the House or, less
likely, of the Senate.
For those reasons and more,
Republicans considering running
are, in the words of Barbour, "keep-
ing their powder dry."
They're carefully watching the.
president, as well as one another,
as they try to map out plans in an
unpredictable political climate.
And, they're keeping an eye out for
any signs that independents like
New York Mayor Michael Bloom-
berg will make a move.
For Romney, there's little reason
to get into the mix now - much
less first. The former Massachu-
setts governor lost the nomination
in 2008 to John McCain and is
well-known in Iowa, New Hamp-
shire, South Carolina and other
early primary states. Plus, he's got
deep pockets should he decide to
tap his personal fortune. And he's
ahead of the pack in organiza-
tion, with the remnants of his first
White House campaign.
Barbour, Mississippi's governor
and the chairman of the Republi-
can Governor's Association, plans
to spend the rest of the year revel-
ing in expected gubernatorial vic-
tories on Nov. 2. He'll hold court at
an RGA meeting next month in San
Diego. As chairman, he's solidi-
fied his stature as a national party
leader and proven that he's capable
of raising mounds of money. He's
been huddling with advisers as he
considers a White House run.
Gingrich, the former House
speaker from Georgia, also is in
no rush. He's waiting until at least
March to disclose his intentions.
He already has a ready-made cam-
paign organization, fundraising

base and grass-roots following
through his American Solutions
policy network, and he essentially
has been running from that pllat *
form all year.
The later the start of the 2012
campaign, the better for celeb-
rity politicians like Palin, the py.-
governor of Alaska and 2008 vce
presidential nominee, and former
Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckaeg,
who have lucrative media anoI
speaking contracts. They'd preb-
ably have to cut those ties should
they enter the race. Demand for
their time could well dry up if they
say they're not running. Plus, as
long as they keep people guessip*,
they're sure to get plenty of atten-
tion.
Aspirants who are not nearlygas
well-known - like former Penn-
sylvania Sen. Rick Santorum or
Indiana Rep. Mike Pence - could
benefit from getting in soonqr
rather than later because of the
free media attention. , -
While Pawlenty falls into that
category, the Minnesota governqr
suggested he'd announce wheth-
er he would run around MaAeh.
Republican insiders consider it
inevitable that he'll get in atr
more than a year of planning. He
leaves his post in January afterctwo
terms and will promote his new
book, "Courage to Stand," a lqur
that could serve to boost his prqfiie
nationally.
South Dakota Sen. John Thune
and Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels
have indicated to associates thqt
they're in no hurry either.
Thune is part of the GOP's leqd-
ership team, and has been talking
in private about a possible bid.
And Daniels has hosted a serie9,nf
closed-door dinners with top GOP
fundraising, business and policy
leaders as he gauges his chances0
Nearly all have sent money froap *
their political action committ;es
to Republican candidates, cam-
paigned with them, and endorsed
them.
In the final days, Gingriclh-s
holding a series of rallies in Pe44-
sylvania, Ohio, Wisconsin, Flori4a
and South Carolina. Barbour is hit-
ting 13 states in five days, inclu4-
ing Iowa and New Hampshire.
Pawlenty, the No. 2 at RGA, will
join him for part of the trip.

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 28, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
* GM plans to build
Cadillac small car
at Lansing plant
General Motors Co. plans to
build a new Cadillac small car at a
plant in Lansing, adding 600 jobs,
the city's mayor said yesterday.
Virg Bernero said the automaker
plans to invest $190 million at the
Grand River Assembly plant to pro-
duce the new Cadillac ATS, a com-
pact version of the Cadillac CTS
luxury car.
"GM said Chief Executive Offi-
cer Dan Akerson and United Auto
Workers President Bob King will be
atthe plant this morning to make a
"positive news announcement for
Lansing Grand River."
IBernero, who is the Democratic
nominee for governor, said he and
his staff have been working with
GM since May to bring the new
investment to the plant.
One of the keys to making it
a reality, Bernero said, was an
offer to the company of a 25-year,
100-percent personal property tax
exemption.
WASHINGTON D.C.
Virginia man
charged in fake
subway bomb plot
A Virginia man has been arrest-
ed'and indicted on charges he tried
to help people he believed were
aklQaida operatives in planning
to bomb subway stations in and
around the nation's capital.
The FBI says the public was
never in danger because its agents
were aware of the man's activities
before the alleged planning took
place and monitored him through-
out.
Farooque Ahmed, 34, a natural-
ized citizen born in Pakistan, was
arrested yesterday. He was indicted
on charges of attempting to provide
material support to a designated
terrorist organization, collecting
information to assist in planning a
terrorist attack on a transit facility
and attempting to provide mate-
rial support to carry out multiple
bombings to cause mass causalities
at Washington-are metro station.
STOCKTON, Calif.
Judge rules against
venue change in
* ken torture case
- A judge presiding over the
trial of a man accused of tortur-
ing a 16-year-old boy in a Central
California home has denied a
change-of-venue request, setting
* ie stage for opening statements
to begin.
,Thirty-one-year-old Anthony
Waiters has pleaded not guilty
t0 aggravated mayhem, torture
and false imprisonment charges
involving the teen allegedly held
captive at the home of Waiters'
neighbors for more than a year.
Waiters faces a potential life sen-
tehee.
'Judge Terrence Van Oss yester-
dhy turned down a request from

Waiters' attorney to move the
proceedings outside San Joaquin
County Superior Court.
The boy escaped in December
2008 by scaling a fence and seek-
ing help at a fitness center.
. Three other defendants have
pleaded guilty to charges that
included use of a deadly weapon
and causing great bodily injury to
a child.
VEXICO CITY
* exican car wash
attack kills 15
"Gunmen killed 15 people at a
car wash yesterday in a Mexican
'Pacific coast state where drug-
' bang violence has risen this year.
It was the third massacre in Mex-
ieS in less than a week.
C The gunmen in three vehicles
drove up to the car wash in the
city of Tepic and opened fire with-
but provocation, said Fernando
Carvajal, public safety secretary
of Nayarit state, where the city is
located. Fifteen men were killed
And three people were injured.
The motive was not immedi-
ately clear but investigators sus-
Vr'ect it was the work of organized
trime, Carvajal told reporters.
He said most of the victims
were recovering drug addicts and
worked at the car wash. One vic-
tim, however, had just driven up
to* the business in a motorcycle
and appeared not to have worked
there, and another body was
f6und at a nearby fruit stand.
Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

Bin Laden threatens
France over veil ban

I *~ ' 1MEL

In recording, Bin
Laden criticizes
French involvement
in Afghanistan
CAIRO (AP) - Al-Qaida leader
Osama bin Laden threatens in
a new audio tape to kill French
citizens to avenge their co6ntry's
support for the U.S.-led war in
Afghanistan and a new law that
will ban face-covering Muslim
veils.
In the tape obtained by satel-
lite television station Al-Jazeera
and then posted on its website
yesterday, bin Laden said France
was aiding the Americans in the
killing of Muslim women and
children in an apparent reference
to the war in Afghanistan. He
said the kidnapping of five French
citizens in the African nation of
Niger last month was a reaction
to what he called France's oppres-
sion of Muslims.
"How can it be right that you
participate in the occupation of
our lands, support the Ameri-
cans in the killing of our women
and children and yet want to live
in peace and security?" said bin
ATHLETES
From Page 1A
data set released underthe NCAA's
stricter academic requirements,
which were adapted in 2003.
Though he said he couldn't com-
ment on any specific reasons why
the University's student-athlete
graduation rate dropped from 1999
to 2003, Ablauf said a possible rea-
son for the decrease could have
been coaching changes in various
sports.
"I do know that during that 2000
to 2003 time frame we did have
some coaching changes, which
would've affected the graduation
rate numbers overall," Ablauf said.
The men's sport with at the

Laden, addressingthe French.
"It is a simple and clear equa-
tion: As you kill, you will be
killed. As you capture, you will
be captured. And as you threaten
our security, your security will
be threatened. The way to safe-
guard your security is to cease
your oppression and its impact on
our nation, most importantly your
withdrawal from the ill-fated
Bush war in Afghanistan." '
The authenticity of the tape
could not be immediately verified
but the voice resembled that of
the terror group leader on previ-
ous tapes determined to be genu-
ine.
French Interior Minister Brice
Hortefeux told the parliament
hours after the message was post-
ed that the risk of a terror attack
against the country was real and
authorities' vigilance is "total,"
according to a report on newspa-
per El Figaro's website.
But he added that the threats
"would merely fit into the pat-
tern of different threats that have
already been made against our
country and our citizens, at home
and abroad. It currently appears
that these comments don't do
more than justify our keeping up
our response in the face of the ter-
highest GSR graduation rate at
the University, according to the
mostrecent data, was men's tennis,
with alOO-percentgraduation rate.
While women's field hockey, golf,
softball and tennis all share top
marks with a 100-percent gradua-
tion rate.
The men's and women's bas-
ketball programs - at 36 and 53
percent GSR graduation rates,
respectively - are each the men's
and women's sport with the lowest
graduation rate at the University.
Both programs also have the low-
est graduation rate in the Big Ten in
their respective sports.
The football program boasted
a 72-percent GSR graduation rate,
ranking 5th in the Big Ten. North-
western University's football pro-

rorist threat."
Tapes by bin Laden and his top
lieutenant, Egyptian-born Ayman
al-Zawahri, have recently been
posted on Al-Jazeera website
rather than on sites run by mili-
tant Muslims as has been done for
years. The shift appears to reflect
the unexplained technical dif-
ficulties or closures experienced
by the militant sites in recent
months.
France has about 4,000 troops
deployed in and near Afghani-
stan.
"You need to think of what
happened to America as a result of
that unjust war," bin Laden said,
again addressing the French and
referring to the war in Afghani-
stan. "It's on the verge of bank-
ruptcy ... and tomorrow it will
retreat to beyond the Atlantic."
France passed a law this month
that will ban the wearing of face-
covering burqa-style Muslim veils
in public starting in April. Many
Muslims have expressed fears the
law would stigmatize them.
"If you deemed it your right to
ban (Muslim) women from wear-
ing the hijab, then should not it be
our right to expel your invading
men by striking their necks?" bin
Laden said.
gram ranked first in the Big Ten,
graduating 95 percent of its mem-
bers.
Though the GSR data is only
broken down by sport, the Depart-
ment of Education FGR figures are
broken down by ethnicity and gen-
der as well.
According to the FGR data
released yesterday, for student-
athletes who enrolled in the Uni-
versity between 2000 and 2003,
66 percent of male student-athletes
graduated, while 86 percent of
female student-athletes earned
their degrees.
The FGR data also shows 81
percent of white student-athletes
graduated, compared to 69 percent
of Hispanic student-athletes and 55
percent of black student-athletes.


STEELE
From Page 1A
AM talk-radio host, fired up the
crowd by speaking out against the
Democrats.
"If it's got a 'D' after its name,
drive a stake through the heart of
it," Thayrone X said to the crowd.
Thayrone X spoke about issues
like closing the border to Mexi-
co, improving the economy and
reforming the country's health
care.
Wendy Day, founder of Com-
mon Sense in Government told
the crowd "You have to believe
in common sense to vote for Dr.
Steele." Common Sense in Gov-
ernment identifies as a non-parti-
san organization and according to
its website, Day helped organize
the first Tea Party rally in Lansing
in February last year.
"We cannot change Washing-
ton unless we change the people
that are there," Day said.
Michigan state Senate Majority
Leader Mike Bishop (R-Roches-
SAVAS
From Page 1A
that if we found a market and peo-
ple that wanted to go and do those
kinds of things we would prob-
ably be having them."
Aside from the dance parties,
Sava's has also implemented a
new drink list with offerings for
the novice drinker, a happy hour
and awine list.
Nkosi Booi and DJ Cisco, the
promoter for Salsa Detroit - the
company that is hosting the Latin
nights at Sava's - said they think
the dance nights have helped
business by targeting the late-
night and after-dinner crowds.
"After dinner, she would have
a really light crowd," Booi said.
"But after us, she would have
some people who would stay."
"Some actually planned hav-
ing dinner here so they could
come to salsa night," DJ Cisco
added.
Bertsos agreed saying that
sincethe license was issued Sava's
"businesshas changed alot."
Sava's dance nights encour-
age people to stop by the restau-
rant at later hours and hopefully
will appeal to the younger stu-
dents, not just local Ann Arbor
residents, Bertsos said.
"I think the climate will
change over time but right now
it is mostly grad students, med
school students and profession-

ter) said he was surprised*by the
strong turnoutand hoped to "take
back our country."
Michael Bouchard, Oakland
County sheriff and former Repub-
lican candidate for governor,
echoed Bishop's sentiments, say-
ing that it was time for someone
to replace Dingell.
"If you can't get it done in 55
years, (it's) time to go home,"
Bouchard said.
Greeted by loud cheers of sup-
port from the crowd, Steele took
the stage and began to outline his
qualifications for the position and
the policies he would push for if
elected.
"I'm not a politician," he said.
Steele said he's the best can-
didate to bring accountability to
Washington, adding "we need to
stop the out of control spending."
Steele told the crowd that he's
grown frustrated with Dingell
during the congressman's tenure
in Washington.
"We need representatives that
will represent," Steele said. "We
need transparency."
als," said Paul Arias, a mechani-
cal engineering graduate student,
who's attended dance events at
the caf6. "But as for undergrads,
they might start to know about it
over time."
Environmental engineering
graduate student Angelica Perez
added that the Friday night time
slot encourages people to come to
dinner and stay for dancing.
Day-time waiter Steve Brad-
ley said he also noticed a change
in business since the restaurant
finally got its liquor license. He
added that Sava's regular custom-
ers were the most excited about
the restaurant finally getting a
liquor license.

Steele added that youth stand
to suffer the greatest losses from
a Congress that doesn't represent
its constituents.
"The youngpeople on this cam-
pus are in the greatest danger," he
said.
In an interview following the
event, Steele said he was disap-
pointed in the student turnout for
the event but hopes that students
will still come out and vote on
Tuesday.
"We hope the students par-
ticipate in the process," he said.
"It's always disappointing when
they're not here learning about
what's going on. The spending
that is killing the students is what
they need to wake up to."
Steele added that his campaign
is focused on curbing the cost of
higher education for students.
"The costs are absolutely out of
control, and unfortunately one of
the main reasons the costs are out
of control is the federal govern-
ment," he said. "It wouldbe better
for them to just cut down to the
price at cost."
He said he serves a lot of wine
and beer during happy hour but
that the mixed drinks are popular
too.
In addition to the new licens-
es, Sava's revamped its appear-
ance and made efforts to reach
out to the community to keep its
business booming, Bertsos said.
The restaurant was painted and
redecorated, and the floors are
being redone.
"I know that one of Sava's top
priorities is to make a home away
from home for students," she said.
"We realize Ann Arbor is mostly
made up of students, and we want
to givethem a place they can come
and feel comfortable."

Do Sports Impact World A ffairs?
Join U of M's Andy Markovits (Golden Apple Winning,
Prof. of Political Science & German) and
Lars Rensmann (DAAD Visiting Prof. of Political Sci.)
as they discuss their new book: Gaming the World:
How Sports are Reshaping Global Politics & Culture
7:30 pm Tue., Nov. 2nd
JCC of Greater Ann Arbor (734) 971-0990
2935 Birch Hollow Drive, Ann Arbor
Free - Students, Faculty, & Community Welcome


4A - Thursday, October 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Jfi id ligan 0aU''I
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

The percentage of voters under
the age of 30 who cast ballots in
the November 2008 election.
-According to August 2009 figures from The Center for in r and nan*,
Research on Civic Learning and'Engagerhent.

6

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflectthe official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Yes on 1, no on 2
State needs ConCon, voters need freedom
allot proposals can lead to big change and Michigan resi-
dents have seen firsthand the difference they can make
- both positive and negative. This year's proposals aren't
quite as divisive as hot-button issues like same-sex marriage, affir-
mative action and medical marijuana, but they could still have a
noticeable effect on the state's government. This election cycle, the
there are two ballot proposals being considered statewide. Proposal
1 asks voters if Michigan should hold a constitutional convention.
Proposal 2 would create a constitutional amendment forbidding
people convicted of a violation of public trust from holding public
office. Students should head to the polls to cast their vote on Michi-
gan's ballot initiatives.

Don't ear oreign trade

hings have gotten so bad for
Democrats this election cycle
that President Barack Obama
is picking fights
and swinging at the
air. Desperate to
resist an onslaught
of Republican vic-
tories next week,
Democrats are pull-
ing out the "fear of
foreigners" card,
criticizing trade
policies and lobby- ALEX
ing for protectionist BILES
measures in hopes
of salvaging the
upcoming elections.
Disdain for foreigners or things
non-American bares its ugly face in
cycles. Republican politicians and
their supporters have had a tendency
to scapegoat foreigners to capital-
ize on the fears of Americans. But
recently, Democratic candidates have
also utilized race-baiting while attack-
ing trade with China in a last-ditch
attempt to appeal to working-class
voters. Take Mark Schauer (D-Mich.),
who has run advertisements criticizing
what he calls unfair trade with foreign
countries. In one segment, Schauer is
pictured speaking with homogenous
groups of middle-aged, working-class
white people. In the ad, he explicitly
attacks trade with China not once, but
twice. He emphasizes hi' position by
highlighting the words "pgainst" and
"jobs in China" inbold yellow.
Citing the trade deficit, Congressio-
nal Democrats have pushed for tariffs
and import restrictions on Chinese
goods. Apparently, they learned noth-
ing from the 1930 Smoot-Hawley Tariff
Act, which raised tariffs on more than
20,000 imported goods and is widely
considered one of the worst economic
decisions in American history.
Take for example, Richard Trumka,
head of the AFL-CIO - the nation's
largest labor union and a major finan-
cier of the Democratic Party - who
invoked notions of a "trade war with
China" in a Sept. 30 USA Today article.
Trumka calls for the U.S. to forcefully
stop the Chinese from manipulat-

ing their currency's value. These calls
haven't rang hollow. Democrats have
recently introduced numerous pieces
of trade-restricting legislation, and
on Sept. 28, a New York Times article
by Yale University economist Stephen
Roach stated that Obama is "prepared
to take forceful actions if China doesn't
budge" on the issue of its currency
manipulation and the trade deficit.
There's a fundamental misconcep-
tion that a trade deficit is bad. The
trade deficit is the difference between
the value of imports and exports
betweeneconomies. Some worry about
our annual trade deficit to China,
which reached $226 billion in 2009,
but they're incorrect in thinking that's
a bad thing. A trade deficit with China
means that the value of Chinese goods
that we're purchasing is greater than
the value of American goods pur-
chased by the Chinese.
We can illustrate that concerns
over mass importation of Chinese
goods are irrational by utilizing the
trade relationship between you (an
average consumer) and Meijer as
an example. Assume you regularly
shop at Meijer, importing goods sold
by the store into your home. Meijer
has likely never purchased anything
from you. From your perspective, the
trade deficit between you and Meijer
is enormous. But this trade deficit has
never harmed you. On the contrary,
Meijer's specialization provides easy
access to goods that would other-
wise take a great deal of effort and
resources to acquire. The accessibili-
ty, affordability and efficiency are the
same reasons for trading with China.
Both parties benefit.
The Obama administration and
Congressional Democrats want to
forcefully stop China from manipu-
lating its currency to export goods
at affordable prices. But as Roach
points out, "forcing such a currency
realignment would be a blunder of
historic proportions." Advocates of
trade restrictions claim they want
the pie sliced equally between the
United States and China, but these
threats only amount to higher prices
for American consumers as a result of

tariffs and protection from competi-
tion for politically-connected Ameri-
can manufacturers. Not surprisingly,
beneficiaries include labor unions
and special interests that provide
millions to the Democratic Party.

The trade
deficit with
China is good.

0'

Ballot initiatives are an inherently
flawed phenomenon. Inevitably, they
lead to poorly-worded and inadequately
thought-out legislation. Case in point: the
ballot proposal that in 2008 legalized med-
ical marijuana in the state. Though medi-
cal marijuana is a valuable treatment for
many, the ballot proposal led to a law that's
unclear, in some ways contradictory and
overall ineffective. And other ballot initia-
tives simply reflect people's reactionary
bias that damages important civil liber-
ties. For example, Michigan's 2004 ban on
same-sex marriage. Ballot proposals more
often reflect partisanship and a mob men-
tality than thoughtful discussion. It's the
purpose of the legislature to create useful,
clear legislation that reflects the desires of
legislators' constituencies.
But, despite their inherent flaws, ballot
proposals exist and voters must make a
decision.
roposal 1 offers voters the option to
hold a constitutional convention.
According to the current constitu-
tion, this proposal must be presented to
voters every 16 years. A constitutional con-
vention would call for delegates to revise
the state constitution, which will then be
approved or rejected by voters. Michigan's
last constitutional convention took place
from 1961 to 1962, and we are long over-
due for a revision. Voters should vote yes
for Proposal 1 in November to modify the
Michigan Constitution.
It's been a longtime since Michigan took a
comprehensive look at its constitution. This
isn't the same state it was 50 years ago -
the economy and the fall of the automotive
industry is proof of that. A new constitution
could reflect the needs of today's economy
and help define the state's future.
one of the concerns about holding a
constitutional convention is the expenses
involved. That's a valid worry considering
Michigan's already-strained budget. But the
convention could also raise money for the
state if it revamps the tax system. Michi-
gan's current flat income tax is disturbingly
behind the times. A new, graduated income
tax could be included in the revisions and
would help increase state revenue.
And the convention could clear the
constitution of amendments that limit the
civil liberties of Michigan's citizens - spe-
cifically, the ban on same-sex marriage. A
constitutional convention could reverse
this policy completely and finally allow
members of the LGBT community the
equality they deserve.

But it's crucial that the constitution
isn't modified in any way that threatens
the autonomy of the University or its state
funding. The freedom that the University
enjoys has led - and will lead - to valuable
research that will bring jobs to the state and
revitalize the economy. And keeping this
research and education accessible requires
adequate state support. If there is a consti-
tutional convention, delegates must respect
the University's value to the state.
Though these concerns are important to
keep in mind, the constitutional conven-
tion would ultimately benefit our state. To
give Michigan's constitution the update it
needs, vote YES on Proposal 1.
he other ballot initiative, Proposal 2,
is worrisome. The initiative would
amend the state constitution so that
any person convicted of a felony involving
betrayal of public trust would be ineligible
for election to public office for 20 years.
The proposal attempts to curb corrup-
tion, following several instances of decep-
tion and fraud in Detroit, including the
scandal around former Mayor Kwame Kil-
patrick and city council member Monica
Conyers. But this very visceral reaction
to Detroit's corruption doesn't give voters
the credit they deserve and discriminates
against people who have already paid for
their crimes.
The proposal's aim is a little too
Orwellian. Michigan voters should have
the freedom to vote for whomever they
like, regardless of the candidate's past.
The proposal seems to assume that voters
aren't capable of deciding for themselves
which candidates are acceptable. It's a bit
insulting to the public's intelligence. But
voters can - and should be able to - decide
which candidates they can trust and which
are most appropriate for a position.
In addition to limiting voter freedom,
the proposal also seems to ignore one of the
central philosophies of the judicial system.
The idea of the judicial system should be to
help reform and reintegrate back into society
those who have broken the law. The stipula-
tion that a felon should be ineligible for pub-
lic office up to 20 years after their conviction
throws the concept of moral reformation out
the window. In our society, those who have
paid their debt to society following a convic-
tion deserve the benefit of the doubt.
Ultimately, the citizens of the state of
Michigan shouldn't need a law to tell them
which candidates they can vote for. Pro-
posal 2, though it aims to solve corruption,
is misguided. Vote NO on Proposal 2.

But focus on trade relations with for-
eigners isn't limited to thectrade deficit.
Recently, Obama carelessly attacked
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce - a
lobbying organization that supports
free trade. Obama and establishment
Democrats accused the group of uti-
lizing foreign contributions to support
candidates inthe United States, despite
no evidence to back up their claims, as
Time magazine reported on Oct.14.
And in an embarrassing 'blunder
for the party, the Center for Respon-
sive Politics revealed on Oct. 17 that
Democrats have taken $1.02 million
this election cycle from foreign-af'll *
iated Political Action Committees
twice as much as Republicans. Tb
Obama administration isn't ha #
enough with its role in reducing
freedom of individuals to lobby p6l"
ticians. They want to be hypocrit6
while they're atit.
If the Obama administration a
Congressional Democrats were
enact trade restrictions or forcef,04
inflate the value of China's currene*,
it would be devastating to our econo-
my and a blow to maintaining peace-
ful relations with China. But when
they're hypocrites using manufactured
information in a backfiring smear
campaign, their desperate attempts to
mitigate. November losses with politi-
cal demagoguery are as clear as a slibH
of Chinese-imported glass.
- Alex Biles can be reachiedI
at jabiles@umich.enf.,

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. All submissions become
property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
Embra ce your awkwardness

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler,
Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Laura Veith
ROSE JAFFE E-MAIL ROSE X ROSEJAFF aUMiCH.EDU

was a pretty awkward kid. Now,
I realize you could say that all
kids are awkward - and you
may even have a
point - childhood
is hardly anyone's
prime. But if you'd
seen me in elemen-
tary school, my
inelegance might
have surprised
you. In my earlyL
years, I was short
and overweight. MATTHEW
I hadn't been for- GREEN
mally introduced
to deodorant,
which was a prob-
lem because I sweated a lot. That's
not to say I played sports or partici-
pated vigorously in gym class. I just
sweated a lot. In spite of this image,
though, I was somehow spirited
enough to pursue the same girl tire-
lessly, if unsuccessfully, from the
fourth grade through the seventh..
My failure at courtship was best
summarized in my own words, from
a diary entry dated February 10, 2001:
"***** will never love me. I:NEVER say
the right thing! Ugg. I guess it's just
because I'm fat, smelly, gross and Jew-
ish." In hindsight, Jewishness prob-
ably had nothing to do with it, but it's a
common enough scapegoat, I suppose.
This first diary entry directly precedes
another passage in which I described
ripping my pants while bendingtover to
pickup apencilthats*****had dropped.
This "phase," as my mother liked to
call it, never really ended. Upon going
through puberty (late, of course),
I grew about a foot in just a couple
months. Hastily getting used to my
taller stature, I routinely tripped and
fell wherever I went. And, for what-
ever reason, I never really regained
my balance.

One day in the first few weeks of
my freshman year, this gracelessness
came to the fore. As I quickly strode
through the Diag that day, I looked
around to gain a further grasp of my
new surroundings. Then, before I real-
ized what was happening, I tripped on
something oddly cumbersome coming
toward me and fell flat on the ground.
I was instantly met by the sounds of a
baby crying and the shrieks of a moth-
er in panic. It didn't take long for me
to realize: I had tripped on an oncom-
ing stroller. Fortunately, the confused
infant was totally unharmed and his
mother, rather than filing a lawsuit,
just bitterly asked if I were high.
To this day, clumsiness continues
to pervade my life. I still trip all the
time and I still never say the right
thing. And if you ever have the rare
opportunity to see me dance, my
inability tobe cool even on the dance
floor will simultaneously amuse,
bewilder and disturb you.
So, since awkwardness has defined
so much of my life, I've recently
decided that I ought to embrace it.
I just have to try to find the beauty
within my ungainliness. It's got to
be there somewhere. I've meditated
on the words of Diane Arbus, the
photographer known for shooting
evocative photos of unusual sub-
jects in the 1960s. "I work from awk-
wardness," she famously said. "If I
stand in front of something, instead
of arranging it, I arrange myself."
Though awkwardness, in this case,
is the point of departure for Arbus' s
art, it may as well be the springboard
for approaching my own life. Rather
than attempting to be less awkward
as I go forward and "arrange" myself,
perhaps I really do just need to appre-
ciate the blunders and gaucherie that
are omnipresent in my life.
While I realize that I'm a sort of

caricature of clumsiness, this lessot
is relevant for a great many withjin,
our campus community. And it isp't
just a banal "love who you are" sort of.
lesson from a children's book.
Appreciate -
the blunders
and gaucherie.
Virtually all of us at the Univer-
sity are anxious about our individ'ua
appearance in some way. Perhhpt
it's important to you to confidently
walk down the street, to wear a per-
fectly neat outfit and be charming ti,
the friends and acquaintances you
bump into. But inevitably, you know
you're going to miss a social cue, or
make a fashion faux pas. Or maybe
you obsess about having the perfect
portfolio, with the perfect intervi4
skills to match. But no matter how
many times you rehearse in front 'sf
a mirror, your interview won't always
go as planned. Awkwardness is more
or less inevitable. So why not embrace
said awkwardness? Perhaps doing
so could make you stand out - to
friends, love interests or employers.
That's what I tell myself, at least.
And it hasn't led to more tripping or
accidentally spraying water on SAyl
crotch when I wash my hands. Those
gaffes are as frequent as they always-
were. But as I accept my awkward,-,
ness, I'm much more content in my,
day-to-day life - even if I still fear,
strollers in the Diag.
- Matthew Green can be react e'
at greenmatt@umich.edd.

Io4C-- O orvlourhand will. look- tike 4+Uies.

WANT THE DAILY ON THE GO?
Now you can access your favorite Daily opinion content on your phone. Keep up with columnists,
read Daily editorials and join in the debate. Check out the Daily's mobile website at m.michigandaily.com.'


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 28, 2010 - 5A

Vaughan finds scoring
touch in senior season

After notching just
nine points in career,
Vaughan leads'M'in
scoring in 2010
By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Editor
He's tied for the team lead in
scoring and a majority of fans
don't know his first name.
Senior forward Charles
Vaughan has four goals in the
Michigan hockey team's first six
games after scoring twice Sat-
urday night against Nebraska-
Omaha. More commonly know to
the Michigan faithful as "Scoot-
er," Vaughan shares the top of
the Wolverines' scoring list with
junior David Wohlberg.
But it's been a long and unlikely
journey to the top for the current
third-liner. Vaughan came to Ann
Arbor as a defenseman and was
expected to be a two-way player
on the Michigan blue line. In two
inauspicious years at defenseman,
Vaughan never got the offense
going. He had just nine points in
his career - all assists.
In Vaughan's sophomore year, he
struggled to hold a spot in the line-
up, playing in just 25 of his team's 41
games. So before his junior year, the
coaching staff moved him to for-
ward. After battling inconsistency
lastseason, Vaughan has adapted to
his new role.
"He's got speed," Michigan
coach Red Berenson said. "The
reason I put him on forward is
because he can skate, he's got
power, he's got puck handling
skills. I thought he could be a
good forward. I thought he was
in and out last year, he never real-
ly got into a groove where he got
some confidence."
Vaughan's attitude and skating
ability caught Berenson's eye in
the preseason skates this Septem-
ber. Those strengths have earned
him not only a regular spot in the
lineup, but also extra time on the
penalty kill.
And the consistency is pay-
ing off. His four goals this sea-
son have doubled his career total
coming into the season. Also, his
five points through six games are
one shy of his career best. But
instead of focusing solely on goal
scoring, Vaughan is just looking

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Senior forward Scooter Vaughan is tied for Michigan's scoring lead with junior for-
ward David Wohlberg through six games this season.

rr SAM WOLSON/Daily
Sophomore running back Vincent Smith has started the last few gares for the Wolverines since Mike Shaw has been injured.
Smith has registered 325 yards and finn touchdowns an the grond this season.
MNiulti-back approach
kept i check for M

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Editor
j1efore the season, Michigan
rpsning backs coach Fred Jack-
son made it clear that he was con-
fident in each of his five running
baeks - junior Mike Shaw, soph-
omore Vincent Smith, freshman
Stephen Hopkins, sophomore
Mike Cox and redshirt freshman
Fitz Toussaint.
Jackson went as far to say that
 none of those five ballcarriers
would be the No. 1 guy.
"I think you're going to see
theb whole season and not real-
ly know who's who," Jackson
said. "Because now I've got guys
attuned, that can do everything."
--But through half the season
Michigan's leading rusher has
been its- quarterback - sopho-
more Denard Robinson - and the
majority of the Wolverines' play-
ing time at running back has gone
to Shaw and Smith. They, along
with Robinson, have accounted
fot-1,701 of Michigan's 1,971 total
rushing yards.
l4opkins has received an
increased amount of work in the
past few weeks and could be get-
ting into the Shaw-Smith rotation.
But Toussaint and Cox have
been relatively absent from the
field, and in his weekly telecon-
ference yesterday, Michigan
coach Rich Rodriguez addressed
Stheir development.

The
with b
health.
Tous
fought
son Ion
could n
ry-pron
"He'
S1
s
knc
has not
where'
a game
kind of
a littlei
As fo
of his p
how qu
book, a
other rr
"His
been li
knee is
works h
ue to le
have en
can lea
and not
In ai

most prevalent concern by Robinson - the nation's lead-
oth players seems to be ing rusher - there doesn't seem
to be enough room in the back-
saint especially has field for six backs, including Rob-
a nagging injury all sea- inson.
g, worrying many that he But in the Michigan offense,
eceive the dreaded "inju- especially under Jackson, lack of
e" tag. diversity in ballcarriers isn't that
s a little bit better, but he uncommon.
With the exception of the last
two years - whenformerWolver-
' t ines Brandon Minor and Carlos
.ou re going 0 to Brown nearly split 50-50 - Jack-
ee the whole son's running backs haven't often
shared carries.
ason, and not For the four years before that,
Mike Hart dominated Michigan's
)W Who's Who." carries.
Then, it was Chris Perry. Then,
B.J. Askew. And finally, it was
Anthony Thomas.
t progressed to the point In fact, outside of the previous
we feel we can put him in two years, the Wolverines' No. 2
yet," Rodriguez said. "It's rusher hasn't accounted for more
thing that's going to need than 25 percent of the team's rush
more time." yards since Clarence Williams
r Cox, Rodriguez said alot did it in 1998.
rogress will be judged on Of course, Jackson compared
tickly he learns the play- Hopkins to Perry, and the pair
n area where he trails the of Smith and Toussaint to Hart,
unning backs right now. Michigan's last four-year rush-
growth in the offense has er. So there's no telling whom
mited because he's had a the Wolverines' will use against
sue," Rodriguez said. "He Penn State, which boasts a fairly
sard and he's got to contin- depleted defensive line and line-
arn the offense, so we can backing corps.
sough confidence that we But with the dynamic Robin-
ve him in for all the plays son also in the fold, the combina-
just certain plays." tion onthe field may not matter
rushing attack dominated on Saturday.

to mak
possibl
"I c
ing I h
this to
"I C
sea
I h
bi
practic
penalt
blockis
scorin
myself
The
won't
for 24
ine re,
mentio
lucky t
On
then-N

e a contribution in any way Vaughan let go of a hard wrist
le. shot from the top of the circles.
ame into this season know- The puck deflected off a Mav-
ad to make a big impact on erick defenseman's stick and
ram," Vaughan said after caused Nebraska-Omaha goalie
John Faulkner to misplay the
puck.
On Vaughan's second goal, he
n'am e into this picked up the puck in the corner
and threw it to the front. The
LSOn knowing puck bounced off a Maverick
defenseman and into the net.
ad to make a "Let's face it, you just get
shots on the net as a forward and
ig impact ..." some of them are going to go in,"
Berenson said.
But one thing that should last
is Vaughan's confidence. Both
e Tuesday. "Whether it's Vaughan and Berenson cited
y killing, hitting people, increased confidence as a reason
ng shots, it happens to be for the forward's offensive out-
g goals now, but I pride burst.
on all those things." As the clock winded down in
scoring pace probably Michigan's 6-1 victory Satur-
last - Vaughan's on pace day, the Yost crowd chanted for
goals, which no Wolver- Vaughan to get one more shift.
ached last season. Not to "I tried to block them out,"
n Vaughan has a couple of Vaughan said after the game,
allies to his credit. smiling. "But I heard them a little
his first goal against bit."
to. 10 Nebraska-Omaha, . How's that for confidence?

Wolverines pick apart Bowling
" Green in bounce-back effort

IS THE TV COVERAGE JUST NOT
ENOUGH ON SATURDAYS?
Check out the Daily Sports Twitter for live tweets
from State College this weekend:
@&MICH DAI LYSPORTS
WRITING+SLC +NYC!
SERIOUSLY
INTERESTED INWRITING?
INTONEW YORK?
Achieve your full potential as a writer
by enrolling in Sarah Lawrence College's
Spring Writing Semester in New York!
e Work one-on-one with SLC's distinguished
writing faculty
* Attend organized readings and literary
events on-campus and in NYC
* Receive 15 transferable academic credits
4 Reside on SLC's suburban campus 30
With 8 million stories at your minutes from Manhattan and interact
doorstep and 44 wooded acres with SLC students and a supportive
at your feet, you'll have plenty
of material to work with. community of successful writers

Wild first goal, a
&0-yarder, sets tone
as Wolverines find
Ohio catharsis
By JOHN EPPLER
For the Daily
After a tough loss against No.
1 Akron last Tuesday, the Michi-
ganmen's
soccer BOWLING GREEN I
team let MICHIGAN 5
0nt its
0 fsstration on another Ohio foe.
Bowling Green made its way
intyAnn Arbor last night expect-
iqg to contend in its matchup
against the Wolverines - they
didn't realize, however, that they
had just signed up for target prac-
tice.
As the clock ran down to
zero and Michigan's offensive
onslaught came to an end, the
scoreboard at the brand new UM
Soccer Complex read 5-1.

Michigan struck first, thir-
teen minutes into the game, with
a snipe from freshman forward
Soony Saad.
After a diving save from Wol-
verine junior goaltender Chris
Blais, a quick counterattack
allowed Saad to find the Falcon
goalkeeper out of position. He
delivered a booming shot from
60 yards away, and scored the
longest goal in Michigan soccer
history.
"We have seen him do it,"
Michigan coach Steve Burns said
after the game. "He saw the keep-
er out. He is a very aware player,
so he went for it."
After the shot went in, the
momentum of the game instantly
shifted. Just one second earlier,
after all, visiting Bowling Green
(5-7-2 overall) was threatening to
score.
Within minutes, Michigan
(2-2-0 Big Ten, 9-4-3 overall)
scored another, an unassisted
blast from senior forward Justin
Meram.
"After last week, we just came

in knowing we had to get the
win," Meram said.,
The Wolverines added two
more goals in the first half. The
first was a long-range score from
senior forward Alex Wood, and
the second another counterattack
goal from Meram.
Michigan picked up right
where it left off in the second
half, as Saad scored a goal off of
a through ball from his brother,
junior midfielder Hamoody Saad.
But then, the pace of the game
changed. The second half slowed,
as most of play settled into the
midfield.
Meanwhile, Meram and the
Saad brothers watched from the
bench - their work was done.
Through a counter-attack
offense and long shots, the Wol-
verines found the net, though
they took fewer shots than their
season average.
"We were due for a breakout
game since September," Burns
said.
Last night, under the lights at
home, they found it.


6A - Thursday, October 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailyxol i 01

6A - Thursday, October 28, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailyco *

COLEMAN
From Page 1A
preserve students' learning expe-
riences.
If successfully completed, the
additional cuts would bring the
total amount in cost containment
at the University to $355 million in
annual recurring costs.
"We invest in our future by pro-
viding record levels of financial
aid to students and modest sal-
ary increases to faculty and staff,"
Coleman said in her speech. "We
invest by being aggressive in how
we use energy, by being more effi-
cient with administrative func-
tions and by taking more control
of our personal health to hold
down insurance costs."
The effort to cut the additional
$120 million will be led by Univer-
sity Provost Philip Hanlon, who
serves as chief academic officer
and chief budget officer, Coleman
said. According to her speech, the
campus community should expect
to hear more from him about the
efforts in the near future.
Though decisions on specific
measures are largely undecided,
several University officials have
told The Michigan Daily they are
considering cost-cutting measures
to the University's information
technology division, to shared ser-
vices operations and reorganizing
maintenance of campus facilities.
"Just as the external world has
changed, we too need to introduce

the same kinds of internal innova-
tion," Coleman said. "As we have
been, we will be deliberate and
thoughtful, focusing on reduc-
ing administrative and opera-
tional costs, with an eye firmly on
enhancing the academic mission."
Coleman also highlighted plans
approved by the University's
Board of Regents in June as part
of the University's annual budget
proposal to allocate funding for
the hiring of 50 additional faculty
members.
"In this year's budget we have
funded an additional SO tenure-
track faculty positions," Cole-
man said. "This complements the
ongoing junior faculty initiative
and ultimately will improve our
student-faculty ratio. We are look-
ing to our deans for how best to
structure these positions, which
will be filled by scholars with a
wide range of experience."
The proposal in June came
after Coleman's 2007 announce-
ment that $30 million in central
funding would be allocated to hire
100 junior level faculty members
with expertise in various interdis-
ciplinary studies, which Coleman
also discussed yesterday.
"Three years ago, we launched
an initiative to hire 100 junior
faculty up-and-coming profes-
sors committed to interdisciplin-
ary teaching and research that
explores the truly complex issues
of our day," Coleman said. "Our
faculty and deans have collabo-
rated on fascinating proposals for

these new teams, and to date we
have funded more than 70 posi-
tions, with 25 faculty already
hired and on campus."
Coleman also highlighted stu-
dent-recruiting efforts aimed at
maintaining the high academic
standards of the University.
"Recruiting the best also
applies to students. We continue
to attract exceptional students at
all levels of study," Coleman said.
"Students are drawn to our cam-
puses because of what we have to
offer, and we offer a lot."
Throughout the speech, Cole-
man also highlighted the innova-
tive research and teaching being
done by faculty that helps advance
the academic mission of the Uni-
versity and showcased the work
of a few students on campus who
have exemplified the Michigan
experience. Students she cited
included those who go above and
beyond in their classes, those
who use extra-curricular activi-
ties to supplement their studies
and a group of students who will
soon have a satellite they designed
launched into space.,
"Faces change, buildings fall
and rise, economies wax and
wane. The University of Michi-
gan thrives," Coleman finished
her speech by saying. "We thrive
because a great public university
always looks forward, knowing
there is nothing more powerful,
more invigorating and more essen-
tial than creating and sharing
knowledge."

UGLI
From Page 1A
best meets students' needs, Alex-
ander said she and her colleagues
held informal focus group meet-
ings with students and surveyed
students entering the library for
suggestions.
"I started doing discussions
with student groups because I
really think that it's really impor-
tant to hear what students have
to say because this is going to be a
student space, soI wanted to make
sure that the space was reflective of
what students wanted to see there,"
Alexander said.
The improved lobby will also
serve as a venue for poetry read-
ings, speakers and workshops.
"We hope it will be a space that
promotes learning and creativity,"
she said.
Student opinions on the con-
struction project have been mixed
so far.
LSA senior Louise Kane said
the construction shouldn't pose
too many issues so long as it's not a
glaring distraction.
"I don't really think it's a big deal

unless it affects the quietness,"
Kane said.
Ricky Kramer, also an LSA
senior, said he is excited to see how
the lobby renovations will turn out.
"It seems like they're always
doing construction, but I think it
will pay off in the end," he said.
Alexander said she believes that
the noise from construction won't
greatly affect students and their
studying.
"The undergraduate (library)
is actually loud anyway, so I really
think noise will be minimal," she
said.
LSA freshman Yanique Foster
said she's not sure the renovations
justify the hassle from construc-
tion.
"It's sort of annoying with all
the noise that comes with the con-
struction," she said. "It makes me
wonder about the rest of the con-
struction on campus (and) if it's all
thatnecessary and how much of my
tuition money is paying for this."
The construction for the lobby
was funded entirely through dona-
tions made by Bert Askwith, a 1931
LSA graduate, who has donated
funds to other projects such as Bert's
Cafe and the Askwith Media Library.

Alexander said the new lobby
will be named "Bert's Study
Lounge" in honor of Askwith.
The construction to the lobby
will start early in the morning and
end early in the afternoon each
day until its completion, Alex-
ander said. The renovations are
projected to be complete by mid-
February.
The first step of the construction
- buildingtemporary walls around
the site to close off the area from
library-goers and to redirect traffic
around it - has already been com-
pleted, Alexander said.
According to the University's
Library website, signs will be put
up in the UGLi in order to-help stu-
dents safely navigate the construc-
tion site.
There is a temporary entrance
next to the driveway near South
University Avenue and another one
through Bert's Caf6, which will
remain open throughout the dura-
tion of the remodeling process.
The website alsonotes thatwhile
construction is taking place, a tem-
porary circulation desk has been
moved to the southwest entrance of
the library with another one next to
Bert's Cafe.

WANT TO WIN AN IPOD SHUFFLE?
Fill out the Daily's housing survey:
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/HOUSING-SURVEY

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Reserve now
for 2011 (Spring or Fall). U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
year spate far 2011 taday with na
lea e obligation. 2 blocksdrom Central
Campus and downtown. I to 4 bed-
room, private baths avail. Rates from
$660. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
!!!!!!2011/12 LEASING Has
Started!!!!!! Appointments ta view be-
ginning Friday October 29th! Great a-
cations throughout central campus!
Call 761-8000 primesh.com
MAY AVAILABILITY 6 bedroom
$3275 rooms $600. 701 Catherine
(near kerrytown). 734-777-3687
5 & 6 BR Houses
May2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

625 Church St. (734) 668-1100
Now Taking Reservations for
Fall 20101
1-5 bdrms & houses
See our 23 locations at
www.varsitymnagement.com
HOUSE WANTED FOR graduation 4
bdrms, 3 baths, clean, close to campus
847-651-6206 Breed368@gmail.com
!!Beautiful Large eHomes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom bames near
campusnfree parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@emich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 7-BRI3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
1109 S. State SL
Fall 2011
5 bedroom
w/ finished & basement
Varsity Management
134)58-1100
ww.varsltvmanagoemenLconM

.00me the te
'vled and0
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Let Our Faniily Take Care of Yours
2411 aiwcnamxe Stalfr fgh Speed In eme
734741.9300t
WWw.u tm rapaltmentS.net
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Fumished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
FREE BUBBLE ISLAND TEA, with
every new tour. We are now taking
Reservations. For best selection come
in today, we sold out early last year.
Don't miss out on the Best of Central
Campus! We have Rooms, Studios, 1,
2 & 3 bedroom furnished apartments
for Spring/Fall 2011. Call us Today at
734-761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit us at: www.UniversityTowers-MI.-
com
NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealty.com
734-665-8825
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modem, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are fumished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.

RELEASE DATE-Thursday, October 28, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS DOWN
1 Fat job? 1 Airway termini
5 Interstate exit 2 Stern with a
9 See 12-Down Strad
14 Pararescue gp. 3 Noodle topper
15 Organic 4 Useful
compound 5 Provedfalse
16 Hankerfor 6 "Star Wars"saga
17 Poetwhowrote, nickname
aboutchildren, 7 Code creator
"And if they are 8 Fabric fold
popular / The 9 GOnter's gripe
phonethey 10 Radio abbr.
monopular' 11 300-pound
18 Libearian president
iegan? 12Wt 9-Across,
20 Rich spongecake fairytale ender
22 Pithy saying 13 GreatAmerican
23 NFL game Ball Park team
foursome 19 Checker's dance
24 Finish an ascent? 21 Flying prefix
27 Buying outing 25 One of 24 in un
28 Cones and jour
prisms 26 Sci-fi writer
33 Farm expanse Frederik
35 Tidy up in a wood 29 Sheltered side
shop? 30 "That's my take"
38 Grads 31 Desperate
41 Sandwich 32 Charon's river
request 33 _-da:
42 Untrusting pretentious
43 Floor an 34 Juice: Abbr.
oppressive boss? 36 Orch. work
46 scripta: written 1 2 4
law
47 It's often served 14
with lemon
48 It can be rolled, 1
pressed or 2 21
ntuffed
51 Value one's 24
nision?
56 Warriortrained 27
by the centaur , 4
Chiron
60itnmeged wih ae en 4e
AT&T in 2005
61 Be amazed (at) 43
62 Send astar 7
pitcher for an
MRI?71
65 Like pretzels
66 D.C. 565U5693
underground 62 63
67 "Riglefto"
highlight 6
68 Conceming
69 Dust crops, e.g. 69
70 Certain NCO
71 A library book By Jascha Smiack
may be on it (c)2010 Tribune Media se

37 Flirt
39 NYSE, e.g.
40 Stride
44 Caustic
45 Edible part of a
pecan
49 Doo-wop syllable
50 Like some
supplements
52 Building girder
53 Many Nissan
autos

54 Busybody
55 John with
Grammys
56 Green
dispensers
57 Wrangler, for one
58 Copernicus's sci.
59 Bonus, in
adspeak
63 Peke, e.g.
64 One might be
bummed, briefly

The Choice is Yours!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ 1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Townhome
+ Free WIFI
+ AATA Bus Line
+ 24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible Lease Terms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
+ Pool & Sauna
+ Pets Welcome
+ Continental Breakfast every Wed.
+ Concierge Resident Service
+ Business Center
+ Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
+ Hospitality Apartment
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
em734-663-7633
AmenitiesVary byProperty
www.WOodburyGardens.cOm
APTS, SUBLETS, & EMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Aeea.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State St./Athletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., I
study, 2 full baths, fumished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
FALL 2011. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Prperties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE 2011-
12 Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
* Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet! Call today
for an appointment to see! Prime Stu-
dent Housing 761-8000 primesh.cm
*Amenities varies by location
AVAIL Sept.' 11 1&2 Bdrm. fuan.
apts402 Hill St.&1313 S.State dry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskuman@yahoo.com.
CAMPUS 6 BEDROOM HOUSE.
Furnished, Fireplace & Parking with
Garage. Very Nice. 702 Arch St. May
2011. $3250. 734-426-4772.
Ask for Jim at Spring Valley Farm.
H1 CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great fumi-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathPrperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
526 Packard Rd.
Fall 2011
Brand new 3 bedrooms,
hardwood
VarsitV Management
[1341668-1100
wwwvarsltymanagemen.Lcom
539 Packard Rd.
Fall 2011
Newly remodeled 5 bedroom,
hardwood
Varsity Management
[1341568-1100
wwwvrstyianagelnnLCMi

Rates Now Available
for Fall 2011-2012
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
" Central Campus locations
* *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*Varies by locatio,
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modem
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1007 S. State. Furnished,
free laundry, free parking.
$4300/month. Call 734-678-0122
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3800 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
11095S. state St.
Fall 2011
5 bedroom
w/finished & basement
Varsity Management
1341558-1100
WWW.varslY1ma81 gen01 LCeM
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Waer/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
AMAZING NEWER PROPERTY-
located just 8 minutes N of Ann Arbor
has 2 & 3 BR from $585/mth. 970 -
1279 sq ft. 24 Hr Fitness Ctr, Pool,
Volleyball, Playground. Washer/Dryer
& 2 Full Baths in each home. Please
call 734.449.4213.
FALL 2011 6 b, 3 bath, fully remod-
eled, furnished $3500 248-798-4755
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Court $2340,
tenants pay all utilitim call Cppo
Deinco 734-996-1991
!**FALL2011**! 5to9bdrm.
houses. Keysmanagement.net
!NOW RESERVING FOR FALL
2011! 1 & 2 bedroom apartments. 3
bedroom house on Church. C & I Man-
agement, LLC. Call Pay 734-320-1245
FALL 2011 FINE 6 bedroom house.
523 So. Fourth Ave, furn, dwshr, dis-
posal, laurdy, parking, central A/C,
high speed internet, hardwood floors,
alarm system, heat and water included.
734-662-7121 or gpmiles@aol.com
848 Tappan St.
Fall 2011
Remodeled bi-leve
4 & 5 bedrooms
Varsity Management
1341558-1100
wwwvarsftvmanavememlcm

3 BDRM 2 bath $1299/month washer
dryer 2 walk out patios fireplace NICE
Nov - April call Jeanne 734 775 5232
email dialjdial@yahoo.com

10

EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and fornete. Reasoneble raee.
734/996-0566 or writen@iserv.net
MARK NINE HAIR SALON - 320
Miller, STE 175, Ann Arbor. Down-
town AA. Servicing all types of hair.
Bring in this ad & receive 25% off.
734.761.8930 orvisit
WWW.MARKNINEHAIR.COM

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten
tial. No exp. nec., training provide
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr (4
Michigan Telefund. On campus, ex
ble hi. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to driv
our brand new cars with ads placed o
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back
ground for a major film productiod.
Eamup to $200/day. Experience nof
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
FULL/PART-TIME SERVER
needed at the Original Cottage InnApb
ply within Monday-Friday betwe44
and 5. 512 E. William.
HAIR STYLISTS - MARK NiN4
HAIR SALON - Seeking stylists t
rent booths or work commission ca)
734.761.8930 or email
nesa@markninehair.com at
WWW.MARKNINEHAIR.COM -
PERSONAL ASSISTANT NEEDED
Im currently looking to employ a P
time assistant whom would work 0
for me from home. You would be.
quired to do some bookkeeping formeI
Ill have my mail diverted to yourh w
as some would need immediate
attention. Its attract good pay $500
week. Interested should EMAIL
cdcross012@gmail.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPO4t
GRILL & PUB now hiring individe
for our kitchen staff and office s
Apply in person at 310 Maynard,
Arbor. 734-995-0100.

0

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
BEIRITLA T H EIR P E C
AB1010T A U MA A L L
HAMMERTH R 0 T W 0
0 R T B A S
SAWE Y ET E Y E
DI L LiNSTIR UCTOR
0 L i s i SI CAFE
PLA NE T I KE T
H M ET U U N I T E
AR FI L ECAB I N E T
SAGCL A U N 0 O
EX CA M PERA T T N
xwordeditor@aol.com 10/&7/10
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
1s8 16
22 23
2s 26
28 129 30 31 32
35 1 3 37
41 42
49 50a
44 411 4 64 56
64 656 4 s
70 71
rvices, Inc. 1om

For Best
Seleclien,
Reserve
TODAY!
Spring & Fall
ON CAMpus, FURNISHED
STUDIO,1,2 &3 BEDROOMS
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus
for 2011/2012
University
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, Ml148104
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
INFO@i U-TOWES.C0M



9 The.Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 28, 2010 - 7A

S The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, October 28, 2010 - 7A

19 Locations To Serve You
Studio -4 Bedrooms

Copi Properties
5 & 6 BRHouses
2011
www.copproperties.com
734-663-5609

,ce the
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
4 ' d and V

y Central Campus
= North Campus
Private Resident Shuttle
24 lir Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities

> Downtown
> West Side

Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooams

40 wonderful houses and apartments
CLOSE TO CAMPUS!!!
Most properties are less than 2 blocks from the campus perimeter.
Contact us and we may be able to help you find the perfect place to
live within walking distance of the University of Michigan campus.
(734)665-5620
www.bartonbrook.com
May and September leases
Voted #1 by Michigan Daily readers!

Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now'Tai *"ng Reservations
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-701.0220 or
info@oostreatvronertiescom

fr a walkte

.. ...

I a Fi

NUW LEASING
FOR MAY 2011
428 Hamilton - 8 bdrm.
535 Walnut - 6 bdrm.
FOR FALL 2011
334 Catherine - 7 bdrm.
952 Greenwood - 6 bdrm.
REMAINDER OF FALL
HOUSING AVAILABLE FOR
LEASE NOV. 11, 2011
(734) 663-8989

Leasing for 2011-2012 begins Nov. 12
Many Houses/Apts/Rooms
Available for May or Sept. Leasing

Visit www.oppenheimerproperties.com
or call 734-995-5575

IC & I Management,
LLC

- - -



Rental Info.
Office (877) 426-6035 or
LeasingAgent (734) 320-1245

WYREPNT
WHENYOU
CAN BUY?

NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2011I1 LOCATIONS:

Check out all of the
available properties for
sale in the area.

Nvww. I Sell A2. co m 734.1,76.

www damenamtara.com
c.X Y

*Great Location:
Across from East Quad
*Beautiful, Spacious, Quiet
*Furnished & Unfurnished Available
*Laundry

*Parking included
*Heat and water paid for
most properties
*No pets, no smoking
*Small management co.
*Excellent record of personal service

I


'4&Wfgj

IDIX

U

IlI

is

Chance to Will 4
tickets to the Big
Chill at the Big
Housel

1I


8A - Thursday, October 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 1

BEST CAMPUS LOCATIONS
Call Now for Leasing Info
Metro Property Services
124 W Summit
Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734) 668-6686

Keys Management
Small, family-owned company, 5 to 9 bedroom houses
Great locations! Great value! 8 campus locations
www.keysmanagement.net


x
m

Competitively Priced
Apartments and Houses
a 3-5 bedroom houses
* T & 2 bedrooms free furnishing (optional)
* Efficiencies and bi-level apartments
Now leasing for
May, June, and August 2011

0

0

The Best Campus Apartments!
The Best Campus Locations
@The Best Value!

The Spaly Group, Inc.
Now Leasing for Fall 2011!
(734) 769-7000 / (734) 769-1807
Close to Campus Fully Furnished
1321 & 1327 Wilmot 1 & 2 bdrm apts.
805 E. Huron 1 & 3 bdrm apts.
1506 Packard 1 & 3 bdrm apts.
726 Packard 1 & 2 bdrm apts.
123 N.Thayer 6 bdrm 2 baths
For descriptions, photos and details -
visit our website!

1-2 Bedrooms on North Campus!
locluies HUat Uiter/ inH
www.HRPAA.com (734) 996-4992

Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
Studios, 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5 Bedrooms, & Houses
Fully furnished
Heat, water, and parking included most locations
Many newly remodeled

- ..,
Y

FREE
HIGH SPEED
INTERNET
CONNECTION

STUDENHOUSINGINC

FREE
HIGH SPEED
INTERNET
CONNECTION

F
, . I
I.
f'

Call Today for 18 Locations to choose from
2011-12
Availability!!! Many on Central Campus

Now Leasing
for
2011-12!!!

" FREE ETHERNET .
. Parking Included .
. Heat & Water Included .
. Completely Furnished .
Visit us on the web
at
www.primesh.com

Leather Furniture * On Site Laundry
Bi-level/Tri-levels * Air Conditioning
EfT., 1, 2 & 3 bdrms . Garbage Disposals
Updated Kitchens * Dishwashers
Stop by our office at
610 Church St.
or call us today at
(734) 761-8000 to arrange viewings.

Trigon Entries
Balconies & Patios
On AATA bus lines
Trash Removal

Direct T. V.
Now
Available

Tour all 18 houses on line at

4 & 8 Month Contracts Start at ~ $550/month and include:

ATTENTION GRADUATE STUDENTS:

-Utilities
*Internet
*Furnished Rooms
*Parking
oCoinless Laundry
eHomemade Meals

Fall/WinterI'11-' 12 .18 Distinct Living
Contracts Available Communities
November 3rd *Diversity
*Community
Winter '11 Contracts *Leadership
Available NOW! *Shared Activities

Look us uponthe HellHousingWehsite atwww.housing.umich.edu, listing 800 Fuller LLC
+ Floor Plans and Interior Pictures on website +

/ 73.624I ii33 I iia t A1mArboMI484 4. wwiceoop


The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com I Thursday, October 28,2010
weekend
essentials
Oct28 to Oct. 31
ON DISPLAY
School got you down?
Maybe you've got an 8
a.m. exam and aren't
feeling the costume
thing. Well, you've got
options. On Sunday,
from 1to 4 p.m., the
Kempf House Museum
at 312 South Division
is holding a free open
house! Peek into the
lives of the 19th-cen-
tury Kempf family, one
of the first to settle in
S0 AnnArbor and learn
how the city turned
into the bustling cul-
* *to i 0 t ytural center it is today.
SOUND OFF
Starting tomorrow, the
s mperforming arts tech-
nology department will
present "Gypsy Pond
Music XII." The per-
formance will feature
electronic music, sculp-
ture and light/move-
ment sensors created
pby the Digital Music
Ensemble. Directed by
MT&D Professor Ste-
phen Rush, the 12-year
tradition originates
from Rush's search
for authentic gypsy
music in Hungary. At
the E.V. Moore build-
ming, 12 p.m., free.
FI LM
Though the U.S. is one

of the most powerful
countries in the world,
it's clear our grade
school system is disap-
pointing. "Waiting for
'Superman,' "opening
Friday at the Michigan
Theater, explores this
rghconcept: the failures of
the American educa-
tional system. Time will
tell if "Superman" will
have the same monu-
mental public impact
iA fas director Davis Gug-
genheim's earlier "An
Inconvenient Truth."
CONCERT
You know what would
be terribly insane this
Halloween weekend?
Missing out on Wu-
Tang Clan original
member Ghostface
Killah's show at the
Blind Pig tomorrow
night. Known for
his borderline crazy
stream-of-conscious-
ness narratives, the
enigmatic man is
bound to leave you
spooked and mesmer-
ized. Tickets from
$20. Doors at 9 p.m.


2B - Thursday, October 28, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

JudgingA Book
By Its Cover
Why read a single page when the cover
tells the whole story?

EPISODE REVIEW

For the past few seasons, it seems
that "Weeds" has gone from origi-
nal storylines
to plots that
are just plain
crazy. In its Weeds
most recent
episode, which
takes place "Dearborn-Again"
in Dearborn, Showtime
Michigan, this
craziness has
reached a point of no return.
The main source of this madness
comes from the over-the-top nar-
rative that tries too hard to push
the limits that the show already
has pushed many times before.
The Botwin family started off as
a middle-class family whose mom
sold drugs to maintain their com-
fortable lifestyle - a unique twist
on the idealized middle-Ameri-
can family. But now, the family
is on the run from Nancy's (Mary
Louise-Parker) drug-lord ex-hus-
band, with whom she had a child,
because her other son Shane (Alex-

ander Gould) killed someone in his
posse. This has led them to Nancy's
hometown of Dearborn in order
to procure passports so they can
flee the country. Nancy has done a
complete 180 from the likeable and
relatable mom who just wanted to
make sure her kids were happy to a
manic, self-loathing drug dealer no
one can stand.
To make matters worse, the set
doesn't even attempt to look like
anything resembling Dearborn.
There are palm trees everywhere
and it seems to be sunny the entire
time, just like Los Angeles. The only
thing that's supposed to separate
L.A. from Dearborn is the abun-
dance of stereotypical Middle East-
ern people. Plus, the offensive jokes
about Muslims aren't even funny.
"Weeds" makes it seem like every0
single Muslim in Dearborn is a con-
niving thief. Looks like the offensive
jokes were all the "shocking" mate-
rial the program could come up with
this time.
-LINDSAYHURD

TRAILER REVIEW

Flynn Meaney msay be new to
the teen novel scene, but he's read
his "Twilight" books. And Edwin
Mullen, the heart-shaped protago-
i:st of Meaney's bestselling vamp-
romance "Bloodthirsty," may be
new to the lonely town of Phorx,
but he has also read his "T wilight"
books. And so, when the beautiful
but aloof Ella appears in his biol-
ogy class one day, Edwin knows all
the right moves.
After a quick trip to the local
Spirit store, our hero gets into the
groove with a ness set of pointy
canines, a face fill of porcelain-
tinted foundation and some glitter
to apply when the sun comes out,
And before you can say "rip-off,"
Edwin is the newest and toothiest
heartthrob in Phorx, effortlessly
winningsover Ella as well as hordes
of young readers everywhere.

But how to keep up the fagade
of being a super-human sex sym-
bol when you've a way-too-curious
moody girlfriend poking around?
Mullen is good of heart and true
of blood, but he soon finds out it's
hard to fake extreme speed and
agility, and it gets tough for him
to muster map the strength to resist
Ella's advances because of his sup-
posed vampiric urge to bite - the
poor guy only wants to get laid.
What to do? Edwin's back hurts
from carrying Ella up the sides
of trees, but he can't give up his
newfound popularity or his true
love. Will Edwin tell Ella the truth
about his identity? Will she still be
with him, even knowing he's not
a real vampire? Behind the heart-
shaped fanged smiley face lies the
answer. -
-SH ARON JACOBS

Bieber Fever will never die,
people. Never. Die. This pre-
pubescent
demon spawn :( ( ( ( (
is unstoppable.
He's a media- Never Say
saturation Never
monster hell-
bent on world Waster Bros.
domination.
And just in time for Hallow-
een, the darkest fiery pits of the
underworld have unleashed a
trailer for the unholy documen-
tary monstrosity known to mere
mortals as "Never Say Never," in
terrible, expensive 3-D.
What more can be said about
this upcoming "film," whose
prophecy was foretold by sooth-
sayers hundreds of years ago?
How must we convince the
unsuspecting public to snap up
their torches and pitchforks
and take to the streets, mob-of-
angry-villagers style? Who will
be entertained by 90 minutes of
Bieberized home videos inter-
spliced with cult-brainwashing
concert footage and interviews

4


GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
Monday 10/25 - Friday 10/29
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
The sitting fee is just1S!
This price includes your portraitfeatured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.uma)umich.edu
C Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
?OFFER
Michiganensian
YEARBOOK

with fawning teenage girls? Why Almighty Hand of Usher? mond mines.
does this trailer imply that there Justin Bieber will enslave your Look at what you all have
was somehow a large amount youth and murder your pets. wrought upon humankind. Look
of hardship for His Bieberness When he elects himself president into his dreamy 3-D eyes, and
to overcome, when in truth he of the world, he will command us weep for all eternity.
was prenatally blessed by the to toil for long hours in his dia- -ANDREWLAPIN
Halloween Staff Picks
* "NEAR DARK"
Vampires, despite all recent pop-culture evidence to the contrary, don't suck. Matter of
fact, they're pretty damn freaky when handled in the right way. Take Kathryn Bigelow's *
1987 cult classic, in which bloodsuckers trek across the American southwest. No pretty-
boy whining here: This vamp clan would prefer to knife up their prey before feasting on the
sweet nectar of someone else's flesh. Ideally watched, you guessed it, near dark.
* "THE TWILIGHT ZONE"
There's never a better time than Halloween to revert back into the Golden Age of television
with Rod Serling's "The Twilight Zone." The eerie sci-fi series showcases the best TV writ-
ing of the decade and expertly flirts with the line between truly horrifying and hilariously
cheesy. Time travel, aliens, monsters and Serling's ever-creepy voice will make for an epic
Halloween weekend TV marathon.
* "THRILLER"
Well, duh. "Thriller" is bound up in Halloween
just as "Jingle Bells" is to Christmas; something
about the track's creaking doors, howling
wolves and weird Vincent Price narration cap-
tures the spirit of All Hallow's Eve better than
all the candy in the world. Spooky theatrics
notwithstanding, "Thriller" finds Michael at the
apex of his game; the way he rides that indel-
ible bassline is one of pop's greatest moments.
"Monster Mash" should be embarrassed. COURTESY OF EPIC
* "SWEENEY TODD" (THE MUSICAL)
Before Johnny Depp ever picked up his silver razors, "Sweeney Todd" took Broadway by
storm - a morbid, brooding, cannibalistic storm. The titular barber's dementia dominates
the stage, and the broadway production allows for an entire chorus to balladize his dark
struggle for revenge. As one of the greatest works by one of Broadway's greatest minds,
Stephen Sondheim, "Sweeney" is the ultimate horror musical.
0 SALEM
Want to celebrate All Hallow's Eve in a totally inaccessible, pretentious and hipster-to-the-
max fashion? Then check out Salem, the trendy new "witch house" band whose LP King
Night earned a7.5 on Pitchfork earlier this month. The aloof ambient sounds that drift
through the synths and mumbles are designed to weird you out, and rest assured you'll
be shivering behind your neon shades and hugging a can of PBR for comfort.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 28, 2010 - 3B

Scared to dress
for Halloween

One year, a University orchestra conductor was suspended upside-down dressed as a bat.
The spooky symphony

'
drec
dow

Orch
coming
pompo
come
een, th
sity's
let th
down
good ti
For
30 yea
gradua
gradua
musici
School
Theatr
togeth
loween
someti
music.
The
loween
of a
from
and th
Orches
ed by
orches
ment.
Join
studen
dio of
Kiesler
tor of U
conduc
enormc
a piece
"Th
will," s
studen
ing wh

orchestra gets year's Halloween Concert. "We
conduct various ensembles, but
ssed up to boogie this is the first (official University)
event of the year that we get to
r, classical style conduct."
Yet the Halloween Concert is
By JOE CADAGIN a somewhat unorthodox "first
Daily Arts Writer showing," considering that the
entire orchestra, the conduc-
hestras are notorious for tors and most of the audience are
g across as stuffy, elitist and dressed in costumes.
'us. But "There was a conductor who
Hallow- Unive wore a chicken Suit one time," said
he Univer- senior violin major Amy Cave,
orchestras Orchestras who will serve as concertmaster
heir hair Halloween for this year's Halloween Con-
and have a cert. "The violas always do a cos-
me. Concert tume as a section, so (they) were
more than Sunday at all crayons one year. One year the
rs, under- 3p.m. basses were all 'Tetris' pieces."
ite and Hill Auditorium For the newer conducting stu-
ite student Ticke m $8 dents, leading an orchestra of
ans in the goblins, ghosts and ghouls cain be
of Music, a soimewhat daunting, and even
e & Dance have come frightening, experience.
er to put on an annual Hal- "A few years ago, I remember
Concert of engaging - and coming up to conduct and right in
imes spooky - orchestral front of me sitting in the second
violins was this kid with white
orchestra for the Hal- face paint and blood and gore,"
concert will be made up Segal said.
combination of musicians "It was so scary to be up there
the University Symphony and have this devilish ghoul star-
e University Philharmonia ing at me ... It's intimidating and
tras, and will be conduct- it's hard to focus," he added.
graduate students from the The conductors thernselves
tral conducting depart- choose costumes that fit the
theme of their pieces. Last year,
ing Segal are seven other Warren Puffer Jones, a doctoral
ts from the conducting stu- student in orchestral conduct-
MT&D professor Kenneth ing, cross-dressed as a Wagnerian
r, who also serves as Direc- soprano - complete with a horned
University Orchestras. Each helmet and a large metal breast-
ting student directs the plate - to conduct "The Ride of
ous combined orchestra in the Valkyries."
of his or her choosing. "I've heard stories about the
is is our first showing, if you 'greatest hits' of the Halloween
aid Yaniv Segal, a doctoral Concert," said Jones. "Our teach-
t in orchestral conduct- er, Kenneth Kiesler, always talks
.o will direct a piece in this about when someone dressed up

as a bat to do the overture to (the
operetta) Die Fledernaus, which
is the German word for 'bat.' They
sorehow suspended him upside-
down, and he conducted upside-
down."
The concert is tied together
by a series of madcap sketches
performed and written by the
conducting students. In fact,
the graduate students organize
the entire concert themselves -
everything from selecting the
music to finding costumes.
"We had a very fun time at the
costume shop, and we found some
great things," said Matthew Dell,
a first-year graduate student in
orchestral conducting. "There's a
lot of variety, a lot of wacky stuff."
This year's program includes a
wide range of favorite pieces from
the classical repertoire, including
Gustav Holst's "Jupiter" from The
Planets, Igor Stravinsky's Finale
from his ballet "The Firebird"
and Richard Strauss's "Dance of
the Seven Veils" froin his opera
"Salome." These pieces will be
conducted by Elliot Moore, Eiki
Isomura and Dell, respectively.
The concert also includes a few
Halloween-related pieces, such
as American composer George
Whitefield Chad wick's "Hobgob-
lin" from Symphonic Sketches (to
be conducted by Segal) and March
of the Little Goblins, a. piece by
Michigan alur Adam Glaser.
"It starts with just a few players
on stage, and then one by one the
sections file in," Segal said. "So at
the beginning of the concert you
get to see all the costumes of the
(musicians) as they walk on stage."
With its accessible program
and entertaining format, the Hal-
loween Concert is a favorite event
among students and community
rembers.

"There are people in town who
might never come to one of the
other Symphony or Philharmo-
nia concerts, but they come to
the Halloween concert, and they
get to hear a great orchestra play
great orchestral music," Jones
said. "The reason they enjoy it is
because it's funny and there are
fun costumes, but they also enjoy
the music, and that's worthwhile."
The concerts are also a great
opportunity for kids to get
acquainted with classical music in
a friendly atmosphere where they
can dress up in their Halloween
costumes.
"I think it's a big family event,
and there are people who have
come for years to the (Halloween
Concert)," Segal said. "At the end,
the conducting students run out
to the front of the house and hand
out candy to the kids for them
to get started on their trick-or-
treating. It's really fun to see them
there. They're usually laughing,
smiling and giggling, and they
have a real blast."
This year's concert is particu-
larly special because it happens to
fall on the same day as Halloween.
Segal hopes that this will draw an
extra-large crowd. He also point-
ed out that since the concert is in
the afternoon, it won't interfere
with youngsters' trick-or-treat-
ing.
For the musicians, who are used
to a more serious black-tie style of
concert, the Halloween Concert is
a much-appreciated change. Con-
certmaster Cave mentioned that
having kids in the audience also
helps to lighten the mood.
"Orchestra concerts can really
seem stuffy and old," Cave said.
"And having kids there laughing
and chatting - even during the
music - it's refreshing."

So, admission: I kind of hate
Halloween. I hate it so much
that I've been stressing out
over writing this column all week
simply because
I can't think
ofanything
to write. And
it's not just
because there's
never anything
good at the Sal-
vation Army, JENNIFER
or that it smells XU
like pumpkin
whenever I
walk into any kind of food store,
or even that the streets get obnox-
iously rowdy for like 10 days
preceding the actual holiday.
(Seriously, dressing up one day
is fine. Two days is OK, too. But
when you're going out seven days
a week, each in a different "sexy"
outfit, it's time to put on some real
clothes.) it's the pressure of it all.
In all honesty, much of my
beef with the holiday stems from
the fact that I can never think of
anything good to dress up as. The
extent of my creative stupidity is
truly boundless. The zenith of this
materialized during last year's
Halloween, when I tried to con-
vince three of-my friends to dress
up as the "Mean Girls" by snip-
ping holes in our t-shirts, which
would reveal circular pieces of
our multicolored bras underneath.
Needless to say, this idea did not
go over well.
For me, Halloween is all about
toeing the line between decency
and creativity. This takes more
thought thanI can possibly mus-
ter. It also takes good cutting
skills. Let me voice out a few of my
neuroticisms for you.
1. You have to make sure your
body is prepared if you want to
dress up like a (creative) slut. This
not only calls for working out
months in advance but also gradu-
ally building up a resistance to
30-degree weather, because Hal-
loween night is going to be freak-
ing cold.
2. If slut is not for you, the next
most important thing is to be
recognizable. The imperative is
not so much that you're creative
but that people will know what
you are. This way, you won't have
to keep answering the question,
"What are you supposed to be?"
all night.
3. But, at the same time, you
can't be too predictable. This usu-
ally means that you can't dress up
as a celebrity, because odds are
you're going to pick Lady Gaga,
Michael Jackson or the cast of
"Glee" (for reasons unknown to
me, because don't they just wear

regular clothes?), and so will
everybody else you know.
4. And you definitely can't dress
up as Snooki. I love "Jersey Shore"
as much as the next obsessed fan,
but you know how many people
are going to rock the fake-tan
guidette look. Don't worry - you
will find your "guido juicehead"
with or without your bumpit.
5. Once you actuallythink of
your idea, you have to go to some
vintage store or the Salvation
Army to buy all the stuff you need.
In the process, you're going to
see other people picking out stuff
for their costumes and feel bad
watching them plan out really
awesome ones while yours just
seems really stupid.
These kinds of stressors could
drive you to do truly crazy things,
such as buy one of those shirts
from Urban Outfitters that say:
"This is my costume." It's just so
easy! But when I'm feeling really
desperate, Ialways, always try to
keep this decree in my mind: Do
not, at all costs, shop for your cos-
tume at American Apparel.
Seriously, have you seen their
"costume builder" for this year?
Way to blatantly pass off clothes
you already own as a "costume."
My favorites among these stel-
lar selections are: "mermaid" (a
Whatever you
do, don't dress
up as Snooki.
bra top and two skirts around
your ankles), "sun and moon" (a
gray sweater and hot shorts) and
"cupcake" (three fluffy skirts over
your shoulders). The incentives
are even dumber - 15 percent off
your whole outfit on the chance
that you would like to purchase
these ridiculously expensive "cos-
tumes." Thanks, American Appar-
el, I'm so happy I get to save a
whole $30 off this $200 purchase
so I can puta skirt on top of my
head and call myself a "sexy nun."
So now that I've effectively
ruined your holiday and depressed
you beyond all reason, ignore
everything I just said. The truth
is, all you have to do is wear
a freaking costume - after a
while people will be too drunk to
remember what you came in as
anyway. Happy Halloween, you
guys.
Xu is dressing up as a respectable,
upwardly mobile French maid.
E-mail her at jennifxu@umich.edu.

My love for Bob Dylan is not a-changin

By CASSIE BALFOUR
DailyArts Writer
The name Bob Dylan evokes
images of an Americana maverick
who, despite slipping into count-
less musical styles, has maintained
his reputation as one of the great
songwriters of the 20th century.
But lately there have been blas-
phemous murmurs across cam-
pus of Dylan's failing voice and
poor stage manners. And now that
Dylan is returning to his college-
touring roots tonight at Hill Audi-
torium, I am forced to remind
everyone why the '60s icon is still
relevant to the youth of today in
spite of his supposed cantanker-
ous antics.
Now, I don't have much to add
to the decades-long conversa-
tion concerning Dylan, but I do
have the requisite Dylan post-
ers plastered to my walls, and I

still defend his quirky voice to
My unconvinced friends. So even
though I'm intimidated by the
wealth of Dylan history, 1 will
speak with authority and humbly
soldier on.
Bob Dylan's command of gen-
erations of eager listeners is nearly
unmatched. How can one man
appeal to so many denmographics?
Personally, I can't even remember
how or why I started listening to
him. My parents are staunchly
anti-Dylan. My father does a terri-
ble impression of Dylan's vaguely'
nasally voice that lie thinks is just
hysterical. So I don'tnremember
who introduced him to me, but
it feels like I've been bumming
"Tangled Up in Blue" my entire
life. Dylan is ingrained in Ameri-
can youth culture, and his lyrics
still resonate with politically con-
scious youti the same way they did
back when Dylan first started out,

which is why Dylan still deserves enough to be his grandchildren.
yOur unwavering adoration. Why do they continue to flock
Dylan's musical career has to his concerts and buy his post-
spanned decades, and he's had ers and watch tedious movies
just as many musical transforma- about him? I know that in my
tions: from folksy '60s revolution- case listening to Dylan, especially
ary to authentic rock'n'roller on The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan and
The Times They Are A-Changin,
causes an inexplicable wave of
nostalgia for a world I never expe-
However old and rienced. Dylan's ability to evoke
such a pivotal time in American
tired he gts, history could send any politically
Bob Dylan is still active co"iege student into a fin of
tears. Or it could just be Dylan's
a cultural icon. appeal to stoners, like his sexy
aatrack "Rainy Day Woman #12 &
35," when he proclaims with his
sharp wordplay, "They'll stone
Blonde on Blonde, to at one poit ynou when you're playing your gui-
even dabbling im eva:'elical tar / Yes but I would not feel sO
Christian rock with two gospel all alone / Everybody must get
records, and well, everything in stoned."
between. Dylan has weathered all Dylan fans are sprinkled across
sorts of criticism, and In appeal- campus and I attempted to round
ing to you, dear readers, to i is a few fellow Dylan lovers to
cranky old Bob Dylan one more fawn over the enigmatic trou-
chance. badour for his upcoming show.
hDylaix's retUrnl to Ann Arbor Though it generated some inter-
may also be a return to his earlier, est, self-proclaimed fans were
folkier days. This version of Dylan, more cautious. One prospective
a waidering , counterculture hero concert buddy shocked me with
advocating ni behalf of the down- a callousness that is being echoed
trodden and spit-on , is not the by a lot of "fans" these days.
im yian h's ways seemed "I don't know ... I love Dylan
to be xlifxrtabl ith, which but I hear (he) sucks live these
His eeinly stage days."
rnxirner towa'rird his adoring fans. Another "friend" (we've since
Although lie often protested the cut all ties due to his slanderous
idea lie was some sort of incendi- attacks on Mr. Dylan) carefully
ary protest singer, his songs were warned against getling my hopes
undoubtedly socially conscious up for a good show.
and some of them became anthems "Love him to death, seen him
for the Civil Rights mnovements, twice. But don't expect to be
including the classic "Blowin' in blown away."
the Wind." Even though Dylan has been
But there has to be a reason, on his "Never Ending Tour" for
besides the political undertones, the past couple of decades, there
that Dylan appe als to fans young have been rumors that the moody

singer has been less than courte-
ous to his fanbase. Friends who
have seen Dylan in recent years
cite many affronts, like refusingto
interact with the audience, tear-
ing apart and rearranging classic
Dylan songs much to his fans' cha-
grin and even turning his back to
the audience.
in my head Dylan is immortal-
ized in black and white, forever
young. The picture I have burned
into my memory of Bob is the one
featured on one my posters: ciga-
rette dangling precariously out of
the side of his mouth as he rakishly
salutes the photographer. So with
this image and Dylan's discogra-
phy in my mind, I choose to ignore
the fact that maybe at 69, Dylan's

iconic voice isn't quite what itused
to be.
When friends breathlessly warn
me about Dylan's antics, I can't
help but shrug it off. When some-
one is as brilliant and ground-
breaking as Dylan, I couldn't care
less if he treats me as just one-in-
a-million. Hell, I'd let Bob sit on
me while he performs if it means
getting to hear "Masters of War"
live, an incredibly relevant song
that still gives me chills. Cut Dylan
some slack for his rougher vocals
and curmudgeonly stage presence.
This is a chance to see one of the
great icons of the century perform
at one of the best venues in the
country. Don't let haters sway you
from making the right choice.


4B - Thursday, October 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Indie horror descends on the Michigan

Bringing people together
with scares for a
frighteningly good cause
By CASSIE BALFOUR
DailyArts Writer
On Devil's Night, the Michigan Theater
will be transformed into a terrifying circus
fit to host an indepen-
dent horror film festival. Three Corpse
LSA senior Jonathan
Barkan and his crack CirCUS
team of horror buffs Saturday
had visions of creating at 7
a stronger, more cohe- M .
sive horror comnt Mchigan Theatr
svhorrcommunity Tickes from $17
in southeast Michigan.
The result: the Three
Corpse Circus Independent Horror Film
Festival.
The eclectic festival submissions range
from zombie movies to comedic stabs at the
genre. Submissions came locally from both
University of Michigan and Eastern Michi-
gan University students, as well as interna-
tionally from places as far as Denmark.
"We have everything from zombie mov-
ies, to broken families, to comedy. The film
festival is going to run the gamut of the
horror genre in just a few hours," Barkan
said. "All the films have their heart in the
right place and are really fun, even if some
are kind of low budget."
"I actually prefer the B-movies even
where the production is kinda crappy,"
added Brian Schmieder, an LSA senior and
the operations manager for the festival.
"Most of the time they're a lot of fun and

don't take themselv
The films range
as two minutes up t
val will also feature
ror trivia games, g:
Lanes and Monste I
treats for movie buf
EMU alum Chris
tival coordinator, sa
"ringmaster."
"She goes by U:
to be fantastic. St
crowd."
Barkan hopes fo
the festival, believi
everyone's curiosit
of life.
"It's in our natu
said. "Horror movi
ity. In general, hort
Hollywood because
they want to see. W
instinct, we wanttt
Barkan knowsv
- he writes for Bl
popular and respec
the Internet that is
and getting it off th
Despite what Bar
ror community inI
is there. Last year,
played at the StateT
ences. Ann Arbor w
of cities nationwide
rolled out the filmI
see that people in A
horror movies and
creepiness that ext:
"The horror co
Michigan is scattt
with only small po

'es too seriously." kan said. "I know people who hate horror,
in length from as short but who love Halloween and watching
o 48 minutes. The festi- scary movies with their friends once a year.
costume contests, hor- "But horror can be enjoyed year round.
iveaways from Colonial There is a stigma around horror. We're not
Energy drinks and other all scary, or angry hate-filled people; we're
fs throughoutthe night. just normal people who enjoy being scared
topher Anderson, a fes- and enjoy the darker aspects of films," he
tid there would also be a said.
Barkan said the Three Corpse Circus has
rsula, and she is going big plans to carve out a horror community
he'll really engage the that would extend far past their event.
"We're building the Three Corpse Cir-
ir a diverse showing at cus not just as a film festival but as a brand,
ng that horror taps into something that brings that horror com-
y about the darker sides munity throughout southeast Michigan
together for monthly events -- where it' s
re to want to know," he not just film festivals, but also art galler-
ies play on that curios- ies," Barkan explained. "In the future, we
ror is very profitable for plan to do concerts when it gets closer to
people are curious and Halloween. We'll also focus on the things
e want to celebrate that parents can do with their kids, such as
D celebrate horror." pumpkin carvings leading up to the main
chat he's talking about event, the film festival, which by the way is
oody-Disgusting.com, a unrated."
ted horror websites on "Yeah, don't bring your little kids,"
publicizing the festival Anderson added.
e ground. The trio has a philosophythathorror can
-kan calls a lack of a hor- be used as a tool for social change and is
Ann Arbor, the demand using the festival to rally support for causes
"Paranormal Activity" like the Spectrum Center - the Univer-
Fheater to sold-outaudi- sity's LGBT outreach and advocacy center.
'as one of only a handful If they sell more than 1,000 tickets, they'll
where Paramount first donate $2 of every ticket to the center.
Barkan and his team can "We want to show that horror can be a
knn Arbor crave quality source of positive change in the community
hope to create a cult of in general," Barkan said.
ends past Halloween. Barkan admits that a lot of their initial
mmunity in southeast schemes ended up on the cutting-room
ered and disorganized floor.
'ckets of support," Bar- "We had such grandiose plans at first,
we had to trim down our ideas and figure
out what was logistically feasible for us
because as it is right now, we're already
running ragged and if had tried to hold
onto our original ideas it would have been
a complete nightmare," he said.
"Nightmare on Liberty Street," Schmie-
der injected, always ready with a quick hor-
ror reference.
In fact, the team's encyclopedic horror
knowledge is almost, well, scary. When
asked to name favorite scary movies, con-
templative silence- descended upon the
group - but only briefly.
'The Fog' is my favorite, but as for the
scariest, the original 'Alice in Wonderland,'
even 'The Wizard of Oz' freaks me out,"
Schmieder said.
"I'm gonna have to say 'Let the Right
One In,' " Anderson said. "Horror to me
isn't about the gore and the guts, it's about
relationships, and that film is truly about
relationships."
And if you're looking for a horror film
TESY OF THREE CORPSE CIRCus recommendation, look no further than
e public good. Barkan. Unable to decide, he spent several

0

p

If you don't go to the Three Corpse Circus, Ursula will be angry. You won't like her when she's angry.

minutes rattling off a host of movie titles.
"I can't even narrow it down; I'm still
scanning my mental DVD collection of hor-
ror films," he said.
Eventually he cited "The Shining" asone
that still freaks him out to this day.
"It can be three in the afternoon, birds
tweeting, blinds open, and I will be scared
shitless for hours," he said.
The important idea these horror advo-
cates are pushing is to keep an open mind
about the horror genre.
"It's like when people say they don't like
metal even though there are tons of sub-
genres. Same thing with horror movies,

like the ones with a lot of gore and shock
value ... you just find what you like and
stand by it," Barkan said. "As you can see,
we have a lot of passion."
Ultimately, the team has high expecta-
tions for how they want the audience to
react to the spooky submissions.
"I want to see the audience freak out,"
Schmieder said.
"We want to have popcorn flying at
every scare and people screaming," Barkan
added.
With that, Anderson had some final
advice for would-be film fest attendees:
"Sissies stay home."

The Three Corpse Circus brings local short horror films together to pror

HAUNTED
From Page lB
people to actually go through it."
Many consider "Alien Caged Clowns"
the most intense attraction at Night Ter-
rors.
After the structural, logistical and con-
ceptual details are all worked out, set deco-
ration commences. The goal: make it feel as
real as possible.
"We really want them to feel like they're
in (an) asylum or in a mine shaft," Wilson
said. "All the things that we can make seem
more real to give more of that terror effect
is what we try and go for."
Wilson describes this as one of the most
gratifying and genuinely fun parts for him,
because it allows for substantial hands-on
creativity.
Most of the props for Night Terrors
are purchased from garage sales, antique
shops or secondhand stores. A portion of
the set comes from employees, who bring
in objects that they otherwise would have
thrown away.
Nicole Karbacz, the "Head Witch" at
Krazy Hilda's Barn of Doom, explains that
it's quite the contrary for their homemade
attraction.

"Probably 85 percent of what I have is
something we've put together ourselves,"
she said.
For Karbacz, the key component to a
haunted house is the live-action perfor-
mance of its actors. She refers to the actors
that populate the Barn of Doom as "mon-
sters" and described how exactly these
monsters get to be so scary.
"There is an art to scaring people," she
said. "It's all about the timing and read-
ing their body language and listening. We
kind of listen to (the guests) as they're
approaching the place to scare and play
on those fears that we heard them talking
about."
If a child says "Dad, I'm scared," she will
respond by saying "Dad's not going to pro-
tect you."
The Barn of Doom's monsters also
use a tag-team technique to provide for
an extended scare, rather than numer-
ous isolated frights. The actors playing
monsters will give each other verbal cues
- for instance, a monster warning the visi-
tors to "watch out for my wolf" before the
wolf jumps out and scare them - which
requires a certain degree of improvisation
that most actors normally don't encounter.
Night Terrors also realizes the impor-
tance of performance and has a very selec-
tive process for hiring potential actors.

"We do a pretty intense interview pro-
cess," Wilson said. "We actually put them
in a couple of the scenes, tell them how
we want them to act out, give them all the
cues, give them what we want them to say
(and) the feelings we want them to get
across to the customer."
Wilson informs his candidates early on
of the high standards to which he holds his
actors.
"When we go through the interview
process, the first words out of my mouth
(are):'Don't think you're just going to jump
out of a corner with a flashlight,' " he said.
"Our customers pay to be terrified, that's
why they come here, and we want to ter-
rorize them."
The selection process for Krazy Hilda's
monsters is much less rigorous.
"I guess I just hang out with some real
scary people," Karbacz said.
Most of her monsters are friends and
acquaintances.
After an actor is hired at Night Terrors,
his or her job is to work wherever the event
managers see fit. This includes some peo-
ple playing the same part all the time, and
others alternating on a frequent basis.
"If we've got a real good guy in one
scene, and he's just phenomenal, we may
pull him out and make him a floater,
because he's got the energy," Wilson said.

p
0

"He'll float the whole event and scare you
five, six, seven times while you're in there."
Regardless of how effective an actor is,
impressive visual effects are necessary
to really make the experience terrifying.
Wilson said that smoke machines are used
to slow people down and strobe lights are
often employed to create a disorienting
effect for visitors. In addition to their abil-
ity to disorient, Karbacz said the strobe
lights she uses give inanimate objects a
sense of vitality.
"(We) try to place them to make the
object look like it's alive," she said.
Dimming or changing the color of the
lights can also enhance a room visually.
Lighting is most valuable in changing the
mood from room to room and never allow-
ing the customer to become too comfort-
able.
Karbacz also uses Day-Glo paint -
which she describes as "fluorescents under
blacklight" - and "Gotetraits," which are
"3-D pictures hanging on the wall with
creatures' faces on them," to enhance
rooms visually.
The soft colors of the Day-Glo paint lull
guests into a false sense of security because
of their contrast with the harsher mood
created by the lighting in other rooms.
One Goretrait features the face of a
monster that can be seen somewhere else
in the Barn of Doom. The intention is for
a visitor to see the terrifying portrait and
then see the face in real life later on.

The effectiveness of these methods are
difficult to measure, however, so customer
feedback is essential.
Wilson sees a constant need to keep
each attraction fresh, which he measures
through reactions after groups have gone
through the events at Night Terrors.
"We do a lot of talking," he said.
Event managers stand outside of the
attractions and ask the customers ques-
tions about what scared them the most.
Whether you're the kind of person who
looks under your bed at night or the kind of
person who never shudders while watch-
ing a horror movie, Wilson and Karbacz
both think their haunted attractions will
make you think twice next time you go out-
side in the dark.
"If you're here, you're getting scared,"
Wilson said. "Race, color, gender, it really
doesn't matter - they're all screaming and
yelling."
For Wilson, the most rewarding part of
his job is observing the toughest-looking
people crack under pressure.
"Even the biggest guys scream like
babies sometimes," he explained. "When
you've got a six-foot-two, three-hundred-
pound guy come running out of the exit of
'The Mind Shaft,' screaming his head off,
yeah, that's a good feeling."
Karbacz can relate to this feeling and
continues to do what she does for one sim-
ple reason: "I'm just passionate about scar-
ing the crap out of people."

Attractions at Wiard's Night Terrors include "Mind Shaft" and "Alien Caged Clowns

6

DAILY ARTS: HOME OF THE FRIENDLIEST GHOSTS THIS SIDE OF THE MISSISSIPPI.

E-mail join.arts Cumich.edu for
information on applying.


