0 OPINION

From the Daily: The city shouldn't ban couches on porches, but officials and local landlords need to better inform tenants about fire safety.>) PAGE 4A
2 Some say the Internet killed film
T criticism. Andrew Lapin
disagrees, and offers a vision for
tag. eertn f ruits to p ete ocebepr
f dthe future of the art form.
PAGE 5A

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, April 12, 2010

michigandaily.com

FOOLING AROUND IN ANN ARBOR

To see a videofrom Festifools,
kgo to

SALAM RIDA/Daily
A giant puppet parades down Main Street as part of the FestiFools celebration. The program, which is part of the Lloyd Hall
Scholars Program, brings students and community members from southeast Michigan together to build and display the puppets.

UNDE RG RADUAT E AQDMISSIONS
officials:
This year's
application
numbersu
Coleman says in-state centage of those admitted who
have accepted their admission
to out-of-state ratio offers and sent in their deposits.
"Anything we say now about
will most likely yield is complete speculation,"
University President Mary Sue
remain the same Coleman said in an interview last
month.
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN University Provost Teresa Sul-
Daily StaffReporter livan said in an interview last
month that the University has
Undergraduate applications to also seen an increase in the num-
the University for the 2010-2011 ber of applications from under-
academic year have increased represented; minority students.
across the board for in-state This was positive news, Sul-
students, out-of state students, livan said, as underrepresented
international students and minority enrollment in the fall
underrepresented minorities, 2009 freshman class was down
University officials said recently. 11.4 percent, the third .straight
"We have received more class with a decline in underrep-
than 31,000 freshman applica- resented minority enrollment at
tions for fall and summer terms the University.
2010," Erica Sanders, director of "In terms of numbers, I can
recruitment and operations in tell you that we're up in every
the University's Office of Under- category, including, I'm pleased
graduate Admissions, wrote in an to say, underrepresented minor-
e-mail interview. ity students," Sullivan said.
The University received 29,965 Though there was also an
applications for admission for the increase in the number of minor-
2009-2010 academic year. Last ity applicants last year, there was
fall, 14,970 of those who applied still the decrease in the number
were accepted and 6,079 of those of minority students who chose
students decided to enroll at the to enroll.
University. It is unclear at this point in
Because the deadline to send in the process whether the increase
deposits is May 1, officials would in applications from under-
only release the number of appli- represented minority students
cants, not the yield - the per- See ADMISSIONS, Page 7A

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
'U'Medical School receives
largest grant in its hi'story
U.S. Rep. Dingell gell (D - Ann Arbor) presented 2006 for studies on aging. presentation ceremony that the
the Medical School with a $63 In a press release distribut- University's $63 million grant
presented grant million award from the National ed on Friday, National Cancer was the "principal grant" of
Institutes of Health to be used Institute officials highlighted more than $120 million in grants
to be used for over the next six years as part SWOG's track record of conduct- awarded by the NCI to SWOG.
of its work with the Southwest ing research that "has touched "(SWOG's) connections in the

r
t

cancer research
By DAVID BUCCILI
For the Daily
The University's Medical School
received its largest research award
ever Friday.
United States Rep. John Din-

Oncology Group. The grant is
part of a larger package totaling
$120 million awarded to SWOG,
which is based at the University.
This is the second largest
research award the University
has ever received after a $70
million grant the Institute for
Social Research received in

the lives of virtually every adult
cancer patient in this nation."
SWOG is one of the nation's
largest clinical trial groups
with more than 5,000 affiliated
researchers and 500 institutions
around the world.
The Group's Executive Offi-
cer Anne Schott said at the

state of Michigan (are) broad,"
Schott said. "Group connections
in the University of Michigan
are deep and proud standing."
About $3 million of the
$63-million grant will be used
each of the six years to help sup-
port salary and indirect costs.
See GRANT, Page 7A

ELECIO0N 2010
Republican candidate for gov.
to finally receive LSA degree iI4

State Sen. Tom
George became a
doctor, politician
without graduating
By ALEX KIRSHENBAUM
DailyStaffReporter
State Sen. Tom George (R-Kal-
amazoo) has been an anesthesiol-
ogist, a member of the Michigan

House of Representatives, a state
senator and is now a Republi-
can candidate for governor. This
weekend, however, George will
buy his cap and gown in prepa-
ration for the University's spring
commencement so he can finally
become a college graduate too.
George, currently serving
his second and final term in the
Michigan state Senate, has spent
the past 25 years working in pub-
lic service, both as a doctor and as
a member of the Michigan legis-

lature. Though he has met more
success than many without col-
lege degrees, he said he's finally
decided it's time to graduate.
George came close to graduat-
ing from the University when he
was a student at the University's
Flint campus before transferring
to the Ann Arbor campus - more
than 30 years ago. After three
years of studying at the Univer-
sity, George was given the oppor-
tunity to apply to the University's
See GEORGE, Page 7A

MIC HIGAN FOTBALL
Michigan football Relays for first time

Participants from across the United States and Canada perform traditional Native American songs at the 38th annual Dance for
Mother Earth Powwow at Saline Middle School yesterday.
Annual powwow builds community
amid remains repatriation process

In honor of former
player, team raises
money as part of
Relay for Life
By CHELSEA LANGE
Daily StaffReporter
In honor of former Michigan
football player Phil Brabbs, the
Michigan football team partici-
pated in the University's Relay for
Life event this weekend for the
first time in the team's history.
Relay for Life took place from
WEATHER H I: 49
TOMORROW LO 41

Saturday to Sunday, with 3,136
University students from 179
teams participating to raise
money for the American Can-
cer Society by walking around
the track on Palmer Field for 24
hours. This year, the event raised
$268,397 as of late last night,
according to Christine Schepeler,
co-chair of the University's Relay
For Life.
Among the packed tents on the
field was a maize and blue Uni-
versity tent, which housed the
football team's Relay group, the
Football Family. The team con-
sisted of 30 registered members
from the Michigan football team

as well as unregistered football
players who came to the event to
show their support.
The inspiration for the Football
Family team came from Brabbs,
who was diagnosed with multiple
myeloma - a fatal blood cancer -
in 2008.
According to the Relay for Life
website, Brabbs was diagnosed
the day after he turned 28. Since
then, he has received chemo-
therapy treatments and stem cell
transplants in an effort to combat
the disease, according to Brabbs's
blog called "Multiple Myeloma
for dummies."
See RELAY, Page 7A

Event held at Saline
Middle School in
'protest' for second
year in a row
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
Daily StaffReporter
When visitors entered Saline
Middle School's auditorium this
weekend, a sea of brightly colored
headdresses, jewelry and rega-

lia immediately demanded their
attention.
Looking closer, certain indi-
viduals in the crowded arena stood
out: an aged man sewing a leather
sack, young children stomping
their feet in rhythm alongside
their elders and three young men
beating skinned drums and chant-
ing enthusiastically.
These participants and more
were among the hundreds of par-
ticipants at the 38th annual Dance
for Mother Earth Powwow who
came together this weekend to

On Friday, a roundtable took
placeto discussthe repatriation
process. To read thetfull story on the
event, goto MichigDaily.comt.
celebrate their culture with fellow
members of the Native American
community.
"(The powwow) is about build-
ing community and respecting our
culture, history and traditions,"
LSA senior Josh Voss, the internal
co-chair of the University's Native
American Student Association
See POWWOW, Page 7A

GOT A NEWS TIP? . NEW ON MICHIGAN DAILYCOM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Symposium honors retirement of Ralph Williams.
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS................................2A ARTS ....... . . .SA
Vol. CXX, No 127 SUDOKU.........................3...3A CLASSIFIEDS ...............A......6A
m O he ihigan aily OPINIO N ............................4A SPORTSM O NDAY.................1B

1


2A - Monday, April 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily- michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, April 12, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilov'itz@michigandailycom tmdbusiness@gnsail.com

LOUNGE DEDICATION

Qucering the Census

The Columbia Queer Alliance at
Columbia University teamed up with
LGBT groupa at other Ivy League
schools to launch a campaign called
Queer the Census, according to an April
9 article in the Columbia Spectator.
Census forms contain questiona
about gender and nationality but not
sexual orientation.
As part of their campaign, members
of the Columbia Queer Alliance passed
out pink stickers to students to stick on
their census forms and asked them to
indicate their sexual orientations.
Raul Vicente, senior media special-
ist for the Census Bureau in the New
York region, said in the article that the
information students send in will not
be factored into official census data,
but he supported the movement if it
encouraged students to submit forms.
"oif that pink sticker will motivate
them to send their forms in, then so be
it, that's a good thing," he said in the
article.

GORE TALKS MORALS OF
CLIMATE CHANGE
Former Vice President Al Gore spoke
about the morals of climate change in a
speech given to hundreds of students at
Duke University on April 8, according
to an April 9 article in The Chronicle of
Migher Education.
During the lecture, Gore briefly talk-
ed about his political career, but focused
on the acceleration of global warming
over the past 150 years and the human
contribution to finding asolution.
"Make no mistake, this is not just a
political issue, not just a market issue,
not just a national security issue, not
just a jobs issue," Gore said in the arti-
tie. "It is a moral issue."
ASSAULT DOCUMENTATION
LACES NUMBERS
A recent report has found that the
number of sexual assaults that occur on

college campuses is under-documented
each year, accordingto an April 9 article
in The Daily Collegian, Pennsylvania
State University's student newspaper.
Law enforcement agencies and col-
leges collaborate each year to publish
the Clery Act report - a documenta-
tion of crimes committed throughout
the year, according to the article. But
many records of assault aren't included
in this report, as universities use police
records that oftentimes lack data that
should be included, the article states.
The number of reported assaults
has increased at Penn State during the
last three years, but even this increase
doesn't reflect the actual number of
assaults that occurs. According to the
article, because assaults reported to
the Center for Women Students or the
Center for Counseling and Psycho-
logical Services are often confidential,
there is an under representation of sex-
ual assaults reported at colleges.
- KAITLIN WILLIAMS

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroomc
Seas Tips
torrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Pate
Sports Section
Display Sales
tlassitied Sales
Online Sales

office hosSu5n.-Thures.I11a.m. -2 .m.
news@michigandaily.omn
orrections@michigandaiy.omw
tothedaily@michigandaily.omx
photo@mnichigandaily.ox
artspage~jxichigandaily.on
opinion@michigandaily.on
sportsopmichigandaiy.oom
display@michigandaiy.omx
classijted@michigandaiy.cox
onlineads@michigadaiy.com

0
0

Activist Grate Lee Bogs at an event yesterday
wherena new multicultural lounge in Baits was named
atten hen. Forna lull story, see michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Fire caused by Bicycle tires Symphony Talk on Chinese
cigarette butt slashed at Union performance immigration

WHERE: School of Social Work
WHEN: Priday at 9:10 a.m.
WHAT: A caller reported
a trash can fire caused by a
cigarette butt, University Police
reported. There were no inju-
Thief caught
stealing bag of
Tootsie Rolls
WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN: Friday at about 11 a.m.
WHAT: A female subject
was caught stealing a bag of
Tootsie Rolls from the Union,
University Police reported.
The bag of Tootsie Rolls were
valued at about $3. There are
no suspects.

WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN: Saturday at about
S:00 p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
his bicycle tires were slashed
after he left his bike parked on
the north side of the Union,
University Police reported.
Drunk student
found in Yost
WHERE: Yost Ice Arena
WHEN: Priday at about 1:30
WHAT: An intoxicated
female student was found sit-
ting in the bleachers of Yost
Ice Arena, University Police
reported. The woman received
a MIR.

WHAT: The Campus
Symphony Orchestra will
be performing several
pieces under the direction
of Graduate Student Con-
ductor Oriol Sans.
WHO: Campus Symphony
Orchestra
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Mill Auditorium
Film screening
about women 's
rights
WHAT: "Call Me Muslim',
A film detailing the struggle
for women's rights in Muslim
communities will be shown.
WHO: Center for North
African and Middle
Eastern Studies
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: School of Social
Work, Room 1636

WHAT: A lecture focusing
on Chinese emigration to
Central Asia, specifically
to Eazakhstan.
WHO: Center for Chinese
Studies
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: School of Social
Work, Room 1644
Poetry reading
WHAT: Czech poet Sylva
Fischerova will present
poems detailing her life
experiences from growing
up in Prague.
WHO: MFA Program
in Creative Writing
WHEN: Today at S p.m.
WHERE: UMMA,
Alumni Memorial Mall
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandailycom.

1Animal rights activists are
protesting the practice of
Orangutan kick boxing
events in Thailand, according to
the Daily Mail Online. The pri-
mates are trained and then per-
form matches in front of tourists
in theme parks. Researchers
warn that the Orangutan is in
danger of becoming extinct in
several years.
2Last week, an Ann Arbor
resident urged the Ann
Arbor City Council to
reconsider passing an ordi-
nance that would ban the use
of upholstered furniture on
porches.
0 FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4A
3British primary schools
have begun to show stu-
dents scenes from Grand
Theft Auto-4 to teach them the
consequences of knife and gun
violence, according to the Daily
Mail Online.

inance finasce@xichigandaity.ox
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aarnson ManagingoEditor aaronaon@michioasdaity.oox
Jillian Benman ManagingNes Esditor berman@michigandaity.com
sSNORNESm ETO:Nos Ole ube,,Malor Jones, Stephanie Steisber,.Kyle
Swns, sEshwar Thiuna,,kkaras
uSSISnAN ESowToosOR:Dln CintiiDarrynFitzgeralu, Josseph Lichtermns,
VeroniasMnasli,unnie Thomas,Don TshorsbytIElyana Tiggs
Rathel tVanlGilder EditoriotiPageoEditor vangitder@michigandaity.com
505N00RnEDITORuAL PGErouTtooORS Bian Flher, Erika 5,Maer,,EmyOrle'y, Laura
uSSoInTuNEDTnORIALuPGu ETORS:oMichelleoemit,AleuScf,h att heShutler
Ryan Kartje Managig SpotsEditor iartje@micthigandaity.com
SNOSPorORTS EDITOR.S: ioleA uerbach,Mark urss Gjssonsun,uChris
Mesos,J oeStapleton
uSSISTN S OREDITORS:00.Michael Florek, ulexsHermasn,.Ryan Pedges, Zak
Pyzik Tin oha~nnmy caran
JamielBlock Maoeinours Eiore bok@michgandailyom
tSNORuRTSETO S: Carln leki,AndewLpi,oeffSanford
uoSSTN RSnu ITORnoS:Leah uri, Sharonacsb,Emaesze, Mike nz,,
MaotCollins and ehoro@miuhandaitycom
SanWolSOn Managing hotooEdtos
SENIOReoPHOTOEDT'O ORMLTIMEDIA:hael VoneHabsbur-Lothrisne
ASSISTNsPOOn ETO RS:AuoAugsbuge, JakeFr, Mariessa Mai,
Sarah Squire and 'desino@xichigasdaity.cox
Anna Lein-Zielinskti ManagigoDesign tditors
Treortalero Muaintditor calero@michigandailycom
Melanie Fried and copydesk@niohiaodaityoom
Rathel Phillips topytChief's
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielJozwiak salts Manager
MARKET00000MA0AGER0.Mchel ote o
Ryan BasinskiCtasfedMoarnager
CLSSFID SSISoTNTsMANAGER: ala Laeata
Jason Mahakian ProductonoManager
Alison Santacraouot Manager
Vioian Lee FinanceMaonage
Brittany MoalesCiculaotioonManager
Brad Wiley Projeocoordinator
The Michigan Daily ItSNm74-967) is pubishleiMoniay though Fiayidurinthiefall ani
witrterm~s by tudents atte Univesity ofMiciga. One opy is aailable free ofchare to all
readers. Aditionalcospietmaybe picked upat thetailysofficefo $2. ubsiptiosfor fall te,
starting in Septmbe, viaU.S. mail are ti10. Wintertetma(Janury thraoghApil)mis 1, yearlong
(September tthogh Apil) is $195. University affiiates e subjectto a reduced subsciption rte.
On-cas sustitionsfortfall term are$3.ubsciptions mstepepaid. Te ihigan aily
is a member ofTthe Assoiated Pest and The Associated Collegiate Press.

MORE ONLINEL
Love Crime Notes? Get Bore oline at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

BECOME A FAN OF THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK

0

1xAtten-otion off-capu
the C'&u
needsyouto
return your form
There are special programs in ptace to count students on camus.r Rut if yout lives off U

0
0

1 .0


1 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 12, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
CLINTON TOWNSHIP, Mich.
Thousands attend
Detroit tea party
Thousands of Michigan resi-
dents turned out in suburban
Detroit's Clinton Township for a
tea party rally organized by activ-
ists who had targeted an anti-abor-
tion Democratic Congressman for
defeat.
The Detroit News reports that
thousands of people gathered yes-
terday in front of the township's
Civic Center Park for the last of
four stopsaby the Tea Party Express.
They chanted "Don't Tread on
Me" and "Take Back Michigan"
and cheered as speakers pledged to
defend liberty and oust liberal poli-
ticians.
The Tea Party Express had tar-
geted Congressman Bart Stupak for
his role in securing House approval
of the health care overhaul. Stupak
" announced Friday that he's retir-
ing after 18 years in Congress and
insisted he wasn't chased from the
race.
WASHINGTON
Al-Qaida would
use nuke if it could,
Obama says
If al-Qaida acquired nuclear
weapons it "would have no com-
punction at using them," President
Barack Obama said yesterday on
the eve of a summit aimed at find-
ing ways to secure the world's
" nuclear stockpile.
"The single biggest threat to U.S.
security, both short-term, medi-
um-term and long-term, would
be the possibility of a terrorist
organization obtaining a nuclear
weapon," Obama said. "This is
something that could change the
security landscape in this country
and around the world for years to
come."
"if there was ever a detonation
in New York City, or London, or
Johannesburg, the ramifications
economically, politically and from
a security perspective would be
devastating," the president said.
"We know that organizations
like al-Qaida are in the process of
trying to secure nuclear weapons or
other weapons of mass destruction,
and would have no compunction at
usingthem," Obama said.
The Nuclear Security Summit
of more than 40 world leaders in
Washington this week is aimed at
. securing "loose nuclear material,"
Obama said. He was holding one-
on-one meetings yesterday with
severalof those leaders.
WASHINGTON
GOP senators push
for 'mainstream'
court nominee
GOP senators who will help
shape the review of President
Barack Obama's next nominee to
the Supreme Court said yesterday
he must pick someone with "main-
stream" judicial views to avoid a
potential filibuster.
Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama,

the top Republican on the Senate
Judiciary Committee, wouldn't
rule out using that tactic to "pro-
tect the Constitution" from a high
court nominee who, he said, would
make law rather than interpret it.
Whether there's a drawn-out
fight over a successor to retiring
Justice John Paul Stevens, the lead-
er of the court's liberal wing, "is
in the president's hands," Sessions
said. Stevens plans to step down
when the court finishes its work for
the summer. '
. Added Arizona Sen. Jon Kyl, the
Senate's second-ranking Republi-
can and a committee member: "I'm
not going to take it off the table. But
I think it can easily be avoided."
KHARTOUM, Sudan
Sudanese vote
to decide fate of
indicted president
Sudanese voted yesterday in the
impoverished country's first multi-
party elections in a quarter centu-
ry, which will determine whether
President Omar al-Bashir wins
another term despite his indict-
ment on charges of war crimes in
Darfur.
The vote is supposed to bring
a democratically elected govern-
ment, prepare the ground for a vital
referendum on South Sudan inde-
pendence and begin healing the
wounds of the Darfur conflict. But
major opposition parties boycotted
it, claiming it was unfair.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

To bring together thinkers, first ever
TEDx event hosted at the University

E
give
Tec
Desigr
ing id
based
series
Saturd
its owl
with
event.
TEL
nized
compa
the or
variou
versity
nities
of exp
18 min
300 in
medic
ing.
LSA
O'Dell
direct:
offsho
same
event.
"(TI
er the
and do
to sha
sionat:
Beg
TED
a foru
rangin
ness tc
cuss ai
Past si
Gates,
Sir Ric
TEL
arounc
Arbor
audito
partici
were
theirN
TEDx3
ers at
Cyberj
windir
MMU.
The
in hos
- the
Univei
nia in
the cr
versit'
Ann
lutely
sharin
labora
"Yot

xperts activists 8,000 faculty members and the
Ann Arbor community," he said.
presentations on "If you can make that into this
small, one-day event and take
various topics it all in, try to make it into one
day, I think you can get people to
By ALLIE WHITE make sense of everything around
Daily Staff Reporter them."
LSA sophomore Jason Greens-
hnology, Entertainment, pan, one of the event's marketing
n. These are the found- directors, said the group received
eas behind the California- roughly 600 applications for 300
non-profit conference attendee spots.
known as TED. This past The best applicants were those
lay, the University hosted who thought "outside of the box,"
n version of the conference Greenspan said.
the first-ever TEDxUofM "The most common appli-
cation we had was something
DxUofM, which was orga- about wanting to change the
independently of the TED world, but the best applications
ny but is modeled after said how they would change the
iginal conference, featured world, or why or what needed to
s speakers from the Uni- be addressed," he said. O'Dell
and Ann Arbor commu- said his desire to learn what was
who discussed their areas going on outside of his "bubble"
ertise - each for exactly was what incited his desire to
utes - to a crowd of about bring TEDx to the University.
the auditorium of the Bio- "There's so much exciting stuff
al Science Research Build- happening at the University and
I want to know what's happen-
sophomore Alexander ing," he said. "I felt like this was a
, TEDxUofM's executive good way to bring such a massive
or, said the organization's entity and make sense of it."
ot conferences follow the The speakers who partici-
philosophy of the original pated in TEDxUofM serve as
testaments to that diversity and
EDx) looks to bring togeth- depth.
most interesting thinkers The presenters included Ste-
ers from around the world phen Rush, a professor of dance
re what they're most pas- and performing technology in
e about," O'Dell said. the School of Music, Theatre
inning in 1984, the annual & Dance, LSA freshman Udae
gathering has served as Sandhu, who spoke about his
m for people from fields belief that "life is far too short
ig from science to busi- to not spend every single sec-
o global issues to meet, dis- ond doing what we love" and
nd learn from one another. Sam Valenti IV - a University
peakers have included Bill dropout who founded Ghostly
Al Gore, Jane Goodall and International, an Ann Arbor-
hard Branson. based independent record label,
Dx events have sprung up from his freshman dorm room in
d the world. As the Ann Couzens Hall.
audience filed into the Though each speaker talks for
rium Saturday morning, only 18 minutes on a topic of his
ipants in Accra, Ghana or her choice, TEDx is a unique
halfway through with gathering in that it allows peo-
version of the conference, ple to "(dive) deep into an idea,"
YouthInspire, and organiz- according to O'Dell.
Multimedia University in "It's (a) showcase of the best
jaya, Malaysia were also of what's at the University,"
ng down their own TEDx- O'Dell said. "We tried to find
speakers that aren't necessar-
University isn't unique ily on the forefront, but who
ting a TEDx conference deserve to be recognized and
first-ever was held at the have really amazing and inter-
rsity of Southern Califor- esting things to say and are very
2009. But O'Dell believes passionate about what they do."
ossover between the Uni- O'Dell said he and his team
y community and that of of about 20 student organizers
Arbor creates an "abso- directly' approached adminis-
perfect" atmosphere for trators, deans, professors and
g ideas and sparking col- student leaders for speaker rec-
tion. ommendations.
u have 40,000 students, After narrowing down the

JED MOCH/Daily
Sam Valenti IV, founder and C.E.O. of Ghostly Records, addresses the crowd in the Biomedical Engineering Research Building
at the University of Michigan's first ever TEDx conference.

list of suggestions, O'Dell said the
final itinerary represented "just
about every place on campus."
Jim Burnstein, screenwriting
coordinator in the Department
of Screen Arts & Cultures, spoke
about how the Michigan film
incentive program could reverse
the state's "brain drain." He
echoed O'Dell's sentiments and
said the event was a "great col-
laboration."
"You have such a potential
cross-section of people who you
Can draw from," he said. "It was
just fantastic to see this cross-
section of people in the arts and
sciences that you rarely see com-
ing together, and that's a really
smart idea."
Engineering graduate student
Kiril Dontchev spoke about his

groundbreaking work with satel-
lites.
Dontchev said that while he's
been to many conferences and
given several talks before, TEDx-
UofM was different from any
previous event he's been to.
"The broad range of topics and
the way your mind got pushed,
you really had to dig deep and go
to places you hadn't been before,"
he said. "We really went from the
most technical of engineering
topics to abstract paper things
to talking about food or social
enterprises."
Fellow speaker Alex Wand,
a musician and lecturer in the
Residential College, closed the
conference by playing an original
song.
"Being in one room with so

many inspiring people was an
incredibly contagious experi-
ence," Wand wrotein an e-mail
interview. "Tobe honest, it made
me want to go home and write a
song."
Sandhu compared his experi-
ence at the conference to a "suc-
culent beehive of knowledge."
"Its sweet honey of innovation
flowed into the eager mouths of
all lucky enough to take part,"
Sandhu wrote in an e-mail inter-
view.
O'Dell said his biggest hope is
that the event will be the catalyst
for a dialogue on campus.
"If I can see that people took
something from (TEDxUofM) and'
want to start a conversation about
it, I think that would be the biggest
accomplishment," O'Dell said.

IS EASY

WORK FOR
DAILY NEWS.
E-mail berman@michigandaily.com
to get started.
105 hours live instruction
5 expert instructors,0paeofmt A
Satisfaction Gu ar1nt -!
LSAT
84 Hour Hyperlearning
28 Hour Accelerated
H-.,,M

Just go to www.studenthousing.org.
You'll find clean, modern, safe, convenient housing.
For summer or beyond, it's the finest off-campus
housing in NYC.

QUALITY STUDENT LIVING
WWW.STUDENTHOUSING.ORG
800, 297.4694

t

Distinguished lecturer
Rosina M. Bierbaum
Dean, U-M School of Natural
Resourcev and Envirnment;
Co-Director, World Development
Report 2010: Development and
Climate Change (World Bank)

Annual Nancy Cantor
Distinguished lectureship on INTELLECTUAL DIVERSITY

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Sponsored by the Office of the Senior Vice Provost to Academic Affairs

R


4A - Monday, April 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@ UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ELAINE MORTON

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solelythe views of their authors.
Fire prevention 101
City and landlords must educate students on safety
T he fires on Saturday, Apr. 3 shocked the campus com-
munity and Ann Arbor residents, resulting in a spike
of concern over fire safety issues in student housing. In
response, one Ann Arbor resident has encouraged City Council
to re-examine passing a proposed city ordinance that would ban
couches on porches in an attempt to reduce fire hazards. While
the intent to protect the city is noble, a ban essentially on porch
couches isn't the best way to combat fires. Students, landlords
and the City Council should work together to create a system of
education and responsibility to help prevent house fires.

"DONT TRY ANOD SI'U %. 'L IB LINID YOU
HOME WORK.CAN \AIrTTIC..
oU~p~f-4'T R~Xp yf A Af' NY~4y.
~74
4 P.5141. V A

0

Drawing concla~

Dubbed "suspicious," the cause of the
fires has yet to be determined. Ann Arbor
police are treating the fires as arson, though
the Ann Arbor Fire Department says there
isn't enough evidence to do so yet. One of
the fires, thought to have begun with a
porch couch that caught fire, injured two
students and led to the death of another.
The blaze prompted Ann Arbor resident C.
Robert Snyder to urge the Ann Arbor City
Council at its meeting last week to revisit an
ordinance proposed by the Ann Arbor Fire
Department in 2004 that would ban out-
door upholstered furniture in the city.
Certainly, the events of last week were
tragic. And they have shown that fire safety
in the city isn't up to par. But imposing an
all-inclusive outdoor couch ban isn't the
best way to combat the problem. Porch
couches can be a fire hazard - but they
aren't the major source of danger. There is
much larger problem at hand: Student hous-
ing often isn't fire-safe. And that's the fault
of both landlords and tenants. City Council
should develop a method to educate young
adults about fire safety, and ensure that
landlords are keeping property up to code.
Many students are new to the responsi-
bility of keeping a house fire-safe. To make
sure that students know their responsibili-

ties and how to stay safe, landlords and the
City Council should educate students on
fire-safety and city safety laws. This could
be as simple as a city newsletter sent annu-
ally to student housing, or a short seminar
offered by landlords or the city to teach
students about fire safety. This would give
students the knowledge they need to keep
their houses safe and not exacerbate any
fire hazards.
But, more importantly, landlords are
responsible - morally and legally - for
keeping their property up to code. Many
student houses are quite old and in poor
condition. They require frequent attention
to make sure there aren't any serious haz-
ards. Old wiring, ill-swept chimneys and
flammable materials by house exits are all
potentially dangerous. All student hous-
ing should have safe fire escapes. And, of
course, all smoke detectors should be in
working order. Landlords should advise
tenants if they perceive a fire hazard, even
if it's not against the law.
The horrifying events from last weekend
need to serve as a reminder of how impor-
tant staying fire safe is. But fires don't have
a single cause. To prevent fires, tenants,
landlords, and City Council should share
responsibility for staying safe..

As a skinny freshman way back
in February 2007, I picked up
a copy of The Michigan Daily
and turned to the
opinion page. I P
hated the Daily
back then, and if
you ask me for an
honest answer, I
still kind of do. But, ,
with that hatred
came a certain joy
that one can only -
experience when CHRIS
he or she holds upK
a Daily article to KOSLOWSKI
a friend and says,
"What the hell is
this idiot thinking?" I didn't enjoy the
Daily, but I enjoyed hating the Daily
- a sentiment that I'm sure at least a
few of you out there have today.
But there was one tiny piece of
this paper that didn't read like it had
a golden stick up its ass. If you're an
old fart like me and remember John
Oquist's Live on your Feet, Sam But-
ler's The Soapbox or Erin Russell's
Joy, you know that the 2006-2007
school year was a golden age for
Daily cartooning. Fully expecting to
be greeted by one of these genuinely
funny, superbly illustrated cartoons,
what I instead saw led me down a
three-year path that sadly and thank-
fully ends this week.
Sparing too many details, it was
the worst cartoon I've ever seen.
I've truthfully forgotten the name of
the artist, but it motivated a shy kid
who'd never drawn a straight line in
his life to say, "I can do better than
that." So, I sent a few sample comics
to eternal Daily contributor Imran
Syed, then the editorial page edi-
tor and now a columnist, and Out to

Pasture was born. Three years, SO
pounds and 120+ comic strips later,
I've come full circle.
Now, people hold up my columns
to their friends and say, "Koslowski
is an untalented loser!" Call me mas-
ochistic, but I couldn't be having
more fun.
Out of all the hate-filled e-mails
and comments I've received over the
years, my absolute favorites are those
which impugn my lack of humor and
artistic ability. To all those critics -
you're totally right. But remember, I
somehow tricked the Daily into pub-
lishing me and tricked you into giving
a damn. Just like me all those years
ago, you have a choice: keep firing
anonymous pot-shots on the com-
ment boards, or do something about
it. Heed my advice - you should
probably remain uninvolved because
it's a hell of a lot of work.
I can confidently and proudly
say that Out to Pasture requires less
effort to produce than any other part
of the Daily - and yes, that includes
the Crime Notes. Even still, it takes
a special kind of effort to churn out
a strip at 4 a.m. after a night of real
work only to have it be hacked to
pieces on the comment boards, or
worse yet, axed by your editor. It
takes someone who doesn't just toler-
ate criticism, but embraces it.
I've happily remained on the fringe
of Daily culture during my time at
the paper, but the staff has gained
my utmost respect in their ability to
embrace their critics. Rarely do you
see praise for any part of the Daily
outweigh its criticism - and that's a
good thing. When a paper becomes
complacent with its product or when
its readership stops caring enough to
complain is the moment it starts to go

rsions
under. Just ask the Ann Arbor News.
I mean this next point in the best
way possible, but some folks that
work at the Daily are really sick in
the head. People devote the best
years of their lives to this paper only
to expose themselves to criticism
and scandal, all while making less
money than ifthey spent their work
hours metal detecting in the Diag. I
couldn't do what my editors do, nor
would I want to.
Thank God that
Koslowski guy is
finally graduating.
So, what's the point of this rant
beyond being another sappy senior
send-off? If just one of you reads
this column or this Thursday's ultra-
special-last-Out to Pasture-ever and
thinks, "God, Koslowski's a hack. I'm
going to join the Daily so I can do it
better than him," then my time here
has meant something. The circle will
begin again, and we'll assure that our
children have a daily campus news-
paper to bitch about. And who knows,
maybe you'll actually have talent and
win the $10,000 Charles Schulz Col-
lege Cartoonist Award like Erin Rus-
sell did in 2007. In the interim, I'll
send my two bovine friends to that
big slaughterhouse in the sky. Iknow
I speak for more than myself when I
say, "It's about damn time."
-Chris Koslowski can be reached
at cskoslow@umich.edu.

DEVIN PARSONS, JOEL BERGER, ALEX EDWARDS, JODY SCHECHTER I
Support your lecturers


The end of the semester quickly approaches,
crashing through the academic calendar amid a
flurry of papers, exams, projects and last-minute
office hours. Yet along with the stress of impend-
ing deadlines, a more profound sentiment lines
the chaos of these final responsibilities: reflec-
tion over academic experiences at the University.
Most likely, this reflection will include the
classes that have changed the way in which you
view the world and the courses that have helped
you discover the career path of your dreams.
Most likely, you will recall times that you were
inspired and times that you were challenged to
grow beyond the limits of your capabilities. You
will remember being questioned, encouraged and
shown support in time of difficulty. At the very
least, you will reflect upon knowledge you have
gained that has left you fascinated and intrigued.
These moments have shaped your academic
career, and none of them found a place in your
educational experience purely by chance. A
common thread runs between all such defining
contributions to your time at Michigan. It is a
common thread that is manifest in individuals;
namely, intelligent, talented and accomplished
people who unreservedly invest their time in
your education. Yes, I am talking about profes-
sors, associate professors, and most of all, more
than 1,200 dedicated lecturers.
The lecturers deserve a special emphasis
within this group of educators because of their
unique and critical role in ensuring the success
of the University. Unlike professors, lecturers are
not tenured and earn a significantly lower salary.
Despite this reality, they are often the instructors
who work most directly with students, as teach-
ing is their primary responsibility.
Many departments depend on these hard
working individuals to maintain the character
of their programs. For example, lecturers allow
language departments to facilitate the dynamic
of small-class discussions. They also enable the
Economics Department to reach thousands of
undergrads through the popular introductory
courses in microeconomics taught by Janet Ger-
son and Paula Malone, who are both lecturers.
Most students do not realize that a significant
portion of theirteachers are lecturers ratherthan
professors. This-speaks not only to the impor-
tance of our lecturers, but also to the exceptional
quality of their instruction.
Unfortunately, the University is proposing to
cut lecturers' compensation, despite the essential
role they play in our education. The Lecturers'
Employee Organization, the union that repre-

sents lecturers at the University, is currently
renegotiating the three-year contract that gov-
erns the terms of lecturers' employment and is
fightingthe University's unfair proposals.
Since 2002, the University has experienced
overall revenue growth of about 4.4 percent per
year. Thus, it is especially unjust that the admin-
istration has proposed a nominal increase in lec-
turers' wages that does not even keep pace with
inflation, while at the same time is seeking to
slash their health care benefits. This amounts to
a compensation cut in real terms and is accom-
panied by further decreases in job security and
reductions in retirement contributions.
Members of LEO are limited in their means of
taking a stand against such transgressions bythe
administration. Their current contract includes
a "no strike clause" that impedes their efforts to
mobilize. This makes it all the more essential for
students to voicetheir supportforthose who play
such an invaluable role in shaping their educa-
tion. We need to make it clear to University offi-
cials that we want them to invest our tuition and
tax money in those who invest in us.
So take a moment out of your hectic, end-of-
the-year commitments and gothroughyour class
schedules. Start with this semester and then con-
tinue with your favorite courses of the past. Find
out which of your favorite instructors are cur-
rently struggling to protect their compensation
from cuts. I believe you will find that these are
the very same individuals who inspire us, chal-
lenge us, encourage us, question us and support
us in times of difficulty. They are the teachers
who change the way in which we perceive soci-
ety and guide us toward careers of our dreams.
They are the lecturers who leave us fascinated
and intrigued.
I think you will discover that it is nearly impos-
sible to reflect over the value of your time at the
University without giving credit to these talented
teachers. Offering them our support is the very
least we can do in return for their profound con-
tributions to our academic experiences. As a stu-
dent body, we need to be conscious of the ongoing
contract negotiations and make it clear to the
administration that we whole-heartedly stand
behind LEO's efforts.
-Devin Parson is a member of the University's
Chapter of the College Democrats. Joel Berger is
a member of Human Rights Through Education.
Alex Edwards is a member of Restaurant
Workers Justice Alliance. Jody Schechter is a
member of Students Allied for Labor Equality.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All
submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

0


The maverick is dead

Sad news, friends: The maverick
is dead.
Calm down now - silly old
John McCain
remains alive and
well-ish. And I'm
not even talking
about his "I've
never considered
myself a maver-
ick" comment last 
week. Sure, there
is a column wait-
ing to happen in IMRAN
that mind-bogglingS
assessment from SYED
a man who for the
last 20 years has
been to maverick what a desert is to
sand. (What do you call a maverick
who refuses to call himself a maver-
ick? A maverick, of course!) But this is
not that column.
Instead, I'm talking about the
sudden vacuum left in the realm
of independent thinking with the
departures announced last week of
Rep. Bart Stupak (D-Mich.), who has
chosen not to seek re-election, and of
John Paul Stevens, associate justice
of the U.S. Supreme Court, who will
retire this summer after nearly 35
years of service as a member of the
nation's highest court.
Stupak - an obnoxiously pro-life
Democrat from Michigan's Upper
Peninsula - has become a house-
hold name of late, thanks to his piv-
otal role in the passage of the health
care bill. Initially derided by fellow
Democrats for insisting that the bill
include no federal funding for abor-
tions, Stupak rose at the last minute
to support the final bill, arguing that
being pro-life had to include provid-
ing health protection for the already-
born. And suddenly he became public
enemy number one for the Right - a
"babykiller" in the words of Rep.
Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas).
As for Stevens, although he is the
longest-serving member of the cur-

rent Court, his independent streak is,
unfortunately, less known. Appointed
by Republican President Gerald Ford
in 1975, Stevens has always considered
himself a Republican. On the Court,
before rising in the '90's to command
the liberal wing, Stevens was a moder-
ate at best, and was often an indepen-
dent thorn in the side of the Court's
legendary liberals Thurgood Marshall
and William Brennan.
The careers of both Stupak and
Stevens are case studies in personal
convictions, constant introspection
and intellectual maturation overcom-
ing the pressures of politics, parties
and propaganda. They are success
stories - the kind that they just don't
write anymore.
Stupak has represented Michigan's
First Congressional District since
1993, managingto hold his seatin that
conservative district for nearly 20
years - despite the fact that a Repub-
lican essentially always held that seat
between World War II and 1992. In a
district that is larger in land area than
the entire state of West Virginia, yet
lacks even a single major media mar-
ket, Stupak built his career by being
and doing, rather than talking and
trying to be seen.
A former state police trooper and
lawyer, Stupak is trusted by those in
his district because he has never let his
party label or even the ideological tag
of "pro-life" limit what he does for his
constituents. Love him or hate him,
Stupak believes in evaluating issues
and finding the best solution - not just
walking into a room doused in blue/
red paint, barking belligerently about
how gay marriage or off-shore drilling
is destroying the world.
And Stevens, perhaps to the dismay
of those who love his recent liberal
conclusions, has always been an oppo-
nent of pre-set tests and pre-ordained
ideologies dictating an outcome - as
was apparent in his dissent in Fulli-
love v. Klutznick and his concurrence
in City of Richmond v. Croson, among

others. Freeing himself from the dic-
tates of pre-set ideologies enables Ste-
vens to grasp more fully the reality of
a case before the court, whatever solu-
tion that may lead to.
We need to have
more independent
thinkers in office.
This isn't to say Stevens has no
moral anchor guiding his work - his
unflinching reproach of flag-burning,
despite his general liberalism on
free-speech issues, is one example of
how core values and ideals do drive
Stevens, a World War II veteran. But
the venerable old-school mid-West-
erner has never been afraid to learn
and apply something new, or to sim-
ply change his mind upon hearing
better arguments.
Stupak and Stevens willbe replaced,
but not really. Tea Partiers dancing on
Stupak's politicalgrave willback some
conservative Republican, who for the
rest of his life will do and vote just
as we know a conservative Republi-
can does. Or maybe by some miracle
a Democrat will manage to hold Stu-
pak's seat and proceed to act out that
ideological script to a tee. President
Barack Obama will surely appoint a
liberal to replace Stevens, but what
are the chances that this replacement
will also have Stevens's intellectual
maturity to command a majority while
remaining unafraid to go against the
tide? Almost none.
Our country as it stands today just
won't stand for another person like
Stupak or Stevens. And that's why I
say that the maverick is dead.
- Imran Syed can be reached
at at galad@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 12, 2010 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, April 12, 2010 - 5A

Film critics of
the world, unite!

'Vincere' marches on to victory

Last fall sang the praises
of the new-and-improved film
review show "At the Movies" for
sacking empty-headed critics Ben
Lyons and Ben
Mankiewicz
in favor of the
knowledgeable
O and entertain-
ing A.O. Scott
and Michael
Phillips. I was
excited to once "
again enjoy the ANDREW
show thatcgot LAPIN
me into movies,
. and I proudly
proclaimed that the program had
found its Hollywood ending.
Smash cut to right now, and
that's been replaced by something
more akin to a New Hollywood
ending - you know, the kind of
the "Easy Rider" or "Apocalypse
Now" variety, where the death
of an icon becomes the symbol
for the death of an era. "At the
Movies" was canceled on March
25, after over three decades
on the air. When the news was
announced I'm sure Roger Ebert
himself, who's been mute since
2006 after undergoing surgery
for thyroid cancer, suddenly
regained his voice and whispered,
"The horror ... the horror ...."
Excessive? Not if you listen
to the ever-dwindling circle
of people who are still able to
claim full-time jobs as film crit-
ics. The art of film criticism is
dying, they say, and some feel it's
already dead. The public doesn't
want serious discussions about
the movies anymore. The pub-
lic doesn't want any discussion
about movies at all.
Well, if the practice of criti-
cism as we know it today is dead,
then it's time for a rebirth. Just
as past generations of revolution-
ary filmmakers used to demand
creative resurgences in their art,
I think it's time for the critical
community to do the same.
In 1962, a group of young Ger-
man directors signed the Ober-
hausen Manifesto, which called
for a new style of German feature
film following the collapse of the
old model under economic stress.
"The old film is dead. We believe
in the new one," they said, and
they meant it. And so, in the same
spirit, I would like to present:
The Film Critic's
Manifesto
We, the critics of tomorrow,
recognize that there has been an
erosion of the classic traditions
and values that old-fashioned
film critics used to hold so dear.
We know that hardly anyone is
watching "At the Movies" these
days, and that the slow and pain-
ful death of printed news has
eliminated the need for each
publication to distinguish its own
unique critical opinion.
We are also aware that Roger
Ebert is planning to launch a new
film review show, which he prom-
ises on his website will "go full-tilt
New Media." We remain skeptical
of the promise that this alone will
suddenly cause people to find film
criticism relevant again.
But at the same time, we recog-
nize the need for film criticism to
continue in some form. The box
office is an absolute powerhouse,
and the act of moviegoing still
dominates our culture. More and

more films, both large and small,
are fighting every week for a spot
in the public consciousness. The
ability to sift through this mas-
sive entertainment conglomerate
YOU CAN'T
SPELL
SUMMER
ARTS
WITHOUT
ARTS.
E-mail shemma2010@gmail.
com for information on apply-
ing.

and debate the lasting impact of
new and old releases on the medi-
um is just as invaluable today as it
ever was, perhaps more so.
The problem is that, with the
unprecedented degree to which
people can share their opinions
over the Internet, literally every-
one has become a critic. But more
than that, everyone has become
a destructive critic. Snark and
cynicism rule the ways we think
about movies today. Films with
gumption and purpose are
routinely bullied, beaten and
dismissed in pithy asides on mes-
sage boards. Even the so-called
professional critics love to decry
certain mindless blockbusters
and call the public morons for
flocking to them.
We present a new kind of film
criticism, which we would like
to winkingly deem "constructive
criticism." A constructive critic
does not feel a need to "hate"
movies just for the sake of being
contrarian and attracting atten-
tion. Nor does a constructive
critic bow to the whims of the
studios and give vapid, robotic
blurbs for movie posters, because
that would be destructive to the
art of criticism. "A slam-bang
action thrill ride!" does not exist
in the vocabulary of a construc-
tive critic.
Rather, a constructive critic
embraces the new and exciting
while treasuring the old and
timeless. He or she is always
excited to be on the cusp of the
cinematic world and isn't afraid
to trumpet new movies as mas-
terpieces despite any potential
threat to his or her stature. A
constructive critic doesn't fight
new trends like 3-D or pronounce
young, ambitious directors "pre-
tentious." There is one singular
The film critic
revolution
will not be
criticized.
goal in the mind of a constructive
critic: to foster an environment
for the continued discussion of
the film medium as a whole.
And we feel that anyone can
give constructive criticism,
because after all, everyone's a
critic. This is about bringing
film discussion to the masses
so we don't all just become pas-
sive consumers of whatever the
studios decide to throw at us.
This is about Kevin Smith, on his
Twitter account, comparing the
panning of his movie "Cop Out"
to "bullying a retarded kid," and
us realizing that he's a little right
and a lot wrong.
We want to believe in the
power of criticism because we're
better critics than we are film-
makers. We do what we do with
the realization that we all secretly
wish we could be as talented and
influential as the big-shot direc-
tors who have made it in the busi-
ness, though of course they made
it there thanks in part to critics.
With constructive criticism, we
aim to recognize our limitations
and embrace our love of the cin-
ema, now and forevermore.
The old film criticism is dead.
We believe in the new one.

Lapin wants to hear your
constructive criticism. E-mail
him at alapin@umich.edu.

Mussolini's secret lover
is revealed in
erotic Italian biopic
By JENNIFER XU
Daily Arts Writer
Who would have guessed that a biopic -
about Benito Mussolini, no less - could have
turned out so avant-garde? Although it's con-
sistently overshadowed by its
(admittedly) superior Cannes ***
competition "The White Rib-
bon," the Italian film "Vin- Vjincere
cere" still has its strengths.
"Vincere" disregards conven- Atthe
tional biopic mechanisms in Michigan
favor of a taut, yet occasion- IFC
ally overwrought, dramatic
storyline.
"Vincere" - aptly, the Italian word for "to
conquer" - follows Mussolini (Fillipo Timi,
"Saturno Contro") from his induction into the
Socialist Party to the end of his dictatorship,
focusing mainly on his alleged marriage to
shopowner Ida Dalser (Giovanna Mezzogiorno,
"Love in the Time of Cholera"). Dalser famous-
ly bore him a bastard son, Benito Albino, whom
he never acknowledged, though she swore to
the grave that he had signed a marriage license
indicating they had been wed.
By omitting the traditional "this is where he
started" bits, "Vincere" immediately catapults
the audience into the center of the action. The
film is remarkably operatic, with clamoring
swells and swoops in the soundtrack that rival
the likes of "Amadeus." Director Marco Belloc-
chio ("Good Morning, Night") makes skillful
use of old 1930s film reels, masterfully juxta-
posing grainy World War I propaganda with
scenes from the film that flash and fade out of
sunken-eyed victims in mental hospitals just as
the opera voices billow and subside.
Where "Vincere" succeeds most is in explor-
ing the concept of sex as a mechanism of char-
acter. Before Mussolini comes into power, he is
seen subjugating Dalser, foretellingly, in much
the same way as his ascent to his dictatorship.
In one particularly harrowing scene, Dalser

"Ida Dalser? I barely know her."
spreads herself naked on a comforter, having
sold all her possessions in order to fund her
lover's Socialist newspaper. "Say you love me,
just once," the needy Dalser begs. In true fash-
ion, Mussolini responds by violently pressing
his lips against hers, obscenely ravishing her
naked body. The image fades out, and a troop of
advancing soldiers marches across the screen,
preliminarily connecting the bedroom to the
battleground before the historical events hap-
pen.
Yet the problem with "Vincere" - as with
all biopics - is that it comes off as quite one-
tracked, essentially focusing on Mussolini's
pathway to power through his character and
personal relationships. Once the dictator leaves
the film halfway through, following his aban-
donment of Dalser to a mental institution, there
is fundamentally no more film. The audience
is left to deal with Dalser's theatrics in the
absence of a powerful male figure.
As a pure Mussolini biopic, the melodrama
would have worked wonders. As an Ida Dalser
one, it's a bit too much, as Mezzogiorno

screams obscenities, psychotically flinging let-
ters onto the ground and generally raising havoc
among the ward. Her performance is powerful,
but her character is simply neither interesting
nor sympathetic enough to carry the film by
herself. Viewers can't identify or sympathize
with Dalser's overtly masochistic tendencies,
and her hysterics get a little old.
Also, those who did not grow up during the
age of Mussolini might not be able to feel the
full force of the causality between the dictator's
private history and his public persona. "Vin-
cere" is a distinctively Italian film, and Ameri-
can watchers might get the feeling that they're
missing out on something. One can't help but
feel that, had the cultural context been there,
the film would have been rendered more potent.
If the first half were taken in isolation, "Vin-
cere could be applauded as a greater film, por-
traying the gripping story of a dictator ravenous
for all aspects of power, sex and love. While the
second half isn't terrible, it falters tremendous-
ly in contrast, gradually and destructively los-
ing steam with every second it goes on.

Austin unleashes a garage band of 'Hippies'

Gara
their g
side
soon.
Lately,
Texas
to be
out mt
ing ba
bandst
versity
grads.
SXSW
these 1
persnal
clear w
the gai
to disth
terpart
yet dire
It m
whose
and-a-h
strong
choose
But hey
motive:
blissful
ties in

By EMMA GASE can just let that shit burn." Mor-
DailyArts Writer bid? Maybe. Extremely catchy and
energetic? Absolutely. By the time
ge-rock fans need not fear the bridge comes along, we're just
enre falling by the way- waiting anxiously for the next
anytime rowdy and booze-fueled chorus
No, sir. of the singer pleading, "Please!
Austin, Please! Please! / Put me out."
seems Ouch.
churning Harlem Though the album lingers a
ire aspir- Hippies few more tracks than necessary,
sic guitar Matador listeners are rewarded with its
than Uni- penultimate track. "Pissed" is
of Texas a punk-leaning treat delivered
Austin's with flippant humor and snark
festival was flooded with the likes of which haven't been
o-fi guitar-touting whip- heard since the Buzzcocks's "Oh
ppers, but one stands as the Shit!"
inner. Harlem, the latest of Like most garage-rock bands,
rage young'uns, continues Harlem obviously takes some cues
nguish itself from its coun- from '60s underground compila-
s with the curiously named tion Nuggets, but it eschews that
ct Hippies. album's psychedelic flourish.
ay be strange that a band Hippies's 16 tracks could prob-
songs rarely exceed two- ably have been whittled down to a
half minutes and have a respectable dozen, but that doesn't
punk influence would negate the fierce energy of nearly
to brand its album Hippies. every song. 'The shared vocals
y, why question the band's of Michael Coomer and Curtis
s when it churns out 16 O'Mara are the perfect balance
.ly brief hook-infused dit- between drunk and charismatic,
40 minutes? There's barely providing just the right amount of

cOURTESY OF MATADOR
Cowboys and Indians: not as fun as they expected.
debauchery and pop mastery. The everything on Hippies: A frantic
band's hear-the-room recording punk shriek-fest on "Scare You,"
style creates an endearing inti- some slow ominous jamming on
macy; it's like you're sitting in a "Prairie My Heart" and an ode to
basement watching them jam to '60s bubble-gum pop on "Be Your
one microphone in the middle of Baby." And with another song
the room. titled "Gay Human Bones," what
Harlem gives a little taste of more could you want?

enough time to grasp the fran-
tic melody and sing-a-long
chorus in tracks like "Number
One" before they are over in a
quick (and enjoyable) minute-
and-a-half.
Hippies starts strong with
opening track "Someday
Soon." The lyrics describe a
person literally on fire. Said
person would like a glass of
water to put the presumably
scorching fire out, to which the
singer replies: "I say no / You



Today's Career Tip:
Effective business relationships are ongoing
demonstrations of trust and predictability.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN



6A - Monday, April 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6R582AVAILABLE
665-8825

! !4 BDRM. CONDO! !
Aug 2010. North campus. FREE utils.,
A/C, !dry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV, FREE Internet. $659/person/mo.
Call 313-838-2629.
!AVAILABLE MAY & Fall. Stu-
dios, une and two bedruom apartments
located on U/M Campus. Heat, water,
and prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty,
734-662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.-
com for more info.
! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
11. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!! NEW LISTING Avail Fall 2010!!
721 Church- Unfurnished 1 bedroom
apartment. Quiet atmosphere. Great lo-
cation, 1 block from South University,
near B-School & . Education School,
hardwood floors, free heat, free water,
free parking. Laundry.
Call Ann 320-1244 or visit our web-
site www.churchstreetrentals.com
!! ROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.
!!MAY STUDIO and I bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!!REDUCED RATES!!!
Apartments Going Fast.....
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Only I or 2 remaining of each!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location.
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
*****AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E.
Liberty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5
min walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.

H AVE
\YOU
HEARD
e THE
N EWS?
LOCATIONS
STARTING AT
The Courtyards is
Pre-leasing for Fa l 2010!
NO service fees!
,ACADEMIC LEASES!
PAID utilities!
...and much more...
THE .
COIURTY AA RDTE S
1780 Broadway
734.994.6007
www.thecourtyardsannarborucom
$$$$$$$$$$$$ SAVE A TON OF
CASH $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
Leasingis almost completed. Remain-
ing apartments have been
REDUCED & are NEGOTIABLE for
fall move in. Don't
delay and miss out on the best off cam-
pus housing!
Call today for an appt. to see 761-8000.
primesh.com
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL:
514 Lawrence- 6 bdrm house. Price
just reduced. $2,695. 2 bath, free high
speed internet, easy access to central
campus, nursing, medical and dental
schools. D/W and laundry. Parking
available. Call Campus Mgt. 734-663-
4101.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1499/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$1999/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by April
15th. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.

sum e
HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURESARE ACCEPTED
Ann Arbor- (888) 883-7083 - www.sciofarms.com
Ypsilanti. -(888) 310-6850 -www.4lakeview.com
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 38 Crunchy 50 Charsse of
1 A dog may pull 1 Ad-.: improvise cereal brand "Singin' in the
on one during a 2 Made possible word Rain"
walk 3 Lean and bony 40 Foul caller 52 Militaryuforce
6 _ Han 4 Enrolled 41 Art of a sexual 54 Vacation isle
10 Engrave with 5 Attention-getter nature near Venezuela
acid 6 Castle protector 42 Rah-rah 55 Bear and Berra
14 Navel type 7 "Easy!" encouragement 59 Ripens, ascheese
15 Medical suffix 8 Lancelot's was 45 Scrambles to 61 Sharpturn
16 Rise sky-high 'Sir' keep secret 62 Jazz style
17 Loose-hanging 9 Bamyard brayer 46 Pupil 63 Pretoria's nation:
trousers 10 Some exam 47 Corn site Abbr.
19 Soaks (up) answers 49 Set ablaze 64 "H-E-L-P"
20 Coiled hair se 11 Handyman's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Slanted tvoe must-have

www.varsitymanagemenf.com

625 Church St. (734) 668-1 00
THANK YOU RESIDENTS!
Varsity Manogomenta sb been
Voted Best Landlord
20101
Studios - 4Bedrooms available for fall
lease, come see why we're #1
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
315 EAST LIBERTY Apartments and
lofts. Completely remodeled. Great lo-
cation. Day phone: 734-662-7888,
Evening Phone (after 5:30): 734-995-
2433.
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@posrealtyproperies.com
809 SOUTH DIVISION Avail. Fall
'10- 4 bdrm, 1 bath. Lndry prkg dish-
washer inc. $2150/mo 810-225-9351.
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
the daily classifieds...
they're kind of a big deal.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD direct
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
mental Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
Hurry infor Best Selection
Right now we have a few apartments at
Very Special Low Rates
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home awayjiom home
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, M 48160
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. (@/ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!

P RE SE N TS T H E
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

1
1
1
1
1
1
G
L

FUniveumsityv
LJTcwwc
Think outside the Box (dorms)
Think U. Towers
Affordable Apartments
Hurry in for Best Selection
Right now we have a few apartments
atVery Special Low Rates
*call for more details
Visit us at
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home away from home
036 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1028 Fuller - Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursinsg, dental antd medical
schools, easy accessdto central campts.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
beat, water and parkitg included. Call
CApars Mgt s 734-663-4101.
Aprment vilable

ww.larlsnbrook.csots,734 -6655620
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms apts. Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.Jmsprop.com
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (9411)962 - 9014.
EFFICIENCIES- 4 BEDROOM
apartment. Fall '10-11. Most include
heat and water. Limited parking avail-
able. Cappo/Deinco 734-996-1991.
www.cappomanagement.com
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful t bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
n1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of UJf M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Cmpu Mgt @0 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
*Broadview Apartments
*Spadioussbedroomapartments
*Spacious 2 bedrooms with master bath
.Shuttle around campus
"*Largeprivate bakconies
ith wooded views
'Pets welxcme
Models Open Daily
741-9300
k"t(EXTENDED HOUR8)
www.annarborapartments.net
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
WofM Diseounts!

FALL 2010 ! I bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
FALL BIG HOUSE at South U. and
Elm. 7 big rooms. 3 full baths, 2 kitch,
prkg and ldry. 8 month lease possible,
make offer 734-260-4003.
HUGE 5 BDRM/2 Bath house, 820 W.
Huron, all appliances, laundry, semi-
furnished, parking, 5 min walk down-
town. Hidden GEM. $1900/mo. Avail
now, Sept 2010. 734-255-7427.
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eft., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers0umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdsn. apts (over 1100 sqf. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SoutStateManagers umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
Ncw Laer Rates!
NORTH CAMPUS I & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartmens.net
SPACIOUS 5 BRDM APT for Fall.
Central Campus, a/c, free prkg & Indry.
734-665-2723, shahigerhotmail.com
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
ET, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
-$575/Mont Incldenmeals,
Interat, parking, and utilities
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icc.coop
STUDIO APARTMENT FOR
RENT. 22nd floor. Tower Plaza
Condominium. Contact 248-444-5543.
WHY RENT WHEN yost can Buy?
Check oul all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.SellA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
SUBLETS
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a cota-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
SERVICES
BUSINESS CHINESE: LEARN Busi-
ness Chinese 8 credits or Chinese in
Chinese Business Law 5 credits
Summer Program in Beijing
w ww.studyabroad-china.org

HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520x 125.
AA COUPLE (UM grads) seeks sum-
mer care for 2 fun kids, age 7 & 8.
4 dys/wk, 7am-5pm (Fri oft), begin
6/21. Previous child-care experience
pref, dependability very important.
Please contact Joan ats alljc@trinity-
health.org or 734-662-3047.
AA INTERNET FANTASY Sports
Co seeks student programmter. F/T sum-
me, P/T fal/winter. Must know C,
Linux. ssuppor@onroto.com
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.YouDriveAds.com
EARN UP TO $4,000 weekly promot-
ing college parties in downtown De-
troit. Must have experience. Great op-
portunity for greek org, or entrepreneur.
redhawkllc@gmail.com 734-335-0702
Done the
Sudoku yet?
9
1 7 6
4 7
9 4 2
2 5 1 7
HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for healthy wmen
between the ages of 2-32
for atonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anoymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 for their involvement
in our program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
College Pro is now hiring painters to
work outdoors with other students.
$3000-5000 advancement opportuni-
ties. 888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or wrteon@iserv.net
SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Saf, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.tleislandhnuse.com

t~h

0

0
0
0

0

G lfIC ype
style: Abbr.
22 Buddies
23 Most sickly
251957 hit for
Buddy Holly and
the Crickets
28 Sharpshooter
30 Painting props
31 Tight as _
32 Hired thug
35 4:00 London
social
36 Coin collector?
40 Not prem., as
gas
43 Chewy Hershey's
candy
44 "_ my case"
48 Beethoven
symphony
originally
dedicated to
Napoleon
51 Erode gradually,
as savings
53 Gershwin song
set in London,
with "A"
56 Coast Guard
operation
57 Do bar duty
58 Wander
60 Like two peas in
a-
61 Cylindrical pasta
62 Carriage outings
65 Grammy
co-winner for the
rap song "Buck
on the Bluck"
66 Theater award
67"__evil..."
68 Super Bowl, e.g.
69 Avoid flunking
70 Admin. aides

12Wordaftertime P A S S A L A W C A C A O S
or timed-release A N T E LOP E A L H I R T
13 Time measures: S T A R T R E ICK L O R R I E
Abbr. T ERA DRI L LTOWER
18 Feel sorry for I N G E L Y S E E M A N N
22 Links org. ENERGY SAD E R T E
23 Snake River st.
24 Bigroad rig S A L T Y C I V I C
26 Actress T E L E P H 0 N E N U M B E R
Rowlands T A R A S B O R N E
27 That, in Tijuana A B C S S S S R E S I G N
29 "Leggomy_!" B R A T B E H E A D G E
33 Popeye's Olive 8 A S E M E T A L S B I N 0
34 Woodwind EUN T R E E D E P O R T E E
quintet member S C R E E N O N E M E T E R
37 Alum SHOOTS W A R B L E R S
36 Evening,
commercially xwordeditor@aoL.com 04/11/10
1 2 3 4 0 5 8 a 10 11 12 13
14 15 16
20 2122
23 24 25 26 27
2$ 29 30
31 32 33 34 36
38 37 38 39
40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47
48 49 60 51 52
57 58 59 60
81 62 63 64
68 69 70

By John Lampkin
(c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

04/12/10

I


I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, A pril 12, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, April 12, 2010 - 7A

ADMISSIONS
From Page 1A
will translate to increases in the
number of underrepresented
minorities who are admitted and
ultimately end up enrolling at the
University.
Sullivan added that interna-
tional applications are up for the
second year in a row. Though
specific numbers haven't yet been
released, applicants from China
and India made up the largest
increase in last year's internation-
al application pool.
"We also had an increase in
international applicants again,
which is still kind of surprising to
me," Sullivan said. "But that was
GEORGE
From Page1A
Medical School early, despite not yet
having a bachelor's degree.
"It's a little odd, but at the time,
you could get into medical school
with 90 credits undergrad," George
said in an interview on Friday. "That
was a little unusual. Most applicants
finished undergrad, but I was doing
well, and it's like, 'Why spend anoth-
er year in LS&A?'
After graduating from the Uni-
versity's Medical School in 1982 and
completing his residency in anes-
thesiology, George and his family
moved to Kalamazoo, Mich., where
he practiced medicine full-time.
George said his wife Sandy- agrad-
uate of both LSA and the Ross School
of Business - was largely respon-
sible for his eventual involvement in
politics.
"It was actually Sandy who was
the one who was politically active,"
George said. "She was the College
Republican, and I really wasn't, and
Iwasfocused on medical school,you
know, it takes up aslot of time."
Though George said he was ini-
tially a "tag-along" to his wife's
* political involvement, he gradually
became more interested in politics.
His interest culminated in a bid for a
seat in the state House of Represen-
tatives in 2000.
Since then, George has spent two
years asa representative in the state
House and eight years in the state
Senate. In his bid for the Repub-
lican nomination, George faces
competition from Oakland County
Sheriff Mike Bouchard, Ann Arbor
businessman Rick Snyder and Mich-
igan'Attorney General Mike Cox,
amongstothers.
RELAY
* From Page 1A
Nicholas Koenigsknecht, team
captain for the Football Family
team, described how he and a few
football players came up with the
idea to form a Relay team.
"I just noticed that really none
of the athletic teams have been
involved in Relay for Life, and there
are over 135 teams. And then once
I heard Phil Brabb's story, it kind
of just motivated me to really kick
things off," said Koenigsknecht,
who was on the football team last
year. "He's been very positive
toward a very negative thing in his
life, and it's really just an inspira-
tion for alot of us."
Zac Ciullo, an offensive lineman
on the football team and a mem-

ber of the Football Family, said in
an interview at the event that the
football team hoped to get more
involved on campus this year and

kind of unlooked for last year and
that trend has continued."
Both Coleman and Sullivan said
they expect the traditional ratio of
resident to non-resident students
to remain constant for next year's
incoming class as well. Typically,
two-thirds of admitted students
are from Michigan, while one-
third is from out-of-state.
"I don't think there's going to
be any change to the usual admis-
sions formula, which is roughly
two-thirds (in-state), one-third
(out-of-state), adjusted for the
yield because our yield is generally
lower on non-resident students,"
Sullivan said.
Coleman acknowledged, how-
ever, that there have been discus-
sions regarding altering that ratio
During his time in public office,
George has also continued to prac-
tice medicine part-time, most
recently workingtwo24-hour hospi-
tal shifts during Easter weekend.
Since he joined the state legis-
lature, George said he has used his
knowledge of the medical world to
try to fix the state's budget crisis,
which he believes to be the biggest
problem in Michigan. George said a
large part of the state's deficit comes
from health care spending, which
he said is currently more expensive
because of the way the government
provides health care coverage.
"The government programs that
are intended to increase access
involve giving people a (Medicaid)
card," George said. "That sounds
great, you know, we're giving peo-
ple access, but the truth is, health
and health care spending are more
determined by your behavior. So giv-
ing people a card and simply access
without askingthem to change their
behavior fails."
The high cost of health care
spending in Michigan has led the
legislature to cut funding to other
important sectors, including educa-
tion. George said the funding cuts,
though unpleasant, were necessary
to balance the state budget, which is
strainedby Medicaid costs.
"(Funding cuts) were unfortu-
nate, and that is a very worrisome
trend," George said. "If Michigan is
going to be competitive, we're going
to have to fund our universities and
education in general, and we have to
reverse thatctrend."
George said the federal govern-
ment's recent health care bill - a
part of which increases Medicaid
coverage to uninsured Americans
- will exacerbate this problem by
simply adding more dependants to
said that participating in Relay for
Life would help it achieve that goal.
"We're going to try to get more
involved in the community, so we
did this," Ciullo said. "We did really
well on Mock Rock this year and we
hope to keep itcgoing."
To raise money, the football team
set up an auction on a site hosted
by eBay called MissionFish, which
helps nonprofit organizations raise
money.
The auctioned-off items includ-
ed field passes to the football team's
spring game next Saturday, as well
as autographed helmets and foot-
balls. The team also offered the
opportunity to have "Coffee with
Coach Carr." According to Koenig-
sknecht, the auction raised about
$3,500.
On the day of the event, Football

Family raised money by allow-
ing students to attempt to throw
a football through a swinging tire.
Football coach Rich Rodriguez
also stopped by for a few minutes

as a means to increase revenue, as
out-of-state students pay higher
tuition rates. Tuition for full-time
lower division LSA students is
$17,374 per semester for the cur-
rent academic year for out-of-state
students, compared to $5,735 per
semester for in-state students.
"I don't see any big change,"
Coleman said. "It's a possibility for
the future, but it's not something
we're contemplating right now."
Coleman added that the Uni-
versity wouldn't alter its academic
standards in order to alter the
ratio of in-state to out-of-state stu-
dents.
"One of the things that I always
want to be aware of is that we
never want to have somehow
worse academically prepared stu-

dents from out-of-state than in-
state," Coleman said. "That's not
acceptable."
With the rise in applicants in all
categories, the quality of the appli-
cant pool has increased as well,
Coleman said.
"It's encouraging because
we always want Michigan to be
a school that people aspire to
attend," Coleman said. "As far as I
can tell, I don't have any detailed
breakdowns yet, but I've been told
that the quality is very, very high.
(Incoming) students are extreme-
ly well prepared."
University officials are
expected to release final figures
regarding the composition of the
incoming freshman class within
the next few months.

GRANT
From Page 1A
SWOG spokesman Frank
DeSanto said in an interview
with The Michigan Daily that
the grant will focus particu-
larly on cancer treatment trials,
though SWOG also does cancer
prevention trials.
"SWOG focuses on adult can-
cers and pretty much the entire
range of adult cancers," DeSanto
said.
DeSanto said before receiving
the grant, which is a renewal of
a grant administered previously,
the University had to go through
"a competitive renewal" process.
"You have to prove what
you're doing and if your work is
worthy of being funded again,"
DeSanto said.
He added that Universi-
ty researchers put the most
patients in SWOG studies.

"It's in a way very fitting that
SWOG is headquarted here,"
DeSanto said. "It's certainly a
pride for us."
Before presenting the grant,
Dingell said the funding would
help fight cancer and continue
making the University one of the
greatest research institutions in
the country.
"It means a huge amount
to everyone concerned, and it
shows the remarkable strength .
.. of the University of Michigan,"
Dingell said.
In an interview with the Daily
following the presentation, Din-
gell said the grant will not only
help to make great strides in sci-
ence, but will also benefit the
state's economy.
"First, this is a tremendous
research project," he said.
"Second, this will support tre-
mendous amounts of research
and tremendous amounts of
researchers."

Republican candidate for governor state Sen. Torn George.

an already costly government pro-
gram. To fix the costs, George said
the structure of Medicaid must be
changed, such that individuals are
"incentivized" to engage in healthier
behaviors.
He added that to change the
structure of health care, and the
inefficient state budget in general, a
new state constitution mustbe draft-
ed this year. The last time the consti-
tution was drafted was in 1963, when
Michigan adopted its fourth consti-
tution.
If elected governor, George said
he alone would not be able to remedy
the structural budgetary issues, as
they are inherent in the current con-
stitution.
"I would recommend drafting a
new constitution, because the one
we have now is outdated, and it has
Saturday afternoon, and students
could pay $2 to have a picture
taken with him. According to Koe-
nigsknecht, the team raised $120
in a half hour from the picture
fundraiser.
However, the football team did
have some problems in raising
money for Relay for Life, due to
restrictions set by the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association.
Zoltan Mesko, a graduating
punter for the Michigan football
team, said because members of the
group consisted of athletes, they
had to follow NCAA rules relating
to fundraising, which made things
a bit more difficult.
According to the NCAA's web-
site, student-athletes are allowed to
participate in fundraising activities
as long as they get written approval
from their school's athletic direc-
tor, their likeness isn't use to pro-
mote a commercial entity and they
meet other guidelines.
"A lot of the things we had to go

created a government that is too
expensive," George said. "If we want
to open Michigan up for growth, if
we want to be economically com-
petitive, a mechanism to do that is
by redrafting our state constitution."
To modify the state constitution,
citizens must vote in favor of making
a change and then elect delegates to
draft a new document. The citizens
must then vote again to accept the
drafted constitution.
George has a lot to think about
over the next few months: a race to
become Democratic Gov. Jennifer
Granholm's successor, an increas-
ingly expensive state budget and the
patients he still makes time to see on
the weekends. But for now, George
said he is just focusing on graduating
college next month and finally get-
ting his LSA degree.
through, compliances and a lot of
things, were kind of hit and miss
on whether they were complying
with NCAA rules, and whether we
were still athletes," Mesko said in
an interview Saturday.
Though the football team's goal
was to raise $35,000 for the Ameri-
can Cancer Society, the Football
Family raised $7,300.
Other student participants said
they were happy about the football
team's contribution to Relay for
Life.
LSA senior Mike Roth, who was
at the event with the MRun team,
said he thinks it is a good idea for
sports teams to get involved with
Relay for Life and that more ath-
letic teams should participate.
"Most of the teams, the actual
varsity teams, aren't out here, and
it'd be nice to see some of their sup-
port," Roth said.
- Hillary Bok contributed
to this report.

remains in the past has always
POWWOW been one of the many factors con-
From Page 1A sidered when selecting the pow-
wow's venue. She said tension
said. between the University's Office of
Hosted by NASA, the event Multi-Ethnic Student Affairs and
spanned two days and offered NASA concerning event manage-
Native American music and danc- ment was the primary complica-
ing, as well as an array of ven- tion when determining a suitable
dors selling traditional clothing venue.
and memorabilia like sculptures, According to the press release,
drums and beaded necklaces. the powwow had become the
Dancers also competed in con- University's "diversity show-
tests and showcased their skills in case," /which contributed to the
exhibitions. decision to host the powwow off-
During Grand Entry ceremo- campus for the first time last year
nies held Saturday and Sunday, and shift responsibility for plan-
powwow participants gathered in ning the powwow from MESA to
the auditorium to collaborate in NASA.
song and dance under the direc- Pasfield said, though, that
tion of Head Dancers and a Head despite the tension between the
Veteran - three chosen par- two groups, they are "making
ticipants who are responsible for progress" and moving in the right
overseeing the powwow. Comple- direction.
tion of each Grand Entry marked When asked if the powwow will
the beginning of a new powwow be back on campus next year, Pas-
session. field couldn't provide a definite
Though the event has been answer, but she said she is hopeful
hosted at the University's Crisler that issues keeping the powwow
Arena in the past, last year off-campus will be resolved soon.
marked the first time NASA LSA sophomore Alys Alley, the
used Saline Middle School as the external co-chair of NASA, wrote
event's venue. in an e-mail interview that the
The decision to use the middle Native American community will
school's facilities again this year later decide where the powwow
is part of an ongoing "protest" by will be held next year.
the Native American community Though Crisler Arena is larger
against the University, according in size than Saline Middle School,
to a press release for the event. Pasfield said she was pleased with
According to the release, the event's turnout this year, in
because the University houses which members of Native Ameri-
culturally unidentifiable Native can tribes from all across the
American human remains in its country came to participate.
Museum of Anthropology, NASA "There was an unbelievable
sought an off-campus venue for turnout," Pasfield said, adding
the second year ina row. that more dancers participated in
Rackham student Veronica the powwow than last year.
Pasfield, the publicity coordinator According to Voss, more than
for the powwow's planning com- 260 dancers attended this year
mittee, said there has recently - nearly 50 more than last year.
been "substantive progress" made George Martin, head veteran
by the University to repatriate the dancer of the weekend, has been
Native American human remains participating in the powwow
to tribes. since its debut in 1972. He said
Last month, the Native Ameri- dancers at the event range from
can Graves Protection and Repa- young children to veterans like
triation Act amended a policy him, adding that the children
that will now require museums to learn the dances by watching
return any "culturally unidentifi- the older dancers and mimicking
able" Native American remains to them.
their tribes of origin. "The dancing just comes natu-
In response, the University has rally," Martin said.
started to formulate a process to Voss, who is graduating next
determine how to transfer nearly month, said organizing and par-
1,400 remains from the Univer- ticipating in the powwow each
sity's Museum of Anthropology year has been "the best thing" he
to Native American tribes by the has done at the University.
time the ruling takes effect in "You never foresee how amaz-
mid-May. ing it's going to be," he said.
Pasfield said the Universi- "Sometimes you just have to step
ty's refusal to repatriate these back and smile."

All Inclusive Self-Storage Packages!-
All Maize packages include: Maize Package
. months rent Starting at: $229
-- - - ---n- - -

A M ~

* Roll of tape
r Lock
Administration F
r Insurance
~ ,
" Free #1 Airey Court*
Move-In 734-669-8880
Truck #2 Lohr Circle **
734-769-0119

ee urent ,,nly"
theSTORAGE CHEST
#4 Jackson Rd.
#3 734-222-0277 734-747-9060 #5 734-222-0277




8A - Monday, April 12, 2010

0

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ARTS IN BRIEF

FILM REVIEW
'Runaways' can't
escape the common
biopic formula
**i
The Runaways
At the State
Apparition
The brand new biopic "The
Runaways" is a refreshing idea,
considering it has one of the most
definitive all-girl rock bands of
all time as its narrative founda-
tion. Kristen Stewart ("Twilight")
and Dakota Fanning ("War of
the Worlds") play Joan Jett and
Cherie Currie, respectively. Both
embody their roles satisfactorily,
as one would expect from their
previous work - though it's rather

unsettling to witness our favorite
prototypical "cute girl" (Fanning,
of course) engaging in disturbing-
ly debaucherous deeds onscreen.
The film chronicles the short-
lived existence of punk sensation
The Runaways, a band originally
composed of Cherie Currie, Lita
Ford, Jackie Fox, Joan Jett and
Sandy West. These five female
sex symbols were introduced to
the sordid world of mainstream
music at a very young age, when
some of them were only in their
mid-teens. The majority of screen
time is dedicated to showcasing
Fanning and Stewart as up-and-
coming young actresses, but their
excursion through the bowels of
the music industry isn't anything
to cheer at; it's the same old man-
tra of sex, drugs and rock'n'roll.
Yawn.
The whole film is just another
reexamination of a familiar plot
thread, too: rags-to-riches, back

to rags and finally to an ulti-
mate sense of renewal. The story
arc most closely resembles that
of the Mark Wahlberg vehicle
"Rock Star" in its use of predict-
able dramatic turns to pull the
same overworn heartstrings, but
its unorthodox thematic material
definitely deserves a closer look.
In spite of spending only four
years together, The Runaways had
a definitive historical role as the
precursor to dozens of punk rock
acts composed of both men and
women, including The Donnas,
Courtney Love, Babes In Toyland
and Black Flag. However, if you'd
prefer an in-depth analysis of
this pivotal band as opposed to its
sanitized Hollywood counterpart,
watch "Edgeplay: A Film About
the Runaways." It's an accurate,
comprehensive documentary
feature that's far more likely to
please die-hard fans.
TIMOTHY RABB

- I .p
COURTESY OF A&E
"Yeah broke another sne
Stay away, 'Runaway'

Joe Mazilli's
machismo proves
too much for new
reality show
By ANT MITCHELL
DailyArts Writer
The embodiment of every
asshole to ever breathe excited
machismo into
a microphone
on "Cops" can
be found in Joe Runaway
Mazilli. And his
tucked-in muscle
shirts don't work Mondays at
any miracles on 10p.m.
A&E's new real- A&E
life series "Run-
away Squad."
Mazilli, a retired NYPD detec-
tive, takes to the streets along-
side a team of experts in search
of a weekly runaway teen. Mazilli
became involved with this cause
out of his work on the police
force's "Pimp Squad," where he
uncovered the funneling of many
female runaways into prostitu-
tion. With 5,000 runaways dying
each year, according to Mazilli,

it's a cause that has been drastical-
ly overlooked. Very few wouldn't
sympathize with a theme involv-
ing the search for 15-year-old
Tayvela, last seen after a beating
from seven gang members. But
the subject matter of the show is
not where the issue lies. Rather,
it's the terrible construction of
"Runaway Squad" that's up for
debate.
Basically, if "Runaway Squad"
were a chocolate mousse, Mazilli
and his band of fellow histrionics
slop a tablespoon of over-dramati-
zation equivalent to fish sauce into
its creamy base, polluting what
once had a lot of potential. It's an
overpowering flavor, and it should
certainly taste fishy to viewers.
Comments like "It's up to us now"
and "I don't back down from a
threat" are just eye-roll inducers.
The sad truth of the matter is
that you want to be impressed by
Mazilli. Anyone who spends nine
years infiltrating the mob and
earns the Medal of Valor must
have some serious backbone. But
honestly, he seems a lot like an ape
with an over-stimulated pituitary
gland, breathing testosterone and
playing with guns. Moreover, the
annoying background he gives
(running with a tough crowd until

"my brother convinced me I was
going to end up just like them") is
literally the most vague and pre-
dictable bit of personal history
ever
The most difficult thing to
stomach about "Runaway Squad"
occurs when Mazilli finally
does find Tayvela, then decides
that playing therapist between
daughter and mother would be
appropriate. Not to re-invoke the
ape imagery, but watching his
attempts to manipulate the two
women's psyches into a healthy,.
loving and communicative moth-
er-daughter relationship is a lot
like watching a pair of hairy hands
slap a Band-Aid on an emotional
gunshot wound. This girl needed
a ton of psychiatric help, not a ses-
sion with Mazilli's bare arms and
silver chain necklaces.
Perhaps the highest point in the
entire episode is the minute-long
conversation the other investiga-
tors have about the merits of cof-
fee versus tea versus cocaine as
they shmuck around the office
before Mazilli walks in. That's a
single minute of humor, but sadly
it doesn't justify the creation of
the entire show. Basically, unless
you lack any sort of TV taste buds,
steer clear of "Runaway Squad."

Graduate Programs
Part-time and full-time graduate programs in:
- Actuarial Science Landscape Design
- Bioethics 'Narrative Medicine
'Communications Practice 'Negotiation and
'Construction Administration Conflict Resolution
Fundraising Management 'Sports Management
-Information and Digital -Sustainability Management
Resource Management
Fall 2010 Application Deadline: April 15
Postbaccalaureate Studies
Courses for graduate school prep, academic and professional advancement
Information Session: April 20, 6:30 p.m.
Summer Sessions
Earn Columbia credits toward your degree
Application Deadline: May 13
qtVCOLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
School of Continuing Education
U.S. Foreign Policy
Summer Program
Graduate & Professional June 7-18, 2010
Undergraduate-July 12-23, 2010
Spend two weeks in Washington, DC
this summer, exploring the intricacies of
U.S. foreign policy-making.
Visit international institutions.
Learn from GW faculty and practitioners.
www.gwu.ed u~usfpsp
THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
________________-WASIIINGTO(N DC

0

0
0

Graduate Practice-Ready
At UDM Law you learn and experience the law. Our curriculum requires:
rigorous writing requirements, innovative law firm courses focusing
on theory and practice, externships that teach the law as you gain
valuable work experience, and global law courses that expose you to
international legal systems. All of these requirements give our grads
the UDM advantage-being practice-ready upon graduation.
Find out more about UDM Law.
UDMLaw.com
Educating and Inspiring since 1912

0
0

A


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I April 12, 2010

Character Study
How Red Berenson has spent
26 years making Michigan Men

RYAN KARTJE I DAILY SPORTS EDITOR

Chris Fox stood at the corner of
State and Hoover Street, unsure of
where he would go from there.
His path to college hockey had
been laid before him like the yellow
brick road. Nearly every Division I
hockey program had shown interest
in him, so he had options at his dis-
posal. He was going to be a star no
matter what corner of the country
he ended up in.
It was 1993 and his decision had
been narrowed down to just three
schools. Bill Cleary, who had won
the NCAA Championship just a few
years prior, wanted him in Harvard
Crimson. Ron Mason, the win-
ningest coach in college hockey his-
tory,thoughtheshouldbeaSpartan.
And then there was Michigan.
With Yost Ice Arena a block
south, Fox glanced up from in front
of Weidenbach Hall and an unfore-
seen bout of nerves began to set in.
Flanked by his parents, the
17-year-old fought down the nerves,

and took the stairs up to a corner
office that overlooked the busy Ann
Arbor street, which he stood on just
moments ago.
He knew who waited on the other
side of the thick wooden door.
As the door opened, Fox peered
in at a man that he had only heard
of before. His reputation, to say the
least, preceded him.
Fox had heard that he took a great
deal of his coaching acumen from
Scotty Bowman, who had just taken
over as head coach of the Detroit
Red Wings. But at this moment, the
coach, with his skin cracked and
rough and his blue eyes piercing,
felt more like Clint Eastwood circa
Dirty Harry.
So the nerves came back, this
time like a tidal wave.
This is Red Berenson. He's a leg-
end, Fox thought to himself.
The coach stood before the
Foxes, just as many other coaches
had before him. Cleary and Mason
glowed about Chris's potential.
"What can we do for you?," they
would ask.
But this coach, the same man
who scored six goals in a game for
the St. Louis Blues, the same man
who won NHL Coach of the Year in
1981, the same man who had single-
handedly made Michigan relevant
again, wasn't the glowing type.
"So," the coach said turning to
Chris Fox, "What can you do for
Michigan?"
Fox was stunned.
For months, coaches catered to
his needs, promised him playing
time. What did he owe this man he
had just met? Who was recruiting
whom here?
The coach sensed his hesitation.
He had a knack for that sort of thing,
like this moment was all scripted
beforehand, as if he was prepared
for Fox's apprehensive response. It
was part of the game.
"If you want to be a Michigan
Man, you should know in the next
week," the coach said to the recruit,
who looked and felt much more like
a kid than he did when he walked

into the office just minutes before.
"It will justbecome clear."
Fox left bearing the weight of
words he didn't quite understand.
What was it about this coach that
gave him license to give him an ulti-
matum? He wasn't sure. Berenson's
aura had left him shaken, but even
more curious.
So the Foxes made their way
down the block to Yost Ice Arena
that Friday to watch Michigan, in
future Hobey Baker-winner Bren-
dan Morrison's debut, defeat Notre
Dame in a rout, 13-0.
The steely glare. The ultimatum.
The aura. It all seemed to make
sense to the 17-year-old after the
game.
Chris Fox marched up to Beren-
son's office soon after the game
ended that night and committed. He
wanted tobea Michigan Man.
Renovations in 1996, soon after-
Fox's meeting, opened up a room
perched at the top of Yost Ice Arena
which would become Berenson's
office. It was supposed to function
as a library of sorts,.the coach tells
me, but that didn't make any sense.
I look around confused. This
place sure looks like a library, I
think to myself.
.Berenson reads my mind. "I
guess it's more likea museum now,"
he says.
He's right. The room is lined with
trophies, plaques, and maize and
blue memorabilia.
The coach has his own bobble-
head. So do a few of his players: a
Brendan Morrison, a Marty Turco.
There's the two national champi-
onship trophies, as well as a host
of others. My eyes scan across the
room and down the walnut shelv-
ing. It's hard not to as light pours
in from the bay window, catching
every hint of gold in the room.
I think of how many people have
walked into this room and sat where
I was, asking for the coach's wis-
dom.
It's hard not to listenuto him when
he talks. My attention frequently

sharpens with antici-
pation which builds
each time Berenson
pauses. "He's just think-
ing about so many things
at once," junior Louie Capo-
russo jokes to me, "His
brain has so much
knowledge to pro-
cess."
Capo-
russo tells
me later
about the
first time he
met Berenson.
Fourteen years
old, the Toronto
native had one
objective to make
the best first impres-
sion.
"The only thing I
was thinking was when I
shake his hand, I'm going
to shake it as hard as I could
to look as strong as possible."
"I shook his hand and he
says, 'You've got a strong hand-
shake. I like that.'"
Caporusso continues the story,
describing the aura that I can't help
but be consumed by as I sit across
from the coach, asa wealth of expe-
rience and adversity stares back at
me.
Gordon Berenson grew up on the
outskirts of Regina, Saskatchewan
with a rink always right around the
corner. His uncle, a schoolteacher,
ensured he had the resources to
excel, and by the time young Gordon
was 11, he was already graduating
junior high school.
As he made his way through high
school, Gordon's hockey prospects
began to look more and more bright.
But his schoolwork interested
him too, and it wasn't until his
coach, Murray Armstrong, took the
head coachingjob atDenver Univer-
sity that he realized what he was in
for.
"There's only six teams (in the
NHL)," Armstrong told him at the
time. "You better grow up and get
an education, so you don't become a
hockey bum."

"So I
grew up with that
fear," the coach says. "I
don't want tobe a hockey bum.
I want toget an education."
The Montreal Canadiens, who
had drafted him out of high school,
assured him he would never be one.
Before Berenson even stepped
foot on Michigan's campus, where
he decided to play hockey, the Cana-
diens came calling. They told him
he was crazy to consider going to
college. He was throwing his career
away.
"Montreal was waiting," Beren-
son said. "They tried to bribe me,
pay me, and I said, 'No, I'm going to
school."'
The Canadiens would not be
deterred. They wined him. They
dined him. They even devised an
elaborate plan involving Beren-
son going to McGill University's
engineering school while playing a
70-game, NHL season.
But when the dean of the engi-
neering school at McGill told him it
was impossible and advised him to
go back to Ann Arbor, he knew the
Canadiens would have to wait. They
did, and soon after, he became the
first college hockey player to bridge

the gap
to the NHL.
Berenson told
this story to Caporusso
- like he has to many players
before him - as they sat together
in a Seattle airport, waiting for the
second leg of their return flight from
Alaska this season.
And while Berenson spoke, Capo-
russo began to understand the aura
that surrounds his coach.
"He went against the grain, and I
think that's why he's become such a
special figure in hockey," Caporusso
says. "I love that about him because
he knows exactly what he wants.
For anyone else, it would've been a
no-brainer. Ninety-nine-point-nine
percent of people would have taken
it, but he didn't, that's what's so
great about him."
Two years had passed for Chris
Fox, and in his sophomore season,
he still wasn't quite sure why he was
here.
With the pressure of blue-chip
status bearing down on him, Fox
had yet to make a big impact in Ann
Arbor. All of the reasons why he
came to Michigan: the hockey pro-
gram, the coach, the education - he
begins to question what each one of
them truly means to him.
But academically, Fox began to
see a future shaping up for him in
See BERENSON. Page 4B

- FLPHOTO/Oa:Iy
Michigan coach Red Berenson, who was an All-American forward at Michigan in 1961 &1962, now has 699 career coaching wins.
s,
Blue takes second-, advances to NCAAs

By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
The No. 6 Miihigan women's
gymnastics team did just enough
to survive at the NCAA Southeast
Regional Championships on Sat-
urday, but securing a second-place
finish came at a steep price.
Both of the top two scores for the
meet qualified for the NCAA finals.
The Wolverines finished with a
score of 195.800 - well behind No.
6 Stanford's mark of 196.775.
Just one year removed from
being bumped out of a spot in the
NCAA Championships by the Car-
dinals, Michigan got a chance at
revenge, but came up short.
At the NCAA Regional Finals
on April 4, 2009, the team's third-
place finish behind Stanford and
then-top-ranked Arkansas disal-
lowed them from advancing to the
championship - marking the pro-
gram's first absence at the nation's
top stage in 17 years.
But as the Wolverines (10-1 Big
Ten, 19-3 overall) headed to Mor-
gantown, W. Va. last weekend for
their regional six-team matchup,
they expected a rosier outcome.
The balance beam once again

proved tobe the team's bane.
Heading into the final rotation
on the beam, Michigan was neck-
and-neck with Stanford. In run-
away fashion the two teams had
created an almost insurmountable
lead over the rest of the field.
But the Wolverines posted a
meet-low 47.975 on the beam,
caused by three separate falls, and
the event that catapulted the team
among the best in the nation almost
left them empty-handed.
"It's the kiss of death when we
go into the last event thinking that
we literally just have to stay on the
beam," Michigan coach Bev Plocki
said. "I think we're actually better
under pressure situations like the
Big Ten Championships when we
had to stick to beat Penn State. I
think that when all you have to do
is stay on, that's the hardest thing
to do."
With such a large lead before hit-
ting the beam, only a catastrophic
finish would have allowed another
team back into the competition,
and that is exactly what happened,
as Southern Utah inched to less
than half a point behind Michigan.
Unfortunate news came for the
Wolverines when freshman Katie

Zurales, one of the team's top per-
formers during the second half of
the season, dislocated her shoulder
while finishing up her beam rou-
tine.
"She had a prettygoodbeam rou-
tine going," Plocki said, explaining
the injury. "You throw your arms
in the air to initiate the twist, and
when she threw her arm back, her
shoulder dislocated, so she kind of
quit in the middle of the skill and
ended up landing on her side. So the
injury didn't happen on the fall, it
was on her take-off from the beam."
After watching Zurales's injury,
two of the last three performers
also tumbled from thebeam.
"It's kind of hard to recollect
yourselves when a teammate goes
down, so that was unfortunate for
us," junior Kylee Botterman said.
"We didn't recover how we should
have."
According to Plocki, the severity
of the injury is still unknown, but
the team is searching to fill her spot
in the beam and vault lineups for
safety's sake.
Despite the drama surround-
ing the beam, the meet did feature
some outstanding performances
See NCAA REGIONALS, Page 3B

Senior captain Jordan Sexton scored a career high on the uneven bars, which has been a weak event for Michigan

The Wolverines beat the Boilermakers on Michigan junior pitcher Jordan Taylor
Saturday and Sunday behind LaMarre and tossed a perfect game and Nikki Nemitz
Burgoon after falling in a disappointing followed with a shutout in the Wolverines'
performance Friday night. Page 3B weekend sweep. Page 3B


2B - April 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wolverines get seven
first-place finishes

By JIMMY SHEN for improvement.
For the Daily "We are looking for some more
personal records," Liske said.
After a rather disappointing "Expectations for ourselves are
indoor season, the Michigan wom- pretty high, and I don't think any-
en's track and field team is defi- one has met their expectation
nitely happy to see such a smooth for the season yet. You just got to
transition outdoors. remind yourself you know what
"Usually the transition from you're doing and you do this every
indoor to outdoor is kind of rough," day of the week. You come in and
redshirt sophomore Allison Liske work your butt off and do what you
said. "The sprinters are moving know how to do, and hopefully the
a longer distance for the sprints, results will find you in the right
and the throwers are moving from spot."
one to three events, and some of us Day two of competition saw a
from two to three, but so far, it's much better showing throughout
been a pretty smooth transition." the roster. Redshirt junior Abbey
The Wolverines packed their Breiedenstein took first place in
bags for the 2,000-mile journey the pole vault, and junior Lauren
out to California to compete in the Young took first place in the high
three-day Rafer Johnson/Jackie jump - the first time in her col-
Joyner Kersee Invitational. The legiate career. Freshman Kaitlyn
weekend was full of championship- Patterson also impressed by taking
caliber performances worthy of the second place in the 5,000-meter
team'sburgeoning expectations. with a time of 17:14.27, improving
Michigan saw some of its tough- her previous season low by 22 sec-
est competition at this meet, but onds. Pendleton also set a new per-
that did not seem to faze the young sonal record in the shot put, taking
team, as they have already notched third place with a mark of 13.43
six first-place finishes and 22 top- meters.
three finishes in the first three Despite the departure of the
weekends of the outdoor season. strong 2009 senior class, this year's
in day one of competition, fresh- team is not showing any signs
man Erin Pendleton and redshirt of inexperience, especially with
sophomore Allison Liske set new junior captains Danielle Tauro and
personal records in the hammer Emily Pendleton, Emily's older sis-
throw, placing fifth and eighth in ter, leading the way. In just three
the event, respectively. But accord- days of competition at UCLA,
ing to Liske, there is always room Tauro and Pendleton combined for

four first place finishes. Tauro took
first place in both the 800 meter
run and in the mile run. It was her
first time running the mile out-
doors.
"I need to continue to work my
way up, and hopefully my progress
will be moving at the same rate as
the level of competition," Tauro
said. Then hopefully my body will
be ready to run faster at those plac-
es. I'm just more interested in get-
ting my body ready to run fast and
peak at the right time, instead of
peakingtoo early."
Emily Pendleton also shined,
showing off her strength by win-
ning the shot put and discus event.
Pendleton has now won the discus
at all three invitationals she has
participated in this year.
"I'm just happy with how I'm
doing and hoping to do better,"
Pendleton said. "I am ready to
throw farther, and I got to keep
being patient with myself and go
for that."
In the end, the team was able to
rack up seven first-place finishes -
three on the track and four in the
field.
"We're happy but never satis-
fied," Liske said. "You just gotta say
'Hip hip hooray,' pat yourself on the
back, and then move forward. It's
going to take some bigger marks
than what happened this weekend
to place in the Big Tens and region-
als and nationals as well."

CLIF REEDER/Daily
Sophomore quarterback Tate Forcier made his debut at the Big House in last year's Spring Game, which drew nearly 50,000
fans to Michigan Stadium. Forcier started every game for the Wolverines last season with Denard Robinson also getting time at
the quarterback position. This year, the two, plus early enrollee Devin Gardner, are locked in a preseason quarterback battle.
Why you should go to
football's Spring Game

'M' finishes 12th while
battling bad weather

Thompson and Kim
are bright spots for
the Wolverines.
By MICHAEL WELCH
For the Daily
The Michigan men's golf team
went to Raleigh, North Carolina
expecting great weather and good
scoring conditions at the Wolf-
pack Invitational.
And they got them - in the
practice round on Thursday.
Unfortunately, when tourna-
ment play started on Friday, the
conditions were far from ideal.
"The first day it was extreme-
ly windy," said Michigan coach
Andrew Sapp. "We'd gotten
almost an inch of rain the night
before the first round, so the ball
wasn't rolling at all, so it made a
long course even longer."
With the poor weather, the
Wolverines were unable to keep
up with the pace set by North
Carolina, falling 29 strokes off
the lead and sitting in 16th out of
18 teams. The only real positive
for the Wolverines was that both
sophomore Matt Thompson and

junior Lion Kim stood just three
strokes off the individual lead.
The three remaining Wolver-
ine players, however, stood firmly
at the bottom of the leaderboard,
with freshman Jack Schultz and
junior Alexander Sitompul tied at
84th and freshman Rahul Bakshi
in 80th. With the course playing
tough, Schultz, Sitompul, and
Bakshi posted first round scores
of 79, 80 and 81, driving the Wol-
verines out of contention.
"We're a good enough team
where we shouldn't have three
guys in the bottom 10," Kim says.
With better weather for the
final round on Saturday, Michigan
improved and drew upon many
positives after a tough first day.
After a 18-over 36 holes, Sitompul
shot a two-under 69 that includ-
ed an eagle on the tough par-five
first hole.
Thompson continued his strong
play with an even-par round that
earned him a tie for third. If not
for bogies on three of the four
par fives, he could have earned
the individual tournament win, a
strong confidence boost during a
tough outing for the Wolverines.
"I'm glad to see Matt play well
this week after not playing very

well the last tournament," Sapp
said. "It's good to see him getting
his game back in shape near the
end of the season."
Overall though, it seemed like
it was the same story for Michi-
gan on both days of the tour-
nament. Two players had good
rounds and the other three play-
ers' rounds hurt the Wolverines'
team score. In the final round,
Kim shot three-over, Schultz
posted a four-over round, and
Bakshi shot five-over.
"We wanted to climb up five
or six spots because we felt that
there were five or six teams that
(we felt) we could catch with a
good round," Sapp said.
With the Big Ten Champion-
ships and NCAA regionals com-
ing up, it will be important for the
Wolverines to have every member
of the team trusting each other
to play good golf. Kim says a new
attitude for the playoffs will help
accomplish that.
"It's game time, really," Kim
says. "We're gonna go out there
with a new mindset, with an atti-
tude of, 'This is a new tourna-
ment,' and just not worry about
where we stand and play good
golf."

When I was in elementa-
ry school, my dad used
to pack the car one Sat-
urday in April and drive me and
a few friends down to Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Football Spring
Game. Back then, it was actually a
pretty low-key
affair. Lloyd
Carr never
opened the
playbook - you
know, just in
case John Coo-
per or JoePa
happened to
be at the Big ANDY
House for the REID
afternoon.
Some years
the "game" resembled a pregame
warm-up stretch. Some years the
offense and defense actually ran
a few bare-bones plays on each
other.
And, for a youngster like
myself, there really wasn't a whole
lot to get excited about other than
frantically trying to get players'
autographs after the game.
But last year wasn't your typi-
cal Michigan Spring Game.
The Rich Rodriguez-style is to
go all out - that included a game

that actually had excitement and,
you know, the collective elements
that comprise a "sporting event."
It had the element of surprise;
Tate Forcier, at that point just an
enigma, a huge question mark
and the team's most promis-
ing sign of hope for the future,
played the whole game and gave
Michigan fans something to look
forward to.
There was also the amazing
alumni game, which not only was
fun to watch but it also helped
quell some of the rumors and
speculation that some former
Michigan players were jumping
off the RichRod bandwagon.
And fans were treated to a
tour of the locker room at the Big
House, a very rare and treasured
occurrence for the biggest maize-
and-blue supporters.
Oh, and don't forget about the
50,000-plus fans that came, by far
the largest crowd ever at a Wol-
verines' Spring Game.
My point is this: Rodriguez has
made this an event worth going to.
I've talked to quite a few stu-
dents who don't seem that inter-
ested in going to the game.
Maybe it's the team's subpar (a
generous adjective here, I know)

performance in the last few sea-
sons, or maybe it's the fact that
finals are rapidly approaching,
but I'm surprised that there are
so many students who seemingly
plan on skipping it.
I'm here to tell you to go.
It was a great time last year,
and, like then, you'll get a first
chance to see an uber-hyped
quarterback in his first appear-
ance in a Michigan uniform.
And if you, like me, are a senior,
you've got no excuse not to at least
check it out. I'm coming to the
realization that this Saturday is
probably the last Michigan sport-
ing event I'll attend as a student of
the University. That lends itself to
some pretty mad nostalgia oppor-
tunities. Whew.
You may disagree with some
of the changes Rodriguez has
made in his time at Michigan,
but the kinks he tweaked out
of the Spring Game have really
made it fun. And, at the end of the
day, you're still a Michigan fan,
because Michigan fans are not
fair-weathered; come support the
team.
Andy can be reached at
andvreidumichbedu

Blue continues to roll Big Ten foes.

Michigan comes up short in
outdoor version of 'The Dual'

New to their events,
Forys and Strizich
are two of six
first-place finishers
By KEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Writer
After a 22-point loss to Ohio
State in the indoor version of "The
Dual" in January, the Michigan
men's track and field team traveled
to Columbus on Saturday with a lot
to prove, underneath sunny skies
and 65 degree weather.
Coming into the meet, the Wol-
verines knew they would need
elite performances from all over
the roster to beatthe Buckeyes. But
those came few and far between,
as Ohio State pulled away with the
116-84 victory.
"We knew that if everybody on
our team performed their best,
we'd have a pretty good chance of
winning," Michigan coach Fred
LaPlante said.
And after the first few events,
it looked like the Wolverines had
a good chance of earning a season
split with their arch-rivals. Senior
Sean Pruitt won the discus and the

hammer throw, and sophomore
Robert Peddlar won the triple
jump as Michigan jumped out to
an early lead.
"We were tremendous for
the early part of the meet, and
I thought that was very good,"
LaPlante said.
Junior captain Craig Forys was
also a big part of that early success,
making quite a first impression in
the process.
Forys ran the 3,000 meter
steeplechase on Saturday for the
first time in his career-and won it
with a meet record time of 9:00.60,
besting the previous mark set by
Ohio State's Ian Connor.
Consisting of 28 ordinary jumps
and seven water jumps over the
course of the race, the steeple-
chase is not an easy event to get
used to, let alone dominate.
But Forys seemed right where
he belonged, perfectly in his ele-
ment.
"Judging by how things went
today, it feels like a really fun race,"
Forys said about the steeplechase.
"It's definitely different."
But unfortunately for the Wol-
verines, they could not sustain any
of that early momentum.
Michigan won only six out of
the 19 total events, and the Buck-

eyes ran away with the win.
"We had a few events where we
rose to the occasion," LaPlante
said. "But we also had a couple
events where we felt like we had
a chance to win and didn't, so
that certainly changed the tide of
things."
One competitor who did exceed
LaPlante's expectations was soph-
omore Joe Strizich.
Strizich, who is normally a
decathlete, won the javelin with
a throw of 193 feet-11 inches. The
throw shattered his previous per-
sonal best by nearly 30 feet.
Strizich attributed his success
to a slower approach to the throw
and a different mental game plan.
"I was trying to focus on hitting
my positions, and just stay focused
on competing and not necessarily
how far the javelin goes," Strizich
said.
His new strategy worked, and
his newfound confidence will be
valuable as the Wolverines look to
continue to improve in the follow-
ing weeks, with the Big Ten Cham-
pionships just a month away.
"I know now that I can slow
down and focus on my position,"
Strizich said. "So that's a really
important thing to be comfortable
with at this point in the season."

By MATT RUDNITSKY
Daily Sports Writer
With Penn State and Ohio State
traveling to Ann Arbor, the No. 3
Michigan women's tennis team
needed wins against two of its
most storied rivals in order to
build a cushion on its Big Ten lead.
Instead of coming up short in
the big moments, the Wolverines
(7-0 Big Ten, 17-3 overall) stepped
it up a notch and are sitting atop
the conference even more com-
fortably now, after shutting out
the Nittany Lions 7-0 on Saturday,
and then dominating the Buckeyes
6-1 on Sunday.
The two much-needed victories
showed that Michigan is the clear-
cut favorite to win the conference
and potentially threaten for the
top national ranking.
"To be honest, I don't think that
we expected to be in the top five,"
Michigan junior Denise Muresan
said. "We knew that we had the
ability to beat every team that we
play, but we didn'tknow if we could
put it all together. After these wins
and beating Northwestern, I defi-
nitely have the confidence in our
team to win Big Ten's."
Penn State didn't do much other
than show up in the weekend's first
matchup. The Wolverines domi-
nated from the get-go, sweeping,
the three doubles matches to take
the first point.
The Nittany Lions only man-
aged to win four games in those
three doubles matches combined.
The Wolverines then kept their

feet on the gas pedal, winning all
six singles matches in straight
sets. Penn State only saw a single
set finish closer than 6-2.
The next day, the Buckeyes at
least made the Wolverines break
a sweat.
Ohio State opened the match
firing on all cylinders, jumping up
by an early break at No. 2 and No.
3 doubles, and by two early breaks
at No. 1.
But despite the early deficits
and a surprisingly boisterous
Buckeye cheering section, Michi-
gan turned things around quickly,
with juniors Whitney Taney and
Rika Tatsuno taking No. 1 doubles,
and Muresan and senior Tania
Mahtani winning at No. 3, both by
8-5 scores.
Freshman Mimi Nguyen and
sophomore Michelle Sulahian
couldn't pull out their match at
No. 2 doubles, but it didn't matter,
as the Wolverines took the doubles
point and the early 1-0 lead.
Michigan coach Ronni Bern-
stein attributes much of the team's
success to their strong doubles
play. The Wolverines are 17-2
when winning the doubles point
- a feat they have accomplished in
14 consecutive matches - and are
20-1 in Big Ten doubles matches.
"I think it gives the girls con-
fidence," Bernstein said. "We are
really disciplined in our doubles
play. They don't panic because we
put them in so many different situ-
ations in practice. When they are
confident, like they are right now,
it carries over into matches. We

got really good starts on all the
courts and just went from there."
Despite the lopsided score, the
singles wins didn't come without
difficulty either.
With Nguyen's match dead-
locked at 4-4 in the first set, nei-
ther team had taken control of
the majority of singles matches.
Nguyen then played an exhausting
game lasting as long as an entire
set, saving game point after game
point, finally prevailing with the
break and the 5-4 lead.
The crowd erupted after Nguy-
en's break, and she and the Wol-
verines started clicking from that
point on.
She cruised to an easy 6-4, 6-4
victory - her 12th in a row - and
was joined with straight-set wins
by Tatsuno and Sulahian. Mahtani
also came back from a set down to
take her match.
Muresan won in three sets -
her ninth consectutive singles
victory - improving her record to
30-10 on the year.
With the victory, Michigan
extends it Big Ten conference
lead over Northwestern. The Ohio
State triumph was the Wolverines'
100th victory at the Varsity Tennis
Center and their 11th in a row.
"We are playing so well because
we're putting out a great team
effort and battling on every single
court," Bernstein said. "I can't
attribute our success to any one
player, but we really have great
chemistry and that's a big reason
why we are one of the top five
teams in the country."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Burgoon closes door

April 12, 2010 - 38
Blue takes two
against Boilers

By BEN ESTES in that department, to 3.86. And
Daily Sports Writer his clutch play in the latter part of.
games has allowed him to accumu-
Three times in the past two late a 4-1 record with four saves -
weeks, Michigan had been cling- already as many as he collected all
ing to a tenuous lead with its oppo- of last year.
nent in position to With the Wolverines' Sunday
steal the win. NOTEBOOK starter a question mark every
That meant weekend, due to inconsistency
one thing: late in the game, it was from junior right-hander Matt
Tyler Burgoon time. Miller and senior left-hander Eric
The junior right-hander trotted Katzman, Burgoon's success could
out from the bullpen all three times lead to a new role as the team's No.
to shut down the potential late- 3 starter - he has started three
inning rally. games already this season.
The Defiance, Ohio native's suc- But for his part, the junior is sat-
cessful run began on March 30 isfied with finishing the contest.
against Eastern Michigan. Burgoon "Earlier in the season, we were
* entered the action in the seventh experimenting with starting and
inning with a runner at second whatnot," Burgoon said. "But (I'm)
after the Eagles had just scored back to the pen, and I feel a lot more
four runs to cut the deficit to one. at home there being able to come in
But Burgoon got out of that jam, and close out a game and give us a
and finished the game unscathed to 'W."'
preserve the win. In whatever role Burgoon comes
Against Indiana on April 3, Bur- to play, his importance to the Wol-
goon came in the game in the bot- verines' success as the Big Ten sea-
tom of the ninth with Michigan son unfolds can't be doubted.
holding a 6-4 lead and once again "(Burgoon's) had alonghistory of
closed the door on the comeback being a successful reliever," Malo-
attempt. ney said. "I think he really looked
And Saturday against Purdue, good to me Saturday. I was pleased.
with the Wolverines desperately And it's nice to have a guy like that
needing a win to even the series, at the back end of the bullpen."
he relieved redshirt freshman left- LAMARRE BACK TO FORM:
hander Bobby Brosnahan and halt- Junior outfielder Ryan LaMarre
ed the Boilermakers' rally, pitching hinted toward a full comeback from
a near-flawless 2.1 innings to pick a broken thumb with a 1-for-3 per-
up his team-leading fourth save of formance last Wednesday against
the year. Central Michigan in his first start
"Burgoon was outstanding and since the injury.
that was huge," Michigan coach After the game, he said he wasn't
Rich Maloney said after Saturday's close to 100 percent and wouldn't
win. "And we needed that. We have be for a couple of weeks.
to win games in all different ways, But you wouldn't know it from
and this is a good team win." seeing him last weekend against
It's been a breakout year for Bur- Purdue.
goon, who saw extensive time out LaMarre returned to his tra-
of the bullpen in 2008 and 2009, ditional No. 3 spot in the batting
logging 37 innings in each season. order Saturday, and went a com-
But Burgoon's ERA in his first bined 6-for-9 with an RBI in the
two years was a pedestrian 4.86. first two games of the series. But
This season has seen a full run drop Sunday provided further proof that

he may be rounding into top form.
The Jackson native went 3-for-4
with three RBI on the day, display-
ing his power with a triple and bas-
es-clearing double - each of which
nearly cleared the fence.
"If he's not (Big Ten) Player of
the Week, then I don't know what
more he can do," Maloney said.
"Especially coming off an injury.
First time back, he hasn't seen
much live pitching and for him to
perform the way he did and get big
hits just really helps the team."
LaMarre was forced to sit for
six weeks because of his injury and
grew frustrated at not being able
to play. In his absence, Michigan
was involved in several close games
against top competition, going 5-5
in games decided by three runs or
fewer. His presence could certainly
have swung several of the losses
into wins.
But he's back now, a fact that
bodes well for the Wolverines'
chances from this point forward.
"It feels unreal to be back in
the lineup," LaMarre said. "These
guys did fine while I was gone, but
I could only watch so many games
from the stands. Its great to be back
out there."
SINNERY'S SUCCESS: Maloney
was unsure about who would start
Sunday's series finale after Bur-
goon had to be used extensively in
Saturday's win. Among a host of
candidates arose sophomore right-
hander Brandon Sinnery.
Maloney told him he would be
getting the ball while the lanky
Worcester, Mass. native was at din-
ner Saturday night.
In his first career start, Sinnery
made good on Maloney's endorse-
ment, going six strong innings
and allowing just one earned run.
His performance was crucial, as it
allowed the Wolverines to win the
game and take the series, remain-
ing tied for first in the Big Ten
standings.

By CAITLIN SMITH
Daily Sports Writer
Senior catcher Chris Berset
grabbed the ball coming in from
right field, crouched into a stance
in front- ------
of home PURDUE 8
plate, and MICHIGAN 5
collided
with the PURDUE 4
Purdue MICHIGAN 6
runner
- who PURDUE 4
sent Ber- MICHIGAN 9
set into a
backwards somersault.
Despite the collision, the tag
was good for the third out of the
third inning on Sunday, stopping
the Boilermakers from taking the
lead over the Wolverines (4-2 Big
Ten,18-11overall). The out keptthe
momentum on the Wolverines' side
as they climbed to a 9-3 victory and
the series win.
The weekend began with a dis-
appointing 8-5 loss to Purdue at
home Friday. The Boilermakers
(2-4, 15-14) gained control of the
game early on, taking advantage
of senior ace pitcher Alan Oaks's
struggles on the mound. Oaks
allowed two runs in both the first
and second innings, and gave up
a total of six earned runs in six
innings.
On Purdue's mound, pitcher
Matt Bischoff was unstoppable.
Bischoff, who recently won his
second Big Ten Pitcher of the
Week Award of the young season,
allowed only two Wolverine runs
on seven hits, while striking out
nine batters.
Freshman centerfielder Pat-
rick Biondi posed the greatest

threat against Bischoff, leading the
offense with three hits. His double
in the bottom of the ninth drove in
two RBI and sparked a last-ditch
comeback effort for Michigan, but
it wasn't enough.
After a disappointing startto the
series, the Wolverines came back
on Saturday afternoon desperate to
even the tally.
"We killed the momentum that
they had gained the night before,"
Michigan coach Rich Maloney
said. "I thought it was important,
the way we scored three runs the
last inning, even though we lost.
The reality is usually there's a car-
ryover."
A four-run rally in the bottom
of the second inning Saturday set
the tone for the game and gave
Michigan pitchers confidence on
the mound. Redshirt freshman
left-hander Bobby Brosnahan led
the Wolverines, striking out six
batters and maintaining a comfort-
able Michigan advantage through-
out the game to earn his fourth win
of the season. Junior pitcher Tyler
Burgoon came in to relieve Bros-
nahan and struck out three Boiler-
makers in just over two innings.
And the contributions kept com-
ing. Biondi tallied his 19th stolen
base of the season, tying the pro-
gram's freshman record for stolen
bases set by Bruce Fox in 1955. This
places Biondi in a four-way tie for
aoth place on the single-season
stolen-base list, just 29 games into
the season.
"Patrick's had an amazing fresh-
man year up to this point," Malo-
ney said. "He hasn't been playing
like a freshman from day one. To
put him in the lead-off position and
for him to be able to handle it the

way he has is pretty special."
Biondi, who was selected in the
35th round of the MLB draft by the
Detroit Tigers out of high school,
admitted that he didn't know he
had tied any record.
Junior leftfielder Ryan LaMarre,
an offensive powerhouse who
recently returned from a six-week
injury, used the series to show
Michigan fans that he is back in
action. LaMarre led the batters on
Saturday with three hits, including
a double and one run.
In Sunday's win, LaMarre had
three hits, two doubles and one tri-
ple; three RBI and two runs in just
four trips to the plate. His long tri-
ple to left field - which was almost
a home run but banked off the top
of the fence to stay in - sparked the
big rally in the fourth.
"It feels unreal to be back in
the lineup," LaMarre said. "These
guys did fine while I was gone but
I could only watch so many games
from the stands. It's great to be
back out there."
The Wolverines have won their
first two series of the eight Big Ten
matchups this season. Despite gain-
ing good position in the conference
early, the team has a full plate wait-
ing for it the rest of the season.
Michigan has yet to sweep a
series,butits resiliencyintakingthe
deciding games has been promising.
"Our goal every time we come
into a weekend is to win the series.
If we could sweep that's great,"
LaMarre said. "But we always start
by getting two (wins) first. This
speaks for our team. We are never
going to give up and we are always
going to move on. To lose the first
this weekend and then win two
says a lot."

?,y~a w
D=
ARIEL BOND/Daly
Junior Dorian Shaw leads the Wolverines with 13 home runs this season.
Michigan uses home runs
to power potent offense

By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
With an unblemished record in
the Big Ten, the No. 2 Michigan
softball team has been hot from the
plate in conference play.
Lately, though, the Wolverines
have flashed their home run game.
Michigan has hit at least one
home run in all seven conference
games this season and the team's
tendency to hit the long ball has
helped turn many of the conference
games into blowouts.
The Wolverines' ability to drive
the ball deep has helped them mer-
cy-rule conference opponents in
five of seven games. The home run
has put games out of reach quickly
and kept opponents from being able
to regroup.
"We have a number of kids who
are capable, when they get a good
cut at the ball that are capable of
hitting it over the fence," Michigan
coach Carol Hutchins said. "We are
very capable of hitting it out."
Michigan (7-0 Big Ten, 30-5
overall) leads the Big Ten with 49
total team home runs after this
weekend, averaging 1.4 per game.
NCAA REGIONALS
From Page 1B
from most of the squad.
Senior captain Jordan Sex-
ton stole the show by putting up
a career-high 9.950 score on the
uneven bars, which had been the
weakest rotation for the Wolver-
ines enteringthe regional matchup.
Just as the team has come to
expect, Botterman stepped up
under pressure and won the all-
around crown with a 39.550 score,

"We're a good scoring team so it's
a nice way to get started," Hutchins
said. "We do a lot of things every
time we play. Sometimes we score
early, sometimes we score late, but
the most important aspect is that
we score."
The offense has been hot and
home runs have helped back up
strong starting pitching perfor-
mances from junior Jordan Taylor
and senior Nikki Nemitz. Michi-
gan's pitching duo has been solid
all season and the offense has been
clicking right behind them.
"It makes us a lot more relaxed
knowing that we can always come
back because we know we can hit,"
sophomore outfielder Bree Evans
said. "It takes a lot off the pitchers."
Junior first baseman Dorian
Shaw currently leads the team with
13 home runs - just one shy of her
2009 career total. The Wolverine
slugger is followed closely by the
two senior captains Maggie Vief-
haus and Angela Findlay, who have
belted out 11 and 10 long balls on
the year, respectively.
Michigan boasts a 13-0 record
when the team hits two or more
home runs in a game. But the Wol-
also sharing the floor exercise title
with freshman Natalie Beilstein.
"It was exciting that I did well,
but I really couldn't enjoy it," Bot-
terman said. "We didn't know at
the end if we made it or not, no
one had given us the thumbs up
yet. When I was going up to get
my awards I wasn't really excited
because I didn't know what the
outcome was."
When the team finally did hear
its name announced as an NCAA
Finals qualifier, the entire Michi-
gan troupe let out a sigh of relief.
As the Wolverines look for their

verines know that home runs can't
be their only aim from the batter's
box.
"I'm just really focusing on going
up there and doing what I need to
do for my team at the plate." Find-
lay said. "Whether that's runners
on base, driving people in, putting
a bunt down for the runners, my
focus is justgoing up there and get-
ting good at bats."
With a solid plate approach and
some monster home runs, Michi-
gan has stormed past the rest of
its conference opponents thus far.
While some argue that pitching
and defense win championships,
the Wolverines aren't complaining
about scoring at least seven runs in
all of their Big Ten games this sea-
son.
"Everybody in our lineup is
really clocked in and focused on
what they need to do in their part,"
senior Molly Bausher said. "I think
a lot of that has to do with what
we've gone through this season
with our mental game and one-
pitch focus. Everybody has taken
that in and really committed to it,
and I think that's really shown in
our lineup."
ninth national championship in the
season finale in Gainesville, Fla. in
two weeks, they clearly have some
work to do.
But as the team has battled back
all season long, this will be just
another test of Michigan's elite sta-
tus as a force in gymnastics.
"We just need to prepare our-
selves mentally," Botterman said.
"I think we're going to keep our
heads up and see what happens
with Katie. We have backups and
will get them ready to go, and if we
can stay positive then we'll get a
positive outcome at nationals."

earns weekend sweep
By ALEX HERMANN ing my mechanics." Viefhaus, Nemitz, sophomore
Daily Sports Writer Though this was the first per- outfielder Bree Evans and senior
feet game of her Michigan career, catcher Roya St. Clair each had
The No. 2 Michigan softball Taylor said that she had thrown multiple-hit performances.
team has been close to perfect five such games in high school. With the sweep of the Gophers
sincethe start of Big Ten playethree "It definitely didn't take me (1-5 Big Ten, 15-25 overall), the
weeks until my junior year to throw a Wolverines (7-0, 30-5) continue to
ago. MICHIGAN 9 perfect game in high school," she show their dominance in the con-
In that MINNESOTA 0 said. ference.
span, the Not to be outdone, senior pitch- "We're so great because every-
Wolver- MICHIGAN 10 er Nikki Nemitz had a standout one in this lineup can get a hit,"
ines have MINNESOTA 0 performance of her own on Sun- Viefhaus said. "If somebody
gone day, posting a shutout. doesn't get a hit, the next person
7-0, given up four runs total and Nemitz gave up just one hit and will."
scored more than 10 runs per walked one batter to go along with After going through its difficult
game. four strikeouts. The lone hit was a nonconference schedule relatively
But when junior pitcher Jordan routine pop into left centerfield. unscathed, Michigan has made
Taylor took to the mound on Satur- "We definitely feed off the the Big Ten season look like a
day at Minnesota, she left no room pitchers, as hitters, as defenders," cakewalk in comparison.
for improvement. Taylor pitched Viefhaus said. "If they are shut- The Wolverines will take a
the program's first perfect game ting the team down it's going to small break from conference
since 2008, as Michigan rolled 9-0 make us feel better and more con- play when they take on Central
and 10-0 in the two-game week- fident. They were just awesome Michigan this Wednesday before
end series. this weekend." resuming their Big Ten slate
"She was just shutting the other And that confidence showed as against Northwestern over the
team down every pitch of the the Wolverines got it done at the weekend.
game," senior third baseman Mag- plate as well, ending both games Still, Michigan knows that
gie Viefhaus said. "Her perfor- in the fifth inning due to softball's before obtaining its ultimate goal
mance was really stellar.". eight-run mercy rule. - a Women's College World Series
Despite having to alter her Michigan batters went a com- appearance and even a national
pitching motion midseason as bined .340 in both games, with six championship - the team will
umpires have begun to crack different players batting in runs. have to prove itself in the Big Ten
down on the crow-hop rule, Viefhaus was one of the head- first.
something she called the "hard- liners, recording a two-run home "The Big Ten season means a lot
est thing (she's) ever had to do," run on Saturday and going 2-for-3 to us," Viefhaus said. "We want to
Taylor recorded 10 strikeouts in on Sunday with another RBI. win a national, uhh, Big Ten cham-
just five innings to pitch the sixth Other Wolverines also con- pionship."
perfect game in Michigan softball tinued their solid hitting. Senior Viefhaus's quick mental slip up
history. outfielder Angela Findlay had a revealed the team's ultimate goals,
"I've thrown probably close to a two-run homer of her own while when she was asked if the national
million pitches in my career - so junior Dorian Shaw drove in a title was part of that grand design.
it's always been the same way," three-run long ball to end the "Heck yeah, but we have to win
Taylor said after Sunday's game. game. the Big Ten first," Viefhaus said.
"It's really cool to know that I
can still be as effective if not
more with completely rearrang-
1 5 4 6
ZARAGON PLACE 3 1 7 9
734-222- 93006 13E.
THE BEST APTS IN TOWN 319 6 8
WfWW.ZARAGONPLACE.COM
6 3 2
10 SECONDS FROM DIAL


4B - April 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

BERENSON
From Page 1B
the medical field. His pre-med
courses were his favorite, and ever
since his sister was diagnosed with
leukemia at a young age, the thought
of being a doctor had always
appealed to him.
But what about the NHL? ockey
meant so much to him, and his high-
ly competitive recruitment seemed
like it had stamped a ticket for him
to the big leagues.
Thoughts of transferring and
leaving this place behind began
to materialize in his mind. He
approached associate head coach
Mel Pearson with his worries, and
Pearson did his best to convince
the defenseman to stick it out, even
with eight other defensemen on the
roster.
"It wasn't always easy here for
Chris," Pearson says.
So Fox broughtchis worries to the
coach Berenson, whose wisdom was
well documented by then.
And Berenson was far from sur-
prised by his young player's com-
plaints. Fox wasn't the first, and
surely not the last blue-chip recruit
to experience an identity crisis
when entering the college ranks.
"All these kids are star play-
ers when they get here, and then
they have to accept a different role
and earn that role," Berenson says.
"When he got here, he was a highly
recruited player ... He really strug-
gled at this level to be ready every
night."
But the coach was the last person
who would let Fox, or any player for
that matter, walk out on his educa-
tion without a fight. He began to
push Fox to focus on his pre-med
classes, explaining that his future,
more than likely, lied in the field of
medicine, not hockey.
The coach's response burned
Fox up inside. He had never had to
face this kind of adversity, and why
would he? Everything on the rink
was easybefore his last two years in
a Michigan uniform.
"Someone was telling me that I
wasn't good enough," Fox recalls.
"And I'd never had that before."
The coach could sense Fox's dis-
content. So he told Fox something
he would never forget. And he never
did.
" 'This is adversity,' he told me.
'This is what a lot of life is about,
facing these challenges and figur-
ing out a way through them and
around them. You'll look on this and
be happy that you had this experi-
ence.'"
Slowly, but surely, after a series
of conversations with his coach, Fox
began to buy in to what Berenson
was preaching. He didn't have to be
a prima donna to fill his niche on the
ice. Soon, BerensonbegantoputFox
out on the ice more often, andbefore
he knew it, Fox had found his place
on the team. And aside from an
assault charge and subsequent pro-
bation stemming from an incident
before his 1997-98 season which
Berenson called uncharacteristic
of Fox, by the end of the year, the
coachingstaff thought his contribu-
tions had become more important
than the pockmark on his record.
The Wolverines won the national
championship in Fox's sophomore
season with Fox playing a small
role, but it was two years later, as a
senior, in which Fox began to take
form right before the coach's eyes.

Michigan coach Red Berenson guided the Wolverines to their 20th straight NCAA appearance this seasonr

It was the 1998 national champi-
onship against Boston College and
the game was deadlocked 17 min-
utes into overtime.
Fox took the puck and faked a
shot from the left point as a Bos-
ton College player went down. Fox
drifted behind the Eagle net and
passed to Josh Langfeld, a freshman
at the time. It was Fox's dump-off
and Langfeld's next shot that sealed
the Wolverines' second National
Championship in three years.
The defenseman remains one of
Berenson's biggest success stories.
To this day, he still gushes about
Fox's story, despite the fact that Fox
never made it to the NHL.
Caporusso retells it to me. Senior
defenseman Steve Kampfer tells me
yet again. Both use Fox as examples
of a player Berenson is most proud of.
"It's not what're we going to do
for you, it's what're you going to do
for Michigan," Fox repeats today
with Berenson's voice echoing
through his speech. "How are you
going to make this a better place?
That's the kind of character he
wants in kids at Michigan. He wants
good hockey players, but really, he
wants good students, good citizens,
good people, people he'd be proud of
to say 20 years down the line that 'I
was proud I coached that kid when
he was 18."'
Since Berenson became Michi-
gan's head coach in 1984, the land-
scape of professional hockey has
changed drastically, making it
increasingly difficult for the aging
coach to relay his message: that
there is life after hockey.
NHL teams began calling play-
ers at a younger and younger age.
Michigan commits began dropping
like flies without their degrees, and
the coach's frustration has become
increasingly obvious; he furrows his
brow as he discusses the state of his
beloved sport.
Players like Andy Hilbert - who
wasdraftedinthesecondround ofthe
2000 NHL Entry Draft by Boston -
leave early to pursue their childhood
dream of playing in the big leagues.
Most don't have a backup plan.
The coach continues to warn his
young players of the dangers of leav-
ing early for the NHL, fearing that
they will someday live his worst

nightmare - being a "hockeybum."
Hilbert, like others after him,
drifts in and out of the NHL, never
truly earning his shot.
They're hockey bums, Beren-
son understands. And now, it's his
goal to save as many of his players
from the same fate. But every year
becomes more of a struggle.
Last season, the Wolverines' best
threat on offense, Aaron Palushaj,
found himself in Berenson's office
after Michigan's season ended in the
firstround ofthe NCAA Tournament.
Palushaj had made up his mind,
and the coach did hisbest to support
his decision. The sophomore for-
ward had been drafted by the Blues,
Berenson's old team, and the temp-
tation was too great not to leave.
"When you're 19 years old and
have to sign apro contract, you really
don't know what's going to happen,"
Palushaj says. "I'm not Andy Hilbert,
I'm a different person. If you think
it's time for you to go, you can't just
sit back and be scared not to sign. You
hold your future in your hands."
An injury hindered Palushaj from
making a splash in his first season.
Then, soon after he became healthy
again, the forward was traded away
to Montreal. Today, Palushaj is with
the Hamilton Bulldogs, fighting
tooth and nail for the dream he left
Ann Arbor to fulfill.
"A lot of guys understand what
Red's talking about after the fact,"
Pearson says. "Maybe when you're
19 or 20, you see the money, you see
the glitz and the glamour, and they
don't realize till later on, 'I knew
what he was doing, he was trying to
protect me.'"
Berenson gets worked up as he
remembers players who left his sys-
tem early. It's almost as if he feels
like he's failed them, and his pater-
nal side begins to show through
with each example he gives. With
each player, he promises the same
thing: "If you're good enough for the
NHL, I'll drive you to the airport."
All of his players know this man-
tra. Jack Johnson, the third pick in
the 2005 NHL Draft, is one of the
few able totake advantage of it. But
he's the exception, not the rule.
This year's team, a team charac-
terized by its response to adversity,
shows signs that it is beginning to
understand Berenson's need to pro-
tect it.
Over winter break, senior walk-

on Eric Elmblad knew he needed
to meet with the coach. He made
his way to the Berenson's office, but
this conversation wouldn't be about
the NHL or professional hockey or
anything about the sport in general.
Elmblad just wanted some advice
about how to succeed in life - away
from the rink - so he went to the
man who he knew had the answers.
The coach told him to make sure
touse alloftheresources aroundhim
at Michigan, explaining all the steps
he took to succeed after his time at
Michigan. Of course Elmblad, an
engineering major, would have loved
to have a career in the NHL; hockey
was, after all, his first love. But a
career in the big leagues wasn't in
the cards for him. Of anyone, having
worked from day one just to preserve
his spot on the team, he understood
the coach's advice all along.
"Coach talks about that life after
hockey all the time," Elmblad tells
me. "This program is not about
becoming a better hockey player -
you're going to be a better hockey
player no matter what. He wants
you to get those attributes that will
help you be better in life."
Chris Fox spent a little over a
year trying to make it in the NHL
after his senior season, buta serious
injury made his shot at the NHL an
afterthought, as well.
But it was the next 11 years, four
in Michigan's medical school and
seven as a neurosurgery resident,
that would prove to cement Fox in
Berenson's mind as a model of the
ideal Michigan hockey player.
"He was kind of a surrogate par-
ent for all of us," Fox said. "Without
him, a lot of us wouldn't be where
we are today. I wouldn't be a neu-
rosurgery resident, I wouldn't have
the kind of personal success I had in
my life without Red."
It was an autumn Sunday in 2006
and Gordie Berenson, son of the
coach, could no longer bear to con-
tinue blowing leaves out of his yard.
Gordie decided to take a break
on his ATV, despite the fact that
he wasn't much of a trail rider. But
there was a nearly 6-mile run span-
ning dirt roads in the area, and
Gordie just couldn't resist.
And as the trail neared its end,
Gordie could see his house within

sight, a few hundred yards away.
That's when Gordie lost control
of his Honda and crashed off the
dirt trail.
Gordie Berenson's body began
to falter. Helpless and unconscious,
Gordie had sustained a serious head
injury that would put his life into
peril. As he was lifted out by heli-
copter, the coach was alerted to
his son's condition and told that he
would need majorhbrain surgery just
to survive through the night.
The coach knew there wasn't
much time, and he wasn't a man
used to things being outside of his
control. So he called the only person
he could trust in this situation to
save his son's fragile life.
He called Chris Fox.
Fox was spending his Sunday
night at home when he answered a
call from the University of Michi-
gan emergency room. He wasn't on-
call, so he knew it could only be bad
news.
"Coach Berenson's son is in
the ER. We thought you'd want to
know," the voice on the other line
told him.
"I'll be there in five minutes," he
responded, heading out the door.
As he entered the emergency
room that night, Fox experienced
a transformation. All the adversity
he had been through in his time at
Michigan, all the struggles to find
his role as aWolverine, they were all
leading up to this moment.
With two doctors on the case,
the process to start Gordie's surgery
was expedited, giving him a much
better chance of survival. But when
it came time for the procedure, Fox
knew that he was too invested in the
case to perform the surgery.
So while Gordie lay on the oper-
ating table, Chris Fox sat with the
entire Berenson family, who had
been in town to watch the coach
accept an award the next day.
Fox tried to keep their spirits up.
But even he wasn't sure if Gordie
would wake up from the surgery.
And if he did, he could never guar-
antee to them that Gordie would
be the same. Gordie's sisters, both
nurses who spent time at the Uni-
versity, prepared their family for the
worst-case scenario.
ButRed Berenson was just thank-
ful to have someone he trusted near-
by, someone he had spent countless
hours trying to make into a man,
someone who understood that he
was no longer the shepherd, he was
a member of the flock.
That Tuesday, the third day after
Gordie's accident, the young Beren-
son regained consciousness in his
hospital bed. He didn't remember
anything after losing control on the
path late Sunday night, but all of his
motor skills were still intact.
Fox and the Michigan medical
team had saved his life.
Berenson still gloats to his play-
ers today about one of the purest
Michigan Men he knows, the one
who heeded his advice and over-
came adversity to do something
more than just play hockey.
"Maize and blue is in my veins,"
Fox says. "And to have this all
come full circle with Gordie and
the Berenson's there as a family,
it was the least I could ever do for
Coach Berenson. It could've gone
either way, and we had a great out-
come. It's a small, small piece of
how I could repay him - a man who
changed my life.
Fox had found the role he was
supposed to play all along.

"There were some issues dur-
ing his career," Gordie tells me last
month, completely recovered from
his accident. "But the fact that he
stayed four years, won two national
titles, goes on to medical school and
to get involved by helping save my
life, it's really special to me every
time I see him. Him filling that role
and getting involved in his coach's
life - it saved my life."
The coach is in a good mood
today, a week removed from his
team's unprecedented and unex-
pected run to the second round of
the NCAA Tournament.
He grips his coffee, always in its
Golf
Save up to 40%d
Cm to the U nver
Golf Course Spri
Saturday, April 17th
Sale from 9:00AM-3:
Save an additona 10

glass mug, like he has in every other
meeting we've had to this point.
I spot something beside his desk
that I've never seen before - a pic-
ture tacked up to his bulletin board
of a bearded, shirtless man, grin-
ning widely in a long wooden canoe.
The man looks like he's at home.
"That's me in 1972," the coach
says later. The photo was taken on
his annual canoe trip, which he still
takes to this day.Iask him if he's ever
grown out a beard like that since
then, he says no and springs into
a conversation about how today's
NHL players give a bad impression
with their playoff beards. He's still
the same coach.
According to most of his players
and fellow coaches, the 70-year-old
is far from acting his age. Some even
venture to say he's in better shape
than many of his players. There's
also wide consensus that his back-
hand is by far the best on the team.
"I think he could go for another
10 years," Caporusso tells me.
It's been 26 years since he took
over a struggling program. Twenty-
six years since he had to stand out
on the Diag just to sell tickets to fans
and convince them to support the
hockey program.
He gestures to another picture
behind his desk, it's of him and two
other men, one I recognize as Don
Canham. It's from the first day he
took over for John Giordano, Michi-
gan's last coachbefore him.
"If someone would've told me
then it would've taken five years to
get this teamback on it's feet, I don't
know if I would've taken the job," he
jokes, dryly.
But it's 26 years after that photo
was taken, and Red Berenson has
gotten pretty comfortable.
For the last two years, the coach
has signed one-year contracts,
meeting with associate athletic
director Mike Stevenson to discuss
his future. His meeting to decide on
next season should take place soon.
Those close to him insist they
have no idea how long he'll stick
around Yost Ice Arena. Gordie con-
tends that even the coach's wife, Joy,
has no concept of when his hockey
career will end.
"There's a time," Berenson tells
me. "I'm getting closer to the time.
I don't know when that time is, but
it's not far away. And maybe a year
like this would make it tougher to
enjoy the job. But still, I think we're
still doing the right thing here.
"They know I won't stay here for-
ever."
Immediately after the Wolver-
ines' run ended in the NCAA Mid-
west Regional in Fort Wayne, Ind.
just weeks ago, Elmblad, the walk-
on who hadn't appeared in a game
all season long, approached the
coach. He grabbed his large, weath-
ered hand and shook it, looking him
straight in the eyes as if to thank
him for the four years that Elmblad *
had worked his entire life for.
It didn't matter that the walk-on
had played very little in his college
hockey career. According to him, he
had earned something much more
valuable in his four years at Michi-
gan than simply time on the ice.
Less than a week later, Elmblad
stood at the podium in front of a
packed room at the Sheraton Four
Points hotel for the team's end-of-
the-year banquet. of the five gradu-
ating seniors, Elmblad was the only
one without prospects in profes-
sional hockey.
Looking out across the banquet
room, tears ran down Elmblad's
face. So many people had helped

him get to this podium, he stood
silent for a brief moment, over-
whelmedby the realization.
But as his goodbye speech came
to an emotional crescendo, Elmblad
looked in the direction of the coach:
his surrogate father, his mentor, his
confidant.
The coach, Gordon "Red" Beren-
son, was and would always be the
face of the Michigan hockey pro-
gram, a program which had given
Elmblad, as it had for Fox, some-
thing he would have never received
anywhere else.
"Thank you, coach," Elmblad
said, "for making me a Michigan
Man."
Salel
lf golf merchandise
sity of Michigan
ing Sale!
1 P0
DOWf

0 1 1

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
SUSTAINABILMTY

o SUBMIT IDEAS: How do you think U-M could improve sustainability
efforts on campus? Please submit your ideas at www.graham.umich.edu.
ATT END ME ETING: Come learn and give input about the Campus
Sustainability Integrated Assessment project to analyze and boost
sustainability efforts in seven core areas at U-M.
Campus Sustainability Town Hall Meeting #2
Monday, April 12,2010
Rackham 4th Floor Amphitheatre
4 - 5:30 pm
Register at www.graham.umich.edu
Hosted by the Graham Environmental Sustainability Institute and the Office of Campus Sustainability

Aw o M

NM

item y preseting this ad Ad

500 E. Stmdlum, Ann Arbor,


