2 Fine arts columnist
4 Leah Burgin recounts
her experience with
erotic pottery in Peru.
PAGE 4

46F 46F 46F
-411ic4t 0 an 4,3atig
4

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, September 14, 2010

michigandaily.com

TN A RUSH.

UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS
Coleman
wants lower
freshman
enrollment

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Business School senior Caitlin Gilfeather directs students into and out of the Michigan Union as part of the Panhellenic Association's recruitment last night. The event
was part of a recruitment process that lasts about three weeks for female students to join sororities on campus.
Board of Regents toroensind

Incoming class
projected to have
300 more students
than last year's class
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
University President Mary Sue
Coleman said in an interview last
week she hopes admission num-
bers will be better controlled next
year to ensure that every student
can have a quality Michigan expe-
rience.
The University received a
record number of applications last
year, with 30,947 students apply-
ing for admission, according to
the office of Admission's website.

Of those stu-
dents, 15,436
students had
been offered
admission as
of June 1. And
while Coleman
said having so KYLE SWANSON
many students
Conertng qthe
interested in Adnsingtfo
attending the Adm istn
University is a "good problem to
have," she added that University
officials need a better estimate of
how many students will choose to
attend the University when making
offers of admission.
"We don't want this," Coleman
said in an interview last week.
"This isn't a planned increase in the
studentpopulation."
And while the University's offi-
See ENROLLMENT, Page 3

Brandon, Slottow
recommend $1.8M
project in advance
of night games
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
The University's Board of
Regents will hear a proposal to
install permanent stadium lights

at Michigan Stadium when it
meets during its regular monthly
meeting on Thursday.
The proposal, submitted by
Athletic Director David Brandon
and Tim Slottow, the University's
executive vice president and chief
financial officer, requests that the
regents approve the proposal to
place the project out for bids and
to award the project, provided it
falls within the established bud-
get.
The budget of $1.8 million for

the entire project would include
funds for purchasing the nec-
essary materials as well as the
architectural, electrical and
mechanical work necessary to
install the new lights.
According to the proposal, the
project would be fully financed
by Athletic Department resourc-
es. The Athletic Department is a
financially independent arm of
the University, which contributes
money to the University's general
fund.

In the past, temporary lights
were used to light the stadium for
games where it was necessary.
However, with two night
games already scheduled at the
Big House in the next year, the
lights, if approved by the regents,
are expected to be used somewhat
regularly.
"The Department of Intercol-
legiate Athletics plans to host a
night hockey game at the stadium
in December 2010, and a night
See REGENTS, Page 3

ADMISSIONS BY YEAR
30000 Enrolled
24000 Admitted
18000 Applied
2010 Enrollment Projected
12000
6000
0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010*


MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
Mich. ass't attn'y general a
derisive critic of MSA pres.

ART WORK

Alum Andrew
Shirvell decries
Armstrong's 'radical
0 homosexual agenda'
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily News Editor
An assistant attorney general
in the appellate division for Mich-
igan Attorney General Mike Cox
is inserting himself into politics
on campus.

University alum Andrew
Shirvell has been actively speak-
ing out against Michigan Stu-
dent AssemblyPresident Chris
Armstrong since shortly after
his election in March. Shirvell
has periodically appeared at
various campus events to protest
Armstrong's presidency. He also
maintains a controversial blog
called "Chris Armstrong Watch,"
where he criticizes what he calls
the MSA president's "radical
homosexual agenda."
Officials at theAttorney Gener-
al's office confirmed that Shirvell

works for Cox and that they are
aware of his public disapproval
of Armstrong, including the blog.
Officials also said on Wednes-
day that they would provide The
Michigan Daily with a statement
on the issue, but despite several
follow-up inquiries over four
business days, a statement was
never received.
Shirvell declined to comment
in an e-mail interview last month
about whether his decision to
speak out against Armstrong has
affected his work for an elected
See SHIRVELL, Page 5

CAMPUS TECHNOLOGY
Former computer science students
develop official iPhone app for U'

A construction worker moves fencing near the University Museum of Modern Art yesterday.
CAMPUS WATERING HOLES
With new management, Packard
Pub works to bring back crowds

App features dining
hall menus, bus info
and the fight song
By SABIRA KHAN
Daily StaffReporter
Imagine being able to find
everything you need to know
about the University - from your
professor's office phone number

to the menu at campus dining
halls on any day to the current
location of your bus - while lis-
tening to Hail to the Victors and
standing virtually anywhere.
Thanks to University alums
Kevin Chan and Mark Yang, who
graduated in 2010, an imagina-
tion is no longer necessary - just
an iPhone.
What eventually became the
official Michigan iPhone applica-
tion was initially co-developed by

Chan and Yang as a class project
for a programming class in the
Electrical Engineering and Com-
puter Science Department.
"The theme of the class is a
semester-long project where you
have to create any application
that you like for any smart phone;
so we chose to make an app for
the iPhone because it is the most
widely available smart phone
and, at the time, Kevin and I both
See APP, Page 5

New manager plans
to install slide in
once-popular bar
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily StaffReporter
After Packard Pub opened on the
corner of State and Packard streets
in March, it was jam packed for the
first few weeks. But then interest
began to diminish and support for

the new bar on campus waned.
Part ofthe pub's problem was due
to the way the restaurant was being
managed, according to the bar's
current manager Chris Bommarito.
Former Packard Pub Manager Kyle
Miller claimed he was the owner
of the bar-restaurant and was run-
ning the establishment in a fashion
contrary to the intent of the actual
owner, Michelle Trybyla.
Bommarito, who said in an inter-
view that the pub wasn'tbeing man-
aged in a way that maximized its

potential, replaced Miller in July.
"Although he did have almost full
controlofthebarwhile he was here,
the owner did step up and say she
didn't appreciate what he was doing
with it and simply removed him and
put me in place," Bommarito said.
Trybyla didn't respond to mul-
tiple interview requests from The
Michigan Daily.
Because of low profits while
Miller was running the bar, the Pub
had cut its hours and scaledback on
See PUB, Page 3

WEATHER HI: 67
TOMORROW LU: 54

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Is the iClicker better than Quizdom? Weigh in.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE PODIUM

INDEX NEWS ......... .... .........2 CROSSWORD.. . ...........6
Vol. CXXI, No. 6 O PINIO N ..............................4 CLA SSIFIEDS ...... ............. 6
(2010TheMichigan Daily A ......4 SR.......
michigandoily.com ARTS . . . ........... 6 SPOtTS ................................. 8


2 - Tuesday, September 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, September14, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

Coleman: I've never spun the cube

There's a legend that
moat incoming freshmen
hear very early in their
academic careers at Michi-
gan - that University Pres-
ident Mary Sue Coleman
spins the cube in Regents
Plaza every morning on her
way to work to symboli-
cally "start" the University
each day.
Known to most on
campus, the cube is a
15-by-15-foot Corten steel
figure between the Michi-
gan Union and the Fleming
Administration Building
that spine on its axis with
little force, despite its con-
siderable size.
The sculpture was
installed in 1968 as a gift
from the University's grad-
uating class of 1965.
And while the lore of
CRIME NOTES

such a tradition may appeal
to new students on campus
and their parents, it simply
isn't true.
In an interview with
The Michigan Daily last
week, Coleman said she's
heard the myth but doesn't
spin the cube.
"I have heard that,"
Coleman said when asked
about the myth. "And I've
thought, 'I don't think
anybody has ever seen me
touch the cube."'
And the reason no one
has seen Coleman touch
the cube is because she's
never spun it.
"I have never spun the
cube," Coleman said. "I
know; it's amazing."
Por that reason, having
never before laid a hand on
the iconic Michigan cube,

Coleman said she's a little
confused about where the
story comes from.
"It's a stunning myth
and I don't know why,
but t've heard (the myth)
almost from the first day
Icame to Michigan," she
said.
However, students may
want to keep their eyes on
the president when she's
walking in Regents Plaza.
She said she might take
a few minutes when her
family is in town to expe-
rience her inaugural spin,
one that so many students
take on Campus Day tours.
"I should bring my
grandchildren out some-
time and get them to spin
it," Coleman said with a
light laugh.
- KYLE SWANSON

FILE PHOTO/Daily
Despite the myth that she routinely spins the cabe; University President Mary tue Cole-
man said she has neer laid hands en the steel structure.

CThe ftidpl"'an 0aiti
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SNULOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Basiness Manager
734-41a-415 seat. 252 734-41a-4115 eat. 241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbnsinesn@agmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroam offieeheoursSn.-Thurs:. 11n.m. -tn .nm.
p34-ate-ann5 ept.3
News Tips news@mihigandaily.com
Correctians corrections@mihigandaily.com
Letesltote Editor tothedaiy@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
ArtsaSection artspage@michigandaily.eem
Editanial Page opiniongmichigandaily.com,
Spants Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales dispay@mihigandaily.com,
Classified Sales classifiednmichigandaily.com
Online Sales enlineads@michigandaily.cem
Finance fiace@ichigandaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattlAaranson ManeagiegEditee aaronsen@michigandaily.cem
Jllian Berman Maneagin esEditor berman@mihigandaily.com
SEsNOesEWS eEITORS:ie er, StehaniaSeinbaerg, eye SsnEshear
Thiruavuekkas, evo'en Thorsb
ASSnSANTNEWSnEnnTORS eshanay Bio,DyanCini, CaitinHuston, Liausay
Krame, JoephLherma,,Veo~nia Menai, ElynaaTwiggs
Rachel Van Gilden EditeralntPage Editer vangilder@michaigandaily.com
SEsNREeDeTOnIAnuPAcE EITORSMiehele DeWit,,Caine Orley, Lanra
SnSnuSTNTDTRPGEeneenueaeeenaeWlttna,Witernat,,ker,H aa anga
Ryan Kanlie Maneaging SportsEdinor kartje@michigandaily.cam
SEsNORSPRTeS EDITORS:akns, MihatelFlork, imRona,e aletone
ASSISTAsNSP'OenSEeITRAex terann, ChaanrtelJnninSepenh esbit,,Zak
Pyzik,AmynScaanoe,sNick Spr
Jamie Block Maagingu nrtditer block@michigandailycomx
een eSENOARSEDITORS:Carolyn aecaki,Aenre Lpin, Jseffafor
uSSISTnANTARE ITORS:nrst~ynAhonLea ugi,han JoabseavShkhar
Max Collins and photolmichigandaily corn
Sam Walsan ManginhetoEeditors
ASSISTNTuPHOTEe DIeRS akerrom, MaisaMcaiJedroch
Anna Lein-beinskidand deie@xihhhandaily.eex
Saah SqUne Mnagingesn E~ ditors
SENIOReESIN EDIeOR:eMayaFed~ana
Tesrtalena MagazinetEditen cataer@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydsk@michigandaiycome
Adi WolltenCopy Chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
JuliannaCrim Sales Manage
ALESOCEANAR:Sa epaniuaeke,
MuRENGeseMANAGERjnceJncaj4
Hillay SpawalaClasiiednMaeagee
lason MahakianPreeductien Mnaer
Meghan RonepLayeutMnaere
Nick MeshkinFinaneMnaere
Chrissy WinklerncainaMeanager
Zach Yancen WebPreceeCoodinaten
ThetaMinhian DaillSS0745-967) is publiahed MondiaythreughtFrdaydungthe fall andt
winter termsbyueansat thierity of Mihian.ee cpis aailable fre ofnharge toall
readers. edditional coesetmay be pinked np aatthDaily's oficefor $2. Sbcription forfall tem,
saretin in SeptemberiaU.S. mail are$11. Witer termellanarethrobAprilis$15, ealong
(Septeme hroughAcepril) isn$1n5t Universityaffiiats arebjectnea rduced subscripton rate.
On-campes subscriptionsnfortall temare $35. Suscriptions mut e peaid.Theichigan taily
is a mber o e l Asniated Peas and The AsatedeiCellegiate Peas.

*I

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Burnt popcorn
causes fire alarm
WHERE: Vera Baits I
WHEN: Sunday at aboutl10p.m.
WHAT: A fire alarm went off
on the fourth floor of the Smith
House in the Baits I residence
hall, University Police report-
ed. It was a result of a male stu-
dentcburning popcorn.
Parking lot hit
and run
WHERE: M-22 Carport
WHEN: Sunday at aboutl11:55
a.m.
WHAT: A female staff mem-
ber had her 2004 Ford Free-
star hit and damaged in the
rear passenger seat, University
Police reported. No informa-
tion was left by the owner of
the striking car.

Fake I.D. card
discovered
WHERE: Huron Parkway
WHEN: Sunday at about 12:30
p.m.
WHAT: A nonaffiliated male
driver was stopped and found
in possesion of a fake ID. and
no vehicle insurance, Univer-
sity Police reported. The case is
currentlyunoder investigation.
Driver runs over
bicycle with car
WHERE:l1200 Geddes
WHEN: Saturday at about 8:15
p.m.
WHAT: A caller told police
she accidentally backed over
a parked bicycle with her car,
University Police reported.
The bicycle had been left unat-
tended.

Shoulder
ache forum
WHAT: Asheesh Bedi,
an assistant professor of
orthopaedic surgery, will
provide information on
prevention, rehabilitation,
surgical options and exer-
cise for shoulder pain.
WHO: U-H Health System
WHEN: Today at 6:30 p.nn.
WHERE: Four Points
by Sheraton
oSTEM
mass meeting
WHAT: A presentation
on the goals of Out in Sci-
ence, Technology, Engi-
neering and Mathematics
(oSTEM) will be offered,
accompanied by snacks.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: The Herbet H.
Dow Building, Room 1010

Folk singer fest
WHAT: Named for his
storytelling abilities, folk
singer and recent Grammy
winner Ramblin' Jack Elliot
will play a concert of tradi-
tional blues and folk music.
General admission is $20.
WHO: Michigan
Union Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
Carribean
conversation
WHAT: A panel of four
University experts will con-
vense to present an overview
of the economic, social,
ansd public health issues
in the Carribean region.
WHO: International Policy
Center and International
Policy Student Association
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall,
Annenberg Auditorium

1German officials have cre-
ated a 2.5 km long maze in
the shape of a giant sausage
to educate the obesity ridden
population about the dangers
of currywurst eating, Reuters
reported. Viewed from the
air, it shows a smiling sausage
accompanied by chips.
2 AGrand Valley State Uni-
versity study concluded
that Michigan would
have 60,000 more jobs if it had
become a right-to-work state in
the 1960s, according to a Sept. S
Grand Rapids Press article.
>s>FOR MORE. SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3 ABritish teen was banned
from the U.S. for life after
a drunken e-mail to the
White House calling President
Obama an obscenity, The Sun
reported. Luke Angel, 17, said
he didn't really care that he was
banned, but his parents were
very upset.

0

MORE ONLINEL
Love Crime Notes? Get moeeonlnne at michigadaily.cm/blgs/tewire F


0

Dreams. Realities.
It you went to maeean impact beyond the
city, the country or even the industry where
you'll work, meet us. We'll tell you why - in e
company where opportunity never sleeps -- your
aspirations will be exceeded. oncampus.citi.com
PLEASE JOIN US FOR CITI'S INSTITUTIONAL
CLIENTS GROUP PRESENTATION
DATE: TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 14TH, 2010
WHEN: 5:00PM - fi:3OPM
WHERE: ROSS SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
2ND FLOOR, ROOM R2210
SPEAKER: RANDY LAUER
Managing Director,
Sales & Trading
BUSINESSES lN ATTENDANCE:
" Capital Markets Origination
" Global Transaction Services
" Investment Banking
"Sales, Trading & Quantitative Analysis
TARGET AUDIENCE:
Freshmen, Sophomores. Juniors and Seniors
Citi never sleeps"
citio

0

I

6

a


I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
NEWS BRIEFS
4ANN ARBOR, Mich.n
Paralyzed patient
ties the knot at
University hospital
After her longtime boyfriend
was severely injured in a construc-
tion accident in June, Vicki Wood
vowed she would marry him if he L
survived. Mi
Wood kept that promise recently can
as her father escorted her into a ang
small chapel at the University of deb
Michigan Hospitals where Mark ans
Desy, dressed in a suit and tie, hal
beamed with happiness as he wait- cof
ed in a specially equipped wheel- I
chair. wh
As the couple exchanged vows, ma.
tears came to the groom's eyes, and Ric
his new bride bent down and wiped Bert
them away.
But there were mostly happy bet
smiles among the family, friends, Mo
patients and hospital staffers who tho
gathered to celebrate the couple's at t
marriage. deb
S
ANAHEIM, Calif. Pau
California church e
members show faith He
"so
with new tattoos B
ence
Church logo tattoos are the ing
latest in offbeat testimony at an "
Orange County church that holds
Sunday services in a punk rock
nightclub and collects offerings in
KFC buckets.
City Church of Anaheim is cel-
ebrating its first year in opera-
tion and the goal of reaching a
200-member flock with a radical
commitment to the congregation
and community: Tattoos of the red-
heart church logo.
Pastor Kyle Steven Bonenberger S
told worshippers that God "tat-
tooed your name on his heart" and f
it was time for an everlasting com-
mitment to Him and the church. S
The Orange County Register
reported about a dozen people got
inked, fulfilling the pledge they
made if the church doubled its nor- A
mal attendance. Ar
City Church started in a liv- a dri
ing room and moved to Anaheim's of e
Chain Reaction Club as the congre- sup
gation grew. dec
crit
VATICAN CITY plin
Vatican library spe
+sena
reopens after lon
3-year restoration
The Vatican's Apostolic Library EN
is reopening to scholars follow- Fro
ing a three-year renovation to
improve its cataloguing and secu- cial
rity measures. pub
The library, which houses one offiu
of the world's best collections of new
illuminated manuscripts, opens clas
its doors Sept. 20. Details will be that
announced Monday at a press con- of

ference. from
The library was started by Pope A
Nicholas V in the 1450s with an incr
initial 350 Latin manuscripts. By larg
the time Nicholas died in 1455, the that
collection had swelled to about scra
1,500 codices and was the largest gets
in Europe. acce
Today, the Vatican Library "
has about 65,000 manuscripts as who
well as the "Codex B" - the old- acad
est known complete Bible, dat- ever
ing from about 325 and believed for
to have been one of the 50 bibles well
Emperor Constantine commis- accc
sioned. said
H(
MANILA, Philippines min
b bN 3Oxf'
Newborn boy found Colt
.In I
in airplane trash in to b
.i. .Uni'
Philippines to
to sh
As trash was carried from
a plane that had just landed at
Manila's airport, a security offi-
cer on the tarmac spied some- PUE
thing moving in one of the bags. Fro
He opened it, sifted through the
rubbish and found a newborn emp
baby wrapped with tissue paper Si
and covered in blood. man
"The baby was left for dead. It mad
was already bluish in color," air- bring
port press officer Connie Bun- pres
gag said. "He could have died in wee
a matter of minutes if he was not "K
found." man
The story evoked pity and out- thing
rage around the world as Philip- from
pine authorities worked yesterday kind
to identify a mother who appar- Ev
ently gave birth on a commercial the
flight and abandoned the child in some
a trash bin on the plane. L
The six pound, nine ounce pub
(three kilogram) boy was among and
refuse unloaded by cleaners of wer
a Gulf Air plane after its arrival "T
Sunday from Bahrain, airport frien
officials said. nize
was r
- Compiled from she
Daily wire reports ... th

Tuesday, September14, 2010 - 3
[o debate, Bernero crashes Snyder event

[ic
an
ues
LAN
chig
dida
ry
bates
sweri
1 me
fee t
It s
ethe
l de
k Sn
rnero
The
tweet
nday
rne
he e
ates
Snyd
al W
tha
r de
ept
disn
und
tern
e in
to c
He

h. gubernatorial without going through the job
interview," Bernero said. "This
ididates answer is not an affront to me as much as
it's a slap in the face to voters."
;tions amid calls But when Bernero showed up
at the town hall meeting, Snyder
for debates welcomed him into the country
club. He accepted the letter Ber-
SING, Mich. (AP) - nero was bearing suggesting the
an's two gubernatorial two sit down alone and work out
ates began Monday with a mutual debate schedule.
words over whether to hold "I'm happy to have coffee, and
but ended it by cordially we can talk about a lot of things,"
ing questions at a town Snyder said, although he didn't
eting and agreeing to have say he'd agree to debates.
ogether. Speaking to more than 100
still remained unclear people at the town hall meeting,
r there will ever be a for- Snyder gave a fiestier-than-usual
bate between Republican presentation of his campaign
nyder and Democrat Virg stump speech. He then turned the
o. stage over to Bernero before the
congenial exchange two men took questions from the
n Snyder and Bernero audience. Each answered every
y evening at the Haw- question, and neither took pot-
Valley Country Club came shots at the other.
nd of a daylong clash over Snyder wants the debates to be
s. held before absentee ballots go
er told WJR radio host out later this month. He wasn't
V. Smith Monday morn- amused Friday when Bernero's
t he was done negotiating campaign released the details of
bates since Bernero didn't Snyder's debate offer while com-
his Friday offer to do three. plaining about restrictions Sny-
missed debates as largely der wanted.
bites and bickering." "They sent out a press release
ero called a news confer- instead of calling us to say this
Lansing later that morn- is what they're going to do," Sny-
riticize Snyder's decision. der said. "It's too bad they didn't
seems to want the job accept, because I was ready to

Democratic gubernatorial candidate Virg Bernero, left, and his Republican rival, Rick Snyder, have a impromptu debate last night

go."
Snyder, who calls himself "one
tough nerd" in his ads and cam-
paign literature, skipped two out
of three gubernatorial debates
sponsored this spring and sum-
mer by the Michigan Republican
Party.
The wealthy Ann Arbor busi-

nessman spent $2.3 million run-
ning ads during the primary
election and pumped $6 million
of his own money into his cam-
paign. Although the more than
50 town hall meetings he has held
have been open to the public, a
large share of the audience con-
sists of Snyder supporters who

heard about the meetings from
the campaign.
Bernero said residents should
get a chance to see both oppo-
nents together answering tough
questions from the media about
how they would revive Michi-
gan's economy and chart a better
path for the future.


enate aims to legalize
ederal stem cell funding

en. Specter pushes
or bill that would
upersede various
court decisions
WASHINGTON (AP) - Sen.
en Specter yesterday initiated
ive to legalize federal funding
embryonic stem cell research,
erseding conflicting court
isions that he said are slowing
ical work to find cures for crip-
ig diseases.
'he Pennsylvania Democrat,
aking on the Senate floor as
ators returned from a month-
g recess, said his legislation

would codify an executive order
issued by President Barack Obama
last year advancing stem cell
research
Even a temporary suspension of
federal funding while the courts
debate current funding practices
disrupts research projects in such
areas as heart disease, sickle cell
anemia, liver failure, muscular
dystrophy and other maladies,
Specter said.
In the House, Reps. Diana
DeGette, D-Colo., and Mike
Castle, R-Del., have introduced
similar legislation. It's unclear
whether lawmakers will have
the time, or the political will, to
undertake the controversial sub-
ject in the few weeks remaining

before Congress breaks for the fall
election campaign.
Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, who
has his own legislation promoting
embryonic stem cell research, is
holding a hearing on the subject
Thursday before the Appropria-
tions subcommittee on health he
heads.
In March last year Obama
issued an executive order easing
restrictions on federal research
on human embryonic research.
But last month U.S. District Court
Judge Royce Lamberth issued a
preliminary injunction in which
he stated that the research vio-
lated a 1996 law banning the use
of taxpayer money to derive stem
cells from embryos.

E
f
I
t
C
t
t
r
c
r
i
a
F
t
c
t
a
F

REGENTS
From Page 1
football game in September 2011,"
Brandon and Slottow wrote in
their letter. "It is expected that the
demands for field lighting will con-
tinue to increase over time."
Brandon and Slottow went on
to explain that by installing per-
manent stadium lighting, the Big
House would enjoy "increased
quality of illumination, greater
reliability, and improved aesthet-
ics" over the current model of tem-
porary stadium lighting, used on
an as-needed basis.
If approved, construction on the
project is expected to be completed
this fall.
REGENTS TO CONSIDER
$17.15 MILLION FOR OTHER
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
University's Board of Regents
will consider replacing the eleva-
tor in South Quad Residence Hall
at its meeting on Thursday - a
project predicted to cost the Uni-
versity and University Housing a
combined $1.15 million.
In a letter to the Board of
Regents, Slottow and E. Royster
Harper, the University's Vice Pres-
dent for Student Affairs, said the
project is necessary because the
existing elevator, installed in 1951,
"has become difficult to maintain
and shows decreased reliability."
Approval for the project, which
s expected to be given at Thurs-

day's meeting, would place the
project on schedule for completion
in the summer of 2011.
Regents will also consider three
other construction proposals at the
meeting.
The first is a proposal to
approve the schematic design for
a 10,000-square-foot addition to
the Michigan Memorial Phoenix
Laboratory and a renovation to the
building's second floor.
The project budget of $11.1 mil-
lion was already approved by the
regents, with funding for the proj-
ect coming from resources from
University investment proceeds,
the Office of the Vice President for
Research and the College of Engi-
neering.
Workonthe projectifapproved,
is scheduled to be completed in the
spring of 2013.
The regents will also hear pro-
posals to renovate the Auxiliary
Services Building of the School of
Art and Design. The project, which
will reportedly save the University
$114,000 in annual recurring costs
on leased space while increas-
ing available space by 40 percent,
is currently being estimated at a
price tag of $4.9 million.
If approved, the project is
expected to be completed in the
summer of 2011. As part of the
project, 70 additional parking
spaces will become necessary,
though Slottow wrote in a let-
ter to the regents that the needs
could be met by using the excess
parking spaces in an adjacent
parking lot.


ROLLMENT
m Page 1
enrollment numbers won't be
licly released until next month,
cials expect there to be 6,300
students in the freshman
s. If the numbers hold true,
t would represent an increase
approximately 300 students
m last year's freshman class.
kccording to Coleman, that
'ease is problematic because
er incoming classes means
t University officials must
amble to ensure each student
the same experience and
ess to resources.
I was so thrilled that the
le group that has to deal with
demic services, the housing,
rything that you have to do
a large group, really worked
l together and we were able to
ommodate people," Coleman
1.
lowever, rushing at the last
ute to the convert rooms of
ord Houses isn't an experience
eman wants to relive next year.
fact, Coleman said she'd like
egin shrinking the size of the
versity.
We've been working on trying
hrink a little bit and some years
B
m Page 1
loyees, Bommarito said.
ince Bommarito has assumed
agement, Packard Pub has
e changes that have helped
g back the crowds that were
ent during the bar's first few
ks in business.
Kyle wasn't really a restaurant
ager," Bommarito said."There's
gs that were happening that
a bar owner perspective, you
of shake your head at."
ven some students who went to
Pub saidtheynoticed there were
e internal problems atthe bar.
SA junior Liz Sundin visited the
while Miller was still in charge
said she saw that the bartenders
e doing double duty.
The bartenders were really
:dly butit seemed reallyunorga-
d," Sundin said. "Our bartender
also cleaning the bathroom so
had to keep going back and forth
ere were still only two people

we've been more successful then
others in holding the line," Cole-
man said. "I mean, I'm thrilled
that so many people want to come
to the University of Michigan, but
we also have to be very cognizant
of the experience students get and
we want that to be a good experi-
ence."
But holding that line might be
more difficult in light of the Uni-
versity's switch to the Common
Application this year. The Univer-
sity is already ahead in the num-
ber of applications it has received
when compared to those received
at this time last year.
"We think it's due to perhaps
the ease of looking at Michigan
because of the Common Applica-
tion," Coleman explained.
Moving to the Common Appli-
cation could also shift the demo-
graphic of which students choose
to apply, which could also alter
the yield ratio - determined by
comparingthe number of students
offered admission against the
number that ultimately ends up
enrolling - more than usual and
in less predictable ways.
"We will have an additional
challenge I believe next year
because of the Common Applica-
tion andthe factthat we're already
experiencing a larger number of
working and the manager, but we
didn't actually see him."
Since Bommarito has become
manager, he has been working
closely with Trybyla to fuel spirit for
the Pub and its sports bar offerings.
Because of these efforts, Packard
Pub is now Bud Light's top distribu-
tor in Ann Arbor and hosts events
like $1 beer Thursdays and All You
Can Eat Pancake Breakfasts on
game days, which are sponsored by
Blue Moon.
Despite Packard Pub's rejuve-
nated business, Good Time Char-
ley's Manager Ben Hammond says
his bar never saw a drop in business
from the time Packard Pub opened
to now.
"Oursummerbusiness was about
the same and it actually picked up
a little bit more," Hammond said.
"I haven't seen any adjustments in
business and we're a mainstay here."
Hammond said Charley's man-
agementisn't worried about Packard
Pub's dollarbeerThursdays because
it has its own $4 four-pound burger
Thursdays to compete.

applications than we did last year
at this time," Coleman admitted. c
"We are planning to try to tight-
en up again," Coleman continued.]
"This was not anticipated; this is ]
not a planned increase in the size i
of the undergraduate population." 1
However, Coleman said the f
University's ability to shrink the
size of its incoming freshman class
will continue to depend on the
quality of the applicant pool and i
the University's ability to accu-
rately predict the yield.
"We have this process with the
holistic review where we really try
to give every student a chance,"
she said.
Coleman's comments echo what
she told The Michigan Daily in
July. Then she said she wanted
University officials to more accu-
rately predict the number of stu-
dents who would end up enrolling
in next year's class.
"We need to sort of look at our
models again and figure out how
we're going to manage this again
because next year when we go to
the Common Application every-
body predicts that we're going to
go up again (in applications)," she
told the Daily in July. "We're going
to test Ted Spencer's ability to
build this class because you know
it's going to be a big challenge."
Prior to coming under new man-
agement, some students said Pack-
ard Pub's drink selection had been a
little unappealing due to its unusual
beer choices. But with the Pub's now
expanded drink list, students are
expressing interest in returning.
LSA senior Emily Duhovny
said she heard the drink selection
at Packard Pub was unusual, but
ended up going to the bar because of
its spot in an area heavily populated
by students, not because of its drink
reputation.
"We went because of the con-
venient location," Duhovny said.
"I heard there was an interesting
selection of beers and stuff. I'm not
a beer drinker, but I liked the one I
had."
Bommarito said he plans to keep
making additions and changes to
the bar in order to establish it as a
campus hot spot.
"We're doing a lot of fun things
... music really loud and dancing on
top of the tables," he said. "We're
installing a slide so you can slide
down to the downstairs."

WANT TO JOIN THE
MICHIGAN DAILY?
Come to our mass meetings
at 420 Maynard Street:

TONIGHT @ 7 P.M.
THURSDAY SEPT.16 @ 7 P.M.
MONDAY SEPT. 20 @ 7 P.M.

S \
\ 0iii
& N O

i4



4 - Tuesday, September 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

~ti 1iiiciga &U
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ELAINE MORTON I

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
The appeal of stem cells
Funding for stem cell research shouldn't be cut
he fate of stem cell research is in limbo. Last month, a judge
issued a ban on federal funding for stem cell research.
After an appellate court issued a stay on the ban that
allowed funding to continue temporarily, researchers - including
many here at the University - are left uncertain about the future
of their work. Stem cell research holds too many benefits for the
medical community, the University and the state of Michigan to
be halted because of political debate. The U.S. Court of Appeals
should rule in favor of the Obama administration's mandate for
the federal funding of embryonic stem cell research.

Last month, U.S. District Court Judge
Royce Lamberth ruled that federal back-
ing of stem cell research violates federal
law because it involved destroying human
embryos, according to a Sept. 9 report in
The New York Times. Last week, a panel
of three U.S. District Court appellate jus-
tices granted the Obama administration a
temporary lift on a ban on federal funding
for stem cell research. The appeals court
granted both sides of the case until Sept.
20 to submit arguments, after which it will
determine the validity of Lamberth's deci-
sion. According to The New York Times
article, the delay should allow Congress
time to pass legislation that would make
Lamberth's decision irrelevant.
The benefits of stem cell research are
too copious and important to be held up in
the courts. Embryonic stem cell research
holds the potential to cure numerous
debilitating diseases. The scientific com-
munity has long sought an expansion of
embryonic stem cell research because of
its potential benefits in numerous medical
applications. Conditions like Parkinson's
disease, cancer and organ failure could be
more effectively treated with procedures
developed through expansive research
involving stem cells.
The state of Michigan has positioned
itself to become a leader in stem cell
research. In 2008, a proposal on the state

ballot legalized stem cell research. If
the Court of Appeals rules to not reverse
Lamberth's decision, Michigan loses. The
expansion of stem cell research will serve
as a catalyst in the state's underdeveloped
science and technology sector, an industry
that stands to create long-standing jobs
with roots in educational research insti-
tutions. Federal funding is needed to help
augment those economic benefits.
While the state certainly stands to gain
substantially from the expansion of stem
cell research, the true beneficiary is the
University. As one of the nation's premier
research institutions, the University stands
to become a hub for stem cell research.
The opportunity to be involved in this cut-
ting-edge research will draw prominent
researchers and professors to Michigan's
already-impressive research community.
But the research requires a secure line of
federal funding to run smoothly. With its
renowned medical school and research
programs, the University is ready and will-
ing to accept a leading role on the interna-
tional research stage.
Stem cell research holds the key to
Michigan's growth and future. The eco-
nomic, medical and institutional benefits
speak for themselves. Crucial research
should not be halted by this decision, and
the Obama administration's mandate for
federal funding should continue.

~ ~
Icgsyn the a te ucool t eNt N
state. Or at least it has been by Daniel Howes. Everyone has the right to choose
pretty much since cars But perhaps Synder, who cur- how to interact and negotiate with
were invented and rently has a strong lead in the polls, their employer. The concept of forcing
Henry Ford set up - should make right-to-work a priority union membership is bizarre. Forc-
his assembly line, if he becomes governor. First, if you ing union membership is like saying,
forever revolution- believe Singh's report, it could help "Join our group to protect your rights!
izing the industry. create jobs. Second, forcing union Or else." But it may be more profit-
But in recent years, membership limits a worker's profes- able for some professionals to strike
the automotive; sional autonomy. out on their own and hire personal
industry in Michi- - As a future teacher, I'm going to representation when hammering out
gan hasn't been have to deal with the union issue. a contract. There can also often be a
doing so well. I'm Because Michigan teachers are perception of enmity between unions
sure you all recall RACHEL required to join the union, I will and management that people may
the multi-million have to join the Michigan Education want to avoid. Either way, employees
dollar General VAN GILDER Association if I end up getting a job in should be able to determine which
Motors bailout in Michigan. But I don't really want to. course of action is best for them.
An8 un vecnrs iholy da'unionpoic
n a state where the automotive hpth1 conlumnins te hetrt e wch-s.
industry has reigned supreme for ers' union is inherently corrupt or
decades, the auto workers' union has fights for unfair benefits, I have some W orkers deserve
been extremely powerful and influ- objections to forcing union member-. 
ential. And because Michigan has ship. a choice when it
depended on the automotive industry I'm skeptical about the useful-
for so long, it's no surprise that mak- ness of today's unions. During the comes rofunions .
ing Michigan a right-to-work state - Industrial Revolution in the United
which would make it illegal to force States, when employees at steel mills
people to join unions - was never were working 14-hour days for petty
really a consideration. wages in unsafe conditions, unions Though unions depend on num-
But during his campaign for the were necessary to force employers bers for strength, there's no harm in
Republican nomination for governor, to give workers their due. But today, allowing individuals to face off with
in an effort to stir things up, Oakland when workers are protected by feder- management on their own. A few
County Sherriff Mike Bouchard sug- al and state laws and have fair wages free agents aren't going to change the
gested that making Michigan a right- and hours, unions often simply force demands of the union, which will still
to-work state might help create jobs. employers into over-paying them and remain powerful enough to ensure
Shortly thereafter, Dr. Hari Singh giving more benefits than companies that members are getting fair pay and
of Grand Valley State University can afford to sustain. benefits. We aren't suddenly going to
released a study that concluded that one prime example of this is Michi- revert to 14-hour days if the union is
if Michigan would have 60,000 more gan's automotive industry in recent a bit smaller. Balance is important in
jobs if it had become a right-to-work years. The way I see it, part of the auto business interactions. Forcing mem-
state in the 1960s, according to a Sept. industry's financial struggles was that bership makes unions too powerful
5 article in the Grand Rapids Press. once profits started declning, busi- and tips this balance out of align-
But neither gubernatorial candidate nssees couldn't afford to keep paying ment.
- Republican Rick Snyder of Ann auto workers so much. But compa- The automotive industry is still
Arbor and Lansing Mayor Virg Berne- nies were prohibited by contract from huge in Michigan. The unions are
to - has said they'll push for a right- alteringepay and benefits. So they still powerful. But workers deserve
to-work policy. Bernero, a Democrat overspent. Only once the companies options. And state policy should give
supported strongly by labor unions, were in danger of failing completely them those options.
obviously wouldn't call for a policy did they have the leverage to force the
change that would hurt his backers. auto workers' union back into line. - Rachel Van Gilder is the
Snyder, meanwhile, has said that the This obviously wasn't the only cause editorial page editor.She candbe
issue is too "divisive," according to a of the Big Three's troubles, but itasta reached at rachelvg@umich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. All submissions become property
of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
L.AURA VEITH
interviewmyprofessor.com

6

TALK AMONG nodium ...
YOURSELVES.
The Daily's opinion blog wants you to weigh in. Will Butler wonders if the tough economy
is causing the nation's youth to break up with the Democratic Party. Rachel Van
Gilder wants to know if you think the new iClickers are better than Qwizdom.
Go to michigandaily.com and click on 'Blogs'.
HARSHA NAHATA |
A need for active young voters

0

"Register to Vote!" I'm sure you've heard
this phrase many times in the past week. It's
probably getting old by now. Volunteers reg-
istering voters can be found everywhere from
the Duderstadt to the Diag. College students
are being called upon to be politically active.
November 2010 looms as an important election
for both Democrats and Republicans. A dem-
onstration of the significance of these elections
came this past Wednesday night, when the
University's Chapter of the College Democrats
hosted Democratic National Committee Chair-
man Howard Dean, Congressmen Gary Peters,
Mark Schauer and John Dingell at Rackham
Auditorium.
Seeing such prominent members of the
political community visit the University
emphasizes the significance of the upcoming
elections. Every one of their speeches empha-
sized the importance of getting out there -
volunteering, making sure friends and family
are registered to vote and remaining aware of
the issues. The speakers discussed some of the
major issues facing our generation, like educa-
tion funding cuts, economic woes and immi-
gration concerns.
In the midst of the current political, social
and economic climate, these individuals serve
as a reminder of why college students can't be
apathetic and uninvolved. Right now, Congress
is debating monumental legislation - legisla-
tion that may permanently seal American bor-
ders, redefine who is or isn't a U.S. citizen and
determine the course of U.S. involvement in
the Middle East. In such critical times, staying
informed is not an option. It is a duty. Similar-
ly, voting isn't an option. It's one's duty as an
American citizen.
"I remember what it was like to see the dogs
loosed on people, who simply were crossing
over into a different colored neighborhood
to vote," Dean said in his speech to Michigan
students, as quoted by The Michigan Daily

on Thursday. "I remember what it was like
to see the police turning fire hoses on peace-
ful demonstrators. We are not going back."
These statements sum up the critical nature of
today's political climate. It's important, now
more than ever, to rally together for whichever
cause you support.
Many students and people I've come across
in the past few days simply aren't aware of the
issues or the candidates. For many, this is sim-
ply a midterm election. It's under their radar
and quickly forgotten. In November 2008,
President Barack Obama was able to mobilize a
voter base that had previously been apathetic.
The young generation was awakened, and we
can't afford to go back to sleep now. What was
done in 2008 needs to be repeated again this
November because these elections are the ones
that determine who is crafting actual policy.
But political involvement doesn't just stop
at being aware and going out to vote. In his
address to students, Dean also emphasized, "So
many Americans think all we have to do is vote
and get our guy in, or our women in, and then
they're going to do the work and we're going to
go back to whatever we were doing before. It
doesn't work like that. If you want your coun-
try to work, you have to work every single day."
Working means speaking out when things are
said that are wrong. Working means believ-
ing in the system and the ideals that the U.S.
embodies. Working means striving everyday to
keep an open-mind, even when policy contra-
dicts your previous beliefs. And lastly, working
means inspiring others to do the same.
Regardless of your political affiliation or
intended career path, as a citizen your coun-
try needs you to go to work. In November, I
once again hope to see a movement to the polls
spearheaded by Michigan's youth. I'm answer-
ing the call to duty. I hope you will too.
Harsha Nahata an LSA freshman.

If you were to stroll through any University library
prior to the beginning of each course registration peri-
od, I bet you would see ratemyprofessor.com - a website
that rates and comments on countless professors from
higher institutions across the country on criteria from
overall quality to easiness of instructor - beaming from
many students' computers. While it shouldn't be the only
resource students use to select an appropriate course, it
definitely serves a purpose when debating which profes-
sor - or even which graduate student instructor - would
best suit an individual's needs. In my experience, the
website is a pretty helpful tool when constructing the
ideal schedule.
Unfortunately, despite my best efforts to use ratemy-
professor.com, read the University's brief - sometimes
very brief - course descriptions, talk with friends and
meet with advisors, I always end up changing and modi-
fying my schedule within the first week of classes. My
grounds for dropping or switching a class always comes
down to one of a few reasons. One, I wasn't a fan of the
professor, or two, my vision of the progression the course
and its material was completely wrong. And after seven
semesters at the University, you'd think I'd have this pro-
cess down to a science, but clearly I still struggle with it.
However, a recent discussion with a faculty member at
Sarah Lawrence College, a liberal arts institution in New
York, introduced me to its course selection process, which
could potentially be uniquely beneficial to both students
and faculty if implemented here at the University.
Prior to the start of classes at Sarah Lawrence, students
are subject to an interview with the professor of each
class they wish to enroll in. The interview, as described
to me by the faculty member, is a way for the professor to
meet the potential student and discuss the course materi-
al in greater depth. After this process, students will select
the courses that fits their interests. Likewise, faculty
members must select the students they desire to enroll in
the class. If the selection is mutual, then the student can
register for the class.
Though a process similar to this probably wouldn't be
feasible at the University of Michigan if instated for all
classes, it still could be productive and beneficial for cer-

tain classes and schools within the University. And while
it may seem like a grueling and extensive process, it may
be one that the University might consider setting up for
schools or majors with a smaller enrollment, or even for
upper-level seminar classes that are competitive to enroll
in and cap at a small number. Some University classes and
programs already require some sortof application process,
but it isn't as thorough as the one implemented at Sarah
Lawrence.
There are a few reasons why I think the Sarah Law-
rence program might be more of a help than a hindrance
if applied within the University community. First, the
students could potentially gain from this experience.
Students would be able to learn more about the course
requirements, materials and the professor prior to set-
ting foot in a classroom. They would have an opportunity
to express their interest and desire in the course topic or
realize that the course is no longer right for them. What-
ever their reasoning may be, this process would give stu-
dents the ability to "shop" for classes that they feel will be
most beneficial for their growth as students, their educa-
tional experiences and even assist their search toward a
desired career path.
At the same time, professors and faculty members could
benefit from the program as well. Faculty members would
be able to choose the students who they think would best
succeed and add to the success of the course. Through this
required interview process, the faculty members would
be able to gauge which students they felt could lead a dis-
cussion, contribute individual insight and be productive
members of the classroom - creating a stimulating and suc-
cessful environment for both teachers and students.
While the faculty member from Sarah Lawrence with
whom I discussed the program admitted that the process
takes up a significant amount of time and energy, she also
stressed that she was extremely pleased with the results.
And maybe students and faculty members at the Univer-
sity would be too if the process were implemented. Who
knows how (or even if) this process could work, but we
can't rule it out until we've given it a try.
Laura Veith is a senior editorial page editor.


I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Michelle DeWitt,
Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone,
Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Laura Veith


* The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

SHIRVELL
From Page 1
official.
In the inaugural post on Chris
Armstrong Watch in late April,
Shirvell wrote about Armstrong's
election and his campaign to
become MSA president. The first
post was accompanied by a photo of
Armstrong that has "Resign" writ-
ten over his face and a rainbow flag
with a swastika in the middle of it
next to him.
In that post, Shirvell pointed
out Armstrong's time serving as
chairman of MSA's LGBT commis-
sion, which Shirvell describes as "a
commission that solely focused on
utilizing the student government
to promote the radical homosexual
agenda, including gay 'marriage'
and adoption 'rights."'
"Armstrong's radical agenda
includes mandating 'gender-neu-
tral' housing," Shirvell also wrote
in the post, "so that cross-dressing
students will not have to share a
dorm room with a member of the
same sex. This proposal, how-
ever, endangers female students,
as it will also force heterosexu-
als of different genders to share
the same room and will undoubt-
edly lead to a massive increase in
rapes."
When Armstrong arrived on
campus this fall, Shirvell wrote
a post on Sept. 1 entitled "What's

Past is Prologue: Armstrong's VIO-
LENT Supporters & the Coming
Persecution this Fall."
In that post, Shirvell warned "...
if events this past spring and sum-
mer are indicative of what's to come
this fall when Armstrong is called
out in public about his outright lies,
then Christian, pro-life, and minor-
ity students on campus should be
aware that they will be VIOLENT-
LY persecuted."
Another post in early September
criticized Armstrong's comments
at New Student Convocation. At
the event, Armstrong told the new
students in attendance that their
"time here in Ann Arbor is as much
about your own self-discovery as it
is about your career."
On his blog, Shirvell described
that comment by writing, "It is
clear that Armstrong's remarks
constituted nothing more than a
thinly veiled attempt to cause sexu-
ally confused, and perhaps some
impressionable, 17-and-18-year-
olds to experiment sexually with
members of their own gender."
Other blog posts have been
entitled "Chris Armstrong: The
PRIVILEGED Pervert" and "Chris
Armstrong&His Bullhorn: Portrait
of a Radical Homosexual Activist at
Work."
In the interests of decency, the
Daily decided not to publish some
of the most inflammatory passages
from the blog.
At last week's MSA meeting,

Shirvell called on Armstrong to
resign during the community con-
cerns portion of the meeting, criti-
cizing his affiliation with senior
society Order of Angell. In particu-
lar, Shirvell accuses Armstrong of
lying during his campaign about his
intention to join Order of Angell.
"Even the first gay MSA presi-
dent is corrupted by his power," he
said at the MSA meeting. "You all
should impeach him."
The society, formerly known as
Michigamua, has been criticized
for allegedly using Native Ameri-
can artifacts as part of its meetings
and rituals in the past. In 2007, the
organization formally changed its
name, and in an effort to become
more transparent, began publish-
ing alist of its members and making
its records available to the public.
Its meetings and activities, how-
ever, remain secretive.
Tuesday night's meeting wasn't
the first time Shirvell showed up
at a campus event to criticize Arm-
strong. In May, students, LGBT
rights activists and community
members gathered outside the
Walgreen Drama Center on North
Campus to counter a protest by
the Westboro Baptist Church. The
church had planned to stage a pro-
test against a production of "The
Laramie Project," a play that cen-
ters around the murder of Matthew
Shepard, an openly gay student
who was beaten to death in 1998.
Though the church's protestors

never showed, the counter-protest Shirvell - who graduated in
continued anyway, with signs call- 2002 and was active on campus in
ing for love and acceptance. the pro-life community when he
Shirvell, photographed by Daily was a student - wrote that he feels
photographers and identified in a compelled to speak out against
May 20 article on PrideSource.com, Armstrong because of his ties to the
also attended the protest, follow- University as an alum and because
ing Armstrong and holding a sign of his "pro-life, pro-family" beliefs.
accusing him of racism. "Armstrong's agenda is immoral,
Witnesses reported that when in my opinion," Shirvell wrote.
Armstrong addressed the crowd, Shirvell has a history of taking
Shirvell attempted to speak over controversial positions on LGBT
him with accusations that Arm- issues.
strong lied to the University com- A Feb. 7, 2010 post on the blog
munity. "Cox Watch" included e-mails
Shirvell first became aware of from Shirvell to a member of the
Armstrong and his presidency after Michigan Log Cabin Republicans,
reading an article in the Detroit an organization that focuses on gay
Free Press in April, he wrote in and lesbian Republican activism.
the e-mail interview. The article - In the e-mails, Shirvell referred
called "Gay student leader elected to members of the organization as
at U-M seeks activism" - reported "sick freaks."
on Armstrong's status as the first According to an Aug. 13, 2008
openly gay MSA president, the sup- article in The Michigan Messenger,
port he's received from students Shirvell celebrated the departure
and his campaign platform, which of Sean Kosofsky - then-director
included issues like gender-neutral of the Triangle Foundation - when
housing and weekend dining hall he moved from Michigan to North
hours. Carolina. Shirvell called Kosofsky
Shirvell wrote that after reading "the state's most visible proponent
the article, he became concerned of the radical homosexual agenda,"
about what he called Armstrong's on RightMichigan.com, according
"deeplyradical agenda." He decided to the Messenger article.
to create a Facebook page to voice In a Jul. 14, 2005 article in the
his criticisms of Armstrong. The Daily called "Gay pride sticker
page was later removed because it sparks controversy at pizzeria,"
contained what Facebook adminis- Shirvell was quoted discussing his
trators deemed offensive material, dislike of a gay pride sticker placed
which prompted Shirvell to create on the door of New York Pizza
his blog. Depot on East William Street.

Tuesday, September 14, 2010 - 5
Shirvell told the Daily at the time
that he had been led to believe the
owners of NYPD were pressured
to put up the sticker "to appease
the homosexuals who frequented
NYPD on Friday nights."
Shirvell also said at the time that
he urged members of St. Mary's
Student Parish, which he said he
was a member of at the time, to
request the removal of the sticker.
But Pat Waters, operations direc-
tor and pastoral associate for the
congregation at the time, said that
members of the parish were more
upset with Shirvell's comments
than the sticker's presence.
Gabe Javier, assistant direc-
tor of The Spectrum Center, said
in an interview last month that
Armstrong is a great role model
for LGBT students on campus and
that Armstrong will be able to deal
effectively with the criticism.
"I think that Chris will arise to
any challenges that come his way
with integrity," he said.
Armstrong declined to comment
on the matter in an interview last
month and after Tuesday night's
meeting, but pledged to serve the
student body.
"I have always been open and
honest about who I am in my life,
and I can only do the same in my
role as MSA president," Armstrong
wrote in an e-mail to the Daily.
- Daily Staf f Reporter Elyana
Twiggs contributed to this report.


APP
From Page 1
had iPhones," Yang said in a phone
interview from San Diego, where
he now lives.
The initial plan had been to cre-
ate an application, which would
streamline the process of using
the University Directory to make it
more accessible to students.
"I find that the process, since you
have to use a computer to search for
this information, and then insert it
into your phone to be very exten-
sive," Yang said. "So I wanted to
implement the process in such a
way that we could access the infor-
mation directly from your phone
and add it to your contacts."
Once the initial feature was
implemented, Chan and Yang
decided to expand the project and

add more features.
The app novallows iPhone users
to check dining hall menus for any
dining hall on campus; use Magic
Bus to find the exact location of
their buses in real time; read Uni-
versity news from several different
sources, including The Michigan
Daily, The University Record, the
U-M News Service and Michigan
Today; and to search for buildings
with a guide to help decipher the
abbreviations of campus buildings.
Though practical, Chan and
Yang admit that the Michigan
iPhone application also has its fair
share of gimmicks.
"We have a feature that plays the
Fight Song, so when you click the
Michigan logo, the fight song plays
and when you shake it, the key
sound occurs," said Yang.
And because it was developed
for a class project, Chan and Yang

said they never intended for the
program to become the official
University iPhone app.
"It was really unexpected for me
because I didn't intend to make it
the official Michigan iPhone app,"
Chan said in an e-mail interview.
"I planned to release it to the app
store on my own but then Apple
rejected the app because it has the
Michigan logo in it."
But after the app was rejected,
University officials, who were
interested in buying the app,
approached the developers.
"We demoed it to the University
in February and they seemed very
interested and impressed with the
app," Yang said. "We showed it to
the ITS department and they gave
us an offer to buy it from us and we
accepted and we sold it to them."
John Gohsman, the director for
applications and information ser-

vices at the University, explained
that the University became inter-
ested in developing an application
around the time the class project
was underway.
"We constantly look at how stu-
dents are trying to obtain informa-
tion; and what we were seeing was
more smart phones and things in
students' hands," Gohsman said.
Gohsman said institutional
use of mobile phone applications
has been a recent trend across the
nation, but certain key distinctions
set Michigan's approach apart from
others'.
"I think what's unique about
Michigan is that we started with
something that students devel-
oped and I think that's one point,"
he said. "The other is what we're
trying to do is create tools and
resources for more students, for
staff and for faculty to build a lot of

things."
For this reason, Gohsman said
the University is expecting to see
a lot of mobile apps related to the
University in the near future.
"We will help them with the
licensing that they need to get it out
into the app store or the Android
store," Gohsman said.
Building off of the excitement
generated for this app, Gohsman
said the University is also running
an innovation challenge to improve
upon Chan and Yang's creation.
In the meantime, however, stu-
dents seem fairly pleased with the
Michigan iPhone application.
LSA junior Joshua Brady, who
uses the application, said though
he doesn't live on campus, he still
finds the application helpful.
"I wasn't using it so much dur-
ing the summer, but now that it's
fall, I've been using it more. I use

it mostly for the directory," Brady
said. "I think it would be more
useful if I was living in the dorms,
because they have the whole menu
up for all the dining halls."
The most recent statistics show
that there were about 6,300 down-
loads just before school started.
However, Gohsmansaid hebelieves
that number is considerably higher
now that the school year is under-
way.
In addition to providing a ser-
vice for University students, devel-
oping the app has also helped Chan
and Yang with their careers. Both
developers were computer science
majors and are now software engi-
neers at Qualcomm in San Diego.
"We got an A+ in the class, so
it was pretty good ... I showed off
the app in my (job) interviews and
all of my interviewers were very
impressed by it," Yang said.

CHECK OUT THE DAILY'S MOBILE SITE: M.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Join us for Get Ready for the Law
September 1

10:0 f 1

:4

EXPLORE THE POSSIBILITIES
Perhaps you have decided on a career in the legal profession. Or, maybe you are just starting to think about applying to law school. Get
Ready for the Law will provide you with the tools and information you need to navigate the application process. You will also learn how a
legal education will enhance your future. You and your guests will interact with law students, explore our facilities, and acquire a wealth of
information from faculty and specialists in the legal field.

Learn About:
" Law school application process
+ Financial aid opportunities
. MSU Law programs and specialties

" Courtroom technology
" LSAT preparation

Reyt'ster Now!
This is a great opportunity for students, parents, and advisors. Don't miss out, spaces are limited.
Reserve your seat online now at www.law.msu.edu/getready. The event fee is $10.00, which includes lunch and session materials.
800-844-9352 - 517-432-0222

admiss@law.msu.edu

_

MICHIGAN STATE
UN I V E R S I T Y
_~ .LC i1



6 - Tuesday, September 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0I

Embracing the erotic

COURTESLY OF POLYVINY L
National Laser Tag Champions,1975
Spectacular sacrilege

'False Priest' shows off
what of Montreal can
do with a real studio
By SHARON JACOBS
Assistant ArtsEditor
Oh, Kevin Barnes. "Smoke hood! /
Merlion! / Female erection," he glee-
fully exclaims on
rev-up "Like A Tour- ***
ist." The song comes
from False Priest, of Montreal
the new LP by his False Priest
- and it's truly his,
as it couldn't be the Polyvinyl
product of any other
twisted, drug-addled mind - band of
Montreal.
The track's random bursts of mytho-
sexual fantasy followed by a falsetto-
crooned intellectual proclamation
"Youuuuu fetishize the archetype,"
the gently rising, surprisingly delicate
harmony of its chorus and the general
unfamiliarity of its sound are all clear
signs that of Montreal is back. And on
False Priest, the band is in top form.
False Priest is the first of Montre-
al album to be recorded away from
Barnes's computer, in a real studio,
and the difference is unmissable. With
more live instruments than any of the
group's earlier records - including a
surprising amount ofgritty guitar, par-
ticularly grindingthrough the "Coquet
Coquette" intro - it's the most extro-

verted of Barnes's work. Even moody
"Casualty of You," reaches a more
mature level of emotional expression
than anything on predecessors Skel-
etal Lamping or Hissing Fauna. It's the
methodical piano chords and creepily
slippery strings that land the song.
That's not to say of Montreal has
fundamentally tampered with its
synth-surrounded sound. The par-
anoid electronic whirring of the
"Coquette" bridge holds up the love-
life panic of Barnes's words. Unan-
chored "Hydra Fancies" has enough
artificial zonky machine meddling to
give it the texture of over-processed
whipped cream - a rare misstep
caused by extra electronization. But
out-of-this-world (thematically, and
also awesomely) "Enemy Gene" spar-
kles with computerized twinkling
and robotic-yet-emotional voice-
work from Barnes and visitor Janelle
Mone.
Not to discredit Barnes, whose
cute and kinky style is of Montreal,
but female guests Mone and Solange
Knowles help give False Priest a real-
ism that the psychedelic frontman just
can't imitate.
Whereas of Montreal's guest spot on
"Make the Bus," off Monie's debut The
ArchAndroid, sounded like a complete
creative takeover on Barnes's part,
Mone didn't go all-out vengeful on
False Priest. Instead, she blends evenly
with Barnes to create a genderless soul-
ful wail that's perfect for the extrater-
restrial, post-hope dance-off "Enemy

Gene." Mone could have gone fur-
ther in her other appearance on "Our
Riotous Defects." Barnes kicks up the
funk while wondering bewilderedly,
"Whatever your eyes caught, I bought
/Still we fought!" But with a negligible
supply of Mone's Broadway belting,
the track suffers ever so slightly from
an excess of fluff.
Knowles grounds playful wet
dream "Sex Karma," bringing human-
ity to freak-on lines like "I know that
you want to swing / Run and touch
my everything / 'Cause I look like a
playground to you." What might have
sounded like a lonely pedophile's
lament with one singer becomes a sort
of joyous naptime romp with two.
But despite the buoyancy and bed-
room surrealness of False Priest, of
Montreal holds onto the lyrical dichot-
omy started back in its early days of
asexual twee ditties. Many of the False
Priest tracks deal with heartbreak or
apocalypse, and Barnes is still "in a
war with this suicidal depression" on
closer "Do You Mutilate?".
"Everybody's searching for a cause
/ A reason to blow themselves up," he
intones in the album's final minute,
before a surprisingly directed con-
demnation of the too-religious. With
every release, of Montreal seems to be
getting more and more "out there." It's
these moments of personal and wider
insight that lets listeners know Barnes
is for real, and as fantastical as of Mon-
treal can sound, the trip's going to end
eventually.

When my father told me our family was
traveling to Peru, I had certain expectations.
I expected to hike among the ancient ruins
of Machu Picchu, to gush over the fluffi-
ness of the alpacas and llamas, to get a mil-
lion mosquito bites in the
Amazon Rainforest, to eat
exotic foods and to haggle
in embarrassingly broken
Spanish at local markets.
I did not, however,
expect to see the world's k
largest collection of erotic'
pottery. But when I walked
down the pathway leading LEAH
from Museo Arqueol6gico BURGIN
Rafael Larco Herrera's - ----- -
main building to its supple-
mentary structure at the bottom of a hill and
stepped into the brightly lit exhibition hall,
there was no denying it. Whether or not I had
been expecting it (or was prepared for it), I
was gazing upon millennia-old pottery depict-
ing, in vivid detail, a multitude of sexual posi-
tions and giant penises.
After getting over the shock of this spec-
tacle (and the awkwardness of sharing the
experience with my parents and two younger
siblings), the collection's importance became
apparent. These pre-Columbian societies,
including the Nazca, the Inca and the Chincha,
used pottery to represent the most important
aspects of their culture. The museum featured
thousands of pieces depicting sacred animals,
holy ceremonies and day-to-day practices. It
should be no surprise that these ancient cul-
tures also found sex important enough to docu-
ment. In fact, it was fascinating to see, clearly
and without obstacles like language barriers or
incomplete historical records, exactly what sex
meant to these ancient peoples.
Moving through the erotic pottery collec-
tion, there were several distinct categories.
There were pieces depicting heterosexual
relations - who knew fellatio existed B.C.E.?
- and the more spiritual implications of sex.
Several pieces demonstrated ghosts or corpses
having sex with the living. And then there
were the humorous pieces - vessels with
goofy-faced, spread-legged individuals with
penises that towered over them or vaginas
that were larger than the clay torsos.
Clearly, the pieces revealed a lot. These
ancient cultures were obviously ... experimental
when it came to sexual positions and practices.
They also revered sex as a powerful and holy
life-giving force with spiritual connections. And
they also made penis jokes. How little things
have changed in several thousand years.
But throughout the exhibit, my mind kept
repeating one question: Would this kind of
collection be displayed in the United States?
Would American museums be bold enough
(and the American public accepting enough)
to let a collection of erotic, borderline-porno-
graphic pottery be displayed?
And my answer: perhaps.
Perhaps the pottery could find a home at
the Museum of Sex in New York City. Per-
haps a large, respectable museum could pull
it off as a traveling exhibition. And perhaps
people would pay to see it. But there would
definitely be opposition. Last February, the

city management of Temecula, California
requested that a piece by Jeff Hebron selected
for "Visual Expressions 2010" at The Gallery
at the Merc be removed from the exhibition
because it depicted a non-"family-friendly"
nude woman. Last month, a satirical political
printby Stewart Williams, called Tea Baggers,
was removed from "Paper Politics," a tour-
ing exhibit now stationed in Pittsburgh, for
including an image of its sexual namesake.
But this trend is nothing new. In 1999,
then-New York City mayor Rudolph Giuliani
threatened to revoke the Brooklyn Museum of
Art's lease and withdraw its municipal fund-
ing when the museum refused to remove a
controversial nude piece, artist Chris Ofili's
The Holy Virgin Mary, from "Sensation:
Young British Artists from the Saatchi Collec-
tion." This declaration stirred up the public,
inciting the likes of Hilary Clinton to come to
the museum's defense.
Based on precedent, it seems some factions
would vehemently oppose an exhibition of
erotic pottery, condemning the collection for
its blatant immodesty.
This makes me sad. Unlike Michelangelo's
David, which stands proud, naked and beau-
tiful in Florence, carved from the purest
of white marble by one of society's great-
est geniuses, the erotic pottery in Lima was
crafted from the dirt of the earth by simple,
unknown artisans. Both represent aspects
of human sexuality and both have endured
the test of time. Yet David would be more
accepted in the United States than the erotic
pottery - no questions asked. He is pure, he is
majestic and his sexuality is subtle.
No matter how stunned I was by the
Peruvian penises
should come to the U.S.
breathtaking awe that David inspired, I felt
more of a connection to the pre-Columbian
peoples who molded giant penises for kicks.
In the exhibition hall, I could imagine a group
of Nazca adolescents circled around a piece
of erotic pottery, guffawing like there was no
tomorrow. They seem more real to me and
their sexuality seems more honest than the
purity David exudes - it's primitive and in
some cases grotesque, but it's honest.
It saddens me to think that so many people
might never have the opportunity to inti-
mately connect to an ancient culture, simply
because some individuals might have reser-
vations with sex being portrayed in such a
primitive, direct fashion. In my opinion, half
the point of museums is to connect the public
with peoples and cultures from our collective
past. Museums are supposed to help spread
understanding and information - they are sup-
posed tobe a beacon of education, not be afraid
of being non-PC. And if our history includes
clay penises, well then, who are we to judge?
Burgin is still avoiding awkward eye
contact with her parents. To help break the
ice, e-mail her at Irburgin@umich.edu.

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, September 14, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS
1 Hydroelectric
proect
4 Makes
improvements to
10 California wine
oaley
14 lpanema'srcty
15 'Anything you
want'
1e Peri dish gel
17Geological span
18 Historic cachefor
ftasre millennia
20 Take turns
22 Name of two
presidents
23 Fuelforbig rigs
24 Geological span
25 Investing largely
in money
markets, say
32 Money market
fund, e.g.
34 Follows a recipe
35--
Championship:
August gotf
tournament
36 Jordanian queen
dowager
37 Negative quality
38 Beginning on
39 Canal site
40 Ate sumptuously
41 Heads-up
42 Item fordoodling
or note-taking
45 "Mighty" tree
46 Powerfailure
49 Really bad
52 "No way, Josk"'
55 Dispensers of the
enas ot 18-, 25-
ana 42-Across
m7 Lennon's widow
58 Emerald Isle
59 Supplanter oftthe
silent movie
60 Coffee holder
61 Attracted a
trooper, maybe
62 Mary Hartman
portrayer Louise
63 Your, in Tours
DOWN
1 Live intfearof
2Garlicky saute
3 Education
pioneer Maria

4 Ask on bended 37 Stole fur 50 Lion tamer's
knee 38 Prince Valiant's handful
5 For the most pugt wife 51 Tool rider or
6 John's partner in 40 itchcock's " payment
"The Avengers" for Murder" 52 March Madness
7 Naircompetitor 41 Oldest driver to org.
SCubes that are win the ndyso 53 Makes less
rolled 43 Went on the squeaky,
9 Where many road perhaps
cmmmsters wait: 44 Bbysfootwear 54nSounds of
Abbr. 47 Country or folk disapproval
10OTech-heasy stock 48 Preppymcllars 96 Palt of NATO:
exchange 49 Mimics Abbr.
11 Contents of an ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
lago
12Arboreal Miami J A D E T R O T S I N C H
sight APEX RELAY SAR I
13tGreekgod of war U M P S A N D B R U I S E S
19 Louvre location ACUTE S T A T S
21 Fragrant gARNUMANDBA 1 L EY
compound
24Bpo A B Y S M A L J A R
26 Cupcake topper W I D E D E R M B B S
27Nine-piececombo D D E B Y A N D B Y E R A
28 dMildtDtch Y E R E S T A E A I T
cheese SET E ASE SBY
29 Distraught over B I G G E R A N D B E T T E R
30 Composer A R O L E O G R E S
Strainsky
31 Off one's rocker B E D A N D B R E A K F AS T
32 All over again E N O S D R U I D I D E A
33 Attract upward- L E T S T O NNE TOW N
looking onlookers xwordeditor@aolcom 09/13/10

PARKING
PARKING AVAIL- 408 Hill & 930 S.
Forest & 1026 Vaughn. 734-222-9033.
JMSprop@sbcglobal.net
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3850 (313) 215-8115.
* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 0*
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
** AVAILABLE FALL 2011 **
945 GREENWOOD 5 bdrm/2 new
bath, new kitchen, 5 prkg, $2950/mo
ldry., hardwd floors, 734-834-4010.
1 BDRM., UTILS. incl. $775/mo.
Near U-M Law School. 734-323-5021.
LIVE ON A LAKE. Recently reno-
vated furnished 2 bedroom 2 bath
home. Available for Fall. 20 minutes to
campus. $995/month plus utilities. Call
313-363-2984. vrbo.com/176976
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
WELCOME BACK!!! CHECK us
out on October 12th when we start tak-
ing Reservations. Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus! We have Stu-
dios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom furnished apart-
ments available for Spring/Fall. Call us
at 734-761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit us at:
www.UniversityTowers-MI.com

SERVICES
EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ARGIEROS RESTAURANT.
SERVERS. Flexible Hours. Good Pay.
300 Detriot Street. Apply In Person.
BE A STUDENT FUNTDRAISER.
Start your career now - E9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY operations, including the super-
vision, training and mentoring of under-
graduate students and lab members. As-
sist in the management of research
project(s) directed at lipid biochem-
istry. Provide expertise in biophysical
chemistry with preferred expertise us-
ing mass spectrometry, chemical syn-
thesis, chromatography and microbiol-
ogy techniques. Bachelor's degree in
biochemistry or related field, plus four
years of related experience in a bio-
chemistry laboratory setting required.
In-depth biochemical experimentation
laboratory knowledge essential. Prefer
(1) Master's degree in biochemistry or
related field; (2) extensive lab manage-
ment skills; (3) experience with mam-
malian cell culture techniques; and (4)
experience using mass spectrometry,
chemical synthesis, chromatography,
and microbiology techniques. View
requisition 100472 at https://employ-
ment.unl.edu for qualifications, details
and to apply. Review of applicants be-
gins Aug 11. UNL is committed to a
pluralistic campus community through
affirmative action, equal opportunity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.

JOBS
FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
WORK WITH CNVIRONMtNT
MICHIGANSIERRACLUB &PIRGIM
Career Opportunities and Benefits
ww.JobmhatMatteruor
tare n9-t4Wer
Ask for Mike 734-332-4464
LIKE TO CLEAN and organize? My
home needs your perfectionism!
$10/hr. Tassavat@comcast.net

UM LAW PROFESSOR seeks re-
sponsible student for part-time care for
our 10 & 13 year olds. After school
help a few days a week and occasional
evenings. Car req, close to campus.
Ref needed. French speaker a plus.
Call Steve or Nancy at 734-761-7752.
I-

1 2 3
14
17
20
23
25
32 33
38
39
42
49 50 51
55
58
61
By Dan Naddr
(c120i0'h ihm

6 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
16
19
]k2 22
24
i 26 27 28 29 30 31
34 35
3T 38
40 41
43 44
45 46 47 48
i 52 53 fi4
56 57
59 80
82 83
dot' 09/14/10
nne Media Services, Inc.

BABYSITTER FOR TWO 11 yr.olds
afterschl. Must be friendly w/own car
649-2401 or appelkraut@tds.net
CHILDCARE. SUPERVISE
OLDER child. 6:30 - 8 am. 2 to 3 days
per week. Own transportation reliable
and references. 734-769-1462
CHILDCARE: AFTER SCHOOL
for active 9 yr old boy. 20 hrs/month.
$10/hr. Tassavat@comcast.net
DRIVING/AFTER SCHOOL SU-
PERVISION for 2 ninth graders. 10-
15 hours/week flexible. Must be a non-
smoker, with car, excellent driving
record, and references. rglick@umich.-
edu
FREE ROOM AND BOARD
Independent-minded female profession-
al with MS seeks clean and trustworthy
live-in caregiver. Ideal for part-time
student. Experience preferred. Free
room/board, weekly stipend negotiable
and more. 734-789-9838.
NEED AFTERSCHOOL CARE for
two girls, 9 and 12, starting Sept. 7. Ap-
prox. 10 hrs/wk. No smokers. Close to
central campus. Reaston@umich.edu.
NEED RESPONSIBLE COLLEGE
student to watch three children age 8,
5, 2 every other Friday evening 3PM -
10PM. Other times also possible. Pre-
fer child development experience but
not required. Transportation required.
amygwoodruff@yahoo.com
P/T BABYSITTER WANTED - Ann
Arbor. Must have own transportation.
Email jtsepp@gmail.com or call 734-
274-1239 for more information.

AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

A

I
I

(c)zuiu rnuw



0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 14, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September14, 2010 - 7

. Sparse but sweet

By EMMA GASE
DailyArts Writer
Though The Walkmen come from
New York City, a place oversaturated
with indie-music
royalty, they have
always managed to
aggressively assert The
their relevance in
the music world (see Walkmen
single "The Rat" Lisbon
for evidence of said
aggression). After Fat Possum
storming the scene
with their debut Everyone Who Pre-
tended to Like Me is Gone in 2002, The
Walkmen turned a more sullen corner
with 2008's You t Me.
On the band's most recent effort Lis-
bon, lead singer Hamilton Leithauser's
voice rings clear, and we can actually
distinguish the lyrics, which are, in
traditional Walkmen style, exasper-
ated and frustrated.
Lisbon suggests a band that has
taken a rather large chill pill. Think
less "band spitting bile" and more
"Grizzly Bear precision." Lisbon is
comprised of taut songs that don't
overstay their welcome and economi-
cal arrangements that are the musical
equivalent of "portion control."
The opening track "Juveniles" hap-
pens to be the best on the entire album.
The Walkmen take
a chill pill.
Leithauser registers better vocal
control than ever before as he belts
"You're one of us/ Or one of them."
The carefree, summery mood is skill-
fully crafted, tricking the listener into
believing it's effortless. Upon a closer
listen, the intricacies unfold them-
# selves in the song's closing minute as it
all comes together in triumphant, jan-
gly crescendo.
"Blue as Your Blood" tiptoes in with
a restless-sounding guitar line accom-
panied by drummer Matt Barrick's
barebones tick-tock tapping that fur-
thers the uneasy mood of the song. You
can practically taste the anxiety in the
relentless and static beat. The spare
arrangement allows Leithauser's voice
to take center stage, which serves as a
soothing and melodic counterpart to

an otherwise austere arrangement.
"Stranded" is a strange waltz
complete with slow-building brass
arrangements. Poignant as well as
melancholy, it wouldn't sound amiss
in the ending credits of an indepen-
dent film. Resignation and dejected-
ness are evident as Leithauser moans
"There's broken glass all around my
feet / Laid my plans so carelessly
/ Whats the story / With my old
friends?"
However enjoyable The Walkmen's
refreshing sparseness may be, sparse-
ness and directionless do not mix well.
"Follow the Leader" is a skippable
rambling on guitar that sounds more
like the band warming up before a
live show than a slick, label-produced
track. Far from even attempting to
have a melody, even the usually cap-
tivating voice of Leithauser is, for the
first time, abrasive. Fear not, however,
for the song is over very quickly and
anti-climactically.
Lisbon succeeds as a guitar album
without relying on the usual guitar
histrionics. The clear Television-like
tone and lack of adornment (save for
the horns in "Stranded") in produc-
tion really lets the guitars stand out.
Despite the inherent simplicity, the
band fills out the arrangements with
minimal instrumentation and no obvi-
ous overdubs, which takes a great and
rare skill.
So often now, bands fall on one
of two sides of the spectrum: sloppy
and drunk garage-rock with a lazy
throwback to-fi recording style, or
on the other side, pretentious lush
instrumentation that hangs like an
over-produced Spector-wannabe haze
throughout the whole record. The
Walkmen have thankfully managed to
avoid both of these unfortunate mis-
steps, and shall rise a little higher in
the NYC music royalty ranks because
of it.
T H E
SA L Ii M E
COURTESY OF FAT FOSSUM

There are 12 things in this picture used to attract males age 18-35. Can you find them all?
'Resiet

Behold the video-game
movie that doesn't
completely suck
By KAVI SHEKHAR PANDEY
Daily Film Editor
Holy bazingas. Who would have thought
that such an esteemed film critic as yours

truly would ever strongly
recommend a "Resident
Evil" movie? Well, it's hap-
pening - "Resident Evil:
Afterlife," the fourth film
in the franchise, is an abso-
lute blast. Yes, the Earth
is still round and Ter-
relle Pryor still can't read
"Green Eggs & Ham," but
there now exists a video-

Resident
Evil:Afterlife
At Quality16
and Rave
Screen Gems

entertaining action sequences. Plus, there's
a negative correlation between the number
of movies in a franchise and the quality of
each successive film. So pseudo-statistically,
the fourth "Resident Evil" looked like it was
goingto be a blah-fest.
Seriously, it's not. But this is still a bit of
a precarious review. The handy-dandy star
rating and forthcoming gushing really only
apply for those familiar with both the "Resi-
dent Evil" films and video games. The film
doesn't bother with exposition - without
watching the previous three films, "After-
life" won't make a lick of sense.
The opening sequence, in which Jovov-
ich (naturally clothed in skin-tight leather)
slices through hundreds of dudes in a corpo-
rate hideout whilst performing crazy-cool
acrobatics, is agreat example of this. It looks
superb and offers some tremendous stunts,
but would be epically confusing for anyone
who hasn't seen the previous film, subtitled
"Extinction." Even though "Afterlife" soon
changes gears to post-apocalyptic Los Ange-
les and becomes a more straightforward "get
from point A to point B before zombies mur-
der us" tale, viewing the first three films is
an advised prerequisite.
Those who have played through the video
game "Resident Evil 5" would appreciate
"Afterlife" the most, as the film is chock-full
of winks and nods to fans of the game. Sur-

prise characters from the "Resident Evil"
canon pop up in this film alongside an intense
throwdown with the undead, axe-wielding
Executioner and a climactic fight against the
annoyingly shifty super-badass Albert Wes-
ker (Shawn Roberts, "Edge of Darkness").
And man, do these battles look gorgeous,
especially because of the 3-D. As it proudly
proclaims, "Afterlife" was shot using the
3-D cameras created by James Cameron.
So unlike the post-converted 3-D trash that
hit screens earlier this year (see: "Clash of
the Titans"), 3-D in this film is used to cre-
ate an enveloping experience, much like in
"Avatar." Nuclear explosions and slobbering
zombie attacks have never felt more up close
and personal.
The film's story isn't particularly arrest-
ing, but it doesn't have to be - the action
carries the film. Many people are sure to
be frustrated by the unbelievably excessive
use of slo-mo, but think of it as the director's
attempt to let the audience appreciate how
damn beautiful everything looks. "Resident
Evil: Afterlife" is a solid enough cinematic
experience to make renting the first three
and plowing through them worthwhile, just
to prepare to watch the newest one in the-
aters. You've all seen "Inception" four times
by now, so it's OK to turn off your brain and
watch zombies get slaughtered for 90 min-
utes. In 3-D!

game movie that totally does not suck. With
stunning action choreography, the intense
charisma of Mila Jovovich and incredible
use of 3-D, "Resident Evil: Afterlife" is tons
and tons of fun.
Agreed, part of this love for "Afterlife"
definitely stems from the low expectations
coming in. The first three movies were all
fairly mediocre, watchable only because
of an intriguing storyline and handfuls of



FREE
Two-Day Shipping
for One Year
on textbooks and
millions of other items

UNIVERSUM
TOP 100
IDEALEMPLOYER
2010 STUDENT SURVEY
what you can achieve
New challenges. Global insight. Opportunities to grow.
An internship at Ernst & Young offers you all this and more.
From day one, you'll be part of an inclusive environment that
welcomes your point of view and supports whatever you bring
to the table. We're looking for future leaders, so this is your
chance to show us what you've got.
What's next for your future?
Text EY Edge to 58592 to learn more about our people,
culture and opportunities.
&U ERNST& &YOUNG
Quality in Everything We Do
M.
sO N

Free two-day shipping available to customers who qualify for ourfree Amazon Student program.


8 - Tuesday, September 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Despite attention, Robinson stays humble

By TIM ROHAN most impressive thing. He's not the
Daily Sports Editor kind of guy who wants more of it. He
actually doesn't like it. ... He's not
The list of awards that sopho- going to be taken by the storm. It's
more quarterback Denard Robinson not gonna fluster him, it's not gonna
has not won shrinks with each pass- take him off his game. And he's han-
ing week. Accolades and national dling itbeautifully."
attention are expected for a player Robinson carried the ball 57
who amasses 885 times in Michigan's first two games
yards of offense NOTEBOOK - 36 more times than any other
in two games and teammate. With those 57 carries,
leads the nation in rushing yards - Robinson amassed 455 yards, for an
as a quarterback nonetheless. average of eight yards per carry. A
He has won the Walter Camp natural question to ask is whether
Player of the Week and Big Ten Robinson can withstand that kind
Offensive Player ofthe Week for each of workload throughout a physical
of the first two weeks of the season. Big Ten slate of games.
He's the fourth FBS player ever to "Listen, we have 500 yards rush-
win the Walter Camp award twice ing, if all 500 come from one guy, I
in a season. The Wolverines have 10 don't care," Rodriguez said. "We've
more regular season games left. got to do what we have to do to win
But Michigan coach Rich Rodri- the game and score points. We're
guez said at Monday's press con- going to make them defend all 11
ference that he isn't worried about (players). Everybodysays, 'Wellyou
all of it going to Robinson's head. can't run your quarterback 20-some
Robinson said his family has been times a game.' Um, well did they say
encouraging him to stay focused. that when they handed off to Barry
Does he pay attention to the hype? Sanders - you can't run Barry Sand-
He doesn't even have cable televi- ers 20-some times a game? If he can
sion, he said, and he tries to stay off handle it, he can handle it. Would
the web. you like to have more balance? Yeah
The Wolverines have no doubts if they give you that - great.
that Robinson's head is screwed on "I promise you, Denard wouldn't
right. have whatever he has rushing if he
"Denard's probably the best per- didn't have some dudes blocking for
son that could handle all of this him up front and guys catching the
fame," redshirt junior center David ball. He'd be the first one to tell you
Molk said. "He knows how to han- that."
dle it. He understands it. He doesn't In Rodriguez's spread, the quar-
search for it, which is probably the terback is at the center of the offense

- he's the ringleader.
"Our quarterback in our offense
is like a point guard that can shoot
the three," Rodriguez said. "He's
got to be able to distribute it some-
times. And sometimes he's got to
shoot the three. Denard's been tak-
ing a lot of threes."
Rodriguez said that in practice,
Robinson doesn't take any hits (none
of the quarterbacks have since camp
started in August).
UNDER (LESS) PRESSURE:
After defeatingtwo teams, in Con-
necticut and Notre Dame; that were
considered strong opponents before
the season, Michigan finds itself
ranked in the top 25 illboth the AP
and the Coaches polls this week.
The Wolverines are ranked No.
22 in the Coaches poll and No. 20 in
the AP poll.
Senior cornerback James Rog-
ers said Monday that half the team
probably doesn't even know they are
ranked.
Before the season, Rodriguez,
who was 8-16 in his first two sea-
sons, was on the hot seat. The
success the Wolverines have expe-
rienced the first two weeks of the
season hasn't changed Rodriguez or
his team, he said. He isn't worrying
about how many people are jumping
on the maize and blue bandwagon.
"Am I different guy now than I
was two weeks ago - same guy,"
Rodriguez said. "Same coaches,
same players, same staff, same
people. We've won two games. If

so

Sophomore QB Denard Robinson runs for an 87-yard touchdown in the Wolverines' 28-24 victory over Notre Dame on Saturday

somebody's perception changed
with that, if it changed for the bet-
ter, that's good. If it changed for the
worse, that's not good. I worry about
what I can control. And what I can't
control is whatsomebody else's feel-
ings are for whatever reason. I'm
not going to worry about that.
"Everybody likes to be liked.
I've said that before. ... I will live
in world where if you win, more
people are happy. There's probably

some people who are still unhappy
no matter what we do. And they'll be
unhappy the restof their lives. What
are you goingto do?"
KICKING UPDATE: After red-
shirt freshman kicker Brendan Gib-
bons missed two second-half field
goal attempts in Saturday's game,.
Rodriguez decided to use redshirt
freshman Seth Broekhuizen for the
Wolverines' last point-after attempt.
Rodriguez stressed on Monday

that the kicker competition is wide
open and that he's not sure who will
handle the duties Saturday against
Massachusetts.
INJURY UPDATE: Sophomore
linebacker Mike Jones broke his leg
in the win over the Fighting Irish
and will Rodriguez said that he is
"doubtful" for the rest of the season.
Redshirt junior linebacker Bren-
don Herron sprained his ankle on
Saturday. He will be day-to-day.

MEN'S
soccer

w 4

Blue expects young talent P R E I E
to play big offensive roles

By STEPHENJ. NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
As he assessed the depth chart
before the season began, Michigan
coach Steve Burns knew that he had
a special offense at his disposal - a
talent-laden attack with the most
potential of perhaps any team he
had ever coached.
After losing forward Mauro
Fuzetti - the team's top goal-scorer
last season - to the MLS draft, the
Michigan men's soccer team (2-1-1)
reloaded up front by landing a few
of the nation's top recruits.
And with two of last year's three
leading scorers returning in senior
forward Justin Meram (a JUCO
transfer last year) and sophomore
midfielder Hamoody Saad, Burns
already had a solid foundation in
place. He didn't want tocompletely
revamp his team's makeup, but he
added a few players to help bolster
the offense.
The biggest addition was for-
ward Soony Saad, a five-star recruit
out of Dearborn, Mich., and brother
of Hamoody. Soony scored a state
record 172 goals in high school, was
named Mr. Soccer for Michigan
and received the Gatorade National
Player of the Year award this May.
"Soony is a legitimate goal scor-
er; the most prolific to ever come
out of the state of Michigan, and
the best in the nation," Burns said
through the athletic department
earlier this year. "We expect him to
have a dynamic career wearing the
Maize and Blue."
Yet adding just one piece wasn't
going to solve the puzzle for the
Wolverines.
Burns' final count had seven true
freshmen coming into the offensive
ranks, including Fabio Pereira Vil-
las Boas, a highly-touted, Brazil-
ian-born attacking midfielder. The
team also has redshirt freshman
forward Noble Sullivan back this
season after he was forced to miss
last year with an injury.
"We've got a strong freshman
class coming in, and the success of
our season is going to rest partially
on their success over the course of
their firstcyear here," Burns said fol-
lowing the season opener. "We're
counting on them to contribute, and
they're capable of it."
According to Meram, adding
youth to a team playing with a
strong, experienced backfield is a
major advantage.
"It's a new crew up front for us,"
Meram said. "The advantage is that

other teams don't know what the
new guys are about, and they have
so much talent. When all of us are
together on offense, it scares even
our own team because we've got so
many threats."
The rookies were thrown to the
wolves right from the onset, as No.
14 Drake came to Ann Arbor looking
to avenge an upset loss to Michigan
last season. Burns showed complete
trust in his new offense, sending
out Meram, Boas, sophomore mid-
fielder Latif Alashe, and the Saad
brothers to start - two freshmen,
two sophomores and a senior.
With those proven weapons
leading the offensive charge, the
outlook for Michigan is much more
promising than in past seasons.
"This year our offense is a lot
better than what we had last year,"
Hamoody said. "Last year we were
expected to have a bad year, and
that really brought the team down.
But this year we feel like we have
the most talent in the Big Ten, and
with our forwards combining very
easily, this year we're ten times bet-
ter than last year."
OFFENSIVE OVERHAUL
Although the game versus Drake
ended up in Michigan's loss column
as a 1-0 defeat, the young offense
more than doubled the Bulldogs in
shots,shots-on-goalandcornerkicks.
That aggressive style of play has
been constant through three games
this season, as the Wolverines have
doubled every team in those same
three categories. Their attack-
ing attitude has also earned them
twice as many fouls as they've been
penalized for, which keeps the play
in the opponent's end of the field.
As far as the aggression that the
team has displayed, Meram credits
the team playing with more energy
than in the past.
"We're just hungry," Meram
said. "We're all goal-scorers, from
me to Hamoody, Soony and Fabio,
we compete every day at practice
because we all want to score. We're
unselfish, so we all help each other
out, and I think that's really the bot-
tom line."
Another explanation for Michi-
gan's spike in offensive shot pro-
duction comes from an unexpected
source. And because of this seem-
ingly minor detail, Hamoody said
he has the opportunity to "be more
lethal on the field."
The conference's new gamepiece
- the Adidas' Jabulani ball that was
so controversial during this sum-

mer's World Cup in Africa - has
been an interesting addition to say
the least.
"It's a weird ball," Hamoody
said. "(It) can go in one direction
and then all of the sudden dip and
change direction. When we shoot it
from far out it's so hard for the goal-
keepers to handle. There is no way
a goalkeeper is going to catch that
ball, he has to push back out, so that
just gives us another opportunity to
shoot off the rebound."
And the effects have already
shown themselves, as Hamoody
took a strike from long-distance
and fooled the goalkeeper to beat
Detroit 2-1,in overtime, on Sept.1a
THE CAMARADERIE OF
A BROTHERHOOD
This offensive group seems to
have a special connection while
playing on the field, even after just
four games, and that's not only
because of the brotherly connection
between Hamoody and Soony.
The offense has displayed trust
throughout the beginning of the
season, which has resulted in a
plethora of quality scoring chances.
As for the brothers, they've
kicked things off just right. They
are first and second on the team
in goals, with little brother Soony
leading the race with three goals.
"I feel like the younger players
on the team almost have the same
mindset," Hamoody said. "We play
for the person next to us, we don't
play for ourselves. If I had a shot
that I had a 50 percent chance of
making, and I saw Fabio had a 51
percent chance of scoring, I'd give
it to him."
As the Big Ten season draws
near, that on-field connection will
play a huge factor in determining
whether this team will be a true
contender or a non-factor in the
conference.
In his last season as a Wolverine,
Meram promised that it would not
be the latter.
"You will see us compete for a
Big Ten championship this season,"
Meram said. "I guarantee you that."
Right in stride, Hamoody pushed
the ball a little further still.
"Every year we set the goal of
winning the Big Ten. I feel like
this year we all know that we have
a good chance of actually doing it.
If we get our forwards clicking on
offense, as well as helping out on
defense, we can really make a big
splash in college soccer and finally
makea name for ourselves."

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
Experienced deense led by
keeper, a strength for 'M'

By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
If defense wins championships,
having a goalkeeper nicknamed
"brick wall" for his physical pres-
ence and skill in the net can surely
make a team breathe easier.
The 2010 Michigan men's soccer
team (2-1-1) boasts an experienced
backfield from the keeper position
on out.
Two seniors - Chase Tennant
and Jeff Quijano - will hold down
the outside positions of the Wolver-
ines' back line this year. Tennant is
two starts away from engraving his
name on the top 10 list for career
starts at Michigan, and Quijano
has been a four-year starter for the
team, making experience plentiful
between the pair.
Sandwiched between the senior
defenders are two sophomores -
Kofi Opare and Brian Klemczak -
who play in the center of the back
line and have fit right in with the
veterans around them. Opare and
Klemczak each started 10 games
for the Wolverines last season and
have locked down starting spots
thus far this season.
"(Quijano) and I can both help
the sophomores a lot," Tennant
said last week. "They've really
developed immensely as players.
Right now, we are practicing (with
the defense) like that and we're
doing really well in the back, with
(Quijano) and I supporting the two
players in the middle."
While Michigan coach Steve
Burns isn't afraid to experiment
with his lineup, especially after los-
ing defensive MVP Julian Robles
to graduation last season, the back
line of Tennant, Klemczak, Opare
and Quijano is the one that he's
featured in each of the Wolverines'
four games this season.

Burns has every reason to be
confident in his defenders, as the
group has become increasingly
familiar with one another's style
and tendencies on the field.
But even players who have a
good sense of how their fellow
defenders will react to a play know
that nothing is guaranteed, espe-
cially when facing potent offensive
threats like No. 14 Drake and Seat-
tle University. The Michigan back
line continues to work on its forma-
tions during opponents' set pieces
- especially free and corner kicks
- as that's one area Tennant iden-
tified as a problem in past seasons.
"In the past we've had problems
as far as our defensive shape and
the way we move," Tennant said.
"That's one of the things we've
been working on this season is
being able to move as a team, and
we can cover more ground if we're
all on the same page."
The Wolverine defense has
allowed opponents to get18 on red-
shirt senior goalie Chris Blais this
season - the keeper that senior
midfielder Alex Wood called a
"brick wall."
With a shutout already under
his belt this season - coming in a
2-0 Michigan victory over the Uni-
versity of Illinois-Chicago - Blais
now owns seven shutouts in his
Wolverine career.
"We expect (Blais) to make
big-time saves," Tennant said.
"Throughout his time in the goal,
especially last season and now this
year, he's been able to do that.
"He's really one of those guys
that we can depend on if the
defense makes a mistake. We have
every reason to believe he'll make a
big time save, and he has the confi-
dence to do it."
Blais has made 15 saves in the net
this season, with four goals getting

1

past him. Ranked second in the Big
Ten in goals-against average and
save percentage last season and
third in number of saves 67, Blais is
a keeper that has proven his ability
to shut opposing offenses down.
"Obviously my redshirt year I
learned a lot," Blais said. "Playing
with Seattle (overthe summer) was
a huge help butjust gave me experi-
ence to know that going into games
you're goingto be the one playing.
"Experience is just in playing
games, knowing your defenders.
I'm pretty used to playing with
(Quijano, Opare, Klemzack and
Tennant). I know how those guys
play. There's definitely a pretty
good comfort level back there as I
have been doing that since the start
of last year and in to this year."
Michigan has made Blais its
main guy this season, naming the
keeper a team captain for his lead-
ership and electric presence from
the box.
While Blais embraces the honor
that comes with a captain's title, he
is understandably more concerned
about winning soccer games. As
the only guy who can see the entire
field ahead of him, Blais continu-
ally makes sure he is vocal enough
from the goal to motivate his team-
mates.
Blais continues to amp up the
rest of the Wolverines off the field
as well and as a spoken leader, he
uses his experience to make sure
everyone knows how vital they are
to the success of this year's squad.
"We have talked a lot about how
this is everyone's team, not just the
captains and not just the seniors,"
Blais said. "We didn't want a cul-
ture where seniors were talking
down to other guys, because when
it really comes down to it, everyone
is playing for Michigan and every-
one is playing to win."


