FROM T WALGREEN $ Joe Stapleton: How small
hands and an inability to
Bast' d an jump surprisingly halted my
s s s dunk contest aspirations.
, PAGE 5 > PAGE 8
~:IE 0C4i n 07ailjj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, February 19, 2010

A HOLE NEW LOOK

michigandailycom
'regents
sued over
closed door
meeting

MIA MARINO/Daily
Kris Kelly of Pangea Piercing pierces Eastern Michigan University senior Betty Adams's ear at the shop's new Forafull story on Pangea Piercing's
location on Sunday. The shop, which first opened in 1999, moved to its new location at 211 E. Liberty Street at the move check out the Dailys News blog
end of last month. The move was part of a push to be closer to more locally owned businesses. at michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire.
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Plans for NCRC takin shape

'U' alum alleges
meeting about NCAA
investigation violated
Open Meetings Act
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
The University's BoardofRegents
was hit with a lawsuit yesterday,
which claims that a closed-door
meeting that took place two weeks
ago was inviolation of the Michigan
Open Meetings Act, according to a
news report published last night.
The regents met in University
President Mary Sue Coleman's pri-
vate conference room for approxi-
mately 90 minutes on Feb. 3, a
source with knowledge of the situ-
ation told The Michigan Daily at the
time. According to the source, the
meetingcentered around the NCAA
investigation into allegations that
Michigan's football program violat-
ed NCAA regulations governing the
allowable amount of time student-
athletes can spend in practice and
off-season workouts.
According to a report published
by The Detroit Free Press last night,
University alum Robert Davis filed

a lawsuit yesterday against the
regents for holding the meeting in
private, something he alleges vio-
lated the Michigan Open Meetings
Act.
Davis told the Free Press that
he wasn't trying to harm his alma
mater with the suit, but wanted to
make sure the University was held
accountable.
"I live U-M football and basket-
ball and I want to see the University
of Michigan do well," he told the
Free Press. "I just hope and I pray
that University officials follow the
same rules that they hold the stu-
dent-athletes to."
According to the Free Press,
Davis's lawsuit seeks a court order
to prevent the Board of Regents
from holding executive sessions
on the NCAA investigation and
requests that minutes from the Feb.
3 meeting be released to the public.
In an interview with the Daily
last night, University spokeswoman
Kelly Cunningham said the Univer-
sity behaved appropriately when it
held the closed-door regents meet-
ing earlier this month.
"The University acted appropri-
ately," Cunningham said.
Cunningham said she couldn't
speak about the specifics of the law-
See LAWSUIT, Page 7

Collaboration
between researchers
will be emphasis of
former Pfizer site
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
In an e-mail 'sent to the
campus community yesterday,
Executive Vice President for
Medical Affairs Ora Pescovitz

announced four major deci-
sions that will help guide the
North Campus Research Cen-
ter's future activity.
In the e-mail, Pescovitz
emphasized the interdisciplin-
ary nature of the NCRC and
revealed that research at the
complex will focus around two
technologies that will serve as
as anchors for future research.
The first focus of NCRC
researchers will be to strive to
grow a world-class collabora-
tion in biointerfaces - or the

interface between biomaterial
and other materials. Accord-
ing to Pescovitz's e-mail, the
research will focus on micro-
fluidics and sensors, cell and
tissue engineering, biomateri-
als and drug delivery, and nano-
technology.
The second area of research
will explore new collaborative
possibilities with functional,
molecular and structural imag-
ing.
Pescovitz also announced an
initiative to research the United

States's health care services and
encouraged faculty interested
in transferring their research to
the NCRC to apply to move.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily following yes-
terday's University Board of
Regents meeting, Pescovitz
said she's excited for the pos-
sibilities of the collaborative
research.
"These are really incredible,
state-of-the-art interdisciplin-
ary programs that I think are
See NCRC, Page 7

UNIVERSITY BOARD F REGENTS
Regents approve Philip
Hanlon as 'U' provost

Hanlon will succeed
current provost
Sullivan on July 1
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
The University's Board of
Regents approved the appoint-
ment of Philip Hanlon to the
position of provost and executive

vice president of academic affairs
in a unanimous vote at their
monthly meeting yesterday.
Hanlon, who currently serves
as the vice
provost for NOTEBOOK
academic and
budgetary affairs, will succeed
current provost Teresa Sullivan
who is leaving the University to
become the president of the Uni-
versity of Virginia.
University President Mary Sue

Coleman told the regents yes-
terday that she is excited about
Hanlon's appointment, adding
that she is looking forward to
continuing to work with him.
"Everyone at this table has
worked with Prof. Hanlon as
part of our annual budget plan-
ning and knows his command
of both academic and budgetary
matters," she said. "Not only is he
an excellent administrator, he is
See REGENTS, Page 7

CAMPUS GROUPS . .
Students participate in weekly
protests outside of Andiamo

Anne Valk, associate director for prograws at the John Nicholas Brown Center at Brown University, speaks at the tenth annual
Dewey lecture in the Michigan League yesterday. Valk talked about her experiences working with oral histories.
At tenth annual Dewey lecture,
Brown U. prof. talks oral histories

Restaurant says
allegations of rights
abuses are baseless
By OLIVIA CARRINO
Daily StaffReporter
University students have been
involved in a campaign to pro-
test what they believe is a viola-
tion of workers' rights at a local
restaurant.
Since November 2009, the
Restaurant Opportunities Cen-

ter of Michigan has been pro-
testing outside of Andiamo
restaurant, which they claim
is violating minimum wage
requirements, ignoring sexual
harassment allegations and dis-
criminating based on gender,
race and national origin.
In addition, the workers filed
a federal lawsuit in January for
$125,000 worth of back wages
as well as for the various forms
of discrimination they experi-
enced.
In response to the allegations
made by ROC-Michigan, Andi-

amo restaurant has dedided to
counter-sue the organization,
according to representatives of
the restaurant. A recent press
release from Andiamo restau-
rant stated "no information was
provided (by ROC-Michigan) to
allow Andiamo of Dearborn to
even try to look into the claims."
"Since the beginning of ROC-
MI's attack, Andiamo of Dear-
born has been asking for proof
of ROC-MI's allegations," the
press release stated. "To date,
the organization has refused to
See PROTEST, Page 7

Anne Valk said
learning about the
local community can
help students, 'U'
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
The University celebrated the
10th Annual John Dewey Lecture
yesterday with a discussion led by
Anne Valk, associate director of
the John Nichols Brown Center
for Public Humanities and Cultur-
al Heritage at Brown University.
Valk spoke to a crowd of

about SO people in the Michigan
League's Henderson Room about
her work in community oral his-
tory projects. She explained how
learning about local origins of a
community can be beneficial to
its current inhabitants, including
members of university communi-
ties.
Valk said she began her work
in oral history as a Ph.D. sti-
dent at Duke University, where
she directed a multi-year project
focused on elderly African Ameri-
cans who lived in the segregated
South during the Jim Crow era.
Valk said she was inspired to con-
tinue studying oral histories after
completing the project.

Valk's currenthwork documents
the history of the inhabitants of
Fox Point, Rhode Island, a com-
munity bordering Brown Univer-
sity.
Valk's research group - includ-
ing a team of students - has set
out to interview citizens, and col-
lect stories and artifacts like old
photographs in an effort to learn
more about the neighborhood.
Valk emphasized that focusing on
memories and learning about the
past plays an important role in
unifying a community and learn-
ing about how to improve future
living standards.
"Memory provides an impor-
See ORAL HISTORY, Page 3



WEATHER 1 HI: 36
TOMORROW LO:25

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.comwand letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Daily Arts' guide to the best movies this weekend.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX N EW S ...................................2 A RTS ................................. 5
Vol CXX, No. 98 SUDOKU...............................3 CLASSIFIEDS.. . .........6
m tTheMhiganaily OPINION...............................4 SPORTS................B....

r


2 - Friday, February 19, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY: I'FRDY
Campus Clubs P*oos.o theWee

NEED MORE PHOTOS?
See past installments of Photos of the3
Week on our website, michigandailycom.
LEFT Carmen Reynolds, a sophomore on the momen's basketball team, talks aboot her decision to come to the University of Michigan even thoogh her family has almays been strong sop-
porters of Ohio State University. (TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily) TOP RIGHT An official at a Michigan hockey game against Nebraska-Omaha at the Qmest Center on Friday. Michigan
lost the game 4-3. (JAKE FRfOMM/Daily) BOTTOM MIDDLE A member of a panel of representatives from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the Council on Environ-
mental Quality, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Seroice and the U.S. Coast Goard discosses the issoe of Asian carp entering the Great Lakes. (TOREHAN
SHARfMAN/Daily) BOTTOM RIGHT Molecolar Cellolar and Developmental Biology research scientist Ray Barbehenn examines poplar trees for a USDA-sponsored project in the Kroos
Buildings greenhouse. (MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily)

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
420 Maynard Sn.
Ace Arbor, Mt 4B109-t327
www.michigaodaity.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAAN
Editor in Cbief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0000
smniloeirz@michigandaiy.come trrdbsniso@groai~Cem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office incurs: Suo.-ctnus.11 .m. - 2 am.
News Tips newsynrichigandaity.com
Corrections correctionsgmichigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedailygmichigandaily.com
Photography Bepartnent yphoeonriehigaodaity.eom
Arts Section artspage@rriitrigandaily.com
Editorial Page ipiniencgnriehigandaily.com
Sports Sectionsptys@michigandaily.com
Display Bales display@michigandaily.ctom
Classitied Sales classified@rriehigondaity.een
Online Sales onlineads@miehigandaity.eom
Finatce finance@michigandaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MatthAaronson Manging Editorn aaonson @michigandaity.com
Jillian Bernan MuanagiggNewssEditor brman@michigandaily.com
SNsRNESE ORS Nincole Aber, llrJrnes,trtphanriteine risyl
Swnsonsv, Eshwarn Thirnavuarsu,
ASTTtt N WSnms DoTORSDninti, sarn Fitzgeraid,Josephihtermtn,nn
VerniasMenali, AvnierThoms, DnnTsnntsvrsn yna Tsves
Rachel VanlGilder Editoil PageEditor vangilder@michigandaity.com
SENOeR nETnOntALPnouEnITORS:Brntsheruty, ErikaMayrunityreysaurant
Ryan Kartje ManuagingSportnnEdinor bnnte@nriehigandaity.eom
SENISPORs~tsTS IsTOR:Nclt uebcMrBrs inJucjhi
Pyzik, Timohtan, AmSratnt
Jamie Block Mannnnigvrts Editor block@michigndaiytcom
ASSITAoN ARTSrEDITOS: Lea Buin,Shrn Jacob,Biid iloin, ikeunt,
Max Collins and . photo@mrichigandaily.com
SamnWolson ManagingPhotouEditors
SEntNIOvttHOTO EOOtUTnvIMDACneVn iHttsburgthrttinn
ASSISTAveNTHTO EDTnORtS:Ant, Agbuger, akFo mmt, Maissa Mcin,
SarabSquire and deinnimxichigandailyecom
Anna Lein-Zielinski Managingouesign ditons
Trevorntalenu MagneiEcditor calero@michigandailycom
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips Copy Chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katielnozwiak SalsoManager
MARTIN AEurn R :svnnMiheir tnbo e
Ryan Businski CtassifiedtManager
Jasnn Mahakian Production Manager
AllisonSantacreU LayounManager
Pinion Lee FintanceMatnger
Brittany Mnrales Circultion Mnnaer
Brad..WileyProiecCordinatr
The MichiganDaiiy (ISvNv7o5-96)inuv bish~tediMondatytrughtFridatidringtthetfaiand
winntertemstbystudents atthe Univesit of icign. Oecpisaviable freofcanrgt all
redessAdditionalicopies nmaybn picked op at theDalsoftticenftnt$2. Subscriptions tftrtfltem
srting in Setembenr, tviU.. maiiars$10.Bintt. rtrm(Janoart thruthApril is $115, yearlon
(tebr throughtn Aril is $195.nivesity ffilits anre subject tla rcdsubscritionrte.
tn-casnsubscnriptionstftrttlliiem sin $35.tSubscriptiur ont ns tntepid. The Michign Datily
in a merhet tAinssoiated Prest and The Associated Collegiate PPess

*1

CIME NOTES
Finger cut leads Serial thief
to hospital visit swipes car parts
WHR:Mosher-Jordan WHERE: 21S3 Hubbord, Lot
Residence Mall NWHE:Wdnsa1a0hu
WHEN: Wednesday at about WHN:Wenedapm.aou
1:30 pm.WH:4 ThrepGeera
WHAT: A subject cut her fin- MoTr ees hadncaalyi
ger, University police reported, oosvhce a aayi h a ae otehsia converters stolen between 11
Shfo taen to h osia p.m. on Monday and 5:30 p.m.
on Wednesday, University
police reported, There are no
Three vehicles suspects,
crash, car towed Parking lot
WHERE: Maiden Lane accident
WHEN: Wednesday at about WHERE: 1600 East Medical
9:50 pm. Center, M-tB Carport
WHAT: Three vehicles were WHEN: Wednesday at about
in a traffic accident, Univer- 9 p.m.
sity Police reported. DPS was WHAT: A vehicle in the emit
called to the scene along with lane of the carport hacked up,
the Ann Arbor Police Depart- hitting the carhbehind it, Uni-
scent, who reported that there versicy police reported. The
were no injuries. One vehicle offending vehicle then drove
was towed. away. There were no injuries.
MORE ONLINE
Love Crnmeoles? Gel more noltne at michigandaily.com/blogs/the mire

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Our Town
performance at
Mendelssohn
WHAT: Directed by Jerry
Schwiebert, Our Town
is a play about American
life, love and death. Tick-
ets are $9 for students.
WHO: Department of
Theatre & Drama
WHEN: Tonight at B p.m.
WHERE: Mendelssohn
Theatre
Production of
Dr. Horrible's
Sing -a-long Blog
WHAT: A performance of
the Emnmy-Award winning
online mini-series about
the life of a ubervillian.
WHO: B~asenment Arts
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen
Drama Center

How to relax
WHAT: Students can learn
relaxation techniques.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychsological Services
WHEN: Today fronts12:15
p.m. to B p..
WHERE: CAPS Library,
Rooms 3000, Michigan Onion
Charity Ball
WHAT: Nursing students
will sponstnr the third annual
"Hope for Haiti" Charity Ball
to raise smoney for Faculty of
Nursing Science of the Epis-
ctpal University of Haiti.
WHO: Student
Nurses Associatiosn
WHEN: Tonight from
B p.tm. tnt midnight
WHERE: Michigan
League tBallroonn
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the Daily Eo corree-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1Detroit is considered the
second most affordable
city in America, second
to Indianapolis, according to
CNNMoney.com.
2According to the Cen-
ter for Information
and Research on Civil
Learning and Engagment,
two-thirds of voters ages
18 to 29 voted for Barack
Obama in the 2008 election.
This was the only age group
En show a significant increase
in voter turnout, increasing
from 47 to 49 percent accord-
ing to the U.S. Census Bureau
News.
>>FOR MORE,.SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3Swiss prostitutes are
being trained to use
defibrillators to prevent
the death of clients with
heart problems, according to
Telegraph. coouk.

FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK
T IS W E EIS
Brooba.
....... 0 M i . Socc 0
Volybl


Instant
Scheduling
-Entries Due
Mon. February 22nd

0
0
0
S
0
0

There's a difference between communicating ideas and experiencing them. It's the
difference between memorizing a foreign language and thinking in one. Between
studying ruins and excavating them, Between analyzing dreams and living them. The
difference is huge. And it's the very essence of the University of Chicago Summer
Setsion. Where students are engaged at every level-intellectually, socially, personally,
and professionally. Where you can benefit from the value of taking university courses
in an accelerated, intensive format. Join us this summet for an extraordinary learning
experience at the academic home to 85 Nobel laureates.
FOR STUDENTS IN HIGH SCHOOL, COLLEGE, AND BEYOND.
JUNE 2I-AUGUST 27, 2010
3, 4, 5, 6, AND 9-WEEK SESSIONS


I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, February 19, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Granholm allows
other workers to
join health plan
Gov. Jennifer Granholm has
signed an executive order clearing
the way for university, public school
and local government employees to
join the health care coverage plan
offered to state employees.
The Democratic governor said
Wednesday in a release that the
move could offer those -groups a
way to save on insurance.
All of the state's, health care
plans would be open to participa-
tion, including a PPO, health main-
tenance organization, prescription
drug coverage and dental and
vision care.
The administration has negoti-
ated contracts with several state
employee unions that require
employees hired after April 1 to pay
a larger share of their health care
costs. The policy will reduce state
costs for newly hired state employ-
ee by 21 percent.
TONAWANDA, NY
GM investing
$425M in NY plant
for Ecotec engine
General Motors Co. yesterday
unveiled one of its most substan-
tial manufacturing investments
since emerging from bankruptcy
production, committing nearly a
half billion dollars to production
of the next generation of its Ecotec
engine.
Most of that - about $425 mil-
lion - will go to the Tonawanda
engine plant near Buffalo, which
will make 370,000 of the four-cyl-
inder engines per year and add 470
jobs.
GM's Defiance, Ohio, block pro-
duction plant will get $59 million in
upgrades and gain 80 jobs. An addi-
tional 17 jobs will be created in Bay
City, Mich., where a connecting rod
will be produced following a $10.5
million investment, company offi-
cials said.
MEXICO CITY
Son of top drug
suspect sent to
U.S. from Mexico
A man accused of being an
influential, second-generation
member of the Sinaloa drug car-
tel was extradited from Mexico
to the United States yesterday on
charges he helped move tons of
cocaine from Colombia to Califor-
nia, New York and Chicago.
Vicente Zambada Niebla was
turned over to U.S. authorities at
the international bridge connect-
ing Matamoros to Brownsville,
Texas, Mexico's attorney gener-
al's office announced.
Zambada's father, Ismael "El
Mayo" Zambada, controls the
cartel along with Mexico's most
wanted drug lord, Joaquin "El
Chapo" Guzman, according to law
enforcement officials.

The younger Zambada assumed
major new powers in the Sinaloa
cartel in 2008, with control over
logistics and the authority to
order assassinations, authorities
say.
SYDNEY
Australia threatens
Japan over whaling
program
Australia's prime minister today
set a November deadline for Japan
to stop its research whaling pro-
gram that kills hundreds of whales
a year in Antarctic waters, or else
face legal action.
Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said
Australiawould prefer to use diplo-
matic means to persuade Japan to
end its hunt.
"If that fails, then we will initi-
ate court action before the com-
mencement of the whaling season
in November 2010," he told the
Seven Network. "That's the bot-
tom line and we're very clear
to the Japanese, that's what we
intend to do."
Australia, a staunch anti-
V whaling nation, has threatened
international legal action against
Japan before. Two years ago, it
sent a ship to Antarctic waters
to follow the Japanese whaling
fleet and collect videos and pho-
tographs it said might be used
as evidence in an international
forum. So far, the threats have not
been followed up.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

U. of Alabama
tenure process
faces criticism,

DANIELA JRUJILL/THE DAILY TEXAN/AP
Smoke rises from a building containing nearly 200 Internal Revenue Service employees in Austin, Texas after it was hit by a
small aircraft yesterday.
Man crashes. plane
into, IRS building
Man angry at IRS of black smoke rose over the city, the worst of the damage on the
and terrified workers rushed to second and third floors.
carried out suicide get out. The entire outside of the sec-
The Pentagon scrambledtwoF-16 nd floor was gone on the side
through crash fighter jets from Houston to patrol of the building where the plane
the skies over the burning building hit. Support beams were bent
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) - A before it became clear that it was inward. Venetian blinds dangled
software engineer furious with the act of a lone pilot, and President from blown-out windows, and
the Internal Revenue Service Barack Obama was briefed. large sections of the exterior
launched a suicide attack on the "It felt like a bomb blew off," were blackened with soot. It was
agency yesterday by crashing his said Peggy Walker, an IRS revenue not immediately clear if any tax
small plane into an office build- officer who was sitting at her desk. records were destroyed.
ing containing nearly 200 IRS "The ceiling caved in and win- Andrew Jacobson, an IRS rev-
employees, setting off a raging dows blew in. We got up and ran." enue officer who was on the see-
fire that sent workers running for Stack was presumed dead. and floor when the plane hit with
their lives. Emergency crews have found a a "big whoomp" and then a second
At least one person in the build- body in the building last night, but explosion, said about six people
ing was missing. Police Chief Art Acevedo declined couldn't use the stairwell because
The FBI tentatively identified to say whether it was the pilot. At of smoke and debris. He found a
the pilot as Joseph A. Stack, 53. least 13 people'were injured, with metal bar to break a window so
Law enforcement officials, speak- two reported in critical condition. the group could crawl out onto a
ing on condition of anonymity About 190 IRS employees work in concrete ledge, where they were
because the investigation was still 'the building. rescued by firefighters. His bloody
going on, said that before taking Gerry Cullen was eating break- hands were bandaged.
off, Stack apparently set fire to his fast at a restaurant acrossthe street Austin Police Chief Art Aceve-
house and posted a long anti-gov- when the plane struck the building do said "heroic actions" by federal
ernment screed on the Web. It was and "vanished in a fireball." employees may explain why the
dated yesterday and signed "Joe Matt Farney, who was in the death toll was so low.
Stack (1956-2010)." parking lot of a nearby Home The FBI was investigating. The
In it, the author cited run-ins Depot, said he saw a low-flying National Transportation Safety
he had with the IRS and ranted plane near some apartments just Board sent an investigator as well.
about the tax agency, government before it crashed. "I figured he was Rep. Michael McCaul, a Repub-
bailouts and corporate America's going to buzz the apartments or he lican from Austin on the Home-
"thugs and plunderers." was showing off," Farney said. "It land Security Committee, said the
"I have had all I can stand," he was insane. It didn't look like he panel will take up the issue of how
wrote, adding: "I choose not to keep was out of control or anything." to better protect buildings from
looking over my shoulder at 'big Sitting at her desk in another attacks with planes.
brother' while hestrips my carcass." building a half-mile from the In the long, rambling, self-
The pilot took off in a four-seat, crash, Michelle Santibanez felt described "rant" that Stack appar-
single engineer Piper PA-28 from the vibrations and ran to the ently posted on the Internet, he
an airport in Georgetown, about windows, where she and her co- began: "If you're reading this,
30 miles from Austin, without fil- workers witnessed a scene that you're no doubt asking yourself,
ing a flight plan. He flew low over reminded them of 9/11. 'Why did this have to happen?"'
the Austin skyline before plowing "It was the same kind of scenar- He recounted his financial
into the side of the hulking, seven- io, with window panels falling out reverses,' his difficulty finding
story, black-glass building just and desks falling out and paper- work in Austin, and at least two
before 10 a.m. with a thunderous work flying," said Santibanez, an clashes with the IRS, one of them
explosion that instantly stirred accountant. after he filed no return because, he
memories of Sept. 1l. The building, in a heavily con- said, he had no income, the other
Flames shot from the building, gested section of Austin, was still after he failed to report his wife'
windows exploded, a huge pillar smoldering six hours later, with Sheryl's income.

Woman accused of
killing colleagues
was denied tenure
While the circumstances behind
the deadly shooting at the Univer-
sity of Alabama-Huntsville remain
unclear, the Harvard-trained neu-
robiologist accused in the rampage
was upset about being denied ten-
ure - the academic world's highly
coveted form of job security.
The profile of Amy Bishop that
is emerging suggests deep-seated
emotional problems and'a history
of violence. But her vocal displea-
sure about being rejected in the
period leading up to the attack has
cast a spotlight on the increasingly
pressure-packed quest for tenure at
American colleges.
Within the academic world,
there's little debate that the trials
of tenure have grown more intense
in recent years - largely because
there are fewer opportunities to
gain an academic foothold, greater
expectations for scholarly output
and an economic climate that is
anythingbut rosy.
"You remember it almost like a
death in the family," said John Tis-
dale, a journalism professor who
was denied tenure at Baylor Uni-
versity in 2002 for reasons that he
said were never fully explained.
"I know this happens to people
every day, so I don't want to sound

melodramatic ... It's so traumatic.
Your life is turned upside down.
Obviously it's a professional set-
back, but it's personal, too."
Decades ago, schools were
hiring, and tenure was almost
automatic. Now, cost-conscious
colleges and universities are turn-
ing to part-time and adjunct faculty
who will never get a shot at tenure.
Some live like academic nomads,
drifting from position to position
with marginal payorbenefits.
Professors lucky enough to land
tenure-track positions must endure
rigorous scrutiny and, at times, an
ambiguous process deciding their
fate. Those who wash out wear the
scarletletter of academia.Although
some fail to regain their footing,
others go on to success in the class-
room or thebusiness world.
Tisdale joined Baylor University
as adviser to the student newspaper
in 1987 and earned his master's and
Ph.D. while working full time. He
was put on the tenure track in 1996.
Although his reviews were good
and nothingseemed out ofthe ordi-
nary, Tisdale lost his bid for tenure.
The former newspaper report-
er and copy editor appealed the
decision, but he also started a job
search almost immediately. While
he could have stayed at Baylor
another year, he accepted a posi-.
tion at Texas Christian University
and is now a tenured professor and
associate director of the journalism
school.

All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
/ e- at1f 10-CL
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
E@aO S SM
310 Ma nard St-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Maynard Parkin Structure
--UO

ORAL HISTORY
From Page 1
tant tool in the construction of
community identity and in the
maintenance of community con-
nections," Valk said. "I think by
collecting and listening to the
stories that communities tell
about their past, we can learn
important lessons about power
and justice that might offer paths
to offer new possibilities for the
future."
The goal of the project is to
expand the current communi-
ty efforts of Fox Point citizens
while connecting Brown Uni-
versity to the neighborhood in a
beneficial and progressive way,
Valk said.
"Oral history interviews are
at the foundation of this proj-
ect, but we're really trying to go
beyond the interview and think
about ways to use memories and
history as the basis for building
new and possibly positive con-
nections between the people of
Providence," she said.
Valk outlined the history of
Fox Point in her lecture, and
described how the neighbor-
hood originated as a working-
class, immigrant town that went
through many changes after
the center of the city's shipping
industry was moved to a differ-
ent location.
The shift altered the character
of Fox Point from an industrial
city to a more historical center,
which lead to increased property
values, displacing many immi-
grants who were unable to pay
the increasing realty prices, she
said.

Valk said she found that as the
town continued to change and
develop, many of its early inhab-
itants developed a strong senti-
mental attachment to the old Fox
Point, and were eager to remem-
ber its past.
"The fear of invisibility among
the fellow Fox Pointers has cre-
ated a sense of wanting to rally
around memory," she said.
One of the biggest changes in
the area that affected the com-
munity of Fox, Point was the
establishment and development
of Brown University, Valk said.
Valk said the Fox Point
residents' sentiments toward
Brown University was a mix
of resentment and admiration.
They felt inadequate living next
to a prestigious university that
the majority of Fox Point citi-
zens couldn't afford to attend,
though many were grateful for
the job opportunities it provid-
ed them throughout the years,
she said.
Assistant History Prof.
Michelle McClellan, also spoke
about her current work on oral
history projects. She said that
work like Valk's can be applied
to communities near the Univer-
sity, and even within the town of
Ann Arbor.
"Ann Arbor, dominated in
many ways by the University of
Michigan, is often celebrated
as a hip, college town that just
happens to be located in Michi-
gan, boasting more in common
with University communities all
around the country than with
it's immediate surroundings
and becoming remote from both
the city of Detroit and the rural
parts of the state," McClellan

said.
McClellan added that by inte-
grating the University into the
greater Ann Arbor community,
students will be able to forge a
better understanding of the Uni-
versity's historical context.
"Collaboration can lead to
better scholarship," McClellan
said. "It can be messy, it can be
difficult, it can require challeng-
ing acts of translation. But the
results are richer, more mean-
ingful, and I think, well worth
it."
McClellan said she hopes that
eventually the University will
make it a priority for incoming
students to learn about the his-
tory of Ann Arbor in order gain a
better understanding of the Uni-
versity's ties to the community.
"I don't know how realistic
this is or not, but maybe just as
successive generations of stu-
dents everywhere embrace the
mascot and the traditions of
their University, maybe they too
could absorb local and regional
history as part of the college
experience if it is presented to
them as part of the integrated
package that I believe that it is,"
McClellan said.
Larissa Larsen, an assistant
professor of urban planning,
closed the program by speaking
about how learning from the past
helps the University grow for-
ward as both a community and
an institution of higher educa-
tion.
"I really think it helps us sort
of understand why these things
were important and how we got
to where we are so we can under-
stand where we are going," Lars-
en said.

If you're a high performing undergraduate with a
passion for sustainability, then check out the Graham
Institute's new Sustainability Scholars Program.
Each year, this competitive program will accept only
25 students, who will then pursue a 10-credit series of
interdisciplinary courses focused on sustainability
(including a place-based course).
After successful completion of the program, you'll
receive an exclusive Sustainability Scholars Certificate
from the Graham Institute. Upon graduation, you'll
also receive a special notation on your transcript
acknowledging this scholastic accomplishment.
So, go ahead. Start making your mark for a better
world. Check out the details and online application at
www.graham.umich, and apply by March 25, 2010!
GRAHAM
, sonINSTITUTE


4 - Friday, February 19, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 6
E-MAIL DANIEL AT DWGOLD@UMICH.EDU

iJbe 1*idigani f &i4.
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

DANIEL GOLD


JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

The HILL OLYMPICS
If Tray-Boarding was a
real sport, Id so be
in Vancouver right now!
y
o 1 c
______L7

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Solutions for Solo cups
City should increase recycling for ease and environment
oing green could soon be easier in Ann Arbor. Under the
current City recycling program, items need to be sorted
into separate bins and many would-be-recyclables aren't
accepted. But a partnership between the city of Ann Arbor and
the non-profit organization Recycle Ann Arbor promises to spur a
much-needed revamp of the city's recycling system. Recycling is a
relatively easy way to save the planet - but it could be even easier
if steps were taken to streamline the system and make more items
recyclable. Ann Arbor authorities should continue to expand the
range of recyclable materials and reform the recycling process.

Mao To ;Markley:
4 y
-' ; -

@1



From dreams to doing

The city of Ann Arbor is now partner-
ing with Recycle Ann Arbor to streamline
the city's recycling system and increase
awareness about recycling. Ann Arbor
currently uses a two-stream method for its
recycling. Paper and cardboard products
must be separated from metal, glass and
plastic. Under the new initiative, the city
will switch to a single-stream system this
summer in which all recyclables will be
collected together.
Officials say the reforms will make recy-
cling more efficient and allow for a greater
array of items to be recycled, including
types of plastic that previously weren't
recyclable in the city. Currently, only num-
bers one and two plastics are accepted in
the city. In addition, the new partnership
aims to increase education and awareness
around recycling.
The city is right to make recycling a pri-
ority. Aside from environmental benefits
like reduction of pollution and conserva-
tion of resources, recycling also combats
global warming. Materials often generate
greenhouse gases both when they are made
and when they decompose in landfills.
Because recycling is important for keep-
ing the-planet's environment healthy, the
city should do everything it can to encour-
age residents and students to fill their recy-
cling bins. One of the best ways of doing

that is to make the process easier. About 94
percent of Ann Arbor residents currently
.recycle at the curb, according to Recycle
Ann Arbor. Making the process easier
could increase that percentage. There
should be no sorting, no hassle and no rea-
son not to recycle.
But ease of recycling isn't as important as
range. Though the city currently recycles
52 percent of its residential waste stream,
according to Recycle Ann Arbor, it should
expand its recycling capabilities to include
all types of plastic. The mountains of red
cups that litter students' lawns and houses
- which are marked No. 6 plastics - have
been non-recyclable in the city. The new
recycling program should accept these
kinds of plastics, which would increase the
volume of recycled material in the city and
reduce waste. Michigan State University
accepts plastics numbered up to seven. As
painful as it is for University of Michigan
students to hear, Ann Arbor should follow
MSU's example and recycle all types of
plastics.
Ann Arbor has a reputation as a green
city - so it's unacceptable that recycling
is difficult and limited. If the city stays
true to its promise to increase the public's
knowledge about recycling, residents will
have no excuse for throwing out recyclable
materials.

've always conceded "coolness"
(specifically the Zack Morris
kind, not to be confused with the
nerd-is-cool kind
embodied by the
many Screeches
scurrying around
in Wolverine ,
apparel) to Ohio
State University,
the pseudo-alma
mater of everyone
in my hometown,
while maintaining LIBBY
the University of ASHTON
Michigan's supe-
riority in almost
every other cat-
egory.
But not anymore. We, with our
wintry complexions and oversized
backpacks, just became the envy of
the Ivies and Playboy Party Schools
alike. We got Barack.
Maybe it doesn't help our cool-
ness cause that instead of a football,
we're throwing our commencement
speaker in Michigan State Univer-
sity's face, but I expect the electricity
in the air the first Saturday in May to
rival that of any football Saturday.
President Barack Obama serves as
an intersection between an apathetic
youth and an out-of-touch politico. Our
demographic was the only age group
to show a significant increase in voter
turnout for the 2008 election, increas-
ing from 47 to 49 percent according
to the US Census Bureau News, with
two-thirds of 18-29-year-olds votipg
for Obama, according to the Center
for Information and Research on Civil
Learning and Engagement. When he
won, young people around the country
flooded the streets, celebrating what
felt like our victory.
A year and a half after this victo-
ry - almost to the day - we'll have
the privilege of hosting the man who
made the fist bump sexy(er) in our

very own Big House. Leading up to
this day, it's important forus to think
about why he makes our hearts flut-
ter so that we stand before him not
as the awestruck children we were
before we could vote, but as critically.
minded young adults, conscious of
the reasons behind our Obamania.
During the spring of 2008, my fam-
ily Seder turned sour when I found
myself pitted against my uncle and
my grandma's boyfriend, both of
whom supported Hillary Clinton in
the primary elections. They accused
my generation of blindly supporting
a man we thought was emblematic of
our liberal ideals when, despite his
rhetoric commenting to the contrary,
he had created little change during
his political career.
From my admittedly naive per-
spective, this lack of political con-
text for Obama further validated his
freshness. His inexperience with a
political process that has seemed
lifeless and disengaged was an asset
rather than a fault. To the voting
demographic who most recently left
the playground, Obama embodies the
most essential qualities we've been
taught to seek in a leader.
Obama is the ideal communicator -
one who values listening and speaking
equally. He's smarter than me, and also
more humble. He's not bossy or a know-
it-all (perhaps to a fault). He com-
mands my respect without demanding
it. He's in touch with a kind of human
component that connects him with the
idealistic characteristic of youth. It's
as though he is the first major political
figure who remembers all the histori-
cal wrongs he learned about in middle
school and lives with an awareness of
his duty to do better than what was
done before.
Most of all, he has inspired a kind
of social revolution wherein the
typically uninvolved members of
the electorate feel empowered and

heard. Obama's personal impact on
the national and international com-
munities is enough of a justification
for my support of his position, both in
the oval office and at the commence-
ment podium.
Obama should
focus on action,
and so should you.
In his promise of the possibility of
something better, Obama evoked a
spirit in our generation. In electing
him, we made a commitment to work
with him to realize that possibility.
One necessary element of uphold-
ing that commitment is holding our-
selves, and Obama, accountable for
the transition from the passivity to
activity, from dreaming to doing.
Though the strongest motivations
for my support of Obama have more
to do with his person than his politi-
cal record, my expectations of him as
the head of an incredibly burdened
administration must be functional.
Similarly, our expectations of our-
selves as college graduates must be to
create a record of progress.
A year and a half after we watched,
with teary eyes, the ballots being
counted, we will stand as represen-
tatives of the demographic that most
uniformly supported Obama's candi-
dacy. And as we watch him watch us,
we can remain atop the wave of ideal-
ism that carried us to the polls - as
long as we do so with recognition of
the importance of action in creating
the change for which we all hope.
- Libby Ashton can be reached
at eashton@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
YUBO WU|
It's East Quad's turn for fixing

Olympic updates

I am a second-year resident of East Quad,
home to the Residential College and the newly
formed Global Scholars program. Last fall, I
noticed that East Quad had finally gotten rid
of asbestos insulation, as well as all the closet
doors and dressers. I noticed that our beloved
eatery was taken away from us. I noticed the
new theater and the partially renovated base-
ment. I also noticed having to move out of my
room midway through the semester because my
room was leaking gutter water.
Gutter water.
Almost all students on campus and many
incomingstudents know that East Quad is one of
the oldest and worse-off residence halls. If you're
ever in East Quad, stop by the Greene Lounge and
hit one of the lounge chairs, and you'll see what I
mean (a cloud of dust comes out). It is in desper-
ate need of renovation. Though the new theater
has brought about some renovation in the base-
ment, change remains far away.
East Quad continues to fall apart. This
semester, sinks unexpectedly overflowed,'
resulting in destroyed personal belongings in
three flooded rooms in my hallway. And when
personal sinks can't be fixed, they are taken
away. Forever. There are rooms with holes in
the walls where sinks once existed. The boys'
bathroom sinks have spewed out black, murky
water from the drain. The dishwasher in the
cafeteria has broken down - for over a week
at times. The sole elevator travels as fast as
The Flash, only past his prime and retired. The
furnishings of both the Madrigal and Greene
lounges are likely older than me. And I recent-
ly witnessed a sink overflowing, and the hall
director on duty prevented a poor student from
calling repairmen because it would cost the
hall more for after-hours repair.
Yet, what surprises me is that East Quad is
the residence hall traditionally used for orienta-
tion (the exception being last year, when it was
held at South Quad) and Campus Day. The Uni-
versity doesn't-appear to care thatcthis hall is the
very first impression given to most prospective
students. Should such a bad impression be given
to parents and future Wolverines? Couzens is

scheduled for renovations next year, and Mosh-
er-Jordan and Stockwell just got renovated.
Why not East Quad?
Sometimes, it's hard to reconcile University
spending with student needs. The Orion sculp-
ture -that big orange metal thing in front of the
University of Michigan Museum of Art - costs
a significant amount, while East Quad remains
without renovations. It's frustrating. Though
most of the money for the sculpture came from
donations and not from students' pockets, it's
hard to understand why the University hasn't put
more money into East Quad.
The painstaking renovations done on Mosh-
er-Jordan and Stockwell cost tens of millions of
dollars, and those dorms house around 425 and
400 residents, respectively. However, EQ alone
houses about 900 students, which adds up to.
more than both of the afore-mentioned dorms
combined, and it's not even close to being the
biggest hall. East Quad has so much to offer:
classrooms, a dark room, a dance studio and
even a ceramics studio. Despite these awesome
resources, they go unnoticed because all that
students seem to remember from orientation is
an old building without air conditioning. The
problem is simple: Renovating big dorms dis-
places too many students and the University
loses a sizeable chunk of housing.
Perhaps if the University could afford multiple
minor renovations instead of shutting down one
full residence hall, there would be no need to per-
form such overhauls in the future. The ancient
furnishings on the ground floor lounges could
simply be refurnished. The showerheads could.
be elevated a foot higher so the majority of us
don't have to bend awkwardly to avoid making
out with a stream of hot water.
And the displacement of students could be
minimized after North Quad is opened. Half
of EQ could be shut down and renovated and
repeated for the second half. For now, future
generations of EQ Wolverines will have to
endure the confusing stairways, bending over
to shower and the lumpy couches in the lounges.
Yubo Wu is an LSA sophomore.

You know your weird Uncle
Marty who's going through
a mid-life crisis? He's com-
pletely out of touch
with reality and
tries to overcom-
pensate by getting
a flashy red sports
car? That's exactly -
what the Winter 4
Olympics are like.
They're like your
weird, old rela-
tive who comes up LINCOLN
to you at a familyB
gathering and asks BOEHM
if you've heard
of the band "The
John Mayers."
These Olympics are so weird aren't
they? But at the same time I kind of
love them, just like my Uncle Marty.
Five days ago, I spent two hours in
front of the TV watching the biath-
lon. For those of you unfamiliar with
this incredibly outdated and wacko
event, it involves would-be serial kill-
ers cross-country skiing with rifles
strapped to their backs, which they
occasionally pull out to shoot at tar-
gets. The weirdest part about watch-
ing this event live on television was
the enthusiasm the NBC broadcasters
had for it. They were discussing the
event as if it was the Superbowl. "The
biathlon is one of only three events
that the United States has never
medaled in, which is shocking. Today
could be the day that all of that chang-
es. Ladies and gentlemen, you could
be witnessing history in the making!"
What I didn't understand at the
time was why is it so "shocking" that
the U.S. hasn't ever medaled in this
ridiculous - borderline psychotic
- sport? Unlike the Eastern Euro-
pean and former Soviet countries

that dominate the biathlon, we have
grocery stores and gun control laws.
This is how people in Uzbekistan feed
their families! They strap on their
skis and guns and go out hunting.
Can you imagine if I grabbed a rifle
and started skiing down State Street.
after a snowstorm? This would be the
interaction:
Crazy evangelist standing on a
soap-box: "Oh my God, he's got a gun!
Someone call the police!"
Then 15 to 30 minutes later the
police would show up and find me
skiing by Zingerman's, rifle in hand.
Police Officer: "Drop the weapon!"
Me: (Laughing) "Oh no officer, you
see, I'm just training for the biathlon.
My dream is to be the first American
to win-"
Police Officer: "I said drop the
f****ng weapon!"
Then I'd get tased or something.
So at this point in the Olympics,
we have incredibly outdated events
that look to have been prevalent in
third-world countries back in the
eighteenth century. Like that weird
relative, completely foreign and
impossible to relate to... but I love it!
Now, fast forward three days and
I'm lying in bed watching snow-
boarder Shaun White win a gold
medal in the Olympics while wearing
baggy pants and looking high off his
ass. White won the halfpipe compe-
tition Wednesday night with a move
called the Double-McTwist, which
ironically is what Ihad for lunch.
Over the course of three days, we
went from one weird event extreme
to another. Now the Olympics are
trying way too hard to be "cool" and
in touch with young America.
These aren't the X Games - these
are the storied and historic Olympics.
I don't want anyone to be able to win a

gold medal while wearing baggy pants.
That's just my rule. I think everyone
should have to wear those spandex
jump suits that show off their junk.
And despite Michael Phelps's incred-
ible success, there shouldn't be any
Olympic events that you can do just as
well in - if not better - while high.
So I was cross-
country skiing
down State Street...
The Olympics adding the halfpipe
and all of these crazy snowboarding
events to the schedule is just like my
uncle coming up to me and asking
if I've heard of the band "The John
Mayers." He has good intentions, but
he should know where and when to
stop trying to relate to me.
Know exactly who or what you
are, Olympics/Uncle Marty. If you
are going to air crazy events like the
biathlon and ski-jump - which I love
- then you should rightfully market
yourself as the Summer Olympics
crazy younger brother who collects
dead insects. Don't try to pretend
that people take these events as seri-
ously as they do the 100-meter dash
or swimming events.
Like my Uncle Marty, the Winter
Olympics are weird as shit, but that's
why we love them. I'm sick of this
mid-life crisis they're going through.
I just want my weird, rifle-bearing
uncle back.
- Lincoln Boehm can be reached
at isboehm@umich.edu.

*I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty,
Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of passionate, strong
student writers to join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board
members are responsible for discussing and writing the
editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU
FOR MORE INFORMATION.


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Friday, February 19, 2010 - 5

Underwhelming'Boss'

Basement Arts's production will stay true to both the Internet series's script and the theater medium.
'Dr. H1orrible' is
stealing the show

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
SeniorArtsEditor
It's no secret by now that this
country has seen better times.
The gap between the haves and
have-nots has
never been
so visible, W
big company UnderCOVer
bailouts are
being handed BOSS
out like free Sundays at
T-shirts at a Sudysa
sporting event 9p.m.
and every- CBS
one jumps at
the opportunity to point fingers.
Because we have economic cri-
sis on our minds, it makes per-
fect sense to have it on our TV
sets as well. CBS's latest series
"Undercover Boss" tries to tug at
heartstrings and give America a
shoulder to cry on, but our gen-
eration's stone-cold cynicism can
see right through the fagade.
In a time when people attri-
bute the widening economic gap
to those on the rich end of the
spectrum, "Undercover Boss"
gives the CEOs of major corpo-
rations the chance to display
their hearts of gold on national
TV and to prove they're really
good guys after all. In the pre-
miere, the President and COO
of Waste Management Larry
O'Donnell assumes the identity
of Randy Lawrence, a new recruit
and subject of a documentary on
entry-level jobs in the waste dis-
posal industry, which explains
the camera crew. O'Donnell says
he's going undercover to see
where the company can be more
efficient, but it's painfully obvi-
ous he's going to learn much more
along the way.
"Undercover Boss" shoves the
best parts of the show in your
face with an overabundant use of
recaps. Before each commercial
break there's a preview of what's
coming next and after each com-

mercial break, a review of what
just happened. Supposedly this
is to create excitement and give
information to those just tuning
in, but it completely ruins the ele-
ment of surprise and dilutes all
the changes of heart and stunning
revelations that are supposed to
be the core of the show.
Those stunning revelations
and changes of heart are cute, but
nothing more. O'Donnell seems
like a nice enough guy, and it's easy
to believe he didn't know how bad
some of the conditions that come
with working at his company were
- his female garbage truck drivers
have to pee in cans because there
isn't time on the route schedule
allotted for a bathroom break. He
seems genuinely concerned, but
in the culmination of the episode
when he gives his big reveal, he
doesn't do much to resolve all he
saw.Sureheholds a meeting(com-
plete with close-ups of other cor-
porate bosses furiously scribbling
notes) and before the credits roll,
there's a nice little segment with
the employees he worked with
that illustrates how much better
their lives are now.
But somehow, it's just not that
convincing. So he promoted a .

few people and relaxed some
productivity targets, but as far
as we know, he didn't raise any
wages and hasn't made any drastic
changes to improve working con-
ditions. Perhaps now, O'Donnell
is making corporate decisions
remembering what it's like on the
other side, but his appearance on
"Undercover Boss" seems more
like good publicity for him and less
CEOs go
undercover for
publicity, not
perspective.
likely to make the company more
employee friendly.
While "Undercover Boss"
had its moments - which can
be attributed to the employees,
who were really the stars in their
genuine gratitude of recognition
- it's not the grand life-changing
series it hoped to be. It tries to be
"Extreme Makeover: Home Edi-
tion," but the honesty rings false.

Basement Arts takes
on Joss Whedon's
internet sensation
By MOLLY MCGUIRE
Daily Arts Writer
Many distinguished Ph.D.s
come to the University to speak on
their areas of
expertise. But Dr. Honible's
this weekend,
University stu-
dents have the Blog
opportunity to T
hear from a new
kind of scholar: p.m., tomorrow
an antihero who at 4& 7 p.m.
boasts a "Ph.D. Walgreen
in horribleness." Dramb Center
Thanks to the Free
student-run
theater group Basement Arts, the
Internet phenomenon "Dr. Hor-
rible's Sing-Along Blog" is being
brought to the University stage.
Joss Whedon, the brains behind
"Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and
"Firefly," created this Web origi-
nal in the midst of the 2008 writ-
er's strike. In that lean time for
TV, Whedon, his brothers Jed and
Zack and Jed's wife, actress Mau-
rissa Tancharoen, helped fill the
void by presenting this musical
for a new age. A postmodern tale
of superheroes and super villains,
love triangles and new media, "Dr.
Horrible" has become a cult sensa-
tion. Originally presented for free
in serial format to a stampede of
Internet fanatics, the musical was a
favorite of critics. To the delight of
its cult following, there is currently
a sequel in the works.
Starring Neil Patrick Harris
("How I Met Your Mother"), the
miniseries follows the struggles of

the surprisingly likeable, aspiring
evil mastermind Dr. Horrible on his
failing attempts at world domina-
tion. It's a twist on the superhero
cliche, as viewers find themselves
rooting for the villain to defeat the
celebrated hero-slash-bully Captain
Hammer (Nathan Fillion, "Castle")
and win the heart of his laundro-
mat crush, Penny (Felicia Day, You-
Tube's "The Guild").
"It's a great story which is
sort of making super villains and
superheroes very much real," said
director Corey Lubowicz, School
of Music, Theatre & Dance junior.
"But it's not really so much about
being superheroes as it is about
people. It's about this guy who has
feelings for this girl and how he
struggles through what he really
wants. And that's the story I really
fell in love with."
Unlike other stage adaptations
of "Dr. Horrible," Basement Arts's
production sticks to the script and
does not add a musical number
for Dr. Horrible's soggy sidekick
Moist. But because it cannot really
replicate the rapid camera cuts of
the film medium, some changes are
necessary.
"We want the spirit of what we
loved about the video and the film
and its story, but we're not really try-
ing to reproduce the video on stage,"
Lubowicz said. "We're tryingto take
the story and bring it to life ina com-
pletely different medium."
To ease the transition from Web-
only.content to the stage, Basement
Arts's adaptation makes use of pro-
jections and comic book motifs. The
quick shifts and multiple locations
of the film medium are replaced
by series of images projected on
screens like comic book pages, giv-
ing a stylized feel to the setting. The
beefy and cheesy superhero Cap-
tain Hammer won't be singing and

flexing his muscles on the top of a
moving van like in the film, but the
creative theater team will be using
technical tricks to create the same
sensation.
"It really has had to be its own
beast,' said School of Music, The-
atre & Dance sophomore Kris
Reilly, who plays Dr. Horrible. "If
we tried to copy what they put on
the Internet, we would never come
quite close to the amazing nuance
and brilliance of what they accom-
plished on film. And it wouldn't
really have a life of its own."
While the production keeps
the iconic parts of "Dr. Horrible"
that fans know and love, Lubowicz
stresses that it will not be some "sad
imitation." The characters will still
be there, but maybe in some differ-
ent outfits. And he encouraged the
actors to create their own believable
and unique characters instead of
impersonating the originals.
"I'm not Neil Patrick Harris,"
Reilly stressed. "The angle that I
bring to the character really has to
be based on my own life and my own
understanding of human beings.
That's the only way he can really
be real and what I hope will be an
engaging character for the audience
to watch go through these things."
The cultural products of Joss
Whedon seem to have this unique
tendency to inspire rabid devo-
tion and fanaticism. It's the kind of
fanaticism that might not be easily
sated by a new version; however, the
team behind the Basement Arts pro-
duction stresses its devotion to the
original.
"We all love it, so we're here to tell
the story as best we can," Lubowicz
said. "I think the fans are going to
reallyenjoy seeing the story brought
to life in a different way, while still
having the familiar elements we all
really love."

Worst Hooters waitress disguise ever.

Music white people like

By SHARON JACOBS
AssistantArtsEditor
What's the deal with continental European bands
having more creative names than their Anglophone
counterparts? The Go Find, an
indie-electronica venture created
by Belgian musician Dieter Ser-
meus, follows in the footsteps of The Go Find
France's Phoenix - but in coolname
only. Musically, the five-piece Flem- Everybody
ish group is far calmer and sweeter Knows It's
than its creatively titled friends. Gonna
Originally conceived as a solo , Happen Only
project, the group's sound could be Not Tonight
described as Owl City minus the Morr Music
musical Prozac overdose. Or maybe
it's Belle & Sebastian channeling
later Pavement - and did Sermeus pick up some ear-
wormingtips from the Wallflowers?
On Everybody Knows It's Gonna Happen Only
Not Tonight, The Go Find brings to mind countless
bands of the "stuff white people like" persuasion.
Yet the album's poppy electro-tweedom is focused,
addictive and ultimately doesn't sound like any
other single group.
Thirty-eight minutes of
swaying side to side.
The Go Find succeeds because it nevertries to tack-
le more than it can in a song. "It's Automatic" uses a
repetitive and simple melody to entrench itself in the
listener's head - there's nothing remarkable here, but
there's nothing to fault either. The track is an auto-
piloted radio-friendly hit, and when playful synths
bounce in near the end, it's automatically endearing.
Nearing five-and-a-half minutes, the gentle title
track is a veritable epic compared to the other songs.
Sermeus's murmured yearning "Let me take you back
/to the'90s/when we were teens" is about as straight-
forward as lyrics can get. But the track saunters along
like a pleasant, rambling walk in the park on a drizzly

Lightspeed makes life sweeter

By JASMINE ZHU would-be rabble-rousers, (here's
DailyArts Writer looking at you, The Kooks, Razor-
light, et al.).
Lightspeed Champion's Devonti "Smooth Day (at the Library)"
Hynes was that emo kid from high showcases Hynes at the pinnacle of
school who had his (post-)adolescent despair. Hynes
too many feel- * compares himself to a dusty book
ings for his own on a shelf, patiently waiting to be
good - a crazy, L hspeed checked out. "Please take me down
mixed-up teen- again, my love," he endearingly
ager with nothing n implores, while the trickling sound
to lose. And on Life is Sweet! of bells as a sparse backdrop add an
his new album, Nice to air of nostalgia. It's actually really
Life is Sweet! Nice Meet You adorable rather than annoying.
to Meet You, he . With all Hynes's penchant for
takes the liberty angst, it makes sense that he worked
of emoting to all with Saddle Creek producer Mike
of his gloomy little heart's content. Mogis on his debut album, Falling
Hynes's angst is self-referential off the Lavendar Bridge, which is
to the point that listeners realize reflected in the tone of his newest
he's being ironic - as if the exag- release. Hynes's unfettered anguish
geratedly wailing violins weren't is reminiscentofSaddle Creek's own
already enough of a dead give- crown prince of darkness, Conor
away. At the ripe old age of 25, the Oberst. But while Oberst revels in

Where Dr. Suess goes rock climbing.
day as a jazzy sax adds color to the scene.
Whether on purpose or not, Sermeus's voice tends
to emulate Pavement frontman Stephen Malkmus's
simple and unexpectedly sweet tone. "Cherry Pie" is
the most obvious exapple, but dainty bells and basic
harmonies place the song squarely out of the reach
of the messy '90s. Instead, The Go Find settles com-
fortably into cutesy kiddie pop with this story of an
always-second-fiddle boy who's "sweet as cherry pie."
The Go Find's synthesized musings are concise
enough to stay interesting despite the group's lack
of innovation. Everybody Knows is classier and more
mature than its twee influences would suggest. And
since the album peters out at 38 minutes, it's hardly a
challenging listen.
The tracks often feel formulaic - slow guitar
strums here, some electronic ornamentation there,
verse-chorus-verse-chorus-fade. But then again, The
Go Find isn't pushing for a revolution.
The group makes gently swaying music to listen to
while drinking a mug of hot chocolate and gazing out a
window at the February snow. It's the epitome of "not
bad" - and that's pretty good. Even though no enve-
lopes were pushed in the making of this album, Every-
body Knows delivers a pleasant romp through The Go
Find's unique, if rather unexciting, repertoire.

ARTS IN BRIEF

England-bred Hynes is making a
return to his formative teenage
years in a coming-of-age album
rife with disillusionment, despon-
dency and all those other quint-
essential adolescent insecurities.
And he doesn't hold back, either.
His inflected Brit-pop vocals
are often tremulous, wavering
on lines such as, "I know you're
happy / And that's lovely / But it
won't keep me company," from
opening track "Dead Head Blues."
He's pouty and bitchy and sullen
and wistful. It's the last attribute
that proves to be Hynes's major
asset, and it clearly separates him
from the hordes of whiny Brit-pop

Teen angst
channeled in a
(post) coming-of-
age album.
his own wallowing, Hynes has a dif-
ferent type of bright-eyed eagerness
-there's asense things will only get
better from here. It's a tragedy you
can dance to.
"Marlene," an album standout,

Steve Urkel's hipster phase.
is an upbeat, funky fresh tune
that's almost satirically comi-
cal - pairing jaunty tambourines
against goofily depressive lyrics
like: "Everybody knows you want
a baby / And God knows every-
body wants one, too."
OnLife isSweet!Nice toMeet You,
Hynes accomplishes the remark-
able task of being sweet without
becoming saccharine in the pro-
cess. The kid's all right - his corny
lyrics are deliberately overdone
and meta enough so that listeners
don't feel like awkward losers for
being able to relate to them. So feel
free to pull on your skinniest pair
of jeans, don a black hoodie and get
your teenage kicks on again. Some-
times it's fun to be sad.

CONCERT PREVIEW
Swedish Radio
Choir comes to'U'
Swedish Radio Choir
Sunday at 4 p.m.
Hill Auditorium
Tickets from $10
The University Musical Society
is known for presenting widely
acclaimed music, dance and the-
ater performances from all over
the globe. The latest act to hit
the stage is one of the world's
foremost a cappella choirs - the,
Swedish Radio Choir.
Founded in 1925, the Swedish

Radio Choir didn't find its footing
until 1952, when it bloomed under
the inspired direction of choirmas-
ter and conductor Eric Ericson.
Ericson developed the choir into
a finely tuned entity that grew to
perform even the most advanced
choral works, including those by
famed composers Richard Strauss
and MaxReger. In fact, whenSwiss
composer Arthur Honegger heard
the choir sing his own music for
the first time, he became an avid
admirer, proclaiming the choir
could sing just about anything that
was handed to them.
Since then, the Swedish Radio
Choir has developed into an
international sensation, having
collaborated with renowned con-

ductors like Riccardo Muti, Clau-
dio Abbado and Valery Gergiev. it
is currently under the guidance of
Ragnar Bohlin, the award-win-
ning director of the San Francisco
Symphony Chorus.
Made up of 32 talented vocal-
ists, the Swedish Radio Choir
can be recognized by its exqui-
site blending of harmonies. The
choir tackles all kinds of musi-
cal arrangements from Johann
Sebastian Bach to Giovanni Pier-
luigi da Palestrina, as well as
numerous modern composers.
With their expansive repertoire
and international acclaim, the
Swedish Radio Choir is a fitting
addition to the UMS roster.
ANUARUMUGAM


6 - Friday, February 19, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

FOR RENT
! 2 BEDROOM, completely remod-
eled, large kitchen with modern appli-
ances. Full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. Pet friendly. Call Laura for
your private tour at Church Street
Apartments LLC. 734-994-0644.
2-BED: 2-BATH BI-LEVELS !
Walnut @ Geddes
Heat, water, furn., I parking spot incl.
Perfect for 4 to share
Varsity Management(734) 668-1100.
! 4 ELEVENLOFTS open house event
Thur-Sat, Feb. 18-20, 9a-9p. Tour Ann
Arbor's #1 student housing, 2 blocks
from campus. Enjoy free catered food,
get dinner-on-us at signing. Select
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start,
including single bedrooms. Per-person
contracts. rates from $655 + all utilities
at flat rate. All-inclusive per-semester
rates from $4450. Visit or call for de-
tails. 734-998-4400.
www.4eleveniofts.com
! 4-BEDROOMS!
Baldwin & Cambridge
.Hardwood floors & 10' ceilings
Beautiful, quiet neighborhood
Heat, water, furnishings, parking incl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
1221 S. State #2
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/nodern appliances, fall size
wshr/dryr ittcladed and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg itel. Call Michigan Really, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
! AWESOME LOCATION 9 Bed-
room, 3 bathrooms, fully furn, 2 large
fridges, full size washer & dryer, on
site parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
! CENTRAL CAMPUS 2-BDRMS !
Two S. Forest locations w/ free wireless
Tappan @ Oakland w/ several floor
plans avail.
521 Walnut to choose your furniture.
1039 Baldwinm w/ brand new kitchens
and a yard.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.

'std and -
20 Locations to Se
Studio - 4 Bedro
Central Campus Do
North Campus We
Voted one of
Best Landlords
Private Resident Shu
24 hr MaintenanceS
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furni
High Speed Intern
Pets Welme!
Study Rooms
73 4.74 1.9
www.annarborapartm
!!!!MAY TO MAY!!
AND
SHORT TERM LEAS
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bed
on UM Campus: 734-761-82:
www.postrealtyproperties.co
!!LETS MAKE A DEAL!!
rates available.
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm a
Fall 2010, Across from E
Beautiful, expansive spaces,
lore, furnised/unfurnished.,
prkg, free heat & water. Chec
site www.churchstreetrental
Call Ann 734-320 1244.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of
discount! Spectacular Nort
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
321 E.Liber
6 BDRM APT
$2800
SEPT. I,2010
2 BLOCKS TO CAM
2 BLOCKS TO DOWN'
4 PARKING SPAC
WILLIAM COPI PROP
(734) 649-554
$$$ SWEET DEALS
At
Prime Student Housit
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedroot
Make s an ofer we can'tr
734-761-8000
primesh.com
**2 BDRM**. WSHR/DY
Walking distance to UM Me
ter. $800/mo, mel water. Cal
5288 or 248-855-3143.
-AVAILABLE FALL 2010
bdrm. house. Walking dist:
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Co
at 734-276-3876.

veYou
oms
vntown
ns Side
the
2009
ittle
taff
s
ture
et

It Pays to Stay at
The Courtyards!
par imiv

All inclusive rates
A No more high utility bills
Q Free Internet
Q Free satellite TV
 Fully furnished

THE
COURTYARD$S"
Oo STU D ENT APARTMENTS
1780 Broadway (734) 994-6007
ents.net www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
!! **AVAILABLE FOR FALL: 6
bdrm house. Price just reduced.
ES $2,695 514 Lawrene**
2 bath, free high speed internet, easy ac-
cess to central campus, nursing , medi-
cal and dental schools. Dishwasher and
room apts laundry. Parking available.
20 or visit Call Campus Mgt (c) 734-663-4101.
m Ask about our specials!
New ow *FALL2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
partments. Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
ast Quad. $1699/mo. 734-665-8825.
closets ga-
Indry, free *FALL2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
k our web- Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
s.com or Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
M *IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
h Campus LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
ty 2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
. www.annarborapartments.net
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-
PUS, 6380. www.benaminrentals.com
TOWN 5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
ES Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, lndry, tenants pay all util. 5
ERTIES bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrn-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-96-99.
19
420 S. Division #2
$$$
g 5 BDRM
refuse! $2200
SEPT 2010
R in unit. COPI PROPERTIES
dical Cen- (734) 663-5609
1 734-395-
-Large 3 7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
,ace from 2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
ac Mike bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all atil. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
8 MONTH LEASES for fall. Two
houses to choose from: 7 bdrm for 8 at
S. University and Washtenaw, 6 bdrm
uzzle for 7- Mid S. Forest area. 734-260-4003
v A ^^^^YOUR MOM CALLED^^^^
rmally, for She wants you to live with
Prime!!!
e nerve Reduced Rates.... at Great Locations!
arm 734-761-8000
primesh.com
Park" AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
one baths. Add FREE interet, HD directs
nt with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hil apart-
eeder ments! Call today to reserve your new
UZZLE: home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarorapartmens.net
S A M
A T R A
TA M E APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
E L O W Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
A L IE 877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
T E R 8 AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
D E T apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
S T L 0ELdry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
A H I P
R E TD E
1 E R M110 s
Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people

" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
S HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
as " Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
02/19/10 wwtnnre 7p 1-n30e
www.annarborapartments.net

Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
UJiWvC
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrne. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
diing and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened ir porch. Parking
aend ldry. Call Michigan Really, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refiished hardwood floors
on move its day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 hdrnm hoase, hard-
wood fkoors, dishwasher, onsite ,aan-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010..
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!

alhe Midhigan Daily
PRESENTS THE
Online Classfeud
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt ci 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
F ~ower Studio & 1
TwrPlaza Condominium
734-663-1530
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.

wwvarsetymanagemrnt rum
Management
625 Church St (734668-1100
1039 Bafdwin
Studio, 2 Ieross 4 Bedrooms
unreevaby pao h apr rrebts
3rdoo f s hg efigs, bay
windowrs,aneffipf es in a
b'a u tIsnverted aeen.
'' 6acyaren aquiet
nei gbo hoo teat, wate,
furnishiege, & parkingep PetrP
Cafrfor youryersnalize tour!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near
Ctral Campus. $500-750. - Includes
H& W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers.aRooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat,' water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop ijsbcglobal.net or
visit www.jnsprop.com
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net


0


1
1
1
1
1
1
2,
2
2.
2
2'
31
3
3
3,
3:
3
4;

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Pt
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Candy "whose 39 Eternal, and a 48 Exam g
1 Unceremoniously success is out of hint to this intrades
breaks up with this world" puzzle's phonetic short
61996 film that 4 Downing St. theme 51 Likethe
won Best Original bigwigs 40 Convinced near an
Screenplay 5 Pose 41 Brewski bone
1 Pro bono TV ad 6 Botanist's study 43 Furthermore 52 Rear
4 As a friend, to 7 Hearing-related 44 Unsatisfying 54 "SouthI
Frangois 8 Wiper response to rating
5 Greg Evans 9 Migratory African "lhy?" 59 H+, for
comic strip critter 45 Positons 60 Work u
6 Pumpuck outpun 10 PFin osewn 7Au ela 6 ln
7 Newly certified 11 Firebird maker 47 Aqua Vela 61 Plant
coroner's 12 Guest let? cumpetetor 62 Rhine
assignment? 13 Siren, for one ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P
9 Wash. Nats' 18 Predicament
division 23 Pride follower, so T A T A B S S S T
0 Daffy duo? they say E C 0 G R I M A C E
1 Generation 2511's not true R T E R E C O L O R
2 In pursuit of 26 Breaksup R E H E E L D OW N B1
4 Lord's ointment? 27 Baroque stringed A D 0 R E P E N S Y,
9 Isn't wrong? instrument
0 Flood deterrents 28 Raison d' C O L 0 S S A L AL '
1 Words spoken 32 "No Exit" E N D S EYE O V A
with a yawn, dramatist O V E R D R A W
perhaps 34 Half of MMCXX B A S P E R R A S
3 TV palomino 36 "What I look 0 N E MIA N U L T R
4 Mutt with a forward
conscience? continued~ B A N A L D E N S A
5 Annoying immaturity C R OS SW A L K S M
negotiator followed by A C R O E N V E L O P
8 Sitting Bull telling death": Dave T H A N I T E R A T E
raunchyjokes? Barry Y S R E S P 0 D
2 Copsmay keep 37 Hung. neighbor
them on 38 Coulees xwordeditor@aol.com

0
0
S

suspects
46 Rabbitlike
rodents
47 Gaif War reporter
Peter
49 Peddle
50 Taxi with no
empty seats?
53 Disppointed
postgame
comment
55 Back muscle, for
short
56 Nest builder
57 Seventh-largest
58 Topping for
schnitzel?
63 Legal ending
64 Bugs once
sought by cops
65 Havens
66 Old map inits. '
67 Steamed
68 Take forcibly
DOWN
1 Standup lor
2 Combat outfit

1 2 3 4 s 6 7 $ 9 10 11
14 15 t6
20 21 2 2
24 25 26 27 28 29
30 31 32
33 34
35 36 37
38 39 40 41 42 43 44
46 47
49 s0 s1 52
53 54 s5s56
57 58 59 60 61 62
63 64 65
BDan Naddar 7
(c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

THIS IS YOUR TICKET TO
PARADISE!
BRING THIS COUPON FOR
FREE FOOD AND PRIZES!



1 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Pescovitz: 'U' willhave the 'premier ;ow p 1

institute' for health care research

NCRC
From Page 1
going to revolutionize the activities
at NCRC," Pescovitz said. "In many
ways what we're thinking is that this
isgoingtotransformthe way welook
at research."
Pescovitz said in the interview
that she believes the biointerfaces
institute and imaging institute
would bring abroad range of collabo-
rators together.
"They are anchors that we envi-
sion will attract a whole variety of
different research programs that
will then be attracted by this new
technology to the site," Pescovitz
said. "They are so interdisciplinary
andbecause they are so diverse, they
will be of interest to investigators
from avarietyof different schools'
Pescovitz added that the tech-
nologies that the NCRC will focus
on are important to a wide range of
scientists.
"You can envision chemists and
engineers and life scientists all
requiring those different technolo-
gies," Pescovitz said. "So what we're
really hoping will now happen is the
programs we are hoping to solicit
will be interdisciplinary and will
PROTEST
From Page 1
provide any details regarding these
allegations so that Andiamo of
Dearborn could address them with
the true facts."
ROC-MI is an independent, non-
profit organization, which aims
to support restaurant workers in
southeast Michigan and has been
working to improve conditions in
the restaurant industry.
Social Work graduate student
Jaimie Philip, an ROC-MI intern,
said the organization began its
campaign against Andiamo restau-
rant by delivering a demand letter
to the restaurant on Nov. 5, which
all the workers involved inthe cam-
paign, had signed.
"(It) stated what the concerns
were to the restaurant, and it gave
them the opportunity to start nego-
tiations with us, but that didn't
happen," Philip said. "Part of the
demand letter states that if they
don't respond within two weeks,
the workers will take legal and
community action, so that's when
the protests began."
Marla Linderman, an attorney
with Linderman Law P.C., released
a statement to The Michigan Daily
today on behalf of the restaurant.
In the statement representatives of
Andiamo restaurant wrote that the
restaurant initially tried solving
the situation with ROC-MI before

take advantage of those specific
technologies that we're hoping will
be anchored there."
In her e-mail yesterday, Pesco-
vitz also announced that faculty and
staff working on projects to improve
the quality of the health care system
would also be moved to the NCRC to
create a central, more collaborative
hub for the work.
Pescovitz wrote in the e-mail that
she hopes the move "will develop
the nation's premier institute for
research in health care services" -
including howto effectively manage,
organize, deliver and finance the
best quality of health care possible.
According to information post-
ed. on the University of Michigan
Health System's website, approxi-
mately 125 faculty and 450 staff
membersawill be moved to the NCRC
to better coordinate their work
across disciplines.
"The health services research is
a unique opportunity to aggregate
scientists that have been spread out
across all of the different partsnof our
campus," Pesovitz said in the inter-
view. ~
However, Pescovitz added that
she also envisions partnerships with
government and private research
groups, including the Veterans
the group filed a lawsuit againstthe
company.
"Andiamo of Dearborn abso-
lutely responded to the demand
letter and offered to investigate
the claims," the document stated.
"However, ROC-Michigan made it
clear, on more than one occasion,
that they were not interested in
any sort of constructive dialogue;
they just wanted to cause damage
to Andiamo of Dearborn's reputa-
tion."
Additionally, Andiamo officials
claim they had two business days to
respond to the group's demand let-
ter, not two weeks.
Despite the restaurant's claims,
ROC-MI and University students
have been protesting outside the
restaurant every Friday night at
7 p.m. According to MBA student
Mark Birkett, who said he's a reg-
ular protester, the group-usually
consists of community members,
restaurant workers and University
students.'
"We stay on the sidewalk outside
of Andiamo," he said. "We usually
just march there with our picket
signs that say 'Hungry for Justice.'
We have noise makers as well as
improv drum sets, shakers and a
cow bell."
Philip said the organization held
a special action protest in front of
Andiamo on Valentine's Day, since
it is "one of the biggest days in the
restaurant industry."
"The theme of the day is 'Love

Administration and Arbor Research
Collaborative for Health.
Though yesterday's announce-
ment willshift more staff and faculty
members to the NCRC, other faculty
interested in making the move, but
not associated with the main focus-
es of the complex are still eligible
to apply. Applicants to the NCRC
must complete an application that
describes their collaborative work,
whichwillbereviewedbyaprogram
review committee.
While yesterday's announcement
means that the University will begin
fillingthefacility, University officials
don't believe it will be filled to capac-
ity for several more years. In fact,
when the property was purchased
last year, University President Mary
Sue Coleman said she wanted to
allow 10years to fill the space.
At the time, Coleman said the
bargain of the building's purchase
would serve as an investment that
should be strategically planned out
to make the most of the new space
and not simply shift research proj-
ects from one buildingto another.
The NCRC is in an almost 2 mil-
lion square-foot space that was
formally owned by Pfizer. The Uni-
versity completed the $108 million
purchase of the facility in mid-June.
Your Server,"' she said. "We're
passing out chocolates and things
to customers as they come in to
thank them for their support of the
workers and also to educate them
about the campaign a little bit."
Starting tonight, ROC-MI will
be holding monthly vigils in front
of the restaurant to show further
support for the workers. Interfaith
Worker Justice in Detroitis helping
to organize these events.
Philip added that ROC-MI will
continue protesting "until we win,"
adding that the group has been try-
ing to expand campus awareness
about the campaign and get more
University students involved.
Birkett said there is currently
a Project Community class with a
whole section devoted to educat-
ing students about the campaign
as well as getting people out to
protest. He said he hopes to work
with Students Organizing for
Labor and Economic Equality and
the Roosevelt Institute's Center on
Urban Planning and Community
Development on a workshop about
labor rights at the upcoming Michi-
gan Social Justice Conference in
March.
Though the organization has
plans to expand the protests, the
restaurant said in the statement
that they."stand by its outstanding
record and reputation in the com-
munity" and the "community has
been outstanding in its support of
Andiamo."

suit since she had not seen a copy
of it yet.
However, on Feb. 8 - prior to
yesterday's lawsuit - University,
spokesman Rick Fitzgerald told the
Daily the regents meeting didn't
violate any regulations set forth in
the Michigan Open Meetings Act.
Fitzgerald said at the time the
meeting did not fall under the
act because it was an "informal"
meeting of the Board of Regents,
not a "closed" meeting as set forth
in the act.
Additionally, Fitzgerald said
the meeting was not even classifi-
able as a meeting as defined in the
act. The Michigan Open Meetings
REGENTS
From Page 1
an accomplished mathematician,
a (Arthur F.) Thurnau profes-
sor, a dedicated teacher and most
important a respected leader."
Hanlon, who is also a mathe-
matics professor, will begin work
in his new role on July 1 under a
five-year contract, though Sulli-
van won't be leaving the Univer-
sity until July 31. For the month of
July Sullivan will act as a special
advisor to the president.
REGENTS APPROVE
TRANSIT CENTER
CONSTRUCTION PLANS
The regents also unanimously
approved improvements to the
Central Campus Transit Center.
The project includes adding
bike lanes and expanding bus
shelters. In addition, the plan
calls for resurfacing North Uni-
versity Avenue between Fletcher
and Church Streets and decreas-
ing the number of motor vehicle
lanes from two on each side of the
street to one.
In addition, a new water main
will be put in as the street is being
resurfaced. The larger water main
will provide greater fire protec-
tion to the surrounding buildings.
The number of crosswalks
will also be reduced to stream-
line pedestrian traffic. Addition-
ally, renovations will be made to
the Ruthven Museum to increase
handicap accessibility.

Act defines a meeting as "the con-
vening of a public body at which a
quorum is present for the purpose
of deliberating toward or render-
ing a decision on a public policy."
Fitzgerald said because the
meeting was not subject to the act,
no meeting minutes were kept.
Asked why the University post-
ed a notice for the Feb. 3 informal
meeting of the Board of Regents
- a requirement set forth for all
meetings under the Michigan
Open Meetings Act Fitzgerald
said it was done as a courtesy to
the campus community. He also
said he believed it was a standard
practice that had been in place
for the almost one year he has-
worked at the University.
The Michigan football pro-
gram has been under investiga-
Hank Baier, associate vice pres-
ident for facilities and operations,
told the Regents that the renova-
tions will make the area easier to
traverse and safer for pedestrians
and motorists alike.
"A number of congestion and
pedestrian safety issues exist and
a lot of this has come about over
the years as we continue to add
more and more bus transporta-
tion," he said.
The $4.5 million project is
being funded by the University
and the federal stimulus. Baier
said usually the city of Ann Arbor
would help pay for a project like
this, but it is currently strapped
for funds.
"We will often do cost shar-
ing with the city, but in this
case, we're picking up additional
funding because the city doesn't
have the funds," Baier said. "So,
typically, they would pick up the
water main and they wquld pick
up portions of the street repav-
ing."
University officials said they
expect the project will be com-
pleted in the fall.
REGENTS HEAR UPDATE
ON REACCREDITATION
PROCESS
Geology Prof. Ben van der
Pluijm, who is heading the Uni-
versity's accreditation team, gave
a presentation at yesterday's
meeting to inform the regents
about the status of the 'Universi-
ty's accreditation process.
The University is required

Friday, February 19, 2010 - 7
tion by the NCAA since Oct. 23
when NCAA Vice President for
Enforcement David Price sent a
letter of inquiry to Coleman.
At the time, Price wrote he
hoped to complete the investi-
gation by Dec. 31, 2009, but that
the date was a goal and not a firm
deadline. Neither the University
nor the NCAA has released any
information about the NCAA
probe since itbegan.
When the allegations against
the Michigan football program
were first brought forward
in a Free Press article in late
August 2009, the University also
launched an internal investiga-
tion into the matter. To date, Uni-
versity officials have not released
any information regarding that
investigation.
by law to be reaccredited every
ten years in order to qualify for
federal financial aid. As part of
the reaccreditation, the Higher
Learning Commission requires
the University to complete a self-
study. The study focuses on five
specific topics outlined by the
HLC - the University's mission,
its preparedness for the future,
the in-classroom experience, out
of classroom engagement and
application of knowledge.
Additionally, the HLC allows
institutions that are expected to
be reaccredited to choose an extra
self-study on a topic that appeals
to them. Because the University
falls into this category, University
officials have decided to do a self-
study on internationalism at the
University.
In his presentation, van der
Pluijm said there are many rec-
ommendations in his commit-
tee's report that outline ways for
the University to have more of an
international feel.
"We also want to emphasize
that in a place like Michigan that
internationalization is not just
getting more kids abroad," van
der Pluijm said. "Getting kids
out of the Ann Arbor campus is
not the only scenario. Bringing
people to campus can be just as
valuable."
The process will culminate
next month when a 13-member
team from the HLC comes to
Ann Arbor from March 15 to 17 to
observe the campus and to meet
with high-level administrators
and other University leaders.

hhe wire~
FOLLOW THE DAILY'S NEWS BLOG.
michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

CORNERHOUSE
APARTMENTS
205 S. State St.
on corner of State and
Washington
2 & 3 bdrm. Apt. Homes
Beautifully Furnished
Outstanding views
Garage parking
Central air
9 foot high ceilings
Premier campus location
Models open daily
734-741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with fall descrip-
tions, features, sod prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!

NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic campus, Law &
Business schools. Groups or individual.
SINGLE RM LEASES. $585/bdrm &
up. SIX-BD RM UNITS $3,510.00 and
up 734-418 205
www.828greeneapts.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRALCCAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
HELP WANTED
!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No cup. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.

NOW HIRING RESERVATIONS
agents for busy call center in Ann Ar-
bor. Free Parking! Must be available
evenings and weekends. Please apply
Mon-Fri 2-5pm at 605 S. Main, Suite 2.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS -Children's
sleep-away camp, Northeast Pennsylva-
nia 6/19-8/15. If you love children and
want a caring, fun environment we
need Counselors, Instructors and other
staff for our summer camp. On cam-
pus Interviews February 25th. Select
The Camp That Selects The Best Staff!
Call 1.215.944.3069 or apply on-line
at www.campwaynegirls.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com
TICKETS & TRAVEL
PC BEACH SPRING Break 2010
Gulf-front Condos; 1,2,3 BRs
Walk to Clubs & Concerts
www.whisperingseas.com
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, Texas
Beachside Condo. 2 full beds & 2 full
sleeper sofas. Full Kitchen, internet, ca-
ble. Balcony overlooks the pool. 40
yrds from tennis courts to beach. $700/
6 nights. $350 Deposit. 956-574-9000
or peterl@bordertech.com

For Saturday, Feb. 20, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is a year when your spirituality
and inner being can mature in a positive
way. Primarily, it's because you'll find it
easier to put the needs of others before
your own.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Since this is going to be one of the
nost popular years you've had in more
than a decade, get used to it. You're
learning that the way to have more
friends is to be friendly!
GEMINI
(May 21 toJune 20)
You have an opportunity to promote
your good name this year. Something
will happen that elevates your reputation
in your own little circle.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Travel opportunities and chances to
promote yourself in publishing, the
media, medicine, the law and anything
having to do with higher education bode
well for you this year. Pack your bags!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
This year you definitely can benefit
from the wealth and resources of others.
Keep your pockets open. Don't be afraid
to accept what is offered to you.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Do remember that this year you can
improve your closest friendships and
partnerships. Even relations withgthe
general public will improve. fveryone
loves you.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 Ia Oct. 22)
Continue to look far ways In improve
your job. yoar work ara, yasur duties or
even to gel a better job. All these things
are possihle this year

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
What a playful, promising year ahead!
Love affairs, romance, fun vacations,
sports, enjoyable activities with children
and the creative arts are a blessing for
you in 2010.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Not since 1998 have you had such a
wonderful opportunity to improve your
family life, your home and your domes-
tic scene. This is also a wonderful year
for real estate.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Because your daily optimism is higher
this year, you're a happier person.
Because you're a happier person, others
want to be in your company. Because
others want to be in your company, you
feel loved.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
There is very good potential with your
earnings this year. Important purchases
will make you feel richer as well.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
You are the winning sign this year!
Lucky Jupiter is back in Pisces for the
first time since 1998. You're surrounded
by horseshoes.
YOU BORN TODAY You're the kind
of pesnon people remember. You make
an impression on others. You're sensi-
tive but determined. Essentially, you
appear easygoing, and cooperative; how
ever, underneath, you're strong, willful
and intent on success. You manl reapect
far what you do. You're a good team
player. This year you will burr an oppor-
tunity Ia study or learn something valu-
able.
Birlhdate of. Rihanna, singer; Ivana
Tramp, socialite; Buffy Sainte-Marie,
singer.

V 2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.



8 - Friday, February 19, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Friday, February 19, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Dunking was not my destiny

'Again."
"You don't want to get tired, you
know."
"Yeah, Iknow, but let's do it one
more time."
his was before the ninth
(or tenth?) try at my first
dunk in yesterday's dunk
contest, put on by the Big Ten Net-
work "Hoops
on Campus"
program.
The dunk
was pretty
standard.
Basically, it
was a far less-
athletic version DAILY
of Jason Kidd- WRITER
Kenyon Martin
circa 2003: My
buddy and president of the Maize
Rage, Nick Mattar, would laythe
ball off the backboard and I would
follow him and slam it home with
one hand.
Nick was having no trouble run-
ning up and laying the ball off the
backboard. It was me who was the
problem.
I had two major physiological
setbacks working against me: my
pedestrian leaping ability and my
small hands, which made it hard
for me to catch the ball and'throw
it down in one motion.
"I don't know if this is goingto
work," Nick said.
I nodded. "Yeah, it probably
won't."
Dunking is trickier than people
think, especially when you aren't
blessed with prodigious fast-twitch
muscles. There are questions: how
much warm-up do you need? How
much warm-up time will make
you too tired? Do you stretch, or
do you want to go in a little tight,
like coils?
After practicing for a bit -

sweating and breathing relatively
hard - I was approached by one of
the producers of the show, Lindsay
Sikula. She needed me to sign a
waiver, in case I injured myself in
what would definitely be extremely
embarrassing fashion.
"And don't warm up too much,"
she said. "Everyone does that."
"Oh...thanks," I said, immedi-
ately sitting down on the nearest
bench, trying frantically to rest
my legs.
Michigan coach John Beilein
and players DeShawn Sims, Zack
Novak and Stu Douglass were all
in attendance at the event. Pre-
sumably, this would give them
all a chance to critique my failure
on national television, as I have
done too many times to them this
season.
Novak walked in the gym to
find me sitting on my bench trying
to rest. I was also stretching my.
calves, thinking it was best to go
in lotse. (Novak, in case anyone
missed it, won the dunk contest at
Michigan Madness at the begin-
ning of the season. On his final
dunk, he did a through-the-legs
reverse. The man knows dunking.)
"You don't want to stretch,"
Novak said. "You want your mus-
cles to be tight."
Perfect.
The Big Ten Network didn't
half-ass this event. They sectioned
off half the gym. They brought in
their high-profile color commenta-
tor, Jim Jackson. They set up an
entirely Separate court with two
mobile hoops. Big Ten Network
banners were smattered all over
the walls.
The evening started with a brief
interview with John Beilein. While
talking with reporters, Beilein
called me over from my bench,
insisting he saw me somewhere
recently.

"Are you Catholic?"
No...
"Where did I see you?"
I ran into him at the popular
barbershop Coach and Foura
couple weeks ago.
"That's it! The barber."
After that, he stuck around for
a few minutes and left. I was just
very happy he remembered my
name. .
After Beilein left, Jim Jackson
did a short dem6nstration with
Sims. Sims showed the viewers at
home how to set a pick and close
out your man on offense in order to
establish position in the post. He's
one of the best in the country at '
this. After the segment, it was time
for the 3-point shooting contest.
And it was an unmitigated
disaster.
The first contestant missed
every...single...shot. The second
made four, which by comparison
made him look like Steve Kerr
circa 1996. The last contestant
made one. Oy.
And then finally, it was time
for the dunk contest. Despite my
insistent pleas with Lindsay the
producer to sandwich me in the
middle, the order had me going
last.
Awesome.
There were three of us dunkers:
me, James and Seth. There was
agreement between James and I
- Seth was by far the best. He was
just going to win. Period. We were
fighting for second place.
Unfortunately, it was Seth who
was slated to go first.
And on his first dunk, he proved
us right. Seth did a two-handed
180, somethingI could do if the
producers agreed to my original
request of lowering the hoop to
nine feet. James followed that with
a relatively impressive dunk of his
own, essentially a one-handed 180.

Then it was my turn. I called
Nick out from the crowd. I figured
I wasn't going to wow anyone with
my jumping ability, so I would have
to geta little creative. I decided
I had to go with the assist off the
backboard.
Nick lined up at the free throw
line, while I stood justbeyond the
arc. He laid it perfectly off the
board...and I missed.
Undaunted, I picked myself up
from the cheerleaders and dancers
the Big Ten Network had lined up
along the baseline and told Nick to
run it again.
I caught the ball at the top of
my jump, my stubby little fingers
gripping the rock as hard as they
could, and slammed it home. With
authority.
It was a nice moment. I received
some words of approval from
Novak and Jim Jackson, and they
told me I was moving on to the sec-
ond round.
Wait - what?
See, I had only prepared one
dunk. Never did I think I would
get an opportunity for two dunks.
But here I was, going up against a
real leaper. I turned to Nick: What
should we do?
Seth decided he would put the
contest away quickly. He lined up
his friend in front of the basket and
promptly hopped over him like
he was a puddle in the sidewalk,
throwing it down with one hand.
I knew he had it. Nick and I
tried a couple of feeble alley-oops
before I just put down a resigned
two-hander. Afterward, Novak just
shrugged his shoulders.
"There's not a whole lot to say,"
he said.
Seth took home the trophy. He
richly deserved it. Overall, though
I had my time in the sun, I learned
one important lesson:
Stay grounded.

AREtL BOND/Daily
Junior Carl Hagelin has been a key member of Mchgan's penalty k:illthis season.
''ready for top*
power pay unit

Blue falls in first OT game to Nittany Lions

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
With its year on life support, the
Michigan hockey team may need its
one constant - the penalty kill - to
keep its season
alive. N.Mich.a
But it won't be " Mcg
easy, especially at Michigan
with Northern Matchup:
Michigan look- N. Michigan
ing to pull the 14-10-B; Mich-
plug this weekend igan 17-15-1
coming into Yost When: Friday
with the CCHA's 7:35 P.M.
best power play.
If the Wolver- Where: Yost
ines want to erase
the two-point
lead the Wildcats hold over them in
the standings, they will have to shut
down an unusual extra-man attack.
Northern puts two forwards on the
goal line on opposite sides of the
net, while the other forward stays in
front ofthe goalie.
The style is abnormal, but undou-
betdly successful. Northern Michi-
gan scores on 22.7 percent of its
power plays, by far the best in the
conference. And the Wildcats carry
momentum with them into this
weekend's series after converting on
three-of-seven power play chances
last weekend.
"It's the same power play they
had last year, but the personnel is
getting older and better, and they're
moving the puck pretty well," Mich-
igan coach Red Berenson said. "We
have the same power play, but we're
not as good at it."
The Wolverines' penalty kill,
ranked seventh in the country, is
charged with stopping Northern
Michigan's man-advantage. After
being in the top three nationally
for much of the season, the unit has
dropped in recent weeks.
Michigan gave up three power
play goals during last weekend's
sweep atthe hands ofNebraska-Oma-
ha. Most of the Mavericks' power play
goals weren't typical style, occurring

on the rush. But the penalty killers
still claim responsibility.
"Maybe (we need to) be a little bit
more patient when we forecheck,"
junior forward Carl Hagelin said. "It
should be an important thing this
weekend. I think our in-zone PK
is still good enough to shut a team
down, so hopefully we're going to
do that this weekend."
The penalty kill has struggled
keeping conventional power play
goals out of the net as well. The
three power play goals given up
last weekend added to a four-game
stretch in which the unit is killing
just 76 percent of power plays.
"Maybe we're not committed to
the PK," Hagelin said. "Sometimes
it could be just lucky bounces from
their team.. It's probably a mix of a
lot of different things."
But if Berenson has his way, the
struggling unit won'tdecide the game.
The Wolverines have scored twice
in their last 15 chances on the man-
advantage, and the power play has
failed to producetconsistentlyall sea-
son. The coaching staff is still trying
to mix and match an ideal group and
has said they will tweak the unit for
another time this weekend.
"You can't make it the whole
game, but we'll have them prepared,"
Berenson said. "Our special teams
will match up pretty well against
theirs on paper. But I hope it doesn't
come down to that because I don't
think we have as much momentum
going rightnow as they might."
To Berenson, the key to climbing
out of seventh place in the confer-
ence - and possibly intothird - with
a sweep is good home-ice hockey,
which to him is five-on-five play.
"I don't even want to be on the
power play eight times," Beren-
son said. "It takes away from the
rest of your team and we're prob-
ably not going to be that good if
we get eight power plays. It's just
too much. I'd rather get into an
honest, low-penalized, 'Let's play
five-on-five, let's see who the best
team is' game."

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Happy Valley? Not so much.
The Michigan women's basket-
ball team fought to the buzzer
against
Penn MICHIGAN 65
State PENN STATE 71
at the
Bryce-Jordan Center last night.
Two free throws from freshman
guard Dayeesha Hollins gave
Michigan a second chance, tying
the game at 57 and sending the
Wolverines into their first overtime
this season.
But Michigan came up short in
the extra frame, losing 71-65.
The Wolverines (6-9 Big Ten,
15-10 oveeall) have lostsevengames
this season by four points or less,
and it looked like last night was
going to be their eighth, until Hol-
lins tied the game up with 20 sec-
onds remaining.

The Nittany Lions failed to
answer when they took the ball
down the court, missing a 3-pointer
and a shot in the paint before they
put back an offensive rebound - but
not fast enough. The ball left Penn
State forward Marisa Wolfe's hands
just after the buzzer went off
The Wolverines couldn't make
the plays when it mattered most.
The Wolverines shot 28 per-
cent from the field, which put a
bit of a kink in Michigan's quest
for a sweep over Penn State (8-8,
16-10). Even so, the Wolverines
managed to stay in the game with
late contributions from freshmen
Kate Thompson and Jenny Ryan -
finally bringing some stability to an
inconsistent Michigan offense.
"Sooner or later, we are going to
get fed up with it," Michigan coach
Kevin Borseth said. "I hope they
get fed up with it. I really do. I hope
they get to the point where they say
enough is enough. Because we had

good looks against Michigan State,,
we had good looks tonight against
the zone. I think we played hard, we
played with a lot of heart (and) we
did a really good job. But it's really
hard for defenses just to shut people
out and not let them score at all"
Sophomore forward Carmen
Reynolds was a bright spot early
on, scoring six of the team's first
nine points. Junior guard Veronica
Hicks got hot in the second half,
scoring seven points in the Wolver-
ines 9-0 run that tied up the game
with fifteen minutes remaining.
And Hollins scored four from
the charity stripe to keep Michigan
in it late in the game.
Still, Michigan couldn't make
enough crucial plays down, the
stretch. Michigan shot below 30
percent for the second consecutive
game.
"I don't know if we're playing
games to win offensively," Borseth
said. "I think we are just moving

the ball for the sake of moving it,
and nobody really wants the thing.
I don't think we are confident
enough offensively at all. You can't
beat anybody unless you play to win
offensively."
Partway through overtime,
senior center Krista Phillips, whose
11 rebounds led the team, fouled
out. Hollins and Hicks (the game's
high scorer) also picked up their
fifth and final fouls in overtime.
The Wolverines never found
their shot in those five minutes - all
four of their points came on free
throws - and they couldn't keep the
ball when it mattered most.
"Honestly, I think we made too
many mistakes down the stretch,"
Reynolds said. "We weren't valuing
the ball and weren't able to hit key
shots and get the stops. So I think
it was just all together, focus nd
composure, that we weren't able to
be assertive when the other team
scored."

Kelly grabs conference title in 200
individual medley, leads at Big Tens

e

under
grond

By FELIX CARREON
Daily Sports Writer
WEST LAFAYETTE - Card-
board cutouts of the faces of mem-
bers of the women's swimming
and diving ,team were scattered
throughout the Michigan cheering
section during the second day of
competition at the Big Ten Cham-
pionships.
It was clear the Wolverine con-
tingent was anxious to see a pair
of Wolverines reclaim individual
Big Ten titles at the Boiler Aquatic
Center. Fifth-year senior Emily
Brunemann captured the 500-yard
freestyle event title in 2008 and
senior Margaret Kelly earned a
victory in the 200-yard individual
medley in the same year. None of
the fans were more nervous about
the possibility of a repeat than
Brunemann's father, James, who
stood yelling throughout the dura-
tion of the race.
But even her father's efforts
couldn't help Brunemann to a Big
Ten title.
After 300 yards, Brunemann
held a slight lead over Minnesota's
Ashley Steenvoorden, until Steen-
voorden pulled away in the final
50 yards. Brunemann touched the
wall second (4:41.66), nearly two
seconds behind Steenvoorden.
"I was really happy with it for
where I am in my season right
now," Brunemann said. "I just rest-
ed forthis meet, I didn't fullytaper.
I was really happy that I dropped

from this morning because, typi-
cally in the 500,I don't having any-
thing at night."
But it was Brunemann's team-
mate, Kelly, who made the biggest
splash. She started the 200-yard
individual medley and never
looked backed. The senior finished
first (1:56.01) and broke her own
Big Ten record in the event. Fresh-
man Mattie Kukors placed fifth in
the event,giving Michigan an addi-
tional 14 points.
During the award ceremony,
"The Victors" resonated through-
out the aquatic center as Michigan
assistant coach Stefanie Kerska
handed Kelly her second career Big
Ten title in the event. The two then
exchanged a warm embrace, one
that was probably a year overdue.
The moment came a year after
Kellyswam the fastest preliminary
time in the event at the conference
championships, which the Wolver-
ines hosted at Canham Natatorium.
After the race, the senior suffered
chest muscle spasms, which caused
breathing problems. Kelly was a
favorite to defend her Big Ten title.
"It was hard to watch last year,"
Kelly said. "But I just stayed and
cheered for my team. I knew I had
another chance this year. To go in
there and swim as fast as I could
tonight, it was really special for
me."
The duo's performances lifted
the Wolverines to second place
after seven events. No. 10 Minne-
sota currently leads all teams with

204.5 points, just nine ahead of No.
16 Michigan.
Michigan coach Jim Richard-
son was especially pleased with
the performances his swimmers
turned in Thursday despite train-
ing harder leading up to the event
than in previous years.
"If someone had told (me) that
(Brunemann) was going to be 4:41
with the amount of training we've
been doing coming into this meet,
I would have said, 'I'll take it,' "
Richardson said. "We had a plan
this year to train much harder
going into Big Tens than we did
two years ago."
The evening's events started
with the.200-freestyle relay, where
the Wolverines got off to a fast
start. Kelly led the relay in a blis-
tering22.57 seconds for the first SO
yards, the fastest among the field.
The team fell back into the middle
of the pack until junior Natasha
Moodie jumped into the pool for
the anchor leg. Moodie sprinted
the final 50 in 21.92 seconds to give
the Wolverines runner-up honors.
Michigan will continue its
search for its 15th Big Ten title and
its first since 2004 this weekend.
"Ultimately you only have con-
trol over one thing, and that's your-
self," Richardson said. "At the end
of the day you can't change any-
body else's performance. You can't
go in their lane and stop them from
swimming fast. You just want to
race with them and hopefully get
your hand on the wall first."

TACO7
BIELL.

3joiP


