INROD WE TRUST ENSe
A University alum makes the
case for why Michigan should s m
keep em battled head coach Akron, 2-1,d rnuthePN C A A
Rich Rodriguez rPAGE+4A s

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, December 13,2010

michigandaily.com


IT panel
endorses
adopting
Google
Recommendation for new
computing collaboration
tool will be sent to 'U'
administrators
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
The University's Information Technol-
ogy Council announced today that it is offi-
cially endorsing Google as the University's
next collaborative
services provider.
The news comes
amid an intensive
IT overhaul at the
University in which
officials are trying
to reduce costs by $7
million by 2012. Uni- KYLE SWANSON
versity officials also
say they are looking
for an additional $15-
20 million in IT cost
reductions by 2017.
The IT Council's endorsement will now
be forwarded to a group of University
executives - Provost Philip Hanlon, Exec-
utive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer Tim Slottow, Executive Vice Presi-
dent for Medical Affairs Ora Pescovitz and
Vice President for Research Stephen For-
rest - for review and a final decision.
In a press release issued this morning,
Dan Atkins, chair of the IT Council and
the University's associate vice president
for Research Cyberinfrastructure, said he
was pleased with the work of the IT Coun-
cil and looked forward to implementing a
See GOOGLE, Page 8A

SAM WOLSON/Daily
See a lime-lapse video of The A fireworks celebration following Michigan's 5-0 win over Michigan State in the lig Chill at the Big House on Saturday. The game, which was the first out-
k Big Chill on door hockey game in Michigan Stadium, drew a record-setting crowd of 113,411. For more coverage of the game, see SportsMonday, inside.

Big Chill
T he lights are off at Michigan
Stadium. I can only make out
the silhouette of the ice surface
that was lit up by the newly installed
(and expensive) stadium lights and
fireworks just hours before.
It doesn't take long for the spotlight
to go out - for what is one of the best
sporting events to become what was
one of the best sporting events.
Now all we have left of Big House
hockey are the memories. But should
that be all?

shouldn't be a one-time event

I was at the
Camp Randall
Classic last year,
and I reveled in
experiencing an
outdoor hockey
game.
But The Big Chill MICHAEL
at the Big House FLOREK
wasn't an outdoor_
hockey game. It
wasn't even an event. It was a game,
the Fourth of July and everyone's

eighth birthday party rolled into one
package.
The game itself culminated long
before the final whistle. Senior for-
ward Carl Hagelin gave Michigan
a three-goal lead midway through
the second period after he snuck a
rebound past Michigan State goalten-
der Drew Palmisano's glove. The Spar-
tans weren't coming back.
But the actual spectacle ended
with a pyrotechnic display shortly
after the final buzzer went. Set to the

soundtrack from the movie "The Big
Chill," fireworks overwhelmed the
night sky, originating from the field
itself before giving way to massive
explosions from the tops of the luxury
boxes.
Throughout the week there were
many mentions of a "once-in-a-life-
time opportunity." But it shouldn't be.
Anything that results in that much fun
needs to be done again.
Michigan State was embarrassed
See FLOREK, Page 8A

SHOWROOM YOGA
County and'U'using stimulus
funds for research, job growth

Washtenaw County
received total of $533M
in stimulus funds
By BRIENNE PRUSAK
Daily StaffReporter
While some lawmakers say the
American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act isn't helping to boost the economy
as fast as they hoped, University and
Ann Arbor officials say the stimulus
funds greatly benefited campus and
the city during Michigan's economic
downturn.

According to ProPublica, the fed-
eral government awarded Washtenaw
County approximately $533 million in
federal.stimulus funds. Of that amount,
University schools and departments got
$296 million to be used for research,
equipment and construction.
According to an October 2010
document provided by the Univer-
sity's Office of the Vice President for
Research, LSA received approximately
$22 million in federal stimulus funds
since Congress and President Barack
Obama's administration enacted the
American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act in February 2009.
See STIMULUS, Page 8A

STIMULUS FUNDS IN ANN ARBOR
$533 M Washtenaw County (total)
$22M College of LSA
$50M College of Engineering
$19.5M Energy Frontier Research Center
$40M School of Public Health
$47.5M institute for Social Research
$288,528 Department of Public Safety
Shelter Association of
$1.8M Washtenaw County
$6.45M Ann Arornsortation

AASonuL/avoy
Patrons practice yoga at the Lululemon Athletica store in Ann Arbor on Friday. The store pushes the cloth-
ing and accessories aside to open up the showroom every week, where they offer a free yoga class.
Students say at'U,' study abroad
visa process difficult to navigate

Male suspects invade homes, sororities

According to some, little
guidance offered by
!study abroad officials
By SARAH ALSADEN
Daily Staff Reporter
Before reaching the sandy beaches of
Spain or experiencing the chic Parisian life,

some University students must first travel to
unexpected destinations within the United
States if they want to study abroad.
Students who participate in study abroad
programs through the University say they
were unprepared to travel to cities outside of
Michigan in order to obtain a required visa.
Aaron Lang, an LSA senior who studied
abroad in Grenada, Spain, said he had prob-
lems applying for a visa and was frustrated
See VISAS, Page 8A

One suspect caught, one
still at large in weekend
spate of home invasions
By VERONICA MENALDI
and STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily StaffReporter and Daily News Editor
A series of home invasions, some of
which authorities believe are related,
occurred at off-campus and sorority

houses this past weekend - resulting in
the arrest of one male suspect and the
continued search for another.
Ann Arbor Police arrested a man sus-
pected of committing five home inva-
sions on both Washtenaw and North
University avenues Friday and early
Saturday night after police identified
the man walking down the street.
The man was arrested on warrants
and not for the two home invasions
that occurred on Saturday, according to
AAPD Lt. Myron Blackwell. However,

Blackwell said police suspect the man
was involved in the home invasions
because he fit the description provided
by the victims.
Blackwell added that the same offi-
cers who took all five home invasion
reports spotted the man in the vicinity
of where the home invasions took place.
"Based on reports of yesterday and
reports of today, the officers said, 'Wait
a minute, that's the guy who was wear-
ing the same clothes from yesterday,' "he
See INVASIONS, Page 8A
......2A ARTS.... . ..A.......5A
.... 3A CLASSIFIEDS ....... . 6A
....4A SPORTSMONDAY.................1B

WEATHER HI: 20 GOTANEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO newsdmichigandaily.com and letus know.

Today is the Daily's last print issue for the fall
semester. Check michigandaily.com for the latest
fromcampus and the GatormBowlover break.

INDEX NEWS..........
Vol. CXXI, No. 65 SUDOKU.
2010 The Michgan Daily OPINION.....
michigondoily.com



2A - Monday, December 13, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, December13, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 4

MARISSA MCCLAIN AND JED MOCH/Daily
This is the last paper edited and produced in large part by this year's graduating seniors. To read their reflections on their time at the Daily, visit michigandaily.com. BACK ROW: Designer
Maureen Stych, Designer Corey DeFever, Senior Editorial Page Editor Laura Veith, Senior Sports Editor Mark Burns, Sports Writer Nicole Auerbach, Magazine Editor Trevor Calero, Senior
Sports Editor Chantel Jennings, Deputy Magazine Editor Jenna Skoller, Senior News Editor Eshwar Thirunavukkarasu, Senior Arts Editor Andrew LapinDesigner Sara Boboltz, Senior Arts
Editor Jeff Sanford, Local Cuisine Columnist Lila Kalick, Copy Chief Adi Wollstein, Staff Photographer Salam Rida. FRONT ROW: Co-Managing Photo Editor Max Collins, Managing Arts Edi-
tor Jamie Block, Managing News Editor Jillian Berman, Editor in Chief Jacob Smilovitz, Managing Editor Matt Aaronson, Managing Sports Editor Ryan Kartje, Editorial Page Editor Rachel Van
Gilder, Co-Managing Photo Editor Sam Wolson.

CheMichigan Dailm
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gnailcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours: Sun.-Thurs. lln a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-418-4115 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandailycom
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandailycom
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
ClassifiedfSales classified@michigandailycom
Onine Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
jillian Berman ManagingNewsEditor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thirunvukkaras, De~v hosbr
AeSSISAT NE S EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer,JosephLichterman,VeronicaMenaldi,ElyanaTwiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:WillButler,WillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, MichaelFlorek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTSEDITORS: BenEstes,Stephen Nesbitt,LukePasch,ZakPyzik,Amy
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SSI TNA SEDIT RS:n rintynAchoLeahBurgin,Sharonacobs,KaviShekhar
PandeyDavid Tao
Max Collins and photo@michigandailycom
Sen Wolson ManagingPheloadisrs
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaily.com
Sarah Squire ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORMaya Friedman
Trevor Calero MagazineEditor calero@michigandailycom
Melanie G EJiedand copydesk@michigandaily.com
Adi Wollstein copychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim sales Manager
ALES RC orMANAGER:Sphanieowker
Hillary Szawala Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
lason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan RooneyLayout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler Circulation Manager
Zach Yancer Web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) sulishe Monday through Friday duringthe fall and
wintrerems bystudentsat the University of Michigan.Onecopyis avaiablefreeof chargetoall
readers.Additional copies may bepickedupat the Daily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm.
startinginseptemberviaU.S.malare$110.inter term(anuary through April)is$11,yearlong
(September through April)isc195.University affiliatesaresubject toareduced subscription rate.
On-campassubseritionsforfalltermare$3.Subscriptionsmusteprepaid. TheMichiganGaily,
isamemberof The Associated Pressand The Associated Collegiate Press.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

HJPAA almost Puck and cover Sustainable

violated, cabinet
nearly de-filed
WHERE: Adult/Child Psych-
Suite C, 2101 Commonwealth
WHEN: Friday at about 9:30
a.m.
WHAT: A suspect tried to
break into a file cabinet that
contained confidentialpatient

WHERE: Michigan Stadium,
Section 25
WHEN: Saturday at about
4:40 p.m.
WHAT: A male threw hockey
pucks out his suite during
Saturday's game, University
Police reported. The man was
intendingto hand them out as
gifts. No one was harmed.

enterprises talk
WHAT: Marina Whit-
man, a professor of business
administration and public
policy, will give a talk about
sustainable enterprises.
WHO: Erb Institute
WHEN: Today from noon to
1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Dana Natural

records, University Police 80-year old jabs Resource Building, Room
reported. Nothing was stolen. 2024D
Man keys vehicle man with cane
WHERE: Michigan Stadium, Finals stress
wt driver inside Section 11 . ...
WH EN: Saturday at about 4:50 relief activities
WHERE: NC-78 a.m.
WHEN: Friday at about 10 WHAT: A male reported that WHAT: A carnival-style
a.m. a man poked him with a cane, event to help students reliev
WHAT: A female affiliated University Police reported. stress on the last day of class
with the University reported Police talked to the 80-year-old es. Activities include surviva
that her car was keyed by a perpetrator about the incident, bingo, Guitar Hero, an inflat
male while she was sitting in and it was determined that it able climbing wall and henn
it, University Police reported. was an accident. WHO: University Unions


Strings recital
WHAT: A free concert by
the University's Philharmo-
nia Orchestra conducted by
Christopher James Lees.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
Sexuality
discussion
WHAT: A social and sup-
port group for students to
discuss issues related to
gender and sexuality.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight from
8 p.m. to 10 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Room 3200
CORRECTIONS
i Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Detroit planning officials
announced Mayor Dave
Bing's plan to withdraw city
funding from more than 20 per-
cent of Detroit areas, The Wall
Street Journal reported. Bing's
staff is considering reducing
city resources to seven or nine
city neighborhoods.
With 113, 411 fans in atten-
dance, Saturday's Big Chill
at the Big House broke the
attendance record for the larg-
est outdoor hockey game. It was
also the largest number of fans
to ever watch an event in Michi-
gan Stadium.
>>FOR MORESPORTSMONDAYINSIDE
Congress recently passed
the Commercial Adver-
tisement Loudness Miti-
gation Act (CALM) to regulate
the noise volume of televi-
sion advertisements, NJ.com
reported. The act states that
the volume of a TV ad cannot
exceed the volume of the show.

re
s-
al
t-
ia.

MORE ONLINE
Love trime Notes?Gelmore online at michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire

Arts & Programs
WHEN: Today from 7 p.m.
to 11p.m.
WHERE: Pierpont Commons

Hundreds protest the'4
Russian government

.,

Activists call for
resignation of
Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin
MOSCOW (AP) - Hundreds of
people protested against the Rus-
sian government yesterday at two
separate rallies in Moscow, with
opposition activists calling for
the resignation of Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin and nationalists
demanding greater rights for eth-
nic Russians. Several opposition
activists were detained.
A third rally with nationalist
overtones drew more than 1,000
students in the southern city of
Rostov-on-Don, raising fears that
long-standing ethnic tensions were
reaching a boiling point.
The rallies followed violent
clashes Saturday just outside the
Kremlin walls between riot police

and about 5,000 football fans and
nationalists, who shouted "Russia
for Russians." Police said 34 peo-
ple were injured; six of them were
still hospitalized on Sunday. All 65
people detained during the clashes
have been released.
The police crackdown further
angered Slavic Russians who resent
the growing presence of dark-
complexioned people from Russia's
predominantly Muslim republics in
the Caucasus.
Dozens of nationalists picketed
yesterday at the Federal Security
Service headquarters to protest
what they described as discrimi-
nation against Russians in favor of
ethnic minorities.
"Today, all the (democratic)
instruments have been trampled
upon by the authorities, which
means, if they don't want to use a
civilized language, they will have
to face, whether they want to or not,
the Spartak (football club) rebel-
lion, the crowds," said Vladlen Kra-

lin, a nationalist leader who goes by
the name Vladimir Tor.
Saturday's clash grew out of a
rally held elsewhere in the city
to protest the death last week of
Yegor Svidorov, a member of the
Spartak team's fan organization,
who was shot with rubber bullets
in a fight at a bus stop. Those sus-
pected of killing him are from the
Caucasus.
The demonstration appeared to
have inspired students in Rostov-
on-Don, where 18-year-old Maxim
Sychyov died last month after
being beaten up by fellow univer-
sity students from the nearby Cau-
casus.
More than 1,000 students gath-
ered at his dormitory yesterday
to light candles in his memory
and then marched along the cen-
tral avenue shouting "Go, Rus-
sians" and "Russians are united."
They called on university and city
authorities to clamp down on stu-
dents from the Caucasus.

SCOTCTTAKUSHI/AP
Mike Tierney uses his snowblower to dig a path for an unidentified minivan driver in St. Paul, Minn. yesterday.
Storm socks Midwest sraes

4

Jets-Vikings game
After weekend visit, Palin says Haiti moved to Ford Field

in need of military airlift of supplies

Former Alaska gov.
toured country with
husband, daughter
and reverend
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP)
- Sarah Palin urged Americans
yesterday not to forget Haiti as
she wrapped up a weekend visit to
an aid group's sites in this country
vexed by a cholera epidemic, earth-
quake reconstruction and political
crisis.
Accompanied by her husband,
Todd; daughter Bristol, a Fox News
crew and the Rev. Franklin Graham,
who runs the aid group that hosted
her, the former Alaska governor and
vice presidential candidate arrived
in Haiti during a respite from the
riots and violence that have fol-
lowed the Caribbean nation's dys-
functional Nov.28 election.
"I do urge Americans not to for-

get Haiti," she said at an afternoon
news conference yesterday.
Noting that severe problems
afflicted Haiti even before last Jan-
uary's devastating quake, she said
her fellow citizens should "get out
of your comfort zone and volunteer
to help."
Palin visited Samaritan's Purse
projects including cholera clinics
where people are being treated for
extreme dehydration. More than
2,000 people have died of the dis-
ease, which scientists believe was
recently reintroduced into Haiti,
and nearly 100,000 have fallen ill.
Palin's trip was largely closed to
the press and she declined to take
questions at the news conference.
She traveled in part by helicop-
ter, and the aid group declined to
share her itinerary, citing security
concerns. The U.S. State Depart-
ment reissued last week its travel
warning for Americans considering
visits to Haiti.
At the news conference, Palin

created some confusion when she
referred to a potential drawdown of
U.S. assistance to Haiti.
"I know that there's been some
discussion of U.S. aid perhaps being
lifted from this area," she said.
"Again - not to get political - butif
some of the politicians would come
here and see the conditions, per-
haps they would see a need for, say,
a military airlift to come bring sup-
plies that are so needed here."
It was not clear what she was
referring to, and a Palin spokes-
woman declined to elaborate.
U.S. Sen. Patrick Leahy, who is
chairman of a Senate subcommit-
tee that oversees appropriations
for Haiti, recently called for the
suspension of direct budget sup-
port to the Haitian government
until a solution is found to an elec-
toral crisis that has sparked riots
in recent days. But his spokesman
said yesterday that he was not
referring to humanitarian aid or
reconstruction money.

after Metrodome
roof collapses
CHICAGO (AP) - A powerful,
gusty storm dumped mounds of
snow across the upper Midwest
yesterday, closing major high-
ways in several states, canceling
more than 1,600 flights in Chica-
go and collapsing the roof of the
Minnesota Vikings' stadium.
At least four weather-relat-
ed deaths were reported as the
storm system dropped nearly 2
feet of snow in parts of Minne-
sota and marched east. A blizzard
warning was in effect yesterday
for parts of eastern Iowa, south-
eastern Wisconsin, northwestern
Illinois and northern Michigan,
according to the National Weath-
er Service. Surrounding areas,
including Chicago, were under
winter storm warnings. Much
of Iowa was under a wind-chill
advisory.
In Minneapolis, the heavy
snow left the Metrodome decid-
edly unready for some football.
Video inside the stadium aired by

Fox Sports showed the inflatable
Teflon roof sagging before it tore
open, dumping massive amounts
of snow across one end of the
playing field.
No one was hurt but the
Vikings' game against the New
York Giants had to be moved to
Detroit's Ford Field. The day
of the game had already been
pushed back from yesterday to
today because the storm kept the
Giants from reaching Minneapo-
lis on time. Stadium officials were
trying to repair the roof in time
for the Vikings' next home game,
Dec. 20 against Chicago.
The wintry weather, with
blowing snow that severely lim-
ited visibility, wreaked havoc on
air and road travel. In the Chi-
cago area, wind gusts of up to 50
mph, temperatures in the teens
and wind chills well below zero
were expected, along with up to
8 inches of snow.
At least 1,375 flights were can-
celed at O'Hare International
Airport and more than 300 were
canceled at Midway Interna-
tional Airport, Chicago Depart-
ment of Aviation spokeswoman
Karen Pride said. Both airports
expected more cancellations and
reported significant delays.

Officials at O'Hare set up about
200 cots and will provide ameni-
ty kits containing toothpaste and
toothbrushes in case travelers
get stranded at the airport, Pride
said.
Major highways in several
states were closed due to poor
driving conditions and accidents.
In Indianapolis, police said a
man fatally stabbed his wife, then
died four blocks from his home
Sunday morning when his vehicle
hit a tree after he lost control on
a slippery road. Police did not
immediately release the names of
the couple.
Illinois State Police closed a
section of Interstate 80 in the
north central part of the state
after a multiple-car pileup west
of Peru and part of Interstate 55
near Springfield after accidents
and reports of zero visibility. No
deaths were reported.
Seven vehicles crashed on
Interstate 94 about 50 miles west
of Milwaukee, prompting author-
ities to close the westbound lanes.
A vehicle lost control on an ice-
covered road and slammed into a
tree in southeastern Wisconsin,
killing 21-year-old Alejandria
Abaunza of Chicago and injuring
two other people inside.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

T DmMonday, December 13, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Veteran diplomat
in critical condition
after heart surgery
Veteran diplomat Richard Hol-
brooke, who is a special envoy on
the Afghanistan war, was in criti-
cal condition after surgery to fix a
tear in the large artery that moves
blood from the heart.
President Barack Obama said in
a statement that he and first lady
Michelle Obama were praying for
Holbrooke's recovery.
He called Holbrooke, "a tower-
ing figure in American foreign pol-
icy" who has been a critical player
in developing the administration's
policy on Afghanistan.
The 69-year-old Holbrooke was
meeting with Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton about
midmorning Friday at the State
Department when he collapsed.
LOS ANGELES
Parents of gang kids
ordered to classes
It's a Saturday morning and a
half-dozen adults are sitting in a
high school classroom, staring at
grim photos of sickly drug addicts
and hearing about the deadly con-
sequences of gang crime. They'd
rather not be here, but a judge made
them come.
The moms and dads were
ordered to attend the class under
a new California law giving judges
the option of sending parents for
training when their kids are con-
victed of gang crimes for the first
time.
Assemblyman Tony Mendoza,
the lawmaker behind the Parent
Accountability Act, said it is the
first state law to give judges the
power to order parents of gang
members to school, though other
court-mandated classes exist at the
local level.
"A lot of parents do not know
how tohandle teenagers," Mendoza
said. "Now more than ever, parents
need a guide."
The new law went into effect in
January and eventually will be in
place across California.
NEWNAVEN, Conn.
I'm not a witch' is
year's top quote,
according to Yale
Christine O'Donnell's TV ad
declaration "I'm not a witch"
during her U.S. Senate campaign
topped this year's het quotes,
according to a Yale University
librarian.
O'Donnell's quote is cited by
mFred Shapiro, associate librarian
Wat Yale Law School, who released
his fifth annual list of the most
notable quotations of the year. In
the ad, O'Donnell was respond-
ing to reports of her revelations
that she had dabbled in witchcraft
years ago.
"It was such a remarkable
unconventional quote to be a part
of the political discourse," Shapiro
said.

The quote by O'Donnell, a tea
party favorite running in Dela-
ware, tied for first place with "I'd
like my life back," the lament made
in May by BP's CEO Tony Hay-
ward after the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history.
. ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast
Ivory Coast poll
winner tries to lead
from hotel room
From a hotel room just big
enough to hold a bed and a desk,
the man considered the legiti-
mate president of Ivory Coast
is trying to govern a troubled
nation whose sitting president
refuses to leave.
Alassane Ouattara does not
have access to the presidential
palace, so he holds Cabinet meet-
ings in a tent on the hotel lawn.
His administration has taken
over the hotel manager's office,
where the fax machine is used
to communicate with embassies
abroad. And the neighboring golf
course's sloping fairways may
soon house soldiers defecting
from the army still controlled
by incumbent President Laurent
Gbagbo.
In the upside-down world that
has taken root in this corner of
Africa, 68-year-old Ouattara was
declared winner of last month's
presidential election by his coun-
* try's election commission in an
outcome certified by the United
Nations.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

MICHIGAN'S INNO VATJNG FUTURE
Snyder: 'We're going to go out, and we're going to
make this an entrepreneur and innovation state'

By PATRICIA SNIDER
DailyStaffReporter
Republican Governor elect-
Rick Snyder attended an event
on campus to hear the winners
of the Accelerate Michigan Inno-
vation Competition - a program
Snyder said is a preview of what
he envisions for the future of the
state.
"You are getting a snapshot of
what I believe will happen 365
days a year in Michigan's future,"
Snyder told a crowd gathered
at the North Campus Research
Complex on Saturday. "We're
going to go out, and we're going
to make this an entrepreneur and
innovation state."
The competition, developed by
Ann Arbor SPARK - a company
to which Snyder founded - and
other organizations, aims to pro-
mote economic growth in the
state of Michigan. On Saturday,
several start-up companies, won
prizes of up to $500,000 for their
work.
Awards were presented at the
culmination of a three-day event,
featuring presentations, panels
and networking opportunities
as well as speeches from Snyder
and University President Mary
Sue Coleman. The ceremony took
place in the University's North
Campus Research Complex and
both student and profession-
al finalists were chosen from
among 600 entries to be awarded
more than $1 million.
Ann Arbor SPARK, a non-
profit business incubator, was
given $750,000 in funding from
the New Economy Initiative for
Southeast Michigan to create the
program on behalf of the Busi-
ness Accelerator Network for
Southeast Michigan.
In her opening remarks, Cole-
man said the competition is cru-
cial for recognizing business
efforts to revitalize the state's
economy. While many students
were focused on Saturday's
hockey game against Michigan
State University in Michigan
Stadium, Coleman said the com-
petition should be just as excit-
ing for the University since it is
making strides to improve the
state.
"This is our field of dreams,

ANNA SCHULTE/Daily
Michigan Governor-elect Rick Snyder speaks at the North Campus Research Center about the Accelerate Michigan Business Competition on Saturday.

and you embody our aspira-
tions, for a thriving and innova-
tive Michigan," Coleman said.
"There is a lot of excitement in
Ann Arbor for the hockey game,
but the real story in Ann Arbor is
the talent and ideas that are pres-
ent in this room."
Coleman added that the final-
ists in the competition are Mich-
igan's future and play a critical
role in changing the state's strug-
gling economy.
"We are now ready for you,
your products, your services,
your technology and your solu-
tions," Coleman said. "The real
winners are the people of Michi-
gan. All of us benefit from your
creativity."
In his keynote address, Sny-
der presented five key strategies
on how to create an atmosphere
conducive to innovation in the
state. The tactics include har-
nessing and improving tech-
nology, infrastructure, capital,
people and culture. Snyder said
that without all of these things,
achieving success as an entrepre-

neur would be difficult.
"If you are -missing any of
these, it's going to be extremely
challenging to create an innova-
tive and creative environment,"
Snyder said.
Snyder said that programs like
the Accelerate Michigan Innova-
tive Competition allow Michigan
to highlight talent within the
state and showcase companies
that are working toward eco-
nomic development.
"We have the most talented
people in the world in our state,"
Snyder said. "And we're mak-
ing great progress, but we need
to continue that organizational
effort."
University of Michigan stu-
dent teams won all four of the
cash awards in the student team
portion, totaling $60,000. Uni-
versity students Zaher Andraus,
Vimal Bhalodia and Matthew
Neagle received the $15,000 first
runner-up prize for their com-
pany Reveal Design Automation
- a business that develops soft-
ware tools to authenticate digital

chips in electronics.
Bhalodia, a graduate student
in the Business School, wrote
in an e-mail interview Saturday
that in addition to the monetary
award his team received, they
also gained important skills in
networking and career develop-
ment.
"We've found the experi-
ence of pitching in front of and
networking with members of
the investment community and
other people interested in spon-
soring innovation to be extreme-
ly valuable," Bhalodia wrote.
"While the prize money is nice,
some of the leads we walk away
with for both business develop-
ment as well as funding were just
as important."
Bhalodia also wrote that the
competition has the potential to
make an impact on both the state
of Michigan and the University.
"We think it can have a huge
impact on Michigan's future,"
Bhalodia wrote. "Showcasing-the
best companies in the area and
giving them a forum to meet and

learn from like-minded entre-
preneurs as well as experienced
members of the investment com-
munity is invaluable to helping
these companies succeed."
"Accelerate Michigan is a per-
fect complement, offering anoth-
er high profile opportunity for
U-M to showcase its best inno-
vations and brightest entrepre-
neurs," he added.
ReGenerate, a company that
developed the Compact Organic
Waste System, which produces
a renewable source of electricity
and nutrient-rich compost, from
the conversion of unwanted and
expensive organic waste, won
the grand prize in the student
competition. COWS is aimed at
university cafeterias and super-
markets.
Armune BioScience of Kal-
amazoo won the grand prize of
$500,000 in the company com-
petition. The company works to
create protein-based examina-
tions for cancer, helping doctors
and patients decide on more spe-
cialized treatment options.


ElizabethEdwards eulogizedas a
guide, source of strength for many
Friends and family us - a point of guidance when we John Edwards, her estranged McElroy and Glenn Bergenfield, mist.
 t" Cate Edwards said. husband did not sneak. The coule also gave euloies "She knew who she was She

e

remember and
celebrate life of
political spouse
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) - Whether
it was advice about politics, clothes
or boys, Elizabeth Edwards was
always ready dispense her wisdom.
Family and friends of Elizabeth
Edwards remembered her Saturday
as a political sage, an idealistic law
student who challenged professors
and a matriarch who comforted
her family even as she was dying of
breast cancer.
Elizabeth's oldest daughter, Cate,
eulogized her mother, recalling her
strength, grace and witty recom-
mendations about everything from
clothing (there .are always fewer
regrets wearing solids than pat-
terns) to marriage (don't settle for
the first boy you ever meet).
"She's been a lighthouse to all of

U1C1;5, LUU1UdU 1.
Edwards' funeral drew hun-
dreds to Edenton Street United
Methodist Church, where she
once mourned her 16-year-old son,
Wade, after he died in a car crash
in 1996. She was buried next to him
during a private ceremony.
Speakers reflected on a multi-
faceted personality: Edwards, 61,
was an intellectual who frequented
discount clothing stores like T.J.
Maxx, a fiery competitor without
an ego and a public figure who won
the private confidence of virtually
everyone she met.
"There aren't words that are
good enough," Cate Edwards said.
Her eulogy contained a passage
from a letter her mother spent years
preparing to leave to her children
after she was gone.
. "I've loved you in the best ways
I've known how," the letter said.
"All I ever really needed was you,
your love, your presence, to make
my life complete."

116d1, UU p1V btd . 11 pVL
had four children together. John
Edwards sat alongside 28-year-old
Cate, 12-year-old Emma Claire and
10-year-old Jack. They held hands
as they followed the casket into the
sanctuary.
Their oldest daughter talked of
how her mother comforted those
around her as she lay dying - at
one point barely able to speak -
while she held her daughter and
John's hands, looking back and
forth to each, repeating, "I'm OK.
I'm OK."
"She was way more worried
about us than we were about her,"
Cate Edwards said.
The memorial brought several
political figures, including Sen.
John Kerry, who led the Demo-
cratic presidential ticket in 2004
that included John Edwards, and
North Carolina Gov. Beverly Per-
due.
Two of Elizabeth Edwards'
longtime friends, Hargrave

McElroy spoke admiringly of
the fiery woman who first became
a close friend as the couple raised
their young children, telling stories
of Edwards' expertise at any pur-
suit that required intellect - from
board games to sports trivia. She
said Edwards was always an opti-

0116 itcw aav aac wa. UI
never held back. She was without
pretense," McElroy said.
Bergenfield described a woman
he first met in law school who
challenged her professors with a
vibrant mind and who possessed
"big world, head-turning, walk-
into-the-pole gorgeous" looks.

Sign up and SAVE!
$100 Off anyMCAT, LSAT, GMAT
or GRE cour. Now isuthe perfect
time to prepwith one of the nations
leaders in test preparation
~Small Classe
Expert Ins ructors
-Free Extra Help
nPinceo
*5Ue

Stockholm hit by two blasts
in suspected terrorist attacks

Suspected suicide
bomber the sole
casualty in attacks
STOCKHOLM (AP) - No one
died except for the suspected
bomber, but two explosions in
Sweden's capital tore at the fabric
of this tolerant and open nation
- a society that hadn't seen a ter-
rorist attack in more than three
decades.
Two people were wounded in
central Stockholm on Saturday
in what appeared to be the first
suicide bombing in the history of
Sweden, which has been spared
the major terrorist strikes seen in

several other European countries.
A car exploded in the middle
of the seasonal shopping frenzy,
shooting flames and causing sev-
eral smaller blasts as people ran
screaming from the scene. The
blast that killed the alleged bomb-
er came moments later further a
few blocks away from the car
explosion on a busy pedestrian
street.
Experts said the alleged bomb-
er probably didn't succeed in
detonating all the explosives and
could have caused much greater
damage.
While police haven't confirmed
Saturday's attack was motivated
by Islamist views, an audio file
sent to Swedish news agency TT

shortly before the blast referred
to jihad, Sweden's military pres-
ence in Afghanistan and a car-
toon by a Swedish artist that
depicted the Prophet Muham-
mad as a dog, enraging the Mus-
lim world.
It hasn't been verified that the
speaker is the person who set off
the explosive, but police have
said they are investigating that
possibility.
"Now the Islamic state has
been created. We now exist here
in Europe and in Sweden. We are
a reality," the voice said in the
file, submitted to The Associated
Press by TT. "I don't want to say
more about this. Our actions will
speak for themselves."


4A - Monday, December 13, 2010

4 n c 3The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

4

...'The world's greatest deliberative body' devolved into
shameful schoolyard spats that put petty partisan politics
above the needs of our women and men in uniform."
- Joe Solmonese, president of the Human Rights Campaign, on the failure of the Senate
to repeal "don't ask, don't tell," as reported by Time magazine on Friday.

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
To do in 2011
The Daily's wish list for the coming year
As 2010 draws to a close, the Daily is feeling retrospec-
tive. The year has been a roller coaster. President Barack
Obama spoke at the Big House, the first openly gay
Michigan Student Assembly president was elected and then
attacked by a bigoted government official, the football season
was (once again) lackluster and the Michigan hockey team made
an impressive showing at the Big Chill at the Big House, among
other things. But looking back, we're reminded to look forward.
There's a lot to be done in 2011 - at the federal level, in Michigan
and here in Ann Arbor.

Some parting wisdom

I

Our first wish is unlikely - or perhaps
impossible. Congress should stop being
completely worthless. Specifically, it
should pass the DREAM (which stands
for Development, Relief and Education for
Alien Minors) Act. And ditch the incred-
ibly outdated ban on LGBT individuals in
the military. In the next year, please be
productive, Congress.
It's always dangerous to ask the federal
government to do things, but we would
also like it to stop Asian carp from taking
over the Great Lakes. Since the U.S. House
of Representatives unanimously passed
the Asian Carp Prevention and Control
Act without bickering, the federal govern-
ment can now shut Illinois locks to slow the
carp's progress, assuming Obama signs the
act into law. The federal government should
get movingto stop the progress of the scari-
est fish since Jaws.
Another wish we have may sound a bit
trivial, but we care, anyway. The Michigan
football team should win the Gator bowl,
please. A bowl game win would be a sort-of-
nice ending to a sort-of-awful season.
Our next suggested resolution is for
the University administration and Board
of Regents. It's pretty simple: Don't raise
tuition again. Just don't.
On the opposite end of the triviality
spectrum is our wish for increased diver-
sity in the faculty. According to the Senate

Advisory Committee on University Affairs,
the percentages of black and Hispanic fac-
ulty are the same now as they were in 1994
(though there was admittedly a spike of
black faculty in 2002). That doesn't seem
like it aligns with the University's supposed
love of diversity.
Google Fiber would be nice a nice gift
for the city. Internet that is 100 times fast-
er? Virtually instantaneous information
exchange, which would benefit the entire
University population, especially the Uni-
versity Health System? Yes, please. We're
counting on you, Larry Page.
And the city government should give us
back our porch couches. The outdoor couch
ban is simply a bad ordinance. The city
should instead work with landlords and stu-
dent groups to improve fire safety awareness
and make sure all houses are up to code.
The next resolution is one that's going to
take two to make happen: The Open Hous-
ing Initiative and the University admin-
istration should decide that by fall 2011,
there will be an open housing option avail-
able to students.
2011 won't be easier than 2010 - the
United States is still embroiled in two costly
wars, the fate of the Bush tax cuts is uncer-
tain, governor-elect Rick Snyder has a lot
on his plate and Ann Arbor's street lighting
is still subpar. But the list above is a nice
place to start.

T his is my last column for the
Daily. My boss Rachel Van
Gilder ordered me to make it
"end-of-the semes-
ter-y." She suggest-
ed writing about:
finals. That seemed
both boring and
depressing.
But looking back.
through my col-
umns, there has
been some consis-
tency in the things PATRICK
I've said. Since I'm
the only graduate O'MAHEN
student instructor
on the Daily staff,
perhaps it isn't too arrogant to pre-
tend that my columns constitute a
"class" of sorts. Besides, I turned 32
on Sunday, which means that I was
applying to college when Van Gilder
was tooling around the neighborhood
on her first two-wheeler. I feel my
role as the Daily's wise/crotchety old
man entitles me to give a review ses-
sion and a lecture or two (aside from
yelling at Van Gilder to get off my
lawn, of course).
So, "class," let's review - if you've
been paying attention, hopefully the
Daily's elder statesman has managed
to convey three things to you over the
last two years through my (occasion-
ally questionable) wit and (alleged)
wisdom.
1. Free markets usually work.
Willing sellers and buyers meet to
trade goods and the prices that get
set generally clear the market with-
out much help from outsiders. This
is generally a positive thing for most
goods. If you set the price too low,
demand outstrips supply and we end
up like the Soviet Union - long lines
of people waiting for underpriced
scarce resources. Take the example
of street parking: It may be free in
most places in Ann Arbor, but it's
impossible to find a parking place
during business hours.
2. Judicious government interven-
tion underpins successful markets.

Markets are marvelous things,
but they don't spring out of a state of
nature - just reading a bit of English
philosopher Thomas Hobbes or look-
ing at the situation in Somalia reveals
what a bad idea having no govern-
ment is. At the most basic level, gov-
ernment provides protection for
private property and a court system
to settle disputes over trade.
Government intervention can also
corrects market failures. Markets
are set up to take advantage of indi-
vidual incentives. When individuals
bear all the costs of an arrangement,
any trade that occurs is beneficial to
society. But when costs of trade aren't
borne directly by an individual, the
exchange doesn't help society. Pollu-
tion is the classic example. Ifa factory
owner doesn't pay for dumping mer-
cury in the water, the economic drag
created by the resulting destruction
of the environment and increased
human illness are borne by society.
Government regulation of pollution
helps individuals realign their incen-
tives to benefit society.
Government can invest in things
that benefit the public that private
markets emphasizing individual
benefits don't. The majority of edu-
cation is the industrialized world is
conducted by the public sector - or
at least non-profit entities. Gov-
ernmental or quasi-governmental
institutions construct and maintain
transport infrastructure like roads,
rails and airports, which let workers
get to the job and permit businesses
move goods around the country effi-
ciently. You might call it socialism. I
call it getting to work without wreck-
ing my car in a pot hole.
3. People overestimate the risks
from high-profile events.
Citizens tend to over-estimate the
risk of unusual events, while under-
estimating the damage that every-
day risks can cause. Stop worrying
about dying in a plane crash, a ter-
rorist attack or a gang-land shoot out.
Instead, quit smoking and cut down
on binge-drinking. When you drive,

wear your seat belt and don't speed
or talk on your cell phone. Wear a
bicycle helmet. And if you ever get
elected to Congress, stop worrying
about legislation to deal with exotic
things like underwear bombs and
missile defense and start worrying
about boring things like meat inspec-
tions and bridge repair.
Here's the part of the column
where Rachel glares at me and asks
what this has to do with Michigan
and Michigan students (Wait, kid,
didn't I just tell you to get off my
lawn?).
Your real final
exams start when
you graduate.
Well, when my columns were at
their best, I hope it could serve as a
basic course in political economy
- explaining why the world of eco-
nomics and policymaking works as
it does and giving some reasonably
informed views on how to improve
those workings.
And here's the take-home point:
Remember, though I'm ending my
column and you all are ending your
courses, the semester's final exams
aren't really final. The University
exists in part to give you the knowl-
edge to do well in the real world.
What I'm saying is that your real
final exams start when you graduate.
How well you do on the job will affect
the well-being of all of us in Ann
Arbor, Michigan, the United States
and the world at large. Good luck.
We're all counting on you.
Oh, and one other thing - go easy
on your GSI in the end-of-semester
evaluations.
- Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

4

4
4


4

JERIN PHILIP I
In defense of RichRod

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL MICHELLE DEWITT AT DEWITTM@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

4

Bo Schembechler said, "Those who stay will
be champions."
With seven victories, the Wolverines are head-
ed to the Gator Bowl, played on New Year's Day
in Jacksonville, Florida. In a conference known
for tough-nosed defense, Michigan has racked
up 6,011 yards, the fourth best in the nation.
After a season plagued by injuries and defections
- in which the defense was so depleted that an
unheard-of eight freshmen played in the two-
deep - the future looks bright. A young defense
will be stronger next year for having faced this
year's baptism by fire. A young offense will only
get better as the players continue to learn a com-
plicated offensive system. To a neutral third
party, Michigan is a young team on the rise.
To many fans, however, this is a teamin sham-
bles. Without flinching, they'll blurt out, "Fire
the coach. He's an idiot."
But firing head football coach Rich Rodriguez
a move would be a disastrous move. Not only is it
short-sighted, emotion-driven and impractical,
it goes against the very ideals this program was
built on.
Rodriguez cane to the University of Michi-
gan with a track record of starting slowly but
taking team after team to the top. At Glenville
State, he started 1-7. Three years later, he would
win four consecutive conference titles. As an
offensive coordinator under Tommy Bowden,
Rodriguez's innovative spread led Tulane to a
12-0 record and Clemson to two bowl games
in two years. As head coach at West Virginia,
Rodriguez started 3-8. Within two years, the
Mountaineers won the first of four conference
titles. In each of his final three years at West
Virginia, Rodriguez's teams finished in the top
10 of the NCAA Coaches' Poll.
A less ambitious, more cautious man would
double down at West Virginia. It would be the
safe thing to do. Rodriguez? He moved on to
the next challenge, his biggest one yet at the
biggest venue: taking the helm of college foot-
ball's winningest program.
Initiating a sea-change in offensive philoso-
phy, with no quarterbacks who were able to
run the demanding zone read spread, RichRod
started 3-8. With the gutsy, yet erratic Tate
Forcier as the signal caller, the Wolverines
improved to 5-7 the following year. In 2010,
Denard Robinson assumed control at QB, and
the offense flourished. "Shoelace" broke sev-

eral national and team records with RichRod's
offense, one perfectly suited to his unique tal-
ents. The team finished 7-5.
Many Wolverine watchers complain that
Rodriguez hasn't recruited well on defense.
They point out that he has tarnished the image
of Michigan football by allowing his players to
practice too much, drawing the wrath of the
NCAA Committee on Infractions. These are
valid concerns that can and will be fixed.
Are they reason enough to fire a brilliant,
tough, ambitious coach with a long track record
of success? No. And here's why.
Every team has cycles of success - as fresh-
men mature and new schemes get implemented,
there comes a point when the team peaks. Why
fire a coach who is on the upward slope of that
cycle? Why waste another two years transition-
ing to the system of a new coach when the pieces
are already in place for sustained success?
Moving backwards to another standard-
issue Big Ten offense is unfair to Denard Rob-
inson and others recruited for the zone-read
attack that Rodriguez uses in his offense. It's
also unfair to Rodriguez, who has only imple-
mented two full recruiting classes of his own.
The University placed a hefty investment in a
new coach and his innovative offensive style.
This isn't the time to cut and run.
The University is an extremely difficult
environment for any coach to succeed in. The
expectations are so high that even 9-3 seasons
get called failures. Fans want results so quick-
ly they often miss the potential for long-term
growth. College football evolves and Rodri-
guez has been ahead of the curve in the move-
ment to spreads and dual-threat quarterbacks.
If the University is patient and gives its coach a
chance to win more games (as he has done each
year in Ann Arbor and throughout his career),
Wolverine fans will be rewarded.
Rodriguez gave up alot to come here, endur-
ing death threats from people he grew up with
in West Virginia. Now, disgruntled Michigan
fans are bringing out the pitchforks and call-
ing for his head, even as he has engineered the
most electrifying offense the school has ever
seen. Patience is a virtue lost in college sports.
Perhaps Bo put it best: "When your team is
losing, stick by them. Keep believing."
Jerin Philip is a University alum.

SARAH SQUIRE I
Test our GS s before they test us

In her most recent column, editorial page editor Rachel
Van Gilder discussed teacher quality and evaluation in
response to a Michigan Senate bill that would alter the
evaluation process if signed into law (Teacher examina-
tion, 12/06/2010).
The column neatly sidestepped any determined conclu-
sion by pointing out that there is no quantifiable measure
of a teacher's quality and avoided makinga connection to
our education at the University and the teaching evalua-
tions currently available on CTools. Van Gilder's approach
was probably for the best because any sincere evaluation
of the teachers at the University would find a clear failure
of hiring, training and evaluation. The teachers I'm refer-
ring to are graduate student instructors.
I've encountered my share of less-than-impressive pro-
fessors and lecturers. I've been bored to sleep mid-lecture
or left to decipher lecture notes for hours with class-
mates. These experiences aren't the norm for most class-
es - and when they happen, professors often have lower
expectations so students get a decent grade. Or students
can at least look forward to a different teacher the next
semester. These classes are tolerable, especially in larger
classes where it's easier to meet with a GSI than the pro-
fessor. But when you have a bad GSI, you're screwed.
When I think of a bad GSI, I refer back to my three
worst experiences. One GSI for Economics 101 dedicated
adequate effort and time to teaching his class, but that
didn't protect my section from suffering. The GSI often
struggled to pinpoint where students were struggling.
When he did understand where students needed help, his
teaching style and inability to adapt to different students
rarely succeeded in calming any confusion.
My GSI for Discrete Mathematics walked into class
each week and spent 40 minutes writing on the board
without speaking, leaving the class to frantically copy
down logic equations that had been left out of the text-
book and lectures but were necessary to pass the exam.
Deciphering his accent during the remaining 10 minutes
only added insult to injury.
My worst GSI? Math 216. He arrived 5 to 15 minutes
late to almost every discussion. He never knew what
material the lecturer had discussed, so he often attempt-
ed to clarify material the lecturer had not yet taught. In
lab, he didn't understand how to complete assignments.
Each of these GSIs made me dread discussion section
each week. I was able to make it through the classes with

a few extra hours of work and with the hope for a better
experience the next semester. But I can't help but think
how my experience and grade in the class might have
been different had I registered for a different section or
my three best GSIs led these courses instead. I expect
more from this University, which prides itself on being
among the most elite in the world.
Hopefully, GSIs who receive poor evaluations from
their students are encouraged to step aside the following
semester. But inevitably, there are always some GSIs that
struggle.
There's almost no application process to become a GSI
besides providing basic information and an oral English
test for non-native speakers. The College of Engineering
uses a more specialized application, which is followed by
an invitation to a required training session if graduate
students are accepted to become instructors.
All GSIs go through general training in their first
semester. After that, the process is different depend-
ing on the department. Graduate students in the Col-
lege of LSA are welcome to sign up for a training session
scheduled for the day before classes begin. While the
Department of English Language and Literature has an
extensive schedule for GSI training and support includ-
ing a course in teaching, the Department of Economics
only mentions the time requirement: two discussion sec-
tions and attendance at the lectures. The College of Engi-
neering has more experienced GSIs serve as graduate
student mentors that new GSIs can use as a resource. But
this isn't enough. GSIs are left to seek training and sup-
port for a job that requires practice and feedback that the
GSI Guidebook can't provide.
Departments throughout the University should take a
closer look at the qualifications and training for GSIs. A
GSI should lead a discussion or introduce a new topic to
a current class as part of the interview. Training should
begin a full semester prior to the GSI's first semester
teaching. In addition, the lecturer for the course and past
students who took the course should sit in on discussion
sessions periodically during their first semester to review
and evaluate them. A round of student evaluations two
weeks into the semester could help detect struggling GSIs
early enough for the department to intervene and prevent
sections from falling behind.
Sarah Squire is the Daily's co-managing design editor.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Julian Toles, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 13, 2010 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday. December 13, 2010 - 5A

So many awards,
so little meaning

"Johnny, why the fuck would you bench Darren McFadden?"
Po intless Tourist'trap

Del
too
in a

"The
glance
star Jo
and
Jolie. D
played
earthly
since
ingusb
disturb
as Wil
The M;
and Ca
way), a
partial

pp and Jolie are ("Salt," "Wanted," "Beowulf").
And despite all the quirks
special to appear infused by its two unconventional
stars, and its beautiful (though
film this bland aimless) gallivant through about
three-fourths of the European
By IMRAN SYED Union, "The Tourist" turns out to
Daily Arts Writer be allitoo typical - bland, goofy and
unremarkable.
Tourist" looks at first Jolie plays Elise, a beautiful,
to be too normal of a film to mysterious woman being tailed by
hnny Depp secret police agencies throughout
Angelina *-- Europe. We learn that she is tied to
)epp hasn't a financial mastermind who stole
a sober, The Tourist billions of dollars and then van-
character ished into thin air. As police and
2004 (giv- AtQualityl6 mobsters stalk Elise in the hopes
'rilliant and and Rave that she will lead them to him, she
ing turns Columbia develops a sudden friendship with
Lly Wonka, Frank Tupelo (Depp), a clueless
lad Hatter, Sweeney Todd American tourist in Italy. But is
pt. Jack Sparrow along the Frank more than he seems?
nd Jolie has of late been As is to be expected from a trite
only to vain, moody roles Hollywood production dressed up

as classic, old-school noir, there
are plenty of foreign accents, exotic
backdrops and Russian mobsters
here. There's also enough of a fail-
ure to deliver on a decent premise
to drop a line often used in classic
criticism of old-school noir - it's
all cloak and no dagger. The action
starts and stops with no particular
regard for logical transition, and,
for all the theatrics and "twists,"
it's not clear whether anything
turns out differently from what one
would predict in the first five min-
utes of the film.
Depp brings to this role an
interesting willingness to play the
everyman - something that's quite
unexpected from an actor who
built his career playing the eccen-
tric, borderline insane character.
His setup is genuine and amusing
enough, but clashes horribly with
Jolie, who seems intent on taking

the film - and the relationship of
the two characters in the story -
in the complete opposite direction.
Cold, detached and distressingly
formal, Jolie may just be playing
the part as written, but it's a failure
in tone nonetheless.
Reminiscent of "The Ameri-
can," a spy thriller starring George
Clooney that debuted earlier this
fall, "The Tourist" is a fancy shell
with all-too-ordinary a core. The
two films are also similar in hav-
ing accomplished foreign directors
- in this case, Florian Henckel von
Donnersmarck ("The Lives of Oth-
ers") - whose prior successes are
no doubt what attracted such big
Hollywood stars to what turned out
to be just average productions. We
maydeservebetterfromstars of this
caliber, but then again, there's quite
a bustling market for empty produc-
tions with fancy, famous shells.

By DAVID TAO
Daily TV/New Media Editor
It started in November with the
Independent Spirit Award Nomi-
nations, and continued with the
Gotham Awards and the recent
National Board of Review's annual
awards. That's right, kids, it's offi-
cially Oscar season - a time when
directors, producers and stars show
up at parties and press junkets to
promote movies that much of Amer-
ica hasn't had a chance to see, vying
for that holiest of holies: the Acad-
emy Award. Treading water amid
the waves of pretension and elitism
are the industry unions and critics'
circles, which hand out "pre-Oscar"
film awards of relative meaningless-
ness in an attemptto push the Acad-
emy in a certain direction. Here's a
rundown of what these awards real-
ly mean for this year's Oscar bait.
I'll start by simplifying the mess
and grouping our awards into gen-
eral categories. The first category
encompasses national film awards
like the American Film Institute
Awards and the British Academy of
Film and Television Arts Awards.
These are completely irrelevant.
The AFI awards are an unranked
top-10 list of the year's best films.
With such a broad group of hon-
orees and no number-one film to
stand behind, past lists have almost
always coincided with the Acad-
emy's five Best Picture nominees.
But last year, Oscar's Best Picture
nominees were expanded to 10, of
which the AFI correctly predicted
only five. Fail.
The BAFTAs, on the other hand,
are respectfully considered the
British equivalent of the Oscars.
Unfortunately, they're unabash-
edly arthouse, with winners skew-
ing toward smaller features like
"The Full Monty," "Sense and Sen-
sibility" and "The Pianist" over
the blockbuster favorites that won
Best Picture ("Titanic," "Bravehe-
art" and "Chicago," respectively).
They weren't bad decisions - at
the risk of truckloads of hate mail,
I'll say I despised "Titanic." They
just weren't great predictors of who
would eventually win.'
Then there are awards for inde-
pendent cinema, chief among them
the Independent Spirit Awards.
They announce their honorees first
because they have to - if your film
qualifies as independent (meaning
it was made for less than $20 mil-
lion), almost nobody cares about
it. Last year, though "The Hurt
Locker" won Best Picture at the
Academy Awards, its fellow nomi-
nees included six films made for
more than the $20-million ceiling.
Among these were "Avatar" and
"Up," which were made for more
than 10 times the winning film's
miniscule $15 million production
budget.
All publicity is good publicity, so
being mentioned at these awards
is beneficial, particularly if you're
nominated for playing a lead or
supporting role. Recently, acting
accolades issued by the Indepen-
dent Spirit Awards have been sur-
prisingly prescient with cespect to
eventual Oscar nominees. Four out
of the past five years have seen two
or more independent Spirit Award

nominees pick up Oscar nomina-
tions for Best Actor. The films that
got them there, however, don't get
quite as much recognition.
Odds are that many of these
cheaply made, oft-obscure filmswill
get some form of award from at least
one of the nation's critics circles,
particularly the National Society of
Film Critics, which often endorses
underexposed foreign films and
rarely agrees with the Oscars.aThere
are also the New York Film Critics'
Circle and the Los Angeles Film
Critics Association, the other two
major critics' organizations, which
endorse a single winner in all Acad-
emy categories and almost never get
it right. The NYFCC, for example,
has predicted the correct Best Pic-
ture winner just three times in the
past decade. The LAFCA is even
worse, predicting the correct win-
ner just once in the same timeframe.
These critics' awards are all
eclipsed in extravagance, celeb-
rity worship and inaccuracy by the
Golden Globes, awarded by the Hol-
lywood Foreign Press Association.
The 95-member HFPA is an inter-
national coalition of almost-jour-
nalists, who do much of their work
freelance and cling to their jobs for
Suck my Golden
Globes, HFPA.
the parties and the celebrity access.
Throw in their lack of professional-
ism - former HFPA President Phil
Berk was forced to apologize for
groping Brendan Fraser at an HFPA
event - and its surprising they're
even allowed their own televised
ceremony. Oh, and they've only cor-
rectly predicted the winner for Best
Picture once in the past six years.
All of these groups I've men-
tioned so far are either sickeningly
elitist, too small to matter or just
don't get it right. So who really
matters? Look for legitimacy in the
industry unions, which include the
Screen Actor's Guild, the Produc-
ers Guild of America, the Witets
Guild of America and the Directors
Guild of America. These organiza-
tions host low-key ceremonies and
present awards in fewer categories,
with the exception of SAG, whose
BestEnsemble Cast award is seen as
a Best Pictureanalogue. It's impor-
tant to note the incredible predict-
ing power that each set of awards
has in its specialized industry. The
PGA has predicted the Academy's
choice for Best Picture seven years
out of the past 10, while the DGA
has predicted the Oscar-winner for
Best Director 54 times in its 62 year
history.
There's a reason for this. While
anybody can buy the right to vote
for the Independent Spirit Awards
(just $60 for students!) and critics
are never inducted into the Acad-
emy, guild awards are decided by
filmmaking professionals, many of
whom are Academy members who
vote for the Oscars as well. This
year, bet with the guilds' choic-
es for best everything and odds
are you'll look like a genius come
Oscar night.

Lena Dunham's
'Tiny' depression

Legitimizing the
Etch A Sketch

IB
Lena
the shoe
charmi
in the
filmmak
burgeon
oeuvre.
film's
director
lead
her pr
is felt i
frame o
cal film
Aura (I
ate of a
breakin
boyfrie
bourgeo
City to
More
and her
Dunhan
Grace I
moons, r
film is
the aud
film fee
An
at v
al
vited lo
its char
Aura
aspects
and Nad
likeable
ostensib
able on
is great
familiar
less en'
tee. But
deeper
amusin
sense a
resentm
leads ti
then ex
ness as t
But n
from t
quickly
two s
through
comedi
"Lover

3y PHIL CONKLIN (David Call, "Did You Hear About
Daily Arts Writer the Morgans?"), who works at a
restaurant where Aura gets a job
Dunham is the star of as a hostess. The two are abra-
w in "Tiny Furniture," a sive to the point of being hard
ng, cleverly written entry to watch, and one can't help but
young cringe at Aura's desire to even be
ker's around them.
ning The film presents a cold world.
As the Tiny Furniture Dirty streets lined with unin-
writer, viting, white-walled homes and
r and At the Michigan lonely people fill the screen.
actress, 1FC While this in itself is not neces-
resence sarily negative, the film offers
n every few warm moments to offset the
f this semi-autobiographi- bleakness. The humor is mostly
. "Tiny Furniture" follows disparaging and sarcastic, and the
Dunham), a recent gradu- characters show little compassion
.n Ohio college who, after for one another.
g up with her long-term And it's hard to root for Aura as
nd, moves back in with her a protagonist. She is portrayed as
oisie family in New York an outsider, but the viewer can't
try to figure her life out. relate to her because she is not
over, Aura's sister Nadine depicted in a consistent manner.
a mother, Siri are played by We are meant to believe she's the
m's own mother and sister, victim when Keith takes advan-
Dunham and Laurie Sim- tage of her, but also that she's the
espectively. Basically, this perpetrator when she blows off
very, very personal. And her best college friend Frankie
ience can sense this. The (Meritt Wever, "Into the Wild").
is like an intimate, unin- The film can't seem to decide
whether she's a whiny, entitled
bitch or the victim of a family and
peer group who don't understand
numbly look hr
And, partly due to a flat perfor-
mance from Dunham, Aura ends
ter college. up a pretty insipid character, with
an emotional palette generally
ranging between boredom and
apathy. Indeed, many of the sec-
uk into the private lives of ondary characters are more inter-
acters. esting and energetic than Aura.
's family is one of the best One of these is Charlotte (relative
of "Tiny Furniture," Siri newcomer Jemima Kirke), an old
dine being two of the more friend of Aura's - recently out of
characters in a movie rehab, with a possibly fake British
bly aboundingwithunlike- accent and magnetic spontane-
es. The family's chemistry ity. Her scenes are fun and lively,
; their scenes have an easy her drunken caprices contrasting
rity that lends an effort- nicely with Aura's droll, muted
orgy to their witty repar- sensibility.
t the family dynamic runs Late in"Tiny Furniture,"Aura's
than this. Beneath their mother remarks that she and Aura
g banter the viewer can continually have the same conver-
an underlying current of sation. It feel the same way to the
tent and jealousy, which audience. The film keeps rehash-
o humor in earlier scenes, ing the same situations and con-
plosions of anger and sad- versations. It seems to drag on
the film goes on. much longer than its 98 minutes,
when the film moves away and ends up feeling like a patch-
his domestic setting, it work of scenes that don't quite
loses steam. Aura makes coalesce into a coherent narra-
ignificant male friends tive. Its witty script and interest-
hout the movie, aspiring ing characters ultimately aren't
an Jed (Alex Karpovsky, enough to elevate the film above
s of Hate") and chef Keith mildly diverting entertainment.

By STEPHEN OSTROWSKI
Daily Arts Writer
Traversing the blogosphere
always yields its sensory-over-
loading share of pop culture-
infused irony. A while back I
happened upon an iPad case fash-
ioned in the likeness of the ageless
Etch A Sketch (which actually
retails online for $39 by a compa-
ny called Headcase). Not only did
the idea strike me as an amusing,
culturally aware repurposing of
an iconic product, it also tickled
the heartstrings of this former
Etch A Sketch enthusiast.
I used to belong to an Etch
A Sketch club - not the physi-
cal sort of club that meets in
the rusted bed of your uncle's
jalopy (or my area bookstore,
the former meeting place of
the Animorphs club to which
I briefly belonged as a youth).
Rather, I was the recipient of
occasional newsletters briefing
me on matters pertinent to the
fire engine-red drawing tool.
Recent confession of this mem-
bership elicited amusement at
what one might politely term
There are
dozens of us.
Dozens.
an unconventional pursuit for a
child - a "pursuit" culminating
in a self-compiled album of my
most esteemed sketches (rudi-
mentarily documented via fax
scans).
Admittedly, there are more
eccentric interests one could
highlight in a public forum, like
fire swallowing or snake charm-
ing. But as a fine arts recruit,
I am compelled to defend or,
perhaps more appropriately,
dissect "sketching" as a legiti-
mate art form - not that it isn't
already viewed as such by some.
A simple comb of the Internet
will return a handful of artists
who have received press or been
showcased in galleries for their
etching efforts (search Pauline
Graziano or George Vlosich,
among others, for a bounty of
polished works).
Still, it's difficult to disman-

tle the perception of an Etch A
Sketch as merely a toy, given
that its fundamental purpose is
entertainment. Anything born of
the toy, then, might be perceived
as banal and too accessible. After
all, hasn't the allure and prestige
of high artbeen its manifestation
of a talent wildly unreachable by
the average individual? Yes, but
many heralded artists, ranging
from Picasso to Alex Katz, have
employed an aesthetic that could
be more easily imitated than,
say, hyper-realist Chuck Close
(take for example his eerily life-
like portrait, Mark). Visual vir-
tuosity, or an absence of it, is not
the sole qualifier for an art form.
That nonetheless does not
evade the charge of an Etch A
Sketch as too mundane or even
kitschy. Defending it might be
analogous to championing a
See ETCH A SKETCH, Page 6A


6A - Monday, December 13, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com ,

Doing the DJ math with deadmau5

4x4=12' will get you
dancing and perhaps
dubstepping
By ELLIOT ALPERN
Daily Arts Writer
Looking past the ludicrous and
befuddling album title, 4x4=12 is
successful both
as a dance com- _
pilation and as a
satisfying piece e dmu5
of music. Under
the moniker 4x4=12
deadmaua (pro- Ultra
nounced "dead
mouse"), Cana-
dian DJ Joel Zimmerman brings
to the table a surprising amount of
variation along with his patented
booming basses and electrify-
ing synths. Blending elements of
house, electro and dubstep, 4x4=12

is enough to keep a rave rumbling
for almost all of its hour-long run-
time.
The song most ready for contin-
uous play in faux-European dance
clubs is "A CityIn Florida." It's rela-
tively simple, with a thumping beat
and a synthesizer that builds like
a tea kettle. The combined result
is nothing short of pure provoca-
tion to move in rhythm. Likewise,
album closer "Everything Before"
uses the same technique - a deep
beat with accompanying electronic
notes. But the cumulative reso-
nance is enough to make the air in
your lungs vibrate.
The main focus in 4x4=12
is clearly house music. "Some
Chords," the first track, opens with
a grand buildup that foreshad-
ows the rhythms to follow (even
though it bears a strong resem-
blance to deadmauS's previous
hit "Ghosts 'n' Stuff"). "Animal
Rights" employs a deep bass beat,

and the introduction of a groov-
ing synth encourages the notion
that copious amounts of drugs
aren't necessary to feel its pulse.
Additionally, the track "I Said" has
just the right rhythm to be a hit on
the dance floor while still casual
enough to not deter those trying to
enjoy the music without dancing.
Overall, 4x4=12 succeeds in creat-
ing the next generation of house
songs - singles that can appeal to
club-goers and still be palatable to
other listeners.
Also new to the album are con-
tributions on two songs by German
singer Miss Sofi (real name Sofia
Toufa). In "Sofi Needs a Ladder,"
the vocals add a little bit more
substance to the previously unre-
leased live track "Sofi Need a Lad-
der." But in "One Trick Pony," the
vocals add relatively nothing, and
actually detract from the electric
bass line (which the listener can
catch glimpses of between Miss

Sofi's verses). These additions don't
ruin 4x4=12, but they by no means
improve it.
4x4=12 succumbs intermittent-
ly to the temptation of dubstep.
"Raise Your Weapon." the longest
song on the album, is promising,
but goes through what could be too
many changes (including vocals
from singer Greta Svabo Bech).
Some parts seem to be in drastical-
ly different veins - like whenlull-
ing verse gives way to traditional
dubstep - to the point where the
track would have benefited more
from splitting into two or more
complementary songs.
Although each song inclines to
be either a hit or a miss, 4x4=12
has enough to offer to be enjoy-
able both to hardcore ravers and
the occasional participant alike.
Ultimately, deadmauS succeeds in
crafting a mix worthy of substan-
tial play in any club or social get-
together.

ETCH A SKETCH
From Page 5A
Woolly Willy portrait as the next
Mona Lisa (remember the bald,
jovial-looking man with mobile,
magnetic facial hair? That's
Woolly Willy). The contemporary
art world, though, displays its
own kitsch fetish, prime exem-
plar being the always-contro-
versial Jeff Koons, whose canon
includes inflatable animals and
basketballs in water tanks; Mar-
cel Duchamp's Fountain, a uri-
nal submitted in an art show in
1917, can hardly escape mention,
either. Why not accept the Etch A
Sketch as a respectable vessel for
art if artists such as Koons and
Duchamp are cleared a promi-
nent mantle in art history?
Not that highlighting Duch-
amp and Koons, two figures in the

inconceivably expansive art uni-
verse, sets the standard determi-
nants for qualifyingorlegitimizing
an art form. Everything, simply
put, is relative - the aim is not to
establish a categorical criteria, but
rather to jostle certain paradigms.
If art is to be viewed as self-expres-
sion, then is it problematic for the
extensions of one's self to come in
the form a plastic rectangle, screen
and two wheels? Celebrated art-
ist David Hockney, for example,
was highlighted in a 2009 Daily
Mail article for using an iPhone
application to "create mini-master-
pieces." With titans like Hockney
embracing unconventional media,
then embracing underrepresented
unconventional media seems fair
- especially something as time-
less as the Etch A Sketch. Though,
to Hockney I would recommend
the "Etch A Sketch" app for Apple
devices, available on iTunes.
I'll be downloading it.

WELL, IT'S BEEN SWELL.
HAVE A GREAT NEW YEAR.

PARKING
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
We are working the rates....
Parking available Now at
520 Packard & 511 Hoover!
Also, 2011-12 Parking for Sale
Many "Prime" locations
throughout central campus.
Call 734-761-8000
FOR RENT
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were AFFORDABLE
and MUCH Better than the Dorms!
(Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appointments. www.UniversityTowers-
MIcom

CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! 1 bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtltc@yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com
FALL '11 RENTAL, 5 Bdrm, 2 bath,
at 811 Sylvan. 10 min walk to campus.
5 min to baseball field and track.
Major appliances. 734-834-1680.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
leane, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM FOR Sept., furn., private
deck, excellent security, parking, wash-
er/dryer, non-smoking. 537 Elizabeth
St., $1479, includes heat. 734-996-8506
4 BEDROOM BI-LEVEL apt in
house. Fits up to6 people, lots of closet
space, bay windows and 2 covered
parking spots. 741-9300
5 BDRM, 2 bath, laundry, parking,
heat included, May-May, 815 Arch,
call 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com


2011 12012
Suds Location Rout Lease

Houses
6 1103 Church
5 1020 East U.
Apartments

2
1
1
E

721 Catherine #1
721 Catherine #2
721 Catherine #6
423 Hamilton #4
306 E. Madison e2

$3400 May
$3200 Sept.
$1250 Sept.
$850 Sept.
$800 Sept.
$500 Sept.
$000 Sept.

Affordable Student Co-Op Houu 1
Now Signing Room & Board Contracts for
Winter 2010 & Fall-Winter 2011-2012
=$575/Month Includes full mealtplan, Internet, parking, utilities,
Leadership Opportunities, & Much More.
Inter-cooperative council
wwwiecaoop {734-662-4414
Student Owned and Operated since 1932
RELEASE DATE- Monday, December 13, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS DOWN 31 _
1 _ Squad: Best 1 Mardi _ ca
Buy service team 2 Continentalcash 35 Bi
5 Paving satfate 3 Biblital twin 36 Pir
8 Claoicornge 4 Bmwn seaweed 3w
soda 5 Bit of body art 37H
13 Bit of subterfuge 6 Semicircular 391"
14 Naked entrance at
15 RuthlessJ.R. on 7 Prepared, as 40C
"Dallas" leftovers N
16 inland Asiansea 8 Doe, for one 42O
17 Writeon, as sheet 9 On holiday, say tr
metal 10 Zero,insoccer 43 M
18 Mediterranean 11Explosive abbr. ANA
island country 12-Khan1
19 pesarant 20 Cathall category AR
22 Ba uncle 21 Qatar'stcapital 0C
23 MSN rival 24 The Kalahari, for
25D one M E
247's ADCr.xing 25 Uninspired new
2s version B M
s ,s d s26Barely gets by, C O
33 SingersChris or 27K o D E
actor Stephen Beethoven's N
34 Tennis star/anti- "Appassionata"
apartheid activist Sonata A L
A3rhar 28"Youarenot." M O
35 Mi ae rejoinder t1R
gadget 29 Plato's language E N
36ci- escape craft 30 Fir -year student, S E
370Geo0tr bnefly
calculations xwor
38 Minute stake? 1 2 3 4 
39 Vienna's land:
Abbr. 13 14
40 Nasal detections
41 Featured mail- 1 617
order club offering 13 23
44 B'way "no seats"
nin 22
45 Conrined
46 Run in 27 2 29
47 Motor Trend 3
magazine award
53 Ribs sauce style, 3s a
briefly
56 Silents actress 39
Theda 4
57 Niger neighbor 21 42
58 French parting ,
59 What avengers
get 47
60 Study a lot in a
short time 3
61 Roger who 58
played Bond
62 Low grade 61 6
63 Cathedral
recess By Gareth Bain
(c)2010 Tribune Media Services,I

_Terror: Bush 47 Trucker with a
ampaign handle
lls at bars 48 Topchoice, for
finshed dealing sburt
sih 49Song sung with
acienda brick arm motions
We Three Kings' 50 O.K. Corral name
dverb 51 Word of sorrow
ertain 52 "The _ of the
ebraskan Ancient Mariner"
ppositerof 53 "Pow cousin
ansparent 54 Hoo-ha
ain dish 55 _ Grande
SWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
1 Z A C B E NE K I N G
VEN S AD N
R I T L E NO J A WWA
G H O U L S P O K E W
II E L S F A N
IN C R E T E J U N G L E
L A W A R E I N D I A N S
IA N O T E C H N O L O G Y
D R E A E R S R S
K Y D B E D L A M
IO G C U PS S A H I B
IR 1 T A T E A B R A D E
IE R V A T E D O C I L E
A L A N E S O X Y G E N
deditor@aol.com 12111M
5 6 7 89 10 1 12
15
16
21
23 24 25 26
16 3
40
48 49 s0 51 "2
1s 60
nc. 12'13110

www.copiproperies.com
734-663-5609
AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
!!! HURRY, these are going fast!
Amazing deal! 1100 sqft bi-level fits
up to 5, flat screen tv, HD directv, inter-
net, heat and much more. On-site fit-
ness, recreation and FREE laundry.
741-9300
annarborapartments.net
!!AWESOME 4 bdrm near the rock.
Free prkg. lndry. Avail. Fall '11.
734.223.7777.
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
cenral air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!CLASSY 6 & 7 Bdrm/3 BA Homes.
great floor plan/location! fireplace/cool
kitch/prkg. $3600/$3950 313-215-8115
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modem
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
SPACIOUS 2 BEDROOM APTS!
911 & 1001 S Frest
Great location w/heat, waer, wi-fi,
& parking included. Fully furnished &
very spacious! Updated kitchens &
bthrms, leather or suede furniture, A/C,
laundry, and intercom entrance.
5 minutes to Central Campus!
www.varsitymagement.com
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!!
2 & 3 bdrms, lots of closet space, flat
screen tvs, modern furniture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
the Di
,,retewtPROPERTY MANAGEMENT
)tO ln e d a nd 0 P 01
19 Locations To Serve YU
Studio - 4 Bedrooms,
r Ce~trai campus n towf1 | '
Nah Canps west side _J
41et Our IaiI Tae C're !'Yors
734741.9300
www.annarboraparments.net

!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
SPACIOUS 4 BEDROOM APTS!
1039 Baldwin
Two 4 Bdr. Apts. available in a
gorgeous converted house.
High ceilings, bay windows, fireplace,
hardwood floors, & screened in porch!!
Large backyard, heat, water,
& parking included!
734-668-1100
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, 2 baths, lovingly maintained,
$3000 + utilities, Jim at 734-426-4772.
FALL 2011
Amazing 4 Bedroom Apartment.
Right on South University Ave.
2 Full Luxury Baths, Huge Living
Space, Heat and Water Included
$3299/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL 2011
Great 2 Bedroom Apartment with
Balcony. Located across from the
CCRB. Modern Kitchen and Bath with
Granite Floors and Bar Top.
Heat and Water Included.
$1499/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
GREAT 7 BDRM. 7-8 person house
near campus. 2.5 bath. Large rooms,
free prkg., laundry. $3900/mo. Avail.
Sept. 2011. Call 734-761-9210
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts..
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
FALL 2011 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent

Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island
Drinkwith
any new tour!
Voted Best
Apartments in
2009 by
Michigan Daily!
ON CAMPUS, FURNISIIED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
AFFORDABLE AND MUCH
BETTER THIN THE .00h"lS!
O[JDESERVE TO STEP U.
Contact us for a
tour today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-M.COM
jniversit
owe&
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!!!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Included*
Even comes Furnished!!
(And HAILto the Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
IF MONEY CAN't buy happiness,
I guess you'll have to rent it!!
Prime Student Housing-Call today!
761-8000 primesh.com
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MY NEW YEARS Resolutions...
Exercise...At least until my
spring break trip
Study more for my classes...Maybe
No more drinking...LOL
Find my apartment
for the fall..Definitely
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
PACKARD 5BDRM
Completely remodeled & very spacious
5 bdrm apt. Two of the bedrooms are
very large and can easily be doubles!
Eat-in kitchen, hardwood firs, & 2 full
baths. Washer & dryer on-site and just
one block from the union!
734-668-1100
RIDDLE OF THE Day...
Has the top customer service around.
Best rates & locations on campus.
It's a positive number that's not divisi-
ble without a remainder by any positive
number other than itself and one.
Call (734) 761-8000 to get your answer
& so much more!!
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.

540 WALNUT, 6 bedrooms, 3 bath,
Just3 blocks from the CCRB, this
house has a large porch, parking and is
partially furnished. Laundry on site is
included. $4,695.00
Call Pat at Campus Management
734-663-4101
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATION!!!
543 Church! Best location in town!
Right across from East Hall. Spacious
4br bi-level apts. Updated kitchens
w/dishwashers, heat & water included,
and all apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
APARTMENTS GOING FAST.....
Efficiencies, I & 2Bedrooms/
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
I4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leaning
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today.t to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
6, 7, AND 9 BDRM houses available
Fall. Central Campus and Kerrytown.
Call Deinco 734-996-1991 or visit
cappomanagement.com
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000 1
www.carlsonproperties.com
7 BDRM HOUSE! Great Location,
Huge Rms, 3 Full Bths, 2 Ktchns, Prkg
& Ldry. Call 734-260-4003 or visit
HillStreetProperties.com
ACROSS FROM WEST & SOUTH
QUAD. 1 & 2 bdrms, modern
furmiture, garage parking and
FREE heat & laundry. 741-9300
annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. fain.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735

734.709.3222
www.scienceworddoectorcom
For your scientific writing needs.
Services include grants, clinical
reports, abstracts and manuscripts.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

a

4

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTENTION U OF M Students
HOLDAY HELP
1-5 week work program, flex sched,
$16,25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice,
no exp necessary, all ages 17+,
Apply now, start after finals!
734-975-7299
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to ioin. Click on Surveys.

9
7
7

606 Catherine
510 Catherine
1129 White St

$4700
$3700
$3950

6 418 N. State $3500
6 605 E. Hoover $3720
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2240
Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991

625 Church St. (734) 663-1100
515 Walnut
South U. & Geddes
2br 2 bth bi-level apts w/
rooftop patios perfect for 4
people! Large living rooms,
tons ot closet space, and
updated kitchens. Fully
furnished w/ heat, water,
&parking included!
ww-varsitymonagement.come

a

a

WANTED 1 TICKET Dilbert McClin-
tor. The Ark. Dec. 15th. Leave mes-
sage for Kendall. 734-475-3447



10 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 13, 2010 -- 7A

I The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, December13, 2010 - 7A

INSTANT
CASHIFICATION
WHEN YOU SELL $50. IN BOOKS


"UM VIP

ALL YOUR
TEXTBOOKS

4a
BOOKSTORE
549 E. UNIVERSITY AVE.
ULRICHS.COM

EASY IN, EASY OUT
extended hours to fit your schedule.
Powered By

317 SOUTH STATE STREET
M ICHBOOK.COM



8A - Monday, December 13, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com I

Forward Carl Hagelin (front) walks into Michigan Stadium for the Big Chill at the Big House on Saturday.

FLOREK
From Page 1A
on the biggest stage possible. The
largest crowd ever to watch a
NCAA sporting event, 113,411 saw
the Spartans dominated by the
same team that upset them twice
at home to knock them out of the
playoffs lastyear. They witnessed
their rivals completely upstage
their own outdoor game in every
way.
Why not give them another
chance?
With the established interest in
outdoor games and huge advances
in ice-rink technology, if the
Michigan State athletic depart-
ment can switch Spartan Stadium
back to field turf like it was in
2001 for the Cold War (a big'if',
but it is possible), the conditions
are basically met for a chance at
redemption.
Don't tell me it wouldn't sell
out. Spartan Stadium's record
capacity is 80,401. That's 33,010
fewer than were in attendance
Saturday. Michigan State coach
Rick Comley said this week that

playing outdoor hockey never gets
old. Neither does watching it.
So do it, Michigan State. In a
few years, try to beat the Michigan
goal-scoring, firework-exploding,
headline-grabbing extravaganza
that was The Big Chill in the Big
House. It helps everybody.
You geta chance to take back
the idea you started, make up
for your lackluster performance
on the ice at Michigan Stadium,
and bathe in the revenue gained
from ticket and apparel sales.
New players get to play in a game
they dream about. Fans get to see
outdoor hockey. And Michigan's
athletic department gets to try to
top it again a few years after.
It can't be done every year. If a
game eventually comes to Michi-
gan Stadium again, it won't beas
special as the Big Chill. But stu-
dents graduate and new ones come
in who didn't have the opportu-
nity to be one of the dancing fools
during the second intermission in
the North endzone.
"That's not something you do
every year," Michigan Athletic
Director Dave Brandon said after
the game. "You got to make it

special. I could see us potentially
maybe getting in to an every-four-
year cycle. Timing situated that
every student-athlete who played
hockey here could get a chance to
participate in something like this,
and keep it special and unique
enough that our fans would turn
out the way they did tonight."
And I agree - make it cyclical.
One school puts on an outdoor
game, the other school does it two
years later. That way every player
and student from these institu-
tions gets to experience an out-
door hockey game in front of their
home crowd.
As the athletic departments try
to out-do themselves, the events
will look increasingly more like
an action movie. I can't wait until
2030 when the Michigan head
coach parachutes in just before the
opening faceoff. Everybody wins
from that.
But that's a long way off And
after that spectacle on Saturday
afternoon, Michigan State, it's
your move.
- Florek can be reached
at florekmi@umich.edu.

GOOGLE
From Page1A
new collaborative system.
"The IT Council was very
impressed with the thoroughness
of the Unit IT Steering Committee
in formulating its recommenda-
tion," Atkins said. "While we are
very excited at the prospects of
moving forward with this major
enhancement of the U-M col-
laboration environment, we know
there are important challenges -
especially in the areas of user sup-
port, privacy and security - that
we need to plan for carefully."
In the same release, Lynn John-
INVASIONS
From Page 1A
said.
Blackwell did notknow the exact
location of where the man was
apprehended, but said the arrest
occurred in the area of Washtenaw
and North University avenues.
According to Blackwell, the man
is in his early 20s. Blackwell did not
know if the man is a University stu-
dent.
The AAPD will be contacting
the victims of the home invasions
to see if they can identify the man.
STIMULUS
From Page 1A
LSA Dean of Budget James
Penner-Hahn wrote in an e-mail
interview that the majority of fed-
eral stimulus funds LSA received
came from the National Science
Foundation and the National Insti-
tutes of Health.
The stimulus money allowed
LSA to hire more undergraduate
and graduate students to conduct
research, according to Penner-
Hahn.
"These funds also supported the
purchase of equipment, which has
improved our research capabilities
and thus indirectly impacted our
students," he wrote.
He added that the process to get
funding from LSA is very competi-
tive and most funds were granted
for new faculty projects based on
applications submitted by faculty
members.
However, some funds were
given to projects that were already
in place, Penner-Hahn explained.
In 2009 and 2010, the College
of Engineering was awarded six
grants that totaled $50 million in
federal stimulus funds, said Jon
Kinsey, director of government
and foundations relations for the
College of Engineering.
The funds that the College of
Engineering received came from
the Department of Energy, the
National Science Foundation and
the National Institutes of Health.
Kinsey said the college used the
stimulus funds to study alternative
energy, climate change, education,
health and nanotechnology proj-
ects.
In addition, the Energy Fron-
tier Research Center received
$19.5 million in April 2009. The
center, which is housed in the Col-
lege of Engineering, is devoted to
researching new materials to more
efficiently convert solar energy to
electricity, Kinsey explained.
"Students benefit in many ways

including the funding of gradu-
ate students, (the) use (of) new
equipment purchased through the
funds, new curriculum and par-
ticipation in the research itself,"
Kinsey said.
Martin Philbert, who will
become dean of the School of
Public Health on Jan. 1, said the

son, chair of the Unit IT Steering
Committee and an assistant dean
at the School of Dentistry, said a
new, unified collaboration technol-
ogy system would help eliminate
duplicationof services and save the
University substantial amounts of
money.
"High-quality collaboration is
the hallmark of a global research
institution like U-M," Johnson
said. "Identifying new collabora-
tive tools for adoption across cam-
pus is just the first step in a larger
initiative to improve the environ-
ment for collaboration in learning,
teaching and research."
Despite the standardization
efforts, some units at the Universi-
If they identify him as the invader,
Blackwell said the man would be
charged.
In a separate incident, two soror-
ities on Hill Street - Alpha Phi and
the Delta Delta Delta senior house
- were broken into Saturday night.
AAPD Sgt. Andrew Zazula said
a male wandered into the houses,
but nothing was reported as stolen
from either property. He added that
the man has not been caught.
According to the AAPD, the sus-
pect is described as a black male in
his early 40s. At the time of the inci-
dent, he was reported to be wearing
a black - possibly leather - jacket,
stimulus funds allocated to the
University have impacted students
in his school in a variety of ways.
"Many of our students are
engaged in research as part of their
degree requirements or as part of
a broader educational opportunity
to gain relevant field experience,"
he said. "Research programs fund-
ed by federal stimulus dollars have
enabled the engagement and reten-
tion of a larger number of students
that might not have been possible
without the (stimulus funds)."
According the University's
Office of the Vice President for
Research, the School of Public
Health received approximately
$40 million in federal stimulus
funds, primarily through the NSH.
A Feb. 1, 2010 press release from
the School of Public Health stated
that the school received $17 million
for diabetes research that focuses
on people who are predisposed to
the disease.
The Institute for Social
Research was also awarded signifi-
cant funding through the stimulus.
According to ISR Director James
Jackson, the ISR received $47.5
million in grants and contracts
from the NSF. He added that $14.8
million of the total amount is being
used to build a fourth wing on
Division Street for the ISR.
The remainder of the money for
ISF is going toward research. The
Health and Retirement Survey
- a bi-yearly survey that records
changes in health of Americans
over age 50 - will be using some
of the funds to make the survey
more detailed, including adding an
ethnic and racial question, Jackson
said.
Jackson added that the ISR will
add between 100 to 300 new staff
and faculty members within the
next 10 years because the expan-
sion will-provide more opportuni-
ties for researchers.
By providingjobs now and in the
future," the funds are having their
intended impact," Jackson said.

The Department of Public
Safety was also granted $258,528
to install security camera sys-
tems in high-risk areas like park-
ing lots around sports venues and
University libraries, according to
DPS spokeswoman Diane Brown.
DPS was also granted $30,000
in federal stimulus funds to
upgrade evidence and tracking

ty will still be allowed to use other
software, like Microsoft Outlook,
for e-mail services because of the
nature of their business.
For example, the University of ,
Michigan Health System is in the
process ofimplementing Microsoft
Outlook to replace the system they
currently use called Groupwise.
The transition is set tobe complet-
ed by mid-2011.
The LSA Student Govern-
ment voted to endorse Google
last month. The 11-0 vote, which
had seven abstentions, came after
representatives from Google and
Microsoft visited campus to pitch
their services to students, faculty
and staff.
gloves and a winter hat.
According to Nursing senior
Stephanie Conn, the Panhellenic 4
Association's vice president of
public relations, the first break in
occurred before 8 p.m. Conn said
in an interview Sunday that the
women did not encounter any dif-
ficulties when they asked the man
to leave and escorted him out.
Conn added that other chapters
have since been informed of the
incident.
"An e-mail was sent out yester-
day just as a warning 'Oh look, this
happened, but there was no prob-
lem,' "she said.
systems.
"These grants allow us to fur-
ther enhance our safety infrastruc-
ture and make it more efficient,"
Brown said, adding that the grants
allow DPS funding to continue to
serve its current purpose like pay-
ing employees.
Without the funds, Brown said
DPS would have had to consider
cutting employees in order to fund
new DPS expenses.
In addition to University
schools and divisions, city and
county, agencies will also be using
stimulus funds to upgrade existing
programs and help fund new ones.
Ellen Schulmeister, CEO of
the Shelter Association of Washt-
enaw County, said after the shel-
ter received a $1.8 million grant,
she was able to hire four people -
three of whom were unemployed
at their time of hire.
She said the money has been
split in half to fund the housing
divisions of the shelter.
These funds are being allocated
to Washtenaw County citizens to
help them afford an apartment so
they won't be forced to live in a
shelter or face eviction, Schulmeis-
ter explained.
Schlmeister said the Shel-
ter Association of Washtenaw
County is able to prevent home-
lessness - or quickly re-house
people - because of the grant it
received, adding that because of
the funds, the shelter was able to
help more than 450 families that
were evicted.
Chris White, manager of service
development for the Ann Arbor
Transportation Authority, said the
AATA was allocated two grants
that total $6.45 million.
The first grant - approved in
August 2009 - was used to pur-
chase four hybrid buses, construct
a Park & Ride lot on Plymouth
Road and make improvements to
bus lots in Ann Arbor.
The second grant - approved in
March - paid for a portion of the

Central Campus Transit Center,
additional bus storage facilities
and bus stop improvements.
Washtenaw County budget man-
ager Jennifer Watson said the stim-
ulus funds granted to the county
have also been used for community E
service projects, summer youth
programs and job training for
Washtenaw County residents.


VISAS
From Page 1A
by the fact that he had to drive to
Chicago to fill out the application.
"You drive three or four hours
and you are only there for 10 min-
utes, and thenyou drive back,"Lang
said. "It's a hassle."
Lang said traveling to the con-
sulate general, which processes
the visas, could be an even bigger
problem for out-of-state students
who have to travel further to get to
their region's consulate.
"Every student had to individu-
ally travel all the way to Chicago if
they were from Michigan," Lang
said. "If they were out of state, like
from California, they had to fly all
the way back to California just to
pick up this visa."
LSA junior Alison Oreh, who is
planningto study abroad in Seville,
Spain for six months starting this
January, said she encountered
many problems when applying for
and receiving her visa but received
little guidance from the Center
for Global and Intercultural Study
office during the application pro-
cess.
"It's completely on you to fig-
ure out what you need to apply,"
Oreh said. "You need to travel to
the Spanish Consulate General in
Chicago to actually apply in per-
son, and then you have to go back
in person a second time to pick up
your visa."
Oreh said she was confused by
the application process because
she did not know what kind of visa
she needed, and that it was difficult

to fill out the application because
she did not know where she would
be living in Spain.
"It was very frustrating for me
because it felt like I was walking
in the dark and there was no one to
help me, soI kind of just did what I
thought was right," Oreh said.
Pardip Bolina, associate director
at the CGIS, said though the center
provides students with informa-
tion about the visa process, stu-
dents are responsible for obtaining
the visas themselves.
If a student encounters a prob-
lem with the visa application
process, Bolina said the center is
limited in its aid because it is not
affiliated with the government
and, therefore, does not have the
legal authority to help with the
process.
"It's up to the students to go
ahead and follow through, apply,
and if they have problems, then
unfortunately we're just not a legal
sort of entity or anything like that
to be able to grant them a visa,"
Bolina said. "We would just try to
work with them and see if we can
help ask questions that they should
be looking into."
But Bolina said she believes
there are only a few students each
semester who actually encoun-
ter difficulties when applying for
a visa and that those students are
often able to find a solution them-
selves.
"I am certain some students do
experience challenges in obtaining
visas, but they may resolve them on
their own without us ever hearing
about it," she said.
Elizabeth Jurmu, an LSA senior

and a peer adviser at the CGIS,
studied in Sydney, Australia for
five months.
Jurmu said she didn't experi-
ence any difficulties in the appli-
cation process and was advised by
CGIS to fill out an online applica-
tion to expedite the process. Jurmu
added that the application process
might have been easier because she
applied to study abroad in Austra-
lia.
"It was easier to do an appli-
cation for Australia than it is for
other countries," Jurmu said.
Though Jurmu had a simple
application process and received
overnight approval for a visa, she
said she has heard from other stu-
dents who have experienced some
problems. Jurmu added that the
amountof difficulty students expe-
rience is related to the country
where they plan to study abroad.
"From what I've heard from
students as a peer adviser for the
center, is that it's a longer process
for specific countries," she said. "I
know a lot of European countries
typically have a longer application
process."
If she had known about the dif-
ficulty involved in acquiring a visa,
Oreh said she may have considered
a study abroad program unaffili-
ated with the University.
"A lot of the other programs that
my friends are going through out-
side of the University of Michigan
have a lot more guidance and plan-
ning. It's not as up in the air," Oreh
said. "I'm about to leave in less
than a month and I feel completely
unprepared and in the dark about
what I should be doing."


f
_,
I

---------,oupon -------------

ONLY $1 .99*
From now until December 191 2010

wo

SquaresTakeout com
r
" Scan this OR code
with the barcode
scanner app to find I
us on the web! I
*Cannot be combined with any other offer.
Must present this coupon at time of purchase. Valid
11:30 am -9:00pm.Expires12/19/2010. Limitl1 per coupon. I

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
t
t
1
i
f
i

A9e -,TA
"AMFEST
w ' "Live Conerts
" VIP Pates
" Beautiful Beaches
"Cliff Jumping
" Spectacular Sunsets
570 8TR A V 4
'CRY/CESr
1.800.648.4849
w.TsRAVELc

WANT TO WRITE FOR
DAILY NEWS?
E-mail nicaber@michigandaily.com to get started.

a

UG3
17 Nickels Arcade
Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48104
734.665*7240
vanbovenshoes.com

a

4



The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I December13, 2010 B

[a] See a multimedia piece about this story on'Mh hg y on
Michigan crushes]
MSU in Big Chill

Hunwick steps up
In shutout victory

By MARK BURNS
Daily SportsEditor
Michigan hockey coach Red
Berenson calmly sat down at
Saturday's press conference fol-
lowing The Big Chill at the Big
House, and after gathering him-
self for a few seconds, he let out a
wry smile followed by four mea-
sly words to the media: "Pretty
good show, eh?"
If a convincing 5-0 win over
Michigan State in front of the
largest crowd ever to watch a
hockey game or a NCAA sporting
event, coupled with a pre-game
B2 stealth bomber fly over and
post-game fireworks, is any indi-

cation, then the answer is yes.
With a recorded attendance
of 113,411 at Michigan Stadium
on hand to watch the Wolverines
and Spartans - the teams that set
the precedent for outdoor hockey
games when they skated to a 3-3
tie in the Cold War back on Oct. 6,
2001 at Spartan Stadium - hock-
ey fans from across the country
and even around the world wit-
nessed a spectacle on Saturday
afternoon.
"I was hoping that people
would fill up the seats. I know it
was a late-arriving crowd, and
you wouldn't want a record-set-
ting crowd without the people
See BIG CHILL, Page 3B

By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
in the week of practice lead-
ing up to The Big Chill at the Big
House, there was one topic that
Michigan coach Red Berenson
continued to push aside: which
goaltender he would slate to start
in goal against Michigan State.
Berenson alternated the goal-
tenders during the first 18 games
of the season, but he made it clear
that both seniors, Shawn Hun-
wick and Bryan Hogan, had equal
opportunity to claim the starting
spot on Saturday in Michigan Sta-
dium.
After practice on Thursday,
Berenson finally answered that

Hogan would get the nod for the
12th-ranked Wolverines.
"Hunwick's not out of the loop
(for the starting job later this sea-
son), he's just not going to start
this game," Berenson said on
Thursday.
For Hunwick, the decision
was disappointing, but not unex-
pected, since Hogan held a 7-2-0
record compared to Hunwick's
2-3-4.
"I kind of saw the writing on
the wall," Hunwick said.
But when Michigan lined up for
the opening faceoff against the
Spartans, it wasn't Hogan in net, it
was Hunwick.
During the pre-game skate,
See HUNWICK, Page 38


Zips squeak by Wolverines in Cup'

EN R

i

Meram, Saad put'M'
in national spotlight

By MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Writer
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. -
Despite being outscored 12-2 in
its last two
meetings MICHIGAN 1
with Akron, AKRON 2
no one
believed another blowout was in
the cards for the Michigan men's
soccer team in Friday's national
semifinal here on the campus of
UC Santa Barbara.
In fact, the team was mere
inches from snatching up a sec-
ond-half lead before eventually
falling to the third-seeded Zips,
2-1, in the College Cup.
After many attempts were
squandered by Akron's lightning-
fast defense, the Saad brothers
hooked up on a pass that found
Soony streaking toward goal.
"There weren't that many
options," Soony said after the
game. "I decided to try and sneak

it in. Sometimes it works, some-
times it doesn't."
After miraculously weav-
ing the ball through a sea of Zip
defenders, the shot ricocheted off
of the post and was harmlessly
cleared.
"It came off his foot ... and you
think it had a good chance to go,"
Michigan head coach Steve Burns
said. "It came off the inside of the
post. One less layer of paint and I
think that thing goes."
Soony's near miss would prove
to be the Wolverines' best chance
to stave off elimination and shock
the team that defeated them 7-1 in
mid-October.
The game started with a rare
early goal for the Wolverines -
senior forward Justin Meram's
strike from the top of the circle
marked the first time in the tour-
nament that the team scored a
first-half goal.
"It was a great way to start
See COLLEGE CUP, Page 3B

By MATT SLOVIN
DailySports Writer
SANTA BARBARA, Calif.
- Friday's NCAA Tournament
semifinal loss to Akron left two
Michigan men's soccer forwards
with a prime opportunity to
reflect on the climb that got them .
to that stage.
For senior Justin Meram, the
seconds that ticked off the Hard-
er Stadium scoreboard in Santa
Barbara, Calif. meant the end of
his career as a Wolverine.
But for his partner-in-crime,
freshman Soony Saad, the defeat
marked the beginning of a new
era for the program.
"Michigan is on the map now,"
Meram said. "We set the tone
this year. Now, teams will start to
have respect for us and not take

us so lightly."
The pair - which accounted
for 36 of the Wolverines' 53 goals
this season - formed a mutually
beneficial relationship as the sea-
son progressed.
However, by no means is Saad
Meram's own prodigy. Although
many bonds between seniors and
freshmen tend to assume that
role, this one was unique in that
both attackers profited.
"I've learned a lot from Saad,"
Meram said. "Hopefully, next
year (he) can lead this team to a
national title."
After playing an entire season
with Meram, Saad shared a simi-
lar sentiment regarding the duo's
time together, much of which
was spent dominating Big Ten
goalkeepers at the head of the
See MERAM AND SAAD, Page 3B


SMC: THE SCHEFTERS
p Daily Sports Editor Ryan Kartje makes his
picks for the first annual Schefter Awards,
honoring Michigan's finest athletes over the
past year. Page 2B

'M' RUNNIN' WILD
U Michigan exacted some revenge and beat
non-conference foe Utah on Friday. Darius
Morris had a double-double while Jon Horford
filled in off the bench. Page 4B

i


2B - December 13, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.co J

2B - December13, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michieaedailn.com


I

The Daily's First Annual Schefter Awards
honoring Michigans fnest athletes

To say it's been a wild year in
Michigan sports would be
an understatement.
For every Cinderella story or
success, there seemed to be equal
heartbreak or disappointment. We
looked on as the
football team's
first-ever major
NCAA infrac-
tions unfolded '
before our eyes.
We watched the
men's gymnas-
tics team win-
the University's RYAN
first team NCAA KARTJE
championship
since 2005. And
we saw an old athletic director step
down and a new one rise up, promis-
ing results in Ann Arbor.
In honor of such a momentous
year of sports and an incred-
ible group of student athletes, I'm
delighted to introduce Daily Sports'
first annual awards - The Schefters.
The awards are named after one
of the Daily's most distinguished
alumni, Adam Schefter, who was an
editor in the Daily sports section in
the 1980s. Now with ESPN, Schefter
has taken the sports reporting world
by storm.
So without further ado, here are
the 2010 Schefters:
Best Cinderella Story: Shawn
Hunwick, ice hockey
No one - not even Michigan
coach Red Berenson - thought the
5-foot-7 walk-on goaltender could
do it.
I remember Hunwick's first press
conference after his first start in
place of Bryan Hogan, as he almost
glided into the press room after a
win. He had no clue how to talk to
the media; he accidentally cursed
halfway into the interview. But there
was just something about this kid
that made you want to root for him.
And with the Michigan hockey
team absolutely reeling, Hunwick
put an entire program on his nar-
row shoulders and turned the team
around.
Hunwick stood on his head for
the rest of the season, taking the
Wolverines on a run that should

i

have seen them head to Detroit
for the Frozen Four. And though it
wasn't meant to be, Hunwick's story
will go down in Michigan hockey
lore as one of the most incredible we
have ever seen.
Breakout Athlete of the Year:
Denard Robinson, football
Freshman striker Soony Saad is a
close second on this one, but no one
could have expected the contribu-
tion that Robinson would give to the
Michigan football team.
He invigorated the entire country
for a few weeks, showing a brand
new breed of quarterback that no
one in Ann Arbor had ever seen
before. Just last year, Robinson
seemed destined for the slot receiver
position as fellow quarterback Tate
Forcier looked to havea strangle-
hold on the job. But Robinson lit up
the University with his hard work
and his million-dollar smile, almost
singlehandedly getting the Wolver-
ines back to a bowl game.
Michigan owes an awful lot to its
smiley, speedy signal caller.
Most impressive individual
achievement: Robinson's 502
yards against Notre Dame
With the Wolverines ina hostile
environment, Robinson made his
name known to the world with one
of the single greatest performances
in the history of Michigan sports.
Not only did he eclipse the 500-
yard mark, but he did so on the final
drive in the game's waning minutes
against one of Michigan's greatest
rivals. He showed the world how
lucky the Wolverines were to have
him and catapulted to the top of
every Heisman Trophy list in the
land.
And although he didn't win the
award, when all was said and done,
no one will ever forget his absolute
destruction of the Fighting Irish in
South Bend.
Game of the Year: The Big Chill
at the Big House, Michigan ice
hockey wins 5-0 over Michigan
State
This category should probably be
called event of the year, considering
how little the game had to do with

how awesome it actually was.
With 113,411 people in atten-
dance, the athletic department abso-
lutely shattered the record for most
fans to ever witness a hockey game
(or an NCAA sporting event) - and
put on ahell of a show in the process.
There were fireworks after each of
Michigan's five scores. There was
great music. And there were still the
great hockey chants that make the
program one-of-a-kind (although it
was tough to synchronize them at
times).
Dave Brandon earns a round of
applause for this one, asa whole lot
of the sporting world was focused
on Ann Arbor for The Big Chill. And
I have to say, to see that many people
dancing and enjoying Michigan
hockey, it might be one of the best
sporting events Ihave ever been a
part of
Coach of the Year: Steve Burns,
men's soccer
This one is a no-brainer. After
playing for the Wolverines' club
team when he went to the Uni-
versity, Burns turned around and
coached Michigan's club squad until
it became a varsity team 11 years ago.
Burns watched as the program he
built from the ground up shattered
all odds and made it all the way to
the College Cup, a final four that no
one expected the team to reach.
He uncovered an amazing trio of
players in Soony and Hamoody Saad
and Justin Meram. And he coached
with incredible class, proving that
of anyone at the University, he may
be one of the best Michigan Men
around.
Team of the Year: Men's soccer
Obviously, the men's gymnastics
team deserves a whole lot of pub for
winning the University's only team
national championship in the past
five years.
But the men's soccer team defied
the odds to make it to the College
Cup and crash the party for NCAA
men's soccer. Ranked as the No. 10
seed, most thought the Wolverines
had no business being there. But
they put upa hell ofa fight with
Akron, ateam that was ranked No.1
for most of the season and beat them

4

MARK T ERR IL L/A P
Freshman forward Soony Saad led the Michigan men's soccer team in goals scored this season with 19 tallies.

7-1 in their first meeting.
The Saad brothers and Justin
Meram made up a memorable trio
with "The Three Amigos" and goal-
keeper Chris Blais was the team's
unsung hero, holding down Michi-
gan's net for one of the best stretches
by a goalkeeper I have ever seen in
the second half of the season.
Female Athlete of the Year:
Rachael Mack, field hockey
As a freshman, Mack almost
singlehandedly put the field hockey
program back on the map.
After a few tough seasons, coach
Marcia Pankratz returned to Ann
Arbor to coach and, soon after,
found Mack, a Brit whose skills on
the field hockey pitch may be the
best the University has ever seen.
She earned All-American honors
this season as a freshman, only the
second to ever do that in Michigan's
history.
And if it weren't for a few minor
scoringslumps duringthe year, she
may been toward the top in scor-
ing in the entire NCAA. Mack's
tenacity gave the Wolverines one of
their first good shots at the NCAA
Tournament in a while. And for the
next three years, Michigan will have
someone truly special to rebuild the
program around.

Male Athlete of the Year (not
named Denard Robinson): Soony
Saad, soccer and Chris Cameron,
gymnastics
It was too close to call in this
category, as both Cameron and Saad
had record-setting seasons that will
never be forgotten as far as Michi-
gan athletics go.
Saad was named to the All-Big
Ten first team and was given the
conference's Freshman of the Year
honors. He came up with crucial
goals in huge games, including the
Wolverines' most amazing win, an
NCAA Tournament quarterfinal
upset of No. 3 Maryland.
He could be off to professional'
soccer next year, considering how
sought-after his skills are, but while
he was here, Saad was one of Michi-
gan's most electrifying athletes.
Cameron, on the other hand, was
the catalystcin the Michigan men's
gymnastics team's NCAA champi-
onship run, winning the NCAA's
individual title as well.
He quietly became the country's
best gymnast, helping to make the
Wolverines a perennial power for
years to come.
Career Achievement Award:
Lexi Zimmerman, volleyball

There is no doubtin mymind
that Zimmerman will go down as
one of the greatest female athletes
in the history of the University of
Michigan.
Michigan coach Mark Rosen said
that Zimmerman was the best ath-
lete he had ever coached, and there's
no doubt as to why: She owns nearly
every record she could possibly own
in the Michigan record books, and
she put an entire team on her back,
leading them as far as the Elite Eight
in her junior season.
She has four All-American hon-
ors, one of the only female Wolver-
ines to do that outside of swimming
and gymnastics in the University's
athletic history. She tallied a triple-
double in back-to-back games this
season - a feat almost unheard of in
volleyball.
And she did so with a level of
class that made her one of the best
all-around team captains in recent
Michigan sports history.
There is no doubt anywhere in
Ann Arbor that Lexi Zimmerman
will be missed.
- Kartje will miss being the Daily's
managing sports editor next semester
but wants to thank all the great
athletes who made it worth it. He can
be reached at rkartje@umich.edu.

I

4


Blue hopes to dominate in
the paint against Aggies

4

'M' hopes to carry
momentum from
second-half surge
against Kansas
By KEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Writer
On Thursday, the Michigan
women's basketball team out-
scored unbeaten Kansas by 21
points in the
second half en NewMexico
route to a 75-67
come-from- State at
behind victory Michigan
in Crisler Arena.
"We played Matchup:
a great game," NM State 6-3;
Michigan coach Michigan 5-4
Kevin Borseth When: Tonight
said after the at 7 p.m.
game. "Kansas Where:
is very good, and Crisler Arena
we had to play
hard and play
well to beat them, and I thought
we did. That's a big win for us."
Tonight against New Mexico
State, the Wolverines (5-4) will
look to play a full 40 minutes at
the same level that they played
the final 20 minutes against the
Jayhawks (8-1).
The unranked Aggies (6-3) of
the Western Athletic Conference
are coming off a 66-59 win over
Cal State Northridge on Dec. 5.
New Mexico State is led by
6-foot-1 junior forward Tabytha
Wampler, who averages 14 points
and 10.4 rebounds per game.
Wampler scored a career-high 26
points and grabbed 14 rebounds
in the win against Northridge.
Senior guards Jasmine Lowe
and Madison Spence lead the
Aggies in the backcourt, both
averaging just over 13 points per
game.
Spence has been out of the line-
up since she suffered a concussion
on Nov. 22, but she is expected to
come back tonight.
Wampler is the Aggies' only
true post player, as New Mexico
State starts four guards and one
forward - a rarity in the basket-

4

0

4

Sophomore forward Sam Arnold was key in Michigan's comeback agair

ball world. The Aggies often have
trouble controlling the boards,
averaging four rebounds fewer
than their opponent per game.
This bodes well for the Wol-
verines, who normally have their
own trouble controlling the glass.
With 6-foot-1 sophomore
Rachel Sheffer starting at for-
ward and 6-foot-4 sophomores
Sam Arnold and Kate Thompson
coming off the bench, Michigan
will no doubt have the height
advantage.
The Wolverines will aim to get
the ball into the post early, and.
if they can do that against the
Aggies, they should have an edge
in the paint.
Just like Michigan, Arnold is
riding a wave of momentum. She
played a big role in Thursday's

comeback win over Kansas, scor-
ing 12 points in the second half.
"I thought Arnold did a really
good job when she came in," Bors-
eth said. "She played a great game
down in the block."
Senior guard Veronica Hicks,
who led the Wolverines with 14
points on Thursday, will look to
power Michigan to another non-
conference win as its brutal non-
conference schedule begins to
wind down.
The Wolverines have already
played three ranked teams this
season.
"I love our schedule," Hicks
said. "It puts us in every situation
so when we get into conference
play, there is absolutely nothing
in any game that we haven't seen
in some way. It really preps us."

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

December 13, 2010 - 3B

-

'M' senior forwards shine at the Big House

P Rust, Hagelin
have breakout
performances in
lopsided victory
By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
It's rare that senior forward
Matt Rust is content after a game.
The alternate captain is his own
biggest critic and constantly looks
for ways to improve.
But according to Michigan
assistant coach Billy Powers, all
Rust needed was
a little confi- NOTEBOOK
dence - some-
thing he found in front of 113,411
fans for Michigan's 5-0 win over
Michigan State in The Big Chill at
the Big House.
"(Rust) got his power game back
but some poise to go along with
that," Powers said. "That's when
he's at his best.
"Even though he's played well
(this season), I think this was a
game that should catapult him to
a good second half."
The Bloomfield Hills. Mich.
native finished the night with
three assists - the fourth three-
point game of his career, tying
his career high. Rust earned an
assist in each period on Saturday,
setting up freshman defenseman
Jon Merrill in the first and senior

forward Carl Hagelin in both the
second and third.
Last season, Rust tied for fourth
in team goals, finishing the season
with 13 goals and 27 assists.
Out to a slower start this year,
the senior has only found the back
of the net three times during the
first half of the season.
But Powers and Rust know that
hard work leads to puck luck and
both are hopeful that Saturday
could be a turning point for Rust
this season.
"My hard work, hopefully, is
paying off now," Rust said. "It
was a rough start to the season.
(There were) definitely some ups
and down for me and the team,
but hopefully... everything came
together tonight and hopefully we
can keep it going."
HAGELIN HEATS UP, TOO: Rust
wasn't the only Wolverine to catch
fire in the cold, as his linemate,
Hagelin, also found his stride out-
doors.
Hagelin finished the night with
three points as well, netting two
power play goals and earning an
assist on Merrill's second goal.
"That line (of Rust, Hagelin, and
junior Luke Glendening) looked
terrific all week in practice," Pow-
ers said. "I had a good feeling that
they were going to get that puck
luck that they've been denied
because they clearly earned that.
They earned some confidence in
practice this week."
With friends and family in town

from his hometown of Sodertalje,
Sweden donning maize jerseys
with "SWEDEN" written across
the chest, Hagelin didn't let any-
one down.
His two goals were his eighth
and ninth on the season and
moved him atop the team in both
points and goals.
"I think we all get goose-
bumps," Hagelin said. "The whole
crowd was going crazy ... Every-
one on the team - everyone just
felt great being a part of history so
that's something we can take with
us. We just loved being out there
today."
OFFENSE ON DiSPLAY: In their
5-0 rout of Michigan State, the
Wolverines scored five or more
goals for the fifth time this season.
Despite being outshot by the
Spartans 34-29, Saturday's game
was a display of the offensive
weapons Michigan has on each
line.
While Merrill and Hagelin each
finished the night with two goals
and junior forward David Wohl-
berg added one, four additional
Wolverines recorded points on
Saturday.
"Call it puck luck, call it what-
ever you want, but it's nice that
one led to two and two led to three
and that we kept going," Powers
said.
The Wolverines' power playunit
had only scored on 15.4 percent of
its previous chances heading into
the Big Chill, but Michigan went

MAX COLLINS/Daily
Senior forward Carl Hagelin scored two goals in Michigan's 5-0 win over Michigan State in The Big Chill at the Big House.

3-for-4 on the power play on Sat-
urday.
Just like with Rust and Hage-
lin finding some fuel outside, the
Wolverines know that netting

three man-advantage goals is an
important step in the right direc-
tion heading into the second half
of the season.
"Maybe this will be the game

that (helps our power play) turn
the corner," Powers said. "The
fact that our power play was able
to contribute three of those five
(goals) was big."


BIG CHILL
From Page 1B
and say, 'Well, we sold the tick-
ets but nobody came,' " Berenson
said. "That was not the case. Peo-
ple showed up.
"This was a great event. It was
exactly as advertised, and it was
the real deal. For me, it couldn't be
any better."
But prior to the opening faceoff,
Berenson's starting neminder,
senior Bryan Hogan, suffered
a groin injury. Unable to play,
Hogan relinquished the starting
job to senior goaltender Shawn
Hunwick.
"To be honest, I was a little
scared," Hunwick said about
starting. "I wasn't really prepared
to play. And you try your best to
get ready in practice but you know
it's not the same. You're not men-
tally as sharp as you would have
been if you knew you were going
to play."
Alongside Hunwick - who
stopped 34 shots en route to his
first shutout of the season - the
Wolverines got another surprise
from freshman defenseman Jon
Merrill, who notched Michigan's
first two goals against the Spar-
tans.

With Michigan on
play midway throug
period, Merrill receiv
ice pass from senior
Chad Langlais at the r
With the Michigan
alty killers stretched
the Olympic-size ice
rill didn't hesitate t
the pass, beat-
ing goalie Drew
Palmisano on the
glove side to give
Michigan the 1-0
lead.
"I blacked
out," Merrill
joked, speaking
about the fans'
cheers after scor-
ing the first tally
and the eventual g
later. "I don't even k
nuts."
Just under three m
Merrill noticed that
Wolverine forwards
the play following a H
save, and jumped up
with senior forward 1
As Rust crossedt
blue line, Merrill str
the right side of the it
a backhand feed fror
nate captain.
Looking more like

the power
h the first
red a cross-
defenseman
ight point.
State pen-
out due to
sheet, Mer-
o one-time

Wings defenseman Nick Lidstrom
than an 18-year-old freshman - a
reference senior co-captain Carl
Hagelin made following the game
- he flipped the puck underneath
the bar to give the Wolverines a
2-0 advantage heading into the
locker room for the first intermis-

"Merrill's
been big all
P et year," Berenson
etty good said. "He's been
sh~w ehas consistent a
sh ,e? * player as we've
That's had.
"For him to
C anadjan." step up in a game
like this and an
event like and
score the first
same-winner two goals is pretty special. He'll
now. It was never forget that."
Through the second and third
inutes later, periods, Michigan doubled its lead
t all of the with a pair of power play tallies
were behind from Hagelin - the Wolverines
lunwick kick were 3-4 with the man-advantage.
on the rush At the 8:57 mark of the third peri-
natt Rust. od, Rust corralled a loose rebound
the Spartan in front of the Michigan State net,
eaked down spun away from a defender and
e, collecting feathered a pass backdoor to a
m the alter- wide open Hagelin.
The Swedish native made no
Detroit Red mistake about it, banging home

the puck past an outstretched
Palmisano.
Merrill, who generally plays on
first-power play unit, cited "keep-
ing things simple and getting
pucks to the net" as two contrib-
uting factors for the Wolverines'
success on the power play against
the Spartans.
Berenson added: "We work on
our power play probably as much
or more than most teams, and
we've had minimal results. And
tonight, it clicked. So, I cant tell
you if it was any one thing, but it
clicked it. Especially that first one,
that was-a good start for us."
And at 8 p.m. on Saturday night,
the lights were finally turned off
inside Michigan Stadium after
The Big Chill at the Big House.
The show has now come and gone,
but the memory of such a historic
event will certainly linger in the
minds of everyone who was apart
of the spectacle.
As Berenson said, "at some
point, we'll realize this was really,
really something."
"Whether you see it again, the
NHL continues to do it, we'll see
where it goes with these outdoor
games," he continued. "But you
can see as a participant there's
something special about them,
and this was another one."

COLLEGE CUP
From Page 1B
off," Meram said.
momentum."
With the 1-0 lea
that 10th-seeded i
pull yet anoth-
er upset and
advance to Sun-
day's title game
against Lou-
isville, which
advanced earlier
in the evening
with a victory
over North Caro-
lina.
However,
Akron did not
let the early disadv
opportunities - th
ful in the rest of the
outshot the Wolveri
game's 33rd minute
blasted one that stu
redshirt junior go
Blais for the equal
mate stood for muc
half. Michigan ap
to regain the lead'
stretch when Sooi
metal, not nylon.
A discouraged V
hunkered down ag

bardmentofshots fromAkron, who
ultimately won the NCAA Cham-
pionship yesterday. The lead was
finallysurrendered inthe 74th min-
"We had the ute when Kofi Sarkodie sank one
offof a freekick fromjustoutside of
ad, it appeared the Michiganbox.
Michigan could Wolverine fans who made the
trip to the Col-
lege Cup - col-
lege. soccer's
"It was a great final four - had
vsnsof Sat-
way to start kodie making
similar moves
off. W e had the en route to a hat
trick in the two
momentum. team's earlier
matchup.
"Those are
dangerous free
antage stifle its kicks," Burns said. "They had a
ose were plenti- good look at theback post".
half as the Zips It would prove to be the game-
ines 14-4. In the winner after desperation attempts
Perry Kitchen by Michigan were thwarted. On
inned Michigan their way to the College Cup, the
alkeeper Chris Wolverines trekked into unchar-
lizer. The stale- tered territory by advancing fur-
:h of the second ther than any other team in the
ppeared poised program's 11-year history. But the
down the home clank off of the post that echoed
ny's shot found through Harder Stadium long after
the facility had emptied may have
Volverine squad easily cost Michigan a chance to
ainst the bom- hoist the cup.


HUNV
From
Hogan
injury
the loc
Hunwis
of a wo
on ice h
- Mich
"I sa
warmu
someth
but at t
I had to
wick sa
were h
at that
many s
the way
mindse
But tl
the net
lar pos
h

shutout - the team's first of the
NICK year - backstopping the Wolver-
Page 1B ines to a 5-0 win while stopping 34
Spartan shots.
suffered an apparent groin "Maybe I just need to get myself
and had to be helped into out of the way - my mind - and
ker room, leaving 5-foot-7 just get thrown in there," Hun-
ck to guard the net in front wick said.
rld-record crowd of 113,411 "If you're going all week, play-
hockey's largest-ever stage ing the biggest game of your life,
igan Stadium. you can talk about pressuring
aw (Hogan) go down in yourself, but if 15 minutes before
ps, and obviously that's the game Coach says, 'You're
ing you don't want to see, going,' then there aren't really any
he same time I knew that excuses you can make.
start getting ready," Hun- "I didn't want to be the reason
id following the game. "We that we lost, making an excuse
alfway through warmups that I was cold or wasn't ready to
point, so I tried to face as play."
hots as I could the rest of It certainly wasn't in Berenson's
y and try to get in the right master plan for the Big Chill, but
t three days after relegating Hun-
he lack of notice didn't faze wick to reserve duties behind
minder, who was in a simi- Hogan, Berenson couldn't have
ition against Notre Dame been more pleased with the per-
formance.
"The kid - he just never missed
a beat," Berenson said. "It didn't
'The kid - seem like it bothered him at all,
so good for him and good for our
e just never team."
Fireworks punctuated every
missed Wolverine goal. Although Hun-
wick didn't set off any mid-air
a beat." explosions, he lit up the stadium
with save after save in his role as
emergency relief.
"When I came out of the tunnel,
25 last season. the fireworks were going off and
an went down with a groin all that hoopla, if you will. In the
leaving Hunwick to han- first period, I was battling a little
goalie duties for the first bit to stay focused, because I was
ed experience of his career. looking around in awe."
nst Notre Dame, Hunwick To cap off Hunwick's perfect
d up without allowing a game, the Michigan crowd gave
kgainst Michigan State in him a perfect send-off. After the
Chill, he pitched another first three stars were announced

WE DON'T STOP OVER
WINTER BREAK
Check up on Michigan sports
MICHIGAN DAILY.COM/SPORTS

F


208 E. Washington St. Ann Arbor, MI 48104
(734) 997-7030 www.salonxl.com
K A T iS


--UK U
6 5 9t7

Senior goaltender Shawn Hunwick earned his second career shutout on Sautrday
against Michigan State during The Big Chill at the Big House.

on Feb.
Hoga
injury,
dIe the
extend
Agai
finishe
goal. A
the Big

- Michigan senior forwards Carl
Hagelin and Matt Rust, and fresh-
man defenseman Jon Merrill -
the Wolverines and their crowd
called for one more name to be
mentioned.
Finally, with the players at the
bench gesturing Hunwick toward
the middle of the ice, the stadium
announcer added Hunwick's name
to the list as the ceremonial fourth
star of the game, sending the
crowd into a frenzy as Michigan's
the MLS Combine - a natural
progression for the explosive
goalscorer.
Saad, on the other hand, will
not take to the Big House to
receive a diploma this spring.
Rather, the Michigan faithful
hopes he returns to Ann Arbor

smallest star took a tour of the
center-ice circle.
"I don't really like that kind of
stuff if you don't notice," Hun-
wick said. "I don't really like
being out there in the spotlight.
The guys were pushing me out
there so I thought, 'what the
heck.'"
As the curtains closed on col-
lege hockey's biggest ganme, it
was the little man who owned
the Big House.
to continue honing skills while
being the man up front for the
Wolverines.
"If you take a look at how
Michigansoccer started11years
ago, the progress is mind-bog-
gling to say the least," Saad said.
"I feel this is just the beginning."

MERAM AND SAAD
From Page 1B
Wolverines' impressive offense,
en route to a conference champi-
onship.
"We learned how to use each

other's strengths," Saad said.
"(Meram) taught me a lot with the
way he plays."
For Meram, an impressive lat-
ter portion of the season raised
eyebrows amongst the profes-
sional ranks.
Next month, he will travel to


4B - December 13, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com j

4B - December13, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

.I

IN

Horford impresses,
Morris dishes out
10 assists in win

4

Hor
off tI
in v
poin
Befor
freshme
had sc
points
nine mi
Michiga
Horf
his first
against
nent th
at centE
burn ar
- to br
forman,
Michiga
Horf
just on
benche
The C
spraine
last wee
coach A
precaut
game ag
day.
Despi
practice
season r
from Be
16 minu
Utes (6-
from th
"Coat
believes
you hav
well," H
win. "I t
very we
practice
"(Beil
opportu
come ou
Horfo
career-h
rebound
low ma
greater
took aI
from sop
ius Mor:
home to:
lead with
It w
moment
that poi
And a
second h
Horford
buried a

ford contributes Michigan's momentum.
For Horford, it was the greatest
he bench for Blue impact he'd had in a game for the
Wolverines, even though he had
'ictory with five to battle against taller counter-
parts whom he admitted were a
ts, five rebounds challenge to guard effectively.
Still, Utah's giants were held
By BEN ESTES in check combining for just five
DailySports Writer rebounds and two blocks, despite
their size advantage.
re facing Utah on Friday, For the Wolverines, Horford's
an forward Jon Horford sudden breakout provides anoth-
ored no more than four er quality option off the bench
and tallied no more than when redshirt freshman forward
nutes in any game for the Jordan Morgan falters.
an men's basketball team. "This is by far (Horford's) best
ord had NOTEBOOK game," junior guard Zack Novak
big game said. "We've been seeing this a
the oppo- little bit. He's just like trying to
at featured monstrosities get out of his shell ... but the kid's
er - 7-foot Jason Wash- going to be a beast.
nd 7-foot-3 David Foster "I'm really happy to see him
eak out with his best per- come in here and get that type of
ce of the year in a 75-64 performance."
an win. MORRIS DAZZLES AGAIN:
ord's performance came With 19 points and 10 assists,
te game after he was Morris recorded his second
d due to injury. straight double-double and his
Grand Ledge, Mich. native third overall this season to lead
d his left knee in practice the Wolverines against the Run-
kend, leading Wolverines nin' Utes.
ohn Beilein to sit him as a The Los Angeles native turned
ion in the team's winnable the ball over only one time and
ainst Concordia last Mon- displayed his skilled array of
stop-and-go moves in the paint all
ite the setback, Horford game, shooting 7-for-13 from the
d better than he had all field.
and earned enough trust During one stretch late in the
ilein to play a season-high first half, Morris scored on a
ites against the Runnin' strong drive to the hoop, nailed a
3), showing no ill effects 3-pointer and hita pull-up jumper
e injury. on three straight possessions.
:h Beilein, he really It was the kind of offensive
for us to be a great team versatility he lacked last season
e to run our offense very but has displayed in nearly every
orford said after the Utah game this year.
hink I've been running it "He's been very receptive to
ll the last couple days of just his self-improvement, in
every way," Beilein said. "What
ein) wanted to give me an he can do on the court, what he
nity, and I just wanted to can do off the court, what he can
t and take it." do as a leader. ... When you work
rd responded with a off the court at leadership and
igh five points and five just having the right attitude
s. Despite the relatively about things, it's typical growing
rks, the numbers hid a development that is very refresh-
impact - the forward ing right now. He's really playing
perfect give-and-go pass well."
rhomore point guard Dar- NOTES: Morris leads the Big
ris and slammed the ball Ten with 7.8 assists per game....
give Michigan (7-2) a 21-8 The 6-foot-4 Novak led the Wol-
h 8:08 left in the first half. verines with nine rebounds, the
as the highest-energy fifth time this season that the
for the Wolverines up to guard has at least shared the
nt. team lead. ... Michigan was out-
fter a 7-0 Utes run in the rebounded by Utah 37-32. The
alf cut the score to 62-47, Wolverines are 2-2 this season
showed his range and when losing the battle on the
3-pointer to re-establish boards.

4

4

Michigan men's basketball coach John Beilein has the Wolverines undefeated at home sofar in his fourth season in Ann Arbor.
Four double-digiteffrts
push Blu vrUth 56

v
mat
b
Wit
approa
ketball
was i
genero
Crisler
on Frid
Run
Washbi
size ac
redshir
Morgai
easily,
hard.
The1
and th
first po
And
rest of
commit
Michig
feated
tory.
"You
team b
big thi

Vin over Utah and just making sure that we
play as a team," Michigan coach
ches Michigan's John Beilein said after the game.
"We're going to have to score
est start under points, and we got it from dif-
Beilein at 7-2 ferent people at different times.
(I'm) really proud of our team."
The Wolverines dominated
By LUKE PASCH in the first half, shooting at a
Daily Sports Writer 46.9-percent clip en route to a
39-22 lead at the break.
h gift-giving season rapidly In the second half, freshman
ching, the Utah men's bas- forward Tim Hardaway Jr. came
team alive with 13 points, finishing the
feeling UTAH 64 game with 17.
us at MICHIGAN 75 He also showed some flash
Arena when redshirt freshman for-
lay night. ward Blake McLimans picked up
nin' Utes' center Jason a defensive board and threw the
urn, with his four-inch long ball to Hardaway on the fast
dvantage over Michigan break.
t freshman center Jordan With enough room in front
n, won the opening tipoff of the lagging Utah defense, he
but slapped it a tad too threw down a powerful one-
handed slam.
ball sailed out of bounds, "I think I went down to see
e Wolverines gladly took him play last year (in high
'ssession. school)," Beilein said. "He took
that's how it went for the a lot of shots, but he made a lot
the contest, as Utah (6-3) of shots. (I reminded him), 'Put
tted 16 turnovers, and yourself back in high school.
an (7-2) remained unde- You're a great shooter. Just shoot
at home with a 75-64 vic- it when you're open, keep it mov-
ing when you're not.' "
know, we talked to the Michigan's play underneath
efore the game, and the featured a breakout performance
ng was just being a team from freshman center Jon Hor-

ford, w
and fiv
16 mini
The
Maize
occasio
7-foot-;
ter in t
3-point
the sec
"S
you
ma
y
Horf
fortabla
time. H
minute
McLim
"I do
me," H
ing to d
offense
in at fir
easier, i
"My
in a clo
games.

'ho tallied a block, a steal The other two forwards were
'e points in a season-high also impressive, as Morgan fin-
utes of floor time. ished with 11 points of his own,
6-foot-9 center got the and McLimans came up with a
Rage riled up on multiple couple of big stops in the paint on
ins, with his dunk over defense.
3 Utah center David Fos- McLimans has struggled a bit
:he first half and his first on the offensive end this season,
bucket of the season in however, and he's yet to knock
ond half. down a 3-pointer, going 0-for-13
from behind the arc through the
first nine games this season.
But all in all, Michigan's bench
hoot it when players have thrived so far this
season, and they put up another
re open, keep 17 points against Utah.
Sophomore guard Matt
ving it when Vogrich led the bench scoring
effort on Friday, going 2-for-2
,OU re not." from 3-point range and finishing
the night with eight points.
"Our bench has kind of had a
breakout performance it seems
ord seemed more com- like every other game," Vogrich
e as he saw more playing said.
3e usually only gets brief The 7-2 start for the Wolver-
s behind Morgan and ines matches the start they had
ans. under Beilein in the 2009-10 sea-
n't really think it changed son, when the team made it to the
orford said. "I've been try- second round of the NCAA Tour-
evelop in practice, get the nament.
down. ... Right when I got And with a relatively light
'st it was like, 'It's getting schedule leading up to Big Ten
t's getting better.' play early next month, Michigan
head is not as (much) can be sitting pretty before play-
ud as I was the first few ing any conference foes starting
in late December.

STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their best
to predict, against the spread, what Nicole
happens in the 2010 bowl season. Auerbach

Michigan vs. Mississippi State (-5)
UTEP vs. BYU (-9.5)
No. Illinois (-) vs. Fresno State
Ohio (-2,5) vs. Troy
Louisville vs. So. Mississippi (-2.5)
Utah vs. Boise State (-5)
Navy vs. San Diego State (-2,5)
Tulsa vs. Hawaii (-8)
Florida International vs. Toldeo (-5)
Georgia Tech vs. Air Force (-2.5)
N.C. State vs. West Virginia (-4)
Missouri (-) vs. Iowa
East Carolina vs. Maryland (-8)
Illinois vs. Baylor (-2)
A rizona vs. Oklahoma State (-7)
Army vs. SMU (-7.5)
Kansas State vs. Syracuse (PK)
North Carolina vs. Tennessee (PK)
Washington vs. Nebraska (-14)
South Florida vs. Clemson (-4.5)
Notre Dame vs. Miami (Fla.) (PK)
Central Florida vs. Georgia (-6)
Florida State vs. South Carolina (-2.5)
Northwestern vs. Texas Tech (-1.5)
Penn State vs. Florida (-5)
Michigan State vs. Alabama (-7)
TCU vs. Wisconsin (PK)
UConn vs. Oklahoma (-7)
Virginia Tech vs. Stanford (-3)
Arkansas vs. Ohio State (-2.5)
Middle Tennessee State vs, Miami (Ohio) (-)
Te xas A&M vs. Louisiana State (-2.5)
Kentucky vs. Pittsburgh (-3)
Boston College vs. Nevada (-9)
Oregon vs. Auburn (-15)
Last Week
Overall

Michigan
BYU
Fresno State
Ohio
So. Mississippi
Boise State
Navy
Hawaii
Toledo
Air Force
West Virginia
Iowa
Maryland
Illinois
Oklahoma State
Army
Kansas State
Tennessee
Washington
Clemson
Notre Dame
Georgia
Florida State
Northwestern
Florida
Alabama
TCU
Oklahoma
Stanford
Arkansas
Miami (Ohio)
Louisiana State
Pittsburgh
Nevada
Auburn
9-10-1
139-106-10

Ryan
Kartje ,
Michigan
UTEP
No. Illinois
Troy
So. Mississippi
Boise State
San Diego State
Hawaii
Toledo
Air Force
West Virginia
Missouri
Maryland
Illinois
Arizona
SMU
Kansas State
Tennessee
Nebraska
Clemson
Notre Dame
Central Florida
South Carolina
Northwestern
Penn State
Alabama
Wisconsin
Oklahoma
Stanford
Arkansas
Middle Tennessee State
Louisiana State
Kentucky
Nevada
Oregon
12-7-1
137-108-10

Tim
Rohan
Michigan
BYU
Fresno State
Troy
So. Mississippi
Boise State
Navy
Hawaii
Toledo
Georgia Tech
West Virginia
Iowa
Maryland
Baylor
Oklahoma State
SMU
Kansas State
North Carolina
Nebraska
Clemson
Miami (Fla.)
Georgia
South Carolina
Northwestern
Penn State
Alabama
Wisconsin
Oklahoma
Stanford
Ohio State
Miami (Ohio)
Louisiana State
Pittsburgh
Nevada
Oregon
10-9-1
135-110-10

Joe
Stapleton
Michigan
UTEP
Fresno State
Troy
Louisville
Boise State
San Diego State
Tulsa
Florida International
Air Force
West Virginia
Missouri
East Carolina
Illinois
Arizona
Army
Kansas State
Tennessee
Nebraska
Clemson
Notre Dame
Georgia
Florida State
Texas Tech
Penn State
Alabama
TCU
Oklahoma
Stanford
Ohio State
Miami (Ohio)
Louisiana State
Pittsburgh
Boston College
Auburn
13-6-1
139-106-10

Lee Quakenbush
Men's Glee Club
President
Michigan
BYU
Fresno State
Troy
So. Mississippi
Boise State
Navy
Hawaii
Toledo
Air Force
West Virginia
Missouri
Maryland
Baylor
Oklahoma State
SMU
Syracuse
Tennessee
Nebraska
Clemson
Notre Dame
Georgia
South Carolina
Northwestern
Penn State
Alabama
Wisconson
Oklahoma
Stanford
Ohio State
Miami (Ohio)
Louisiana State
Kentucky
Nevada
Oregon
N/A
64-54-6

-- ' 1 1


