The'U'hosts a Why Sweetland
MANNY RETURNS landmark orches- serves an impor-
tral gathering and tant purpose, but
M needs Harris, fresh off a suspension, the Chicago Sym- needs a better
to have a big game against MSU tonight. phony Orchestra. space.
bi
i~~t~ li il an 4, t1

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, January 26, 2010

michigandailycom

Hanlon selected as next 'U' provost

Administrator, who has
been at the University
since 1986, will assume
new post on July 1
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Philip Hanlon will be named as the
next University's provost and executive
vice president of academic affairs in an
announcement expected to be made later
today.
Hanlon, who currently serves as the
Donald J. Lewis Professor of Mathemat-
ics and vice provost for academic and bud-
getary affairs, will assume the position on
July 1 under a five-year contract. He will
succeed current University Provost Teresa
Sullivan, who is set to leave the University
on July 31 to assume the presidency at the
University of Virginia. During the month
of July, Sullivan will serve as special coun-
selor to the president.

Coleman's selection of Hanlon as the
next University provost is contingent
upon approval by the University's Board
of Regents at its Feb. 18 meeting. Today's
announcement comes just two weeks after
Sullivan announced her intention to leave
the University.
When Sullivan announced that she
would be leaving her post for Charlot-
tesville, University officials and Sullivan
herself said her replacement would need to
have experience as both an academic and
budgetary administrator.
Hanlon, who is no stranger to the Uni-
versity community, has experience in both
academic and financial management. He
joined the University faculty in 1986 as an
associate professor of mathematics, before
becoming a full professor in 1990. In the
last decade Hanlon has risen through the
administration's ranks, finally becoming
the vice provost of academic and budgetary
affairs in 2007.
In a statement set to be released later
today, Coleman praised Hanlon as the
right choice for the important post, which
is responsible for overseeing all academic

operations of the university and the general
fund budget.
"Phil Hanlon has been exceptional in
guiding academic programs and initiatives
affecting all facets of the University," Cole-
man wrote in the statement. "In particular,
his command of budgetary issues has been
critical to the University's financial stabil-
ity duringchallenging economic times. His
appointment as provost reflects his distinct
strengths as a teacher, scholar, administra-
tor and leader."
In the same statement, Hanlon wrote he
felt privileged to have been selected for the
position.
"The University of Michigan is an excep-
tional institution, at the forefront of public
research universities," Hanlon wrote. "I'm
excited and deeply honored to have the
opportunity to serve as provost."
Choosing a successor from within the
University community is consistent with
University tradition - Sullivanwas the first
University of Michigan provost recruited
from outside the University in more than
50 years.
The choice of Sullivan, who came to the

University from the University of Texas at
Austin, raised many concerns among Uni-
versity faculty in 2006, with some alleging
that Coleman had applied pressure on the
search committee to give preference to an
outsider, since Coleman herself first joined
the University when she became president.
No information on how Hanlon was
selected for the post and whether any advi-
sory search committee or national search
firm was used in choosing the next provost
was available yesterday.
However, when Sullivan announced
she would leave the University, University
spokeswoman Kelly Cunningham said offi-
cials were happy with the advance notice
Sullivan provided.
"We're fortunate that the provost has
given the University time to consider the
next steps in the process," Cunningham
wrote in an e-mail at the time.
When Sullivan announced she planned
to leave the University to become the Uni-
versity of Virginia's next president, she told
The Michigan Daily she was confident her
successor, though not named at that time,
would need to be able to balance competing

COURTESY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Philip Hanio will ho named the University's soot
provost and executive VP of academic atfairs today.
interests.
"This job is a little bit unusual com-
pared with most provost jobs because of
the budgetary responsibility and so I do
See HANLON, Page 7


TEACHING THE TUBA

UNIVER SIT Y ADMIS5IONS
Officials: This year,
applications are up

Number of applications
has increased 4.9 percent
compared to this time
last year
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily Staff Reporter
Though it is early in the application
process, statistics show an increase in the
number of applicants to the University
for the 2010-2011 academic year.
Compared to statistics from this time
last year, applications are up 4.9 percent
overall. Applications from in-state stu-
dents have increased 6.6 percent, and
applications from out-of-state students
are up 3.1 percent and international appli-
cations have increased by 7.7 percent.
In an interview yesterday, University
Provost Teresa Sullivan said the numbers
need to be taken with a grain of salt, since
it is somewhat early in the University's
admissions process.
"I think it's still a little bit too early
(to read that closely into the numbers),"
she said. "A lot of students still don't have
their answers from all the schools they've
applied to. So we'll have a better sense as

we start to see the acceptances come back
Philip Hanlon, vice provost for aca-
demic and budgetary affairs, said the
statistics are only comparable to the
numbers from this time last year, and not
to the final 2009 admissions statistics.
Hanlon, who was named the Univer-
sity's next provost earlier today, said
the yield - the percentage of admitted
students who send in their deposit -
decreased between two and four percent
for students who applied to enroll in the
2009-2010 academic year, which is a sig-
nificant percentage for the University.
But he added that he expects the yield
for the 2010-2011 academic year to go
back up to the level of previous years.
"Not all of (the admitted students) will
show up in the fall, but all the informa-
tion we have right now is who has paid
the deposit," Hanlon said. "We com-
pare that to prior years. (We look at) the
same week last year, (and see) what was
the fraction who paid the deposit of the
admitted students."
The University received 29,965 appli-
cations for the 2009-2010 academic year,
and admitted 14,970. Of those students
that were accepted, 6,079 enrolled at the
University last fall.
See ADMISSIONS, Page 7

ANNA SCHULTE/Daly
School of Music, Theatre & Dance sophmore tuba major Charles Mann is instructed by guest instructor Carol Jantsch yesterday at the Walgreen Drama Center.
Senate ssemby passes resolution
i e
'in support of aCade__1C freedo-m

Among other issues,
statement addresses
* freedoms of teaching,
internal criticism
By ANNIE GORDON THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
The University's Senate Assembly
passed a resolution which endorses a
statement on academic freedom yester-
day, reaffirming faculty support for limit-
ed restrictions on their academic research
and classroom endeavors.
The resolution seeks to protect faculty
members, who the American Association
of University Professors does not consider
"ordinary employees subject to the usual
discipline of the American workplace".
It was introduced to the Senate Assem-
bly in December 2009 and endorsed by
the Senate Advisory Committee on Uni-
versity Affairs last week.
Passed unanimously with four absten-
tions yesterday, the statement has been
a focus of many recent SACUA and Sen-
ate Assembly meetings, as faculty have
discussed concerns about a University's

right to discipline faculty because of dis-
sent against the institution or threats to
academic freedom.
As stipulated in the resolution, aca-
demic freedom also covers "freedom of
teaching," according to the statement,
which allows professors the right to dis-
cuss potentially controversial ideas or
research findings in their classrooms.
"Freedom of internal criticism" is also
a provision in the statement that covers
a faculty member's right to criticize Uni-
versity policy in an individual manner or
through "institutions of faculty gover-
nance."
The statement highlights the indepen-
dent role of faculty members in University
decision-making and thus, they should be
permitted to speak out should their opin-
ion differ from that of the University's.
Additionally, because professors are
often involved in "public forums and
debate", outside of their professions as
educators, the resolution also provides
for "freedom of participation in public
debate" which allows for professors to
speak at these forums without fear of Uni-
versity repercussions.
The statementnotes the value placed on
academic freedom by professors and fac-
ulty in saying academic freedom "remains

first and foremost a professional prereq-
uisite of faculty members as a group."
The majority of the faculty seemed to
take interest in the resolution and posed
questions dealing with the concepts of
academic freedom to General Counsel
Suellyn Scarnecchia who spoke before the
Assembly.
Additionally, before the statement went
to a vote, there was no discussion.
Though the statement endorsed by the
Senate Assembly includes freedom in
research and publication, teaching, inter-
nal criticism and participation in public
debate, it does not protect professors from
repercussion in certain circumstances.
These cases include, "defense of alle-
gations of professional misconduct in
research or teaching" or protection
against potentially illegal or prohibited
speech, or as a defense for harassing a
student.
Engineering Prof. Michael Thouless,
chair of SACUA, said he believes the state-
ment is an important one for the Univer-
sity and added that it is one of the first of
its kind around the country.
"For an institution such as the Univer-
sity of Michigan to adopt a resolution of
this nature is precedence-setting," Thou-
See SENATE ASSEMBLY, Page 7

AFTE R TuHtE Q UA KtE
'U' student to aid Haiti relief

After receiving call
from aid organization,
Rackham student decided
she needed to help
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
When Rackham Public Policy stu-
dent Sara Bonner received a call asking
her to go to Haiti to aid victims of the
7.0-magnitude earthquake that ravaged
the country two weeks ago, she said her
initial reaction was one of shock and
confusion.
The call came from Tearfund, a Brit-
ish relief agency. Bonner has worked for
Tearfund in the past, volunteering in
southern Sudan. Though she has expe-
rience working for the organization, her
gut reaction to the request was to tell
them she wouldn't be able to help.
"When you initially come back from

an under-developed country you never
want to go back," she said. "You really
appreciate where you are and start
thinking 'never again.' Initially I was
thinking 'here I am trying to get my
master's I don't want to keep getting
roped in.'"
Ultimately Bonner decided to take
the semester off and help with the relief
efforts. She will leave for the country
this Friday and stay through April.
"It's a hard job and the fact that they
sought me out was a boost of confi-
dence," she said.
David Canter, director of health
care research at the non-profit William
Davidson Institute at the University, has
been working closely with Bonner and
described her as "terrific," adding that
he was impressed, but not surprised that
she decided to help the country.
"I think she's a great example of
someone who didn't seek this out and
recognized that there are times and
places when you're called to service
See HAITI, Page 7


WEATHER
TOMORROW

HI: 27 GOT A NEWS TIP?
LO: 20 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Check out the viral videos ofthe week.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS ................................2 ARTS.. . . . ..........5
Vol. CXX,No.80 AP NEWS .... ............... .3 CLASSIFIEDS........... 6
@2 00TheMihigan Daly OPINION ... . .. .4 SPORT S.. ............. ...........8
michigono'uily comn

t



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, January 26, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

Analyzing the world's social values

Though Prof. Ronald Ingle-
hart has been teaching compara-
tive politics at the University since
1966, he says the most important
achievement of his research career
is designing and conducting the
World Values Survey.
The survey - the largest survey
of its kind - coordinates social sci-
entists in 97 nations.
The World Values Survey Asso-
ciation first collected data in 1981
and is currently preparing for the
collection of its fifth wave of sur-
veys on the cultural, economic and
political values of people across the
globe.
"The World Values Survey is a
project where we study the basic
values and beliefs of people all
over," Inglehart said in an inter-
view yesterday at his home. "We
find that what people want out of
life is changing, and is changing in a
couple of clear ways. As a social sci-
CRIME NOTES

entist this is very exciting - to have
rather coherent patterns in which
economic development seems to
bring roughly predictable changes
in beliefs and values in nations."
In April 2009, Inglehart was
named to the prestigious Ameri-
can Academy of Arts and Sciences
in recognition of his work on the
World Values Survey and his exten-
sive publications analyzing the data
it has collected.
Inglehart says that the study of
changes in social values over time
can be used to anticipate future
national trends.
"We've analyzed the results now
and we're pretty much on target -
we didn't expect we'd be perfectly
accurate but on the basis of the data
we analyzed we can tell ifa coun-
try is getting richer, we can tell ifa
country is getting more secular, "
Inglehart said.
Inglehart said he is enthusias-

tic bout continuing to expand the
World Values Survey, and hopes
that the information it has collect-
ed can be used to take an intelligent
approach to improving the quality
of life in unstable nations.
For example, he said he believes
it is important for political lead-
ers to recognize that an effective
democracy is difficult to establish
in a country where many or most
citizens still struggle with personal
and economic security.
"The more secure you feel, the
more open you are to diversity and
change, so this dynamic is linked
with subsistence," Inglehart said.
In addition to his research, Ingle-
hart is currently teaching introduc-
tion to Comparative Politics and
a graduate level seminar on com-
parative politics. He spends time in
both classes discussing the results
of the World Values Survey.
- ROBIN VEECK

SAM WOLSON/Daily
Ronald Inglehart, a professor of political science, sits in his Ann
Arbor home yesterday.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ ZDAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-74-0ss
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:sun.-Thurs.1a.m.-2a.m.
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts ection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportstSection sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
lillian Berman ManagingNews Editor berman@michigandaily.com
ENIORNEWSrEDITORS:Nkcole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
SwansonEshwa,rhrunaukkaasu
ASSISnANT no nD sTonS: D nt , sarrnFizgeral, Joseph Lichterman,
Veronica Menal,,Annie Thomas,oDevonhorsb,Elyanna Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SEIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL PAGEEDITORS:MichelleDeWitt,AlexSchiff,MatthewShutler
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaity.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyzik,TimRohan,AmyScarano
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
ASSSTNTA TSDORS:oLeahABuginSaraonJbs,arJgiKicoinMike Kuntz,
KaviShekharPandey
Max Collins and photo@michigandailycom
SamWolson ManagingPhotoEditors
SNO PHOTOEDTORORsoMULTIMEDIA: ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS Aaron Augsburger,Jake Fromm,Jed Moh
SarahSquire and design@michigandaily.com
AnnaLein-Zielinski ManagingDesignEditors
SENIO00D0SIGN5E00T000 Angela Chih
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor catero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips copy chiefs
BUSINESSSTAFF
Katie ozwiak Sales Manager
SSORoCE MANAGER: MollrTigg
MA^RKETING MANAGER MichaelShrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison tantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project coordinator
The Michigan Daly (IsN 0745-%7) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wintertermsbystudentsattheUniversityof Michigan.Onecopyisavailiablefreeofhargetoail
readers.Additional copiesmay bepickedupattheDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsfor fallterm,
starting in September, via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term (anuary through Apri) is $115, yearlong
(Septembersthrough Apriis$195.University affiatesare subject toareducedsubscriptionrate.
On-campus subscriptionsforfalterm are$3.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.TheMichiganOaily
is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

01

0o

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES


Food stolen
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Thursday at about
3:45 p.m.
WHAT: One adult and one
juvenile are in custody for
stealing food from the hospital
cafeteria, University Police
reported.
Auto assault
WHERE: M-18 Carport, 1600
East Medical Center
WHEN: Thursday at about
10:15 p.m.
WHAT: The windows of a
vehicle parked on level 2 South
were smashed and a Garmin
GPS unit and Kenwood radio
were stolen, University Police.
reported. There are no sus-
pects.

Drunk driver
WHERE: State Street
WHEN: Sunday at about 12:15
a.m.
WHAT: A male subject was
stopped at a red light and
given a ticket for carrying a
handgun with a blood alcohol
level above the legal limit to
bear a firearm.

Talk on Israel
WHAT: A discussion about
Israel's beliefs on sending
humanitarian aid to countries
that don't support Israel's
right to exist.
WHO: American Movement
for Israel
WHEN: Tonight from 7:00
p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
WHERE: Amer's on Church
Street

Gift shop theft Poverty lecture

Community
living
WHAT: An information
session on how to establish
relationships, build trust and
communicate effectively.
WHO: Ginsberg Center
WHEN: Tonight from 6:30
p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
WHERE: Herbert H. Dow
Building, Room 1018
Grad. program
WHAT: An information ses-
sion on the program for Sci-
ence, Technology and Public
Policy.
WHO: Ford School of Public
Policy
WHEN: Tonight from 5:30-
6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall, Room
1210 Building, Room 1018
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to corrections@
michigandailycom.

100 Russian Orthodox
churchgoers were hos-
pitalized Sunday after
drinking tainted holy water
during Epiphany celebra-
tions in the city of Irktusk,
abcnews.com reported. The
water came from a stagnant
lake near the church, but offi-
cials say it's too soon to deter-
mine the cause of the illness.
The Department of Public
Safety Oversight Com-
mittee has reviewed five
grievances in the past six years.
FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
Mexico City police rescued
150 ferrets stolen by three
armed robbers Friday, abc-
news.com reported. The ferrets
were recovered after a high-
speed police chase in which the
robbers crashed into a tree and
fled from the scene.

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Wednesday at about
11:30 a.m.
WHAT: Hospital security
reported that a pair of earrings
was stolen from the gift shop
Tuesday between noon and 7
p.m., University police report-
ed. There are no suspects in
the case.

WHAT: A lecture examining
the role wealthy countries in
North America and Europe
playin improving world pov-
erty.
WHO: Center fr European
Studies-European Union Cen-
ter and Center for Compara-
tive and International Law,
Department of Psychiatry
WHEN: Today from 4:00
p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building, Room 1644

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get moreonline at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire'

The Alumni Association of the University of Michigan
presents the sixth annual
Wednesday, February 3, 2010
"Budget! Are You Kidding?": How to Pay Your Bills
and Still Like Your Life
Wednesday, February 10, 2010
Investing for Young Investors: Putting Your Best Foot Forward
Wednesday, February 17, 2010
Networking Knowhow
Wednesday, February 24, 2010
"Your Fork is Not a Shovel": Business Savvy
for the Young Professional
Each session begins at 6 p.m. at the Alumni Center
(200 Fletcher Street). For details and to register,
visit www.umalumni.com/students.
All events are FREE except the February 24 session,
which has a $10 fee.
Visit us online to learn about our other student programs-Welcome Wednesdays,
30 Minute Mentors, Ready to Launch, Michigan Apprentice and more.
10
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
..Liberti iv

0

0

40

60

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 26, 2010 -- 3

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Feds to explore
offshore drilling in
Atlantic Ocean
Interior Secretary Ken Salazar
says he is nearly ready to begin an
environmental analysis that could
lead to drilling 200 miles offshore
in the Atlantic Ocean.
Salazar told reporters he will
soon launch a 45-day comment
period on a planned study of how
drilling would affect the ocean
floor. He said federal officials
know little about the Atlantic
Coast because of a long-standing
moratorium on oil and gas explo-
ration across much of the nation's
Outer Continental Shelf.
Information on the possible effect
of Atlantic drilling "is 30 years out
of date," Salazar said Monday.
PARIS
France may ban
hijabs in public
A parliamentary panel will recom-
mendtoday that France ban face-cov-
ering Muslim veils in public locations
such as hospitals and schools, but not
in private buildings or on the street,
the group's president said.
The decision appeared to indicate
that the 32-member, multiparty panel
had heeded warnings that a full ban
of the all-encompassing veils would
be unfair, possibly unconstitutional,
and could even cause trouble in a
country where Islam is the second
" largest religion:
The approximately 170-page
report, to be released today, culmi-
nates a six-month inquiry into why a
tiny minority of Muslim women wear
such veils and the implications for
France.
The work began after President
Nicolas Sarkozy announced in June
that such garb "is not welcome" on
French territory. However, Sarkozy
has since pulled back from commit-
ting himself to a full ban.
Such dress is considered by many
as a gateway to extremism. However,
it also is widely seen as an insult to
gender equality and an offense to
France's profoundly secular founda-
tions.
Parliament will not be required to
act on Tuesday's recommendation.
And given the deep divisions within
the panel - its 12 Socialist members
refused to vote in a dispute with the
governing right - the recommenda-
tion for a partial ban on the face-
covering veils may only result in a
nonbinding government resolution.
MARYVILLE, Tenn.
Powdered donught
actually cocaine,
police say
East Tennessee police said a
Knoxville woman who was later
arrested for cocaine possession
initially told an officer that she had
been eating a powdered doughnut.
The Maryville Daily Times report-
ed that a 21-year-old woman was
arrested on Thursday and charged
with possession of a Schedule II sub-
stance with intent to sell or deliver.
She was also cited for driving on a

suspended driver's license, driving
without proof of insurance, failure to
maintain her lane of traffic and pos-
session of drug paraphernalia.
According to an Alcoa police
report, a field test on the substance
indicated that the white powder
she put in her mouth as an officer
approached the car was cocaine, not
a sugary pastry.
She was being held in the Blount
County Jail on a $12,250 bond pend-
ing a court hearing on Monday.
GROVE CITY, Pa.
Mother, son face
charges for burglary
A western Pennsylvania man has
been ordered to stand trial on charg-
es he burglarized a home after get-
ting a ride to the crime scene from
his mom. That woman, 50-year-old
Judith Martin, of Cochranton, still
faces a preliminary hearing Feb. 3
on conspiracy and other charges she
faces in the Jan.13 break-in allegedly
committed by her son, 20-year-old
Robert Martin.
Police said Robert Martin took
knives, jewelry, a telephone answer-
ing machine and other items from the
home in Liberty Township, Mercer
County. That's about 50 miles north
of Pittsburgh.
Police said a neighbor recognized
Martin and police said they later
found some of the stolen items at his
mother's house.
Neither Martin has a listed tele-
phone and online records don't list
attorneys for them.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

C1inton: aid
to Haitineeds
new roadmap


.

Sec. of State says
Port-au-Prince
exodus complicates
relief efforts
MONTREAL (AP) - An effec-
tive recovery strategy for Haiti
must take into account a sud-
den rush of thousands of quake
survivors from Port-au-Prince
into the countryside, where the
economy cannot sustain them,
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary
Rodham Clinton said yesterday.
Clinton, speaking to report-
ers during a break in a daylong
conference intended to review
and improve the delivery of
short-term aid as well as chart
a course for long-term recovery,
said she was encouraged by the
analysis of Haitian Prime Minis-
ter Jean-Max Bellerive. He told
the conference that the exodus
from Port-au-Prince has added
a new twist to the post-quake
challenge.
"The distribution of peo-
ple (and) their needs have
changed," Bellerive said. "We
have to reassess the whole coun-
try," in terms of job creation and
requirements for housing.

At a closing news conference,
Clinton said the U.S. would host
an international donors confer-
ence for Haitian relief in March
at U.N. headquarters in New
York.
Clinton told the concluding
news conference that it would
be unwise to organize a donors
conference now, in the absence
of a reliable assessment of Hai-
ti's needs and a solid roadmap
for how to coordinate and exe-
cute an international recovery
plan.
"We are still in an emergen-
cy" with many Haitians suffer-
ing and desperate for immediate
relief, she said, adding that the
Montreal talks were a first step.
"We're trying to do this in the
correct order," she said.
Canadian Foreign Minister
Lawrence Cannon told the final
news conference that Monday's
talks had produced "the begin-
nings of a roadmap" for helping
get Haiti back on its feet, as well
as a "shared vision" of the island
nation's longer-term rebuilding.
Earlier, Clinton said after a
one-on-one meeting with Cana-
dian Prime Minister Stephen
Harper that she was pleased to
see Haitian leaders addressing
this problem.

Al Iraqiyah via APTN/AP
Saddaw Hussein's cousin Ali Hassan al-Majid, known as Chemical Ali, was hanged in Iraq yesterday after receiving his fourt
death sentence for the Halabja poison gas attack in 1988 that killed some 5,000 people.
'Chemical Aui'
executed in Iraq-

CA gay marriage
hearing continues

Ali Hassan al-Maid
hanged after
receiving fourth
death sentence
BAGHDAD (AP) - Saddam
Hussein's cousin Ali Hassan al-
Majid, who was hanged yesterday,
ordered the infamous poison gas
attack on the northern Iraqi Kurd-
ish village of Halabja in 1988 that
killed 5,000 people and earned
him the chillingmoniker "Chemi-
cal Ali."
The chemical air raid is
thought to be the worst single
attack of its kind against civil-
ians. Graphic pictures taken after
the attack showed bodies of men,
women, children and animals
lying in the streets where they
inhaled the gas.
Al-Majid was executed a week
after he received his fourth death
sentence on Jan. 17, the final one
for the Halabja attack. He bore a
striking resemblance to Saddam
and was one of the most brutal
members of the dictator's inner
circle.

The general led sweeping mili-
tary campaigns in the 1980s and.
1990s that claimed tens of thou-
sands of lives - wiping out entire
villages in attacks against rebel-
lious Kurds and cracking down
on Shiites in southern Iraq.
He was one of the last high-
profile members of the former
Sunni-led regime still on trial in
Iraq.
Al-Majid was a warrant offi-
cer and motorcycle messenger in
the army before Saddam's Baath
party led a coup in 1968. He was
promoted to general and served
as defense minister from 1991-95,
as well as a regional party leader.
In 1988, as the eight-year Iran-
Iraq war was winding down,
al-Majid commanded a scorched-
earth campaign known as Anfal
to wipe out a Kurdish rebellion in
the north. An estimated 100,000
people - most of them civilians
- were killed in less than a year.
Later, al-Majid boasted about
the attacks, as well as the sepa-
rate March 16, 1988, gas attack
on Halabja, where an estimated
5,000 people died.
During the trials of figures in
Saddam's regime, prosecutors

played audiotapes of what they
said were conversations between
Saddam and al-Majid.
In one of the recordings, al-
Majid was heard vowing to "leave
no Kurd (alive) who speaks the
Kurdish language."
Poison gas had largely fallen
out of use after its horrendous
effects in World War I until Sad-
dam used it as a way to stave off
Iran's superior numbers during
the 1980-1988 Iran-Iraq war.
"For Saddam Hussein, chemi-
cal weapons were a force mul-
tiplier, a way of countering the
Iranian human-wave infantry
tactics that were overwhelming
Iraqi positions," said Jonathan
Tucker, author of "War of Nerves:
Chemical Warfare from World
War I to Al-Qaida" and a Wash-
ington-based senior fellow at the
James Martin enter for Nonpro-
liferation Studies.
Under al-Majid's leadership,
chemical weapons became the
Iraqi tool of choice against the
villages of the rebellious Kurds
hidden in the mountainous ter-
rain of the north - making the vic-
tims primarily civilians this time
instead of enemy soldiers.

Professor says gay
rights movement
is strong
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -
Gay people in California enjoy
substantial political power as a
result of nearly unanimous sup-
port from high-ranking elected
officials, labor unions, newspa-
pers, corporations and progres-
sive religious groups, a political
scientist testified yesterday in a
federal trial on the state's same-
sex marriage ban.
Kenneth Miller, a professor
at Claremont. McKenna College
who teaches California politics
and researches ballot initiatives,
was the first defense witness in
the trial over the constitutional-
ity of Proposition 8, the voter-
approved ban.
Last week, a Stanford Univer-
sity political scientist testified
that gays do not have a meaning-
ful level of political power.
Miller said perhaps the largest
single indication of the strength
of the gay rights movement
was the $43 million amassed
to defeat the gay marriage ban
in 2008. That was $3.4 million
more than initiative backers
raised.
"It's exceptionally rare" for bal-
lot measures on social issues to
generate that kind of cash, Miller
said.

Lawyers for the two same-sex
couples challenging Proposition
8 rested their case earlier in the
day after showing videotape of
a simulcast in which support-
ers of the ban said gay marriage
would lead to polygamy and
bestiality.
The footage was shown as an
example of the work of San Diego
pastor Jim Garlow, whb helped
organize evangelical Christian
support for the Proposition 8 bal-
lot measure in 2008.
In one video rally led by
Garlow, an unidentified pastor
warned "the polygamists are
waiting in the wings, because
if a man can marry a man and
a woman can marry a woman,
the polygamists are' going to
use that exact same argument
and they probably are going to
win."
An unidentified woman later
said "a man wanting to marry a
horse, brothers and sisters, any
combination would have to be
allowed."
It appeared the lawyers were
introducing the material to
demonstrate the campaign for
the ban appealed to religious-
based, anti-gay bias to scare
voters into supporting the mea-
sure.
Proposition 8 sponsors object-
ed to the video, saying the con-
tent of the simulcast was not
controlled by campaign manag-
ers or leaders.

Think you know where to
find the Best Dessert?
Do you have the Best Pick-up Line?
Is your landlord the Best?
Cast your vote in the Michigan Daily's
Annual Readership Survey Poll!
Vetefor the
Best of
Ann Airbor
Voting extended to January 29th!
Go to: http.//www.michigandailycom/best-2010
to cast your vote today.

Earn your law degree in a balanced
environment with the nation's #1-ranked
advocacy program, outstanding professors
and a friendly atmosphere.
Through its full-time and part-time
programs, Stetson prepares lawyers
through practical experience, leadership


4 - Tuesday, January 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

!' IBC igan 4:aI*g
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

A not-so -Sweetland

S

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely theviews of their authors.
Airing another grievance
Oversight committee should handle all DPS complaints
T he concerns about the Department of Public Safety and its
oversight committee just seem to keep on coming. A report
by the Daily yesterday revealed that citizens' problems
with DPS rarely go before the oversight committee. Instead, most
citizens file a complaint with the department itself. Complaints
don't reach the oversight committee until after the matter has been
handled by DPS. Instead, the oversight committee hears only those
cases filed as grievances, not complaints. The distinction means
that the oversight committee only sees complaints once a year,
after they have been handled by the department. The system must
be reformed so that all cases of suspected misconduct, regardless
of terminology, are reviewed by the oversight committee.

I'm convinced that the most valu-
able academic skill that students
should learn from their time in
college is how to
write well. In vir-
tually every career
path, the ability
to express oneself
through writing
will be tested in
one way or anoth-
er. From, a job
application letterA
to a simple office CHRIS
e-mail, writing is KOSLOWSKI
ubiquitous in the
workplace.
The University
realizes term papers aren't just a way
for professors and GSIs to measure
what a student knows. They are part
of a vital process through which stu-
dents learn to master the difficult
task of articulating their ideas and
communicating through print. Com-
ing out of high school, many students
simply aren't prepared to write on a
level the University and most employ-
ers deem appropriate.
Luckily, the University works hard
to ensure students receive the writing
instruction they need. Most colleges
- including the College of Literature,
Science, & the Arts, the University's
largest school - require students to
fulfill first-year and upper-level writ-
ing requirements. These checkpoints
ensure students' writing abilities meet
certain standards before they can con-
tinue earning their degrees. For those
seeking help outside the classroom,
the University offers the services of
the Sweetland Writing Center. This
tireless group of faculty and peer
tutors does a superb job helping stu-
dents become better writers.
Last semester, I decided to enroll
in the prerequisite training course for
future Sweetland peer tutors. Not only
did I want to help others improve their

writing, but I also hoped that learning
how to speak intelligently about writ-
ing could help me enrich my own. The
experience was marvelous. I gained
a newfound respect for both writing
instructors as well as students who
struggle with academic English yet
refuse to quit trying to learn more. But
I also learned something about Sweet-
land's status within the University's
academic culture that made me ques-
tion the college's commitment to the
improvement of student writing.
Before enrolling in the Sweet-
land class, I had never visited the
center's faculty or peer tutors. I had
always been told that Sweetland was
a resource you used if you were strug-
gling with writing. I saw it as a kind
of fix-it shop, separate from LSA's
academic departments, where I could
take a paper to have its problems diag-
nosed, edited and remedied. I didn't
know that Sweetland was designed for
all students, regardless of ability, as a
place to discuss writing and improve
themselves. Sweetland isn't just a
grammar fix-it-shop - it's a com-
munity of writers working together.
In Sweetland's peer-tutoring center,
with writers and tutors so close in age
and ability, the effects of this com-
munity dynamic are evident. Tutors
become better writers through tutor-
ing, and visitors improve by working
with their tutors.
In my time around Sweetland's
faculty and peer tutors, I learned that
many professors and administrators
see the writing center as I once did.
Sweetland, despite all its incred-
ible work, is still on the fringe of the
University's academic culture, strug-
gling to earn the respect it deserves.
Some just can't shake their view of
Sweetland as an editing service or
a substitute for remedial education.
Nowhere is Sweetland's separation
more evident than the placement of
the flagship peer-tutoring center in

the basement of Angell Hall.
While Sweetland has two other
peer tutoring centers in the Under-
graduate Library and Alice Lloyd, the
Angell Hall center is the most visited.
It's a cramped, windowless, loud and
bare space where tutors constantly
battle to shout over four or more
other groups in the same room. It's
so hidden that without the sign in the'
main hallway, most could probably
never find it. The tutors try to make
their space as inviting as possible, but
no amount of sprucing can change
the fact that the G219 Angell inter-
feres with the tutoring process itself.
This needs to change.
U must show its 0
commitment to
teaching writing.
Relocation of the Angell Hall peer
tutoring center is long overdue. The
University missed a great opportu-
nity to free it from the basement when
Haven and Mason Halls were reno-
vated in 2002-2003. The peer tutoring
center should be located in a friendly,
spacious, accessible room like the Perl-
man Honors Commons in Mason Hall
or the Science Learning Center in the
Chemistry Building. Anything less is a
slight of an essential component of the
University's writing instruction. If the
University really wantsto demonstrate
their commitment to writing, they will
upgrade the peer tutoring center to
a more inviting facility. Surely, with
a soaring construction budget, it can
spare just a little change.
- Chris Koslowski can be
reached at cskoslow@umich.edu.

The Department of Public Safety was
formed in 1992 after a 1990 state law allowed
four-year universities to create their own
police force on the condition that an over-
sight committee of faculty, students, and
staff exist to check its power. In accordance,
the University created the DPS Oversight
Committee. A special investigation by the
Daily in November revealed that the over-
sight committee's members were being
improperly - and in some cases illegally -
chosen. The committee's stated purpose is to
review grievances against DPS filed with the
committee, of which there have only been
five over the last six years, according to yes-
terday's Daily repqrt.
But according to that report by the Daily,
the oversight committee isn't hearing most
citizens' concerns. There are two ways to
bring forth an objection with DPS. The first
is to file a complaint with DPS, which are
dealt with internally. The second option is
to file a grievance directly with the oversight
committee. Complaints and grievances are
indistinguishable in terms of subject matter.
Disturbingly, it seems most of those who
approach DPS end up opting for a route that
doesn't bring their concern before the over-
sight committee. Individuals are, in effect,
filing their complaints with the very orga-
nization they accuse of wrongdoing. At best,
this is a conflict of interest.
DPS has argued that, though the commit-
tee doesn't receive all complaints directly, it

is made aware of all complaints filed inter-
nally through the annual report DPS sub-
mits to the committee. But DPS has failed to
provide a report to the Oversight Committee
every year since 2006, according the Daily's
November investigation. If DPS is going to
use the report as a substitute for the over-
sight committee, it at least has an obligation
to present the report each year without fail.
Despite differences in terminology,
complaints and grievances are the same
thing. It's redundant that two options even
exist. The process could - and should - be
streamlined into a single route. There's no
reason for DPS to handle complaints at all,
since the purpose of the oversight com-
mittee is to provide a fair third party to
make sure that DPS is acting properly and
within its boundaries. And with only about
a dozen complaints filed a year, the com-
mittee wouldn't be overburdened.
It would be wrong to imply that DPS suf-
fers from egregious corruption. Complaints
are often filed by people unhappy with their
treatment at a traffic stop or after being
ejected from a football game for intoxica-
tion. But there are serious complaints that
warrant the review of a third party. And the
committee, not DPS, should decide which
complaints deserve to come before it.
The oversight committee must be estab-
lished as the only judge of DPS complaints.
Issues, not terminology, should warrant
oversight committee attention.

Know your own genius

n a viewpoint I wrote for the
Daily last semester (My black
experience at the U, 12/14/2009),
I called out the University for its sub-
tle racist culture
and called for an
honest discourse
on campus diver-
sity. What I failed
to address was how
I manage to cope
in the University's
hostile environ-
ment. Though
instances of racial BRITTANY
polarization can SMITH
be hard to navi-
gate as a person of
color, I have iden-
tified resources that have allowed to
me understand that my experience
at this University isn't a handicap,
but instead perhaps a blessing in dis-
guise.
Initially, my experience at the
University was thatIt isn't inclusive.
I experience a segregationist norm
that is apparent in student social
groups, voiced by students in the
classroom and reinforced by some
University departments. The climate
on this campus is so strongthat I once
began to think that something was
wrong with me because I wasn't able
to rationalize campus discrimination.
In reality, there is no rational expla-
nation for any sort of discrimination.
There was a point where I began to
believe that the culture of entitle-
ment to which I was not privileged
made it acceptable for me to believe
that my power was limited. What I
failed to realize - but now acknowl-
edge - is that while my threshold for
preconceived judgments regarding
who I am and what I am capable of is
low, my willpower is much greater.
Women like my mother and sur-
rogate mothers, who I affectionately
call Momma Lewis and Momma.
Brooks, have validated my individu-
ality when those within the class-
room struggle to notice. While there
are many women who I have met

on campus, I have personally con-
nected with a few. I am encouraged
by women like University Vice Presi-
dent E. Royster Harper, Professor
Patricia Coleman-Burns, and Ph.D.
student Tayana Hardin whose posi-
tions in the University have inspired
me. These women have enlivened my
spirit and helped to change the direc-
tion of my internal conversation from
"Do I deserve to be here?" to "Do I
want to be here?" Academic women
like Professors Lisa Disch, Janet Ger-
son and Denise Lee have gone above
and beyond their job descriptions.
These women have encouraged my
academic performance in their class-
room, and they asked for only one
thing asked in return: that I tune out
the labels that have been placed on
me and define my own identity.
While women of color often receive
little attention in the media for their
contributions to research and edu-
cation, it is people like my academic
advisor Dr. Jennifer Myers who have
supported my ambitions and dis-
pelled a sense of detachment that I
sometimes feel at the University. It
is because of student leaders like my
Leaders and Best mentor Beatrice
Elizabeth-Ann Hinton that I feel
socially connected to campus life in
an environment where I felt isolated
from the campus community. If there
was any self-doubt that I would be
unable to combat ignorance in a place
where I feel like prejudice is pre-
served, Assistant Dean of Students
Monita Thompson has been my back-
bone and strategist. She has helped
me to identify opportunities for
growth amidst situations where I feel
like I am fighting against a current.
The list of people who have moti-
vated me doesn't end there. From the
very beginning that I set foot on this
campus, Comprehensive Studies Pro-
gram Academic Advisor Dr. Dwight
Fontenot believed in my potential
and supported my interests when I
felt like other academics at the Uni-
versity simply didn't. The people at
the office of Multi-ethnic Student

Affairs have held me up when I felt
let down by the "Diversity Matters"
mantra at the University.
Campus mentors
helped me find my
inner strength.
While there is doubt that the racial
climate will get less tense, it helps
to know that people like Director of
Multicultural Affairs Program Rob-
bie Townsel-Dye is willing to extend
a helping hand and walk that road
with me and find solutions to the 0
conflicts that I have. Now, when I am
told "no," I am equally motivated by
people like Honors College Academic
Advisor Maria Gonzalez and Assis-
tant Dean of the Office of Student
Academic Affairs Esrold Nurse who
tell me "yes." And the list goes on.
All of these people have helped 0
me see that it's not a matter of "Can
you do the work that is asked of you
as a University student?" but instead
"Will you do the work?"
So, to students beginning to feel
that self-doubt, I advise you to iden-
tify people on campus who are will-
ing to affirm your struggles and your
greatness. This person should be able
to acknowledge your flaws, work
with you towards strengthening
your weakness and see that you are
capable of more than you imagine.
You may doubt your hidden talents
because your greatness hasn't been
recognized, but mentors will help you
to identify them.
Lastly, I ask that you work on get-
ting the confidence to walk and talk
as if you deserve to be here. After all,
as the saying goes, "It's not where
you're from, it's where you're at."
- Brittany Smith can be reached
at smitbrit@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy.
All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

BRUNO STORTINI

E-MAIL BRUNO AT BRUNORS@UMICH.EDU

How YOv [LF/ LI
CAN 4HELP LJI

$I ~ s~.5 o,
ts~c.5') t . N i 9 .;
'DOA t~ 'heSY

Ot tf t t to Prnes lj. 'l
+ 17- - 5 z

University works to find funding
for students with financial need
TO THE DAILY:
A recent editorial on financial aid overlooks the Univer-
sity's long-standing promise to all undergraduates from
Michigan (From the Daily: Aiding Diversity, 1/24/2010).
The promise: Your full demonstrated financial need will
be met.
Unfortunately, relatively few students from lower-
income families apply to the University because they
assume the University is academically or financially out
of reach. Yet, the reality is, when they do apply, they are
admitted at approximately the same rates as all other
applicants.
The University encourages outstanding students from
economically disadvantaged families to apply.
"Opportunity Adrift," a recent report from The Educa-
tion Trust group examining financial aid accessibility for
minorities and low-income students, fails to distinguish
between institutional support, which goes primarily to
need-based awards, and financial aid provided by gift and
endowment funds, which are privately supported.
In 2007-2008, the final year reported on in "Oppor-

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU I
tunity Adrift," of the $28.1 million in centrally awarded
need-based financial aid for Michigan residents attend-
ing the University, $23.6 million was allocated for
students with family incomes below $60,000. No need-
based grants were awarded to families with incomes of
more than $70,000.
The University worked very hard during the last capi-
tal campaign to increase funding for student aid. Some of
this fundraising, like the President's Challenge, specifi-
cally was directed to need-based awards.
The report also failed to mention that the six-year
graduation rate among the University's underrepresent-
ed minority students is the best in the state and one of the
best in the country.
In 2007-2008, that rate was 73.4 percent (compared to
88 percent overall, a "gap" of 14.6 percentage points). Just
one year later, the underrepresented minority graduation
rate rose to 79.9 (compared to 89.5 percent overall and a
9.6 percent gap).
The five percentage point decrease in the graduation
gap in only one year reflects redoubled efforts across the
board among faculty, staff and students to ensure the suc-
cess of all our students.
Lester Monts
Senior ViceProvost forAcademicAffairs

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith

The Daily is looking for a diverse, passionate, strong group of
student writers to join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members
are responsible for formulating and writing the editorials that
appear on the left side of the page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com h

Tuesday, January 26, 2010 -- 5

Orchestras
grace
for summit,
By DAVID RIVA before college as a trumpet play-
DailyArts Writer er, and I still play today," Maus-
kapf explained. "I also study the
Business and art have always orchestra. Most important, how-
shared a close relationship. Wher- ever, I love the orchestra as an
ever there's a audience member, so I want to see
creative idea, it succeed and flourish past my
there's a finan- Untie lifetime."
cial backer Symphony Clague looks to posterity when
and institu- Orhestra considering the Summit's impli-
tional hoops to cations.
jump through. Tonight "I want our students to have
This ten- at 8 pm. these jobs in the future and our
sion between Hill Auditorium audiences and kids to get to enjoy
administration Free this music," he said. "Rock concerts
and expres- and symphony concerts are very
sion is espe- different, but the intensity of expe-
cially prevalent Chicago rience in live music is similar."
in orchestral L There will be two opportu-
music. SYTny nities for the public to feel this
From the Orchestra "intensity of experience" during
perspective of the Summit, with the University
Music, Theatre Tomorrow Symphony Orchestra performing
& Dance Pro- at8 p.m. tonight and the Chicago Sympho-
fessor Mark Hill Auditorium ny Orchestra tomorrow.
Clague, this Ticketsfrom $10 The Chicago Symphony
dilemma is a Orchestra performance should
"manifestation be a perfect display of why these
of the same set Amconversations need to be happen-
of longstand- Orchestras ing in the first place.
ing issues: How "Recordings are great, but
does an elite things like Ravel's Le Tombeau
Germanic tra- Tomorrow and de Couperin, which the CSO will
dition connect Thursday play at Hill on Wednesday night,
with a broad Rackham Auditorium shimmer in live performance in
commuity of Freefor students a way that a CD and certainly an
listeners in the $25for non-students MP3 can never replicate," Clague
United States said. "Live music lives in part
and why and because of the state of mind - the
how do we pay for it?" intensity of concentration - that
Questions like these lie at the the ritual of a concert inspires."
core of the American Orchestras Music, Theatre & Dance Dean
Summit, which will bring partici- and Guest Conductor for the
pants and panelists from around University Symphony Orchestra
the country to the University Christopher Kendall claims the
Wednesday and Thursday. USO's performance and piece
Topics like "Re-Conceptualiz- selection, although fitting, was
ing the Symphony" and "Lever- not scheduled with the Summit
aging History: Lessons from the in mind.
Past" will be examined in a panel "The repertoire for the concert
discussion format with four or on the 26th was chosen before
more speakers per topic. Break- the Summit was a factor, and was
out sessions and open discussions selected ... with the aim of pro-
will also take place. viding our wonderful orchestra

FOX almost on'Target'
All action and no strong writing makes
Chance a stereotypical action hero.
By Robert Soave Daily Arts Writer

The original "Human Target"
- a 1970s comic book series -
depicted the life
of Christopher
Chance, a body-*
guard/detective Human
for hire. Wealthy
people whose Target
lives are in dan- Tuesdays
ger hire Chance at9p.m.
to assume theirF
identities, protect Fox
them and expose
their would-be assassins. While
Chance doesn't take the place of
his clients in FOX's television inter-
pretation of the comic book series,
the new 9'Human Target" is packed
with enough action and detective
work to keep viewers entertained.
Mark Valley ("Fringe") por-
trays a version of Chance that's
both charmingly intelligent and
bluntly violent. His dual nature is
evident from the very first scene,
when he encounters a deranged
man with explosives strapped to
his chest. The best dialogue of
the entire episode ensues: Chance
warns the man that it's never a
good idea for the bad guy to explain
his plan. When the guy does any-

way, Chance shoots him. The bank
blows up, but the crazy guy doesn't
kill the client. And for Chance,
that's all that matters.
Unfortunately, Chance's lines
throughout the rest of the epi-
sode aren't quite as original, and
he starts devolving into a gener-
ic action hero. While he never
becomes boring, Valley plays the
character with decreasing depth
(barring one scene in which
Chance gives an explanation for
how he learned Japanese that is
both emotional and a complete lie).
As it becomes clear that Chance
may have a death wish, he becomes
less and less distinguishable from
other vigilante character in comic
books, TV shows and movies.
Luckily, the rest of the cast
makes up for Chance's lack of
subtlety. Chi McBride ("Push-
ing Daisies") portrays the likeable
Winston, who takes care of Chance
even when Chance won't take care
of himself. And Jackie Earle Haley
(who played a vigilante killer him-
self in 2009's "Watchmen") is
particularly talented as the infor-
mation gathering, morally ambigu-
ous Guerrero. In a moment clearly

It's like '24,' but every day is Flag Day.
indicative of his character, he gets the episode, they are nonetheless
rid of two thugs by calmly promis- fun to watch.
ing to murder them in their sleep. Beyond the three main actors,
Haley easily steals the show. there's less to praise, as the side
But while Chance may not be characters in the first episode's
as interesting, he still entertains plot aren't very believable and don't
by virtue of constantly beating up have enough time to become so.
bad guys, especially in a lengthy It would be helpful to see Chance
fight sequence inside the ventila- integrate himself into his clients'
tion shaftof aspeeding bullet train. lives for a while longer before his
This excellently choreographed cover is blown and he has to punch
fight scene is not only thrilling, but his way out of the situation.
also develops Chance's character, As such, "Human Target" isn't
as he doesn't hesitate to brutally what it could be. But with stronger
kill his client's enemies. While writing backing his performance,
such action moments don't entirely Valley could easily become the new
excuse the absurdities of the plot face of the action hero on prime-
during the bullet train segment of time TV.

The art of distastefulpoetry

According to Clague, a co-
organizer of the event, the idea
was overly ambitious from the
start, but the response has been
overwhelming.
"When we described the Sum-
mit on our Web page as a 'land-
mark' event, it was really wishful
thinking," he said. "We convinced
a handful of big names in arts
administration to join us and,
of course, had the benefit of the
presence of (Chicago Symphony
Orchestra) Emeritus Conductor
and pioneering contemporary
composer Pierre Boulez.
"Things just snowballed from
there."
Michael Mauskapf, a Rackham
student, is looking forward to a
fruitful dialogue among attendees.
"We are hoping to have an
open, honest and productive con-
versation about how these issues
from the past and present might
inform what orchestras do in the
future, and what current success-
es are happening today," he said.
Additionally, Mauskapf is
anticipating potential solu-
tions including "some practi-
cal and actionable projects that
orchestras and academics can
enact immediately to improve
the health of the industry and of
cross-disciplinary partnership."
Clague is also enthusiastic
about prospective pairings, not-
ing that Thursday will be devoted
to collaboration and connection.
"We will ask each participant
to sign on to some new proj-
ect," he said. "(The University's)
American Music Institute has
two ideas.
"One will be a study of suc-
cess in the U.S. orchestral scene,
(because we usually) focus on
learning from the failures, for
some reason. ... The other will be
a composition competition to cre-
ate new versions of the American
national anthem in celebration
of the bicentennial of 'The Star-
Spangled Banner' in 2014. We'll
also announce the participation
of two big-name composers."
The importance of the Summit
does not lie solely in its institu-
tional function. Many have deep
personal interests because of
their passion for orchestral music.
"I've played in orchestras since

Ensuring a
future for the
orchestral world.
students an opportunity to work
with repertoire that makes an
important contribution to their
learning process," he said.
"This particular, very chal-
lenging program has three
works," he added. "One from last
year, one from 50 years ago and
another from 100 years ago, all
with something deeply important
and compelling to say, but saying
it differently: one emphasizing
the spiritual (Bruce MacCombie's
Samsara Rounds) one the intellec-
tual (Lukas Foss's Time Cycle), and
one the emotional (Sergei Rach-
maninoff's Symphony No. 2 in E
Minor, Op. 27)."
With prominent speakers and a
wide variety of attendees including
musicians, conductors, composers,
business professionals, financial
backers, students, writers, crit-
ics, historians and everyone who
enjoys orchestral music, a healthy
dose of buzz has been generated
from the prospects of the Summit.
"Enthusiasm is high for the
Summit," said Mauskapf. "It
seems as though we caught a wave,
as this issue has recently received
a lot of national press. People are
both worried because of the chal-
lenges and excited regarding the
opportunities for change and
innovation."
The Summit starts tonight with
the University Symphony Orches-
tra's free performance at Hill
Auditorium. Wednesday includes
the first half of panel discussions
and breakout sessions at Rackham
Auditorium followed by a perfor-
mance by the Chicago Symphony
Orchestra at Hill. On Thursday,
the conversation wraps up with a
half day at Rackham. The Summit's
Rackham component is free for
students.
Follow the Summit live on its
official blog at www.insidethearts.
com/Orchestrasummit/.

went to the Bad Poetry Slam
a couple years ago in the
bar at the Heidelberg on
Main Street.
Each poet
attempted
to write and
perform the
most horrible '
poem imag-
inable. The
winning poem
was slammed WHITNEY
by a man POW
with a scruffy
beard who
was wearing an old white Hanes
t-shirt and jeans. He was justifi-
ably given the Bad Poet title with
remarkable lines like "and oh the
stench of your va-jay-jay" and
"your thighs as white as alabaster
punching bags."
I remember this because it was
that bad. Seared-into-my-mind
bad.
The Bad Poetry Slam played off
of what is considered "bad" art.
The twist was that, instead of the
writers hoisting their bad poetry
to the highest of heights, the Hei-
delberg's slam encouraged poets
to let the poems sit dejected in the
sewer and be marveled at without
any pretense.
"Bad" takes on another mean-
ing when you include the idea of
awareness, from the snarky com-
ments made behind your back to

the over criticism to your face. The
game is also changed when you
consequently win a $20 gift cer-
tificate at a poetry slam. Suddenly,
bad writing moves from the self-
serving and narcissistic to the pur-
poseful and somewhat consciously
eloquent. The writer throws in
a measure of mindfulness when
writing about his or her lover's ala-
baster punching bags. Admittedly,
there has to be some kind of cre-
ativity behind lines like that.
Here, one has to make up one's
mind about what is "bad" and
what is "good." Can a poem, or
any piece of art for that matter,
be so purposefully bad that it is,
in reality, good? The question
reminds me of artist Jeff Koons,
most notable for his porcelain
sculpture of Michael Jackson sit-
ting with a monkey named Bub-
bles, titled, quite aptly, Michael
Jackson and Bubbles.
Koons's work dives into the
idea of distastefulness in art. One
piece he made for a series titled
Made in Heaven is a billboard
image depicting two figures on
a set of jagged rocks overlooking
the crashing waves of the sea. One
of the figures is a swooning lady
in lacy lingerie lying on her back,
and the other, a lanky, naked man
piled on top of her, is Koons him-
self, with hairy chest, thighs and
carefully crafted coif. He looks
directly into the camera, daring

you to'
Tie
which:s
conside
for an o
bargain
the piec
Museui
Chicag
cally se
someth
done w
the piec
when tI
narcissi
mind, s
'oh
yo1
sure of
A gr
art wor
the tac
of some
for the
not onl
the aw:
what h
created
are nov
survive
in pulp
chestet
boats o

enjoy this image. Creating something so artfully
work itself is a vanity shot, horrendous as the construction of
seems entirely laughable "bad art," whatever that might be,
ring it looks better suited is really quite an elaborate pro-
Id vinyl record cover in a cess, from conceiving the idea to
bin at Salvation Army. But carrying it out. Other artists have
ce has been displayed at the played with this conception of the
m of Contemporary Art, disgusting, raunchy and offen-
o, renderingthis horrifi- sive, from Joseph Beuys's piece
lf-admiring billboard into Fat Chair, a triangular mound of
ing incredibly self-aware. If fat heaped onto a wooden chair, to
ithout self-consciousness, Cosimo Cavallaro's piece Cheese
ce would be humiliating, but Room, which is essentially a hotel
he idea of humiliation and room that has been covered in
ism are built by an aware pounds of melted cheese - over
omething worthy of a mea- the lamps, on the bed, on the
walls. There's so much cheddar
heaped everywhere that the room
Sthe stench of emits an orange glow.
Intentionally bad art does have
a ysome merit. There's a degree of
skill, creativity and gall required
to create the most distasteful art-
work ever. The winner of the Bad
praise is created. Poetry Slam had roused an entire
eat deal of contemporary bar full of boos from people who
'ks with the celebration of were not quite drunk enough to
ky or grotesque. The idea be belligerent and aimlessly boo at
ething being explicitly bad just anyone. On a weeknight at 8
sake of being bad contains p.m., you really have to earn those
y the awareness of self but derogatory shouts. And then, like
areness of one's work and Koons after his bare-chested esca-
as come before it - Koons pade out on the rocks, you have to
I art based on images that be proud of your art and be able to
w seen as kitschy and still live up to it afterward.

, in one form or another,
novels containing bare-
d men and busty women on
r in valleys.

Pow wants to spend the rest of her
lift in the Cheese Room. To ask to join,
e-mail her at poww oumich.edu.

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
h$2.54 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka DrinksM
25%Off AMexican Far-e All \Aith NO CO\/FR

Happy Hour $4.99 6 Wings Pint
r t t' 1 it 1 r r f
S UIDIOIKIUl

512 E. William (734) 663-3379
LIMITED TIME OFFER
For Our Friends at The U
CUSTOMER APPRECIATION
Lunch Buffet
M-F 11-2pm
$2 OFF our Lunch Buffet
With Beverage Included
Just Present Your U of M I.D.
Offer Expires: 2/26/10

DAILY ARTS WANTS YOU.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for
information on applying.


6- Tuesday, January 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, lndry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
! 2 BEDROOM, completely remod-
eled, large kitchen with modern appli-
ances. Full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. Pet friendly. Call Laura for
your private tour at Church Street
Apartments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start.
Single bedrooms through 5-person, 3
bath. Rates from $655. Per-person con-
tracts, all utilities included at flat rate.
New building, 2 blocks from campus.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
! 8 BDRM House. Walk to Campus.
Frnshd. Prkg & Ldry. Rdcd to $3800.
uncampushousing.com. 810-231-0229.
1 122 S. Forest
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for 2010, sitgle bedrooms through
5 people. Open souse event Thutr-Sat
Jan. 28-30, 12-7p, free catered food, ap-
plication fee waived. $50 iTunes cert.
on signing. Beautiful new building,
per-person contracts, 2 blocks from
campus. 734-998-4400
www.4eleven lofts.com
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parkitg.
On Church St. between flill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LIC. 734-994-0644.
! AVAILABLE FALL Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. IHeat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for nmore itnfo.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 1ill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard. 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jtmsprop i~sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jtnsprop.com

.Otthe rijy
e~Id and
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side

C, 4c Migan 4Oaitmj

Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
! AWESOME LOCATION 9 Bed-
room. 3 bathrooms, fully farn, 2 large
fridges, full size washer & dryer on
site parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
Studio & 1
TIerP zaCondominium
oPl734-663-1530
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarboraparttnents.net
!!!AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm.
ftrn. apts. 402 till St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
FALL 2010 HUGE luxury 6 bedrooms
plus study bi-level apt. 2 full luxury
marble baths. Prime Location.
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.canpusrealty.com

Online eta
R'ental Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
!!S SAVE S, Sign before Jan. 31,
2010, get a generous signing bonus!
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments.
Fall 2010, Across from East Quad.
Beautiful. expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg. free heat & water Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllcayahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
***** MAY LEASES *****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May to August
I bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Call today 761-80001
Prime Student Housntg
primesh.com
***3 BDRM TRI-ILEVEL*** avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
Ilardwood floors, fully furnished.
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartnents.net
**CHURCH{@ S. University**
ONLY I LEFT! Large 2-bdrm for 4,
heat, water, furnishings inct.
Varsity Mgnt (734) 668-1100

# BDRMS Location Price
6 1221 S. State #2 $2400
5 420 S. Division #2 $2500
3 1123 Church St. $1700
2 721 Catherine #1 $1200
1 721 Catherine #4 $900
elf 1117Church #2 $550
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
*6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
2010! 1007 State. Furn. Newly
renovated ist Floor and Bthrms. Free
Prkng and Indry. Call 734-717-9288.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$599/tno. 734-665-8825.
*LARGE 3 STORY furn. 5 bdrtn for 6
people, 3 kitch, 3 bath, prkg, lndry. 921

www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University

HOMES, FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
Ann Arbor - (888) 883-7083 - www.sciofarms.com
X ono Ypsilanti'- (888) 310-6850 - www.4lakeview.com

Los Angeles T
Edited by1
ACROSS
1i"1did it!" tBaj
5 Outplaps 2 WI
10 Jack's inferior wh
13 Holly genus do
14 Draw a better 3 Mil
head an no-
15 Pitcher Hideo 4 Lu
16 'Big name in too
tequila 5 UC
18 Gossip tidbit 6 Ex
19 Abu Dhabi's she
federation: 7 Pu
Abbr. 8 VC
20 *Mexican 8 Ca
muralist 10 Fo
22 Actor Brody of len
"The Pianist" pre
24 Pep 11 Co
25 one mind: 12"%
disagreeing sas
26 Fri. preceder dre
29 Short film role 15 Sk
38 Same 17 B-s
31 On the double 21 Wt
33 *Spanish un
painter (1746- sh
18281 23 Cc
38 Fr all tI see 28 Ge
39 Submissive 27 Mt
41 Gas brand with Eg
a landmark sign 28 "I
outside Fenway 31 An
Park bri
45 Vegas cube
46 Iraqi seaport
47 Opposed (to) 1
49 "The Picture of
_ Gray" s
50 *Roger Federer
rival 1a
54 Gold units:
Abbr. 22
55 Big pictures:
Abbr. 2.
56 Home to this an
puzzle's theme
58 Fight-ending as
calls, hrieflp
S59 Insect stage
60 Animal whose
fur was used for 41 42
Crockett's cap .z
61 Word that forms
a cipy when so
coined with
the first names ss
in answers to
starred clues s5
62 Slow to catch
63 Barley beards
ByD.5111

Times D
Rich Norrisa
DOWN
ja harder cipy
sat you take'
en you sit
>wn
litary
-show
mberback's
LA player
tra wide, on a
toebox
ppeteer Tony
R successor
mpfire treat
r the full
gth of a
egnancy
me to light
kip the
indwich
essing"
in care brand
G link
frking
dercover, for
ort
orn Belt state
see it a shut
ubarak of
ypt
give up!"
gel dust,
iefly

aily Crossword Puzzle
and Joyce Nichols Lewis
32 Happy Meal 43 Nonstick
extra coating
34 Lariat loop 44 Lawn makeup
35 Poet Khayym 46 Westetn tie
36 "That's not 48 Spanish hero
news to me" played by Heston
37 Soda-making 49 Wilem a
process "Spider-Man"
40 Topeka natives 51 Appoint
41 Insertion 52 Actor Alda
marks 53 Uses a spade
42 The Donald's 57 Color TV
daughter pioneer
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
A 1o. BAS 2ES F E A R
S D! MA IT T i C 5 1 A G O
S E L D O W N HIE A R T E D
A S Y L U M L A P S
i S L A S P H E RE L i P
L A i R S O OP E A C H
V I E N N A H O L M E S
L E A T H E R L U N G E D
M O R IT A L S U B U R B
O R E S F E B S E R F S
T E D S C AR E D C AE N
S OA K III O I D O
T H I N S K I N N E D N O W
A U D I E R R A T A E R E
B E S T S A S S Y D A D
xwordeditor@aoi.com 01/2510

# BDRMS Location Price
Fall
6 1122 S. Forest $3000
May
6 541 S. Division $3000
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
**I & 2 Bedrooms** near CCRB and
CC Little Choose your new living
room furniture! new kitchens w/ dish-
washers, fully furnished, heat, water,
parking incl.
www.varsitymanagenenscom
**2 & 4 Bdrms** Perfect for Grad Stu-
dents! huge apts w/ 10 ft ceilings, hard-
wood floors, fireplaces in peaceful
Burns I ark.
Varsity Mgmt. (734) 668-1100
**2 BDRM -2 Bath Bi-levels** Huge
campus apts perfect for 4, large rooftop
balconies, spicious kitchens w/ dish-
wasers, frishy famnished, seat, water
parkinginc
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
**2-BEDROOMS -Fall** 91 land
1001 S. Forest new kitchens & baths,
wireless Internet nel alo g w/ heat, wa-
ter, furnishings, and parkimg
www.varsitymsanagement.com
**3-BEDROOMS** NEAR CCRB
and CC Little, balconies or patio large
living rooms w/ new furniture. Heat,
water, parking incl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
**331CATHERINE** FOR THE so-
phisticate! 3-bdrms w/ in-unit wash-
er/dryers, hardwood firs new carpet,
stainless steel appliancesremodeled
kitchens, and brilliant colors; all w/
parking incl. Go to
www.varsitymanagesent.com
for virtual tears!
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.FIRPAA.com 996-4992.
.
u!

Packard. Avail '10. Call 734-272-1320. *Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
Apartments Available! (* At ost locations)
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
a . AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE intemnot, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
mets! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarbraprtments.net
wrww.Bmton brookcom, 73-665-5620 -
APTS AT 1215 Hill and 5th Ave and
Packard. Efficiencies 1,2 & 4 Bed-
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY. rooms. Heat included. 734-260-4003
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.iiiclcoirealty.conn or 4 0S iiin#
734-662-5500 for appiitment. 4 S. IVISIOf #2
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus 5 BDRM
Location. Call 734.663.8463. $2500
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010 SEPT 2010
www.snileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469 COPT PROPERTIES
4-6 BDRM house avail Fall 2010. 418 (
N. State St. 6 bdrms total. 2 bath, 3 734 663-5609
prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
4 bdrm-$2500, 5 bdrm-$3000, 6
bdrm-$3450. Call 734-996-1991. AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
4-7 ROOM hse. Kingsley & State. re- security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
modeled, $500/rm. 248-910-2286. arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons. AVAILABLE FALL.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-6380 Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
www.benianirentiais.com floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
__________________________ blocks toIamupis. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
321 E. Liberty 1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
6 BDRM APT. or call (734)260-7215.
$2800 AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
SEPT. I, 2010 934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734)260-7215.
2 BLOCKSTO CAMPUS, WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
2 BLOCKS TO DOWNTOWN Check out all of the available proper-
4 PARKING SPACES ties for sale in the area.
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768
WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549
541 S. DIVISION
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510 6 BDRM + STUDY
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5$3000
bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrn-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991. MAY 20 10
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3 COPI PROPERTIES
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay (7346635609
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrn-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
WWW.800FULLER.COM AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
(734) 769-7520 room house located near U/M Athletic
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
5 mm.walk. Free Wi-Fi dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and ]dry. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcmrealty.com
Spring and Fall for more info.
Leases Available AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near
Ctral Campus. $500-750. Includes
Rent today for your Best H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour. Call us: (734) 764-0557 Ema
Fax us: (734) 936-1054 Visit I
Call us for information.
734-761 -2680 Line Ad Deadline is t:30am, one b
info@u-toWers.Com Open Rates $4.30 per line (first iss
536 South Forest Frequency & Bulk contracts are av
Ann Arbor, MI 48104 Student Discount is 20% awhen ads
UniversityTowers-mi.com
All ads must be prepaid unless prior i
We accept Visa, MasterCard, Americ
LUhliV(Y rFit y Costact Us for more information, in
L. iT)Nl(/'C - nons-organiaional, non-business ads n

2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdnn & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greeneapts.com
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
x$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilitiest
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icc.coop
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and Indry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely C- 3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move, in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
02 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
1221 S. State #2
6 BDRM
$2400
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furimshed and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.
FALL '10 RENTAL. $450/mo. 5
Bdrm, 2 bath. at 811 Sylvan. 10 min
walk to campus. 5 min to baseball field.
Major appliances. 734-834-1680.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm
apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furn, disposal,
dwshr, Indry, prkg. Walkout balcony.
$1175 + elec. 734-662-7121 or email
gpmiles@aol.com

MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

*I

3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
14 i5
17 18
20 2i
23 24
E 26 2T 28 29
31 32
3 34 35 36 37
38 39 40
2 43 44 45 46
48 49
51 52 53 54
56 57
59 60
62 63
Naddor 01/26110
0 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

0
0
0

Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Baconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
- HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
741-9300
wOw narM ra rt mentsne
www.annarborapartments.net


ii

I '


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 26, 2010 - 7

Interim GM CEO
Whitacre named as
permanent CEO

Suspect in South University fire
will plead not guilty at May trial

Whitacre says more
needs to be done in
sales and marketing
DETROIT (AP) - Ed Whitacre
Jr. says the main reason he's taking
over as permanent CEO of General
Motors Co. is to bring stability to
the top of the troubled automaker.
Whitacre, whose appointment
was announced Monday, said
although he's satisfied with the
leadership team he's put in place,
there's still work to do in sales and
marketing, product development,
purchasing and quality. Manage-
ment experts say that means fur-
ther changes and possibly more
firings.
GM's board asked Whitacre to
stay on as CEO after seven weeks
of searching for a successor from
the outside. Whitacre, a former
CEO of AT&T Inc., doesn't expect
any more big shake-ups, but said
ADMISSIONS
From Page 1
Hanlon said he believes there
will be a record number of appli-
cants to the University this year.
"The larger number of appli-
cations is just a trend we've seen
every year," he said. "Every year
we've been getting more applica-
tions. What we certainly hope is
that it's because people are recog-
nizing we're an excellent univer-
sity."
Despitethe increase inthe num-
ber of new students who enrolled
at the University last fall and the
increasing number of underrepre-
sented minority students admit-
ted to the University, the number
of underrepresented minority
students enrolling decreased 11.4
percent last year from the previ-
ous year.
Sullivan said she is well aware of
the gap between white and under-
represented minority students.
She said last year she appointed
Lester Monts, senior vice provost
for academic affairs, and Debo-
rah Lowenberg Ball, dean of the
School of Education, to lead a task
SENATE ASSEMBLY
From Page 1
less said.
"We haven't had a statement
like that before at the University
HAITI
From Page 1
not through your own choice but
through other people and realize
that the right answer is yes."
Bonner said though it was a
hard decision to make, her fam-
ily and friends support her going
to Haiti.
"I think my friends that know
me well have a slight rolling of
their eyes thinking 'oh gosh here
she goes again' but they're overall
really supportive," she said. .
Canter and Bonner have been
studying developing countries
and their relative dependence on
foreign aid and what that means
for their quest for independence.
Canter said that while this aca-
demic background will be helpful

for Bonner, it is her field experi-
ence that will matter the most
when she gets to Haiti.
"I think her past experience in
Sudan will be most helpful work-
ing in developing countries," he
said. "You can read about it but
until you've been there and expe-
rience the multiple frustrations
you don't know."
Bonner agreed, saying what
she witnessed in Sudan will help
her to aid the victims in Haiti.
According to The Associated
Press up to 1 million people are
in need of shelter as a result of
the Jan. 12 quake. In addition the
country is in dire need of food and
other supplies.
"Usually what happens when
aid organizations go in it's so cha-
otic and things are set up very
0 quickly," she said. "Beingin Sudan
so many years after the program
was already off and running I had
so many complaints and frustra-
tions. Because I understand the
frustration I can kind of think
forward if this program is going
to work two to five years from
now and how to make it success-
ful."
Bonner said she feels viewing
the devastation in Haiti will be
"really -difficult to handle" but
that through her past experience

he plans to rearrange middle
management, which totals about
23,000 people, mainly in the U.S.
Whitacre wouldn't name other
candidates the board considered
for CEO, but said he intends to
stay two or three years, or "long
enough to get it done." Details of
his pay package will be released
shortly. He now makes $350,000 a
year as board chairman.
"The board looked at the poten-
tial candidates and decided that
this place needs stability," Whi-
tacre, 68, said at a Monday news
conference. "We don't need any
more uncertainty."
Had GM hired a new CEO, it
would have been the automaker's
fourth leader in the past year. The
U.S. government, which owns 60.8
percent of the company follow-
ing its Chapter 11 reorganization,
ousted Rick Wagoner in March,
then Whitacre replaced the next
CEO, Fritz Henderson, on an
interim basis in December.
force to investigate the reasons for
this discrepancy.
"We wanted to know if this
is principally a lack of financial
resources," Sullivan said. "Is it a
result of minority students decid-
ing we've got the wrong kind of
program and they want to transfer
somewhere else? We didn't really
have a very good understanding of
what the origin of this gap was."
Sullivan continued by saying
the University can help address
this gap by marketing itself more
as a viable option to underrepre-
sented minority students in high
school and middle school.
"We also think that some of
these students may get steered
away from U of M by counselors
or others who aren't aware of our
policies," she said. "It's not just
a matter of doing a better educa-
tion job, but a matter of where the
education job needs to be headed.
Is it at the student applicant? Is it
at the parents of the student? Is it
at the high school counselor who
told them where to apply to start
with? We're thinking about all
three of those levels in terms of
doing a better job of getting the
word out."
of Michigan," he added. "(The
University of) Minnesota had
one, but it was very weak, very
different than this one."
- Sara Boboltz contributed
tothis report.
she has learned the proper men-
tality to tackle the situation.
"I will never be able to recon-
cile why some of us live with the
advantages we have in developed
countries while others don't," she
said "If you start thinking 'this
isn't fair' you get stuck in a bad
place. Thankfully I have the cop-
ing mechanism that allows me to
get on and do what I need to do
without breaking down."
"It's going to be really sad and
upsetting," she added. "But I can't
not do anything because of that."
Canter said he feels that Bon-
ner will most likely end up staying
longer than her intended two to
three months, adding that she'll
probably be there through the
summer.
"When she gets down there,
the need will be tremendous and

I feel it'll be longer term than
everyone expects because the
sheer devastation is just humon-
gous," he said. "There's a lot of
work to be done."
Bonner said she doesn't know
whether or not this will be the
case but she is open to the pos-
sibility if there is still a need for
her once it comes time for her to
leave.
While in Haiti, Bonner said
she will most likely be living in
a three-person tent while prob-
ably focusing on water, sanita-
tion, shelter and hygiene issues as
well as her personal goal of rais-
ing awareness to the rest of the
world.
"When I went to Sudan most of
my friends could barely point out
Sudan on a map and by the time I
was leaving they were all reading
news articles and learning about
Sudan," she said.
Bonner said she hopes that
her experience in Haiti will help
to make her an advocate for the
country.
"In six months people aren't
really going to care," she said.
"Me being there and then coming
back will hopefully raise aware-
ness to people and help them real-
ize that there will still be a lot of
work to do."

Ian Mackenzie, 18, is
charged with setting
fire to former Pinball
Pete's location
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
Ian Mackenzie, one of the defen-
dants charged with setting fire to
the formerlocation of Pinball Pete's
in October, will plead not guilty in
a trial set for May 10 before Judge
Melinda Morris.
The date was set in a brief pre-
trial conference yesterday, after
Mackenzie's attorney and the pros-
ecuting attorney approached the
bench to speak off the record with
Morris.
Mackenzie, 18, turned himself in
to Ann Arbor Police shortly after
the Oct. 24 fire occurred, which
charred the South University
building and caused minor dam-
ages to the neighboring University
Towers apartment complex and
HANLON
From Page 1
think it's going to be important to
have someone who has either bud-
getary experience or the ability to
pick that up pretty quickly," Sulli-
van said at the time. "But, I think
it's important that you have some-
body in this job who has a strong
academic background and under-
stands the aspirations of faculty."
A veteran of the University com-
munity with extensive experience
in the provost's office, Hanlon
fits the ticket. In addition to these
characteristics, Sullivan told the
Daily her successor would need
to be forward thinking and open-
minded.
"They need to be broad minded
enough and interested enough so
that they can have conversations
with people from many fields,
because in one day the provost
interacts with people from all over
the campus and it's important to be
able to have important conversa-
tions with them no matter where
they come from," Sullivan said at
the time. "That does take a kind of
breadth of intellectual vision that
not everyone finds congenial:"
"I think there's also something
that we think of as the administra-
tive personality," she said. "It's the

Momo Tea.
Mackenzie andhis co-defendant,
Justin Arens, were both homeless
at the time of the incident, and had
previously stayed overnight in the
vacant building. They had acquired
other sleeping arrangements prior
to the time of the fire.
The reason behind setting the
fire remains unknown.
Mackenzie is charged with three
counts of arson of real property at
the cost of over $20,000, a reduced
charge from the original count of
arson of personal property.
The charge was changed at
Mackenzie's preliminary exami-
nation at Prosecutor Karen Field's
request. Field argued that the
charge of arson of real property
was more fitting because the build-
ing was abandoned at the time of
the fire.
Mackenzie faces up to 10 years
in prison if he is found guilty at his
trial in May.
Mackenzie's pretrial was initial-
ly scheduled for Jan. 4, but Morris
allowed an adjournment until this
afternoon. Mackenzie remains in
ability to listen carefully and com-
mute your own self interests in a
conversation."
University officials were not
commenting on the anticipated
announcement last night, but
several executives and regents
outlined qualifications they said
would be essential for the next pro-
vost when Sullivan was announced
as the University of Virginia's next
president two weeks ago.
Dean of Libraries Paul Courant,
who served as the University's Pro-
vost from 2002 to 2005 told the
Daily at the time that the ability to
balance academic and budgetary
pressures would be paramount.
"The provost is the chief aca-
demic officer and the chief budget
officer at the institution," Cou-
rant said at the time. "The budget
times are going to be tough over
the next while and the provost
has to be able to ensure that the
academic missions of the Univer-
sity - learning, teaching, research
- are always in the foreground
as choices are made, especially in
tough times."
Prof. James Duderstadt, who
rose through the University's
internal ranks to become provost
and from 1988 to 1996 University
president, highlighted several sim-
ilar characteristics for Sullivan's
replacement. However, he said

Ian MacKenzie at his preliminary examination on Dec.16, 2009.

custody, despite the announcement
that he planned to submit a written
request to post bond on Jan. 4.
Arens, 21, plead no contest to the
three charges of arson at his pretri-
the deciding factor of whether a
replacement would be successful
would come down to his or her
relationship with Coleman.
"In the end, I think it's very
much a relationship between the
provost and president which makes.
universities work well," he said at
the time.
Duderstadt and Courant both
said at the time that it was too early
to tell whether the next provost
would be selected from within the
University or not. However, they
said national searches are typically
conducted for such a prominent
position.
"Wehavesomeverycapabledeans
right now and that's the first pool
you look at," Duderstadt said at the
time. "There's a lot of talent inside,
but there's a lot of talent as you look
across the country right now."
"It's often the case that provosts
come from inside because it's use-
ful to know how the University
works. I think that's why it's been
done that way in the past," Courant
said at the time. "Yet, Terry was an
extremely effective and successful
provost here, so it's clear that one
can come from outside and do very,
very well in the job."
Though Hanlon won't assume
his new role for five months, his
new position will place him into a
job known for developing univer-

al on Jan. 11. He awaits sentencing
on Feb. 22.
- Eugene Chung
contributed to this report.
sity presidents.
In addition to Sullivan, who
will leave for the University of Vir-
ginia's presidency this summer,
University of Michigan provosts
often go on to serve as presidents of
major institutions.
Charles M. Vest, who served as
provost at the University in the
late 1980s is the National Academy
of Engineering's president and is
president emeritus for the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology.
J. Bernard Machen, who served
as the University's provost from
1995 to 1997 currently serves as the
University of Florida's president
and is president emeritus at the
University of Utah.
Nancy Cantor, who became the
University's provost in 1997, cur-
rently serves as president of Syra-
cuse University.
Though now University presi-
dent emeritus, James Duderstadt
followed a similar pattern.
"The provost position at Mich-
igan has produces some of the
great presidents in this country.
That's what people look to it for,"
Duderstadt told the Daily when
Sullivan was named UVA's next
president. "That's what Michigan
presidents look for. We look for
provosts who have the capability
to provide that kind of leadership
at the national level."

hthe wire FOLLOW OUR NEWS BLOG
michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
APARTMENT organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
at

michigandaily.com/classifieds

SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT

WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
See great places on an interactive map Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
or Classified listings with full descrip- Shops are looking for seasonal help in
tions, features, and prices all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Sales
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.! Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
Eff, Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts. www.theislandhouse.com
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each) scoop up
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edua
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.I
Call Phil at 734.662.5270 co npa xi S do
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!

For Wednesday, Jan. 27, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Domestic discussions do not flow eas-
ily today, because people feel distant and
cool with each other. This can apply
especially to conversations with parents
or authority figures. Fear not. The whole
world feels this way today!
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
You might feel self-critical and overly
worried today. It's easy to make moun-
tains out of molehills. Try to lighten up.
This worried, fearful feeling lasts only
for one day.
GEMINI
(May21 to June 20)
Money feels tight today. You might be
worried about cash flow, how much
something costs or why there's always
so much month left at the end of the
money.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Today the Moon is in your sign, which
makes you feel more emotional than
usual. However, it makes a harsh aspect
to stern Sturn, and this could create24
fleeting depression. It's gone in 24
hours.
LEO
(July 23 toAug. 22)
It's easy to feel lonely and cut off from
others today. This is not really the truth;
it just feels that way. Life looks worse
than it is.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Sonmeone older or nmore experienced
might be critical uf you today. (You need
this like a fish needs a bicycle.) Try to
give it little thought.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is a poor day to deal with parents,
teachers, bosses and authority figures.
Everything will just go south in a New

York minute. Postpone important
requests for tomorrow.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Avoid disputes about religion, politics
and racial issues today. Similarly, don't
go up against teachers, professors or
authority figures at school or in publish-
ing and the media. Not today!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
You might be disappointed by your
fair share of something. Others might
seem stingy to you today. Wait until
tomorrow to see how things really look.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Conversations with partners and close
friends are difficult because either you or
others, act cold and insensitive. This is a
classic day for genuine misunderstand-
ings.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Be cooperative with co-workets and
as tolerant as possible today. It's very
easy to be ticked off by and annoyed
with others, and vice versa! Easy does it.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Romance is in the toilet today. The
creative arts can suffer. Activities with
children will seem burdensome.
YOU BORN TODAY Many of you
display creative talents at an early age
because you're bright and quickto learn.
You're also very quick to act once you
know you want something. Perhaps
because you are childlike (not childish),
many of you work with young people or
appeal to them. Your enthusiasm is
attractive. Work hard to build or con-
struct something this year.
Birthdate of: Mordecai Richler,
author; Mikhail Baryshnikov,
dancer/actor; Bobby "Blue" Bland, blues
singer/songwriter

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773
EARN $500-$2000 PER Week or
More, Part-Time.
No car required. Work your own hours
selling incentives like coupon books,
free travel certificates, free gift cards
and rebates to businesses locally or na-
tionally. Sales occur via phone or Inter-
net. For details watch videos at http:-
llwww.newworldincentives.com/vide-
olibrary Then email your interest to
michael@neworldincentives.com or
call 610-520-7378.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

Summer
.Employment
Page
By advertising onthisyear'sSummer
Employment Page you can reach over
40,00o+ highly qualified Wolverines!
'Ihsis i agreat oppurtunity for
internships orsummerpositionsto
reachtheeyes ofmanyeligiblestudents.
Presented by The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Feb.18at w3,oam
Published Feb.as
dailyclassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557

:)2010KingFeaturesSyndicate, inc.

r


01

8 - Tuesday, January 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

*I

Berenson's track
record speaks
for itself

P
Ok, a
SAID LALAH/Daily
Junior Manny Harris was suspended for "unsportsmanlike conduct" before Michigan's game against Purdue last Saturday. After being benched against Iowa last season,
Harris returned with a 27-point effort in the Wolverines' 87-78 victory over the Boilermakers. Michigan may need a similar effort to defeat the Spartans tonight.
With Harris reinstated,
'M'..needs win over MSU

"This guy has never had any
coaching (at the University of Mich-
igan). Jackojust did what he wanted.
"Michigan is the worst.For hockey
people, ifyou've got a choice between
a kid - all things being equal - one's
going to Michigan and one's going to
Boston University, you all want your
player (goingto Boston University).
Michigan's players - (head coach)
Red (Berenson) doesn't coach. It's
'do what you want.'Hegets the best
players in the country."
- L.A. Kings President and G.M.
Dean Lombardi to Hockeytalk.biz
blogger Gann Matsuda, on Kings
defenseman Jack Johnson and
Michigan coach Red Berenson.
ed Berenson doesn't need
me to defend him. But I'm
going to, regardless.
Red Berenson doesn't need me
to defend him. But I'm going to,
regardless.
His 26 years at Michigan have
been memorable: 687 wins, 19
straight NCAA Tournament
appearances,
10 Frozen Four TIM
appearances, ROHAN
two national
titles. After a On Ice Hockey
rough four-year
stretch with
John Giordano at the helm, Beren-
son has, quite frankly, put the Wol-
verines back on the map.
He has turned Michigan into a
national power.
You know what you're goingto
get when you send your kid to play
hockey at Michigan for Red Beren-
son. His impact on the Wolverine
hockey team isncomparable that of
Bo Schembechler on the Michigan
football program.
L.A. Kings President and Gen-
eral Manager Dean Lombardi is
in his fourth year with the Kings.
And, granted, his evaluation of
Jack Johnson as an unruly player
may be founded. Johnson may not
be as refined of a defenseman as
Lombardi would have liked out of
the third overall pick in the 2005
NHL entry draft. But that doesn't
open the door for him to blame
Berenson and Johnson's two years
at Michigan.
The Ann Arbor native has 40
points in 165 games over the past
three seasons with the Kings. After
finishing second to last and dead
last in the West the two previous
seasons, Los Angeles has returned
to contention in the Western con-
ference and is currently ranked
sixth. And despite his supposed
lack of discipline, Johnson will be
one of two Wolverines playing for
the United States hockey team in
next month's Olympic games.
If Johnson were truly as bad as
Lombardi suggests, then why did
he trade for him in the first place?
And who says Johnson wouldn't
have played with the same attitude
if he had gone to another school,
like Boston University perhaps?
Even Johnson himself openly
disagreed with his G.M.'s com-
ments.
"I'm a Michigan man," Johnson
told the Los Angeles Times after
a win over the Buffalo Sabres on
Thursday. "I'm very proud of it. I
wouldn't want to have it any other
way.

"Michigan has produced more
NHL players than any other
school," he said. "Eventhe U.S.
Development Program, people rip
that and they just don't know any-
thing about it and don't know what
they're talking about."
Johnson may be a bitcunruly, and
his playingcstyle during his time at
Michigan may have been cavalier,
but that doesn't make the Michigan
hockey program "the worst," as
Lombardi claims.
The Wolverines have produced
16 first-round picks in the history of
the NHL Entry Draft, 15 of whom
were selected during Berenson's
tenure at Michigan. Sure, five of
those 15 were selectedbefore they
stepped foot on campus in Ann
Arbor. But I would be willing to bet
that each one of those prodigies
was better for his time at Michigan.
The Phoenix Coyotes, in particu-
lar, haven't been reluctant to pick
players from the Berenson tree. The
NHL franchise selected Kevin Por-
ter (Rd. 4) and Chad Kolarik (Rd. 7)
in the 2004 draft, Chris Summers
(Rd. 1) in the 2006 draft and Chris
Brown (Rd. 2), in the 2009 draft.
Even former Michigan goaltender
Al Montoya is currently in the Coy-
otes' system.
"It's a very good program,"
Coyotes Assistant General Man-
ager Brad Treliving said. "And the
kids at Michigan, I don't think,
are different from any other kids.
They all make their adjustment to
the pro game. There are always
things that can be learned and
improved upon. Our experience
has been that those are fine young
men, and it's a very good program
and they get exposed to top cali-
ber competition."
Treliving isn't the only one who
thinks Berenson knows what he's
doing. Edmonton Oilers Assistant
GM and Director of Hockey Opera-
tions and Legal Affairs Rick Olczyk
wasn't involved in the Oilers' draft
process when they last selected
a Wolverine in 2005. But he, too,
notes Berenson's impact on the
NHL.
"I think coach Berenson has
a reputation," Olczyk said. "He
has been here a longtime, has
been very successful. He gets a
lot out of his players and they go
off to be very good pro players. So
in terms of what he does, he has
done a tremendous job with this
program. And I think he's going to
continue to do that with all of the
student athletes that (are) under
his wing."
That doesn't sound like a nega-
tive assessment of the NHL players
that Michigan produces. Lombardi,
for some reason, felt it was neces-
sary to make the Michigan hockey
program a scapegoat for Johnson's
lack of development. Anyone can
see thathis unreasonable diatribe
against Berenson and his program
is way off base.
When asked about Lombardi's
comments, Berenson declined to
comment after Michigan's 2-0 win
over Ferris State on Friday.
"No, I don't think we need to
worry about that today," Berenson
said as a smile crept across his face.
"You can write your own story.
about that," he said as he walked
out of the press conference.

0
0

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Editor
After serving a one-game sus-
pension in Saturday's game at Pur-
due, Michigan coach John Beilein
reinstated junior
guard Manny
Harris, and he is MiChigaf
cleared to play in State at
tonight's game .L
against No. 5 CVEUII
Michigan State. Matchup:
That's good MSU 17-3;
news for the Michigan 10-9
Wolverines, who When: Tonight
will finish off a at 7 p.m.
tough four-game Where:
stretch against Crisler Arena
four straight .a
ranked oppo- ESPNRadio:
nents, culminat-
ing in tonight's
matchup with the Spartans at
Crisler Arena.
While Harris was unavailable
for comment' on Monday, he did
prepare a statement for the media.
"I fully accept the suspension
from the coaching staff," Harris
said in an Athletic Department
press release. "It was the correct
decision. I cannot tell you my dis-
appointment for letting my team-
mates down and showing the lack
of leadership that I normally try to
provide."
Though the Michigan coaches
and players haven't shed much light

on the situation, senior forward
DeShawn Sims said the suspension
was the result of something that
could have happened to anyone on
the team.
"It's an incident that happens
with everybody," Sims said. "A situ-
ation that can happen sometimes,
can escalate to more than what it
is. It just happened to be a suspen-
sion this time. I've had incidences
in practice where I was able to
resolve them, slip by with some-
thing. Until it happens publicly, you
never know. A lot of things happen
privately in a lot of programs across
the country, it just led to a suspen-
sion in this one."
Beilein said the incident took
place late in Friday's practice, and
that altering the team's gameplan
for Purdue, with the team traveling
that day, proved to be difficult. He
also noted that while leaders are
starting to step up for the Wolver-
ines, incidents like this leave him
concerned.
"The only thingthat's ever disap-
pointing is inconsistency (in lead-
ership)," Beilein said. "And that's
the major thing you want in leader-
ship is consistency. We're getting
more consistent with it. We're find-
ing more people there helping, and
obviously the coaches have to do a
great job with it, too."
Last year, when Beilein benched
his star against Iowa, Harris
returned the next game against No.

16 Purd
verines
over ti
Arena.
"Ma
probab
Sims sa
and be
Mic
overall
vide a;
Spartar
son. M
the onl
cc-
pr(
his
in con
have lo
Texasc
neutral
And
styles
against
once at
and pr
score ft
"We
where,
they w

due and helped lead the Wol- to Purdue who will not let you get
to a dominant 87-78 win one pass," Beilein said. "Now we go
he Boilermakers at Crisler back to where it's a mix between
the two. They get baskets two ways,
nny will come and play one is their transition game and
ly one of his best games," the other is their great offensive
aid. "He's going to come out rebounding."
exceptional tonight." That could be a concern for
higan (3-4 Big Ten, 10-9 an undersized Michigan lineup
) hopes Harris will pro- that has struggled in corralling
spark, considering that the rebounds all season. The Wolver-
ns have been solid all sea- ines allowed their game against
ichigan State (7-0, 17-3) is Purdue to get out of hand after the
y remaining unbeaten team Boilermakers picked up seven sec-
ond-chance opportunities in the
first half.
M anny will The Spartans are led by junior
guard Kalin Lucas, who uses his
)me and play speed and athleticism to lead the
Spartans in scoring, averaging 15.8
obably one of points per game.
With the Wolverines hover-
best games." ing around the .500 mark for the
season, a trip back to the NCAA
Tournament seems like a longshot
at best.
ference play. The Spartans The team realizes that each
st to just North Carolina and game down the stretch is impor-
on the road and Florida at a tant and that some upset wins are a
I site - all top-tier talent. must if Michigan wants a chance at
after playing contrasting postseason play.
of basketball on the road "We know that we have to come
Wisconsin and Purdue, out every time and give our best
gain, Michigan has to adjust effort or there won't be too much
epare for ateam that likes to shot for a postseason," Sims said.
ast-break points. "Chances are getting very slim. We
went from Wisconsin just have to come out mentally and
you can pass it 25 times and physically focused each time we
on't let you get a good shot play."

40

After surpassing last season's win
total, Blue won't let history repeat

N ow it's official. for a team that was beginning to
The Michigan wom- feel the heat after losing six of its
en's basketball team has last seven conference games, a
turned "here we go again" into a confidence-boosting win may be
promising outlook for the future. invaluable.
And not just in the distant future, "It just gets more frustrating as
but for the remainder of the Big we go along," freshman guard Day-
Ten schedule. eesha Hollins said following Thurs-
Not only do the Wolverines look day's loss to then-No. 5 Ohio State.
different and feel different from "We fight so hard to win games,
last year's Michigan squad, but and itcjust gets frustrating when we
they're prov- come up short every time."
ing it as well ALEX It would have been reasonable
- with Big Ten to expect a glimmer of optimism
victories. HERMANN following a narrow two-point loss
Michigan On Women's to the Buckeyes, who have domi-
(3-6 Big Ten, Basketball nated the conference the past two
11-6 overall) years. But even moral victories
has already can't alter a peculiar feeling the
surpassed last season's overall win Wolverines have endured.
total by a game and matched their As the Big Ten losses have piled
conference wins from last year. up, so too has the pressure.
It may not sound like a lot - last And this burden, one they were
year's team won just 10 games, all too familiar with last season,
including three in conference. But wasn't going away without a fight.

Because of this, Sunday's 70-56
victory over Indiana serves not
only as a critical third win in the
Big Ten, but also demonstrates
Michigan's ability to forget recent
history. In essence, the win is one
big sigh of relief.
"It feels absolutely amazing,"
sophomore forward Carmen
Reynolds said after Sunday's game.
"Words cannot even describe that
we are back on a winningstreak."
Now the Wolverines can play
their style - fast, loose and maybe
even a bit reckless.
Hollins epitomizes that style of
play perfectly for the Wolverines.
Whether she's penetrating into the
lane, pushing a one-man fast break
or throwing up a reverse layup
over defenders easily a foot taller
than her, the freshman isn't afraid
to push the tempo.
Against Indiana, Hollins was
forced to sit out most of the first

half with two quick fouls. Without
its point guard, Michigan strug-
gled offensively, scoring just 22
points and turning the ball over an
abysmal 15 times.
But when Hollins returned in
the second half, the team's produc-
tion rose along with the tempo of
the game.
At one point, Hollins caught
an in-bound pass from freshman
Jenny Ryan in midair and alley-
ooped it off the glass for a score.
The play, uncharacteristic of a
5-foot-6 guard, serves as a perfect
symbol for Hollins' fast, loose and
somewhat reckless style of play.
The ups that Hollins effortlessly
displayed to finish the alley-oop
have become more run-of-the-mill
for the Wolverines' shortest player
than out of the ordinary.
It was as if the pressure of
winning in the Big Ten had been
lifted off her shoulders.

0

Michigan coach Red Berenson has 687 wins in his 26 seasons in Ann Arbor. That
mark is good enough for sixth all-time in Division I college hockey.


