be 1Midig lan L ~

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, January 8,2010

michigandaily.com

NEW TEACHING PROGRAM ANNOUNCED
Fellowship
to train 'new
generations'
of teachers

AARON AUGSBURGER/Dcily
Ann Arbor Public Schools Superintendant Todd Roberts speaks to the citizens at Ann Arbor's Huron High School about proposed cuts to the school district's budget last
night. The meeting was the first of four public forums about the budget cuts scheduled for this month.
Superintendent: APSPwi
keep cuts out of classroom

'U,' state join forces
to improve science,
math education in
high-need areas
By TORREY ARMSTRONG
Daily StaffReporter
LANSING - Governor Jennifer
Granholm, alongwith officialsfrom
the University and five other col-
leges across the state, announced
yesterday at the State Capitol the
creation of a fellowship program
that they hope will train Michi-
gan's next generation of math and
science teachers. After their stud-
ies, the 240 graduates will be sent
to some of the state's highest-need
secondary school districts for a
three-year teaching commitment.
The program, called the W.K.
Kellogg Foundation Woodrow Wil-
son Michigan Teaching Fellow-
ship, will send students to Grand
Valley State University, Western
Michigan University, Michigan
State University, Eastern Michigan
University, Wayne State University
and the University of Michigan to
get a master's degree in education
focusing on a science, technology,

engineering or math (STEM) field.
After completing their studies,
fellows will be sent to teach in the
Grand ERapids, Ealamazoo, Benton
Harbor, Detroit, and Battle Creek
public school districts.
At yesterday's press conference,
Granholm said the program will
help to bring talented and driven
graduates to Michigan and into the
field of education.
"The immediate beneficiaries
are the six universities and the
school districts, but also the 240
peoplenany of whomwill be com-
ing back to Michigan, into edu-
cation," she said. "They may be
displaced engineers who want to
return and get a master's degree to
bring their applied knowledge into
the classroom."
University President Mary Sue
Coleman, who was also at the press
conference, agreed with Granholm,
adding that the dwindling interest
from students in STEM subjects is
a national crisis.
"We're accepting more and more
international students in computer
science, engineering and math
because U.S. students are not inter-
ested," Coleman said. "We've got
to get better teachers to interest
them."
See FELLOWSHIP, Page 3

Rob
w
co
$21

lerts says district $21 million in cuts over the next two
years, largely resulting from state
ill reduce other funding reductions.
In November, county voters
sts to cope with rejected a property tax increase -
the Regional Enhancement Millage
million shortfall - that would have provided AAPS
with approximately $11 million in
By DYLAN CINTI additional revenue per year. The
DailyStaffReporter millage passed in Ann Arbor, but
was defeated countywide.
Id Roberts, superintendent Yesterday's public meeting-held
n Arbor Public Schools, told at Ann Arbor's Huron High School
han 100 people at a meeting - was the first of four scheduled
ght that the district facesup to for this month. The meetings offer

a forum for the public to respond to
cuts proposed by the district, Rob-
erts said.
Robert Allen, AAPS deputy
superintendent for operations,
began the meeting by outlining the
district's operating budget.
Allen pointed out that the district
spends 85 percent of its total budget
on employee salaries and benefits,
making layoffs an unavoidable part
of the cuts.
But Roberts said that the district
will do its best to keep cuts away
from the classroom.

"Our goal has been to not disrupt
classrooms for students," Roberts
said.
Reductions will mainly center on
employees outside of the classroom,
like administrators and other staff-
ers, Roberts said.
One proposed cut would reduce
custodial and maintenance costs by
$2.5 million, accordingto anAnnar-
bor.com article published yesterday.
The district's proposal currently
includes cutting 34 staffers, the
Annarbor.com article reports.
See AAPS, Page 3

Tod
of An
more t
lastni

ELECTIONS
House speaker to explore
entering race for governor

RIDING THROUGH THE SNOW

Announcement
comes two days
after Lt. Gov. said
he won't run
EgI LH TERMAN
DailySta#Reporter
Andy Dillon, the speaker
of Michigan's House of Rep-
resentatives, announced yes-
terday he was forming an
exploratory committee for a

potential gubernatorial run.
The announcement came two
days after Democratic front-
runner, Lt. Gov. John Cherry
announced he wouldn't be run-
ning for governor because of
fundraising problems.
Dillon (D-Redford) posted a
video on his website to formally
make the announcement. In the
video,the three-term State Rep.
pledged to work to turn around
the state's stagnant economy.
"For generations, our state led
the nation in creating good jobs
that enabled millions of families

- like mine - to live the Michi-
gan dream," Dillon said in the
video. "I've seen what stands
in the way of economic growth,
and I know we can change it.
But it won't happen with the
same old thinking."
Dillon continued to say that
in order for the state to prosper,
all Michiganders, regardless of
party affiliation, must unify.
"To grow our economy and
create good jobs, we can't con-
tinue the bitter partisanship in
Lansing," he said in the video.
See DILLON, Page 3

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daily
Students battle through the snow to board the bus at the C.C. Little stop during a heavy snow yesterday afternoon.
Rental vacancies up, officials say

A2 attorney to run for state Rep. seat

Christine Green to
make bid for seat
currently held by
Pam Byrnes
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
Christine Green, an Ann
Arbor attorney, announced
yesterday that she will be run-

ning to represent Ann Arbor
and other parts of Washtenaw
county in the Michigan House
of Representatives.
Green is running in the
August2010 Democratic prima-
ry election for the 52nd District
seat currently held by State Rep.
Pam Byrnes. Byrnes, who is not
eligible for re-election because
of term limits, is running for a
seat in the state Senate.
According to a press release
posted yesterday on Green's

website votechristinegreen.
com, Green focused much of
her legal career on advocating
for minorities and women in
the work force.
Green recently represented
Robert McGee, a University
graduate student research
assistant, who sued the Uni-
versity's Board of Regents in
November alleging wrongful
termination. McGee ultimately
lost the lawsuit.
See GREEN, Page 3

Landlords, experts
predict vacancy
levels to return to
normal this year
By MICHELE NAROV
For the Daily
Though the number of rental
units that remained vacant in Ann
Arbor last year was higher than in
recent years due to the tough econ-
omy, experts and Ann Arbor land-
lords say they expect the number of

vacancies to returnto normal in the
next year.
Mary Jo Callahan, director of
Washtenaw County's Office of
Community Development, said
even as tenancy remained high in
affordable housing units, the rent-
al vacancies in Ann Arbor rose to
notable heights in 2009.
"Rental vacancy was way up,
extremely uncharacteristic of a
town near several universities,"
Callahan said, referencing how
those communities are sometimes
shielded, in part, from troubles in
the state or national economies.
Francis Clark, president of Arch

Realty, said students renting homes
and apartments through his com-
pany were more concerned with
cost than in recent years, which
lead to vacancies in more unitsthan
usual.
"People were a lot more price-
sensitive [this past year]," he said.
"In other years, where you might
have had two people living in a two
bedroom unit, this year we saw
more than that."
Clark added that apartment
complexes like 4 Eleven Lofts and
Zaragon Place offered more hous-
ing options to students with bigger
See VACANCIES, Page 3


WEATHER HI: 21 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
. L: Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Fashion tips from a Daily Arts fashionista.
TOMORROW . LO: news@michigandaily.com and letus know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS ................................2 ARTS.. . . ...........5
Vol. CXX, No. 69 SUDOKU ..........................3 CLASSIFIEDS.. . ......... 6
@020TheMihigan Daly OPINION...........................4 SPORTS.. . . .........7
michigonoialy. com


2 - Friday, January 8, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Friday, January 8, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Professor Profiles Before You Were Here Campus Clubs

MORE ONLINE
For more photos of the week
go to michigandailycom
CRIME NOTES

LEFT Sondra O'Donnell, director of Sun Moon Yoga Studio, participates in a Kirtan yoga chant while Atmaram Thaitanya
accompanies on the harmonium in the Crazy Wisdom Bookstore and Tea Room on Main Street on Wednesday. (MARISSA
MCLAIN/Daily) CENTER LSA sophomore Tara Servati smokes a cigarette in front of the Zaragon Place apartment complex
yesterday. Tara, an occasional smoker, expressed disdain for the upcoming University-wide smoking ban, which will take effect
in July 2011. (SAM WOLSON/Daily) RIGHT Red Simmons, the first coach of the University's women's track team, looks at
memorobilia from his time working in Michigan athletics. Simmons turned 100 years old on Monday. (MAX COLLINS/Daily).
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours:Sun.-Thurs. 1ta.m.-2a.m.
734-763-2459
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sportse@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaity.com
Jillian Berman ManagingNews Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
ASSIoANNrSinRSDylanCinti, Darryn Fitzgerald, Joseph Lichterman,
VeronicaMenaldi,AnnieThomas,DevonThorsby,ElyannaTwiggs
RachelVan Gilder EditorialPageEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOREDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:BrianFlaherty, ErikaMayer,EmilyOrley,Laura
Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MichelleDitte i,AleSchif,MatthewShutler
Ryan Kartje ManagingSportsEditor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTSEDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges,Zak
PyzikTimRnee,unmySarane
Jamie Block ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
ASNe s ARTSEDTOSLeh gineaonJacbs,BrigidKilcoineMikeKuntz,
Kavi Shekhar Pandey
Max Collins and photo@michigandailycom
Sam Wolson ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR FOR MULTIMEDIA: Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Aaron Augsburger,JakeFromm,Jed Much
Sarah Squire and design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR:AngelsChih
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak SalesManager
SALES CFOREMOAAGER:Molly Twni
MARETIN GMANNAER: Michael Shrotenboer
Ryan BUsinski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
AllisonSantacret Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manger
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Mondayethrough Friday during the fall and
winter terms bystudentsatthe UniversityofMichiganonenopyisavailableefreeof chargetoall
readers.Additionalcopies may be pickedup at the Daiy'sofficefor$2. Subscriptionsforfall term,
startinn September, via US.mail are $110. Winterterm (anuary through Apri is $115,yearlong
(September throughAprilisS19.Universityaffiliatesaresubject toareducedsubscription rate.
On-campussabsriptiotforfalterare$3t.Subsriptons stbeprepaid.The MichigaDaily
i emebefTthaeesoiated PessaTeo As~oiatd Cllegiate Pre.

Library graffiti Fight over Algerian singer Rare German A
Accordingrto a study at Hol-
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher basketball court performance fossil exhibit ling University, 48 percent
Graduate Library of sodas in soda fountains
WHEN: Wednesday at 10 a.m. WHERE: Central Campus Rec- WHAT: Souad Massi, Alge- WHAT: Anew exhibit, "Ida," at fast food restuarants have
WHAT: Graffiti tags similar to reation Building rian singer, songwriter and is featuring a rare fossil dis- traces of coliform bacteria,
tags commonaround Ann Arbor WHEN: Wednesday at about guitarist, who is known for covered in Germany in 1983. abcactionnews.com reported.
were found in the 4th floor of 8:00 p.m. her politically-charged music, WHO: Arts at Michigan Coliform, which is usually
thestacks, University police WHAT: University police will perform. Tickets are $18- WHEN: Today at 9 a.m. found in in feces, is also antibi-
reported. The graffiti has been reported a fight between two $40 and student tickets are WHERE: Exhibit Museum of otic-resistant.
present for about two months. males over use of a basketball available. Natural History
There are no suspects. court. Both parties sustained WHO: University Musical
minor injuries. No charges were Society Scrabble Cl
Fresdedamagesdprassed. WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m. The University was
.;Sledders WHERE: Michigan Theater meeting ranked fifthamongtopten
feate to

WHERE: East Quadrangle
WHEN: Wednesday at 10:30
a.m.
WHAT: According to Uni-
versity police, a student in the
ground floor of Hayden House
reported property damage
caused by a flood from a sink
drain. Items damaged include a
desk, bed frame and ladder.

reported in Arb
WHERE: Nichols Arboretum
WHEN: Wednesday at 10:45
p.m.
WHAT: University police
responded to a call from a near-
by resident that people were
sledding in the Arboretum.
When police arrived, no one
could be found.

Performance at
The Ark
WHAT: Bluegrass group
Mountain Heart will be per-
forming as part of The Ark's
45th Anniversary Kickoff
tonight.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark

WHAT: The Scrabble Club is
holding their weekly meeting
this afternoon. New members
are welcome.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
liards
WHEN: Today at 3:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Tap Room
CORRECTIONS
* Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

cleantech universities for
efficiency and sustainability.
>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4.
Dr. Vito Franco of Pal-
ermo University said
that Leonardo DaVinci's
famous Mona Lisa had high
cholestorl, BBC News report-
ed. Palermo said the Mona Lisa
shows a build-up of fatty acids
under the skin that indicate
high cholesterol.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes?Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/he wire

2 ex-Blackwater
guards charged
in Afghan killing

a

a

RPEROCELL/Pcvvci
California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger addresses a joint session of the state legislature as he gives his final State of the State address at the Capitol in Sacramento, Calif.
on Wednesday. Schwarzenegger will be one of the defendents in the upcoming lawsuit, though the governor has said he opposes the state's gay marriage ban.
Calif. Supreme Court to consider
s a -meq- LA-ezx marriage ban ne,-xt wee

Case to examine
whether U.S.
Constitution allows
gay marriage bans
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - The
national debate over same-sex
marriage will take center stage in
a California courtroom next week
at a closely watched federal trial
that could ultimately become the
landmark case that determines
whether gay Americans have a
right to marry.
The case will decide a chal-
lenge to California's gay marriage
ban that was approved by voters
in 2008, and the ruling will likely
be appealed to the U.S. Supreme
Court. How the high court rules
in the case could set the precedent
for whether gay marriage becomes
legal nationwide.
"This could be our Brown vs.
Board of Education," said for-
mer Clinton White House adviser
Richard Socarides, referring to
the 1954 Supreme Court decision

that outlawed racial segregation
in schools and other public facili-
ties. "Certainly the plaintiffs will
tell you they are hoping for a broad
ruling that says that any law that
treats someone differently because
of sexual orientation violates the
U.S. Constitution."
The case marks the first federal
trial to examine if the U.S. Consti-
tution permits bans on gay mar-
riages, and the challenge is being
bankrolled by a group of liberal
Hollywood activists led by direc-
tor Rob Reiner.
They retained two of the
nation's most influential lawyers
to argue the case - former U.S.
Solicitor General Theodore Olson
and trial lawyer David Boies. The
lawyers are best known as the
rivals who represented George W.
Bush and Al Gore in the "hang-
ing chad" dispute over the 2000
presidential election in Florida,
and have tapped the talent of their
respective law firms in prepara-
tion for the trial and plan to take
turns questioning witnesses.
Republican Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger and Democratic

Attorney General Jerry Brown
are defendants in the lawsuit by
virtue of their prominent posi-
tions in California government,
but both men opposed the ban
and have refused to defend the
suit in court. Schwarzenegger
has taken no position on the case,
while Brown filed a brief saying
he agreed with the Olson-Boies
team that gays have the same fed-
eral constitutional right to marry
as heterosexuals.
The sponsors of the gay mar-
riage ban, a coalition of religious
and conservative groups, joined
the case as defendants. Their legal
team is being led by Charles Coo-
per, a veteran trial lawyer who
worked for the Reagan-era Jus-
tice Department. Cooper is being
assisted by a team of lawyers from
his own firm, along with a Chris-
tian legal group based in Arizona.
Presiding over the case is U.S.
District Court Chief Judge Vaughn
Walker, a Republican named to the
bench in 1989 by the first President
Bush.Walker,who has areputation
as an independent thinker, was
randomly assigned the lawsuit,

put it on a fast-track to trial and
has said lee thinks it raises serious
civil rights claims. During a pre-
trial hearing in August, the judge
pointedly scolded Schwarzeneg-
ger for remaining neutral "on
an issue of this magnitude and
importance."
Walker says the case is so impor-
tant that the court has taken the
rare step of allowing videotaping
of the proceedings so the public
can watch. The trial, scheduled to
start Monday, will air on YouTube
every day.
To prevail, Olson and Boies will
try to prove that denying gays the
right to wed serves no legitimate
public purpose and that Proposi-
tion 8 was motivated by legally
irrelevant religious or moral
beliefs or even anti-gay bias. The
ballotinitiative, which passed with
52 percent of the vote, supplanted
a California Supreme Court ruling
that had legalized same-sex mar-
riages.
Boies and Olson say the ban is
a blatant violation of Constitu-
tional rights to equal protection
and due process.

Both men claim
they were justified
in opening fire at
Kabul intersection
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) - Two
former Blackwater contractors
were arrested yesterday on mur-
der charges in the shootings of
two Afghans after a traffic acci-
dent last year, according to a fed-
eral indictment.
The indictment unsealed hours
after he arrests charges Justin Can-
non, 27, and Chris Drotleff, 29, with
second-degree murder, attempted
murder and weapons charges.
FBI agents arrested both of them
without incident, said Peter Carr, a
spokesman with the U.S. attorney's
office in Virginia's eastern district.
Both men have told The Associ-
ated Press that they were justified
in opening fire on a car that caused
an accident in front of their vehi-
cle, then turned and sped toward
them. The indictment says the
shooting at a Kabul intersection
killed two people. At least one
other person was injured.
"I feel comfortable firing my
weapon any time I feel my life is in
danger," Drotleff said in a recent
interview. "That night, my life was
100 percent in danger."
Drotleff made a first court
appearance yesterday afternoon
and requested an attorney to be
appointed. He was ordered held
until a detention hearing next
week. Officials said Cannon made
an initial appearance in Texas.
The arrests came a day after Xe,
the North Carolina-based company
formerly known as Blackwater,
settled a series of federal lawsuits
alleging that illegal activity by the
companyledtothe deaths of dozens
of Iraqis. Those killings and other
problems in Iraq have strained
relations between Washington and
Baghdad and led to the U.S. govern-
ment's push to increase oversight of
contractors in war zones.
U.S. officials have struggled
to demonstrate that they have
both the legal grounds and politi-

cal fortitude to hold contractors
accountable. Several Blackwater
contractors hadbeen charged with
14 counts of manslaughter for their
role in a 2007 shooting in Bagh-
dad's Nisoor Square, but a judge
dropped those charges last week.
In another case, federal pros-
ecutors have told a Seattle attor-
ney they intend to charge another
Blackwater contractor in the kill-
ing of an Iraqi guard in 2006.
The killings were among the
violence cited by the lawsuits,
which accused the company of
cultivating a reckless culture that
allowed innocent civilians to be
killed. Plaintiffs' lawyers filed a
motionlate Wednesdayrequesting
the seven lawsuits be dismissed
after the settlement was reached.
The company said it was pleased
with the settlement and ready to
move on, declining to release its
full terms. Xe declined to comment
on Thursday's indictment other
than to say that the men were fired4
and that the company "immedi-
ately and fully cooperated with the
government's investigation."
Cannon,ofCorpusChristi,Texas.,
and Drotleff, of Virginia Beach, Va.,
were among four contractors fired
afterthe shootingforfailingto com-
ply with the terms of their contract
withParavant, aXe subsidiary.
Steve McClain, another former
contractor who was with Cannon
and Drotleff during the shootings,
told the AP he spentabout 90 min-
utes before a Virginia grand jury
this week detailing hist recollec-
tions of what happened.
Cannon, Drotleff and McClain
said in separate interviews with the
AP over the past month that they
were driving along a Kabul road on.
the night of May5 when a speeding
carslammed into thefirstvehicleof
their convoy, causing it to flip.
Cannon and Drotleff were
traveling in another vehicle and
got out to help. They both said
the car that caused the accident
turned and started speeding
toward them. Fearing for their
lives, both opened fire, with
Drotleff emptying a 16-round
clip. Cannon was unsure how
many shots were fired.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
NEWS BRIEFS GREEN
From Page 1

Friday, January 8, 2010 - 3

WASHINGTON
Obama takes full
responsibility for
attempted attack
President Barack Obama sug-
gested yesterday he would not fire
anyone for the attempted Christ-
mas airline attack, saying it appears
the security lapses that led to the
near-disaster were not the fault of
a single individual or institution.
"Ultimately the buck stops with
me," said the commander in chief.
He declared anew that the gov-
ernmenthadtheinformationtopre-
vent the botched attack but failed
to piece it together. He announced
a range of changes designed to fix
that, including wider and quicker
distribution of intelligence reports,
stronger analysis of them and new
terror watch list rules.
But, added Obama, "When the
system fails, it is my responsibility."
He spoke from the State Dining
Room, his remarks delayed twice
as officials scrambled to declassify
a report on the failures. That report
was released immediately after he
spoke.
DETROIT
Last ditch offer
from Spyker not
likely to save Saab
Hopes to keep Swedish car com-
pany Saab alive flickered yesterday
as Dutch exotic automaker Spyk-
er Cars made another bid to buy
the troubled brand from General
Motors, but a person briefed on the
dealings said GM remains skeptical
that Saab can be saved.
Spyker confirmed in a statement
issued yesterday evening that it
made the last-minute offer, which
came a day after GM's interim CEO,
Ed Whitacre Jr., said he was not
optimistic about Saab's survival
and the Detroit automaker would
begin closing factories later in the
week.
"We believe the Saab brand has
lots of potential and would be keen
to close a deal as quickly as possi-
Ible," Victor Muller, CEO of Spyker,
said inthe statement.
The statement gave no financial
details of the bid, but said Spyker
has had a "constructive dialogue"
with GM.
UNITED NATIONS
h UN forces find
buried explosives
in Lebanon
Israel says 300 kilograms (660
pounds) of buried explosives dis-
covered by U.N. forces in southern
Lebanon were likely planted by
Hezbollah operatives.
Israel's U.N. Ambassador Gabri-
ela Shalev says the government
believes the explosives were an
advanced type, possibly produced
in Iran or Syria.
In letters to Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon and the Security
Council late yesterday, Shalev said
the explosives were another seri-
ous violation of the 2006 council

resolution that ended the 34-day
Israeli-Hezbollah war.
The buried explosives were dis-
covered near Lebanon's border
with Israel by a U.N. peacekeep-
ing patrol when they searched the
area after suspicious figures fled
the scene, Shalev said. She did not
say how Israel was informed of the
discovery.
GAZA CITY, GAZA STRIP
Israeli aircrafts fire
on Hamas targets
Witnesses say Israeli aircraft
fired missiles at smuggling tunnels
and other Hamas targets in Gaza.
Hospital doctors say one man
was killed in southern Gaza.
The Israeli military had no
immediate comment.
The strikes early today came
after Gaza militants fired a rocket
at the Israeli city of Ashkelon, caus-
ing no damage.
Yesterday, Israeli aircraft
dropped leaflets over Gaza, warn-
ing residents to stay away from
tunnels and border areas. The tun-
nels run under Gaza's border with
Israel.
The Israel-Gaza border has
been relatively calm since Israel's
military offensive in Gaza a year
ago. However, low-level friction
persists, with Gaza militants fir-
ing some rockets and mortars, and
Israel responding with air strikes.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

In addition to her 25-year legal
career, Green also has a record of
volunteering to protect the envi-
ronment and provide services to
disadvantaged citizens.
Green's prior government expe-
rience includes working on the
Scio Township Board of Trustees
which she was elected to in 2008
and being a member of the Scio
Township Planning Commission.
According to the press
release, if elected, Green hopes
to improve the state's troubled
economy and education sys-
tem and work toward making
health care more accessible to
the state's residents. Green also
hopes to increase jobs in the
state and provide innovative
ideas for farmers if elected.
"We must establish a new
economy - now," Green wrote
in the statement. "And we must
VACANCIES
From Page 1
budgets, leaving many expensive
homes near campus unused.
"This year was different than
in past years because we had diffi-
culty getting rid of some of our top
locations," Clark said. "If you were
to rank the units on a grading scale
from 'A-E' we had difficulty getting
rid of our 'A minus' locations."
Peter Allen, adjunct faculty
at the A. Alfred Taubman Medi-
cal Research Institute and Ross
School of Business, wrote in an
e-mail interview that while the
last two years have been the worst
the local real estate market has
seen in the last three decades, he
expects the market to turn around
in the near future.
Allen, who teaches a course
titled "How to Develop a Lively
Downtown," added that many
local areas have already begun to
AAPS
From Page 1
Additionally, Roberts said that
the district is discussing a poten-
tial $5 million cut in employee
salaries and benefits for the next
school year.
"We haven't gone into nego-
tiations about it with teachers or
other staff groups yet, but we'll
begin those conversations soon,"
Roberts said.
Roberts went on to discuss
additional cuts that will absorb the
roughly $18 to $21 million short-
fall. He said the district plans to
reduce the cost of textbooks and
summer school, and to decrease
the salaries of athletic and substi-
tute teachers. Another substantial
cut - projected at $700,000 -
would limit the "overtime" costs
incurred when district schools
remain open for special events on
non-school days by limiting these
events.
Roberts also discussed the pos-
sibility of offering more online
classes at the high school level in
order to reduce staffing costs.
"This is something we've been
building toward for a number of
years," Roberts said.
He pointed out that the state
of Michigan already requires
one "online learning experience"
beginning with students graduat-
ing in 2011.
Roberts said the district is also

prepare our citizens to take part
in this new economy. In reaching
these goals, I pledge to protect our
unmatched water, forest, and land
resources which make Michigan a
unique place to live and work."
As an extension of her work
in environmental protection,
Green also hopes to work toward
conserving Michigan's natural
resources, increasing the alterna-
tive energy economy and rejuve-
natingMichigan's cities,according
to the press release.
Republican candidate Mark
Ouimet, Vice Chair of the Washt-
enaw County Board of Commis-
sioners, who will be competing
for the seat, told The Michigan
Daily in an interview yesterday
that many people are considering
running for the position.
"I think there's a high level of
interest in a lot of people for the
52nd district, and obviouslyChris-
tine Green is someone who's now
taking the next step to get into the
race," Ouiment said.
see increased rental rates, largely
due to their proximity to the Uni-
versity.
"Retail, office and residen-
tial vacancies downtown or near
downtown are [now] basically
near normal and the healthiest in
the state,"Allen wrote in ane-mail
to The Michigan Daily.
Stacy Greggorio, general man-
ager of 4 Eleven Lofts, wrote in an
e-mail interview that though the
complex had some trouble leasing
its units for 2009, which was its
first year in business, she expects
occupancy to increase in the next
couple of years.
"Students have less fear about
making financial decisions than
in 2008-09, when everyone was
very apprehensive," she wrote in
the e-mail. "As of the end of 2008,
we had leased 4 Eleven Lofts to
approximately 45 percent for the
2009-10 term, but by the end of
2009'we have already reached 65
percent occupancy for 2010-11."
examining ways to increase stu-
dent enrollment, which would
bring in more money from the
state to the district, to help deal
with the shortfall. As part of this
effort, AAPS may open 150 "school
of choice" seats-a move allowing
students in neighboring districts
to attend Ann Arbor schools.
Additionally, Roberts discussed
expanding the district's magnet
program by encouraging students
within the district who are either
home-schooled or take classes
in other non-traditional ways to
enroll in the magnet program,
which would again bring in more
money from the state.
Roberts said the district is try-
ing to deal with the cuts by looking
at what makes the most sense edu-
cationally.
The crowd's response was
largely positive, with several audi-
ence members praising the plan's
structure.
"This (plan) is comprehensive,"
said Wayne Baker, an AAPS par-
ent. "It looks like the right thing
to do."
Dedrick Martin, superintendent
of Ypsilanti Public Schools, attend-
ed the meeting to help prepare for
cuts in his own district.
Martin emphasized his dis-
trict's similar budget situation in
an interview after the meeting.

"We are looking at a lot of the
same things, making cuts that are
not directly in the classroom," he
said.

DILLON
From Page 1
"We can't exclude government
from innovations embraced by
the private sector. We can't foster
a mindset that says 'I'll get mine,
no matter what the cost.' Win-
ning a bigger piece of a shrinking
pie won't matter if the pie disap-
pears."
He continued, "We must
understand that we will only lift
ourselves up by working together
- Republicans and Democrats,
business and labor, cities and
small towns and suburbs."
Dillon said he will soon decide
whether or not he is going to for-
mally enter the gubernatorial
race.
"Over the next few weeks, I'll
be talking to people across our
state, listening to your concerns
and your ideas for the future," Dil-
lon said in the video.
It is widely believed Dillon's
exploratory committee is the first
step the speaker is taking to start
his campaign for governor, and
that he will soon enter the race.
"(Dillon) says he's explor-
ing, but I know he's running,"
state Rep. Alma Wheeler Smith
(D-Salem), who is also running
for the Democratic nomination
for governor, said in a phone inter-
view last night.
According to a Jan. 7 article
in The Detroit Free Press, Dillon
told the Democratic Caucus of his
plans to form an exploratory com-
mittee Wednesday afternoon via
teleconference. He emphasized
he would remain devoted to his
position as speaker of the House
FELLOWSHIP
From Page 1
Arthur Levine, president of the
Woodrow WilsonFoundation, said
the six universities were chosen to
participate in the program after a
comprehensive and rigorous eval-
uation process.
"Above all, we sought universi-
ties with the capacity to build the
models to prepare new generations
of teachers for the most diverse
students in U.S. history (and) to
meet the highest set of standards
ever demanded by our students,"
he said.
In November, the W.K. Kellogg
Foundation Awarded the Wood-
row Wilson National Fellowship
Foundation a grant of $16.7 mil-
lion, which was used to establish
the fellowship. Part of the money
will provide a $30,000 stipend to
fellows, in addition to funding the
special master's program at each
university.
Coleman emphasized the fel-
lowship's symbolic importance
as a vote of confidence for college
graduates interested in coming to
and staying in Michigan.
Coleman added that the men-
torship component will give
participants the opportunity to
participate in a program that is

for the time being and said he was
committed to maintaining the
Democratic majority in the House
in the November 2010 elections,
according to the article.
Smith and possible fellow Dem-
ocratic candidate, Lansing Mayor
Virg Bernero, both said they have
received more support since Cher-
ry ended his campaign.
"My fundraising was steady,
but not terrific, because the Lt.
Governor being in the race and
being the front-runner sort of
dampened people's willingness
to spend big money on my race,"
Smith said. "But his departure
from the campaign has made
a difference. People who have
invested a few hundred dollars
have now turned around and, in
some cases, put the full amount
into the campaign."
Dillon is seen as the more
moderate Democratic candidate
compared to the rest of the field.
He was instrumental in creating
state-wide tax increases in 2007
and upset many labor leaders last
year when he proposed a plan to
have all public employees in the
state be insured by one statewide
health care program.
Smith said Dillon's moderation
sets him apart from the more lib-
eral candidates.
"Philosophically I think the
majority of the field represents
solid Democratic values that
reflect our base," Smith said.
"Speaker Dillon, on the other
hand, is right-to-life, he refused to
allow a vote on stem cell research,
he isn't anti-labor, but he doesn't
think labor first and I don't think
he understands the environment
and its importance here in Michi-
different from traditional teacher
education.
"What's happening with new
teachers is that unless you're
extraordinarily strong, you'll be
socialized to the way people have
been doing things," she said. "The
idea of the mentorship is that
it will keep you engaged with
these new ways for your three-
year commitment and in the long
run."
Coleman continued, "We
believe very strongly that this kind
of approach is the way to go."
The master's programs will be
more intense than typical educa-
tion graduate programs and will
include more supervised work
Deborah Ball, dean of the Univer-
sity's School of Education, said in
an interview yesterday.
"Having the resources that
will enable us to pay for that kind
of close mentoring will be a big
change," she said.
Ball also said the participation
in the fellowship will benefit the
School of Education because of its
similarity to the Teacher Educa-
tion Initiative, a project already
underway at the University. The
TEI, like the fellowship, is a shift
to a more monitored, clinically-
based teacher education like the
teaching processes of medical
schools.

gan and the peril we face if we
don't dramatically control climate
change."
Because he holds more tradi-
tional Democratic ideals than Dil-
lon, Bernero said that more people
have been coming out in support
of his campaign since Dillon's
announcement.
"We're picking up huge support
fromtheentrance ofAndyDillon,"
Bernero said. "People are running
in the opposite direction."
Michael Traugott, research
professor at the University's Cen-
ter for Political Studies, said it is
going to be a tough year for Demo-
crats nationally - and especially
in Michigan, because ofthe state's
stagnant economy. But he said
Dillon gives the Democrats a bet-
ter chance of retaining the gover-
norship than Cherry did.
"Cherry didn't have very much
independent kind of name recog-
nition or a well-established base
in the state," Traugott said. "He
suffered from the negatives asso-
ciated with Jennifer Granholm
and the Granholm administration
for the last two terms. There's a
sense in which anybody but Cher-
ry would've been a better candi-
date."
Traugott said there are rumors
that AKPD Message and Media
- the Chicago-based consulting
firm that ran President Barack
Obama's 2008 presidential cam-
paign - will run Dillon's cam-
paign if he enters the race.
Gubernatorial candidates have
until May 11, 2010 to formally
announce their candidacy and
file nominating petitions with the
Secretary of State for the Aug. 3,
2010 primary elections.
"We're going to become much
more outcome-oriented on teach-
ers," Ball said. "Instead of sitting
through seat time in certain cours-
es, they'll actually have to demon-
strate that they do the key things
that help kids learn."
Both Coleman and Ball said the
fellowship will provide the Uni-
versity with the financial means
to accelerate new educational
tools.
"The fellowship will allow us to
expand quickerthan we could have
in the past because of the money
that will be available to recruit the
fellows," Coleman said.
Ball added that the School of
Education aims to implement the
fellowship's preparation methods
in areas beyond what the fellowship
covers, like elementary education.
President Barack Obama high-
lighted the fellowship as part of
his "Educate to Innovate" cam-
paign - through which he hopes to
improve STEM education nation-
wide - at the Science, Teaching
and Mentoring awards in Wash-
ington on Wednesday.
Ball said she expects the appli-
cation process for the fellowship
- which will first be available to
students entering graduate pro-
grams in the summer of 2011 - to
be competitive, especially because
of the available funding.

WANT TO WRITE
FOR DAILY NEWS?
E-mail berman@michigandailly.com

THE BIGGEST & NEWEST BACK TO SCHOOL
P )SYER SALK
S0 of --

Where:
Michigan Union Ground Floor
When:
Mon. Jan. 11 thru Fri. Jan. 15
Time:
10 A.I. - 7 P.M
Sponsor:
University Union Arts and Programs
11C feibrI
ter°d'0

READER
KNOWS BEST.
Vote for the Best of Ann Arbor
before January 22 on our web site.
michigandaily.com/best-201 0

most Images Only $7, $8 and $9


4 - Friday, January 8, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL DANIEL AT DWGOLD@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

DANIEL GOLD


JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Sick. I just
Hey Roomie, slept 'til noon,
how was your played Halo all
winter break? day, and got drunk
every night.
5..-
"- .s /

You had to go How else would
home for that? I have gotten my
laundry done?
rK

is

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A greener shade of blue
'U' must invest in students' innovation, green technology
Jt appears that congratulations are in order. The University
was recently ranked fifth among several top universities in
the use and encouragement of clean energy and technology,
according to the founder of green energy investment firm Sus-
tainable World Capital. This achievement is a bright energy-effi-
cient light for a state that has been in the dark for a long time. But
the University could do much more than it currently is to help
reduce carbon emissions and excessive energy expenditures. The
University should depend on its students for progress in the field
of environmentally-friendly technology, and take advantage of
its resources to practice what it preaches.

The paradigm of party purity

Sustainable World Capital Founder
Shawn Lesser's released his Top Ten United
States Universitiesfor cleantech on Monday.
The ranking placed the University behind
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
the University of California at Berkley, the
University of Texas in Austin and Stanford
University. In his rankings, Lesser refer-
enced University programs that encourage
green businesses, like the business school's
Zell Miller Institute for Entrepreneurial
Studies and the student-led MPowered.
The University's encouragement of
green energy is admirable - and vital. By
now, it's obvious that global warming isn't
a myth. Reducing carbon emissions and
switching to greener fuels is necessary to
keep the environment clean and healthy.
And venture capitalists are looking to col-
lege campuses for investments in the tech-
nology that will reduce society's carbon
footprint. Universities hold some of the
most promising ideas to improve green
technology and increase energy efficiency.
The wealth of knowledge and creation pos-
sible on campuses is unmatched. New con-
cepts for green technology will come from
students at top research institutions like
the University - and this spring of innova-
tion should be utilized.
But while the University's support of
green businesses is encouraging, it must
act on a practical level to decrease its own
waste and pollution. It hasn't been com-

pletely remiss. The Ross School of Busi-
ness, which opened in January of 2009,
is LEED-certified. LEED, or Leadership
in Energy and Environmental Design, is a
program that sets guidelines to determine
the efficiency of buildings. And University
recycling numbers are impressive.
But the University has only two LEED-
certified buildings, and the Ross School
of Business has a lower certification level
than comparable buildings at MIT and
Stanford. The University should be more
invested in attaining LEED certification.
Meeting this program's requirements
shouldn't be difficult, considering the Uni-
versity's astronomical budget for construc-
tion. Additionally, the University has failed
to switch to hybrid buses, which the Ann
Arbor Transportation Authority already
uses. The $1 billion University budget
allotted to research for this cause puts the
University in a prime position to expand
its environmental initiatives. More can
always be done, and the University hasn't
lived up to its potential.
Public universities are playing a vital
role in promoting green energy initiatives.
The University should incorporate student
innovation to help improve its environ-
mentally-friendly programs. And it should
incorporate more green technology on
campus. Because making campus greener,
not simply achieving accolades, should top
the University's priorities.

Airports are underrated. Espe-
cially during the holiday sea-
son when the opportunities
for mindless dis-
traction are end-
less. While I could
devote this whole'
column to the man
on my flight that
looked like Osama
bin Laden wear-
ing a French beret
(hey, just because
they're terror- ALEX
ists doesn't mean SCHIFF
they can't have
style), there 'are
even more ridicu-
lous matters that deserve attention.
Browsing the web before my flight
back to Michigan, I came across this
gem of Republican lunacy: Newt Gin-
grich - former Speaker of the House
and one of the many de facto lead-
ers of today's fractured conservative
movement - recently asserted on
"Meet the Press" that "every Repub-
lican in 2010 and 2012 will run on an
absolute pledge to repeal" the health
care bill making its way through Con-
gress. And, Newt, thy will be done.
This insane demand comes only a
month after widely publicized propos-
als from Republican circles to deny
Republican National Committee fund-
ing and endorsements to any candi-
date that doesn't adhere, based on past
statements and votes, to 8 out of 10
"core principles." If you dogmatically
support the Republican Party on every
other policy, but don't want the Ber-
lin Wall built on the Mexican border,
believe in civil rights for all people (not
just those that behave and look exactly
like you) and don't think every Ameri-
can has the right to a submachine gun
with their morning coffee, then you're
out of luck. This will serve to weed out
internal dissidents and purify the party
of "faux conservatives."
These proposals are far from being
implemented, but it demonstrates
a growing tendency towards purity

over reform in the party. Based on
this line of thinking, Republicans lost
control of Congress and the White
House not because they were too con-
servative and scared away too many
voters, but because they weren't con-
servative enough. The Republican
Party, by running up enormous defi-
cits with huge taxcuts, entitlement
expansions and wars funded by thin
air, became politically indistinguish-
able from the freewheeling fiscal lib-
eralism of the Democrats.
When I first read about these ideas,
I was overjoyed. The Republicans are
going to further marginalize them-
selves by appealing to the extreme
fringes of their support base, alien-
ating the swaths of independents
and moderates that decide elections.
Democratswill skate to office largely
uncontested from now until either
President Barack Obama is found
to be a double agent working for the
Taliban or the Republicans finda way
to inject a drug into the water supply
that makes people think Sarah Palin
is actually more intelligent than a
rabbit (but it's a really smart rab-
bit, you betcha). But then a thought
hit me, what if the Democrats only
backed "pure" candidates too?
At first, I imagined a world where
politicians were nothing but a carica-
ture of how the other party sees them.
Democrats would, of course, all be Karl
Marx. Common lunchtime Democratic
conversation would feature the exploi-
tation of the proletariat, the fashion
no-no's of Joseph Stalin, and the best
methods of fomenting revolution.
Republicans, however, would worship
their almighty leaders, Rush Limbaugh
and Sarah Palin. All men would dress
in the style of Lord Rush and eat their
weight in jelly donuts to resemble his
image of perfection, and all women
would be forced to wear their hair in
the Palin beehive or risk waterboard-
ing. Since both Marxists and free
market demagogues seek to eliminate
the state (the former in its entirety to
bring about the final stage of commu-

nism, the latterinall economic affairs),
the two parties agree to abolish the
government and settle all political dis-
putes via the method of governance
I advocated for in my last viewpoint:
steel cage death match.
Democracy isn't
the same thing
as duopoly.
But once that little thought cloud
above my head dissipated, I began
to think deeper about the possible
implications. If the Democrats and
Republicans purified their parties,
those who don't adhere strictly to
either party platform would have no
recourse but to form new political
parties. Party litmus tests might just
be what we need to take down the
two-party duopoly that force Ameri-
cans to choose between the lesser
of two corrupted, ineffective, often
brain-dead evils and replace it with a
thriving, multi-party democracy.
Instead of just Republicans and
Democrats, the political process
would be opened up to a host of new
voices, and with more voices comes
more ideas - something we've been
sorely lacking for many years. While
litmus tests are ridiculous exercises
in ideological pandering, when they
are taken to their extreme, politi-
cians might not be afraid of taking a
stance on an issue that differs from
the , Democrats and Republicans,
because there could be another party
for them. In an ideal world of politi-
cal diversity, anyone with a few good
ideas and some initiative could start
their own party, launch a movement,
and take the White House. That's real
democracy.

- Alex Schiff can be reached
at aschiff@umich.edu.

6

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
BRIAN FLAHERTY
Let my textbooks go

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. All submissions become property of the Daily. We
do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
WANT TO BE AN OPINION CARTOONIST?
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU

a

An energetic generation

In the midst of purchasing course materials
yesterday, I found myself dancing on the grave
of a local business - the recently deceased Sha-
man Drum. Although I felt some empathy for
those harmed by its fall, it made me giddy to
realize that I had escaped the jaws of the book-
store's overpriced course materials and that,
with a little more effort on the part of students,
University officials and certain professors, text-
book affordability may be a reality for students.
But some students may not remember the infa-
mous Shaman Drum, so I shall tell its story.
Once upon a time, there was an overpriced
bookstore called Shaman Drum that sold
course materials for many professors. Despite
its community contributions, charming decor
and whimsical moniker, Shaman Drum was
much despised by students as the impending
symbol of a struggle that raged across campus
- the epic battle between a number of instruc-
tors who wish to support local bookstores and
frugal students who wanted to get their text-
books cheap.
While most professors have traditionally
treated their serfs with respect and dignity,
some once held that serfs do not make good
textbook purchasing decisions without help.
Professors of this sort used controversial tac-
tics to support Shaman Drum. In many cases,
Shaman Drum was designated as the only local
merchant for course materials. A number of
professors also routinely failed to provide text-
book lists and ISBNs that would've allowed
cash-strapped students to buy books else-
where. Having perhaps studied basic econom-
ics, Shaman Drum flaunted its monopoly with a
maniacal laugh and sold at prices often double
those of online sellers.
Why some professors in the ruling class
opted to subsidize Shaman Drum with stu-
dents' money is still shrouded in mystery. It
was alleged (and in at least one case substanti-
ated) that certain instructors owned stakes in
the store. In rare cases where professors were
asked to explain their behavior, they would
point to the value of supporting local business
or make bizarre claims that their behavior
was environmentally beneficial. They perhaps
thought that Shaman Drum's books were being
delivered via bicycle or assembled from recy-

cled materials on site by solar-powered robots
- and that the reused books delivered by UPS
are made of dead panda bears and baby seals.
Brave revolutionaries resisted textbook
imperialists by e-mailing their professors to
explicitly request textbook information, before
retreating for supplies to their bastions: Ama-
zon, Half.com, student book exchanges and
old or international editions. For many years,
University royalty left students to fend for
themselves against the textbook affordability
monster. But it was decreed that there would
be a website that would provide transparent
textbook information on Wolverine Access and
that professors should put course materials on
CTools for free when possible.
Shaman Drum went under. "Better late than
never" was the zeitgeist of the time, as the Wol-
verine Access textbook list went online. Many
professors used it and received fewer inces-
sant demands in students' emails for textbook
information. Students saved tons of moolah by
ordering their books early online. Well-to-do
students still bought their books at Ulrich's,
which began offering the option to rent, rather
than sell, books to students for cheaper rates.
Students who were struggling to pay their bills
had more affordable options available. And pro-
fessors even attempted to save a few trees and
help their students by putting materials online.
Although there has been progress, the con-
flict remains far from won. Even today, some
professors aren't transparent in providing
course material details or do so late with the
inevitable result that some students will face
a financial burden or obstacles in completing
coursework (such as books that arrive late). The
University should take action to ensure that vir-
tually all professors use the textbook site. But
in the meantime, students don't have to take
that sitting down. They can write professors or
department chairs to request textbook infor-
mation in advance and explain why it's impor-
tant for this information to be available. They
can ask that materials be put on reserve at the
library so that they're available to students. And
they can thank and recognize the professors
who are already doing the right thing.
Brian Flaherty is a senior editorial page editor,

h my god, I was up all night
studying for this test but am
still not prepared," said the
manic stranger
sitting to my left.
I nodded uncom-
fortably as I
awaited an exam
on "Dinosaurs
and Other Fail-
ures," trying to
think of a response
more inspiring
than "Wow, that LINCOLN
sucks." Sitting BOEHM
on the stranger's
desk, resembling
ancient docu-
ments from the third century B.C.,
were three bottles of 5-Hour Energy.
Oh my god, I thought. Is this test
really going to be 15 hours? I began
to panic, realizing that I would likely
have to break my dinner plans. When
I asked the girl to my right if the syl-
labus had indicated the test would be
15 hours, she looked at me like I was
crazy before picking up her two cans
of Red Bull and fleeing to the opposite
end of the classroom.
When I glanced around the room,
I realized that I had stumbled into
the United Nations of energy drinks.
There were black cans, white cans,
big cans and small cans. Cans with
colorful pictures on them. Some with
long names, others with short names.
Fat, skinny - everything you could
possibly imagine. Never before had I
seen diversity in such full effect. Why
did everyone have these chemically
enhanced energy drinks? What kind
of test was this going to be?
It seemed that each of the 250 stu-
dents in my class had a preferred ener-
gy drink that had been designed for
them like a fitted suit. Explanations
ranged from: "this one doesn't make

me crash afterwards" to "this one
doesn't give me heart palpitations."
Everyone I spoke with loved theirbev-
erage for a different reason. But it was
never a positive reason like, "the great
taste." It was always because of the
things their drink didn't do that oth-
ers did: "this poison doesn't blur my
vision as much as the other poisons."
Why does this generation need so
much energy all of a sudden? Are we
doing more than previous generations?
Let's catalogue my Sunday. I woke up
at noon, met my friend for brunch,
took a nap, watched a basketball game,
went out to dinner, watched a "Jersey
Shore" rerun, spent an hour on Woo-
Tube (Wikipedia/YouTube), listened
to a friend lament about girls, went to
buy cookies and then slept for 12 hours
straight. I have enough self-awareness
to admit that I didn't accomplish a
whole lot that Sunday, but Ilived to talk
about it, energy-drink free.
What do people have against
sleep? I love sleeping. It may very
well be my favorite thing to do. But
our society has conceived the notion
that it's glamorous to deny your body
what it wants. This is why God cre-
ated appetite suppressants, energy
drinks and chastity belts. You need
to eat and sleep to live, but research-
ers have found that resisting natural
instincts is a lucrative market.
It might make sense for a doctor
working a 24-hour E.R. shift to have
a swig of an energy drink from time
to time. But is it really necessary for.
my roommate to drink two Red Bulls
before work at the University dining
hall where he refills the ketchup con-
tainers when they reach dangerously
low levels?
Never before had I seen my room-
mate as excited as he was when we
saw a commercial for the new product
6-Hour Energy on TV. The introduc-

tion of 6-Hour Energy dethroned the
previous king ofenergy drinks: 5-Hour
Energy. And it's inevitable that in time
we'll see the dynasties of seven and
eight hour energy arise. At some point,
we'll logically come to 23-Hour Energy 4
- at which point sleep will make the
endangered hobbies list, along with
knitting and yo-yoing.

Two Red Bulls
to take an exam

a

seems excessive.
Shockingly, professional athletes
are drinking this poison, and even
promoting it on TV. So in the spirit
of research, I tried a 5-Hour Energy
drink and went to play soccer. After
thirty minutes, I threw up on the
goalie and got a red card.
Being someone who can't remem-
ber anything before the Clinton
administration, I may not know much.
But one thing I do know is that when
my colleagues are snorting prescrip-
tion drugs and drinking three bottles
of energy drinks to survive a two-hour
exam, something is wrong. What hap-
pened to the good old days when col-
lege students would stay up all night I
having sex and listening to music?
Now they sit in the libraries cram-
ming information into their heads
the way frat bros smash cans against
theirs, refusing to admit that their
bodies can't take any more. Something
needs to be done. If I had more energy
I'd try to figure out what it is. I wonder
if the corner store is still open.
- Lincoln Boehm can be reached
at Isboehm@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Friday, January 8, 2010 - 5A

Terrible food,
gratifying TV

Q: How many people with hairless legs are in this picture? A: Two.
Cer breks his mold

'Youth in Revolt' offers
Michael Cera a chance to
reinvent himself
By KAVI SHEKHAR PANDEY
Daily Film Editor
As the title suggests, young Michael Cera
("Superbad") is indeed in revolt. 'He's in
revolt against the social order preventing
nice, polite, untoned boys
from dating the smoking-
hot girls of their dreams.
He's in revolt against the Youth in
hypocritical authoritative
figures who have the gall Revolt
to dictate what's right and At Quality 16
wrong without adhering and Showcase
to the conduct themselves.
But mostly, Michael The Weinstein
Cera is rebelling against
the naysayers who dismiss
his "limited" acting ability and range. As
many have noticed, Cera tends to play the
sensitive, slightly awkward teen, with minor
variations, in nearly all of his performances
(see "Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist,"
"Juno" and TV's "Arrested Development").
In "Youth in Revolt," Cera finally breaks
f egfrom his typecast. At the beginning of-
the movie, he is simply Nick Twisp, a hap-

less appreciator of vinyl records whose mom Blart: Mall Cop"), as Nick's equally sex-
gets laid more than he does. But to win over obsessed friend, and Portia Doubleday, per-
Sheeni (newcomer Portia Doubleday), the fectly cast as the ineffably irresistible Sheeni.
girl he loves, Nick adopts an alternate perso- There is a glaring, unforgivable flaw here,
na named Frangois Dillinger - an anarchic, but it's one that's more attributable to the
chain-smoking, mustached Frenchman. failure of the marketing department than
Frangois is perhaps Michael Cera's great- anything else. Many of the most uproari-
est character, precisely because he behaves ous gags and shocking plot twists in "Youth
contrary to all expectations of the actor. in Revolt" are carelessly squandered in its
Frangois is crass, destructive and sexually trailer. True, as a commodity;the production
confident - a complete reversal of the Cera company wants to create a market for their
archetype. Under the instruction of the product, but this is an instance where adver-
sociopathic Frangois, Nick commits delin- tising has compromised the entertainment
quent crimes and engages in nefarious activ- value of a film.
ities to get close to - and win over - Sheeni. Still, "Youth in Revolt" has enough sub-
Yet, no matter how unsettling they may stance and dark, unexpected humor to sur-
be, his actions and possible schizophrenia vive its marketing blunder. There are lots
are always played for laughs. Cera's inherent of subtle shout-outs to cinephiles as well,
innocence and "golden boy" status is embed- who will adore the film's understated ties
ded in the mind, so it's easy to forgive his to French New Wave cinema. Nick Twisp
reprehensible deeds. After all, everything he is essentially a teen sex comedy version of
does is to reach his true love. Michel, the protagonist of Godard's "Breath-
Thankfully, "Youth in Revolt" is not merely less." Once Nick falls under the influence of
a one-joke film of Nick's maniacal alter ego. Frangois, he shows a clear disdain for the
An outstanding cast supports the film, mix- law (and police) as he recklessly continues
ing comedic veterans together with talented his quest for Sheeni's love, even with his face
young actors. In small-but-crucial roles, Zach plastered all over the news.
Galifianakis ("The Hangover") exploits his Michael Cera's legs may be everlast-
derelict visage as the uncouth boyfriend of ingly hairless, but he has successfully
Nick's mom and Fred Willard ("A Mighty silenced all detractors who label him as
Wind") manifests his distinctive lunacy as a one-dimensional actor. Hopefully, this
Nick's insurrectionist neighbor. The film also is the beginning of a new phun. inythe
showcases the skills of Adhir Kalyan ("Paul actor's career.

By CAROLYN KLARECKI
SeniorArts Editor
There's an abundance of reality
competition shows in which people
compete for the
title of "best" or*
"top" something.
These battles cover Worst Cooks
everything from
modeling to sewing ifl Am1erica
to, of course, cook- Sundays at
ing. Still, there are 10 P.M.
a great many people
who could never Food Network
hope to compete for
these honors; and in all honesty, being
terrible at something makes for better
TV. That's why Food Network's latest
reality competition, "Worst Cooks in
America," stands out amid an other-
wise repetitive line-up.
The premise is simple: Chefs Anne
Burrell and Beau MacMillan set out
to find the worst cooks in America
and attempt to teach them a thing or
two. To raise the stakes, Burrell and
MacMillan break the 12 wannabes
into two teams. Each chef will impart
their knowledge to a team chosen by
the other chef, hoping to prove who's
the better teacher. Contestants will be
eliminated weekly, and the final chef
on each team will prepare a dish for a
food critic who thinks the meal was
actually prepared by Chefs Burrell
and Macmillan.
The biggest problem with "Worst
Cooks" is that the competitive ele-
ment automatically negates the claim
set up in the title. Each week, the chef
who does the worst at the challenge
must leave. The winner will not, in
fact, be the "worst cook" (or even nec-
essarily the "most improved"), and
those who probably need the most
counsel are booted off early. All the
contestants are admittedly awful
cooks, but some are clearly better
than others. It'd be a shame to see the
person who simply adds too much salt
to everything win, rather than watch
the person who thought peanut but-

ter and cod make a good combination
climb to the top.
"Worst Cooks" lacks the biggest
turn-off in most other reality com-
petitions centered around demon-
strating proficiency in a given field:
pretension. The interstitial interviews
during which cocky professionals pro-
claim they're "the best" and the com-
petition "better watch out" are traded
for embarrassed and unconfident
amateurs gushing about how they're
honestly just thrilled to have the
opportunity to learn. The raw desire
for self-betterment shines through,
creating a very honest program.
But this honesty doesn't seem to be
what the judges or producers want.
Reality competitions thrive on rivalry
and the things people will do to win.
In the premiere, when one flustered
contestant struggled to reproduce a
shrimp and clam dish, a fellow "worst
If you' can't stand
the heat, then
this kitchen is
just for you.
chef" came ,to his aid, causing his
own dish to suffer. Rather than hav-
ing their selfless and sacrificial act
admired, they were chastised and
both ended up in the bottom two.
While Food Network wants this to
be a gritty and intense competition
with plenty of fights, it just won't hap-
pen. True, Chefs Burrell and MacMil-
lan exchange loads of banter and are
terrifyingly focused on winning, but
"Worst Cooks" isn't about them. It's
about the poor souls who can't boil
water; they're not going to fight each
other when they've got bigger fish to
fry. "Worst Cooks" should embrace
that which naakes ip different. It's not
about winning, it's about learning.

Aspen'on a downslope

By ANT MITCHELL
Daily Arts Writer

one is trying to'
One positive
of Aspen," ho

Purposefully. over the top, focuses not on t
"Secrets of Aspen" never pretends girls and their
to be anything instead on the
but what it is - the bitches." W
trash. tion of "Secrets
"Secrets of $ Of centrated on the
Aspen" begins it's refreshing t
with the return Aspen for once perc
of the Colorado than women as
resort town's 10:d0y.at trophies. The
most "contro- 10:30 p.m seem to have n
versial" resi- VH1 aside from how
dent, Laura. of a particular
Within what seems like the first would elevate
five minutes, she and her female hierarchy. The
entourage are already bikini-clad, of "Secrets of
lounging in hot tubs and sipping women raeagir
champagne. Later, they meet to (sometimes quit(
go label shopping, saying things of war over thei
like, "You have, like, the best VH1 molds t
boobs for that dress." trionic atmosph
After the shopping outing, fur- with unabashe
ther plot description of "Secrets "Secrets of As
of Aspen" would require a dia- proverbial bodi
gram with lots of arrows pointing soap." It's bur
every which way, or perhaps just a thing an audie
15-year-old girl. Apparently Laura
was going to set Robin up with
Shay, but then tried to steal him
back on the dance floor by putting
her boobs in his face, until Brooke
got in a fight with Laura, because
Laura thought she and Brooke
were going to get their makeup
done together. Suddenly, Kat is in
the mix along with Ben and Erin
and Star, and then all hell breaks
loose. Basically it's impossible'
to keep up with who's who, and
whether or not they're fighting,
best friends or sleeping together.
Some possible tactics would be to
go by hair color, or by who looks
to have had the most Botox done.
Most conversations in "Secrets
of Aspen," are akin to verbal hair-
pulling. Everyone constantly
makes attacks on each other's
controlling, selfish, manipulative
and needy behavior. Rumors are
spread, concerning whether or not
so-and-so is a hooker, and every- Q: Boobies? A: Yes.

"settle old scores."
aspect of "Secrets
wever, is that it
he drama between
r boyfriends, but
ongoing "battle of
While a large por-
of Aspen" is con-
e great man chase,
o see a show that
eives men rather
s mere objects or
women of Aspen
o interest in men
their acquisition
ly desirable prize
them in the bitch
men are the meat
Aspen" and the
ig lions who are
te literally) in a tug
r hunks of beef.
he tacky and his-
here of the show
d deliberateness.
pen" fills out the
ce of the "reality
sting with every-
oce. who watches

these sorts of things could ask for,
mirroring the freakishly full bras-
sieres of the women who bitch
their way through the half-hour
show.
Ultimately, it's difficult to
decide if "Secrets of Aspen" can
be considered a potential success.
Quality or not, the show is what it
sets out to be, in the most grossly
The 'battle of the
bitches' rages on.
extreme way that it can be. A cer-
tain portion of the public is being
targeted, and those individuals
will indeed want to watch it. The
only questionremainingis wheth-
er that audience will be large
enough to keep the show afloat.
Considering VHC has survived,
on similarly refined and tasteful
shows for over 25 years, longevity
seems likely for "Aspen."

COURTESYOF UNIVERSAL
Q: Is this Streep's postcoital face? A: We don't want to know.
Streep and Baldwin get hormonal

By JENNIFER XU being the most frequently nomi-
Daily Arts Writer nated actress in the history of the
Academy Awards. She can trans-
Some movies are so terrible, all form her voice and mannerisms
that's left to enjoy is the acciden- like a chameleon, does a kick-ass
tal campy hilarity of it all. These Polish accent and is funny to boot.
movies include "Plan 9 From "It's Complicated" is the unfor-
Outer Space," tunate marriage of Meyers and
"Attack of the ** Streep. Meyers helms the tale of
Killer Toma- Jane (Streep), a 50-something
toes!" and, more, Its divorcee caught in a love triangle
recently, "2012." with her ex-husband Jake (Alec
And then there's COflPICaed Baldwin, TV's "30 Rock") and her
the rest of the AtQualityl6 architect Adam (Steve Martin,
crap. These and Showcase "The Pink Panther"). Jake, still
movies (often Universal as immature and irresponsible as
romantic come- a newborn babe, is now married
dies) are not bad to a younger woman, and Jane
enough to be laughable, but cer- has become the "other woman."
tainly not good enough to enjoy. Adam, while shy and bumbling,
As it is, they are content to drift offers a more solid future.
lazily along in the sea of medioc- More interesting than the
rity. fights between Jane and Jake is
Nancy Meyers, who . wrote the battle for dominance between
and directed "It's Complicated," Streep and Meyers. It feels like a
is a paragon of said mediocrity. war between Meyers's horrible,
She is consistently contrived and syrupy sweet lines and Streep's
unimaginative. Her dialogue thespian grace.
feels like tooth decay. But she The problem with Meyers isn't
somehow found her target audi- so much that she's portraying
ence among naive middle-aged older people in romantic rela-
housewives. Because of this, she tionships, but that she's depicting
has managed to enjoy a prolific older people acting like hormonal
career directing terrible movies adolescents. She treats the audi-
like "Something's Gotta Give" ence to frequent shots of Streep's
and "The Holiday." contented postcoital face writh-
Meryl Streep ("The Devil ing in ecstasy. It's profoundly
Wears Prada") is arguably the uncomfortable at best. Meyers
best currently working actress, also constantly needs to advertise
and certainly one of the most pro- how technologically relevant she
ductive. She enjoys the honor of is - Jane frequently video chats

with Adam, they text and they
constantly check their Blackber-
rys.
The title, presumably taken
at least in part from the phrase
occupying many a Facebook sta-
tus (snaps for you, Nancy Mey-
ers, for being so in-tune with our
youth culture), is just as decep-
tive. In truth, it's not that compli-
cated. In the end, everybody lives
a perfect life and the audience
feels cheated out of something.
There's nothing with which to
identify in these perfect shells of
human beings.
Sweet syrup vs.
thespian grace.
They say you can't make a good
movie out of a terrible script, but
Streep makes "It's Complicated"
a tolerable movie out of a terrible
script. Baldwin and Streep are
each seasoned actors with pleas-
ant, watchable chemistry. As you
wince through the cast's fake,
tinny laughs, look carefully at
Streep's eyes. It's almost as if she is
rolling them at the camera.
Meyers comes out the victor in
the end, butjustbarely. Streep put
up a good fight and, because of her
noble effort, "It's Complicated"
isn't as doomed to mediocrity as
anticipated.

 COME TO THE DAILY'S MASS MEETINGS
420 Maynard Street.
Jan. 11 and 13 at 8 p.m., Jan 24 at 6 p.m.


6- Friday, January 8, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

a

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
! FALL 2010: 5 bdrm, 2 bth house.
Between Central Campus & Stadium.
833 Brown St: $2400/mo. Beautiful
House. Call Louis at 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com
! 1-BDRM w/prkg, $740 711 E. Kings-
ley, Quiet/Safe area, Excell Maint.
A/C, Avail. Sept. 10, Contact: (734)
776-0646/ liu.propertieslyahoo.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
tc. Heat/Water/Parking
www.tRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurmished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtlc@ytahoocom
www.churchstreetrentals.com
Studio & 1
Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
5. / :tc -.v
734-663-1530
! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tns, modern furniture & much more!
74t-9300 annarborapartmens.net
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
LARGE THREE STORY furn. 5
drm for 6 people, 3 itch, 3 fullbthtl,
prkg & Indry. 921 Packard. Avail. Fall
Call Emilia 734-272-1320
I 122 S. Forest
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
***** MAY LEASES *****
1 Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May to August
1 bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Cll today 761-8000!
Prime Stutdent Itousing
primesh.com
*2-BEDROOMS*: GREAT 2-bd 2
bath bi-levels for 3-4 people, new
kitchens, baths, and furniture, rootop
balconies, large bedrooms.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100

Up to
ONE MONTH
FREE!
Lease anyApartment from now
until 1-11-10and you'll have a
chance to win up to ne month free,
1/2 month free, $500 off, $300 off,
$100 off, Flat Screen TVs, Kindles
and more-!!
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Callus for more information.
734-761-2680
infoiu-towers.com
336 South Forest
AnAror, M48104
Universitytowers-m.com
1-11,Univcr ity
WTow
*2-BEDROOMS*: 2 minute walk to
the Business or Law Schools, unique
layouts in spacious apts, new kitchens
w/ dishwashers, heat, water, under-
ground parking included.
www.varsitymanagement.com
*3-BEDROOMS*: NEAR CCRB and
CC Little, balconies or patio. large liv-
ing rooms w/ new furniture. Heat, wa-
ter, parking incl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walktg distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
1221 S. State #2
6 BDRM
$2400
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
*543 CHURCH ST.*: Hmongous 2-
hds for 3-4 people and a spacious 4-
bd. This is the perfect location, right
across the st. from East tall! teat, wa-
ter, furnishings included.
Varsity Management (734)1668-1100
*AVAILABLE MAY*: 1001 S. For-
est; spacious 2-ds new kitchets &
ats, eat, water, tnternet& parking
incl. 917 Packard; @ East U, large 2-
bds w/ balconies/patios, heat, water,
parking incl. September available at
both locations also!
www.varsitymanagement.com
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*HUGE 4-BEDROOMS*: hardwood
floors, 10 ft ceilings, & fireplaces in a
beautiful converted mansion in quiet
Burns Park. [eat, water, parking & fur-
nishings included. Call
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.

vktheb
ned anmm
20 Locations to Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcomet
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*UP TO ONE MONTH FREE for a
Limited time only! Call us for more
details. Were Much Better than the
Dorms! Check us out and get a FREE
Bubble Island drink with any new tour!
We have Rooms, Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bed-
room furnished apartments available
for Spring / Fall. Call us at 734-761-
2680 for an appointment.
UniversityTowers-mi.com
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.smiteyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469
3 BDRM FURNISHED FALL, Pri-
vate deck Wshr/dryr. Near campus/Ker-
rytown. $1458 + electric. 734-996-8506
4-6 BDRM house avail Fall 2010. 418
N. State St. 6 bdrns total. 2 bath, 3
prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
4 bdrm-$2500, 5 bdrm-$3000, 6
hdrm-$3450. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bedrms total. 3 bath, 4
prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
5 bdrm-53000, 6 bdrm-53400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all Ltii. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200.
7-bdrmn-3400. Call 734-996-1991.
www.varnstymanagement.com
4Varsity
Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668 - 1100
Studios - 4 bedroom
All are Central Campus Locations
Heat, water, & furnishings included
Most incl. parking, some incl Internet
New kitchens w/ dishwashers, new
bathroom vanities and nice furn
Great prices and great locations
Call to schedule an appointment
6 BDRM HOUSE for ease, Falt
2010! 1007 State. Fan. Newly
renovated 1st Floor and Bthrts. Free
Prkng and Indry. Call 734-717-9288.
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.

AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
NEWER FURN. 6-bdnn apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
650/hdrnm & tp including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greenea ts.com
t s
Experience the Difference
" 1100Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct V w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
wn rb a r ns741-9300
www.annarborapartmenta.net

C, 4e Mic4igan wily

Online Classified
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandailycom/
clasulfieds tonsee all ofthe
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient rnap!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AMAZING SIX BEDROOM
HOUSE in prime location. Two full
baths, private porch, newly renovated
kitchen and living room with hard
wood floors. 6 free parking spots.
$3299/ month. Campus Reality 734-
766-8865 www.campusreality.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
EfG., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
CallAmanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqfi. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers t umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

Now Showing for
Fall 2010-2011!!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
* *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance

Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and indry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @/ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully ftim, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.

# Rooms Location Price
6 1221 S. State #2 $2400
5 420S. Division #2 $2700
3 1222 Washtenaw Ct. $180
3 1123 ChurchSt. $1700
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
4205. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2700
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
POST REALTY PROPERTIES
For more info Call 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734)769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt..in prime location, privatehaa-
cony, heat/water net., flly furnished,
free parking, $999/mu. 734-665-8825:-

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Twin-hulled boat 38 "Climb _ 48 Not yet fulfilled
1 Mil .awards 4 Curly's Mountain": "The 49 Sugar source
5 Pro's employee predecessor and Sound of Music" 50 Torment
10 Keyboardist Hess successor song 51 Bell ringer's
14 Colorful 5 Turns to swing 39 Invoice column reply
deepwaterfish 6 Measuring hdg. 52 Artisan's work
15 Sylvester's instruments 43 Stew holders area
"Rocky" co-star 7 Cartoon hunter 44 They may be 55 Food no. usually
16 Like The Citadel, 8 Snort raised during a shown in
today 9 _ Bo game milligrams
17 High-tech unit 10 Early 15th 45 Pound sound 56 Chemist'swork
18 CoI dyshop centarypyear 47 Grammy winner urea
opeialst 11 Dealer's query Krall 588"Amen!"
20 Destructive spree 12 a beet
22 Perrier rival 13 City SSE of ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Apple shipping Sana'a_
vehicles? 19 Text file with CAT S T A L E P E PS 
260ttomanofficer program ALA T A CIt.T ALL I N
27 E-mail endings, instructions P O I A N N U A L P L A N T
at times 21_tent A T L A R G E E A S TER
2851af 23Callduringatoss C E D E R AY E S O
29 Inexperienced 24 The Supremes, C H O C O L A T E L A B
une e.g.
31 Coffee-flavored 25 Engine sound L O A M O P E S S E A T S
liqueur 30Texter's"Yikes!" E R T E I R E A N A T
36 Like overcrowded 31 Mil. request F A S T S E R A S E G R E
medical clinics? 32 Rose of rock S P A C E M I S S I O N
40 Toot 33 Result of an T A S O L E E C H O
consequence ump's decision' A R C A N E E N R A G E D
41 Carmith a har mayhe
42d-80:olb 34Cumetoanew C L A M S C A S I N 0 N A
RadioShuck land H EL 110 S T RAW ADOD
computer 35 Together S N E E R K R E S S M O E
43 Lee side: Abbr. 37 Crusty entrde xwordeditor@aol.com 01/07/10
46 Palindromic diarist
47 Short, fat pen i2O Oa 5 00 I8 5 1011 rota
filler?
52 Important
peninsula in the 17 1a19
Six-Day War,
1967 20 21 22
53 Pursue
54 Laundry security 23 24 2
device?
57 Muh more than 2
tickle 2an 0 31an 3 3 3
59 "The -lama,
he's a priest...": a3 37 an 3
Nash
60 Arigato : Japan :: ana1
_:Germany
61Pa a 42 43 44 45 40
62 Evening spread?
63 Hardly a a4 4s41so s1
miniature gulf s2 53
64 Regards
54 55 58 57 58
DOWN
1 Baseball card 5 so 81
stat
2 Pop-jazz band 2 10 a
named for an
algae genus By Ian Naddor 1/08/
(c)2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
5211 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320S. University
610 S. Forest
411 Htigh
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3/4 bedroom,
free pkg/lndry by Yost Arena, $1550,
734-883-8140.
skyharrislc(comcast.net
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt..Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.tSelA2.com 734-476-9768

AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus; parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
*Large one bedroom apartment, 2
blocks east of the business school.
Heat, water and parking included
7113 5. Forest .
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
541 S. DIVISION
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., idry.,
bath., internet. Rent from $440,
Call 734-276-0886.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrmnapis at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com

APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773
HELP WITH BUYING groceries,
other errands. 3-5 hr/wk, largely flexi-
hle. $12/hr, must have own car. 734-
355-3276.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon3/iserv.net
TUTOR NEEDED FOR high school
sophomore learning Spanish and math.
$20/hr, approx 7 - 9 pm, once or twice
per week. Car needed. Call 663 2799
and leave a message.
TUTOR WANTED: SAT/CALCU-
LUS, $15/hr, 3-4 hrs/wk, flexible, 5
mites to campus. 734-763-5463.
YOU MAY ELIGIBLE FOR A
STUDY
Right handed, healthy women, ages 18-
37 needed for a study on how our body
and brain react to stress. Study in-
volves 2 fMRI scans and I Pet Scan.
Compensation up to $650.00
Call 734-763-3580

a
a

AFTER SCHOOL NANNY for 2 chil-
dren (ages 9 and 11), Tues and Thurs
from 3:30-6:110 in our ow Ann Arhor
home.3Must have exp, reliable etanp,
and good driving record. $15/hr.
Send resume and refs to734-913-0133
or deb.kop(&comcast.net


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Friday, January 8, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 8, 2010 - 7

Lions to Lambs

Wolverines will continue to terrify

M' steals one
from Penn St.

STATE COLLEGE -
Blitzkrieg. Robbery. Escape.
Whatever it is that best
explains the Michigan
men's basketball
team's 38-13
run in the final
12 minutes yes-
terday to pull
out a win at
Penn State, the
body language
on both teams GJON
afterward illus- JUNCAJ
trated the total
shock brought
on by that furi-
ous stretch.
I haven't seen the Wolverines
that ecstatic or overwhelmed after
any of their seven other victories
this season. Sure, the players were
relieved and proud after the win
over then-No. 15 Ohio State this
past Sunday. But they, without a
doubt, deserved that victory.
In Michigan's locker room
after last night's 64-55 win over
the Nittany Lions, players were
grinning from ear to ear, yelling,
joking, laughing. A few were in
hysterics. The Wolverines didn't
steal one from Penn State - they
put their hands in the cookie jar,
then smashed it over the Nittany
Lions' heads.
Watching Penn State swing-
man Chris Babb in the postgame
press conference - head down,
jaw dropped open - was like
watching a little boy being handed
a bouquet of balloons by a clown,
only to see the clown take out a
needle and pop every single one
before the kid could thank him.
Then, picture seven of the
clown's friends in the background
going nuts with each pop.
Michigan can thank Laval
Lucas-Perry for deflating Penn
State's NCAA Tournament hopes
and thus keeping the Wolverines'
chances alive. The redshirt sopho-
more guard nailed four triples in
just over five minutes late in the
game. What was a seven-point
deficit turned into an eight-point
lead in the blink of an eye. For the
third time in the past two sea-
sons (at Indiana and Minnesota
last year), Lucas-Perry suddenly

caught fire out to help
steal a much-needed
road victory.
"When I made that
third three I was like
'I got to shoot it again,'
" Lucas-Perry said
of the shot that gave
Michigan the lead for'
good with three min-
utes left. "I needed it.
I just hung my shot
more after I made
those threes."
After halftime,
there weren't any
schematic changes
that helped Michiganj
shut out Penn State's
superstar guard Talor
Battle (0-5 on field
goals, no points in the
second half), nor any
adjustments that led
to Michigan drilling!
seven of their final
10 threes after miss-
ing its first 13. In fact,,
Michigan coach John
Beilein didn't even;
give a speech between
halves.
"It can be some-
thing as simple as a
shot, a steal, a dunk,"
sophomore Zach
Novak said. "In the
first half, we were
right there but we just-
shot atrociously. We
come out in the second
half, the first shot goes
down, and we just get
confidence from that."
What turned thingsF
around last night was
as simple and cliche
as it is frustrating:
the Wolverines just
got ho at last possible
moment they could have Redshirt sophomore Laval Lucas-Perry blocks a shot from Penn Slats forward Dav d Jackson ms
afforded to. Michigan's 64-55 win over the Nittany Lions yesterday at the Bryce Jordan Center.
When Michigan was,
gettingthrashed in the first half, igan had played all season. know what to expect from them-
Battle said he heard Beilein yell- Contrast that with those last selves night in and night out.
ing at his players to 'just get to 12 minutes, and it's clear this What last night's win proves
the half' The Nittany Lions were Wolverine team will induce heart is beyond the "live and die by the
shooting 54 percent and forcing attacks for the rest of the season three" mantra that has been blud-
a litany of turnovers with just a (just like last year). And given this geoned into our heads from the
straight man-to-man defense. It team's streaky reputation, I'm not moment Beilein was hired.
was arguably the worst half Mich- even sure the coaches and players See JUNCAJ, PageB

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Editor
STATE COLLEGE - Two
things were scribbled on the
chalkboard of the Michigan
men's basketball team's locker
room after yesterday's game.
Road win and 2-1.
One, of course, was the goal
of yesterday's game: to come to
State College and beat the Nit-
tany Lions. The other was Michi-
gan's Big Ten record after coming
back from a deficit that reached
as many as 16 points to knock off
Penn State on the road.
In one of the most schizo-
phrenic efforts of the season,
Michigan (2-1 Big Ten, 8-6 over-
all) came back from a 15-point
halftime deficit and ended the
game on a 38-13 run in the last
12 minutes to beat Penn State
64-55.
"Winning on the road in the
Big Ten is so hard but the way
we did it really showed that we
had an awful lot of heart and
are in great shape," Beilein said.
"Because it takes a lot out of you
when you have the start like we
had."
The performance in the first
half was perhaps Michigan's
worst of the season as it went
down 31-16 at halftime in what
promised to be a blowout.
Just three players registered
points in the half. Senior forward
DeShawn Sims led the Wolver-
ines with 10.
But as poor as the Wolverines
first half effort was, they put on a
show in the second.
Michigan started the game
shooting 0-for-14 from behind
the arc. But when sophomore
Zack Novak hit the team's first
three with 11:56 remaining in the
second half, the team went on a
tear.
Harris and Novak came back
a few possessions later to make
back-to-back threes and Lucas-

Perry hit four key shots from
behind the arc, including a dag-
ger into the heart of the Penn
State fanbase to put Michigan
eight points ahead of the Nittany
Lions (0-3, 8-7) with two minutes
to play.
"We're all great shooters, we
all can shoot the three, we call
can put it on the floor and we all
can make plays for this team,"
Lucas-Perry said. "And that's
something we did tonight, it just
happened to be at the end, which
we needed the most."
After the Novak and Harris
made their threes to spark the
run, the team continued to storm
back into the game, led by Sims
who impressed with a 25-point
effort that kept the Wolverines
in the contest during in most dire
moments.
"Credit the Sims kid because
he kept them in the game to begin
with," Penn State guard Talor
Battle said. "Every time we would
try to get out he would make a
big play then Novak got hot and
(Lucas) Perry. A team that lives
and dies by the three like that is
never out of the basketball game,
and four shots they're right back
in the game."
The Wolverines had nine turn-
overs in the first half - their sea-
son average is 10 per game - but
got it together and had just three
in the second half.
Sims started the game hot,
making his first two shots, and
was a force to be reckoned with
down low.
"We started the first half, we
went inside and scored," Beilein
said. "Simswas fouled and missed
them both and all of a sudden we
got the 'my turns' type of think-
ing, where 'OK, I've got my own
gameplan.' "
While the win was Michigan's
first true road win this season,
more importantly, it proved that
the Wolverines could dig them-
selves out of a hole.


" Blue turns around Big Ten slide at home

B
firs
sx

Fre
sporte
very n
day ni
Michi
team
and
Iowa.
In fac
the e
rocket
Arena
seen i
one ca
victor
Mic
a stro
have
three
Wolve
half, e
able 3
had th
half.
But
easy i
Hawk
half, s
first fi
half t]
half.
"Th
Michig
said. "
but w
win ga
up, th
kids o
back in
to be g
Win
this s
sweep
since
The V
head t

3orseth earns of what they hope can turn out
to be another sweep to take on
t in-conference Wisconsin on Sunday at 1:00
p.m.
veep of tenure Earlier in the season, Michi-
T gan was expected to have offen-
against C5XW'R sive woes because of the six
freshmen on its roster, but that
By ZAK PYZIK hasn't been the case. Wolverine
Daily Sports Writer coach Kevin Borseth has been
working all of the younger play-
shman Dayeesha Hollins ers into the game, and they have
d a new, much shorter and played a critical role in Michi-
ice haircut for the Thurs- gan's success.
ght rematch between the Hollins racked in 10 points of
gan women's basketball her own, and the freshmen as
a whole scored 26 points even
IOWA 43 though just Hollins and guard
MICHIGAN 63 Jenny Ryan started.
t, Meanwhile, sophomore Car-
ntire Wolverine squad men Reynolds led Michigan in
d a new look in Crisler the first half Notching eight
, one that fans have not points coupled with junior
n a while - a win. This guard Veronica Hicks eight
me in the form of a 63-43 points as well.
y over the Hawkeyes. "We knew that we needed to
higan started off with take it at them and thatwe didn't
ng lead, something they want them to set up their zone,"
failed to do in their last Hicks said. "I just pushed it up
Big Ten games. The the court as fast as I could. We
rines led the entire first were playing kind of sloppy, but
nding it with a comfort- we needed toube aggressive."
1-13 advantage. Michigan Neither the offense nor the
ae lead for the entire first freshmen singlehandedly won
this game for the Wolverines.
the win didn't come Michigan hit the boards with
for the Wolverines. The 46 rebounds. Hicks had a sea-
eyes rallied in the second son high 18 of her own.
coring more points in the "Let me tell you," Hicks said.
ve minutes of the second "I have never done that before.
han its total in the first I have gotten double-digit
rebounds but never near 20.
is is a really great win," Maybe angels were lifting me
gan coach Kevin Borseth to the ball, or they've got a heel
I don't know if it's a relief, in my shoe."
e are here just trying to The Wolverines knew beffore
ames. They were banged the game how critical it was to
ey have four of their top ensure that the Hawkeyes didn't
ut. When those kids get get second chances. Borseth
n the lineup they're going made sure they knew it.
ood." "I knew that going into this
aning both Iowa games conference this game will be
eason is Borseth's first good for us to break our streak,"
of a Big Ten opponent Hicks said. "Especially when
he's been at Michigan. you were supposed to finish at
Volverines and him will the bottom of the conference
o Madison for game one and you beat a team twice."

Whoever said experience guar-
antees improvement was proved
wrong ina big way by the Michi-
gan woman's basketball team
Thursday.
Last season (3-15 Big Ten,
10-20 overall)
Michigan coach
Kevin Borseth AMY
had four start- SCARANO
ing seniors to On Women's
work with. Basketball
Center Krista
Phillips is the
only starting senior this year and
two freshmen, Dayeesha Hollins
and Jenny Ryan, have started every
game this season.
To start last season, the team
was impressive, opening 8-4 in
non-conference match ups and 2-2
in the first four games of the Big
Ten season before spiraling into
despair, losing 13 of 14 remaining
conference games.
But this year's-young team will
not suffer that same fate.
The Wolverines still have a lot of
work to do halfway into the season
with most of their Big Ten games
looming. But Michigan (2-3, 10-5)
is already on its way up, standing
ninth in the conference after being
ranked dead last in the pre-season
media poll. They swept Iowa - the
first ever sweep in Borseth's tenure
- and have just one loss at home
after a heartbreaker against North-
western last week. They certainly
have the tools to do a lot of damage
in conference.
Offensive output has skyrock-
eted from last season largely due to
Hollins' impressive freshman cam-
paign thus far. The Wolverines are
scoring an average of 70 points per
game. Last year, they averaged 55.
Hollins has put up double digits
in all but two games this season,
and her confidence in the college
arena continues to grow.
"Oh my goodness. I was so ner-
vous," Hollins said after her first

game. "My hands were sweating
and I was shaking and I don't know
why."
Ten games into the season,
against Xavier, Hollins came alive.
Her nerves had vanished as she
led the team with a career-high 22
points.
"I just told her I wanted to see
the playerthat I saw play in Atlanta
a couple years ago," Borseth said
after the win over Xavier in her
hometown of Cincinnati on Decem-
ber 14. "I just wanted herto go out
there and play. What you witnessed
out there tonight was the way that
kid's capable of playing."
Ryan, also a freshman, leads the
team in rebounds, averaging nearly
seven per game, two more than any
of her teammates.
The six freshmen this year have
helped created a team chemistry
wholly different from last year, and
it seems tobe helpingon the court.
The off-court bond has helped them
to have confidence in one another
on the court.
"Love the new players," sopho-
more guard Courtney Boylan said.
"Love the freshman. Our team
already has such a better chemistry.
We get along in the locker room we
get along on the court. We battle
out there but when we get off the
court we are all still friends. I think
that's a big thing that we all trust
each other."
More than half of the squad
remains in the dark to last season's
3-15-conference schedule - and they
want to keep it that way. The new
energy and optimism the fresh-
men bringto the team is crucial if
the veteran players are to keep last
year's disappointing history in the
past.
So while the freshmen don't
know how they will perform
against top teams like Illinois and
Minnesota, they've proved that
sometimes its better not to know
what you can't do.

Lack of experience a
-plus for Michigan

Junior Veronica Hicks talied a team-high 18 rebounds in the Wolverines' 20-point victory
over the Hawkeyes last night at Crisler Arena. As a whole, Michigan pulled down 46
rebounds to owa's 37. Hicks finished the night with 10 points, eightsin the first half.


8 - Friday, January 8, 2010

0

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


'Bama rolls to Nat'l Title

0

SAID ALSALAH/Dai y
Senior Steve Kampfer and the rest of the Wolverines need a second half run to keep their NCAA Tournament hopes alive.
Wolverines look to turn around
dismal first half against Broncos

With McCoy injured
early, freshman's
comeback effort falls
short for Texas
PASADENA, Calif. (AP) - The
sure thing was looking shaky for
Alabama.
Hanging onto a precarious
three-point lead and with momen-
tum on the other side, linebacker
Eryk Anders was determined not
to let the championship slip away.
Anders forced a fumble on his
blindside sack of Texas backup
quarterback Garrett Gilbert with
3:02 left Thursday night to help
the top-ranked Crimson Tide hold
on for a 37-21 victory in the BCS
title game - a win that figured
to be much easier when Alabama
knocked out Colt McCoy early in
the first quarter.
"I would have given anything to
be out there because it would have
been different," McCoy said.
With McCoy on the sideline
nursing a shoulder injury, the Tide
(14-0) rolled to a 24-6 lead at half-
time, the final touchdown coming
when lineman Marcell Dareus
picked off a shovel pass and
returned it 28 yards for the score
late in the second quarter.
"I was thinking about grabbing
the guy with the ball, but then I
said, 'Let me just grab this foot-
ball.' I wasn't even thinking about
the highlight. I was so excited. My
legs were weak, my muscles were

crazy, and I made it," Dareus said.
The second half figured to be a
laugher with Gilbert in the game
- a freshman who was Texas'
"quarterback of the future" but
had thrown only 26 college pass-
es.
The kid almost did it, though.
He threwtwotouchdown passes
to All-American Jordan Shipley to
trim the deficit to 24-21 with 6:15
left, and after an Alabama punt, he
had the ball at the 7-yard line, 93
yards away from one of the most
improbable comeback stories in
the history of the game.
But after an Alabama holding
penalty moved the ball to the 17,
Gilbert dropped back to pass and
got rockedby Anders, a senior who
plays in the shadow of All-Ameri-
cans Terrence Cody and Rolando
McClain. The ball went flying and
Courtney Upshaw recovered.
Three plays later, Heisman Tro-
phy winner Mark Ingram surged
into the end zone from theeI for the
10-point lead. A few minutes later,
after Gilbert's third interception
of the night, Trent Richardson
scored . his second touchdown to
make it 37-21.
Then the party began. Glory
came back to one of the country's
most storied programs, the foot-
ball factory that Bear Bryant built,,
courtesy of Nick Saban, who resur-
rected this team in the short span
of three seasons.
"We back," Ingram said.
Back for the first time since
1992, when Bryant's protege, Gene
Stallings, led the Crimson Tide

to its last national title. This one
gives Alabama eightsince the polls
began in the 1930s. Its seventh
Associated Press championship
should be a shoo-in when the votes
are tabulated.
Ingram finished with 116 yards
and two touchdowns and Rich-
ardson had 109 yards and two
scores.
Anders will go down with
them in Crimson Tide lore, as will
Dareus, who before his touchdown
knocked McCoy - the winningest
quarterback in college football
history - down and out with an
injury to his throwing shoulder on
Texas' fifth offensive play.
"I just heard a thump when I
hit him," Dareus said. "I did lay it
down pretty hard. I didn't try to,
but it felt great."
Dareus finished with one
tackle, one interception and one
touchdown, but all were game-
changers.
Seeking its second national
title in five years, Texas (13-1)
got to the game on the back of its
All-American quarterback, who
often looked like a one-man show
in leading the Longhorns to 13
straight wins.
After the injury, McCoy was
begging to go back in to finish his
last college game. His dad, inter-
viewed on TV, said the injury
wasn't that bad.
But Texas coaches decided to err
on the side of caution, and McCoy
spent the second half wearing a
headset on the sideline, trying to
encourage his teammates.

0

MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
At 5-7 in the CCHA and 10-10-0
overall, the Michigan hockey team
has had a forgettable first half
But if the Wolverines continue
their inconsis-
tent play, they .
will be always Michigan
be remem- at Westen
bered. They M
will be the
teamthatfailed Matchup:
to make the Western 6-10-4;
NCAA tourna- Michigan 10-10
ment for the When: Friday,
first time in 20 7:35 P.M.
years, break- Where: Lawson
ing the longest Ice Arena
active streak in
the nation.
Last time the Wolverines
watched their peers in late March,
their season was stunningly simi-
lar. The 1989 team got off to a
mediocre start, 10-9-3immediately
after the Great Lakes Invitational.
Michigan went on to win 11 of its
last 15 games butstill missed out on
the postseason.
With almost no room for error,
Michigan's home-and-home
matchup with Western Michi-

gan means more than most games
against the Broncos - especially
after the Broncos came into Yost
and left with a victory a year ago.
"We've got to go into every game
thinking this is the biggest game of
the year," senior defensemen Steve
Kampfer said. "It starts tomor-
row, that's the biggest game of our
year. And then Saturday's the big-
gest game of our year and we got to
translate that into every game."
The Wolverines' special teams
will play a big part in the series as
their fourth-ranked penalty kill
will face a Bronco power play that
is last in the conference.
Perhaps more important is the
other side of the special teams
battle. Michigan's power play has
continued to improve from adismal
start. It goes up against a penalty
kill sliding in the opposite direction
- out of the last seven goals given up
by the Broncos, six have them have
come when theyare short-handed.
But despite what appears to
be a special teams advantage, the
Wolverines' success depends on
improvement in five-on-five play.
Through twenty games they have
the same amount of goals scored as
goals against, 36, when both teams
are playing at full strength.

"We're a .500 team, five-on-five.
That's not good enough," Michigan
coach Red Berenson said. "We can
talk all we want about how we have
to play better and we have to work
on this and that, but wove got to do'
it. We've got to do it in the games.
This is the time."
As time continues to tick down
on the season, Michigan has no
choice but to make a significant
turnaround if it wants to see its
usual postseason appearance.
"We'll turn it around," Berenson
said after getting swept by rival
Michigan State for their fourth
straight loss on November 14. "It's
just a matter of when."
Since that time, Michigan has
remained inconsistent, splitting
three of its four series. Nearly two
months later, Berenson continues.
to wait for his team to consistently
find the right direction.
How will he know when the
Wolverines are back to performing
at their potential?
"It'sgoingtobe aconvincing(l0-
game) segment," Berenson said.
"We need more than one game or
one period obviously. ... I wouldn't
be surprised if this team went on a
run, but we haven't proven that we
can."


SJUNCAJ
From page 7
This team needs a third scorer.
Anybody. Anytime. In any game.
Harris and Sims will continue to
score half this team's points. And
because Michigan has no other
offensively skilled postmen or
aggressive slashers, the Wolver-
ines' tournament hopes - how-
ever slim they still are - will
hinge on how often someone else
can chip in three or four triples to

keep defenses honest (and hesitant
to throw extra defenders at Harris
and Sims).
We're long past the point of
expecting one player to assume
that role, and the team under-
stands that. Lucas-Perry had not
hit a shot in four of his past six
games entering Thursday. Novak
(eight points yesterday) has just
four games with four-plus field
goals this season. Stu Douglass has
shown marked improvement at the
point since taking the starting job
Dec. 19, but was held to one basket
last night.

Between those three, Michi-
gan will need some respectable
combination of perimeter offense.
Beilein said he doesn't care who
gets hot as long as someone does.
Entering last night, the Wolver-
ines' RPI ranking was 176. They
now have just one true road win
this season, and still have major
problems with interior defense.
Looking toward March Madness,
they are absolutely on the outside
looking in at the moment.
But if yesterday was any indica-
tion, people should probably-bold
off on an obituary.

a


A



