z ; r.";
+.,M
aF .
'
:; '
^c
S Y
k Y
r;
.
fir~ fir.
;: r
a.:
L
i
t? ,
s;
z ;.,
Yf
',

MAKING A TOURNEY RUN?
Michigan's Big Ten Tournament In a digital world,
matchup with Iowa today is thed e p et
team's first must-win in an-
unlikely NCAA bid scenario. experience that keep
\ n PAGE 8 patrons coming to museums.
f~~ 1be1Aidigan 0i~

rm

W. 0

Ann

Arbor, Michigan

Thursday March 11, 2010

michigandaily.com

FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
Universities
see risein
demand for
financial aid
In response to BY THE NUMBERS
increased need, Financial aidat'U, across the country
colleges boost 56% .
available funds Increase intheamountof financial aid
made availablefto students nationwide.

Former Michigan quarterback Justin Feagin (right) with his mother Linda following his sentencing in Washtenaw County Circuit Court yesterday. Feagin was sentenced to
two years of probation after pleading guilty to a charge of delivering less than 50 grams of cocaine.
With sentence former Michigan
QB Feagin gets a second chance

If Feagin completes
probation, drug
charge will be
dropped from record
By JAMES LEE
For the Daily
The Michigan football program
may not have given former quar-
terback Justin Feagin a second
chance when he was kicked off the
team last year, but the Washtenaw
County courts did when Feagin

appeared for his sentencing yes-
terday.
Washtenaw Circuit Court Judge
Archie Brown sentenced the for-
mer Michigan player to two years
of probation after Feagin, 21, pled
guilty to the charge of delivering
less than 50 grams of cocaine.
Feagin's guilty plea did not
result in a criminal conviction,
however, because he was able to
qualify for the Holmes Youthful
Trainee Act - a provision in Mich-
igan's Criminal Code, which eras-
es the defendant's criminal record
if they complete their sentence.
Feagin was first charged with

conspiracy to deliver less than
50 grams of cocaine, conspira-
cy to possess 25 to 50 grams of
cocaine and conspiracy to possess
less than 25 grams of cocaine in
March 2009 after a drug deal went
awry between him and Univer-
sity student Timothy Burke. Burke
attempted to set fire to a hallway
in West Quad after Feagin did not
deliver cocaine to Burke.
Feagin was later dismissed from
the football team in July, for what
Michigan Football coach Rich
Rodriguez called at the time "a
violation of team rules."
At his sentencing, Feagin apolo-

gized to his mother, his family and
the University of Michigan for
the disruption his offense caused.
Resolving not to let this mistake
interfere with his future, Feagin
told the court he is "just trying to
make it in life, just trying to learn
from all this."
As he prepared to deliver the
formal sentence, Brown explic-
itly told Feagin that he was being
given a second chance to "get it
right." Brown explained that the
youthful trainee status is reserved
for defendants Sthe court believes
to have potential to change their
See FEAGIN, Page 7A

By DEBJANI MUKHERJEE
Daily StaffReporter
With the tough economy,
universities nationwide have
recently seen a big increase in the
number of students applying for
financial aid and scholarships -
and colleges have been respond-
ing by making more financial aid
funds available.
According to Mark Kantrow-
itz, founder of FinAid.org - an
educational website that discuss-
es financial id options available
to students - there was a 56-per-
cent increase in the total amount
of financial aid available for col-
lege students from the 2008-2009
academic year to the 2009-2010
academic year.
Kantrowitz said the jump in
available financial aid is directly
related to the increasing number
of students that qualify for need-
based financial aid during the
past year.
"The economy is causing more
people to be needier," he said.

33%
Increase inthetotal numberof Fell
Grants available to eligible students.
b
40%
oncreaseintenumberpof tUniversityof
Michigan studentsseeking reassesment
otheir financial aid.statusthisyear.
Teamount of money in need-based
scholarships raised bythe Fresidentt
Donurtfampaignat the sniversity.
"The people in the economy who
have lost their jobs are going to
need financial aid."
A 33-percent rise in the total
number of Fell Grants available to
eligible students may also explain
the increase in financial aid.
Decided annually by Congress,
the maximum amount a student
can receive from the federal Pell
Grant program also increased
See FINANCIAL AID, Page 7A

EARTH DAY ANNIVERSARY EDUCATION SIMULATION
40 years after its founding, 'U'
officials re-envision Earth Day

University to launch
website today, host
month-long series of
related events
ByKYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
University officials are expected
to launch a new website later today
to highlight more than a month-
long string of activities that will
take place on campus throughout
the rest ofthe semester to celebrate
the 40th anniversary of Earth Day.
According to a press release

expected tobereleased latertoday,
the series of events, a joint collabo-
ration between several student
groups on campus, faculty and
University administrators, is part
of the University's effort to "turn
Earth Day into Earth Month."
In the release, President Mary
Sue Coleman calls the collabora-
tion of events a chance to reflect on
the past and to think about how to
move forward.
"With our growing level of
teaching, research and action
related to sustainability, the Uni-
versity continues to build on the
foundation set 40 years ago by
students and faculty committed
See EARTH DAY, Page 7A

TURNING EARTH DAY INTO A
MONTH OF FESTIVITIES
A selection of Earth Day events
Tomorrow: Ross School of Business
forum on the interaction between ethics,
the economy and the environment.
March 22: White Houseofficial John
Holdren will deliver the ninth annual
Peter M. Wege lecture.
March 25: A teach-infthat is similar, but
on a smaller scale, to the oneheld in the
1970s will be held inbthe Michigan League.
April10: Bioblitz, an event where
students will work to identify as many
species as possible in Nichols Arboretum.

DINING NEAR CAMPUS
Tian Chu opens its doors on East William

Ted Hall, a research computer specialist at the UM3D labs in the Duderstadt Center, shows the Cave Automatic Virtual
Reality installment. The installment is available for all students to access and has been used to simulate jet skiing as well as
various emergencies to teach residents in the University of Michigan Health System about medical triage.
'U' conference puts spotlight on
stigma associated with depression

As
feats
di

ian restaurant as well as Chinese and Japanese
dishes, opened its doors on 613
ures a variety of East William St. earlier this month
in the space formerly occupied by
shes, cuisines Rio Wraps. The new restaurant
on the block will provide some
By SCOTT SUH competition to Korean restaurant
For the Daily Maru, also located on East William
Street, just a short walk away from
w Asian cuisine restaurant Tian Chiu.
le its wayto the State Street Tian Chu manager Lin Cui said
she wanted to run a restaurant that
several months of con- offered a plethora of dishes.
n, Tian Chu, which offers "I prefer having people come in
election of Korean cuisine with a lot of choices," Cui said. "It's

not only Korean food, but Chinese
and other types of food as well.
You can come with all your friends,
and everyone can enjoy the meal
because there are many options."
Maru's owner Dukki Hong
said he has not yet taken a look at
Tian Chu's offerings and initially
believed that the restaurant only
served Chinese food. Kong added
that despite the emergence of a
second Korean restaurant on East
William Street, he does not mind
the competition.
See RESTAURANT, Page 7A

Depression at
colleges the focus of
two-day forum
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporter
Students and faculty from
universities across the country
gathered in Rackham Audito-
rium yesterday for the first day

of a two-day conference intended
to address depression on college
campuses.
The University Depression
Center has hosted the national
conference for the past seven
years in an effort to emphasize
the importance of early detec-
tion and intervention in treating
depression among college stu-
dents.
This year's conference, called
"Many Faces, A New Look,"

features two days of intensive
three-hour workshops, keynote
presentations and panel discus-
sions.
The conference opened with a
brief greeting from John Greden,
executive director of the Depres-
sion Center. He emphasized the
importance for those in atten-
dance to bring the lessons they
learn at the conference back to
their respective communities.
See DEPRESSION, Page 7A

A ne
has mad
area.
After
structin
a wide s


WEATHER HI: 61
TOMORROW LO 40

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let usknow.

NEW ON MiCHIGANDAILYCOM
The U has most graduates participating in TFA.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEW S................................ 2A SPORTS .......................... SA
Vol. CXX,No.107 SUDOKU.. . ..3A CLASSIFIEDS.................A....6A
v2 t0sTheM ichiganDaily OPINIO N ................ .........4A B-SIDE................... ............1B
michigandoily.com "


2A - Thursday, March 11, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

Raising money, aW
Like many politicians and lawmak- audiences totaling more than 350

ers across the country, one student
group is focusing its energy on health
care reform - but this organization's
efforts aren't being directed domesti-
cally.
Dance to Empower Stronger
Health care is a nonprofit student
group thatorganizes performances of
multiple dance teams to raise money
and educate the audience on health
care in rural India.
LSA freshman Aparna Ghosh
founded DESH in 2007 when she was
a junior at Pioneer High School in
Ann Arbor. As a dancer and pre-med
student, Ghosh said she just "com-
bined (her) ideas into one.'
When Ghosh became a Univer-
sity student in the fall, she decided
to expand the group she'd started
in high school, creating the student
group on campus.
While Ghosh was still in high
school, DESH held two concerts, with

people. Through these performances,
the organization raised over $7,000
for hygiene education, vaccinations
and surgery for children with con-
genital heart disease in rural India.
Ghosh said she was inspired by her
family members, many of whom still
live in rural India to start DESH. She
said her grandmother died of asthma
because she couldn't afford aninhaler.
Ghosh said health care problems
in India stem from both residents'
inability to afford health care and
their lack of awareness of the resourc-
es available in larger cities.
"There's no indoor plumbing or
electricity, even today," Ghosh said.
"Rural families don't have the money
or the time (to travel to urban areas
for care)."
Ghosh also said many people living
in rural India tend to rely heavily on
herbal remedies that can't treat seri-
ous illnesses.

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week
rareness
DESH's eight members all share a
"common bond between dancing and
wanting a better society," said Ghosh.
The group's name also has a double
meaning. The word "desh" means
"country" in Hindi, according to LSA
junior Anant Jain, the treasurer of the
group.
He said he thinks the group's name
is an accurate representation of its
purpose, which is to bring together
community and culture in both Ann
Arbor and India.
DESH holds performances "where
you can see everything that Michigan
has to offer," accordingto Jain.
But Ghosh said the group is aim-
ing to expand its presence on campus.
She added that starting next year, the
organization also plans to use the
money from their performances to
offer scholarships to students pursu-
ing medical degrees in Madurai, a city
in rural southern India.
- LAURENDAVIES

A member of Dancing to E mpower S
dances at a DESH event.
CRIME NOTES
Graffiti artist in
Arb gets creative
WHERE: Nichols Arboretum
WHEN: Tuesday at about 1p.m.
WHAT: Vandalism, in the
form of graffiti, was reported
near the caretaker's cottage,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.
Over break, thief
rides off on bike
WHERE: Ross School of Busi-
ness
WHEN: Tuesday at about10 a.m.
WHAT: A bicycle was stolen
outside of the Ross School of
Business, University Police
reported. The bike was last
seen during the week of Febru-
ary 27.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
anritenitz@michigandaitycom omdbuainess@amaitcam
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:Sun.-Thurs.11a.m.-2..
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
letters to the Editor rothedaily@michigandaily.com
PhotographyDepartment photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classiied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman ManagingNewsEditor berman@michigandaily.com
SNIoNEWSE IOr:oN kicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
ASS AN NES EDITORSDylan Cinti, Darryn Fitzged, Joseph Lichterman,
Veronica Menldi, nnieThoma, Dn horb, lnaTn,,n
Rachel Vanlilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Michelle DeWitt,AlexShiff,MatthewShutler
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe St apleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyzik,i Ron,vmyScarno
Jamielock ManagingwntsEditor blck@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS:Carolyn Klarecki,Andrew Lapin, JeffSanford
SSISTANTARTSEDITORS:LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,BrigidKilcoin,MikeKuntz,
Maatollinsands photo@michigandailycom
SanWolson ManagingvPhonoEdions
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR FO MULTIMEDIA: ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Aaron Augsburger, JakeFromm,MarissaMcClain,
Srah Squire and desig@michigndaity.co
Anna Lein-Zielnski ManagingDesignEditors s
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk michigandaily.com
RachelPhillips CopyChiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak SalesManager
SALESFORCEMANAGER:MollyTwigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Allison Santacreo Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales CirculationoManager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily SSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter termsbystdents at the Universityofichigan.Onecopyisavailablefreeofchargetoall
readers.Additionalcopiesmay bepickedup at theDaily's officefor$ 2. Subscriptions forfallterm,
startinginiSeptembe, vieU.S. mal aer$110. 0Winte t(anuary through Api) in $115, yearmong
(SeptmberitrohAvvril)is$19 nieityaflitearesubijectoerducedbsrtionege.
On-campussubscriptionsfor fa termare$35 Subscriptionsmust beprepaid.TheMichiganDaly
is a memberof The Associated PressandThe Associated Collegiate Press.

0I

9

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Sweatshirt taken
from center
WHERE: Cardiovascular Center
WHEN:Tuesday at aboutl1:15
p.m.
WHAT: A sweatshirt was
stolen from the 4100 corridor
of the Cardiovascular Center,
University Police reported.
With tipsy move,
sprinkler breaks
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher Grad-
uate Library
WHEN:Tuesdayatabout10:20
a.m.
WHAT: While moving a file
cabinet, it tipped over and
accidentally broke a sprinkler
head outside of Hatcher Grad-
uate Library, University Police
reported.

Discussion on
happiness
WHAT: Prof. Ronald Ingle-
hart will be talking about
subjective well-being in a
global perspective. The event
is free and open to the public.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Health System
WHEN: Today from 2:30
p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham
Auditorium
Talk on HIV
WHAT: Rosemary Polanco
will discuss the experiences
of African American and
Latina women in Detroit
who have an increased risk
of HIV infection, and also
must care for family mem-
bers afflicted by the disease.
WHO: University Insti-
tute for Research on
Women and Gender
WHEN: Today from
3 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
WHERE: 2239 Lane Hall

CORRECTIONS
An articleminyesterday's CNN reportedyesterday
edition of The Michi- that air traffic jams are
gan Daily ("With Obama, likely to increase in New
increasedsecurity delays York this spring and summer.
graduation start one hour") A new nationwide rule on tar-
incorrectly stated that stu mac delays, as well as runway
dents should contact their closures are likely to cause the
respective departments deasfyninndotfNw
and schools for information delays flying in and out of New
about whether their other York.
graduation activities would
be affected by the com-
mencement time change. The Fundred Dollar Bill
Departments and schools Program allows people
will contact students if its to draw their own $100
ceremonies are affected by bills that will be taken to Con-
the increased security sur- gress, where a request for an
rounding President Barack e
Obama's visit to deliver the even exchange will be make. If
commencement address, made, the money will be used
to help reduce the levels of
* An article in yesterday's lead in the soil of New Orleans.
edition of The Michigan Daily >FORMORE, SEE THE B-SIDE, PAGE 3B
("Eldersveld, storiedpro.f and
mayor ofA2, dies at 92") incor-
rectly stated the year that Nathaniel Brown, a custo-
Samuel Rldersveld was born. dial worker at Ohio State
He was born in 1917. University, shot two of his
" Please report any error supervisors, killing one, before
in the Daily to correc- taking his own life on Tuesday
tions@michigandaily.com. morning, CNN reported.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at rnichigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


Check out the programs for students sponsored by the Alumni Association-all designed to
prepare you for life after college and connect you to the U-M alumni family (more than 480,000 strong!).

l Ready 2 Launch-
From March 17 through April 16, take advantage of online
advice, in-person programs and text messages that help you
put your best foot forward after graduation.
1) Text and Win-Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to join
and to be eligible to win our weekly prizes*
* Get daily career advice right to your phone (through 4/16)
SWin one of our great weekly prizes (like a Coach bag and
$250 Macy's gift card)
2) Get in-person help at our R2L events at the Alumni
Center (all events on Wednesdays, 9 a.m.-noon)
3/24: Create your professional development plan
3/31: Create your branding toolkit (resume review, branding
statement & interview prep)
4/7: Describe your qualities in 30 seconds by crafting your
personal pitch
4/14: Find out how to build your network
l Michigan Apprentice-Win a one-day job shadowing
opportunity with a high-profile U-M alum. Applications are
due Sunday, March 28.

30-Minute Mentors-Get your career questions answered
by friendly and helpful Michigan alumni in a casual setting.
Friday, April 9, at the Alumni Center. Registration required.
PLus-don't miss these great events!
Welcome Wednesdays-Stop by the Alumni Center for
free bagels and coffee. Final two events-March 10 and
March 17, 8 a.m. 'til noon!
Enter to win the Class of 2010 T-shirt Design Contest-
Winning designer gets $250!
L Graduating? Free Alumni Association one-year
memberships-Sign up at Grad Fair on March 10-11,
ticket pickup April 26-28, or at
umalumni.com/freegradmembership.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

01

For details and registration information, visit www.umalumni.com/students or www.facebook.com/AAUMstudents.
* By texting "UMSTUDENTS" to 41411, you'll join our Ready to Launch text group that will last through April 19. You will receive text messages through 4/16 related to this program only. After April 19, the group will be deleted.
Standard text messaging rates apply.

I.



* The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 11, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
MARQUETTE, Mich.
*Michigan Bishop up
for canonization
The Catholic Church is taking
a step toward canonizing Bishop
Frederic Baraga (BARE'-uh-guh),
who converted Indians in the upper
Great Lakes region to Christianity
inthe 1800s.
The Catholic Diocese of Mar-
quette announced an investigation
yesterday of whether a possible
medical miracle in 2006 should be
attributed to Baraga's intercession.
Bishop Alexander K. Sample tells
The Mining Journal of Marquette if
a tribunal verifies the miracle, Bish-
op will get the title "Blessed." To
be declared a saint, he'd have to be
credited with a second posthumous
miracle.
Baraga is known as the "snow-
shoe priest." He spent 23 years
among Indians and settlers on
Lakes Michigan and Superior and
became the Marquette diocese's
firstbishop in 1857.
LOS ANGELES
Postal worker
reassigned after sex
crime conviction
A letter carrier who is a regis-
tered sex offender has been reas-
signed after concerns were raised
that he was delivering mail in a San
Diego suburb with many children,
a Postal Service spokeswoman said
yesterday.
Dana Kennette, 53, is now in a job
that does not deal with the public,
service spokeswoman Eva Jack-
son said. "We've taken him off his
route," she said.
Kennette had been delivering
mail in the Rancho Bernardo area of
San Diego, where he lives.
According to the Megan's Law
Web site, he was convicted of lewd
or lascivious acts on a child under
14. The circumstances, location and
date of the offense were not listed. A
request for background on the case
was pending with the state Depart-
ment of Corrections and Rehabilita-
tion.
JACKSON, Miss.
Girl's demand to
take girlfriend as
date cancels prom
The prom's off at a northern Mis-
sissippi school after a lesbian stu-
dent demanded she be allowed to
bring her girlfriend.
The American Civil Liber-
ties Union had demanded that
the Itawamba County school dis-
trict allow 18-year-old Constance
* McMillen to attend with her date.
A school board statement yester-
day announced the district wouldn't
host the April 2 prom at Itawamba
CountyAgricultural High School.
McMillen wanted to escort her
girlfriend, who is also a student.
McMillen also was denied permis-
sion to wear atuxedo.
A school district policy requires
that dates be of the opposite sex.
The district's statement never
mentioned McMillen's request. But

officials said the change was made
due to recent distractions. District
officials say they hope private citi-
zens will host aprom.
HAVANA, Cuba
* Cuba to endorse
future sex changes
Looking in the mirror used to
make Yiliam Gonzalez sick to her
stomach.
"t would see myself, and mybody
didn't match who I was," said the
28-year-old wedding pianist, who
went by William before receiving a
sex change under Cuba's universal
health care system.
Gonzalez is livingproofofasmall
but remarkable transformation for
the rugged revolution of Fidel Cas-
tro, CheGuevara and a band of ever-
macho, bearded rebels, who long
punished gays and transsexuals -
but now are paying for sex changes.
Standing six feet (183 centime-
ters) tall, with shoulder-lengthblond
hair, heavy makeup and an ID card
still bearing a man's name, Gonzalez
underwent the procedure in 2008.
She was one of eight Cubans to do
so through a program begun in 1988
- then suspended for two decades,
after many complained the commu-
nist government had better ways to
spend its scarce resources.
The operations have begun
anew under President Raul Cas-
tro's daughter Mariela, Cuba's top
gay-rights activist, and 22 more
transsexuals are waiting to have it
performed.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Reports of Prius
problems climb

NEW YORK (AP) - Reports of
sudden acceleration in the Toyota
Prius have spiked across the coun-
try. But that doesn't mean there's
an epidemic of bad gas pedals in
the popular hybrid.
Experts on consumer psy-
chology say the relentless nega-
tive media attention Toyota has
received since the fall makes it
much more likely that drivers will
mistake anything unexpected
- or even a misplaced foot - for
actual danger.
"When people expectproblems,
they're more likely to find them,"
said Lars Perner, a professor of
clinical marketing at Marshall
School of Business at University of
Southern California.
In just the first 10 weeks of this

year, 272 complaints have been
filed nationwide for speed control
problems with the Prius, accord-
ing to an Associated Press analysis
of unverified complaints received
by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration.
By comparison, only 74 com-
plaints were filed in all of last
year, and just eight the year
before that.
For problems with the brakes,
rather than the gas, the figures
are even more stark: 1,816 filed so
far this year versus just 90 in all of
2009 and fewer than 20 in every
other year of the last decade. Toy-
ota recalled 440,000 Priuses on
Feb. 8 because its antilock brakes
seemed to fail momentarily on
bumpy roads.

Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, president of Somalia's Transitional Federal Government, talks during a news conference in central
London, yesterday where he was seeking support for his government.
Food aid unseen by
starved Somalians

-tai t8x
off
500/
H,-,,
CheP-T

U.
hal
rec
UNI
to half1
million
lia is b
tractor
and lo(
to a U.
The
on imi
the U.
the Afr
plague
tarian
decade
lomat.'
dition
report
It ca
eral Ba
indepe
Rome-
tion in
Bec
Somali
bags o
manne
militia
Kidnaj
comm(
it diffia
to trav
on p
couldE

NT. study reveals people they are probing to provide
protection.
f of aid is being The U.N. diplomat told The
Associated Press that "a signifi-
eived by crooked cant diversion" of food delivered
by the U.N. food program is going
contractors to cartels that were selling it ille-.
gally, according to the report by
ITED NATIONS (AP) -Up the panel of experts monitoring
the food aid intended for the U.N. sanctions against Somalia.
as ofhungry people in Soma- The findings were first report-
eing diverted to corruptcon- ed by The New York Times on
s, radical Islamic militants Tuesday.
cal U.N. workers, according Although WFP contracts are
N. Security Council report. supposed to be subject to open
report blames the problem tender and competitive bidding,
proper food distribution by "in practice the system offers little
N. World Food Program in or no scope for genuine competi-
ican nation, which has been tion," the diplomat quoted the
d by fighting and humani- report as saying.
suffering for nearly two The transportation contracts,
s, according to a U.N. dip- with a budget of $200 million,
The diplomat spoke on con- constitute the single most impor-
of anonymity because the tant source of revenue in Somalia,
has not yet been released. the diplomat quoted the report as
als on U.N. Secretary-Gen- saying.
an Ki-moon to authorize an "Preliminary investigations by
ndent investigation of the the monitoring group indicate the
based food agency's opera- existence of a de facto cartel char-
Somalia. acterized by irregular procedures
ause of the instability in in the awarding of contracts by the
ia, transporters must truck WFP Somalia Country Office, dis-
f food through roadblocks criminatory practices, and prefer-
d by a bewildering array of ential treatment," the report was
s, insurgents and bandits. quoted as saying.
ppings and executions are "On account of their con-
on and the insecurity makes tracts with WFP, these men have
cult for senior U.N. officials become some of the wealthiest in
el to the country to check Somalia," it was quoted as saying.
rocedures. Investigators Some 3.7 million people in
end up relying on the same Somalia - nearly half of the pop-

ulation - need aid. Earlier this
year, the country's main extrem-
ist Islamic group, al-Shabab, said
it would prohibit WFP from dis-
tributing food in areas under its
control because it says the food
undercuts farmers sellingrecently
harvested crops.
Omar Jamal, first secretary for
Somalia's U.N. Mission, told the
AP yesterday that the problem is
"the absence of law and order."
"Radicals, al-Shabab have to
eat. And ever wonder where their
foods come from? Of course, from
WFP and UNDP," said Jamal, also
referring to the U.N. Development
Program. "Empower the Somali
government to deal with corrupt
contractors, Islamists and war
profiteers awash in the country."
Al-Shabab also accused the
agency of handing out food unfit
for human consumption and of
secretly supporting "apostates," or
those who have renounced Islam.
According to the report, al-
Shabab controls 95 percent of
WFP's areas of operation, the dip-
lomat said.
It said Somalis with WFP con-
tracts are not only diverting aid
but sharing in the proceeds.
Approximately 30 percent of
the food goes to the distribu-
tors or "implementing partners,"
between 5 and 10 percent goes to
the armed group in control of the
area, and 10 percent to the ground
transporter, the diplomat quoted
the report as saying.

Are You Considering a Career in Health?
Consider the advantages of earning a
Master of Public Health (MPH) degree at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is offering
an exciting opportunity to become a public health professional
specializing in the prevention and control of disease,
particularly chronic disease.
Health and health-related industries are among the fastest-
growing in the nation, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, and those holding Master of Public Health degrees are
needed in a wide variety of health careers.
Our MPH degree provides intensive education and training in
public health approaches to prevention. Applications are now
being accepted for the MPH program's Fall 2010 semester. For
more information, visit our website:

The Department of Communication Studies
The Howard R. Marsh Center
present a lecture by
PROFESSOR NoJIN KWAK
2007-2010 Howeard R. Marsh Distinguished Research Fellow
SoFT NEWS AND POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT:
EXPLORING THE ROLE OF LATE NIGHT AND
COMEDY SiHOWS IN POLICY ASSESSMENT
AND CANDIDATE EVALUATIONS
Friday, March 12, 2010
Reception 4:30 pm - Lecture 5:00 pm
Room 1230, Undergraduate Science Building
204 Washtenaw Avenue/Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2215
Contact the Department of Communication Studies
(734-764-0423) for more information.
WE'R E
HIRING.
APPLY ONLINE by MARCH 19th
www.umich.edu/info
Information
Centers
Michigan Union & Pierpont Commons " (7341 764-INFO

www.mph.illinois.edu


4A - Thursday, March 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynatd St.
E ,. Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tathedaily@umich.edu

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Michigan's safe bet
Voters should support casino ballot initiatives

Everyone knows Lindsay, like Cher or Madonna.
- Dina Lohan, the mother of Lindsay Lohan, commenting on her daughter's lawsuit against
E-Trade, as reported yesterday by the New York Post.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKtSLOW aUMICH.EDU
So, if Ispin the Cube at 11 I jusewant tu see my Sprng They have ISype fur that
sa p,
e
*- 0

0

Michigan voters should put their money on gambling.
On Feb. 26, the Board of State Canvassers approved
'petitions for two ballot initiatives to increase the
number of casinos allowed in the state. But this is just the first
step: More than 300,000 voter signatures are required for each
initiative before either one can even be put on this November's
ballot. Increased gambling has the potential help boost the state's
economy by creating jobs and revenue that could be used to fund
important endeavors like the Michigan Promise Scholarship.
Voters should overlook outdated moral prejudices and embrace
these proposals.

A platform offear

State law requires that any growth of
gambling must be passed in both a state-
wid and local vote. According to a Feb.
26 Detroit News report, the first proposal,
backed by the Michigan is Yours orga-
nization, authorizes seven new casinos
located in Benton Harbor, Detroit, Flint,
Lansing, Muskegon and Romulus and puts
slot machines at the Detroit Metropolitan
Airport. The second, which is sponsored
by Racing to Save Michigan, permits eight
new casinos statewide, five of which would
be at Michigan horse racing tracks. There
are currently 22 casinos in Michigan.
Adoption of these proposals would result
in substantial economic benefits for Michi-
gan. The state could collect wagering taxes
- set at 19 percent in the Michigan Is Yours
proposal - that could be used to supple-
ment the current state budget and pay for
vital programs. The proposal suggests
using the revenue to pay for the recently
cut Michigan Promise Scholarship, adver-
tise tourism in Michigan and help local
governments where the new casinos are
built. Considering the impact the recession
has had on the state, additional funds from
any source must be readily welcomed.
Efforts to increase gambling often face
moralistic opposition. But morality is sub-

jective. And it isn't the place of one group
of people to press their ideas about moral-
ity on society as a whole. It's certainly not
the place of the state to determine what
behavior is or isn't moral. And legislation
certainly shouldn't be tailored or limited to
a specific set of beliefs. Moral battles don't
have a place in the current debate, espe-
cially considering the potential economic
benefits these initiatives could provide.
But if these proposals are to become
law, it is important that they become well-
written laws. Ballot initiatives have often
included nebulous wording that has led to
confusion in regards to their implementa-
tion. For instance, the incomplete wording
of the November 2008 ballot initiative that
legalized the use of medical marijuana in
the state didn't fully define the the logis-
tics of legalization. To make the initiative a
viable effort to boost Michigan's economy,
its language must be clearly codified and
avoid the plague of logistical problems
with its potential passage.
In Michigan's current financial climate,
any potential sources of economic respite
must be explored. The two proposals to
expand the gaming industry in Michigan
should be supported by voters and put on
the ballot this November.

n the face of political scandals
and nasty partisan immatu-
rity, Americans are no longer so
astonished when
they hear of some-
thing devious in
the political world.
Weshake our heads
at the news that a
politician has had
an affair or taken a
bribe, but we don't
lose sleep over it.
Congressmen went MATTHEW
to the Caribbean
on a corporate tab? GREEN
Quelle surprise. So
when Politico.com
published a con-
troversial fundraising guide by the
Republican National Committee last
week that instructed fundraisers to
play on donors' fear, I wasn't all that
taken aback. Politics, we all know, can
be a dirty game. But while it's well-
known that fear is often manipulat-
ed politically, I was startled by how
blunt the RNC was (if only amongst
insiders) about its use of fear in fund-
raising.
As reported by Politico, the guide
instructed fundraisers to focus on
"fear" and call to "reactionary"
inclinations when soliciting smaller
donors. It included caricatures of
President Barack Obama as the Joker
from Batman and of House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) as Cruella
DeVille. And it craftily stated that
when all else fails, fundraisers ought
to remind donors that the GOP is try-
ing to "save the country from Social-
ism!" In doing so, the RNC evidently
hoped to use fear to inculcate a sense
of urgency in potential donors.
Historically, this may be what con-
servative groups do best. In the last

century, social conservative move-
ments have encouraged fear of immi-
grants, communists, gays, terrorism
and socialism, amongst innumer-
able other groups and isms, within
the contemporary national psyche.
Luckily, for the educated mind, said
manipulation is easy to spot. Often
when they use the definite article,
for instance - "the gays," "the Mexi-
cans" - they are trying to make us
versus them distinctions and create
an artificial social menace against
whom they can campaign. In this
way, entirely too many social conser-
vatives have managed to get elected
while avoiding any truly relevant dis-
cussion of policy.
Keep in mind that the Republicans
don't seem at all afraid of the Chris-
tian fundamentalist minority that
has pervaded our politics in recent
decades. But that's another column
entirely.
I don't want to suggest that Dem-
ocrats don't occasionally use scare
tactics. Some would say the left has
manipulated global warming to
instill fear in Americans. But then
again, there hasn't yet been a sedition
act imposed against IHummer driv-
ers. And though the War on Terror
may be all about oil, our troops aren't
fighting Exxon Mobil in Afghanistan.
After September 11th, it was easy
for Republicans in power to use fear
to their advantage. The nation was,
understandably, living in fear of ter-
rorism. But rather than speaking softly
and carrying a big stickto calm Ameri-
cans, as a different sort of Republican
might've advised, the Bush admin-
istration capitalized on public fear
to garner votes. By now, that story of
President George W. Bush's manipula-
tion of terror is a tired narrative. Yet it's
crucial to recognize that he was able to

do it because he evoked the social con-
servative precept of mistrusting those
who are different.
GOP shouldn't rely
on scare tactics *
to gain votes.
A slight uneasiness around the
unfamiliar may be inherent in all of
us. But we mustbe awareof the extent
of such biases when listening to poli-
ticians who will exploit our subtlest
inclinations to gain popularity.
Manipulation has no place in real,
scholarly political dialogue. At the
University, regardless of political
ideology, all of us have the intellectu-
al imperative not to give credence to
those politicians who would have us
vote with our amygdalae and not our
frontal lobes. Conservatives should
demand more levelheaded discourse
and campaigning from their leaders.
And liberals should continue to do
the same, though they already have a
head start. Because there are so many
points of disagreement, almost every
American would agree on a Beltway
that wasn't so obsessed with manipu-
lating our anxieties.
I'm already anxious as it is. And,
I'll admit, I have a whole host of fears.
But even if I were trapped in a dark
basement filled with spiders and Karl
Rove was threatening to force-feed
me eggnog, I wouldn't be as afraid as
I am at the thought of another era of
fear-driven politics.
- Matthew Green can be
reached at greenmat@umich.edu

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Don't generalize race of underprivileged areas."
underprivileged studentsohua Wicks
Staff
TO THE DAILY: Cost MSA w s . is a
While I agree with most of Brittany Smith's of A website
Wednesday column, her assertion that-"there big waste o fstudent funds
is a real, ongoing and ever-growing achieve-
ment gap between students of color in
underprivileged areas and privileged white TO THE DAILY:
students" indicates a motive that I consider to The Michigan Vision Party campaigned last
be anything but altruistic (Education shouldn't year on the platform thatit would transform the
be a crapshoot, 3/10/10). A more accurate view Michigan Student Assembly. I remember seeing
of the problem is that there is a real, ongoing its big green V out on the Diag and hoping its
and ever-growing achievement gap between all members could do something with MSA, or at
students in underprivileged areas and all stu- least not screw things up. In fact, I even voted
dents in privileged areas. for a handful of its candidates.
To state the problem as Smith does, seems to Then, Tuesday, Engineering senior Abhishek
suggest, at best, that the only underprivileged Mahanti, MSA's president, revealed that the
students that matter are black. At worst, it would recently updated MSA website had cost $9,000
seem to suggest that a solution to the problem (MSA website $6,000 over budget, 03/10/2010).
has as much to do with race as it does with When I heard this I was absolutely astounded.
socioeconomic status. My concern is heightened Nine. Thousand. Dollars. That is enough money
by the fact that Bob Moses, the leader of The to send 10 Alternative Spring Break groups on
Algebra Group - which Smith touts as helping trips or purchase 50 sets of University of Michi-
to solve the problem - sees the current system gan football tickets. As Mahanti himself put it,
as a "blatant display of Jim Crow." Really? "the site that was created over the latter part of
Am I to assume that only black students live 2009 did not function as well as it should have
in underprivileged areas? Am I to assume that and it cost us $9,000 to make."
white students only live in privileged areas? This was an abuse of the money and the trust
To do so would be to conclude that poverty is every student places in his or her assembly. It
merely a function of race. If that were the case, shows a complete failure on behalf of MSA, MVP
I would not expect to see any black children in and ultimately Mahanti himself. How could the
Grosse Pointe schools or any white children president of MSA, or anybody else who had any
in poorer Detroit schools. That is not the case. part in the site, ever think the result could be
Using race to disparage the current system of acceptable?
schooling ignores the hardships of many chil- Furthermore, I remember MVP campaigning
dren to which cries of "Jim Crow" do not apply. on this very issue last spring, making the web-
I understand that the majority of children site among its foremost goals. Its initial vision
suffering inadequate education are black, but seems to have been clouded by a severe lack of
let's not use race as a factor or justification oversight and leadership and now, nearly a year
when finding a solution. That's where the dif- later, students like me are left paying the price
ference between Smith and me lies: She seems for its mistakes.
to care about "students of color in underprivi-
leged areas" because they are "students of Vikram Ivatury
color." I care about them because they're "in Engineeringjunior
The Daily is looking for diverse, passionate, strong
student writers to join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members
are responsible for discussing and writing the editorials that
appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

JORDAN BIRNHOLTZ|
I don't take thee, government

A little more than a decade ago, public support for
same-sex marriage was virtually non-existent. The 1996
Defense of Marriage Act, which defined marriage as a
union between a man and woman, passed in the U.S. Sen-
ate with an 85-14 vote. Since then, attitudes toward the
subject have changed dramatically. It's time to recognize
this shift, but not by legalizing same-sex marriage on the
federal or state level. Marriage is a religious institution,
not a civil one, and the federal government should abolish
legal recognition of it accordingly.
The pious right often protests that marriage is a holy
covenant between a man and a woman. It argues that gay
marriage would violate and threaten a sacred institution.
While I certainly don't believe it would, one can under-
stand the right's perspective on this matter. Rather than
force it by law to accept the equal status of other human
beings, we should simply remove the question. One can't
challenge gay marriage if there is no official recognition
of marriage at all.
Marriage is an institution that should be sanctified
by a higher power - not the federal government. Yet it's
used by the courts to resolve questions of tax dependency,
health benefits, visitation rights and custody. These very
tangible things are what some same-sex couples often
seek through gay marriage. It shouldn't be this way. Writ-
ing for the online publication Slate in 2003, Michael Kin-
sley argued that "marriage functions as...a 'bright line"'
for the legal system. In essence, grappling with tough
legal questions like the ones above without the institution
of marriage will mean a more equitable arrangement of
rights and benefits.
Many people who support civil unions for same-sex
couples don't support same-sex marriage. They consider
marriage tobe a traditional religious covenant between a
male and a female. Yet they still feel gay and lesbian cou-

ples should receive the legal benefits accorded to married
couples. But to say that marriages and civil unions both
bear the same legal rights, and yet to continue to distin-
guish between them, would be to operate under a separate
but equal pretense. And since the doctrine of separate but
equal was deemed unconstitutional in Brown v. Board of
Education, civil unions would be essentially unconstitu-
tional.
The debate over same-sex marriage is cited by many
politicians as part of an alleged "culture war" that domi-
nates contemporary electoral discourse. This debate
wastes the valuable breath of our politicians. Rather than
address serious problems, such as unemployment, prolific
budgetary waste, inflation and drug policy, they pontifi-
cate about morality and virtue. Many politicians prefer
this state of affairs. This is because they don't actually .
need to posit solutions to voters to obtain votes but only
need to promise that they will fight the supposed "gay
agenda." If we abolish marriage as a federal institution,
we'll take the steam out of these distracting politics of
fear.
This isn't meant as an attack on marriage, and it's not
a simplistically libertarian critique of government inter-
cession in private life. But there's no reason for the feder-
al government to officially recognize the practice. It's not
the best way to determine child custody, the allocation of
health care benefits or much else. The war over same-sex
marriage has been hijacked from a plea for human rights
to a political sideshow meant to sate an anxious public
in a time of social uncertainty. The federal government
shouldn't involve itself in an institution that is both reli-
gious and deeply personal. Let marriage be what it is - a
formal declaration of love and faith, not a tax break,
Jordan Birnholtz is an LSA freshman.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 11, 2010 - 5A

Inconsistency makes Big Ten
Tourney a mystery for Blue

Kampfer looks to
continue career
year against MSU

Wolverines will take
on Iowa in first-
round matchup today
By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editor
It's hard for fans to be confident
about anything about the
Michigan men's basketball team
this season, including the result
of the Wolverines' game against
Iowa in the first round of the Big
Ten Tournament
today in
Indianapolis.
When they Michigan
seem like they're Matchup: lowa
on a roll, they lay 10-21; Michi-
an egg (the home gan 14-16
loss to Penn State
after consecutive 2:30 p.m.
road wins
against Iowa Where:
and Minnesota Cose
comes to mind).
When they seem TV/Radio:
like they're down ESPN2
and out, they get
a big win (the recent blowout win
at home against Minnesota on
senior night after losing three
straight).
But despite all of the
inconsistency, and despite the
most recent loss at Michigan State
on Sunday - probably the most
uninspired game the Wolverines
have played in a season full of
them - Michigan coach John
Beilein is still confident about one
thing:
"We've bounced back after
some very disappointing losses
this year," Beilein said. "I'm not
going to go into this confident of
an NCAA Tourney bid -- we go in
confident we're going to play hard
every night."
It should be a reasonable
expectation of a team whose next
loss represents the end of the
season.
Beilein has already publicly

ruled out the College Basketball
Invitational, a 16-team
tournament played at on-campus
sites and for which teams must
pay a fee to play.
And the National Invitational
Tournament appears to be a
longshot.
Despite the NIT changing
the rules in 2006 to allow teams
with records below .500, no team
below .500 has ever made it.
"I know it's much more difficult
to get to the NIT than it was years
ago. Any BCS school that had a
pretty good record was usually
going to go," Beilein said. "The
NCAA selects it now, and there's
a lot of good schools that have had
better years than us."
The Wolverines will start their
"new season," as they choose
to look at it, at 2:30 p.m. today
against Iowa. Michigan has
already beaten the Hawkeyes
twice this year - in a blowout
at Crisler and a nail-biter in Des
Moines.
In the second meeting, which
the Wolverines won in overtime,
Hawkeye forward Aaron Fuller
had a tremendous game, scoring
30 points on an incredibly
efficient 13 shots.
At 6-foot-6, he occupies that
forward spot where Michigan is
so undersized. In today's game,
sophomore Zack Novak, who's
used to handling players much
taller, will most likely be checking
him.
"He's that rugged four-man
that we've had trouble matching
up with," Beilein said. "He plays
much bigger than 6-6 because he
just really gets to the rim with
or without the ball. He's been
difficult for us."
Despite this being the third
meeting between the teams,
Beilein said there will definitely
be some new wrinkles he hasn't
seen yet on film.
"There's always surprises,"
Beilein said. "There's always
going to be new looks and new

St
ope
on
Plus
essaril
hocke3
partic
fortun
to be c
agains
For
man S
wasn'
career
Saturd
State.
But
aboutI
"Ob
game
that it
said."
way a
you m
nights
lucky1
win."
Acc
Red B
his be
and blI
In I
the Ja
a car(
the to
with
the d
goal,
ened
power
wayst
traffic
"Th
year s
tried
and le
I thin

mmers's injury defensively as of late, and it's been
getting my offensive numbers up.
ns leadership spot obviously, when you're out there
you want to be a plus."
'D for Kampfer Heading into this weekend's
best-of-three CCHA quarterfinal
By MARK BURNS series at Michigan State, Kamp-
Daily SportsEditor fer's minutes could potentially
increase with the loss of senior
s-minus ratings don't nec- defenseman Chris Summers to
ly tell the whole story of a what Berenson is calling a lower
y player's performance - a body injury. Kampfer emphasized
ular individual may just be how the team will have to lock
ate or unfortunate enough down even more defensively with
in the ice for a goal or a goal the loss of the Phoenix Coyote
t. draftee.
Michigan hockey defense- Throughout the season, the
teve Kampfer, that certainly team has coughed up pucks in the
t the case after his second defensive zone, leading to point-
r plus-six rating this past blank opportunities for oppos-
lay against Lake Superior ing teams and has been victim
to a plethora of odd-man rushes
Kampfer remains modest as well, particularly against the
his career numbers. Spartans in previous matchups.
viously, at the end of the Berenson reiterated that if the
(on Saturday) you realize Wolverines can play "as close to
t's kind of fluky," Kampfer mistake-free hockey" defensively
"You get the bounces your and capitalize on its offensive
certain night. One night chances, the team will be in pretty
ight be minus two, but some decent shape.
you'll have a good night. It's And for Kampfer - who had
but you just want the team to to deal with on-the-ice issues last
season with the Spartans, when
ording to Michigan coach Andrew Conboy and Corey Tropp
erenson, Kampfer is having viciously attacked him - this
st season donning the maize series is his last hoorah against
ue. the intrastate rivals. After Michi-
his final year in Ann Arbor, gan lost three of four games to the
ckson native has registered Spartans this year, the Wolverines
eer-high 18 points and is will look toward Kampfer to head
am's top-rated defensemen the blueliners as they look to cap
a plus-12 line. He also leads a late-season CCHA playoff run
efensive corps in shots on with a berth in the CCHA semifi-
a testament to his height- nals next weekend.
level of involvement on the "I've seen him grow this year
r play, where he's found and take responsibility," Beren-
to get pucks on net through son said. "I've seen his game come
c. together with the puck and with-
is year has been my best out the puck. That's what college
;o far," Kampfer said. "I've should be about. You start here,
to focus more on defense and then - it's not always a per-
t that translate into offense. fect scenario - but you end up in
ik I've been playing solid the right place."

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
Junior Manny Harris, pictared here, strsled lasm weekend tagainst Michigan State
on Sanday, scoringijust four pnints on 1-for-il shoting frm the field.
things but you can't outfox McLimans and Jordan Morgan
yourself either, that's really have left Michigan with few scout
important." team players to speak of. Beilein
Should the Wolverines win, said freshman Eso Akunne and
they would play Ohio State at redshirt junior Anthony Wright
noon on Friday. have been playing at the forward
NOTES: Injuries to Blake and center spots in practice.


GARDASIL.
[Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent
(Types 6,11,16, and 18) Vacdine, Recombinant]
ITERESTE IN EMARDASIL?
EARDASIL IS WIDELY AVAILABLE AND MANY
PRIVATE INSURANCE PLANS* COVER IT.
TALK TO YOUR CAMPUS HEALTH CENTER OR
OTHER HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL.

You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs
to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088.


6A - Thursday, March 11, 2010

The Michigan Dailv - mithioanrlailv enm

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

4 ELEVEN LOF lS asl imited
spaces left for 2010-11. New building,
2 blocks from campus, walk to down-
town. Raesfrom $655, great views, el-
evators, HDTV, 10-ft ceilings, all utili-
ties at flat rate. Single bedrooms and
grad-only apartments avail.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!LG. RM., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For male. $325/mo. 845-399-9904.
1221 S. State #2
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
!!!!!!CENTRAL CAMPUS!!!!!!!!
APTS. AT UNBELIEVEABLE
SAVINGS
Discounted rates plus lots of extras
for free.
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
!AVAIL. SEPT. 325 E. Liberty. 2
bdrm. apt. with loft. Free heat &
wshr/dry, cable tv, internet. 769-8555.
**AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E. Lib-
erty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5 min
walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

www.varsitymanagement.com
4*Varsity
Management
625 Church St. (734)668-1100
Studios:
*331 Packard
room w/ shared kitchen & bth
*418 E. Washington
1st, 2nd, & 3rd floor avail
1-Bedrooms:
*801 W. Madison
Old West Side, quiet neighborhood
*1015 Vaughn
Perfect for Business or Law Schools
*521 Walnut
New furniture, CCRB so close
*418. Washington
Grad Student Haven
2-Bedrooms:
*1039 Baldwin
New kitchens, hardwood floors
*911 & 1001 S. Forest
Free wireless, great location
*1015 W. Huron
Just westofDowntown
*801W. Madison
Quiet, quiet, quiet, right on a bus route
*917 Packard
Tons of space forjust atittle money
*848Tappan
Location, location, & covered parking
*1015 Vaughn
Graduate studentsumust see
*515 Walnut
2bd : 2bthbi-levels, humongous
last one
3-Bedrooms:
*33t Catherine
Kerrytowna newinterior, gorgeous
*1506 Geddes
Only 1 left, so close to central campus
4-Bedrooms:
*1039 Baldwin
Hardwood floors,
high ceilings, enormous
*1346 Geddes
Perfect central loc, huge bi-level
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL: . 6
bdrm house. Price just , reduced.
$2,695 514 Lawrence**
2 bath, free high speed internet, easy ac-
cess to central campus, nursing, medi-
cal and dental schools. Dishwasher and
laundry. Parking available.
Call Campus Mgt a@ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
dtudio & 1
Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qiet & S ,cum' igh r n kxk frn m Campu
Cal BriaTom-sic
734-663-1530
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.

\ 3CiUBI' W -tlxi t ItNITIES
The Choice isYours!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ 1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Townhome
+ WIFI Ready.
+ AATA Bus Line
+ 24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible Lease Terms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
+ Pool& Sauna
+ Pets Welcome
+ Continental Breakfast every Wed.
+ Concierge Resident Service
+ Business Center
+ ShuttleVan to Downtown AA
+ Roommate Leases Available
+ Hospitality Apartment
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
o 734-663-7633
*Amenities Vary by Property
www.WoodburyGardens.com
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by March
3lst. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
rmertmnts vaiahlel

THE COURTYARDS

I

S P

PRE-LEASING FOR FALL
2010!
*WAIVED APP FEES!
*FREE RENT!
*PAID UTILITIES!

Have you heard the news?

*WASHER/DRYER INUf/NIT!


AFFORDABLE STUDENT
CO-OP HOUSING!
NoW Signing Contracts for:
Winter 2010 &
Fall/Winter 2010/2011
Itit r-Crmspcraisv
-$575/Month Includes: f:::scil (CC)
All meals, internet, parking, 344
social activities and utilities! wwwicc.coop

1
1f
2(
2
2:
2
2
2:
2:
3(
3
31
3,



Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 63 Canyon 32 See 58-Down 45 Song section
1 Perform high- perimeters 35 Scatterbrain 46 Hams are often
tech surgery on 64 Funny Foxx 36 Ideal seen on it
5 Crack, in a way conclusion? 47 _-sketer
9 Capital near DOWN 37 Capable of 50 iPod files
Casablanca 1 Uke a wedding change 51 High trains
4 Being aired planner's skills 38 Uncovered 53 Barcelona bears
5 Spydom name 2 Jungle crusher 39 Calisthenics 54 Strait-laced
6 Rial spender 3 Part-French, exercise 56 Wine-and-cassis
7 Mah-jongg part-Dutch isl. 43 Winter outerwear apdritif
pieces. e.g. 4 Decathlon's10 44 San Fernando 58 With 32-Down,
9Paul in the center S Top dog Volley self-proclaimed
square 6 In tiptop shape community 'wystifier"
0 ry to ra 1i00 7 "We - not ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
healer, maybe aone"
1 Pug's stat 8 Flower organ PAS REHAB S O D A S
3 Proofinitials 9 Caramel candy E L K O N A I R A V A S T
4 In a way brand T A E KIW O N D O L A N K Y
5 AFC North, e.g. 10'70s-'80s first E S P N S A N T A Z E N
1Place tdock daughter T O G O C O M R A D E
17 Demoition 11 "Macbeth" ghost TAIBABILONIA
supplies 12 Like vicuias
8 Notable 13 Project done toa U S C ROVE J U S
achievement tee T H A I R E S T A U R A N T S
0 Mean Amin 18Chinese menu E L 0 I N N O S L Y
1 'What .!:This generalT Y P E N N I N G T O N
stoun! 22 Whine J U D A I S M X I 1 1
3 Clavell's "- 25 Far from cordial A L E P A P P Y G R A Y
Pan" 26 Swa brand UNCA TIESCORES
4 Sie ofthe 28 Some advanced UNACRA P T OE P C R E
Beatles'last degs.
commercial 29Sushibarorder TRd A CE R E I N S D O R
cocert 31 '... for carol" xwordedtr~aolcom 011/1t0i

r
s
0

ww.Bartonbrook.comn, 734-665-5620
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
8 MONTH LEASES for fall. Two
houses to choose from: 7 bdnn for 8 at
S. University and Washtenaw, 6 bdrm
for 7- Mid S. Forest area. 734-260-4003
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
wenls! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorms),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.comn
~lp n*v<-r ity

*$300-700 FREE RENTI
*ON NORTH CAMPUS!
# +ytTHE
5T ' GENT : APA R: i.NTt
7 780 Broadway
734.994.6007
Sth ca g s n g o
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Otherrloca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 200:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus MgL4@ 734-634101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furmished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @/ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealyproperies.com
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW TO AUGUST
'10!!! Rooms / EFFICIENCY/ 1 Bed
avail. now. $450-$500 + elec. Near Ctrl
Campus. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FALL 2010 ! I bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768
RESENTST HE
Ogie Mssg e

SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?
Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
section on
APRIL 1ST!
Advertise in this section
by contact ing:.
(734) 764-0557
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm-
(suitable for 3) apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave.
Furn, disposal, dwshr, Indry, prkg.
Walkout balcony. $1100 + elec. 734-
662-7121 or email gpmiles@aolcom
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
420 5. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2200
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbeglobal.net or
visit www.msprop.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
I & 2 Bdm. aps.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email'for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 HillSt. 734-260-4003
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
o517/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilities
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icccoop
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!

FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Mainenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff.,1,2&3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-Spin, Sat &
San noon-4ptn. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartnents.net
MAY TO MAY Leases
3 Bedrooms "Park Plaza"
1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates
734-761-8000
primesh.com

Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts.with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
UofM Discountsf
STILL LOOKING FOR HOUSING
FOR FALL2010?
Lets make a deal. 715 Church- 1 & 2
bedroom apartments. Only a few left!!
Close to B School, 1 block from South
U, big rooms, lots of closets and stor-
age space, many built-ins, nice
kitchens, tiled bath w/ double sinks and
friendly landlord. Call Ann 320-1244
or visit our website
www.churchstretrentals.cow
SUBLETS
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a coin-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! S300 /day poten-
tial. No ep. nec., ra2ning provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan elefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Sdens apply @a
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
FREE PORTFOLIO ATTRACTIVE
girls needed for nude/semi nude pho-
tography. Flex hours & great pay! Must
be 18 for interview. Call: 734-678-
4181 or email georgedt/iprovide net
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
STUDENTPAYOUTSCOM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon4/iserv.net
YOUTH MINISTER SEARCH: First
Baptist Church of Ann Arbor (FBCA2)
seeks a half-time Youth Minister to de-
velop and oversee all FBCA2 min-
istries to junior high and high school
aged youth. See http://www.fbca2.org
SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
WORK ON MACKINAC lsland, this
summer - Make lifelong fiends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com
THE 2010 CANCER RESEARCH
SUMMER INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
As part of its Cancer Biology Training
Program, the University of Michigan
Comprehensive Cancer Center, in part
with funding from the National Insti-
tutes of Health (NIH) is providing expo-
sure to cancer research for highly moti-
vated and talented college undergradu-
ates. This program will provide the suc-
cessful applicants an opportuity to ex-
plore potential careers in the field of
cancer research. In keeping with the

tenrs of ethe NIH grant, we especially
encourage applicatioits from individu:-
als from populations that are currently
underrepresented in biomedical and be-
havioral research. The program is
aim d at studentsrwho are completing
their sophomore or junior undergradu-
ate year this spring.
The program will run for ten weeks,
June 7ih- August Jt, 40 hsrs/ week.
Students selected who do not currently
have U-M mentors will be matched
with an appropriate U-M faculty. Only
U.S. citizens or permanent resident
aliens are eligible to apply. Interns will
be paid $4,500 for the 10 week period.
Your application must be uploaded by
March 31 at the following site:
www.meancer.org/carsip
Questions? Contact Car Nosel at
enosel ,umich.edu
NANNY 9AM-5PM, M-F, for 2 school
aged girls in Novi, 6/21/10-end of Au-
gust. Non-smoker only. Must have own
transportation. $8.00 per hour.-
etorossiangmaiLcom.

91

*I

4008ffonesfeed
41 'A Hard Road to
Glory"author
42 Reading room
43 Likely to spread
disease
47 Suffer fm
48 Pilm in which
Woody Allen
voices Z
49 Polish off
c0 Fnlnd hnm

1 2 3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 18
17 1 19
20 21 22 23
24 25 26
27 28 2
30 3i 32 33

Du rap- oor nome
52 Victrola company 3B 3s63s
53 Surg. centers
54 Can opener 4o 41 42
55 Hose problems"
57 Metro access,
andoa hinti4the o at u4 0 1
circlud lettrt in
17-, 28-, 34- and 52 53 54
43-Across
591944 talian5
beachhead to81
60 Niagara River
feeder 52 63 4s
61 What avengers
ge2 sssy tt Atkisn s03/11/10c
62 Parasils, soy (i)010Tri~bane MediaServices, Inc. 0/11


9 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 11, 2010 - 7A

ON THE EDGE OF DISCOVERY

Former Detroit
city councilwoman
sentenced to three
years in prison

Engineering sophomore Alexandria Dulchavsky studies outside of Palmer Commons yesterday.

DEPRESSION
From Page 1A
"What you're doing is serving
as voices...and the voices need to
go back home and do things that
make a difference," Greden said.
The University Educational
Theater Company, led by director
Callie McKee, performed during
the conference's opening. Titled
"Invisible: Student Voices, Mental
Health, and the College Experi-
ence," the performance addressed
the stigmas attached to mental
health issues and the importance
of recognizing the prevalence of
depression.
The Heard, an organization
which aims to eliminate the stig-
ma related to mental health issues
and to promote an open discus-
sion surrounding mental health,
was also present at the confer-
ence.
FEAGIN
From Page 1A
ways and that he could benefit from
the forgiving provisions of the Hol-
mes Act.
While presiding over the court,
Brown encouraged Feagin to make
the best of his opportunity to erase
the serious drug charges from his
record through the youthful train-
ee process.
"The last thing I want to see is
you to fail here," Brown told Feagin.
In a set of interviews Feagin,
his mother Linda and his attorney
Nicholas Leydorf said they were
satisfied with the outcome of the
sentencing proceeding.
Leydorf said his main concern
coming into the sentencing was
ensuring that Feagin would be able
to leave the state of Michigan.
In order for Feagin - who now
plays football at Texas Southern
University - to be able to leave
Michigan, his probation must be
transferred to the jurisdiction he
moves to. But according to Leydorf,
Washtenaw County's probation
division has been uncooperative at
times in the probation transfer pro-
cedure.
During the sentencing, Ley-
dorf asked Brown to accelerate the
transfer process. Brown agreed to
do so, saying Feagin would be free
to leave the state upon payment of

Colleen Coffey, program man-
ager of The Heard, spoke to Uni-
versity students at one of the
conference's workshops. Coffey
said in an interview that the pur-
pose of her workshop is to edu-
cate students - about depression
and inspire them to bring mental
health to the forefront of the cam-
pus conversation.
About a quarter of college stu-
dents will be diagnosed with a
mental illness but all of them will
experience mental health issues
at some point in their lives, Cof-
fey said.
Coffey added that, over the
past 10 years, the number of col-
lege students with depression has
doubled and the number of stu-
dents who have expressed suicid-
al thoughts has tripled. She said
despite the trend, mental health
issues remain taboo.
"Most people don't understand
these issues, and what they don't

understand, they tend to stray
away from," she said.
At the workshop, Coffey told
students her own personal story
about depression. She said she
began to feel signs of the illness
when she was four years old and
by eighth grade she despised her
parents, stole her father's car and
fled to St. Louis as a result of the
disease.
Forced to repeat the eighth
grade at a boarding school, Coffey
said she began coping with her
depression through an eating dis-
order and was sent home before
her parents put her in a mental
hospital.
Coffey said she completed
high school, attended Belmont
University and acquired a mas-
ter's degree from Eastern Illi-
nois University. Throughout that
time she said she was in and out
of treatment and struggled with
episodes of depression during

her parents' divorce and a harsh
break up.
By sharing her story, Coffey
said she hoped to break down the
stigma that caused most students
to associate the term "mental
health" with people like Britney
Spears and Michael Jackson.
"The next time that you think
about mental health, I want you
to think about me...I am a doctoral
student, a good employee...a fully
functional member of society in
spite of the things I have gone
through," she said.
Coffey ended the workshop
with a dialogue on how to make
mental illness something stu-
dents at the University can feel
comfortable discussing.
"We are not just talking about
illnesses that are stigmatized,"
Coffey said. "We're talking about
people who mean something to
the world...who are missing out
on life."


Judge refuses to set
aside Monica
Conyers's guilty
plea for bribery
DETROIT (AP) - A former
Detroit city councilwoman was
sentenced to more than three
years in prison yesterday for brib-
ery after a federal judge refused
to set aside her guilty plea during
a stormy court hearing dominated
by a dispute over evidence of other
payoffs.
As guards cleared the packed
courtroom, Monica Conyers yelled
that she planned to appeal. The
wife of U.S. Rep. John Conyers,
D-Mich., wanted to withdraw her
guilty plea, suggesting she was
the victim of "badgering" last year
when she admitted taking cash
to support a Houston company's
sludge contract with the city.
But U.S. District Judge Avern
Cohn, reviewing a transcript of
the June hearing, said Conyers had
denied any coercion and voluntari-
ly pleaded guiltyto conspiracy.
Conyers, 45, is the biggest catch
so far in the FBI's wide-ranging
investigation of corruption in
Detroit city government. Nine
people have pleaded guilty, includ-
ing two former directors of the
downtown convention center, and
prosecutors have promised more
charges are coming.
"Bribery is a betrayalof trust,"
Cohn told Conyers after announc-
ing a 37-month prison term for her
"egregious" crime. She quit the
FINANCIAL AID
From Page 1A
from $4,731 to $5,350 in the past
two academic years.
Consistent with the national
trend, the number of Univer-
sity students that applied for Pell
Grants or was eligible for federal
aid also increased. Pamela Fowler,
executive financial aid director at
the University, said the number of
University students applying for
federal financial aid increased from
22,091 to 24,592 students.
Many University students who
had previously been denied finan-
cial aid asked the University's
Office of Financial Aid to reassess
their Free Application for Federal
Student Aid applications, Fowler
wrote in an e-mail interview. The
office, she wrote, experienced a
40-percent increase in the number
of students seeking reassessment
this year.
Echoing Kantrowitz's senti-
ments, Fowler wrote that more
students applied for financial aid
because of the recession, but added
that she expects the number of
applicants to taper for the next aca-
demic year.
"Our target freshman class size
for fall2010 is about the same as fall
2009, so the number of aid applica-
RESTAURANT
From Page 1A
"I don't know about that res-
taurant. I have never seen the
menu," Hong said. "Anyway, I
don't care because I just make
my own food, and that's it."
Entrees at Tian Chu include

marinated beef short ribs, spicy
seafood noodle soup and chick-
en katsu. Appetizers consist of
spring rolls, Korean-style sushi
and seafood pancakes, among
others.
Cui said she has a long history
of working at restaurants, add-
ing that she started working in
the food service industry at the
age of 10 when her parents ran a
Korean restaurant in China.
After she graduated from col-
lege, Cui and her family moved
to Hungary, where they spent
the next 15 years managing five
restaurants in Budapest.
In 2002, Cui moved to Ann
Arbor. After searching for the
perfect location to open a res-
taurant, Cui settled on East Wil-
liam Street to provide another
option for Asian cuisine for stu-
dents on campus.
"There aren't enough Korean
restaurants in the area," Cui
said. "I have a lot experience
with Korean cuisine, and I think
there is enough of a demand
from the students and those liv-
ing in Ann Arbor."

council after pleading guilty in
June.
Conyers'pleadealwaslimitedto
takingbribes to support a contract
with Synagro worth $47 million a
year. But the recent trial of her for-
mer aide, Sam Riddle, exposed a
series of alleged schemes involving
others making payoffs to do busi-
ness at city hall.
Prosecutors said Riddle and
Conyers collected $69,500 by
shaking people down and urged
Cohn to consider the alleged
crimes when sentencing her.
Defense lawyer Steve Fishman
firmly objected and demanded a
separate hearing.
Conyers declared, "I'm not
going to jail for something I didn't
do."
Cohn had handled the Riddle
trial and said he agreed with pros-
ecutors that the evidence was
relevant. Considering it in the sen-
tencing would have boosted Cony-
ers' guidelines and given the judge
justification to send her to prison
for as long as five years. But Cohn
changed his mind - and she got a
break.
"The sentence will be based
solely on conviction," Cohn said. -
Earlier this year, jurors at the
Riddle trial heard secretly taped
phone calls in which he and Cony-
ers discussed money,hbank deposits
and how to split cash.
In a November 2007 call, Cony-
ers told Riddle, "You'd better get
myloot."On another call,business-
man Rayford Jackson, who passed
bribes to Conyers for her sludge
vote, said, "You're my girl. Don't
forgetthat."
tions should be comparable to this
year," Fowler wrote in the e-mail.
To meet students' financial
needs, Fowler wrote that the Uni-
versity expanded its financial aid
budget, adding the funds raised by
the President's Donor Challenge,
led by University President Mary
Sue Coleman.
As part of her Donor's Challenge
campaign, Coleman said the Uni-
versity would match dollar for dol-
lar funds raised by the University's
Office of Development during the
Michigan Difference Campaign,
which ended in November 2008.
According to Fowler, Coleman's
campaign raised about $4 mil-
lion in need-based scholarships
for undergraduate students for the
current academic year.
For some students, the deci-
sion to enroll in the University was
heavily affected by the recession
and the amount of financial aid
available to them.
Business sophomore Mikhail
George said he received a scholar-
ship to help cover his tuition costs.
George added that he would not
have been able to attend the Uni-
versity without the funds awarded
by the scholarship.
"Thebad economyledtotougher
times, less money, so I had to con-
sider my debt when I graduate in
this bad economy," George said.
With Tian Chu only in its sec-
ond week, students have just
begun to discover the new res-
taurant in town. Cui said the
restaurant suffered from hav-
ing its grand opening during the
middle of the University's spring
break and that few customers
came in.
So far, the restaurant has

received mixed reviews from
students.
"I have had Korean food
before, and have been going to
Maru since the beginning of the
year," School of Music, Theater
& Dance junior Ed Grumeretz
said, adding the food was not as
good at Tian Chu. "I had the jap
chae and fried squid rolls, and it
was mediocre at best."
Though Tian Chu hasn't been
open long, Cui said she plans
to make several changes in the
coming days. She said she hopes
to put several more dishes on
the menu and add the bubble
tea drink, a favorite among stu-
dents. In addition, Cui said she
wants to have a karaoke station
at the restaurant in the near
future.
"We have been really busy
this past week getting settled
into the new restaurant, and it
is critical that we take care of
the most important things first,
which is the quality of the food,"
Cui said. "But now, we are look-
ing for new ways to enhance the
experience for customers."

TOREHAN SH ARMAN/Da
Justin Feagin's attorney Nicholas Leydorf (third from right) talks to Judge Archie Brown during Feagin's sentencing yesterday.

a few fees and filing of requisite
paperwork.
Leydorf said Feagin's lack of sup-
port in Michigan would have made
an elongated stay in the state diffi-
cult.
"He has no family up here
(in Michigan), no place to live.
I would have let him stay at my
place," Leydorf joked in an inter-
view. "But things worked out here
today."
Aside from his advocacy, Leydorf

credited an understanding judge
and cooperative prosecutors with
the favorable sentencing outcome.
Linda Feagin was similarly
relieved that this chapter of her
son's life could now be put behind
him. Her mother and sister passed
away this past Friday and Mon-
day respectively, and she said the
favorable outcome of her son's case
provided some much-appreciated
relief.
"It's been a tough period, but at

least this isbehind us now," she said
in an interview.
Feagin said he also looks for-
ward to moving ahead with his life.
While cautious about discussing
specific long-term plans, he said he
will continue to stay "loyal" to his
new team at Texas Southern Uni-
versity.
"There might be other cross-
roads," he said in an interview.
"But I'll deal with them when
they come."

f ;,

EARTH DAY
From Page 1A
to protecting our environment,"
Coleman is quoted in the release
as saying. "This year's Earth Day
activities are an opportune time
to reflect on the past four decades
and focus on solutions for the
future."
Earth Day, which is commemo-
rated on April 22 every year, was
born out of a massive teach-in at
the University in 1970, when more
than 15,000 people packed Crisler
Arena to learn about the environ-
ment. The event included several
notables like musician Gordon
Lightfoot, environmentalist
Barry Commoner, advocate Ralph
Nader and politician Edmund
Muskie.
As part of this year's festivi-
ties, a similar event - though on a
much smaller scale - will be held
at the Michigan League on March
25. The event is meant to high-
light several issues related to the
environment and to promote the
University's new sustainability
initiative. It will feature student-
moderated panels of industry
experts and faculty members.
In a separate press release
expected to be released this
morning, Prof. Don Scavia, who
serves as special counsel on sus-
tainability to Coleman and is also

the director of the Graham Envi-
ronmental Sustainability Insti-
tute, called the event a sign of the
value the University places on
sustainability.
"Our 40th Anniversary Earth
Day Teach-In provides a good
example of the University of
Michigan's strong commitment to
sustainability," Scavia is quoted
as saying. "Engaging the commu-
nity and building public aware-
ness at a local level is essential for
positive progress toward sustain-
ability on a global scale."
Many other events - more
than 30 in all - will take place
throughout the rest of the semes-
ter.
White House official John
Holdren, who serves as assistant
to the president for science and
technology, will also take part in
the University's Earth Day cel-
ebration - delivering the ninth
annual Peter M. Wege Lecture on
March 22. Holdren is expected to
discuss plans for the nearly $148
billion for federal research and
development President Barack
Obama set forth in his budget
proposal to Congress.
As part of the festivities, a
forum at the Ross School of Busi-
ness on how ethics and the econo-
my interact with the environment
will take place tomorrow.
In addition, an environment
fair on the Diag aimed at rais-

ing awareness of environmental
efforts on campus will be held
in early April and a BioBlitz - in
which students will work to iden-
tify as many species as possible
at Nichols Arboretum - will take
place on April 10.
On April 1, a sustainable fash-
ion show encouraging organic
and fair trade clothing purchas-
es will be held in the Michigan
Union.
LSA senior Matt Gacioch, who
has worked with officials to help
coordinate this year's Earth Day
events, said the fashion show is a
good example of how students can
lead more sustainable lifestyles.
"You don't need to go out and
buy really expensive, new clothes
or the expensive new clothes that
you buy can be more sustain-
able and more eco-conscious,"
Gacioch said.
Nancy Connell, director of
strategic communications for the
University, said other activities
on campus are being expanded to
increase awareness of environ-
mental issues. For instance, Uni-
versity Housing Residence Halls
have offered sustainable meals in
the past featuring food from local
vendors and this year University
officials are planning to expand
the practice.
"This year, instead of doing
only the residence halls, they will
also do it in the eating establish-

ments in the Union so that there's
a broader awareness," Connell
explained.
A full listing of events being
offered to the campus community
can be found on the University's
new Earth Day website that will
be launched later today.
University officials will also
be posting flyers and banners
across campus to promote the
series of Earth Day activities and
to encourage those on campus to
live more sustainable lifestyles.
Connell said the University's
decision to highlight environ-
mental sustainability fits nicely
with Coleman's new campus sus-
tainability initiative.
"When you look at the history
and then you look at the tie in to
U-M sustainability, it seemed nat-
ural that a way to do this would
be to make more of a celebration
out of Earth Day and to make it
not just an administrative-driven
or academic-driven thing, but to
bring the students in also," she
said.
Connell added that the cam-
pus events would serve two pur-
poses - to raise awareness, and
through that, to educate students
and members of the University
community.
"The more you understand why
you're doing something, the more
inclined you are toward doing it,"
Connell said.


8A - Thursday, March 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 9

'M' remains on bubble with NCAAs looming

Wolverines excited
for chance at out-of-
conference play
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Now it's waiting time.
It's been two years since the
Wolverines have seen the post-
season. And with NCAA Selection
Day just five days away, there is no
telling what this postseason will
hold.
Michigan (17-13 overall, 8-10
Big Ten) could be selected to the
NCAA Tournament - though the
likelihood of that is debatable. If
they don't make the field of the 64
best teams in the nation, they will
probably receive an at-large bid to
the Women's National Invitation
Tournament.
Either way, the Wolverines are
excited at the possibility to play
opponents from other conferenc-
es.
"I think our conference from
top to bottom is so tough, day in
and day out, that I think any one
of us would relish a chance to play
someone outside of it," Michigan

coach Kevin Borseth said follow-
ing the team's loss in the confer-
ence tournament. "We are waiting,
hoping that we get an opportunity
to do that."
The Wolverines completed the
regular season last week when
they lost to second seed Michigan
State 61-50 in the quarterfinals of
the Big Ten Tournament in India-
napolis.
A win over the Spartans would
have almost certainly secured
Michigan's spot in the NCAA
Tournament, but with the loss
they remain squarely on the bub-
ble.
Last year, five teams from the
Big Ten were selected to the NCAA
Tournament, the most since 2006.
Minnesota (20-12, 11-7 before
selection day last season) had the
worst record of the conference's
tournament teams.
And the Wolverines, with 17
wins on the season, are seventh
in the conference. But with five
possible bids in the conference
and only three teams - Ohio State,
Michigan State and Wisconsin -
sitting pretty going into selection
day, it is likely that either Michi-
gan, Iowa or Penn State will be
celebrating come Monday.

Any one of those teams has a they advanced to the third round *
decent chance of making the tour- of the tournament two years ago
nament. Michigan swept Iowa before losing to Michigan State in
early in the season before the East Lansing.
Hawkeyes found success to end "We (played at home) a couple
the season with 18 wins. Penn years ago," senior center Krista
State started strong before los- Phillips said. "We want to do
ing eight of their final nine regu- it again, to have a home-court
lar season games to end tying the advantage. We want to try to get a
Wolverines with 17 wins. The Nit- few more Ws before the season is
tany Lions split games with Michi- over."
gan this season. Though Borseth has seen just
one postseason appearance with
the Wolverines, he's no rookie to
"W e want to try the NCAA or WNIT. In his nine
years at Wisconsin-Green Bay, he
and get a few took his team to the NCAA Tour-
nament seven times and to the
more Ws before WNIT twice.
No matter which tournament@.
the season's over" they end up playing in, Borseth is
more than capable of succeeding
with such an inexperienced team -
But even a WNIT bid would be between all 13 players, just four of
an improvement for Michigan, a them have ever played a postseason
team that ended its season after game in their collegiate career.
a first-round loss in the Big Ten "(This year) is a lot differ-
Tournament last year. ent," sophomore forward Carmen
In the event of receiving a Reynolds said. "It's been a lot dif-
WNIT bid, Michigan will likely ferent. We are young, we have a lot
have a chance to play at home, of fun with each other and we get
something the Wolverines were along great so we are just looking
able to take advantage of in their forward to what we have in store
last postseason appearance when for the postseason."

Junior Veronica Hicks leads the Wolverines in scoring this season with 13 points per
game. Michigan sits on the bubble with NCAA Tourney selection on Monday.


Third Annual
Gramlich SHOWCASE WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 2010
of Student Work 4:00 - 6:oo P.M.
Joan and Sanford Weill Hall, ist and 2nd floors
735 South State Street, Ann Arbor, MI 48109
Poster session. Free and open to the public. Refreshments served.
join us as we highlight and celebrate the intellectual achievements of graduate and undergraduate students at the Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy.
Ford School faculty have nominated students for inclusion, and the posters on display will represent a wide range of
student work: from local issues to foreign policy, from social welfare policy to health care reform, from undergraduate
work to dissertation research. Students will be on hand to describe their projects and answer questions.
This annual event is named for long-time U-M faculty member and former Federal Reserve Board Governor Ned Gramlich,
as a tribute to his belief in and commitment to the value of a public policy education.
Details, call Jill at 734-6i-3893,. wwwfordschool.umich.edu Gerald R Ford
School of Public Policy
i s iUN VP RSITY OF MiCt )GAN

0

ARIELBoND/Daly
Junior Dorian Shaw leads the Wolverines in home runs this season with eight in 18
games of action. She also led the team last year with a total of 14.
Despite lengthy road
trip to start the season,
Michigan finds success

rT-

. ,
,
,,

Wolverines are 14-4
without playing a
home game in 2010
By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writer
It's an annual occurence for
the Michigan softball team. Every
year the Wolverines travel for
more than the first month of the
season as the Ann Arbor weather
remains uncertain.
This season, No. 7 Michigan
plays six straight weekends away
from home, with its home opener
finally coming on March 24.
But even with the challenges
that come with playing on the
road, the team has still seen a tre-
mendous amount of success.
Last year the Wolverines were
20-9 before they ever played in
Ann Arbor, and in the 2008 sea-
son Michigan went 29-3 during its
early-season road stretch.
And in 2010, a similar script is
being written. The Wolverines
(14-4) have played well early, led
by their two stud pitchers, junior
Jordan Taylor and senior Nikki
Nemitz.
The success is more impressive
when you consider the quality
of teams that Michigan gener-
ally plays before entering Big Ten
play. This season, the Wolverines
have had matchups against eight
top-20 teams already, winning
five.
"We practice indoors all year,"
junior first baseman Dorian Shaw
said after last week's win at Mis-
sissippi State. "When we go out
and beat a team that hasn't had to
practice indoors a single day all
season, I take pride in that. I have
to practice on rubber turf, with
a high ceiling and crazy lighting,
and we can still come out and
compete with you guys."
Though the results have been
favorable for Michigan, traveling
across the country every week
doesn't necessarily become easi-
er the longer you do it. At best, it

becomes tolerable - sort of.
"You don't even know what
day it is sometimes," Nemitz
said. "Having to get on buses and
planes, and driving here and flying
there, it kind of gets old and bor-
ing. But you just get used to it and
you know how to handle it."
Even for seniors like Nemitz,
the traveling can be grueling. But
for other upperclassmen like Shaw,
staying on top of her academics
presents the biggest challenge.
"That middle of the week when
you can only go to class two days,
three days in the week and then
you're gone again," she said. "I
think that that's the hardest part,
keeping up with everything, all of
your responsibilities, within the
three days that you're actually in
town."
. Every Big Ten team makes sim-
ilar sacrifices. West-coast schools
travel east to play relatively early
in the morning in the eastern
time zone. Even Southern schools
do quite a bit of traveling, con-
sidering the same schools aren't
hosting every early-season tour-
nament.
But with that said, Michigan
still faces a unique challenge
when you consider both the trav-
eling and the quality of the com-
petition.
"I don't think you ever really get
used to not being in your bed for
seven straight weekends," Shaw
said. "Although the travel, you
know, makes you a little bit weary
and you can't wait to play at home,
we understand that it's kind of a
necessary evil."
But getting away from Ann
Arbor might also allow the team 0
to concentrate simply on softball.
"Once we're out of town, it's
like softball is the only thing we
have to do," Shaw said. "We wake
up, we eat, we go hit, we go play,
we come back, we eat more. It's
kind of like being a professional
athlete."
The Wolverines continue their
road play in the Red and Black
Tournament in Louisville this
weekend.

Innovation Today for America's Tomorrow
imagination at work g .



.
L

',.
x
n {-
... r.... .. . _ _.

weekend
essentials
Mar. 11 to Mar. 14 '

The Michigan Daily ( michigandaily.com j Thursday, March 11, 2010

The Docent's

Dut

By Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen Daily Photo Editor

ur society is one of signs and
symbols. These discrete units
of meaning encompass much
more than just images, words,
gestures and sounds. At best,
they can only reveal to us the periphery of
truth, as the signs and symbols shift because
of varying cultural perspectives and an
emphasis on subjectivity.
Money is an example of our relationship
with symbols. A dime is noted to be worth 10
cents. This value is based on societal agree-
ment, not on the value of the coin's material.
The adapting meaning of these signs, alter-
ing our perception of a fixed reality, is ever
more present in a globalizing world. Truth
is an individual matter - people take on the
role of deriving meaning for themselves.
Our interpretations of literary works,
paintings and architecture become a more
intimate interaction. As symbols are per-
ceived differently, we draw new meanings
and values from them.
This trend is particularly prevalent in
the realm of museums. The interactive and
kinetic experiences - hands-on tools, art-
ist discussions, late-night exhibition parties,
etc. - amplify each artwork or artifact to a
new reality. Now we go to the museum not
just to see the artwork, but to have an expe-
rience. These events and spectacles take the
focus off the art and place it on the museum
as entertainment.
In the museum, the art and artifacts are
often made secondary, since anyone can
gain access to them online. We lose sight of
the material nature of art objects as they are
transcribed into digital space. Intricate pas-
sages of Malevich's Suprematist paintings
can be evaluated through MOMA's web-
site. t's digital zoom after digital zoom, in,
which passages of paint appear on luminous
screens.
In this world of full access, why even go to
the museum? Why are museums needed, and
how are they sustainable? In order to gener-
ate museum attendance, a spectacle must be
made. The museum starts to function like
a Disney World of sorts, creating a fantasy
environment for its patrons.
An initiator is needed for such an experi-
ence, and within the University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art, docents start to fill this
necessity.
* The docent identity
At UMMA, the docents are more than
just teachers and tour guides. Each docent
prompts communication, deriving conver-
sation material from his or her own per-
sonal yearning for information. The UMMA
docent team is-comprised of a diverse group
of individuals from the Ann Arbor communi-
ty. Some became docents after retiring from
elementary education or chemistry profes-
sorships, while others were artists working

in watercolor or textile productions.
Bert Ramsay, who just completed his
docent training this fall, worked as a chemis-
try professor at Eastern Michigan University.
His desire to get involved came from view-
ing the docent program as a new opportunity
with more freedom to explore.
"I've been retired for a number of years so
I was looking for a new career, so to speak,"
Ramsay said. "I've been lecturing in chemis-
try for many years, and there is not a lot of
learning in a lecture situation. Most learning
comes when you get involved - what I liked
(about being a docent) is that I didn't have to
know the lecture all the time. What I try to
do is get the kids involved."
While docents are traditionally viewed as
teachers within the gallery, Ramsay and his
peers have become active learners along-
side the patrons. The docents' and patrons'
shared inquiries into artwork's meaning and
form solidifies the museum experience.
The discourse between the patron and
the docent allows them to collectively sculpt
a meaning from a piece of artwork. The
docent's dialogue with the patrons provides a
more meaningful moment for both. This use
of the Socratic method enables the museum
guests to establish meaning for themselves,
though they are guided in the process.
Pat Glidewell, a UMMA docent since
2004, expressed a desire for docents to
enable museum guests to tease out their own
conclusions about the artwork.
"Many of the people in the (tour) group
can make their own connection to the work
of art," Glidewell said, "and that comes from
drawing themin, askingthem to look, getting
them tobe the discoverers of things and what
they see."
With the aid of a docent, each museum
guest can feel empowered here and now
without swimming through a sermon of for-
mal analysis and historical doctrine.
Guiding the new guides
Active learning is central, not only for the
patron and established docent, but also in the
docent training curriculum. Although the
docents are volunteers, the recruitment pro-
cess is a regimented one, demanding a team
of experienced docents along with members
of UMMA's education department. Together
this team works to advertise and draw poten-
tial docents in.
The UMMA education department and
the seasoned docents strive to find well suit-
ed individuals to take on the task. They inter-
view and screen candidates before inviting a
select few into the program. Once potential
docents are selected, they go through a two-
semester training program.
The training session is played out through
a series of lectures and gallery experiences,
mostly interactively based, occurring twice
See DOCENTS, Page 4B

CONCERT
This Saturday, Cel-
cius Electronics takes
the stage at the Blind
Pig. The Ann Arbor-
based group pumps
out space-age hip-hop
with an affinity for the
high-tech. The con-
cert is a benefit for
World Hunger Year,
an advocacy group
combating hunger
and poverty globally.
Doors are at 9:30 p.m.
$5 / under 21 $8.

AT UMMA
The Ark continues its
"mission to present
folk, roots and eth-
nic music to the Ann
Arbor community"
with this Friday's pre-
sentation of up-and-
coming artists at the
annual "The Ark at
UMMA," a live per-
formance showcase
of student singer-
songwriters. Talented
student musicians
have been selected
by The Ark's staff to
compete for a place to
perform as an opening
act at The Ark. Doors
are at 7:30 p.m. Free.

FILM
The second annual
Ann Arbor Palestine
Film Festival continues
tonight at the Michigan
Theater with 2009's
"Amreeka." Friday, it
moves to the Union
Ballroom for a show-
case of short films
and the comedy event
"ArabXpressions."
The festival concludes
Saturday evening
with a screening of
2010 Oscar Nominee
"Ajami" at UMMA.
Tickets prices vary
for each event, rang-
ing from free to $6.
I
LECTURE
Dr. Aida Yuen Wong,
associate professor of
fine arts at Brandeis
University, will give
a lecture on Sunday
at 3 p.m. in UMMA's
Helmut Stern Audito-
rium on the effects of
Western modernity
on traditional Chinese
art and the challenges
that arise in trying
to rectify these two
opposing styles. Pre-
sented in conjunction
with "Tradition Trans-
formed," UMMA's
temporary exhibition of
master painter Chang
Ku-nien's work.


2B - Thursday, March 11 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

FOOD WARS
ZINGERMAN'S NOODLES & CO.
Ierfectly cooked pasta with creamy, Mac and cheese is a simple dish and
fondue-like sauce and just a hint of two- Noodles's version of the American clas-
year old Vermont cheddar riding over sic is just that: simple and plain. You get
the whole dish? That's a hpll yes, friends. a heap of noodles smothered in creamy
And those Zingerman's wizards must cheese with a massive pile of grated jack
have taken a blow torch to the plate to and cheddar on top. After stirring it all
get that perfect, caramelized crust. Is ita together the pasta becomes too sticky for
bit expensive (with $2 more for requisite my taste. It's a good attempt, but doesn't
bacon)? Sure. Worth it? See for yourself. stack up against Kraft's Pokemon shapes.
MACARONI AND CHEESE
GRIZZLY PEAK THE BLUE TRACTOR
The mac and cheese is served to you The three-cheese mac and cheese
resemblingspiced, yellowlava. It's lumpy, served at one of Ann Arbor's few legiti-
bubbling hot and oozing with pungent mate BBQ establishments is big. Really
smells. But once it cools off, you can big. And kind of pricey. But you'd be hard-
immerse yourself in its goodness. While pressed to find a bowl of noodles any-
the pasta is well cooked and the cheese is where else that's quite as ooey-gooey or
generously applied, there isn't too strong fork-scrapingly delicious. The best part?
of a flavor kick. While still tasty, it's Definitely the generous layer of bread-
underwhelming compared to its look. crumb crust skimming the top.
AND THE WINNER IS: THE BLUE TRACTOR
CAMPUS CLASH
LAST WEEK'S RESULTS:
Rich Rodriguez walks onto the field, sure of his future employment and
carrying a vial of his crocodile tears. The NCAA, more of a concept than a
warrior, pervades the air, making Rodriguez feel wary, guilty and just gener-
ally uncomfortable. Rodriguez looks from side to side, worried he is being
watched by the omnipresent NCAA. The NCAA makes no moves, lulling
Rodriguez into a false sense of security. Rodriguez starts to work out when
BABAM! The NCAA kicks him in the face out of nowhere. The NCAA wins.
WINNER: THE NCAA

The Daily Arts weekly show
"Accost'd" continues with more
belligerent entertainment action.
To find out who your fellow
University fashionistas are
wearing, watch the stylish,
Hollywood-glamorous video at
michigandaily.com/section/arts.
Weekend Freebies
Because boredom doesn't end
when your cash flow does
Thursday, March11
9-Ball Tournaments
It's a chance to play pool, to free!
Union Billards Room, 6:30 p.m.
Friday, March12
Musicology Lectnre
Walter Frisch appreciates Arlene
fo tree!
202 S. Thayer, 5p.m.
Symphony Band Concert
Pretty music, fo free!
Hill Auditorium, 8p.m.
Saturday, March13
One Day Runway , y M
Watch a runway show and fashio \
competition! Fo free, of course!
Walgreen Drama Center Studio!1,
10:45 p.m.
Masters Recital: Stijn De Cock
Piano music, fo free!
Walgreen Drama Center, 8 p.m.

WHAT'S NEW
ON THE DAILY
ARTS BLOG
. Capturing brotherly
love on camera: Check out
oar photo slideshow ofTheAvett
Brothers in concertat the Michigan
Theater. Lose yourself in the psych-
adelic colors.
. Messing with the
Marmaduke: The anonymous
Joe Mathlete adds his own
explanations to the classic Mar-
maduke comic and turns the dog
into a total fucking badass.
* Eavesdropping on the
East Coast and burning on
the West Coast: In this week's
online diversions, read what those
zany New Yorkers are talking about,
then check in and make sure that
California hasn't burned down.

0

THIS WEEK'S FIGHT:
STEM THE MICHIGAN
CELLS V3SENATE
ARMED WITH: ARMED WITH:
The ability to grow into Incompetence, tailored
any weapon. Eventually. suits and steel gavels.

0I

Whether you're finishing your first term or looking
forward to graduation, summer sessions at the
University of Pittsburgh provide an exciting
opportunity to catch up on needed credits, stay
on track, or get ahead of schedule.
With more than 500 courses offered throughout
the 4-week, 6-week, 12-week, and 14-week
sessions, you choose the classes you want
at the times that fit around your busy schedule.
Best of all, summer sessions credits are
transferable to most colleges and universities

Smmer Study
In The Sun.
Advance your academic progress without giving up your summer.
Coastal Carolina University offers four flexible sessions for an array of
undergraduate, graduate and study abroad courses for both enrolled and
visiting students.The University's close proximity to the Myrtle Beach
resort area allows for serious study without giving up opportunities for
summer jobs and summer fun.
It's About You.
" Maymester (May 10 - June 3)
.Summerl (June7-July9)
. Summer 8-week (June 7 - July 27)
. Summer II (July 12- Aug. 13)
Richmond?
COASTAL C
CAROLINAreach
U-N._I.-V..E.R._SIT.Yo ,Coastal Carolina
www.coastal.edu/summerstudy t..
For more information Chston
e-mail summerstudy@coastal.edu

University of Pittsburgh
School of/ Irts and Sciences
Collcge of Generl - Studies



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 11, 2010 - 3B

Giving by the Fundred
How drawing your own money can help fix the
lead poisioning problem in New Orleans
By Emma Jeszke I Daily Arts Writer

The commoners'
red carpet

So lastSunday's was probably
the worst Oscar telecast I
have ever seen. And yes,

The inside of
Abercrombie & Fitch:

Right now in Ann Arbor, there's
a one-of-a-kind philanthropic
opportunity that requires par-
ticipants to open up their creative
minds instead of their wallets.
The event, entitled the Fundred
Dollar Bill Project, is a nation-
al fundraiser looking to collect
three million "fundreds," which
are "individual, unique artworks
(called fundreds) that look like
hundred dollar bills with all the
symbology removed and left to the
individual to create," according to
Mary Rubin, the project's director
of national affairs.
Fundreds drawn by students,
faculty and community members
in Ann Arbor are being gathered by
School of Art & Design Academic
Programs Assistant Brian Banks
until March 31, when an armored
truck will come to campus to col-
lect the illustrated donations.
This truck, which runs com-
pletely on vegetable oil, has been
traveling around the country, stop-
ping at collection centers and pick-
ing up the fake hundred dollar bills
designed by students and commu-
nity members. The truck will even-
tually make its way to Washington,
D.C., where the Fundred Dollar

Bill Project will ask Congress for
an even exchange - 3 million fun-
dred dollars for $300 million in
U.S. currency, all to be put toward
remediating lead levels in New
Orleans soil.
The Fundred Dollar Bill project
was started about two and a half
years ago by an artist named Mel
Chin, who was emotionally drained
after visiting post-Katrina New
Orleans.
"(The damage) was so much
that I felt inadequate to respond
as a creative individual," Chin
explained. "But because of that I
was compelled to return again and
again to do research, to find out
what we could do - what was pos-
sible and what was not possible."
During his time in New Orleans,
Chin and his team of researchers
were led to discover the issue of
lead contamination, how bad it was
in the city and the immense impact
it was having on the population -
especially children.
"I found out that it was not only
bad, but the second worst in the
entire country," Chin said. "Also, it
was a situation that had left 30 to 50
percent of the inner city childhood
population lead-poisoned. And this

k.
t

I know this is su
fashion col-
umn - but I
really need to
get this off my
chest; t was
so frustrated
Sunday night.
I knew
trouble was
a-brewing
when I saw
the nominees

pposed to be at isn't this store supposed to rep-
licate a Californiabeach house?
Are all beach houses overly pun-
gent perfumeries with tweeny
music pounding in the pitch-black
background? I have never bought
a single thing from Abercrombie
& Fitch and the sole reason is
that I'm too afraid to penetrate
JENNIFER its smoky interior to try on any-
xiu thing. I understand the concept
of making your store smell good,
but mixed marketing is just con-

MAX COLLINS
The randreds wil be picked sp by an armored car and presented to Congress.

was before the storm."
"I asked how much it would cost
to at least complete a transforma-
tion of the situation, which was a
big heavy figure - $300 million,"
Chin said. "But when I asked how
much was allocated to solve this
problem, and they said none, that's
where the project began."
The goal of Fundred is to raise
support for Operation Paydirt, the
implementation of the scientific
method developed for stabilizing
lead levels in New Orleans. The
method will neutralize lead levels
in the soil and turn the hazard-
ous material into a bio-unavailable
mineral that, if ingested by a child,

cannot be absorbed into the blood-
stream.
Rubin said there are 86,000
properties in New Orleans with
lead levels in the s il higher than
what the EPA de acceptable for
a child to have bac-hand contact
with. Lead con ination causes
many health iss which often
contribute to a m ber of serious
problems for c ren, including
decreased perf( -,ee in school,
juvenile delin, cy, Attention
Deficit Disorder an d violent crime.
"It stands to reason that if you
can remove one little environmen-
tal factor that coi tes to these
SeeFUN ED, Page 4B

for Best Actor and Actress lined
up on the stage like a collection
of venerated baseball cards. And
everything slid downhill from
there. The usually hilarious
Alec Baldwin and Steve Martin
fumbled through joke after joke
about Meryl Streep and "Avatar."
And at the end, Tom Hanks just
ripped into the envelope without
warning and was like, yeah, "The
Hurt Locker," taking all the sus-
pense out of the big reveal.
Anyway, what's actually per-
tinent to this column: the red
carpet. Cameron Diaz looked
shiny and delightful. Sandra
Bullock looked disgusting. (Actu-
ally, she looked fine but I can't
extricate myself from the horror
of her win.) Mo'Nique sported
a bizarre flower that chewed
up half her head. The theme of
the night seemed to be fantasy
prom dress, with stars like Miley
Cyrus, Amanda Seyfried and J.
Lo sporting floofy pastel-colored
gowns that poofed out when-
ever they walked. Zoe Saldana
was probably my favorite of the
bunch, donning a spectacular
Givenchy number with a glittery
silver bodice and a purple ombre
train that resembled a tree of

fusing. Are you pretending to be
a beach, a brothel or a nightclub?
It's a wonder to me how this store
ever did so well financially.
Why vintage clothes are
10 times more expensive
than secondhand:
First of all I'd like to preface
this thought with a confession
that I rarely do any secondhand
shopping. And I don't really
understand the concept of "vin-
tage." Walking into The Getup or
Star Vintage feels about the same
to me as a trip to the Salvation
Army, save the awesome Marilyn
Monroe posters and retro lights
looped around the walls. I know
that so-called specialists hunt
through mounds of garbage to
come out with this really neat
stuff, but seriously, you're going to
charge me more for this 20-year-
old sweater than a new one? I
like a unique find as much as the
next girl does, but I'm not will-
ing to shell out double the cash
for something I could find in my
mom's closet.
Artfully ripped jeans:

'Troy Duffy's journey from
the streets to the Saints'

By TIMOTHY RABB
Daily Arts Writer
Following a series of unfortunate delays due
to legal issues and other extenuating factors,
the long-anticipated film
"The Boondock Saints II: "The Boondock
All Saints Day" was final-
ly released last October. Saints" 10th
In spite of the 10-year An Sary
gap between the first
and second "Boondock" Event
movies, the cult follow- Today at 7:30 p.m.
ing remained steadfast Qality 1f
in devotion to vigilante
crime-fighters Connor
and Murphy MacManus (Sean Patrick Flanery
and Norman Reedus, respectively). But far
more captivating than even the iconic pair of
civilian law-givers is their creator Troy Duffy.
The magnitude of the controversy surround-
ing him is matched only by his fervor for a sub-
ject that has frustrated him since the onset of
his career.
"I recently talked to a bunch of fans in Dal-
las, and I said, 'Raise your hands if you've had
a crime committed against you,' and nearly
everyone raised their hands. Then I said, 'Put
your hands down if your crime was solved,'
and not one hand went down," Duffy said in an
interview with the Daily. "I think there's a cer-
tain element of injustice in America these days,
and I feel as if we don't know what to do, like
we're left without any recourse."
In the mid-1990s, it was this sense of hope-
lessness that prompted Duffy - then a bar-
tender and bouncer in Los Angeles - to put his
feelings to paper.
"I sat down and wrote 'Boondock Saints'
to give a bit of fantasy, a little release to those
people, to represent what they might like to do
if the world were a more just place."
The story follows the McManus brothers,
Irish fraternal twins inspired by a divine goal:
brutally kill all of the wicked men in Boston,
one thug at a time. Along with their semi-psy-
chotic companion Rocco (David Della Rocco,
"Jake's Corner"), they embark on a spree of vio-
lent bloodletting to rid the streets of criminal-
ity, all while being pursued tirelessly by an FBI
agent (Willem Dafoe, "Antichrist") and a hired
hitman (Billy Connolly, "The Debt Collector").
Since Duffy had absolutely no experience in
developing fictional characters or writing for
DAILY ARTS.
CAN YOU
DIG IT?
gra
EVEN IF For
NOT, WRITE
FOR US!

A
loofahs
of way.
At a:
me dur
unfairi
opport
up on a
civilia
sweats
tively p
a $100]
my clo:
literally
it again
to say:'
dress w
snowin
is justv
dead co
shouldE
Belo
sies wh
buying
that bo
today:
Play
sies, ov
everytc
'90s. Si
nation1
gone al
sen. Th
Sure, if
matchs
will loo
of us ar

I actually don't mind the way
they look, but the longevity of
Abercromnbie this look is, like, two days. I know
b r m e from personal experience that
sucks. if I have a tiny hole in my jeans,
the next week I have completely
decimated them. So you plunk
down $50 for a pair of designer
, in a high-fashion kind ripped jeans, parade them around
campus for a few nights and then
ny rate, what occurred to boom: you go from boho to hobo
ing the telecast is how in a matter of days. And now I see
it is that stars have the Lindsay Lohan running around
unity to get all gussied clubs sporting ripped leggings.
daily basis, while we This is just too much.
ns have to make do in our So with the conventions of fash-
and jeans as we exhaus-. ionbeing as weird as they are, you
clod across the Diag. I have should instead be askingthis ques-
prom dress hanging in tion: Why don't we run around in
set back home and there is prom dresses on a dailybasis? I say
y no occasion for me to wear we spearhead a campaign for this:
. I know what you're going it should be Oscar Day everyday.
"It's weird to wear a fancy Imagine strutting down the Diag
'hen it's 40 degrees out and in a long, foxy red number with a
g," but OK, fashion in itself slit running down the side. "Who
weird. We wear pieces of are you wearing?" the bucketers
:w skin draped across our call out to you. You look over your
ers. Come on now. shoulder with a distant smile and
w lies a list of idiosyncra- a cool wave of your hand, beautiful
en it comes to wearing and and untouchable.
clothes. Or rather, things Sounds magnificent, doesn't it?
ther me about fashion And yet, vaguely doable.
Note, also, that this campaign
will involve retracting Sandra
Playsuits: Bullock's Best Actress Oscar. I
am literally counting down the
'suits are a mixture of one- seconds until a representative
eralls, saggy diapers and from the Academy goes on the
hing else wrong with the air and is like, guys, we made a
nce "Gossip Girl" took the mistake, turns out the Academy
by storm, street fashion has was blindsided (pun) and thought
1-out Serena van der Wood- they were voting for the Razzies
is concept benefits no one. (which she in fact did win). Let's
you're a wispy model with give the Oscar to Carey Mulligan
tick-thin legs, anything instead. Orbetter yet, Kathryn
k good on you, but the rest Bigelow. She obviously needs
en't so lucky. The reason another one, right?

The 'Boondock Saints' cult folowing remained devoted in the 10-year gap between the original and seque

the screen, the origins of his success were all
the more impressive. t
"That was the first script I ever wrote, but I
never had to pitch 'Boondock Saints' to a studio
exec. A buddy of mine that worked at one of the
production houses actually gave me a script
"It's like, 'How did
winning the lottery
change your life?' It's
fuckin' awesome."
that had been made into a movie and I copied
the format, but I still had no idea what the fuck
I was doing," Duffy said. "My producer was
an assistant at New Line Cinema, and he kept
feeding the script to his network of relation-
ships. Pretty soon, this little fire started, and
it became so wide in scope that at one point I
was in Starbucks and I saw two guys reading

my script. Weird, weird stuff."
Though the transition from bouncer to
Hollywood hustler may seem overswhelming,
Duffy took it in stride.
"You know, it's like, 'How did winning the
lottery change your life?' It's fuckin' awesome,
you know? I just embraced the shit out of it and
put forth a considerable effort to make the best
movie possible."
In spite of his humble beginnings and
lack of industry experience, Duffy has been
known to espouse the attitude and prowess
of a seasoned director with an extensive rep-
ertoire. As a result of this entitled demeanor,
his methods have been the subject of heated
debate among critics and industry magnates
alike. After the unexpected success of Duffy's
first screenplay, he was the target of a docu-
mentary that lampooned his antisocial behav-
ior: "Overnight" - a film that was originally
intended by personal friends Tony Montana
and Mark Brian Smith as a dedicatory chron-
icle of his rise to fame - eventually morphed
into a tragic portrayal of an alcoholic egoma-
niac whose ceaseless racial slurs and abusive
See DUFFY, Page 4B

toddlers wear playsuits is so that
they have easier access to thebath-
room. Somehow, I don't think we
need that expediency.

Xu wants a prom date for her
walk through the Diag. To volunteer,
e-mail her at jennifxu@umich.edu.

s U D K U


The Michigan College Advising Corps seeks new
aduates to serve as college advisers in underserved
high schools across Michigan
Application deadline: March 25, 2010
r more information and an application packet visit
www.ceo.umich.edu/mcac

E-mail join.arts@umich.edu
for information on applying.


4B - Thursday, March 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 9

Docents go through a two-semester training process including shadowing tours, writing a research paper and intensive study ofart history and art appreciation.

DOCENTS
From Page 1B
a week for two hours. These meetings act
to ingrain basic art history and research
techniques, but more important, they act
to develop touring techniques. It is here
where the program pulls from didactic
and experiential modes of learning, mak-
ing it extremely inventive.
Laura Seligman, a new docent who
came on last fall, reflected on the incorpo-
ration of guest lecture speakers from the
University departments.
"(Jacob Procter, associate curator of
modern & contemporary art) walked us
through the new galleries and talked
about why he chose, what he chose and
how he situated certain pieces," she said.
"Like for example, he put the Donald Judd
piece near the window and it referenced
the building outside the window and cast
shadows along the floor. The way a piece
hangs matters. It's not just the piece. That
was very exciting for me."
This aspect of training is distinctive to
UMMA because it's a University-based
museum.

"That is the gift of being part of the
University community, where you have
these phenomenal professors and gradu-
ate students exploring, who really know
this material," Seligman said.
The docents can learn from leading
experts in the field who are researching
and relaying information in real time.
This is another moment when learning
becomes active, not just for people who
step into the museum, but for the docents
themselves. They come out of a culture
of contributory learning, so it's natural
that they relay that same attitude to each
museum guest.
Seligman was drawn to being a docent
for this collaborative aspect, which she
found in her previous experience with
museums in Rochester, NY.
"For me the museum was like this com-
munity well," she said. "It was so exciting,
and always new things were happening
there. Very interesting people were show-
ing up there - it was a hot spot."
UMMA fulfills this role in Ann Arbor
through its stream of changing exhibits
and artist question-and-answer sessions,
like the one with emerging installation
artist Heather Rowe this past fall.
In the second semester, the training

shifts toward a process rooted in shad-
owing. These second-semester docent
candidates follow experienced docents
on tours with patrons. This is a time
when each docent candidate can experi-
ence the touring techniques of his or her
future colleagues. Personal touring styles
emerge, as well as various approaches to
help patrons of all ages come to under-
stand the art.
"No script is given," Glidewell said.
"Each docents tweaks the program to
their own style. It is this constant process
of finding the right technique that fits
with the right audience. No tour, no stop,
is ever the same."
Building off of the lectures and gallery
experiences, each shadowed tour is a way
to slowly implement the methods and his-
torical information gathered during the
first semester. This is the moment when
these soon-to-be docents have an oppor-
tunity to work off of the excitement that
the guests brings with them when they
enter into the museum. At the end of the
shadowing process, a candidate will have
completed a full six-stop tour with a vet-
eran docent.
To fully establish their knowledge and
presence in UMMA, second-semester

docents write a research paper on a piece
within the museum. They are asked to
choose and examine an object, then write
on all the associations that emerge while
they sit with the piece over the course of
a few meetings. After the initial impres-
sions and emotions manifest themselves,
the research paper requires the potential
docents to critically analyze the artist and
the historical context in which he or she
worked.
The methods of learning - didac-
tic and experiential - form a bundle of
information that is not doused on each
guest in the space, but rather slowly
poured out. These UMMA docents have
implemented this immersive, interactive
method in the gallery experience, mir-
roring the methods in the docent train-
ing program.
With graduate students, curators and
each other, the docents have constructed
meaning for themselves.
Transmitting an experience
The docents' personal construction of
meaning is passed on to patrons young
and old, who all join in this new method
of art appreciation.

But even with this pressure to make
the museum more than just a collection
of objects, Glidewell recognizes that the
museum experience mostly relies on
taking time to be present in the gallery
space.
"We understand that our audiences
are coming in having so much access to
technology," she said. "Everybody kind
of wants to see bells and whistles. We try
not to give in to the temptation of making
the museum feel like an amusement park,
because it's a different kind of experience.
... Sometimes you really just want the kids
to slow down and look closely."
It is the act of slowing down - becom-
ing close to the work and drawing out a
personal meaning - that establishes the
spectacle. While we have the means to
complicate and ornament the museum
experience through digital interventions
in a tour, we still elicit truth through old-
fashioned question-and-answer.
This combination of the Socratic meth-
od and the sensory experience allows us
to forge a strong connection with the art
we observe. And it's each docent's imple-
mentation of this learning system that
reconfirms the necessity for a tactile art
experience.


the process of crafting his brain- be an extremely tight script that
DUFF" child's sequel. was examined by the experts.
From ""You wouldn't believe the jovial The first time, we were just kids
atmosphere we had on the set of in a candy store - the second
the first movie - actually, the sec- time around, we were adults in a
conduct _,nated both close and movie, too. A lot of fun was candy store."
friends and business partners. had," Duffy said. "But the differ- As for future plans, Duffy was
Unfortunate as these person- ence between the first and second eager to address rumors of a pos-
ality flaws may have been, they 'Boondock' movies is that the sec- sible sequel.
appear to have been considerably ond time around was a bit more "I've got some ideas percolat-
tamed by 10 years of experience serious because we were making ing on a possible 'Saints III,' but
in film; moreover, they are easier it for people who know the movies let's face it - we all know that the
to overlook when one observes in fucking minutiae. vast majority of sequels suck," he
Duffy's overwhelming convic- "These are people who know said.
tion and the passion with which every word, every frame, where "The tiniest percentage of
he speaks of his fan base. The cult every 'fuck' is. They've seen it a them turn out to be any good, and
following of "Boondock" is the hundred times, soI knew that the we believe we made such a sequel.
most compelling impetus driving fans would call me out on it if I But it was a maximal creative
Duffy's career, and it's the only treaded on the sacred ground of effort, like walking through a
factor he considered to expedite the first film. Naturally it had to minefield, like cracking a code. A

third movie would be like crack-
ing the code to the safe of fuck-
ing Fort Knox," Duffy said. "The
sequels we love --'Rocky II,''The
Terminator II,''Aliens' - they all
give the fans everything they love
from the first movie, plus a brand
new story they couldn't have pos-
sibly seen coming."
Several' respected critics may
have dismissed the intense popu-
larity and high DVD revenue of
"The Boondock Saints" as a fluke.
But it's easier to criticize an artist
from the outside lookingin than to
admit that the path to a filmmak-
er's popularity is oftentimes paved
with raw emotion and unpleasant
candor instead of affluence and
refinement. *

FUNDRED
From Page 3B
issues, you stand. to potentially
shift the health of society," Rubin
said. "Because if you look around
the country, the cities that have
high lead contamination are the
cities that have high violence -
New Orleans, Detroit, Baltimore,
Cleveland, Providence - it just
goes on."
Chin said the relationship
between lead and our culture has
implications that can directly
affect anyone, in any city, any-
where in the country because it is
a problem that reaches far beyond
New Orleans. He explained that
the success of Fundred and Opera-
tion Paydirt in New Orleans could
mean a lot for cities in the future,
making the magnitude of the proj-
ect much larger than it initially
appears.
"(New Orleans) is the proper
place to run the first experiment
on soil transformation," Chin
explained. "Logistically, environ-
mentally, condition-wise - it lines
up. Then we can come up to a place
like Detroit with something that
really works.
"With that model, we can begin
a change - a change in the soil and
a change in the environment that
threatens children. And if that's
something that people care about
and want to spread consciousness
about, then it has meaning for
everyone.
"It's about a larger community,"
Chin said.
Rubin said this project is an
excellent opportunity for artists
and non-artists alike to embrace

the privilege of working with com-
munity outreach and to participate
in a project that will have a larger-
than-life impactif successful.
"We are relying on people to
understand the power of this proj-
ect," Rubin said. "Because yes, it's
about lead remediation, children,
theenvironmentand NewOrleans.
But it's really about engaging your
local community, creatingrcommu-
nity and inspiring community in
order to initiate change."
The project is simple - only *
requiring some sort of marking
and a signature on the fundred -
and, if successful, it could mean a
new beginning for New Orleans
and cities all over the country that
suffer from the same problem.
With a collection center located
conveniently on campus in the
School of Art & Design, 'students
and community members have a
special opportunity to work hands
on with Fundred's cause.
"(The School of Art & Design
has) utilized (its) students a lot,
(and) they've gotten. involved,"
Banks said. "But we're such a small
school and we would definitely
love to have any more people that
we could be involved with this
project. We only have about 500
students and it would be great to
have more students on the proj-
ect."
Banks serves as the Fundred
collector and distributor at the
University, and can be contacted
directly if individuals or organiza-
tions are interested in participat-
ing.
"We just need the support,"
Chin said. "And we aren't even ask-
ing for money. We are asking for a
drawing, we're asking for human
expression."
WHERE'S
THE CREAM
FILLING?

IT'S AT
DAILY ARTS!

9

JOIN US.

0

E-mail join.arts@umich.edu
for information on applying.


