AMC's new zombie drama 'The Walking Dead'spares the cliches in favor of real emotion - but don't worry, the gore's there too. PAGE 5A
THEY CALL HIM SHO'ElACE
'4A JrL He's an enigma and a prodigy, but for his family
and former coaches in Deerfield Beach, Fla., Denard
Robinson is simply Shoelace
SEE FOOTBALL
SATURDAY, INSIDE

dgan :atll N
Friday, November 5, 2010 michigandaily.com

Ann Arbor, Michigan

FOOTBALL SATURDAYS
Game days
* aboost for
restaurants
Football Saturdays bring
crowds, big tips to
Ann Arbor eateries
ByJENNA SIMARD
Daily StaffReporter
Football Saturdays bring to town rowdy
tailgates, pregame parties and for many
local restaurants, an extra day to cash in.
Though owners and employees of many
eateries around town say Football Satur-
days don't make or break their business,
they're quick to point out that the crowds
mean big tips and a volume of service
unmatched by any other day of the year.
Ryan Halsey, a full time server at Conor
O'Neill's on Main Street, said he notices
a change in both the restaurant's atmo-
sphere and sales on game days. People
See GAME DAY, Page 7A
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL
A2 to install
pedestrian
controlled
* street light
Button activated by
pedestrian turns lights
on at crosswalk
By DYLAN CINTI
Daily StaffReporter
The City of Ann Arbor is introducing
a new kind of crosswalk system - one
entirely controlled by pedestrians.
The city's first High-intensity Activat-
ed CrossWalk (HAWK) is slated to debut
Nov. 17 at the intersection of Huron Street
and Third Street, about two blocks west
of downtown Ann Arbor. The HAWK
features an overhead lighting system in
which all lights remain off unless acti-
vated by a pedestrian-controlled button on
the sidewalk.
In a presentation to the Ann Arbor City
Council last night, two officials from the
Michigan Department of Transporta-
tion - Traffic Engineer Wendy Ramirez
and Region Planner Kari Martin - said
the roughly $70,000 project came out of
a series of requests from pedestrians and
residents for safer crosswalks.
"The community wanted to see some
See HAWK, Page 7A

NCAA EXTENDS PROBATION
FOR 'MAJOR VIOLATIONS '

Charge for
Rodriguez
lessened
by cmte.
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
The National Collegiate Athletic
Association has announced that it has
placed the Michigan football program
on a three-year probation.
During a conference call yesterday
with University officials and members
of the media, Paul Dee, chairman of
the NCAA Committee on Infractions,
said the penalties from the NCAA also
include a public scolding and censure
of the University and a stipulation
that Michigan football coach Rich
Rodriguez must attend the 2011 NCAA
Regional Rules Seminar. Additionally,
University officials imposed reduc-
tions to the amount of time the Michi-
gan football team can practice - 130
hours in total through the end of the
2011-2012 academic year.
Experts interviewed by The Michi-
gan Daily said the additional one year
of probation on top of what the Univer-
sity had self-imposed did not seem out
of line for the nature of the case. They
also said it was important to note that
the NCAA had downgraded the charge
against Rodriguez from a charge that
he had failed to promotecangatmo-
sphere of compliance to the finding
that he failed to adequately monitor his
program.
The initial allegation against Rodri-
guez that he had failed to promote an
atmosphere of compliance, Dee said,
was changed to a violation of NCAA
Constitution 2.8.1 because the com-
mittee felt that Rodriguez failed to
properly oversee the program, not that
he failed to promote an atmosphere of
compliance.
Asked during the call about what
level of responsibility should be placed
on Rodriguez, Dee compared Rodri-
guez to the captain of a ship.
"The coach is ultimately responsible,
but that doesn't mean that the coach is
involved in all of the activities," Dee
said. "Consequently some of the things
that did occur did not get all the way to
the coach."
At a University press conference fol-
lowing the NCAA conference call, Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Coleman
said the University had taken the inves-
See NCAA, Page 7A

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daly
TOP: Athletic Director David Brandon, Michigan football coach Rich Rodriguez and University President Mary Sue Coleman address the media
after the NCAA announced its imposed penalties. BOTTOM: Rodriguez, Brandon and Coleman at yesterday's press conference.
After ruling, AD will wait until
end of season to evaluate coach

Rodriguez: 'I'm glad
this process is over and
we can move ony
By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Editor
The book was finally closed yesterday
on the Michigan football program's first
black mark in its history.
There were no surprises in the
NCAA's investigation's ultimate find-
ings regarding major violations. Back in
May, Michigan responded to allegations
made by the NCAA and proposed self-
imposed sanctions. The final penalties
weren't too far off.
"I'm glad the process is over so it can
no longer be used as a thing that's hang-
ing over the program from a negative
recruiting standpoint," Michigan foot-
ball coach Rich Rodriguez said. "That's
why I'm glad this process is over and we
can move on."

While the punishment has been
determined, questions regarding Rodri-
guez'sjobsecurity still persist. Michigan
Athletic Director David Brandon reiter-
ated his support of Rodriguez again on
Thursday. But his job will be assessed at
the end of the season, Brandon said, just
like every other coach.
"I have said ad nauseam that I have
a process for all of our coaches and all
of our sports," Brandon said. "And at
the end of the season, we sit down and
review an enormous amount of informa-
tion that is at my disposal that pertains
to all aspects of the programs. And at
that point, obviously I have decisions to
make as it relates to who coaches any of
our sports and our coaches have a deci-
sion to make as to whether they want to
continue to coach at Michigan.
"The situation with our football pro-
gram is no different than our other 26
sports in that regard. And that's what I'll
do at the end of this season and the sea-
son after that and the season after that."
The rumblings calling for Rodriguez's

job grew louder last Saturday after
Michigan's 41-31 loss against Penn State.
Now in the middle of a three-game los-
ing streak, the Wolverines' 2010 season
draws comparisons to 2009's downfall,
which included seven Big Ten losses in
a row.
Rodriguez and his players have had to
answer questions since early September
about avoiding what happened lastyear.
The unfortunate reality for Rodriguez is
that despite his fast starts these past two
seasons, he still just has four Big Ten
wins and a 13-19 record overall.
Given that situation, committing
major NCAA violations under Rodri-
guez's watch only creates more negative
media attention and groaning from fans.
Brandon boiled down Michigan's vio-
lations to a misunderstanding regarding
the rules of practice time and members
of the quality control staff, who were
"'overzealous" and acted as coaches.
Additionally, there was the issue of the
University and the football staff failing
See RODRIGUEZ, Page 7A

NSBE director tells students progress
still to be made on minority retention

In order to boost
retention rates, Mack
says minorities must
mentor one another
By SABIRA KHAN
Daily StaffReporter
Dr. Carl Mack, executive director of
the National Society of Black Engineers,
told a crowd of about 150 students gath-
ered in the Chesebrough Auditorium last
night that he wasn't there to give a feel-
good speech. No, he was there to discuss

the necessity of retaining minority stu-
dents in engineering programs.
According to Engineering senior Sean
Preston, president of the University's
chapter of NSBE, the event called, "From
Surviving to Thriving: A College-wide
Forum for Examining Student Achieve-
ment and Success" was organized to
examine the issue of retention among
minority groups in the College of Engi-
neering.
The event was sponsored by the Uni-
versity's Center for Engineering Diversity
and Outreach, which formally launched
this weekend. The center aims to bring
more collaboration between the Multi-
cultural Engineering Programs Office,

the Women in Science and Engineering
Program and the Office of Engineering
Outreach and Engagement and develop
the three "into a single, cohesive unit," a
flier for the event states.
Preston opened the presentation by
citing a statistic which shows that the
retention of minorities in engineering
schools is much lower than the general
student body.
"It's a very important issue, especially
among minority communities, especially
in the black community," Preston said.
"The turnover rate from enrolled stu-
dents to matriculation is only about 60 to
70 percent."
See MACK, Page 2A
........2A CLA SSIFIEDS . ..................6A
....4....4A SPO RTS . ................... ....... 8A
.......5A FOOTBALLSATURDAY.........1B

CHRIS RYBA/Daily
Carl Mack, executive director of NSBE, discusses minority retention rates in engineering last night.


WEATHER HI:44
TOMORROW LO 3

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
In Erika's Experience: Give Blood.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE PODIUM

INDEX NEWS......
Vol. CXXtNo.42N Di>O N .
2010 The Mi'higanDaily ARTS......,.
michiyundolycom

_. ..

i


2A - Friday, November 5, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Friday, November 5, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIEJOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours: sun.-Thurs.11 a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-418-4115 opt.,3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor tothedaiy@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@mnchigandaiy.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaiy.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classifed@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
lillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thirunavukkarasu, Devon Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph Lichterman,Veronica Menaldi, Elyana Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:WillButler,WilGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje ManagingSports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS:Mark Burns, MichaelFlorek,Chantel Jennings,TimRohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANTSPORTS EDITORS: BenEstes,StephenNesbitt,LukePasch,ZakPyzik,Amy
JamieBlock ManagingArts Editor block@michigandady.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, Jeff Sanford
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:KristynAcho,Leah Burgin,Sharon Jacobs, KaviShekhar
Pandey, DavidTao
Ma ollinsand gphoto@michigandaily.com
Sam Watson Moooioe'hoto Editors
SENIORPHOTO EDITOR:ArielBond, MarissaMcClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Jake Fromm,JedMoch
Anna Lein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaty.com
Sana eSqieManeinDgnsig ditors
SENI05 DESIGN ED0TO00 Maya Friedman
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Jenna Skoller
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
AdiWollstein copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crintsales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Stephanie Bowker
MARKETING MANAGER:GjoJuncaj
Hillary Szawala classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan RooneyLayout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler circulation Manager
Zach Yancer Web Project coordinator
The Michigan DailyOSSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms bystudentsat theUniversity of Michigan.Onecopy is availablefree of chargetoal
readers.Additional copies may be pickedup at the Daly'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsfor fallterm,
starting inseptemberviaU.S.malare$11o.Winter term(Januarythrough April)isf1,yearong
(September through Apri)is$195.University affiliatesare subject toareducedsubscription rate.
On-campussubscriptionsforfalltermaret3.Subscriptionsmust beprepaid.TheMichiganDaily
is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Capture the Stereo, GPS Technology in
Michigan flag swiped from car music workshop
WHERE: Elbel Field WHERE: Rachel Upjohn WHAT: A workshop will
WHEN: Thursday at about Building explore how composers and
1:30 a.m. WHEN: Wednesday at about performers use new tech-
WHAT: A blue Michigan flag 5:30 p.m. nology in modern music.
was stolen from the flag pole, WHAT: A stereo and GPS WHO: School of Music
University Police reported. system were stolen from a Uni- Theater and Dance
Witnesses saw the suspect versity staff member's vehicle, WHEN: Today at2 p.m.
flee the scene, but could not be University Police reported.The WHERE: Duderstadt Cen-
identified because it was dark. items were valued at $550. ter, Teleconference Room
Wires dug up by
contractors Shatteredlits ''
WHERE: Harrison Randall film screening
WHERE: Hayward LaboratoryC

CORRECTIONS
0 An article in Friday's
paper titled "Groups aim
to fight Islamaphobia on
campus" incorrectly ident-
fied Mark Vanderput as
a former pastor of Har-
vest Mission Community
Church. He is a member
of another church.
0 An article in Wednes-
day's paper titled "Rep.
Dingell clinches 28th
term nail biter" incor-
rectly stated that Dingell
will serve his 28th term.
It will be his 29th.
* An article in yesterday's
Daily titled "Locally and
nationally student voter
turnout falls in Tuesday's
election" incorrectly iden-
tified the year and type
of election in which 23
percent of voters under
the age of 30voted.
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Hundreds of thousands
of Haitians living in post-
earthquake tent commu-
nities are bracing for severe
floods from tropical storm
Tomas, The Associated Press
reported. Officials have
advised them to find sturdier
shelter, but many remain in the
makeshift camps.
Michigan sophomore
quarterback Denard Rob-
inson talks to his high
school track coach multiple
times each week.
>FORMORE,FOOTBALLSATURDAYINSIDE
Researchers in the U.K.
claim that the human
body's immune system
can kill the common coldvirus,
AOLHealth.com reported. If
the claim is true, it could lead
to the development of anti-
viral drugs that could destroy
the virus.


WHEN: Wednesday at about
1:45 p.m.
WHAT: Contractors acciden-
tally dug up electrical wires
that power three light poles,
University Police reported.
The damage is valued at about
$2,000.

WHEN: Wednesday at about
10:15 a.m.
WHAT: Two street lights in a
loading dock between Randall
Laboratory and West Hall
were broken, University Police
reported. The damage is val-
ued at about $200.

WHAT: A film called "The
Exiles" documents one night
in the lives of exiled young
Native American men and
women living in the Bunker
Hill district of Los Angeles.
WHO: Screen Arts and
Cultures
WHEN: Tomorrow from
7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Angell Hall,
Auditorium A

Hall of Fame manager Sparky Anderson dies at 76.

Baseball legend won
3 World Series titles,
one with Tigers
Reds fans were taken aback
when Sparky Anderson showed up
in Cincinnati for his first day as a
big league manager, an unknown
taking over baseball's first profes-
sional team.
Sparky who?
Really?
By the time he was done, this
man with the shock of white hair
and schoolboy nickname would
produce a considerable list of
achievements that featured three
World Series titles - including
crowns in each league - and a Hall
of Fame entry on his resume.
Anderson, who directed the
Big Red Machine to back-to-back
championships and won another in
Detroit, died yesterday from com-
plications of dementia in Thousand
Oaks, Calif. He was 76. A day ear-
lier, his family said he'd been placed
in hospice care.
Anderson was the first manager
to win World Series titles in both
leagues and the only manager to
lead two franchises in career wins.
"Sparky was, by far, the best
manager Iever played for," said for-
mer Reds star Pete Rose, the game's
career hits leader. "He understood
people better than anyone I ever
met. His players loved him, he
loved his players, and he loved the
game of baseball. There isn't anoth-
er person in baseball like Sparky
Anderson. He gave his whole life to
the game."

Anderson's teams in Cincinnati
- featuring Johnny Bench, Joe
Morgan and Rose - won crowns in
1975 and 1976 and rank among the
most powerful of all time. Led by
Kirk Gibson and Alan Trammell,
Anderson won with the Tigers in
1984.
"He was a good guy," former
Tigers pitcher Jack Morris said,
choking up over the news. "Base-
ball will have very few people like
Sparky. He was a unique individual.
He was a character with a great
passion and love forthe game."
Anderson never tried to over-
shadow his teams, giving his stars
great leeway while trying to stay
in the background. At Anderson's
request, there will be no funeral or
memorial service.
Always affable, ever talkative
and known for a self-deprecating
demeanor, Anderson was equally
popular among players, fans and
media.
"Revered and treasured by his
players for his humility, humanity,
eternal optimism and knowledge of
the game," his Hall of Fame plaque
reads.
Baseball Commissioner Bud
Selig called Anderson a gentleman
and dear friend.
"I recall with great fondness
the many hours we would spend
together when his Tigers came to
Milwaukee," Selig said. "Sparky
was a loyal friend, and whenever I
would be dealing with difficult sit-
uations as commissioner, he would
lift my spirits, telling me to keep my
head up and that I was doing the
right thing."
The Reds put a photo of Ander-

son on their outfield videoboard
at Great American Ball Park on
Thursday afternoon, honoring the
man who led them to their greatest
moments.
"In one way or another, Sparky
touched the life of every Reds fan,"
owner Bob Castellini said.
Anderson's win total of 2,194 was
the third highest when he retired
after the 1995 season, trailing only
Connie Mack and John McGraw.
He's still sixth on the career list
- he won 863 games in nine years
with the Reds and 1,331 in 17 sea-
sons with the Tigers.
He'll be remembered as much
for the little things that made him
beloved as for the big numbers that
made him a Hall of Famer.
"Being a good baseball player
and person went hand-in-hand
with him," said Alan Trammell, the
1984 World Series MVP who is Ari-
zona's bench coach. "He wanted us
to put our dirty clothes in the bin so
that the clubhouse guys didn't have
to pick up after us."
In many ways away from the
field, he was a teacher.
"He had a lot to do with molding
me professionally and taught me
a lot about perseverance," Morris
said.
Anderson knew all about perse-
verance.
George "Sparky" Anderson got
his nickname in the minor leagues
because of his spirited play. He
made it to the majors for only one
season, batting .218 for the Phillies
in 1959.
Anderson learned to control a
temper that nearly scuttled his
fledgling career as a manager in the

This July 26, 1994, file photo shows Detroit Tigers manager Sparky Anderson smiling a
the start of a baseball game against the Seattle Mariners in Detroit. Anderson died yest
years old.

minors, and went on to become one
of baseball's best at running a team.
And he won with a humility that
couldn't obscure his unique ability
to manage people.
"I got good players, stayed out
of their way, let them win a lot and
then just hung around for 26 years,"
he said during his Hall of Fame
acceptance speech in 2000.
Of course, there was a lot more to
him. He liked to twist the language,
using double-negatives to make a
roundabout point. He also reas-
sessed things constantly.
"To be around me, you have to be
a little bit cuckoo," Anderson said

on the day he resigned from the
Tigers after the 1995 season. "One
day it's written in concrete, the next
dayit's written in sand. I always felt
if I didn't change my mind every 24
hours, people would find me bor-
ing."
Anderson's win total trails only
those of Mack, McGraw, Tony La
Russa, Bobby Cox and Joe Torre.
His overall record was 2,194-1834
and he was a two-time AL Manager
of the Year.
"Sparky was one of the greatest
people I've met in baseball," Detroit
Hall of Famer Al Kaline said. "He
was a leader to his players both on

s he looks out from the dugout prior to
terday in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 76
and off the field. He was an incred-
ible person and I cherish the time I
was able to spend with him."
He had the right touch with
superstars, and it came in handy
when he led the star-studded Reds
to World Series wins in 1975-76.
"He was a people person," Mor-
gan, a Hall of Fame second base-
man, told The Associated Press.
"I don't think anybody else could
have managed that team nearly as
well as he did. We had a lot of dif-
ferent personalities. Sparky was
able to deal with all of us on an
individual basis but also collective-
ly as a team.


MACK
From Page 1A
Preston's introduction was fol-
lowed by the recognition of Leo
McAfee, associate professor of
Electrical Engineering and Com-
puter Science in the College of
Engineering. As McAfee comes.
into his retirement, NSBE honored
him for being the first African-
American professor in the depart-
ment.
Mack, who was recognized by
Ebony Magazine as one of the Top
150 Black Leaders in America,
explained that as a community,
minorities in engineering are tran-

sitioning from fighting to survive to
fighting to thrive, but that there's
more progress to be made.
"I tell you transition is a good
thing ... I don't know anything that
can stand still and survive," he said.
The difficulty of the subject mat-
ter covered by engineering is the
cause of the low student-retention
rate, Mack said.
"There are three mystical, myth-
ical words that explain why our
retention is where it's at - chemis-
try, calculus and physics," he said.
Upperclassmen need to help
freshmen and younger students
to encourage them to strive and to
motivate each other to study, Mack
said.

"The untransformed student is
the one that says, 'I can do this all
by myself,"' he said. "All the kids in
a year need to say, 'We are all going
into the sophomoreyear, leavingno
one behind.' ... It's a dedication to
academic excellence."
Mack concluded his speech by
noting that completing a rigor-
ous curriculum successfully is
extremely challenging.
"Why do you think they respect
engineering so much?" he said. "It
demands your best. This is excel-
lence at its best and we have to
recognize this. If we take this seri-
ously, we'll be dropping knowledge,
not classes."
Mack's speech was followed by

a standing ovation and a question-
and-answer panel with Mack and
Dr. Calvin Mackie, president of the
Channel Zero Group - "an orga-
nization committed to maximiz-
ing the effectiveness and potential
of individuals and organizations,"
according to the event flyer.
Both speakers shared their per-
sonal stories and described how
growing up in inner city neighbor-
hoods was a primary motivator
in their lives. They also empha-
sized the importance of current
engineering students remaining
focused.
"It's about hunger. That's the
part that's missing - the desire, the
hunger, the commitment," Mackb

said, referring to his determination
to succeed against the odds. "A lot
of us are not hungry because we
have never had to struggle before."
Engineering junior Anthony
Menard, a board member of the
University's chapter of NSBE, said
he was moved by the event.
"There is so much that we as
students take for granted," Menard
said. "We need to realize that we
are all in this together, rather than
making it personal. As students, we
tend to think, 'I just need to beat
the curve,' and we don't realize
that by helping each other, we all
succeed."
Menard, who is Native Ameri-
can, said he relates to the goals of

NSBE despite the racial differenc-
es.
"It's not about color, it's about
personal growth. I can relate to
the struggle, as can all minority
groups," Menard said, citing the
low retention rates in engineering
among Native American students
as well.
Engineering junior Amber
Spears, community service chair of
the University's chapter of NSBE,
said she teared up during the the
speech.
"It affected me on a personal
level because I want to see more
of us here, not less of us, and as the
years go by, there's less of us here,"
Spears said.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 5, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
State bans alcoholic
energy drinks
The Michigan Liquor Control
Commission announced yesterday
it will ban the sale of all alcoholic
energy drinks in the state because
of mounting concerns that the bev-
erages aren't safe and create health
risks.
The state regulatory agency
cited the hospitalization last month
of nine college students in Wash-
ington state after consuming caf-
feinated malt liquor as one reason
to take action. States across the
country have been exploring simi-
lar bans.
The commission in September
passed a resolution to examine the
labels and packaging of the drinks
- putting makers of Four Loko,
Joose and similar drinks on notice
that they could be ordered make
changes or stop selling it in Michi-
gan.
SThe commission said drink
manufacturers have 30 days to get
the beverages off Michigan's store
shelves, and won't return until
there is more research done by the
federal Food and Drug Administra-
tion to determine their safety.
DALLAS
Texan named oldest
person at age 114
A 114-year-old East Texas
woman could now be the oldest
person in the world.
t The Los Angeles-based Geron-
tology Research Group and Lon-
don-based Guinness Records say
Eunice G. Sanborn of Jacksonville
has gained that distinction since
the death yesterday of 114-year-
old nun Eugenie Blanchard.
Blanchard died on the French
Caribbean island of St. Barts.
The groups say Sanborn was
born July 20, 1896, in Louisiana.
Blanchard's birth date was Feb. 16,
1896.
Dr. L. Stephen Coles of the
Los Angeles-based Gerontology
Research Group tells The Associ-
ated Press he spoke to Sanborn's
family yesterday and "she's doing
well"
ANCHORAGE, Alaska
Polar bears may
move to endangered
species list
A federal court judge is giving
the Interior Department until
Dec. 23 to explain why polar
bears are listed as a "threatened"
species instead of the more-pro-
tective "endangered."
* The written order issued yes-
terday by U.S. District Judge
Emmet Sullivan in Washington,
D.C., follows an October hearing
on multiple lawsuits filed over the
listing.
Sullivan writes that the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service erro-
neously concludes that a species
must be in imminent danger of
extinction to be declared endan-
gered. The judge says that runs

counter to the plain meaning of
the Endangered Species Act.
Former Interior Secretary Dirk
Kempthorne in 2008 declared
polar bears were threatened
because of the rapid disappear-
ance of the Arctic sea ice.
The state of Alaska argues that
polar bears should not even be
listed as threatened.
UNITED NATIONS
Ashton, Demi and
*Ban Ki-moon fight
human trafficking
Demi Moore and Ashton Kutch-
er lent their names to the U.N.'s
efforts to fight human trafficking,
a scourge the international orga-
nization estimates affects about
2.5 million people worldwide.
The couple attended the launch
yesterday of a new U.N. Trust
Fund for Victims of Human Traf-
ficking, saying that international
sex slavery and indentured ser-
vitude - especially of children -
must stop.
"Help us spread the awareness
and bring a spotlight on this atro-
cious issue," Moore said, with
Kutcher adding: "we are failing
option-less victims."
At the ceremony, U.N. Sec-
retary-General Ban Ki-moon
announced a new U.N. Trust
Fund for Victims of Human Traf-
ficking, and a new global action
plan for countries and organiza-
tions to coordinate efforts against
organized sexual exploitation and
forced labor.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, November 5, 2010 - 3A

Alex Brandon/AP
House speaker-in-waiting Rep. John Boehner (R-Ohio) gestures during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington on
Wednesday, Nov. 3, 2010
GOP plans to repeal health
caretlaw, cut gov. spending

Speaker-to-be
Boehner lays out
goals for next
session of Congress
WASHINGTON (AP) - Vic-
torious at the polls, congressio-
nal Republicans asserted their
newfound political strength yes-
terday, vowing to seek a quick
$100 billion in federal spending
cuts and force repeated votes on
the repeal of President Barack
Obama's prized health care over-
haul.
At the White Houses, Obama
said his administration was
ready to work across party lines
in a fresh attempt to "focus on
the economy and jobs" as well as
attack waste in government. In a
show of bipartisanship, he invit-
ed top lawmakers to the White
House at mid-month, and the
nation's newly elected governors
two weeks later.
Rep. John Boehner, R-Ohio, in
line to become the new speaker
of the House, brushed aside talk
that the No. 1 GOP goal was to
make sure Obama is defeated at
the polls in 2012. "That's Senator
McConnell's statement and his
opinion," he told ABC, referring
to the party's leader in the Sen-

ate and adding that his own goals
included cutting spending and
creating jobs.
But tentative talk of compro-
mise competed with rhetoric
reminiscent of the just-completed
campaign.
In a speech at the conservative
Heritage Foundation, Kentucky
Sen. Mitch McConnell said the
only way to achieve key party leg-
islative goals such as ending gov-
ernment bailouts, cuttingspending
and repealing the health care law
"is to put someone in the White
House who won'tveto" them.
"There's just no getting around
it," he added.
Obama has ruled out accepting
repeal of the health care measure,
and Senate Democrats responded
quickly to McConnell.
"What Sen. McConnell is really
saying is, 'Republicans want to let
insurance companies go back to
denying coverage to people with
pre-existing conditions, let them
go back to charging women twice
as much for the same coverage as
men, and let them push millions
of seniors back into the Medicare
doughnut hole," said Jim Manley,
spokesman for Majority Leader
Harry Reid, D-Nev.
The maneuvering unfolded two
days after elections that swept
Democrats out of power in the
House and cut deeply into their

Senate majority, scripting an
uncertain new era of divided gov-
ernment for the final two years of
Obama's term.
In the House, Boehner asked
members of the Republican
rank and file to support him for
speaker when the new Congress
convenes in early January. Hisvic-
tory is a formality, given the huge
60-member gain he engineered as
party leader.
Nor did there appear to be any
competition to Rep. Eric Cantor
of Virginia as majority leader, the
second-most powerful position in
the House.
Among Democrats, Speaker
Nancy Pelosi has yet to disclose
her plans. The most recent speak-
er whose party lost its majority,
Rep. Dennis Hastert of Illinois,
resigned from Congress a few
months later.
Even before the new Congress
comes into office, the old one is
scheduled to meet the week after
next for a post-election session.
In remarks to reporters after
meeting with his Cabinet at the
White House, Obama urged law-
makers to avert an income tax
increase that could take effect
Jan 1, ratify a new arms-reduction
treaty with Russia, provide unem-
ployment aid to victims of the
recession and extend expiring tax
breaks for business.

U.S. and Britain downplay
French foreign minister 's
comments on Yemen bomb

Minister: Bomb from
Yemen was diffused
17 minutes before it
was set to go off
PARIS (AP) - American and
British officials moved quick-
ly yesterday to downplay the
French foreign minister's com-
ment that one of two mail bombs
sent from Yemen last week was
disarmed just 17 minutes before
it was set to go off.
The issue of timing is central
to the investigation because it
could indicate whether terror-
ists hoped to blow up the planes
over U.S. airspace or whether
they simply wanted to take down
the planes regardless of their
location.
"One of the packages was
defused only 17 minutes before
the moment that it was set to
explode," French Interior Min-
ister Brice Hortefeux told state-
run France-2 television. He
made no other comment on the
Yemen mail bomb plot in the
interview and was not available
afterwards.'
White House press secretary
Robert Gibbs said the question of
when the bombs found in Britain
and the United Arab Emirates
were to go off was still under
investigation and there was no
information confirming such a
close call.
U.S. State Department coun-
terterror coordinator Daniel
Benjamin also questioned the
French minister's comments.
"This is not our understand-
ing of the situation. Our under-
standing is the investigators are
still looking at the fusing and
the timing of a possible detona-
tion so I can't confirm that right
now," he told reporters in Rot-
terdam.
A government official in Brit-
ain said the device found there

was still undergoing forensic
tests and it had not been deter-
mined how close it was to being
detonated. A security source
in the United Arab Emirates
said Hortefeux's remark did not
describe the bomb found in that
country.
"If this was a reference to
the device found in the Federal
Express (Fedex) site in Dubai,
then it is not correct," a security
source in the United Arab Emir-
ates who is familiar with the
investigation told The Associ-
ated Press.
Both were not authorized to
Aiscuss the case publicly and
spoke on condition of anonymity.
Hortefeux did not say where
he got the information about the
timing, although U.S. and Euro-
pean intelligence officials have
been exchanging information
on the plot. The French Interior
Ministry would not elaborate on
Hortefeux's comment.
Sweden, meanwhile, changed
its travel recommendations for,
Yemen, advising citizens yester-
day to refrain "from all travel to
Yemen until further notice." The
foreign ministry cited conflicts
in Yemen's north, unrest and
kidnappings in the south and
"repeated terror actions against
foreigners and foreign interests."
When investigators pulled
the Chicago-bound packages off
cargo planes in England and the
United Arab Emirates last Friday,
they found the bombs wired to cell
phones and hidden in the toner
cartridges of computer printers.
The communication cards had
been removed and the phones
could not receive calls, officials
said, making it likely the terrorists
intended the alarm or timer func-
tions to detonate the bombs.
The bomb found at East Mid-
lands airport in central Eng-
land went unnoticed for several
hours.
Intelligence officials in the
U.S. said Wednesday that each

bomb was attached to a syringe
containing lead azide, a chemical
initiator that would have deto-
nated PETN explosives packed
into each printer cartridge.
Both PETN and a syringe
were used in the failed Christ-
mas bombing of a Detroit-bound
airliner.
Investigators have focused on
the Yemeni al-Qaida faction's top
bomb maker, who had previously
designed a bomb that failed to
go off on a crowded U.S.-bound
plane last Christmas.
This time, authorities believe
master bomb maker Ibrahim al-
Asiri packed four times as much
explosives into the bombs hidden
last week on flights from Yemen.
The two bombs contained 300
and 400 grams of the industrial
explosive PETN, according to a
German security official, who
briefed reporters Monday on
condition of anonymity in line
with department guidelines.
By comparison, the bomb
stuffed into a terrorist suspect's
underwear on the Detroit-bound
plane last Christmas contained
about 80 grams.
One of the explosive devices
found inside a shipped printer
cartridge in Dubai had flown on
two airlines before it was seized,
first on a Qatar Airways Airbus
A320 jet to Doha and then on an
as-yet-undisclosed flight from
Doha to Dubai. The number of
passengers on the flights were
unknown, but the first flight
had a 144-seat capacity and the
second would have moved on a
variety of planes with seating
ranging from 144 to 335 people.
The packages were addressed
to two Chicago-area synagogues.
But because the addresses were
out of date and the names on the
packages included references
to the Crusades - the 200-year
wars waged by Christians large-
ly against Muslims - officials do
not believe the synagogues were
the targets.


0

4A - Friday, November 5, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL JEFF AT JEFFDZ@UMICH.EDU

e Nt 'g a n a"t
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JEFF ZUSCHLAG

Oh, right, y/Fortunately, I've learne
from my mistakes. I
Alright, thatdoes it! party didn't do know how I can do my Actually going
I'msickithallthese sowell this year part to avoidthis in to what,now?
pst-electionstpecials! t feteoin
You mean you're
atuafy going
to vote next
time?

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Advancing. recreational pot
Republicans shouldn't stall marijuana use
uesday's elections shook up politics in Michigan and
nationally. With the incoming conservative majority in
both houses of the Michigan legislature and the U.S. House
of Representatives, the future of marijuana laws is more uncertain
than ever. California tried to completely legalize recreational mar-
ijuana use with Proposition 19, which failed narrowly. This ballot
initiative, though unsuccessful, was a positive development in mari-
juana legislation. Michigan should follow California's failure with
success, despite the state's newly Republican government. State res-
idents must put pressure on the legislature to ensure that Michigan
is at the forefront of progressive marijuana legislation.

All up in my Facebook

acebook is kind of an ironic know. The site then uses the informa-
name for something that is tion to make assumptions about what
neither a book nor allows for kind of consumer you are.
any real face time. The ads on the sides of the screen
But it's pointless to are picked according to informa-
quip over the accu- tion that a user puts onto the site. For
racy of the name, example, I always get ads for Stateside
since the website Apartments. Do they sound familiar?
has steadily taken Probably not, because they're not in
over everything Ann Arbor - Stateside is a swanky
and everyone. apartment complex that's located in
By now, a lot of Madison, Wisconsin. I've probably had
people have prob- a few status updates informing all my
ably . seen "The VANESSA "friends" - who probably don't care -
Social Network," that I'm in Madison for the weekend to
the somehow criti- RYCILINSKI visit my brother. This information was
cally acclaimed retained by the Facebook servers to-
film about Mark tempt me in the form of an advertise-
Zuckerberg, a smart mouthed techie ment later. Maybe this targeted adver-
for whom getting dumped catalyzes tising would work if I put up more
the billion-dollar idea for Facebook. about myself and "liked" things more
The other details of the movie often. Facebook would tell me bet-
aren't so important - there are law- ter things to buy and everyone would
yers, partying and Justin Timber- be happy. But somehow, I don't mind
lake. What's more significant though escaping this marketing manipulation.
is that there is an actual movie about Sorry, capitalism.
Facebook, a company that hasn't been Since advertising companies have
around for more than a handful of always been trying to find innovative
years. We already knew that the site ways to get into people's pockets, it
is a cultural phenomenon, but the isn't very shocking that Facebook uti-
fact that there's already a major film lizes this tool. But this storage and
about Facebook indicates how much use of personal information is caus-
the website is part of life. ing some problems.
Facebook has several features According to an Oct. 21 CNN
that firmly cement it into the average article, a recent study conducted in
user's life. Most importantly, the site Germany found that the specific tar-
takes part in "data mining," which is geting of Facebook ads is specialized
the process of extrapolating site data for gay and lesbian users. The study
into real information that is later used six fake accounts, two of which
used to formulate marketing and were listed as men and women who
business tactics. Facebook collects preferred the same sex. All of the
- according to its policy page - only other information on the accounts
"some of the information you post" besides sexual preference was identi-
like friends added, groups joined, cal, but in spite of this, the ads were
photo albums, poking, "liking" posts, different for the two test profiles. If
events attended, sharing videos or a user were to click on one of these,
the usage of applications. It goes even the advertiser would now have the IP
further in stating that information and email addresses associated with
friends provide about you will also Facebook. Virtual footprints from
be accounted for. So in short, Face- one simple click would be trailed
book basically logs almost all of your through the Internet - saving poten-
online pseudo-life, from the actions tially sensitive personal information.
you take to those taken by others you In addition to this problem, Face-

book profiles are impossible to delete.
They can only be deactivated. The
site keeps your information indefi-
nitely unless you either delete all wall
posts and pictures manually or make
requests that your shadow profile be
completely deleted. Even if you do
manage to disengage yourself from
this site, you'll never be able to extri-
cate yourself completely and protect
your privacy.
Facebook shouldn't
track Users' info
to personalize ads.
Facebook is probably going to
grow and grow until every single
thing about us is logged into servers
and we'll all walk around with wire-
less microchips in our heads. Maybe
not even walking - everyone will live
in jelly tank things like in the Matrix
and interactions will occur in cyber-
space. The sun will be blocked out by
a floating monolith of the Facebook
logo, everyone will use a variant of
Newspeak, and we'll spend our time
playing Farmville and discussing
YouTube videos.
Seriously, though, Facebook
shouldn't be doing all of this informa-
tion-hoarding. And though the com-
pany says it doesn't sell your info, third
party apps available through the site
are able share your usage with trackers
and advertisers. There's nothing any-
one can do about it unless we find a way
to delete our profiles and revert back to
actually calling each other to socialize
- or maybe start to pay for the service.
Since the likelihood of either of those
things happening is slim, I suppose
we're all stuck.
- Vanessa Rychlinski can be
reached at vanrych@umich.edu.

On Tuesday, the vote to legalize recre-
ational marijuana use in California failed
54 percent to 46 percent. The proposal
sought to permit the sale of marijuana like
alcohol, making it legal to purchase and
grow for people over the age of 21. The
proposal also would have made it legal for
retailers to sell marijuana. California was
one of the first states to legalize medici-
nal marijuana in 1996. At the time, voters
were in agreement that this prescription
should be taxed to generate revenue for the
state. There are plans to put together a new
initiative for the March ballot to create a
medicinal marijuana tax in California.
Michigan's medicinal marijuana law
has been the subject of controversy since
it passed in 2008 because of ambiguous
wording that makes it difficult for people
to fill their prescriptions. But despite its
problems, the legalization of medicinal
marijuana was an important step for pro-
gressive drug policy. Complete legaliza-
tion should be the next goal. Not only is
marijuana a non-addictive substance, but
it also has the ability to generate tax rev-
enue for the state like any other product.
Among the slew of Republicans elected
on Tuesday is Michigan's attorney gener-
al-elect, Bill Schuette, who doesn't sup-
port medical marijuana. When Shuette
takes office in January, it's important that
he doesn't take advantage of the problems

with the state's medical marijuana law and
go against the voters' wishes. Regardless
of Shuette's stance on medical marijuana,
he has an obligation to fight for concise
legislation supported by the voters who
elected him.
With an incoming Republican majority
in the state House and Senate, it appears
that medical marijuana isn't going to get
much support from the legislative level,
either. So it's up to Michigan residents to
push for progressive legislation. Residents
should contact representatives and sena-
tors to lobby for clear, progressive mari-
juana legislation. The medicinal marijuana
law needs to be revised immediately, so
people trying to receive legitimate pre-
scription medication aren't treated like
criminals.
Residents should also encourage the leg-
islature to take precedent-setting action
and legalize recreational marijuana. The
push for recreational use isn't over nation-
ally. California made great strides with
Proposition 19. Now, Michigan should lead
the way.
Michigan shouldn't keep riding Califor-
nia's coattails. Michigan must lead the way
for other states to implement more pro-
gressive laws. Residents need to bring this
issue to their representatives and senators
to put Michigan at the forefront of mari-
juana legislation.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for clarity, length and factual accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

EMILY BASHAMI

Encourage 'U' to buy local No quick fix for health concerns

Several universities have been successful in
providing organic, locally grown foods on cam-
pus for students. Unfortunately, the University is
neither the leader nor the best at this. We have
been considering our school's sustainability for
decades, yet only East Quad's dining hall pro-
vides local produce when the season permits.
Sustainable food purchasing could expand with
increased demand from students, so why aren't
you asking where your food comes from?
The University's Integrated Assessment and
the East Quad dining hall team have worked hard
to have more than 50 percent of East Quad's pro-
duce locally sourced. But this movement toward
sustainable food could spread more rapidly to the
seven remaining dining halls, retail cafes and
convenience stores that Residential Dining Ser-
vices operates if students were more vocal about
consuming consciously.
East Quad's sustainable dining success came
after handling many challenges. These chal-
lenges included connecting with local farmers,
confirming their sanitary practices, transport-
ing food, adhering to University and food distri-
bution services requirements, meeting student
dietary needs, diversifying the menu, coping
with the timeliness of growing seasons and
addressing the corresponding additional costs.
Such challenges deter the efforts of many uni-
versities across the nation that strive for more
sustainable food procurement, especially larger
schools like the University.
According to a 2005 New York Times article,
the Berkeley College dining hall at Yale Univer-
sity serves organic, locally-grown meals because
of Yale's Sustainable Food Project. This program
was so popular that students who didn't live in
Berkeley College were coming up with ways to
gain access to the cafeteria. The project strives
to support area farmers, provide organic, sea-
sonal ingredients and promote environmentally
friendly production methods. The Sustainable
Food Project is staffed, sponsored and has pub-
lished reference literature like sample menus
and purchasing guidelines. Though the program
has seen great success, it's still challenged by the
need to stock food out of its growing season and
overcome additional costs.
Granted,. Yale University enrolls far fewer
students than the University of Michigan. But it
bears similar challenges as a result of its location
in the Northeast region. The rise in interest in
providingsustainable foods has peoplesearching
for solutions to year-round production.
For example, "hoop houses" are covered grow-
ing houses that trap heat and water to extend

growing seasons. On a recent field trip to Goetz
Farm, a family farm in Riga, Michigan, I saw its
newly constructed hoop houses that will provide
beets, carrots and other produce to the Univer-
sity during the winter months.
Though the farm spans about 25 acres, the
University only purchases about 2 percent of its
production. By demanding that the University
invest in bringing more local foods to campus,
we can increase its availability and support local
businesses like Goetz Farm. By supporting the
local economy and reducing long-distance trans-
portation, buying local could help schools to save
money. once these programs gain speed and
improve their approaches, the additional costs
faced by schools like Yale University could poten-
tially be eliminated.
To mediate the challenge of providing a
diverse menu year-round while satisfying stu-
dents' appetites, schools must spread awareness
about local food production and growing sea-
sons for fruits and vegetables. Such concepts are
exemplified in local farmers' markets, but at Cor-
nell University, tasting events are organized to
bring local farmers and Cornell University chefs
together. This way, farmers and chefs can direct-
ly conduct business while establishing personal
relationships.
And Emory University has even hired a "farm-
er liaison" to establish lines of communication
between area farmers and the school. Besides
informing the community about Emory Univer-
sity's local food program, the liaison encourages
farms to get organic certification. Making efforts
known to the public and bringing local food ven-
ues to campus informs the public not only of local
food availability and access but also of the people
who are already making moves toward conscious
consumption.
At times, students underestimate the weight
of their opinions on campus. The University of
Michigan constantly requests feedback from
students, whether in teacher evaluation forms
or e-mail surveys. Though the University has
revamped its sustainability efforts with the
newly-instituted Office of Sustainability and is
working extensively to conduct an Integrated
Assessment, there's still a disconnect between
student involvement and administrative efforts.
With more student participation, student groups
like Michigan Sustainable Food Initiative could
have the same clout as Yale's Sustainable Food
Project. After all, you are what you eat, so start
asking questions.
Emily Basham is an LSA junior.

t was hard for me to tear my eyes
from the image of two morbidly
obese people jumping up and
down in celebration
of walking across a
balance beam above
a pool on "The Big-
gest Loser." But as
I watched many of
them head back to
the workout room,
complaining the
whole way, I had to
change the channel. COURTNEY
This show, along F
with many oth- LETCHER
ers, is essentially
rewarding the obe-
sity crisis by offering monetary reward
for losing weight. Is getting your life
back not enough?
I sit on the extreme opposite side
of the spectrum from these people
in terms of lifestyle. As a Division-I
athlete, I work out five or six times a
week, monitor what I eat and try to
make the best possible health deci-
sions to help me perform in my sport.
What I'm learning is that playing a
sport is less about the wins and losses
and more about creating good life-
style habits for my life after athletics.
Sports are of course an easy way for
kids to begin healthy lifestyle choices.
It forces them to exercise, interact with
other kids and compete. Admittedly,
sports certainly aren't for everyone,
but that doesn't mean that exercise
should simply be abandoned. It's kind
of like this: You may not be good at
math, but you're going to have to take
it throughout your education because
it's still an important skill to have. The
samegoes for exercise.
Eating is another crucial part of

a healthy lifestyle. Though I love
pizza, hamburgers and candy, I have
an understanding that they aren't
imperative parts of the food pyra-
mid. We learn most of our eating
habits from our families growing up.
Whether you grew up with family sit-
down dinners, eat fast food frequent-
ly or have home-packed vs. school
lunches will ultimately influence the
way you eat when you're on your own.
The amount of information we see
and hear every day about food and
exercise is astounding. Buy this small
ball and you'll have abs of steel, don't
eat carbs and you'll have the body of
Britney Spears, buy this book and
you'll reach your weight goals. These
products are successful because peo-
ple are looking for a quick fix to their
problems.
But when it comes to being ahealthy
person, there are no quick fixes. The
vast majority of people already know
what they they need to do. Just like
we all know smoking is bad for you,
we also know the difference between
eating healthy and eating poorly and
that exercising is important.
Being healthy isn't for the faint of
heart. Making excuses to avoid exer-
cising and eating well takes discipline
and hard work. I had to make lifestyle
changes of my own last year. I made
the commitment to eat healthier
in order to help my athletic perfor-
mance. What I found was that when
I ate better, my athletic performance
improved, I needed less sleep, my
grades improved and I actually felt
happier. While it took discipline and
self-control to not polish off a package
of Oreos or eat a bag of chips, I found
that the way I felt from not eating
them was better than the short-term

satisfactionI got from eating them.
I learned that there is no such
thing as "bad food" - there are sim-
ply healthier alternatives. It's okay to
have dessert occasionally or indulge
in a Starbucks drink from time to
time, but not every day. You can eat
chocolate Graham crackers instead
of Oreos and eat popcorn instead of
chips. You get the same satisfaction
for the same craving.
Having a healthy
lifestyle isn't for
the faint of heart. *
There are more excuses to not make
these changes than there are to do
them - you've got a huge exam, you're
running late, you're tired or yousimply
don't want to. All of these are excuses
to pull through the McDonalds drive-
through or sleep instead of working
out. But the rewards of staying com-
mitted to it are well-worth the work.
You don't have to be a size two or
have abs of steel to be a healthy per-
son. But it also shouldn't take an
extreme situation and an application
to "The Biggest Loser" to get your life
headed in the right direction. Eating
right and exercising is about feeling
good. And if you take the steps that
lead to a healthy life, you're setting
yourself up for a longer, better and
more enjoyable life.
- Courtney Fletcher can be
reached at fletchco@umichedu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis,
Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer,
Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Asa Smith, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 5, 2010 - 5A

Folds dishes about
Hornby collaboration

COURTESY OF AMC
Should've read the sign.
Grateful for 'Dead'

AMC's zombie
drama has heart and
braaaamins...
By DAVID TAO
Daily TV/New Media Editor
Depending on your perspec-
tive, zombies can be any number of
things. To some,
they're canni-
balistic monsters
who are scary The Walking
as hell. To oth-
ers, they're corny De
reminders of Sundays at
Hollywood's lack 10 p.m.
of imagination. AMC
But theoretically
speaking, zom-
bies are as serious as any other
global disaster. Governments shut
down. Public services end. Mil-
lions of people flee their homes and
mourn the loss of their loved ones
even as their loved ones come back
to life and try to eat them. Indeed,
zombie apocalypse is emotion-
ally shattering, morally compli-
cated and deadly serious. Nobody
knows this fact better than Oscar-
nominated writer Frank Darabont
("The Shawshank Redemption"),
whose latest project "The Waking
Dead" takes this principle to heart.
The result? The most affecting,
well executed zombie drama ever
produced.
First, an introduction for the
uninitiated. Zombies are dead peo-
ple who have come back to eat the
living. They can only be stopped
by destroying their brains and if
they bite or scratch you, you're
done for - your painful death will
be followed by your resurrection
as a rotting carcass that craves
human flesh. That's all new infor-

mation for our protagonist, small-
town sheriffs deputy Rick Grimes
(Andrew Lincoln, "Love Actu-
ally"). After getting shot during a
car chase and lapsing into a coma,
he wakes up in his hospital bed,
feeble, unattended and clueless.
From there, Grimes slowly
makes his way through the dilapi-
dated hospital in a series of scenes
that establish both Lincoln's skill
as an actor and Darabont's consid-
erable prowess behind the camera.
As Grimes stumbles, confused,
through the corridors, Darabont
tweaks the lighting and color pal-
ette to create a tense atmosphere
of dread. Much of the hospital,
including its walls, its ceilings and
its lights, is a harsh, pristine white.
Marred by dried blood, bullet
holes and the occasional brutally
mutilated corpse, those surfaces
become a reminder of shattered
tranquility, an eerie effect com-
pounded by the ominous flickering
of the fluorescent lights.
Lincoln makes sure to portray
Grimes not as a typical action hero,
but as an ordinary guy with whom
we can identify. He combines the
physical frailties of a recovering
gunshot victim with the emotions
of a man exposed to an unexplain-
able, repulsive new world. He shiv-
ers in his patient gown even as he
sweats from a combination of fear
and adrenaline, his face contorting
in expressions ranging from sur-
prise to dismay to disgust. When
he sees his first zombie, a long-dead
corpse dragging its entrails along as
it crawls, he recoils in terror.
Eventually, he recovers his
senses, but his priorities continue
to match those of ordinary disaster
victims - find out what happened,
reunite his family and restore some
semblance of ordinary life. As he
goes about accomplishing these

goals, he encounters the father and
son duo of Morgan (Lennie James,
"Snatch") and Duane (Adrian Kali
Turner, "FlashForward"), who
share similar beliefs. Together,
they anchor the show by portray-
ing realistically human responses
to adversity, saying Grace over
meals, reminiscing about old times
and treating a hot shower like a
winning lottery ticket.
That's not to say that the episode
favors talk over action. Darabont,
constructs some of the most chill-
ing, visually dazzling setpieces
ever seen on television. Dead bod-
ies in impeccably applied zombie
makeup are presented in dozens
of neatly stacked rows, represent-
ing the Army's doomed attempt at
containing catastrophe. The empty
tanks and Humvees that decorate
the abandoned city streets tes-
tify to military failure, as do the
zombies that are seemingly every-
where. There's the little girl who
Grimes is forced to neutralize and
the fellow police officer he eutha-
nizes. And there's Morgan's wife,
who comes in the night to scare
Duane and break Morgan's heart.
Try as he might, Morgan can never
bring himself to put her down. His
tears of grief and frustration epito-
mize the edge that "The Waking
Dead" has over the competition
- its ability to poignantly analyze
the human side of something as
farfetched as a zombie apocalypse.
Hopefully, the series can keep
this emotional edge sharp. We
catch hints of petty drama from
a group of survivors introduced
in the episode's closing minutes,
which, along with a stale love tri-
angle, push expectations for future
episodes down a notch or two. Still,
the series is off to an incredible
start. Let's hope nobody shoots it
in the head anytime soon.

By DAVID RIVA
Daily Arts Writer
It started more simply than one
might expect.
"He had been listening to my
records and I
had been read- Ben Folds
ing his books,"
Ben Folds said of Saturday
his relationship at 7 p.m.
with British nov-
elist and screen- The Fillmore
writer Nick Ticketsfrom
Hornby in an $27.50
interview with
the Daily. "Our paths were cross-
ing more and more and we just
finally decided to make a record."
Lonely Avenue - that resulting
record - was released in Septem-
ber and includes lyrics written by
Hornby for Folds's arrangements.
The new songs will be premiered
on Folds's current tour alongside
tunes from his extensive back
catalogue. Both can be heard in
Detroit at the Fillmore tomorrow
night.
The veteran singer-songwriter
claims his compatibility with
Hornby stems from their similar
tendency to look at all situations
with a certain degree of complex-
ity. Mixing things that don't often
go together is a difficult endeavor
for creative types, but it's some-
thing both Folds and Hornby
embrace.
"When it's time to make a book
or j1 movie or a photograph or a
song, people tend to just choose a
tone," Folds said.
He explained that most artists
are not likely to combine an oppos-
ing sentiment with that tone,
but asserts that he and Hornby
both reject this one-dimensional
approach to storytelling.
"When it comes to art, people
don't necessarily reflect the real-
ity that there are funny moments
in the saddest times and there
are sad moments in the funniest
(times)," Folds said.
This fusion of sad and funny
can be heard throughout on Lone-
ly Avenue. For example, the intro-
spective ballad "Picture Window"
tells the story of a girl in the hos-
pital during the holiday season.
After describing an undeniably
bleak situation, the narrator per-
sonifies the concept of hope and

begins to comically insult it.
"Hope is a liar / a cheat and a
tease / Hope comes near you /
kick its backside," Folds sings as
Hornby's words inject a wry bit of
humor into the dreary scenario.
on the flipside of the coin,
"Levi Johnston's Blues" presents
a funny premise in the face of a
truly tragic tale. The song is told
from the first-person perspective
of a hard-nosed Alaskan teenager
who just so happened to knock
up Bristol Palin during the 2008
election season, when her mother
was the vice president candidate
on the Republican ticket.
Folds explained Hornby's
thought process for writing the
song: "This is Nick watching the
Republican National Convention

Folds continued by saying that
everyone can think of a time when
they got into trouble as a kid, but
no single story is compelling
enough to capture a large audi-
ence's imagination. Levi John-
ston's ordeal was public enough
and rare enough that it would be
hard not to be drawn in by the
song.
With the song's killer melody
compounded by Folds's knowl-
edgeable and savvy audience,
"Levi Johnston's Blues" seems
to be on the fast track to instant-
classic status.
Folds will often acknowledge
the fact that he plays to what he
calls an "intelligent audience,"
which is something he is particu-
larly proud of.
"Over the years you sift out a
little part of the population that is
sort of your people," he said. "You
understand each other on a cer-
tain level."
"I don't really like calling peo-
ple fans, because I kind of feel like
we're not really that dissimilar,"
he explained. "I've spent my time
honing the craft of music and that
is the reason that I'm sharing that
thing that I do. There are people
in the audience ... that are great
locksmiths ... and they don't get
applauded for when they finish
their job. And I just sort of like to
recognize all that."
Overall, touring continues tobe
a positive experience for Folds.
"There's something really posi-
tive about being lucky enough to
bring together people who aren't
Telling the
story behind
'Levi Johnston's
Blues!'
fuckin' idiots," he said. "What's
really kind of nice is to go play
one of my gigs and everyone that's
there is smart and gets it. And
they might not all be one political
party or the other - I don't give a
shit. But they're on it and they're
smart and they get it and I think
that's a good reason to tour."

and going 'Wow, look at that kid
up there. That kid stuffed into a
suit looks really uncomfortable.
Oh, he has to get married to the
daughter. Oh, I see what's going
on. Poor kid. Wow, he had to grow
up fast.'"
"Then he looks him up on the
Internet and sees the MySpace
page that says ... 'I'm a fucking
redneck, I live to hang out with
boys (and) shoot moose,' " Folds
continued. "So he saw that and he
thought, 'Well there's a chorus.'"
Though Johnston became a
regular in the tabloids whose
story is familiar to most Ameri-
cans, Folds would like listeners
to relate to this story on a broader
level.
"The story is about growing up.
It's not about Levi Johnston," he
said. "Nick looks for those sym-
bols that resonate, a moment that
resonates"

,

N.E.R.D.'s Pharrell Williams
gets funky over 'Nothing'

By ARIELLE SPECINER
Daily Arts Writer
It's time to embrace the revenge
of the N.E.R.D.
Pharrell Williams, Chad Hugo
and Shay Haley
are shifting the
gears of today's
hip-hop world. N.E.R.D.
N.E.R.D's new-
est album Noth- Nothing
ing brings Star Trak/
the funk with Interscope
'70s-inspired
tracks - a new
direction for lead vocalist Wil-
liams and his gang. Compared to
2008's Seeing Sounds, N.E.R.D's
newest venture has a softer feel
with swarms of bluesy horns and
808 beats. The album is rich with

both party pump-ups and funky
jam-outs with an undertone of
N.E.R.D's signature hipster flow.
The most electrifying track on
the album is the opener "Party
People (feat TI.)." Pharrell lures
listeners in with a pounding
bass track. Old-school hip-hop
raps and a party-starting cho-
rus entices "party people" to join
in because they're "gonna get
down." T.I's barely-there cameo
pulls the track together so it's not
just a jumble of noise.
Nothing is book-ended by the
other dance track, "Hot-n-Fun
(feat. Nelly Furtado)." Pharrell
introduces listeners to the track
as he explains, "OK, we wrote
this for a purpose, to motivate
you at this time / With this hyp-
notizing baseline, please feel free

to lose your mind," while Furta-
do's voice chimes in on the cho-
rus. Though songwriting may not
be N.E.R.D's forte, it makes up
Old-school hip-
hop vibes meet
808 beats.
for it with captivating beats and
melodies.
The band takes its sound to a
slower, sexier pace on the rest of
the album with tracks like "Hyp-
notize U," a spacey, sexually
charged song backed by soft organ
See N.E.R.D., Page 6A

Are you, or someone you know
unable to enjoy things you once liked to do?
less interested in people?
feeling sad or blue?
without energy?
Over the age of 18 and not taking medications? If so, you may be eligible to
participate in research studies at the University of Michigan. Compensation
provided for 2-5 study visits of varying length.
For more information, please contact:
Depressionstudies@umich.edu or 734-972-6902
UniderM& yeMchin
Stdls: RU1005501953? a sUM0OO1tlll5Healtrh Syrari


6A - Friday, November 5, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

6A - Friday, November 5, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Throw the flag
for VH1 'Wives'

Basement Arts comes in peace -

Forr
consist
only:
But wa
show a
wives o
players
isn't s
on man
fans'
- and
reason.
premiei
"Footb
last Su
sport N
redeem
"Foo
implies
wives o
go out
revolve
wives(
whi
en(
bible st
more st
watchii
entire'
introdu
lavish 1
alongv
fights o
study e-
YouI
of affl
footbal
little m
the gri

By ALEX RUSS to-do women feels like finding
Daily Arts Writer the new "Real Housewives of
Football." While the serious and
many Americans, Sundays potentially deep discussion of
of one thing and one thing their husbands' vulnerability to
football. severe injury on the football field
atching a did come up at one point, it was
about the 9 immediately dismissed and lost
if football into the abyss that was the rest of
probably Football the show.
omething Wives When we think of football, we
.y football think of big names like Peyton
agendas Sundaysat Manning or Tom Brady. If you're
for good 10:30 p.m. hoping to somehow catch more
VH1's VH1 than a glimpse of them on the
re of show, you're out of luck. Aside
all Wives" from Deion Sanders, the only
nday was an insult to the players we get to see are in semi-
vithout a single aspect to pro leagues throughout the coun-
it. try or are NFL special-teams
tball Wives," as its name players. No offense to the kickers
follows the lives of the and punters out there, but those
f football players as they are among the least interesting
together. The premiere positions on a football team ... so
d around scenes of the what could possibly make watch-
eating out and going to ing their wives any more inter-
esting?
This is quite possibly the phoni-
est group of women to have ever
Too much appeared on television. Not only is
every on-screen moment painful
ining and not to watch, but they love throwing
the one thing they always fall back
)ugh drama. on in the audience's face: money.
Watching this show brings back
memories of "My Super Sweet 16."
udy. If you're looking for There are few things more aggra-
ubstance than that, you're vating for a viewer than watch-
ng the wrong channel. The ing celebrities flaunt how much
30 minutes only involved money they have and how special
cing the women and the they think it makes them.
ives they think they lead, Simply put, there is no reason
rith some borderline cat- for this show tobe on TV. It com-
'ver someone leaving bible bines some of the worst aspects of
arly. other shows into a wasteful and
would think that a group painful 30 minutes. If you want to
uent women married to watch something football-related
1 players would have a on your Sunday evenings, stick
ore drama that. Watching with the original programming:
oup of squabbling, well- actual "Sunday Night Football."

Jane Wagner makes
aliens out of the
audience
By BRAD SANDERS
Daily Arts Writer
Sometimes, there is nothing
more uncomfortably comedic
than when

people with
one-too-few
marbles talk
to them-
selves in
public.
"The
Search for
Signs of
Intelligent
Life in the
Universe,"
written by
Jane Wag-

The Search for
Signs of
Intelligent Life
in the Universe
Friday at 7and 11
p.m., Saturday
at 7 p.m.
Walgreen Drama
Center, Studio One
Free

ner, features a bag lady named
Trudy - played by Renee Gross, a
sophomore in the School of Music,
Theatre & Dance - who introduc-
es the human species to a group
of aliens. The audience meets an
eccentric series of people who may
or may not exist outside of Trudy's
perception of the universe.
Keleki Gottschalk, director
and junior in the School of Music,
Theatre & Dance, described how
disoriented Trudy is in her efforts
to communicate anything to the
aliens.
"She asked them specifically to
meet her on the corner of 'Walk,
N.E.R.D.
From Page 5A
pipes and infused with whispered
lyrics. In the same vein is the slow
jam "Life As A Fish," which pulls
in oceanic sound effects of wave-

Don't Walk' around lunch time,
but then she realizes they don't
know what lunch time is. ... And
why did she say 'around?' She
should have been more specific,"
Gottschalk said.
Because of these lapses, Trudy
gets stood up.
"The aliens never show up.
We're just there in ... place of the
aliens look(ing) at ourselves," she
said.
The play's title refers to the
search for intelligent life in other
parts of the universe - a search
in which we assume humans
already fit this criterion. This con-
cept comes from one of the many
Post-it notes attached to Trudy's
jacket that she reads sporadically
throughout the production.
"One of (the Post-its) is ... 'They
found intelligent life in the uni-
verse that plays to play; we seem
to be the only species that play
to win, and that explains why
we're the only ones that have our
fair share of losers,' " Gottschalk
explained. "Just little things like
that, that make you think for a sec-
ond, laugh and then move on."
The play examines concepts
many see as trivial, and presents
them in a similarly intriguing and
comedic way.
"She's talking about how her
alien friends can't tell the differ-
ence between a can of Campbell's
soup and a picture of Andy War-
hol's can of Campbell soup, and
she always has to remind them 'No
this is soup, and this is art,'" Gott-
schalk said. "And then they look at
like swishes.
Hard raps that take over at
rapid speed are not piled onto
Nothing. Instead, cool blasts of
vocals mixed in with thundering
trumpets take over the album.
These sounds are sampled liberal-
ly on the tracks "God Bless Us All"
and "Perfect Defect." On "God

a box of cream of wheat that has a
picture of a guy holding up a box of
cream of wheat ... and they say'Oh
my God, Trudy! This is a picture of
infinity!"'
Gottschalk discovered Wag-
ner's play in high school, when she
was performing a monologue from
it. Originally written as a solo act
for Wagner's lover Lily Tomlin,
Gottschalk put her own unique
twist on it for Basement Arts.
"The more I read it, the more
I grew to love it," Gottschalk
explained. "When Lily (Tomlin)
did it as a one-woman show, it was
her, a stage and a couple chairs. ...
She had very, very few props and
just one costume, and I thought it
would be interesting to flesh it out
a little and produce it a little bit
more."
The props for the play, which all

come from the contents of Trudy's
grocery cart of items she has col-
lected over the years, may play a
bigger role in the invention of the
characters.
"I think it should be let a little
bit open to interpretation, but the
basic premise I'm working with is
she's collecting all these things,
and she's really into what she's
collected and she's making these
stories based on her junk heap,"
Gottschalk explained. "I think
what's happening is Trudy kind
of invents these people to pass the
time ... and she makes up the sto-
ries of this item and who it is."
"These characters are trying to
find a balance," Gottschalk added.
"Jane Wagner takes these interest-
ing concepts and, by making a joke
out of them, comes to really inter-
esting conclusions."

"The Search for Signs" was originally written for Lily Tomlin.

Bless Us All," the sounds cap-
ture an essence of jazzy smooth-
ness and barbershop harmonies.
Meanwhile, disco rhythms start
"Perfect Defect" off as it trails
into a whirlwind of brisk dance
beats.
Though the record could use
a bit of fine-tuning so it doesn't

get sent into oblivion, it conveys
a new kind of sound from a band
that has always been pushing
the limits. N.E.R.D's creativity
shines through on Nothing. This
album proves that nothing can
keep the band locked down - in
the confines of any particular
genre, that is.

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609
!"*FALL 2011**! 5 to 9 bdrm.
houses. Keysmanagement.net
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
. Ince. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking.*FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvaihProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!NOW RESERVING FOR FALL
2011! 1 & 2 bedroom apartments. 3
bedroom house on Church. C & I Man-
agement, LLC. Call Patty 734-320-1245

! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Parents Week-
end events Thur-Son Nov 4-7: restau-
rant tasting, iours, and more; visit and
sign with a parent and we'll buy you
dinner! U-M's best housing sold out
early for 2010, reserve your space to-
day. 2 blocks from Central Campus
and downtown. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com

RELEASE DATE- Friday, November 5, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 " dint need to 37 Alhee play, with 49 Prepared totake
1 Tic- knowithat!' "Thenotice?
5 Travis of country 6 Accumulates 38 Buzzer 50 Church area
10 Arrange ina 7 Chinese leader? 40 Put oneselftat 51 Wide-haunched
toumament 8 Defeated risk, in a way 52 Cop stopping
14 Eliza's greeting decisively 41 Messed up a traffic?
15 2009 Man Booker 9 Student hole, maybe 53 Singer born
Intemational Prize resentern, 42 "Hey, ewel" Eithne Patricia Ni
WinnerAlice perhaps 43 Comerstone abbr. Bhraonn
16 Poi base 10 "__ ByStarlight": 45 He played Marty 54 Odd character
17 Favorable time to jazz standard in "Marty" 56 Movies with "II" in
place an online 11 Gather 46 Serious theiries: Abbr.
bid? itfonnation depression H9 Sub letern
19 " Almighty": secretly
2107film 12Some are named ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Sacred scroll for music genres
21 Silent 13 Slips into P ROVO T AJ OLEAN
23 Wellness gp. 18Milk by-products S B E R E N 0 P 0 N Z
24ide tilette 2Winter mos. E VER GR E E GO
26NobelistBohr 25Sriwithlip- C E R T A N NN E G N T
27 Online networking 27 49-Across from E
sitetranee? which BuzzENVY AAA
31 Whatodedo Atdn tumed S E RBI A C I LL AW
34 1987 Costner role down a full H A I R C L U S T E R E M I
35 Hope-Crosby scholarship E SI T A S P A 00G
destination 28 Actress Aime BB E E C A N A L B E V I C E
36 Pay for periodic 29 53-oan's . L 01G AINEOIN
use homeland
37Coll. ot12signs 30 ly catcher A ZIT V 01 IR
38 Afghaistan'1i 3 27-ownig. W R E S T L IN G H L 0
Tore -region 32Sitcomwhose A L I E N R 0 S E M A R I E
39 2007honLfor theme song was CO N D E I C E A I N T Y
Hughaurie: sung byitsstar STOOD OK 110E5
Abbr. 33 Toastmasters'
40"Ben Adhern" stock xwordeditor@aol.com 11/04/10
42 Wrned, in away1 2 a a s e n e is i12 5
44 Detective'sjob 1 2 16 17 8 19 1 11
concerning a 4 15 1
personal online
relationship? i 1s19
47 Bottom bits
48 Word before or 20 21 22
after pack I
49 37-Oosn, e.g. 23 24 2
i2 Coloriul tish
55 Kirin beer rival B 2 93
57 Starting stake a3 as323r
58 Spinner seen in
an online video? T6 re
60 Bakery buys
61 Sesidetflck as s 51 a2 s
62 Bit of Marx's
legacy 44 4148
63 It may number in
thethousands 47 a e9 re
64 Ones changing
65 Agile
DOWN 60 61 2
1 Effectiveness
2 TuesdaysWith6s 24
Morie" author
3 Light smoke By David Poole
4 Milk source (02010 Tribune Mediaservices,Ine. 11105110

the
a.
PRDPSRTV MANAGEMENT
+ ned and O
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus I D--owntow 1
North Campus esSde
Let Our Famil Take C i Of Yors
Conea try em wea*' iue
Ewrciseo Faciliit Snmdy Room.,,
734.741 .930
wwW.aImborparbents.netI
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
NOW LEASING FOR 2011*!*
www.carlsoproperties.com
734-332-6000.
$800/MO. 2 BDRM. farmhouse re-
e. acerage view. 25 m from A2.
pets okay. 888-782-2220 Emily
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail
May. Hardwood floors, fully furmished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
305 PACKARD - Very cute 3-bd
house close to campus and downtown!
Bonus den w/a private bathroom and
formal dialog room. Large kitchen,
hardwood floors, and basement w/
washer & dryer. Fully furnished and
parking incl. Perfect for 3-6 people!
734-668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1007 S. State. Furnished,
free laundry, free parking.
$4300/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber, 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished $3500 248-798-4755
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3800 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2011. dklemptner@comcast.net
920 DEWEY - A Large 5-bd house
incl. a finished attic and a full base-
ment! A short bike ride to central cam-
pus. Large living room w/fireplace and
a 42" flatscreen TV! Huge yard and
plenty of parking!
734-668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskman@yahoo.com.

Leather furniture
Bi-level;ri-levels
Eff., l.2 & 3 bdrms
Updated Kitchens
Electronic Entries'
Balconies & Patios
On AATAhkrs lines
Trash Removal

S TU DEN fT OJUS I G>N C.
18 Locations to choose from
many on 'entral (ampus

FREE HGI SPEED
INTERNET CONNECTION
DireclV ow Available
Visit us on the web at
WWW.primeSh.com
Stop by our olice at 6110 Church St.
or call us today at
(734) 761-8000
to arrange viewings.
"Arenities vary by location*"
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. fum.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State Idry
prkgheat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites youbto visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
stilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-6634101.
FALL 2011 FINE 6 bedroom house.
523 So. Fourth Ave, thin, dwshr, dis-
posal, lasurdy, parking, central A/C,
high speed internet, hardwood floors,
alarm system, heat and water included.
734-662-7121 or gpmiles@ool.com
NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealty.com
734-665-8825
WE HOLD THE KEY...
To Your New Home!
Prime Student Housing
734-761-8000
primesh.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
-NOW SHOWING
APARTMENTS-
For 2011-12!
18 great locations
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Furnished, Heat & Water Included,
1 Parking Pass & FREE Internet.
Call today to see your new home!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
*Amenities Vary By Location

R EE INTERNET
Heat & eaterIncluded
Parking Included
Completely Furnished
On Sie rLaundry
Air Conditioning
Garbage Disposals
Dishwashers

***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modem
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
1109S. STATE St.- 5-bedroom house
across from IM building. Very large
bedrooms can be used as doubles. Fully
furnished, 2 '/ baths, and abasement
w/free washer & dryer! Hardwood
floors & a large kitchen w/dishwasher.
Huge backyard w/lots of parking!
734-668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
4 BDRM (4-5 person) HOUSE.
2 bthoms, prkg, Idry, ctrl. air. Central
Campus near IM. Call 734-395-6823.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE. Furnished, 2
baths, free laundry, large porch, free
parking w/garage, great location. 702
Arch St. May 2011. $3250. 734426-
4772, Jim at Spring Valley Farm.
FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State St./Athletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., I
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
FALL 2011. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
FALL 2011
Huge house in prime locations!
6 Bdrms, 3 studies, 3 1/2 baths
$4899/month
734 665 8825
www.campusrealty.com
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Court $2340,
tenants pay all utilities call Cappo
Deinco 734-996-1991
MAY AVAILABILITY 6 bedroom
$3275 rooms $600. 701 Catherine
(near kerrytown). 734-777-3687
NEWER 6 BD RMS FURNISHED
Apts AVAILABLE, walk to CEN-
TRAL CAMPUS. For VIRTUAL
TOUR and INFO call 734-418-2050 or
loe on www.828greeneapts.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x125.
15 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS for 2-3
month temporary work for persons
bilingual in Spanish and English for
customer service call center. $10/hr.
Send resume to jeanw@mastersonper-
sonnel.com
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
BECOME A HEALTH & WELL-
NESS COACH!!! $1500/mo. Training
provided. Flex. hrs. Call 310-293-4973
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
LOOKING FOR RETAIL sales peo-
ple for a new high end sporting goods
store located in Ann Arbor. Applicants
must have knowledge of multiple
sports and be customer oriented. Flexi-
ble hours including weekends. To
apply e-mail your resume to
Scott@catchtheadvantage.com
PART TIME MATH tutor available
in Brighton; Working one-to-one in
leaming center setting; Mostly teaching
math, must be able to teach through be-
ginning calc. Tuesdays & Wednesdays
3-8pm.10 hrs weekly, hourly salary.
Only considering someone with a de-
gree or in last semester. Must be avail-
able for the school year ending June
2011. 810-229-4844 or 810423-3792.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & PUB now hiring individuals
for our kitchen staff and office staff.
Apply in person at 310 Maynard, Ann
Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
Afli~

NEEDH ELP wIs tat paper or
grant proposal? Experienced Editor
(Ph.D. Chemistry) will edit or rewrite
your documents. $50/hr. Fast turn
around. Contact Bill@phm.com or
www.phm.com
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licemsed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

F-I No
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 5, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailytom Friday, November 5, 2010 - 7A

NCAA
From Page 1A
tigation seriously from the first day
and that she was proud of how the
University cooperated with the
NCAA.
"To the University of Michigan
(this) could not be more serious,"
Coleman said.
But Coleman made it clear that
such violations should never have
happened.
"Theyshouldnothaveoccurred,"
Coleman said of the violations, add-
ing that corrective measures have
been implemented.
Speaking atcthe press conference,
Athletic Director David Brandon
said he was happy the process was
over and that he wasn't surprised
by the NCAA's findings.
"There will be no appeals
because there's nothing to appeal,"
Brandon said. "They're major viola-
tions, absolutely. We've admitted to
them and we're moving forward."
However, Brandon stressed
that at no time was the welfare
of student-athletes put in danger.
Brandon cited a "very high-profile
story" reported by a local newspa-
per, which he did not name, that
suggested the football program
was putting student-athletes at
risk.
In August 2009, the Detroit Free
Press published a report alleging,
wrongdoing on the part of the foot-
ball program. The story led both the
NCAA and the University to launch
investigations into the program.
"The article quoted several
unnamed sources and extracted
several quotes from several named
individuals that were made at dif-
ferent times and in many cases
completely different contexts,"
Brandon said at the press confer-
ence. "We strongly believe that a
detailed and thorough investiga-
tion would prove these allegations
to be false and misleading, and
based on our internal investiga-
tion and the extensive investigation
conducted and now completed by
the NCAA, this important issue has
been addressed."
But Brandon made clear that he
did acceptffull responsibility forthe
charges and the penalties issued by
the NCAA.
"We were absolutely guilty of a
failure to monitor," Brandon said of
the institution and officials at the
University.
Brandon said he was pleased that
the NCAA agreed with the Univer-
sity that Rodriguez did not fail to
promote an atmosphere of compli-
ance.
"We all know and we recognize
that we made mistakes," Brandon
said. "But we felt it was important
for us to take a strong position on
that."
Reading a statement at the press
conference, Rodriguez said he was
happy the process is over.
"Certainly I'm glad this process
has come to a close," Rodriguez
said. "We've worked hard to ensure
that internal breakdowns do not
happen again."
Rodriguez added that he's
relieved to be done with the NCAA
investigation and hearing and that
he's focused on Michigan's game
against Illinois this weekend.
Asked about her evaluation of
the Michigan football program,
Coleman said she was "proud" of it
and happy to have Brandon leading

the Athletic Department, hinting
that it would beup to Brandon to
make any necessary changes in the
Athletic Department.
"This is ultimately his call,"
Coleman said.
However, Coleman added that
she viewed this case very differ-
ently from the University's previ-
ous violations of NCAA rules and
regulations by its men's basketball
program.
Michael Buckner, an attorney
who consults with universities
in NCAA-related cases, told The
Michigan Daily in an interview yes-
terday that he felt the NCAA's rul-
ing and sanctions were fitting.
"I think that the committee's
sanctions were very appropriate
considering the violations they
found," Buckner said, explaining
that the NCAA's Committee on
Infractions considers not only the
severity of the violations but also
the level of cooperation provided
by the institution throughout the
investigation and what sanctions
were self-imposed. "It's apparent
by the tone and tenor of the infrac-
tions report that the committee
believed an extra year of probation
was the most appropriate sanction
in this case," Buckner added.
Buckner said it was also impor-
tant to note the committee's deci-
sion to change the charge leveled
against Rodriguez from failure to
promote an atmosphere of compli-
ance to failure to effectively moni-
tor the program.
"The committee did not feel that
coach Rodriguez's actions rose
to that standard in the bylaws,"
Buckner said. "Though that still is
a major rules violation ... it wasn't
as serious as what everyone once
believed."
Michael Jones, an attorney who
also consults with universities
under investigation by the NCAA,
agreed, saying a violation under
NCAA Bylaw 2 was less serious
than Bylaw 11, meaning the out-
come was more favorable for the
University than the original set of
allegations.
"Bylaw 11 sanctionsawere specifi-
cally designed to hold head coaches
more accountable for specific over-
sight," Jones said. "In my opinion, a
finding of just a lack of monitoring
my takeaway is that it's less seri-
ous."
Jones added that though he
wasn't familiar with the specific
elements of the University's hear-
ing before the Committee on
Infractions, he cited two possible
reasons for the bylaw change.
"It's very possible that the work
of the coach and the institution
involved had something to do with
there being a different citation
involved," Jones said. "Or it could
very well be that the nature of the
information that got shared at the
hearing simply convinced the com-
mittee that a different bylaw was
the more appropriate one to cite."
Buckner told the Daily in the
past that the University was aptly
positioning itself to leave its options
open regarding Rodriguez's
employment as Michigan's football
coach.
He told the Daily yesterday that
Coleman's remarks at yesterday's
press conference reaffirmed their
strategy to continue fully support-
ing Rodriguez so that no one can say
he's receiving anything less than full
supportifrom the institution.
"They're going to wait," Buckner

said. "They're not going to rush to
any hasty judgment as to the future
employment of coach Rodriguez."
Buckner explained, "They had
a major rules violation in place, so
they could exercise the termina-
tion with cause, but it appears that
the president is going to give her
AD enough latitude in order to
facilitate a full assessment of coach
Rodriguez's program both on the
field and off the field."
Jones noted that going forward
University officials will likely
amplify efforts around its compli-
ance office to ensure it avoids the
threat of having another violation
occur within the window of the
repeat violator statute.
"if another violation occurs, they
will be a repeat violator," Jones
said. "That alone puts you in a posi-
tion where you have to be redou-
bling your efforts."
However, he added that no mat-
ter what a program's history with
the NCAA is, every program in the
country must constantly evolve its
compliance efforts to stay up-to-
date and in compliance with NCAA
rules and regulations.
"Every compliance program in
the nation always has to be con-
stantly evaluating and tweaking its
program," Jones said. "No one is
above that. it's ongoing."
Yesterday's announcements,
which come after the University
imposed voluntary sanctions on
itself in response to charges from
the NCAA and testified before the
NCAA's Committee on Infractions,
resolves more than 14 months of
controversy surrounding allega-
tions of misconduct in the Michi-
gan football program.
In the NCAA's report of findings,
officials wrote that the violations
wereseriousbutless extensive than
first reported.
"The committee noted that the
violations of the daily and weekly
countable hour rules, though seri-
ous, were far less extensive than
originally reported that no stu-
dent-athletes were substantially
harmed," officials wrote in their
report.
The controversy began follow-
ing the Detroit Free Press article in
August 2009, which led University
administrators to start an investi-
gation into possible misconduct.
In October 2009, the NCAA fol-
lowed suit, notifying the University
that it would conduct its own inves-
tigation of the Michigan football
program for potential violations of
NCAA rules and regulations.
In February, the NCAA sent the
University a formal notice of alle-
gations that outlined five primary
violations it believed had occurred.
The University promptly held a
press conference and said it took
responsibility for all the allega-
tions, with the exception of the
charge that Rodriguez "failed to
promote an atmosphere of compli-
ance" within the program.
The other charges - that the
Athletic Department did not appro-
priately oversee the program, that
the program exceeded the number
of hours student-athletes practiced
and the number of coaches who
worked with them, that staff in the
Athletic Department monitored
student-athletes during voluntary
workouts against NCAA policy and
that a graduate assistant football
coach lied to NCAA investigators
- were not contested by the Uni-
versity.

HAWK
From Page 1A
sort of crossing for pedestrian safe-
ty," Ramirez said.
In an interview before the meet-
ing yesterday, Ann Arbor City Coun-
cil Member Mike Anglin (D-Ward
5) agreed with Ramirez, saying
council has been discussing safer
crossing measures for years.
"We've had this continuing dis-
cussion of ... how we get people
across the street safely," Anglin said
in the interview.
During yesterday's meeting, Ang-
lin said HAWK might be the solution.
"There's been years talking about
this, and it's here tonight," Anglin
told council.
In a separate interview last night,
Jim Kosteva, the University's direc-
tor of community relations, said
the University plans to monitor the
city's first HAWK "with interest" to
see if such a system would be suc-
cessful on campus.
"We have a number of locations
that are somewhat similar ... so we'll
be watching this installation with a
fair degreeofinterest," Kosteva said.
In their joint address to coun-
cil, Ramirez and Martin said the

HAWK is designed with the pedes-
trian in mind.
Under the HAWK system, pedes-
trians will push a button that will
immediately trigger a reaction on
the overhead lights seen by drivers,
Ramirez said.
As Ramirez explained, the over-
head light will start flashing yellow
as soon as the button is pushed -
signaling to drivers that a pedes-
trian has pressed the button.
When it's time to completely stop,
the lightwill display notone buttwo
solid red lights.
After that a single red light will
flash which means, "proceed with
caution if clear," according to apam-
phlet distributed by MDOT. But as
Ramirez pointed out in an interview
after the presentation, the overhead
lights will remain completely blank
when not activated by pedestrians,
meaning traffic can flow freely and
without interruption.
"They will only be active when
a pedestrian pushes a button,"
Ramirez said. "Otherwise, it's
dark."
According to Ramirez and Mar-
tin, this has not presented an issue
in Tucson, Ariz., where the HAWK
system was developedl to alleviate
traffic congestion.

Council members at yester-
day's meeting widely supported
the HAWK project, saying it offers
a unique opportunity to improve
pedestrian safety.
"It'll be exciting to see this," Coun-
cil Member Marcia Higgins (D-
Ward 4) told Ramirez and Martin.
Anglin also said in the interview
that he supports the project and is
looking forward to seeing how it
works as a safety measure.
"I've been excited about (HAWK)
only because it's a new type of safety
thing, and we're really trying to
push pedestrian safety in the city,"
Anglin said.
Though the Huron Street HAWK
is set to debut at a formal ribbon-
cutting ceremony on Nov. 17, Mar-
tin emphasized that it isn't part of
a broader plan to fill the city with
HAWK devices - at least notyet.
According to Martin, MDOT will
test the effectiveness of this first
HAWK before lookingto expand its
reach.
For his part, Anglin said he's
anxious to see the expansion of a
HAWK-like system to the rest of
the city.
- Devon Cox contributed
to this report.


GAME DAY
From Page 1A
from visiting teams and Michigan
fans gather at Conor O'Neill's to
hang out before, during and after the
game. Halsey said he notices that on
Football Saturdays, there's a signifi-
cant increase in the amount of tips
he makes.
"That's usually because we get
slammed on football game days,"
Halsey said. "Every table, every seat
gets full. It's agreat atmospherehere
in the pub for people to watch the
game."
Halsey added that the amount in
tips he makes sometimes depends
on which school the Michigan foot-
ball team is playing. Certain visiting
fans, he said, tend to tip local waiters
less.
"If Ohio State comes in town or
something, those fans are in Ann
Arbor and they tend to try and stick
it to us and will tip a little less,"
Halsey said.
Though Conor O'Neill's is usu-
ally packed on game days, Halsey
said it's a crowd of older people and
Ann Arbor residents, while students
tend to stick to the South State Street

area.
One of the restaurants in that area
that sees a lot of students on football
Saturdays is Quickie Burger Bar
and Grill, which puts an additional
burger stand outside on game days.
Quickie Burger's owner, Varujan
Arman, said the cart provides an
easy way for people to graba bite on
their way to Michigan Stadium.
"All it's doing is creating a quicker
service so you don't have to wait,"
Arman said.
Arman, a University alum, said
the restaurant sees at least "a one-
and-a-half times" increase in the
amount of food it sells and profit it
makes on game days. The big differ-
ence, he said, is that on game days,
in addition to students, many more
Ann Arbor residents and visitors
come to eat at the establishment,
which is located at the intersection
of South State and Hill streets.
"It's a completely different clien-
tele," Arman said.
Though football Saturdays are
some of his busiest days of the year,
Arman said the restaurant would
still do well regardless.
"The thing people don't under-
stand about Fpotball Saturday is
We --n -' -"t b ^ rn n]n 0 r--

said. "What it does is create a 53rd
week of the year. If it didn't exist, we
would stillibe fine."
Arman added that certain game
days, like days with noon games,
actually hurt his business the night
before, since students tend to go to
bed earlier and Quickie Burger stays
open until 4 a.m. But he said the
increase in sales the next day ends
up balancing it out.
For Church Street restau-
rant Pizza House, however, sales
increase the whole weekend of a
home game, Pizza House owner
Dennis Tice said.
"Football Saturdays are obviously
great and it's not just Saturday but
Friday and Sunday too," Tice said.
There's definitely an increase in
the amount of food the restaurant
sells on game days, but, like Quickie
Burger, Tice said the eatery is nor-
mally very busy so it doesn't make
that much of a difference. Tice added
that where the restaurant sees a real
difference in sales is in pizza deliver-
ies on game days.
"We probably make about 20 per-
cent more deliveries,"Tice said. "We
will end up having 30 delivery guys
out there as opposed to the usual 19
-n" "n1


RODRIGUEZ
From Page 1A
to monitor those mistakes.
Over an extended period of
time, the Wolverines exceeded
the' maximum amount of count-
able hours for athletic-related
activity by 65 hours. Brandon said
that 57 of those hours were com-
mitted due to misinterpretations
of the rules involving stretching
and warm-ups. The extra time -
which Brandon was quick to point
out was counted in minutes, not
hours - added up incrementally.
Based on those violations, there
were four penalties levied that
will affect Rodriguez and the
program: public reprimand and
censure, three years probation
(one more year than Michigan
self-proposed) and a reduction of
130 hours of countable, athleti-
cally related activity hours over a
specific period of time. Rodriguez
must also attend the 2011 NCAA
Regional Rules Seminar.
Of those 130 hours that the Wol-
verines will lose, 32 of them have
already been accounted for and
Rodriguez said that all of them
should be complete by the end of
next summer - about nine months
ahead of the deadline.
The most pressing results might
be the added pressure on Michi-
gan's head coach. It's notjust about
wins and losses when Brandon sits
down to evaluate his coaches.
"Wins and losses matter," Bran-
don said."So does the management
of your staff. So does the pipeline
of recruits. So does the academic
performance of your student ath-

letes. So does the academic perfor-
mance of your prospective student
athletes. So does the conduct of
your student athletes. There's a lot
of statistical measures in athlet-
ics. There's no lack of information.
And there's no lack of benchmark-
ing opportunities to look at other
programs in similar positioning
that we are in, in any of one of our
27 sports."
Michigan is still one win away
from becoming bowl eligible for
the first time since Rodriguez took
over the program in 2008. The
Wolverines had made a record-34
straight bowl appearances prior

to that year. And there is still time
to impress with matchups against
highly-ranked Ohio State and
Wisconsin remaining on the 2010
schedule.
"We still have a season to play,"
Brandon said. "We still have sev-
eral important games to play, that
will be great tests for our football
program. Let's just go play the
games. And let's let our coach and
our players be focused on the task
at hand. And then at the end of the
season, we'll do what we do at the
end of every season: we'll review
and see where we've gotten better
and where we need to improve."

Unzmp YOUf Genoa:0
Learn about genetic disorders in
the Ashkenazi Jewish community
with Gary Frohlich, Certified
Genetic Counselor and Senior
Education Liaison for enzyme
Corporation.
Sunday, November 14'
@ Hillel (1429 Hill Street)
FREE kosher dinner will be served.
7:00 pm dinner
7:30 pm presentation
Please RSVP to

Qf'Coesponsored by


8A - Friday, November 5, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wolverines host SVSU in
season-opening exhibition

Against Illini,reeling 'M'
looks for conference win

By ZAK PYZIK
Daily Sports Writer
Just 2.2 seconds remained in the
game and the Michigan basketball
team had a68-66 lead over then-No.
12 Ohio State in the Big Ten Tour-
nament. The Buckeyes inbounded
the ball, senior guard Evan Turner
hoisted a shot
from nearly half SVSU at
court, and it fell.
Every Michi- Michigan
gan fan's world Matchup:
stopped for one SVSU0-0;
second. The Michigan 0-0
Buckeyes won. When: Sat-
The exhibi- urday 7 P.M.
tion tonight at 7 Where:
p.m. against Sagi- Crisler Arena
naw Valley State
marks the Wol-
verines' first game since that heart-
break loss. The game is not a do or
die elimination round in the Big Ten
Tournament. And the Cardinals are
not the caliber of Ohio State.
But regardless of the circum-
stances, the Cardinals are the lucky
ones who get to deal with the Wol-
verines first this season.
The last time Saginaw Valley
State came to Ann Arbor was Nov.
6, 2008. The Wolverines annihilat-
ed the Cardinals 81-55 and finished
the season in the second round of
the NCAA Tournament.
Then-freshman Stu Douglass
tallied nine points and recorded
six assists in his collegiate debut.
Manny Harris and DeShawn Sims
combined for 35 points and kept the
Cardinals from ever coming within
eight points in the second half.
Many think the Wolverines, who
finished 15-17 overall, 5-11 Big Ten
last year, are doomed with the loss
of Harris and Sims, but at least for
tonight, Michigan is favored to
win. Saginaw Valley State gradu-
ated top-scorer Avery Stephenson,
who started every game his senior
year and led the Cardinals to the
quarterfinals of the Great Lakes
Intercollegiate Athletic Conference
Tournament.
Though the Cardinals lost their
star, they return four of their five

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Junior guard Zack Novak is expected to start at the two-guard spot.

starters from last year, all of whom
stand at less than 6-foot-S. Not to say
that Michigan's strength is its size,
but if there is any game this season
in which the Wolverines have the
big-man advantage, it's this one.
Redshirt freshman Blake McLi-
mans, at 6-foot-10 in may be the
go-to guy under the basket tonight.
If the young center starts, his post
game will be hard to stop for an
otherwise stout Cardinal defense.
Michigan coach John Beilein
hasn't announced the starting line-
up yet, but it is likely that sopho-
more Darius Morris and junior Stu
Douglass will trade off at the point
guard position. Junior Zack Novak
should run the two guard and
freshman Tim Hardaway Jr. will
probably playthe three spot.
Beilein said recently that fresh-
men Evan Smotrycz and Colton
Christian are competing to play the
four, and that McLimans and red-
shirt freshman Jordan Morgan are
doingthe same for the five.
Douglass could potentially play
some two guard, which may help
him get his long-range shot started
again. Douglass shot 40 percent
from three-point range in Michi-
gan's preseason games in Europe,
primarily at the shooting guard

position. Novak, along with Dou-
glass, should see improvement
because of the switch.
At the two guard, Novak will no
longer have to cover guys who are
nearly a foot taller than him. With
the height Beilein has on the roster,
Novak will be guarding someone
his own size against the Cardinals.
"We don't have guys that are
jumping over the rim or anything
like that, so we're not coming in
scaring people," Novak said at Big
Ten Media Day last Thursday. "But
I think the new system makes us
unique. We've got a great group of
guys and the way we play together,
we play really smart together."
Regardless of how they mix it up,
the Wolverines' depth chart boasts
a lot of speed. Taking advantage of
the fast break and turnovers will be
is key for a Michigan victory.
"We've got speed," Beilein said
last Thursday. "We have to make
offense with defense. That's what
we have to do this year, that we
didn't do last year."
Michigan will finally get the
opportunity to end the speculation
tonight and also dig deep into the
bench. And maybe after this game,
the Wolverines will have a more
definitive starting five.

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Editor
The Wolverines have been tor-
mented by dual-threat quarterbacks
before. What Michigan fan can for-
get the exploits of Armanti Edwards
and Dennis Dixon in consecutive
weeks to start the 2007 season?
Illinois's Juice Williams had a
field day when he led the Fighting
Illini into the Big
House in 2008, Illinois at
torching Michi- &
gan's secondary Mi higan
for 310 yards and Matchup:
two touchdowns Illinois 5-3;
through the air, Michigan 5-3
plus 121 yards and When: Satur-
two more touch- day 12 P.M.
downs on the Where: Michi-
ground. gan Stadium
And when TV/Radio:
Michigan vis- ESPN
ited Champaign
last year, Illinois
scored 31 unanswered points in the
second half, Williams threw for
123 yards on 8-for-11 passing with a
touchdown and he ran for 97 yards
on 21 carries with another touch-
down on the ground.
So farthis season, the Wolverines
haven't had to face a quarterback
who mirrors their own - a quarter-
back as dangerous running as he is
throwing it.
But the Illini come into Ann
Arbor on Saturday with a new start-
ing quarterback, redshirt freshman
Nathan Scheelhaase, who has run
for more than 450 yards and passed
for nearly 1100 yards through eight
games.
"He's a guy they're doing some
similar stuff that we are," Rodriguez
said during Wednesday's weekly Big
Ten teleconference. "They're run-
ning with him a little bit. They're
throwing the ball. He was redshirt-
ed, so he was able to spend a year in
the system or at least a year in devel-
opment. And he scares you because
everything can break down and he
can take off and gain 20 or 30 yards.
So you have to make sure you keep
him contained."

0

Sophomore quarterback Denard Robinson is the nation's leading rusher.

Rodriguez said that the team
would work on stopping a mobile
quarterback all week in practice.
Michigan's defense had a shot
at stopping its own quarterback,
Denard Robinson, during the spring
and summer camp and did a good
job according to Rodriguez.
"Speed-wise, yes (it helps), even
passing," Senior defensive end Greg
Banks said of practicing against
Robinson and preparing for a dual-
threat quarterback. "He's a great
quarterback togo against any day."
Teaming up with Scheelhaase in
the backfield is junior running back
Mikel Leshoure, who has broken
onto the conference scene as a tough
runner this year. His 780yards rush-
ing and six touchdowns lead the
team, and he and Scheelhaase have
Illinois running for 194 yards per
game - good for 24th in the country.

The Wolverines could be in
trouble if Illinois has success run-
ning the ball, controlling the clock
and keeping the ball out of Robin-
son's hands. In two of the Wolver-
ines' three losses, Michigan has
lost the time-of-possession battle
by 10-plus and 15-plus minutes,
respectively.
The focus has been on the defen-
sive deficiencies during Michigan's
current three-game losing streak.
Poor tackling and a lack of third-
down stops have plagued the Wol-
verines all season and Leshoure and
Scheelhaase aren't going to make
this week any easier.
"Those mobile quarterbacks, as
anybody I'm sure who plays us will
tellyou, are anightmarebecauseyou
could have the best defense called
and everything covered and they
take off onyou," Rodriguez said.


ARIEL BOND/Daily
Senior forward Carl Hagelin has had a slow start offensively in the 2010 season.
Blue uses Alaska trip to get
to know teammates, state

Thur, Nov 4- free refreshments, 3-5p
Fri, Nov 5 - open house & tours, 3-p
free restaurant tasting, 5-7p
Sat, Nov 6 - post-game party, 4-7p
Sun, Nov 7 - free Sunday brunch, Ila-Ip

Wolverines to face
strong defense on
Olympic-size rink
By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan hockey team is
going to Alas-
ka for a learn- MiChigan
ing experience, atAaska
either on the ice
or off. Matchup:
As the sixth- Michigan 17-7;
ranked Wolver- Alaska 2-1-1-1
ines play No. 15 When: Satur-
Alaska-Fairbanks day 11 P.M.
on Friday, it will Where: Carl-
mark the begin- son Center
ning of the end of
Michigan's five-day trip to the 49th
state.
After making the 12 hour journey
Wednesday, the Wolverines used
Thursday to get acclimated to the
time difference and learn about the
history of Alaska.
"It's not that fun, but it's inter-
esting, it's educational," Michigan
coach Red Berenson said Tuesday.
"I think the team enjoys it because
they are -away from school and
away from all the distractions, and
they're just together ... It's good for
these kids. They could write a paper
on at least five different major top-
ics, and they-should. I like that, I
think it's educational for our play-
ers to get some exposure to that."
For seasons which Michigan hqs

to play in Fairbanks, Berenson likes
to schedule the trip early in the sea-
son for team camaraderie purposes.
The trip is used as a bonding experi-
ence and this year, six of the seven
freshmen made the trip with the
team. The only one staying home is
third-string goaltender Adam Jan-
ecyk.
The most anticipated bonding
activity came in the form of curling
on Thursday.
"We're pretty excited about
that," Senior forward and Wood-
bridge, Ontario native Louie Capo-
russo said after Tuesday's practice.
"Usually the coach lets the Canadi-
ans pick the teams."
But more important than Capo-
russo's curling team is the actual
hockey series.
The Nanooks (2-1-1-1 CCHA,
5-2-1overall) are third in the CCHA,
just two points behind the Wolver-
ines in the conference standings.
With six conference points at stake
this weekend, a sweep by either
team vaults them to the CCHA's
upper echelon and leaves the other
on the outside looking in.
For Michigan, the game will like-
ly come down to scoring. Alaska,
which came into the season with
some of its highest expectations
ever after making the NCAA tour-
nament last year, typically plays a
defensive style.
Instead of sending two players in
hard, the Nanooks lay back, closing
the middle of the ice in the neutral
zone.
It's worked so far this season, as

Alaska averages the second fewest
goals against in the nation.
"My fourth year playing them,
I know what it's going to be like,"
Caporusso said. "It doesn't mean
we can't score goals. We're Michi-
gan for a reason.We have our name,
our reputation for a reason. It's
because we're a talented team and
we can perform against teams that
are playing defensive. I'm not con-
cerned about that, but we know that
they could be a frustrating team."
The Wolverines (3-0-1-0, 4-1-3)
took on a slightly similar system
in Ferris State last week and had
inconsistent results, splitting the
series. The difference this weekend
is that both games take place on the
road.
Playing in the Carlson Center
only adds to the team's adjustments.
The past two seasons the Wolver-
ines' tired legs have led to losses in
the first or only gamethey played on
the Nanooks' wider ice sheet. But
with nine experienced seniors and
the rest of the team already having
played on an Olympic-size rink at
New Hampshire three weeks ago,
pucks will be flying.
"Usually the first game we don't
get enough pucks on net," Senior
forward Carl Hagelin said. "We
decided that this week we were
really going to focus on getting
pucks to the net, getting a lot of
shots, getting a lotoftraffic in front,
hopefully get that first goal to get
our team rolling."
Maybe they have learned some-
thing aboutAlaska.



0 0 0


-_ ._-.r __. i

FOR AN AUDIO SLIDESHOW, GO TO MICHIGANDAILY.COM

l e Iicl igan + aily

TOFD

L

I

S

T

OF WHAT MAKES ANN ARBOR SUCH A GEM OF A CITY
10- Your kids can get \u can test your
grt education sense of direction on all
one-way streets.

9- You can pick up
a sandwich from a
famous deli.
Trees, trees, treeS-.
6-Even the dogs are
S-if you've never
eceived a pain 1
reeie 're in fo
ticket, you
a treat.

InV

I

3- Denard Robinson
lives here.
- You can visitthe8 th
Wonder of the Word-
The Big House

AND THE #I
THING THAT
MAKES
ANN ARBOR
SO GREAT!



SHOELACE
From Page 7
had learned something from this
pain, just as he had learned as an
11-year-old boy. He would get bet-
ter. He had to get better. This would
make him stronger.
He held all of these lessons close.
Don't stop pulling the tire. Just
40 more yards. Don't stop com-
ing from behind: elbows, control,
focus. Elbows, control, focus. He
left Coach's office stronger that day,
obsessing, replaying and dreaming.
He wanted another shot. Next time,
he'd fight harder.
The end of the game nears. The
party winds down as the sun begins
to set. Denard Robinson isn't com-
ing back today. His shoulder is too
sore.
In Ann Arbor, the questions pick
up where they left off, louder now
than before: Will he be back? Can
he fight through another injury?
Through failure? Can he carry this
team on his back?
His parents see him as he paces
the sidelines. They stare at the box
in the middle of the garage, finally
calm.
Dorothea and Thomas have been
apart all afternoon, on opposite
sides of the tailgate, left alone to
their worries and their pride. But in
the game's final moments, they find
each other. Dorothea stands behind
Thomas and puts her hands on his
shoulders, and they look at their
The questions may continue in
Ann Arbor, but here, they have
some answers. They can't teach or
protect him here, but they can see
in his eyes and hear in his voice
that he has learned all the lessons.
The answers are in all the things
they've watched him go through.
They remember the determination
in his face as a little boy, dragging
a tire half his size. They remember
that single yard.
Mom and dad continue to wait.
She checks her phone for a message.
She doesn't have any. She checks
again. Still nothing.
Thomas checks his phone
and notices a text message from
Denard's brother Daniel who is in
Ann Arbor. "Daniel says he's going
to be fine," he tells her. But that's
not enough for mom. She's waiting
to hear from her son, like'she does
after every game.
The phone vibrates, and her eyes
focus on the words. She smiles
slightly. The tension leaves her face.

THE SON OF
DEERFI ELD
s

MA

KER RYTOWN
MARKET & SHOPS!
2O independent
retailers under
one roof!

Kerryfown
Market & Shops
Kid Stuff: Elepant Ears Organic, US & European idKrens clothing & accessories: dpddsreative & unue toys for kids
Women's Apparel: Natbilde's ports Elegant soeuer's apparel; V"Y Womenrs high-end fashix, bridal ware & home decor
Kitchen & Home: Honander's Upstairs ExtensivekIcchemare store ann homeurnish 0 Services: Encore Studio
Salon with excellence in hair. skin and nails; Sparrow Atletic Persnahzed ftness raiitg to ft yourneeds Gifts & Treasures:
FOUND Whimsical art 6 vintage treasures: Ann Arbor Spice Merchants Spices & dried herbs; Ilolander's Book & Paper Arts Decorative
papers & bookbinding supplies; Princess Designs Handcrafted jewelry gifts and cc-ectabkes; Fustimi's Haodcrafted Oils & Vinegars
KERRYTOWN: 407 North Fifth Ave - 734-662-5008 - www kerrytowvncom Market: M-F 8am to7pm
SAT 7am to 6pm; SUN 9am to 6pm * Second Floor Merchants: M+ open at 10; SAT open at 9 * SUN open at noon
8 FootballSaturday, November 6, 2010




0

0

Three straight losses spells major concern for the 2010 Michigan
football team, with the most recent defeat coming at the hands of
Penn State quarterback Matt McGloin, who made his first career
start last weekend. It's getting late in the season, and Michigan
is desperate for its sixth win - and bowl eligibility - for the first
time in three years. Will it come against Illinois?

2010 Schedule

Connecticut (Sept. 4): Denard ran all over
UConn. He proved he could pass the ball too,
and Rich Rod's hot seat began to cool down.

Iowa (Oct. 16): Michigan State was no fluke -
Big Ten defenses can find a way to stuttdown
the Wolverines' potent offense, Iowa did, too.

Daily Football Beat
Nicole Auerbach, Ryan Kartje, Tim Rohan and Joe Stapleton Notre Dame (Sept. 11): After UConn, the ND Penn State (Oct. 30): A former walk-on making
game was Denard's encore on steroids, with a his first career start at QB? Apparently, that's all
game-winning drive. PSU needed to beat Michigan in Happy Valley.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
BREAKDOWN: In Illinois, the Wolverines
get their first taste of a dual-threat QB. Well,
besides their own that is.
THEY CALL HIM SHOELACE: The story of a
mother, a father and their son, the Wolverines'
sensational signal caller, Denard Robinson.
Cover photo illustration by Max Collins
Center spread design by Marissa McClain and Sarah Squire

Massachusetts (Sept. 18): Michigan squeaked Illinois (Nov. 6): Last year's Illinois game was
bythe Minutemen, winning by less than a touch- IU h1 the one that broke the camel's back. Michigan
down. A win is a win is a win. [ hopes to avoid a repeat of that this time around.
BowlingGreen(Sept.25): Michigan piled on the Purdue (Nov. 13): There isn't much hope for
points against the Falcons, somewhat curing the the Boilermakes this year after losing basically
Massachusetts hangover. everyone to injury. Nothing's a'W' now though.
Indiana (Oct. 2): The Wolverines survived their Wisconsin (Nov. 20): Michigan has had some
first Big Ten test - but defense was once again trouble stopping good running backs. Bad news:
suspect. Denard saved the day with 494 yards. Wisconsin has two.
MichigantState (Oct. 9): The game itself didn't Ohio State (Nov. 27): With the injury to iT
live up to the hype, due to enard's three INT.mIt Floyd this week, Terrelle Pryor and OSU might
was over by halftime, State's third in a row. manage to score on every possession

Denard Robinson stood
at home plate, looking KENNY BROWN
down at his red running DENARD'S H S TRACK
spikes. They used to be -HST
red, at least. After years COACH
of racing, they were more
a mix of brown and dark-
er brown. But he'd never "H e always runs
get new ones. He was too
superstitious, and the faster when he's
holes aren't that bad, he
told everyone who asked. chasing someone."
He felt the dirt of
Deerfield's baseball dia-
mond below his spikes.
After so many practices,
it made no difference to
him that he wasn't on an
actualtrack. His back was
turned to the other mem-
bers of his state champion
4x100 relay team, and he
looked straight into the
eyes of his coach, Kenny
Brown. He was ready.
So Brown smacked a pair of 2x4s together to simulate the
sound of pistol fire, and Denard spun around on his heels. The
coach knew that without a headstart, the others didn't stand a
chance - he was too fast.
Denard remembered as he ran what coach Brown had told
him: drive your elbows, keep control, stay focused. As he
gained ground, he heard him again. Elbows, control, focus.
Elbows, control, focus.
He was gaining on Witty, and the record continued to spin
in his head. Elbows, control, focus.
"He always runs faster when he's chasing someone," Brown
says.
At Deerfield High School, speed is power. If you have it, kids
respect you for it. Students would challenge other students to
race between classes and after school. It's how Dorothea and
Thomas Sr. met. It was how a lot of people met around here.
Brown wouldn't let Denard forget that this was just the
beginning though.
He slipped inspirational clich6s in conversation with
Denard at every opportunity. Brown is all about pride, and
most importantly pride in being a teammate. The book Team-
mates Matter sits in a drawer in his desk, and his teams have
all seen it.
on the back wall of his classroom, a poster reads: Attitude
is a little thing that makes a BIG DIFFERENCE. Photos have
accumulated around the message over the years. Now, four
newspaper clippings and two pictures fill up almost a quarter
of the wall - Denard is in all of them.
Denard may have left Deerfield Beach, but the coaching
never stopped from Brown. He still calls his star sprinter
every week, once before Michigan's games and once after to
talk about the result.
The lessons in humility shine through in these conversa-
tions: Denard whispered the good news about being named
Michigan's quarterback, to protect the feelings of his team-
mates who were presumably within earshot.
Brown still jokes with him about "getting all Hollywood,"
and after Michigan's win over Notre Dame, he joked that he
heard the Irish's defense was bad. Denard had demolished
them for 500 yards.
He still makes Denard chase for it.
"Stay tuned for next week, Coach," Robinson told him.
Twenty yards or so away from the tent, Dorothea Robinson
seems tobe looking for something.
She's been pacing in the driveway behind the tailgate's
final row of chairs for much of the first quarter, and now that
the Wolverines trail 21-7 in the second quarter, her pacing
becomes more intense.
Still, she remains silent. After Denard throws an intercep-

i

tion, his fourth in two games, she stands calm at the back of
group, oddly unfazed by her son's mistake, unlike the rest of
her family. If only she could calm her son down.
"He's getting anxious again," Thomas Sr. says, still staring
at the television.
Suddenly, she stops watching. She walks out to the curb
and talks to the children who aren't watching the game. If
she sticks around, watches her baby struggling, she's bound
to burst. They've invested so much in him, like they have with
all seven of their kids, and she knows how hard he's worked.
Denard's aunt Mary Louise leans over, "She's always so
nervous," she says, gesturing toward Dorothea, who's fiddling
with the spread on the food table.
It's halftime now and the family begins digging into the
potato salad and fried chicken, just outside of the tent. "They
can't play that conservative with Shoelace," Kent says angrily,
stomping toward the rest of the group outside of the tent.
But Dorothea just watches as the party eats, looks back
toward the television and crosses her arms. As the second half
starts, she stops pacing and her eyes fixate on the television,
and it seems different this time, as if she's convinced herself
to watch. She smiles slightly and starts to react with the rest
of her family. She stays calm at first, but as Denard runs for a
first down, she charges into the center of the tailgate, "Go!"
she yells, above the noise of the rest of the group.
They knows her outbreak has been building, ready to bub-
ble over. She recoils to the back of the group and continues



STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their best
to predict, against the spread, what
happens in the 2010 football season.

Lee Quackenbush
Joe Men's Glee Club
Stapleton President

to watch. But as she looks on with the same frozen, solemn
face, something changes. He's hit - and hit hard. The rest of
the Michigan offense heads back to the huddle, but some are
congregated around the ball, around Denard, who's still lying
there. He's not getting up. Thirty seconds pass and he's still
down.
"Come on baby, get up!" Denard's aunt Mary Joyce shouts
at the television.
"He's going to get up. He's alright," Rose, his grandmother,
says.
From behind the group, Dorothea speaks up. Her voice is
subdued, but with an edge. She's giving him an order.
"He better get up," she says.
The group quiets down. They don't know what else to think
They're all wondering what's wrong. Is it serious?
Her son was never really injured in high school. It was just
a bruise here, a sore muscle there. But now he's hurt all the
time, he's always in pain. What's going on? Can he keep get-
ting back up?
She can only stare at the screen while coaches and trainers
surround her son. When he was growing up, she was always
hovering. She barely let him ride with his peewee team 200
miles up the road to Sarasota. Now, he's across the country,
hurting, and she can't help.
"I know he just wants to get in so bad," she says.
Denard continued to grow, kept getting better, moving from
dragging a tire on the pavement to the baseball diamond track
practices to the Friday night lights of Broward County. In
two years as Deerfield's quarterback, coach Art Taylor drilled
a mantra into Denard and his teammates, like they were hit
troops. He called, they responded on command.
"A man is determined by how he handles..."
"Adversity," they'd respond.
It was the lodestar of Taylor's teams. It was something Tay-
lor made Denard understand in his junior year of high school,
as life was about to reinforce a familiar lesson.
The night of the Florida state semifinals, Denard looked
across the line of scrimmage at the titans of Broward County
football - Miami Northwestern, the No. 1 high school team in
the nation. He was on fire though. He knew it. Everyone knew
it. Two minutes remained and his team led by three, Now, on
fourth down, everything he'd worked for was just one yard
away - one yard to put away the game.
They had it in the bag. Just one more yard and they're on
their way to the state finals. Taylor sent him the call: quarter-
back sneak, up the middle. It was his play, the one he had called
for himself so many times in peewee.
But he snapped the ball, and everything collapsed. He ran
into a brick wall and couldn't push forward anymore. He
had failed. Turnover on
downs. He walked off the
ART TAYLOR field furious, a failure.
DENARD'S H. S. Jacory Harris, North-
western's quarterback
FOOTBALL COACH marched his team down
the field on a two-min-
ute, 99-yard drive. The
'A man is win would've been leg-
endary. But it was gone.
determinted by A few days later, Denard
, hadn't said much. Taylor
howhe hnGdes.-- called him into his office
to go over the film, but he.-
could barely watch.
You should've looked
before the snap, Taylor
told him. He saw then
that the right side was
wide open. His heart
sank.
Denard stormed out of
the room.
He had failed. But he
See SHOELACE, Page 8
TheMichiganDaily, www.michigandaily.com 7-

Nicole
Auerbach

I

Michigan (-1.5) vs. Illinois
No.1 Oregon (-28.5) vs. Washington
No. 2 Auburn (NS) vs. Chattanooga
No.3 TCU (-4.5) at No.5 Utah
No.4 Boise State (-27) vs. Hawaii
No. 6 Alabama (-6) at No.10 Louisiana St.
No.7 Nebraska(-17) at Iowa State
No.8 Oklahoma (-6) at Texas A&M
No. 9 Wisconsin (-20) at Purdue.
No.12 Missouri(-7)at Texas Tech
No. 13 Stanford (-7.5) vs. No. 15 Arizona
No.14 Michigan State (-23) vs. Minnesota
No.16 Iowa (-17) at Indiana
No.17 Oklahoma St. (-6.5) vs. No. 21 Baylor
No. 18 Arkansas (+3) at No.19 So. Carolina
No. 22 Virginia Tech (-15) vs. Georgia Tech
No. 23 Nevada (-13) at Idaho
No. 24 Florida State (-7) vs. North Carolina
No. 25 NC State (+4) at Clemson
Northwestern (NS) at Penn State
Last week
Overall record

Illinois
Oregon
Auburn
Utah
Boise State
Alabama
Nebraska
Oklahoma
Wisconsin
Missouri
Stanford
Michigan State
Iowa
Baylor
Arkansas
Georgia Tech
Nevada
Florida State
Clemson
Northwestern
11-5-3
101-66-7

Ryan
Kartje
Michigan
Oregon
Auburn
TCU
Boise State
Alabama
Nebraska
Oklahoma
Wisconsin
Missouri
Arizona
Michigan State
Iowa
Oklahoma St.
South Carolina
Georgia Tech
Nevada
Florida State
NC State
Penn State,
9-7-3
89-78-7

Tirn
Rohan -
Michigan
Oregon
Auburn
TCU
Boise State
Alabama
Nebraska
Texas A&M
Wisconsin
Missouri
Arizona
Michigan State
Iowa
Oklahoma St.
Arkansas
Virginia Tech
Nevada
North Carolina
NC State
Penn State
8-8-3
88-79-7

Illinois
Oregon
Auburn
Utah
Boise State
Alabama
Nebraska
Texas A&M
Wisconsin
Missouri
Stanford
Michigan State
Iowa
Baylor
Arkansas
Virginia Tech
Nevada
Florida State
Clemson
Northwestern
9-7-3
95-72-7

Michigan
Oregon
Auburn
TCU
Hawaii
Alabama
Nebraska
Oklahoma
Wisconsin
Missouri
Stanford
Michigan State
Iowa
Baylor
South Carolina
Virginia Tech
Nevada
Florida State
BC State
Penn State
10-6-3
46-31-5


2 FootballSaturday, November 6, 2010



0

0

0

0

0. 0 0r a--.-

SHOELACE
From Page 5
To those who follow the Michigan football team, he's a sav-
ior and an enigma. He doesn't say much. He's quiet, always
reserved. His eyes give nothing away. Ann Arbor wonders.
Who is Denard Robinson? How can someone so young be
capable of so much? Can he really handle the weight of a pro-,
gram? His parents wonder. Have they done all they can? Has
he learned enough to be ready?
There are so many questions.
Here, around this television, there are answers.
Denard Robinson was just a boy - 10, almost 11-years old -
and he didn't like this feeling. His team lost. The Rattlers were
his team, he was their quarterback. He could have won that
game. He could have been better.
So it must've been his fault, he told himself. It wasn't any of
his teammates' faults. It wasn't coach's fault. It was his fault.
He couldn't stop thinking about that as his parents drove him
home. He had to get better.
He asked his dad what to do. His dad was the hardest work-
ing person he knew. He would know how to get better.
To those on the outside, it seemed like he was doing more
than enough. The Rattlers practiced five days a week. They
had film study. But it wasn't enough for him. So he came home
and played in the street, throwing balls across the pavement
between his grandparents' houses to anyone willing to catch
them.
- Sammie Huggins saw this. The Packer Rattlers' coach
knew Robinson wasn't the fastest guy on the team - that was

Denard's friend, Adrian Witty. But his decisionnwas easy: Rob-
inson was a quarterback, plain and simple.
Huggins couldn't keep the ball out of his hands.
"He loved to run that ball," Huggins says, looking over his
old stomping grounds at Westside Park. "He'd tell me, 'Coach,
call quarterback sneak!' I'd tell him no, to hand it off, and so
he'd fake the handoff and keep it and run for a ton of yards."
Witty and Robinson became the dynamic duo. They were
a perfect cocktail of speed and athleticism, magic and might.
Everyone knew they couldn't be stopped if they were at their
best.
And Robinson played the game with his shoes untied. Kids
would go for his shoes on tackles, and he'd come up to the
huddle in just socks. His coach couldn't stand it at first and
neither could his parents. They'd tie wristbands around his
shoes. When that didn't work, they tried athletic tape. They
even rolled his socks over his shoes. He was a marvel, and he
wasn't even finished with the sixth grade.
He was just different.
"He listened," Huggins says. "That's the difference. We had
some guys on that team that didn't listen. Denard's attitude
was always great, that's why you know he's going to go some-
where."
But he was still hurting after that particular loss. He
couldn't shake that feeling - the pain of losing.
He told his dad what he was feeling and that he wanted to
get better. So the two took the seat of a swing that they had
found lying around, tied a thick rope to it and looped the rope
around a tire. Thomas Sr. put the swing around his son's waist.
And Denard took off.
The young quarterback ran 40 yards and walked back. Then
40 more. And 40 after that. He ran 40 yards till his calves
burned and his lungs ached and he couldn't run anymore.
Minutes before the game begins, the seat next to the televi-
sion is filled. Thomas Sr. is finally home.
He came straight from his work with the City of Deerfield
Beach, rushed and weary. He's wearing his Michigan shirt and
hat.

Breakdown: Illini Defense, dual-threat
QB could pose problems for Wolverines

"Ifyou wanna win..."
...put Shoelace in."

SAMMIE HUGGINS
DENARD'S PEEWEE FOOTBALL COACH
"He listened, that's the difference."
He is quiet like his son, never speaking unless necessary.
But at this moment, he turns to the family members in the first
two rows and speaks for the first time as words like "Heisman"
and "superstar" blurt out from the television.
"My hands are getting sweaty," he says, laughing weakly.
He wipes them on his jeans and turns back to the television
where the game is seconds away from beginning.
The TV analysts continue in the background. More ques-
tions. "How can Iowa shut down Denard Robinson?" a voice
asks from the television.
"Ain't no shutting him down," Thomas Sr. answers. "You
can try to contain him."
There's not even a touch of humor in his voice. He has seen
too many athletes look silly trying to tackle his son, too many
out of desperation try to yank off his shoes just to slow him
down. He's seen too much success to ever assume Denard will
fail.
A fire burns inside of him, as it does inside his son.
"He just hates to lose, more than anything," Thomas Sr.
says.
After choosing to kick off at the game's start, the Michigan
defense stops Iowa's offense on its first drive - three-and-out.
It's time.
At that moment, every eye huddled around Rose Robinson's
garage stares straight at the screen as Denard Robinson makes
his way out onto the field.
"My hands are still sweaty," Thomas Sr. tells Kent, his
brother.
on the second play of the drive, Denard takes his first carry
of the game straight into the Hawkeye defense for four yards.
The tailgate erupts.
"If you wanna win..." Dorrell yells.
"... put Shoelace in," his cousin Roscoe answers.
But Thomas Sr. isn't listening. His body is in this chair, sur-
rounded by his family, but his heart is a thousand miles away
in Ann Arbor. He gets anxious in the chair as his son gets anx-
ious at the Iowa 40-yard line. He is forced to watch, helpless,
hoping that he showed his son enough.
Robinson looks like a grown man to most watching this
television, but to his dad, he's still that little boy with a swing
around his waist, dragging that tire.

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editor
Going into the game against Penn
State a week ago, the Michigan
football team was facing a walk-on
at quarterback and a defense that
has been severely depleted by inju-
ries. Despite all of that, the Nittany
Lions handled the Wolverines for the
majority of the game before allowing
a brief fourth-quarter comeback.
Michigan will be taking on a very
different and much better beast Sat-
urday at noon.
Illinois boasts a middle-of-the-
road offense statistically - its 26
points per game ranks 62nd in the
country - but one of the nation's
better defenses, which ranks 12th in
points allowed.
The Illini at 5-3 have no quality
wins but some very quality losses. No
team they've beaten has cracked the
top 25, but they lost to Missouri by
10 in the first game of the year and to
Ohio State by 11 on Oct. 2.
Though they have identical
records, Illinois and Michigan are on
opposite trajectories.
The Illini have won two in a row
and are looking to continue their hot
streak. Michigan has lost three in a
row and are trying desperately to
make sure this season doesn't end up
like the last.
MICHIGAN RUN OFFENSE VS.
ILLINOIS RUN DEFENSE
Sophomore quarterback Denard
Robinson is coming off a very good
bounce-back game against Penn
State in which he completed nearly
50 percent of his passes for 190
yards and a touchdown without an
interception. He was knocked out
of the game briefly and hurt his
hip, but it shouldn't bother him this
week.
Illinois's secondary has beens
improving this year, but has a
reputation of giving up the big play.
Michigan has plenty of wide receiv-
ers who are due for some big plays
and if they can take advantage of
some holes in the Illini defensive
backfield Robinson will have a big
day through the air.
EDGE: MICHIGAN
MICHIGAN PASS OFFENSE VS.
ILLINOIS PASS DEFENSE
After being declared healthy for
the first time in weeks before Penn
State, Robinson had a great day on
the ground, racking up 191 rushing
yards and three touchdowns. While

that was against Penn State's deplet-
ed defense, there's little doubt he'll
be able to run the ball against Illi-
nois because he's Denard Robinson.
The question is whether the
Michigan running backs will shoul-
der any of the load. Last week, soph-
omore Vincent Smith gained just 25
yards on nine carries and freshman
Stephen Hopkins ran for 14 yards on
five carries.

ter to run all over tI
the back accounted f
yards on the ground.
Leshoure has alr
780 yards rushing o
combination of him
will be very tough fo
to defend.

Their productio
Michigan wants t
rushing attack.
The Illinois def
opponents to gain
carry, but Robinso
opponent.
ILLINOIS RU
MICHIGAN R
Michigan's fro
dealing with Sche
game almost as m
ary will be dealini
The freshman is
leading rusher be
Mikel Leshoure a
downs on the grou
Junior nose ta
the anchor of Mi
line, is listed as
which means he
full strength after
early in the game,
Even so, the W
Penn State runnin

in needs to go up if ILLINOIS PASS OFFENSE VS;
o have a sustained MICHIGAN PASS DEFENSE
Michigan must have done some-
ense is allowing thing to really piss off the secondary
just 3.6 yards per gods.
n isn't just any After losing senior Troy Woolfolk
in the preseason to a season-ending
injury, the Wolverine secondary was
EDGE: MICHIGAN already painfully thin. This week
we learned that redshirt sophomore
IN OFFENSE VS. J.T. Floyd, Michigan's most consis-
UN DEFENSE tent cornerback, will be out for the
nt seven will be remainder of the season because of an
elhaase in the run ankle injury in practice, leaving the
uch as the second- secondary with one non-freshman
g with his passing. starter - senior James Rogers, who
the Illini's second- started the year as a wide receiver.
hind running back The young backfield will have'
nd has two touch- its hands full. Illinois quarterback
nd this season. Nathan Scheelhaase is a dual threat
ckle Mike Martin, and quite accurate, completing 61
chigan's defensive percent of his passes.
probable to play The secondary will likely have
likely won't be at trouble keeping an eye on him and
'injuring his ankle wide receiver A.J. Jenkins, Illinois's
against Penn State. best at the position.

Illinois kicker Derek Dimke is
15-for-17 on field goals on the year
and has a career long of 52 yards.
This one's easy.

hem last week as SPECIAL TEAMS
or more than 150 Michigan is still going through
special teams changes and that's
'eady racked up not good at this point in the season.
n the season. The Freshman punter Will Hagerup,
and Sheelhaase handled almost every kickoff against
r the Wolverines Penn State and there's no reason to
believe that will change. Field goals
will be kicked by sophomore Seth
EDGE: ILLINOIS Broekhuizen, but he has been unim-
pressive so far.

FINAL SCORE:
EDGE: ILLINOIS MICHIGAN 42, ILLINOIS 37


INTANGIBLES
Michigan is fighting to save its
season and the Fighting Illini are
trying to keep its two-game winning
streak going.
The Wolverines are playing at
home, but it may be a bit of an awk-
ward homecoming given the tremen-
dous disappointment at Penn State.
Michigan continues to assert that
this season is not like last season,
and this is the game to prove it.
EDGE: MICHIGAN

'olverines allowed
sg back Evan Roys-

EDGE: ILLINOIS

FootballSaturday, November 6, 2010

TheMichiganDaily, www.michigandaily.com 3




0

0

0

More photos from
Deerfield Beach on
MichiganDaily.com
(CLOCKWISE FROM LEFT)
Thomas Robinson Sr.
watches Michigan football
take on Iowa in Deerfield
Beach, Florida.
Denard Robinson's
childhood home in Deerfield
Beach.
Dorothea Robinson looks
on at the Robinsons' tailgate
for Michigan's game against
Iowa.
The Deerfield Beach High
School drum major leads
his band at halftime of the
Bucks' game against Boyd
Anderson High School.

THEY LJBLLSHNAAL
HIM1[I
BY RYAN KARTJE PHOTOS BY MAX CO LLINS

DEERFIELD BEACH, Fla. - A television sits at the edge ofRose Robinson's
one-car garage. Atop a dolley just below eye level, the bulky, off-brand box
overlooks a sea of mismatched folding chairs: a makeshift amphitheatre in
the heart of this South Florida town. The party has yet to begin. Members
of the Robinson family and afew others arrive, in a trickle at first, pulling
their cars onto the grassy patch across SW 10th Court.
DESIGN BY MARISSA MCCLAIN AND SARAH SQUIRE
4 1 FootballSaturday, November 6, 2010

They're waiting. Michigan football kicks off in an hour or so,
and then their family will be complete again. Everyone is here,
with the exception of Denard Robinson, the Wolverines' quar-
terback and the reason why theygather here every Saturday.
It's getting closer to gametime, so they shuffle underneath
a tent in front of the garage to block out the blistering Florida
sun, which always seems to burn hotter in rough neighbor-
hoods.
Kent Robinson takes a seat at the center of the makeshift
amphitheatre. His shirt says it all. It reads: Armed and Danger-
ous, Shoelace.

"I designed that shirt and all the other ones here," he says.
He points around to others beneath the tent a group, which
now includes almost a dozen people. They're all wearing
t-shirts with some reference to Denard's nickname back home:
Shoelace. To everyone in Deerfield Beach - everyone but his
mother, that is - there is no Denard, just Shoelace.
One chair remains at the front of the tent, just right of the
television. The family knows that seat is for Dad. He's still
working - he always seems to be working - but he wouldn't
miss a minute of his boy's game.
With everyone seated, Dorothea Robinson, silent to this

point, steps behind the third and final row of chairs. She refus-
es to sit while Denard is playing. Soon, as kickoff approaches,
she'll be connected with her son again.
They are here to see Michigan's overnight success, though
they've known all along that there's nothing overnight about
him at all. He's the product of a father's hard work and a moth-
er's loving protection, of hard-nosed coaches who pushed him
and remain critical of his every move. With his success have
come worries. Concerns. Can he stay healthy? Can he win a
national title? These are mostly unanswerable, but there are
clues in his past, if you get the people at this party talking.
See SHOELACE, Page 6
TheMichiganDaily, www.michigandaily.com 5*


