Michigan hockey takes -From the Daily: The
on Miami (Ohio) in the University and Ann
semifinals of the CCHA Arbor community need
Tournament at the Joe to put all their weight
Louis Arena tonight. behind Google Fiber.
) PAGE 8 } )PAGE 4

The Ingenious MUSKET
The student-run theater program takes on
the classic musicaL: "Man o La Mancha."
Athe play's known for cheesiness, the
director says this time, "The Cheese works."
))PAGE 7

aswS rr' 1
I e f ic4ioan 4:Dat1V

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, March 19,2010

michigandaily.com

MICHIGAN FOOTBALL
Michigan to
host Notre
Dame under
the lights
In 2011, the rivals a three, three-and-a-half hour
commercial that shows off the
will play the first great University and the stadium
and our passionate fans. SoI think
primetime game it's awin-win in all areas."
College football teams around
ever at the Big House the country have been playing
night games for a while now, and
By TIM ROHAN Michigan has been involved in
Daily Sports Writer plenty of games after dark. The
Wolverines are 22-11 in games
The Michigan football team will starting after 5 p.m. all-time. And
make history on Saturday, Sept. 10, games like last season's close two-
2011 when it takes the field at 8 p.m. point loss to Iowa in Iowa City fuel
eastern time to play rival Notre the excitement for night games for
Dame in the first-ever primetime Michigan fans.
football game at the Big House. Michigan took part in the first-
New athletic director David ever night game in 1944 against
Brandon made the announcement Marquette in Milwaukee, Wis-
about the his- consin. Sixty-seven years later, the
toric game First reported on Wolverines will don their home
on Thursday. Michiganlailycom jerseys for a night game.
The game will Brandon started working
be televised nationally on either toward organizing the game a cou-
ESPN or ESPN2. ple weeks ago, and met with con-
"It's exciting for them as student ference officials and Notre Dame
athletes to be able to perform in Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick
front of a lot of people," Michigan in Indianapolis during the Big Ten
coach Rich Rodriguez said. "From basketball tournament last week.
a coaching standpoint, it's obvi- When he returned, Brandon said,
ously a great benefit in recruiting University President Mary Sue
when the nation gets to watch you Coleman and her staff were very
play. And I think it's also great for cooperative.
the University, ina sense. You have See FOOTBALL, Page 5

AARON AUGSBURGtR/Daily
University students and Olympic ice dancers, (from left) Meryl Davis, Charlie White, Evan Bates and Emily Samuelson, stand next to University President Mary Sue
Coleman at a meeting of the University Board of Regents yesterday. The regents passed a resolution honoring the four Olympians at the meeting.
Regents honor O1mpic ice
.danc rs at monthy meeting

Regents also OK
honorary degrees for
Obama, others
BY KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Excitement was on the agenda
during the University's Board of
Regents monthly meeting yes-
terday, when four Olympic ice
dancers and University students

paid a visit to receive a resolution
from the University's governing
board.
Meryl Davis and Charlie White,
who took the silver medal in Van-
couver last month, and Emily
Samuelson and Evan Bates, who
finished in 11th place at the winter
games, were honored with acom-
mendation from the regents.
Regent Andrea Fischer New-
man (R-Ann Arbor) read the reso-
lution out loudbefore presenting a
copy to each of the four University

students.
"The"
regents take
great pride in
Meryl Davis,
Charlie White,
Emily Samuel-
son and Evan KYLE SWANSON
Bates for being
such splendid Covering the
ambassadors Administrotiont
for the maize
and blue at the 2010 Vancouver
Olympic games," Newman said.

"Their enthusiasm, poise and
dedication showed the world what
it means to be a Michigan Wolver-
ine."
Due to a previously scheduled
practice session, the four arrived
lateto themeeting,buttheregents
broke from their agenda to honor
the four University students as
soon as they arrived, calling a
recess so they could talk with the
students.
During the recess, which lasted
See REGENTS, Page S

SPRING COMMENCEMENT
Valerie Jarrett to speak
at Law School graduation

Senior Obama
advisor will come to
campus a week
after Pres. Obama
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Senior White House Advisor
and University Law School alum
Valerie Jarrett will deliver this
spring's Law School commence-
0 ment address.
The ceremony will be held at 2
p.m. on May 8 at Hill Auditorium,
one week after President Barack
Obama is slated to deliver the Uni-

versity's spring commencement
address.
Jarrett is the head of four
departments in the White House,
chair of the White House Council
on Women and Girls and heads the
White House's business outreach
program.
She said in a press release that
she is honored to be speaking at the
Law School's commencement.
"I am very excited to return to
the Michigan Law campus and
congratulate this year's graduating
class," Jarrett said in the release.
"Some of the best times of my life
were spent in Ann Arbor, and this
is an incredible honor, not just as
an alumna, but as somebody who's
very familiar with how much we

need these smart, talented and
committed scholars to help us con-
front the many challenges facing
our country."
In an interview yesterday,
University President Mary Sue
Coleman said she was initially con-
cerned that Obama's trip to Ann
Arbor would prevent Jarrett from
delivering the Law School com-
mencement address.
"I just had a little worry when
we knew the president was going to
come because we put the invitation
out to Ms. Jarrett a long time ago
too for the Law School," she said.
"I was afraid that she wouldn't be
able to do that, but she is, so she is
making that commitment."
See JARRETT, Page 5

TORESHAN SvheMAs/Daivy
Jim Neumeister, one of the final two candidates to become the director of the Office of Student Conflict Resolution, talks
with students about raising awareness about OSCR on campus,
OSCR director candidate talks
raisin awareness in interview

CAMPAIGNING ON CAMPUS
ACLU pushes Housing to
allow canvassing in res. halls

Organization sent
letter to University
0 President Coleman
By VANESSA NUNEZ
Daily StaffReporter
The University's chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union

sent a letter to University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman earlier
this week requesting a meeting to
discuss lifting the current ban on
political campaigning in residence
halls in advance of the midterm
elections this coming November .
Under current University Hous-
ing policy, students are prohibited
from canvassing for political can-
didates in the residence halls with-

out prior approval. As it stands, if
students are found doing so, they
can be charged with criminal tres-
passing and may be barred from
entering all residence halls. This
policy also extends to student
organizations, which face fines at
an amount determined by the Uni-
versity for the same offense.
The letter the ACLU sent to Cole-
See ACLU, Page 3

Neumeister wants to
help students learn
to mediate conflict
on their own
By SARA BOBOLTZ
For the Daily
The University's Office of Stu-
dent Conflict Resolution contin-
ued its search for a new director
yesterday with a presentation
given by Jim Neumeister, the
director of Northwestern Univer-
sity's Office of Judicial Affairs.

Neumeister is the second candi-
date for the post to visit campus
this week.
On Wednesday, OSCR held a
forum in OSCR's office in South
Quadrangle to give students the
opportunity to ask Neumeister
questions. Yesterday, Neumeister
gave a SO-minute presentation in
the Wolverine Room of the Union
for an audience of about 30 fac-
ulty members and students.
Jay Wilgus, the other candi-
date for the director position, also
gave, a presentation this week for
students and faculty. In an effort
to find a replacement for its pre-
vious director Jennifer Schrage,

who stepped down in December,
OSCR has narrowed the list of
candidates to Wilgus and Neu-
meister.
During his presentation, Neu-
meister said if hired he would
work to spread campus aware-
ness of OSCR and its services,
including training services for
residential advisors in campus
residence halls.
Neumeister added that he would
continue using the Spectrum
of Conflict Resolutions Options
model, which was developed
in 2008 by Schrage and Monita
Thompson, co-director of The Pro-
See OSCR, Page 5


WEATHER HI: 60
TOMORROW LO:41

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Prof. talks Israel-China relations at campus event.
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS................ 2 CLASSIFIEDS.. ............6
Vol. CXX, No 112 SU D O KU ...............................3 ARTS ....................................7
200 TheMichigan Daily OPINION ........ ..4 SPORT .....8
michioundoilyecom4 SP R S......... ........

}


Friday, March 19, 2010

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers
LEFT Engineering freshman Kevin
Kane dresses up ton celebrate St.
Patrick's Day and dances in the
Chemistry Building atrium en
Wednesday. (TOREHAN SHAR-
MAN/Daily) TOP RIGHT Archi-
tecture and Unbar Planning juniur
Nora Lean works en her midterm
prelect en Wednesday. Hen mid-
term prject is tu construct a
medel ten a new athletic center.
(TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily)
BOTTOM RIGHT Engineering
sophemere Eric Raynal plays the
carillen in the Lurnn Tower en
North Campus en Menday while
Music, Theater and Dance junier
Rachel ear Amburgh leeks en.
Raynal said he plays the carillen
because he semetimes gets tired
st all the math and engineering
week he has and likes te de soe-
thing musical. The carillens are
played everyday frem t:3D p.m. te
2 p.m. (TDREHAN SHARMAN/
Daily)
NEED MORE PHOTOS?
See more Photos of the Week
on our website,
michigandailycom.
CRIME NOTES
Vehicle severs
stop sign
WHERE: Fletcher Carport
WHEN: Wednesday at about
7:30 am.
WHAT: A stop signeat the car-
port's exit was damaged and
removed from the pavement,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.
Technology thief
takes off with HP
'WHERE: Life Sciences tnstituote
Building
WHEN: Wednesday at about 2
pm.
WHAT: An HP laptop com-
puter was stolen after being left
unattended, University Police
reported.

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY:FRDY
Campus Clubs P.tosof he ee

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
wwwmichigandailycom
JACOB SILOVITZ DAN NEW MAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
awlitze@iihigandaity.eom tmdbusineso@ganaitcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom ffice heor:Sun.-Thurs. 11Oem. - 2 am.
News Tips . noe@michigandaily.com
torrections corrections@michigandaity.com
Letters to the Editor rerlhedaitp@michigandaity.eem
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts tectior artspagegmichigandaiy.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandeiy.com
Sports tectior sortso@mihigandaily.com
Display tales disptay@micteigandaity.com
tlassified tales classifiedgmichigandaily.com
Online tales otineadsr@michigandail.com
inance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Ediorn aarnson@michigandaily.com
lillian Bermarn.ManagingsNews Editrr btrman@michigandaily.com
sENI RE SEITeRS.: Nicoe Aber, MalorJoes, Sephee St 0einer, KOne
Rachel VanGilder EditrialtPage Editrevangilder@michigandaily.com
rSEREITORAL PcEsEIeTORS:BriFaeryuEaMaer,.Emily erley, Leera
unASSTNEDITORIALPE EDITeORS: Micelle eWi,lex Sciffo, Mtteshutler
Ryan Kartle ManagingSporsEdiree kanje@miehigandaity.co
riSERSOReeSnEIeORS:uNice uec,Mark Bur,,,,Gjeseon ucChis
Meszaronsnetpeonsees aeelieeees~eeoee~me
Jamie Block ManagingwArtsEdior bloc@michigandailycom
MaxtCollins and yhoto@michigandaily.com
SamWolson ManagingePhotoEditrs
SENIReOO EDIR FORMTIMeeoEDI:Chaniel onHabsbg.tigen
SER Hn TOnEDITOnee reBondeeeeeoee~ses~eieocee
tSSIrA TPOT IOS:quireAugbandrJ e mm aissaedc~ainee

0
6

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Juice and j ams
WHERE: Lot M-28
WHEN: Thursday at about 3:30
WHAT: A male subject was
charged with trespassing after
police found him blasting
music in his parkeed vehicle,
University Police reported. He
was charged with trespassing
and taken to the University
Hospital's emergency room
after drug content was found in
his body.
Laundry larceny
WHERE: Laundry Building
WHEN: Wednesday at about
10:30 am.
WHAT: $50 worth of cash was
stolen frocm awalletlkept inan
unsecured loc'ler, University
Police reported.

Monologue
performance
WHAT: The 5th annual
muticultural ononlogue
show abeout domestic
violence, sexuality, cul-
ture and relationships.
WHO: Yoni Ki Baat
WHEN: Tonight and
tomorrow night at 7 pm.
WHERE: East Quad,
Keene Theater
Play on Latina
identities
WHAT: A play exam-
ining the identities of
Latina women in mood-
emn American society.
WHO: Sigma Lambda
Gamma, Lambda Theta
Alpha and Delta Tau Lambda
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Biomedi-
cal Science Research
Building, Auditorium

Urhanism
conference
WHAT: International
academics will discuss
future issues cities face.
WHO: Taubman Col-
lege of Architecture
and Urban Planning
WHEN: Toeday and tomnor-
row at 4:30 pn.
WHERE: Raclk-
ham Auditoriuem
UMix
WHAT: Various activi-
ties inclictong "Thne Bliond
Side" movie showing
and survival bingo.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight freo DO
pnn. tso2 am.
WHERE: Pier-
pont Commons
CORRECTIONS
*Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

1Hustler nmagazine's Larry
Plynt is working with
David Eisenbach of Colum-
bia University to write "One
Nation Under Sex: Mow the
Private Lives of Presidents and
First Ladies Shaped America,"
according to The Washing-
ton Post. Tine beok is set to be
released en 20t1.
2 Ann Arbor is en the run-
neng to become. a trial
location for Google Fiber,
ahigh-speed Internet network
that Google is currently devel-
oping.
>>POR MORE,5SEE OPINION, PAGE4
3Facebook officials said
they will not be including
a "panic button" on the
site after a 17-year-old was mur-
dered by a convicted sex offend-
er she met through the site,
The Washington Post reported.
The officials said they are not
"experts on child protection"

Arra Lein-Zielinski Managing DeigEditer
SFNesseR ESNEITes. Allisn eursma
Treeor Calero MagazieEditoraogociadal~e
Melanie Pried and :yde~iheeal~e
Rachel Phillips Copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielJozwiak SaleseManaer
Ryan Businski ClaseifiedManager
Jason Mahakian Predutoneaner
Allison SantacreU LayouenManagee
Vieiao Lee Finance Maeagen
Brittany Morales Circuleeien Maeager
Brad Wileyeeroject rcinaor

design@michigandaily.com
calero@michigandaily.com
copydesk@michigandaily.com

0

MORE ONLINE ,
Loe CrimehNotes? Get more enlitne at michigandailyccgm/blegs/the winy

The Michigan Deily (ISN075-e 7)as-nub liehed Moeuay threugh Fridadringrthr fallera
wintr rms by uensarte iverityrro ichigan.eOnec saailablreree hareto all
reaer.editional copie aybe ied up at theaily's ofie fr $.uciriptonefro fall ter,
etertng in etemrhevia U.S. emai r$110. WintrterminuearythroughtAtril) is $115, yearlong
(Setrthough Aril)ist19. Unersityaflates aeresjc t orareduedubscyritin re.
en-canpussc rtio fr all erim ar $35.tSusciptieesmt meit ptrpaid. nhricigian Daily
ia nember ofThise ssociadPresand rhe oceiated Collegiate tres


0

SCIENCE
PR IIIES/-\D
OPPORTUNITI ES
LNTHE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION

6

Li Enter Class of 201 0 T-Shirt Design Contest
and Win $250 Cash!

.Iuf ta

6

4

The Alumni Association is sponsoring a T-shirt design competition to
celebrate the Class of 2010. Picture your design on the backs of your
classmates!
The T-shirts will be for sale in April and May on our Web site, with
all proceeds benefiting student programs like Welcome Wednesdays,
30-Minute Mentors and free memberships for new graduates.
Deadline: Monday, March 22.

Prizes: Wtinning design: $250 cash
andyour design produced
by the Alumni Association

2nd place: $150 cash
3rd place: $75 cash

6

Complete roles and entry details at umalumnixco/classof20l®tshirt.

facebook~com/AAUMstudeats

ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY BF MICHIGAN

0

4 Z



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, March 19, 2010-

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
State House raises
rental car fees to
fund Pure Mich.
The Michigan House has
passed legislation that would add
a $2.50 daily charge on vehicles
rented near airports to help pay
for a popular tourism advertising
campaign.
The main bill in the package
to fund the Pure Michigan cam-
paign passed the Democrat-led
House by a 56-52 vote yesterday
mostly along party lines. The
package would let the state loan
up to $20 million to the campaign
and repay it with revenue from
the rental fees.
The bills now go to the Repub-
lican-led Senate, which hasn't
supported the idea of using a new
rental car fee to fund tourism pro-
motion.
Pure Michigan has about $5.4
million budgeted for this fiscal
year, down from $30 million last
year.
WASHINGTON
Obama backs new
immigration bill
drafted by Senators
President Barack Obama is
backing an immigration bill
outline drafted by two sena-
tors that says illegal immigrants
must admit they broke the law to
become citizens.
Obama says in a statement that
the outline of a bill Sen. Chuck
Schumer and Sen. Lindsey Gra-
ham are crafting addresses border
security and demands account-
ability from illegal immigrants
and employers who hire them.
He says the critical next step is
to translate their outline into leg-
islation.
Obama's statement comes just
three days before tens of thou-
sands of immigrants and their
supporters plan to rally in Wash-
ingtontopress the administration
and Congress to pass immigration
reform.
TEHRAN, Iran
Iran frees activists
for nation's holiday
Iran released a prominent
opposition politician as well as
three activists and a filmmaker
detained for suspected involve-
ment in the country's postelection
turmoil, a relative and local media
said yesterday.
Mohsen Mirdamadi, the leader
of the country's biggest reformist
party, the Islamic Iran Participa-
tion Front, was temporarily freed
late Wednesday on $450,000 bail,
his son Ali told The Associated
Press.
Iran traditionally releases
some prisoners before the New
Year holiday, which begins March
21 and normally ends April 4.
While the semiofficial ISNA news
agency said Mirdamadi's release
came within the framework of the
holiday leaves, it also can be seen

a part of an effort by the Iranian
government to ease tensions in
the country.
WASHINGTON
Obama postpones
trip to Asia until
health care vote
President Barack Obama has
postponed his trip to Asia until
June so he can stay in Washing-
ton for a possible vote Sunday on
his health care overhaul.
White House spokesman
Robert Gibbs said yesterday the
president is disappointed and
regrets having to delay his vis-
its to Indonesia and Australia
but has told the leaders of those
nations that health care is a cru-
cial priority.
"The president believes right
now, the place for him to be is in
Washington seeing this through,"
Gibbs said.
obama had already delayed the
trip to Indonesia and Australia,
pushing back a departure plan
for yesterday until Sunday so he
could help Democrats on Capitol
Hill rallylast-minutevotes for the
plan.
White House staff had tried to
find a way to push the trip back
another few days, but by yester-
day morning, it was clear the
only way the president could still
travel to Australia and Indonesia
was if he left early Sunday after-
noon.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Sudanese gov. and Darfur
rebel groups sign ceasefire

Agreement to allow
for permanent peace
negotiations
DOHA, Qatar (AP) - Sudan's
government and a collection of
Darfur rebel groups signed a
cease-fire yesterday - the second
such deal in less than a month
with a key rebel faction - open-
ing the way for political nego-
tiations ahead of a full peace
agreement.
The Sudanese government now
has truces with two major rebel
blocs, leaving mainly the Sudan
ACLU
From Page 1
man - which was a collaboration
between the ACLU of Michigan, the
University's undergraduate chapter
of ACLU, the University Law School
chapter of ACLU and the Washt-
enaw County ACLU - requests that
canvassing in the residence halls
be allowed as an avenue through
which students may express their
political opinions.
"Public universities should be
places where students are encour-
aged to engage in the political
process and where protection of
the free exchange of ideas is at its
zenith," the letter states.
As of yesterday, University offi-
cials had not yet responded to the
ACLU's letter, according to Uni-
versity spokesperson Rick Fitzger-
ald. He said he couldn't give an
exact time for when administra-
tors will respond to the proposal.
Bennett Stein, a board member
for the University's ACLU chap-
ter, said in an interview yesterday
that the group decided to send the
letter because "every student has
rights and they should not lose
those rights when they decide to
live in the dorms."
University Housing's policy on
advertising and soliciting states
that only "elected officials, candi-
dates for public or student office
and non-partisan activities involv-
ing voter registration are permit-
ted to go door-to-door in residence

Liberation Movement led by Par-
is-based Abdelwahid Elnur on the
outside - though the history of
the conflict has been marked by
failed peace agreements.
Arduous negotiations on power
and resource sharing, the main
demand of the rebels, still lie
ahead.
Yesterday's truce was with the
newly formed Liberation and
Justice Movement, an umbrella
organization of several smaller
rebel groups, including some who
broke away from the SLM.
Ibrahim Gambari, the joint
special representative of the U.N.
and the African Union in Dar-
halls, with permission from the
Housing Administration Office,"
according to the University Hous-
ing website.
The University has this policy
to allow for an atmosphere that
is "conducive to studying, resting,
relaxing and socializing," accord-
ing to the website.
During the 2008 elections,
members of the University's chap-
ter of College Democrats were pro-
hibited fromgoingdoor-to-door in
residence halls in order to regis-
ter students to vote. But after the
group complained that this policy
was unconstitutional, the Univer-
sity modified the policy by allow-
ing members of the organization
to canvass in their own residence
halls, according to Michael Stein-
berg, legal director of the ACLU of
Michigan.
"But (the University hasn't)
changed the written rules," Stein-
berg said.
Neither the College Democrats
nor the College Republicans are
currently involved in the ACLU's
initiative but the chairs of both
organizations said they support it.
"There is nothing more impor-
tant to a free, democratic soci-
ety than free expression - chief
among which is political speech,"
Brendan Campell, chair of the
University's chapter of College
Democrats, said.
Charles Bogren, co-chair of the
University's chapter of College
Republicans, shared similar senti-
ments regarding the policy.

fur, told the ceremony that the
signing "represents yet another
important milestone in the road
toward the destination of an all
inclusive and comprehensive
peace agreement that should
usher in durable peace and stabil-
ity in Darfur."
He warned, however, that the
key to the agreement was the
commitment of all parties to the
implementation.
Sudan's Vice President Ali
Osman Taha vowed at the cere-
mony that his government would
be fully committed to pushing
forward with the political talks to
reach final peace agreement.
"It is important because people
should have the opportunity to be
involved in the political process,"
Bogren said. "I think it's impor-
tant because a lot of times college
is the first time people really have
the opportunity to learn more
about the political process and
really develop their opinions."
The letter sent to Coleman also
points out that University Hous-
ing recently sent an e-mail to resi-
dents stating specific times that
Michigan Student Assembly and
LSA Student Government candi-
dates will be allowed to campaign
in the residence halls.
According to the March 12
e-mail, students running for MSA
and LSA-SG positions and their
campaign managers are allowed to
canvass in the residence halls from
March 14 to March 21 from 12 p.m.
to7p.m.
The ACLU letter states that
this could be an indication that
the University will adopt a similar
policy next semester in regards to
the midterm congressional elec-
tions by allowing only candidates
and their campaign managers to
canvass in the residence halls.
Steinberg said that if the Uni-
versity chooses to adopt ACLU's
policy proposal, the ACLU will be
open to negotiations on the pol-
icy, including the time students
would be able to canvass in the
dorms. He also said ACLU stu-
dent members would stay clear of
residence hall doors that have "no
campaigning" signs.

Mich. Senate
to investigate
tax credits for
businesses

Hearings come after
convicted embezzler
netted tax credit
LANSING, Mich. (AP) - The
Michigan Senate will begin hold-
ing hearings next week to inves-
tigate past state tax credits after
a convicted embezzler out on
parole snagged one for his busi-
ness.
State police arrested RASCO
CEO Richard A. Short on Wednes-
day, a day after the 57-year-old
shared the stage with Gov. Jen-
nifer Granholm as she announced
RASCO would get $9.1 million in
tax credits for setting up its head-
quarters in Flint.
Short is being held in the Gen-
esee County Jail. He'll likely
be charged Thursday or Friday
with violating the conditions
of his parole, state Corrections
spokesman Russ Marlan said
yesterday.
"We did find some additional
things of concern to us when we
searched his home yesterday. So
there may be some additional
charges that come from that,"
Marlan added. He declined to say
what was found.
If the parole board finds Short
in violation, he could be returned

to prison to complete the year
remaining on his sentence or be
placed back on parole, possibly
with additional conditions such as
a tether.
Short was convicted in 2002 of
embezzling money from Harding
Energy Inc. of Muskegon County's
Norton Shores and sentenced to
at least two years in prison. He
also pleaded guilty in 2002 to ear-
lier fraud charges in Oakland and
Genesee counties, according to
Corrections Department and state
police records.
He was paroled in April 2004,
but was returned to prison the
following February for violat-
ing his parole with additional
fraudulent activities, Marlan
said. He has been out on parole
since January 2007. His parole
was recently extended to Janu-
ary 2011 because he hasn't repaid
$96,000 he owes in restitution,
Marlan said.
Short's ability to get a busi-
ness tax credit for a company he
apparently was running out of
his home in a trailer park deeply
embarrassed the state's eco-
nomic development officials. His
prison record and the fact that
he's on parole is easily accessi-
ble on the Internet in the state's
searchable offender tracking
database.

All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
a~a s - &g ' 73e ?el 10-C
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
Fre apy0 ou0 in Bfft -
310 Ma nard St.-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Ma nard Parkin Structur
H--,


Today's Career Tip:
What are you doing after graduation?
Check our online poll at umalumni.com/R2L.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


4 - Friday, March 19, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRISAT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Ann Arbor's feelCing lucky
Community should support Google Fiber project
Students may soon find Facebook pages loading with star-
tlingly high speed during difficult Friday morning class-
es. Ann Arbor is currently being considered as a potential
location for the trial run of Google Fiber for Communities, which
aims to bring ultra-high-speed Internet to communities across the
nation. The competition to be a Google Fiber test city is fierce. But
with its highly educated population and the resources available
through the University, Ann Arbor is an ideal location for Google to
pilot the Google Fiber program. The local community should sup-
port this initiative to bring an opportunity for economic growth and
improved resources to Ann Arbor and the University.

There's no check box for A census taker once# Iate his liver with somefava
"Catde" on my census form! tried to test me" beans and a nice Chian.
Agh! Why is my race the
government's business? C 0
0
#7 Y a
8~
Shrugging off stress
never knew how much I could ing a social life can certainly feel this ways to deal with stress that, though
learn from a bathroom stall. Sure, extreme at times. Endorphin-produc- they attract skeptics, can be insanely
I've seen the common nasty ex- ing exercise should be a part of every- beneficial. And campus seems to be
boyfriend remarks one's school regime. Even if it's just a catching on. Just a few weeks ago, I
and Bible quotes, short run (or walk around campus if was handed a flyer on the Diag that
hutsadrawinginthe this weather keeps up), a good work- advertised free meditation courses. I
laststallofthe third out can do wonders for the mind and know this often elicits thoughts of sit-
floor bathroom in body - not to mention help keep off ting Indian-style with hands folded in
Mason Hall took a that extra weight that's almost inevi- lap ("I Dream of Jeannie"-esque), but
different approach, tably put on with extra stress. When learning to meditate can help calm
and let's just say a the weather isn't so nice, students can chronic stress and be a useful tool to
picture is worth a visit either the Central Campus Rec- help make it through more situational
thousand words. reation Building or the Intramural stressors. Not to mention that it's a life-
Above the toilet- LEAH Sports Building, or take advantage of longskillthat canbe applied notonlyto
paper dispenser the many other options available in the school-related stress but to real-world
were four stick fig- POTKIN AnnArbor area. stress as well (and goodness knows
uresa labeled "Ele- 2. Drinkaless stress less. what's in store for us out there).
mentary School', We've all heard it, yet we some- ________
"Middle School", "High School" and how refuse to accept that alcohol is
"College". Each figure had a word or a depressant. Because we treat it as Acupuncture isn't
two next to it, and next to the mod- a stimulant, consuming large quanti-
erately sized "College" figure were ties in preparation for rambunctious as it
the words "stressed" and "unhappy". sporting events and nights out, we as painful
Excuse me if I've been misinformed, often forget the drug's more negative
but isn't college supposed to be the best effects. But when you think about it, sounds. I promise.
four years of your life? it seems rather intuitive that a sub-
Stress, though inevitably part of stance that can make you physically
every college student's life, shouldn't sick just might add to your stress. If meditation isn't your thing, an
be the defining aspect of anyone's col- I'm not saying drinking is all bad. In even more out-there way to cope with
lege experience. With tests to ace, fact, frat boys of the world, you'll be stress is with ancient Chinese acu-
social interactions to navigate and lim- pleased to hear that alcohol in small puncture. You might wonder why
ited funds to budget, the college envi- doses can decrease stress in some anyone would pay to be stuck with
ronment admittedly is one that fosters situations - butllet's be honest, small needles (just as I did before I tried
stress, but it doesn't have to take over doses aren't exactly your forte. it), but believe me those needles work
our lives. Because stress takes a toll on 3. Look to the University. miracles. Whether it's stress, common
our bodies both physically and mental- With a campus as big as ours boast- colds, lingering aches and pains or vir-
ly, it's vital that students take the time ing resources for virtually every one of tually anything else, acupuncture is
to address this problem and find ways your needs, there are of course cam- becomingthe go-to treatmentfor many
to cope. So if you can see a reflection pus resources to help students cope tired of more traditional treatments. I
of yourself in this bathroom-stall stick with stress. Students can visit websites am a convert.
figure, please read on, because a few such MiTalk, which discusses stress So there you have it, from working
simple stress-busting strategies can management and ways to help, or get out to acupuncture and meditation,
help make a difference. involved with MHealthy's stress bust- there are both traditional and non-
1. "Endorphins make people happy. ers, aprogram thatoffers more interac- traditional ways to deal with stress.
Happy people just don't kill their hus- tive ways to cope with stress. Keep these tips in mind, and if worse
bands." 4. Alternative Methods. comes to worst, there's always drawing
While we hopefully aren't dealing If this has all sounded rather clich on bathroom walls - I hear it's a great
with issues as extreme as those that led up to this point, I wouldn't entirely wayto de-stress.
to Elle Woods's quote from "Legally disagree. Most of us know the com-
Blonde", the stress of finals, dealing mon ways to deal with stress. Howev- - Leah Potkin can be reached
with Ohio State fans and maintain- er, there are many other less common at lpokin@umich.edu
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

On Monday, the Ann Arbor City Coun-
cil unanimously passed a resolution urg-
ing Google to choose Ann Arbor as one of
the locations for the trial program Google
Fiber for Communities. Google Fiber
seeks to build an expansive high-speed,
fiber-to-home network infrastructure in
selected communities that would provide
Internet with a connection it claims is 100
times faster than the norm. The resolution
doesn't ensure that the city will be chosen,
but Google has stated that the support of
the community will be one of factors it
considers in the assessment of trial cities.
Ann Arbor faces competition from cities
across the country, including Google, Kan-
sas - formally known as Topeka before
the mayor changed the city's name for the
duration of March.
But even without publicity stunts like
Topeka's name change, Ann Arbor is
uniquely qualified to be the site of Google's
new venture. Because the city is home to a
highly-educated community and one of the
state's three major research universities,
the impact of the new technology could be
seen in Ann Arbor more fully than in other
places. The University could also provide
Google with resources for the project's
growth. And city residents - many of
whom are employed at the University -
are particularly capable to evaluate Google
Fiber's effectiveness. Google Fiber should

tap into the innovative power of Ann Arbor.
The University could also benefit from
Google fiber. The online infrastructure
would open up new research opportuni-
ties once deemed too time-consuming
- or even impossible - without a faster
Internet connection. And the University
has expressed excitement over the pros-
pect of faster access to medical records for
the University Health System. This will
improve the quality of care received by
those who rely on these health services.
Google's investment in Ann Arbor could
also provide an economic stimulus to
the state. Local businesses would gain a
competitive edge armed with the higher
speeds and would be able to cut their costs
and offer better services. And, most impor-
tantly, the venture could bring more jobs to
the city.
Community backing is crucial to Ann
Arbor's selection. Supporters should fill
out a form online at the Google Fiber
homepage to nominate Ann Arbor. They
can also join fan pages on Facebook or
Twitter or compete in contests on You-
Tube to advocate for the city as Google's
choice. Given the potential benefits that
Google Fiber could offer, the community
should support efforts to bring it to the
city. After all, it would be inbthe best inter-
est of students' needs for ultra high-speed
Facebook access.


NICHOLAS CLIFT I

GHIDA DAGHER, MALVIKA DESHMUKH AND AFSHAN KHANI

0

Warming up to climate change Stop bigotry in Middle East debate

Americans seem to be dropping real climate
science in favor of something easier. A poll
conducted by the Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press in October found that only
35 percent of Americans consider global warm-
ing a serious problem. That's down from the
44 percent that the Pew Research Center mea-
sured in April 2008. America must act, as it has
failed to do up till now, to reduce its climate-
changing emissions.
What was once a serious debate among sci-
entists has been degraded to political feuding
and conspiracy theories. Environment and Cli-
mate News, a monthly paper and the deceptive
mouthpiece of the far-right Heartland Insti-
tute, recently featured a video on its website
in which, "Former Governor Jesse Ventura
investigates who is behind the exaggeration
and hype of the global warming movement."
According to the site, "his investigation leads
to billionaire Maurice Strong." That's insane.
And the problem is many otherwise intelligent,
genuine individuals read and believe the paper.
In the interest of reversing the trend of cli-
mate change denying, let's look at some of the
popular misconceptions perpetuated in the
Environment and Climate News:
"Floridians have suffered through the cold-
est winter in almost 30 years. In some parts of
South Florida, it's been colder than anytime in
the last 83 years. ... Gore's claims that global
warming will produce dramatic and cataclys-
mic warming appear to be melting faster than
any glacier" (2010: The Year Global Warming
Froze Florida, 03/08/2010).
According to official reports released by
NASA and available at climate.nasa.gov, 2009
was globally the second-warmest year since
modern records began around 1880. As one
NASA scientist pointed out, the continental
United States makes up only 1.5 percent of the
globe's surface area, making it very possible
for the conditions specific to the continental
United States to be an exception to those expe-
rienced globally.
"IPCC Discredited, Evidence of Fraud
Mounts," read the cover of the March 2010
issue of Environment and Climate News.
The greatest controversy is over a specific
piece of information the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change used regarding gla-
cial melting - a single paragraph in a 938-page
report. The IPCC was called out for basing its
information on a source that had not been peer-
reviewed - not exactly an issue undermining
the science of climate change.
But tobe sure I had the full truth, I asked Dr.
Natalia Andronova, a research scientist study-

ing climate in the Department of Atmospheric,
Oceanic and Space Sciences and a contributor
to the Nobel Peace Prize-winning IPCC, for
help. The question is really whether promis-
ing new information that hasn't been peer-
reviewed, so-called "gray literature," should be
used by the IPCC. Andronova's opinion is that
it should be, as long as the source is clearly and
properly cited as such. As she pointed out to me
last week, the role of the IPCC is to assess the
science that has already been done, not to do
new science, which means they're limited to
data already produced.
Another misconception: "Contrary to what
the politicians tell us, there is no consensus
of scientific thought on whether there is a
man-made component to global warming. The
science is certainly not settled" (Support for
Global Warming Alarmism Continues to Wane,
10/09/2010).
In the words of Andronova, "Among people
doing (climate) research, there is consensus
that humans are influencing the climate." The
only questions remaining, she told me, are in
what ways and to what extent humans impact
the climate.
Her judgment isconsistent with another poll
by the Pew Research Center from July 2009.
Eighty-four percent of the 2,500 scientists Pew
surveyed believed human activity is warm-
ing the earth. That's just shy of the 87 percent
of scientists Pew found who believe humans
and other creatures evolved from simpler life
forms.
Chances are, most members of the public
don't believe, as the description of Jesse Ventu-
ra's video states, that "... some people are using
(global warming) to make billions of dollars,
start a one-world government and control our
lives..." But it seems the messages from the real
scientific community are sufficiently diluted by
misinformation to keep many Americans ques-
tioning and in doubt. The science is complex
and the consequences of warming are hard to
accept.
"The public really wants to know what is
right, what is wrong," Andronova said. The
most important thing for individuals to do now,
she said, is to simply show the facts.
And scientists need to do just that. The fact
that only one-third of the general public agrees
with 84 percent of the scientific community
on a matter of science should tell us that those
facts are getting lost in translation. It's vital for
scientists to expand outreach to the public in
defense of science.
Nicholas Clift is an Engineering freshman.

Yesterday, the American Movement for Israel and the
Michigan Political Union collaborated to bringDr. Rapha-
el Israeli to campus to discuss China's rapid economic
growth and its involvement in the Middle East. Israeli is
a professor of Islamic, Chinese and Middle Eastern his-
tory at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. He also has
written several books, including "Islamikaze: Manifesta-
tions of Islamic Martyrology," "The Spread of Islamikaze
Terrorism in Europe: The Third Islamic Invasion" and
"Muslim Minorities in Modern States: The Challenge of
Assimilation." In his books and editorials, he promotes
the xenophobic notions that Muslims are incapable of
assimilating into western societies and have particu-
lar difficulty co-existing peacefully with non-Muslims.
According to Israeli, non-Muslims who challenge these
views are in fact "cowardly" Muslim apologists.
While Israeli may have intelligent contributions to
make on the topic of China's involvement in the Middle
East and Islam in China, his scholarship cannot be con-
sidered without the context of his political views, which
undoubtedly inform and direct his research. To be clear,
we aren't necessarily challenging the validity of Israeli's
scholarship on China and the Middle East. As members of
student organizations that promote freedom and equality
in the Middle East and throughout the world, we chal-
lenge the American Movement for Israel and the Michi-
gan Political Union to identify Israeli's politics for what
they are: racist, bigoted and destructive to an accurate
understanding of the Middle East and Islam.
It's an interesting thought experiment to consider
what the reaction of the campus and the receptivity of the
sponsoring student groups would have been for a similar
academic who, instead of being virulently anti-Muslim,
was a white supremacist, anti-Semite or homophobe. It is
unlikely that such a speaker would have been invited at
all, and we can look to the protests at the Blind Pig against
reggae artist Buju Banton last fall for evidence of the sort
of reaction such a speaker might receive. This disturbing
double standard of what constitutes acceptable or unac-
ceptable bigotry on campus needs to be re-examined by
student organizations looking to present diverse perspec-
tives through the speakers they bring.
Free speech and responsible speech go hand in hand.
We must remember that people have the inherent right
to exist, but the fact that an idea exists does not make it
automatically legitimate or equal to all other ideas. Those
ideas that seek to undermine any people's natural right to
live a dignified and free existence must be examined with
close scrutiny before they are presented as legitimate. In

the case of Israeli, his perspectives on Muslims under-
mine the (obvious) idea that Muslims are people just like
Christians, Jews, Buddhists and atheists.
It is not acceptable for student groups to host an indi-
vidual under the auspices that his or her presence cre-
ates opportunities for meaningful dialogue when the
lecturer himself publicly demonizes those who speak
out against his xenophobic perspectives. While Israe-
li's ideas shouldn't be censored, an explicit distinction
should have been made between presenting his scholar-
ship and endorsing his politics. Bringing Israeli to cam-
pus but failing to make this distinction constitutes an
implicit endorsement of his anti-Muslim views. This is
not the first time, however, that pro-Israel groups have
hosted speakers with prejudiced views toward Islam.
Pro-Israel academic Daniel Pipes and anti-Islam writer
Brigitte Gabriel have all been invited within the last four
years.
Israeli's bigoted perspective on Islam is one that, in
addition to being irresponsible, is already too wide-
spread and accepted in our society. As a result, Muslim
Americans and Muslims globally have been the victims
of discrimination, ethnic cleansing and unjust incarcera-
tion. Giving intolerance yet another platform does noth-
ing to encourage dialogue on these topics. As University
students and as citizens of a global community, we must
demand more from one another when it comes to discuss-
ing difficult, yet critical, issues. One need not look fur-
ther than the University's humanities departments for
intelligent dissections of Islam, the Middle East and the
broader role religion plays in our society.
We encourage students to examine the misrepresen-
tation of both Muslims and Arabs by attending upcom-
ing events organized to address these issues. Tonight at
6:30 p.m., the Arab Student Association will screen "Reel
Bad Arabs" in the Rackham Amphitheatre, which will
be followed by a discussion with director Dr. Jack Sha-
heen on representation of Arabs in Hollywood cinema.
In addition, next week is Islam Awareness Week, which
will feature several events designed to address pervasive
misconceptions on Islam, including a short lecture by Dr.
Yvonne Seon next Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Union Ball-
room on the experience of being a black Muslim woman
in America.
Ghida Dagher is the president of the Arab Student
Association, Malvika Deshmukh is co-chair of Students
Allied for Freedom and Equality and Afshan Khan is
political chair of the Muslim Students' Association.

6

6

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Law School alum, Obama advisor will
speak to the Law School's graduates

From Page 1
Coleman said she's very excit-
ed that Jarrett is coming to Ann
Arbor.
"What a thrill for our students
because she's been so success-
ful," Coleman said. "It just sounds
like it's going to be a perfect com-
mencement for everyone."
Coleman added that having
two well-known commencement
speakers coming to campus this
spring illustrates the University's
prestige.
"It shows the prominence of the
University to me," Coleman said.
"I think it's fabulous."
Jarrett graduated from the Uni-

versity Law School in 1981 after
earning her Bachelor of Arts from
Stanford University in 1978.
University Provost Teresa Sul-
livan said in an interview that
having a Law School alum as the
commencement speaker would
make the ceremony more mean-
ingful for graduates.
"It's of great interest to the law
students who are graduating to
see a recent graduate who's hav-
ing such an important impact on
the country," Sullivan said. "So
I think it's terrific for the School
of Law that she is going to be the
speaker."
In yesterday's press release,
Law School Dean Evan Caminker

echoed Sullivan's sentiment.
"Selection of Jarrett as the Law
School commencement speaker
continues the school's tradition
of inviting accomplished, high-
profile Law School graduates
to Ann Arbor to help usher new
graduates into the professional
world," Caminker wrote in the
statement.
In 2007, Jarrett became presi-
dent and CEO of the Habitat
Company - a private residential
property management company
with properties in Chicago, Ann
Arbor and around the Midwest.
She served as the company's exec-
utive vice president for the previ-
ous 12 years and has also served

on numerous corporate and non-
profit boards throughout the Chi-
cago area.
Before that, Jarrett worked
for eight years in Chicago's city
government, holding a number of
positions, such as deputy chief of
staff for Chicago Mayor Richard
M. Daley. Prior to serving in the
city government, Jarrett practiced
law for two'different Chicago law
firms.
Jarrett was the finance chair
for Obama's 2004 U.S. Senate
campaign. During Obama's presi-
dential campaign, she acted as a
senior advisor and was co-chair
of the Obama-Biden Transition
Committee.

FOOTBALL
From Page 1
"For us, obviously, this is an
experiment," Brandon said. "This
is the first time we've done it.
Hopefully we'll just get better and
better at it. If all goes well, we'd
love to have at least one game a
year scheduled at night at Michi-
gan Stadium. It would be a terrific
tradition to start."
Though Brandon and the Ath-
letic Department are noticeably
excited about the night-time game,
reactions were mixed from Michi-
gan season-ticket holders.
Mark Schostak, a Michigan
football season ticket holder, said
he feels the matchup brings a lot of
intrigue to the Big House.
"It adds an interesting element,"
Schostak said. "It's something dif-
ferent. It's not just an ordinary Sat-
urday afternoon football game."
But for Tara Beickmaun, who
has had season tickets for 35 years,
the concept of a night-time game
breaks too much from the tradi-
tional mold that made Michigan
football what it is today.
"It's not what Michigan football
hasusuallybeenabout,"Beickmaun
said. "But I guess times change, and
you've got to change with them.... I
think people like to have fun after
the game and it's kind oflateon Sat-
urdays for that. I still like the after-
noon I like being out in the sun. I
think it's kind of nice. When I think
of night games, I think of southern
universities. It's never really been
part of my experience."
Students, however, proved to be
more in favor of the late Saturday
startltime.
"I think it would be cool," LSA
junior Dave Bushart said. "I always
wondered about what it would be
like, and I think it would be sweet

Friday, March 20, 2010 - 5
to go to."
"It'll generate a lotcof excitement
for the crowd at the Big House,"
LSA freshman Hector Acosta
added. "You see crowds at Penn
State fornightgames, and itcreates
a fun atmosphere.
Notre Dame and the Wolver-
ines will continue to build their
rivalry with the historic matchup.
The two schools met three times in
primetime between 1982 and 1990.
In all three of those contests both
schools were ranked in the top 25.
Michigan lost each game by six
points or fewer in South Bend.
Officials have previously
announced that the Wolverines
and the Fighting Irish will continue
their series through 2017, then each
team will take a two-year break
from playing each other, and will
return to face off again in 2020.
Michigan played in one of its
most exciting games of the 2009
season against Notre Dame in the
Big House. It was a game that went
back and forth and culminated in
a game-winning drive and last-
second touchdown to seal a win for
the Wolverines. The next time the
Fighting Irish come to Ann Arbor,
the two schools will be playing at
night, under the lights.
"I think it's a part of what cre-
ates a big, exciting atmosphere in
college football," Brandon said. "I
think to play those games, if you
listen to the coaches, the play-
ers, and just as a fan, I know that
being out there under the lights,
in primetime, in front of a nation-
al audience is something special.
And we want to be a part of things
that are special at the University
of Michigan. So I'm pleased and
proud that we are doing this."
- Daily Sports Editors Joe
Stapleton, Chris Meszaros and Ryan
Kartje contributed to this report.


L

understand their purposes. in trouble," Stasinski said. "A lot
OSCR Because two students who get of students think it's a waste of
From Page 1 the same punishment - like pro- time."
bation - may have differingviews Neumeister added that OSCR
gramon Intergroup Relations. on that punishment, with one has done a good job helping stu-
Thompson said the model could student thinking it is very unfair, dents by reducing emphasis on the
be described as a "spectrum of Neumeister said OSCR sometimes institutional and judiciary aspects
resolution options that moves gets a bad reputation. of conflict resolution.
beyond formal education models," Amanda Stasinski, a Rackham "All early offices were called
and that it also uses "a framework student and OSCR staff member, Judicial Affairs, and it had a very
from a social justice perspective." said because students generally legalistic approach," he said.
Neumeister, who holds a simi- only come to the office when they Neumeister said, if selected, he
lar position at Northwestern have done something wrong, it not only wants to spread aware-
University, said offices like OSCR has "a rather negative" reputa- ness of OSCR and its ability to
are viewed negatively by many tion. mediate conflicts but also to train
students because they don't fully "It's where you go when you get students to handle conflict by

themselves.
"We're expecting all members
of the community to recognize
that conflict' is inherent in our
lives and to recognize that it's
not necessarily a bad thing," Neu-
meister said. "The idea is to put
tools in students' hands."
In the next step of the hiring
process, a committee of students
and faculty members will meet
with Simone Himbeault Taylor,
associate vice president for stu-
dent affairs, to discuss the two
candidates. Taylor will make the
final hiring decision.


REGENTS
From Page 1
for about 15 minutes, the regents
visited with the ice dancers, con-
gratulating them and posing for
pictures.
Regents Laurence Deitch (D-
Grosse Pointe), Denise Ilitch (D-
Bingham Farms) and Newman
even took pictures with Davis and
White on their BlackBerrys and
iPhones while wearing the stu-
dents' Olympic medals.
The meeting then resumed with
Ilitch joking, "Well, now that we've
acted like total groupies."
REGENTS APPROVE
HONORARY DEGREE FOR
OBAMA, FIVE OTHERS
The Board of Regents approved
a recommendation from University
President Mary Sue Coleman to
grant six honorary degrees to spe-
cial guests who will be on hand for
this year's spring commencement.
Among those receiving a degree
is President Barack Obama, who
will be delivering the commence-
ment address at this year's ceremo-
ny. Obama, who will be the third
sitting president to deliver a com-
mencement address at the Univer-
sity, is to receive a Doctor of Laws
degree.
Last year, Obama spoke at com-
mencement ceremonies for the
Naval Academy, Notre Dame and
Arizona State University. ASU
came under heavy criticism when
officials said they would not offer
an honorary degree to Obama
because he hadn't achieved enough
while president.
The Board of Regents also
approved honorary Doctor of
Laws degrees to be given to Jean
Campbell, founder of the Univer-
sity's Center for the Education of
Women, and Charles Vest, presi-

dent of the National Academy of
Engineering.
Stanford Ovshinsky, president of
Ovshinsky Innovation LCC and an
inventor with hundreds of patents,
is to receive a Doctor of Sciences
degree. Susan Stamberg, a special
correspondent for National Public
Radio, was approved to receive an
honorary Doctor of Human Let-
ters degree. Jazz musician Ornette
Coleman will receive an honorary
Doctor of Music degree.
REGENTS APPROVE $3.8M
IN CONSTRUCTION
The regents also unanimously
approved spending $3.8 million
on repairs to Lorch Hall and the
James and Anne Duderstadt Cen-
ter at yesterday's meeting.
The Board of Regents approved
spending $2.2 million on a project
aimed at correcting problems with
the Duderstadt Center's soffits
caused by air leaks and condensa-
tion problems.
According to a communication
given to the regents by Tim Slot-
tow, executive vice president and
chief financial officer, the project
will involve installing vapor and
air barriers along with thermal
insulation and upgrading part of
the building's mechanical systems.
The project will be financed
with money from the University's
General Fund and is expected to be
completed by fall 2010.
The regents also approved a sec-
ond request from Slottow that will
use $1.6 million to address "areas of
significant deterioration" to Lorch
Hall, which was built in 1928.
The project will also draw fund-
ing from the University's General
Fund to make repairs to its mason-
ry, roofing, steel structures and
rain conductors.
The project, which will not
impact parking, is expected to be
finished by fall 2010.

If you are weighing your career options, consider
this: US News & World Report places pharmacy on
its 2009 short list of Best Careers
-- and ranks the University of
U i Michigan College of Pharmacy
one of the best in the nation.

he wire
WANT TO KEEP UP
ON THE LATEST
HEADLINES?
Check out the Daily's
News blog:
michigandaily.com/blogs
/the wire


6 - Friday, March 19, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

s

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg mcl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
11. New huilding, 2 hlocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilitiesat flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!! NEW LISTING Avail Fall 2010!!
721 Church- Unfurmished I bedroom
apartment. Quiet atmosphere. Great lo-
cation, I block from South University,
near B-School & Education School,
hardwood floors, free heat, free water,
free parking. Laundry.
Call Ann 320-1244 or visit our web-
site www.churchstreetrentals.com
!!!!!CENTRAL CAMPUS!!!!!!!!
APTS. AT UNBELIEVEABLE
SAVINGS
Discounted rates plus lots of extras
for free.
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and I bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments. net
**AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E. Lib-
erty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5 min
walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by March
31st. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail, properties.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.

Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?
Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
section on
APRIL 1sT!
Advertise in this secion
by contacting:
(734) 764-0557
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's- 3
bedrooms - eat, waer and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (doons), THINK U. TOWERS.
2BDRM CONDO, QUIET second
floor corner; balcony,a/c,laundry, prkg,
gym, heated pool, racket ball, sauna,
avail 6/1 or 5/1. $975. 734-761-9210.
1221 S. State #2
8 MO. LEASE
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950. 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
8 MONTH LEASES for fall. Two
houses to choose from: 7 bdrm for 8 at
S. University and Washtenaw, 6 bdrm
for 7- Mid S. Forest area. 734-260-4003
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. fur. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.

*Varsity
Management
625 Churth St (73416681100
1-BEDROOMS:
*801W.Madison -Old West Sidequiet neighborhood
'1015 Vaughn - Perfect for Businessor LawSchools
.521 Walnut-SewfuniturecC soltose
'418E.Washington -Grad Student Haven, studios too
2-BEDROOMS
1039aldwin-Newkithenshardwoodfloors
*911&1001.Forest-Free wireless,greatlocation
*1015 W. Huron &801W. Madison -Old West Side,
'917Packard - Tons of space for just alittlemoney
848 Tappan - Location,location,& covered parking
1015Vaughn -Graduatestudentsmustsee
3-BEDROOMS
'331Catherine-Kernytown,allnewinterior,gorgeous
'1506Geddes-Onlyleft,sosdosetocentralcampus
4-BEDROOMS
1039 Baldwin - Hardwood floors, high ceilings
*1346Geddes-Perfectcentrallothugebi-level
www.a rs i tyman ag en nt.com
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1028 Fuller - Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to oursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furmished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
heat, water and parking included. Call
Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Studio & I
f 1 drn. Unts
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qu.iet & .xc:mHigise -One Fkxc ,x+.ampu s,
Q N Bian Tosic
734-663-530
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
a1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms apts. Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.jmsprop.com
AVAILABLE NOW TO AUGUST
10!!! Rooms / EFFICIENCY/ 1 Bed
avail. now. $450-$500 + elec. Near Ctrl
Campus. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FALL 2010 ! 1 bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm-
(suitable for 3) apt. 528 5. Fifth Ave.

Furn, disposal, dwshr, Indry, prkg.
Walkout balcony. $1100 + elec. 734-
662-7121 or email gpmiles@aol.com
FALL 2010: GORGEOUS HOUSE!
719 McKinley: New kitchen (granite,
stainless dishwasher/range), laundry,
wood floors, newer bathroom, A/C,
Parking (5+ cars), 3 BR, Living Rm,
Dining Rm, Study Rm ($2,250/month).
For pictures/questions email
wabantago@gmail.com
PRES ENTS THE
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorms),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-i.com
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MnroeManagers@umici.edu
815S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. aps (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umsich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. aps.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrnms. Heat & Wa-
ter mcl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
LARGE ROOMS 715 Hill. At State
St. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-9904.
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.con
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.SellA2.com 734-476-9768
sBroadview Apartments
"Spacious Ibedro m apartments
'Spacious 2 bedrooms with master bath
.Shuttle around campus
+Large private balconies
with woled views
*Pets welcome
Models Open Daily
J . (EXTENDED HOURS)
WWw.annarborapartments.net
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY TO MAY Leases
3 Bedrooms 'Park Plaza"
1320 . University
NegotiableRates
734-761-8000
primes.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-

els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
420 S. Division #2
8 MO. LEASE
5 BDRM
$2200
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primeshecom
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALLING RATES
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primeuseom

ZU N. IGALS Smer uble
$435/mo. utilities inc. great location
avail. May 3 to Aug. 19
jjacquemwghumich.edu
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

OCCASIONAL BABYSITTER(S)
for 2 & 4 yr olds. Exp., refs., and
transp. required. Dog & cat in house.
$10/hour. Call Emily at 734-975-4310.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M nxp.
996-0566 or writeoin ciserv.net
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.

a

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300/ day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
FREE PORTFOLIO ATTRACTIVE
girls needed for nude/semi nude pho-
tography. Flex hours & great pay! Must
be 18 for interview. Call: 734-678-
4181 or email georged l@provide.net
PTC IS H IR ING!
- 5 entry level programmers
- Camp Sci degree (or equiv)
- Based sn Ann Arbor, MI
Tinyurl.com/ASWEAnnArbor
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for healthy women
between the ages of 21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 for their involvement
in our program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.

LOCAL BEER DISTRIBUTOR paid
summer internship. Sales, special
events, marketing. Business student,
21, w/ car. Flex. hrs. O & W, Inc. 734-
480-4012 or email info@onwbeercom
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

RE ONSIU1BLE, ACTIVE, CAR-
ING, and creative care giver required
for 8 yr. old boy & 10 yr. old girl this
summer. Reqdetails: female student -
jr, sr, or grad at UofM pref; own car;
required between June 14-Aug 27;
8am- 6pm daily; $10/hr. West side of
Ann Arbor. Call Lisa @ 734-997-9676.

40

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 6 Subway Series 36 Support spec 49 Ministers
1 "Eats, Shunts & suadiam 37 "Chances " 5 2 Place
Leu e" ssubct 7 Suit material? Mathisht _ 83 Coee servers
6 Interim measures 8 Couple's word 38 Men 54 Ancient Persian
14Jamesteammate 9 Afterhoughts, 398am-u. 55 Plane tr a pad
35 Provided home briefly 43 Amounts 58 Cumin snrip
security, in a way 10 Go- 44 Little rascals dog
16 Cousin of danke 11 So far 45 Hugs, in letters 57 Adonis
17 German version 12 Not as flushed 46 Easy to use, in 58 19th-century
of GO? 13 Dictator's adspeak military family
18 Section reserved assistant? 47 Subsided 60 "The Gift ofuthe
for a German 17 Prefix with pad 48 Rice-_ Magi" gift
composer? 19 "Sprechen A
20 Freshman, Deutsch?" - ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
probably 22Univ. recruiter ENDS ANON SLAM S
21 Lubricate 23 Quickly,in WOU R E M O TARO T
22 Backin memos O MN I A R IA O BE SE
23 Car parked next 24 "Don't think so" F F T H G R A S S
to a German 25Bitmap TWA V I E
sedan? components TDONTCOMEEASY
30 Place follower 26 '40s flag-raising C T A W S L I O N S N A u
31 Put out site, briefly
32 Comrade 27 "The Maids' K I L N S I L L S N A S A
35 Germansliving in playwright Y M A SAMOA S U F I S
the fast lane? 28 Pinafore letters S I M P L E F R A C T U R E
40 Acidity-level 29 Short life story? A L A S A T
symbols 32 2003 A.L. S T U P I D P E T T R I C K S
41 Manitoba tribe Manageroftthe H O P O N E C R U E R I E
42 Prolificauth.? Year Tony A B O U T W H A T S A S E
43 Give a German 33 Fabric finish? G E N T S SO M E T B S P
philosopherthe 34 Bobcat, e.g. xwordedltoraol.com 03/18/10
thir degree? 1 2 3 4 a a i 8 10 11 12 13
47 Relinh
50 Bossy remark? 14 1
51 La Tar Pits
52 Former German 1
chancellor's 1m 19 2
coffeesweetener?
59 Causes for alarm 21
in the West 23 2a 2s 26 2r 22
German capital?
61 Excessive a 31 32 an 34
62 In atight row
63 Paris bisector am am an n an
64 Relieve, as of a4 as
mistaken ideas
65 Searchesfor n 44 an an
DOWN no no am an
1 Search mm m2 ma an am an6 a m
thoroughly
2 Ready to serve I I59I 61
3 Cougaror Sable, 62 ± 63
4 Spe ratio a4 mm
5 'The Nowhere
City"author Lurie By DnNaora s03/19/10
(e2010 TribuneMedia Srvicst Inc./

For Saturday, March 20, 2010
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
Avoid power struggles with others
today, because this is what you're
tempted to do. You have a secret urge to
prove to others that you're right. So
what?
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Your powers of observation are excel-
lent today. This is a good time to get to
the bottom of something. You might
want to know more information about
what other people earn or own.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Squabbles with others, especially
members and groups, are silly power
struggles today. You don't have to get
involved. Step aside. ("A lot of men did-
n't, and a lot of men died.")
CANCER
(June21 to July 22)
This is a very poor day to bring up
touchy subjects with bosses, parents or
VIPs. Right off the bat, somebody is
going to try to be in charge. If this is
important, avoid these discussions!
LEO
(July23 to Aug. 22)
Don't get involved in heavy discus-
sions about politics, religion or racial
issues. Control issues will immediately
arise. (You won't get a chance to discuss
the facts.)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Squabbles about shared property,
inheritances and anything you own
jointly with others might arise today.
This is a poor day for these kinds of dis-
cussions. Try to postpone them for
another day.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Power struggles with partners could
get ugly today. Each wants to improve or

make over the other. It's just meddling to
the nth agree. (Not good.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 toNov. 21)
Your ideas about how to improve
things at work or to introduce reforms
will meet with resistance today. People
aren't really listening. They'rejust obsti-
nate. (Don't ya love it?)
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Avoid power struggles with children
today. After all, you are the adult.
Similarly, avoid power struggles with
romantic partners. Things will only get
worse.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Be respectful with family members
today, especially parents or your elders.
Arguments can disintegrate quickly into
nasty, destructive exchanges. Ouch!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Whether you're aware of this'or not,
you're loaded for bear today. You want
to win an argument. (Do you think it's
wise to be this pushy?)
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
You might come up with an entirely
new source of income today. You might
decide to let go of previous ideas and
methods in order to research something
new.
YOU BORN TODAY You have a log-
ical mind, although you are very intu-
itive, even psychic. You enjoy the arts,
especially music. You have avivid imag-
ination. Good friendships help you to
keep a healthy balance in your life. You
often embrace a cause, or very much
admire someone. The year ahead might
be one of the most powerful years of
your life. Dream big!
Birthdate of Spike Lee, director/actor;
William Hurt, actor; Holly Hunter,
actress.

0
0
0

C 2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, March 19, 2010 - 7

Political intrigue in
Polanski's 'Ghost Writer'

This production of 'Man at La Mancha' aims to overcome the cheesiness otten associated with the mosical.
Getting Quixotic with
MUSKET'S musical

By JENNIFER XU
Daily Arts Writer
Cinematically, the month of March is
akin to the morning after a wild, debaucher-
ous party. The slightly deflated balloons no
longer possess their shiny
buoyancy, leftover pizza ****
stains smear the walls
and the guests are passed The Ghost
out beneath the stairways. Writer
Hollywood acts in much
of the same fashion: the At the State
energy surrounding the Summit
Oscars has rapidly dis-
sipated, as filmmakers
recovering from months of campaigning
take a few weeks of rest. Yet the hype for
summer blockbusters hasn't picked up
enough momentum to properly take off.
The garbage that typically remains is
pedestrian beyond justification and gim-
micky to boot.
Roman Polanski ("The Pianist"), with
his latest political espionage film, provides
a refreshing departure from the usual
March dreck. If "The Ghost Writer" were
a month, it would be September - perhaps
not substantial enough to merit an Oscar
nomination (though with "The Blind Side"
having been recently inducted into the
Academy's pantheon of nominees; who can
really know for sure anymore?), but never-
theless a solid, witty and infinitely enter-
Refreshingly strong
for a March release.
taining popcorn flick.
Played by Ewan McGregor ("Amelia"), an
actor better known for showing his penis in
artistic ways rather than acting in artistic
ways, the titular "ghost writer" is a name-
less scribe saddled with the job of dictating
the political memoirs of former Prime Min-
ister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, Adam Lang (Pierce
Brosnan, "Mamma Mia!"). Things become
more convoluted as the prime minister is
discovered to have been involved in the ille-
gal seizure and torture of suspected terror-
ists during his time in office. As the "ghost"
- as he likes to call himself - descends into
this world of political intrigue and scandal,
he finds himself gradually being sucked
into the mystery and hypocrisy of the Brit-
ish and American political administrations.
It's been noted that parallels to former
Prime Minister Tony Blair and his wife
Cherie Booth are not coincidental - author
Robert Harris had long been investigating

the Blair situation as a reporter for BBC
News and dropped all his political work to
pen his novel "The Ghost," on which the
film was based. Had Harris not been such
an established reporter, he could have easi-
ly been sued for libel. Also perhaps not acci-
dental is the film's decidedly anti-American
tone - Polanski has not set foot on Ameri-
can soil since serving time for unlawful
intercourse with a minor in 1977, failing
even to accept his Academy Award for Best
Director in 2002.
Polanski has long maintained a fetish
for brooding obsessions that push the lines
of sexual perversion, yet it is this film's
deft construction of atmosphere and ten-
sion where he truly succeeds. The perva-
sive gloom that taints the air is reminiscent
of Hitchcock's classic thrillers, replete with
Tim Burton-esque moments and the omi-
nous sounds of a distant foghorn. The disil-
lusioned, boozy "ghost" could have come
straight out of the '50s film noir reels of Billy
Wilder or Orson Welles, a hardboiled writer
who purposefully shuts out the drama ensu-
ing behind him. In true fashion, Olivia Wil-
liams ("An Education") plays Lang's wife
Ruth, the mysterious victim/femme fatale
whose intentions are not quite certain.
Indeed, "The Ghost Writer" is much more
plot-based than it is character-based, a move
that keeps the audience constantly anticipat-
ing each word, twisting with surprises up
until the very last frame. At the same time,
the film crackles with mordant wit in the
most unexpected areas, relieving the audi-
ence's buildup of tension for a slight second.
Although this is a rather minor point,
"The Ghost Writer" is one of the few films
that manages to pull off the challenge of
showing our increasing dependence on
technology in a cinematic setting. Many
films have attempted to show their char-
acters engaged in texting, Facebooking or
webcamming, with varying degrees of fail-
ure. It is to Polanski's credit that when the
"ghost" performs a Google search on the
prime minister's background, it doesn't seem
contrived or overtly stupid, and actually fur-
thers the plot along.
Wtih his lithe construction of tension and
grippingtalesofintrigue, romance and obses-
sion, Polanski masterfully transforms what
quickly could've escalated into a pedestrian
chase-and-evade flick into an effective politi-
cal espionage thriller for those who can't
stand the genre. Because the film doesn't
claim to be anything more than entertain-
ment, it manages to succeed beyond its wild-
est expectations. "Ghost Writer" should be
the touchstone against which all post-Oscar,
pre-blockbuster films should be measured,
a film that embraces the advent of modern
technology while paying homage to one of
the greatest filmmakers of all time.

'Man of La Mancha'
presents an idealistic
play within a play
LEAH BURGIN
Daily FineArts Editor
The story of "Man of La Mancha"
that of the world's first novel - Migu
de Cervantes's 17th-century class
"The Ingenious Hidal-
go Don Quixote of La Man of La
Mancha." Adapted
from this masterpiece, Mancha
"Man of La Mancha" Tonight and
follows the fictional tomorrow at
story of Cervantes,
who is thrown into p.m.
prison during the at 2p.m.
Spanish Inquisition. The Power Cent
SpanishTickets fnom $1
In conjunction with
the University Activi-
ties Center, MUSKET, a student-r
theater program, will be performi
"Man of La Mancha" for its spring sho
under the direction of Rebecca Spoon
a junior in the School of Music, Theat
& Dance.
After the first time she saw a produ
tion of the show, Spooner fell in lo-
with the story of Cervantes and h
creation, Don Quixote. She has alwa
wanted to bring a production of it to t
stage.
"I thought it would be a fun, differe
show fur college students and thatA
could do it well," Spooner said.
In the show, Cervantes, a Spani
nobleman, must use his imagination a:
poetic gift to win over his fellow lowe
class inmates, as they wish to burn h
precious manuscript that will one d
become the famous story of Don Qui
ote. In this sense, a play within a pl
evolves: The story of Quixote is to
within the story of Cervantes's time
a prisoner.
"In my mind, it was important th
we stayed within the prison the enti
time," she said. "Except for the trunk
props and costumes that he has, ever
thing had to be created from the priso

So, for rehearsal, we had a lot of fun.
There was a day we basically turned into
eight-year-olds and made forts out of a
bunch of props. I would say, 'Here is a
bowl, a spoon, a blanket and this - make
something.'"
According to Music Director and
Conductor Danny Abosch, a junior in
the School of Music, Theatre & Dance,
is the play within a play concept directly
el affects the show's score.
ic, "All the music in the show takes place
in the play within a play, soit's really the
music that is coming out of Miguel de
Cervantes's mind," Abosch said.
Abosch goes on to lament at the fact
that many theater-goers only know the
8 show's most famous song, "The Impos-
sible Dream."
"The rest of the music is overlooked,
and sadly so, because there are a lot of
er gems in the show besides 'The Impos-
sible Dream,'" he said.
In addition to being famous for its
un show-stopping number, "Man of La
ng Mancha" also has a stigma attached -
w the "stuffy, old-timer's musical." Just
er, as the score has more to offer than "The
re Impossible Dream," the show itself,
according to Spooner, does not deserve
c- this notoriety.
ye "The show has a stigma of a very clas-
is sical 'your parents' musical,' but there's
ys so much about this show that is perti-
he nent and relevant to us today," she said.
"(It's) fun and raunchy and sexy. This is
nt not the upper-class musical world."
ye According to Music, Theatre & Dance
sophomore Reed Campbell, the charac-
sh ters of Don Quixote and Cervantes, both
nd of whom he plays, are extremely rel-
r- evant to contemporary audiences.
is "The dignity and the courage and
ay the passion that Cervantes's character
x- (exhibits) is the epitome of what we all
ay want to be," he said. t
'd Like Spooner and Abosch, Campbell
as is also interested in the play-within-a-
play concept.
at "It's cool because it gives me the
re chance to play two different charac-
of ters," Campbell said.
y- "It gives me a world to play in. There's
in. the stage world, and then the stage-

within-a-stage world that can be even
more heightened and even more truth-
ful," he added.
Campbell believes that "Don Quix-
ote is the inner workings of Cervantes's
mind," which creates a challenging act-
ing situation.
"It was challenging differentiating
Cervantes and Quixote ... and it was
challenging (to make) Quixote simple
and noble instead of cheesy and igno-
rant," he said.
Spooner also reflected on the duplic-
ity of Cervantes and Quixote.
"(Cervantes) has seen the world for
the terrible place that it is, and his ideal-
ist, dreamer of a knight sees the world as
it should be. He's sees the good in every-
thing," she said.
With the complexity of the title
character, the immense talent neces-
sary to fill the traditionally difficult
roles and the potentially cheesy themes
of "dreaming the impossible dream,"
Spooner was conscientious of making
the show simple and honest instead of a
series of cliches.
"It's very easy to do this show badly.
It's easy to take the things that could be
cheesy and make them cheesy," she said.
But Spooner believes that, with this
cast and crew, "the cheese works." When
Quixote speaks of idealism and chivalry,
"it's not an eye-rolling moment, it's an
honest moment."
This sense of mystical idealism has
even serendipitously manifested itself
in the show's production process.
"We rented our costumes from Good-
speed Opera House, which is actually
... the location of the very first produc-
tion of 'Man of La Mancha' back in'64,"
Spooner said. "These are the costumes
from that production."
But according to Abosch, students
shouldn't see "Man of La Mancha" just
for the original costumes, the impres-
sive score or the famous story line.
"It's a way to come see your class-
mates in a role that you don't normally
see them," he said. "The themes in the
show are so relevant and the idea of
'dreaming the impossible dream' ... (is)
a really powerful sentiment."

Pretty great Lakes
By JOE DIMUZIO
For the Daily

Symphonic sounds from San Francisco

By BRAD SANDERS
Daily Arts Writer
Michael Tilson Thomas, music direc-
tor of the San Francisco Symphony and
recent recipient of
the National Medal .
of Arts, is bringing San FrancsCo
the Grammy award- Symphony
winning symphony
to Ann Arbor this Tonight and
weekend. tomorrow
The performance at 8 p.m.
will span two days, Hill Auditorium
and will include a solo Tickets from $10
by internationally rec-
ognized violinist Christian Tetzlaff on
Friday and a gala dinner and champagne
gathering in the Michigan League on Sat-
urday. The University Musical Society
will also present the symphony and Til-
son Thomas with UMS's Distinguished
Artist Award on Saturday. Additionally,
a screening of the symphony's PBS docu-
mentary "Keeping Score" will be shown
in the Walgreen Drama Center on Satur-
day at 4 p.m.
Included in the ensemble is princi-
pal clarinetist and 'U' alum Carey Bell.
Along with many other members of the
ensemble, he will be giving a class called
"Engaging Young Audiences in Classi-
cal Music," which will focus on clarinet
playing.'
"In my previous classes, I've had a
couple people play for me in front of the
group who have prepared a solo or orches-
tral excerpts that the students have to

learn for auditions," said Bell. "It might
be free form where everyone is prepared
for something and I just call out whoever
is ready."
The process of becoming a principal
chair is a strenuous one; however, Bell
became a member of the orchestra after
already having earned this position and
now, three years later, he is tenured.
"I joined the Symphony in 2007 as a
principal clarinetist. Whenever there's
an opening, there's an audition process
where they let everyone know of it, rdsu-
ms are looked through and about 150
people are picked to play in a three or four
dayperiod," explained Bell. "Then there is
a tenure process where everyone is evalu-
ating you at every moment."
Returning to the institution where Bell
was given the instruction to become an
established musician has proved senti-
mental for him.
"I went to the University from'93 to'97
as anundergrad, and I came back with the
symphony last year or the year before,"
said Bell. "I did a master class and taught
students, and it was an incredible experi-
ence to come back as a professional and to
some of the same classrooms. It brought
back great memories, as I've learned so
much about how to be a musician and how
to play clarinet (at the University)."
The first day's performance will include
an overture, a concerto (with Tetzlaff)
and then music showcasing the sounds of
the orchestra in the second half. The sec-
ond day will be a little less traditional. The
ensemble will play a symphony by Gustav

Mahler, which will last about 80 minutes
with no intermission.
"Our director has been very instru-
mental in getting Mahler to be part of our
repertoire," said Bell. "I think Mahler is
one of those composers who conducts bet-
ter than most, so we do a lot of his music.
The piece has some off-stage brass cho-
rales that Mahler wanted placed around
in different places backstage, so you'll
'U' alum Carey Bell
returns to perform
in Symphony's
national tour.
hear different moments where there's
far-off music. It produces a sort of magi-
cal effect."
Thomas will be giving explanations
before many of his pieces, especially for
those that would be less familiar to the
audience.
"Tilson Thomas is a very dynamic guy;
he's one of those people that seems to
know everybody and has worked with
so many great musicians throughout
his life," said Bell. "It's very valuable to
have somebody with that much experi-
ence who will spend as much time with
us as needed. It has really changed the
orchestra around."

"Albatross," the first single off The Bes-
nard Lakes's third album
The Besnard Lakes Are the
Roaring Night, is a mixed
proposition. On one hand, The Besnard
it capitalizes on the band's lakes
strengths - subtly beau-
tiful harmonies, guitar The Besnard
fireworks and a muscular Lakes Are the
rhythm. On the other, it's Roaring Night
derivative, lyrically forget- agjaguwar
table and content to coast in
one ear and out the other.
Regrettably, Roaring Night is filled with
these frustrating highs and lows.
The Bsnard Lakes is yet another Cana-
dian band with a "big" sound. With a work-
manlike sense of shoegaze, Lakes's songs
mix reverb, pounding drums and guitars
and pile them so thick you forget it's the
work of four musicians. Husband and wife
Jace Lasek and Olga Goreas sing and write
all of the songs, which occasionally take
advantage of their respective powerful fal-
settos and characteristic phrasings. Vocal-
ly, instrumentally and production-wise it's
all there.
Then why is Roaring Night such a drag?
The band's sophomore effort,2007's TheBes-
nard Lakes Are the Dark Horse, seemed like
a mission statement as much as an album.
Against monstrous groups like Arcade Fire
and Broken Social Scene, the band was a
dark-horse success. Without the bombast of
the former and the spontaneity of the latter,
Besnard Lakes's Dark Horse was filled with
anthemic, explosive rock, giving all the right
space to their understated talents. "And You
Lied to Me" pauses midsong for an excruci-
ating few seconds of Lasek's howl, followed
by a pummeling guitar in the style of My
Bloody Valentine's Loveless. "Devastation"
felt like the everyman's written response
to the Arcade Fire's "Wake Up" - huge and
personal without the drama.
But in the case of Roaring Night the Bes-
nards could benefit from a little drama.
Two-part opener "Like the Ocean, Like the
Innocent" spills out over a bed of crash-
ing cymbals and noise, dropping thick,
crunching lead guitar over a narcotized
call-and-response from Lasek and Goreas.
But the clutter amounts to little: Gone are
the powerful contrasts of Dark Horse as
quiet moments and peaks are glossed over,

obscuring the band's strengths. For the
most part, all the songs chug on a one- or
two-chord pattern, matched with lyrics
that could best be described as an emotion-
al grab bag - you'll consider the occasional
discernable phrase and enjoy it, or com-
pletely ignore it amid the racket.
Not as powerful as
its predecessor.
This is not to say Roaring Night is with-
out its great moments. Aside from the clear
highlight of the My Bloody Valentine-styled
"Albatross," "And This Is What We Call
Progress" provides an up-tempo stomp-
ing ground for Lasek's soaring vocals and
some virtuosic axe play. Closer "The Lonely
Moan" is an unsettlingly gauzy, creeping
dirge. The record is sequenced and well
performed with a great sense of pace, but it
remains curiously ineffectual throughout.
In "Like the Ocean, Like the Innocent
Pt. 2: The Innocent," Lasek and Goreas
harmonize pensively: "Ooh you're like the
ocean ... what's in your empty eyes?" The
Besnard Lakes Are th4 Roaring Night is just
that: a massive, occasionally beautiful piece
of work with a lot of dead space and sprawl.
Without a sense of their strengths, Roaring
Night is an enjoyable effort, but a sidestep for
the band.
But behind that wall of sound, one has to
wonder what The Besnard Lakes could be
capable of in the future. What lies beyond
those empty eyes?


a

8 - Friday, March 19, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily-com


Former walk-on
earns her stripes

Conference's top team
awaits 'M' in semifinals

By STEPHEN NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
From walk-on to starter, senior
Jaclyn Kramer has become a fixture
on the Michigan women's gymnas-
tics teamsince arriving on campus in
the fall of 2006.
Performing well in the clutch is
a valuable asset, yet those who do
don't always receive credit. Recog-
nized or not, Kramer has been there
when she was most needed in the
last four years.
During a pregame salute to the
team's graduating class on Senior
Night at Crisler Arena last Friday,
Michigan coach Bev Plocki praised
Kramer's attitude and performance.
"We talk a lot about our depth and
the importance of athletes who are
ready to go into the lineup whenever
calledupon,sometimesatamoment's
notice,"Plockisaid. "Jackiehasplayed
that role on many occasions."
As Kramer stood in front of a re-
cord crowd before taking on No. 5
Georgia in her final home meet, her
three coaches - the three people to
whom she had to prove her worth
- flanked her. She realized that her
biggest critics had become her big-
gest fans.
LANDING IN A2
While considering college routes
that had her going to Brown Uni-
versity and conference rival Penn
State prior to her senior year of high
school, Kramer admits that her visit
to Ann Arbor is what clinched things.
"Michigan had really great aca-
demics and gymnastics, which was
definitely what I was looking for,"
Kramer said. "The campus was
beautiful and all the girls on the team
were just tremendous. I came here
and loved it right away."
As her freshman year got un-
derway, the West Hills, N.Y. native
jumped right into the rotation. De-
spite her walk-on status, Kramer be-
gan competing on the balance beam
and the floor for the Wolverines, and
started strong.
When the team faced off against
even some of the best squads in the
nation, the young athlete answered
the call.
"It was a really exciting year
because I didn't really expect to
compete, coming in as a walk-on,"
Kramer said. "I just wanted to help
out the team. So it was really cool to
be able to contribute to the team in
that way."
In a late-season matchup against
No. 16 Missouri, Kramer put to-
gether the meet of a lifetime. She set
two career bests by winning her first
collegiate event title with a 9.900 on
the beam, followed by a 9.875 for her
floor routine.
The night ended in a close loss;

the outgoing senior is still nostalgic
for the event.
"I remember that we already had
a fall on the beam," Kramer said. "I
had to hit my beam routine in order
to not count the fall, and I did. The
feeling of nailing my routine and
having my team's back was amazing.
I had never even gotten a 9.9 in high
school, and it's one of those things
you see on TV and only dream of get-
ting:.'
For Kramer, dreams were becom-
ing a reality. At this point, she had
three years left and one goal remain-
ing.
FIGHTINGFORFUNDS
Kramer was unable to find a spot
in the lineup to perform during her
sophomore campaign, but she re-
mained undeterred in trying to earn
a scholarship and remain on the
squad.
After not competing during her
second year, Kramer came back with
a different mindset as a junior, and
set to work, training with double the
effort to find a way back into the ro-
tation.
And at the beginning of the sea-
son, she found a starting job.
"In 2009, as a team we were deci-
mated by injury," Plocki said. "Jackie
as a sophomore stepped into our
lineup in as many as three events.
She did a great job and the team did
not skip a beat, qualifying all the way
to the national championships:'
Within weeks, Kramer had ac-
complished her goal. Because of her
success during her junior year, Jack-
ie was offered a scholarship for the
remaining two years of her career at
Michigan.
WINDING DOWN RIGHT
For the senior, though gymnastics
has taken up a major portion of her
life, nothing has gotten in the way of
her academic ventures.
Kramer will leave Michigan with
hopes of attending law school in the
fall en route to eventually becoming
a lawyer.
"She has been accepted to several
schools"Plockisaid, nudgingKramer
who stoodbeside her. "But she is still
awaiting her letter to Michigan be-
fore she makes any final decisions:'
But before she looks to her not-so-
distant future, Kramer is focusing on
the remainder of the season.
With less than two weeks left
until the Big Ten Championships,
Kramer expects to make a few im-
provements.
"My personal performance hasn't
been as good as it should be this
year," Kramer said. "I'm trying to
work on that to finish up senior year
really strong. As a team we're doing
very, very well, and we have a lot of
potential ... but there is definitely
room for improvement:'

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Although the Michigan hockey
team played at Michigan State,
Munn Ice Arena was referred to
by many as "Yost West" last week-
end. Hoards of Wolverine fans
made the drive
up to East Lan-
sing to support Michigan
the team in the vs. Miami
CCHA tourna-
ment quarter- Matchup:
finals. For the Michigan 23-17-
Wolverines, it 1; Miami 26-6-7
was win or go When: Tonight
home. And the 8:05 p.m.
maize and blue Where: Joe
faithful could Louis Arena
be heard loud TV/Radio:
and clear over Big Ten Network
supporters for
the Spartans.
It did help that Michigan State
was on spring break, and that
Michigan jumped out to early
leads in both games.
"I know as a player it's impor-
tant" Michigan coach Red Beren-
son said of the fan support. "It
definitely is important. That's the
reason any team in sports has a
better home record than a road re-
cord. And the fans, and the support
they give at home it's huge. Could
that be a factor? It could be."
Tonight, when Michigan (14-
13-1 CCHA, 23-17-1 overall) takes
on No. 1 seed Miami (OH.) at Joe
Louis Arena, the fan support could
make a similar impact. The Wol-
verines are the closest remain-
ing team to Detroit and Friday's
semifinal matchup should be like a
home game for Michigan.
So far, the Wolverines are 2-1 at
the Joe this season, going 1-1 in the
Great Lakes Invitational and beat-
ing then-No. 13 Michigan State,
5-4, on Jan. 30. Tonight's game in
Detroit will be another win-or-go-
home scenario for Michigan.
When the Wolverines faced the
RedHawks (23-3-5 CCHA, 26-6-7
overall) back in early November,
Miami came into Yost and swept
Michigan 3-1 and 5-1. Entering that
series, the Wolverines knew they
were going to have their hands
full, facing a roster of skilled for-
wards, talented defenders and two
top goalies.
Since then, No. 2 Miami has
only gotten better, easily winning
the CCHA regular season title and
earning the first seed in the con-
ference tournament.
"Their top three lines are as
good as anyone" junior forward
Matt Rust said.
But Michigan is playing its best
hockey of the year during the
CCHA tournament. In sweeps over
Lake Superior State and Michigan
State, the Wolverines have scored
21 goals in four games and held op-
ponents to just 1.5 goals per game.
At the beginning of the season,
the Wolverines were relying on

Junior Matt Rust is third on the team in scoring this season with 35 points, behind only Carl Hagelin and Louie Caporusso.

their special teams to win games,
but now Michigan's five-on-five
play has picked up considerably
since November and is a big reason
for its improved results.
After the Wolverines fell behind
3-2 after the first period last Satur-
day against Michigan State, they
held the Spartans to just one shot
in the second period. But it wasn't
just by playing in their own zone
the whole period. Part of Michi-
gan's improved defense is its of-
fense's ability to maintain posses-
sion of the puck and keep it away
from the opponent.
That, combined with a team ef-
fort on the defensive end, will be
important if the Wolverines are
able to topple the conference's
top team. A win would send the
Wolverines into the CCHA Cham-
pionship game Saturday night
against either Northern Michigan
or Ferris State giving Michigan a
chance to make the NCAA tour-
nament - even after starting the
season 10-10.
"At the start of the year, I think
one thing they exploited of us was

our defensive zone," Rust said. "I
think that's one thing our teani re-
ally grown (in), worked better on.
We're more of a defensive team
now. So, I think if we take pride
in that, like we've been saying all
year long, I think we'll do a lot bet-
ter against them:'
But the offense has also im-
proved by leaps and bounds, espe-
cially from junior forward Louie.
Caporusso, who is now second on
the team with 35 points. Berenson
noted that, since starting off slow,
the team is getting balanced scor-
ing across several lines.

And with a hot offense, the one-
game series format this weekend
could benefit Michigan because
anything can happen in one game.
"It's just like the NCAA tour-
nament," Berenson said. "I mean
you're in, it's all or nothing. I like
our chances. It's what you want....
I think it's anybody's game. I know
they'll be really good. And we're
going to try and be as good as we
can be. The more I look at their
team, the moreI see us as a bigger
underdog. But I still like our team,
and we're definitely going to show
up, and we'll see what happens."


Try the fastest growing, hip & fun, Free clinics'
no-contact flat-ball game! pic-nme
Spring Bonanza
Saturday, March 20

FOLLOW DAILY
SPORTS ON
TWITTER.
@MICHDAILYSPORTS

The Tomcha & Vlasch Project
Unusual Music for
Unusual People
tomchavaschproject.com

0

Noon-5 PM
Fuller Park

Give it a Try! A2Ultimate.org

i

March 20, 2010 9:30am - 6:00pm
University of Michigan Law School, Hutchins Hall
On Saturday, March 20, The Asia Law Society at the
University of Michigan Law School will host a symposium
titled: "Doing Business in Asia Without Selling Your Soul:
Corporate Social Responsibility and Its Influence on
the Rule of Law."
The symposium will contemplate the influence of CSR
practices in Asia through three different panels:
(1) Resource Exploitation, Environmental Degradation,
and Green Energy
(2) Access to Information and Freedom of Expression
(3) Labor and Trafficking.
Our keynote speaker is Chip Pitts (Lecturer at Stanford Law
School and Oxford University; former Chair of Amnesty
International USA; former Chief Legal Officer of Nokia, Inc.;
former partner at Baker & MacKenzie). Distinguished
panelists includes Kenneth Lieberthal (Senior Fellow and
Director of the John L. Thornton China Center at the
Brookings Institution), Wang Lin (Social and Environment
Manager Asia at IKEA Trading Ltd.), and others.

"PROMINENCE TO PRISON:
WHY SMART PEOPLE Do
DUMB THINGS"
Guest Speaker: Patrick Kuhse
Patrick will share his journey from prominence as
a successful stock broker to his involvement in a
financial fraud scheme, life as an international
fugitive, and his subsequent incarcerations.
Tuesday, March 23, 2010
4:30 p.m.
Blau Auditorium
Ross School of Business
FREE
Sponsored by the Ross Community Values Committee,
Ross BBA Council and The Office of Student Life
MICHIGANC
ROSS SCHOOL OF BUSINESS

I'.

ATTENTION WOLVERINE FANS
STUIDENT TlIKETS ONLY $10 WITH STUDENT ID
AVAIIlilLE AT JOE LOu 31E A SNI CAS PUS 501 FILE ONM
41E1E HG Y 7to E 1FE ttlJR E 

6
6



