Backup goalie Shawn
SHunwick stepped in/
J Move to a hip urban environrment with for an injured Bryan
vague aspirations, go to exclusive after- Hogan and earned a
shutout win over Not
Sparties and do nothing, says HBO. Dame on Senior Nigh
 PAGE 5 PAGE 8
(14e1* Iidciigan0 aIlj

Ann Arbor, Michigan
STEM CELL RESEARCH
Battle brews
over possible
tightening of
stem cell laws

Friday, February 26,2010

michigandaily.com

PAINFUL RELIEF

'U' researchers,
students concerned
over bills in state
Senate committee
By VALIANT LOWITZ
Daily StaffReporter
A package of bills moving
through the Michigan Senate
could add additional restrictions
to embryonic stem cell research
in the state, much to the dismay
of University researchers and stu-
dent groups alike.
State legislators are currently
seeking to amend requirements
outlined in a 2008 statewide ballot
initiative that loosened restrictions
on using embryonic stem cell lines
for research, known as Proposal
2. The legislators are also looking
to establish stricter penalties for
those who violate the new rules.
One component of the proposed
legislation is to change the defini-
tion of the phrase "not suitable for
implantation," which is the classi-
fication for the embryos scientists
use for research under the 2008
ballot initiative.
Currently embryos are clas-
sified as not suitable for imple-
mentation if they have diseases or

other defects, but if the bill passes
the classification would include
embryos that lack the potential for
successful implantation, gestation
or healthy development.
In effect, critics of the bill say
that the new laws would force
patients to discard embryos with
diseases, which could otherwise
be used for research to cure those
diseases.
According to Sean Morrison,
director of the University's Center
for Stem Cell Biology Research,
this definition would greatly
inhibit researchers' abilities to find
potential cures to serious diseases.
"The vast majority of embryos
that are discarded as being unsuit-
able for clinical use are not known
to have defects in implantation
or fetal development," Morri-
son wrote in an e-mail interview.
"They are discarded because they
are known to have diseases that
will lead to death sometime after
birth."
Morrison wrote that if the bills
are passed, the pool of usable
embryos for research would
decrease.
"These bills will force patients
to throw away embryos affected
by serious diseases rather than
donating them for stem cell
research," Morrison wrote.
See STEM CELLS, Page 7

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
Acupuncturist Li Coger demonstrates how to use acupuncture to alleviate back pain on her son Aaron, during a talk she gave in an honors seminar yesterday.
UNIVERSrITY RESE A RuCH

$14.8M from NIH
to renovate, expand
renowned institute
By LILLIAN XIAO
Daily StaffReporter
The University's Institute of
Social Research received a $14.8
million grant yesterday for reno-
vating and constructing new
additions to its Thompson Street
location.
The National Institutes of
Health awarded the funds to the

ISR through the American Recov-
ery and Reinvestment Act. The
ARRA recently allotted the NIH
$8.2 billion in funding to help the
economy through the advance-
ment of scientific research,
according to recovery.nih.gov.
The grant for the ISR will raise
the total ARRA stimulus funding
for the institute to $48.3 million,
according to a press release dis-
tributed yesterday by the office of
United States Rep. John Dingell
(D-Mich.).
"ISR is internationally
renowned and respected around
the nation for the work they

accomplish," Dingell wrote in
the press release. "This grant will
allow ISR to continue and expand
upon its distinguished research."
The institute engages in an
array of research areas in the
social and behavioral sciences,
ranging from economics and psy-
chology to political science.
ISR Director James Jackson
said the ISR was selected for the
endowment after an NIH scien-
tific panel reviewed applications
from various scientific research
institutes.
Jackson said the review pro-
cess focused on both the quality of

research tobe funded and the fea-
sibility of the funding proposals.
"Those were the two big ele-
ments in the grant," Jackson said,
"How would this improve the sci-
ence we do at ISR? And how the
building would facilitate this."
Jackson said the money will
be used solely for constructing
and renovating the ISR Thomp-
son Street site, which will include
building three main areas - data
storage, gathering facilities and
research space. The renova-
tion will include the addition of
50,000 square feet to the building,
See ISR, Page 7


HOW MANY DUM DUMS DOES IT TAKE...
B i

CAMPUS CRIME
'U' students charged in fed.
court for fake ID shipment

Federal agents
intercepted package
with 48 fake IDs
Staff and Wire Reports
Two University students and
one Michigan State University stu-
dent have been charged in federal
court after authorities intercepted
a FedEx package from Toronto
with 48 fakeID cards, according to
The Associated Press.
The package was being shipped
to an apartment in Ann Arbor,
according to the AP. LSA sopho-

mores Barak Leibovitz and Samuel
Hamburger were confronted by
immigration agentsyesterday.
Michigan State University
freshman Zachary Firestone was
arrested when he drove from East
Lansing to pick up 21 of the 48 ID
cards, federal agents told the AP.
Hamburger said in an interview
that he is not involved in the inci-
dent outside of the fact that he lives
with Leibovitz.
"I have nothing to do with this,"
Hamburger told The Michigan
Daily. "I justsigned my name when
a package came to the house. I had
nothing to do with this whole ID
operation."

Agents say Michigan State Uni-
versity student Zachary Firestone
was arrested when he drove from
East Lansing to pick up 21 of the 48
cards, according to the AP.
In the interview, Hamburger
said the incident is being blown
out of proportion and that right
now he's only concerned about the
negative media attention.
"Everything is being blown out
of proportion," Hamburger said.
"We are all doing fine. Everything
is fine."
- The Associated Press and
Daily Staff Reporter Devon Thorsby
contributed to this report.

Engineering senior Edward Wagner uses deductive reasoning to try to guess the number of dum dum suckers in the jar at the
FUNgineering festival yesterday. The festival was part of Engineers Week.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
City Council to vote on texting ban

UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION
'U' official Hage to take helm of
general counsel's office at EMU

Law would prohibit
using GPS and other
devices in car, on bike
By A. BRAD SCHWARTZ
Daily StaffReporter
Using electronic devices like
cell phones, computers or GPS
units while driving may soon be
illegal in Ann Arbor.

The Ann Arbor City Council
will vote on a resolution on Mon-
day banning the use of handheld
electronic devices while operat-
ing a car or bicycle on Ann Arbor's
streets. City Council voted to con-
sider the ban at their meeting last
week.
Councilmember Stephen
Rapundalo (D-Ward 2), who pro-
posed the ordinance, told coun-
cilmembers at the meeting that
driving while using an. electronic

device is "a major public safety
concern."
"I think we've all experienced at
one time or another, while driving,
seeing somebody else who wasn't
paying attention because of their
distraction with cell phone use
and caused either near accidents
or accidents," he said.
The ordinance specifically bans
the use of a handheld electronic
device to "talk or listen to another
See CITY COUNCIL, Page 7

Hage starts new job
on Monday after 18
years at the 'U'
By DARRYN FITZGERALD
Daily StaffReporter
Officials at Eastern Michigan
University announced last week
that a top attorney for the Uni-

versity of Michigan will be head-
ing to EMU to take over as the
school's general counsel.
Gloria Hage, who will begin
her appointment on Monday, will
join the EMU executive team
after an 18-year run at the Uni-
versity of Michigan. She is leaving
her current position as associate
vice president and deputy general
counsel in the Office of the Vice
President and General Counsel, a

position she has held since 2003.
"I have learned a lot during my
time here and I feel very fortu-
nate to have been able to serve the
University for the 18 years that I
have," Hage said of her time at the
University.
Suellyn Scarnecchia, vice pres-
ident and general counsel at the
University and Hage's boss, said
the University was supportive of
See HAGE, Page 7


WEATHER HI:35 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO: 29 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Daily Arts's weekend concert guide.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX
Vol. CXX, No. 103
©201 The Michigan Daily
michigandoilv.cow

NEWS ...............................2 ARTS..................... 5
SUDOKU.............................. 3 CLASSIFIEDS....................6
O PINIO N................. ...........4 ARTS... ............................ 8

'


e

2 - Friday, February 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs



NEED MORE PHOTOS? L
See more PhotosoftheWeeo
our website, michigandaily.com. lm,
LEFT Art and Design senior Nan Morris shows off her tattoos on Wednesday. (SAM WOLSON/Daily) TOP RIGHT Curtis Sullivan, co-owner of Vault of Midnieht on Wednesday. (MAX
COLLINS/Daily) BOTTOM MIDDLE LSA sophomore thong Zhong has a torm ot Chinese acupuncture demonstrated on him yesterday at an honors seminar class about alternation medi-
cine taught by honors senior Emily Wang. (SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily) BOTTOM RIGHT Incoming Athletic Director Could Brandon's ring at a press conference ahout the findings ot
the IICAA's investigation ot the Michigan football program on Tuesday. (JAKE FROMM/Daily)

420 Maynard Sc.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.micbigandaily.com
JACOB SMBLOVITZ DAN NEMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilovitz@michsigandailycom emdbuaineas@annail.eem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehrbs:Sun.-Thors. 11a.mn. -aeo.
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections correctionsrgmictdgandaity.com
Letters to tbe tditor tothedaiy@michigandaily.com
Photograpby Departnent photo@michigandaily.com
Ats Section artspag@nbchigandaily.com
Editnrial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sporta@michigandaily.com
Display Sales diplay@michigandailyom
Classified Sales clasiid@ichigandaily.com
Online Sales onineads@nbchigandaily.con
Finance finance@mihigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattiAanononManging Editor aaronsn@michigandaily.can
lillian Berman ManaginesEdinor berman@michigandaily.com
SErNORNsEWSEDIOSNole brs~,, Mallor onesOStephanie Seinberg, Kyle
Swansoun, EOhars, irunaukaras
uSSnISTuNT NEWDT RS:DolsnySCinti, Darryn Fterald,Josaeh Lihermn,
VeronicaMenali,nnie oma,Doan ThuorsbyElynaTwiggs
Rachel VanilderEdinoriatPage Edinor vangilder@michigandaily.cam
SNIsRoEDIORIAL PGEEDInTORS:BianeFahse,EikaMearEilyOlm,Laura
Ryan Karte Managing SportsEditor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIORSOTS00EDIlTORS:NicoleA uerbach, sark Burns,Gina Janca, Chris
Msra, Jone nnapleton
uSSISTAuSORoTS EDITORSMhelF lrk,Aeuranns,RasnPodges, Oak
Pyzik,nTimvRohanunAmyvSaran
lamieBlncksManagig tsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIORARS EDIOR:Caolyn Kaecki,nreapin,JefSnanfor
AnSSTNTS E0DIoTORS enLah Burgin, SharonnJacobs rgid Kilcoi, Mike Kunz,
Kavi SuseanoPae
MantCollins and phota@michigandaily.coam
Sam Wnlsnn Managing PhtnoEditors
Sarab Squireand dain@mibbboodaily.coan
Anna Lein-Zielinski Managingesignoditors
SENIOR DESGN 0010Ongela Chih
TrevortCalern Magazine Editoa calero@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandail.com
Ratbel Phillips Copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katielowiak Sales Managen
Ryan Busieski ClassifiedMaoeger
CLASSIFIEDuASuSS NusuANAGER: aaLaOa
lasn Mabakian Pnoductionoanager
AllisonoSantacreU LayoutManager
Vivian Lee Fnansce anager
Brittany Morales CirculatioenManagr
Brad Wiley ProeteCOordinanon
TheMihn Da lyl(ISSN on4s-967) is published Moniay troughr Frdaydinegthetfall and
wintrermrs by sudents attheUnverseeityonihigan.Oeneyis available freenofcaretoall
readers. Addiinal soyies maybe picked up atthe Daily'stffie fIn$2nbC scriptiosfotrfall tern,
starringineptnembeaia U.S.mailareyr110.Winter ternltJanuarytrnughspilitls 1yearlng
(Seprember throughoAprilis$195. Univnrsityaffiliates aresubect tna reducedsubscription ate.
On-campus subiptnionsfortfall termearett5.tSbscriptsmst be prepaid.Te ihigan aily
in a member oflTheAssciatnd Prnsand TheA ssociaed Collegiate Press

CRIME NOTES.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Contractor Mad kid punches CAPS to host Museumi
breaks sprinkler mom in the face a relaxation info session

WHERE: Thomas Francis Jr..
Building
WHEN: Wednesday ag about
1:45 p.m.
WHAT: A contractor was
moving a tooler ag the load-
ing dock and accidentally hit
o sprinkler, causing the water
pump to turn on, University
Polite reported. The damage is
estimated at $50.
Food stolen twice
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Thursday at about
t2:30 am.
WHAT: A 21-year-old female
took food from the hospital
cafeteria two times, University
polite reported. The food was
valued at a total of $5.

WHERE: University Hospital
Emergency Room
WHEN: Wednesday at about
8:45 p.m.
WHAT: AntS1 year-old boy
punched his mother in the
face, University Police report-
ed. No serious injuries were
incurred.
Two grams of pot
found in dorm
WHERE: Couzens Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at about
9:30 p.m.
WHAT: Two male students
were found with 2 grams
marijuana in their residential
hail room, University Polite
reported. They were both
arrested and released at the

workshop
WHAT: A workshop that
will work to reduce stress
through various relaxation
techniques. The event will
explore techniques like
deep muscle relaxation
and deep breathing.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today from 12:15
P.M. to 1 p.m.
WHERE: CAPS
Library, room 3100
Benefit concert
for local church
WHAT: A concert to raise
money for St. Andrew's
Episcopal Church's
breakfasts for those in
need. Tickets are $30.
WHO: The Ark
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark

WHAT: A behind-the-scene
tour of UMMA's instruc-
tional areas and a talk about
the museum's curatorial
research services. To attend,
contact Renee Jinn, assistant
to the director of UMMA, at
reneejin@umma.umich.edu.
WHO: Museums
Theme Semester
WHEN: Today from
1 p.m. to 3 p.m.
WHERE: University of
Michigan Museum of Art
CORRECTIONS
" A Jan. 21, 2010 article
incorrectly identified
the dean of the School
of Music, Theatre &
Dance. His name is
Christopher Kendall.
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

1Hot dogs are the number
one most dangerous food,
according to Timecom.
The American Academy of
Pediatrics recently released a
statement that said hot dogs
are a choking hazard, espe-
cially among children, and
suggested that the shape of the
food be redesigned.
2Reducing your daily calor-
ic intake could increase
the length of your life,
according to an article in
Time magazine.
0FOR MORE,.SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3Traces of cold medicines
were found in the blood
3of late actress Brittany
Murphy, cnn.coin reported.
The drugs are said to have con-
tributed to Murphy's death in
December of last year.


MORE ONLINEL
Lout Crime Nofes? Get more online at michigndiy~com/blsg/the wine



take
Northwestern University Summer Session offers
hundreds of opportunities to get ahead, catch up
or try something new. Classes are convenient and
accessible, with day and evening offerings in both
Evanston and Chicago. Whatever your interest
might be, we invite you to study at Northwestern
this summer.
" Choose from more than 300 classes
" Earn transfer credit
" Prepare for graduate study
" Explore a new interest
" Immerse yourself in an intensive science or
language sequence
o. View 2010 summer courses at
www. northwestern.edu/summer

WANT TO FIND A WAY TO MAKE SPENDING HOURS
STARING AT A COMPUTER WORTHWHILE?
JOIN THE DAILY'S DESIGN STAFF.
E-mail design@michigandaily.com to get started.
N (* <N ._ EEI. El& SO-N...i OMOENI
ARE YOU AMBITIOUS, ASSERTIVE AND SOCIABLE?

__

0r

0

We need new account executives
for the Spring/Summer period.
Are you up to the challenge?
It's not just a job. It's the training you
need to succeed!
WVhere else can you learn to:
Build customer relationships
CloseS deals
Cornvice skeptics

please pick up an application at
The Michigan Daily
Student Publications Building
420 Maynard Street, first floor
or call
(/34) /64-0554
or e-mail, attn: Julianna Crim
doilydisplay@gmail Corn
Application deadline
for Summer zoio positions:
March 19, 2010

nir build a Killer Pr6

.jme

NORTH WESTERN
UNIVERSITY
summer session

4

c;t e ict i t n ilu


i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, February 26, 2010 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, February 26, 2010 3


NEWS BRIEFS
* LANSING, Michigan
Food summit
meant to boost
agriculture in Mich.
Finding ways to increase the
availability of fresh, healthy food
across Michigan and spur econom-
ic growth in the state are some of
the topics on the agenda during a
meetingin Lansing.
The first Michigan Good Food
Summit takes place yesterday at
the Lansing Center. Since Septem-
ber, summit work groups have been
examining those topics and oth-
ers such as how to make Michigan
farms more viable.
The summit is backed by the
W.K. Kellogg Foundation. It's
hosted by the C.S. Mott Group for
Sustainable Food Systems at Michi-
gan State University, the Food Bank
Council of Michigan and the Mich-
igan Food Policy Council.
The state says higher demand
for locally grown food has created
opportunities to boost Michigan's
agriculture industry.
Registration is $30 at the door.
WASHINGTON
Ethics panel finds
Rangel broke rules
Rep. Charles Rangel, the most
powerful tax-writing lawmaker in
Congress and a 34-year veteran of
Capitol Hill, knowingly accepted
Caribbean trips from a corpora-
tion in violation of House rules,
the House Ethics Committee ruled
Thursday, The Associated Press has
learned.
At least four other members of
the Congressional Black Caucus
who were also on the 2007 and
2008 trips were exonerated by
the panel, according to a congres-
sional source familiar with the
findings.
The finding is certain to jeopar-
dize Rangel's chairmanship of the
House Ways and Means Commit-
tee. The tax-writingcommitteewill
take a lead as Congress determines
the fate of former President George
W. Bush's expiring tax cuts.
Rengel's ethics troubles also
present an election-year dilemma
for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi,
who led a Democratic takeover of
the House in 2006 on a campaign
promise to end a "culture of corrup-
tion" in the GOP-led Congress.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico
Clean-up crews
ordered back to
work despite no pay
The owners of a Puerto Rican
fuel depot that exploded in Octo-
ber have been ordered to resume
cleanup after contractors walked
off the job last week, the U.S. Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency said
yesterday.
It is the second time cleanup
crews quit working at the Carib-
bean Petroleum Refinery site, or
CAPECO, since the explosion that
forced the evacuation of more than
1,500 people, the agency said.
The company apparently has not

paid workers, said an EPA official
who spoke on condition of ano-
nymity because the person was not
authorized to release the informa-
tion.
An attorney for CAPECO, Nere-
ida Melendez, did not respond to an
e-mail seekingcomment.
The explosion caused a fire that
burned for two days and led to
an oil spill that is still a threat to
humans and nearby wetlands and
bodies of water, the EPA said.
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico
Police chief gunned
down at son's school
Mexican authorities say gunmen
killed a deputy police chief outside
an elementary school as his wife,
son and other students and parents
looked on.
A state prosecutors' spokesman
says Chihuahua City police coordi-
nator Antonio Olague was dropping
the boy off at school when assail-
ants in a car attacked.
Police had no suspects in
Wednesday's shooting. Prosecu-
tors' spokesman Eduardo Ezparza
confirmed the attack Thursday.
Chihuahua City is the capital
of Chihuahua state, the worst-hit
region in Mexico's brutal druggang
violence.
Cartels have killed scores of
police and government officials
in reaction to a frontal assault by
thousands of troops and federal
police deployed across Mexico.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

N.Y. Governor Paterson says he's not
dropping out of race, despite scandal

Leading Democrats
have been asking
Paterson to bow out
NEW YORK (AP) - Despite
calls from leading Democrats to
step aside, Gov. David Paterson
said yesterday he won't drop his
election bid amid a growing scan-
dal surrounding accusations of
domestic violence against a key
aide.
The embattled governor said he
will speak to key NewYork Demo-
crats about his political future
but for now he's continuing his
campaign to be elected governor.
Paterson rose to governor in 2008,
when former Gov. Eliot Spitzer
resigned in a prostitution scandal.
Paterson also said he will coop-
erate fully with a state attorney
general's investigation into con-
tact his administration had with
a woman who accused aide David
Johnson of domestic violence. No
criminal charges were brought
after the Halloween 2009 con-
frontation.
"I'm not suspending my cam-
paign, but I am talking to a num-
ber of elected officials around the
state as I would fellow Democrats
to hear their opinions," Paterson
said before a gala of the group 100
Black Men at a Manhattan hotel.
Asked if he would withdraw if
fellow Democrats asked him to,
Paterson responded: "I am obvi-
ously listening to them. I've got
an open mind about this thing.
I want the Democrats to win in

November."
Paterson's comments came
after a day of developments sur-
rounding Johnson and any role
the administration and state
police played after the Halloween
confrontation.
Paterson's top criminal justice
Cabinet member resigned over the
burgeoning scandal, saying con-
duct by the state police was "dis-
tressing" for an administration
that has devoted itself to reducing
domestic violence.
Elected officials and other
candidates for office clamored
for .Paterson to end his cam-
paign - formally launched
just days ago - as the turmoil
mushroomed around Johnson.
A police report detailed in The
New York Times discusses a con-
frontation between Johnson and
the woman over her Halloween
costume.
The Times reported Wednes-
day on court papers showing a
phone call between state police
and the woman. Paterson's office
acknowledges he talked to the
woman but says she placed the
call, and a spokesman for the
governor denied anyone tried to
keep the woman from pursuing a
domestic-violence case.
Paterson's office has not made
Johnson available for comment.
The state police said in a news
release that they won't comment
on any aspect of the case during
the investigation by the office
of Andrew Cuomo, the popular
attorney general whom many
would like to see run as the Dem-

New York Gov. David Paterson, center, speaks to media outside West Wing of the White House in Washngnton, Moday

ocratic candidate for governor
instead of Paterson.
The Paterson administration
asked Cuomo's office to investi-
gate the matter, and the attorney
general's office said it would look
into whether crimes or other
wrongdoing were committed. The
state police said Cuomo asked the
agency not to open its own inter-
nal probe.
Rick Lazio, a Republican can-
didate for governor, said Cuomo
should tell New Yorkers if any of
his staff gave the Times informa-
tion for the Johnson story.
"If you do not disavow any con-
nection to this story the same
conflict of interest would be pres-

ent and anyfindings of your inves-
tigation would be immediately
called into question," Lazio said
in a written statement.
Criminal Justice Services
Commissioner Denise O'Donnell
abruptly quit Thursday after-
noon, saying state police Super-
intendent Harry Corbitt had
assured her his agency was not
involved in the confrontation
involving Johnson.
Corbitt denies misleading
O'Donnell. He said that he told
her state police weren't involved
in the investigation, not that they
hadn't contacted the woman.
Paterson's office had no imme-
diate comment about O'Donnell's

resignation. Paterson has been
resisting calls from fellow Demo-
crats not to seek a full term, and
some saw O'Donnell's departure
as a sign the administration was
tottering.
"That's a very serious blow,"
state Sen. Bill Perkins, a Demo-
crat who represents Paterson's old
state Senate district in Manhat-
tan's Harlem neighborhood, said
of O'Donnell's departure. "She
has been loyal, so the Cabinet, so
to so speak, is falling apart."
Paterson, the state's first black
governor, faces a big test before his
scheduled campaign announce-
ment in Harlem, his home district,
on Sunday.

Afghanistan officials establish
control in Taliban stronghold

Chavez denies breach
of human rights laws

Marines still
searching Marjah
for Taliban holdouts
MARJAH, Afghanistan (AP)
- Afghan officials raised the
national flag over Marjah yester-
day, asserting government con-
trol even as Marines searched for
militant holdouts. Kabul also con-
firmed the arrest of another top
Taliban leader - part of a round-
up that could further strain the
insurgent movement.
About 700 men in turbans
and traditional caps gathered
in a central market for the flag-
raising ceremony, during which
Abdul Zahir Aryan was installed
as the top Afghan official in this
town of 80,000 in Helmand prov-
ince. The provincial governor
told the crowd that authorities
were eager to listen to requests
from the townspeople and pro-
vide them with basic services
that they didn't have under the
Taliban.
Taliban fighters still con-
trol about 25 percent of the
80-square-mile (200-square-
kilometer) area in and around the
town nearly two weeks after U.S.
and Afghan forces launched their
attack to seize Marjah, a major
Taliban logistics and supply cen-
ter and the largest community in
the south under insurgent con-
trol.
Marines and Afghan soldiers
slogged through bomb-laden
fields of northern Marjah on
Thursday in search of an esti-
mated 100 Taliban and foreign
Serving
Ann Arbor
since 1980

fighter holdouts - the last signifi-
cant pocket of insurgents left in
the town. Progress was slowed by
difficult terrain with no roads, few
tracks and many hidden mines.
Several residents told Marines
that the Taliban were falling
back and trying to delay the
allied advance with hidden
bombs.
"I'd expect they can't keep this
up for long," said Capt. Joshua
Winfrey, a company commander
in the 3rd Battalion, 6th Marine
Regiment. He predicted the
insurgents will soon hold their
ground and fight.
Despite the insurgent hold-
outs, enough of the town has
been secured for NATO and
Afghan authorities to begin the
most difficult part of the mission
- restoring local government and
rushing in public services to win,
the confidence of the population
to dry up support for a Taliban
return.
Aryan, the chief administra-
tor, cannot work out of the main
government building because the
Taliban rigged it with bombs and
booby traps.
"When an area has been liber-
ated and cleared, then we pro-
vide governance immediately, we
provide development assistance,
we provide the local community
with a better livelihood," NATO
Sc-rer--navl A nde r Foa

Rasmussen said at an alliance
meeting in Spain. "The current
operation in Helmand province
will serve as a role model for fur-
ther operations."
The loss of Marjah comes as the
Taliban is reeling from the arrests
of key figures, including their No.
2, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar,
who was picked up this month in
Pakistan.
Two Pakistani intelligence offi-
cers told The Associated Press
that nearly 15 senior and mid-
level Taliban figures have been
detained in Pakistan in recent
weeks. They spoke on condition of
anonymity because they weren't
supposed to release the informa-
tion.
An Afghan government
spokesman, Siamak Herawi, said
Thursday that Pakistani officials
had told Afghan authorities that
the top Taliban commander for
eastern Afghanistan, 'Mullah
Abdul Kabir, was among those
taken into custody. Kabir's arrest
last week had been rumored for
days, but Herawi's comment was
the first on the record by an offi-
cial of either country.
NATO troops have taken over
Marjahi before, only to withdraw
and leave the town under the
control of corrupt and ineffectual
administrators who alienated the
townspeople and enabled the Tal-
ihn t nmPn k

Local rights activists
applaud report
citing violations
CARACAS, Venezuela (AP)
- President Hugo Chavez said
yesterday that Venezuela should
boycott the Organization of Amer-
ican States' human rights body,
saying the panel wrongly accused
his government of political repres-
sion.
Chavez took issue with a report
issued this week by the Inter-
American Commission on Human
Rights, which cited widespread
human rights violations in Ven-
ezuela. The socialist leader called
the 300-page report "pure gar-
bage" and described the commis-
sion's president, Santiago Canton,
as "excrement."
"Weshouldpreparetodenounce
the agreement in which Venezuela
joined ... this terrible Inter-Ameri-
can Commission on Human Rights
and leave it," Chavez said during a
televised address.
Local rights activists applauded
the account issued by the rights
committee, saying it sheds light on
widespread rights abuses.
The report released Wednesday
at OAS headquarters in Washing-

ton complains of a lack of indepen-
dence for Venezuela's judiciary,
the closing of news media outlets
that are critical of the govern-
ment, and political discrimination
and repression under Chavez.
"We don't recognize the com-
mission as an impartial institu-
tion," said Gabriela Ramirez, the
Venezuelan government's top
rights guarantor. Ramirez said the
report incorrectly concludes that
"the Venezuelan state threatens
democracy and human rights."
- The report condemned the pro-
cedures for appointing and remov-
ing judges, saying the regulations
"lack the safeguards necessary
to prevent other branches of gov-
ernment from undermining the
Supreme Court's independence."
Government opponents have
long complained that the Supreme
Court - whose members are
appointed by the predominantly
pro-Chavez National Assembly -
has been packed with the presi-
dent's allies, giving him nearly
unlimited power. Chavez denies
holding sway over justices.
The OAS commission also
called attention to an increase in
sanctions against news media, sin-
gling out the case of Globovision,
a television news network that is
fiercely critical-pf Chavez.

All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
- & t 73r(C j 10-CL
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
310 Maynard St.-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Maynard Parkin Structure
--U, O

RECORDS &
USED CDS
617 Packard
Upstairs from
Subway
Paying $4 to $6
for top CD's in
top condition.
Also buying
premium LP's
and cassettes.
Open 7 days
663-3441
The selection is
ENDLESS

If you're a high performing undergraduate with a
passion for sustainability, then check out the Graham
Institute's new Sustainability Scholars Program.
Each year, this competitive program will accept only
25 students, who will then pursue a 10-credit series of
interdisciplinary courses focused on sustainability
(including a place-based course).
After successful completion of the program, you'll
receive an exclusive Sustainability Scholars Certificate
from the Graham Institute. Upon graduation, you'll
also receive a special notation on your transcript
acknowledging this scholastic accomplishment.
So, go ahead. Start making your mark for a better
world. Check out the details and online application at
www.graham.umich, and apply by Marh 25, 2010!
GRAHAM .INSTITUTE

4


4 - Friday, February 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL DANIELAT DWG{)LD UMICH.EDU

C MICt ian 4 3atlm
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
h. tothedaily@umich.edu

DANIEL GOLD

T

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Part of me can't help
feeling like I'm
already on break.
wi

' .1.'
/ \

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solelythe views of their authors.
Sustainable knowledge
'U' needs more eco-friendly education programs
T hough University students have a reputation for being
green, they have had limited academic opportunities to
learn about environmental practices. But a new University
program aims to provide students with a chance to study sustain-
ability. The creation of the new Sustainability Scholar certification
program in partnership with the Graham Environmental Sustain-
ability Institute will provide a series of courses to educate students
in sustainability. The program shows encouraging progress in the
University's commitment to environmentalism. Students should
take advantage of this opportunity to learn about sustainable
practices, and the University should expand its efforts to promote
sustainability among the student body and its graduates.


Less food, more thought

As reported by the Daily on Wednes-
day, the University recently launched the
Undergraduate Sustainability Scholars
Program with the help of the Graham
Institute, which is focused on a sustain-
able campus. Students will be educated
about the nuances of a sustainable world
over the course of a ten-credit program.
Seven colleges at the University are con-
tributing to the project's curriculum, giv-
ing this initiative a truly holistic approach
to sustainability. Students who complete
the program will receive a certificate of
completion as well as a notation on their
transcript as a Sustainability Scholar. The
capstone course of the program is a "place-
based course" at Camp Davis in Jackson
Hole, Wyo., in South America or in East
Africa.
Sustainable technology contributes
to slowing the destructive progress of
climate change and saves energy and
resources. Sustainability reduces waste,
which ultimately reduces the amount of
harmful greenhouse gases released into
the atmosphere. It conserves limited natu-
ral resources. Here at the University, using
sustainable resources could save money
and reduce costs.
The University's new program encour-
ages environmentally-friendly action by
educating students in the value of sustain-
ability. Giving students the knowledge
to encourage sustainability will lead to
increased implementation over time. And
including students from across disciplines
in the program ensures that its effects will

be widespread.
And the program is a valuable opportu-
nity for students. The Graham Institute
partnership will produce graduates who
are knowledgeable about sustainability
and environmentally-friendly practices -
knowledge they can apply in everyday life
and in their careers. And the sustainability
scholars will graduate not only with class-
room sustainability under their belts, but
also with hands-on experience.
The Sustainability Scholar program
demonstrates an important development
in environmentalism at the University, but
more can be done. Though the University
has said that it is committed to environ-
mental efforts on campus, it hasn't always
backed up its words with action. It has
been surprisingly reluctant to make new
buildings, like North Quad, Leadership
in Energy and Environmental Design-
certified. Only two University buildings
have LEED certification. And the Univer-
sity's Planet Blue program, which seeks to
increase recycling and save energy, hasn't
been implemented in all campus buildings.
The University must take more action to
create a greener, more sustainable campus.
Initiatives like the new sustainability
program sponsored by the Graham Insti-
tute give students the knowledge they need
to adopt environmentally-friendly prac-
tices and help to preserve the planet. The
University should start more initiatives
like this and commit itself to implement-
ing environmentally friendly measures on
campus wherever possible.

Atypicalbreakfast at the Univer-
sity might include a latte and
pastry from Espresso Royale -
perhaps half your
optimal daily calo-
rie intake before
you even make it
to your first class.
With no real time
for lunch, you grab
a bagel from Bert's
on your way to dis-
cussion. When you
finally make it back LEAH
to your room, you POTKIN
pop open a bag of
chips and a soda
and prepare for
your daily nap. Waking up two hours
later, you finish off the opened bag
of chips. Ten minutes later, you walk
into the dining hall with a friend and
make a beeline for the pizza station.
Before you have time to catch your
breath, your tray is overflowing with
a mix of every food group imagin-
able. You're finally full but the smell
of chocolate-chip cookies coming out
of the oven lures you to the extensive
dessert station, so you take a handful
of treats and head back to your room
to shower before a night out. Five
shots, two beers, a box of cheesy bread
and a few Insomnia cookies later, you
finally pass out in bed. College eating
at its finest.
Wolverines, like most college stu-
dents, can't escape the plethora of
junk food readily available on cam-
pus. But that gooey Insomnia cookie
or savory box of cheesy bread might
not only add inches to students'
waistlines, but may also shorten their
life expectancies as well - sink your
teeth into that.
A recent article in Time magazine
suggests .that cutting back on calo-
ries could slow the aging process and
extend the human life span, a not so

desirable finding for food-crazed col-
lege students (Eat Less, Live Longer?,
02/11/2010). I know many college-
aged students are blessed with metab-
olisms that can handle calorie-packed
foods, but they should still be aware
of the risks associated with high-cal-
orie diets, and maybe reconsider their
next late-night trip to NYPD or call to
Pizza House.
Though the Comprehensive Assess-
ment ofLong-TermEffectsofreducing
Intake of Energy (CALERIE) study
(on which the Time article is based)
at Tufts University is still ongoing,
results are likely to find that calorie
restriction will indeed add years to
people's lives. But unfortunately, as
college students, we're almost expect-
ed to eat poorly - we're on tight bud-
gets, are inclined to drink and pizza
is supposedly our favorite food. True,
true and true. Not to mention that eat-
ing is a prime form of socializing, and
study snacks are a near necessity for
academic achievement.
But it's never too soon to start eat-
ing right, and the emerging evidence
about longevity associated with
reduced calorie intake, combined with
the many already proven health bene-
fits that go hand-in-hand with healthy
eating, cannot be ignored. So what's a
Wolverine to do?
Think. We've got some smart cook-
ies (no pun intended) here at the Uni-
versity, so we might as well use our
smarts to know when to avoid high
calorie snacks. I do realize that it may
be impossible for college students to
restrict our calorie intake to the extent
the study suggests (by approximately
25 percent), but we can begin to think
more about our food choices, as they
will inevitably affect our futures. Stu-
dents should begin by paying atten-
tion to the pieces of paper indicating
the calorie content of food in the din-
ing halls (yes, they say more than the

name of the food), avoiding ordering
late-night and opting for healthier
choices at least <em>some</em> of
the time. Keeping granola bars, fresh
fruit and other healthier snacks in the
room certainly wouldn't hurt either.
And cutting back will not only save
calories, but it will help save cash, too.
Cutting calories
could extend your
life expectancy.
I'll admit, when I first read the
Time article, I thought it was a bit
out there. We've all been warned of
,(or possibly experienced) the "fresh-
man 15" and are informed about the
obesity epidemic in the U.S. But as I
continued to read the Time article,
I was impressed with the amount of
concrete evidence supporting the
articles' premise and even put down
the bag of chips I had (ironically)
been munching on. And while my life
expectancy is not a major concern of
mine, or most other college students,
(making it through midterms alive
currently takes the cake), it's certain-
ly something to add to the list.
Therefore, in a never-ending battle
to reduce the stress in my life, I've
decided that by simply taking baby
steps (and baby bites), I can (and
should) save money and calories and
add years to my life - and so can we
all. So Wolverines, think before you
eat, and I'll be seeing you all at our
100-year reunion (sans hors d'oeuvres
of course).
- Leah Potkin can be reached
at lpotkin@umich.edu.

0

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
ALEXANDER FRANZ AND ANTHONY CERRATO I
Big government, big debt

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS To: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Dingell has a distinguished Term limits would hinder
career as US. House rep. growth ofleaders in Congress

TO THE DAILY:
Chris Koslowski makes several false claims
surrounding term limits, Michigan politics and
Rep. John Dingell (D-Mich.) in his column this
week (Political dynasties, m 02/23/2010). Such
claims perpetuate decades of misconceptions
surrounding American politics.
First, it is common knowledge that the Michi-
gan state government is severely broken. A bipar-
tisan consensus has arisen between legislators
and non-partisan commentators that the source
of Michigan's stagnant government is its strict
term limits.
Former Rep. Joe Schwartz (D-Mich.), a pro-
fessor of public policy at the University, routinely
states that the era of term limits in Michigan has
created a disconnected, non-functioning legisla-
ture that follows party loyalty and special inter-
ests more than the will of the voters. Term limits
would be similarly harmful on the national level.
Second, the claim that Dingellought to be oust-
ed because Congress is hugely unpopular is logi-
cally false. Dingell is overwhelmingly re-elected
every two years. If there were ever a hint of cor-
ruption, malaise or unfairness, voters could use
a very simple tool to limit Dingell: the ballot box.
Finally, it's reprehensible that the author
attempts to tarnish Dingell's service. Dingell
has been Michigan's most fierce advocate in
Congress and his work can be seen every day in
a cleaner environment, safer food and toys, and
high paying jobs. Dingell's years of hard work
have won him the respect and clout with his col-
leagues that a young representative would have
to work decades to even begin to rival.
The era of term limits has broken the Michi-
gan legislature. Our state is devoid of leaders
and our annual budgetary standoff is only
the most visible example of the cracks in our
democracy. We ought to support representa-
tives like Dingell who commit every day of
their lives to creating good public policy for
their district and our nation.
Nathaniel Eli Coats Styer
LSA senior

TO THE DAILY:
In Chris Koslowski's last column, he claims
that we would be better off as a nation if our
representatives in Washington were lim-
ited to two or three terms (Political dynasties,
02/23/2010). As someone who spends at the
least a significant portion of his year in Michi-
gan, I would expect Koslowski to know how
badly term limits have hurt this state.
First, limits would prevent anyone from
becoming an experienced leader in govern-
ment. This would be done by limiting the
practice they can get in their position while
navigating the complicated task of governing
on the federal level. Furthermore, by institut-
ing term limits you take away the ability of leg-
islators to see projects through to completion.
Along with that, you remove the threat of con-
sequences for their blunders that aren't imme-
diately exposed.
If representatives are limited to only two
terms, then what is their incentive to do any-
thing or even abide by ethics rules once they
are a lame duck? If you take away the threat.
of long-term political repercussions - such as
loss of a future election - then mischief ensues.
In Michigan, we have seen such choices take
place in the form of using tobacco settlement
money to plug budget deficits, endorsing envi-
ronmentally hazardous industrial mining per-
mits and failing to balance budgets or plan for
the long-term welfare of the state. Representa-
tives with no future to worry about have little
to lose politically and thus fail to work in the
best interest of their constituents.
I am not saying that representatives like
John Dingell (D-Mich.) should have free reign
to serve in the House until they drop dead on
the floor, but I do think it is the responsibil-
ity of the voters to elect the best candidate
for their district and if a dynasty candidate
becomes entrenched and loses focus then it is
up to the voters to elect someone else.
Tim McMacken
LSA junior

Matthew Green's recent column conveniently overlooks
the enormous costs of federal spending policies and ignores
the long-term strength of growing the economy from the
bottom-up (Get real about economy, 02/21/2010). To get seri-
ous about fixing the economy, entitlement programs need to
be drastically reformed and a climate for dynamic economic
growth needs to be re-established in the United States.
There is no question that the national debt must be elimi-
nated, but we need to know what the root causes really are.
While Green blames the Bush tax cuts and the War on Ter-
ror for part of the $12.4 trillion of national debt, he doesn't
mention the exploding unfunded obligations to Social
Security and Medicare, which accrue an incredible $65
trillion to total U.S. liabilities, according to a recent report
released by the U.S. Treasury. The scope of the problem is
much worse than Green admits, and his proposed solutions
do not have the muscle to overcome it.
Raising taxes won't dig us out. Starting today, the gov-
ernment could force a 100-percent tax rate on every good
and service made in the United States for four and a half
years (assuming 2009 GDP), and still not have enough rev-
enue to wipe out the debt. And any substantial increase in
personal income, corporate, capital gains, sales or inheri-
tance tax rates inevitably leads to lower revenue over time,
as greater costs discourage economic activity. This the-
ory was popularized by Nobel Prize-winning economist
Arthur Laffer. Large corporations and wealthy individuals,
who are always targeted for the next tax increase, are also
the groups most capable of relocating to countries where
friendlier tax rates exist. That throws the ultimate tax bur-
den on middle and lower-class citizens.
More government spending prolongs the pain. When
the government spends $787 billion (as it did in last year's
stimulus bill), it taxes citizens, crowds tight credit markets
or simply prints money, inevitably leading to substantial
inflation. Sure, jobs may be created in the short term, but
these jobs by definition cannot exist without continued
government spending, which has spiraled out of control.
No net value is created - money is simply transferred from
one side of the economy to the other. Keeping that money
in the private sector, however, allows investors to fuel the
best opportunities in our economy. With more money avail-
able for lending and personal investment, the stage is set
for wider and more stable growth in the future. This also

translates into greater long-term employment. Using the
situation of a college freshman as an analogy, if a student's
family can keep more of its own money to begin with, it
doesn't need to take on as much or any debt to send their
kid to school.
The only way to conquer the debt is by making govern-
ment smaller. Its current size is simply unsustainable,
and the bills are coming due soon. Entitlements must be
changed. Creating personal savings account options for
Social Security and health care allows citizens to control
their own money. Think about Michigan's former Promise
scholarships - if students had the chance to take a lump
sum after college and put itin a savings account, theywould
certainly have a lot more money than the cancelled checks
they ended up with. As more and more citizens live off their
own accounts, the demands on federal programs would
ease in the coming decades. Streamlined departments
and budgets will also improve the government's long-term
structure, butthey are not the complete solution.
Massive government revenue growth is needed, but not
from repressively higher tax rates. As President (and Dem-
ocrat) John F. Kennedy claimed, a lower tax burden spurs
overall economic activity and federal revenues, stating, "a
rising tide lifts all boats." After lowering the top marginal
income tax rate from 70 percent to 28 percent, the Reagan
administration oversaw annualized nominal GDP growth
of 9.4 percent despite two recessions. With lower spending
to match, cutting or eliminating taxes for all paying citi-
zens would unearth monumental productivity. Americans
would be free to spend more of their money as they see fit,
generating a multiplying economic effect without the long-
term debt created by deficit spending.
Our national debt is the result of decades of structur-
ally unsound government. The answer is not another $1
billion stimulus or another entitlement program. We can't
spend like a reckless college student, accumulating debt
we cannot manage or repay. The course of government
must fundamentally change, or it will collapse under
the weight of its own excess. It is not our civic duty to
mindlessly pay higher taxes: It's our government's duty to
manage itself responsibly.
Alexander Franz and Anthony Cerrato
are Business juniors.

0

The Daily is looking for diverse, passionate, strong student writers to join
the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing and
writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

4

k


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, February 26, 2010 - 5

'Brave' garage rock

"I'm looking for this wall. Have you seen it?"
How not to make a
t elevision 's how

By EMMA GASE
For the Daily
If Little Steven Van Zandt ever needs a
poster child for his obscure Sirius Satellite
Radio rock station Underground Garage,
he need look no further
than The Strange Boys. **-%
The Austin-based group
fits in seamlessly with the The Strange
garage-rock titans of the B
past, while at the same B~
time churning out enough Be Brave
unique tunes to carve a In The Red
niche of its own. Be Brave,
the band's follow-up to its
2009 debut LP The Strange Boys and Girls
Club, has just enough bluesy lo-fi charm to
be relevant in a genre that's nearly half-a-
century old.
Be Brave has a strong opener with the
appealing and sunny "I See." The harmoni-
cas and swinging rhythm are a promising
start to a rousing album. Lead singer Ryan
Sambol croons aggressively, "Tonight's din-
ner /Is tomorrow's shit / Soenjoy it /Before
it stinks," commanding our attention (and
our accompanyingcynicism) at the start. The
song sounds right out of the early '60s, evok-
ing the same effortless cool of garage staples
like The Kingsmen.
However, The Strange Boys aren't with-
out a few tricks up their sleeves. "A Walk
On The Bleach" starts out with a slow, mel-
ancholy guitar accompanied by Sambol's
crackly vocal intonation, and plods on with-
out hinting at any climax or hook. About
two minutes in, a pleasantly surprising and
furiously spastic melody kicks in that drives
the song home in an onslaught of organ and
guitars.
While The Strange Boys have built on
their ragged sound since their debut, there is
only so much of the garage style that's open
to innovation. Most notably, the addition of a
gritty sax solo on title track "Be Brave" pro-
vides a welcome and rowdy change of pace.
Sambol's voice, suited perfectly to loud, slop-
py rock songs, drips with slacker charisma

when his snarky laugh crops up right in the
middle of the track.
While garage rock may be more depen-
dent on authenticity than song quality, The
Strange Boys do the genre proud on both
accounts. "Friday in Paris" uses jangly gui-
tars and an underlying organ that provides
originality, but not without an ode to early
electric Bob Dylan. The band adds enough
quirkiness and personality to its mid-tempo,
drawling rock songs to keep it away from
pure formula.
Unfortunately, the Austin rockers lose
their momentum in the second half of the
album. The Strange Boys are best heard in
the throes of their clanging guitar call-and-
response choruses, not in a lazy attempt at
slowballadry.Sambol's scratchytone,as abra-
sive as it is endearing, just doesn't translate
to slow acoustic songs. On tracks like closer
The Strange Boys
bleed authenticity.
"You Can't Only Love When You Want," the
listener is forced to endure more than three
painful minutes of Sambol's nasally screech
wringing out a love song, accompanied by
his awkward noodling on an acoustic guitar.
After cringing when his voice cracks for the
umpteenth time, the appeal and enjoyment
of the first several songs is nearly forgotten.
Unlike The Strange Boys's debut, which
was impressively stacked with 19 tracks and
very few duds (if any at all), Be Brave is short
on high-quality volume. The winners are
definitely jewels ("Friday'in Paris," "Da Da"),
but there are just as many sub-par acoustic
monstrosities ("The Unsent Letter," "All You
Can Hide Inside") on the album's latter half.
Perhaps Be Brave would have been better
served as an EP or a mini-album containing
only the standouts. Either way, The Strange
Boys will keepbleeding authenticity from a
garage near you.

HBO's latest is exactly
like 'Entourage,' but
with the pretension of
New York City
By NICK YRIBAR
Daily Arts Writer
Why, New York City? What more do
you want fromus? How much more do you
expect us to give? Why
is it that everywhere
we look in American
fiction, you're there, How to
towering over the rest Make it in
of the country like that
hip, older cousin who is Al enCa
willing to buy us alco-
hol? Sure it's cool, but Sundays at
its starting to get a little 10p.m.
sad, no? A little desper- HBO
ate? We know what
you're going to say: "It's the biggest city,
bro! 8 million people! Deal with it!" But
nobody is buying it. There are 292 million
of the rest of us, and we're not taking it
anymore. It was one thing when you had
the likes of Scorsese, Lumet and the Wu
Tang Clan singingyour praises, but "How
to Make It in America," HBO's newest
show, is the last straw.
Set only in the hippest, most visually
dynamic parts of contemporary NYC,
f "How to Make It in America"-follows the
exploits of two young men as they try .to

make a buck. Ben, played by Bryan Green-
berg ("October Road"), is the charming,
affable nice guy who is foiled by his less
scrupulous sidekick Cam, played by Victor
Rasuk ('ER"). Together, the pair traipses
around New York, from gallery openings
to after-parties to street markets, with
vague aspirations of becoming "The Man"
without having to submit to the shame of
getting a job.
Sound like puerile nonsense? It defi-
nitely is. And the worst part is, we're
supposed to buy it because it's set in New
York City. The smug hipness dripping
off every moment in "How to Make It,"
is punctuated by b-roll "urban" photog-
raphy to remind us of the setting: street
vendors, taxicabs, subways, graffiti, blah,
blah, blah. Sure, these stock characters
are uninteresting, their relationships are
tacked on and predictable, their antics
are snotty and obnoxious, but we're in
New York! Look at the homeless people.
It's mad real, son.
"How to Make It" is brought to you by
several of the same producers that gave
us that other HBO show about hip fame-
seekers, "Entourage," and the similari-
ties don't end with the production staff.
A boyish white guy who can't seem to
get over his ex? Check. Said white guy
doesn't know what to do with his life
amid the success of his peers? Check.
Dudes having "real talk" about bitches
and sexual longevity while on their way
toward another misadventure? You bet-
ter believe that's a check. But while
"Entourage" has the film industry and

all of its nuances and intrigue to fall back
on, "How to Make it" has only a super-
ficial veneer of the NYC "underworld,"
with inexplicable black-market salesmen
hanging outon the docks and "shady-ass"
cousins/loan sharks. These elements, one
can only assume, are supposed to lend an
air of street cred to the proceedings, but
are so transparently contrived that they
are baffling to watch.
There are a few moments of relief. An
Hasidic kid with sidelocks giving Cam a
ride on the back of his bike; another kid
hustling for change with rehearsed frank-
ness on the subway; both of these provide
some interesting, though unexplored,
images and sentiments. And the title
sequence and song is pretty cool. But all
of those city-soaked moments take place
within the first three minutes, and they
leave the remaining 25 all the more cloy-
ing and hollow.
Of course, it isn't New York's fault we're
being submitted to this kind of dumb-wit-
ted bullshit. New York City is obviously an
amazing, diverse, fascinating place and
entertaining stories are being concocted
there every day. But "How to Make It in
America" isn't one of them. Rather, this
crap is just riding on NYC's coattails,
feeding off the myth that doing nothing in
New York is better and more interesting
that whatever it is you're doing, wherever
you happen -to be. But if we ever needed
proof that life in New York can be just as
dull and pointless as in the flyover states,
we don't need to look any further than
"How to Make It in America."

VH1 delves into the details
of tabloid deaths yet again

COURTESY OF IN THE RED

The sun exploding is ruff.

By LINDSAY HUED
Daily Arts Writer
What can be said about Tupac's death
that hasn't already been discussed?
While "Famous Crime
Scenes" doesn't offer
any new insight into
the death of the infa- Famous
mous rapper, it does
present an informa- Cne SCenes
tive overview of the Fridays at
events that transpired 9P.M.
before and after the
shooting. VHi
VHl's new celeb-
rity show is basically a knock-off of "E!
Investigates," only there's an entire sea-
son of celebrity murders to investigate. In
the premiere episode of "Famous Crime
Scenes," the show uses interviews from
past and present, old photos, graphics
and cheesy reenactments to help recre-
ate what happened the night Tupac was
murdered. Upcoming subjects include
Michael Jackson, John Lennon, Selena,
Marvin Gaye and Notorious B.IG.
Ifthereis somethingyou missed about
any of the celebrity murders, this show
has got you covered. Every single aspect
of these cases is examined, includingthe

events leading up ton the death and thoise
that occurred after. High-profile "celeb-
rity" witnesses and friends explain what
they think happened, while police offi-
cials from the crime scenes help to veri-
fy how authorities responded. Get ready
for some more of those annoying people
you remember hating from the news
coverage - Howard K. Stern included
- who are probably looking for one last
outlet for their everlasting 15 minutes of
fame.
Real-life recreations of the scenes,
using maps and actors, help to visu-
ally place the viewer at the crime scene.
From toxicology reports to ballistics,
DNA evidence, suspect profiling and
more, this show is basically a virtual
tour of the night these infamous celebs
kicked the bucket.
Computer-generated (and somewhat
lame) visual aides explain what is going
on inside of the bodies. Doctors who
took the calls are interviewed and they
explain exactly how the bullets were
lodged in Tupac's body and the combi-
nation of drugs that Anna Nicole Smith
consumed.
Luckily, each episode is only 30 min-
utes. Any longer and it would have been
searching for content and dragging out

a story everyone knuws about. While it
is interesting tin review famous murder
cases, this show doesn't really have any
staying power. Most of the cases were
covered so intensely when they actually
happened, that you'd have to be living
under a rock to not know at least a little
bit about what occurred.
Future episodes, for example, are
about Anna Nicole Smith and Michael
Jackson. What could we possibly learn
What more is there
to say about M.J.
and Anna Nicole?
about those cases that hasn't been
plastered all over the news? "Famous
Crime Scenes" might have more suc-
cess 20 years down the line, because it
would be geared toward a generation
that wouldn't know as much about those
deaths. For now, it's going to "go behind
the crime-scene tape," and take us all
to a place we've been many, many times
before.

'Ruby': 350 lbs. of smiles

By.LINDSAY HURD
Daily Arts Writer
Imagine going most of your adult life not
being able to do a simple thing like put on a
pair of jeans. In the season three premiere
of her self-titled show,
Ruby Gettinger finally *
does that for the first time
in years.b
'Style Network's take on R
the healthy weight-loss Sundays at
show is "Ruby," which 8 p.m.
follows the 34-year- Style
old southern belle who
weighed over 700 pounds.
Through diet and exercise, Gettinger now
weighs about half that. As Gettinger pre-
pares her meals, goes to the gym and lives
her normal life, the cameras are there to
document her journey.
Southern belle deals
with obesity and
busts overweight
stereotypes.
On the positive side, this show breaks
several stereotypes about overweight peo-
ple. Gettinger is not an unhappy person.
She seems happy with every other part of
her life, except for her weight. She is not a
loner, but has tons of friends who are always
at her side throughout the show. Also, she is
not lazy. She has experienced past trauma
that made her turn to food. She is always

going for walks, going out with her friends
and doing normal activities.
While the show does poke fun at the
gross amount of food Gettinger once ate,
this isn't the primary focus, nor is "Ruby"
about exactly how much weight Gettinger
losing. Instead, "Ruby" takes you into the
life of an obese woman who has ups and
downs during the everyday struggle of
maintaining her weight. In the first episode
alone, several different parts of her life are
examined in relation to why she overeats
- and how she can stop it. She is shown at
home, cooking her own food with friends.
Instead of making mashed potatoes with
cream and butter, Gettinger chooses to
make asparagus. When she goes out to eat
with some friends, Gettinger worries about
what the chefs put into her food.
One irritating moment, however, is when
she talks to her therapist about her mental
health. Gettinger claims she can't remem-
ber any of her childhood before the age of
13. Whether or not this is true, Gettinger's
battytherapist's advice is tostay sober with
her food and that her memories will come
back. Could that be any vaguer?
The most difficult part to watch was
when Gettinger flat-out denied she had
an addiction to food. You just wanted to
slap her upside the head through the TV
to make her have her "ah-ha!" moment.
Finally, with a push from both her friends
and the loony therapist, Gettinger comes to
terms with her denial.
Despite the fact that "Ruby" doesn't
present any new revelations about weight-
loss, Gettinger is a caring and charismatic
gal who you want to see persevere. She is
just so flipping nice - it's almost nauseat-
ing how much everyone will want to see
Gettinger win the battle over obesity.

SPRING BREAK JUST ISN'T COMPLETE
WITHOUT APPLYING TO DAILY ARTS.
E-mail join.artsyumich.edu for
an appjication.


6 - Friday, February 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825 '

2-BED :2-BATH BI-LEVEL !
Walnut @ Geddes
Heat, water, furnishings, 1 parking spot
Perfec for 41t share
Only 1 left!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
!.4-BEDROOM!
Geddes @ Observatory
1 minute walk to the CCRB
3 minute walk to the Diag
Choose ALL utilities incl: heat, water,
electricity, cable, wireless Internet.
Comes fully furnished & w/ 2 parking
spots!
Varsity Management (734)668-1100
! 4-BEDROOMS !
Baldwin & Cambridge
Hardwood floors & 10' ceilings
Beautiful, quiet neighborhood
Heat, water, furnishings, parking ncl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
. AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg ncl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
! CENTRAL CAMPUS 2-BED-
ROOMS
Two S. Forest locations w/ free wireless
Tappan @ Oakland w/ several floor
plans avail.
521 Walnut to choose your furniture
1039 Baldwin w/ brand new kitchens,
screened porch, and a huge yard
Varsity Management (734)668-1100
1221 S. State #2
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992..
! OPEN HOUSE !
Saturday March 6th, 2010
11tam-3pm
341 E. Huron
Free Rent, Ikea Gift Cards, No App.
Fee, and more
734-662-4446
info@issaproperties.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!!MAY TO MAY!!!!
AND
SHORT TERM LEASES
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
**2 BDRM**. WSHR/DYR in unit.
Walking distance to UM Medical Cen-
ter. $800/mo, incl water. Call 734-395-
5288 or 248-855-3143.

P ai d
°e d e y an 'ut
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarboraprtments.net
!!LETS MAKE A DEAL!!
ONLYA FEW APARTMENTS RE-
MAINING FOR FALL 2010
715 Church- I & 2 bdrm apartments.
Fall 2010, Across from East Quad.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Check our web-
site www.churchstreetrentals.com or
Call Ann 734-320 1244.
$8$ SWEETIDEALS $$$
At
Prime Student Housing
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Make us an offer we can't refuse!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
**AVALABLE FOR FALL: 6
bdrm house. Price just reduced.
$2,695 514 Lawrence**
2 bath, free high speed internet, easy ac-
cess to central campus, nursing , medi-
cal and dental schools. Dishwasher and
laundry. Parking available.
Call Campus Mgt ( 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
Studio &1
tidrr, Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Cll Brnin om;ic
734-663-1530
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrt. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1699/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.

It Pays to Stay at
The Courtyards!

SAll inclusive rates
A fNo more high utility bills
J Free Internet
Free satellite TV
- Fully furnished
*COURTYARDS.
s TU D E NT A A R TM E N S
1780 Broadway (734)994-6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-
6380. www.benjaminrentals.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdnts total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdt-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
8 MONTH LEASES for fall. Two
houses to choose from: 7 bdrm for 8 at
S. University and Washtenaw, 6 bdrm
for 7- Mid S. Forest area. 734-260-4003
? BAD RES HALL ASSIGNMENT?
Try 4 ELEVEN LOFTS instead and get
$250 cash back! Single bedrooms,
roommate matching. Special $4450 per-
semester rate, includes utilities, space
limited. New bldg, great views, 2
blocks from Central Campus, per-per-
son contracts. Rates from $655 with
flat-rate utilities. Sign by Feb. 28 for
$250, or get $150 by March 9. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
^^^^YOUR MOM CALLED^^^^
She wants you to liv with
Prime!!!
Reduced Rates.... at Great Locations!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
420S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2200
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdnns-
1020 Churchs $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful-
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and Idry. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or wwwmichcomrealy.com
for more info.
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.

(7e 1Midigan 0aily
PRESENS T HE
amune Classjfe'
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Mote in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @,734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
From all your wonderful
friends at the Daily,

Experience the Dif ference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in mirowave,
'disbasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ computers
Models open Daily
{' 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeMaagers(0uumich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdn. apts (over 1100 sqfi. ach)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManages@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
'NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic campus, Law &
Business schools. Groups or individual.
SINGLE RM LEASES. $585/bdrm &
up. SIX-BD RM UN TS $3,510.00 and
up 734-418-2050
www.82greeneapts.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parkig
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
E., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.tSellA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
FEB-U-LESS! 2 Bedrooms at Great
low rates-Reduced to $1299.00! Rent
today with University Towers.
Rooms, Studio's - 3 bedrooms - heat,
water and furniture included - Con-
tact us at universitytowers-mi.com
- Secure Your Apartment Before
YOU Leave for Spring Break.
DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.

Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorms),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
LJTw(3

www varsitymanagement.com
Management
625 Church St. (734) 668-1100
1039 Baiv ~in
studio, 2 Bedro a drooms
'Unbe evably spacious apartments
ifardwvoodflars, high ceiings, bay
windoiws, andfirepfaces in a
6 Ieautiftconvertedmansion.
Juge backyard ina lquiet
neighborhood: t9-a, water,
furnishings, &parking incuded
Caf for yourypersonafizedtour!

S

!!!BARTENDING!!! 8300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
MAIN STREET VENTURES is now
hiring reservations agents for Ann Ar-
bor office. Free Parking! Must be avail-
able evenings and weekends. Please ap-
ply Mon-Fri 2-5pm at 605 S. Main,
Suite 2.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
. quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to jo. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
YOUTH MINISTER SEARCH: First
Baptist Church of Ann Arbor (FBCA2)
seeks a half-time Youth Minister to de-
velop and oversee all FBCA2 min-
istries to junior high and high school
aged youth. See http://www.fbca2.org


I


Los Angeles Times Daily C
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce
ACROSS 64 Casual dissent 31 Cuatr
1 Predatory group 32 Jamb
5 Grifter's ploy DOWN 33 Finds
9 Jerk 1 Brewer Frederick 34 So-so
14 Stadium near Citi 2 Leading 38 Taves
Field Japanese 40 "How
15 Pear, for one brewery 41 Shopi
16 From the other 3 Lover of Daphnis 42 Pun,'
side 4 Friend in old 43 Tupp
17 Topical treatment Westerns? sound
18 Bring down 5 Elastic 48 Threa
19 Has coming 6 Matter 49 Weas
20 Taking pictures 7 Pldcido's pal ANSW
of potatoes and 8 Retail store
pasta? department P E C
23 Has aconnection 9Tiger'sasset A L A
with 10 "Cuchi-cuchi" C O L
24 Diamond entertainer K I D
brothers' 11 Requiring U S E
surname superhuman PER
25 DJIA part: Abbr. eoru E
26 PC key under Z 12 HoChi - City R E
27 Circuit 13 Hosp. areas M A U
30 Trapdoorinoan 21 Record, in a way C I R
Old West 22 Powder source S L O
saloon? 26 "_..additional P
35 "Baudolino" costto you!" C H E
novelist 28 Elec. designation H E A
36 Massagetarget 29 Ritzy . o W N
37 Lee who ounded 30 Crunch's rank xworded
the Shakers
38 Ink holders 1 2 3 4 s 
39 Sixers, on a 14 ,5
scoreboard
40 Groupoh' 1i 18
show-offs? 0 2
44 "Kidding!" 21 1
45 Project's 23
conclusion?
46 Meat seasoning C2
mixture CC 3132 33
47 Chiseled abbr.
49 Like radon 36 37
54 Spielfrom a 39 "wan
maestro?
56 Talia of The aa a5
Godather'
57 Harrow rival 447 a
58 Sound after ah s4 s
59 Less brusque
60 Kevin's 'Tin Cup" 56 on5
cu-star 500
81 In a bit, poetically
62 "Brigadoon" sa 03
composer
63 Sibling, in dialectByDu" CCeC
hrlOISOTrrbuC eda3Svces.Ic

rossword Puzzle
e Nichols Lewis
o doubled 50 Mindless worker
alaya basic 51 Prefix with '
repugnant centric
ocenter? 52 Exclusive story
n keeper 53 Performed
dy!" superbly
pe modifier 54 Wheeling's river
often 55 Balkan native
erware 56 Show with a
id "Weekend
d site Update"
el relative segment, briefly
ER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
K M O O R E R E P C
I I N D E X O Y E 2
D C A S E HUNT E R
D O R A D IJOIS
G P S BEN H A Y
M E ATE S ER AP E
UN IONS I D EA
S T R O O M L I N E S

Y
0
z
s
Y
E
A

FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.coms
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY I & 2 bdrm apts. Near
Ctral Campus. $500-750. Includes
H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?
Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
APRIL 1ST.
Advertise in this section
by contacting:
(734) 764-0557

SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:
Make a difference in the life of a
child! Summer therapy camp for chil-
dren with physicaldisabilities. Located
on the shores of Lake Superior 'in Big
Bay, MI. Positions available for Coun-
selors, Waterfront, Instructors for Na-
ture/ Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses,
Therapists, Food Service, and Auxil-
iary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible,
and love children. June 13 through Au-
gust 8. $1,800 plus room & board, and
experience of lifetime provided. Down-
load application: www.baycliff org.
For more info call or email: (906) 345-
9314 baycliff@bayclifforg
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

IgNHO ME SIERneeded for
preschooler and toddler, Wednesdays.
Exp., ref., and trans. required.
734-972-7329.

I P L A I N S
C U S A R MIL O A D S
R E M ED T NEIA R E A
E S E B O A R D S E T S
D A O R T A I N R E
S S P Y O N S E C S
itor@aol.com 02/25/10
7 8 9 10. 11 12 13
16
19
24
28 2728 282
34 35
38
42 43
"6
49 60 1 1 52 53
58**
81
"4
02/26/10

1

CORNERHOUSE
APARTMENTS
205 S. State St.
on corner of State and
Washington
2 & 3 bdrm. Apt. Homes
Beautifully Furnished
Outstanding views
Garage parking
Central air
9 foot high ceilings
Premier campus location
Models open daily.
734-741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

0

a

I I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, February 26, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, February 26, 2010 - 7

EYE OPENING

AARON AUGSBURGER/[
The Brehm Tower at the W.K. Kellogg Eye Center yesterday. The brand new center, which cost $132 million to build, will open on Monday, according toa press release dis-
tributed yesterday. The building will house clinical facilities like suites for refractive surgery as well as laboratories used to study both diabetes and ophthalmology.

ily

HAGE
From Page 1
Hage's endeavor, despite that it
means her office will be losing a
great colleague.
"It's a terrific career move for
her," Scarnecchia said. "I knew
that Eastern Michigan was look-
ing for a new general counsel and
it makes perfect sense that they
are hiring Gloria because she
is so talented, - a great leader,
very talented attorney and she
has really helped to build the
strength of our office and so she
will bring all of those experienc-
es with her to Eastern."
University President Mary Sue
Coleman echoed Scarnecchia's
sentiment, saying while she will
miss Hage, she is excited for the
opportunity Hage will have at
EMU.
"I really regret that she's going
because she's been just such a
wonderful person to have at the
University, but EMU is really
lucky," Coleman said in an inter-
view earlier this month. "They're
getting someone who is extreme-
ly knowledgeable and I'm thrilled
she has that opportunity, but I'll
really miss her."
Hage - who earned both her
bachelor's degree in English lit-
erature and her juris doctorate
from the University - described
her decision to move to Eastern
as "the opportunity to move to a
great school, be a general counsel
at a real good school."
According to Eastern Univer-
sity spokesperson Walter raft,
Hage's responsibilities as gen-
eral counsel will include over-
seeing the University's entire
legal department and all its legal
activities.
"I am delighted to welcome
Gloria as a critical addition to
the Eastern Michigan University
leadership team," Eastern Michi-
gan University President Susan
Martin said in a press release.
"Gloria has an outstanding repu-
tation in the education and legal
community, and we know she
will make a strong contribution."
Hage's new appointment came
following an extensive search
by Eastern Michigan's Execu-
tive Council, a team comprised
of presidential cabinet members
and other University adminis-
tration officials. The search was
prompted by an announcement
made in November that East-
ern Michigan's current General
Counsel Ken McKanders - who
has served EMU since 1987 -
would be leaving effective Febru-
ary 28, 2010.
In the Office of the Vice Presi-
dent and General Counsel at the
University, Hage's primary role
has been managing the legal

affairs of the University with a
special focus on employment law
and staff benefits. In her capac-
ity as deputy general counsel,
Hage advised the University on
legal issues affecting its schools
and colleges, the University of
Michigan Health System and
regional and off-site facilities.
Hage's role at the Univer-
sity leaves big shoes to fill, and
according to Scarnecchia, the
Office of the General Counsel
has already begun its search for a
replacement.
"It's a loss for us, but we have
a lot of talent in this office and I
will be appointing a new deputy
general counsel from within
most likely," Scarnecchia said.
"I'm going through that process
right now and then we'll probably
hire a new staff attorney to take
over some of the substantive legal
work that Gloria had in her area
of responsibility."
Despite the loss, officials from
both schools agreed the strong
relationship between the Univer-
sity of Michigan and EMU would
yield opportunities for Hage to
work with her former colleagues
again in the future.
"The universities are in align-
ment," Kraft said. "It also helps
us to have someone who is from
the area, familiar with this
region, certainly familiar with
Michigan and the issues that
Michigan faces."
Scarnecchia agreed, adding
that she's pleased Hage will still
be "a neighbor down the road" at
EMU.
"think there'll be a lot of back
and forth phone calls between
the University of Michigan and
Eastern at least for a while,"
Scarnecchia said.
Hage said she's also looking
forward to continuing to work
with her University of Michigan
colleagues.
"I anticipate that there will
be many opportunities to col-
laborate with the University of
Michigan and the other public
universities in the state in the
future," she said.
Prior to serving as Associ-
ate Vice President and Deputy
General Counsel, Hage served as
interim vice president and gen-
eral counsel before Scarnecchia
was hired about two years ago.
Hage has also served in the role of
assistant general counsel for the
University and as interim chief
human resources officer in 2004.
Before coming to the Univer-
sity in 1992, Hage was an asso-
ciate attorney at Butzel Long, a
law firm with offices throughout
Michigan and in Washington,
D.C. and New York.
- Daily News Editor Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.

University researchers say package of bills
could put big limits on stem cell research

From Page 1
Morrison wrote that one
example of this is in the case of
embryos that carry the gene for
Huntington's disease.
"Patients always elect to dis-
card embryos that are found to
carry the Huntington's disease
gene rather than using them for
fertility treatment," Morrison
wrote. "However, these embryos
would not meet the restrictive
new standard for 'unsuitable for
clinical use' in these bills because
the embryos probably implant
and develop normally."
He continued: "As a result,
Michigan families would be
forced to discard these embryos
rather than having the option to
donate them for research to cure
Huntington's disease."
But according to State Sen.
Tom George, chair of the Senate
Health Policy Committee, oppo-
nents of the bill are misinterpret-
ing what the bill would actually
require.
"All of the hyperbole is simply
untrue," George said.
The bills seek to clarify the Ian-
guage used in Proposal 2, espe-
cially the phrase, 'unsuitable for
clinical use,' so that everyone is
on the same page before mov-
ing forward with the research,
according to George.
"If you have confusion that
doesn't serve anyone," he said.
George said the legislation
wouldn't ban the use of embryos
that carry genetic diseases for
research. Instead, the proposed
legislation limits the ability to
discard embryos based on non-
disease characteristics like hair
or eye color.
"All of the provisions are less
stringent than what they have in
Massachusetts and California,"
he said. "The penalties that we
have for violating the act are in
CITY COUNCIL
From Page 1
person," send or receive texts or
verbal messages, use the internet
or view an electronic map.
Driving or biking while using
a cell phone would be a primary
offense, meaning a violator could
be pulled over for that reason
alone. Anyone found in violation
of the ordinance would be subject
to a $125 fine or a $300 fine if the
driver caused an accident.
Exemptions from the ordi-
nance include using a hands-free
device or using the device to talk
to police, fire or medical person-
nel during an emergency. Police
officers and firefighters are also
exempt.
At the meeting, Rapundalo said
there is a large body of research
suggesting that using electronics
behind the wheel is dangerous.
Rapundalo said the reason
behind excluding hands-free
devices from the proposed ordi-
nance is because it would be diffi-
cult to enforce, not because those
devices are any less dangerous.
"There certainly are studies
that clearly show that there is
no difference with handheld and
the level of distraction and that
of hands-free, so they're pretty
equivalent there," he said. "But

v

line with the penalties that are
used in other states that have
similar laws."
George also said opponents of
the bill didn't show an interest in
the writing of the proposed legis-
lation when input was welcomed
during various public hearings
and meetings.
"If they don't like the defini-
tion, then they had the oppor-
tunity to change it," he said.
"However, their response was to
do nothing."
If passed, the bills would also
mandate that researchers dis-
close information to the state
about decisions patients make
when seeking fertility treatment,
like what they want the embryos
to be used for and whether their
current children have any birth
defects.
Morrison wrote that forcing
researchers to release this infor-
mation would discourage people
from using state-run fertility
treatments.
"I suspect that many patients
would be uncomfortable knowing
that their doctors would be forced
by these bills to make detailed
reports to the state government,"
he wrote. "Patients who are
uncomfortable with the govern-
ment tracking their reproductive
decisions might end up going out-
side of the state for fertility treat-
ment."
But George said the bill cre-
ates a reporting requirement that
involves a one-page summary
submitted annually that shows
the total number of embryos
being used for research.
George said the reporting
requirement would be an aggre-
gate count, and would thus be
"blind data."
"It is ludicrous to think that
someone would not seek treat-
ment because of a one-page
reporting requirement," George

said.
George also said all state-sup-
ported institutions are already
required to submit stem-cell
research reports to the federal
government, and therefore there
wouldn't be any new reporting
required from the University. Pri-
vate institutions, though, current-
ly don't have to send such reports,
and would then be required by
the state to do so if the bills pass
through the state government, he
said.
State Sen. Liz Brater (D-Ann
Arbor) expressed concern that
if passed, the restrictions would
negatively affect the state's stem
cell research industry.
"The bills seem to be intended
to harass researchers," Brater
said. "We have the potential to
be a world leader in stem cell
research. The proposals are
already embedded in the consti-
tutional amendment, and they are
totally unnecessary."
Brater went on to say that the
University of Michigan has the
facilities necessary to attract
researchers to the state. But
restrictions in the bills - like
placing researchers in prison for
something as minor as not fil-
ing paperwork properly - would
dissuade out-of-state researchers
from coming to Michigan, reduc-
ing job opportunities in the state,
she said.
"Health care is one of the most
profitable sectors in the Michigan
economy," Brater said.
But George said if passed, the
measures in the bills wouldn't
discourage researchers from
coming to the state.
"Researchers will come if
they're paid," he said.
George said the proposed
restrictions are similar to those
placed on tattoo parlors in the
state. Tattoo industry regulations
like mandating the use of clean

needles and licensing don't cause
tattoo parlors to be outsourced to
different states, he said.
"If we invest the money into the
industry and pay our research-
ers, they will be attracted to the
state," George said.
The University's chapter of
the Student Society for Stem
Cell Research recently vocalized
its opposition to the proposed
restrictions by participating in
Capitol Day on Tuesday, when
advocates for stem cell research
met in Lansing to protest the bill.
"The citizens of Michigan were
able to voice their opinions when
Proposal 2 came on the ballot,"
Engineering sophomore Shwetha
Suresh Maddur, political advo-
cacy chair of SSSCR, wrote in an
e-mail interview. "These restric-
tions are slowing down the efforts
of scientists to cure diseases."
Morrison wrote that though
some proponents of the bill have
said they respect the measures
that the 2008 ballot initiative
allow, he is skeptical about their
true intentions.
"When proponents of these
bills say they accept the results of
Prop. 2 and just want to regulate
the research, that's like me say-
ing that I accept we need an auto
industry but just want to regulate
it by making it illegal for cars to
have wheels in Michigan," Mor-
rison wrote.
But George disagrees, saying
both researchers and politicians
need to read the proposed legisla-
tion to better understand the pro-
visions outlined within it.
"Any industry has an automatic
response to oppose oversight,"
George said. "I am very disap-
pointed with this response, which
has portrayed legislators as cave-
men thinking in the past."
The bills now await votes in the
State Senate Health Policy Com-
mittee.


ISR
From Page 1
according to the press release.
"A large part of what we do
at the University of Michigan
really relates to collecting data
and making that data accessible,"
Jackson said.
In addition to renovating
those spaces, Jackson said ISR
officials hope to add conference
rooms and a 220-seat auditorium
with two floors of research space
above it.
"One of the important things
we do in the social sciences is to
bring people together for confer-
ences and scientific meetings,"
Jackson said. "So we're going to
increase our capacity to do that
by having meeting room space
and a major auditorium that will
be on the first floor."
Jackson said the award will
also give the ISR an opportunity
to start updating the facility with
video conferencing and other
communication technologies.
"ISR was built in 1955, and
there has been a lot of progress
made with regard to how we
communicate, so we're going to
be upgrading our facility," Jack-
son said.
In addition to enhancing the
facility, Jackson said the con-
struction will provide opportu-
nities for employment for local

workers.
"We're expecting to create
temporary and 'long-term jobs
because construction's going to
create opportunities for people
to work," Jackson said.
Jackson added that with the
new space the institute will be
able to employ more researchers.
Currently the staff of ISR con-
sists of research scientists who
generally have a Ph.D. in one of
the social behavior disciplines,
research assistants and associ-
ates who are involved in data
collection and administrative
support staff, according to Jack-
son.
"The new building and new
opportunities will mean we'll
probably be hiring people on all
those levels," Jackson said.
Dingell praised the grant and
wrote in his press release that
it will help bring more jobs to
the area in an important area of
research.
"ISR's expansion provides a
unique potential for job growth:
opening up new positions for the
unemployed in Michigan and
solidifying opportunities for tal-
ented college graduates," Dingell
wrote.
The next step in the process
will be for the University's Board
of Regents to approve the award
and construction plans, which
could take anywhere from 14 to
18 months, Jackson said.


it's a matter of, can you enforce
one or both?"
A 2006 study by the University
of Utah found that talking on a
cell phone - even with a hands-
free device - is just as dangerous
as driving with a blood-alcohol
level of 0.08 percent, the legal
limit in Michigan.
Another study done in 2005 by
the Insurance Institute for High-
way Safety found that talking on
a cell phone made a driver four
times more likely to get into an
accident.
At the meeting, some council-
members called into question the
provision prohibiting the use of
GPS devices. Repaundalo defend-
ed the provision by explaining
that many cell phones have GPS
capabilities.
"I think this simply identifies
the fact that it's as much a dis-
traction as use of a cell phone," he
said.
Councilmember Tony Derezin-
ski (D-Ward 2) said he's hopeful
that the ordinance might serve
as a model for a future statewide
ban.
"Sometimes the local commu-
nities are the laboratories for laws
the state usually adopts, some-
times long after," he said.
Seven states have laws banning
talking on a cell phone while driv-
ing and 21 states and the District

of Columbia ban texting while
driving.
President Barack Obama issued
an executive order last October
banning federal employees from
using a cell phone while driving
on official business. This was
part of a larger campaign by the
U.S. Department of Transporta-
tion to curb distracted driving,
according to distracted.gov.
Legislation banning texting
while driving has passed both
houses of the Michigan Legisla-
ture, but hasn't yet been signed
into law by Democratic Gov. Jen-
nifer Granholm, though she has
vocalized support for the ban.
At the meeting, Ann Arbor
mayor John Hieftje said the city
shouldn't wait for the state to
pass a law similar to the city ordi-
nance. -
"If anyone had the idea of wait-
ing for the state to do something
on this all we have to do is take
a look at what happened with
smoking," he said, referencing the
statewide smoking ban in indoor
public places, which will go into
effect May 1.
Councilmember Stephen Kun-
selman (D-Ward 3) suggested
an age restriction of 16 or above
to prevent police from detaining
children for using a cell phone
while biking, but councilmember
Margie Teall (D-Ward 4) coun-

tered by saying young people
should be warned against this
kind of behavior.
"I would hope that the messag-
es are still getting out to young-
sters that this is not a good idea,"
Teall said. "If it takes a police
officer to give a gentle reminder
that this isn't the smart thing to
do, I think we'll all be the better
for that."
Rapundalo said police officers
would have to make a judgment
call on an individual basis.
Many students said they sup-
port the proposed ordinance
and they feel using an electronic
device while driving or biking is
often hazardous.
LSA freshman Meredith
Luneack said there have been sit-
uations in which she felt endan-
gered by distracted drivers and
thought the ban was a good idea.
"Maybe if I had a car or was
more active on a bike I would
feel differently, but I feel it would
keep me a little safer," she said.
LSA sophomore Amira Belwa-
fa said she supports the ban and
even thought higher fines would
be a good idea, but didn't think it
would be popular with the major-
ity of students.
"I think there's a lot of people
who are attached to their cell
phones who are going to think
this is a terrible idea," she said.

hhe wire~
WANT TO KNOW THE
LATEST HEADLINES?
Follow the Daily's news blog at
michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


8 - Friday, February 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8- Friday, February 26, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Hunwick shines in relief

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
In Yost Ice Arena on the third
deck, behind the net closest to
Michigan's locker room, is the
scout holding pen. Scouts from
around the
country lean NOTRE DAME 0
on the rail- MICHIGAN 4
ing and try
to fill out their future rosters.
As the Michigan hockey team
took the ice yesterday against
Notre Dame, not only was the
holding pen filled to capacity, but
scouts lined the upper row of the
arena as well. Throw the added
emotions of Senior Night for the
Wolverines into the mix and this
didn't feel like a game between the
seventh and 10th-place teams in
the conference.
And the player who possibly had
the biggest impact in Michigan's
4-0 win, amongst 19 NHL draft
picks, was the one who no scouts
had come to watch: junior goalie
Shawn Hunwick.
Eleven minutes into the first
period, starting junior goalie
Bryan Hogan stretched out to stop
a backhand shot on a two-on-one.
The shot clanged off the post and
was cleared out of the zone, but the
Wolverines' troubles weren't over.
Hogan-remained on the ice, face
down and still. After 15 seconds of
silence, Hogan was helped off the
ice with the help of trainer Rick
Bancroft and junior forward Carl
Hagelin, not putting any pressure
on his injured leg. After the game,
Michigan coach Red Berenson
said it was a groin injury, making
him doubtful for Saturday's game
in South Bend.
Hunwick entered and was put to
the test with the firstshothe faced.
Michigan took two penalties to
force Hunwick and the Wolver-
ines to kill a five-on-three power
play. The Fighting Irish worked
the puck around and had a clear
shot from the point. Screened,
Hunwick stretched and nabbed
the puck with his glove, making
his first save since December, and

Hollins nets 27 to
lead Wolverines'
rally at Minnesota
'M' grabs first behind the arc, finishing at 50 per-
cent for the evening.
season-series sweep "We weren't going into the
game like, 'Hey were going to
of Golden Gophers shoot threes,' " sophomore for-
ward Carmen Reynolds said. "We
since 2000-01 wanted to penetrate by passes and
by not putting the ball onto the
By ZAK PYZIK floor. That in and of itself opens
Daily Sports Writer the three."
But it wasn't just the shooting
There were 18 minutes left in that energized Michigan's late
the Michigan women's basketball resurgence.
team's contest against Minnesota Rebounding gave the Wolver-
last night, and Dayeesha Hollins ines additional opportunities
already had 18 points. on the offensive end of the floor.
The freshman guard finished Michigan collected 36 boards, 11
with a total of of which were on the offensive
27 to help push MICHIGAN 65 glass, compared to 12 for Minne-
the Wolver- MINN 54 sota (6-11,13-15).
ines to a 65-54 And with about seven minutes
win at Williams Arena. remaining, junior guard Veronica
Hollins's 18th point brought the Hicks had a breakaway. Hicks
Wolverines to within two of the missed the layup but freshnian
Golden Gophers, after rallying guard Jenny Ryan was there to
back from a 15-point deficit. clean up the missed shot to put
"I was just able to make quick Michigan ahead for the first time
decisions," Hollins said. "It was in the contest, 49-48.
easy for me to get into the groove. "Jenny has a nose for the ball,"
We were just able to work together Hicks said. "This game I was like,
and do what we need to do. Coach 'We can't get out boarded.' It takes
just told me to hunt shots and all five people rebounding on the
that's what I did." defensive end. But then we can
Hollins was then fouled on a chase the perimeter shots down
drive and drained two free throws on offense. And then it's just a foot
as Michigan (7-10 Big Ten, 15-12 race. And we were able to get our
overall) tied the game at 33. hustle on."
The Wolverines went six-for-six As the lead began to widen in
from the foul line in yesterday's the final minutes of the game,
game. Golden Gopher fans started to exit
"Tonight, (Dayeesha) came out the arena, and Michigan secured
and she performed." Michigan its first win after a three-game
coach Kevin Borseth said. "First slide.
halfshekeptusinitsinglehandedly. "Better night, great win,"' ors-
"We haven't shot well from the eth said. "That was amazing. We
free-throw line all season." started really slow like we had
And it was its perimeter pres- cement in our boots.
ence that gave Michigan the upper "Then we got a lot of big stops
hand when it needed it most. The and hit some key buckets, and it
Wolverines sank 13 shots from feels good."

SAM WOLSON/Daily
Junior goaltender Shawn Hunwick backstopped Michigan to a 4-0 victory over Notre Dame in his first career shutout.

inspiring the crowd into a frenzy.
He also stopped the other 13, giv-
ing him his first career shutout.
"He does it every day in prac-
tice," Berenson said of Hunwick,
who played just 18 minutes this
season before last night's contest.
"But we're still not convinced
he's a starting goalie. He's been a
backup that really hasn't had the
chance to be a backup."
The highlight-reel stop kept the
Wolverines' one-goal lead secure
and allowed Hagelin to come out
of the box. On his initial shift
after his penalty expired, Hagelin
picked up the puck at Michigan's
blueline and went in two-on-one.
Hagelin gave a quick pass to junior
Matt Rust on the back door and
Rust banged it in to put the Wol-
verines up two goals.

Those two goals gave Hunwick,
who had been in the game for less
than five minutes, some breathing
room as he got used to the game-
time atmosphere.
Getting an early lead helped the
Wolverines take a more defensive
stance on the game, and Hunwick
never had to make another save
that was at the caliber of his first
stop. Michigan added two more
goals and all but assured Hun-
wick's first career win.
"I stood up on the bench and
looked at the defensemen and said,
'Listen boys, let's commit to 'D,' "
senior captain Chris Summerssaid.
"That means just get pucks deep
when you have to, not really tak-
ing too many chances on offense.
Smart, simple plays and making
sure we're supporting him."

After the game, during the
Senior Night ceremony but before
the seniors came out of the tun-
nel to be honored, it was Hun-
wick who garnered the attention.
Chants of "Hun-wick, Hunwick"
and "Se-xy Goal-ie" rang through
the student section.
"It was nice to hear a little feed-
back from the fans," Hunwick
said. "Obviously this is the first
time I've been a true contributor
to the team. I don't want to take
anything away from the seniors.
This is their night. So I'm glad they
were upstairs when they started
those chants."
Thirteen stops, a shutout and a
win over a bitter rival in his first
action in almost two months?
Maybe next time the scouts will
know Hunwick's name.


For Michigan men's
hoops, a trio of tough
atchups over break
By Gjon Juncaj 11 Daily Sports Editor

:T he Mchigat men's basketball team (6-9 Big Ten, 13-14 overall) enters its final three
games of the 2009-10 campaign resigned to the role of playing spoiler. It's a bitter pill
to swallow - as recent losses to Penn State and Illinois made even a consolation trip to next
month's National Invitation Tournament appear. improbable.4
ut a nl as Michigan coach John Beilein has looked tryingto explain whythis season
has fallen short of everyone's expectations, there will be something for the players to prove
- at the very least to themselves - in the next nine days. The Wolverines face three teams,
two jockeying for the Big Ten regular-season title, the other trying to lock down an NCAA
Tournament berth. Here's an overview of what lies ahead.

What happened last time What's happened since What's in NI' higan's favor

What's not

Minnesota
at Michigan
Matchup: Min-
nesota 16-11;
Michigan 13-14
When: March
2, 7 p.m.
Where: Crisler
Arena
TV/Radio: BTN

T he Wolverines surprised a lot of people
with their 71-63 win at Minnesota on
Feb. 11. Sims and Harris again paced the team
with 47 points between them. Sims especially
shined through on national television, abus-
ing the Golden Gophers' imposing frontcourt
(then the top shot-blocking team in the con-
ference) to go 12-of-18 from the field and haul
in four offensive rebounds. Michigan practi-
cally threw a giant wet blanket on the Wil-
liams Arena floor, deflating the home
crowd and throwing a stom-
ach-punch into Minnesota's
NCAA Tournament hopes.

" T he Buckeyes have taken 12 of their past
i15 games dating back to that Jan. 3 loss at
Crisler - all those games with Turner run-
ning the show. The junior has been on fire
as of late, even by his standards. Turner has
tallied at least 20 points, seven rebounds and
five assists in five of his past seven games.
Ohio State has played as well as almost any
team in the country in the past eight weeks,
earning wins at Purdue, versus Wisconsin
and most recently at Michigan State.
The Golden Gophers are just 2-2 since the
Wolverines left town, but they've
clearly woken up. Losses at North-
western and to third-ranked Purdue
- each by a basket - have sand-
wichedblowout wins at home versus
Wisconsin and Indiana. Senior
guard Lawrence Westbrook and
sophomore center Ralph Samp-
son III haven't had simultane-
ous great games in weeks. That
must change if Minnesota's to
make a statement in its final
three contests.
Lucas sprainedhis ankletwogameslater,
which sent Michigan State on a three-
game losing streak that took the Spartans
out of contention for a top seed inthe NCAA
Tournament. Michigan State (11-4 Big Ten,
21-7) also dropped a seven-point decision to
Ohio State on Sunday. Although the trio of
Lucas, Morgan and junior Durrell Summers
have been shaky in its past five games (the
three have combined for just 31 points per
game on 43 percent), junior Chris Allen
has picked up a lot of slack, averag-
s ing 14 points at a 52 percent clip
during that same stretch.

The Wolverines may have caught
the Golden Gophers napping two
weeks ago, but they still looked like
the better team. Although Michi-
gan's two consecutive home loss-
es won't bode well for a win next
Tuesday, don't expect Minnesota
coach Tubby Smith to cook up
any wildly successful gameday
adjustments for the rematch.
If Westbrook and Sampson III
are held relatively in check
(14 points combined Feb. 11),
Michigan will be in good
shape.

S hould the Golden Gophers (7-8,
16-11) steal a win at Illinois on
Saturday, they'll be riding a tidal
wave of momentum into Ann Arbor.
Winning its final three games would
put Minnesota in sixth place and over
.500 in the conference, likely taking them
off the NCAA Tournament Bubble. Though
the Golden Gophers have been playing
"must-win" games for the past couple weeks,
every sports cliche applies to them from here
on out.

4

4

4

4


