GENRES THEY ARE A-CHANGIN SOMBER SENI
Jakob Dylan takes a page from his old man'shMen's H ops sa r
book and combines a variety of styles on his
accounted for more t
latest album, Women + Country.
PAGE 5team's scorng last sel

Tuesday, April 13, 2010

michigandaily.com

* SPRING COMMENCEMENT
U' officials
expecting
80,000 at
graduation

'U' still finalizing
security plans for
President Barack
Obama's address
By ANNIE GORDON THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
University officials are busy
preparing for President Barack
Obama's upcoming trip from the
White House to the Big House,
now saying the number of people
attending this year's commence-
ment ceremony could be twice
the number of those who attend-
ed last year.
In a meeting with the Senate
Advisory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs yesterday, President
Mary Sue Coleman and Provost
Teresa Sullivan discussed secu-
rity and logistics for President
Barack Obama's upcoming visit
to deliver the 2010 Spring Com-
mencement address.
Coleman said University

officials are hoping more than
80,000 people will attend gradu-
ation at the Big House. Last year,
approximately 40,000 people
gathered for the commencement
ceremony.
Coleman said that expectation
is based on the size of the crowd
last year when Obama delivered
the commencement at Arizona
State University. The Univer-
sity's Sun Devil Stadium, which
holds 80,000 people, was filled
to capacity for his speech.
But Coleman said University
officials are thinking there's a
possibility that there could be
more people in the Big House
than there were at Sun Devil Sta-
dium.
"We should be able to get at
least 100 (thousand people),"
Coleman said:t
Coleman added that planning
for security measures is on track
thus far. But she added that offi-
cials are still waiting on some
information regarding security
because the Secret Service has to
See COMMENCEMENT, Page 7

ANNASCHULTE/Daily
Students and community members remember the Polish officials who died in a plane crash on Saturday last night in Regents Plaza.
Students, community gather
tomourn death of-Polish pres.

Kaczynski, other
Polish officials died
in plane crash Sat.
By SARA BOBOLTZ
Daily StaffReporter
Red and white candles burned
bright late last night in Regents
Plaza as nearly 100 students and

community members gathered to
commemorate Saturday's plane
crash that killed 96 Poles, includ-
ing the country's president, Lech
Kaczynsci, and first lady.
The candlelight vigil, hosted by
the University's Polish Club, began
with images of the Polish govern-
ment officials who died in Satur-
day's plane crash projected onto a
screen flanked by vases of red and
white flowers with the Polish flag

hanging on the side of the Fleming
Administration Building.
Members of the Polish Club and
the Polish-American Congress of
Ann Arbor (PAC-Ann Arbor) par-
ticipated in the vigil along with
their friends and other members of
the community as a way to honor
those who died on Saturday's flight
en route to Russia. The passengers
were traveling to Russia to com-
memorate the 20,000 Polish mili-

tary officers killed by Soviet forces
in WWIL
LSA senior Monica Arendt,
president of the Polish Club, said
more people than the club expect-
ed showed up to the vigil, adding
that the group ran out of candles to
distribute to the attendees.
"There's a large Polish popula-
tion in Ann Arbor, Detroit, Sterling
Heights and Hamtramck," Engi-
See VIGIL, Page 7


REINVENTING THE TELEPHONE

Grand Rapids meeting signals
regents support for west Mich.

At monthly meeting
Thursday, regents
to consider parking
fees, construction
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
In an effort to show its commit-
ment to the west side of Michigan,
the University's Board of Regents
will hold its monthly meeting in

Grand Rapids on Thursday.
As a result of the western Michi-
gan venue, several items that are
pertinent to West Michigan will be
on the agenda. While Thursday's
meeting is in Grand Rapids, the
meetings are typically held on one
of the University's three campuses
- in Ann Arbor, Dearborn or Flint.
At the meeting, the Regents will
hear reports, among other things,
about a partnership between the
University and Grand Valley State
University to assess the feasibil-
ity of off-shore wind turbines in

the Great Lakes, the future of the
University Health System collabo-
rating with other institutions and
a research collaboration to support
children with Downs Syndrome
and Autism in western Michigan.
About 1,700 current University
students and over 10,000 alumni
hail from Kent and Kalamazoo
counties - the most from any-
where in Michigan outside the
Metro Detroit area. About 1,300
students come from other counties
in western Michigan.
See REGENTS, Page 7

SAM WOLSON/daily
Architecture graduate students Erika Lindsay (left) and Courtney Chin work on their final project called (un)social-social The
assignment was to reinvent the concept of the phone booth by focusing on issues of texting and the use of handheld devices.
GOOGLE FIBER
In bid for Fiber, A2 vs. other Michigan cities

F l A N NG YO0U RE DU CA TION
State Rep. Warren, students
talk benefits of aid overhaul

Ann Arbor isn't the
only city in the state
seeking project
By SARA BOBOLTZ
Daily StaffReporter
Residents of Ann Arbor have
already shown their support for
Google Fiber via Facebook, Twit-

ter and various publicity stunts
- including a three-minute Diag
"flash mob" - before the March
26 nomination deadline.
But Ann Arbor faces stiff com-
petition from other communities
throughout Michigan and the
country that have also demon-
strated interest in the one gigabit-
per-second Internet connection,
which Google claimed on its blog
will be 100 times faster than the

average connection speed avail-
able in the United States.
One of the most notable cities
vying for Google's attention is
Topeka, Kan., which re-named
itself Google for the month of
March. The company responded
by changing its name to Topeka
for a day as an April Fool's joke.
The 600 communities that are
vying to be Google Fiber trial
See GOOGLE FIBER, Page 7

Investing in higher
education a top
priority, Warren says
By JILLIAN BERMAN
ManagingNewsEditor
State Rep. Rebekah Warren
(D-Ann Arbor) gathered with stu-
dent volunteers from Organizing

for America at a press conference
yesterday to celebrate the Student
Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act,
which was signed by President
Barack Obama last month as part
of the health care reform bill.
The act aims to overhaul the
financial aid system by making the
federal government a direct lend-
er, which will eliminate banks as
middlemen in the student lending
process. The bill will also change

the timeline for student borrowers.
Beginning immediately, students
whotake outnewloans will be able
to cut off their monthly payments
at 15 percent of their discretionary
incomes. In addition, the bill will
increase the maximum Pell Grant
to $5,550 and will tie the rise of
Pell Grants to the cost of living by
indexing it to the consumer price
index.
See WARREN, Page 7

WEATHER HI: 65
TOMORROW LO:47

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGAN DAILY.COM
Coco returns to primetime cable on TBS.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS....
Vol. CXX, No. 128 SUDOKU.,.
2010 The MichiganDaily OPINION..
michigandaily.com

..............2 A RT S ....................................5
...... 3 C LA SSIFIEDS ......................6
. . 4 SPORTS.................

r r To learn more and get started
Do your Federal Taxes online for Hre'how itt0orks onlinenowgoto
SAccurate calculations guaranteed
with Block At Home" and $4.95 per State Return. step-by-stepguidance
Automatically double check for errors teR H&R BLOCK

*

f


- Tuesday, April 13, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Professor Profiles Before You Were Here
Teaching to overcome

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

When Don Lowell Fisher, he is a quadriplegic due to
associate professor of ana- the autoimmune disease and
tomical science, was first he's exempted from research
diagnosed with multiple requirements because of his
sclerosis in 1978, after only disability, Fisher still con-
six years of teaching and tinues to teach and publish
research at the University, he books and articles,
didn't retire but instead saw Fisher attended under-
the silver lining for his stu- graduate and graduate school
dents. at Brigham Young Univer-
"I decided that if I'd quit sity. He went on to receive his
it'd be a terrible waste of a Ph.D. in experimental embry-
superb education," Fisher ology and pathology from the
said. "My MS has not affect- University of Minnesota in
ed my memory. The only 1971.
major problem is just that I Fisher has received a
speak a little slower - and number of teaching awards,
actually, the students find it including the Kaiser Perma-
easier to take notes. I enjoy nente Award, the most pres-
teaching." tigious teaching award given
More than 30 years later, by the University's Medical
Fisher is now 68 and still School. Fisher retired from
teaching anatomy to medical active faculty status in 2007,
and undergraduate students but he continues to teach
at the University. Though anatomy classes.

According to Fisher, the
most important lesson he
tries to teach his students
is not to allow a disability to
hold them back.
"The severely handicapped
are not useless," Fisher said.
"You do whatever you want to
do with your handicap. Even
though I'm handicapped, I4
can still triumph."
Though Fisher said he
enjoys his time with his stu-
dents, he said his family is
also very importantto him.
"I've been married for 42
years. I have four children,
two boys, two girls," Fisher
said. "They all graduated
from Brigham Young Uni-
versity with a 3.9 GPA. They,
really surprised their father!
They are all married, and I TOREHN SHARMAN/Daily
have 16 grandchildren." Professor Don Fisher, who has multiple sclerosis, teaches anatomy to students at the
-ROBINVEECK University Medical School.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor is Chief Business Manager
734-647-3338 734-764-n55a
smitovitz@michigandailyeaom tmdbuainesa@genaitcem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:sun.-Thurs. iia.m. -2 am.
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaity.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com

*I

Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

display@michigandaily.com
classifed@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Student found in $18 in speakers Stress and the
grass, given MIP stolen at hospital I human brain


WHERE: Bus shelter,
Bonisteel Blvd.
WHEN: Sunday at 3:15 a.m.
WHAT: An intoxicated male
student was reported laying in
the grass near the bus stop at
Pierpont Commons, University
Police reported. The student
was cited for an MIP and taken
to the University Hospital.
Wallet swiped in
computer lab
WHERE: Art and Architecture
Building
WHEN: Saturday at 1 p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
her wallet was stolen from a
computer lab on the second
floor, University Police report-
ed. There are no suspects.

WHERE: 1500 East Medical
Center
WHEN: Sundayat about 8:30
a.m.
WHAT: Stereo speakers val-
ued at $18 were stolen from the
University Hospital, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.
Plasma TV taken
from lobby
WHERE: Northwood Com-
munity Center
WHEN: Monday at 2 a.m.
WHAT: A Plasma TV was
stolen from the Northwood
Community Center lobby, Uni-
versity Police reported. There
are no suspects.

seminar
WHAT: A seminar by profes-
sors on how stress is damaging
to the human brain and the
social environment of humans.
WHO: Robert Wood
Johnson Health and Soci-
ety Scholars Program
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m
WHERE: Henry F. Vaughan
School of Public Health
Building1, Rm. 1655
Dental offices
through the
years on display
WHAT: An exhibit showcas-
ing Dental Operatories from
the 1860's through the 1930's.
WHO: School of Dentistry
WHEN: Today 8a.m. to
5 p.m.
WHERE: Dental and
W.K. Kellogg Institute


Discussion of
trends in nursing
workforce
WHAT: A lecture on the
decrease in nurses over
the years and how this
could affect public health
and the future of the nurs-
ing practice. Speakers
will discuss recent trends,
research priorities and
future initiatives. Pre-
registration is required at:
www.mitrainingcenter.org.
WHO: Office of Public
Health Practice
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Palmer Com-
mons, Great Lake Room
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Chinese scientists have dis-
covered a wayto use arsenic
to find and kill certain pro-
teins that keep blood cancers
alive in the blood. According
to Reuters, arsenic has never
been researched using mod-
ern Western technology until
Health Minister Chen Zhu and
his team used it in their project
and made the discovery.
Michigan was awarded $5
million in federal stimu-
lus money to train electri-
cal power workers.
>>FORMORE, SEEOPINION, PAGE4
Certain schools across the
nation believe that femi-
nism and Women's Stud-
ies programs interfere with the
study of men, according to The
New York Times Online. This
has led to the establishment of
the new Men's Studies Founda-
tion which promotes studying
the nature of men - and not just
women - in the classroom.

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
lillian Berman ManagingNews Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIORN cWs aTORS kNoe Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
SsoEsvhwarehiunavukiaras
ASSSTnA' NiWS EDTOsvnisbyi, ErynFitzgrald, Joseph Lichterman,
Veronica enaldsi~i,Anie Thomas,evo horsby, trlsna ig
RachelVan Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
Veith
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGEEDITORS:MichelleDeWitt,AlexSchiff,MatthewShuter
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns,G Gin Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Jamie Blck ManngingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, JeffSanford
SEDITORS:LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,Ema cszkeMikuyt,
c,,i Svskhar essdsr
MaxCollins and photo@mciandailycome
Sam~olsun ManagingePhotocditors
SENIOR wHT vLT DIA:ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Ariel Bond
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Aaron Augsburger, JakeFromm, MarissaMcClain,
Jed Moch
Sarah Squire and design@michigandaily.com
AnnatLein-Zielinski Managicn esigncEditos
SENIOR DESIGN EDIT OR: AlisonGhamandtr
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com .
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Sales Manager
MAK^ IN MANAGER:Michael Shrotenboer
RyanaBusinski ClassifiedManager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Jason Mahakian ProductionManager
Allison SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian LeeFinanceManager
Brittany Morales circulationManager
Brad WileyProjectcoordinator
The Michigan Daily (issN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during theefall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan.Oneopy is avaibliifree of charge toll
readers. Additionai copiesmay bepicked upat theDailysofficefor$ 2.Subscriptionsilifotellterm,
startinginseptember,viOU.S.malare$110.intertermJanuarythroughAprilis$11,syearlong
(September through Aprilis $195.University affiiatesaresubject toareducedsubscriptionrate.
n-campussubscriptiosforfalltermare$3s.ubscriptonsmtb.hepadTeMichiganDaly
is a merofsThe Assscited Pess ad Tessoiated Colegite Pess.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more onne at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


WANT TO WRITE FOR NEWS?
Send an e-mail to berman@michigandaily.com
to get started.

0

Are You Considering a Career in Health?
Consider the advantages of earning a
Master of Public Health (MPH) degree at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is offering
an exciting opportunity to become a public health professional
specializing in the prevention and control of disease,
particularly chronic disease.
Health and health-related industries are among the fastest-
growing in the nation, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, and those holding Master of Public Health degrees are
needed in a wide variety of health careers.
Our MPH degree provides intensive education and training in
public health approaches to prevention. Applications are now
being accepted for the MPH program's Fall 2010 semester. For
more information, visit our website:

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com'

Tuesday, April 13, 2010 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, April 13, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
MORGANTON, Ga.
Navy plane crashes,
three dead, one
missing
A Florida-based Navy plane just
missed a house and crashed in
dense woods in north Georgia on
yesterday, killing three crew mem-
bers, and authorities were looking
for a fourth person believed to be
aboard, officials said.
Naval Air Station Pensacola
spokesman Harry White said
authorities have not confirmed
whether the pilot was among those
killed when a T-39N training plane
went down at 4:26 p.m. No one on
the ground was injured, he said.
The plane was part of Training
Air Wing6, which conducts routine
cross-country missions through
Fannin County, where it crashed,
about two hours north of Atlanta,
on the edge of the North Carolina
and Tennessee borders, White said.
Searchers found three bodies. The
twin-jet plane can carry two pilots
and seven passengers, according to
a Navy Web site.
PROVIDENCE, R.I.
Brown student
claims he was
wrongly expelled
for an alleged rape
A former Brown University stu-
dent alleges in a lawsuit unsealed
yesterday that he was removed
* from campus more than three years
ago after being falsely accused of
rape by the daughter of a major
donor and fundraiser for the Ivy
League school.
William McCormick III and his
parents say university adminis-
trators gave him a one-way ticket
home to Wisconsin after he was
accused of rape in the fall of 2006.
McCormick alleges the school
never told the police about the rape
allegations and accepted them as
true without doing an investiga-
tion.
The lawsuit says the father of the
accusing student is a Brown alum-
nus who has "donated and raised
very substantial sums of money,"
_ was in regular contact about the
allegations with school administra-
tors and contacted university presi-
dent Ruth Simmons directly.
JERUSALEM
* Israeli hospital to
be constructed over
graves
Israel's prime minister has
* decided a new emergency room for
a hospital near Gaza will be built on
its original site, despite the discov-
ery of graves there.
Benjamin Netanyahu reversed
an earlier decision by his Cabinet
to move the new facility more than
100 meters away because of the
ancient pagan graves.
Yesterday's announcement is
sure to win praise from doctors.
They warned that if rockets hit
Ashkelon again, the trip from a sep-
arate emergency room to Barzilai

Hospital could be fatal. Ashkelon,
a southern coastal city of 100,000,
has been hit often.
But this could spark political
trouble. An ultra-Orthodox Jewish
partyin Netanyahu's ruling coalition
* had originally insisted on the move.
There was no immediate comment
from the party, whose leader serves
as deputy health minister.
PARIS
* French TV
broadcasts Taliban
hostage pleas
French television station bowed
yesterday to Taliban demands and
broadcast pleas from two French
journalists held captive in Afghan-
istan who are facing the threat of
death unless a prisoner-hostage
swap is worked out.
French officials declined to
comment on the threat and said
they were consulting with the
relatives of the two journalists
who were captured in December
in Afghanistan while covering
Prance's military presence north-
*east of Kahul.
The Talihan circulated a video
statement hy the hostages that
was posted on an Islamist Web
site on Sunday, according to the
SITE Intelligence Group that
monitors extremist communica-
Stions. It demanded a French TV
broadcast of the comments and
said three months of negotiations
had failed.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama names
picks to replace
Justice Stevens

Russian officials and investigators work near the wreakage of the Polish presidential plane that crashed Saturday just out-
side the Smolensk ariport in western Russia.
Officials Sa human error
may have caused Polish
presidential plane crash

Montana Judge
Sidney Thomas
a new name among
Obama's options
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama's candidates
for the Supreme Court include a
new name, federal appeals court
Judge Sidney Thomas of Montana,
and at least six others who were
contenders when Obama chose his
first high court nominee last year,
The Associated Press has learned.
Among the others under con-
sideration are former Georgia
Chief Justice Leah Ward Sears,
federal appeals court judges Diane
Wood and Merrick Garland, Solici-
tor General Elena Kagan, Michi-
gan Gov. Jennifer Granholm and
Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano.
The president is seriously
reviewing about 10 people as a
potential nominee to replace Jus-
tice John Paul Stevens, who is retir-
ing this summer.
Seven of those names are now
confirmed to the AP by the admin-
istration.
A senior administration official
said the president's consideration is
not just centered on the three peo-
ple receiving the most public atten-
tion: Wood, Kagan and Garland.
The official spoke on condition of
anonymity because no announce-
ments have been made about the
people Obama is considering.
Thomas, 56, of Billings, Mont.,
serves on the 9th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals, the largest of the
nation's appellate courts. He was
nominated to the federal bench in
July 1995 by then-President Bill
Clinton and confirmed by the Sen-
ate in January 1996, with no con-
troversy, in a voice vote.
He comes from Western roots -
born in Bozeman, Mont., bachelor's
degree from MontanaState Univer-
sity, law degree from the Univer-

sity of Montana. Thomas worked
in private practice in Billings and
was an adjunct community college
law professor there for years before
becoming a federal judge.
The White House yesterday
quickly ended speculation about
another potential nominee: Secre-
tary of State Hillary Rodham Clin-
ton. Her named had been floated as
a possibilityby Sen. Orrin Hatch of
Utah, but White House press secre-
tary Robert Gibbs said Obama "is
going to keep her as his secretary
of state."
Obama's list includes three
people whom he interviewed as
finalists when the court had an
opening last year - Wood, Kagan
and Napolitano. The president ulti-
mately nominated federal Judge
Sonia Sotomayor to replace retir-
ing Justice David Souter. She was
later confirmed in a 68-31 vote by
the Senate.
With his second nomination in
less than a year, Obama is in a far
different position this time.
He has the experience of having
gone through a successful search,
and a ready-made listofnamesfrom
that effort. But administration offi-
cials say Obama is also intent not to
rely onthe candidates from lastctime
and that new ideas are in the mix,
cautioning about an over-reliance
on conventional wisdom.
So far, most of the known can-
didates under Obama's review are
familiar within Washington's polit-
ical and legal circles.
As for Thomas, an individual
who answered the phone at his
chambers in Billings said he was
not in town on Monday and a mes-
sage was notimmediately returned.
Attorneys who know him well
described him as an independent
thinker.
The sprawling 9th Circuit,
based in San Francisco, is widely
perceived as liberal. But Ber-
nard "Bud" Longo, a conservative
Republican and a former law part-
ner with Thomas, said that label
does not apply to Thomas.

Russia maintains
plane had no
technical problems
WARSAW, Poland (AP) - Rus-
sian investigators suggested
human error may have been to
blame in the plane crash that
killed the Polish president and
95 others, saying yesterday there
were no technical problems with
the Soviet-made plane.
The Tu-154 went down Saturday
while trying to land in dense fog
near a Smolensk airport in west-
ern Russia. All aboard were killed,
including President Lech Kaczyn-
ski and dozens of Polish political,
military and religious leaders.
They had been traveling in the
Polish government-owned plane
to attend a memorial in the nearby
Katyn forest for thousands of Pol-
ish military officers executed 70
years ago by Josef Stalin's secret
police.
The pilot had been warned of
bad weather in Smolensk, and
was advised by traffic controllers
to land elsewhere - which would
have delayed the Katyn obser-
vances.
He was identified as Capt.
Arkadiusz Protasiuk, 36, and the
co-pilot as Maj. Robert Grzy-
wna, 36. Also in the cockpit were
Ensign Andrzej Michalak, 36, and
Lt. Artur Zietek, 31.
In Warsaw, there was concern
the pilots may have been asked by
someone in the plane to land at
Smolensk instead of diverting to
Minsk or Moscow, in partto avoid
missing the ceremonies.
Polish Prosecutor General
Andrzej Seremet said Polish
investigators talked to the flight
controller and flight supervisor
and "concluded that there were
no conditions for landing."
"The tower was advising
against the landing," Seremet said.
The plane was equipped with
an instrument landing system,
or ILS, said Col. Wieslaw Grze-
gorzewski of the Polish Defense
Ministry.

"I can confirm the pilots were
preparing for landing without the
ILS system," he said. "The airport
didn't have the ILS system."
Russian media reports said the
Smolensk airfield is a former mili-
tary air base that lacks equipment
for automatic landings.
The business daily Kommer-
sant said yesterday that about
50 military personnel maintain
the airport which is used only
sporadically for official visits. It
said the airfield has no perma-
nent traffic controllers, and they
are brought from the city of Tver
when it's necessary.
Kommersant also said that
that the pilots had been informed
about the bad weather in the area
while the plane was still over
Belarus, but the captain said he
would see conditions for himself
and then make a decision.
Polish investigators said they
will listen tothe cockpitconversa-
tions recorded on the black boxes
to see if there were "any sugges-
tions made to the pilots" from
other people aboard the plane.
Other Russian officials said the
pilots were offered the chance to
landin Moscow, MinskorVitebsk,
but they chose Smolensk, despite
four failed attempts before the
fifth and fatal approach.
Polish media reported in
August 2008 that pilots flying
Kaczynski to Tbilisi refused the
president's order to land there
because of the country's war with
Russia, diverting instead to Azer-
baijan.
In remarks on Russian tele-
vision, Deputy Prime Minister
Sergei Ivanov told a government
meeting including President
Dmitry Medvedev that the data
recorders on the plane were found
to have been completely func-
tional, which will allow a detailed
analysis.
"It is reliably confirmed that
warning of the unfavorable
weather conditions at the North
airport and recommendations to
go to a reserve airport were not
only transmitted but received by
the crew of the plane," he said.

Russian investigators have
almost finished reading the flight
recorders, said Alexander Bas-
trykin, Russia's chief investigator.
"The readings confirm that
there were no problems with
the plane, and that the pilot was
informed about the difficult
weather conditions, but neverthe-
less decided to land," Bastrykin
said during a briefing with Rus-
sian Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin in Smolensk.
The wreckage will remain on
site through midweek to speed
the investigation, Russian Deputy
Transport Minister Igor Levitin
said.
In Warsaw, the acting presi-
dent, Bronislaw Komorowski,
moved yesterday to start appoint-
ing replacements for the many
posts left vacant in the presiden-
tial office. He appointed a retired
general, Stanislaw Koziej, as new
National Security Bureau chief,
and said the first task he was set-
ting him was a review of the rules
for travel of top military officials.
Both Russia and Ukraine
declared a day of mourning yes-
terday, as Poles struggled to come
to terms with the tragedy that
eliminated so many of their gov-
ernment and military leaders.
Tens of thousands watched as
Kaczynski's body, returned Sun-
day to Warsaw, was carried in a
coffin by a hearse to the presi-
dential palace. His twin brother,
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the former
prime minister, was present.
Adam Bielan, an aide to Jaro-
slaw, said the two brothers spoke
briefly Saturday morning when
the president called his twin just
before the plane crash to say they
would be landing soon.
At U.N. headquarters in New
York, the U.N.'s blue and white
flag flew at half-staff Monday in
Kaczynski's memory.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban
Ki-moon expressed his "most
profound condolence at such a
tragic passing away of President
Lech Kaczynski, with whom I
have been working very closely,
especially on climate change."

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
CoronalSol/NodellaPacifico Specials All Hght
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25% Off Aexican Fare All With NO COVER
310 Ma nard SI-To Go Orders 734.995.0100 -Neof 10he Ma ard Parkin Siraclore

I

WHAT
GOES
HR

The Michigan Daily
Advertising Design
Department is hiring
a Layout Designer.
Applicants should have a knack for
spacial relationships and a distinct
attention to detail. Experience with
Adobe InDesign is a plus.
Begin this summer and work
a couple hours every weekday.
E-mail mahaklaj@umich.edu
EVEN
IflTEN

HHRW

I

Today's Career Tip:
Provide references with information about the position
you're seeking. This will assist them in framing their
recommendation in a way that is most helpful to you.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN





4 - Tuesday, April 13, 2010

90

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

c 1
4e fitlchiQan4:3a*lm

JACOB SMILOVITZ RAC
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDIT

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

The percentage of the public
that believes that the U.S. will be
attacked with nuclear weapons
by terrorists in the next 10 years.
- According to a poll by CNN/Opinion Research Corporation published yesterday.
BELLA SHAH E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU

0

HEL VAN GILDER
ORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Smart funding
Mich. must use smart grids to diversify its economy
T he state government is getting energized about electric-
ity. Michigan was recently awarded $5 million in federal
stimulus funds to train workers in the electrical power
industry. In addition to creating much-needed jobs, the program
has given the state the opportunity - and the resources - to arm
workers with the skills needed to modernize and update its out-
dated power system. These funds will allow Michigan to maxi-
mize its energy efficiency and will encourage the growth of new
environmentally friendly industries. The state should use the fed-
eral funds and the creation of the smart grid to kick-start its tran-
sition to a greener, more diversified economy.

hat iare ~a VakW Y4. 2.j'k, cu 51na
d G4nJ~sn s r d vmear *t44
. ? V & e
(Lv~~s blot 'inhretele , ..I'w d i- i
'p eoa ? * ntIars
(Ityt tsaht'#'
Making the most ofMichigan

Last week, the Obama administration
announced the $5 million award, which is
part of the 2009 American Reinvestment
and Recovery Act, more commonly known
as the stimulus plan. The grant is part of a
larger, $4 billion federal initiative to spur the
growth of "smart grids" across the country,
which refers to a broad set of improvements
to the electrical system. The program hopes
to eventually train 30,000 workers for 54
smart grid projects nationwide.
These initiatives will modernize Michi-
gan's electrical grid and improve its reliabil-
ity and efficiency. Home electrical systems
will be retrofitted to communicate with
energy suppliers, which will allow house-
holds to buy only the energy they need when
they need it. This will help homeowners save
money by avoiding using electricity during
the hours where energy use is at its peak.
And the smart grid will be able to determine
which appliances consume the most power
and automatically stop the flow of energy to
them when they aren't being used.
Smartgrids also encouragethe use of alter-
native energy. Consumers who equip their
homes with solar panels or, in more rural
areas, wind turbines will be able to power
their own homes and sell excess power back
to electrical companies through the smart
grid. These advancements will incentivize
consumers to both use energy efficiently as

well as contribute to the electrical grid in a
clean, environmentally friendly way.
But most importantly, this program
should help Michigan pull itself out of eco-
nomic crisis. With an unemployment rate
above 14 percent, according to the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics, Michigan badly
needs this opportunity. The program will
directly create jobs and retrain workers.
And it will also lay a framework for long-
term growth in the electrical sector that
will call for more jobs in the future.
And the effects of the program won't be
limited to the jobs it hopes to directly cre-
ate. Consumer's involvement in generating
energy will make them more aware of the
impact of their energy choices. Electrical
grid modernizations and improvements
will encourage the proliferation of other
energy-efficient innovations and catalyze
demand for solar panels and other means
of alternative energy generation. This
will draw alternative energy companies
to Michigan, creating even more jobs and
starting the growth of a new economic sec-
tor in the state.
It is clear that the smart grid will trans-
form the way people use and consume
energy. But the state shouldn't overlook
the opportunity to use such innovations to
shape a sustainable, diversified and green
economy.
SEND LET'rTERS To: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
grounded in solid evidence, best practices and
diverse student input and respect for the whole
community.
The second aspect is historical. It's important
to remember that the decision to create a smoke-
free campus is another step along a path of simi-
lar decisions made at this university dating back
to the mid-1980s.
The University first adopted a ban on smoking
in buildings (with exceptions for some residence
halls) and Universityvehicles in 1987. In 1998, the
University Health System prohibited smoking on
its grounds and in public spaces. Then in 2003,
the Residence Halls Association, a student-repre-
sentative organization, eliminated smoking from
all residence halls. Through these initiatives, stu-
dents, faculty and staff have asked for smoking
to be eliminated from more areas of the campus.
This, too, is an important form of input.
The University of Iowa and Indiana University
implemented smoke-free campus initiatives on
Jan. 1, 2008. Even campuses in states with sub-
stantial tobacco production, like the University
of Kentucky, have enacted similar policies.
I am completely confident we will have the
best-possible plan in place for this campus by
July 1, 2011. It will be an implementation plan
reflecting some of the best work of students, fac-
ulty and staff from across the entire University.
Simone Himbeault Taylor
Associate Vice President for Student Affairs
E -MAIL SIMON AT SIMKAL 0 UMICIL.EDJ

'm terrified to graduate.
It's not for fear of the unknown
or for worry about the future.
After all, I've
known since
August what I'm3
doing after gradu-
ation, which has -
made this year a lot
less stressful.
It's because I
can't stand good-
byes. And in addi-
tion to all the "last COURTNEY
times" that are RATKOAK
inevitable over
the next couple of
weeks, one of the
most depressing things about prepar-
ing to leave Ann Arbor is realizingthat
I've done almost everything on my
University of Michigan bucket list.
Many of the items on the list are
predictable University traditions,
ones that almost all students will have
experienced by the time they gradu-
ate. But others are more like goals -
set freshman year - that took a couple
of years to achieve. And even though
they may have been more difficult to
check off, they ended up being some of
my best memories at Michigan - and
should be on every student's list.
Run through the Michigan Stadium
tunnel. I stood on the Big House side-
lines for 15 home games in the past
two years and watched the end of the
game unfold a few feet away from me.
On our way back to the press box after
postgame interviews during each
of those Saturdays, my fellow Daily
football beat reporters and I walked
through the Michigan Stadium tun-
nel. But after this year's Delaware
State game, we decided to run.
Granted, I was in business casual
and high heels, not shoulder pads and
cleats. The stadium had maybe 500
people in it, not 110,000. And instead
of touching the GO BLUE banner and

storming into a maize-and-blue hud-
dle, we collapsed to the turf and stared
up at the sky. Despite the obvious dif-
ferences, running through the tunnel
that day was still the ultimate Michi-
gan experience.
Perform at Hill Auditorium. Of
course, "see a show at Hill Auditori-
um" is on everyone's bucket list - the
tradition of the acoustically perfect
concert hall is matched only by Burton
Tower, Yost Ice Arena and Michigan
Stadium. But no student should leave
Ann Arbor without being the one on
the stage, staring out at an audience.
.I was lucky enough to perform
at Hill three times in college while
playing the French horn in the Cam-
pus Band. Playing on the same stage
where talented artists like the New
York Philharmonic, B.B. King and
Bob Marley once stood is more than a
little humbling. Although I was in an
ensemble with non-music majors, Hill
Auditorium somehow makes everyone
feel like professionals. Even for those
who aren't music, theatre or dance-
inclined, it's worth it to walk into the
auditorium, stand on stage alone and
test the acoustics of the hall.
Celebrate St. Patrick's Day, Ann
Arbor style. I feel a little ridiculous
including this in the same column as
my first two items. But St. Patrick's Day
is truly Ann Arbor's Mardi Gras, and
no student should leave the University
without shirking all responsibilities for
one day to observe the holiday.
After three years of hearing about
people in green headbands, shirts,
socks and beads lining the streets
outside Ashley's starting at 4 a.m., my
friends and I finally decided to go all
out this year. We assembled a 30-per-
son group, went shopping for glittery
green St. Patrick's Day hats and sham-
rock socks, organized an itinerary and
started the marathon.
By the end of the day, two of the
people in our group - one from Chica-

go and the other from Kentucky, who
were both experiencing their first St.
Patrick's Day in Ann Arbor - said they
had never seen or heard about any-
thing like it in any other town. Stand-
ing outside the South University bars
before sunrise and finishing the day 17
hours later at an outdoor State Street
party was something we'd never
be able to do if we weren't 21- and
22-year-old college students - and
that's exactly why we wanted to do it.
Make your 'U'
experiences as
diverse as possible.

There are still a few more things
I'd like to do before the class of 2010's
May 1 deadline, like exploring the Uni-
versity's underground tunnel system
and ringingthe bells in Burton Tower.
(Considering that the underground
tunnels are rigged with motion sen-
sors and students have been arrested
for unlawful entry, I'm not sure if I'll
be able to pull that one off -unless the
University offers guided tunnel tours
that I haven't yet heard about.)
Though it's definitely satisfying
to check things off the list, the real
reason I've stayed so loyal to it is that
it's forced my friends and I to stop
thinking about those inevitable "last
times." Instead, we've been focused
on finding experiences that will keep
pushing us out of our comfort zones.
Because that, if anything, is what
going to college in Ann Arbor has
been - and should be - all about.
- Courtney Ratkowiak was the Daily's
managing editor in 2009. She can be
reached at cratkowi@umich.edu.

0

The smokinq ban initiative
includes student body's input
TO THE DAILY:
I'd like to address two important aspects of the
Smoke-Free University Initiative.
The first is student involvement. Since the ini-
tiative was announced one year ago, more than
1,500 students have told us what they think of
this effort. Many support the plan to take all
three University campuses smoke-free by July
1, 2011. Others have expressed concern about
knowing the boundaries of campus or how the
University will enforce the smoking ban.
This student feedback has been invaluable to
the Student Life Subcommittee (of which I am
chair), which is charged with exploring how the
smoke-free effort will affect students. The group
is now in the process of formulating its recom-
mendations for policy implementation. These
recommendations will be reviewed by students
to gather diverse feedback and perspectives.
Our 24-member subcommittee includes 12
students. Most of those students are connected
to other students through the organizations
they represent and reflect the varied opinions
on the initiative. Additionally, the subcommit-
tee has used focus groups and surveys to gather
additional feedback from students. Our group is
committed to making recommendations that are
SIMON BORST


HARSHA PANDURANGA I
Why we need Spitzer

Many of us know the story of Eliot's Spitzer's fall from the
top of the political ladder.After being linked to a high-priced
prostitution ring in 2008, he was forced to resign as the gov-
ernor of New York. Regardless of the hypocrisy unveiled by
the breaking of the news - as New York attorney general,
Spitzer led a task force in a prostitution ring bust - the sala-
cious scandal was a purely personal failing. He now works
at his father's real estate firm and making appearances on
television from time to time.
But Spitzer's flaws don't challenge his credibility as an
effective politician nor do they represent a misuse of pub-
lic office. His immense knowledge of the financial system is
essential to policy makers at this critical juncture for regu-
latory reform in the industry. Spitzer's personal mistakes
shouldn't hinder the protection of the average American
taxpayer from the excesses of Wall Street.
Spitzer's reputation as "The Sheriff of Wall Street" is
well deserved. During his tenure as the attorney general of
New York, he utilized an obscure 1921 New York statute -
The Martin Act - to expose conflicts of interest within the
workings of ten of the top investment firms in the United
States. The companies agreed to pay fines in excess of one
billion dollars, representing a victory for the state against
the abuses of the financial industry.
Since he stepped down as governor, Spitzer has been
an outspoken critic of banks like Goldman Sachs "dou-
ble-dipping" into bailout money. In 2008, he questioned
the rescue of AIG not because of its profligate yet largely
irrelevant bonuses that occupied the public's attention, but
because it had been the insurer for financial institutions
that were already assisted by the government. Spitzer's
work made him a feared character on Wall Street and dis-
tinguishes him as the type of official currently needed to
help rein in the industry.
In addition to his track record as a successful financial
prosecutor, Spitzer's persona also makes him well suited to
have a role in the reform of the financial industry. He's arro-
gant, ambitious and shows no mercy as a prosecutor. His
arrogance has been apparent: in a private conversation with
a New York assemblyman who opposed his choices for state
comptroller, Spitzer said, "I am a fucking steamroller and I'll
roll over you or anybody else." He also quite harshly called
New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg "wrong on every
level" because of Bloomberg's opposition to his plan to issue

driver's licenses for illegal immigrants. Though these state-
ments may frame Spitzer as bigheaded and hot tempered,
they also allude to his toughness and imposing stature,
which are necessary to police the cutthroat business world.
Bearing in mind the recalcitrant tone the investment
banks have taken when it comes to atoning for their mis-
takes, these qualities are exactly what are needed for a
policymaker and regulator. Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd
Blankfein issued a vague apology for the crisis but refused to
take the blame for questionable business practices. One such
practice was the bank's unloading and subsequent shorting
of subprime mortgage securities - or betting on the secu-
rities' devaluation - to limit their exposure to the crisis
and create profits. Blankfein's apology surely requires a
"situational" sense of morality to understand, as banks were
simultaneously selling these securities to their clients. Per-
haps Spitzer could be a guns blazing sidekick for the meek
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to help him hold
Wall Street in check.
Spitzer also has a good work ethic. According to a Feb.
18 article in The New York Times, he "installed appointees
with substantial credentials and took a deep interest in their
work, peppering them with e-mailed policy questions in the
early-morning hours." Several state officials are quoted in
the article attesting to his responsiveness and engagement.
So while Spitzer was caught - in a personally and morally
reprehensible situation, no doubt - with a prostitute, he
never allegedly abused his authority to coerce a woman to
not press sexual assault charges on an aide like current New
York Governor David Paterson or left his state without an
executive for an Argentinean fling like South Carolina Gov-
ernor Mark Sanford. Spitzer's personal character flaws may
not make him a good role model, but they don't reflect on his
capacity as an effective policy maker or adviser.
The new regulatory legislation being discussed should
impose strict and logical regulations on the institutions that
contributed to the worldwide financial crisis and enforce *
them. Politicians should utilize all possible resources to
ensure the best outcome for the American economy. Now
is not the time for Spitzer to sit on the sidelines when he is
clearly qualified to be a top adviser to Congress or the U.S.
Treasury Department on matters of financial regulation.

et.
s osmso::::'
-/

Harsha Panduranga is an LSA sophomore.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty,
Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, adhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 13, 2010 - 5

'Country 'son

Jonathan Foer and my
meaty epiphany, part 2

Bob Dylan's kin does the
legend proud by artfully
combining genres
By EMMA GASE
Daily Arts Writer
He's a little bit country, and he's a little bit
rock'n'roll.
Though he may be known as the spawn of
the immortalized folk legend
Bob Dylan or as the frontman ****
of the Grammy-winning '90s
band The Wallflowers, Jakob Jakob Dylan
Dylan makes a new name for Women +
himself with the debut of his
newest solo album, Women Country
+ Country. In delving into Columbia
some deep country roots
(though he was born and raised in New York
and Los Angeles, respectively), Dylan finds a
new fagade. After 2008's Seeing Things, Dylan
shies away from his earlier folk tendencies and
explores a new land of
country music.
On Women + Coun-
try, Dylan teamed up
with two of alterna-
tive country's lead-
ing ladies, Neko Case
and Kelly Hogan, to
produce an "authen- V
tic" country album.
The soft background ~
vocals provided by the
two women as Dylan
croons about the sul-
try South give a softer
edge to Dylan's new
sound. Though he is
not learned in more
advanced southern Jakob + Bob= Kabob Dylan
stylings, Dylan takes
his listeners on a successful trip to The Big Easy
with jazzy horns on tracks like "Lend A Hand"
and "We Don't Live Here Anymore."
The record creates a saloon-like feel with
twangy guitars and rattlesnake percussion.
Women + Country steals sounds from the rus-
tic Wild West and the slow, bluesy Confederate
states alike.
The first single off this album, "Nothing But
the Whole Wide World" sets the record off by
introducing the listener to Dylan's new sound
right off the bat. Though the avid Jakob Dylan
fan may be a bit taken aback by the first track,
the pleasant and airy pairing of Dylan's and

Case's harmonies will ease the audience into
the rest of the record. Dylan muses: "Got noth-
ing but the whole wide, whole wide world to
gain." Though simplistic lyrics and melodies
crop up on this track, the album as a whole is
quite complexly produced.
Dylan digs the deepest into the bluegrass
roots with "They've Trapped Us Boys." He
reminisces about nights with the guys as he
sings: "Gentlemen where have we been / Ain't
goin' nowhere now / I'll let this bottle make
its rounds/ And this liquor settle down / Ain't
goin' nowhere now." Mischievous tales of
exciting southern nights are told with banjos
and toe-tapping, feel-good melodies.
With such a shadow of expectation cast
over him, Dylan tries to venture far from his
father's fame and create his own style. Still,
the apple doesn't fall too far from the tree. As
Dylan Sr. is well rounded in his musical choic-
es, the younger Dylan attempts to follow in his
father's footsteps by trying out new genres.
With Women + Country, Dylan attempts to
touch upon his Americana roots while having
both rocker and folk singer on his resum6 -
not too shabby.
Conversely, it's
somewhat confus-
ing as to why Dylan
would feel the need
to venture off into
diverse genres with
such success in
rock'n'roll. With no
real background in
the southern life-
style, how is it that
Dylan can gener-
ate such a realistic
sounding country
album? Somehow the
extremely talented
COURTESY OF COLUMBIA musician gracefully
. The more you know, slips into the country
world.
Though the album is not exactly what nor-
mal listeners might beused to, Dylan's artistry
shines through. With lyrics so convincing and
melodies so deeply embedded in country soil,
one could almost be fooled that Dylan is solely
a country musician.
Dylan takes a new path down a dirt road to
the countryside with Women + Country, but
one might not know what to expect next time
around from the famous offspring of one of
music's greatest artists. Who knows? Maybe
he'll venture into pop-punk-raver-disco next?
But let's all hope he sticks to his real roots -
producing great music.

lannery O'Connor, in her book
of essays titled "Mystery and
Manners," writes passionately
about chickens. Her chickens. One

of them, a "buff
Cochin Bantam,"
became renowned
for its ability to
walk both forward
and backward, and
a reporter soon
came to snap a
photo of it for the
printed page.
O'Connor began
to collect chickens
thereafter, a "mild

WHITNEY
POW

interest became a passion, a quest" and
she had to collect more and more of the
birds. She loved the oddly colored ones,
the ones with the strangely shaped
combs, the ones with the too-long
necks. One in particular she named
Colonel Eggbertmade and she sewed
for him a "white pique coat with a lace
collar and two buttons in the back."
We don't seem to know chickens as
well as we could, there being a junc-
ture between oven-roasted "chicken"
and walking, chirruping "chickens."
O'Connor knew the names and breeds
of the chickens she interacted with
and they likely fed her through egg or
through flesh. To know and respect
these animals is a choice, and it is
this juncture that I have been try-
ing to mend with the realization that
I cannot kill the animals I eat, even
while I know that I am consuming the
bodies of animals that once walked.
Guilty feelings sweep up in me when
I see that I have had a choice to mend
or leave gaping this cognitive chasm
between killed animals and meat - a
choice with which Jonathan Safran
Foer confronts us in his book "Eating
Animals."
There is a play on words in the title
of Foer's book, too, and with the words
"Eating Animals" we are given a rela-
tive choice on how to view the name
itself.,It's easy to assume at first glance
that the title alludes to the act of con-
suming animals, the choices concerned
with it and the guilt associated with
re-assessing what you eat because, as
vegans, vegetarians and other diet-

conscious people insist, a hamburger is
a choice. Turning the phrase around in
the second half of the book, Foer insists
that we are irrevocably, unchangingly,
eating animals - animals who eat.
Alternatively, we don't really have a
choice on this matter. We are given
bodies and stomachs, and we must use
them to survive.
Foer writes about visiting a pig
slaughterhouse where he watches pigs
herded to be shot in the head - some
wait calmly in line while some lie
on their sides on the muddy ground,
shaking and convulsing due to cardiac
arrest and stress. In the middle of this
horrific scene, a worker offers him
a "sample." She arrives clutching a
plate piled high with ham. Foer insists
"Something deep inside me ... doesn't
want the meat inside my body. For me,
that meat is not something to be eaten."
We are all, in
essence, "eating
animals."
And still, one line down, he amends
himself, "And yet something deep
inside me does want to eat it."
Foer confronts us with a choice in
eating, but at the same time, we don't
have that choice. As I've been reading
more and more about the food I con-
sume, it seems like there's a great deal
of suffering that comes pre-packaged
with everything I eat. Eggs, milk and
meat can be produced by unsavory
factory-farming processes and slaugh-
tering methods. Fruit, vegetables and
grains can be grown under unfair labor
practices and unhealthy pesticide usag-
es. The only way to avoid this guilt is to
grow my own vegetables and raise my
own chickens, which I resolve to do.
The distinction and choice between
"chicken" and "chickens" is different
when you grow up with them - you
see the way they walk, cluck, huddle,
strut and then disperse when you walk
into a straw-lined pen of them. One
thing that was striking to me as I grew

up raising chickens was how, when
I went into the coop to gather eggs
every morning, I would find several
eggs sitting in clumps of bedding, each
bigger than my small fist - it was only
when I brought them back home that I
realized, in comparison to the "extra-
large" eggs bought at the supermarket,
that these eggs were substantially big-
ger. The chickens' eggs wouldn't even
fit in the empty egg cartons bought
from the store, their round bottoms
propped over the cup of the carton.
The chickens were happier, with the
gratuitous amount of feed we would
fling around the chicken coop area,
and about five chickens would have
the space to walk in a pen the size of
the room Ilive in currently. But a great
deal of chicken we eat barely sees those
conditions, their bodies genetically
engineered to basically starve while
producing the greatest amount of eggs
possible in their short lifespans.
Natalie Portman read "Eating
Animals" and wrote in an essay for
the Huffington Post that the book
turned her from a vegetarian into a
vegan activist, pushing her to cut out
the dairy and egg products that had
previously been staples in her diet
and promote the idea of awareness of
meat. The idea of the testimonial here
is interesting too, as Foer's website for
the book consists mainly of forums in
which readers share their reactions to
the book and how they have refined
their ways of thinking about meat.
The community found in groups
of people coming together not eating
something is strangely ironic - it is
a revised Norman Rockwell painting
for the 21st century, where the center-
piece around which the family gathers
lacks the 25-pound turkey or the out-
rageously large ham hock, where we
are united instead by a willing aware-
ness of the practices put into making
meat and the practices of consuming
it. I am an eating animal - I have no
choice on the matter. If I choose to eat
animals, however, it will be done with
purpose.
Pow is thinking about diving into
a KFC Famous Bowl. To talk her out
of it, e-mail poww@umich.edu.

n.


HPV Fact :

About

f 3 people wil get

genital warts after having any kind of
Ct with someone infected.
HPV Factvt
You have to actually have, six

to get

the virus that causes

: i
h ,

Why risk it
Visit your campus health center.

+ MERCK
Copyright0t2010 Merck & Co, Inc.
All rights reserved. Printed in USA.

21050004(40)-01/10-GRD



6 - Tuesday, April 13, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
! ! 4 BDRM. CONDO ! !
Aug 2010. North campus. FREE utils.,
A/C, idry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV, FREE Internet. $659/person/mo.
Call 313-838-2629.
! AVAILABLE MAY & Fall. Stu-
dios, one and two bedroom apartments
located on U/M Campus. Heat, water,
and prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty,
734-662-5500 or www.michcmrealty.-
com for more info.
!FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
11. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walkttovdowntown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevatrs, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4eevenlofts.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished twoAbedroom.
Close ta U/ campus. A/C, dib-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call734-944-2405.
!! NEW LISTING Avail Fall 2010!!
721 Church- Unfurnished I bedroom
apartment. Quiet atmosphere. Great lo-
cation, 1 block from South University,
near B-School & Education School,
hardwood floors, free heat, free water,
free parking. Laundry.
Call Ann 320-1244 or visit our web-
site www.churchstreetrentals.com
!! ROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!!REDUCED RATES!!!
Apartments Going Fast.....
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Only 1 or 2 remaining of each!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-5000 primesh.com
*Varies by location.
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarbrapartments.net
$$$$$$$$$$$$ SAVE A TON OF
CASH $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
Leasing is almost completed. Remain-
ing apartments have been
REDUCED & are NEGOTIABLE for
fall move in. Don't
delay and miss out on the best off cam-
pus housing!
Call today for an appt. to see 761-8000.
primesh.com
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL:
514 Lawrence- 6 bdrm house. Price
just reduced. $2,695. 2 bath, free high
speed internet, easy access to central
campus, nursing, medical. and dental
schools. D/W and laundry. Parking
available. Call Campus Mgt. 734-663-
4101.

fl'sU niv:ri ty
Think outside the Box (dorms)
Think U. Towers
Affordable Apartments
Hurry in for Best Selection
Right now we have a few apartments
atVery Special Low Rates
*call for more details
Visit us at
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home away from home
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1499/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdes
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$1999/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by April
15th. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.
1 OR 2 drm apts avail. U of M
discount!dSpectacular NorthMCampus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS frtm West &
South Quad. Furnisled, FREE seat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
315 EAST LIBERTY Apartments and
lofts. Completely remodeled. Great lo-
cation. Day phone: 734-662-7888,
Evening Phone (after 5:30): 734-995-
2433.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all utill5.
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
809 SOUTH DIVISION Avail. Fall
'10- 4 bdrm, I bath. Lndry prkg dish-
washer incl. $2150/mo 810-225-9351.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE intemet. HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.anarborapartnents.net
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.

www.varsitymanagement.com

6250ChurchSt. (734) 668-1100
THANK YOU RESIDENTS!
Varsity Management has been
Voted Best Landlord
20101
Studios -4Bedrooms available for fall
lease, come see why weare # 1
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
Hurry infor Best Selection
Right now we have a few apartments at
Very Special Low Rates
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home awayfrom home
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, Ml 48160
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
8028 Fuller - Prices jut reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to tursing, dental and medical
schtools, easy access In central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
heat, water and parking included. Call
Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
eluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms apts Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.imsprop.com
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
EFFICIENCIES- 4 BEDROOM
apartment. Fall 10-11. Most include
heat and water. Limited parking avail-
able. Cappo/Deinco 734-996-1991.
www.cappmanagement.com
" Broadview Apartments
*Spacioust -bedroomapartments
*Spacious 2 bedrooms with master bath
Shutle around campus
" Large private balconies
with wooded views
Pets welcome-
",1 letsls Open Daily
r 741-9300
.J (EXTENDED HOURS)
www.annarborapartnents.net
FALL 2010 ! I bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
FALL BIG HOUSE at South U. and
Elm. 7 big rooms, 3 full baths, 2 kitch,
prkg and ]dry. 8 month lease possible,
make offer 734-260-4003.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at

michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeMantagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@usnich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
I & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
HUGE 5 BDRM/2 Bath house, 820 W.
Huron, all appliances, laundry, semi-
furnished, parking, 5 min walk down-
town. Hidden GEM. $1900/mo. Avail
now, Sept 2010. 734-255-7427.

P RE SSENT S T H E
Online leasfed
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
SPACIOUS 5 BRDM APT for Fall.
Central Campus, a/c, free prkg & Indry.
734-665-2723, shatiger@homail.com
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Canmpus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelevable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
STUDIO APARTMENT FOR
RENT. 22nd floor. Tower Plaza
Condominium. Contact 248-444-5543.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties fr sale in the area.
www.ISeltA2.com 734-476-9768
*****AVAIL FOR FALL 119 E.
Liberty. Lg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft.5
min walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
x$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilities!
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734.662.4414 www.icc.coop,
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
Avail. 9/1/10 William & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AD
VER
TISE

WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

SUBLETS
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is leaking for sealthy women
between the ages of 21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 for their involvement
in our program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
College Pro is now hiring painters to
work outdoors with other students.
$3000-5000 advancement opportuni-
ties. 888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeonca.iserv.net

BUSINESS CHINESE: LEARN Busi-
ness Chinese 8 credits or Chinese in
Chinese Business Law 5 credits
Summer Program in Beijing
www.studyabroad-china.org

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520x 125.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
AA COUPLE (UM grads) seeks sum-
mer care for 2 fun kids, age 7 & 8.
4 dys/wk, 7am-5pm (Fri off), begin
6/21. Previous child-care experience
pref, dependability very important.
Please contact Joan at halljc@trinity-
health.org or 734-662-3047.
AA INTERNET FANTASY Sports
Co seeks student programmer. F/T sum-
mer, P/T fall/winter. Must know C,
Linux. support@onroto.com
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.YouDriveAds.com
EARN UP TO $4,000 weekly promot-
ing college parties in downtown De-
troit. Must have experience. Great op-
portunity for greek org, or entrepreneur.
redhawkllc@gmail.com 734-335-0702
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. IUdercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.

WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

52 53
55 56 57 58
63 64
66 67
69 70

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 "Star Wars" 40 Like some tough 53 Shuts tight
1 Fuzzyfruit surname? tests 54 Recede
5 Royal headgear 6 Where to find 41 Org. for drivers 56 Quiche base
11 "..._an ill cook three men? 42 Tach no. 57 Pinball foul
thatIcannot lick 7 Firm pro: Abbr. 43 "Decorates" with 59 Ring out
his own fingers": 8 CCLI x II bathroom tissue, 60 Joe
"Rmneo and 9 Earth Day su. for short 61 Depict in a
Juliet" 10 List aftpiont 48 Nag spice biased way
14 Viking war god 11 Island from which 47 New Yrk tribe, 64 Bovine hellow
15 Draw in the Bounty sailed cityor lake 65 Wall St. exec's
16 Pictures on the 12 Attach, as a 48 pageant winners' degree
wall patch Peant NFLtrs' seg e
17 Manhattan rail 13 Able-bodied wear 88 NFL whittle
huh 18 18-yr-a d high 49 Tried to rip open blower
19 Vert. opposite schoolers, ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Loseasupport usually
21Gbad 23deal LE A S H M A T A ETCH
22 Ida of Hollywood 25 What's-her-name I N N I E O S I S S O A R
24 "The March King" 26 Car bar B A G G Y P ANTS S O P S
27 British boarding 28 AOL rival B U N I T A L P A L S
school 29 Barbary beast I L L EST P E G G Y S U E
28 First name in 30 Relative of Juan
spydom 31 Rap sheet DEADEYE EASE LS
32 Mattresssupport listings A D R U M GOO N T E A
35 Likemany 33 Former Cubs P I G G Y B A N K
ntebooks slugger R E G R O L O ( R E S T
39 CheU hed Frederik E R O I C A EAT ! N T O
44 Hi-tech greeting 36 The Coasters' F 0 G G Y 0 A Y R E S C U E
45 Dogpatch record label T END R O A M P O D
cartoonist (coincidentally, all Z I T I B U G G Y R I D E S
46 "Hold your itsulettersappear I C E T O B I E S E E N O
horses!" in their name) G A M E P ASS A S S T S
50 Highland toppers 37 Bread knife
51 Partof BTU target xwordeditor@aol.com 04/12/10
52Fastpartner? a 4 a i a 10 11 12 13
55 Social semvite?
58 R.E. Lee follower 14 i5 16
59 Hef's party wear
62 Downed Russian 17 16t1
orbiter 2 1 2 2
63 1980s Nell Carter
sitcom, and a hint 24 25 2 27
to the puzzle
theme fund in 2 a2s 30 31 32 33 34
the ends at 17-,
32-, 39- and 46- 3s 3o 37 s
Across
67 Educator LeShan 3 a0 41 42 i3
68 Worldwide5
69 Gutter site
70 One of the states a rat as so
of matter
71 Summer ermines s1 52 53 54
72 Oedipus'
arrogance, e.g. 55 sen57 sd 59 06 01
DOWN 62 6 5 64 us no
1 "Keystone" 69
bunglers 85
2 Inventor's starting 70 71 72
point
3 Hospital section B
4 Quaint stopover n 20an c en- s4/13/110
(caunuva'bosoMediSericsrrk, Inc.

For Wednesday, April 14, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
Take a realistic look in the mirror.
What can you do to improve your
appearance? You never get a second
chance to make a first impression.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Today is the New Moon, which is an
excellent time to make resolutions. What
have you done recently to put the needs
of others before your own? (Think about
it.)
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Do you hang out with quality people?
Are you happy with your friends? If you
want to make friends, the answer is sim-
ple: Be friendly!
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Think about your life direction. Are
you headed in the direction that you
want to go? Today's New Moon is the
perfect time to give this serious consid-
eration.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
What further education or training
could enhance your life or improve your
job? This might be the best day of the
entire year to ponder this question.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 toSept. 22)
What can you do to improve how you
handle red-tape details? Are you current
with insurance issues, inheritances, wills.
and shared property?
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
For a relationship to be successful,
you must be as good for your partner as
he or she is for you. How do you rate
with this?

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
What can you do to improve your job
or your relations with employees, co-
workers or bosses? Today's New Moon
asks this question of you.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
It's important to stay in touch with
your playful side. All work and no play
simply make Jack's widow rich. How do
you express your creative talents?
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
This is the only New Moon all year to
best think about how you can improve
your family, your home and your rela-
tions with family members. Why not
write down three things?
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Today's New Moon urges you to strive
to be as clear as possible in all your com-
munications with others. In particular,
do you think you are understood when
talking to relatives and siblings?
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
This is the perfect day totake stock of
your money scene and your cash flow.
What's the picture? Do you know how
much comes in and how much goes out
every month?
YOU BORN TODAY You're full of
optimistic enthusiasm! You have enor-
mous drive. You're also very caring and
compassionate to those who are less for-
tunate. When it comes to your point of
view about things, you are very staunch!
Plus, your eagerness for results makes
you restless and, at times, impulsive!
Keep this in mind during the year ahead,
when an important choice awaits you.
Choose wisely.
Birthdate of: Adrien Brody, actor; Rod
Steiger, actor; Abigail Breslin, actress.

0

0
0

C 2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 13, 2010 - 7

Football Saturday bag ban to
be in effect at commencement

At vigil, Polish
community
shows support
for fallen leader

From Page 1
approve the University's plans for
security.
"So far, so good," Coleman said.
"There haven't been show stop-
pers, things that they've said
'absolutely not."'
Coleman said that a limiting
factor in the process could be
the security equipment that each
person will have to go through
in order to get into the stadium.
According to data from the Secret
Service, it took about five hours to
get everyone into their seats last
year at ASU, Coleman said.
She added that ASU reported
that they had everyone seated 40
minutes before the start of the
ceremony.
"We're trying to be very real-
istic with people," Coleman said.
"You have to get there early, you
have to be in your seat."
At yesterday's meeting, Sul-
livan discussed Obama's upcom-
ing visit to the University as well,
telling SACUA members that the
rules regarding bags on Football
Saturdays will be in effect and
that she hopes it will cut down
the time it takes to enter the Big
House. Currently visitors are pro-
hibited from bringing bags into
the stadium unless they are for
medical needs.
Sullivan also addressed the
issue of seating and placement in
the stadium.
"Another issue is that the
Secret Service, for very good rea-
son, is making a careful study of
the Big House, trying to figure out
if there are sections that should
be closed," Sullivan said.
Coleman said that it will be very
important for the community to
cooperate with University guide-
lines for the ceremony. Two years
ago when commencement was
held on the Diag due to renova-
tions at the Big House, it went of
without a hitch because attendees
REGENTS
From Page 1
$26 MILLION IN
CONSTRUCTION UNDER
CONSIDERATION
The regents are also expect-
ed to approve two construction
projects on the Medical Campus
and at the Institute for Social
Research at Thursday's meeting.
If approved, $23 million will be
used for an addition to the Insti-
tute for Social Research Building.
The project would be partially
financed with funds from the
American Recovery and Reinvest-
ment Act of 2009.
The project will build a four-
story addition that will add
WARREN
From Page 1
Chris Wolff, regional field direc-
tor for Organizing for America,
opened the event by discussing the
benefits of the overhaul, which he
said the group was able to achieve
due to the dedication of "amazing
volunteers" like those at the Uni-
versity.
Wolff introduced LSA sopho-
more Nina Bhattacharya - who
works with Organizing for Ameri-

ca - to discuss the benefits she and
students like her will reap from the
overhaul.
Bhattacharya said that for most
of high school she was part of a
"middle-class family living com-
fortably in the suburbs," but then
her dad was "suddenly laid off"
and her family was forced to live
off of her mom's salary from a part-
time job.
She added that things that
she used to take for granted like
appointments at the eye doctor or
dentist or her parents' medication
suddenly became a huge expense.
"When my dad lost his job, we
also lost our health insurance,"
Bhattacharya said.
Bhattacharya said that though
her father was a graduate of both
the University's School of Pub-
lic Health and the Ross School of
Business, he was still sending out
* resumes every day for 14 months
before he found another job. With
this in mind, Bhattacharya said she
applied only to in-state schools,
though she knew even attending
the University could be a struggle.
"The thought of putting the bur-
den of out-of-state tuition on my
parents didn't sit well with me,"
she said.
Though Bhattacharya was able
to get through her freshman year
pretty easily with the help of schol-
arships and loans, she said with

ANNA SCHULTE/Daily
University Provost Teresa Sullivan at the weekly meeting at Senate Advisory Cvmmitte an University Affairs yeterday.

listened to the instructions of Uni-
versity officials, Coleman said.
University officials are advising
those attending this year's com-
mencement ceremony to arrive to
the stadium early because of the
additional security. To help with
this process, University officials
announced last month that they
would start commencement at
11 a.m. - an hour later than they
originally planned - to make sure
attendees had enough time to get
through security.
And once inside the Big House,
Coleman told SACUA members
that there will be activities for peo-
ple to take part in while they are
waiting for graduation to begin.
"(We) hope the time will go fast
and of course we hope it doesn't
rain," she added.
Coleman said there will also be
free water available.
Before the ceremony, the
graduates will assemble on Elbel
Field, where there will be "good-

ies" and low-cost breakfast items,
Coleman said, adding that the
food will not be sold to make a
profit but only to cover costs. "We
want to make this a wonderful,
fun experience for everybody,"
she said.
In addition to discussing the
logistics for commencement, Cole-
man also discussed the process of
getting Obama to speak at gradu-
ation. Coleman told SACUA mem-
bers that during a trip to California
last week she answered questions
about how the University got
Obama to come to the Big House.
"Well we had the secret weap-
on and that's all these people in
the White House who are Michi-
gan alums," Coleman said.
"Now I'm just worried about
next year," Coleman added, jok-
ing with SACUA members who
suggested the Pope or Queen
Elizabeth as potential speakers
for next year.
One challenge that could

emerge at this year's commence-
ment is the limited availability
of parking, Coleman said, adding
that certain security barriers will
be in place around the stadium
that may not allow for all the
usual game-day parking areas to
be available.
However, Coleman said there
will be shuttles available for
attendees to get to the stadium
from remote parking areas.
"They have to get approval for
everything and I don't know that
they've gotten approval yet," she
said.
For those elderly family mem-
bers or those who don't want to
brave the crowds, Sullivan said
that some deans are planning to
broadcast the speech live on TVs
in certain areas on campus. The
ceremony will also be on the Big
Ten Network, on a University
webcast and on the University's
local television station, Sullivan
said.

From Page 1
neering senior Phil Grecki, secre-
tary of the Polish Club, said.
The event featured a record-
ing of the Polish national anthem,
and many in the crowd sang along
with the words projected onto the
screen.
After the national anthem,
Arendt invited several leaders
in the local Polish community to
speak, including Michael Olsize-
wski, a member of PAC-Ann
Arbor.
"These people were very dear
to us, but they also had a connec-
tion with Ann Arbor and with this
community," Olsizewski said, ref-
erencing Kaczynski's 1999 visit to
Ann Arbor.
Kaczynski visited Ann Arbor
before he became president of
Poland to participate in a con-
ference held by the University's
Center for Russian and Eastern
European Studies.
Ewa Malachowska-Pasek, a
lecturer in the Slavic Languages
and Literature department, spoke
after Olsizewski. She described
Kaczynski as a "controversial pol-
itician" whose death was none-
theless a loss for the European
Union as well as for Poland.
Malachowska-Pasek also
praised the "solidarity" and
"resilience" of all Poles in the
wake of their national tragedy.
PAC-Ann Arbor President
Wlodek Wielbut discussed the
implications of the plane crash,
which occurred in Russia's Katyn
forest not far from where the Pol-
ish military officials were killed in
WWII.
"There's the layer of irony, the

fact that this tragedy happened
on the 70th anniversary where
over 20,000 Polish officers were
murdered by Stalin's henchmen,"
Wielbut said. "So this cursed land
once again is soaked in Polish
blood."
Herbert Eagle, associate pro-
fessor of Slavic languages and
literature, discussed Kaczynski's
key role in Poland's Solidarity
movement - a non-communist
trade unionthat came about in the
1980s when Poland was a commu-
nist country heavily influenced by
the Soviet Union.
"Poland has just lost the flower
of its recent civic reawakening,"
Eagle said.
But Eagle stressed the impor-
tance of maintaining peaceful
relations between Poland and
Russia, though the countries'
relationship has traditionally
been strained.
"To reconcile differences
peacefully is the best thing we can
do to commemorate those who
died," he said.
Engineering junior Patryk
Mastela and LSA sophomore
Joanna Smulska, two members
of the Polish Club, then read the
names of all 96 plane crash vic-
tims aloud. A moment of silence
followed.
The event ended with a prayer
led by Father Dennis Dillan of St.
Mary's Student Parish, and a Pol-
ish prayer commonly spoken at
funerals.
"It really was a wonderful
event," Malachowska-Pasek said.
"Everybody was touched some-
how, because it was aimed at all of
us - especially the prayer at the
end. It was really very touching."


44,700 square feet to the building
and will renovate 7,200 square
feet of current building. The addi-
tion will result in new office and
research spaces, meeting areas
and safe data and biospecimen
storage.
The regents will also consider
using $3 million to improve the
pneumatic tube system - used
to send and receive patient docu-
ments between 120 stations in
the University of Michigan's
Health System - on the medical
campus.
The current pneumatic tube
system is 23 years old and the
controlling computer system is
outdated, making the service
unreliable. The upgraded service
will increase security and make
the response and delivery times

30 to 40 percent faster, Ora Pesco-
vitz, executive vice president for
medical affairs, and Timothy
Slottow, executive vice president
and chief financial officer for the
University, wrote in a letter to the
regents.
REGENTS TO CONSIDER
INCREASE IN PARKING FEES
The regents are expected to
approve a proposal to increase
parking rates by 3 percent annual-
ly over the next three fiscal years.
According to a regents com-
munication sent by Slottow, the
increase in revenue from the
higher parking rates will help pay
for the addition to the Thompson
Street Parking Structure and the
new Fuller Road Station.

The price of a Gold Permit
will increase from $1,443 in
2010 to $1,577 in 2013. Currently,
Blue Permits cost $611 but will
increase to $667 in 2013. Yellow
and Orange Permits will cost $153
and $76, respectively, in 2013, an
increase from their current prices
of $141 and $70.
The new rate for the Gold
Permits will remain consistent
with parking rates in city-owned
structures as determined by the
Ann Arbor Downtown Develop-
ment Authority.
The rate increases are meant
to encourage parkers to use the
remote Yellow and Orange Per-
mits, which are serviced by Uni-
versity buses, as opposed to the
on-site Gold Permits, Slottow
wrote in his letter to the regents.

have to cut through once they
GOOGLE FIBER were here."
From Page 1 Volunteers also collected
video endorsements from vari-
locations include the Michigan ous city government and eco-
cities of Grand Rapids, Lansing, nomic leaders in Grand Rapids
Birmingham, Detroit, Royal Oak and submitted them to Google,
and Kalamazoo. Google stated on Brand said.
its blog that it wishes to imple- Tremaine Phillips, member
ment a "fiber-to-the-home" con- of the economic development
nection in "a small number of organization Accelerate Lansing,
trial locations" throughout the said the capitol and surround-
country. ing municipalities submitted an
"We plan to offer service at application together.
a competitive price to at least In order to get the community
50,000 and potentially up to involved in the initiative, Phil-
500,000 people," the blog states. lips said a town hall meetingtook
According to a statement on place to discuss the network.
the Office of the Governor's web- A Facebook fan page was also
site, Jennifer Granholm met with established that has attracted
Google officials in California on more than 4,000 members.
March 10 to promote Michigan Added to Lansing's credentials
cities as test sites. is the fact that Google co-founder
"Google Fiber is a perfect Larry Page attended East Lan-
fit here, as no state can match sing High School.
the exploding new technology "We had a cardboard cutout
investment in Michigan in recent of Larry Page that we carried
years," Granholm said in the around town as a promotional
statement. piece," Phillips said.
Grand Rapids and Kalamazoo Of course, the fact that Page
launched websites - Goog616. received his undergraduate edu-
com and Kalamazoogle.com, cation from the University of
respectively - to garner support Michigan gives Ann Arbor a sim-
for bringing Google Fiber to the ilar advantage.
cities. The websites also provide If selected, the fiber network
visitors links to nominate the would provide a "significant
communities for Google Fiber. economic boost" to the Lansing
On March 19, hundreds of region, she said.
Grand Rapids residents formed But fiber-based broadband is
a "flash mob" in the city's iconic not a completely original con-
Calder Plaza. The city's Google cept.
Fiber Facebook fan page was also Lansing has already received
the largest among cities across some federal funding to estab-
the country, with over 38,000 lish a fiber network, which the
members. Lansing-based Internet provider
In addition to organiz- Arialink has begun to install,
ing public displays of support, Phillips said.
Grand Rapids volunteers poured This type of broadband con-
through Google's blog, look- nection is already widespread in
ing for criteria the company some places outside of the United
would use in determining a test States, like Sweden, Portugal,
site, according to Peter Brand, Japan, Hong Kong and the Neth-
a Grand Rapids business owner erlands, for a price of $200 to
involved with Goog616.com. $300 per month, according to a
"There were a few cities that February 11 GigaOM.com article.
tried to do gimmicky things to Google will announce which
try to catch (Google's) attention," city or communities are to
he said. "But we needed to show receive its fiber connection for
them that there was going to be a trial period by the end of the
no red tape they were going to year.
WANT TO WORK
FOR THE DAILY'S
NEWS SECTION?
E-mail berman@michigandaily.com
to get started.

L SA sophomore Nina Bhattacharya talks about her own challenges with the financial aid system at a press conference yesterday.
Bhattacharya discussed the hurdles her family faced paying for college after her father was laid off.

Michigan's struggling economy,
her situation became more chal-
lenging this year.
"This year was a lot more diffi-
cult," she said. "Without the fed-
eral loans, I wouldn't have gotten
through this year."
Bhattacharya went on to say
that the financial aid overhaul is
important because it will give stu-
dents across the country the aid
they need.
"This isn't just my story; it's
the story of thousands of other
students," she said, adding that
the bill "has a lot of components
that help struggling students like
myself."
Warren said the economic
downturn has not only meant dif-
ficulty for students like Bhattacha-
rya but also for the state's economy.
She emphasized the need to fund
higher education, adding that

Michigan residents can't count on
manufacturing jobs that were a
staple of the state's economy.
"Those jobs are gone and they're
not coming back," she said.
Warren said that to cope with
this job loss, the state needs to
increase its investment in higher
education.
"We know that that's the great
equalizer, that's the investment
we want to make, but we've been
struggling," she said.
Warren added that the finan-
cial aid overhaul will be extremely
important to students throughout
her district and the state.
In an interview following the
press conference, Warren said that
though the legislature has been
forced to make "difficult deci-
sions," "investments in higher edu-
cation have to be the priority."
Warren said in the interview

that her commitment to higher
education is an important part
of her campaign for state Sena-
tor. Warren is running against
state Rep. Pam Byrnes (D-Lyndon
Twp.) for the Senate seat currently
occupied by state Sen. Liz Brater
(D-Ann Arbor).
Warren said her campaign is
based on her "values" and her
"vision for Michigan," which
includes making sure a college
education is affordable for every
Michigan student.
"We're not goingto have a whole
class of students be priced out," she
said.
Warren added that she wants to
decrease the burden of tuition on
Michigan families.
"Every time our state pays less,
our students and families have to
come up with more," she said. "And
sometimes they just can't."


8 - Tuesday, A pril 13, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Men's hoops sends off Sims, Harris*

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
The Manny Harris and DeShawn
Sims era of Michigan basketball came
to a close last month, and last night
was their chance to say goodbye.
At the Michigan men's basketball
team's banquet, Harris gave a brief
speech before the
seniors, saying it NOTEBOOK
had been a plea-
sure playing for Michigan. Harris
also said that Sims was the reason
the Detroit native even came to
Michigan and that Harris "loved
him."
Sims, who won the team's MVP
award, defended Harris's decision
to enter the NBA draft after his
junior season, saying that people
shouldn't have criticized the Wol-
verines' leading scorer because
Harris played like a senior this
year.
When Michigan coach John
Beilein got up to talk, his advice
for the outgoing players was simple
- work harder than you've ever
worked before.
Either way, Harris is leaving a
year early, and Sims is graduat-
ing - the faces of the program are
gone. And whenthe Wolverines
convene again next season, the
team will look drastically different.
This summer, while Harris and
Sims try and make that jump to the
NBA, Michigan is goingto be work-
ing hard to replace 53 percent of its
total point output and 43 percent of
its total rebounding.
"We see some good things,"
Beilein said. "Their summer work-
outs right now are so huge. We have
almost a five-month summer where
coach Beilein and his staff can watch
them. And this is huge. They must
be self-starters, they mustgo after it.
This is really bigtime for them."
If there was any promising sign
for next year's Wolverines, it was
that sophomore Zack Novak took
home the team's leadership award.
BYE BYE BYE: Last Friday,
Beilein announced that assistant

0

Senior DeShawn Sims, left, and Junior Manny Harris, right, accounted for 53 perent of scoring and 43 percent of rebounding for the Wolverines last season. Both are leaving for the NBA.

CLIF REEDER/Daily

coaches Jerry Dunn and John
Mahoney were leaving the pro-
gram to pursue other collegiate
coaching opportunities.
"If anybody follows college bas-
ketball, change is everywhere,"
Beilein said. "I can't say there is
anything specific. I would just say
that change is part of a program and
we're going through that right now.
I'm the head coach at Michigan, I've
got to make changes as I see."
Dunn had been on Beilein's
staff for seven years and Mahoney
for the past five years. Both were
also with Beilein at West Virginia
before coming to Michigan.
Beilein said the moves were

based on the future and not on the
team's disappointing season. Jeff
Meyer will move into the assistant
coaching role permanently after he
took over for Dunn in the middle of
this past season. And Beilein said
he is tying to fill the other position
as quickly as he can.
SCHOLARSHIPS APLENTY:
With Harris, Sims, redshirt junior
Anthony Wright and redshirt
senior Zach Gibson all leaving the
program and redshirt freshman
Ben Cronin having left due to a
career-ending injury, Beilein has
some scholarships left to fill for
next season.
Beilein went through the num-

bers and mentioned commitments
from Tim Hardaway, a guard, and
Evan Smotrycz and Jon Horford,
forwards, occupying three of those
five scholarships opening up. That
would leave Michigan with two
scholarships remaining.
Beilein wants to add more more
to the class.
"I think it all depends on how it
lines up right now," Beilein said.
"Where our next commitment
comes from, we'd like to sign at least
one more. But if we don't find the
right guy, but then who that person
is, it dictates some other things. But
I can see us signing a couple more."
That number is also at three

because freshman guard Eso
Akunne, who was awarded a one-
year scholarship this past season,
will have walk-on status once again
next year.
JORDAN MORGAN INJURY
UPDATE: Beilein also gave an
update on how freshman forward
Jordan Morgan is doing regarding
his knee injury.
"He is recovering well," Beilein
said. "What is good now is his knee
is getting a chance to recover while
his shoulder is recovering. That's
the good thing about it. But anytime
a guy is going to be out four months,
he's been out the whole year.
"I am glad that we did get a

glimpse of some things he has to
work on this year."
Morgan is the second-tallest Wol-
verine returning next season. Listed
at 6-foot-8 inches, Morgan will only
be looking up to Blake McLimans
(6-foot-10 inches).
When he was healthy, Morgan
worked with the coaching staff
on scoring around the basket, his
rebounding and even developed a
jump hook. The Wolverines front
line will lose some muscle with Sims
graduating, and Morgan could fill in
nicely in the paint.
Daily Sports Editor Nicole
Auerbach contributed to this report.

FLINT
Earn U of M academic credits without
spending your summer in a classroom!
UM-Flint offers fully online courses throughout the
spring and summer semesters-great for students
planning to travel or work during the
spring and summer months!
Registration has already begun, and online classes fill
up quickly, so act now!
Enrollment is simple; just call UM-Flint's Office of
Extended Learning at (810) 762-3200 and we'll walk you
through the process step by step!
STUDENT RUSH!
HALF PRICE TICKETS!*
Presented By:
AN EVENING WITH
DAVI D
SEDARIS
TOMORROW NIGHT ONLY!
7:30pm
MICHIGAN THEATER, ANN ARBOR
Tickets: MICHIGAN UNION TICKET OFFICE
800-745-3000 or www.TicketMaster.com
MIlustration copyright 2008
m i ch ae s ch w ab s t ud io
* Limit two per order with student ID. Good at Michigan Theater
Box office, opens at 5:30pm. Limited quanitity available.

M' loses first game in two years

By BOBBY REEDY
Daily Sports Writer
It had been two years and 329
days since the Michigan men's club
lacrosse team had lost a game. In
the 2007 National Tournament, the
Wolverines lost a consolation match
on May16 to Georgia. The next day,
the Wolverines defeated Colorado
13-8 and began an MCLA-record
49-game winning streak.
On Friday night, No. 1 Michigan
took its winning streak to Colorado
with the goal of reaching the half
century mark in consecutive wins
against the same team that started
the streak - the unranked Buf-
faloes, who had lost their previous
four contests.
It didn't happen.
Colorado stunned the Wolver-
ines by a score of 12-10 and sent
shockwaves through the MCLA by
ending the streak.
Michigan made sure to redeem
itself two days later, beating No. 2
Colorado State 10-6.
"In the warm-ups (against Colo-
rado) we definitely were a little
quiet, maybe a little flat and I take
responsibility (for) that factor in the
sense (that) I should have brought

the team in," senior captain David
Rogers said. "I should have helped
make sure everybody was focused
and let everyone know that we're
not invincible and we can lose. We
were complacent going into the
game and it cost us."
Colorado jumped out to an early
lead and never let go. They took a
5-3 lead into halftime and Michigan
had its first halftime deficit of the
season. The Buffaloes' lead grew to
seven in the fourth quarter and they
were able to hold on after the Wol-
verines rattled off five unanswered
goals.
"It was my first time ever los-
ing at Michigan,"" junior goalie
Mark Stone said. "After the game
all the players come and meet the
goalie. As a goalie, it was a hard loss
because you wanted to put so much
pressure on yourself to win the
game for the team and we were just
lacking all around. After the game,
the whole team came together, we
all kind of embraced and one of the
players gave a nice speech about
how we have to come together and
how it's just a loss."
For a large majority of the team,
it was their first time losing while
wearing the winged helmets. Not a

single member of the junior, sopho-
more or freshman class had ever
lost a game at Michigan.
"(The players) were devastated,"
Michigan coach John Paul said.
"It was a shock and it was a tough
pill to swallow for a lot of them
for about 24 hours. But once they
reflected on it and started to under-
stand why ithappened theygotpast
it pretty quickly."
The Wolverines have won two
national championships in a row and
have beaten the nation's best club
teams throughout the streak, which
is why Friday night's loss came as
such a shock. Colorado had been
ranked No. 7to begin the season but
quickly fell down the rankings as it
lost five ofits first sevengames.
"This wasn't about a team that
was better beating us," Rogers said.
"This was about us not playing to
our potential and us not bringing
the proper amount of focus and
respect to the game. I don't think
this was a disheartening thing
where we are starting to doubt how
talented we are as a team."
Two days later, Michigan took
on No. 2 Colorado State. The Rams
brought a 12-0 record into the game
and had just thrashed Colorado

13-6 the week before.
"Right when we came out to do
our stretches we had a chip on our
shoulder that we had to go out and
play that game," Stone said. "Kids
were getting really pumped dur-
ing warm-ups and you just knew it
was different than that CU game.
For me personally, I just wanted to
make sure to make every save to
make sure we won this game."
Knotted up at 5-5 going into the
fourth quarter, Rogers got the ball
rolling with his second goal of the
game as the Wolverines scored five
straight goals to assume a com-
manding lead of 10-5 with 6:10 left
in the matchup.
"It was good to see the team
recover like that," Rogers said.
"CSU was the perfect team for us
to play after the disappointment
on Friday. You don't want to play
a cupcake. You want to play a team
that is going to challenge you and
test your character and you really
get a chance to see what you're
made out of. I think we did that
and (the win) reinforced the fact to
us that we are a good team and we
are very talented and we still have
the tools to accomplish our goals in
May."

0
0

With LaMarre back in lineup, Blue
will take on hot Rockets' batters

By ZAK PYZIK due. "These guys, for the most part,
Daily Sports Writer picked me up while I was gone, but
I can only watch so many games
After a seven-week hiatus, junior from the sidelines. It's definitely
outfielder Ryan LaMarre is back in great to beback out there."
the Michigan LaMarre hita triple and two dou-
baseball team's Tiedo at bles on Sunday against the Boiler-
lineup and hot- makers. One double came when the
ter than ever. MiChigan bases were loaded and sparked a sev-
LaMarre pushed Matchup: en-run inning for the Wolverines.
his hit streak, Toledo 21-9; LaMarre, who was awarded the
which started Michigan 18-11 Big Ten Player of the Week yester-
before his injury, When: Today day, is batting .519 and is arguably
to 10 games in the 3:05 P.M. the best hitter for the Wolverines.
Wolverines' 94 Whore- "What a week," Michigan coach
victory over Pur- Ray Fisher Rich Maloney said. "If he is not
due on Sunday. Stadium Player of the Week, I don't know
LaMarre's what more you could do. It was
reliability, along Lichi aly pretty special, especially in his first
with a consisten- com d week back. He hasn't seen much
cy in the infield live pitching and to perform the
and a strong bullpen, should serve way he did, get big hits, it really
as the catalysts in Michigan's con- helped the team."
test against Toledo today. The Rockets (8-1 MAC, 21-9
"It feels unreal," LaMarre said overall)just recentlyousted confer-
after Sunday's game against Pur- ence foe Buffalo 17-8. The win gave

Toledo a three-game series sweep
and extended its winning streak to
eight games. The Rockets haven't
been defeated since March 31, when
they lost to Ohio State 4-3.
The last time the two teamsfaced
offwasin2008, and Michigan came
out victorious, 12-4. It was then-
freshman pitcher Travis Smith who
pitched a one-hit scoreless inning
and then-sophomore pitcher Eric
Katzman who took over and threw
three scoreless innings.
Junior Matt Miller, today's start-
er for the Wolverines, is 0-2 this sea-
son despite having only allowed two
runs over six innings and striking
out seven batters against St. Johns.
Most recently, Miller threw a score-
less inning and struck out one batter
coming out of the bullpen against
Central Michigan on April 7.
Miller will have to be stable
to handle the top of the Rock-
ets' lineup to find success. Toledo
boasts four batters hitting better

than .350. And when Miller gets
to the meat of the that lineup, he
will really have his hands full. Dan
Sherwood, Jaren Hoying and Tim
Krofcheck come to the batters box
in the sixth, seventh and eighth
spots consecutively and each have
home-run potential for big slams.
The three have accumulated 24
home runs this season.
But if the play in the field is con-
sistent, the burden on Miller will be
significantly less.
Michigan is fielding .968 and
the Wolverines are averaging just
1.24 errors a game. The biggest
switch for Michigan has been mov-
ing redshirt junior Anthony Toth
from shortstop to second base and
chalking in freshman DerekDennis
at shortstop. Toth has played more
comfortably at second and Dennis
is making good decisions at short.
Both will need to be on their
gameto stopthe Rockets'hotstreak
today.

0


