Daily Columnist Tommaso Pavone sits down with MSA's first openly gay president, Chris Armstrong, for a frank discussion. ) PAGE 4A

be 13Icigan 40a Im

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, March 31, 2010

michigandaily.com

MSAs first
openly gay
president
sworn in

SMALL SLICE OF THE BIG HOUSE

Armstrong said his
* election shows any
student can embody
'spirit of Michigan'
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
"Work hard, be true, go blue,"
said former Michigan Student
Assembly President Abhishek
Mahanti last night in the Assem-
bly Chambers, before yielding his
position leading campus's leading
student governing body to LSA
junior Chris Armstrong. Business
School junior Jason Raymond,
Armstrong's running mate, was
also sworn in as MSA vice presi-
dent.
Elected in a landslide victory
last Friday, LGBT Commission
Chair Chris Armstrong of MFor-
ward is now the first openly gay
MSA president - a fact he said
he hopes will have large impli-
cations not only for the LGBT
community on campus, but also
for the greater University com-
munity.
Armstrong said he hopes that
being gay and holding a position
as assembly president will dem-
onstrate that any University stu-
dent can represent the "spirit of
Michigan."
In an interview with The

Michigan Daily yesterday, Arm-
strong recalled how he did not
expect to ever be elected MSA
president, after hiding his iden-
tity throughout high school and
staying out of the public eye. He
admitted that he only came out to
a few friends and his parents by
the end of his senior year in high
school.
Elected at the end of his fresh-
man year to be a MSA represen-
tative, Armstrong said he was
"impressed" by the other repre-
sentatives and the atmosphere
of the MSA Chambers, but never
thought he was capable of hold-
ing such a leadership position as
a gay man.
Over the past three months of
campaigning and forming MFor-
ward, Armstrong said he became
even more sure of himself that
he was ready to fulfill the role as
president, despite his sexual iden-
tity.
"I think that slowly over the
course of the campaign that
broke down," he said. "It shows
that MSA can do anything."
After serving two years as
chair of MSA's LGBT Commis-
sion, Armstrong has made a name
for himself within the commu-
nity.
His work in bringing the Mid-
west LGBT Conference to cam-
pus next year came from his
work with the Victory Fund - a
See ARMSTRONG, Page 7A

University Police reported yesterday that Michigan Stadium was vandalized this weekend when a strip of the block 'M' on the 50-yard line was stolen. The incident was
reported by stadium staff at 11:30 a.m. on Monday. Diane Brown, spokeswoman for the Department of Public Safety, said the stolen strip was a 6" by 4' piece on the edge of
the M' and that there was some damage to the surrounding area. Damages are estimated at approximately $1,000 to repair the affected area of the field. There are no sus-
pects or leads, but the incident is under investigation. University Police are unsure how someone was able to access the field.
Robinson, the man with te pen

Post columnist, 'U'
alum won Pulitzer
Prize for coverage of
2008 election
By JILLIAN BERMAN
ManagingNewsEditor
ARLINGTON, Va. - University
alum Eugene Robinson's house
was bustling on a humid afternoon
late last summer. His nephew was
relaxing on the couch, while his
wife, Avis, and a friend were chat-
ting and working in the kitchen.

Like most in the Washington area
in August, the household was pre-
paring for a vacation.
But unlike many Northern Vir-
ginia residents, Robinson was also
preparing for a television appear-
ance. Later that evening, Robinson
would be criticizing Sarah Palin's
approach to health care reform as
a guest on MSNBC's "Countdown
with Keith Olbermann."
Robinson, a regular guest on
"Countdown," is also a twice-
weekly columnist for The Wash-
ington Post. He's addressed a wide
range of topics - from the recently
passed health care bill to racial
profiling. But Robinson wrote one

C ON T INUI NG SERES
set of columns that got him more
attention than usual - his cover-
age of the 2008 presidential elec-
tion for which he won the Pulitzer
Prize, journalism's most presti-
gious award.
"It was psychedelic, it really
was," Robinsonsaidofwinningthe
award in an interview last sum-
mer. "I never thoughtthat a career
was in any way invalidated if you
didn't have a Pulitzer because it's
See ROBINSON, Page 7A


UNIVE RSIT Y ADMINIS T RAT ION
'U' officials say lecturer
layoffs possible next year

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Delon Allen and other students from the O.W. Holmes School in Detroit create paper mache hands for Fesitfools yesterday.
Festifools collaboration offers a new
type of expression for blind students

Provost says cuts to
personnel may come
in the future if state
funds continue to fall
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Though it's been a routine prac-
tice in past years for the University
to lay off lecturers due to a lack of
interest in certain classes, this year
some units within the University

are considering laying off lecturers
strictly asa cost-savings measure.
The layoffs
are one option
being consid-
ered by budget
officers in some
LSA depart-
ments, who
are preparing
responses to KYLE SWANSON
scenarios that
involve cut- Coverinrh
ting 1, 3 and 5 All iilrion
percent from
their unit's budget for the next fis-

calyear. Such exercises are normal,
but the means by which some are
suggesting meeting the potential
cuts in unit funding are not as rou-
tine.
Asked about the situation in an
interview with The Michigan Daily
last week, University Provost Tere-
sa Sullivan said she didn't have cen-
tral plans to lay off lecturers.
"Right now our plans don't
include - from this office - they
don't include layoffs," Sullivan said.
"But we're a very decentralized
place, and what we end up doing is
See LECTURERS, Page 3A

A2 officials face off for state Senate seat

Students from
Detroit public
school helped create
puppets yesterday
By ALEXA BREEDVELD
Daily StaffReporter
Every spring, University under-
graduate students enrolled in the
Lloyd HallScholars Programbuild
floating puppets that are paraded
down Main Street in April for Fes-

tifools. The project has an obvious
artistic purpose, but it has a phil-
anthropic one as well.
Yesterday, eight visually
impaired students came to Ann
Arbor from the O. W. Holmes
Elementary School in downtown
Detroit to help build the puppets.
Ruth Marsh, a Lloyd Hall Schol-
ars Program staff member, said
the Festifools parade is part of a
class called Art and Public Spaces,
which aims to bring artto the pub-
lic of Southeastern Michigan.
"The breadth of the course is
to get the community involved,

and to make the art accessible to
everyone," Marsh said in an inter-
view yesterday. "This is one of our
outreaches to the community."
Prof. Mark Tucker, who works
with the Lloyd Hall Scholars
Program, said Festifools is a col-
laboration between the scholars
program and the local community.
"Four years ago we started
Festifools, and we close down
Main Street for an hour (for the
parade)," Tucker said. "University
students design these giant pup-
pets, and people from the commu-
See FESTIFOOLS, Page 7A

State Reps. Byrnes,
Warren make bid for
18th district seat
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
Come the Aug. 3 state primary
elections, Ann Arbor voters will see
two familiar names on the ballot.
State Sen. Liz Brater (D-Ann
Arbor) will be forced to step down

from her current position next
year due to term limits, allowing
contenders State House Speaker
Pro Tempore Pam Byrnes (D-Lyn-
don Twp) and State Rep. Rebekah
Warren (D-Ann Arbor) to vie for
the State Senate's 18th district seat
this-November.
Byrnes said that if elected to the
Senate seat, she will expand on
initiatives that she has pushed for
in the House but that didn't have
enough time to come to fruition.
"With term limits, we just get

started with various policy issues
and then we're cut off," Byrnes
said. "And there's just so many
more things that I want to see
accomplished with my vision for
what I'd like to see for Michigan to
be back on the right track. We need
to have this long-term vision about
the quality of life here at Michi-
gan."
Warren echoed Byrnes's senti-
ment of hoping to be a member of
the state Senate as a way to expand
See ELECTION, Page 7A



WEATHER HI:74 GOTANEWSTIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMOR ROW LO: 52 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHGANOAILY.COM
Wale, Clipse and Big Sean at the Power Center.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEW S................................2A CLA SSIFIEDS......................6A
Vol. CXX, No.119 OPINION ............................4A SPORTS.. . ..A...........8A
C20StTheMichigan Daily ARTS.................................SA TH ESTATEMENT.......... 1B
michigondoilycom


2A - Wednesday, March 31, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
BefreYou Were Here

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Old school registration

Panic over registering for spring,
summer, and fall classes is building as
registration dates open up. But student
frustration over registering for classes is
nothing new.
Now, most students' concerns center
around trying not to get stuck in a Friday
class or with a professor who has a hor-
rible rating on ratemyprofessor.com. How-
ever, students at the University inthe early
1970s didn't have the luxuries of Internet
rating sites or online registration.
Up until 1975, students registered
for classes in the Waterman Gymna-
sium which stood next to the Chemistry
Building before it was torn down. Regis-
tration was done on paper, on tables set
up throughout the building, according to
a series of articles in The Michigan Daily
in April1982.
Douglas Woolley, associate regis-
trar for personnel and operations, told
the Daily at the time that students were
forced to spend much of their day regis-
tering for classes.
CRIME NOTES
Graffiti written Lapi
on several walls frog
WHERE: Art & Architecture
Building WHER
WHEN: Monday at about 12:30 uate Lib
p.m. WHEN
WHAT: Black spray painted p.m.
graffiti with the phrase "why is WHAT
this wall blank" was found on laptop v
the walls of two entrances and the seco
a central stairwell, University Univers
Police reported. comput
Del
Male arrested IDs
for exposure I
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher WHER
Graduate Library Practic
WHEN: Monday at about 2:20 WHEN:
p.m. p.m.
WHAT: A male unaffiliated WHAT
with the University was dis- ed herbi
covered exposing himself on cards w
the fifth floor of the library, tice, Un
University Police reported. There a

"Students used to camp out in front of
Waterman at about 6 a.m. every morn-
ing," Woolley said.
The entire student body would gather
outside of the gymnasium, waiting in
line until registration opened up later in
the day.
Course sign-up was organized by
department and there was no seniority
system or alphabetical scheme. In order
to register for a class, students had to run
from table to table getting a card for each
class they wished to enroll in, accord-
ing to the articles. Students knew a class
was full when there were no more cards
available for the course.
In 1975, University administrators
implemented Computer Registration
Involving Student Participation - com-
monly known as CRISP - to make the
registration process easier. According
to the article, the system was the first
online terminal-based system used by a
major university.
In April 1982, Woolley also told the

FILE PHOTO/Daily
Engineering junior Thomas Ward was one of the first students to register for classes in 1982.
Daily that administrators were hoping Purdue University and Ball State Univer-
the system was going to"make registra- sity to create similar systems, according
tion as comfortable as possible." to the articles.
Registration was done through CRISP While CRISP cut down on a lot of
at Lorch Hall where students would give the chaos associated with registration,
their requested schedules to operators at the system was a far cry from computer
a video terminal connected to the main registration today. In 1982, room assign-
computer. The operator would enter the ments were still done on paper, and the
schedule into the main computer for LSA Course Guide was in the process of
the student, updating him or her on the being put on computers, according to the
availability of classes. articles.
By 1982, CRISP had inspired other
universities like the University of Iowa, - KAITLIN WILLIAMS

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
sinilovitztmichnigandailycom tmdbasineaa@ maoii.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours: Sun.-Thurs.11a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaiy.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@rnichigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classifed@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman ManagingNews Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Swanson,EshwarThirunavukkarasu
^ssTNTNEWSsEITORDyanCini,rynF e d, Joseph Lichterman,
Vnica Menai,Annie Throma~as,Dn hrsb,Elyaa Twiggs
Rachel VanGilder Editorial PagetEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL PAGEEDITORS:MichelleDeWitt,AlexSchiffMatthew Shutter
Ryan Kartje ManagingSports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns., Gjon Juncaj, Chnis
Meszaros,JoeStapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyi, imR oa5,Amyeray0,,,,
Jamie ;Elock MaoagiogArtditor block@michigandailycom
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,JeffSanford
ASSS AARSEDITORS: Leah Burgin, Sharon Jacobs, Emma Jeszke, Mike Kuntz,
Max Collins and photo@michigandaiy.com
Sam Wolson ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR FOR MULTIMEDIA: Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISANH'PHOOETO RS:0Aaro n Augsburger,JakeFromm, MarissaMcClain,
Jed Moch
Sarah Squire and design@michigandaiy.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KatieJozwiak sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARK ETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Jason Mahakian ProductionManager
Allison Santacreu LayoutiManager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
rittanyM alescirculation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (IssN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the Universityof Michigan.One copy is available free of charge toall
readers.Additiona copiesmaybepickedupat theDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,
startinginSeptember,viaU.S.maiare$it. Winter termoanuary through Aprils$ii, yearlong
(september through April) is$195. University affiliates are subject to areduced subscription rate.
On-campus subscriptionsforfalitermare$35.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.TheMichiganDaly
is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

0

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

top swiped Talk on Chinese Inequality
n library calligraphy workshop

E: Shapiro Undergrad-
brary
: Monday at about 9:50
:A male student's Mac
was stolen from a desk on
ad floor ofthe library,
ity Police reported. The
er was valued at $1,500.
t cards and
tolen
E: Ypsilanti Family
:e
: Monday atabout 6:30
: A female guestreport-
dentification and debt
ere stolen from the prac-
iversity Police reported.
re no suspects.

WHAT: A lecture on how
ancient Chinese calligra-
phy evolved throughout the
years to fit into the modern
world of art and what has
changed since the term "cal-
ligraphic" was introduced
to western readers in 1918.
WHO: History of Art
WHEN: Today 4:30 p.m. to
6 p.m.
WHERE: University of
Michigan Museum of Art
Student World
Assembly
WHAT: A non-partisan
organization will host a dis-
scussion about global issues.
WHO: Student World
Assembly
WHEN: Tonight from 8 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League,
3rd floor Room C

WHAT: A talk on the most
debated issues in internation-
al law, including prostitution,
trafficking and inequality.
WHO: Center for Interna-
tional and Comparative Law
WHEN: Today from
12:15 p.m. to 1:15 p.m.
WHERE: Hutchins Hall,
Room 218
CORRECTIONS
. A Mar. 30, 2010 article
in The MichiganDaily
("political blogger
launches mayoral run")
incorrectlystatedthat
Patricia Lesko worked
as a political reporter for
The Ann Arbor News.
She did not.
* Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

The Icelandic parliament
has banned stripteases and
clubs that make a profit from
employee nudity, USATodaycom
reported. The ban will take effect
on July 1 and passed without any
oppositionlast week.
A lecture tomorrow will
discuss Hokusai's world-
famous print The Great
Wave, an image of a wave crash-
ing over boats that is perhaps
one of the most iconic images
from Japan.
FOR MORE,SEE ARTS, PAGESA
A recent study at the Uni-
versity of Sydney found
thatcigarettes may contain
traces of pig blood, accord-
ingto news.com.au. Researchers
working on the study say these
findings could be problematic
for Jews and Muslims, whose
religions ban consumption of
pork. The researchers identified
185 industrial uses of pigs.

0

MORE ONLINEL
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire



Obama pushes for United
Nations sanctions for Iran

France joins U. S. rable" in their thinking on the
subject.
in nuclear weapon For his part, Sarkozy told report-
ers, "Iran cannot continue its mad
oppostion race" toward acquiring nuclear
weapons.
WASHINGTON (AP) - With "The time has come to take deci-
the president of France at his side, sions," he said.
President Barack Obama declared On the U.N. Security Council,
yesterday he hopes to have inter- veto-wielding permanent members
national sanctions against Iran in Russia and China have expressed
place "within weeks," not months, reservations toward a tougher set
because of its continuing nuclear of sanctions, as have several of the
program. But he acknowledged he rotating members who do not have
still lacks full support at the United veto powers.
Nations. Obama said he understands that
"Do we have unanimity in the countries that have business ties
international community? Not yet," with Iran, especially those who
Obama said. "And that's something depend on Iran for oil imports,
that we have to work on." might have reservations.
Obama said he and French Pres- But Obama said that, while "the
ident Nicolas Sarkozy are "insepa- door remains open if the Iranians

choose to walk though it," there
have been no signs that they are
close to moving back from their
nuclear program - and patience has
allbut run out.
"My hope is that we are going to
get this done this spring. So I'm not
interested in waiting months for a
sanctions regime to be in place. I'm
interested in seeing that regime in
place in weeks."
Earlier yesterday, Secretary of
State Hillary Rodham Clinton pre-
dicted new sanctions would be
forthcoming, hinting that skeptical
nations such as China and Russia
would eventually come along. At the
conclusion of an international meet-
ing of eight major powers in Que-
bec, Clinton cited a growing alarm
around the world about the conse-
quences of a nuclear-armed Iran.

SFort orth I D is seeki g h mtvednrqualified
physics, che 'istry, mt ad 9lnU I rs
On CI 16, 2010 rruIt rs from the Fort' o.orth ISO will b
conducting interviews att ihgn Union.
If you r interested in joiing the teasat one of the n tion s
premier public shoditt.s,.r gster for n iofrmatio
webin r at www.teachfortworthnor
All ippllcnts will be screened nor
to being scheduled for interviews,
to SauelFebres@fwisd.orW r

The Michigan Daily
Advertising Design
WHA~rDepartment is hiring
a Layout Designer.
Applicants ohould have a knackfor
H AUJ Wopacial relationships and a distinct
attention to detail Experience with
Adobe InDesign is aplus.
Begin this summer and work
a couple hours every weekday.
E-mail mahakiaj@umich.edu
EVIN

I

q
I



The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 31, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 31, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Conviction stands
for Mich. man said
to have killed wife
The Michigan Supreme Court
has upheld the conviction of a man
who confessed to killing his wife
and dismembering her body after
he was captured more than 200
miles away in the northern Michi-
gan woods.
Stephen Grant, 39, reported Tara
Grant missing in 2007, then slipped
away from their Macomb County
home a few weeks later as deputies
discovered her torso in a storage
container in their garage.
Grant, now serving50 years to 80
years so prison for second-degree
murder, claimed pretrial publicity
spoiled the case in Macomb County
Circuit Court. He said the judge
also erred by not suppressing his
confession.
The high court yesterday
upheld the Michigan Court of
Appeals' order rejecting those
arguments.
Grant's appellate lawyer, Peter
Van Hoek, could not be reached
immediately for comment.
WASHINGTON
NASA will help
probe Toyota's
acceleration issue
NASA and the National Academy
of Sciences are joining the govern-
ment's effort to figure out what
caused the sudden acceleration
problems that led to Toyota's mas-
sive recalls.
NASA scientists with expertise
in electronics willhelp the National
Highway Traffic Safety Adminis-
tration study potential electronic
ties to unintended acceleration in
 Toyotas.
In a separate study, Transporta-
tion Secretary Ray LaHood says the
National Academy of Sciences will
examine unwanted acceleration
and electronic vehicle controls in
cars from around the auto industry.
The National Academy is an inde-
pendent organization chartered by
Congress.
Toyota has recalled more than
8 million vehicles worldwide,
including 6 million in the United
States.
BEIJING
Workers detained,
dead babies found
along China river
The bodies of 21 babies, some
with hospital identification tags
around their tiny ankles, washed
.ashore on a river in eastern China
and two mortuary workers were
detained for allegedly dumping
them.
News footage yesterday showed
the babies - at least one of whom
was stuffed in a yellow plastic bag
marked "medical waste" - strewn
along a dirt riverbank near a high-
way overpass. A few wore diapers.
All were caked in mud.
Some of the babies appeared sev-

eral months old, while the official
Xinhua News Agency said the bod-
ies included fetuses.
Local residents and firefight-
ers recovered the bodies Monday
after they were discovered under a
bridge spanning the Guangfu River
on the outskirts of Jining in Shan-
dong province.
CAIRO
Ancient Egyptian
tomb reveals door
to the afterlife
Archaeologists have unearthed
a 3,500-year-old door to the after-
life from the tomb of a high-ranking
Egyptian official near Karnak tem-
ple in Luxor, the Egyptian antiqui-
ties authority said Monday.
These recessed niches found in
nearly all ancient Egyptian tombs
were meant to take the spirits of
the dead to and from the after-
world. The nearly six-foot- tall (1.75
meters) slab of pink granite was
covered with religious texts.
The door came from the tomb of
User, the chief minister of Queen
Hatshepsut, a powerful, longruling
15th century B.C. queen from the
5 New Kingdom with a famous mor-
tuary temple near Luxor in south-
ern Egypt.
User held the position of vizier
for 20 years, also acquiring the
titles of prince and mayor of the
city, according to the inscriptions.
He may have inherited his position
from his father.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton jokes that White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel should be sent to the Russian
Duma to negotiate passage of the new START nuclear disarmament treaty, Friday, March 26, 2010.
G-8 demands Iran's
compliance on nukes

LECTURERS
From Page 1A
giving each unit a budget, and they
have to live within that budget."
Sullivan said because of this
decentralization, she couldn't
guarantee that no lecturers would
be laid off.
"I can't guarantee that nobody
anywhere will ever lay anybody
off," Sullivan said. "I can assure
you that whatever we do, we'll fol-
low the (Lectures Employee Orga-
nization) contract."
However, Sullivan said Uni-
versity administrators would do
everything possible to cut in other
areas before cutting faculty.
"I would say that we are a
human capitol organization, and
the reason we don't look at layoffs
first is that when we lay people
off we don't just cut costs, we cut
assets," Sullivan said. "That's not
something that we want to do, but
there aren't a lot of places to cut in
many programs."
According to Sullivan, approxi-
mately 70 percent of the Uni-
versity's budget is allocated to
personnel costs, while only 30
percent of the budget is spent on
materials and other non-personnel
items.
However, Sullivan did indicate
that if the state-funding picture
continues to be as bleak as in the
past, it could result in layoffs.
"In the long run, it's going to
depend on what happens to our
sources of revenue, including our
state appropriations," she said.
And while lecturer layoffs are
possible and currently exist in the
1-, 3- and 5-percent budget reduc-
tion plans being prepared in some
LSA departments, no final deci-
sions have been made yet, Univer-
sity spokesman Rick Fitzgerald told
the Daily in an interview last week.
"This is simply a possibility,
and no decisions have been made,"
Fitzgerald said. "There could be
layoffs, there might not be layoffs.
These budgets are not in final form
yet."
However, Fitzgerald said he
believes what is making this year's
situation different is the ongoing
negotiations between LEO and the
University.
"There were some lecturer
layoffs last year too. This is not

an unprecedented possibility,"
Fitzgerald said. "I think what's dif-
ferent this year is that you've got a
LEO negotiation going on at the
same time."
However, Adjunct Professor Joe
Walls, who serves as a spokesman
for LEO, said the difference isn't
the ongoing negotiations but rath-
er the motivation behind the pos-
sible cuts.
Walls said layoffs occur every
year, but that lecturers are typi-
cally laid off as a result of students'
changing interest in classes.
"Layoffs occur, but now the
reasons are different," Walls
said. "(It's) not to have supply and
demand match, which is the nor-
mal reason ... but as a way to reduce
expenditures."
Walls said he has been told that
the layoffs are not finalized yet,
but that there are concerns about
the possibility during a time when
the budget has little or no wiggle
room.
"No one has said, 'We're going
to lay people off.' That's true,"
Walls said. "But they have told us
that it is being considered and they
do have to achieve those (budget)
reductions."
When asked what LEO would
recommend instead of cutting lec-
turers, if additional cuts become
necessary, Walls said it wouldn't
be appropriate for LEO to recom-
mend alternative cost-cutting
strategies.
"We have no power or really any
right to say how those things are
going to happen. That's just not
in labor law," Walls said. "But of
course we would rather see them
use other approaches than laying
off our members."
Asked whether he believed the
news could impact ongoing con-
tract negotiations between LEO
and the University, Walls said it
may have changed the tone of con-
versations, but not what LEO is
seeking in its new contract.
"It probably hasn't changed the
kinds of things we're looking for in
the contract," Walls said. "It does
sort of set a tone or an atmosphere,
an environment."
Contract negotiations are ongo-
ing with representatives from LEO
and the University administration
meeting each week. The parties
reportedly hope to reach an agree-
ment in May.

Diplomats aim to
persuade China to
support sanctions
GATINEAU, Quebec (AP) -
Diplomats from the world's lead-
ing economies say Iran's recent
actions deepen the doubts that its
nuclear program is aimed at any-
thing other than building a bomb,
and U.S. Secretary of State Hill-
ary Rodham Clinton predicted
Tuesday that world powers will
agree on a new round of U.N.
sanctions.
The main audience for the
tough talk seems to be countries
not represented among the exclu-
sive Group of Eight economic
club: China and countries like
Turkey and Brazil that have not
been on board with sanctions.
Closing a conference of foreign
ministers from the G-8 industri-
alized nations, Canadian Foreign
Minister Lawrence Cannon said
it is time to act.
Clinton said the nations meet-
ing in Canada see a growing alarm
around the world about the conse-
quences of a nuclear-armed Iran.
Clinton pointed to a string
of disclosures over more than a
year about the nature and extent
of Iran's once-secret nuclear
program. Disclosure of the ura-
nium enrichment facility near
the Iranian city of Qum, the
announcement of more facilities
to be developed as well as revela-
tions of greater efforts at enrich-
ment are nudging the consensus
toward sanctions, she said.

"The last 15 months have dem-
onstrated the unwillingness of
Iran to fulfill its international
obligations and that's the basis of
my optimism that we're going to
have a consensus reached in the
Security Council," Clinton said.
Canadian Prime Minister Ste-
phen Harper urged a heightened
focus and stronger coordinated
action, including sanctions if nec-
essary, on the Iranian regime and
said Tehran "must halt its nuclear
enrichment activities and engage
in peaceful dialogue."
The G-8 groups France, Ger-
many, Italy, Japan, the United
Kingdom, the United States, Can-
ada and Russia.
"There was a high degree of
unity with respect to our mount-
ing concern about the failure of
Iran to respond in any kind of
adequate way," British Foreign
Secretary David Miliband said.
With Iran refusing to comply,
the message is largely directed at
China, a permanent member of
the U.N. Security Council that is
not a member of the G-8.
China, a vocal opponent of sanc-
tions, wields veto power in the
Security Council, and until recent-
ly it had balked at the mere sugges-
tion of taking additional punitive
steps against Iran. That, Clinton
suggested, is now changing.
In an interview with Canadian
television on Monday, Clinton
said China shared the view of the
U.S., its European allies and Rus-
sia that "a nuclear-armed Iran is
not acceptable."
Publicly, China reiterated its
stance that the countries should

seek a solution through negotia-
tions, not new sanctions.
"We hope relevant parties
could fully show their flexibility
and make further efforts toward
a proper resolution of this issue
through diplomatic means," Chi-
nese ' Foreign Ministry spokes-
man Qin Gang said yesterday at a
regular news briefing.
China opposes nuclear weap-
ons for Iran but says the country
has the right to peaceful use of
nuclear energy.
Iran is already under three sets
of Security Council sanctions
and China has been holding up
consideration of a fourth, saying
diplomacy must be given more
time to work. But last week it soft-
ened its position in a conference
call among senior officials from
the six nations working most
closely on the matter, according
to diplomats.
A senior U.S. official told
reporters traveling with Clinton
that the Chinese "have said now
that they will engage on the ele-
ments of a sanctions resolution."
The official spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss an ongoing
diplomatic negotiation.
In Washington, meanwhile,
the White House said President
Barack Obama met Monday with
China's incoming ambassador
to the United States, noting that
Obama had stressed to the envoy
the need for the two countries "to
work together and with the inter-
national community on critical
global issues including nonpro-
liferation and pursuing sustained
and balanced global growth."

Tenn. businessman
sues Tea Party leader

Today's Career Tip:
Meet with professionals today to create your personal
brand image. 9-noon at the Alumni Center.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Bill Hemrick suing in Las Vegas.
The lawsuit claimed Hemrick
for $500,000 he was libeled when in a mass
e-mail before the convention "that
in damages reflects expressly (or by implica-
tion)" that Hemrick is neither
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) - "reputable" nor "trustworthy." It
A Tennessee businessman who doesn't provide other details of
helped finance Sarah Palin's what the e-mail said.
appearance at the National Tea
Party Convention last month has
sued one of the event's organiz-
ers, claiming he was libeled in an
e-mail and shut out of the speech.
Bill Hemrick, who helped
found the baseball trading card
company Upper Deck, said in the
lawsuit against Tea Party Nation
leader Judson Phillips that he
helped cover a deposit on Palin's
$100,000 speaking fee for the
Nashville event, then was shut L a
out when the former Alaska gov-
ernor spoke Feb. 6.
"He was expressly instruct-
ed not to attend, and that, if he
attempted to attend, he would be
denied access," said Hemrick's
attorney, Phillip Jones.
The lawsuit, filed last week,
also claims Phillips reneged on
an agreement to form a partner-
ship with Hemrick.
Phillips said yesterday the CLAIRE
lawsuit was meritless and "hurts WC
the movement." He said Hemrick
loaned $25,000 for the conven-
tion and charged a substantial
interest rate, and the money has APRIL 1 & 8 at 730 PM
been repaid. APRIL 2, 3, 9 & 10 at 8PM
According to the lawsuit, APRIL 4*& 11 at 2P s,
Hemrick fronted the money
solely to form a partnership with ARTHUR MULLI
Phillips that included involve-
ment in the Tea Party Nation and
help promoting a political action GENRAL*ADMISON$2* SU S$9
committee. LAMM: TICKETOFMCK 734-764
The lawsuit seeks at least DEPARTMENTF T"ATRE& OR
www.mustc.umich.edu/performa
$500,000 in damages and comes
as Phillips is planning another
tea party convention set for July

The for-profit status of the Tea
Party Nation group has been con-
troversial.
Republican Congresswomen
Michele Bachmann and Mar-
sha Blackburn backed out of the
convention after they questioned
how the profits of the event would
be used.


4A - Wednesday, March 31, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRISTINA AT CHSUHI@UMICH.EDU

bE itd tan4 0a4J
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
S'I420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

CHRISTINA SUH

6
6

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

e-5
s 40
crsLA 20'Lt-> federal t^
M(o vem ent)Fo rwardfor LGB'I-"T

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A wasteful crime
States should legalize recreational marijuana use
California voters have the chance to make history in
November. If passed, a recently created ballot initiative
in California would make the state the first to legalize
the recreational use of marijuana. The initiative would create a
legal market for marijuana that would provide revenue to a debt-
ridden state, develop a new sector for employment and allow law
enforcement to put a better focus on violent crimes. California
voters should pass the initiative and Michigan, along with the
rest of the nation, should follow suit and legalize recreational
marijuana use.

0

The Tax, Regulate and Control Canna-
bis Act of 2010 - which is sponsored by
Oaksterdam University, a cannabis col-
lege in Oakland, California - would allow
those over 21 to possess up to one ounce
and grow a maximum of 25 square feet of
marijuana. The initiative received nearly
700,000 signatures, clearly surpassing the
433,971 it needed to be placed on the Cali-
fornia ballot in November.
Decriminalizing marijuana would lead
to immediate benefits for California. Cur-
rent marijuana laws lead to waste of money
and time pursuing, processing and impris-
oning recreational marijuana users. If the
initiative were to be passed, California
could save about $200 million according to
the National Organization for the Reform
of Marijuana Laws (NORML, for short) -
and law enforcement could concentrate on
apprehending violent crime offenders.
California could also increase its rev-
enue by legalizing recreational marijuana
use. Marijuana taxes that could be enacted
if the drug was legal would generate about
$1.4 billion each year, according to Cali-
fornia's tax regulator, the Board of Equal-
ization. The money could be reallocated
to services like health care, education or
transportation.
And legal marijuana use would create
a lucrative industry that could generate
thousands of jobs. According to the Cali-
fornia BOE, a legal market for marijua-

na could become a $14-billion-per-year
industry. This is only amplified by the $12
to $18 billion per year that NORML esti-
mates industries related to recreational
marijuana would make. NORML also esti-
mates that a marijuana industry could cre-
ate between 60,000 and 110,000 new jobs
each year.
But California isn't the only state that
would benefit from legalizing recreation-
al marijuana - Michigan could also reap
the rewards. Michigan has a 14.1-percent
unemployment rate as of February, accord-
ing to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
and its average debt is high. The state
could certainly profit from increased rev-
enue and jobs created by a new industry.
And according to the State of Michigan
House Fiscal Agency, Michigan spent
$38,012,000 on punishment of marijuana
infractions in 2007, the most recent fig-
ures available. That excessive expenditure
could be eliminated. A profitable marijua-
na industry would help pull Michigan out
of its current economic slump.
If California passes the Tax, Regulate
and Control Cannabis Act of 2010, it would
create a successful model of legal marijua-
na use that provides fiscal and public safe-
ty benefits that could be followed by other
states including Michigan. California
should pass the ballot initiative legalizing
recreational marijuana use in November,
and Michigan should follow its example.

n Sunday, I sat down with
.3Michigan Student Assembly
President Chris Armstrong,
who was sworn
in as the assem-
bly's new leader
last night. My
primary purpose
wasn't to focus
on his successful ,
campaign or his
vision for MSA.
Rather, I wanted
to discuss topics TOMMASO
that have receivedP
little attention in PAVONE
the past several
weeks: his coming
out experience, the role that his sex-
ual identity has played in his life and
his perspective on the significance of
becoming the first openly gay MSA
President. Because despite a lack of
coverage regarding Armstrong's sexu-
ality, it's a really big deal.
What I foresaw as a formal inter-
view with Armstrong actually turned
into a fantastic chat about his life. We
climbed to the 3rd floor of the Michi-
gan Union and, quite appropriately,
conducted the interview just a few
feet away from the Spectrum Center.
My first impression of Armstrong was
of a distinctly energetic and positive
individual. Despite a pouring rain
outside creating a somewhat somber
atmosphere, Armstrong was smiling,
laughing and passionately opening
up about some of the most personal
aspects of his life.
He described the emotional expe-
rience of coming out to his parents
at the young age of fifteen and the
importance of their being support-
ive regarding his sexuality. He told
me about his first relationship early
in high school, which occurred years
before Armstrong came out to his
friends. And he shared that it wasn't
until he came to the University
that he fully embraced his sexual-
ity. "Being openly gay, for me, is one

of the most salient identities that I
have," he said. "I am inherently tied
to all other gay men on this campus,
even if I've not met them."
Armstrong's solidarity stems
from the support that the Univer-
sity's LGBT community offered him
in his personal development. "If it
weren't for all of them," Armstrong
explained, "I would have never been
in the position that I was." He says
a major motive to run for president
was to show younger members of the
LGBT commission that a gay man
could become president of MSA. Upon
accomplishing this goal and learning
that he had been elected MSA presi-
dent, Armstrong says he felt "com-
pletely overwhelmed." It took some
time for the significance of his victory
to sink in. "I don't think at that time I
reallythought... I'm gay and I won," he
explained. "I don't think I really real-
ized it until the next day."
Clearly, Armstrong understands,
that the significance of his election
cannot be overstated. Symbolically,
his landslide victory is a testament
to the University's ability to promote
diversity and support social justice.
At a more practical level, Armstrong's
sexuality and involvement in the
LGBT Commission is sure to shape
the way he approaches his role as MSA
president. "You need to understand
and be intimately involved in all these
different communities so that you can
better make decisions on behalf of the
student body," he said.
I could have asked Armstrong a
thousand follow-up questions while
admiring his positive attitude and
disarming smile, but unfortunately he
was already 10 minutes late for a study
group meeting. I took pity upon him
and let him go. And, as I left the Union
under the falling rain, I realized that I
was smilingnow as well. I was smiling
because I recognized that Armstrong
had run for all the right reasons. I was
smiling because his passion for LGBT
rights was evident, his determination

to improve MSA was crystal clear and
his humility in the face of his election
victory was striking. Armstrong is
intelligent, thoughtful, passionate and
determined. But most of all, his ability
to overcome adversity shows that he is
also fierce. Very fierce.
Armstrong's win is
a big deal for the
gay communi
You may have not supported MFor-
ward or Armstrong's candidacy. You
may have abstained from voting in the
MSA elections: You may not even know
what purpose MSA serves. But what
everyone should recognize is that Arm-
strong's election is an important mile-
stone in the history of this University.
Two years after this country elected
the first African-American president,
as University students, we have played
our role and elected an openly gay
president to lead MSA.We've made our
little mark in the continuing quest for
civil rights and equality.
I ended my interview by ask-
ing Armstrong if he wished to share
something about himself with the
student body. "Well, hopefully after
this article they'll know I'm gay," he
laughed. "It makes the significance
real." This was, indeed, my initial
purpose for writing this article. As
someone who identifies as gay, I
wanted to emphasize the symbolism
and importance of Armstrong's vic-
tory. But after meeting Armstrong, I
realized there was a stronger message
I wanted to convey: You don't have to
be gay, lesbian or transgender to be
proud of your new MSA president.
- Tommaso Pavone can be
reached at tpavone@umich.edu.


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave,,Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
EILEEN STAHL
Capitalism -.on cannabis

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
NOEL GORDON
Encouraging debate isn't bigotry

4

4

With everyone - from presidents to your
arthritic grandma - smoking weed, we've got a
lot of people talking about legalization. There's
some logic behind this.Weed doesn't cause near-
ly as much harm as tobacco or alcohol, for exam-
ple. Come on now, you're not going to see a kid
in the emergency room for cannabis poisoning.
Many think a good strategy would be to intro-
duce marijuana into the marketplace and tax the
hell out of it for a much-needed economic boost.
But as nice as the idea sounds at first, it's the last
thing even the most committed stoner needs.
See, corporations these days are trying to
entertain us with the most asinine and vulgar
crap they can get away with. Take video games
where you run around shooting prostitutes in
their jiggling ass-cheeks, or movies produced
by anyone whose name rhymes with "Cycle
Flay" or "Cherry Shmuckprimer." These are
fun ways to get intouch with the grunting ape-
creature in all of us, but if they were the only
things we absorbed through culture we'd be
back to clubbing people over the head and root-
ing through their loincloths for flint. Thank-
fully, most of us can only be shovel-fed shit for
so long before we realize what it tastes like and
wander off to do something marginally more
productive for a while.
But consider that one of the major side-
effects of cannabis is that it makes everything
highly entertaining for unusually long stretch-
es of time. For example, I once watched some
clearly stoned frat boys laugh hysterically at
"Golden Girls" for the better part of four hours.
And they were just watching the DVD menu.
Do you see what I'm getting at here? Once
corporations get ahold of marijuana, it won't
be long before they're marketing it relentlessly
with all of their brain-slaughtering entertain-
ment, leaving all who succumb ditheringly
receptive to any crap chucked their way. I'm
thinking this is going to be especially awful
when applied to reality TV shows. I can hear
the ads: "If you're somehow not entertained
by watching a silicone-injected harpy shrilly
accusing the token gay guy of being 'fake,' you
aren't getting the full cannaboid experience!!"
Maybe they'll make a whole new channel called
Weed TV. The entire lineup would consist of
videos of cats with their mouths crudely ani-

mated to lip-sync along with hip-hop tracks.
And you know they're only going to play shitty
backpacker rap and hip hop.
Millions of hours of national productivity
may go down the toilet, but the silver lining is
that corporate advertising for weed is going to
be hilarious. I'm picturing a sexy model Photo-
shopped to have bloodshot eyes and a negative
body mass index, rocking some hemp linge-
rie and straddling a pizza box. Or maybe the
quintessential polo shirt-clad Upper Middle
Class White People Family, prancing merrily
out of their giant three-story house (that no
Americans actually have anymore unless they
live in a television commercial) and chortling
fondly with one another as Junior lights up a
big fat blunt with the faces of all of his favorite
Disney friends on it!
I hope this sounds entertaining to you,
because if marijuana is legalized we'll be gag-
ging on clouds of this crap. And let me let you in
on a little secret: THC, the chemical that cre-
ates the high in cannabis, stays in your fat cells
for a while. If you don't use it often, it's not a
big deal, but if you do more than about once a
week it starts building up, dampening the high.
That means you have to use more and more to
achieve the same effect, which means you start
spending exponentially more money.
Isn't that great? The more we buy, the more
we'll need to buy. Business loves shit like that!
It's been demonstrated that sugar creates
essentially the same addiction patterns, so now
we've got 16 sugar cubes per can of coke and
"medium" soft drinks at Burger King contain-
ing roughly the same amount of liquid as the
Marianas Trench. I can just imagine walking
into "Transformers IV: This Time No Fucking
Robots at All" and being assailed by glittering
displays reminding me to pick up my duffle bag
full of drugs at the concession stand. Just stuff
more and more of it into our systems so we
keep buying it in larger helpings and eventu-
ally we'll be so brain-dead we might actually
start caring about Shia LeBeouf.
Am I overreacting? Maybe. But thinking up
elaborate scenarios to panic about is the sec-
ond easiest way to waste spare time.
Eileen Stahl is an LSA senior.

During the latter half of the 19th century, American
physician and natural scientist Samuel George Mor-
ton claimed that Caucasians were the most intelligent
race based on skull size and capacity. Robert Bean, fol-
lowing up on the work of Morton, asserted that Ameri-
can blacks were less intelligent than American whites
because of inherent biological factors dependent largely
again on brain size. Both men were widely respected for
their scholarly research. Both men were also undoubtedly
wrong. Instead of accepting this fallacious idea of racial
superiority or, even worse, ignoring it, scientists like S. J.
Gould directly challenged Morton and Bean's hypotheses
and eventually proved them wrong.
On Mar. 18, the American Movement for Israel, the
Michigan Political Union and several other student
groups brought their own Samuel Morton or George Bean
to campus - Dr. Raphael Israeli. Israeli is a Chinese and
Middle Eastern history scholar at Hebrew University.
The professor spoke about China's global rise in the inter-
national community and its impact on the Middle East.
In response, three University students decided to express
their right to openly criticize the co-sponsors of the event
in a viewpoint published in the Daily (Stop bigotry in Mid-
dle East debate, 03/19/2010).
The students argued, among other things, that "while
Israeli's ideas shouldn't be censored, an explicit distinc-
tion should have been made between presenting his
scholarship and endorsing his politics. Bringing Israeli
to campus but failing to make this distinction constitutes
an implicit endorsement of his anti-Muslim views." Here,
it is beholden of me to invoke former U.S. Senator David
Patrick Moynihan's popular saying that a person is enti-
tled to his or her own opinion but not his or her own facts.
The MPU doesn't endorse Israeli's views on Muslims
and their supposed inability to integrate into western
societies. In fact, we vehemently reject his argument.
The MPU doesn't believe that race or in this case religion
can be attributed to biological factors. However, Israeli
shouldn't be completely vilified because one of his views
is unsound.
Israeli is a noted scholar on China and the Middle East.
Even the authors of the viewpoint conceded this point
in saying that, "we aren't necessarily challenging the
validity of Israeli's scholarship on China and the Middle
East." It was because MPU agreed with its critics that we
issued a statement of impartiality on our Facebook page
and website in which we explicitly stated that we didn't

support Israeli's views on Muslims or Islam. Rather, we
were dedicated to the advancement of his scholarship
regarding China.and the Middle East. This distinction
was reiterated at the actual event before Israeli took the
podium.
The authors of the viewpoints also devised a thought
experiment in which they argued that had Israeli been
"a white supremacist, anti-Semite or homophobe," public
reaction would have been different. And that "this dis-
turbing double standard of what constitutes acceptable or
unacceptable bigotry on campus needs to be re-examined
by student organizations looking to present diverse per-
spectives through the speakers they bring."
As a homosexual African-American man, I find their
thought experiment and its implications ludicrous and,
more importantly, offensive. Had Israeli been a speaker
who argued that homosexuals, African Americans or
Jews were inherently incapable of assimilating into west-
ern societies, I would have still invited him to lecture
had he been able to contribute something meaningful to
a conversation (as Israeli did on China and the Middle
East). I wouldn't have acted any differently in the way I
handled the two situations. I would have denounced the
hypothetical speaker's views on gays or blacks as falla-
cious and made the clear distinction that MPU didn't sup-
port them.
Moreover, the case of reggae artist Buju Banton is not
equitable to this situation. Banton isn't a scholar, wasn't
invited by a student organization and explicitly calls for
the pouring of acid in the eyes of gay people.
MPU stands behind its decision to co-sponsor the
Israeli event. Israeli gave a thought-provoking lecture
on China and the Middle East: nothing more, nothing
less. Even more importantly, the MPU will continue to
be open to all opinions on the ideological spectrum; con-
tinue to denounce any speech that incites violence against
a particular group; continue to work with groups from all
faiths, political orientations, sexual orientations, gender,
class and race to raise awareness; and continue to foster
intelligent political discourse on campus.
It is our sincere belief that the best way to confront
prejudice and discrimination is directly. It is only by chal-
lenging biased viewpoints and dismantling them that we
can hope to build a world that values all peoples for their
unique, individual differences.
Noel Gordon is the president of the Michigan Political Union.

The Daily is looking for diverse, passionate, strong student writers to join the
Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing and writing
the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 31 2010 - 5a

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.comWednesday, March 31, 2010 - 5A

Examining the splash
made by Hokusai's Wave
By HEATHERPOOLE
DailyArts Writer

gyp,
q
w,.
rr rF
,ax_..nx1.a,. ".4
i
" a .Allow

s COURTESY OF THE CW
Don t call us Shirley.
Turbulence on The CW

N

e 'Fly Girls' takes a terrible
concept and fills it out
with reality tropes
By LINDSAY HURD
Daily Arts Writer
When a show uses the tagline "Only on the
ground long enough to take off again," one
would assume it would be full
of characters who live like
rock stars with fast-paced life-
styles. But instead we get "Fly
Girls," a sad mix of "The Bad Fly Gils
Girls Club" and "The Hills" Wednesdays
with random flight attendants at 10 p.m.
thrown in. And yes, it's as The CW
annoying as it sounds.
The CW's latest "reality"
show follows five flight attendants who work
for Virgin AirlinLs, party and live together
in the same house, conveniently called "The
Crash Pad" (just one of the many genius air-
line puns made through the program). "Fly
Girls" follows Mandalay, Louise, Tahsa, Far-
rah and Nikole, who all live the "exciting
lives" of being able to assist people on their
flights. Clearly, the producers at The CW are
running low on ideas.
These women try and make their lives sound
exciting by exclaiming that the life of a flight
attendant is full of world travel, invites to the
best parties and swooning hot men. Apparent-
ly, these five women's jobs don't require hand-
ing out peanuts and telling people to buckle
their seatbelts. Rather, the ladies party it up on
planes that don't even look like they ever took

off the ground. One of the girls claims, "No one
ever believes us when we say that we live such
exciting lives!" But the excitement is never wit-
nessed.
Besides the fact that picking flight attendants
as the focus of a show is probably the dumbest
thing ever to actually become television, the
cast is just a rehashing of the most annoying
token reality-star trademarks - and everyone
has issues. Tahsa has a son at home whom she
misses, Louise always'has boy troubles and can
never find Mr. Right, Farrah always tries to act
like a mom and Mandalay and Nikole used to
be BFFs before they had a fight over a boy and
now hate each other's guts. In fact, at the end of
the 30 minutes of torture, Mandalay and Nikole
have anall-out bitch fit, talking in circles about
how the other is just "so annoying" and "can't
get over" herself.
The nonsensical idea of following flight
attendants could be overlooked if there were
some ridiculously entertaining characters and
actual reality to the show. But it's a poor and
sad knock-off of all "Laguna Beach"-esque
shows in which the ladies try and make their
lives seem way cooler than they actually are.
Instead of worrying about real problems, they
worry about Nikole being a bitch, the fact that
morning flights suck and whether they'll find
an "IFB," or "In-Flight Boyfriend," while on
the job.
Overall, the ignorance of the girls, the fake-
ness of the reality, the idiotic theme of flight
attendants and the desperate marketing to make
Virgin Airlines appear to be young and hip make
you want to gouge your eyes out. "Fly Girls," in
its stupidity, could give Heidi Montag, Paris Hil-
ton and "New York" a run for their money - if it
can stay on air long enough to "take off."

Hokusai's world-famous print The
Great Wave is perhaps one of the most
iconic images
from Japan. Hokusai'sGreat
The printfea- Wavesandthe
tures a wave
that dominates Maritime Turn
the frame as it in Japanese
crashes onto
people strug- Visual Culture
gling to stay Tmroal ~.~
ontheirbot
An upcoming School oflSocial Work Bldg.
lecture will
address the proliferation of this print
and why The Great Wave has served as
an inspiration to Western artists like
Vincent van Gogh. Hokusai's The Great Wave was originally publi
The Great Wave is part of the series
Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji by debut in 1831.
Hokusai. At the time of its first creation "I think its ongoing iteration in so
and subsequent publication in 1831, The many forms and places has to do with
Great Wave reflected the rise of print the dramatic way in which it gives
culture in Japan. expression to an ongoing, and ever
As part of the Noon Lecture Series more important, dialogue between the
through the Center for Japanese Stud- local and the global," she wrote.
ies, Christine Guth, director of the post- Since college, Guth has explored
graduate Asia designhistory specialism many aspects of Japanese culture,
at the Royal College of Art and Victoria including Buddhism, tourism and,
and Albert Museum, will discuss this more recently, the globalization of The
well known image in a broader histori- Great Wave.
cal and cultural context.
Commenting that the image has
broken through the world of artistic g, , bu
fame and into the realm of commercial its simple, u it
popularity - the print can be found on
notebook covers, umbrellas and t-shirts ... stays with you."
- Guth mentions her interest in the
"production and consumption" of the
image. "My interests have moved into many
Guth is also intrigued by the print's other areas - from the tea ceremony to
contribution to the 19th-Century fasci- tattoos,"' Guth wrote.
nation with maritime culture. Maki Fukuoka, an assistant profes-
"Rather than looking at it in relation sor of Asian languages and cultures at
to Mount Fuji and the series of which the University, has attended several
it is a part, I propose that it be seen as of Guth's lectures in London and was
one of many great waves, products and so impressed with her analysis of The
symptoms of a new preoccupation with Great Wave that she invited Guth to the
the sea," she wrote in an e-mail inter- University to speak.
view with The Michigan Daily. Also interested in the influence of
Guth will focus on the print's enor- this print, Fukuoka stressed the enthu-
mous popularity and the evolution of siasm and inspiration The Great Wave
its place in society since the time of its motivated when it first appeared to

shed in 1831.
European audiences.
"(The Great Wave) was received with
such excitement by European audienc-
es, including the artists who have never
seen anything like this, both in terms of
material - the paper and ink - but also
in terms of technique with the wood-
block print," Fukuoka said.
Fukuoka also addressed the emphasis
on the boundless adaptations and repro-
ductions of this iconic Japanese print.
"The topic itself allows us to think
about the image in so many different
contexts in terms of its influence over
artists in Europe and ... its influence of
the reception as Japanese art in Ameri-
ca (and) Europe, also in terms of a com-
mercialized art market," she said.
Fukuoka attributes the vast popular-
ity of the printto its visual accessibility.
"There's this kind of immediate
understanding of what the picture is
about. And it's simple enough, but it
kind of stays with you," she added.
Despite the specificity of the lec-
ture, Fukuoka emphasized how The
Great Wave can address geographical,
historical, graphic and visual symbolic
interests.
"Even if you had no interest in Hoku-
sai, if you ever wondered about this
image, Hokusai's The Great Wave, and
why isthis such aglobal icon, then I think
you would get so much out ofthis talk."

GARDASI L.
[Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent
(Types 6,11,16, and 18) Vaccine, Recombinant]
EARDASIl IS WIDELY AVAILABLE AND MANY
PRIVATE INSURANCE PLANS* COVER IT.
TALK TO YOUR CAMPUS HEALTH CENTER OR
OTHER HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL.

You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs
to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-FDA-1088.


6A - Wednesday, March 31, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

1 BDRM CONDO FOR SALE,-
CLEAN QUIET $65000. 2317 Packard
Rd (734) 930-0200.

6R6ING8AVAILABLE
665-8825

. . ,15DmIV. UUIN VU
Aug 2010. North campus. Free utils.,
A/C, idry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV, DSL. $695/person/mo.
Call 313-838-2629.
! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one.
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
It. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
" AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnisbed two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, disb-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
F dStudio & 1
11 Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
CalBrian r )msic
734-663-1530
!! NEW LISTING Avail Fall 2010 !!
721 Church- Unfurnished I bedroom
apartment. Quiet atmosphere. Great lo-
cation, I block from South University,
near B-School & Education School,
hardwood floors, free heat, free water,
free parking. Laundry.
Call Ann 320-1244 or visit our web-
site www.churchstreetrentals.com
!! ROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.
!!!!!!!!!!CENTRAL CAMPUS!!!!!!!!
APTS. AT UNBELIEVEABLE
SAVINGS
Discounted rates plus lots of extras
for free.
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
*****AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E.
Liberty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5
min walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.

PRESENTS THE
Retal Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
clausifieda o see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus. Heat, water, park-
ing inc, fully furnised, perfect sum-
mer locations! Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100.
**2BEDROOMSnn TWO Central
Campus locations on S. Forest, Free
WiFi, new kitchens and baths, heat, wa-
ler, furisings, and parking inc. Var-
sity Management (734) 668-1100.
**3-BEDROOM** ACROSS St. from
CCRB, close to Arboretum, great bal-
cony, large living room, heat, water,
furishings, parking mcl. Varsity Man-
agemen (734) 668-1100.
**4-BEDROOMS** BEAUTIFUL
Burns Park mansion - converted into
enormous aparmens witb room for5
or 6! Heat, water, furnisings, and
parking inl.,Dishwhers, on-site laun-
dry, screened porch and a large yard!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
**BUSINESS & LAW SCHOOL**
Huge 2-bdrms one block south, cov-
ered parking, new kitchens and baths,
heat, water, furnishings, and parking
incl. Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100.
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by April
15th. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www~miccomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.

DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.
Call uS for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorms),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTwers-mi.com
_2] c.v w si
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, lndry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
6 Bed 2 Bath at State and Hoover avail
Sept 1,2010. $3750 + 7-c, parking,
free eat, coin lundry 734-668-6686
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE interet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
1221 S.State #2
8 MO. LEASE
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
Hurry in fr Bes Selection
Right now we hase a few apartments at
Very Special Low Rates
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home awayfrom home
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48160
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer .Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-.
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical

schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms apts. Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.jmsprop.com
Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?
Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
section on
APR IL 1STr!
Advertise in this section
by contacting:
(734) 764-0557

Brovies Apartments
Spacious 1 eoom apartments
'Spucinus 2 bedruosus with master bath
'Sul und campus
'Large private balconies
with woodedviews
'Pets welcome
.Models Opea DuDill
r ' -1 (741-9300
F. (XEEDHUS)
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1028 Fuller- Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
heat, water and parking included. Call
Campus Mgt @734-663-4101.
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
clous 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 . State St., offof
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FALL 2010 ! I bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeMangers@mich.edu
815S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagersaumich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for '
Fall/Winter 2010/11
-$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilitiest
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.lcc.coop
HOUSE FOR FALL small company
offers 7 bedroom at South U. and
Wasetenaw $4000 and 6 bedroom at
1115 South Forest $2700. Eight montb
leases possible. 734-260-4003.
LIVE ON A LAKE. Recently reno-
vated furnished 2 bedroom 2 bath
home. Available for Fall. 20 minutes to

campus. $995/month plus utilities. Call
313-363-9484.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY TO MAY Leases
3 Bedrooms "Park Plaza'
1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates
734-761-8000
primesh.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Famnished
On Site Laundry
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the. area.
www.ISelIA2.com 734-476-9768

!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus and Downtown.
Heat, water, parking incl., fully fur-
nished, perfect summer sublease! Var-
sity Management (734)668-1100.
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

FALL 2010 7 Bedroom 3 bath house.
Free parking. $3200 per month. 1207
Prospect. Call Brian 734-260-6836.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Hoasing, bonas, and discoanted meals
avuilable. Call Ryan c(906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Sboppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
TEMPORARY HELP NEEDED for
student moving & storage company
now through end of finals week.
Contact Jeremy at
jeremy@studentstoragesolutions.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

0

BSINmESSCHINESE: LEARN Btusi-
ness Chinese or Chinese in Chinese
Business Law Summer Program in
Beijing. www.studyabroad-chlina.org

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
iu Iufertility Treatmeut.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for bealtby women
between tbe ages of 21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 for their involvement
in our program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.
IMMEDIATE POSITIONS FOR
full-time drivers. Dedicted routes/home
daily. Full Benefits including 401K,
medical, dental & vision. Cdl class A
required. 2 years experience good mvr
call 419-305-4643

NEEDED in Commerce Township (30
min from Ann Arbor) for 3 kids (4, 1
and infant) of U-M staff. Nonsmoker.
Own transportation required. Contact
Please Catherine at cbsum@umich.edu.

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Muslim god 37 Defensive 54 Apartment
1 Basic Latin 4 Like a basketball trench sign
lesson word team's center, 40 Fans 55 Asleep,
5 Bedtime story usually 41 With sustained probably
preceder, S National force 56 Tropical
perhaps Intutes of 44 Jobs, vis-4-vis hardwoods
9 ?Osudanceclub Healhcity Apple Inc. 57 Straford's
14 Dancer Falana 6In need of a 46 Oregon NBA river
15 Canyon effect massage team, familiarly 88 _noire
16 Not whispered 7 "Now hear _!" 48 Old tnuring car 60 Actor Rickman
17 Response bias 8 Sharpened 50 "Yo!" 61 Collaborative
may affect one 9 Most goofy 52 Low, moist Web site
18 Weak, as a novel 10 Laid up area 63 Figure out
plot 11 Motown genre
19 Piccolo, e.g. 12 Adorable ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Proverbial advice 13 Shelleyworks
to a physician 21lPrefix with sect or DR S E S P A P S T E E
23 " Miz" cycle I A N X K E R A I S I N S
24 Stick 22 Captained S N A P P I N G T U R T L E S
25 Reasoned belief 26 Hot tub C A R H O P E E L E E R O
in a supreme 28 Monopolizes, S T L O PRE M I E R
being with "up" B R E A K I N G N E W S
27 Scaredy-cat 29 Kennel sounds
30 Appoint as a 31 No..-traffic A R M O I R E S E R N A P
posse member, 32 O.K. Corral S E U S S E R I C A
say fighter ENS K IA ACTEDON
33 Hask's 33500 sheets E N T K INA LACT DS
transport 34 Zenith
36 Consider 35 This puzzle's S T B A R T S E S T A
38 Obama's theme, if you E R I K R I A T E N N I S
younger listentothe S E V E R I N G A L L T I E S
daughter beginnings of 20-, T O A D I E S B E L P R E
39 "The Name oflthe 40- and 59- S S N OFT A S A S S T
Rose" writer Across and 11-
40 Scold vigorously Down xwordedltor@aol.com 03/30/10
42 Damaged, as 1 2 3 s t a u 9 10 11 12 13
mdse.
43 BP merger 4 15 1
partner
45 Stretchoftime 17is
46 Bra size 2.1 23
47 Fallingy ar
48 Lesleynl'of "6a0a
Minutes"
51 Model's array a as s as 31 a
530etlastl"
57Deensegp.? 8 34 7 s t 8 as
59 Certain
no-parking area t a 40 41 42
62 Brink 3
64 Hit the ground
65 1814-'15 exile 77 4 , s
site
66 River romper 1 52 s a5 ss as
67 Tiicc, fIntone
68 Causeastench s s so a1
88 Natural humus
70 Auhr Bagnolde
71 Norms: Abbr.7
DOWN as
1 Top dog
2 Was heard from By Jennifer Nutt
the herd (c)20i0 Tribune Media services, Inc. 03/31/10

For Thursday, April 1 2010
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is an excellent day to share things
with others. You feel generous, but sodo
they! (You could be laughing all the way
to the bank.)
TAURUS
(April 2010o May 20)
You have to go mare than halfway
with others today, because the Moon is
directly opposite your sign. Fortunately,
it's a fun day to deal with groups and
close friends. Everyone is upbeat!
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
This is a positive day at work. It's also
a great day for your general sense of
well-being. You can do something to
improve your health.
CANCER
(June 21 toJuly 22)
What a wonderful, fun-loving day!
Participate in sports or watch a game.
Movies, show business, parties, playful
activities with children and fun flirta-
tions will delight you.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Invite the gang over for pizzaand beer
today (or whatever you like to feed your
family and friends). It's a great day for
family get-togethers.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23to Sept. 22)
Because your communication with
others is so tuned-in today, this is a great
day for selling, teaching or acting, or for
anyone who drives for living.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Pay attention to your moneymaking
ideas today. You're not afraid to think
big. You might make certain expendi-
tures that are necessary to improve your
job or, possibly, to improve your health.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
The Moon is in your sign today, mak-
ing a lovely aspect to lucky moneybags
Jupiter. Enjoy good times today.
Everyone wants to be in your company.
Get out and schmooze!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Solitude in beautiful surroundings will
please you today. You feel a need to con-
template issues in a gentle, private way.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Group activities will delight you
today. Enjoy the company of others,
especially female friends. This is an
excellent day to think about your goals
for the future.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Some aspect of your private life will
suddenly get high visibility today.
People certainly notice. you! Don't
worry, it's all good. You come out
smelling like a rose.
PISCES
(Feb..19 to March 20)
Try to do something different today.
Shake it up a little. You want adventure,
and you want to learn something new!
Travel anywhere if you get a chance.
Explore opportunities in publishing,
higher education, medicine and the law.
YOU BORN TODAY You are sincere
and honest. You're idealistic and hard-
working, and many of you appear to oth-
ers to be naive. (So what?) There is no
question that you have dreams and
visions for the future. You want to mas-
ter something ("I'm the best!"). The year
ahead might be one of the most powerful
years of your life. Dream big!
Birthdate of: Susan Boyle, singer;
Debbie Reynolds, actress; Ali MacGraw,
actress.

0
S
0
6

0 2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Wednesday, March 31, 2010 - 7A

ARMSTRONG
From Page 1A
national political action committee
that trains LGBT leaders to hold
political positions in the govern-
ment and across the country. Vic-
tory Fund also helped Armstrong
- who interned with the commit-
tee last summer - in his MSA cam-
paign, he said.
Armstrong cited that Detroit
City Council President Charles
Pugh, another openly gay poli-
tician, also worked with Vic-
tory Fund. Armstrong said Pugh's
political success inspired him and
proved that he could lead a similar
role.
Gabe Javier, Armstrong's self-
proclaimed mentor and assistant
director at the University's Spec-
trum Center, said Armstrong's
esteemed position as MSA presi-
dent will have a large effect on the
campus as a whole. He said Arm-
strong's election win is a "proud
moment" for the University and
has important implications for the
LGBT community to have such rep-
resentation.
"I have high confidence that
Chris is going to represent the
interests of all students," Javier
said. "This is an important time for
Michigan."
Javier said Armstrong is a great
role model for every student who is
struggling to find his or her iden-
tity.
"It's really great to have a role
model like Chris out there who can
show that it's possible to be a stu-
dent leader and be out and be suc-
cessful.as a gay person," he said.
Javier said the University isn't
the first university in the Big Ten to
have an openly gay student govern-
ment president. In 2006, Ohio State
University elected an openly gay
student to serve as the school's stu-
dent government president.
Armstrong said his new position
has been an amazing feat for the
LGBT community.
"I think that personally, it's a big
ROBINSON
From Page 1A
like a crapshoot."
Robinson said he was sitting
with his wife on his patio when
Fred Hiatt, the editorial page edi-
torofthePostcalled to tellhimthat
the paper won a Pulitzer for 2008
forhis columns.
As he sat on his back porch fid-
dling with small sticks that fell off
the trees outside his home, Robin-
son described the moment when
he found out he had won the prize,
calling it "an out-of-body experi-
ence." Robinson added that he was
doubly lucky because he won the
Pulitzer for covering a story with
such huge historical implications.
"In quieter moments it felt like
you were watching something
really important," Robinson said
of covering the election. "You were
learning a lot about the country
and the country was learning a lot
about itself. You almost couldn't
make this stuff up."
"(The 2008 presidential elec-
tion) was the best political story
certainly I'll ever cover, maybe the
best story nil ever cover and there
were many stories I thought were
huge and were hugely important,"
he said.

In fact, Robinson began his
career covering one of the most
talked about stories of the 1970s.
As a reporter for the San Fran-
cisco Chronicle, Robinson said
he got a ticket to the "incredible"
trial of Patty Hearst, the heiress of
publishing millionaires, who was
kidnapped by the Symbionese Lib-
eration Army.
"I was the junior reporter on the
Patty Hearst trial, which essential-
ly meant I got to carry the handbag
of the granddame Carolyn Ans-
backer who was the Chronicle's
trial reporter," Robinson said. "She
was a great lady. She chain smoked
unfiltered camels, I think they
were."
After covering city politics at the
Chronicle for a few years, Robinson
applied for a job at The Washington
Post and received an unexpected
call from the Post's metro editor at
the time.
"I got a phone call from some-
one who claimed to be Bob Wood-
ward and I almost didn't believe it
at first, but it was Bob Woodward,"
Robinson said.
Robinson cut his teeth at the
Post covering the first term of Mar-
ion Barry, a figure so well-known in
Washington that some still call him
the city's "mayor for life."
Barry was elected mayor in 1978
in a three-way race and was only
the second person to be elected
to the position - Washington had
been given the right from Congress
to govern itself less than ten years
earlier.
Barry went on to serve three
consecutive terms as mayor and
was reelected a fourth time, even
after being arrested on cocaine
charges.
Tom Sherwood, who co-

accomplishment for the LGBT com-
munity on campus," Armstrong
said, adding that his willingness to
express his identity motivated him
to run in the election.
Armstrong said he wants to
inspire students, especially fresh-
men, to have hope that they can
hold a position of power despite
their background or identity.
Armstrong said his identity
would play a role in making MSA
more "welcoming" to the entire
student body.
"Regardless of what community
you are from, you canbecome a stu-
dent leader that is leading 40,000
students," he said.
Javier echoed Armstrong's com-
ments, and said Armstrong's role in
MSA sets a new precedent for Uni-
versity students.
"Chris is a good example of
someone whose identity is impor-
tant, and only one important aspect
of him," Javier said. "I hope that it
encourages other students to see
themselves as student leaders and
be out in all of their identities."
Armstrong said that he hopes
his position will make University
administrators take MSA more
seriously.
"I think that it will make MSA
more legitimate in the eyes of the
administration," he said. "(Being
elected as MSA president could)
make administrators and even the
regents and maybe the state legisla-
tors recognize MSA as a body that
can really inspire hope within the
student body at large."
Armstrong said he hopes that
if different bodies take MSA more
seriously, MSA representatives will
feel like their work in the assembly
is worthwhile.
"In terms of the culture of MSA,"
Armstrong said, "this will make the
representatives feel that the proj-
ects they are taking on will have
more leverage at the University."
Armstrong said his identity
would not be the main focus of his
presidency, though it is still a cen-
tral part of his life. He said this is
the reason his sexual orientation
authored "Dream City: Race,
Power and the Decline of Washing-
ton D.C.," said Robinson covered
Barry during a time when resi-
dents had high hopes for the city's
future. Sherwood, the local politi-
cal reporter for Washington's NBC
affiliate, said though the Post's
editorial board endorsed Barry, his
relationship with the paper was
fairly-tense.
"(The Washington Post's) edito-
rial page is very influential on what
happens - people follow it very
closely," he said. "But on the other
hand people felt like The Wash-
ington Post and the business com-
munity did things irrespective of if
they were helpful of the black com-
munity."
Sherwood said this put Robinson
in a tough position as the Post's city
hall reporter who also happened to
be black. He said Robinson often
faced criticism from both black and
white readers who claimed he was
being too friendly to the mayor or
not friendly enough.
"He had to walk the tight rope
between what community people
felt about the news media and what
he needed to report," Sherwood
said of Robinson.
Robinson described Barry as "a
fascinating character," and added
that covering the mayor was a great
job because his byline was often on

the front page. But Robinson also
said he could feel the "constant ten-
sion" between the newspaper and
the Barry administration.
"This was a black government
and The Washington Post was this
kind of elite white institution and
so I was kind of the ambassador
from one group to the other in a
sense," he said. "(Barry) used the
Post as sort of a foil and sometimes
it could be a fairly contentious rela-
tionship."
After spending a few years cov-
ering Barry, Robinson said he got
"tricked" into becoming the paper's
city editor.
Robinson spent a few years "at
the desk" and then finally got his
escape. In 1988, Robinson and his
family packed up and moved to
Cambridge, Mass. for the academic
year where he studied Latin Amer-
ican history and politics, as part of
Harvard University's Nieman Fel-
lowship in Journalism.
During his time at Harvard, the
position of South American bureau
chief became available - Robinson
took the job, and enrolled in what
he called an "instant conversation-
al Spanish course," to get ready for
the position.
Robinson moved to Buenos Aires
and was responsible for covering
all of South America for four years,
an experience he called "life trans-
forming."
"Living overseas I really believe
changes the way you see things in
this country in that it exposes you
to people and societies that have
somewhat different ideas about
things we take for granted," he
said.
Robinson stayed abroad in Lon-
don for another two years and then

Michigan Student Assembly President Chris Armstrong an,
Raymond lead their first MSA meeting yesterday.

didn't come up a lot during the
campaign.
"It defines what kind of leader
I am, and it defines who I am, but
that doesn't mean that I only repre-
sent that community," Armstrong
said.
During the beginning of his cam-
paign Armstrong said he wanted
to be president to shed more light
on the "legitimacy" of the LGBT
community, but toward the end,
he realized he was campaigning to
represent the entire student body
- not only students who identified
with him.
Armstrong said without the
University, his identity would have
never driven him to be the political
activist he is today.
"The support structure - the
sense of feeling thatyou're a part of
something - that has really guided
me in each step and each year," he
said. "Without that support struc-
ture, I would never be in this posi-
tion."
The newly-elected president said
his involvement with the Spectrum
Center and the LGBT community
makes his future in MSA even more
"empowering."
returned to Washington to become
editor of the Post's Style section,
where he stayed for six years.
"(Editing the Style section) was
a great job because you got to run
your own alternative newspaper
within the newspaper," Robin-
son said wearing gym shorts and
a t-shirt to deal with the humid
weather.
Robinson said it was working all
over the world and in multiple sec
tions of the Post that made it easy
for him to transition to writing his
column in 2005.
"I had thought for some time
that it would be really interest-
ing to do a column and I thought
I could do it," he said. "So when I
started doing it, it just really felt -
easy is not the right word - but it
felt natural and it felt right."
"I was happy to have started
doing the column after having had
all these other jobs and been all
these other places," he said. "And
every time I sit down to write
including this morning for tomor-
row's paper, I'm happy that I have
- what am I saying - am I actually
saying I'm happy that I'm old? Well
kind of. But I'm happy that I had so
many varied experiences soI don't
get stuck for something to say."
According to Hiatt, the editorial
page editor of the Post, Robinson's
wide range of experiences is only
part of what he brings to the page.
"He has this great facility of
making readers feel as if he's talk-
ing to them, as if they know him
and to know him is to like him,"
Hiatt said. "He can take on the
most serious issues, and he does so
frequently, from torture to war to
politics, but never loses that con-
nection with his readers, including
me, and never loses that sense that
readers have of wanting to be part
of Gene's circle."
But Hiatt, who also worked as a
foreign correspondent when Rob-
inson was foreign editor at the
Post, added that Robinson's vast
experience doesn't hurt either.
"He's also a very good reporter
and I think that's a foundation
for most really good columnists,"
he said. "They know how to find
things out that other people don't
know - they know how to ask the

right questions that other people
haven't asked."
Besides his editor, Robinson has
another, more surprising fan at the
Post's editorial page: - conserva-
tive columnist George Will. A few
months after Robinson began writ-
ing his column in 2005, Will invited
him to lunch to share some tricks of
the trade. Over the meal, Will, who
has had a column since 1974, told
Robinson he doesn't understand
how one could live without a col-
umn, a sentiment Robinson didn't
understand at the time, but one he
said he almost agrees with now.
"I still don't think I'd ever say
that, but I understand it now
because something happens and
you want to talk about it," Robin-
son said. "That may be a natural
human impulse given that there
are about 8 gazillion blogs. But I

"It pushes me to want to do so
much over the course of next year,"
Armstrong said. "It encourages me
to be the best I can be at this posi-
tion."
Armstrong said he would not
make his sexual orientation the
focus of the assembly, but said that
it could be significant to MSA and
the student body at large.
"I won't showcase it, but I think
that it will always be important for
individuals to remember that this
did happen, and I was elected," he
said. "I think the implications can
resonate and be very positive for U
of M."
As the first openly gay MSA
president, Armstrong calls his
newly-elected position "symbolic"
for the assembly. He said he hopes
more people will feel welcome to be
themselves at the University.
He added that he encourages gay
students to express their sexual
orientation without fear of being
discriminated against.
"Hopefully individuals will feel
comfortable coming out at U of M
and know that it's a comfortable
environment despite fears and
inhibitions," he said,
have this incredibly valuable real
estate twice a week to justcspout off
about what's going on and explain
to everybody how they ought to
think about it."
But before he was a nationally
respected voice, Robinson was a
student at the University. He came
to Michigan from South Carolina
intending to study architecture,
but three weeks into his time at
school he "stumbled in" to the
Student Publications Building and
began an illustrious career at The
Michigan Daily, ultimately rising
to become the paper's co-editor in
chief in 1973.
"It was a great time to be at
Michigan and it was a great time
to learn to do journalism because
there was so much going on," Rob-
inson said of his time in Ann Arbor.
Jonathan Miller, a University
alum who worked with Robinson
at the Daily, said Robinson always
maintained a "maturity" during
his time at the paper amidst young
journalists who could often be
"very excitable."
"In the early 1970s the campus
was an extremely turbulent place,"
Miller said. "The (Vietnam) war
was at its height. He stepped into
all of this and managed always to
maintain a kind of sanity amidst all
this madness."
Robinson said the paper func-
tioned just like professional papers
at the time, with reporters and
editors filing stories upstairs and
unionized workers using hot type
technology to put the pages togeth-
er downstairs.
"When I came out of Michigan
I certainly was not fully formed as
a journalist," he said. "Obviously
there was a lot that I still had to
learn, but I really felt that I had
such a head start over any possible
alternative. We critiqued each other
pretty mercilessly in those days."
In fact when the "great and
grand editor of the Daily," Marty
Hirschman, criticized th struc-
ture of one of the stories Robin-
son wrote his freshman year, he
penned a "very pompous and pre-
tentious reply" to Hirschman.
"The tradition of doing good
journalism there and being rigor-
ous about it was very much alive

and served me very well," Robin-
son said.
Though Robinson classified his
letter to Hirschman as pretentious,
Miller, who remains close friends
with Robinson,. said he's anything
but.
"He's a guy who's always been
able to talk to people from the
highest to the lowest in society,"
Miller said, adding that Robinson
has "instant empathy."
"He's sort of a big, amusing
man, with a great, global view on
things," he said.
Hiatt said Robinson's personal-
ity also makes him an asset to the
editorial page:
"What makes him so unusual
and successful as a columnist also
makes him wonderful as a friend
and made him great as a colleague
in the newsroom," he said.

ELECTION
From Page 1A
on legislation she worked on in the
House. She noted that during her
time in the House, she has worked
extensively on many environmen-
tal initiatives that were successful-
ly passed in the House, and would
like to see similar legislation make
it to the Senate during the upcom-
ing term.
"I've been able to work pretty
successfully on some important
bill packages that were done in a
bipartisan way and were able to
become law," Warren said. "There
were a number of others that went
to the Senate and just languished
in committee. I want to run for the
Senate so that I can go to the other
side of the dome and help work
on those pieces of legislation that
haven't gotten the light of day in
the Senate yet."
Byrnes said she will continue to
advocate for issues like transporta-
tion infrastructure, education and
reversing the state's brain drain.
"We need to keep our young
people here and retain the talent
that we have here and make sure
that we have the quality of life
that keeps the young people here,"
Byrnes said. "And that's all related
to jobs and the economy and mak-
ing sure that we are encouraging
the goals of businesses that will
keep our talented young people
here in Michigan."
The current chair of the
House Transportation Commit-
tee, Byrnes said she would like
to change the "terrible roads" of
Michigan because it forces busi-
nesses in the state to use addi-
tional resources to safely transport
employees and goods.
"Why would a company want to
come to Michigan with those kinds
of conditions when they have to
move people and their goods in a
safe and efficient manner?" Byrnes
said. "They want to have their
employees get to work on time;
they want to have them commute
there safely."
Byrnes also noted that Michigan
has been lacking in improving its
public transportation systems, and
said that she would like to work
toward establishing better trans-
portation alternatives in the state.
"Michigan has been behind in
those efforts, whether it's com-
muter rail, whether it's the bus,
whether it's high-speed rail," she
said. "We need to be working on
enhancing our multi-modal trans-
portation infrastructure."
Byrnes also said she's always
been passionate about improv-
ing early childhood education in
the state and finds it imperative
to continue to try to find ways to
fund education, especially at the
elementary level.
"We need to continue finding
ways to fund that properly and to
make sure we put as much empha-
sis on early childhood education

as we do post-secondary," Byrnes
said.
Warren said she too is a strong
proponent of supporting education
at all levels and feels it's crucial to
helping the state grow amidst dif-
ficult economic conditions.
"I really strongly feel that the
only way we're going to turn Mich-
igan around is to invest in educa-
tion," Warren said. "So I want to
continue to work on making sure
we have our citizens ready for the
21st century jobs that are here
today and definitely going to be
here tomorrow."
Election reform and voter rights
are other issues Warren said she's
passionate about. She said she
has been working on repealing
Michigan's Rogers' Law - which
requires the address on a voter's
registration card to be the same as
the address on the voter's driver's
license.
Warren said this legislation hin-
ders college students from voting
for candidates and issues in the
district of their universities.
"I'm making sure that our first-
time voters, our young people, who
are just registering to vote and
going off to college, have access to
the ballot," Warren said.
Byrnes said she believes her
diverse work experience in Ann
Arbor will be an advantage over
Warren. Byrnes - who previously
worked as an attorney - has lived
in Washtenaw County since 1975.
She said she feels she has a deep
understanding of the strengths of
the county and how she can devel-
op these assets in a way that will
benefit the state.
"I've had contact in the com-
munity for 30-plus years," Byrnes
said. "So I think that gives me the
understanding of knowing the
diversity in Washtenaw County,
as well some of the strengths in
Washtenaw County. And I think I
know the people."
Warren said her main cam-
paigning strategy is to personal-
ize herself and allow her potential
constituents to get to know her and
her policies.
"It's always been my style to run
a pretty strong feel-focused cam-
paign," Warren said. "I've always
believed that the best way for me
to win over someone's vote or their
support for the race that I'm run-
ning in, is to get as personal as I
can."
Warren said her voting record
and her strong ability to negoti-
ate to get things accomplished for
the people of Washtenaw County
is what distinguishes her from
Byrnes.
"I have found that unique ability
to work across the aisle and across
the'dome to get important legisla-
tion passed," Warren said. "And I
think that record just speaks for
itself, being able to negotiate in
a very politicized world up here
and actually get important things
accomplished for the residents of
Washtenaw County."


FESTIFOOLS
From Page 1A
nity come in and help make them."
Tucker said in an interview yes-
terday that helping make the Fes-
tifools puppets offered the visually
impaired students an opportunity
for artistic expression that they
don't have in school.
"We've been bringing the kids
here for three years, but now we're
going to Detroit, too, because a lot
of them don't have arts programs
anymore," Tucker said.
Whitney Bryant, a 15-year-old
student who participated in the
event, said she enjoyed having the
opportunity to try a new type of
art.
"I never sculpted before. It's fun.
I could do it all day," Bryant said.
"And I'll be here next year, too."
Patty Smith, a teacher from
O.W. Holmes Elementary, said that
working with the Festifools pup-
pets gives the visually impaired
students, who are in grades five
through eight, an artistic experi-
ence that's more comprehensive
than what they normally get in
school.
"A lot of art classes for the visu-
ally impaired involve grabbing
a crayon and scribbling, but you
really need thevisuals toget some-
thing out of it," Smith said. "They
love being a part of something, and
getting into a differentrcommunity,
and doing some hands-on art."
But despite the benefit the proj-
ect offered her students, Smith
said the field trip almost didn't
happen because of budget con-

straints within the O.W. Holmes
School.
"(Mark Tucker and Ruth Marsh)
ended up driving us in U of M vans,
because otherwise we would have
had to pay for a bus, which is $300
or $350, and that's not in our bud-
get," Smith said.
Denise McCurtis, a teach-
ing aide who traveled with the
students, said that the students
enjoyed participating in the public
project.
"They like knowing that their
creation is going to be a part of the
parade," said McCurtis. "They've
had a lot of fun with it, making the
paper mach and being together
outside of school."
McCurtis added that the stu-
dents do most of their work on the
puppets without help from their
teachers.
"I help, but they do most of it
themselves," McCurtis said.
Delon Allen, age 13, said he also
liked building the puppets.
"I like the clay," Allen said. "We
crushed it, and smoothed it out,
and we had to make an arm and
the fingers."
Marsh said she wished that the
Lloyd Hall Scholars students could
have been there during the stu-
dents' field trip so they could work
on the puppets together.
"It's just unfortunate that we
can't get the (University) students
out here, and that we can't have it
on a weekend," Marsh said. "But
given the course schedule and
the (visually impaired) students'
schedule, it just didn't work out."
The Festifools Parade will take
place on April 11 on Main Street.

WANT TO WRITE
FOR DAILY NEWS?
E-mail berman@michigandaily.com
to get started.

1,


8A - Wednesday, March 31, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

WNIT final berth on the line for Blue

0

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
The Wolverines go into the
program's first-ever Women's
National Invita-
tional Tourna- Miamiat
ment Final four Mhigan
matchup with .
their sights set Matchup:
on a shot at a Miami 21-13;
championship. Michigan 21-13
But the script When: Tonight
reads the same at 7 p.m.
for the Miami Where: Crisler
Hurricanes, Arena
whose dominant Live Blog: mich-
offense could igandaily.com
bring about
something Michigan fans haven't
seem so far in the WNIT: a close
final four.
In their first four games of the
tournament, the Wolverines won
by an average of 24 points. And
it's not because their opponents
haven't been good teams - when
Michigan beat Toledo in the sec-
ond round of the tournament, it
avenged the Rockets' preseason
scrimmage win in which they
rolled over the Wolverines.
The difference between that
scrimmage and the WNIT is the
energy and confidence Michigan
(8-10 Big Ten, 21-13 overall) has
been coming out with every game.
In the "new season" that has been
the month of March, freshman
starters Dayeesha Hollins and

Jenny Ryan have played with con-
viction after finding their roles on
the court and places on the team in
the regular season.
"I feel like this is our sopho-
more season," Ryan said after
beating Kent State in the first
round of the WNIT. "I'm com-
fortable with the offense. I'm
settled into that role and I think
everyone else around me has
felt that too. You kind of aren't
searching for your way anymore.
You've pretty much found it, and
that will make a difference."
That said, Hollins, Ryan and the
rest of the squad have a tall task
ahead of them.
The Hurricanes (4-10 ACC,
21-13) average 75 points per game
to Michigan's 66. Miami is led by
sophomores Riguna Williams and
Shenise Johnson, each of whom
account for 19 points per game.
No other player on the team
averages double digits, and either
Williams or Johnson has been
Miami's leading scorer for all but
three of the squad's games this
season.
The Wolverines are slightly
more spread out offensively. Soph-
omore forward Carmen Reynolds,
junior guard Veronica Hicks and
Hollins all average double digits
for the Wolverines, Reynolds and
Hicks, the team's leading scorers,
average 13 points per game.
If Michigan is going to keep its
season going, the team will have

0

Freshman guard Dayeesha Hollins takes a shot against Syracuse in the WNIT quarterfinals last weekend. The Wolverines beat the Orange 78-52.

to find a way to quiet Williams and
Johnson without leaving the rest
of the team unguarded.
Senior forward Diane Barnes,
Miami's third-leading scorer,
checks in at nearly 10 points per
game.
Michigan has had home-court
advantage throughout the WNIT

and hasn't lost a game at home to a
non-conference opponent all sea-
son.
Still, this will be the Hurri-
canes' second consecutive road
game in the tournament and they
have yet to lose an away game to a
non-conference opponent all sea-
son.

And Miami won't give the Wol-
verines a break. Johnson regis-
tered her 10th double-double of
the season Sunday in Providence
when she scored a season high 33
points and grabbed 10 board. She
could carry that momentum into
tonight's matchup.
Michigan is up against argu-

ably its toughest opponent of the
WNIT so far tonight. If the Wol-
verines find a wayto stop Johnson
and Williams they could see the
finals of the WNIT for the first
time in program history on Sat-
urday. Otherwise,' Hollins's and
Ryan's second season as freshmen
could be over.

0

With 21 straight wins at home, 'M'
cherishes Alumni Field advantage

Kampfer to sign with
Boston Bruins affiliate

By CASANDRA PAGNI the road for six weeks and then
Daily Sports Writer you come home and get to play in
front of your own fans and at your
The third-ranked Wolverines home stadium," senior captain
(1-0 Big Ten, 24-5 overall) under- Angela Findlay said on Tuesday.
stand the perks of playing at home. "You know the park, you know the
Familiar facilities, a regular people. We practice there every
schedule and having friends and day now that were outside and it's
family in the stands have pro- just really nice to finally be play-
pelled Michigan to its current ing games back home."
21-game win streak at Alumni The third-ranked Wolverines
Field. kicked off the 2010 home season
In the two contests the Wol- with a convincing 10-2 win over
verines have played at home this Bowling Green last Wednesday.
season, Michigan boasts a .431 Senior hitting-pitcher Nikki
batting average, featuring three Nemitz has settled into her
home runs and a grand slam. Simi- groove at Alumni Field, as she hit
larly, the pitchers have found their the rocket grand slam in the bot-
footing on the tom of the fifth
mound, recording inning to cap off
20 strikeouts in "at's just really the Wolverines'
two games. rout of Bowling
With the nGreen.
weather in Ann "t'vee been
Arbor warming layin games watching them
up and the team build this sta-
already hot at back at home." dium for two
Alumni Field this years now, and .
season, the Wol- it's nice to have
verines are hop- it finally done,"
ing their first full week at home Nemitz said after Wednesday's
can help give them an edge come game against Bowling Green. "It's
gameday. greatto play on it and be back with
"These kids haven't slept in our fans who love us and come
their beds for seven days straight out every game. It's so exciting
in a long time," Michigan coach that our home season has finally
Carol Hutchins said on Saturday. started and we get to see all our
"Just to be able to be on our field, fans again. It's such a great atmo-
which we're so proud of, and tobe sphere."
able to play in front of our fans is Michigan began its Big Ten
always exciting." conference campaign at home on
After traveling to California, Saturday, beating No. 20 Illinois
Alabama and other warm-weather 7-1 in front of 1,224 fans.
climates for the first month of the Now, with Wisconsin on deck
season, Michigan will welcome this weekend, the Wolverines
Wisconsin in its third home series look forward to settling into nor-
in a row this weekend. mal school and practice routines.
"Its awesome when you play on These recent home games have

According to Michigan hock-
ey coach Red Berenson, senior
defenseman Steve Kampfer has
departed for Providence, RI to
sign an entry-level NHL con-
tract with the Boston Bruins.
Berenson announced the news
yesterday at his weekly radio

show at the Arena Sports Bar
and Grill in Ann Arbor. It isstill
yet to be determined when the
Jackson native will play his first
game for the Bruins' American
Hockey League affiliatein Prov-
idence.
MARK BURNS

Wolverines hold
on to down EMU.

a

Junior Jordan Taylor has led the Wolverines' pitching charge this season.

allowed Michigan to practice
both as a team and as individual
units, on the infield and outfield
surfaces they are most comfort-
able with.
"I mean we obviously check
out the other team's fields before
the game and their facilities, but

it's hard to be on the road," Find-
lay said. "You get out of your daily
routine of sleeping in your own
bed and waking up at home. But
now that were at home we get to
do a little bit more on your own
work. It's a little bit more relaxed
of a (practice) atmosphere."


Seni
caught
Easter
sell for
inning.
He leai
out of
crouch
arms rc
Juni
goon h
es-load
final s
gan's 1
one ste
victory
expect
Mic
fortabl
game.'
first w
the op,
ner w:
appear
touchi:
came 1
second
third t
But
stoppe
the fift
enth to
The W
sure, fi
toughe
"Tor
coach!
a chan
punch
good t
tle thr
kept b
fortun
up the
And
throug
of the s
forced
duo of
Miller
to mai
two co
runs in
Bur
win, b
of his'
ation i
doing,
ters an
Yet,
downt
for a b
"I
some i

By BEN ESTES ney. "Obviously, you wouldn't
Daily Sports Writer have liked to walk those guys, but
the flipside of it is he stayed the
or catcher Chris Berset course. That's a testament to him,
the foul tip off the bat of and he didn't want to come out. He
n Michigan's Daniel Rus- said, 'I'm staying in the game,' so
'the third out of the eighth good for him. We needed him."
. Senior left-hander Eric
ped E. MICHIGAN 6 Katzman (1-0, 5.40) took the
his MICHIGAN 8 mound initially for Michigan,
1, starting his first game since off-
aised in exuberance. season hernia surgery. He went
or right-hander Tyler Bur- just three innings, but Maloney
ad just worked out of a bas- said his short outing was due to
led jam, ending the Eagles' the coaches' desire to use him
ignificant threat to Michi- against an Indiana lineup this
ate-game lead, and coming coming weekend whose two best
'p closer to securing an 8-6 hitters bat left-handed.
'that the Wolverines hadn't Katzman didn't have his best
ed to be so tight. performance yesterday, walking
higan (13-9) led by a com- three and giving up an unearned
e margin for much of the run, but he benefitted from the
The Eagles got on the board Wolverines' early offensive explo-
'ith a controversial run in sion, allowing him to pick up his
ening inning when the run- first victory of the season despite
as ruled safe after Beset the Eagles' comeback.
'ed to block him from ever "First start of the year, I felt
ng home. The Wolverines great," Katzman said. "And I
back with four runs in the couldn't be back at a better time,
l inning and three in the since we are starting the Big Ten
o take a 7-1 lead. (season) on the weekend. Senior
the Eagles (10-15) never year, I want to get back pitching,
d fighting, posting a run in starting on the weekends just like
h and four runs in the sev- I did lastyear and the year before."
decrease their deficit to one. Freshman shortstop Derek
olverines kept their compo- Dennis and senior outfielder Mike
nishing out a win that proved Kittle were two key offensive con-
r than they had anticipated. tributors. Dennis rebounded from
day, we survived," Michigan a rough 2-for-11 series against
Rich Maloney said. "We had IPFW to come through with a
ce to really get a knockout 2-for-4, three-RBI day.
, and we didn't do that. The And Kittle had just one hit, but it
hing is we were able to bat- was a big one. In the bottom of the
ough a few storms. Eastern seventh, after Eastern had scored
attling, to their credit ... but four in the top of the frame, Kittle
ately, we were able to come answered with a single to left field
big out." that drove in senior first baseman
it was Burgoon who came Mike Dufek and re-established the
h, pickingup his second save Wolverines' momentum.
eason in the process. He was "I think our pitchers did well
into action after the relief in the beginning," Dennis said.
F junior right-handers Matt "Towards the end they kind of gave
and Kolby Wood struggled upa few key hits. But we were solid
ntain their team's lead. The defensively and (Kittle) came up
mbined to allow four earned with a big hit towards the end to
ijust 1.2 innings. give us the extra run advantage."
goon was able to secure the The Big Ten season starts this
ut not without some drama weekend with a trip to Blooming-
own. The bases-loaded situ- ton. With that, and the fact that
n the eighth was of his own the team lost so many close games
as he walked two Eagle bat- earlier in the year, Michigan's
id hit another. resiliency was a welcome sight.
with the Wolverines' lead "We hung on," Maloney said.
to one run and the time ripe "Teams that win find a wayto win.
ig out, Burgoon delivered. It was nice to see that we held on
think (Burgoon) showed for victory here when it could've
maturity there," said Malo- escaped us."

Harold E Ford, Jr
Exeut.iv V ' ni l ' C hairm a 'fI -f Ameica Mrr Lynch

t


-.-W

V - -

0

0

8BThe Statement // Wednesday, March 31 2010
PERSONALSTATEMENT

A PHOTOJOUI

BY ZACHARY MEISNER
am not, and will never be, a great
photojournalist.
From the first week of my fresh-
man year through the summer of
2009, a camera strap was as essential
apiece of clothingto meas myunder-
wear. I inhaled campus through my
camera lens. The benchmark for my
success was capturing spontaneous
campus moments, and I was deter-
mined to miss nothing.
And I was pretty good at it. Though
I wasn't the best among the people I
worked with, I carried my weight as
long as I carried my camera.
Yet, even during those formative
years of being a photojournalist, I
struggled with the implications of
keeping my face guarded behind
the comfort of a camera rather
than engaging with my subject. No
photographer shoots the trial of a
condemned man for the first time
without becoming a little nause-
ated at his or her semi-disgusting,
awkward role in that moment of the
man's life -, as photographers, we
profit from the lowest points in oth-
ers' lives.
It wasn't until I left the comfort of
Ann Arbor and immersed myself in a
foreign culture that this suppressed
self-loathing escaped and I was no
longer able to maintain myrelatica-
ship with my camera.
I spent May of 2009 in Dar es
Salaam, Tanzania, working on short
documentaries to raise money for
and awareness of the global issue of
avoidable blindness. I lived outside
the city with five fabulously talented
creators and documentarians - all
students - working on the project
with me. Everyone was a photogra-
pher.

RNA LISTS DILEMMA camera like a smoker quittin' cold
turkey, forced to watch "Madmen"
all day.
After a few days, my cravings sub-
sided and I took in my environment
with a naked eye. I began to notice
nuances in our subjects.
In reality, these were visible
through the lens but somehow they
were obstructed by the process of
As a visitor in an environment one camera out at a time. Three of us photographing. In still images, there
where the cost of your equipment would work in one section of the hos- is a look in the eye of sad subject that
could easily feed 5,000 of the city's pital and three in another. translates into a desperate call for
inhabitants for one day, it's essential As the producer, I let the people sympathy.
to carry yourself with some tact. As who were best at their jobs do their In real time - without a lens -
a group, we succeeded in doing so jobs, and I enjoyed the luxury of the thin layer of moisture covering
while working on location. We main- leaving my camera at home. For the the shape of the eye doesn't ask for
tained a strict rule of only keeping first week, however. I ached for my understanding. but instead screams

of embarrassed disdain.
I stopped caring about missing the
photographic opportunities these
moments offered. For the first time, I
saw without the filter of a lens.
During our time in Tanzania we
took a short, 36-hour vacation to
Zanzibar, a place possessing the kind
of beauty that should only be allowed
in dreams. I was the sole member of
the group to leave my camera behind.
We trekked through the city all
day and walked to the beach for din-
ner as the sun set.
There is probably a scientific rea-
son why the same sun I've always
seen is so much more stunning in
Africa, but I don't know it. It was a
sunset that begged with every ray to
be photographed - hundreds of peo-
ple overlooking the pier were silhou-
etted perfectly.
I hung back and spoke with our
guide while the rest of the group
snapped for the best shot. I began to
feel something I still can't explain
as I looked at the people above the
water.
Not knowing exactly why, I quick-
ly and quietly approached each mem-
ber of our group and told them to put
their cameras down.
Lowering their cameras, the group
retreated. Then I joined the Tanza-
nians overlooking the water to find
a dead, drowned body float closer
to the beach, one of 50 that had
drowned after a cargo ship sank not
far off the coast.
I came back to the Daily as a pho-
tojournalist unable to shake this-sort
of experience from my consciousness
- I envy and respect the photojour-
nalist that could have.
It is that kind of photojournalist
that presses on in an effort to give the
public the truest visual information
from the most difficult circumstanc-
es. All that's left for me is document-
ing my own life, and the seemingly
futile enterprise of creating mean-
ingful art.
- Zachary Meisner was the Daily's
co-managing photo editor in 2009.

Patients waiting at an eye clinic in Dar es Salaam, Tanzia. The clinic evaluates patients for subsidized cataracts surgery.


WANT TO WRITE FOR THE MICHIGAN
DAILY'S NEWS SECTION?
SEND AN ELECTRONIC MESSAGE TO BERMAN@MICHIGANDAILY.COM


- .V AU .f a


0

a

0

W-



w

JM Th taeen / enedyMrc 1 201

Wednesday, March 31, 2010 // The Statement 7B

the
statement
Magazine Editor:
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief:
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor:
Allie White
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor:
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
Cover Illustration:
Jed Moch
The Statement is The Michigan
Dailys news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year. To contact The State-
met e-mail calero@michigandaily.
cam

AYEARINPHOTOS
editors' note

To our readers,
As we approach the end of the school year, we're always amazed by
how fast it all went by. Being a full time student can be overwhelming
at times, memories of the year just a hectic blur.
With this week's issue of The Statement we aim to capture those memories,
to intricately piece together the stories and events of the past year at the Uni-
versity of Michigan.
The Michigan Daily photography staff takes thousands of photos every year
- images of sporting events and notable campus speakers, scenes of campus

life and Ann Arbor culture.
What follows on these pages is anything but an exhaustive list of the past
year, but more of brief snapshots of some of the most defining moments. Hope-
fully you'll recall some of these images. or maybe you'll be introduced to them
for the first time. But either way, we hope you enjoy some of the best work-
produced by Daily photographers this year.
Enjoy,
Trevor Calero, magazine editor, and Max Collins and Sam Wolson, managing
photo editors

Max Collins I The final edition of The Ann Arbor News, which :>am Woison iviemoers o tn
closed its doors on July 23, 2009 after 175 years. Sports Building, Feb. 15, 2010.

Lea


CO41 IjjCdi~aU ail P RE SE NT S
- . ' l1 .7ir' U J
:,". 0rCm . {,i . - _ , f i
f~'

WHAT'S THE ONE THING YOU
WANT TO DO BEFORE YOU
GRADUATE?
Tell us for The Statement's first-ever Bucket
List Issue.
SEND AN E-MAIL TO
CALERO@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

SICK OF
THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaily.com/classifieds to see
all of the great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer on a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out the Classified
Pacies for other creat properties.

Max Collins Dark skies loom uring a spring practice fortne ranokee Hign >cnool tootball team in Panokee, Fa., iviay i, 20U'. I nree vicnigan tootbal players - iviartavious uooms,
Vincent Smith and Brandin Hawthorne - hail from Pahokee, a small farming town in south Florida with a median family income almost $25,000 below the national average.



v

w

.0

6BM Th Satmet//WenedaMach31 21

Wednesday, March 31 2010 / The Statement 3B
news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance
4 IL


il

Ricky Martin shocked no one by Michigan basketball player Manny In a surpri
coming out of the closet this week. Harris announced Monday he would Obama m
The singer, who fathered two sons forgo his senior season, and take his this week,
from a surrogate in 2008, has chances in the 2010 NBA Draft. Har- president.
remained largely out of the limelight ris, who averaged 17 points a game met with,
since the late 90's. Martin made the during his career, is projected as a Karzai anc
announcement on his personal blog. late-second-round pick. troops, lau

se visit, President Barack
ade a trip to Afghanistan
his first since becoming
While there, Obama
Afghan President Hamid
d gave a speech to U.S.
uding their efforts.

University officials announced President Barack Obama yesterday
Friday that it would begin the signed a bill that could make it easier
process of returning culturally un- for students to obtain loans. The
identifiable Native American hu- legislation ends federal subsidies and
man remains to Indian tribes, after guarantees that are now given to pri-
a March 15 law change by the U.S. vate banks, instead giving.the money
Department of the Interior. directly to college students.

Marissa McClain ( Engineering senior and Para-
lympian athlete Jerome Singleton, Jan. 26, 2010.

Sam Wolson Joe (last name redacted) is hooked up to morphine in his room at the University of Michi-
gan Hospital, Sept. 3, 2009. Joe was denied medical marijuana but still grows it illegally in his basement.

II m: 11 6 12t 3 4 5 6 1 1 17 8 9 10
quotes of the week on the cheap
"Seton Hill students will be uniquely suited to whatever careers Keeping afull stomach on a budget
they choose - even those that have not yet been created."
A STATEMENT FROM SETON HILL UNIVERSITY in Greensburg, Penn. which announced
that each student in the incoming class of fall 2010 will receive an iPad and a laptop.
"We make our food very similar to cocaine now."
DR. GENE-JACK WANG, chair of the medical department at the U.S. Department
of Energy's Brookhaven National Laboratory, on a study confirming that fatty foods
may be addictive.
"Jesus wanted us to be ready to defend ourselves using the
sword and stay alive using equipment."
A STATEMENT posted on the website of Hutaree, the Michigan-based Christian
militia group that was raided this weekend. Nine members of the group have ILLUSTRATION BY KATIE EBERTS
been charged with conspiring to kill police officers. veryone has to eat. It's simply a fact of life. And while Ann Arbor has its fair share of expen-
sive, high-end dining establishments, there are low-budget options as well.
Read the fliers posted in buildings and bathroom stalls. It might sound illogical, but clubs
the rules and groups always host events promising free food. Even if you're not interested in the group,
they won't realize until you've already filled your bag with cookies and pizza.
Clip coupons! You made fun of your grandma for doing it when you were younger, but I bet she
No. 260: No. 261: No. 262: saved a ton of money - money that probably went into your annual $20-bill-in-a-birthday-card.
BBM conversations are Don't be the one No one wants to Restaurant owners know this is a college town. Lunch and dinner specials are abundant -
seek them out. If they're not advertised, it can't hurt to ask.
not meant to be over- person to submit your read your mini- Invite your parents to visit. Pretend you really miss them. Proceed to make reservations for
analyzed. Neither are paper in class if it's resume in an e-mail every meal of the day, snacks included. If your parents pay, it's still free food. Also, don't hesitate
text message exchang- not due until later in signature. Four lines to free ride off of friends' parents as well.
Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know E-mail onthecheap@umich.edu.
es. Just relax. the day. maximum, please. - ALLIE WHITE
by the numbers COURTESY OF TIME MAGAZINE
Estimated number in millions of Internet Estimated amount in million dollars Estimated amount in billion dollars Google
users Google would leave if it decided to Google would lose if it left China. earns globally every year.
pull out of China.

Jed Moch| Ann Arbor Mayor John Hieftje, March 16, 2010. Five years ago, the mayor chal- Jed Moch I Olympic silver medalists Charlie White and Meryl Davis,
lenged the city to obtain 30 percent oftits energy from renewable sources by the end of 2010. practicing at the Ice Cube in Canton, Mich., Feb. 10, 2010.


V w w w


0

0

w

w

1w.

45 Th - -ei /Wensa, ad 1 2 0

Weneda, 010 / he- atm 5B

Clif Reeder Michigan quarterback Tate Forcier is sacked while playing against Illinois in Champaign,
III., Oct. 31, 2009. Michigan lost the game, 38-13, and went on to a 5-7 season, missing a bowl game.

Mia Marino I Cadence Dance Company, a student dance group, performs innovative pieces set to songs by
MGMT and The Beatles at the Lydia Mendelssohn Theatre in the Michigan League, Jan. 23, 2010.

Max Collins I A photo illustration of Michigan football players Martavious Odoms (left), Brandin Hawthorne (center) and Vincent Smith
(right). The three played football together at Pahokee High School in Pahokee, Fla.

40
if
L Ariel BondI Forward Brian Lebler hugs goalie Shawn Hunwick after
Michigan's 3-2 loss to Miami (Ohio) in the NCAAs, March2701.

 a n vvu m ge r/ siiwu o n n i e r i u u eou, ,,or to a ov fv-ouh J
Lcrowd at the Michigan Theater, Jan. 11, 2010.

SAM WOLSON Marvin Reed (left), Deshawn Reed (center) and Marvin's wife, Heather Reed, Sept. 3, 2009. After spending nine years in
prison for a murder they did not commit, Marvin and Deshawn Reed were released when the University's Innocence Clinic cleared their names.

Samantha Trauben| Chris Armstrong celebrates his election as Michi- Chris Dzombak| A fire ravages the old Pinball Pete's on South Uni- Jake Fromm University President Mary Sue Coleman and football
gan Student Assembly president, March 26, 2010. versity Avenue as firefighters work to put it out, Oct. 24, 2009. coach Rich Rodriguez respond to NCAA allegations, Feb. 23, 20


