e ic tpa1T t1

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, January 15, 2010

michigandaily.com

INTERNATI0NAL EF[ORTS
clinic,
hospital to
aid Haitian
relief cause

Concrete Cutting & Breaking, Inc. employee Bob Cook explains the process of using a diamond saw to remove a piece of a concrete wall from the original structure of the
Law School's rear facade yesterday. He used the blade of the saw, which is covered in diamonds, to cut through the surface as part of renovations to the historic structure.
REGISTERING FOR CLASSES
Salled du Ee
aheadache for Spanishmjr

Nursing school
founded by'U' prof.
still stands in city
ravaged by quake
By CHELSEA LANGE
For the Daily
While governments and orga-
nizations from nations around the
world are quickly responding to
the 7.0-magnitude earthquake that
struck southern Haiti on Tuesday,
the University community is also
helping those in need.
A Port-au-Prince nursing school
- founded in part by a Univer-
sity professor - is providing aid to
many in the ravaged country and
the University of Michigan Health
System announced yesterday that it
will be sending personnel to assist
in the relief efforts.
According to a message posted
yesterday on the Health System's
website, Ora Pescovitz, executive
vice president for medical affairs,
the Health System is forming a task
force to develop a response to the
crisis.
"I have asked Tony Denton, COO
of our Health Centers, to lead a task
force charged with developing and

enacting a Health System response,
including providing medical and
support personnel on the scene in
Haiti, use of our clinical facilities
in Ann Arbor and coordination of
organized distribution of medi-
cal and pharmaceutical supplies
through established international
medical relief channels," Pescovitz
wrote.
In addition to the Health System
response, the Faculty of Nursing
Science of the Episcopal Univer-
sity of Haiti also has people aid-
ing victims on the ground in Haiti.
The school was co-founded by Ruth
Barnard, a retired associate profes-
sor in the School of Nursing.
FSIL is still standing and has stu-
dents working around the clock to
assist the injured in the aftermath
of the natural disaster, according to
Barnard.
"The yards are filled with peo-
ple, and the students are caring for
them," she said.
The Pan American Health Orga-
nization told The Associated Press
yesterday that at least eight hos-
pitals or health centers in Port-
au-Prince, have collapsed or can't
provide care. The organization also
told the AP that other health cen-
ters are "overwhelmed."
FSIL, which opened Jan. 10,
See HAITI, Page 7

k Long waitlists make
completing major
difficult, students say
By CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter
Students trying to get into
upper-level Spanish classes have

had to face a formidable opponent
- the waitlist.
Though many classes across
various subjects at the University
feature waitlists in the double dig-
its, the problem is especially acute
in the Spanish Department. Due to
restricted class sizes and the popu-
larity of Spanish at the University,
many students - including those
majoring in Spanish - face diffi-

culties getting into these courses.
Students have been complain-
ing in droves about the difficul-
ty of getting into these courses
with large waitlists, as the closed
classes complicate the timeline for
their major.
Michele Hannoosh, the depart-
mentchair of Romance Languages
and Literatures, wrote in an e-mail
interview that while the depart-

ment does recognize the problem
of over-enrollment, it has "been
apparent for several years."
She wrote that the classes are
filling quickly due to the increas-
ing popularity of Spanish, which,
she wrote, has "more combined
concentrators and minors than
any department in LSA apart from
Economics."
See SPANISH, Page 7


MICHIGAN FOOTBALLs
Coleman says she doesn't know

LOCAL POLsTICS
LSA senior to enter race

timeline for NCAA investigation for county commissioner

University president
taking a wait-and-
see approach
Staffand Wire Reports
University President Mary
Sue Coleman told reporters last
night that she didn't have any
new information regarding the
NCAA's investigation into the
football team's potential practice
time rules violations, according
to The Associated Press.
Before last night's Michigan
men's basketball game against

Indiana, Colemansaidshe doesn't
knowwhentheNCAAwill inform
the University of the investiga-
tion's findings, but emphasized
that she is not worried.
"I want to see what the issues
are and we'll deal with the
issues," she told the AP.
Though NCAA Vice President
ofEnforcement David Pricewrote
in a letter to Coleman in October
that the University would be noti-
fied of the NCAA's findings by
Dec. 31, 2009, University spokes-
woman Kelly Cunningham told
The Michigan Daily at the end
of the year that the University
hadn't been contacted by the gov-

erning body.
"We haven't received word
from the NCAA," Cunningham
wrote in an e-mail to the Daily at
the time.
The NCAA has been investi-
gating an alleged violation by the
football team of NCAA restric-
tions on, practice time and off
season workouts.
In late August, The Detroit.
Free Press reported that several
former football players described
a practice schedule for the team
that would violate NCAA rules.
Shortly after, the University
launched an internal investiga-
See COLEMAN, Page 7

CUT TING THE FAT
'U' Health System bans trans fats

After helping city
councilmember get
elected, Yousef Rabhi
makes his own bid
By DYLAN CINTI
Daily StaffReporter
For LSA senior Yousef Rabhi the,
start of his political career was d
little unorthodox.
It wasn't until after he was
arrested for participating in a
protest in University President
Mary Sue Coleman's office during
his freshman year that Rabhi - a
candidate for Washtenaw County
Board of Commissioners - decided
to formally get involved in politics.
Rabhi and 11 members of the
campus group Students Organiz-
ing for Labor and Equality staged a
sit-in in Coleman's office demand-
ing that the University strengthen
its code of conduct for apparel sup-
pliers, according to an April 3, 2007
article published in The Michigan
Daily.
The protesters were arrested
after refusing to leave the build-
ing when it closed, the Daily article
reported.
"Getting arrested - it wasn't
really a wakeup call, but afterward
I realized there were other ways
to affect change. Politics is one of
them," Rabhi said.
Rabhi plans to formally enter the

Patient meals
and hospital food
courts no longer
using substance
By DARRYN FITZGERALD
Daily StaffReporter
Three years after New York
City Mayor Michael Bloomberg
banned trans fat from his city,
starting a national trend toward
the elimination of the unhealthy
substance, the University of

Michigan Health System has
unveiled its own initiative to
stop the use of the partially
hydrogenated oils inside Univer-
sity Hospital buildings.
Under the new guidelines,
industrial trans fats have been
eliminated from patient food
programs and food courts inside
Hospital buildings. Though
talks about the ban began more
than a year ago, the ban did not
officially go into effect until the
first of this year.
Craig Luck, contract admin-
istrator for Hospital Operations,
said officials wanted to hold off

on implementing the ban until
they had all the information
necessary to make an informed
decision.
"By no means did we delay
intentionally," said Luck. "We
wanted to do a lot of research,
input, and further educate our-
selves on the process."
The ban was spurred in part
by a pledge made in November
2008 by the Michigan Hospital
Association to voluntarily elimi-
nate trans fats.
In response, Health System
leaders formed a committee of
See TRANS FATS, Page 7

LSA senior Yousef Rabhi plans to run for Washtenaw County Commissioner. Rabhi
says he hopes he can galvanize students to get involved in his campaign.
race for commissioner of Washt- Tuesday and is working to collect
enaw County's 11th district. He signatures to ensure his place on
formed a campaign committee last See CANDIDATE, Page 7



WEATHERR HI :35
TOMORROW LO: 23

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Hockey's Vaughan could be out this weekend.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEWS..................2 ARTS.........................5
Vol. CXX, No. 74 AP NEW S..............................3 CLASSIF IED S ......................6
©J200TheMichiganDaily OPINION.................. 4 SPORTS....
michigandoilp~com 4 S O T ............ ..._

A

4 I N


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Friday, January 15, 2010


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

LEFT Hip-hop artist KiD CuDi performs to a sold-out crowd at the Michigan Theater on Monday night. (SAM
WOLSON/Daily) TOP RIGHT Students knit various pieces, as part of the Michigan Knitting Club or MichKnit on
Monday. (MAX COLLINS/Daily) BOTTOM RIGHT A group of University students gather to see a concept version
of the Chevrolet Volt at the Ross School of Business on Thursday. The Volt, an electric vehicle with an onboard elec-
tric generator, has a range of 40 miles on pure battery power and is scheduled for launch later this year. (AARON
AUGSBURGER/Daily).
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

NEED MORE PHOTOS?
See so many more photos of the week
on our website, michigandailycom,

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:iSun.-Thurs.t11a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@meichigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor rothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaiy.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sportse@michigandaily.com
DisplaySales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattAaronson ManagingtEditor aaronson@michigandalty.com
Jillian Berman ManagingNews Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
SwansoEshwarThifruavukkaavu
AS s ST swnT EnWS or yOnt an Cinti, Darryn Fitzgerald, Joseph Lichterman,
VeronicaMenaldi,AnnieThomas,DevonThorsby,ElyannaTwiggs
RachelVan Gilder Editorial PageEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
veith
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGEEDITORS: Michelle DeW itt,Alexschiff,Matthewshutler
Rpan Karte ManagingsportsEditor kartemiuigandaily.con
siSENOR SOTSEO R:Noo Auit earbach, Mark. Burs, Gonlunaj,Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyziknim eoman, Amy Scarano
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandailycom
SNORATDORS:nn aro lnlreki,Adrew an, Jfrnord
ASESITN T o ARTEDIOS:ahrgnSaronJacobsBrigidiicoinMikeKuntz,
Ravi Shekhar Pandey
Max Collinsand photo@michigandaily.com
SamWolson Managing Photo Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORFORMULTIMEDIA:ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASISTN HOTOEDoE TORaron n Augsburger,JakeFromm,Jed Moch
SarahSquireand design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR:AngelaChih
TrevorCalero Magazine Editor catero@michigandaily.com
DEPU TY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Me aniesFpiedyand copydesk@michigandaily.com
Bachel PhillipsCopChirfs
BUSINESS STAFF
KatieJozwiakSalesManager
MRETING MANAGER Michael chotenboer
Ryan Busin ski ClasifeudManager
CLASIFIED A SITANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manaer
AllisontSantacreu Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fallsand
winter tems bystudents attheUniversity ofMichigan.onecopyis availablefree ofchargetall
readers,.Additionalicopiesmay be picked up at the Daily'sofficefors2.subscriptionsfor fallterm
starting in September, viaU.S.mail are $110. Winrterm (January through Aprl) is $115,yearlong
(September through Apri)isnt.15University affiliates aresubjecittoaretedesubscription rite.
On-amssubsritionsfofalltermare5s.sSubsriptionsmustbeprepaid.TheMichigaDitaly
is uer of Tthessociiated Prersnsd Tie nAssoatedCol leiate Prss

0

I

CRIME NOTES
1970s Schwinn
schwiped in Diag
WHERE: The Diag
WHEN: Wednesday at about
1:40 p.m..
WHAT: University Police
reported a male's 1970s model
Schwinn bicycle was stolen
after being locked outside the
Shapiro Undergraduate Library
or Angell Hall. There are no
suspects.

Gift cards taken Trip to see Table tennis
WHERE: Cancer Center Broadway show practice
WHEN:Wednesday at around Boys
4:40 p.m. Jersey Boys WHAT: The Table Ten

nis

WHAT: Accordingto Univer-
sity Police, four Toys R Us gift
cards worth $25 each were
stolen from the Pediatric Infu-
sion Center, to which they were
donated. There are no suspects.
Traffic accident

WHAT: UUAP on the
Move is sponsoring a trip
to Detroit to see the Tony
Award-winning musical
Jersey Boys. Tickets cost
$50 including transporta-
tion.
WHO: University Union Arts
and Programs
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Fisher Theater

Team will be holding prac-
tice, which is open to both
members and non-members.
Member dues are $20 per
semester.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
liards
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Sports Coliseum
Dogsledding

Computer stolen in carport

1 According to Bangor Daily
News, Bangor High School,
located in Bangor, Maine,
hassuspendedschool-sponsored
dances after students failed to
alter their dancing style at danc-
es this academic year. School
officials are opposed to the stu-
dents' grinding, citing it as too
sexual for aschool setting.
Nearly 200,000 Hai-
tians have HIV or AIDS
and less than half of all
people living in Haiti don't
have clean drinking water on
a regular basis, CNN report-
ed in an article yesterday.
FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4.
According to Forbes.
com, Jay-Z and Beyonce
Knowles are the top-
grossing Hollywood couple at
$162 million from June 2007 to
June 2008. Other high-earn-
ing couples are Keith" Urban
and Nicole Kidman, and Tom
Cruise and Katie Holmes.

4

WHERE: Medical Science
Research Building
WHEN: Wednesday at around
10:50 a.m.
WHAT: According to Univer-
sity Police, an iMac G-5 Apple
computer was stolen from a
computer lab. The computer is
valued at $1,500.-There are no
suspects.

WHERE: M-22 Carport
WHEN: Wednesday at about
7:40 a.m.
WHAT: Two cars were in a
traffic accident, which caused
minor damages. One of the
cars, a Cadillac, had minor
damages to the driver's rear
bumper, though the other car, a
Pontiac,'was unscathed. There
were no injuries.

trip
Folk-rack band

performance
at the Ark
WHAT: The Ragbirds, a five-
piece folk-rock group, will
perform. Tickets are $15.
WHO: The Ark
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark

WHAT: A weekend trip to go
dogsledding and snowshoe-
log.
WHO: Outdoor Adventures
WHEN: Today until Monday
WHERE: Upper Peninsula
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes?Get ore online af michigandaily.co/blogs/the wire


WANT TO WRITE' FOR
DAILY NEWS?
Email berman@michigandaily.com

College applicants face
intensifying competition

P
acri
decr
as
SAN
lege app
toughes
sion to:
and uni
with de
number
As ca
slash b

ublic schools ping or cutting enrollment despite
a surge in applications from high
oss the country school seniors, community college
students and unemployed Workers
ease enrollment returningto school.
. The increased competition
states funding means more students will be
plummets turned away, forced to attend pric-
um t ier private institutions or shut out
of college altogether.
FRANCISCO (AP) - Col- Wilson Liang, a senior at San
licants are facing one of the Francisco's Galileo Academy of
t years ever to gain admis- Science and Technology, said he
the nation's public colleges worries that enrollment cuts at the
versities as schools grapple University of California will freeze
ep budget cuts and record him out of its flagship Berkeley
s of applications. campus.
sh-poor state governments "I know the competition is very
udgets, colleges are cap- high," said the 17-year-old Liang,

Think you know where to
find the Best Dessert?
Do you have the Best Pick-up Line?
Is your landlord the Best?
Cast your vote in the Michigan Daily's
Annual Readership Survey Poll!
Vtefor the
Best of
Ann Arbor
Voting extended to January 29th!
Go to: http.//www.michigandailycom/best-2010
to Cast your vote today.

whowouldbethefirstperson in his
familyto attend college. "There are
a lot of smart people out there."
Collegesthatpreviouslyaccepted
all qualified students are becoming
selective, while selective schools
are becoming more so. Most com-
munity colleges have open-access
policies, but demand for classes is
so intense that many students can't
get the courses they need.
"We're hearing a lot of panic,"
said Gerna Benz, a partner at Cali-
fornia San Francisco Bay Area Col-
lege Planning Specialists. Benz
said business at his Oakland-based
college counseling firm has tripled
over the past year.
Benz is encouraging more fami-
lies to consider private colleges,
which may be more expensive but
offer less crowded classes and the
chance to graduate in four years,
which is becoming a rarity at many
public colleges.
Applications to private colleges
are holding steady, while public
universitiesaround the countryare
seeing record demand as cost-con-
scious families look for good value,
said Barmak Nassirian, associate
executive director of-the American
Association of Collegiate Regis-
trars and Admissions Officers.
Low-income, minority students
could face the roughest road to
admission because they often can't
afford private colleges and don't
have the resources or academic
credentials to compete with stu-
dents from wealthier families and
better high schools, he said.
The enrollment caps could also
threaten President Barack Obama's
goal of making the U.S. the leader
in college attainment by 2020 and
undermine the nation's economic
competitiveness, college officials say.
"We're reducing enrollment
when we should be increasing it,"
said Scott Lay, president of the
Community College League of Cal-
ifornia. Experts say states should'
increase access to college during
a recession so that unemployed
workers can train for new jobs.
The University of Florida, which
has about 35,000 undergraduates,
is seeking to reduce enrollment
by 4,000 students by 2012, said
spokeswoman Janine Sikes.

The chancellor of the Nevada
System of Higher Education, which
has 114,000 students, recently told
its Board of Trustees it must con-
sider capping enrollment for the
first time.
"If you enroll someone and don't
give that individual a reasonable
path.to a degree or certificate in a
reasonable amount of time, what
kind of access is that?" said Chan-
cellor Dan Klaich.
Competition is particularly
intense in California, where public
universities are dealing with huge
cuts in state support that have led
to sharp tuition increases, faculty
furloughs, course cutbacks and
student protests. The state's 110
community colleges are struggling
to accommodate a record 2.9 mil-
lion students.
The 10-campus University of
California reduced enrollment
of California-resident freshmen
by 6 percent, or about 2,300 stu-
dents, and is expected to shrink
enrollment further this year even
as a record number of applicants
applied for admission for the fall
of 2010, said Nina Robinson, UC
director of student policy.
"If we continue to enroll the
same number of students as we
have in the past, we risk affecting
the quality of education for our
current students," Robinson said.
Getting into the flagship Berke-
ley could be harder than ever for
California residents because it
plans to admit more nonresident
undergraduates, who pay three
times more in tuition.
California State University, the
nation's largest public univer-
sity system with 23 campuses and
450,000 students, is seeking to
reduce enrollment by an unprec-
edented 40,000 students over two
years. Before the state budget cri-
sis, most CSU campuses accepted
nearly all students who met the
minimal qualifications.
By Dec. 1, CSU had already
received a record 610,000 applica-
tions, a 28 percent increase, for fall
2010, which means large numbers
of qualified students willbe turned
away, said Jim Blackburn, CSU
director of enrollment manage-
ment systems.

APRIL 5,2010 AT 7:30PM
Tickets available atTicketmaster.com and all Ticketmaster
TICKETS outlets, including Michigan Union Ticket Office and Macy's.
Charge by Phone at 800-745-3000.


. The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 15, 2010 - 3

qw -

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 15, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Feds give money to
Mich. to tear down
blighted buildings
The federal government award-
ed Michigan $223.9 million yes-
terday to help tear down blighted
buildings and revitalize neighbor-
hoods in a dozen cities including
Detroit, Grand Rapids and Flint.
The U.S. Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development
announced the money as part of $2
billion in Recovery Act funding to
states, local governments and non-
profit housing developers.
Michigan's proposal won it the
largest single grant - 11 percent
of the total awarded nationwide,
Housing Secretary Shaun Dono-
van said at a news conference with
Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm
and dozens of other officials.
Some other states got more
money in total, but it was in grants
to several communities or groups
that applied separately.
GENEVA
Website helps
locate earthquake
victims in Haiti
More than 5,000 people reg-
istered on a special Red Cross
Web site a few hours after it was
launched to help Haitians find loved
ones missing in the earthquake, an
official said yesterday.
The quick response was aided by
people spreading the link on social
networks such as Facebook and
Twitter, but also by the fact that
many satellite Internet connections
in the Caribbean nation appear to
be working, said Marcal Izard, a
spokesman for the International
Committee of the Red Cross.
"The list is growing rapidly. We
now have around 5,000 names on
it," Izard told The Associated Press.
"Over 210 persons registered from
Haiti itself, which is a very good
result in such a short period."
Of those, about 200 were search-
ing for missing family members,
while SO people logged on to say
they had survived Tuesday's mag-
nitude 7.0 quake near the capital,
Port-au-Prince.
Many visitors to the site were
from the United States and Canada,
which have large Haitian commu-
nities, Izard said.
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Hundreds added to
terrorist watch list
A law enforcement official says
' airlines have been told to do more
of the toughened screening put in
place after the attempted Christ-
mas Day terrorist attack aboard a
Detroit-bound flight.
The official says airlines have
been told more federal air marshals
willbeoninternationalflightsbound
forthe U.S. and airports should con-
duct more random screening.
The official says hundreds more
names have been added to the ter-
rorist watch list since Dec. 25.

All of these measures are in
responseto the ongoingthreatfrom
al-Qaida overseas. The official, who
was not authorized to discuss the
measures, spoke anonymously.
KIEV, Ukraine
Ukraine election to
determine relations
with Russia
The front-runners in Ukraine's
presidential race have vowed to
revive ties with Russia if elected -
a strong signal that Sunday's vote
could mark the end of the Western-
oriented leadership ushered in by
Ukraine's 2004 Orange Revolution.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia
Tynmoshenko, who sought to pull
Ukraine out of Russia's sphere of
influence and toward Europe dur-
ing the Orange movement, said in
a last-minute appeal to voters that
as president she would work closely
with Moscow.
Polls show Tymoshenko trailing
pro-Russian opposition leader Vik-
tor Yanukovych, the Orange forces'
most prominent foe, in the closing
 hours of the contest for Ukraine's
highest office.
Over the past year, Tymoshenko
has developed a personal rapport
with her Russian counterpart and
formernemesis,VladimirPutin. She
has also courted voters, especially in
the country's Russian-speakingeast
andsouth, who want an end to ten-
sions between Russia and Ukraine.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Haiti relief efforts snarled, as
im any as 50,000 believed dead

Concerns abound
over getting water,
food to survivors
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP)
- Doctors and search dogs, troops
and rescue teams flew to this dev-
astated land of dazed, dead and
dying people Thursday, finding
bottlenecks everywhere, begin-
ning at a main airport short on jet
fuel and ramp space and without a
control tower.
The international Red Cross
estimated 45,000 to 50,000 people
were killed in Tuesday's cataclys-
mic earthquake, based on informa-
tion from the Haitian Red Cross
and government officials. Hard-
pressed recovery teams resorted to
using bulldozers to transport loads
of dead.
Worries mounted, meanwhile,
about food and water for the sur-
vivors. "People have been almost
fighting for water," aid worker
Fevil Dubien said as he distributed
water from a truck in a northern
Port-au-Prince neighborhood.
From Virginia, from France,
from China, a handful of rescue
teams were able to get down to
work, scouring the rubble for sur-
vivors. In one "small miracle,"
searchers pulled a security guard
alive from beneath the collapsed
concrete floors of the U.N. peace-
keeping headquarters, where many
others were entombed.
But the silence of the dead oth-
erwise was overwhelming in a
city where uncounted bodies lit-
tered the streets in the 80-degree
heat, and dust-caked arms and

legs reached, frozen and lifeless,
from the ruins. Outside the Gen-
eral Hospital morgue, hundreds
of collected corpses blanketed the
parking lot, as the grief-stricken
searched among them for loved
ones. Brazilian U.N. peacekeepers,
key to city security, were trying to
organize mass burials.
Patience already was wear-
ing thin among the poorest who
were waiting for aid, said David
Wimhurst, spokesman for the U.N.
peacekeeping mission.
"They want us to provide them
with help, which is, of course, what
we want to do," he said. But they see
U.N. vehicles patrolling the streets
to maintain calm, and not delivering
aid, and "they're slowly getting more
angry and impatient," he said.
In Washington, President
Barack Obama announced "one
of the largest relief efforts in our
recent history," starting with $100
million in aid. The U.S. Southern
Command reported the first 100
of a planned 900 paratroopers of
the 82nd Airborne Division land-
ed in Haiti from North Carolina
on Thursday to support disaster
relief, to be followed this week-
end by more than 2,000 Mgrines.
The American troops "will relieve
pressure" on overworked U.N. ele-
ments, Wimhurst said.
From Europe, Asia and the
Americas, other governments, the
U.N. and private aid groups were
sending planeloads of high-energy
biscuits and other food, tons of
water, tents, blankets, water-puri-
fication gear, heavy equipment for
removing debris, helicopters and
other transport, and teams of hun-
dreds of search-and-rescue, medi-

CARL JUSTE/THE MIAMI HERALD/AP
A young girl gets medical attention for her injuries yesterday in Petionville, Port-au-Prince, Haiti.

cal and other specialists.
But two days after much of this
ramshackle city was shattered, the
global helping hand was slowed by
the poor roads, airport and seaport
of a wretchedly poor nation.
Some 60 aid flights had arrived by
midday Thursday, but they then had
to contend with the chokepoint of an
overloaded Toussaint LOuverture
International Airport. At midday,
the Federal Aviation Administration
said it was temporarily halting all
civilian flights from the U.S. at Hai-
ti's request, because the airport was
jammed and jet fuel was limited for
return flights. The control tower had
been destroyed in Tuesday's tremor,

complicating air traffic. Civilian
relief flights were later allowed to
resume.
"There's only so much concrete"
for parking planes, U.S. Air Force
Col. Buck Elton said at the airport.
"It's a constant puzzle of trying to
move aircraft in and out."
Teams that did land then had to
navigate Haiti's inadequate roads,
sometimes blocked by debris or
by quake survivors looking for
safe open areas as aftershocks
still rumbled through the city. The
U.N. World Food Program said the
quake-damaged seaport made ship
deliveries of aid impossible.
The looting of shops that broke

out after the 7.0-magnitude quake
struck late Tuesday afternoon
added to concerns. The Brazilian
military warned aid convoys to add
security to guard against looting
by the desperate population.
"There is no other way to get
provisions," American Red Cross
representative Matt Marek said of
the store looting. "Even if you have
money, those resources are going
to be exhausted in a few days."
The city's "ti-marchant," mostly
women who sell food on the streets,
were expected to run out soon. Red
Cross officials have estimated one-
third of Haiti's 9 million people are
in need of aid.


Obama taps Clinton,
Bush to lead Haitian
fundraising efforts

With open field,
Dems consider
entering race
for governor

Former presidents
often enlisted to
help after disasters
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama has tapped
former Presidents George W. Bush
and Bill Clinton to lead private sec-
tor fundraising efforts for Haiti.
Enlisting ex-presidents' help in
responding to a natural disaster is
just what Bush did in 2004 after a
tsunami ripped across Asia. Back
then, it was Clinton and former
President George H.W. Bush who
assisted in relief efforts.
In a joint statement, George
W. Bush and Clinton said, "In the
days and weeks ahead, we will
draw attention to the many ways
American citizens and businesses
can help meet the urgent needs of
the Haitian people."
"Americans have a long history
of showing compassion and gen-
erosity in the wake of tragedy,"
they said. "We thank the Ameri-
can people for rallying to help
our neighbors in the Caribbean
in their hour of suffering - and
throughout the journey of rebuild-
ing their nation.
White House political director
Patrick Gaspard said officials have
been inundated with requests
from Americans looking to help.
The administration has launched a
wide-ranging outreach campaign,
particularly in areas with a large
Haitian-American population, to
coordinate those efforts.
With the full extent of the dev-
astation still unknown, Gaspard
said cash is the most urgent need.

CHARLES DHARAPAK/
President Barack Obama makes a statement about the earthquake in Haiti yester-
day at the White House in Washington.

Stupak among those
who may throw their
hat in the ring
LANSING, Mich. (AP) - The
surprising withdrawal of Lt. Gov.
John Cherry from the Michigan
governor's race presented a gold-
en opportunity to other Demo-
crats who thought they'd have to
wait years to run.
But they don't have much time
to decide if they're in or out.
Some of the five Republicans
in the race are poised to begin
running ads in February, giv-
ing them the chance to make
the first favorable impression
on voters. And whichever of the
uncommitted Democrats jumps
into race first could grab the
biggest share of donations and
endorsements, leaving latecom-
ers with crumbs.
"You can buy a little bit more
time as long as everybody else is
still up in the air on this," politi-
cal strategist Tom Shields of
Marketing Resources Group said
yesterday. "But when those cam-
paign committees start forming,
and people start raising money
and getting commitments, that's
when you need to either fish or
cut bait."
U.S. Rep. Bart Stupak hears the
clock ticking. Although he has a
safe congressional seat and pow-
erful committee assignments,
the Democrat from Menominee
is considering running for gov-
ernor.

"This isn't something that
presents itself very often," Stu-
pak told The Associated Press.
"You have to take a look at it."
He's heading to Detroit on
today to meet with party activ-
ists and get a better feel for
whether he wants to run. At the
same time, he is deeply involved
in negotiations over the federal
health care overhaul bill and lan-
guage restricting how abortions
are covered by insurance.
A run for governor "is appeal-
ing, but from a practical point
of view, can you do it with this
compressed time line we have?
Health care compresses it even
more," Stupak said. He noted that
GOP gubernatorial candidate and
fellow congressman Pete Hoek-
stra faces some of the same con-
straints, "but he's at least been
out there another year."
Stupak knows his opposition
to abortion could prove a hurdle
to getting the nomination. The
former state trooper also is a
gun-rights advocate. But he has
spoken with former U.S. Rep.
David Bonior, an abortion oppo-
nent who ran in the 2002 Demo-
cratic governor's race, and said
he's encouraged so far.
Among the others eyeing
the race, University of Michi-
gan Regent Denise Ilitch spent
Wednesday evening introducing
herself at a Democratic mixer in
Grand Rapids after discussing a
possible run with White House
and Democratic Governors Asso-
ciation officials in Washington
the night before.

A text-messaging campaign with
the Red Cross had raised $5 mil-
lion dollars as of yesterday eve-
ning. A $10 donation can be made
by texting "HAITI" to "90999."
Gaspard, a Haitian-American,
said the impoverished island
nation will require long-term
humanitarian assistance.
"There is going to be a need to
sustain this effort over time," he
said.
Obama cited the success of the
tsunami relief efforts in his deci-
sion to mobilize the former presi-
dents, White House spokesman

Robert Gibbs said. The president
placed calls to both Bush and Clin-
ton Wednesday.
Gibbs said the Obama adminis-
tration's criticism of Bush's actions
during the response to Hurricane
Katrina were irrelevant.
"I think if you asked George
Bush whether the government
acted up to its ability in respond-
ing to Katrina, I think the answer
to that would be 'no,"' Gibbs said.
"The actions that were taken to
deal with the humanitarian crisis
from the tsunami, on the other
hand, I think worked quite well."

Report: Targeted Pakistani Taliban leader alive

The death of
Hakimullah Mehsud
would be a major
victory for U.S.
ISLAMABAD (AP) - The lead-
er of the Pakistani Taliban was
apparently targeted in a U.S. mis-
sile strike on a meeting of militant
commanders close to the Afghan
border yesterday, but he escaped
unhurt, Pakistani officials and
militants said. Twelve insurgents
were believed killed.
The death of Hakimullah Meh-

sud would be a major victory for
both for Washington and Islamabad
in their fight against Islamist mili-
tants. Mehsud appeared on a video
released last week sittingnext to the
Jordanian militant who killed seven
CIA employees ina suicide attack in
December in Afghanistan.
Mehsud's Tehrik-e-Taliban
movement, which is linked to al-
Qaida and the Taliban across the
border in Afghanistan, has also
claimed responsibility for scores
of bloody suicide bombings in
Pakistan in recent months against
military, civilian and government
targets.
The U.S. missile strike was the

eighth such attack in two weeks in
Pakistan's North Waziristan tribal
region, an unprecedented volley
of drone attacks since the CIA-
led program began in earnest two
years ago. The surge signals the
Obama administration's reliance
on the tactic despite official protest
from Islamabad.
One or more unmanned U.S spy
planes fired at least two missiles
into a large complex that had been
used as a religious school in the
past in the Pasalkot area close to
the border with South Waziristan
soon after dawn broke, Pakistani
intelligence officials said.
The dead militants included two

foreigners, while at least eight oth-
ers were wounded, said the offi-
cials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because they are not
authorized to speak to the media
on the record.
Richard Holbrooke, the U.S.
special envoy to Pakistan and
Afghanistan, said that he had no
information on the strike but that
Mehsud's death would be a good
thing. America does not acknowl-
edge to being behind the program
and its officials rarely talk about it
directly.
"He either is, or was, a very bad
person," Holbrooke told foreign
correspondents in the capital,

Islamabad.
Three Pakistani intelligence
officials and four militants told the
AP that Mehsud was not among
the dead.
He had been expected to attend
the meeting, but authorities were
still trying to determine whether
he ever made it to the session, the
officials said. They cited wireless
communications intercepts track-
ing Mehsud's movements.
The militants said Mehsud was
alive, safe and traveling. They
spoke on condition of anonymity
because of the sensitivity of the
subject and for personal security
reasons.


4 - Friday, January 15, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL DANIEL AT DWGOLD@UMICH.EDU

Ce fiict gan at y
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

DANIEL GOLD

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Charging forward
Detroit automakers must invest in greener vehicle designs
The big three U.S. automotive-giants are finally getting
some good publicity after months of bad news. The annu-
al North American International Auto Show in Detroit
has been the source of much excitement in the auto industry, as
automakers unveiled their future lineup of cars. Among the stars
of the show were new electric cars slated to hit the market later
this year. The event showed how important energy-efficient and
environmentally-friendly cars are to the rapidly evolving auto-
motive industry. Electric cars are the right investment for auto-
makers, Michigan and the environment, and the industry should
focus on improving these in-demand designs.

The Auto Show is making headlines as
Michigan automakers show off new and
exciting advances. And there are good
announcements for the state of Michigan as
well. Ford Motor Co. plans to build its elec-
tric Focus in Wayne County, and around
1,000 jobs are expected to come to Detroit
to work on Ford's electric cars. Chevrolet is
showing off the 2010 Volt - a much-antici-
pated electric car that will contain engines
assembled in Flint. The Volt will go on sale
late this year. Present at the show were
Washington politicians including Speaker
of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), who
called the event "historic."
Michigan emerges as a winner at the
Auto Show. While the state has had the
highest unemployment rates in the nation
since 2006, General Motors Corp., Ford and
battery suppliers are expected to finally
create jobs. Instead of producing more gas-
guzzling SUVs, the Auto Show has exhib-
ited an encouraging surge of hybrid and
electric vehicles. Closed Michigan plants
that previously built mammoth vehicles are
being renovated so they can construct the
sorts of environmentally-friendly cars that
will likely dominate the auto market in the
future. For automakers often criticized for
their financial problems and poor decisions,
these uplifting developments are a welcome
change - no matter how late they are.
And while the projects unveiled at the

Auto Show don't indicate the immediate
resurrection of Michigan automakers, they
show important progress for a group that
has frequently lagged behind the move
toward green technology. Automakers
seem to be finally realizing that they need
to build cars that appeal to the modern con-
sumer - and the day of the gas-guzzler is
over. The only way for auto companies to
restore themselves is to emerge on the fore-
front of this technology. And as the auto
companies start to improve, so will the
state's economy.
Electric and hybrid cars are also a boon
for the environment, decreasing the use
of oil as a fuel source. According to Green-
peace, 30 percent of Michigan's greenhouse
gas emissions result from transportation.
While electric cars rely on electricity that
is often generated from fossil fuels today,
they can put a big dent in greenhouse gas
emissions if fossil fuel power plants are
increasingly replaced with greener alterna-
tives like solar and wind energy.
Though this year's Auto Show has show-
cased some impressive technology, if Mich-
igan automakers are to get back on their
feet then they'll have to do more than just
capitalize on flash and good press. Auto-
makers should invest heavily in the green,
fuel-efficient cars that Americans and the
rest of the world want, and make the con-
cept cars at the Auto Show a reality.

I'm sorry Man, I just
dan't feel comfortable
with yur girl friend Eaty
sleeping over.
Please We
won't even talk.
A date with registration
T he Monday night before seats begin to dwindle, all bets are off. in desperate attempts to save seats in
finals began I was exactly So scold me all you want for not back- popular classes, students often ask
where I should have been - packing classes sooner, but my efforts other students with earlier registra-
at the library. But would be worthless come registration tion dates to hold classes for them -
instead ofusing the time - when half of the classes in my a practice that puts even more stress
Hatcher Graduate backpack are closed, and my perfectly on the honest individuals waiting
Library's silence constructed schedule is in shambles. patiently for their turns.
and my caffeine- 4 Then it's back to the drawing board,
induced alertness and so-long study time. And it's not
to study, I was like we can simply put our registra-Students sh uldbe
busy backpacking tion aside until our studying is done, IIOUIU
classes in anticipa- because more classes close every sec-
tion of my 9:15 a.m. ond as other students register. able to pick classes
registration time. LEAH I understand that class times and
Naturally, I had POTKIN locations take time to schedule. But before exam w eek.
prepared multiple once backpacking opens, all of this
schedule options has been completed by the University
(in the likely event - except for the odd TBA discussion
that my classes would close), searched section - and I don't see why there So maybe a little added stress isn't
ratemyprofessor.com for the best pro- must be such a large gap between the worst thing in the world, but it
fessors and ultimately failed to learn backpacking and registration dates. becomes a problem when students
anything for my upcoming exam - I'm not suggesting starting registra- add anything and everything to their
time well spent and study-time well tion drastically earlier, but a week backpacks hoping something will
wasted. or two would save students some of work, and end up enrolled in classes
As former Daily Editorial Page the unavoidable stress that accom- they would otherwise have no inter-
Editor Robert Soave accurately point- panies registration time exacerbated est in taking. I even considered tak-
ed out last year in a column ((Wol- by the added stress of exams. Earlier ing a class about video games simply
verine) Access Denied, 04/13/2009), registration times would also allow because there were many open seats
registration is no exciting time for students more time to make appoint- and it fit in one of my prospective
students at the University. With an ments with advisors and work out the schedule (although I'm still vaguely
incomprehensible Student Business best schedules - instead of rushing interested).
page and fierce competition to avoid in a frenzy to add any class that will When 9:15 a.m. came after my
dreaded Friday classes, there's little give them that desired green check- night of frantic backpacking and
to praise about this process. But in mark after "proceeding from step 2 to course browsing, I was fortunate
addition to the already-addressed 3". And allotting more time between enough to have one of my potential
flaws of the online registration pro- registration and the beginning of schedules work - but it took upwards
cess, I have another bone to pick with the semester creates a greater time of one full night's worth of stressful
the University. I want my study time window for students to get off class studying hours to figure this out. I
back. And in order to gain back some waitlists and get overrides when nec- understand that the stress that comes
of these valuable hours, class reg- essary. with registering for classes is inevi-
istration should occur before finals This may not be as much of a prob- table (especially for the baby Wol-
begin, as the process puts extra stress lem for upperclassmen, who have ear- verines), but by making registration
on students during an already stress- lier registration dates, but why should dates slightly earlier, the University
ful time. half of the student body suffer when could ease at least some of the final-
In the University's defense, the the problem could be avoided? My time stress for studiers campus-wide.
LSA Course Guide is posted weeks in heart goes out to the little freshies I was lucky this semester - but had I
advance of registration dates, but this who probably continued refresh- seen one of the notoriousblue squares
isn't much help when students can't ing their browsers well into exam while trying to study, I think it would
backpack classes until weeks later. week, just praying they wouldn't see have pushed me over the edge.
And even backpacking isn't all that the dreaded yellow triangle (waitlist
helpful, because once the actual reg- status) or blue square(class closed) - Leah Potkin can be reached
istration process begins and available symbols appear. Not tomention that at lpokin@mich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words and must
include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION|
End lecturers' second-class status

0

4

I

4

WANT TO BE AN OPINION CARTOONIST?
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU
MICHELLE DEWITT I
Haiti needs your help

4

This week disaster struck Port-Au Prince, the
capital of Haiti. A 7.0-magnitude earthquake
brought this city of nearly 2 million people to
the ground. The National Palace, hospitals,
schools and all manner of buildings and homes
have completely collapsed. Beneath this wreck-
age lie potentially thousands of people. Tens of
thousands more are already believed to be dead.
There is little help for injured survivors, many of
whom are being treated in makeshift triage cen-
ters located in parking lots or not being treated at
all because they are out digging through rubble,
searching for loved ones. Haiti needs immedi-
ate help to deal with the current state of disaster
in the capital city. But this already struggling
nation will need ongoing aid to rebuild itself into
a modern society.
Problems are not new for Haiti, the poor-
est country in the Western Hemisphere, which
has been a public health disaster for a very long
time. Much of the population lives in a devastat-
ing state of poverty, and malnutrition is a huge
problem, especially among children. Nearly
200,000 people are living with HIV or AIDS and
less than half of Haiti's citizens have access to
consistent drinking water, according to a CNN
article published yesterday. Keep in mind that
these were the conditions before this disaster
struck. Now, people who were living with next
to nothing have been left with absolutely noth-
ing. Tuesday's quake has taken a mess, flipped it
upside down and created a bigger mess.
The people of Haiti need urgent aid and for-
tunately many nations are responding and are
aware of how pressing the situation is. The dig-
ging is already underway to try to rescue those
who are trapped beneath the rubble, and these
efforts need to continue as efficiently as pos-
sible. Relief workers need to find a way to orga-
nize the distribution of food and water so that
these items are accessible to all of those who
need them. The wreckage needs to be cleared

away to make the city inhabitable for the mil-
lions of people who have been affected by this
quake. It is crucial that these efforts move as
quickly as possible to prevent the development
of diseases that can emerge from the unsani-
tary conditions that follow such disasters. But
this immediate recovery is just the beginning
of what Haiti needs.
Haiti should be rebuilt to a better state than it
was in before. Port-Au Prince needs a function-
ing sewer system and all citizens need access to
clean water. Haiti needs the infrastructure of
modern societies, and work needs to be done to
elevate this country out of its state of debilitating
poverty. The world has heard Haiti's current cry
for help and there has been a huge outreach of
support. But this show of support needs to con-
tinue after the initial debris has been cleared to
help get Haiti to the level of a working nation.
What struck Haiti on Tuesday was a cata-
clysmic natural disaster that in no way could
have been avoided. Earthquakes have hap-
pened before and they will surely happen
again. What is different about Haiti is that it
was not able to operate properly before, and
in the wake of this disaster their society is not
able to operate at all. The country needs to be
rebuilt to a point where it would be able to effi-
ciently manage disaster situations.
The citizens of Haiti are in the midst of a
colossal human tragedy and they need help.
They needed help years ago, but they particu-
larly need it now. Whether help comes in the
form of a donation to the Red Cross or a small
thought or prayer at some point during the day,
I urge the entire campus to do what it can. The
people of Haiti are suffering terribly, and all
people have a responsibility to lend whatever
support they can in response to this tragedy.
Michelle DeWitt is an assistant
editorial page editor.

In the Jan. 6 editorial entitled "The Real Cost of Pay
Raises," The Michigan Daily articulated two goals: 1)
Undergraduate education should be given greater weight
in the University administration's priorities, and 2) a Uni-
versity education should be affordable to working and
middle class students. The Daily argued that faculty sal-
ary hikes are driving tuition fee increases that undercut
affordability and concluded that faculty salaries should
be frozen - for an unstated period of time - to help hold
down University costs and tuition.
We endorse both these goals, as does the Lecturers'
Employee Organization (LEO) - the union of non-tenure
faculty (i.e., lecturers) at the University. However, we
strongly disagree with the recommended pay freeze that
the Daily believes follows from these goals. We think a
faculty pay freeze would undercut the editorial's first goal,
while doing little to achieve the second. We only have space
to address the implications of a wage freeze for the first
goal; however, on the second goal, our research shows that
increased wages are not a significant driver in increased
undergraduate tuition. (On our website, leounion.org, we
provide support for this assertion).
A faculty salary freeze is incompatible with raising
the priority of undergrad education in two ways. First,
its negative impacts would fall disproportionately on lec-
turers, whose primary focus is undergraduate education.
Second, it would strongly incentivize professors, who are
already more focused on reseach, to put less time and
effort into teaching.
On the first point, we must begin with an embarrass-
ing fact: lecturers are paid much less than professors of all
kinds. According to University figures, the median lecturer
salary on the Ann Arbor campus in 2008-2009 was $44,505;
it was $74,845 for new, untenured assistant professors and
$131,625 for tenured, veteran full professors. A pay freeze
applied to lecturers would lock in this inequality.
It's important to understand why the pay gap is so large.
It is often assumed that lecturers have lower qualifica-
tions, or less experience or are (somehow) worse teach-
ers. None of these explanations are consistent with the
facts. Most lecturers have the highest degree in their field.
Their average age and years of teaching experience easily
exceeds that of the assistant professors, whose median pay
is $30,000 a year higher. And undergrad student evalua-
tions - as examined by former LSA Dean Edie Golden-
berg and former Associate Dean John Cross in their new
book, "Off-Track Profs" - show higher evaluation scores
and higher average examination scores (over 12 years) for

lecturers thanfor professors in every department equiva-
lent to the University's LSA department they exanined, for
both upper and lower level classes.
No, the real "trouble" with lecturers is that, while many
of us do research, the only thing we are paid to do is teach.
Even worse, from the standpoint of the prevailing
norms, most of our teaching focuses on undergraduates.
In LSA, lecturers account for about 36 percent of all fac-
ulty classroom. contact time (aka student credit hours)
with undergraduates (GSIs supply another 24 percent;
professors the remaining 40 percent). For the "sin" of
focusing our careers on teaching undergrads, we are paid
much less per class, and are seen and treated as second-
class by the University leadership which believes that
research ought to be the University's paramount value.
Not all professors and administrators take this view, but
it is currently the dominant tendency.
By freezing the salary inequalities that result from this
distorted conception,the editorial'spay freeze undermines
their goal of raising the status of undergraduate education.
But what would happen if a freeze were confined to profes-
sors, reducing the pay gap between lecturers and profes-
sors in that way? The result would be the opposite of the
desired outcome: if denied reasonable raises, professors
would devote more time to securing the research grants
that supplement their Utiversity pay and increase their
chances of getting a job offer elsewhere. Such an attention
shift would then further exacerbate the disproportionate
rewards professors get for doing research versus engaging
in undergraduate teaching.
As long as undergraduate education is a second-order
concern in the dominant culture of the University, lectur-
ers will be second-class faculty. In this sense, the status and
treatment of lecturers and undergraduates are inextrica-
bly intertwined. It is therefore in both groups' interest to
change this culture. This is no easy thing to do, but both
groups hold vital resources. Undergrad tuition is now the
single largest source of University revenues, and lecturers
do almost as much undergraduate teaching as professors.
LEO will soon begin bargaining with the administration
over our next contract. We intend to use this process to
promote a serious discussion of the place of undergraduate
education in the priorities of the University. We look for-
ward to debating with those who defend the current priori-
ties and to workingwith our students to change them.
This viewpoint was written by Kirsten Herold and Ian
Robinson on behalf of the Lecturers' Employee Organization.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 15, 2010 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycam Friday, January15, 2010 - 5

Bombastic 'Black'

PHOTOS COURT ESY OF DEF JAM/ROCK A FE LLA
"I'm gonna let you finish, but the arts section is the best section of The Michigan Daily of all time."
Kanye's stories

By NICK COSTON
Daily Arts Writer
In 1971, Melvin Van Peebles
made "Sweet Sweetback's Baa-
dasssss Song"
as an indi-
rect response
to Sidney Black
Poitier's per-
formance in Dynamite
1967's "GuessS
Wh' a- Saturday at
Who's Com- the State
ing to Dinner."
While the Apparition
'60s and '70s
introduced more prominent
roles for black actors, many like
Van Peebles felt their charac-
terizations were conciliatory,
subservient and emasculated.
With the graphic violence and
explicit sexuality of "Sweet-
back," Van Peebles obliterated
the industry's prevalent "ebony
saint" image and created a
new genre of film: blaxploita-
tion. Apart from a big-budget
Samuel L. Jackson remake of
"Shaft" in 2000, blaxploitation
has been dormant for nearly 30
years. Or rather, it was. But not
anymore.
Enter "Black Dynamite," a
film so perfect in its recollec-
tion of movies like "Shaft" and
"Sweetback" that Van Peebles
himself would swear it's been
in a vault since 1975. "Dyna-
mite" is in fact the brainchild
of novice director Scott Sand-
ers and screenwriter Michael
Jai White ("The Dark Knight"),
who also has the starring role.
The collaboration results in
a truly uproarious parody.
Like Van Peebles before him,
White's career preceding his
blaxploitation debut was mired
in anonymity. Despite a star-
ring turn in 1997's "Spawn,"

audienc
glimpse
artistf
he's im
titular
mite."
Yes,
name,
quality
one wh
like ast
mite h
Jimmy,
Jimmy
drug d
Man" s
ful ku
BlackD
boobsa
Corn (T
boozled
"Confe
and aN
namedc
Se
an
All t
to thei
if they
names t
"Black
ing in;
straigh
scene I
ously, s
they w
but wh
"FirstI
slapped
cabine
of a sm
do just
who th
always.
absurd

ces have only caught gain the most enjoyment.
es of the trained martial Adding to the film's humor
from Connecticut. But are its backward technical
ipossible to miss as the achievements and attention
hero of "Black Dyna- to subtle details. Poorly devel-
oped film, equipment creeping
Black Dynamite is his into shots and off-kilter stag-
not just his explosive ingare all unintentional staples
, and he's not the only of blaxploitation's greatest
rose given name sounds entries, and "Black Dynamite"
picy licorice. Black Dyna- employs them to terrific come-
as a little brother named dir effect.
but not for very long; In one scene, as Black Dyna-
's murder at the hands of mite delivers an impassioned
ealers working for "The speech, the boom microphone
pur our hero into venge- lurks into the frame, settling
ing-fu action. Joining right next to his forehead as
)ynamite on his quest for he glares at it in annoyance.
and revenge are Cream Sanders reached deep into
Tommy Davidson, "Bam- the annals of poor filmmak-
d"), Kotex (John Salley, ing by shooting the entire film
ssions of a Shopaholic") on Super 16 Color Reversal
whole slew of strangely Kodak film stock. Black Dyna-
companions. mite himself enters every scene
accompanied by a musical cho-
rus blaring his name.
It's possible to be offended by
"Black Dynamite." The fact that
1dkregeugeuS the film could be mistaken for a
d re ge, genuine relic of blaxploitation's
golden age is not due simply
to the accuracy of its costume
:hese characters answer department or its visual cues.
r ridiculous handles as Women's bare breasts are wan-
were perfectly normal ton and without reason. Cream
to have. It's what makes Corn is the silver screen's most
Dynamite" so unrelent- politically incorrect gay man
its hilarity - the rigidly since Serge from "Beverly Hills
t face worn in every Cop." None of these come across
by each character. Obvi- as mean-spirited, but may the
Sanders and White knew more culturally sensitive viewer
'ere making a silly film, be warned.
en Black Dynamite says, Every comedy tries to be
Lady, I'm sorry I pimp funny. It takes a unique com-
d you into that china edy to make that effort look
t" without even a hint accidental. "Black Dynamite"
ile, it's impossible not to has the requisite jive to stand
that. Admittedly, those tall among its blaxploitation
rink things like this are predecessors, but its true value
funny (and not just as an shines in its preposterous sense
list change of pace) will of humor.

West is all arrogance,
no insight on his DVD
performance from
'VH1 Storytellers'
By SASHA RESENDE
Daily Arts Writer
Kanye West's persona rests upon
his legendary ego. Long before the
Chicago-bred artist
infamouslystole the
mic from the dainty ***
Taylor Swift, West
wan recognized Kanye Wvest
for his pompous, VH1
post-Katrina Bush- Storytellers
bashing bravado. Def Jam/
This arrogance is Rock A Fella
as much a part of Releases Jan.19
West's image as his
affinity for shutter
shades and use of Auto-Tune.
During a recent "VH1 Storytell-
ers" live performance, now available
as a CD/DVD combination, West rec-
ognized his mixed public perception
and all the negative press. But rather
than apologize for this impression,
"Storytellers" reaffirms West's posi-
tion as the King of Swagger. "I real-
ize I make some mistakes," he admits,
"but I grow from them."
The "Storytellers" series is VH1's
attempt at recreating MTV's once-
popular "Unplugged" franchise.
Instead of showcasing a featured art-
ist's acoustic prowess, the VH1 series
allows its guests to preface their per-
formances with an intimate explana-
tion of the personal significance of
their work. Recent guests include acts
as disparate as Pearl Jam, Coldplay
and Snoop Dogg.
Refusing to conform, West's per-
formance fails to follow the tradition-
al format. Rather than give away the
secrets behind 808s & Heartbreak's
bigger hits, West uses the forum to
freely broadcast his thoughts, offer-
ing commentary on everything from
"spoiled little L.A. girls" to his morbid
desire to murder the plastic surgeon
responsible for his mother's prema-
ture death.
At one point, West admits the

forum's original purpose, saying,
"I know I'm, like, supposed to talk
about what some of these songs
mean ... but some of these things are
too serious." While it's understand-
ably difficult for an artist to dissect
his work's inner meaning under
the glare of the camera, endlessly
reverting to trash-talking to avoid
such introspection quickly gets old.
It could be argued that a live Kanye
show wouldn't be complete without
such free-flowing remarks, but "Sto-
rytellers" would have benefited from
more insight into the music and less
arrogant spontaneity.
West's original "Storytellers" per-
formance clocked in at over three
hours, but the broadcast version was
pared down to 90 minutes. The CD/
DVD combination also cuts some
songs, including West's rendition
of "Love Lockdown." Despite these
edits, this live act will surely satisfy
West fans, especially those who favor
his later discs over his earlier efforts.
The majority of the setlist covers
the Graduation and 808saEt Heartbreak
era, with lively versions of "Flash-
ing Lights" and "Stronger." West's
reworking of "Amazing," off his mostS
~Storyt~V

recent record, is one of the album's
more engaging cuts, clocking in at
nearly nine minutes and offeringzany
off-the-wall analysis. The collection
of selected songs reaffirms the artist's
appeal, with plenty of infectious beats
and many of his more popular efforts.
While the performance may have
benefited from the inclusion of ear-
lier West tracks, it seems apt that the
star chose to appease his fans with his
more recent songs.
By offering an engaging live per-
formance packed with plenty of
recent hits, West's "Storytellers"
appearance is a must-have for any
Kanye enthusiast. While it lacks true
artistic engagement, the DVD of the
performance still offers a live rework-
ing of some of his most thrilling jams,
providing fans with a morsel of enter-
tainment until his next full-length
release.
And though West deviates from the
show's intended format, such trans-
gressions are fully expected from the
egoist. Hopefully in the coming years,
West will mature beyond such a stale
persona and finally reveal theinner-
workings behind some of the era's
catchiest hits.

All glitz and no glamor
as 'Nine' goes big screen

By EMILY BOUDREAU .
Daily Arts Writer
The plot of "Nine" gets swal-
lowed whole by its bright col-
ors, flashy
costumes and *
horrifically
bad songs. Nine
Supposedly, it
tells the story At Showcase
of a washed- The Weinstein
out-but-once- Company
great director,
Guido Contini (Daniel Day-Lew-
is, "There Will be Blood"). Con-
tini is trying to make an epic
Italian movie while avoiding the
paparazzi and sorting out the
tangled relationships with the
women in his life. Really though,
it seems like Day-Lewis just
smokes a lot of cigarettes while
all the women prance around in
bejeweled lingerie.
The film is an adaptation of
the Broadway musical, which is
an adaptation of Federico Fell-
ini's "8 1/z." Somewhere in the
production process, a crucial
element must have been lost,
because "Nine" has no visible
spark on screen. Unlike many
other adapted musical films like
"Chicago," "Nine" doesn't have
much of a plot, the characters
aren't relatable or entertaining
and the songs don't make any-
one want to get up and dance
through the aisles of the theater.

The cast, however, is
immensely talented. Day-Lew-
is, Marion Cotillard ("Pub-
lic Enemies"), Penelope Cruz
("Vicki Christina Barcelona")
and Judi Dench ("Quantum of
Solace") can all sing and act, but
what they say and do in "Nine"
still comes across as flat and
boring. They need a script that
provides enough room for their
talent. It's like when Meryl
Streep decided to take her role
in "Mamma Mia": These actors
can make sophisticated movies,
there's no need to try to throw
something like "High School
Musical" on the resume.
Perhaps it would have helped
if the songs they were forced to
sing were actually catchy. Or,
even if each song consisted of
more than a lot of humming and
wailing Guido's name over and
over again, conjuring up images
of the characters from "Jersey
Shore" rather than Day-Lewis's
character. Musicals should have
songs that move and add to the
plot, but the majority of the songs
in "Nine" have nothingto dowith
what's going on in the story.
Kate Hudson ("Bride Wars"),
who playsa reporter inthe film,
sings about skinny ties, hip cof-
fee bars and men wearing dark
sunglasses in a song devoted to
Italian style. Fellini's films cap-
ture the very essence of what
Hudson tries to sing about, but

"Nine" has none of their effort-
less elegance. In "8 a," the
characters glide across the scene
impeccably dressed in black and
white attire. "Nine," by compari-
son, is chaotic and gaudy.
"Nine" tries to borrow a
lot from "8 1/a," especially
when a young Guido encoun-
ters the Saraghina (Fergie of
Black Eyed Peas) - the scene
is essentially the same as it
was in the original film, except
Fergie does a raunchy dance
A Vegas-esque
take on chic
1960s Italy.
with a tambourine. Perhaps the
problem is that many consider
"8 i/2" an artistic masterpiece,
and "Nine" is not interested
in preserving this reputa-
tion. Instead, "Nine" hopes to
entertain. Director Rob Mar-
shall's ("Chicago") occasional
attempts to recreate pieces of
"8 1/2" are admirable, but lack
tasteful freshness. He fails to
embody the chic Italy of the
1960s, and instead ends up
somewhere between a flamboy-
ant Broadway production and a
tacky Las Vegas show.

A homemade attempt at celebreality

By ROBERT SOAVE
Daily Arts Writer
VH1's newest addition to its
"celebreality" TV block seems to
further stretch
the definition of
what constitutes
a celebrity. While Frank the
the channel's
other VH1 real- EFtertainer in
ity dating shows a Basement
typically fea-
ture stars with fair
at least some Sundays at
name recogni- 8 p.m.
tion, the leading 981
man of "Frank
the Entertainer
in a Basement Affair," Frank Mar-
esca, has no claim to fame beside his
previous contestancy on other VH1
reality programming. His debatable
celebrity status is perhaps most evi-
dent in the pilot episode, in which
Maresca eliminates one of the girls
vying for his affection because she
doesn't seem to know who he is.
The premise of "Basement" is
 similar to most other VH1 dating
shows - 15 women compete for
Maresca's heart by participating in
challenges and going on dates with
him. The twist: Maresca lives in his
parents' basement, and thus his par-

ents - but mainly his stereotypical
overbearing Italian mother - have a
say in who stays and who goes.
The problem is that for a lead
man boasting the moniker "Frank
the Entertainer," Maresca just isn't
very entertaining. Or likeable, for
that matter.
His pitch to viewers is that he just
can't catch a break, having lost on
"I Love New York," "I Love Money"
and "I Love Money 2." And because
he can't win on a VHL reality show,
he's forced to live in the basement
of his parents' house (comfortably,
at that). It might seem that get-
ting his own reality show would
silence Maresca's whining. Instead,
he complains incessantly about his
mother's involvement and that the
whole thing is taking place in his
family home instead of a luxurious
mansion. Maresca is such a loserthat
it's impossible to do much more than
occasionally laugh at him out of pity.
The question of whether Maresca
will finally meet a girl and move out
of the home overwhelms the show
so completely that it detracts from
the romantic/sexual focus common
to most dating shows. Instead of
wondering and waiting for Maresca
to hook up with someone, the only
question is whether or not such-and-
such contestant will enable Maresca

to move away from home. While this
departure makes "Basement" some-
what unique among dating shows,
it doesn't make for especially com-
pelling TV, and Maresca just comes
across as even more pathetic.
But though Maresca and his
mother are each irritating in their
own right, they improve slightly
when interacting together. The
elimination phase, when Maresca's
mother predicts which girl he is
going to kick off - of course, object-
ing to the choice - is arguably the
Frankly, we just
don't give a damn.
most engaging moment. And while
they bicker constantly, it's pretty
clear that underneath the repeti-
tive mantra of "Frank needs to move
out," he and his parents love and
respect each other.
"Frank the Entertainer in a Base-
ment Affair" may actually be more
genuine than most of VHI's reality
programming. But while the family
dynamic somewhat mitigates the
show's shortcomings, it doesn't offer
a reason to keep watching.

Even in 1960s Italy,'Single Ladies' was a dance sensation.


6- Friday, January 15, 2010

The Michioan BDilv - mirhioundails rem

a

TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND sold,
new & used, online buybacks. Buy,
sell, rent at cheapbooks.com
260-399-6111 Espaol, 212-380-1763,
urdu/hindi/punjabi 713-429-4981, see
site for other support lines.

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 7 BDRM House-334 Catherine !
Large bedrooms, some haryvood, lots
of common space. Free parking.
May to May $3745--special discount
Fall to Fall $4095
www.oldtownrealty.net 734-663-8989
! AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, lndry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
! FALL 2010: 5 bdrm, 2 bth house.
Between Central Campus & Stadium.
833 Brown St: $2400/mo. Beautiful
H~ouse. Call Louis at 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
541 S. DIVISION
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start.
Single bedrooms through 5-person, 3
bath. Rates from $655. Per-person con-
tracts, all utilities included at flat rate.
New building, 2 blocks from campus.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
-! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., lndry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!!!AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm.
furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

the
0P
owfd ad
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postreattyproperties.com
***** MAY LEASES *****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need shor term?? May tAugus
t bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, frished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Call today 761-8000!
Prime Student Housing
primesh.com
***a BDRM TRI-LEVELay avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*2-BEDROOMS*: 2 minute walk to
the Business or Law Schools, unique
layouts in spacious apts, new kitchens
w/ dishwashers, heat, water, under-
ground parking included.
www.varsitymanagement.com
*2-BEDROOMS*: GREAT 2-bd 2
bath bi-levels for 3-4 people, new
kitchens, baths, and furniture, rooftop
balconies, large bedrooms.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
Studio & 1
Bdrn.Unit
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qu:& Secur Hine-OneLo:kfi .,,s
0a0 B,an Tosc
734-663- 530
*3-BEDROOMS*: NEAR CCRB and
CC Little, balconies or patio, large liv-
ing rooms w/ new furniture. Heat, wa-
ter, parking ine.
Varsity Management (734)668-1100.
*543 CHURCH ST.*: Humongous 2-
bds for 3-4 people and a spacious 4-
bd. This is theperfect location, right
across the st. from East Hall! Heat, wa-
ter, furnishings included.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.

Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
L n-ivor8 ty
" Tb
*AVAILABLE MAY*: 1001S. For-
est; spacious 2-bds new kitchens &
baths, heat, water, Internet, & parking
incl. 917 Packard; @ East U, large 2-
bds w/ balconies/patios, heat, water,
parking incl. September available at
both locations also!
www.varsitymanagement.com
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
I122 S. Forest
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
*HUGE 4-BEDROOMS*: hardwood
floors, 10ft ceilings, & fireplaces in a
beautiful converted mansion in quiet
Bums Park. Heat, water, parking & fur-
nishings included. Call
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.smileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469
4-6 BDRM house avail Fall 2010. 418
N. State St. 6 bdrms total. 2 bath, 3
prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
4 bdrm-$2500, 5 bdrm-$3000, 6
bdrm-$3450. Call 734-996-1991.
4-7 ROOM hse. Kingsley & State. re-
modeled, $500/rm. 248-910-2286.
321 E.Liberty
6 BDRM APT.
$2800
SEPT. I, 2010
2 BLOCKSTO CAMPUS,
2 BLOCKS TO DOWNTOWN
4 PARKING SPACES
WILLIAM COP PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-6380
www.benjaminrenals.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bedrms total. 3 bath, 4
prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
5 bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.

6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
2010! 1007 State. Furn. Newly
renovated 1st Floor and Bthrms. Free
Prkng and lndry. Call 734-717-9288.
DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.

SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 . Forest
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909Church
726 . State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
721 S.Sorest
1320 . University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modem appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8.3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AMAZING SIX BEDROOM
HOUSE in prime location. Two full
baths, private porch, newly renovated
kitchen and living room with hard
wood floors. 6 free parking spots.
$3299/ month. Campus Reality 734-
766-8865 www.campusreality.com
APTS AT 1215 Hill and 5th Ave and
Packard. Efficiencies 1,2 & 4 Bed-
rooms. Heat included. 734-260-4003
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3/4 bedroom,
free pkg/lndry by Yost Arena, $1550,
734-883-8140.
skyharrisllc@comcast.net
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com
1 221 S State #2
6 BDRM
$2400
FALL 2010

COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE NOW GREAT
location, 1 or 2 bdrm on S. Forest near
S. University. 734-996-2836

AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and Indry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furmished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
FALL 2010 6 Bedroom, laundry. 502
Catherine St $3600/mo. 734-207-3520.
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2700
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AVAILABLE FOR FALL2010:
2 bedroom partens, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
*Large one bedroom apartment, 2
blocks east of the business school.
Heat, water and parking included
703 S. Forest.
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
www.varistymanagement.com
*Varsity
Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668 - 1100
Studios - 4 bedroom
All are Central Campus Locations
Heat, water, & furnishings included
Most incl. parking, some incl Internet
Newkitchens w/dishwashers,new
bathroom vanities and nice furn
Great prices and great locations
Call to schedule an appointment
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE NOW!!! EFFI-
CIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near Ctral
Campus. $500-750. Includes H&W.
Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully frn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CUTE HOUSE AT 115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in 08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.

NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdrm & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greeneapts.com

FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrin
apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furn, disposal,
dwshr, Indry, prkg. Walkout balcony.
$1175 + elec. 734-662-7121 or email
gpmiles@aol.com
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT

al

michigandaily.com/classifieds ,
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
8158. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sgft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by! I
# BDRMS Location Price
6 1221 S. State #2 $2400
5 420S. Division #2 $2700
3 1222 Washtenaw Ct. $1800
3 1123 Church St. $1700
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.SellA2.com 734-476-9768
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarbarapartments.net

PRESENTS. THE


2
1
1
1+
1!
21
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
3
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
5
5
5
5
5
6
6'
6:
6:
6

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 36 Musical with 49 Trumpeters on a
1 It's rarelya hit 1 Sans _: Grizabella and lake
6 Acted like arat carefree Growltiger 50 "Boola Boola"
0 Pre-bedtimefare 2 Otherwise 39 Stadium party singer
14 'The Three 3 Italian ile 5! Howe material
Faees " 4 Mean business 41 Hot Christmas 52 Dancethat may
5 Lickable treat 5 Treat kindly staple involve a chair
6 Applelfor the 6 Overwatered 42 Enter 53 Diamond
teacher, perhaps 7 Buck add-on 44 Babe, for cover
7 Let fall, as tresses 8 Strip lighter example 54 Albacore, e.g.
T8 C kntinue BRotten 47 Turk, most likely 55 From.: slight
19 'Thank Heaven 10 Brme at 48 They bane highs progress
for Little Girls" Sherlock Holmes and lows 56 Assignment
musical films
0 Air-conditioning 11 "Th6rrse Raquin" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
commutertrains? novelist
3Od-m Bnl tFnnoe 8ARIO M8 0C N S
de rm. giant 13's not always A DE EN LANA E ALE
?5lIllIbhmor exaact:Abhr. H A V E W E M E T B E F 0 R E
?6Allocation word 21 Nick'swife A M O R E S U B S S O N
7n.tflakes 22sItrmayhedeadly M A L T E D S R E C R U I T
? Anteaterssurp 26 Four-time Hug
in the comic winner Frederik
"B.C." 27 Emerge suddenly S T S I C E R S T E E D
2 Pitchfrom a 28It'sforecast in C L A M B R O T H
personified percentages A P R E S I O N A G8SS
spud? 30Gladetarget F R E D A N T O N Y R A W
6 Set of standards 31 Caterpillar's R O S E T T A T O S C A L E
7 Craters of the creation A
Moon monument 32 Glittery mineral
site 33 Nutritional stds. M A S C A R A M E L T D O W.N
8 Easternsash 34 Stroller'srest E N OS I T I N A I L I E
9 Piercing weapon spot SENT SHEEP Z A N Y
0 Poet Sandburg 35Saw, e.g. xwordeditor@aol.com 01/14/10
1 Like finger-
painters? 1 2 3 4 s 5 7 11 12 1 s
3 Quiz
4 Some fiction
5 Sue Grafton's "_ 17 18 1
for Outlaw"
6 Cost of freedom? 20 21 22
8 Upto, inormally
19 Single, foreone: 23
Abbr.
2 Cry duringan
escape, and this n32 34se
puzzlens title
6 Mitchell with the as as
161 album
"Clouds" 4o at a2
7 Praise
8 In the slightest 43 45
9 Ocean hunter
4 Alengon's 804 as 0st
department s2 sa 4 ss
1 Fuel in
"Pagliacci" so7 s
2 Automobil route
3 Student stats 59 so61
4 Doc Golightly
portrayer in s26"

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! " Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
JANITOR/CUSTODIAN: PART
TIME day positions available in Ann
Arbor. A valid Michigan driver's li-
cense and social security card are re-
quired to apply. Please call today for
additional information. 586-759-3700.
Clasifieds1
continued on
the next page

4

4

Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconires niPatios
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct N w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
C 8741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

# BDRMS Location Price
Fall
6 1122 S. Forest $3000
May
6 541 S. Division $3000
Copi Properties
734.663.5690

4

.4

lBreakfast at
Tiffany's"

)2 Tribun eMediaService, Inc.

01/15/10



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 15, 2010 -7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January15, 2010 - 7

ALL CHARGED UP

The politics of a bailout:
Study reveals connections
netted banks more money

AARON AUGSBURGER/Daly
A concept version of the Chevrolet Volt was on display at the Ross School of Business yesterday. University community members
got to take a look at the Volt, an electric vehicle with an onboard electric generator and a range of 40 miles on pure battery power.

HAITI
From Page 1
2005, gives Haitian students a
chance to learn and study a typi-
cal American nursing curricu-
lum and includes training for
natural disasters, according to
Barnard.
"It'sthesamekind of curriculum
that you get at any leading school
here in the United States like the
University of Michigan," she said.
Barnard said Haiti's public
infrastructure has been in need
of reorganization and assistance,
especially because of its lack of
healthcare for most citizens. There
are only 10.7 nurses per 100,000
residents and 30 doctors per
100,000 people in the country, Ber-
nard wrote in a statement released
by the University.
"The hospitals are not well sup-
plied because they have no system
CANDIDATE
From Page 1
the ballot.
The 21-year-old Rabhi is by far
the youngest candidate for the
post, which is responsible for all
County services. All the other can-
didates range in age from late 30's
to early 60's.
Rabhi, who will run as a Demo-
crat, said his interest in the posi-
tion stems from years of political
involvement.
After his freshman year, Rabhi
started getting involved in local
political campaigns, including that
of family friend and Ann ArborCity
Councilmember Steve Kunselman
(D-Ward 3), who was elected to
city council last November. Rabhi
said his work on the campaign
centered around student outreach,
since Ward 3 has a large University
student population.
In the weeks leading up to last
August's primary, Rabhi went
door-to-door through student
neighborhoods promoting Kunsel-
man's campaign. He also distrib-
uted campaign literature and put
up yard signs.
On the day of the primary elec-
tion, Rabbi said he returned to
those same neighborhoods and
encouraged students to vote.
TRANS FATS
From Page 1
registered dieticians, food ser-
vice directors and marketing
F experts to research and plan the
logistics of a Health System-wide
ban.
The movement against partial-
ly hydrogenated fats stems from
overwhelming evidence that they
contribute directly to obesity by
increasing bad cholesterol and
reducing good cholesterol.
According to a University
Health System press release, obe-
sity now accounts for between
COLEMAN
From Page 1
tion on the issue, and Athletic
Director Bill Martin released a
statement affirming the Univer-
sity's dedication to following
NCAA standards.

"We continue to cooperate
with the NCAA on this matter,
which is why we reached out to
both the Big Ten and the NCAA as
soon as we heard the allegations,"
Martin wrote in the statement.
"We remain committed to follow-
ing both the letter and the intent
of the NCAA rules."
At the start of the investiga-
tion, Coleman released a state-

to pay for things and even for a
regular patient in a hospital, they
have to send their family to the
drugstore to buy the IV bag or the
needle," Bernard said.
Many of those who survived the
quake are left without food and
water, surrounded by a scene of
ruined buildings mixed with dead
bodies.
The international Red Cross
estimated 45,000 to 50,000 dead
and recovery teams have resorted
to using bulldozers to transport
bodies. Brazilian U.N. peacekeep-
ers are trying to organize mass
burials.
Because of the crumbled roads
and damaged seaport, internation-
al aid to the survivors of the quake
has been minimal. According to
estimates by the Red Cross, one
third of Haiti's nine million people
are in need of aid.
President Barack Obama
announced that the United States

would start with $100 million
in aid, "one of the largest relief
efforts in our recent history." This
weekend 2,000 Marines are set
to join the 100 paratroopers that
landed in Haiti yesterday to pro-
vide aid, the U.S. Southern Com-
mand reported.
Obama appointed former presi-
dents George W. Bush and Bill
Clinton to lead the fundraising
effort for relief to the devastated
country.
Haitian President Rene Pre-
val is working from the airport to
remain in control of the situation,
according to President Leonel Fer-
nandez of the neighboringDomin-
ican Republic. The National Palace
and other government buildings
were destroyed in the earthquake,
interfering with national leader-
ship.
-The Associated Press
contributed to this report.

TARP funds
positively correlated
with political ties,
research'shows
By CASSANDRA PAGNI
For the Daily
In a recent study University
researchers found that banks with
connections to the federal govern-
ment tended to receive more fed-
eral bailout money than those that
did not.
Business Profs. Ran Duchin and
Denis Sosyura - the authors of the
study that has yet to be published
- relied on databases from the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation
and the Federal Reserve to access
detailedinformationaboutthebanks
that received bailout money. Duchin
said the numbers revealed that banks
with ties to the government often
received more moneynthanthosethat
are politicallyindependent.
"Our study is able to show that
there is a positive correlation
between political connections of
different types, be it connections
to the Federal Reserve, connec-
SPANISH
From Page 1
Upper-level Spanish classes
are particularly popular because
many students take Spanish in high
school and test into the higher lev-
els once they get to the University,
Hannoosh wrote.
Assistant Spanish Prof. Daniel
Noemi, who is teaching a class that
had a waitlist of over 20 people as
of Tuesday, said another problem is
that there aren't enough classes for
the large number of Spanish con-
centrators.
He said this causes many stu-
dents to question why the 25-stu-
dent class size cannot be increased,
but he fears that larger classes
would be less productive for stu-
dents.
"The problem would be that the
classes wouldn't be very good," he
said.
Noemi added that though adding

tions to House members, or simply
being politically active in terms of
spending money on lobbying the
treasury or contributing to politi-
cal campaigns," and getting more
bailout funds, Duchin said.
Duchin said the study showed a
direct relationship between poli-
tics and public policy.
"It is a very interesting area of
investigation to see how, in general,
politics affects public policy, alloca-
tion of funds and markets," he said.
The researchers looked at about
700 financial institutions, consid-
ering individual histories, organi-
zational size, demographics and
quarterly reports. In particular,
they examined the relationship
between banks that received aid
from the Troubled Asset ReliefPro-
gram (TARP), the amount received
and their political associations.
DuchinsaidheandSosyurafound
that the original goal of the TARP -
to give monetary aid to financially
unsoundbanks-wasviolatedwhen
politics became involved.
"The fact that political con-
nections actually played a role in
TARP investments implies that it
is not necessarily the (financially
unsound) banks that should have
gotten the money that actually
more professors would be "ideal,"
it is not possible with the current
state of the economy.
While the packed waitlists of300-
and 400-level Spanish classes on
Wolverine Access clearly dominate
over the somewhat empty lists of
French and other language classes,
Noemi said he is content to deal with
the current enrollment system.
Noemi added that addressing the
problem would require a campus-
wide change to facilitate all depart-
ments with high student demand.
"I think that the department
does quite a good job," he said. "In
terms of in the end, everybody can
get into a class."
But LSA sophomore Sarah Hal-
linen said she disagrees.
Hallinen said she was put on the
waitlist for Spanish 368 and 410,
adding that she has noticed more
competition for Spanish classes this
semester than in previous semesters.
"It is extremely frustrating
for the large number of students

ended up getting the money," Duch-
insaid."There is evidence of a misal-
location of funds that is inconsistent
with the original TARP goals."
These findings, Duchin wrote
in a press release, are important
because taxpayer dollars are not.
being appropriated to "support
systematically institutions experi-
encing financial distress."
Because .information is only
made public for banks that actually
received TARP money, Duchin said
the status and political involve-
ment of banks that were denied are
unknown and complicate the issue.
"We'renotsuggestingthatthereis
a causal relation, we're simply docu-
mentinga positive relation between a
political connection or activism and
actually receiving TARP money and
the amount being received,"he said.
Duchin added that in any case,
the findings oppose any idea that
the market is free from political
influence.
"I think that is surprising that
given all this scrutiny and given all
the exposurethatweare ableusing
public data, to actually show such a
strong statistically significant rela-
tion between political connections
and between allocations of TARP
investments," he said.
attempting to take Spanishclasses,"
she said. "For some reason over-
enrollment does seem like more of
a problem this semester."
LSA freshman Rachel Emery
said she tried to avoid being wait-
listed by declaring a Spanish major.
She said she hoped to gain access to
the class spots reserved for concen-
trators, but she still wasn't able to
get into some courses.
Though other students have had
trouble getting into the classes of
their choice, LSA Freshman Dana
Van Oostenburg said she had a
positive experience with her enroll-
ment.
"I feel pretty luckyto have gotten
into my second choice Spanishclass
this semester," she said.
Hannoosh said that this flexibili-
ty is the key to the system, as enroll-
ment does work for students willing
to cooperate with the department.
"We have a dedicated staff who
work hard to help students find
appropriate courses," she said.


"I was like, 'Hey guys, let's go
out and vote,' and we all went out
and voted," Rabhi said.
According to an article pub-
lished in the Daily on Aug. 4, Kun-
selman won the primary election
by six votes.
Kunselman said Rablii's efforts
helped him secure the primary
win.
"I feel pretty confident in say-
ing that it was the student vote that
tipped the scale," Kunselman said.
"Yousef gave me a presence in that
neighborhood that I had not had in
previous races."
Acknowledging the close race,
Rabhi said, "I walked at least six
people to the poles to vote."
Now Rabbi is concentrating on
his own campaign as he prepares
for the primary election on August
3.
The Board of Commissioners is
in charge of allocating state fund-
ing to cities and townships and set-
ting budgets for the county.
"What the board is responsible
for doing is making sure state
money gets to the right places,"
Rabhi said.
Rabhi said he's running to help
defend services the county provides
for disadvantaged citizens- like
homeless shelters, mental health
care programs, and healthcare
packages for the working poor.
9 and 11 percent of total United
States health care costs, mak-
ing the ban of trans fats a sound
choice for protecting the future
of the nation's health care econ-
omy.
Erica Wald, registered dieti-
tian with MHealthy Nutri-
tion and Weight Management,
said the ban will not only make
the food healthier, it will also
improve the quality of the food.
"(Trans fat) has more health
implications than other fats, so
we are trying to substitute the
trans fats for higher quality sub-
stitutes," Wald said. "We're try-
ing lots of different alternatives
ment assuring that the University
strongly values the honesty of the
Athletic Department and will
comply with the procedures of
the investigation.
"As I said at the onset of this
review, we place the highest
importance on the well-being
of our student-athletes and the
integrity of our program," Cole-
man wrote in the statement. "We
continue to work with the NCAA
to ensure that a thorough and
objective investigation occurs."
Though Coleman released the
statement at the start of the inves-
tigation, she was largely silent on
the issue until last night.
At the University Board of
Regents November meeting Cole-

"People who are homeless in the
streets, don't have healthcare, are
mentally ill - these people need to
be taken care of," Rabhi said.
He added that, if elected, he'll
search for ways to retain those ser-
vice in the midst of"hard economic
times."
As Rabhi prepares his cam-
paign, he's relying on the same
demographic that Councilmember
Kunselman to victory - University
students.
"I need students to vote," Rabhi
said.
The lth district encompasses a
large part of the University com-
munity, including East Quad, West
Quad and South Quad, and the stu-
dent-heavy neighborhood on Oak-
land Avenue.
Rabbi said he plans to reach
out to those students and explain
how the county's decisions impact
them.
Though most students won't
be here for the August primary,
Rabbi said he plans to encourage
them to vote absentee and wants
to serve as a voice for students on
the Board. If elected, he plans to
hold regular office hours at cof-
fee shops like Cafe Ambrosia or
Espresso Royale.
"If I'm elected, I'm going to
count on students to be constantly
involved," Rabbi said.
such as prune puree."
In addition to finding trans
fat substitutes, one of the big-
gest challenges this initiative
has faced - both in Michigan
and around the nation - is find-
ing food vendors who will com-
ply with these regulations. Since
so many of the ingredients and
other food products are out-
sourced, the Health System has
to insure that those companies
also abide by the new regulation,
said Luck.
"It made our process more
grueling," Luck said. "A lot of
companies are thinking about it,
and just haven't done it."
man did not make herself available
for comment after the meeting,
something she normally does. At
the same meeting, Regent Andrew
Richner (R-Grosse Pointe Park)
read a statement saying the
Regents would not comment on
the matter.
The NCAA Committee on
Infractions would be responsible
for reviewing the NCAA's find-
ings if it discovers any major vio-
lations by the Michigan football
team. The University would then
face a possible hearing process
regardingthe issue.
- The Associated Press and
Daily News Editor Nicole Aber
contributed to this report.

INSIDE SALES CONSULTANT
Part time (32 hours per week)

Responsibilities include making out-
bound calls to prospective clients to
support and build the business as well
as developing an existing account base.
Must be able to meet goals and object-
tives.
Requirements include previous sales
perience and comfort working on the
in-
ternet. Must be highly organized with
exceptional atention to
detail. $15/hour.
Please submit resume to:
barbaramontgomery@annarbor.com
SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan t (8t0)626-6304.
www.theislandhouse.com
the students
before other
companies do!

CHILDCARE
AFTERNOON HELP FROM 4-7, 4
days/wk. Responsible ref, own trans.
and good driver. lonarajen@yahoo.com
EARLY MORNING 2-3 days a week.
Older child, Responsibile references
and Own Transportation. 734-769-1462

PC BEACH SPRING Break 2010
Gulf-front Condos; 1,2,3 BRs
Walk to Clubs & Concerts

For Saturday,.J n. 16, 2010 SCORPIO
ARIES it you are patient whi (Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
(March 21 to April t9) This is a mildly accident-peone day.
You'll have a much easier time today This is not an accident waiting to hap-
pen. Rather, it means that your own
groups. Little flare-ups with friends and impatience, anger or irritation could dis-
acquaintances could cause a problem. tract you. It's up to you.
TAURUS SAGITTARIUS
(April 20 to May 20) (Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Demonstrate grace under pressure Avoid arguments with siblings and rel-
when dealing with bosses, parents, atives today. It's very easy to think that
teachers and VIPs today. Don't blow you're right, and to end up in conflict
your cool, because you could regret it mith oders. Take it easy.
later. (Act in such a way that you'll have CAPRICORN
no regrets.) (Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
GEMINI Squabbles and differences about cash
(May 21to June 20) flow, possessions or financial matters
Avoid religious, political and racial could arise today. These difficulties will
arguments or discussions today. Things be fleeting; therefore, hold your tongue.
will get heated too quickly, and nobody AQUARIUS
will win anyhow. (Think about this.) (Jan.20 to Feb. 18) .
CANCER Today the Moon is in your sign, but it
(June 21 to July 22) is opposite fiery Mars. This makes you
You might have to defend your bound- too quick to fight with others. Cool your
aries or your turf today with respect to jets. In your effort to win a silly argu-
shared possessions. Something will ment, you could lose a friend. (Why do
make you quickly feel quite territorial! that?)
LEO PISCES
(July 23 to Aug. 22) (Feb. 191to March 20)
Relutions with partners and close Bebpatient with co-workers today.
friends are mildly explosive today. This There's no need to prove that you are
occurs only for a short window of time, right about something. Just let things go.
but when it does, it's a doozy! You'll be happier if you keep the peace.
VIRGO YOU BORN TODAY In whatever you
gAug. 23 to Sept. 22) do, you're unusually hardworking and
Parents must be patient with children thorough. Essentially, you strive for that
today. People playing sports must guard ultimate sense of accomplishment. You
against accidents. Today's a bit of a crap- want to be fulfilled in whatever task you
shoot. undertake. Nevertheless, you constantly
LIBRA rise to new challenges and seek more
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22) excitement and thrills. Your year ahead
Avoid domestic conflict or difficult will be focused on partnerships and close
conversations with parents and relatives. friendships.
Just let it go. You will lose more ground Birthdate of: Kate Moss, supermodel;
trying to prove something. (It's no big Dian Fossey, zoologist; A.J. Foyt, race-
deal.) car driver.

Summer
,employment
Page
By advertising on thisyear's Summer
Employment Page you can reach over
40,ooo+ highly qualified Wolverines!
This is a great oppurtunity for
internships or summer positionsto
reach the eyes ofmany eligiblestudents.
Presented by TheMichigan Daily classifieds.
Deadline Feb. 18at1:3oam
Published Feb.25
dailyclassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557

( 2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


0

8 - Friday, January 15, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Win showcased
Big Ten defense
By GJON JUNCAJ the wing, there's a lot of speed com-
Daily Sports Editor ing at the defender. You just have to
make the defender make a play, and
Sixteen games into his colle- it works."
giate career, Darius Morris had a With an undersized four-guard
hard time figuring out what was lineup, Michigan's transition
happening around him. After 20 offense and open-floor speed will
minutes of play in be instrumental in surviving when
the men's basket- NOTEBOOK the team shoots poorly, as it did in
ball team's win the first half of last night's game
over Indiana last night, the fresh- (32 percent)."It seems simple, and
man point guard watched both it's not," Beilein said. "You need
teams commit a combined 21 turn- spacing. You've got to move the
overs -11 from the Wolverines. ball. The right guys have to run
There wasn't much of the fran- the right angles. We were making
tic 1-3-1 zone defense that North- some chancy plays there. That's a
western deployed last Sunday to big emphasis for us right now. In
take down Michigan. No gim- the Big Ten, at this level, it's so hard
micks or new schemes. It was to score. When you get a fast break,
almost exclusively man-to-man you need to take advantage of that."
defense from both teams. And lots PROGNOSTICATOR: Freshman
of silly mistakes from each squad guard Matt Vogrich made his first
that would make any high school 3-pointer in five games last night,
coach blush. nailing an open look from the wing
"It was ugly," Morris said. "Just in the first half. Though it seemed
in the beginning of the game, I felt routine enough, Beilein cracked a
the flow was a little weird. We were wide smile in the postgame press
playing great defense, but I don't conference, boasting of a pregame
know what was happening on the prediction which came true.
other side. ... I guess that's one of "I told (Vogrich) he was going to
those old-fashioned Big Ten games hit athree,"Beileinsaid."Isaid,'The
- just physical defense, and the crowd is going to go crazy, because
offense is a little slow." they're all rooting for you.' And,
Morris said redshirt junior sure enough, he came through."
Anthony Wright warned him about Though the Lake Forest, Ill.
this style of play he decided to native has played limited minutes
attend a Big Ten school. this season, he at least appears to
"We're giving more energy to have established a role as a tempo-
the defensive end, which might be rary sparkplug off the bench, sub-
affecting people's decision-making, bing in at shooting guard and small
and fatigue and stuff like that." forward.
TAKING ADVANTAGE: Michi- Vogrich received high praise for
gan's consistentlytight man-to-man his two baskets and three offensive
defense, coupled with some sloppy rebounds in three minutes of play
Indiana passing, led to 21 Wolver- in a win over then-No. 15 Ohio State
ine points off 19 Hoosier turnovers. on Jan 3. And his teammate and
Junior Manny Harris and Morris occasional barber seems to think
were particularly effective in slic- Vogrich has found a nice niche for
ing through Indiana's transition himself.
defense. Though the Wolverines "That's the second or third time
only netted six fastbreak points, now that (Vogrich) has really come
multiple players thought it was in and given us a spark," sophomore -
arguably the best the team has run Zack Novak said. "Getting a put-
the floor all season. back, we need him to do that. That
"We didn't convert all of them, really helps us to have someone
but the (chances) that we did con- come off the bench ... he's a little bit
vert looked pretty," Morris said. of a fan favorite.
"Just getting out there and running, "He doesn't have the hair any-
making a simple pass. I feel like more. When he did ... he looks kind
when me and Manny are running on of ridiculous, so people like him."

Junior Manny Harris only registered four points in the first half of last night's win. But in the second half, Harris surged to finish with a team-high 21 points.ARIEL BOND/Daily
'M'tops Idiana in
ugly home victory

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Editor
Harris explodes for
17 points in second
half after being
benched by Beilein
For a while, it looked like junior
Manny Harris would never get it
going.
Through the first 28 minutes
of the Michigan men's basketball
team's contest against Indiana in
Crisler
Arena, INDIANA 45
the MICHIGAN 69
Detroit
native was stifled to just four
points.
Then, in the final 12 minutes,
Harris erupted, scoring 17 of the
Wolverines' final 29 points to lead
Michigan to a 69-45 win over the
Hoosiers.
Harris started with a nice curl
around the Indiana defense en

route to a layup and came back
on his next two possessions with
baskets to give Michigan a 44-36
lead.
While Indiana was able to pull
within five points with about six
minutes remaining in the game,
the Wolverines put it away on
a series of four possessions led
by Harris. After missing a hook
shot, Harris went up to grab his
own rebound and put it back for
a layup.
After two consecutive stops by
the Wolverines and a pair of fast-
break layups by freshman Darius
Morris and sophomore Laval
Lucas-Perry, Harris came back
to drain a critical 3-pointer that
put the Wolverines up 57-45. The
basket essentially sealed the game
for Michigan, which finished the
game on a 29-9 run to close out
the Hoosiers.
"That's a damn good finish,"
sophomore Laval Lucas-Perry
said. "We really buckled down
and played with poise at the end."
But things didn't go so well for
Harris and the Wolverines earlier

in the game. Indiana guard Jer-
emiah Rivers played lockdown
defense on Harris, neutralizing
him as a scoring threat and forc-
ing four turnovers from the junior
guard.
Rivers frustrated him enough
that Michigan coach John Beilein
decided to bench Harris for five
minutes in the second half.
"I missed an assignment on the
block-out," Harris said. "Coach
took me out to teach me a lesson,
and I just knew that when I came
in we needed some spark from
somewhere and that's what I tried
to do."
Senior DeShawn Sims was once
again the most consistent Wol-
verine, finishing second to Har-
ris with 20 points and leading the
team during the sloppy first half
of the contest with 12.
While Harris looked bad in the
first half, he wasn't alone.
From the opening tipoff it
looked like a typical, low-scoring
Big Ten game, with a combination
of smothering defense and sloppy
play by each team.

Michigan committed 11 first-
half turnovers, many of which
were unforced. The Hoosiers
weren't much better, committing
10 themselves.
Beilein attributed the low-scor-
ing game to good defense from
both squads.
"I was really impressed with
how (we) played defense today,"
Beilein said. "It was another great
example of Big Ten defense. If
we don't guard, we don't win this
game today."
And while the Wolverines
might need an epic performance
to pull off an upset against Con-
necticut at Crisler Arena on
Sunday, they are content with
not collapsing down the stretch
against Indiana like they did in
their last contest against North-
western.
"You look at that clock with
eight minutes and you're not say-
ing to them 'don't blow this one,'
" Beilein said. "You're just saying
good job and just keep it up and
we're winning with our defense."

Alaska's 'D' might
frustrate Mich igan

4

Comeback from Blue bench
falls short in loss to Indiana

Seni
mis
layuf
fo
With
the Mic
team'sE
night,;
freshma
guard
Jenny
Ryan at
teamma
Wolveri
in Bloon
Mean
Ashley
Nya Jot
were on
by only
Carmen

By ZAK PYZIK Michigan coach Kevin Bors-
Daily Sports Writer eth's decision to play nearly his
entire bench, at probably the most
. .Pii critical part of the game, was out
r Krista Phillips of character.
;ses last-second "I think we needed that little
spark," Boylan said. "(Coach)
that would have went to the bench and he was
looking for a spark. Looking back
rced overtime now, that's when we made a surge.
He does frequently sub people in
12 minutes remaining in so everyone can have their big
'higan women's basketball night."
62-60 loss to Indiana last But the second string seemed to
be the best option.
an MICHIGAN 60 In the first half, freshman
INDIANA 62 guard Dayeesha Hollins scored
a season-low two points, while
ttempted to motivate her senior center Krista Phillips made
tes on the bench as the only one of her first seven shots
nes trailed by nine points from the paint. The Wolverines
nington. didn't lead at all during the first
iwhile, second-stringers twenty minutes.
Jones, Courtney Boylan, "I think some players have on
rdan and Rachel Sheffer games and some have off games,"
the court, accompanied Reynolds said. "We typically start
one consistent starter, off faster than we did, and we
Reynolds. didn't start that well. We needed

Dow
od agai
season,
aggres
Part
on def
12-10 o
alty mi
with 5
trating
This
the
take of
.nent
(7-6-3-
that he
exact
fate wh
to time
The
have
the fe
alty m
this se-
And
some s
the tra
focus f
this we
"Yoc
they're
team,"
son sa
the PK
power
agains
betwe
But
parity
isn't v
distinc
ized te
"Th
Berens
of the
least p
have t
attenti
Penalt
huge p
The
the We
after t
the be
up emi
2-0.

defensive stops. I don't know
what they shot but we felt that
every shot was going in. It was a
rough start."
The backups cut the Hoosiers
lead to five, and Borseth substi-
tuted a few of his fresh-legged
starters.
Veronica Hicks and Phillips
were put back in with the high-
energy Boylan, Jordan and Reyn-
olds.
The five went on a 15-0 run,
and just like that, the Wolverines
took their first lead of the game
with five minutes remaining.
But after a 5-0 run by the Hoo-
siers, a three-second call that
cancelled out a Boylan 3-pointer,
and an offensive foul, the Wol-
verines were down two. Hicks
then inbounded the ball to Phil-
lips at the post, who missed an
open layup to seal an Indiana
victory.
Michigan (2-5 Big Ten, 10-7
overall) might have might have
won if it weren't for poor shooting

in the first half. The Wolverines
shot just 37 percent from the field.
Or it could have been the poor
officiating, which was alluded to
by players and coaches. Michigan
was called for 16 personal fouls
compared to Indiana's 11.
"A couple fouls the ref called
were heartbreaking," Boylan said.
"We don't want to ever blame
anything on the refs. Ronnie
asked the ref and, she said, 'why
didn't I get the call on the other
end?' In a way we like it to be
more equal. But teams have home
court advantage and refs some-
times play into that."
The team will play Ohio State
next Thursday at Crisler Arena in
hopes of spoiling the top-ranked
Big Ten team.
Borseth agreed that his team
needed to put the past behind it
and look forward to its match-up
with Ohio State.
"The game's over," Borseth
said. "There is no sense in crying
over spilt milk."

By RYAN KARTJE With that experience, Michi-
Daily Sports Editor gan knows exactly how effective
Alaska's trap canbeat limitingscor-
n four goals in the third peri- ing opportunities. But none of the
inst Miami (Ohio) earlier this players believe that experience will
, the Wolverines saw their give them any advantage in such an
sive strategy go haywire. important CCHA matchup.
ly due to a loss of composure "To be honest, nothing has really
ense, Michigan (7-7 CCHA, changed," junior forward Matt Rust
verall) tallied a hefty 65 pen- said."They're always asolid defensive
nutes against the RedHawks, team. You know what you're goingto
1 of those in that final, frus- get from them every single game. It's
period. going tobe a defensivebattle."
weekend, Alaska at And with three years under his
Wolverines MIchgn belt, Rust, along with the rest of the
n an oppo- veteran Wolverines, isn't expect-
in Alaska Matchup: ing many scoring chances on goalie
3, 10-6-4) Alaska 10-6-4; Scott Greenham.
as seen the Michigan 12-10 "Every game against Alaska in
opposite When: Friday my career here has been 2-1 or 3-2,
hen it comes and Saturday low-scoring games," Rust said.
in the box. at 7:35 P.M. "Getting precious goals is huge."
Nanooks Where: Yost But keeping the Nanooks from
registered Ice Arena maintaining the man advantage
west pen- or even the 3-on-5, which Michi-
inutes in Division-I hockey gan was forced to kill last weekend 4
ason. against Western Michigan, could
with Alaska's slow, bother- be key for the Wolverines, as they
tyle of play, which employs seek their first two-sweep streak
p, it will take a great deal of of the season.
or Michigan to be successful And with this weekend's series,
eekend. Michigan begins a tough stretch
u look at their team, and that includes series' against three
literally the mirror of our of the CCHA's top four teams -
Michigan coach Red Beren- Alaska, Ferris State and Michigan
id. "We've got an edge on State.
, they've got an edge on the That stretch is capped off with
play. Goals scored, goals a matchup against No. 3 Wiscon-
t... there's notmuchto choose sin at the Camp Randall Classic,
en the teams." playing at the Badgers' football
when itcomes to the vast dis- stadium.
in penalty minutes, Berenson Two wins in front of the home
ery pleased with his team's crowd in the season's final two
tion as the ninth-most penal- months could mean the difference
am per game in the NCAA. between an NCAA Tournament at-
at's not a flattering stat," large bid and a long, lonely March.
ion said. "Our goal at the start After starting off slow, Michi-
year was supposed to be the gan is looking for a similar second
'enalized team. What do we half to what they experienced last
o do? We have to really pay season, losing only three games
on to our penalty minutes. after the Great Lakes Invitational.
ies are like goals, they're a "Every year (at this time) it's
art of the game." like pulling teeth.," Berenson said. 4
series with the Nanooks is "We might look back at it two
olverines' second this season, months from now and we might've
hey traveled to Anchorage at one two (series) in a row. Every
ginning of October and came game is going to be abattle. But the
pty on the score sheet, losing only way we're going anywhere is
to be consistent."


