SThe women's basketball teams TEPINTOTHERNG
season came closesnigh, 'Trafford Tanzi' shows the struggle
falling by 17 points to Miami n of one girl as she both literally and I
the W IT Fnal our.metaphorically wrestles with life.
PAGE 8A &PAGE1B
Ube4c1*Iidiigan 0aIlj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, April 1, 2010

michigandaily.com
CENSUS 2010
Census head,
a former 'U'
prof., urges
involvement

___ TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
Morley Faller of Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity discusses a change in the IFC's social code that gives members of sororities more responsbility at fraternity-sponsored parties.
With IFC's change, women to
bear greater burden at parties

Robert Groves:
Students need to
take part to get
accurate count
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
DailyStaffReporter
With over 300 million people
living in 50 states, it is a tremen-
dous challenge to effectively,
efficiently and accurately count
the country's population. But
despite its magnitude, one former
University professor is taking the
challenge head-on as the person
responsible for the 2010 Census.
Robert Groves, director of the
United States Census Bureau and
former director of the Univer-
sity's Survey Research Center,
is the man charged with leading
that effort and he says he fully
recognizes the magnitude of this
"deeply constitutional mandate."
"(The Census) repaints the
portrait of America every ten
years. It tells us who we've
become and almost every decade
begins a conversation of who we
want to be," Groves said in an
interview with The Michigan
Daily earlier this week.
"Article 1, Section 2 (of the
Constitution) specifies that we

will do a census every ten years
to reapportion the House of Rep-
resentatives," Groves said. "Since
1790, when the first Census
was done, there have been laws
passed by Congress that return
taxpayer money to local areas
based on population counts, and
the population counts come from
the census. So, the fair share of
those monies depends on accu-
rate census participation."
Groves was nominated by
President Barack Obama last
April to lead the Census Bureau.
Groves said he was very surprised
to find out he had been selected
by the President, saying "it's not
the kind of job you seek out."
"I was sitting innocently in
my office one day, one Friday,
grading graduate student draft
papers, as I recall, and I got a
phone call from the White House
and that began a long series of
discussions," Groves said.
Though he was nominated last
April, Groves did not take office
until July because Senate Repub-
licans held up his nomination.
Many Republican senators
raised concerns that Groves
would apply statistical modifica-
tions to account for what some
studies have shown to be an
underrepresentation of the poor
and certain ethnicities in the cen-
See CENSUS, Page SA

Amendment means
two sorority liaisons
will have to stay
 sober at parties
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
After an hour-long Interfrater-
nity Council meeting last night, 30
chapter presidents discussed and
passed a proposed amendment

to their bylaws, which gives Pan-
hellenic sorority members more
responsibility at social events held
at fraternities.
The amendment requires that
two liaisons from each sorority
attending a social event held by a
fraternity chapter be present along-
side the sober monitors of the fra-
ternity. The hope is that the change
will promote a safer atmosphere
at parties because women will feel
more comfortable seeking help from
members of their sororities than
from sober monitors from fraterni-

ties.
According to the amendment
passed last night, sober monitors
and liaisons - who are also required
to remain sober - would jointly
oversee the social event, "checking
all bathrooms, common areas, and
upstairs hallways."
The social task force, which
consists of four fraternity and four
sorority presidents as well as other
members of the Greek system inter-
ested in voicing their concerns, con-
structed the amendment. The policy
will go into effect next week.

LSA sophomore Adam Davis,
Delta Chi president and Social 'Task
Force member, said having the
amendment pass is a "really good
step" for the Greek community.
"It's going to make both the host
and the visiting chapter members
more comfortable in dealing with
situations that would arise during
parties," Davis said.
LSA sophomore Jordan Altman,
Phi Psi president and Social Task
Force member, echoed Davis's sen-
timent and added that he thinks the
See IFC, Page 5A


FIR ST ANIVA R OF0M
Despite high attendance,
UMMA to face budget cuts

PICKING THE TREE OVER THE UGLI

After first year in
new building,
officials say
museum a success
By CAITLIN HUSTON
DailyStaffReporter
The renovated University of
Michigan Museum of Art is cel-
ebrating its one-year anniversary

today since it re-opened follow-
ing major renovations. Though
UMMA has surpassed its atten-
dance goals, museum officials are
now expecting that the museum
will face budgetary challenges in
the next year.
UMMA officials say the muse-
um has been successful in its first
year. But despite UMMA's popu-
larity on campus and its high
involvement with the public and
students, the museum's budget is
expected to fall from $5.4 million

to $4.7 million next year, forcing
museum officials to reduce some
of the museum's program offer-
ings.
Kathy Huss, interim co-direc-
tor and chief administrative offi-
cer at UMMA, said in the first
year following the re-opening of
the museum, museum officials
have been able to achieve many
of their goals.
"We've had many, many oppor-
tunities to make this a meeting
See UMMA, Page 7A

DO LA N S TEPPIN G A SID E
Business School dean says
he won't seek a third term

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
[SA freshman Nicole Pumarada studies animal physiology in a tree by the Diag yesterday. Pumarad said she decided to
study in the tree because the grass was too dirty, the pavement too cold and "because it's a nice tree".
Event highlights success of SAPAC

Bob Dolan says after ofthe Ross School of Business since
2001 - is best known for chang-
10 years as dean, he's ing the curriculum of the school's
MBA program to focus on real
ready to step down world learning and the construc-
tion of the new Stephen M. Ross
By NICOLE ABER School of Business facility, which
Daily News Editor he oversaw. And while Dolan said
he feels it will be time to move on
Business School Dean Bob next year, other University admin-
Dolan, announced yesterday that istrators and Business School fac-
he won't seek a third term as dean ulty said they are sad to see him go.
after his current term expires in Dolan said his decision to leave
the summer of 2011. after 10 years at the Business school
Dolan - who has served as dean was partially based on the actions

of his colleagues at other univer-
sities. The deans of both the Uni-
versity of Chicago's Booth School
of Business and the Harvard Busi-
ness School, stepped down from
their positions in December 2009,
after serving for 10 years. Dolan
said it has now become typical for
business school deans to serve in
their positions for 10 years.
"Both of them sort of said 'Well,
ten years is time for you to execute
your vision and maybe it's bet-
ter for somebody else with a new
See DOLAN, Page 5A

Assistant attorney yesterday to promote awareness
of sexual violence issues on cam-

rec

general gives pus.
Held in Rackham auditorium,
presentation the two-hour event was intended
to shed light on various campus-
ognlzing center wide efforts to combat sexual
assault and related cases.
By SCOTT SUH The presentation featured
Daily StaffReporter Assistant Attorney General Igna-
___ cia Moreno and Department of
onjunction with the Divi- Justice representative Susan Wil-
StudentAffairs, the Sexual liams, Dean of Students Laura
I Prevention and Aware- Blake Jones and Department
enter hosted a presentation of Public Safety Director Ken

Magee.
The Campus Grant Program,
which looks to improve outreach
to underrepresented student
groups, was highlighted in the
presentation as was its collabora-
tion with SafeHouse Center - a
non-profit organization, which
strives to improve service for
international students whose
language barriers may make it
difficult to report sexual violence
crimes.
The event also showcased a
See SAPAC, Page 7A

In c
sion of
Assaul
ness Cc

WEATHER HI:80
TOMORROW L: _ :t55

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Daily Arts's web comic of the week: 'VG' Cats.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS.. . . . . 2A SPORTS ...................8A
Vol. CXX, No.120 OPINION.. . . . 4A THE B-SIDE.............1........11B
2tTheMichigan Daily CLASSIFIEDS.....................6A SUMMER REALTY........t........1C



0

2A - Thursday, April 1, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were.Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Lend ing a hand for fun

It was during finals week
of his freshman year that LSA
sophomore Hans Dalton first
saw the University of Michi-
gan's chapter of Do Random
Acts of Kindness at work.
"They were handing out
treats and lovely notes to peo-
ple studying there," Dalton
said. "I just thought that was
so cool that during the most
stressful time of year, people
were willing to give up their
own time in order to make
others happy."
DoRAK, which was found-
ed by then-University student
Anne Kellogg Reed in 2001,
has soughtto spread kindness
on campus through acts like
distributing cocoa and carna-
tions to students in the Diag
on Valentine's Day and pre-
paring pancakes for passersby
in Mason Hall.

The University's chapter
of the club is divided up into
separate teams that hold
weekly meetings. Each team
has a designated captain, who
decides the random act of
kindness the group will per-
form for the week.
Kinesiology senior Katie
Barz, a director of DoRAK,
said after joining the club she
was amazed at the uplifting
attitudes of the other club
members.
"I love that everyone in the
club has the same mission to
spread kindness," Barz said.
"It's hard not to get along
with people like that."
DoRAK collaborates with
other student organizations
like Circle K and K-Grams.
The campus club also adopted
an iPhone application recent-
ly called DoGood, which was

developed by the company
Mobil33t.
LSA junior and club direc-
tor Chris Dietzel said the
iPhone application has taken
off and spread the message of
DoRAK.
"We have had thousands
of people download the app
worldwide and have about
2,000 people check off that
they have done the deed each
day," Dietzel said. "DoRAK is
responsible for creating and
supplying the daily deeds for
the app and also interacts
with the users, taking sugges-
tions, and working them into
deeds."
"I enjoy the reactions, from
a simple smile, to people who
genuinely come up and thank
you for something you've
done," Dalton said.
- JENNA SIMARD

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
artie 1Midcigan Oa
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilevitz@michigandaily.eom tmdbuais@gmaiteom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours: sun.-Thurs. 11a.m. -2am.
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaiy.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman ManagingNews Editor berman@michigandaily.com
swOR s SEron kNcoe Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Swanso,,a,,,hwar hiuavuokkaa
TANTN ITORS:DylanCintiDarryn Fitzgerid, Joseph Lichterman,
Veonoia Menaldsi, neThomas, DevoTosy,laniasTwigs
Rachel Van Milder EditorialPage Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
ASSISTANTEDIOATORAL 0AGE EDIT0RS:MichelleDeWitt,Alex Schiff,MatthewShutler
Ryan Kartie Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe St apleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
PyzikTimRohan, AmyScarano
Jamie Block ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily~com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, JeffSanford
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,Emma Jeszke,MikeKuntz,
KaviShekharPandey
Max Collins and photo@michigandaily.com
Sam Wolson ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR FOR MULTIMEDIA:ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Ariel Bond
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Aaron Augsburger, JakeFromm,MarissaMcClain,
Jed Moch
SarahSquireand design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski Managing DesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Alison Ghamandtr
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandailycom
DEPUTY MAGAZINEEDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips CopyChiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KatieJozwiak sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER:Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASSIFIEDASSISTANTMANAGER:KaylaLaFata
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad WileyProject Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winertermsbystudentsattheUniversityofMichigan.Onecopyiisavaiablefreeofchargetoall
readers. Additiona icopiesmaybe picked up at the Daiy'sofficefor$2.Subscriptions forfailterm,
startinginSeptemberviaU..mailareiO.inter term(anuarythroughApril)is$115,yearlong
(September through Apriis$19.Universitya ffiiatesaresubject toareducedsubscriptionrate.
On-campus subscriptions for fallterm are$35. Subscriptons mustbe prepaid. The Michign Daily

LSA sophomore Claire Baker, a member of Do Random Acts of Kindness, ex
poster showcasing the group's previous ideas to spread cheer across campu

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Marijuana found Vehicle involved Reading by.
in Markley hall in hit and run fiction author

WHERE: Mary Markley Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about 6p.m.
WHAT: Three male students
were found with marijuana in
Mary Markley Residence Hall,
University Police reported.

WHERE: Lot NC-51, 2600
Glazier
WHEN: Tuesday at about 5:30
p.m.
WHAT: A vehicle parked in
Lot NC-51 was hit, University
Police reported. The vehicle
sustained minor damage. There
aausnc>casp

WHAT: Fiction author,
Hannah Tinti, will be read-
ing selections from her
award-winning works.
WHO: Department of Eng-
lish Language and Literature
WHEN: Tonight from 5p.m.
to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Angell Hall Room

are no suspects. a .. .. , S h in i e32
Schwinn bike 3222
swiped at UGLi Warning issued
aWn ISu B-afur
W H ERE: Shapiro Undergrad- I
uate Library for gnarly actions
WHEN: Yesterday at about 12 documentary

vvaaa

Dance Mix 2010
WHAT: Various student
dance groups showcase their
talents. All tickets $10.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Power Center
for the Performing Arts
"How Love is
Spelt"
WHAT: A student per-
formance about an indi-
vidual's journey from
Liverpool to London.
WHO: Basement Arts
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen Drama
Center, Studio I
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

1 Residents of a Massachu-
setts town are fed up with
loud music and drunken
college students who rent apart-
ments in their neighborhood.
They are proposing a bylaw that
includes notifying both the stu-
dents college and their mom and
dad of their behavior, reported
The Boston Globe online.
2 "Trafford Tonz," playing
at the Walgreen Drama
Center, is the story of a girl
growing up in 1950s England
who struggles mightily with the
relationships in her life.
>> FOR MORE, SEE THE B-SIDE, INSIDE
In an interview with Joy
Behar, Jay Leno said that
he expects Conan O'Brien
to be back on the late-night
airwaves in the near future,
according to CNN.com. Leno
went on to say that both he and
O'Brien "got screwed" in the
NBC late-night shuffle.


a.m.
WHAT: A Schwinn bike was
reported stolen from a bike
rack near the Shapiro Under-
graduate Library, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.

WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Tuesday at about 4 p.m.
WHAT: Averbal warning
was issued for a violation of a
skateboarding ordinance, Uni-
versity Police reported.

WHAT: Film screening
of "3 points" which fol-
lows NBA player Tracy
McGrady as he travels to the
Darfur region of Africa.
WHO: Student World
Assembly
WHEN: Tonight from 8:15
p.m. to 9:45 p.m.
WHERE: Angell Hall,
Auditorium D

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


a

a

From March 17 through April16, you can take
advantage of online advice, in-person programs
and text messages that help you put your best
foot forward after graduation.

Text and Win
Text "UMStudents"to 41411
to join and to be eligible to
win our weekly prizes
1 Get daily career advice right
to your phone (through 4/16)
1 You'll be entered to win our
R2L prizes (1 winner drown at
random every week):
* 3/20-3/26: Leather portfolio
and Cross pen set
" 3/27-4/2: Professionally
written resume
" 4/3-4/9: Laptop bag/
briefcase from Coach
* 4/10-4/16: $250 Macy's gift
card for an interview suit

a

0 Wednesday, 3/24, 9-noon:
Meet with career experts to
create your personal professional
development plan
0 Wednesday, 3/31, 9-noon:
Create your personal branding
toolkit (resume review, branding
statement & interview prep)
1 Wednesday, 4/7: 9-noon:
Describe your qualities in
30 seconds by crafting your
personal pitch
1 Wednesday, 4/14, 9-noon:
Find out how to build your
network and help your career

4

Get details and register for the events at umatumni.com/r2L.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

You can also find us at
facebook.com/AAUMstudents.
Alumni Association of the
University of Michigan-OFFICIAL GROUP
Note: By texting "UMSTUDENTS" to 41411, you'll join our
Ready to Launch text group that will last through April 19.
You will receive text messages through 4/16 related to this
program only. After April 19, the group will be deleted.
Standard text messaging rates apply.

a


A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, Aprill1, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
0Christian militia
infiltrated by agent
Rough winter weather forced
members of a Midwest Christian
militia to cut short a road trip to a
rally in Kentucky, so suspected ring-
leader David Brian Stone used time
in the van to hone his speech on
the "New World Order" he feared,
authorities said Wednesday.
"We are the American military.
We outnumber them," a speaker
identified as Stone says on an audio
tape recorded by an undercover FBI
agent. "People should not be afraid
of the government. The government
should fear the people."
The agent, who infiltrated
the Hutaree group and had built
explosives under Stone's direction,
accompanied Stone and others as
they tried to attend a Feb. 6 meeting
of militias in Kentucky, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Ronald Waterstreet
said during a detention hearing in
U.S. District Court in Detroit.
"Now it's time to strike and take
our nation back so we will be free
of tyranny," Stone, 44, of Clayton,
Mich., says on the recording played
in court. "The war will come wheth-
er we are ready or not.".
Stone and eight other suspect-
ed Hutaree members, self-pro-
claimed "Christian warriors" who
trained themselves in paramili-
tary techniques in preparation for
a battle against the Antichrist, are
charged with seditious conspiracy,
or plotting to levy war against the
U.S. They were arrested after a
series of weekend raids across the
Midwest.
MANAMA, Bahrain
Navy plane crashes
in Persian Gulf
A U.S. Navy aircraft crashed in
the Persian Gulf region yesterday
and one of the four crew members
was missing, the military said.
Search and rescue efforts were
under way, the U.S. Navy said in a
statement. Three crew members
were rescued.
The E-2C Hawkeye, which is
primarily used to detect incoming
aircraft with its 24-foot diameter
radar, crashed in the North Ara-
bian Sea after the it "experienced
mechanical malfunctions," the
statement said.
The plane was used for command
and control functions and oper-
ated from the aircraft carrier USS
Dwight D. Eisenhower.
Helping in the search for the
missing crew member were the
Eisenhower and several of its air-
craft, helicopters from guided mis-
sile destroyer USS Carney and a
replenishment ship.
The Navy is investigating.
LANSING, Mich.
Mich. constitutional
convention on
November ballot
Secretary of State Terri Lynn
Land is urging lawmakers to pass
bills that would clarify rules for
a possible constitutional conven-

tion.
Michigan voters will decide in
November if a constitutional con-
vention should be held to revise or
replace the state's 1963 constitu-
tion.
Land says the bills would
require convention delegates to
be U.S. citizens, set dates to elect
the delegates and apply campaign
finance and lobbying laws to them.
The measures also would set July
12, 2011 as the starting date for the
possible convention.
The Republican secre-
tary of state says failing
to pass the bills soon "will
throw the process into chaos."
PHILADELPHIA
Nightclub to close
on school premises
A charter school cafeteria will
no longer double as a nightclub on
nights and weekends, city education
officials announced yesterday after
inspecting the facility.
Owners of the Harambee Insti-
tute of Science and Technology
Charter School have removed all
banquet supplies and equipment,
including alcohol, from their build-
ing, which on weekdays educates
about 450 students in kindergarten
through eighth grade.
Philadelphia district officials had
demanded an end to the school's
arrangement with Club Damani,
which had been operating on the
premises during off-hours despite
an expired liquor license.
Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Murderer
of abortion
doctor faces
life inprison

Rowan Towers in Trenton, N.J. was the site of a party where police say a 15-year-old sold her 7-year-old sister to have sex
with as many as seven men and boys. The teenager also took money to have sex with others at a party in the Trenton apart-
ment on Sunday.
Teenager sells stepsister
for sexn)N at apartment party

Seven-year-old was
gang-raped as
stepsister took
money, stood by
TRENTON (AP) - It started
with a seemingly innocent party
invitation. A 15-year-old girl and
her 7-year-old stepsister were
headed to an apartment down
the street from their home near
the New Jersey Statehouse,
where they had been hang-
ing around outside on a Sunday
afternoon.
For the younger girl, police
say it quickly descended into a
horrifying ordeal in which she
was gang-raped by as many as
seven men as her sister not only
watched, but got paid by those
who did it.

Their parents, none the wiser,
thought maybe they had run
away.
"We're talking about a kid who
told her sister to go into an apart-
ment and let people rape her,"
said Trenton police Capt. Joseph
Juniak. "It's unfathomable."
The teen has been charged
with aggravated sexual assault,
promoting prostitution and
other crimes. Her name was
not released because of her age,
but the county prosecutor plans
to ask the court to try her as an
adult. In the meantime, she is
being held at the Mercer County
Youth Detention Center.
When the girls didn't return
home by 4:30 Sunday after-
noon, their parents called police,
believing the older one had run
away from home and taken her
younger sister with her.
In fact, they were down the

street inside a 13th floor apart-
ment at Rowan Towers, a nearby
high-rise complex so dangerous
that Trenton police are hired as
security guards at night.
"They keep it clean on the out-
side, but it's what's on the inside
that you have to worry about,"
said neighbor William Johnson,
who says police are coming out
of the building all the time.
Inside apartment 13-C, police
said the 7-year-old was soon left
alone as her sister headed to a
back bedroom to sell sex to sev-
eral men. When she came out
into the living room, she handed
her 7-year-old sister money and
encouraged her to let the men
touch her.
"It went from touching to
straight out assault and rape,"'
Juniak said. "They threatened
to kill her if she screamed or told
anyone."

Kansas without
abortion facility for
women more than
21 weeks pregnant
WHICITA (AP) - The man
who gunned down one of the
nation's few providers of late-term
abortions could be sent to prison
today for the rest of his life, but he
may have gotten what he wanted
all along: It is markedly harder in
Kansas to get an abortion.
Dr. George Tiller's clinic is
closed, leaving the state with no
facility where women can have
the procedure after the 21st week
of pregnancy. An early vow by one
of Tiller's contemporaries to fill
the gap hasn't materialized, and
state lawmakers are moving to
enact tough new rules to dissuade
other physicians from taking Til-
ler's place.
"The national anti-abortion
movement has a tremendous
victory here," said Dr. War-
ren Hern, a longtime friend of
Tiller who performs late-term
abortions in Colorado. "They
accomplished exactly what they
wanted, and they continue to
accomplish it."
But even as Scott Roeder faces a
mandatory life sentence for killing
Tiller, many ponder the conflict-
ing legacies of his actions. Outside
Kansas, abortion rights support-
ers say there's been a surge in late-
term abortion practices by doctors
emboldened to pick up where Til-
ler left off.
"What he really did was murder
a doctor in church, and the effect
on abortion is negligible," said Dr.
LeRoy Carhart, a Nebraska doctor
who worked part-time for Tiller.
Carhart said yesterday he had
not given up on opening a prac-
tice in Kansas where women can
have a late-term procedure, even
though he admitted his plans were
in a state of flux given the rules
passed late Tuesday night by the
Kansas Legislature.
Some people on the other side
of the abortion debate aren't
taking comfort in the fate of
Roeder, 52, of Kansas City, Mo.,
who was convicted in January
of first-degree murder for fatally
shooting Tiller last May as the
doctor served as an usher in his
Wichita church. The only ques-
tion remaining today is whether
Roeder's imprisonment will
include a mandatory minimum of

25 or 50 years behind bars.
"Mr. Roeder was a setback to
the pro-life movement - and to
give him any sort of credit for
reducing or stopping abortion is
well beyond reason," said Troy
Newman, president of Operation
Rescue.
Roeder's militant sympathizers
disagree.
"He went ahead and laid down
his life to save unborn children
and to me that is the definition
of a hero - he gave up his life to
save someone else," said Rev. Don
Spitz, of Chesapeake, Va., who
runs the Army of God Web site
supporting violenceagainst abor-
tion providers.
In Kansas, Tiller's killing has
practically erased late-term pro-
cedures and forced women to
Albuquerque, N.M., and Boulder,
Colo., among other places, to have
them.
Just three clinics in the state -
all located in or near the Kansas
City metro area - offer limited
abortion services for women up to
their 21st week of pregnancy.
"People were coming from all
over the world to have abortions
in Kansas," said Kari Ann Rinker,
a lobbyist for the National Orga-
nization for Women's Kansas
chapter. "Now they don't come
here because Dr. Tiller has been
killed."
Beyond the state, however,
abortion rights advocates say doc-
tors are increasingly offering the
procedure to ensure women have
access.
"Dr. Tiller's death was a dev-
astating loss to the provider com-
munity and his family, but he was
so admired and respected that his
death has inspired medical stu-
dents and providers to recommit
themselves to providing women
with the abortion care that they
need," said Vicki Saporta, presi-
dent of the National Abortion Fed-
eration.
Among them is Megan Evans,
a third-year medical student at
George Washington University
who said she hopes to include
abortion services as part of a
larger obstetrics and gynecology
practice.
"After he was killed, for me it
assured me this was the right field
to go into," she said.
In the wake of Tiller's murder,
Dr. Curtis Boyd of Albuquerque
decided to provide third-trimes-
ter abortions on a case-by-case
basis and hired two physicians
who had worked at Tiller's clinic.

Chechen militant group
responsible for bombings

Internet message
from group cites
revenge as reason
for attack

President Dmitry Medvedev later
called the attacks "links of the
same chain."
The suicide bombings in Mos-
cow were the first in the capital in
six years and served as a wake-up
call for many Russians, who had
come to feel insulated from the

MAKHACHKALA, Russia (AP) violence raging in the country's
- A Chechen militant claimed predominantly Muslim southern
responsibility for the deadly corner.
attacks on the Moscow subway in Umarov blamed ordinary Rus-
an Internet message posted yester- sians for turning a blind eye to the
day, hours after two more suicide killing of civilians in the Cauca-
bombers struck southern Russia in sus by security forces and warned
brazen defiance of Prime Minister of more attacks.
Vladimir Putin. "I promise you that the war will
Doku Umarov, who leads come to your streets and you will
Islamic militants in Chechnya and feel it in your lives, feel it on your
other regions in Russia's North own skin," Umarov, dressed in
Caucasus, said in a video posted fatigues, said in a video posted on
on a pro-rebel Web site that Mon- kavkazcenter.com, a Web site that
day's twin suicide attacks were rebels use to air their statements.
revenge for the killing of civilians There was no way to substanti-
by Russian security forces. ate Umarov's claim, and officials
Umarov's statement appeared at Russian law enforcement agen-
after Putin vowed to "drag out cies refused to comment on Uma-
of the sewer" the terrorists rov's claim. The Russian security
who plotted the subway bomb- chief has previously said the sub-
ings, which killed 39 people and way bombings were carried out
wounded scores of commuters by militants from the Caucasus.
during the morning rush hour. Umarov had previously
Yesterday's suicide bombings warned that "if Russians think
in Dagestan, a volatile southern that the war is happening only on
province east of Chechnya, could television, somewhere far away in
have been planned by the same the Caucasus where it can't reach
group behind the Moscow bomb- them, then we are going to show
ings, Putin said. them that this war will return to
"I don't rule out that this is
one and the same gang," he said
at a televised Cabinet meeting.

their homes."
The 45-year-old Umarov fought
Russian forces in both separat-
ist wars in Chechnya over the
last 15 years. He took over the
leadership of the rebel movement
in 2006 following the killing by
Russian forces of Abdul-Khalim
Sadulayev. Umarov's importance
further increased that year after
Shamil Basayev, the most feared of
the rebels, was killed by security
forces. Basayev was accused'of -
or claimed responsibility for - ter-
rorist attacks on Russia during its
wars in Chechnya, including the
hostage-taking raid on a school in
the town of Beslan in 2004.
Moscow police have been on
high alertsincethesubwayattacks,
increasing roadblocks on highways
into the city. The police chief said
thousands of officers have been
sent to patrol the subway, check on
migrants from southern provinces
and inspect warehouses that could
hold arms caches.
The militants face logisti-
cal challenges in carrying out
bombings in Russia's northern
cities, since they would need to
transport explosives from south-
ern bases and then store them.
Natives of the North Caucasus,
who tend to have darker hair and
complexions, stand out in cities
like Moscow and are more likely
to draw police attention.

O - U


4A - Thursday, April 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 0

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu


JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Assisting mental health
Campus community must build culture of support

This is not a decision that I've made lightly:'
- President Barack Obama, referring to his decision to allow offshore oil drilling along the East Coast, Alaska
and the Gulf of Mexico, as reported yesterday by Politico.com.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI j E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
Y"b Obama good. Obama drill.
driling for il Black gold Wae Youesupporting this? 0 good. Ya Obama.
Trexasngeoro YeeBlac What about all those I
environmental consequences orry you hadtosec
Yes. Drillgoad.A you were worried about? * him like this, folks.
a 4
0*
t home at the University

0I

ach year, there are roughly two suicides for every 20,000
university students, according to The New York Times.
Unfortunately, in the last month alone, three students in
this country took their lives by jumping off bridges at Cornell Uni-
versity into the campus's famed deep gorges. There is no doubt that
these events are tragic. As such, they must serve as a reminder to
the students, faculty, staff and administrators here at the Universi-
ty of Michigan - and to university community members across the
country - that the ample availability of mental health resources is
paramount to students' health and safety. Students and staff must
be vigilant in preventing the occurrence of such tragedies.

0

As reported by the Times last week,
Cornell University hadn't registered any
confirmed suicides since the beginning of
2006. In the current academic year, there
have been six. The suicides have caused
concern on the part of the institution and
community. Cornell officials have con-
structed temporary fences around the
bridges, which they hope will prevent
more suicides. Security guards have also
been stationed at each of the bridges. Cor-
nell officials have been drastically increas-
ing their support of mental health outreach
programs.
The University of Michigan is fortunate
that it isn't experiencing what Cornell is
now going through. But given the simi-
larities between Cornell and our school,
the University should take measures to
increase its mental health resources and
outreach to students.
Students at prestigious institutions like
Cornell and the University of Michigan
are under constant pressure to perform.
And the competitive atmosphere of college
has increased as the economy has suffered
and students feel more pressure to be the
very best in order to secure a place in the
difficult job market. College students are
becoming more vulnerable and stressed. To
combat this, the University should become
more proactive in helping students cope.
The University's Counseling and Psycho-
logical Services (more commonly known as

CAPS) has been an excellent resource on
campus for students to seek help. Accord-
ing to a February report by the Daily, CAPS
saw a significant rise in demand in 2009.
The University responded appropriately by
increasing funding to CAPS last semester,
which resulted in larger offices, increased
counseling and the creation of workshops
that make counseling more available. The
University must continue to ensure that
CAPS receives the resources it needs to
make help available to every student who
asks for it.
And, as Cornell did, the University
should train all of its employees to be on
the lookout for warning signs that may
demonstrate that a student is in need of
support. Students should also be watchful
of friends and classmates. With students
far from home, the University commu-
nity should serve as a substitute family to
students, and community members must
watch out for each other. And, most impor-
tantly, students who feel unwell must
remember that there is no shame in asking
for help. They shouldn't feel any hesitation
take advantage of the resources that the
University and CAPS provide.
The recent suicides have deeply shaken
our peers at Cornell. And given our uni-
versity's resemblance to Cornell, students
and University officials should make every
effort to prevent a similar tragedy from
occurring here.

ver the past year, I've learned
something from the Ann
Arbor and campus commu-
nity that can't be
taughtin anyclass-
room or by any
professor. And it's'
a lesson that will r
endure long after I
forget how to take
the derivative of a
function or conju-
gate French verbs.
The Univer- ALEX
sity student body SCHIFF
draws from all
across the state,
the country and
even the world. For many of you, this
is your first time spending the major-
ity of your year away from the place
you had previously called "home."
Before moving to Ann Arbor, you
knew the streets of your old home-
town like the back of your hand, you
had grown accustomed to the sights
and sounds of a typical day and you
frequently passed places that housed
memories from years past - where
you made mistakes, where you con-
quered your fears and where you
experienced your greatest accom-
plishments.
But then you were dropped here, in
the middle of this energetic, sprawl-
ing mini metropolis. All around you
were streets with unfamiliar names,
buildings and locations that held no
memories or significance and a mass
of people you had never met asking
you to support this cause, vote for
this person or donate to this charity
- if they even spoke to you at all.
After growing up in Farmington
Hills, Michigan (a suburb outside
Detroit) for 15 years, I discovered
what it was like to be dropped into
a strange new area with different
types of people, cultures and social
norms when I moved to Palm Harbor,
Florida in 2006.I contracted the typi-
cal "Transplanted Child Syndrome,"

and I looked at everything through
the lens of "this place isn't like where
I'm from, why aren't things like they
were where I grew up, why can't I
go back, etc." In a sense, I placed
my hometown on a pedestal it didn't
really deserve justbecause it was that
familiar place I could call "home."
Even though I had always wanted
to attend the University, I also saw
it as my way to get back home. This
summer, I packed up all my belong-
ings in my oversized Buick Century
and drove 2,000 miles to come here
with my favorite desk chair block-
ing my rear window the entire way.
I spent the rest of the summer liv-
ing in my grandma's basement, only
three miles from the houseI grew up
in. But, still, something was missing.
Despite being back where I grew up,
just as I thought I had wanted, I felt
constrained.
And then I came here. Instantly,
everything clicked. This campus has
a liveliness that those of us from the
suburbs have never experienced. It's
not just the exuberance of the city on
football Saturdays - it's the vibrancy
this campus breathes every day. It's
the rallies on street corners by people
on every side of the political spec-
trum. It's the hustle and bustle of stu-
dents rushing to class all throughout
the day - even though we already run
on Michigan time. It's the cars driv-
ing on overflowing streets honking
at people spilling over into their path.
It's the crowded sidewalks at 2 a.m. on
a Saturday night and the 3 a.m. crav-
ings for crappy Mexican food.
My time at the University has
taught me a valuable lesson that took
place not in Dennison or Angell Hall,
but amid the unmistakeable vigor
of the Diag on the first warm, sunny
day of this semester. After spending
the past several months trudging
through slush and snow and won-
dering why on earth I came here,
I took a brief moment to pause and
look around as people passed me by.

A gentle complacency washed over
me. It was at that moment that I real-
ized that home isn't where you grew
up - home is simply where you feel
at home. And here, without a doubt, I
feel at home.
A lesson that can't
be taught inAngell
Hall or Dennison.
Now, as summer nears, everyone's
looking forward to spending four
months "back home." Despite the
stresses of classes, homework, exams,
etc., there's going to bea lot I'm going
to miss when I return to the suburbs.
Sure, I'll see lots of places that hold
memories - but something will be
missing. I won't see people partying
on rooftops at 9 a.m. on a football
Saturday or a moonwalk set up on
the Diag on a random Tuesday after-
noon. I'll even miss playingmakeshift
games of putt-putt in the hallways of
East Quad.
Students, we come from a diverse
array of communities, but I'm will-
ing to bet that most of you spent the
majority of your life relatively near
where you graduated high school.
Lacking the familiarity of your home-
town, I am sure many of you have
probably felt lonely, isolated or home-
sick in some way over the course of
your time at the University. Butmost
of us will attest to the fact that that
feeling ebbs as you begin to real-
ize that no matter what city, state or
country you hail from, we all need to
step out of the comfort of our home-
town to grow as individuals.
- Alex Schiff is an assistant
editorial page editor. He can be
reached at aschiff@umich.edu.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
HAMDAN AZHAR|
Patriotism in perspective

DAVID BENNETTri
Working toward equal rights

Last week, the Daily printed a column in
which Brittany Smith heralded the passage
of President Barack Obama's health care bill
as the point when.she no longer felt ashamed
to be an American (Reforming patriotism,
03/26/2010). Smith went on to defend progres-
sive values in a manner that left many of us gri-
macing in discomfort.
Smith failed to understand that ideals may
be praiseworthy and profound, while their
actual application may fail to live up to that
standard. More egregiously, she argued from
one isolated incident that our nation had taken
a bold leap towards fulfilling our ideals.
I was therefore pleased to come across
Christopher Johnson's response, entitled (I
don't live in Smith's America, 03/29/2010).
Unfortunately, the title is the only endear-
ing quality of Johnson's viewpoint. He takes
Smith's caricature of the "ugly American" to
the extreme and presents violent jingoistic
rhetoric as a substitute for "patriotism." "Most
citizens in Iraq and Afghanistan are thankful
for their liberation," he remarks snidely. "Just
ask any soldier." Any reasonable person would
be at a loss for words when confronted with
such ignorance.
This, then, is the unfortunate state of politi-
cal discourse in the opinion pages of the Daily
today. One side argues that everything is fine
with America because Obama is committed to
"creating a baseline level of equality for every-
one." (I won't enumerate everything that's
wrong with that sentence.) The other side
responds that everything is fine with America
because we go around the world invading coun-
tries that have never attacked us. The end result
of either mindset is the same - the true prin-
ciples that make America great are obscured
as well as the sad fact that we have failed to
uphold the sanctity of those principles.
America was founded as the "city upon a
hill," meant to be a shining beacon of liberty
and justice, a light unto the rest of the world.
Thatadream is indeed elusive today, lost amid
war and oppression, imperialism, racism and
carpet bosmbs, red alerts and Guantanamo Bay.

Some of us have never seen that dream because
our vision is clogged with the blood and sweat
of all those - at home and abroad - for whom
that dream has turned into a nightmare.
But it's called a dream for a reason - it
doesn't exist, indeed, it cannot exist unless we
work to make it real. Anything worth achiev-
ing requires effort. The American dream is a
problematic dream. But what a dream it is.
The nature of an individual's love or hatred
for America can be understood as a function
of two variables: their understanding of what
America represents and their expectations for
what America ought to be. Some of those who
see potential for good in "America" - what-
ever that means - will blindly wave the flag of
"patriotism" and passively accept the reality
with which they are presented. Others, mean-
while, will dedicate their lives to maximizing
that potential and to transforming our nation
into a living embodiment of the ideals that it
purports to represent.
Many Americans are ashamed at and jus-
tifiably angered by irresponsible actions our
government has undertaken over the years.
But to conflate those actions with the essence
of America is an absurd and undyingly cynical
leap in reasoning. On the other hand, to pro-
claim that since, in theory, our values are great,
we are automatically "superior to the rest of
the world" is a similarly defeatist and danger-
ous mindset. To hold such a view is to sell the
greatness of America for far less than what it is
worth. It borders on the edge of being unpatri-
otic in the extent to which it ascribes an inher-
ent entitlement to our nation, independent of
our conduct and our faithfulness to our values.
At the end of the day, it was perhaps a
Frenchman, Alexis de Tocqueville, who said
it best. "America," he said, "is great as long as
America is good. When America ceases to be
good, America ceases to be great." If we can
understand that much, then perhaps we can
aspire to a richer and more fulfilling vision of
patriotism.
Hamdan Azhar is a Rackham student.

Unlike your local carwash, where worker exploitation
is laid bare on street corners in broad daylight, injustice
in the restaurant industry occurs behind the scenes. So
you have to, well, go behind the kitchen door to see what
really happens.
That is precisely what the Restaurant Opportunities Cen-
ter of Michigan (more commonly known as ROC-MI) and
the Southeast Michigan Restaurant Industry Coalition did.
This past February, they published "Behind the Kitchen
Door: Inequality & Opportunity in Metro Detroit's Grow-
ing Restaurant Industry," a report that exposed the extent
to which restaurant malpractice in the Metro Detroit area
really occurs.
Based on data from 37 interviews with employers, 32
interviews with restaurant workers and 501 worker sur-
veys, the study found that workers of color are dispro-
portionately affected with respect to wage violations and
other abuses. 31 percent of employees reported working
overtime without being compensated and 81.4 percent
of workers didn't receive health insurance through their
employers. Similar studies were conducted across the
nation, highlighting the prevalence of restaurant worker
exploitation.
Andiamo, an Italian restaurant in Dearborn, Mich., is the
poster child of restaurant worker abuse in the Metro Detroit
area. The Metro Times reported in January that Andiamo
failed to meet with eight workers to address their grievanc-
es - including $125,000 worth of back wages and discrimi-
nation based on race, gender and national origin, followed
by illegal retaliation. In response, the workers, with the sup-
port of ROC-MI, turned to protesting and lawsuits.
Despite rampant exploitation, though, there are steps
that canbe taken to improve the plight of workers in the res-
taurant industry and elsewhere.
First, the minimum wage must be increased. Currently,
the federal minimum wage stands at $7.25. Minimum wage
for tipped employees, meanwhile, is only $2.13 per hour.
Relying on tips to compensate for a dearth of wages is risky
business - especially since tips vary "depending on broader
economic trends, from season to season and from shift to
shift," according to the National Employment Law Project.
While the federal minimum wage was slightly raised in
2009, the tipping wage has remained frozen since 1991.
In addition to raising wages, "Behind the Kitchen Door"
delivers sound proposals, like providing paid sick days,

granting workers the right to organize and penalizing
employer discrimination while promoting model employer
practices.
In terms of policy, passage of the Employee Free Choice
Act, which supports workers' right to unionize, and the
Dream Act, which is a step toward a more humane immi-
gration policy, are in order, as well as legislation that makes
education and occupational training - and by extension,
upward mobility - more accessible.
Clearly, the restaurant industry must reform, but we
know that real change will not come out of thin air. We must
fight for it. Organizations like ROC-MI - with its research,
rallies and, in due course, justice for'the workers at Andiamo
- illustrate the steps that can be taken to fight for change in
the industry.In the end, change willonly come if we demand
it. It's incumbent on us as college students, voters and citi-
zens (and yes, at times, as consumers) to tell the restaurant
industry that it has crossed the line and that we won't yield
in our struggle for workers' rights.
Whether those workers stand on our neighborhood
street corners washing cars or are tucked away toiling in an
anonymous factory, farm or kitchen, let us do what we can
to make their lives better. This week, from March 28th to
April 4th, is the Student Labor Week of Action - the perfect
time to reflect on what we have done and to envision what
we can do to fight for worker justice and, in turn, a better
society for all.
If you're up for it, go to the Cube any Friday atS5:45 p.m. -
until justice is served, anyway - and get a ride to the protest
at Andiamo. Or talk to the janitors on campus to see what's
ailing them (trust me, it won't take long) and then stage a
protest against the administration. Join SOLE in their fight
for sweat-free University apparel. Or work with a union
over the summer and help organize workers yourself. Craft
policy recommendations through the Roosevelt Institu-
tion and then lobby your representatives like hell until they
push those measures through. Do it yourself, if you have to.
Just remember that there has never been a better time than
now, here at the University, to act on what you believe in, to
stand up against injustice and to be sure there's plenty to go
around.

David Bennett is an LSA senior and co-director
of the Roosevelt Institution's Center on Urban
Planning and Community Development.

6
6

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, A pril 1, 2010 - 5A

CENSUS
From Page 1A
" sus.
In his testimony before the Sen-
ate Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs Committee during
his confirmation hearings, Groves
said he would not use any arithme-
tic adjustments in the census.
"Statistical adjustments will not
be used for redistricting," Groves
said at the time.
During the early 1990s Groves
worked as an assistant director at
the Census Bureau. During that
time, Groves argued for the imple-
mentation of statistical adjustments
in the census because millions of
people were undercounted in the
1990 enumeration.
Lisa Neidert, a senior research
associate in the University's Popu-
lation Studies Center and a former
colleague of Groves, said he has
proven his critics wrong.
"A lot of people were skeptical of
the fact that he's a statistical expert,
a sampling expert," she said. "Peo-
ple were worried that the Census
was going to be making up people.
He has quieted all of the people who
were against him in Congress. They
are now realizing how good of a job
he's doing."
As directorofthe Census Bureau,
Groves said one of his primary
objectives is to raise awareness
about the Census and to encourage
people to fill out their census forms.
Groves was featured in both Time
Magazine and The Washington
Post and taped a segment for "The
Daily Show With Jon Stewart" to
promote the Census.
"A lot of my life right now is try-
ing to get the word out," Groves
said.
On campus, the Institute for
Social Research and the Office of
the Provost have been spearhead-
ing efforts to encourage students
to fill out the census. The offices
sponsored a contest for students
to produce videos that encour-
aged student participation in the
census.
The University's chapter of Col-
lege Democrats won the competi-
tion and received a $1,000 prize.
With 13 entries, Neidert, who co-
chaired the competition, said that
though none of the videos have
gone viral, the competition was a
success in terms of raising aware-
ness.
"The winning videos were pretty
much chosen by popular vote and
the reason we did that is whoever
created the videos would try to get
their friends, classmates, etc. to
vote for them and that spread the
word a lot better than this middle-
aged committee sitting around
 choosing what the best videos are,"
Neidert said.
Neidert said the reason the ISR
chose to sponsor the video contest
is because census participation
among college students is typically
very low, resulting in too low of a
population count in college towns
like Ann Arbor.
Data from the Census Bureau's
website showed that, as of yester-
day, only about 30 percent of all
households in student neighbor-
hoods in Ann Arbor had returned
their census forms, compared to
about 60 percent of households in
other areas of Ann Arbor.
Groves said he thinks the reason
many students don't complete the
census is because they are unsure
whether they should fill out a form

for themselves, or whether their
parents should include them on
their census.
"If you think about it, most of
IFC
From Page 1A
addition to the existing bylaws was
necessary.
"It's definitely going to ben-
efit the safety of our social events
when there are men and women
accountable," Altman said. "I
think it was a little lopsided
before. It's exciting to see that
sororities and Panhel want to help
out and raise their accountability."
LSA junior Tarin Krzywosink-
si, Panhel vice president of the
social responsibility committee,
said the passing of the policy is a
"baby step in the right direction"
to women being more accountable
at these events.
She added that she thinks the
policy will be successful despite
any initial resistance, once every-
one involved gets on the same
page. Krzywosinski said fraterni-
ties may not engage with sorori-
ties that refuse to provide liaisons,
compelling cooperation between
the two groups.
According to a Dec. 2, 2009
article in The Michigan Daily,
some national boards of sororities
are hesitant to have sororities take
on increased responsibilities -
and liability - at parties.
"I feel like there might be some
resistance at first, but this policy
is kind of going to be reinforcing,"
Krzywosinski said.

college students, last decade, their
parents filled out their census form
(and) they were at home," Groves
said. "For the first time, for many of
them, they're on their own - either
in the dorm or off campus - and
it's their responsibility for the first
time. So it's a new request that the
country is making of them and
that's a real reason, I think, for the
undercount."
Individuals - including people
who are not United States citizens
- are required to fill out a census
form at the location where they live
for a majority of the year.
But that burden will be lessened
this year as the Census is using a
shorter form than in the past.
Typically, there has been a long
form and short form. This year
though, the Census only has the
short form, which is comprised of
10 questions.
William Frey, a University
research professor and a senior
fellow at the Metropolitan Policy
Program at the Brookings Insti-
tute in Washington, D.C. said the
shorter form is conducive to higher
participation and makes it easier
for census officials to obtain basic
information on the populace.
"They felt that the census form,
just being the short form rather
than the long form, would be easier
to administer and much easier for
respondents," Frey said.
Frey said the change was likely
the result of pressure from constit-
uents who contacted government
officials with complaints about the
longer form.
"They got, I think, a little bit of
political pushback, negative politi-
cal response," Freyexplained. "Peo-
ple called up their congresspeople
and so forth saying, 'Why are we
getting these long forms to fill out.
It's abigimposition on me."'
An even shorter form will be dis-
tributed to students living in resi-
dence halls. Every student living
in a residence hall needs to fill out
a census form, but students living
off campus only need to fill out one
form per household.
University Housing spokesman
Peter Logan said census forms will
be delivered to students in the resi-
dence halls today. They should be
turned in to each residence hall's
community center, Logan said.
Census officials will be in every
University residence hall today to
distribute the forms, Logan said.
He went on to say that each census
staffer will receive a list of all the
students living in the hall.
"They will obtain a very simple
roster from each residence hall
leader who is assigned to do this,"
Logan said. "This roster is simply,
and no more than, a list of students
living in that residence hall on
April 1 by name and room number.
There is no other information pro-
vided."
If all forms are not in by April 8,
Logan said census officials would
return to the residence halls and
knock on doors to obtain the infor-
mation.
Logan said multiple e-mails
have been sent to students to
remind them of the census. He
added that an e-mail was sent to
the parents of every student to let
them know that students need to
fill out their own census form and
should not be included on their
parents' form.
"It's vital that everyone be count-
ed," Logan said. "And don't think
that the parents are going to count
them on the form that goes to the

parental home address. We really
need the students to fill out the
forms.they get right here in Ann
Arbor."
During the meeting, concerns
were raised in regard to the poten-
tial absence of sororities at social
events with mandatory liaison
participation. Some of the chap-
ter presidents at the meeting said
they were unsure if the amend-
ment would be beneficial to the
IFC members.
Davis said he doesn't think that
sorority withdrawal represents
a "realistic concern" and that he
hopes sorority nationals will not
hold charters against "a concept
that is making their own mem-
bers, their brothers and their sis-
ters, safer."
Krzywosinski said the con-
cern of the women not wanting to
cooperate will "never happen."
"Sororities want to party with
fraternities and fraternities want
to party with sororities," Krzy-
wosinski said. "It's going to be a
mutual thing. Everyone is going
to end up doing it in the long run.
You're not going to have a chapter
that's not going to participate."
LSA junior Mike Miniaci, IFC
vice president of the social respon-
sibility committee, said there
should not be any doubts of the
amendment's benefits to the IFC.
"This policy is just great for
implementing safety," Miniaci
said. "Having two liaisons at
events can't hurt. We'll use the
rest of the semester as a trial run,
and we'll be in full force for Wel-
come Week in the fall."

Dean Dolan's legacy in building
renovation, curriculum change

From Page1A
view on the world to come along
and have their chance to mold the
school,"' Dolan said.
Having thought about this
decision over the past year, Dolan
said he first told University Pro-
vost Teresa Sullivan last summer
that he was considering not serv-
ing another term.
He then discussed his decision
with University President Mary
Sue Coleman this academic year.
Dolan said both Sullivan and
Coleman asked him to recon-
sider.
"I was pleased that they were
both happy enough with the job
that I've done that they both
thought, 'Gee it would be great if
you stayed on for another couple
of years,"' he said. "So it was nice
having that reaction from both of
them."
Dolan said that, to his knowl-
edge, a search process hasn't yet
begun to find a new dean, and
that he presumes Sullivan and
Philip Hanlon, the University's
vice provost for academic and
budgetary affairs - who will be
stepping into Sullivan's position
come July - will begin putting
together a search committee this
summer, with the interviews tak-
ing place early in the fall semes-
ter.
Dolan also said he hasn't made
any decisions yet about what he'll
do after he leaves, adding that
he'll start considering his options
this summer.
Dolan said one of the things
he is most proud to have accom-
plished during his time as dean
is changing the Business School's
educational approach to one that
focuses more on "action-based
learning."
Cultivating the Multidisci-
plinary Action Projects program
- in which first-year MBA stu-
dents participate in real-world
projects, many times abroad,
during March and April - is a
component of this education-
al outlook that Dolan said has
become a distinctive feature of
the school.
"It's really become sort of the
signature element of the school,
that we're known for this," Dolan
said. "And it's the way we differ-
entiate ourselves to say that we
really think in terms of develop-
ing leadership capabilities."
Kathleen Sutcliffe, associate
dean for research and faculty at
the Business School, said Dolan's
success as dean can be seen by the
fact that he was able to implement
the action-based learning pro-
gram - something that previous
deans had tried to do, but weren't
able to accomplish.
"He's really solidified our iden-
tity in a way, as being a school that
is really grounded in this idea of
leading in thought and action and
action-based learning," Sutcliffe
said.
The Business School's new
building is also a main highlight
of Dolan's work as dean, Sutcliffe
said.
With its $145 million price

COURTESY Or THE STEPHEN M. ROSS SCHOOL OF BUSINE
Business School Dean Bob Dolan teaches a class earlier this year. Dolan announced yesterday that he plans to step aside from
his post after finishing his second term, which ends in the summer of 2011.

tag - $100 million of which cov-
ered by a donation from Stephen
M. Ross - the building was con-
structed from May 2006 to Janu-
ary 2009, when it opened for use.
"We all believed the building
is critical to create the learning
environment that we want," Sut-
cliffe said.
Dolan said the new building
has created a space that encom-
passes the school's action-based
learning philosophy.
"I honestly do believe the
facilities in which you conduct
your programs can have a major
impact on those programs if you
build them right," he said.
Though the project required
the relocation of many faculty
offices, Dolan said everyone
cooperated and that the final
outcome of the facility has been
extremely rewarding.
"The way it supports the kind
of interaction amongst our stu-
dents that we had really hoped
for and built for in the first place,
that's been a tremendously satis-
fying thing for me," he said.
Susan Ashford, director of the
Business School's Executive MBA
Program, said the new building
allows for students to collabo-
rate and become future business
leaders, things that Dolan highly
values.
"He really created a building
that supported that strategy,"
Ashford said.
Fred Feinberg, Hallman Fel-
low and professor of marketing,
said the construction of the new
building was a huge undertaking
and that many people thought
Dolan was a little "nuts" for doing
it.
"A lot of people thought that
he was nuts, nuts in a good way;
like who would undertake this
enormous job ..." Feinberg said.
"It's not part of the usual dean's
job; they have enough to do and
he said 'No, we're going to go for
it.' And it was perfect. I mean
there was not a single glitch in the
entire project. I can't imagine (it)
having been worked out better
than he did it."
Dolan's push for recruit-

ing and retaining the highest
performing faculty members, as
well as his encouragement of and
providing resources for faculty
research, also make him a stand-
out dean, Feinberg said.
"Even though we were a very
strong school, every group that I
know has gotten quite a bit stron-
ger," he said.
Feinberg said he first got to
know Dolan 20 years ago when
Dolan asked him to review a
paper that was submitted to a
marketing and finance journal
for which Dolan was an editor.
Feinberg said this was significant
to him, as Dolan chose him to be
a reviewer even though he was a
Ph.D. student at the time.
"He kind of chose me to do
something that required a lot of
expertise, even when I was kind
of unknown and I thought that
was very nice of him," Feinberg
said.
Though Dolan was unsure
whether the search committee
will choose a new dean internally
or externally, he said the Business
School's next leader should have
a "vision" for the future educa-
tion of the school, in addition to a
global outlook.
"I think the most important
thing is somebody who really has
a compelling vision for maintain-
ing influence of the school," he
said.
Sutcliffe - who said she wasn't
surprised by Dolan's decision to
step down next year as it's a pret-
ty standard length of time - said
she feels lucky to have worked
with Dolan, who has been an
"inspiring" leader, and that he's
going to be "a hard act to follow."
"But I trust that we're going
to find somebody who's great to
carry us moving forward in this
century," Sutcliffe said. "I feel
really confident that we'll find
someone to carry on his legacy."
Like Dolan, Ashford said
she expects the next dean to be
"globally oriented," in addition
to being "creative and entrepre-

neurial."
While she said she will be sad
to see Dolan go, Ashford said
changing leadership will be a
chance for the school to continue
to work toward its goals.
"Well, you know, leadership
transitions are both a hardship
for a school and an opportunity,"
Ashford said. "While we'll be
sad over losing Dean Dolan, you
know, we need to keep our focus
on how to create and take advan-
tage of it as an opportunity for
us to grow and continue to move
forward."
While Feinberg said there
aren't any "glaring problems" the
new dean will have to deal with,
he said he or she will have to fig-
ure out a strategy of coming into
"a really dynamic organization
that has a lot of moving parts."
The next dean will "have big
shoes to fill," he said.
Previously a professor at the
University of Chicago and Har-
vard Business School, Dolan said
his time at the University has
been "enormously satisfying"
because of the relationships he's
created working with members of
the Business School community
including alumni.
"I just kind of woke up every
day energized by it and it was a
whole new set of challenges for
me that I never had as a profes-
sor," Dolan said. "Just the energy
and kind of personal growth that
you can experience when you're
taking on new things. It was ter-
rific."
Dolan said he'll miss the "fabu-
lous energy of Ann Arbor," as well
as working with students and
alumni.
"It's been great. My wife and
I live in a house that's an eight-
minute walk from school and
down the street from a sorority,
so not too in the middle of soror-
ity-fraternity land, but pretty
close by," Dolan said. "And so the
fabulous energy of being in this
great college town I guess would
be a big thing that I would miss."

for your car
* Free taxi back to campus
* 24r7 drop off/ pick-up
* Family owned
Pe I.t.L( U*0)Tethalidaus
f v;n aforeo Avy Reep ProAutoTeChs.com 734665.9707
U--,


6A - Thursday, April1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

0

FOR SALE
1 BDRM CONDO FOR SALE,-
CLEAN QUIET $65000. 2317 Packard
Rd (734) 930-0200.
PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
! ! 4 BDRM. CONDO ! !
Aug 2010. North campus. Free utils.,
A/C, ldry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV, DSL. $695/person/mo.
Call 313-838-2629.
! AVAILABLE MAY & Fall. Stu-
dios, one and two bedroom apartments
located on U/M Campus. Heat, water,
and prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty,
734-662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.-
com for more info.
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
:$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilitiest
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 wwwicc,coop
! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
1. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!! ROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net

Have you heard the news?
THE COURTYARDS
IS PRE-LEASING FOR FALL
2010!'
*WA IVED APP FEES!
*FREE RENT!
*PAID UTILITIES!
*WA SHER/DR YER IN UNIT!
*$300-700 FREE RENT!
*ON VORTII CAMPUS!
THE
* COURTYARDS"
55 F DEN A PAr T 0 EFi S
1780 Broadway
734.9948007
CENTRAL CAMPUS!!!!!!!!
APTS. AT UNBELIEVEABLE
SAVINGS
Discounted rates plus lots of extras
for free.
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!MAY STUDIO and I bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
"AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus. Heat, water, park-
ing mel, fully furnished, perfect sum-
mer locations! Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100.
*****AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E.
Liberty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5
mm walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
**2-BEDROOMS** TWO Central
Campus locations on S. Forest, Free
WiFi, new kitchens and baths, heat, wa-
ter, furnishings, and parking ml. Var-
sity Management (734) 668-1100.
**3-BEDROOM** ACROSS St. from
CCRB, close to Arboretum, great bal-
cony, large living room, heat, water,
furnishings, parking mcl. Varsity Man-
agement (734) 668-1100.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768

*24oroHalth CMMubi~
The Choice isYours!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ 1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Townhome
+ WInenReady
+ AATA Bus Liner
+ 24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible Lease Terms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
I Pool & Sauna l
+ Pets Welcome
+ Continental Breakfast every Wed.
+ Concierge Resident Service
+ Business Centerw
+ Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
+ Roommate Leases Available
+ Hsspitality Apartment
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardensg
Industrial Stadium Dr.o
a77734-663-7633
ti - *Amenities Vary by Property
www.Wood buryGardens.com
**4-BEDROOMS** BEAUTIFUL
Burns Park mansion - converted into
enormous apartments with room for 5
or '6! Heat, water, furnishings, and
parking incl. Dishwashers, on-site laun-
dry, screened porch and a large yard!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL:
514 Lawrence- 6 bdnn house. Price
just reduced. $2,695. 2 bath, free high
speed internet, easy access to central
schools. DW nd laundry.arking
aviabe .al ampusMgt.73 -663
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
Apartments Available!

8UN HOAN
HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
Ann Arbor- (888) 883-7083 " www.sciofarms.com
Ypsilanti." (888) 310-6850." www.4lakeview.com

Los Angeles Times Daily C
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce
ACROSS 83 Scorch slightly 31 Collec
1 Start othrill- 84Farmyard female 33 Bygo
seeker's mantra 65 More of the anesl
8 More of the mantra 34 Roma
mantra 66 More ofnthe of the
15 Conductor's mantra 36 Mass
nickname 67 More of the perha
16 European car mantra 37 Erath
company with a 1957
prancing horse DOWN 38 More
logo 1 More ofthe mantr
17 Government mantra 39 Likes
heave-hos 2 Blamed clothe
18 "Million Dollar 3 "Whatever you
BabOscar say,honey' ANSW
winner 4 Bnne: Pref.
19 Shoppe sign 5 Mountain West A M A
adjective Conference O L
20 Set one's sights athlete o L
nn, wih "at" 68Decknaut H
22 Big ape . 7 Marnuoptimintic H A 
23 Artry: Abbr. 8 Decadent ADH
24 Poet whowon 9 Unlikelyclass
the 1823 Nnhel presidenta R A F
Prize for 10 Mine find E C O
Literature 11 Hike A M O
25 Juan's uncle 12 "Raging Bull" M E T
268Piles bonerp
29 Reuben bread 13 Shiraz resident P
30 Giant 14 More ofnthe A B A
32 Percentageon a mantra V E R
banksign 21 Might O T T
34 2007-'08 NBA 27 Kitchen spray N E S
Rookie of the 28 Hoards
Year Kevin 30 Root vegetables xwordedi
35 Trig, e.g. 1 2 a a a 5 r
37 Leteraopening
38 Sounds of 15
hesitation
41 Demure 17
42 Rotate, as a 9an
camera
43 Casual "I'll pass" 23 24
46 Fner exerctse
surface 26 27 2 29
47 "For a jolly..."
48 "Star Wars" saga 32 a
nickname
49 Corrida shout as s
50 At the ready 3 0 4
52 Tablet altemrative aa as ai
54 Dungeons& an a
Dragons
creatures n s1
55 Farmyard female
57 Kept a4 an F
58 Bandleader
Fannte 56 59
59 Step 6
61 _ Mason: asset s an
management an an
giant
62 Nabokov's title fl A"Bisvert
proessor (c)210 Tribune Media services, Inc.

rossword Puzzle
e NicholsLewis
Gion agcy.? 40 Commence
ne 43 _ riche
thetic 44 Fast, to a 15-
an goddess Across
F hunt 45 Moreoflthe
reaction, mantra
aps 51 Tda of "Ghost
hat began in Town"
53 Actress Hayek
of the 56 Left
ra 59Sound of
some drying disapproval
es 60 German article
ER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
T B- DiSC O
A E C H O A P. O U D
L T H I N F IL U T E
L T H Y S E L F L E S
E R E D E I S M
S I S S Y D E P U T E
T D E E M S A SH A
B A W L O U T I R R
C O S P A N B C U P
E O R S T A H L
O S E S B E A T I T
T O W A W A Y Z O N E
G E A L I T E L B A
E R L A K E R E E K
T S E N!I D S T D S
itor@aol.com 03/31/10
8 9 1 4 11 12 13 14
1s
30 31
34
37
42 43 44 45
**49
re 48
80 8
04/01/10

www.atonbrook.com, 734-665-56201
**BUSINESS & LAW SCHOOL**
Huge 2-bdrms one block south, cov-
ered parking, new kitchens and baths,
heat, water, furnishings, and parking
incl. Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Pritne Location, Entity fits 4.
$1599/tue. 734-665-8825.
*FALL2010*HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by April
15th. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
315' EAST LIBERTY Apartments and
lofts. Completely remodeled. Great lo-
cation. Day phone: 734-662-7888,
Evening Phone (after 5:30): 734-995-
2433.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
PRESENTS THE
On line Clasef fled
Rental Mapf
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

Univ-rsity
Think outside the Box (dorms)
Think U. Towers
Affordable Apartments
Hurry in for Best Selection
Right now we have a few apartments
atVery Special Low Rates
*call for more details
Visit us at
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home away from home
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
6 Bed 2 Bath at State and Hoover avail
Sept 1, 2010. $3750 + elec, parking,
free heat, coin laundry 734-668-6686
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
Hurry infor BestSelection
Right now we have a few apartments at
Very Special Low Rates
Visit us at universityowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home swayfrom home
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, Ml 48160
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hil-St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrn. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bdrmn house, will
have newly refinishedbhardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdnn house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100rsteps from
the stadium. Real ow or fr Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms apts. Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.jnsprop.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.anarorapartnents.net
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postreatyproperties.com
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1028 Fuller - Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.

Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
heat, water and parking included. Call
Campus Mgtl@ 734-663-4101.
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FALL 2010 ! 1 bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
FALL 2010 7 Bedroom 3 bath house.
Free parking. $3200 per month. 1207
Prospect. Call Brian 734-260-6836.
*Broadview Apartments
*Spacious t bedro apartments
* Spacious 2 bedrooms with-master bath
*Shuttleanda sanmopas
" Lae private alconies
with woodedlviews
'Pets welcome
hyoIdels Open Daily
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly.
WefM Diseunst
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdn. aps (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815 SouthStateManagers@rnichedu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrr. aps.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
HOUSE FOR FALL small company
offers 7 bedroom at Suh U. and
Washetenaw $4000 and 6 bedroom at
11t5 SouthtForest $2700. Eight mont
leases possible. 734-260-4003.
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
LIVE ON A LAKE. Recently reno-
vated furnished 2 bedroom 2 bath
home. Available for Fall. 20 minutes to
campus. $995/month plus utilities. Call
313-363-9484.
MAY TO MAY Leases
3 Bedrooms "Park Plaza"
1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates
734-761-8000
primeshecom
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic campus, Law &
Business schools. Groups or individual.
SINGLE RM LEASES. $580/bdrm &
up. SIX-BD RM UNITS $3,480.00 and
up 734-418-2050
www.828greeneapts.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun naon4pr.734-741-9300.
www. nnarborapartmeas.n e
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com

WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Rybas Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
crmpus location! Students apply
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
GROUNDS MAINTENANCE
STAFF working on course at Stone
Bridge Golf Club call 734-429-8383.
HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for healthy women
between the ages of 21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 for their involvement
in our program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.
IMMEDIATE POSITIONS FOR
full-time drivers. Dedicted routes/home
daily. Full Benefits including 401K,
medical, dental & vision. Cdl class A
required. 2 years experience good mvr
call 419-305-4643
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
PRO SHOP STAFF cart attendants
contact Stone Bridge Golf Club at 734-
429-8383.
SERVERS BAR/GRILL BEER cart
banquets at Stone Bridge Golf Club
call 734-429-8383 for more info.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
TEMPORARY HELP NEEDED for
student moving & storage company
now through end.of finals week.
Contact Jeremy at
jeremy@studentstoragesolutions.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeonafiserv.net

0

OCCASIONAL BABYSITTER
NEEDED in Commerce Township (30
min from Ann Arbor) for 3 kids (4, 1
and infant) of U-M staff Nonsmoker.
Owns Cansportatin required. Cantaee
Please Catherine at cbsumn@umich.edu.

6
0

SUBLETS
(AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus and Downtown.
Heat, water, parking incl., fully fur-
nished, perfect summer sublease! Var-
sity Management (734) 668-1100.
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

a

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, Aprill1, 2010 - 7A

Pope says sex scandal is a test
Bishops across
Europe call for
reform measures

To compensate
for budget cuts,
UMMA may cut
some programs

amidst controversy
VATICAN CITY (AP) - Pope
Benedict XVI sees the priestly
sex scandal as a "test for him and
the church," his spokesman said
Wednesday, as bishops around
Europe used Holy Week's solemn
call for penitence to announce new
pledges of transparency in dealing
with the abuse of children.
Swiss bishops urged victims
to consider filing criminal com-
plaints. German bishops opened a
hot line for victims. Danish bishops
launched an inquiry into decades-
old claims. And Austria's senior
cleric, Cardinal Christophe Schoen-
born, admitted church guilt as he
presided over a service for victims
billed as a sign of repentance.
"Thank you for breaking your
silence," Schoenborn told the vic-
tims. "A lot has been broken open.
There is less looking away. But
there is still a lot to do."
A week after Pope Benedict XVI
excoriated Irish bishops for gross
errors of judgment in handling
cases of priests who rape children,
European bishops one after anoth-
er admitted to mistakes, reached
out to victims and promised to act
when they learn about abuse.
Their mea culpas and pledges to
be more open and cooperative with
police echoed American bishops'
initial responses when the U.S.
priest-abuse scandal emerged in
2002. They come amid mounting
public outrage over a new wave of
abuse claims across Europe and
what victims say has been a pat-
tern of cover-up by bishops and the
Vatican itself.
And they were all announced
duringthe most solemnweek ofthe
church's liturgical calendar. As the
Swiss bishops noted Wednesday,

Pope Benedict XVI acknowledges the crowd yesterday during his weekly general audience, in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican.
The Pope has called the recent sex scandal a "test for him and the church," while some bishops have urged reform.

Holy Week is a period of penance,
when the faithful are supposed to
admit their guilt, examine wrong-
doing, find ways to improve and
ask God and people for forgiveness.
Benedicthimselfwas experienc-
ing a Holy Week of "humility and
penitence," Vatican spokesman the
Rev. Federico Lombardi told The
Associated Press.
Asked how Benedict was
responding to the scandal swirl-
ing around the Vatican, Lombardi
replied: "The pope is a person of
faith. He sees this as a test for him
and the church."
Lombardi stressed, though, that
the 82-year-old pontiff was holding
up fine physically during the gruel-
ingHoly Week schedule.
Benedict is to celebrate an eve-
ning Holy Thursday service in
which he will wash the feet of 12
priests in a symbol of humility.
The service commemorates Jesus'
washing the feet of his 12 apostles
before the Last Supper.

After presiding over the Good
Friday Way of the Cross com-
memoration at Rome's torch-lit
Coliseum, Benedict will celebrate a
late-night Easter Vigil on Saturday
and then Easter on Sunday, when
the faithful commemorate Jesus'
resurrection - a time of rebirth
and renewal.
On Wednesday, the church
offered its highest-level official
response yet to one of the most
explosive recent stories regarding
sex abuse, on the church's decision
in the 1990s not to defrock a Wis-
consin priest accused of molesting
deaf boys.
Cardinal William Levada, pre-
fect of the Congregation for the
Doctrine of the Faith, said in an
article posted on the Vatican's Web
site that a lengthy trial for the Rev.
Lawrence Murphy would have
been "useless" because the priest
was dying by the time his diocese
initiated a canonical trial.
Levada was critical of The New

York Times, which first published
details of the decision last week.
He said the paper wrongly used the
case to find find fault in Benedict's
handling of abuse cases. A Times
spokeswoman defended the arti-
cles and said no one has cast doubt
on the reported facts.
While clerical abuse has for
years roiled the church in the U.S.
and Ireland, mainland Europe
woke up to the issue in its back-
yard earlier this year with the first
wave of reports from Benedict's
native Germany thatbboys hadbeen
abused at a church-run school.
Since then, hundreds of people
have come forward with claims of
abuse - most dating back decades
- in Austria, Switzerland, the
Netherlands and elsewhere.
Swiss bishops were taking
Holy Week's intentions to heart
in admitting Wednesday they had
underestimated the problem. They
are now telling victims to consider
filing criminal complaints.

From Page 1A
place for the arts, which is what
this building was built for," Huss
said.
Huss said the museum has
surpassed its attendance goals,
as they have already had more
than 250,000 visitors.
Ruth Slavin, interim co-direc-
tor and education director at
UMMA, said the first year has
been "fantastic" due to the scope
of the programs the museum
has offered to both the public
and students. Over this year,
the museum has hosted classes,
exhibitions, film programs and
many concerts, Slavin said.
But Slavin said the success
of the museum would not have
been possible without the initial
enthusiasm of the students at the
student opening.
"I think that success really
started at the very beginning,"
Slavin said.
Mary DeYoe, education pro-
gram coordinator at UMMA,
said the museum's one year cel-
ebration entitled "1 year, Many
Voices," will reflect the influ-
ence students have had on the
museum.
In preparation for the event,
students were asked to "respond
creatively" to an art piece from
the museum, DeYoe said. The
winning contributor's work will
be displayed along with student
performances, and films made by
students.
"We felt like it got students
engaged with the works of art,"
DeYoe said.
Bob Bohlen, chair of UMMA's
National Advisory Board, said
the museum has also been
helped by the support of donors.
Bohlen was also chair of' the
museum's capital campaign - a
five-year effort to finance the
expansion and reopening of the
museum - that raised almost
$100 million.
Bohlen said he and his wife
- who have an African art gal-

lery in the museum named after
them - donated to the museum
to aid the educational experience
it gives to students.
"I donated because I thought
that was a great way to have stu-
dents on the campus experience
and get them into a museum,"
Bohlen said.
But Bohlen said future dona-
tions may be hard to come by
if the economy continues to
decline.
"In this economic climate in
Michigan, donations are going to
be harder to get," he said.
Stephanie Rieke Miller, exter-
nal relations manager and senior
writer for UMMA, wrote in an
e-mail interview that despite
Michigan's economy, they are
hopeful. that the donations will
continue.
"We anticipate that our cur-
rent donors and new prospects
will be engaged by the new
UMMA and support our ongo-
ing and future program needs,"
Miller wrote.
Private support will become
increasingly important for the
museum, with the expected bud-
get shortfall Miller said.
Huss said that though some
of the budget cuts are due to
the economy, much of the bud-
get decline is due the "unusual"
first year they have had, with
the launch of many new pro-
grams and costs of new exhibi-
tions.
To offset the financial impacts,
Huss said the museum will not
be filling any open or vacant jobs
and will also be reducing the
number of programs provided.
The reduction is also an effort to
make sure all the programs are
"high quality," Huss said.
Despite future budgetary con-
straints, Slavin said the museum
has adapted well to the economic
conditions.
"Budgets are tight everywhere
on campus and we have done
amazing things with very little
money," Slavin said.

Bush wiretapping program takes
a hit in recent California ruling

Federal judge rules
that wire taps of,
Islamic charity, U.S.
lawyer were illegal
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - In a
repudiation of the Bush admin-
istration's now-defunct terrorist
' surveillance effort, a federal judge
ruled Wednesday that govern-
ment investigators illegally wire-
tapped the phone conversations of
an Islamic charity and two Amer-
ican lawyers without a search
warrant.
U.S. District Court Judge
Vaughn Walker said the plain-
tiffs provided enough evidence
to show "they were subjected to
warrantless electronic surveil-
lance" by the National Security
Agency.
The judge's 45-page ruling
focused narrowly on the case
involving the Al-Haramain Islam-
ic Foundation, touching vaguely
on the larger question of the pro-
gram's legality.
0 Nonetheless, Al-Haramain
lawyer Jon Eisenberg said the rul-
ing had larger implications.
"By virtue of finding what the
Bush administration did to our
clients was illegal, he found that
the Terrorist Surveillance Pro-
gram was unlawful," Eisenberg
said.
President Bush authorized the
surveillance program shortly
after 9/11, allowing NSA officiald

to bypass the courts and inter-
cept electronic communications
believed connected to al-Qaida.
Generally, government inves-
tigators are required to obtain
search warrants signed by judges
to eavesdrop on domestic phone
calls, e-mail traffic and other
electronic communications.
At issue Wednesday was a 2006
lawsuit filed by the Ashland, Ore.,
branch of the Saudi-based foun-
dation and two American lawyers
Wendell Belew and Asim Ghafoor.
Belew and Ghafoor claimed
their 2004 phone conversations
with foundation official Soliman
al-Buthi were wiretapped with-
out warrants soon after the Trea-
sury Department had declared
the Oregon branch a supporter of
terrorism. They argued that wire-
taps installed without a judge's
authorization are illegal.
It was the last active case pend-
ing before a trial judge challeng-
ing the wiretapping program that
ended in 2007.
"The ruling ends the case, but
without the fireworks everyone
expected," George Washington
University law professor Orin
Kerr said. "It ended with a whim-
per."
The plaintiffs were seeking $1
million each, plus attorney fees
in the case. Walker ordered more
legal arguments before deciding
on possible damages.
The ruling came after U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder said
the lawsuit threatened to expose
ongoing intelligence work and

must be thrown out.
In making the argument, the
Obama administration agreed
with the Bush administration's
position on the case but insisted
it came to the decision differently.
Holder's effort to stop the law-
suit marked the first time the
administration has tried to invoke
the state secrets privilege. Under
the strategy, the government can
have a lawsuit dismissed if hear-
ing the case would jeopardize
national security.
Holder said Judge Walker had
been given a classified description
of why the case must be dismissed
so the court could "conduct its
own independent assessment of
our claim."
That was a departure from
the Bush administration, which
resisted providing specifics to
judges handling such cases about
what the national security con-
cerns were.
Holder previously said the
administration would respect the
outcome of Walker's review.
Eisenberg called on the Obama
administration to accept Wednes-
day's ruling and forgo any appeals.
"We are reviewing it," Depart-
ment of Justice spokeswoman
Tracy Schmaler said.
In June, Judge Walker tossed
out more than three dozen law-
suits against the nation's tele-
communications companies for
allegedly taking part in the pro-
gram.
Congress in 2008 agreed
on new surveillance rules that

included protection from legal
liability for telecommunications
companies that allegedly helped
the U.S. spy on Americans with-
out warrants.
Walker previously upheld the
constitutionality of the new sur-
veillance rules. His ruling is being
appealed.
Anthony Coppolino, the U.S.
Department of Justice lawyer
who has been in charge of the
Islamic Foundation case under
both administrations, has never
addressed the legality of the wire-
tap program.
Coppolino has always argued
the case should be tossed out in
the name of national security
and said the government risked
exposing ongoing intelligence
work if the lawsuit were allowed
to proceed.
The government argued that its
"state secret privilege" trumped
the Foreign Intelligence Surveil-
lance Act, known as FISA, which
requires investigators to seek
wiretap approval from a special
court that convenes behind closed
doors.
Coppolino refused to even
discuss whether such a secret
warrant existed, arguing that to
confirm or deny would threaten
national security.
On Wednesday, the judge said
the government was wrong and
ruled that it should be assumed
investigators lacked a warrant.
"FISA takes precedence over
the state secrets privilege in this
case," Walker wrote.


SAPAC
From Page 1A
video created by SAPAC called "A
Common Voice," which told sto-
ries of survivors of sexual assaults
and proposed various tools to help
avoid situations and environments
conducive to such crimes.
University Vice President for
Student Affairs Royster Harper
opened the event by discussing the
importance of bringing awareness
to the issue of sexual assault.
"Breaking the silence around
sexual violence is a critical strat-
egy and prevention," Harper said.
"Part of our gathering today is one
more way in which we can end or
continue to break the silence. Our
ability to create a safe community,
to hold perpetrators responsible
for his or her crime, requires that
we shift our conversations from
how he or she let that happen, to
how we, as a community, let that
happen."
Harper also highlighted the
importance of SAPAC's role on
campus as an organization that
promotes acommunitythatdoesn't
allow sexualviolence.
"(SAPAC has) worked hard to
create programs and services, to

implement institutional policies,
and to create legislative initiatives
that truly can make a difference."
Moreno lauded SAPAC's con-
tinuous efforts to help reach out to
those victims of sexual assault -
currently the most underreported
crime in the country.
"It is one of the premiere pro-
grams, which is why the attorney
general asked that I visit this cam-
pus in recognition ofthe great work
that is being done here," Moreno
'said. "It is a comprehensive pro-
gram, it has early intervention, it
brings together not only SAPAC
but also folks who deal with health
and housing issues."
Magee added that efforts are
being made by the Department
of Public= Safety to enable the col-
lection of data on sexual assault
crimes for analysis while main-
taining the anonymity of sexual
assault victims.
"We work collaboratively with
SAPAC and other entities on cam-
pus to develop an anonymous
report form," Magee said. "A lot of
input went into creating that form
where we can capture the spirit of
reporting statistical data and be
able to talk frankly about sexual
assaults and statistics that sur-
round sexual assault."

I

H&R BLOCK

Today's Career Tip:
Your online presence should give visitors
a real sense of who you are.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN



0l

8A - Thursday, April1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

WNIT RUN ENDS IN SEMIS
After historic WNIT Youth was a problem,
wins, Blue falls short but it's also the answer

Despite demolishing
other WNIT teams,
'M' fails to stop
dynamic 'Cane duo
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Junior guard Veronica Hicks
left the _
press con- MIAMI 76
ference MICHIGAN 59
in tears
after last night's 76-59 Women's
National Invitational Tournament
Final Four loss to Miami.
Hicks' face was telling of the
disappointing finish after Michi-
gan dominated its first four oppo-
nents of the tournament, winning
by an average of 24 points per
game.
"We had so much confidence
that we could finish out in this
tournament and I think that that's
something that speaks about this
team," Hicks said. "We are a spe-
cial team. We don't care what any-
body else says about how we're
going to finish.
"We decide how we're going
to finish and that's what we came
into this season with and that's
what propelled us to the height
that we got to."
Two Miami players, sopho-
mores Shenise Johnson and
Riquna Williams scored 43 of the
Hurricanes' points, playing espe-
cially well off of each other in the
second half.
When the two combined for
three 3-pointers in two minutes
to add to the team's 9-3 run, they
sealed the victory.

"Boom, boom, boom. That was
just the game," Borseth said. "That
took the wind right out of our sails
but I thought our kids played hard
and I was very proud of them."
Michigan jumped out to a quick
13-3 lead three minutes in and
held it for most of the first half
thanks largely to the momentum
freshman guard Dayeesha Hollins
brought to the court.
She scored eight points and hit
a layup with her back to the basket
before going to the bench with two
fouls seven minutes into the half.
Michigan was able to hold onto the
lead though, shooting 45 percent
for the half. But with five minutes
left Miami took the lead for the
first time and went into halftime
up 37-33.
The Wolverines - typically a
second-half team - never regained
the momentum. They were out-
played and outshot 45 percent to
40 percent.
Senior Krista Phillips - who led
the team with 17 points against
Northwestern last week - fouled
out with nearly four minutes
remaining in last night's game.
Phillips picked up her third and
fourth fouls within the first two
minutes of the second half and
didn't see the court again until
seven minutes remained on the
clock.
She led the team with seven
rebounds in the first half and was
a huge presence in the paint both
defensively and offensively.
"I didn't think we had a chance
unless we did that," Miami coach
Katie Meier said. "That was defi-
nitely part of the game plan. You
saw us using her off of ball screens
as much as possible, trying to get
her away from the basket, trying

to get her some fouls. It was defi-
nitely something we planned on
doing, compliments to her."
Sophomore forward Carmen
Reynolds, Michigan's best sharp-
shooter and usually a top scorer,
improved from 0-for-2 and two
points in the first to 2-for-6 from
downtown to score eight points in
the second, but it wasn't enough.
Though Michigan shot nearly
40 percent in the second half,
Williams's and Johnson's back-
to-back-to-back 3-pointers with
seven minutes left in the game
solidified a sinking feeling in
Crisler Arena: that Michigan's
offense wasn't going to get out of
its 13-point deficit.
"Their whole style of play is just
push the ball, push the ball," Hicks
said. "When you are just throwing
up three's and they're going in it's
pretty hard to stop that.
Borseth's winningest season
with the Wolverines and the pro-
gram's furthest run in a national
tournament ended last night, but
not without a fight.
And Michigan came one step
closer to being a national competi-
tor.
"I think our program's going in
the right direction," Borseth said.
"We feel good about our kids. A
year like this hopefully makes
some people stand up and take a
look at our program and say, hey
you know what they're for real. We
want them to look at us and think
we're a viable option to come here,
to be a competitor on the national
level.
"We are a national university
obviously and we should be able
to compete on that so years like
this I think we can use to build
that."

For many, the Women's
National Invitation Tourna-
ment is little more than a
consolation
prize. ALEX
But HERMANN
throughout its
unlikely post- On Women's
season run, Basketball
the Michigan women's basketball
team played like it was so much
more than that.
And during that run, the
Wolverines showed me so much
about themselves.
Through the first four games
of the Wolverines' postseason,
they demonstrated the ability to
play with teams outside the Big
Ten. They flexed their muscle,
beating teams to the tune of 24
points per game on average.
By making it to the WNIT
Final Four in such fashion,
Michigan even showed that it
belonged - maybe even inthe
field of 64. And for a program
with six freshmen that was
picked to finish last in the Big
Ten and is arguably the worst
program historically at the uni-
versity, what more could you
really ask for?
But in Wednesday's 76-59 loss
to Miami, the Wolverines showed
- lastly and, maybe, most impor-
tantly - that youth is a problem.
The result of this youth pres-
ently and its implications for the
future are obvious converses of
each other.
But based on what happened
Wednesday, youth is obviously
what did the team in.
Nobody would say it after the
game, but as Michigan's lead
began to deteriorate after the
Wolverines jumped out to a quick
double-digit lead, the team's
confidence slowly began to erode
with it.
The Hurricanes were the
first team to match Michigan
punch for punch this postseason.
Miami matched the Wolverines'
intensity, even surpassing it, put-
ting Michigan back on its heels.
And by the time the Wolverines
snapped back into the moment,
Miami's lead was too large to
overcome.
Don't get me wrong, the Hurri-
canes played a great game. Well,
two Hurricanes played great
games.
When Miami's sophomore
guard Riquna Williams had
four three-point plays on four
straight possessions, including
three triples, you could tell she

0

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Junior Veronica Hicks gets her shot blocked in Michigan's loss to Miami last night.
Hicks was one of the team's leading contributors this season.

was alre
ing theg
V1
go
Th(
ve
finished
cohort,
had 33 p
terfinal
dence -
rebound
And a
maine C
short, b
team.

ady on her way to hav- And a veteran squad doesn't
game of her life - she lose to a team like that, at home,
in arguably the biggest game of
their lives.
This isn't a veteran team -
Vhere's the that's the bad.
But where's the good in all
)d in all this? this?
That this isn't a veteran team.
at this isn't a And that's the perplexing and
dumbfounding result of having a
teran team. team with six freshmen.
They'll all be back. Each of
them was a part of the Wolver-
ines' second-winningest team in
1 with 26 points. Her program history.
Shenise Johnson - who Four starters will return next
oints in the WNIT quar- year, with the most significant
matchup against Provi- loss being 6-foot-6 center Krista
- added 17 points and nine Phillips.
Is of her own. And to Michigan, for right now
naybe I'm selling Char- and for the future, its unlikely
lark's double-double WNIT was more than just a con-
ut that was a two-man solation. It was more like a pro-
gram builder.

A

Don't underestimate
Michigan softball

At UDM Law you learn and experience the law. Our curriculum requires:
rigorous writing requirements, innovative law firm courses focusing
on theory and practice, externships that teach the law as you gain
valuable work experience, and global law courses that expose you to
international legal systems. All of these requirements give our grads
the UDM advantage-being practice-ready upon graduation.

Just a couple weeks ago, I con-
sidered No. 20 Illinois the class
of Big Ten
softball this L
season. I pre-
dicted that PASCH
they would On Softboll
surpass
expectations
and finish the regular season
with the best record in the con-
ference.
And for good reason.
At the time, the Fighting Illini
were opening up Big Ten play with
a 23-3 record. Their two starting
pitchers rivaled the dominance
of Michigan's own starters. And
sophomore hurler MonicaPerry is
returning from a 2009 campaign
in which she set the program's sin-
gle-season strikeout record (yes, as
a freshman).
Their lineup, from top to bot-
tom, is downright scary.
It leads off with a .411 hitter,
who's then followed by a .419
hitter. By the time the middle of
the order bats in the first inning,
there's roughly an 80 percent
chance there's already a runner
on base, begging to be knocked
home.
And who better to bring them
home than Illinois's clean-up hit-
ter Meredith Hackett, who's hit-
ting a Big Ten second-best average
at.427 and is fourth-best in RBI
with 28?
On paper, the team is nearly

flawless. Even more so than No. 2 including last season's Women's
Michigan (1-0 Big Ten, 24-5 over- College World Series.
all). Illinois's two premier pitchers
And last weekend, Illinois are both underclassmen - a fresh-
came to Ann Arbor to play what I man and a sophomore.
thought would beone of the more And you could see it when you
competitive series of the season for read the body language of the play-
the Wolverines. ers on the field.
But it didn't turn out that way. You could see it when Michigan
Not even close. senior Nikki Nemitz jumped early
The Wolverines manhandled on a fourth-inning-pitch and land-
the FightingIllini in a 7-1 blowout ed it foul on the roof of the Indoor
victory. And I was forced to re- Track and Field Building a good
100 feet beyond the left field fence.
As the home crowd gasped in dis-
I w as forced to belief, Nemitz stepped back into
the box with an ear-to-ear grin on
reevaluate my her face, eager to straighten out
the next pitch.
initial thoughts. The Illinois hurler was still
baby-stepping back to the mound,
seemingly confused as to how any-
one could hit a softball that far.
evaluate my initial thoughts. But this group of Wolverine
How is it that Michigan was softball players has witnessed
able to dismantle every aspect of plenty of that. This group has seen
Illinois's game? more and done more than any
How did they send Perry pack- other team in the Big Ten. There
ing after just two innings of work? are no freshmen starters on this
And how did junior pitcher Jordan team..
Taylor allow just five hits in a com- As we approach the beginning
plete game effort to limit one of the of April, the softball squad enters
best lineups in the country? the mostimportant two-month
Upon reflection, the answer is stretch of play leading up to the
really quite simple. WCWS.
Michigan is far and away a more And once again Michigan's
battle-tested and experienced experience should propel them to
team. They've played together best Illinois and the rest of the Big
for longer than Illinois has. And Ten by the time the postseason
they've faced tougher competition, rolls around.

6
a
0


The Michigan Daily C michigandailycom IThursday, April 1, 2010
I

weekend
essentials
Apr.1 to Apr. 4

CONCERT
Local band The
Macpodz will hit the
Blind Pig this Saturday
in honor of the 39th
Annual Ann Arbor Hash
Bash. If The Macpodz's
trippy funk doesn't put
you in the mood, it's all
good -the group will
be accompanied by a
gaggle of equally home-
grown artists including
Abigail Stauffer and
Laith al-Saadi. Tickets
$10 in advance, $15
day of. Doors 8 p.m.
ON DISPLAY
After decades of secre-
cy, the Ghost Army, a
special unit of the Army
during WWII, will final-
ly be demystified by an
exhibit at the Hatcher
Graduate Library. The
group saw action in
June 1944 in Nor-
mandy, where itrwas
deployed with unusual
weapons (a sound
machine and inflatable
tanks) and completed
its mission without fir-
ing a shot. Open during
library hours. Free.

'Trafford Tanvi' takes a girl's everyday struggles
and delivers a knockout experience
By David Riva // Daily Arts Writer

t's an ordinary Tuesday night in the
Walgreen Drama, Center. There's a
squeaking sound from vocal exer-
cises, pounding on the ground from a
dance practice and some shouting from an
impassioned soliloquy.
But in the Arthur Miller Theatre, where
rehearsals for "Trafford Tanzi" are taking
place, the thud of body slams and the resul-
tant grunts and howls overpower the other
noises of the building.
"What was that, the giant swan on
crack?" exclaims Malcolm Tulip, director
of "Tanzi" and professor in the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance, as he jokes about
the ungraceful movements of one of his
actors.
The cast of this unconventional and
adventurous wrestling musical is warm-
ing up for the battle that's about to ensue
between its fiery protagonist and the rest of
the characters. As Tanzi laces up her knee-
high leather boots, she prepares to confront
her family and friends and take a stand
against their constant oppression.
A Stoy of Social Struggle
"Trafford Tanzi" is the story of a girl
growing up in 1950s England who strug-
gles mightily with the relationships in her
life. She has been a forgettable disappoint-
ment to those around her - Tanzi's mother
always wanted a boy, and her father can't
even remember the color of her eyes. As a
result, those around her serve as obstacles
that shape her miserable existence.
In reaction to this unfair treatment,
Tanzi literally and metaphorically begins
to wrestle with her school counselor, best
friend, husband, mother and father, all
while a referee tries to keep a fair fight.
The man in stripes is played by Music,
Theatre & Dance senior Torrey Wigfield,
who acts as a mediator in each of the 10
matches, interjecting snarky comments
while preventingthe competitors from kill-

ing each other.
"The lead character kind of (grows) up
in this unjust world, and we can see her
kind of being violated and ramshackled and
thrown about the ring a bit, (which) really
lends itself to her growing up in an unjust
environment," he said.
During these scuffles, Tanzi finds a bet-
ter sense of herself and eventually pursues
a career as a professional wrestler. Com-
pounding her existing obstacles, Tanzi
faces a strict social construct that says
women should never leave the kitchen, let
alone take part in an ultra-masculine sport.
In this sense, feminist commentary is prev-
alent throughout the work, but the message
of achieving a goal against all odds is appli-
cable regardless of gender.
Story and social struggles aside, how did
this crazy concept come about?
"There was a theater company - well, it
still exists - in Liverpool, England, called
the Everyman Theatre, and in the late '70s,
they were closed down for refurbishment,"
Tulip explained. "And they had to find
plays that they could do in other venues and
at the same time they were also looking to
do plays that had a more prominent role for
women."
The need for filling a non-traditional
space and the desire for less male-dominat-
ed material led British playwright Claire
Luckham to craft the script for "Trafford
Tanzi" in 1980. It made its debut and con-
tinued for some time in bars in Liverpool
before migrating to London.
One of the most remarkable parts regard-
ing the conception of "Tanzi" is the audi-
ence's placement on all sides of a genuine
wrestling ring. Constructing the ring from
scratch out of a canvas mat and stretchy
ropes gave it an authentic look without
having to break the bank on an expensive
object for temporary use.
A theater-in-the-round style of seating is
employed with the ring at the center. This
decision to break the fourth wall allows

for a blurring of the line between onstage,
action and the seated audience.
The position of the stage in the middle of
the room provides an interesting challenge
for the actors.
"You can never stay facing one side,"
said Music, Theatre & Dance junior and
understudy Charlotte Raines. "You have to
always be moving around."
The constant motion of actors and bal-
anced arrangement of seating allows for
a completely immersive experience for
onlookers.
For Tulip, attendees who are more
directly involved with the play provide a
rare opportunity for audience participation
as part of the show.
"We want people yelling and shouting,"
he said. "This is a play that people don't
have to sit and be quiet (for)."
Tulip thinks one of his hardest jobs is
going to be "to give people permission to
yell." He welcomes the "irreverent and
casual atmosphere" of wrestling as a con-
tributing force to the performance's overall
mood.
And with Wigfield's eloquently described
"drop kicks, head mares, arm locks, nose
drops, flying from off the top rope (and)
pinfalls" as the centerpiece of the evening,
some cheers and jeers shouldn't be too dif-
ficult to provoke.
Body-Slamming Stereotypes
Learning complex and physically
demanding wrestling moves was not some-
thing that happened overnight.
Rackham student Charles Fairbanks,
who spent last summer in Mexico as a lucha
libre, taught the entire cast the fundamen-
tals of professional wrestling starting the
second week of January.
Fairbanks gained experience under the
guise of "El Gato Tuerto" and filmed his
matches by attaching a camera to his mask.
"It was because of my experience in

these (more theatrical) wrestling arenas
that director Malcolm Tulip asked me to be
the coach," he explained.
Instead of apprehension and uncertain-
ty, the actors pursued the endeavor with
positive enthusiasm.
"We all just dove head first, went for
it, and I can now put on my resume that I
know professional wrestling," Raines said.
There's an inherent risk in the pursuit,
however, which inevitably led to some
minor injuries. Tulip said that staying
healthy was a priority throughout the rig-
orous training period.
Regardless, both director and actors
alike see the benefit of an alternative form
of performance aside from the normal song,
dance and dialogue.
For Tanzi, played by Music, Theatre &
Dance junior Arielle Goldman, the wres-
tling serves a dual purpose. On one hand,
"a lot of the moves are there just to be big
and (to contribute to) the performance,"
she said.
On the other hand, they also "help to
express how she sees the world."
In her acting classes, Goldman has
worked on realizing her character's "inter-
nal monologue" using actions instead of'
words.
A specific example of channeling emo-
tion through an act of physical expression
comes near the beginning, when Tanzi's
friend Platinum Sue (Erin Cousins, Music,'
Theatre & Dance junior) pretends tobe her
friend only to tease and provoke her.
"I think her first instinct is that she
feels like crying," Goldman said. "But she
doesn't let herself, so her next instinct is
to grab Sue's doll and slam iteon the ground
and break its limbs apart."
This rejection of things that are tradi-
tionally deemed "girly" is evident through-
out the comedy. Tanzi's tomboy personality
is one that Goldman says she can relate to,
even if only briefly.
See TANZI; Page 4B

FILM
Chances are you
missed "The Hurt
Locker" during its
initial theatrical
run. But you'll have
another opportunity to
watch the 2010 win-
ner for Best Picture
and Best Director
(Kathryn Bigelow)
at the State Theater.
Experience the film's
hair-raising thrills and
suspense as meant
to be - on a 30-foot
screen, surrounded
by people gripping
their armrests with
tension. Go to www.
michtheater.org/state
for prices and times.

:

AT UMMA
The Art, Anti-Art,
Non-Art exhibit, in
conjunction with
UMMA, will present
"Saying Yes to Say No:
Art and Culture in Six-
ties Japan," a two-day
symposium and per-
formance. Friday will
feature a lecture by
Reiko Tomii followed
by a performance
from New York-based
artist Ei Arakawa. Sat-
urday will feature an
international host of
speakers (9:30 a.m. to
5 p.m.). All events are
at UMMA and free.


2B - Thursday, April 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Singing in the bus

FOL WARS
WENDv'S PADA lA EXPRESC



Nothing quenches your thirst quite
like the water at Wendy's. Served in a
colorful cup with plentiful ice, the water
is the essence of wetness, and that wet-
ness is the essence of quenching that
epic, fry-induced thirst. It may not be up
to merman standards, but for the aver-
age freshwater fish, it would make a more

When eating pandas, you're going to
want to wash it down with the delicious
water from Panda Express. The wonder-
ful Panda employees even let you serve
yourself, allowing you to construct the
perfect ice-to-water ratio that meets your
preferences. Thanks to the water, never
before has an endangered species tasted

You've heard him sing, now listen to his story. The Michigan Daily delves into MARiSSA MCCLN/Dai
the story behind the legend of the singing bus driver. See this mUltimedia piece
onMichiganDaily.com.

than suitable habitat. WATER sogood.
PIZZA HUT - SUBWAY
We brought a crowd of unsuspecting The true quality of Subway's water
patrons into Palio's with the promise of shall remain a mystery forevermore.
fine Italian water. But what they didn't This Daily investigator, upon asking for
realize was that the chef didn't do any- a cup of cool, sweet water, was directed
thing that night! Pizza Hut delivered all to Pizza Hut instead. The kicker? There
the waters, and no one could tell the dif- totally is a water tab on Subway's foun-
ference. Someone flipped over a table in tain drinks dispenser. They just won't
excitement. There were riots. All around, give you the cup. What the hell, Subway?
a terrible idea. Major fail.
AND THE WINNER IS: NOT SUBWAY
Justin Bieber:ohe
next John Len non

Weekend Freebies
Because boredom doesn't end
when your cash flow does
Thursday, April 1
Hannah Tinti Fiction Reading
Wonderful literature, fo treel
3222 Angell Hll, 5 p.m.
Campus Philharmonia Orchestra
Classical music from Dvorak to
Brahms, fo free!
E.V. Moore Building, S8p.m.
Friday, April 2
Food is Fuel
Healthy eating advice, fo tree!
University Hospitals, 12 p. t.
Junior Recital: Nathaniel May
Piano music, and a songabout,
Sudoku, fo free! \
Stearns Building, 8 p.m.
Saturday, April 3
Baroque Chamber Ensemble
Exactly what it sounds like, but with
the bonus of being fo free!
E.V. Moore Building, 8 p.m.

WHAT'S NEW
ON THE DAILY
ARTS BLOG
* A look back at Wale:
Check out our photo slideshuwof
Wale, Clipse and The Big Sean grac-
ing the Power Center with beats.
Revel in the memory ofuthe one good
thing MSA did this year,
. Linking Kevin Bacon to
Jesus with the Internet:
In this week's diversion, see if you
can get from the most random-ass
Wikipedia entry to Jesus in six steps
or less. Bonus points if you start
with a stub.
. Horny Jews in a book:
The book of this week, Philip Roth's
"Goodbye, Columbus" tells the
tale of a young chosen person's
sexcapades in a pool. Isn't that how
everyone celebrates Passover?

'My World 2.0' is the
greatest album since
sliced bread
By JASMINE ZHU
Daily Arts Writer
Awwww yeah, J-Biebs. Get it,
boy. GET ITTT.
1994 was agood time tobe alive.
Grunge saturated the New York
scene.
NAFTA ******
was estab-
lished. Justin Bieber
And Jus-
tin Bieber My World 2.0
was born. Island
The musi-
cal messiah and Usher protege
known as Justin Drew Bieber was
given to the world in March 1,
1994. I am not drunk.
Lil' JB became an internet
sensation via YouTube in 2007.
Scooter Braun, a former market-
ing executive for So So Def, was
essentially like, "dayum boi," and
then Bieber's career took off like
whoa. And then he began shop-
ping at American Apparel. JB has
an affinity for wearing Am Appy
cardigans in size XXS. This is his
signature style, and what makes
all the young fly honeys love him
so. Also his hair. His hair is volu-
minously luscious and probably
wonderful to run through with
reverent fingers, but we must
remember he is only 15.
Anyway. His album. My World
2.0 is really good.. Better than
My World, even. Holistically, the
album feels more life-affirming,
with power-pop dance jams but
also really sad stuff, too. Bieber's
voice is beautiful like the sound
of angels softly crying in falsetto
after a thunderstorm. Although
one might think Canada and R&B

0

"I'm ona bike, motherfuckers. Don't you ever forget!"
music are mutually exclusive, Distorted vocals, accompanied
Bieber's genius allows him to com- by urgent reverb-drenched gui- 0
bine his Canadian heritage with tars and a heavy dash of synth and
soulful R&B sounds. By the way, dubstep rhythm, are not found on
there is a website called Lesbi- this album. This album is much
ans Who Look Like Justin Bieber, better than that. The best song on
which is a tribute to Bieber's abil- My World 2.0, though all of them
ity to reach out across all demo- are perfect, is lead single "Baby,"
graphics. Canadians, R&B people, which features Ludacris. The
lesbians. Also many more. music video is sick, or ill, which
The star-studded hlbum fea- means it's very, very good. It fea-
tures R&B heavyweights like tures JB wooing a preteen in the
Sean Kingston and Ludacris. This bowling alley, which is a popular
helps Bieber establish street cred, location to find young love. Teen
which is often difficult for small dream.
children. His features are cheru- J-Nasty is a young rising star
bic, and he has pillowy lips. But for sure. His youthful vibrancy is
listeners must not get too carried very appealing. He is a beacon of
away, because ... well, I'm getting hope for music. Long live Justin
carried away. Bieber.
je

DECIDE
WHAT
GOES
H W,
ZR97

The Michigan Daily
Advertising Design
Department is hiring
a Layout Designer.
Applicants should have a knack for
spacial relationships and a distinct
attention to detail. Experience with
Adobe InDesign is a plus.
Begin this summer and work
a couple hours everyweekday.

10

Think Summer, Think Fordham!
Day/evening classes at two New York City campuses * Credits transfer easily
" Competitive tuition rates " Comprehensive course selection

_.

0

0

F " f'


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 1, 2010 - 3B

The Michigan Daily -michigandailycom Thusday, April 1, 2010-....

Learning to laugh with Mankoff

Getting schooled
in cooking

'New Yorker' cartoon
editor tells 'U' what's
funny in mini-course
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Senior Arts Editor
Attending Robert Mankoff's
class is more like seeing a stand-
up comedy show than going to
lecture. In his course, you don't
have to politely chuckle when
the professor makes a bad joke.
* There's genuine laughter, and
audience participation builds upon
the humor. Mankoff will take any-
thing and everything and spin it in
a funny way, and in his Honors 493
class Humor: History, Theory, and
Practicum, he teaches his students
to do the same.
Mankoff is the perfect professor
for a course that essentially teaches
students how to be funny. He's jug-
gling his semester as an intermit-
tent lecturer at the University with
his job as cartoonist and cartoon
editor for The New Yorker, a maga-
zine known just as much for its car-
toons as its prose.
"I had wanted to be a cartoonist,
and then after I had a brief career
in graduate school, I thought I'd
give it a try," Mankoff said. "And
then after submitting only 2,000
cartoons to The New Yorker, I was
chosen ... and then I did cartoons
there for 20 years.
"But what I always really want-
ed was a small office in the Art &
Design building, and now I also
have achieved that," he added jok-
ingly.
Mankoff first came to Ann
Arbor for a speech that he made
to the University's Knight Wallace
Fellows in 2008 about his job and
journalism. After that, he realized
how much he wanted to explore
humor from its academic side and
approached the University's psy-
chology department about teach-
ing a class.
"I started off in the psychology
department teaching the sociology
and science of humor. ... Why do
we have humor? The evolution of
it, mechanisms of it, the cognitive
part of it, the developmental part
of it- social psychology, you know,
a real boring course," he explained.
"Gradually, (it has) evolved more
into a course in which I try to
inform (the students) of the psy-
chological research by showing
them humor in action - its cre-
ation - and this year it's much
more of a practicum.
"You have satire, you have irony,
you have parody, you have all these
different forms, and that's the
point of the course," Mankoff said.
By introducing his students to
these different forms, his goal "is
actually to improve the students'
sense of humor."

Robert Mankoff submitted over 2,000 cartoons to The New Yorker before having one selected.

Yes, in this course (cross-list-
ed as an Honors, Art & Design,
and Institute for the Humanities
course), Mankoff is actually try-
ing to teach his students how to
be funny and appreciate different
types of humor. As part of his job
as cartoon editor, Mankoff must
evaluate the hundreds of cartoon
submissions The New Yorker
receives each week, so he needs to
have a decent idea of what makes
something funny.
"Nothing that's good is funny.
No good marriage is funny, no
good teacher is funny, no good
vacation is funny," he explained.
"There are numerous ways of see-
ing the incongruous things in life,
getting a little distant from them
and seeing the absurdity of that.
"For example, the absurdity here
in Ann Arbor, and everywhere, of
waiters and waitresses constantly
asking, 'How are you doing? How's
the food?' Well, you know, if a
quarter of the way through it was
OK, it's probably fine," he added.
"They don't have to keep check-
ing. Now one of the many different
mechanisms of humor (is) exag-
gerating things like this."
Still, the larger question at hand
is whether humor is an inherent
gift or whether it can be taught.
Mankoff believes the latter.
"Can humor be taught? It can be
manicured and it can be learned,"
he said. "Of course, like every-
thing else, people come to it with
different ability, different starting
points."
And because all his students
come into the course with dif-
ferent levels of experience and
natural talent, he uses a hands-on
approach to force them to keep
practicing. One of his methods is
to present a student with a statu-
ette and to make them accept the
award in a creative way.

"If I wanted to do improv with
you and wanted you to accept an
award, you'd freeze. You'd say, 'Oh,
I don't know what to do with some-
thing like this,' but I'd make you do
it over and over again and even-
tually you'd come up with some
ideas," he said.
And his students readily accept
his methods.
"It's kind of like a big party,"
said Art & Design senior Carolyn
Nowak, a student in Mankoff's
class. "Everyone tries to partici-
pate with their own jokes and their
own material."
"The man is an eccentric cross
between Christopher Walken and
Woody Allen," said LSA senior
Brad Bobkin. "You're born with
a sense of humor, but you can be
taught and persuaded to see things
differently. ... I think he's teach-
ing people to just walk with open
eyes."
Mankoff wants his students to
take note of everyday occurrences
and to see the humor in them. His
students constantly swap anec-
dotes online throughout the week
and build upon each other's expe-
riences. All he asks of his students
is to have fun and be funny.
Another one of his hands-on
learning activities is a perfor-
mance competition at the end of
his class. Each student will per-
form his or her own piece of com-
edy, and Mankoff will give a cash
prize to the student who does the
best job.
"I'm excited to see not just what
I put out, but what everybody else
does," Bobkin said.
And though some students may
fold under the pressure of the com-
petition, Mankoff always makes
sure nobody leaves the class feel-
ing any worse for wear.
"He takes everyone very seri-
ously, even if they're not very

funny," Nowak said.
The contest is sure to display
the wide variety and disparities in
each individual's sense of humor.
"Most people think seeing
humor is like seeing red. 'Hey,
that's red. Don't you think it's red?
We both agree it's red.' They think
humor is the same way," Mankoff
said.
In his class, Mankoff aims to
disprove this notion, to open his
students' eyes and to heighten
their awareness of humor, under-
standing its grand diversity it has.
"There are many different
things that are funny," he said.
"And different things willbe funny
to different people."
For instance, Mankoff isn't a
fan of lolcats, believing they're too
easy to create and don't require
much thought. Still, he recognizes
their popularity and understands
that many of his students enjoy the
captioned felines.
As "what is funny" changes,
so does the role of the humorist.
Mankoff recognizes the ever-
shifting nature of the job and how
that makes it nearly impossible to
define the position.
"In 1977, The New Yorker and
other places were gatekeepers....
In order to be seen in terms of the
humor you produced, you had to be
employed as a humorist," he said.
"Obviously one of the big changes
has been the Internet. Everyone
can publish and everyone can do
that. And I think with that you get
a huge range of humor."
Mankoff doesn't necessar-
ily want his students to develop a
sense of humor that's too highbrow
for lolcats. He does hope that by '
exposing them to differenttypes of
humor and giving them the oppor-
tunity to create material, they'll
develop the ability to laugh a lot
more.

J na city chock-full of res-
taurants fit for any craving,
eating out is not just the cool
thing to do, but the easiest thing
to do. Going
out to eat
with friends
or family is a
social norm
that doesn't
depend on age.
Ann Arbor cer-
tainly doesn't CHRISTINA
encourage ANGER
home cooking
for the most
part, but some of its restaurants
do offer cooking classes.
A bit of a contradiction, restau-
rant-sponsored cooking classes
revive the fun of making some-
thing from scratch, in the com-
fort of a well-stocked kitchen.
Why do these restaurants offer
classes that could, in the long
run, promote staying in? After
all, people going out to eat keeps
their bills paid.
Well, there's something to be
said about home cooking, even
by the restaurant biz itself, and it
may just go beyond the registra-
tion fee of the class.
My first cooking class in Ann
Arbor was at Pilar's Tamales, a
family-owned Salvadorian res-
taurant. Ten people squeezed
into the small shop and learned
how to make horchata, a sweet
drink made from ground-up rice
and sugar. Pilar's owner, Sylvia,
didn't push her products on the
class, only her love for horchata
and some of her opinions on mass
food production in general. It was
an experience nothing like eating
out or going to class - the tuto-
rial was more of a celebration of
the art of making food.
It was hard to imagine why
Sylvia would see fit to hold such
a class. The process could have
easily been YouTubed, the recipe
could have been attained from a
number of online sources or we
could have walked in, grabbed
one of Pilar's homemade horcha-
tas on the shelf and left in a Star-
bucks-esque frenzy.
Pilar's horchata sells for about
$4 a cup, and trying to show
the class how easy it really is to
make seems apt to make business
dwindle. With a strictly bottom
line-oriented mindset, cooking
classes don't add up. They seem
like a portal into the magical
world of the restaurant kitchen,
offering advice on how to spice
up life at home without paying
the premium for the restaurant
experience.
Before Sylvia's class, I thought
perhaps cooking classes were an
easy way for restaurants to make
a buck and expand on something
I already knew. But the class felt
more like a family get-together,
where everyone shared ideas on
extra things to add to horchata.
I realized the $15 I paid probably
bought merelythe ingredients and
Sylvia's time - hardly indicating
an entrepreneur looking for easy

money. Sylvia is a catalyst, bring-
ing together people who want to
move beyond the typical tables,
booths and appetizers.
In Ann Arbor, cooking classes
are offered by nationwide chains
like Whole Foods, which offers
quick classes for as low as $5, and
by local restaurants like Zinger-
man's, which holds intensive
"BAKEcations" that can last up
to a week. But classes don't have
to be taught by the big guys, and
they don't have to be expensive.
Many small, family-owned res-
taurants near campus, like Pilar's,
hold affordable, intimate classes
that reveal a true passion for food.
Getting together to eat happens all
the time, butcgetting together to
cook, bake or learn is sadly a rarity
in a busy city like A2.
So instead of just eating out,
try a cooking class. It can be as
high-class as Paesano's, which
schedules culinary tours to Italy
every year, or it can be an occa-
sion to bring out the kid inside
who loved (and still loves) frost-
ing with a cake decorating class
at Dahlia's Custom Cakes. Even
the University holds classes
through MHealthy, with themes
ranging from Vegetarian Cuisine
to Mother's Day Brunch.
The truth is, cooking classes
are about as unnecessary as
restaurants themselves - all we
need is a grocery store, a cook-
book and some gumption. In a
way, cooking classes rub against
social norms, making home cook-
ing a quasi-public event. But
these classes help close the gap
between the chef and the every-
day restaurant connoisseur.
A more social
way to cook your
own meals.
People may not realize that a
love of food, not just profits, is
a large part at a restaurateur's
motivation. It may be possible to
judge a restaurant's culinary pas-
sion based on the kinds of things
they do outside of changing the
menu and keeping the salt and
pepper shakers clean. Pilar's, for
instance, held a benefit dinner for
Haiti and offers seasonal special-
ties to take advantage of local
harvests.
Sylvia told us she doesn't make
horchata for the money, but for
the rich tradition it represents in
Latin culture. Behind the cook-
ing class itself was the practice of
preparing foods together, an act
that lies as the basis for many cul-
tures. Even in a city as big as Ann
Arbor, it's possible to make cook-
ing a more sociable and enjoyable
event than dining out.
Anger wants to teach you how
to boil water. To join the class,
e-mail her at steena@umich.edu.

Three comedic styles for the
three U' improv comedy groups

By JEFF SANFORD
SeniorArts Editor
"What you see tonight has never been done
before and never will be done again."
Arthur Brannon III, LSA senior and co-
captain of University improv comedy troupe
Witt's End, is addressing a modest, unsure
audience.
"Now who wants to volunteer to have us go
through their wallet?"
This was as apt a preface as any for a Witt's
End performance, which on this night con-
sisted of a whirlwind of short, absurd skits
that somehow worked in common themes and
recurring characters - all invented on the
spot, of course.
"Watching one of our shows is like watch-
ing a play with disconnected scenes," Brannon
said. "It depends on what kind of night we're
having, but some nights the plot will be really
defined, and other nights it's just not. It just
depends on how it happens to fall."
This particular performance, while often
returning to prior jokes or situations (e.g.,
cheese infected with Republicanism), was cer-
tainly not dedicated to any coherent plot. It
was more like watching an unrehearsed "Sat-
urday Night Live" episode in super-fast for-
ward, with the decision of when to begin and
end a skit entirely up to the actors.
Witt's End, one of three improv comedy
groups on campus, started approximately 10
years ago when a member of another troupe,
ComCo, decided he didn't like the direction
ComCo was taking. Soon after splitting, Witt's
End fortified its distinct improvisational style,
switching from ComCo's traditional "short
form" structure to "long form," becoming the
first improv group on campus to primarily use
this style.
Short form vs. long form is probably improv
comedy's chief distinction. While short form
is generally more accessible and quick-hitting
(it's the kind that was featured on "Whose
Line Is It Anyway?"), long form allows for a

more nuanced brand of humor.
"Long form is more character-driven. You
have a basic form with two people, two really
strong characters, and so you start discovering
more about them. The humor from that comes
from how organic the relationships (are) and
how quickly people come up with things. It's
more about building relationships and explor-
ing that," Brannon said.
On the other side of the spectrum sits
ComCo, the University's oldest extant com-
edy group and purveyors of the art of short
form..
"Our comedy is alot more easier to grasp on
to," said Alex Stuessy, Ross School of Business
junior and ComCo member. "You don't neces-
sarily have to be a theater major or somebody
who appreciates long form comedy. Our shows
Dispute over long form
vs. short form led to a
comedic schism.
usually are a lot more explosive, a lot more
fast-paced. And so it's a lot easier to just jump
right into the laughs."
ComCo was founded in the late 1970s, origi-
nally as a sketch comedy troupe that would put
on large-scale performances at the Michigan
Theater. But in the early 1990s, ComCo took a
significant hit when its relationship with Uni-
versity Activities Center (UAC), the University
organization that funded the group, soured,
according to ComCo leaders. Apparently, Andy
Dick was at least partially responsible.
"(ComCo) brought Andy Dick to campus
and apparently it flopped ... then the head of
ComCo got in a shouting match with the head
of UAC. We went from being this big per-
formance comedy group to being this small
so-member comedy group," said Adnan Pirza-

da, LSA senior and "de facto leader" of ComCo..
Years later, ComCo, aided by the over-
whelming success of its non-improv work (like
2007's written sketch "College Musical," a
parody of Disney's "High School Musical"), is
gradually ascending to its previous heights.
"We've actually been slowly building back
up. At my first couple shows we were lucky
to bring 30 to 40 people out. This entire year,
each and every one of our shows has brought
200 to 250 people, so we're sort of moving back
into sketch work," Pirzada said.
Straddling the long form/short form dis-
tinction is the University's newest improv
group, The Impro-fessionals. Established
three years ago by three female University
students, The Impro-fessionals was founded
out of pure entrepreneurial spirit and a desire
to bolster the feminine presence in the Univer-
sity's comedy scene.
"They just really, really wanted to start one.
And especially (co-founder Julia Young) was
really into female comedians and having a
group (that was) run and started by women,"
said Tali Gumbiner, LSA senior and co-found-
er of the group.
As newcomers to the University's comedy
scene, The Impro-fessionals are dedicated to
bringing in less experienced performers and
creating a more dynamic, learning-by-doing
comedy troupe. The group has also forged a
rather unexpected partnership with Hillel.
"That's a very interesting turn of events,"
said Gumbiner. "Initially our freshman year
we weren't affiliated with Hillel. And coinci-
dentally, through recruitment, our first year
everyone in the group was Jewish."
The budding group approached Hillel and a
deal was struck.
"(They) were like 'Yeah, we like to sponsor
groups who have a lot of Jews, even if they're
not a Jewish group. ... We can give you money
to hire a coach and put on your bigger shows
and in exchange you'll perform for us when-
ever we want a comedy group.'
See IMPROV, Page 4B


4B - Thursday, A prill1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, April 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

TANZI
From Page 1B
"For agood awkward stage, IOwas
a tomboy," she explained. "I believe
it was the period of my life when I
was missing my two front teeth ...
and I refused to wear dresses. All
I would ever wear were boys' plaid
shirts from Old Navy and cut-off
shorts. So I rocked the look at some
point."
"(With Tanzi) being a tomboy
and not a classic girly-girl, it made it
easier to relate to her, and paintinga
clear picture of who she was made
her more likeable, too," she added.

Portraying a tomboy may not
have been too difficult, but Gold-
man found that playing the role of a
championship wrestler with a Brit-
ish accent posed agreater challenge.
Overcoming the stereotype that
women should not be allowed to
compete with men in athletic com-
petition - an opinion that still
remains true for some - becomes
a focal point of the performance.
After all, Luckham wrote the play
during a time when sexism in sports
was a hot-button issue. Billie Jean
King had only recently defeated
Bobby Riggs in the "Battle of Sexes"
tennis match. Her victory spurred
a debate that - despite legisla-
tive efforts like Title IX - has not

ceased since.
Aneven clearerportraitoffemale
oppression is presented in the role of
Tanzi's Mum, played by Music, The-
atre & Dance junior Kelsey Lappa.
"She's kind of the stereotypical
1950s woman-in-a-man's-world
type of person," Lappa explained.
"She thinks men are all pigs but
she's also into conforming with all
the men ... (Tulip) said to me in one
of the rehearsals, 'Imagine amother
breastfeeding her child with a beer
in the other hand."'
Attacking this image of a broken-
down mother who cooks, cleans
and takes care of her children all
day is the story's primary purpose.
Tanzi faces countless physical and

social barriers in her pursuit to
become a championship wrestler.
For assistant director and Music,
Theatre & Dance sophomtre Pors-
cha Kazmierczak, Tanzi's effort in
attaining this goal is clearly a femi-
nist statement.
"I hope (the audience) can take
away that women are still oppressed
in one way or another (even if) in
subtle ways we take for granted,"
she said.
Ultimately, you don't have to be
Betty Friedan or. Hulk Hogan to
enjoy "Trafford Tanzi." The pro-
duction will put your loudest whis-
tle, capacity for laughter and tear
ducts to the test as you root Tanzi
on until the very end.

'Trafford Tanzi' started out in bars in Liverpool before making its way to London.

Everything's Beachy

I ne cast of mnis proauction was trained by Cnarles rairoanks, wnopent last summer as a iucso sore.

By JASMINE ZHU
DailyArts Writer
It seems almost too good to be
true, but Beach House will be play-
ing tonight at
the Crofoot in Beach House
Pontiac. . And
fans of Victo- Tonight at
ria Legrand's 8p.m.
haunting vocals The Crofoot
needn't worry. Ballroom, Pontiac
Fellow band Ticketsfrom $12
member Alex
Scally reas-
sured The Michigan Daily that
the Baltimore-based dreamy duo
will indeed be playing their fourth
Michigan concert this Thursday
to support their latest album Teen
Dream.
Scally talked to the Daily after
his band had just finished doing
a soundcheck before a concert in
Boston. The show came just days
after a whirlwind European tour.
The hectic schedule seemed to
have left poor Alex alittle weary.
"I don't know," he laughed, when
asked about his favorite Beach
House song. "I hate them all."
Luckily for Scally, the band
always seems tobe in the process of
creating a new album.
"We're always writing. So yeah,
there's always a new album brew-
ing," he said. "I think it comes from
different places for me and Victoria
both. I think I'm very much a musi-
cal being, I think about it all the
time, I listen to it all the time"
Scally said that however gruel-
ing the.tour was, he was still having
fun.
"It's going pretty well, we're try-
ing to figure things out," he said.
"It's nerve-wracking, but it's a good
time."
When asked about his favorite
venues, Scally couldn't decide, and
instead cited all four of the shows
Beach House played in Michigan
among his favorites..

0

Beach House just finished up a whirlwind tour of Europe.
"I personally enjoyed all four of you don't want to take home to 0
my Michigan shows. I'm not jok- Mom," he said.
ing. We played at a cool art museum While opening up, Scally also
in Detroit, we played in Ann Arbor, admitted to his current band
we played at the Magic Stick, crush.
which is like this crazy bowling "I kind of have a crush on
alley, and we played at the Ladies Washed Out, who we're going on
Literary Club in Grand Rapids. So tour with," he said.
we played like four really amazing And if he could be in any band
shows in Michigan alone that were other than Beach House?
all pretty interesting," he said. "Celine Dion's backing band,"
he said definitively and without
hesitation.
"t n r e Carefully disarrayed outfits
seem to play an important role in
wracking, but it's many band's image. Scally's sar-
torial tastes, not unexpectedly,
a good time. lean toward secondhand shops.
Legrand gets most of her stage
clothing from thrift stores as well.
"We literally go to thrift stores
Things quickly got person- all the time. We actually went to
al during the interview. Scally one today. And we got some awe-
defined real love without any kind some clothing," he said.
of bullshitting. The best time and place to lis-
"'Real Love' is a song that ten to Beach House?
Victoria wrote the lyrics for and "In the woods, blaring out of
titled. I think it's a kind of fucked a jeep. While you're making out
up, sick kind of thing. It's not with somebody," Scally said.
cryptic. It's not like the movies. Good to know.
It's kind of an unbalanced wild Also, Scally enjoys Twixbars as
kind of thing. The kind of thing his favorite candy treat.


0

Graduate Practice-Ready
At UDM Law you learn and experience the law. Our curriculum requires:
rigorous writing requirements, innovative law firm courses focusing
on theory and practice, externships that teach the law as you gain
valuable work experience, and global law courses that expose you to
international legal systems. All of these requirements give our grads
the UDM advantage-being practice-ready upon graduation.
Find out more about UDM Law.
UDMLaw.com

IMPROV
From Page 3B
"The relationship has been real-
ly wonderful for us," Gumbiner
added.
In essence, improvisational com-
edy is a collaborative process. Of
course, a strong rapport between
group members is vital, but a
group's relationship with its audi-
ence is perhaps equally important.
"If an audience member is
engaged and listening, the payoff
is so much better when every-
thing clicks for us and we're in
that zone making people laugh.
Everything clicks. You feel good,"
Brannon said.
A disengaged or noncommittal
audience usually spells disaster.
"We're very frequently asked to
do appearances at charity events
or open for other groups ... and
sometimes they can be very dead
because they're not the audiences
that are coming out to see us. It's
veryvery hard to be making a joke
onstage and having no response,"
Pirzada said.
Brannon knows the nightmare
of performing for another group's
less-than-enthusiastic audience

quite well. He described one show,
in whichthey performed during an
"Indian dance extravaganza."
"It was like a crowd full of
drunk Indians and they were like
yelling at us, 'Get off the stage! Put
the dancers back on!' And we'd ask
for suggestions and they'd be like,
'7-Eleven, ha-ha-ha!' It was hor-
rible," Brannon said.
Still, there are far graver risks in
improv than the occasional drunk-
en jeering. With no scriptto rely on,
the show could bomb at any minute.
Clearly, it takes a specialkind of for-
titude to take the stage having no
idea what you're about to say.
"(Improv is) mostly just about
being able to be completely vulner-
able and just letting yourself go on
stage," Pirzada said. "You're basi-
cally being an ass on stage so you
have tobe ableto letgo of any inhi-
bitions."
Finding that certain type of
"ass" can be difficult. The groups'
audition processes try to gauge the
fearlessness - and the wits - of
potential members.
"The first thing (I was told)
was like, 'Be a porcupine that just
received the best news of his life.'
And to react quickly to something
like that requires not only quick
thinking but the ability to just do

what your gut feeling says. We're
looking for people who have funny
guts, pretty much," Stuessy said.
Despite technically being com-
petitors, the improv groups on
campus have a generally amiable
relationship with each other.
"You see other people from
improv groups and you say hello.
I don't think anybody hates each
other. It's not like a rivalry. Every-
body's really doingtheir ownthing
and it's all about making people
laugh anyway," Brannon said.
"I've been a fan of Witt's End,"
Pirzada said. "One of our members
who was in ComCo last year is
doing Witt's End this year because
she wanted to flip to more long
form, so there's maybe like a jokey
thing there. (But) we all put on
shows. We allget audiences."
It's not surprising that there's
no bad blood between groups,
even though they might often be
competing for the same audiences.
There just doesn't seem to be any
room for animosity in between the
laughs.
"I mean, even if we flop it's going
to be pretty funny," Brannon said.
"If you're not laughing with us, you
can laugh at us. Just come in, pre-
game it, have some fun. It should
just be fun."
WANT TO
WORK

Educating and Inspiring since 1912

FOR DAILY
ARTS?

0

E-mail join.arts@umich.edu
for details on how to apply.


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom TusaArl1 00-i

Thursday, April 1, 2010 -1C

_
i
s
__ _... ,
}

i'

_.
E_ =.
,.,
- ; -
.
:,
, s

i

The. Best Of The Best...
ANN ARBOR APARTMENT LIVING
P INE
, IVALLEY

ALLMAN D
PROPERTIES

1521) 693-8800
151Pine Valley Blvd.- Ann Arbor, MI 48104
www.pinevalleyapartments.com
info@pinevalleyapartmentseom

7 Room Furnished House for September
2 Bed Apartments/Rooms to Rent in Kerry Town
1 Bed Apartments on Packard/Fernwood


is

L k.,
P RTM E, N T

Contact:
aIlmandproperties@sbcgloba1.net
www.allmandpropertiescom
(734) 973-7368

1

'01
*MI48165
com
;COr

33'7E. Huron
w s Ann ArborIMI 48104
7'* Uw (734) 663-4101
CAM e PUS
MANAGEMENT, www.campusmgt.com
INC rentals ,campusmugt~om
Fall '10 Availabilities!
Efficiencies to 6 bedroom houses
and everything in between.
Some with parking, laundry,
high-speed internet and morel!
Large group? We specialize.
Check out our website at camnpusmgt.com
or stop into the office for lis tings,
"Proudly Serving the Ann Arbor and U of M
communinities for alt ost 45 vrs!"

FREE Heat &
On)
Online
Your Choice
COMING SOON..

Wv aii ( oiors
ELESS INTERNET


2C - Thursday, April 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2C - Thursday, April 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

0

1417 S. University 1115 S. Forest Apartments
7 large bedrooms, 6 bedrooms, 1215 Hill
3 baths, 2 kitchens 2 baths, parking 507 S. Fifth
and parking

CompetIthvely Priccd Apartments
Family owned since 1982
Great Service
1, 2, and 3 bedroom available
Available May, June, July & August
Bi-Level Apartments also available
Issa Properties
734 662 4446
wwwissaproperties.com

P R OPERTE8

We have exactly what you desire
for your housing needs.

T Un1V- v.
nic.,i'

a

Efficiencies, one, two, three or six bedroom units.
In older homes or modern apartment buildings.
Please contact us at 734-662-5500
or wwwmichcomrealty.com

Geat City VesCan Be Yours
Reserve your fully-furnished room, studio, 1, 2, or 3
bedroom apartment for 2010/2011. Save your style!

4

$EtY MANAGEMENT
SPECIALISTS INCORPORATED
Available Properties for Fall 2010!
2 Large Units: 6 Bedroom Duplexes
Apartments: Efficiencies, 1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms
ALL RATES FLEXIBLE
ALL LOCATIONS ON CENTRAL CAMPUS

Excellent Maintenance
Heat & Water Included
Fitness Center & Pool
24 HR Lobby Attendant
* Secure-Entry Building
* Central U-M Campus
* FREE Food & More!

536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor, MI
(734) 761-2680
Think Outside the Box, Think U-Towers

0

Call Today! (734) 665-5552
Or E-mail: PMSl@PMSlproperties.com

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 1, 2010 - 3C

Tom Clark Apartments
September 2010 Leases
Efficiency, 1/2 bedroom
Great Locations
Within 2 blocks to campus
996-2836 * www.tcapts.com

TOWER PLAZA r
CONDOMINIUM
Quiet, Secure, Highrise
One Block From University of Michigan Campus
Studio & One Bedroom Units
Sale or Lease
Leases Available
Starting Now through September
Call Brian Tomsic (734) 663-1530
www.towerplaza.net
U~niversity Realtv Associate- LLC

91

-V7

Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
www.varsiymanagemenf.com

on!

1, 2, 3 & 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus
May & September available
Call to schedule a personalized tour

me

C & I Management,
LCL
www.ChurchStreetRentals.com

Rental Info.
(734) 320-1244

NOW LEASING FOR FALL 20 10!

4Tips When Subletting
1.Avrie your unt othOff-Campus Housing Web site
and/or the Michigan Daily.
2. Check to see if your lease requires the landlord to
approve the sublet in writing.
3. Print off your Sublease and Inventory Checklist from the
Web site at www.housing.edu (U of M student status required).
4. Make sure to get a security deposit, as you are responsible for the
subtenant's unpaid rent, unpaid utility bills and damages.
5. Check out the potential subtenant's rental history and get a
permanent address, permanent phone number,
as well as driver's license number.
Call the Off-Campus Housing Program at 763-3205 for further assistance
The Off-Campus Housing Web site can be found at
www.housing.umich.edu

* Great Location:
Just I block from South U, near
B-school and School of Education
' Quiet Building, mature tenants

* Laundry

* Free heat, free water, free parking

* Friendly Landlord
* No pets, no smoking

o Unfurnished

a

SPRING/SUMMER SUBLET:
APARTMENT FINDER SERVICE.
19 DISTINCTIVE CAMPUS
LOCATIONS TO CHOOSE FROM.

800
Fuller
Apartments
(734) 769-7520
1& 2 Bedroom Apartments
Free Wireless Internet
Near Medical and
Central Campus
Quiet Study Building
$780-$1050/month
{www.housing.umich.edu}
{www.800fuller.com}


4C - Thursday, April 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

The Spaly Group, Inc.
Now Leasing
(734) 769-1807

I~THT"brook
40 wonderful houses and apartments
CLOSE TO CAMPUS!!!
Most properties are less than 2 blocks from the campus perimeter.
Contact us and we may be able to help you find the perfect place to
live within walking distance of the University of Michigan campus.
(734)665-5620
www.bartonbrook.com
May and September leases
Voted #1 by Michigan Daily readers!

Close to Campus-Fully Furnished
Free Heat, Water and WiFi

Spring 2010
1327 WilmotI bdrm apts.
Fall 2010

1321 & 1327 Wilmot 2 bdrm apts.
1506 Packard 1 & 3 bdrm apts.
For descriptions, photos and details -
visit our website!

0

q


Tewmens aketal em's sTEP INTO THE RING
'Trafford Tanzi' shows the struggle
of one girl as she both literally and
metaphorically wrestles with life.
> PAGE1B
Ann Arbor, Michigan Thursday, April 1, 2010

michigandaily.com

CENSUS 2010
Census head,
a former 'U'
prof., urges
involvement

With IFC's change, women to
bear greater burden at parties

Robert Groves:
Students need to
take part to get
accurate count
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
With over 300 million people
living in 50 states, it is a tremen-
dous challenge to effectively,
efficiently and accurately count
the country's population. But
despite its magnitude, one former
University professor is taking the
challenge head-on as the person
responsible for the 2010 Census.
Robert Groves, director of the
United States Census Bureau and
former director of the Univer-
sity's Survey Research Center,
is the man charged with leading
that effort and he says he fully
recognizes the magnitude of this
"deeply constitutional mandate."
"(The Census) repaints the
portrait of America every ten
years. It tells us who we've
become and almost every decade
begins a conversation of who we
want to be," Groves said in an
interview with The Michigan
Daily earlier this week.
"Article 1, Section 2 (of the
Constitution) specifies that we

will do a census every ten years
to reapportion the House of Rep-
resentatives," Groves said. "Since
1790, when the first Census
was done, there have been laws
passed by Congress that return
taxpayer money to local areas
based on population counts, and
the population counts come from
the census. So, the fair share of
those monies depends on accu-
rate census participation."
Groves was nominated by
President Barack Obama last
April to lead the Census Bureau.
Groves said he was very surprised
to find out he had been selected
by the President, saying "it's not
the kind of job you seek out."
"I was sitting innocently in
my office one day, one Friday,
grading graduate student draft
papers, as I recall, and I got a
phone call from the White House
and that began a long series of
discussions," Groves said.
Though he was nominated last
April, Groves did not take office'
until July because Senate Repub-
licans held up his nomination.
Many Republican senators
raised concerns that Groves
would apply statistical modifica-
tions to account for what some
studies have shown to be an
underrepresentation of the poor
and certain ethnicities in the cen-
See CENSUS, Page SA

Amendment means
two sorority liaisons
will have to stay
0 sober at parties
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
After an hour-long Interfrater-
nity Council meeting last night, 30
chapter presidents discussed and
passed a proposed amendment

to their bylaws, which gives Pan-
hellenic sorority members more
responsibility at social events held
at fraternities.
The amendment requires that
two liaisons from each sorority
attending a social event held by a
fraternity chapter be present along-
side the sober monitors of the fra-
ternity. The hope is that the change
will promote a safer atmosphere
at parties because women will feel
more comfortable seeking help from
members of their sororities than
from sober monitors from fraterni-

ties.
According to the amendment
passed last night, sober monitors
and liaisons - who are also required
to remain sober - would jointly
oversee the social event, "checking
all bathrooms, common areas, and
upstairs hallways."
The social task force, which
consists of four fraternity and four
sorority presidents as well as other
members of the Greek system inter-
ested in voicing their concerns, con-
structed the amendment. The policy
will go into effect next week.

LSA sophomore Adam Davis,.
Delta Chi president and Social Task
Force member, said having the
amendment pass is a "really good
step" for the Greek community.
"It's going to make both the host
and the visiting chapter members
more comfortable in dealing with
situations that would arise during
parties," Davis said.
LSA sophomore Jordan Altman,
Phi Psi president and Social Task'
Force member, echoed Davis's sen-
timent and added that he thinks the
See IFC, Page 5A


FIRST ANI A?0A
Despite high attendance,
UMMA to face budget cuts

PICKING THE TREE OVER THE UGLI

After first year in
new building,
officials say
S museum a success
By CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter
The renovated University of
Michigan Museum of Art is eel-
ebrating its one-year anniversary

today since it re-opened follow-
ing major renovations. Though
UMMA has surpassed its atten-
dance goals, museum officials are
now expecting that the museum
will face budgetary challenges in
the next year.
UMMA officials say the muse-
um has been successful in its first
year. But despite UMMA's popu-
larity on campus and its high
involvement with the public and
students, the museum's budget is
expected to fall from $5.4 million

to $4.7 million next year, forcing
museum officials to reduce some
of the museum's program offer-
ings.
Kathy Huss, interim co-direc-
tor and chief administrative offi-
cer at UMMA, said in the first
year following the re-opening of
the museum, museum officials
have been able to achieve many
of their goals.
"We've had many, many oppor-
tunities to make this a meeting
See UMMA, Page 7A

Business School dean says
he won't seek a third term

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
LSA freshman Nicole Pumarada studies animal physiology ina tree by the Diag yesterday. Pumarad said she decided to
study in the tree because the grass was too dirty, the pavement too cold and "because it's a nice tree".
Event highlights success of SAPAC

Bob Dolan says after oftheRossSchoolofBusiness since
2001 - is best known for chang-
10 years as dean, he's ing the curriculum of the school's
MBA program to focus on real
ready to step down world learning and the construc-
tion of the new Stephen M. Ross
By NICOLE ABER School of Business facility, which
Daily News Editor he oversaw. And while Dolan said
he feels it will be time to move on
Business School. Dean Bob next year, other University admin-
Dolan, announced yesterday that istrators and Business School fac-
he won't seek a third term as dean ulty said they are sad to see him go.
after his current term expires in Dolan said his decision to leave
the summer of 2011. after 10 years at the Business school
Dolan - who has served as dean was partially based on the actions

of his colleagues at other univer-
sities. The deans of both the Uni-
versity of Chicago's Booth School
of Business and the Harvard Busi-
ness School, stepped down from
their positions in December 2009,
after serving for 10 years. Dolan
said it has now become typical for
business school deans to serve in
their positions for 10 years.
"Both of them sort of said 'Well,
ten years is time for you to execute
your vision and maybe it's bet-
ter for somebody else with a new
See DOLAN, Page 5A

Assistant attorney yesterday to promote awareness
of sexual violence issues on cam-

rec

general gives pus.
Held in Rackham auditorium,
presentation the two-hour event was intended
to shed light on various campus-
ogniZing center wide efforts to combat sexual
assault and related cases.
By SCOTT SUH The presentation featured
Daily Staff Reporter Assistant Attorney General Igna-
---- - cia Moreno and Department of
onjunction with the Divi- Justice representative Susan Wil-
Student Affairs, the Sexual liams, Dean of Students Laura
t Prevention and Aware- Blake Jones and Department
enter hosted a presentation of Public Safety Director Ken

Magee.
The Campus Grant Program,
which looks to improve outreach
to underrepresented student
groups, was highlighted in the
presentation as was its collabora-
tion with SafeHouse Center - a
non-profit organization, which
strives to improve service for
international students whose
language barriers may make it
difficult to report sexual violence
crimes.
The event also showcased a
See SAPAC, Page 7A

In c
sion of
Assaul
ness C

WEATHER HI:80
TOMORROW LU: 55

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Daily Arts's web comic of the week: 'VG' Cats.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS................................2A SPORTS.................. 8A
Vol.CXX,No.120 OPINIO N ...........................4A TH E B-SIDE....................,..1B
(2010The Michigan Daily CLASSIFIED.S...........6A SUMMER REALTY.................1C
michigondoilycom


0

2A - Thursday, April 1, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Lend ing a hand for fun

It was during finals week The University's chapter
of his freshman year that LSA of the club is divided up into
sophomore Hans Dalton first separate teams that hold
saw the University of Michi- weekly meetings. Each team
gan's chapter of Do Random has a designated captain, who
Acts of Kindness at work. decides the random act of
"They were handing out kindness the group will per-
treats and lovely notes to peo- form for the week.
ple studying there," Dalton Kinesiology senior Katie
said. "I just thought that was Barz, a director of DoRAK,
so cool that during the most said after joining the club she
stressful time of year, people was amazed at the uplifting
were willing to give up their attitudes of the other chub
own time in order to make members.
others happy." "I love that everyone in the
DoRAK, which was found- club has the same mission to
ed by then-University student spread kindness," Barz said.
Anne Kellogg Reed in 2001, "It's hard not to get along
has sought to spread kindness with people like that."
on campus through acts like DoRAK collaborates with
distributing cocoa and carna- other student organizations
tions to students in the Diag like Circle K and K-Grams.
on Valentine's Day and pre- The campus club also adopted
paring pancakes for passersby an iPhone application recent-
in Mason Hall. ly called DoGood, which was

developed by the company
Mobil33t.
LSA junior and club direc-
tor Chris Dietzel said the
Phone application has taken
off and spread the message of
DoRAK.
"We have had thousands
of people download the app
worldwide and have about
2,000 people check off that
they have done the deed each
day," Dietzel said. "DoRAK is
responsible for creating and
supplying the daily deeds for
the app and also interacts
with the users, takingsugges-
tions, and working them into
deeds."
"I enjoythe reactions, from
a simple smile, to people who
genuinely come up and thank
you for something you've
done," Dalton said.
- JENNA SIMARD

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-336 734-764-558
smilovitz@michigandailycomCmdbnsiness@anait.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours: sun.-Thurs. 11a. -2a..
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classifed@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIRNEWSrEDITORSNicoleAber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Swanso,,5n, EwrThiunavukkarasu
^SISTsNT N EWS ED OR eSDylanCDii, 0rryn Fitzrald, JosephLichterman,
VeroicaMenaldi,Annie Thoma,Don Thorsy, Elana Tiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley,Laura
Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MichelleDeWitt,AlexSchiff,MatthewShutler
Ryan Kartije Managing Sports Editor ' kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gion Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, JoeStapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyzik, Tim Rohan, Amy Scarano
lamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITOR S: Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, Jeff Sanford
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,EmmaJeszke,MikeKuntz,
KaviShekharPandey
MaxCollins and photo@michigandaily.con
Sam Wolson ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR FOR MULTIMEDIA:ChanelVonHabsburg-Lothringen
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Ariel Bond
ASSISTANTPHOTO EDITORS:Aaron Augsburger,JakeFromm,MarissaMcClain,
Jed Moch
SarahSquireand design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski Maoaig DesigotEditors
SEIOR DESIGNED ITOR: AllisonGhamandtr
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaiy.com
RachelPhillips Copychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
Ryan Businski clasdifirdManager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER:Kayla LaFata
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Allison SantacreuaLayout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wintertermsbystudentsattheUniversityofMichigan.Onecopyisavailablefreeofchargetoall
readers. Additional copies maybe picked up atthe Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for fall term,
starting inSeptember, viaU.. mailare1110. Winter term(January through Apri)is $115yearlong
(september through April)iiss195.University affiliatesaresubjectoareduced subscriptionrate
Oncampussubscriptonsforflltemre$.Subscriptionsmut be epaid.The MichiganDaily
isaemer of The AsoiatedPressanThe Aoiatolleiate Pens

Do Random Acts of Kindne
as to spread cheer across c

Impus.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Marijuana found Vehicle involved Reading by
in Markley hall in hit and run fiction author

WHERE: Mary Markley Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about 6 p.m.
WHAT: Three male students
were found with marijuana in
Mary Markley Residence Hall,
University Police reported.

WHERE: Lot NC-51, 2600
Glazier
WHEN: Tuesday at about 5:30
p.m.
WHAT: Avehicle parked in
Lot NC-51 was hit, University
Police reported. The vehicle
sustained minor damage. There
.-IV unn sspe, }'

WHAT: Fiction author,
Hannah Tinti, will be read-
ing selections from her
award-winning works.
WHO: Department of Eng-
lish Language and Literature
WHEN: Tonight from 5 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Angell Hall, Room

are no suspects. ," .."} .
Schwinn bike 3222
Swalped.at G
Warning issued NBA-Darfur
WHERE: Shapiro Undergrad-
uate Library for gnarly actions documentary
WHEN: Yesterday at about 12douetr

I-.

Dance Mix 2010,
WHAT: Various student
dance groups showcase their
talents. All tickets $10.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Power Center
for the PerformingArts
"How Love is
Spelt"
WHAT: A student per-
formance about an indi-
vidual's journey from
Liverpool to London.
WHO: Basement Arts
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen Drama
Center, Studio I
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Residents of a Massachu-
setts town are fed up with
loud music and drunken
college students who rent apart-
ments in their neighborhood.
They are proposing a bylaw that
includes notifying both the stu-
dents college and their mom and
dad of their behavior, reported
The Boston Globe online.
"Trafford Tanzi," playing
at the Walgreen Drama
Center, is the story of a girl
growing up in 1950s England
who struggles mightily with the
relationships in her life.
>> FOR MORE, SEE THE B-SIDE, INSIDE
In an interview with Joy
Behar, Jay Leno said that
he expects Conan O'Brien
to be back on the late-night
airwaves in the near future,
according to CNN.com. Leno
went on to say that both he and
O'Brien "got screwed" in the
NBC late-night shuffle.

a.m.
WHAT: A Schwinn bike was
reported stolen from a bike
rack near the Shapiro Under-
graduate Library, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.

WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Tuesday at about 4 p.m.
WHAT: A verbal warning
was issued for a violation of a
skateboarding ordinance, Uni-
versity Police reported.

WHAT: Film screening
of "3 points" which fol-
lows NBA player Tracy
McGrady as he travels to the
Darfur region of Africa.
WHO: Student World
Assembly
WHEN: Tonight from 8:15
p.m. to 9:45 p.m.
WHERE: Angell Hall,
Auditorium D

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


4

4

From March 17 through April16, you can take
advantage of online advice, in-person programs
and text messages that help you put your best
foot forward after graduation.

Text and Win
Text "UMStudents" to 41411
to join and to be eligible to
win our weekly prizes
0 Get daily career advice right
to your phone (through 4/16)
i You'll be entered to win our
R2 L prizes (1 winner drawn at
random every week):
* 3/20-3/26: Leather portfolio
and Cross pen set
* 3/27-4/2: Professionally
written resume
* 4/3-4/9: Laptop bag/
briefcase from Coach
* 4/10-4/16: $250 Macy's gift
card for an interview suit

1 Wednesday, 3/24, 9-noon:
Meet with career experts to
create your personal professional
development plan
I Wednesday, 3/31, 9-noon:
Create your personal branding
toolkit (resume review, branding
statement & interview prep)
0 Wednesday, 4/7: 9-noon:
Describe your qualities in
30 seconds by crafting your
personal pitch
0 Wednesday, 4/14, 9-noon:
Find out how to build your
network and help your career

Get details and register for the events at umalumni.com/r21.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

You can also find us at
facebook.com/AAUMstudents.
Alumni Association of the
University of Michigan-OFFICIAL GROUP
Note: By texting "UMSTUDENTS" to 41411, you'll join our
Ready to Launch text group that will last through April 19.
You will receive text messages through 4/16 related to this
program only. After April 19, the group will be deleted.
Standard text messaging rates apply.

49


o The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, Aprill1, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Christian militia
infiltrated by agent
Rough winter weather forced
members of a Midwest Christian
militia to cut short a road trip to a
rally in Kentucky, so suspected ring-
leader David Brian Stone used time
in the van to hone his speech on
the "New World Order" he feared,
authorities said Wednesday.
"We are the American military.
We outnumber them," a speaker
identified as Stone says on an audio
tape recorded by an undercover FBI
agent. "People should not be afraid
of the government. The government
" should fear the people."
The agent, who infiltrated
the Hutaree group and had built
explosives under Stone's direction,
accompanied Stone and others as
they tried to attend a Feb. 6 meeting
of militias in Kentucky, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Ronald Waterstreet
said during a detention hearing in
U.S. District Court in Detroit.
"Now it's time to strike and take
our nation back so we will be free
of tyranny," Stone, 44, of Clayton,
Mich., says on the recording played
in court. "The war will come wheth-
er we are ready or not."
Stone and eight other suspect-
ed Hutaree members, self-pro-
claimed "Christian warriors" who
trained themselves in paramili-
tary techniques in preparation for
a battle against the Antichrist, are
charged with seditious conspiracy,
or plotting to levy war against the
U.S. They were arrested after a
series of weekend raids across the
Midwest.
MANAMA, Bahrain
Navy plane crashes
in Persian Gulf
A U.S. Navy aircraft crashed in
the Persian Gulf region yesterday
and one of the four crew members
was missing, the military said.
Search and rescue efforts were
under way, the U.S. Navy said in a
statement. Three crew members
were rescued.
The E-2C Hawkeye, which is
primarily used to detect incoming
aircraft with its 24-foot diameter
radar, crashed in the North Ara-
bian Sea after the it "experienced
mechanical malfunctions," the
statement said.
The plane was used for command
and control functions and oper-
ated from the aircraft carrier USS
Dwight D. Eisenhower.
Helping in the search for the
missing crew member were the
Eisenhower and several of its air-
craft, helicopters from guided mis-
sile destroyer USS Carney and a
replenishment ship.
The Navy is investigating.
LANSING, Mich.
Mich. constitutional
convention on
November ballot
Secretary of State Terri Lynn
Land is urging lawmakers to pass
bills that would clarify rules for
a possible constitutional conven-

tion.
Michigan voters will decide in
November if a constitutional con-
vention should be held to revise or
replace the state's 1963 constitu-
tion.
Land says the bills would
require convention delegates to
be U.S. citizens, set dates to elect
the delegates and apply campaign
finance and lobbying laws to them.
The measures also would set July
12, 2011 as the starting date for the
possible convention.
The Republican secre-
tary of state says failing
to pass the bills soon "will
throw the process into chaos."
PHILADELPHIA
Nightclub to close
on school premises
A charter school cafeteria will
no longer double as a nightclub on
nights and weekends, city education
officials announced yesterday after
inspecting the facility.
Owners of the Harambee Insti-
tute of Science and Technology
Charter School have removed all
banquet supplies and equipment,
including alcohol, from their build-
ing, which on weekdays educates
about 450 students in kindergarten
through eighth grade.
Philadelphia district officials had
demanded an end to the school's
arrangement with Club Damani,
which had been operating on the
premises during off-hours despite
an expired liquor license.

Murderer
of abortion
doctor faces
life in prison

Rowan Towers in Trenton, N.J. was the site of a party where police say a15-year-old sold her 7-year-old sister to have sex
with as many as seven men and boys. The teenager also took money to have sex with others at a party in the Trenton apart-
ment on Sunday. -
Teenager sells stepsister
for sex at apartment party

Seven-year-old was
gang-raped as
stepsister took
money, stood by
TRENTON (AP) - It started
with a seemingly innocent party
invitation. A 15-year-old girl and
her 7-year-old stepsister were
headed to an apartment down
the street from their home near
the New Jersey Statehouse,
where they had been hang-
ing around outside on a Sunday
afternoon.
For the younger girl, police
say it quickly descended into a
horrifying ordeal in which she
was gang-raped by as many as
seven men as her sister not only
watched, but got paid by those
who did it.

Their parents, none the wiser,
thought maybe they had run
away.
"We're talking about a kid who
told her sister to go into an apart-
ment and let people rape her,"
said Trenton police Capt. Joseph
Juniak. "It's unfathomable."
The teen has been charged
with aggravated sexual assault,
promoting prostitution and
other crimes. Her name was
not released because of her age,
but the county prosecutor plans
to ask the court to try her as an
adult. In the meantime, she is
being held at the Mercer County
Youth Detention Center.
When the girls didn't return
home by 4:30 Sunday after-
noon, their parents called police,
believing the older one had run
away from home and taken her
younger sister with her.
In fact, they were down the

street inside a 13th floor apart-
ment at Rowan Towers, a nearby
high-rise complex so dangerous
that Trenton police are hired as
security guards at night.
"They keep it clean on the out-
side, but it's what's on the inside
that you have to worry about,"
said neighbor William Johnson,
who says police are coming out
of the building all the time.
Inside apartment 13-C, police
said the 7-year-old was soon left
alone as her sister headed to a
back bedroom to sell sex to sev-
eral men. When she came out
into the living room, she handed
her 7-year-old sister money and
encouraged her to let the men
touch her.
"It went from touching to
straight out assault and rape,"
Juniak said. "They threatened
to kill her if she screamed or told
anyone."

Kansas without
abortion facility for
women more than
21 weeks pregnant
WHICITA (AP) - The man
who gunned down one of the
nation's few providers of late-term
abortions could be sent to prison
today for the rest of his life, but he
may have gotten what he wanted
all along: It is markedly harder in
Kansas to get an abortion.
Dr. George Tiller's clinic is
closed, leaving the state with no
facility where women can have
the procedure after the 21st week
of pregnancy. An early vow by one
of Tiller's contemporaries to fill
the gap hasn't materialized, and
state lawmakers are moving to
enact tough new rules to dissuade
other physicians from taking Til-
ler's place.
"The national anti-abortion
movement has a tremendous
victory here," said Dr. War-
ren Hern, a longtime friend of
Tiller who performs late-term
abortions in Colorado. "They
accomplished exactly what they
wanted, and they continue to
accomplish it."
But even as Scott Roeder faces a
mandatorylife sentence for killing
Tiller, many ponder the conflict-
inglegacies of his actions. Outside
Kansas, abortion rights support-
ers say there's been a surge in late-
term abortion practices by doctors
emboldened to pick up where Til-
ler left off.
"What he really did was murder
a doctor in church, and the effect
on abortion is negligible," said Dr.
LeRoy Carhart; a Nebraska doctor
who worked part-time for Tiller.
Carhart said yesterday he had
not given up on opening a prac-
tice in Kansas where women can
have a late-term procedure, even
though he admitted his plans were
in a state of flux given the rules
passed late Tuesday night by the
Kansas Legislature.
Some people on the other side
of the abortion debate aren't
taking comfort in the fate of
Roeder, 52, of Kansas City, Mo.,
who was convicted in January
of first-degree murder for fatally
shooting Tiller last May as the
doctor served as an usher in his
Wichita church. The only ques-
tion remaining today is whether
Roeder's imprisonment will
include a mandatory minimum of

25 or 50 years behind bars.
"Mr. Roeder was a setback to
the pro-life movement - and to
give him any sort of credit for
reducing or stopping abortion is
well beyond reason," said Troy
Newman, president of Operation
Rescue.
Roeder's militant sympathizers
disagree.
"He went ahead and laid down
his life to save unborn children
and to me that is the definition
of a hero - he gave up his life to
save someone else," said Rev. Don
Spitz, of Chesapeake, Va., who
runs the Army of God Web site
supporting violence against abor-
tion providers.
In Kansas, Tiller's killing has
practically erased late-term pro-
cedures and forced women to
Albuquerque, N.M., and Boulder,
Colo., among other places, to have
them.
Just three clinics in the state -
all located in or near the Kansas
City metro area - offer limited
abortion services for women up to
their 21st week of pregnancy.
"People were coming from all
over the world to have abortions
in Kansas," said Kari Ann Rinker,
a lobbyist for the National Orga-
nization for Women's Kansas
chapter. "Now they don't come
here because Dr. Tiller has been
killed."
Beyond the state, however,
abortion rights advocates say doc-
tors are increasingly offering the
procedure to ensure women have
access.
"Dr. Tiller's death was a dev-
astating loss to the provider com-
munity and his family, but he was
so admired and respected that his
death has inspired medical stu-
dents and providers to recommit
themselves to providing women
with the abortion care that they
need," said Vicki Saporta, presi-
dent of the National Abortion Fed-
eration.
Among them is Megan Evans,
a third-year medical student at
George Washington University
who said she hopes to include
abortion services as part of a
larger obstetrics and gynecology
practice.
"After he was killed, for me it
assured me this was the right field
to go into," she said.
In the wake of Tiller's murder,
Dr. Curtis Boyd of Albuquerque
decided to provide third-trimes-
ter abortions on a case-by-case
basis and hired two physicians
who had worked at Tiller's clinic.

Chechen militant group
responsible for bombings

fro
rev

ernet message President Dmitry Medvedev later
called the attacks "links of the
)m group cites same chain."
The suicide bombings in Mos-
enge as reason cow were the first in the capital in
for attack six years and served as a wake-up
call for many Russians, who had
come to feel insulated from the

their homes."
The 45-year-old Umarov fought
Russian forces in both separat-
ist wars in Chechnya over the
last 15 years. He took over the
leadership of the rebel movement
in 2006 following the killing by
Russian forces of Abdul-Khalim

MAKHACHKALA, Russia (AP) violence raging in the country's Sadulayev. Umarov's importance
- A Chechen militant claimed predominantly Muslim southern further increased that year after
responsibility for the deadly corner. Shamil Basayev, the most feared of
attacks on the Moscow subway in Umarov blamed ordinary Rus- the rebels, was killed by security
an Internet message posted yester- sians for turning a blind eye to the forces. Basayev was accused of -
day, hours after two more suicide killing of civilians in the Cauca- or claimed responsibility for -ter-
bombers struck southern Russia in sus by security forces and warned rorist attacks on Russia during its
brazen defiance of Prime Minister of more attacks. wars in Chechnya, including the
Vladimir Putin. "I promise you that the war will hostage-taking raid on a school in
Doku Umarov, who leads come to your streets and you will the town of Beslan in 2004.
Islamic militants in Chechnya and feel it in your lives, feel it on your Moscow police have been on
other regions in Russia's North own skin," Umarov, dressed in high alert since the subway attacks,
Caucasus, said in a video posted fatigues, said in a video posted on increasingroadblocks on highways
on a pro-rebel Web site that Mon- kavkazcenter.com, a Web site that into the city. The police chief said
day's twin suicide attacks were rebels use to air their statements. thousands of officers have been
revenge for the killing of civilians There was no way to substanti- sent to patrol the subway, check on
by Russian security forces. ate Umarov's claim, and officials migrants from southern provinces
Umarov's statement appeared at Russian law enforcement agen- and inspect warehouses that could
after Putin vowed to "drag out ties refused to comment on Uma- hold arms caches.
of the sewer" the terrorists rov's claim. The Russian security The militants face logisti-
who plotted the subway bomb- chief has previously said the sub- cal challenges in carrying out
ings, which killed 39 people and way bombings were carried out bombings in Russia's northern
wounded scores of commuters by militants from the Caucasus. cities, since they would need to
during the morning rush hour. Umarov had previously transport explosives from south-
Yesterday's suicide bombings warned that "if Russians think ern bases and then store them.
in Dagestan, a volatile southern that the war is happening only on Natives of the North Caucasus,
province east of Chechnya, could television, somewhere far away in who tend to have darker hair and
have been planned by the same the Caucasus where it can't reach complexions, stand out in cities
group behind the Moscow bomb- them, then we are going to show like Moscow and are more likely
ings, Putin said. them that this war will return to to draw police attention.
"I don't rule out that this is
one and the same gang," he said
at a televised Cabinet meeting. U U

-Conpiledfrom
Daily wire reports


4A - Thursday, April1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

C 4 4MI tian Batlu
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu


JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Assisting mental health
Campus community must build culture of support

This is not a decision that I've made lightly.'
- President Barack Obama, referring to his decision to allow offshore oil drilling along the East Coast, Alaska
and the Gulf of Mexico, as reported yesterday by Politico.com.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
You hear? Obama s Obama good. Obama drilL.
drilling for oil3 Black goldl Wait. You're supporting this? Drill good. Y'Obarna.
What about all those
environmental consequences Sorry you had to see
Yes. Drill o you were worried about? e. him like this. ik
* *0
A t U es
o o 0 q
Athome at the Universit

E ach year, there are roughly two suicides for every 20,000
university students, according to The New York Times.
Unfortunately, in the last month alone, three students in
this country took their lives by jumping off bridges at Cornell Uni-
versity into the campus's famed deep gorges. There is no doubt that
these events are tragic. As such, they must serve as a reminder to
the students, faculty, staff and administrators here at the Universi-
ty of Michigan - and to university community members across the
country - that the ample availability of mental health resources is
paramount to students' health and safety. Students and staff must
be vigilant in preventing the occurrence of such tragedies.

As reported by the Times last week,
Cornell University hadn't registered any
confirmed suicides since the beginning of
2006. In the current academic year, there
have been six. The suicides have caused
concern on the part of the institution and
community. Cornell officials have con-
structed temporary fences around the
bridges, which they hope will prevent
more suicides. Security guards have also
been stationed at each of the bridges. Cor-
nell officials have been drastically increas-
ing their support of mental health outreach
programs.
The University of Michigan is fortunate
that it isn't experiencing what Cornell is
now going through. But given the simi-
larities between Cornell and our school,
the University should take measures to
increase its mental health resources and
outreach to students.
Students at prestigious institutions like
Cornell and the University of Michigan
are under constant pressure to perform.
And the competitive atmosphere of college
has increased as the economy has suffered
and students feel more pressure to be the
very best in order to secure a place in the
difficult job market. College students are
becoming more vulnerable and stressed. To
combat this, the University should become
more proactive in helping students cope.
The University's Counseling and Psycho-
logical Services (more commonly known as

CAPS) has been an excellent resource on
campus for students to seek help. Accord-
ing to a February report by the Daily, CAPS
saw a significant rise in demand in 2009.
The University responded appropriately by
increasing funding to CAPS last semester,
which resulted in larger offices, increased
counseling and the creation of workshops
that make counseling more available. The
University must continue to ensure that
CAPS receives the resources it needs to
make help available to every student who
asks for it.
And, as Cornell did, the University
should train all of its employees to be on
the lookout for warning signs that may
demonstrate that a student is in need of
support. Students should also be watchful
of friends and classmates. With students
far from home, the University commu-
nity should serve as a substitute family to
students, and community members must
watch out for each other. And, most impor-
tantly, students who feel unwell must
remember that there is no shame in asking
for help. They shouldn't feel any hesitation
take advantage of the resources that the
University and CAPS provide.
The recent suicides have deeply shaken
our peers at Cornell. And given our uni-
versity's resemblance to Cornell, students
and University officials should make every
effort to prevent a similar tragedy from
occurring here.

ver the past year, I've learned
something from the Ann
Arbor and campus commu-
nity that can't be
taught in any class-
room or by any
professor. And it's
a lesson that will
endure long after I
forget how to take
the derivative of a
function or conju-
gate French verbs.
The Univer- ALEX
sity student body SCHIFF
draws from all
across the state,
the country and
even the world. For many of you, this
is your first time spending the major-
ity of your year away from the place
you had previously called "home."
Before moving to Ann Arbor, you
knew the streets of your old home-
town like the back of your hand, you
had grown accustomed to the sights
and sounds of a typical day and you
frequently passed places that housed
memories from years past - where
you made mistakes, where you con-
quered your fears and where you
experienced your greatest accom-
plishments.
But then you were dropped here, in
the middle of this energetic, sprawl-
ing mini metropolis. All around you
were streets with unfamiliar names,
buildings and locations that held no
memories or significance and a mass
of people you had never met asking
you to support this cause, vote for
this person or donate to this charity
- if they even spoke to you at all.
After growing up in Farmington
Hills, Michigan (a suburb outside
Detroit) for 15 years, I discovered
what it was like to be dropped into
a strange new area with different
types of people, cultures and social
norms when I moved to Palm Harbor,
Florida in 2006.I contracted the typi-
cal "Transplanted Child Syndrome,"

and I looked at everything through
the lens of "this place isn't like where
I'm from, why aren't things like they
were where I grew up, why can't I
go back, etc." In a sense, I placed
my hometown on a pedestal it didn't
really deserve just because it was that
familiar place I could call "home."
Even though I had always wanted
to attend the University, I also saw
it as my way to get back home. This
summer, I packed up all my belong-
ings in my oversized Buick Century
and drove 2,000 miles to come here
with my favorite desk chair block-
ing my rear window the entire way.
I spent the rest of the summer liv-
ing in my grandma's basement, only
three miles from the houseJl grew up
in. But, still, something was missing.
Despite being back where I grew up,
just as I thought I had wanted, I felt
constrained.
And then I came here. Instantly,
everything clicked. This campus has
a liveliness that those of us from the
suburbs have never experienced. It's
not just the exuberance of the city on
football Saturdays - it's the vibrancy
this campus breathes every day. It's
the rallies on street corners by people
on every side of the political spec-
trum. It's the hustle and bustle of stu-
dents rushing to class all throughout
the day - even though we already run
on Michigan time. It's the cars driv-
ing on overflowing streets honking
at people spilling over into their path.
It's the crowded sidewalks at 2 a.m. on
a Saturday night and the 3 a.m. crav-
ings for crappy Mexican food.
My time at the University has
taught me a valuable lesson that took
place not in Dennison or Angell Hall,
but amid the unmistakeable vigor
of the Diag on the first warm, sunny
day of this semester. After spending
the past several months trudging
through slush and snow and won-
dering why on earth I came here,
I took a brief moment to pause and
look around as people passed me by.

A gentle complacency washed over
me. It was at that moment that I real-
ized that home isn't where you grew
up - home is simply where you feel
at home. And here, without a doubt, I
feel at home.
A lesson that can't
be taught inAngell
Hall or Dennison.
Now, as summer nears, everyone's
looking forward to spending four
months "back home." Despite the
stresses of classes, homework, exams,
etc., there's going to bea lot I'm going
to miss when I return to the suburbs.
Sure, I'll see lots of places that hold
memories - but something will be
missing. I won't see people partying
on rooftops at 9 a.m. on a football
Saturday or a moonwalk set up on
the Diag on a random Tuesday after-
noon.I'lleven missplayingmakeshift
games of putt-putt in the hallways of
East Quad.
Students, we come from a diverse
array of communities, but I'm will-
ing to bet that most of you spent the
majority of your life relatively near
where you graduated high school.
Lackingthe familiarity of your home-
town, I am sure many of you have
probably felt lonely, isolated or home-
sick in some way over the course of
your time at the University. But most
of us will attest to the fact that that
feeling ebbs as you begin to real-
ize that no mattef what city, state or
country you hail from, we all need to
step out of the comfort of our home-
town to grow as individuals.
- Alex Schiff is an assistant
editorial page editor. He can be
reached at aschiff@umich.edu.

0

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
HAMDAN AZHAR
Patriotism in perspective

0

DAVID BENNETT I
Working toward equal rights

Last week, the Daily printed a column in
which Brittany Smith heralded the passage
of President Barack Obama's health care bill
as the point when she no longer felt ashamed
to be an American (Reforming patriotism,
03/26/2010). Smith went on to defend progres-
sive values in a manner that left many of us gri-
macing in discomfort.
Smith failed to understand that ideals may
be praiseworthy and profound, while their
actual application may fail to live up to that
standard. More egregiously, she argued from
one isolated incident that our nation had taken
a bold leap towards fulfilling our ideals.
I was therefore pleased to come across
Christopher Johnson's response, entitled (I
don't live in Smith's America, 03/29/2010).
Unfortunately, the title is the only endear-
ing quality of Johnson's viewpoint. He takes
Smith's caricature of the "ugly American" to
the extreme and presents violent jingoistic
rhetoric as a substitute for "patriotism." "Most
citizens in Iraq and Afghanistan are thankful
for their liberation," he remarks snidely. "Just
ask any soldier." Any reasonable person would
be at a loss for words when confronted with
such ignorance.
This, then, is the unfortunate state of politi-
cal discourse in the opinion pages of the Daily
today. One side argues that everything is fine
with America because Obama is committed to
"creating a baseline level of equality for every-
one." (I won't enumerate everything that's
wrong with that sentence.) The other side
responds that everything is fine with America
because we go around the world invading coun-
tries that have never attacked us. The end result
of either mindset is the same - the true prin-
ciples that make America great are obscured
as well as the sad fact that we have failed to
uphold the sanctity of those principles.
America was founded as the "city upon a
hill," meant to be a shining beacon of liberty
and justice, a light unto the rest of the world.
That dream is indeed elusive today, lost amid
war and oppression, imperialism, racism and
carpet bombs, red alerts and Guantanamo Bay.

Some of us have never seen that dream because
our vision is clogged with the blood and sweat
of all those - at home and abroad - for whom
that dream has turned into a nightmare.
But it's called a dream for a reason - it
doesn't exist, indeed, it cannot exist unless we
work to make it real. Anything worth achiev-
ing requires effort. The American dream is a
problematic dream. But what a dream it is.
The nature of an individual's love or hatred
for America can be understood as a function
of two variables: their understanding of what
America represents and their expectations for
what America ought to be. Some of those who
see potential for good in "America" - what-
ever that means - will blindly wave the flag of
"patriotism" and passively accept the reality
with which they are presented. Others, mean-
while, will dedicate their lives to maximizing
that potential and to transforming our nation
into a living embodiment of the ideals that it
purports to represent.
Many Americans are ashamed at and jus-
tifiably angered by irresponsible actions our
government has undertaken over the years.
But to conflate those actions with the essence
of America is an absurd and undyingly cynical
leap in reasoning. On the other hand, to pro-
claim that since, in theory, our values are great,
we are automatically "superior to the rest of
the world" is a similarly defeatist and danger-
ous mindset. To hold such a view is to sell the
greatness of America for far less than what it is
worth. It borders on the edge of being unpatri-
otic in the extent to which it ascribes an inher-
ent entitlement to our nation, independent of
our conduct and our faithfulness to our values.
At the end of the day, it was perhaps a
Frenchman, Alexis de Tocqueville, who said
it best. "America," he said, "is great as long as
America is good. When America ceases to be
good, America ceases to be great." If we can
understand that much, then perhaps we can
aspire to a richer and more fulfilling vision of
patriotism.
Hamdan Azhar is a Rackham student.

Unlike your local carwash, where worker exploitation
is laid bare on street corners in broad daylight, injustice
in the restaurant industry occurs behind the scenes. So
you have to, well, go behind the kitchen door to see what
really happens.
That is precisely what the Restaurant Opportunities Cen-
ter of Michigan (more commonly known as ROC-MI) and
the Southeast Michigan Restaurant Industry Coalition did.
This past February, they published "Behind the Kitchen
Door: Inequality & Opportunity in Metro Detroit's Grow-
ing Restaurant Industry," a report that exposed the extent
to which restaurant malpractice in the Metro Detroit area
really occurs.
Based on data from 37 interviews with employers, 32
interviews with restaurant workers and 501 worker sur-
veys, the study found that workers of color are dispro-
portionately affected with respect to wage violations and
other abuses. 31 percent of employees reported working
overtime without being compensated and 81.4 percent
of workers didn't receive health insurance through their
employers. Similar studies were conducted across the
nation, highlighting the prevalence of restaurant worker
exploitation.
Andiamo, an Italian restaurant in Dearborn, Mich., is the
poster child of restaurant worker abuse in the Metro Detroit
area. The Metro Times reported in January that Andiamo
failed to meet with eightworkers to address their grievanc-
es - including $125,000 worth of back wages and discrimi-
nation based on race, gender and national origin, followed
by illegal retaliation. In response, the workers, with the sup-
port of ROC-MI, turned to protesting and lawsuits.
Despite rampant exploitation, though, there are steps
that can betaken to improve the plight of workers in the res-
taurant industry and elsewhere.
First, the minimum wage must be increased. Currently,
the federal minimum wage stands at $7.25. Minimum wage
for tipped employees, meanwhile, is only $2.13 per hour.
Relying on tips to compensate for a dearth of wages is risky
business - especially since tips vary "depending on broader
economic trends, from season to season and from shift to
shift," according to the National Employment Law Project.
While the federal minimum wage was slightly raised in
2009, the tipping wage has remained frozen since 1991.
In addition to raising wages, "Behind the Kitchen Door"
delivers sound proposals, like providing paid sick days,

granting workers the right to organize and penalizing
employer discrimination while promoting model employer
practices.
In terms of policy, passage of the Employee'Free Choice
Act, which supports workers' right to unionize, and the
Dream Act, which is a step toward a more humane immi-
gration policy, are in order, as well as legislation that makes
education and occupational training - and by extension,
upward mobility - more accessible.
Clearly, the restaurant industry must reform, but we
know that real change will not come out of thin air.We must
fight for it. Organizations like ROC-MI - with its research,
rallies and, in due course, justice for the workers at Andiamo
- illustrate the steps that can be taken to fight for change in
the industry. Inthe end, change willonly come if we demand
it. It's incumbent on us as college students, voters and citi-
zens (and yes, at times, as consumers) to tell the restaurant
industry that it has crossed the line and that we won't yield
in our struggle for workers' rights.
Whether those workers stand on our neighborhood
street corners washing cars or are tucked awaytoiling in an
anonymous factory, farm or kitchen, let us do what we can
to make their lives better. This week, from March 28th to
April 4th, is the Student Labor Week of Action - the perfect
time to reflect on what we have done and to envision what
we can do to fight for worker justice and, in turn, a better
society for all.
If you're up for it, go to the Cube any Friday at 5:45 p.m. -
until justice is served, anyway - and get a ride to the protest
at Andiamo. Or talk to the janitors on campus to see what's
ailing them (trust me, it won't take long) and then stage a
protest against the administration. Join SOLE in their fight
for sweat-free University apparel. Or work with a union
over the summer and help organize workers yourself. Craft
policy recommendations through the Roosevelt Institu-
tion and then lobby your representatives like hell until they
push those measures through. Do ityourself, if you have to.
Just remember that there has never been a better time than
now, here at the University, to act on what you believe in, to
stand up againstinjustice and to be sure there's plenty to go
around.
David Bennett is an LSA senior and co-director
of the Roosevelt Institution's Center on Urban
Planning and Community Development.

6
0
6

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.comh

Thursday, A prill1, 2010 - 5A

CENSUS
From Page 1A
" sus.
In his testimony before the Sen-
ate Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs Committee during
his confirmation hearings, Groves
said he would not use any arithme-
tic adjustments in the census.
"Statistical adjustments will not
be used for redistricting," Groves
said at the time.
During the early 1990s Groves
worked as an assistant director at
the Census Bureau. During that
time, Groves argued for the imple-
mentation of statistical adjustments
in the census because millions of
people were undercounted in the
1990 enumeration.
Lisa Neidert, a senior research
associate in the University's Popu-
lation Studies Center and a former
colleague of Groves, said he has
proven his critics wrong.
"A lot of people were skeptical of
the fact that he's a statistical expert,
a sampling expert," she said. "Peo-
ple were worried that the Census
was going to be making up people.
He has quieted all of the people who
were against him in Congress. They
are now realizing how good of a job
he's doing."
AsdirectoroftheCensus Bureau,
Groves said one of his primary
objectives is to raise awareness
about the Census and to encourage
people to fill out their census forms.
Groves was featured in both Time
Magazine and The Washington
Post and taped a segment for "The
Daily Show With Jon Stewart" to
promote the Census.
"A lot of my life right now is try-
ing to get the word out," Groves
said.
On campus, the Institute for
Social Research and the Office of
the Provost have been spearhead-
ing efforts to encourage students
to fill out the census. The offices
sponsored a contest for students
to produce videos that encour-
aged student participation in the
Scensus.
The University's chapter of Col-
lege Democrats won the competi-
tion and received a $1,000 prize.
With 13 entries, Neidert, who co-
chaired the competition, said that
though none of the videos have
gone viral, the competition was a
success in terms of raising aware-
ness.
"The winningvideos were pretty
much chosen by popular vote and
the reason we did that is whoever
created the videos would try to get
their friends, classmates, etc. to
vote for them and that spread the
word a lot better than this middle-
aged committee sitting around
choosing what the best videos are,"
Neidert said.
Neidert said the reason the ISR
chose to sponsor the video contest
is because census participation
among college students is typically
very low, resulting in too low of a
population count in college towns
like Ann Arbor.
Data from the Census Bureau's
website showed that, as of yester-
day, only about 30 percent of all
households in student neighbor-
hoods in Ann Arbor had returned
their census forms, compared to
about 60 percent of households in
other areas of Ann Arbor.
Groves said he thinks the reason
many students don't complete the
census is because they are unsure
whether they should fill out a form

for themselves, or whether their
parents should include them on
their census.
"If you think about it, most of
IFC
From Page 1A
addition to the existing bylaws was
necessary.
"It's definitely going to ben-
efit the safety of our social events
when there are men and women
accountable," Altman said. "I
think it was a little lopsided
before. It's exciting to see that
sororities and Panhel want to help
out and raise their accountability."
LSA junior Tarin Krzywosink-
si, Panhel vice president of the
social responsibility committee,
said the passing of the policy is a
"baby step in the right direction"
to women being more accountable
at these events.
She added that she thinks the
policy will be successful despite
any initial resistance, once every-
one involved gets on the same
page. Krzywosinski said fraterni-
ties may not engage with sorori-
ties that refuse to provide liaisons,
compelling cooperation between
the two groups.
According to a Dec. 2, 2009
article in The Michigan Daily,
some national boards of sororities
are hesitant to have sororities take
on increased responsibilities -
and liability - at parties.
"I feel like there might be some
resistance at first, but this policy
is kind of going to be reinforcing,"
Krzywosinski said.

college students, last decade, their
parents filled out their census form
(and) they were at home," Groves
said. "For the first time, for many of
them, they're on their own - either
in the dorm or off campus - and
it's their responsibility for the first
time. So it's a new request that the
country is making of them and
that's a real reason, I think, for the
undercount."
Individuals - including people
who are not United States citizens
- are required to fill out a census
form at the location where they live
for a majority of the year.
But thatburden will be lessened
this year as the Census is using a
shorter form than in the past.
Typically, there has been a long
form and short form. This year
though, the Census only has the
short form, which is comprised of
10 questions.
William Frey, a University
research professor and a senior
fellow at the Metropolitan Policy
Program at the Brookings Insti-
tute in Washington, D.C. said the
shorter form is conducive to higher
participation and makes it easier
for census officials to obtain basic
information on the populace.
"They felt that the census form,
just being the short form rather
than the long form, would be easier
to administer and much easier for
respondents," Frey said.
Frey said the change was likely
the result of pressure from constit-
uents who contacted government
officials with complaints about the
longer form.
"They got, I think, a little bit of
political pushback, negative politi-
cal response," Freyexplained. "Peo-
ple called up their congresspeople
and so forth saying, 'Why are we
getting these long forms to fill out.
It's abigimposition on me.'"
An even shorter form will be dis-
tributed to students living in resi-
dence halls. Every student living
in a residence hall needs to fill out
a census form, but students living
off campus only need to fill out one
form per household.
University Housing spokesman
Peter Logan said census forms will
be delivered to students in the resi-
dence halls today. They should be
turned in to each residence hall's
community center, Logan said.
Census officials will be in every
University residence hall today to
distribute the forms, Logan said.
He went on to say that each census
staffer will receive a list of all the
students living in the hall.
"They will obtain a very simple
roster from each residence hall
leader who is assigned to do this,"
Logan said. "This roster is simply,
and no more than, a list of students
living in that residence hall on
April 1 by name and room number.
There is no other information pro-
vided."
If all forms are not in by April 8,
Logan said census officials would
return to the residence halls and
knock on doors to obtain the infor-
mation.
Logan said multiple e-mails
have been sent to students to
remind them of the census. He
added that an e-mail was sent to
the parents of every student to let
them know that students need to
fill out their own census form and
should not be included on their
parents' form.
"It's vital that everyonebe count-

ed," Logan said. "And don't think
that the parents are going to count
them on the form that goes to the
parental home address. We really
need the students to fill out the
forms they get right here in Ann
Arbor."
During the meeting, concerns
were raised in regard to the poten-
tial absence of sororities at social
events with mandatory liaison
participation. Some of the chap-
ter presidents at the meeting said
they were unsure if the amend-
ment would be beneficial to the
IFC members.
Davis said he doesn't think that
sorority withdrawal represents
a "realistic concern" and that he
hopes sorority nationals will not
hold charters against "a concept
that is making their own mem-
bers, their brothers and their sis-
ters, safer."
Krzywosinski said the con-
cern of the women not wanting to
cooperate will "never happen."
"Sororities want to party with
fraternities and fraternities want
to party with sororities," Krzy-
wosinski said. "It's going to be a
mutual thing. Everyone is going
to end up doing it in the long run.
You're not going to have a chapter
that's not going to participate."
LSA junior Mike Miniaci, IFC
vice president of the social respon-
sibility committee, said there
should not be any doubts of the
amendment's benefits to the IFC.
"This policy is just great for
implementing safety," Miniaci
said. "Having two liaisons at
events can't hurt. We'll use the
rest of the semester as a trial run,
and we'll be in full force for Wel-
come Week in the fall."

Dean Dolan's legacy in building
renovation, curriculum change

From Page 1A
view on the world to come along
and have their chance to mold the
school,"' Dolan said.
Having thought about this
decision over the past year, Dolan
said he first told University Pro-
vost Teresa Sullivan last summer
that he was considering not serv-
ing another term.
He then discussed his decision
with University President Mary
Sue Coleman this academic year.
Dolan said both Sullivan and
Coleman asked him to recon-
sider.
"I was pleased that they were
both happy enough with the job
that I've done that they both
thought, 'Gee it would be great if
you stayed on for another couple
of years,"' he said. "So it was nice
having that reaction from both of
them."
Dolan said that, to his knowl-
edge, a search process hasn't yet
begun to find a new dean, and
that he presumes Sullivan and
Philip Hanlon, the University's
vice provost for academic and
budgetary affairs - who will be
stepping into Sullivan's position
come July - will begin putting
together a search committee this
summer, with the interviews tak-
ing place early in the fall semes-
ter.
Dolan also said he hasn't made
any decisions yet about what he'll
do after he leaves, adding that
he'll start considering his options
this summer.
Dolan said one of the things
he is most proud to have accom-
plished during his time as dean
is changing the Business School's
educational approach to one that
focuses more on "action-based
learning."
Cultivating the Multidisci-
plinary Action Projects program
- in which first-year MBA stu-
dents participate in real-world
projects, many times abroad,
during March and April - is a
component of this education-
al outlook that Dolan said has
become a distinctive feature of
the school.
"It's really become sort of the
signature element of the school,
that we're known for this," Dolan
said. "And it's the way we differ-
entiate ourselves to say that we
really think in terms of develop-
ing leadership capabilities."
Kathleen Sutcliffe, associate
dean for research and faculty at
the Business School, said Dolan's
success as dean can be seen by the
fact that he was able to implement
the action-based learning pro-
gram - something that previous
deans had tried to do, but weren't
able to accomplish.
"He's really solidified our iden-
tity in away, as being a school that
is really grounded in this idea of
leading in thought and action and
action-based learning," Sutcliffe
said.
The Business School's new
building is also a main highlight
of Dolan's work as dean, Sutcliffe
said.
With its $145 million price

COURTESY OF TH ESTEPHEN M. ROSS SCHOOL OF SUSINE
Business School Dean Bob Dolan teaches a class earlier this year. Dolan announced yesterday that he plans to step aside from
his post after finishing his second term, which ends in the summer of 20t.

tag - $100 million of which cov-
ered by a donation from Stephen
M. Ross - the building was con-
structed from May 2006 to Janu-
ary 2009, when it opened for use.
"We all believed the building
is critical to create the learning
environment that we want," Sut-
cliffe said.
Dolan said the new building
has created a space that encom-
passes the school's action-based
learning philosophy.
"I honestly do believe the
facilities in which you conduct
your programs can have a major
impact on those programs if you
build them right," he said.
Though the project required
the relocation of many faculty
offices, Dolan said everyone
cooperated and that the final
outcome of the facility has been
extremely rewarding.
"The way it supports the kind
of interaction amongst our stu-
dents that we had really hoped
for and built for in the first place,
that's been a tremendously satis-
fying thing for me," he said.
Susan Ashford, director of the
Business School's Executive MBA
Program, said the new building
allows for students to collabo-
rate and become future business
leaders, things that Dolan highly
values.
"He really created a building
that supported that strategy,"
Ashford said.
Fred Feinberg, Hallman Fel-
low and professor of marketing,
said the construction of the new
building was a huge undertaking
and that many people thought
Dolan was a little "nuts" for doing
it.
"A lot of people thought that
he was nuts, nuts in a good way;
like who would undertake this
enormous job ..." Feinberg said.,
"It's not part of the usual dean's
job; they have enough to do and
he said 'No, we're going to go for
it.' And it was perfect. I mean
there was not a single glitch in the
entire project. I can't imagine (it)
having been worked out better
than he did it."
Dolan's push for recruit-

ing and retaining the highest
performing faculty members, as
well as his encouragement of and
providing resources for faculty
research, also make him a stand-
out dean, Feinberg said.
"Even though we were a very
strong school, every group that I
know has gotten quite a bit stron-
ger," he said.
Feinberg said he first got to
know Dolan 20 years ago when
Dolan asked him to review a
paper that was submitted to a
marketing and finance journal
for which Dolan was an editor.
Feinberg said this was significant
to him, as Dolan chose him to be
a reviewer even though he was a
Ph.D. student at the time.
"He kind of chose me to do
something that required a lot of
expertise, even when I was kind
of unknown and I thought that
was very nice of him," Feinberg
said.
Though Dolan was unsure
whether the search committee
will choose a new dean internally
or externally, he said the Business
School's next leader should have
a "vision" for the future educa-
tion of the school, in addition to a
global outlook.
"I think the most important
thing is somebody who really has
a compelling vision for maintain-
ing influence of the school," he
said.
Sutcliffe - who said she wasn't
surprised by Dolan's decision to
step down next year as it's a pret-
ty standard length of time - said
she feels lucky to have worked
with Dolan, who has been an
"inspiring" leader, and that he's
going to be "a hard act to follow."
"But I trust that we're going
to find somebody who's great to
carry us moving forward in this
century," Sutcliffe said. "I feel
really. confident that we'll find
someone to carry on his legacy."
Like Dolan, Ashford said
she expects the next dean to be
"globally oriented," in addition
to being "creative and entrepre-

neurial."
While she said she will be sad
to see Dolan go, Ashford said
changing leadership will be a
chance for the school to continue
to work toward its goals.
"Well, you know, leadership
transitions are both a hardship
for a school and an opportunity,"
Ashford said. "While we'll be
sad over losing Dean Dolan, you
know, we need to keep our focus
on how to create and take advan-
tage of it as an opportunity for
us to grow and continue to move
forward."
While Feinberg said there
aren't any "glaring problems" the
new dean will have to deal with,
he said he or she will have to fig-
ure out a strategy of coming into
"a really dynamic organization
that has a lot of moving parts."
The next dean will "have big
shoes to fill," he said.
Previously a professor at the
University of Chicago and Har-
vard Business School, Dolan said
his time at the University has
been "enormously satisfying"
because of the relationships he's
created working with members of
the Business School community
including alumni.
"I just kind of woke up every
day energized by it and it was a
whole new set of challenges for
me that I never had as a profes-
sor," Dolan said. "Just the energy
and kind of personal growth that
you can experience when you're
taking on new things. It was ter-
rific."
Dolan said he'll miss the "fabu-
lous energy of Ann Arbor," as well
as working with students and
alumni.
"It's been great. My wife and
I live in a house that's an eight-
minute walk from school and
down the street from a sorority,
so not too in the middle of soror-
ity-fraternity land, but pretty
close by," Dolan said. "And so the
fabulous energy of being in this
great college town I guess would
be a bie thing that I would miss."

for your car
* Free taxi back to campus
" 24/7 drop off/ pick-up
* Family owned
flT \ esiials
r co r-,v ProAutoTethsxcom 734665.9707
H,-,.M


6A - Thursday, April 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *

1 BDRM CONDO FOR SALE,-
CLEAN QUIET $65000. 2317 Packard
Rd (734) 930-0200.

665-8825

FOR RENT
! ! 4 BDRM. CONDO
Aug 2010. North campus. Free utils.,
A/C, ldry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV, DSL. $695/person/mo.
Call 313-830-2629.
AVAILABLE MAY & Fall. Stu-
dios, one and two bedroom apartments
located on U/M Campus. Heat, water,
and prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty,
734-662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.-
com for more info.
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
u$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilitiest
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icc.coop
!FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
11. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.comt
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking
Call 734-944-2405.
!! ROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net

Have you heard the news?
THE COURTYARDS
IS PRE-LEASING FOR FALL
2010!
*WAIVED APP FEES!
*FREE RENT
*PAID UTITLIIES/
*WASHER/DRYER IN UNIT!
*$300-76 FREE REST!
*ON ORTII CAMPUS!
COURTARDNNS
S D E e' 5 A5 R55MENi
780 Broadway
734 994 6007
CENTRAL CAMPUS!!!!!!!!
APTS. AT UNBELIEVEABLE
SAVINGS
Discounted rates plus lots of extras
for free.
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus. Heat, water, park-
itg ml, fully furnished, perfect sum-
mer loca7i4ns Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100.
*****AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E.
Liberty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5
min walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
*2-BEDROOMS** TWO Central
Campus locations on S. Forest, Free
WiFi, new kitchens and baths, heat, wa-
ter, furnishings, and parking incl. Var-
sity Management (734) 668-1100.
**3-BEDROOM** ACROSS St. from
CCRB, close to Arboretum, great bal-
cony, large living room, heat, water,
furnishings, parking ml. Varsity Man-
agement (734) 668-1100.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768

The Choice isYours!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ 1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Townhome
+ WIFI Ready
+ AATA Bus Line
+ 24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible Lease Terms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
+ Pool & Sauna
+ Pets Welcome
+ Continental Breakfast every Wed.
s Concierge Resident Service
f Business Center
+ Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
+ Roommate Leases Available
+ Hospitality Apartment
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
> 734-663-7633
*Amenities Varyby Property
www.WoodburyGardens.com
**4-BEDROOMS** BEAUTIFUL
Burns Park mansion - converted into
enormous apartments with room for 5
or 6! Heat, water, furnishings, and
parking incl. Dishwashers, on-site laun-
dry, screened porch and a large yard!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL:
514 Lawrence- 6 bdrm house. Price
just reduced. $2,695. 2 bath, free high
speed intemet, easy access to central
campus, nursing, medical and dental
schools. D/W and laundry. Parking
available. Call Campus Mgt. 734-663-
4101.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
ApartmentsvAvailab/e]

HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar-2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
Ann Arbor- (888) 883-7083 . www.sciofarms.com
Ypsilanti- (888) 310-6850 . www.4lakeview.com

Los Angeles Times Daily C
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyct
ACROSS 83 Scorch slightly 31 Collec
1 Start o atbrill- 84 Farmyard temale 33 Bygor
seeker's mantra 65 More ofnthe anest
8 More of the mantra 34 Rom
mantra 66 More oftthe ofnthe
15 Conductor's mantra 36 Mass
nickname 67 More of the perha
16 European car mantra 37 Erath
company with a 1957
prancing horse DOWN 38 More
logo 1 More oftthe mantr
17 Government mantra 39 Likes
heave-hos 2 Blamed clothe
18 "Million Dollar 3 "Whatever you
Baby Oscar say, honey ANSW
winner 4 Bone: Pref.
19 Shoppe sign 5 Mountain West A M A
adjective Conference L O L
20 Set one's sights athlete P O L
on, with "at" 6 Deck out H B A
22 Big ape 7 More optimistic A E H
23 Artery: Abbr. 8 Decadent
24 Poet who won 9 Unlikely class
the 1923 Nobel presidents R A F
Prize for 10 Mine find E C O
Literature 11 Hike A M O
25Juan's uncle 12 "Raging Bull" M E TI
26 Piles boxer
29 Reuben bread 13 Shiraz resident P
30 Giant 14More of the A B A
32 Percentage on a mantra V E R
bank sign 21 Might O T TI
34 2007-'08 NBA 27 Kitchen spray N E S
Rookie of the 28 Hoards
Year Kevin 30 Root vegetables xwordedi
35 Trig, e.g. 1 2 3 a 5 7
37 Letteropening
38Sounds ot 15
hesitation
41 Demure 17
42 Rotate, asa a T 20
camera
43 Casual "I'll pass" 29 a
46 Floor exercise
surface 25 z7 an 2 2
47 "For_ a jolly..."
48 "StrWars" saga 32 33
nickname
49 Corrida shout 35 35
50OAtthe ready 39 39 an a1
52 Tablet alernative
54 Dungeons & 4an 4
Dragons
creatures s 51
55 Farmyard female
57SKept 54 55 5
58 Bandleader
Puentne n
59 Step
61 _ Mason: asset 52 93
management m nn
giant
62 Nabokovs title 3e liSeert
proessor (c)2010 Tribune Media Services, inc.

rossword Puzzle
e Nichols Lewis
cion agcy.? 40 Commence
)e 43_litche
hetic 44Fast, to a 15-
an goddess Across
hunt 45 More oflthe
reaction, - mantra
ps 51 Tea of "Ghost
hat began in Town"
53 Actress Hayek
of the 56 Left
ra 59 Sound of
ome drying disapproval
es 60 German article
'ER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
T B A T H D I S C O
A E CH O A L OU D
L T H I N F L U T E
L T H Y S E L F L E S
E R E D E I S M
S I S S Y D E P U T E
T D E E M S A S H A
B A WL O U T I R R
C O S P A N S C U P
E O R S T A H L
O S E S B E A T i T
T O W A W A Y Z O N E
G E A L I T E L B A
E R L A K E R E E K
T S E N I D S T D S
tor@aol.com 03/31/10
E8 9 1 4 11 12 13014
E18
E18
25
30 31
34
37
42 43 44 45
48 49
52 s53
84
04/01/10

lwww.lurtonbrook.com, 734-665-56201
**BUSINESS & LAW SCHOOL**
Huge 2-bdrms one block south, cov-
ered parking, new kitchens and baths,
heat, water, furnishings, and parking
incl Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by April
15th. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Qud. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
315 EAST LIBERTY Apartments and
lofts. Completely remodeled. Great lo-
catioe. Day phone: 734-662-7888,
Evening Phone (after 5:30): 734-995-
2433.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.5
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
PRESENTS THE
nldine Classified
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

I-Univ-rsity
Think outside the Box (dorms)
Think U. Towers
Affordable Apartments
Hurry in for Best Selection
Right now we have a few apartments
atVery Special Low Rates
*call for more details
Visit us at
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home away from home
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
6 Bed 2 Bath at State and Hoover avail
Sept 1, 2010. $3750 + elec, parking,
free heat, coin laundry 734-668-6686
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
Hurry infor BestSelection
Right now we have a few apartments at
Very Special Low Rates
Visit us at univeitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Four home awayfrom home
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, Mt 48160
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 HillISt. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion.r f I drm.,and 2 bdrm. apt.s/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely CL.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking icluded. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms apts. Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.jmsprop.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail, on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postraltyproperies.com
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010
1028 Fuller- Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.

Furimshed, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
heat, water and parking included. Call
Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FALL 2010 ! 1 bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
FALL 2010 7 Bedroom 3 bath house.
Free parking. $3200 per month. 1207
Prospect. Call Brian 734-260-6836.
*Broadview Apartments
" Spacious I bedroom apartments
" Spacious 2 bedrooms with masterbath
"Shbstl1 arousnd campus
"'Lareprivate balconies
with woodedlviews
'Pets welcome
"Models Open Daily
7419300
A 1, '4 IEXTENDED HOURS)
www.annarborapartments.net

Lots ofAmenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly'
UofM Disomunts!
- 9
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michgandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdar. aps (over 1100 sqft. each)
Cll David at 248.935.2159 or email
81a5SouthStateManagers@umichedu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm apt.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
HOUSE FOR FALL small company
offers 7 bedroom at South U. and
Wshetenuw $4000and 6 bedroom at
1115 SouthsForest $2700. Eight month
leases possible. 734-260-4003.
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter inc. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
LIVE ON A LAKE. Recently reno-
vated furnished 2 bedroom 2 bath
home. Available for Fall. 20 minutes to
campus. $995/month plus utilities. Call
313-363-9484.
MAY TO MAY Leases
3 Bedrooms "Park Plaza"
1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates
734-761-8000
primesh.com
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic campus, Law &
Business schools. Groups or individual.
SINGLE RM LEASES. $580/bdrm &
up. SIX-BD RM UNITS $3,480.00 and
up 734-418-2050
www.828greeneaps.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"BNG RATES
Eff, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com

WWW.800FULLERCOM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

WORK ON MACKINAC tsland, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
GROUNDS MAINTENANCE
STAFF working on course at Stone
Bridge Golf Club call 734-429-8383.
HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for healthy women
between the ages of 21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 for their involvement
in our program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.
IMMEDIATE POSITIONS FOR
full-time drivers. Dedicted routes/home
daily. Full Benefits including 401K,
medical, dental & vision. Cdl class A
required. 2 years experience good mvr
call 419-305-4643
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
PRO SHOP STAFF cart attendants
contact Stone Bridge Golf Club at 734-
429-8383.
SERVERS BAR/GRILL BEER cart
banquets at Stone Bridge Golf Club
call 734-429-8383 for more info.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
TEMPORARY HELP NEEDED for
student moving & storage company
now through end of finals week.
Contact Jeremy at
jeremy@studentstoragesolutions.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

s

OCCASIONAL BABYSITTER
NEEDED in Commerce Township (30
min from Ann Arbor) for 3 kids (4, 1
and infant) of U-M staff. Nonsmoker.
Own transportation required. Contact
Please Catherine at cbsum@umich.edu.

0

!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus and Downtown.
Heat, water, parking incl., fully fur-
nished, perfect summer sublease! Var-
sity Management (734) 668-1100.
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

he. n '

0
0

L-


T

Thursday, Aprill1, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, April 1, 2010 -

. Pope says sex scandal is a test
Bishops across
Europe call for
reform measuress__

To compensate
for budget cuts,
UMMA may cut
some programs

amidst controversy
VATICAN CITY (AP) - Pope
Benedict XVI sees the priestly
sex scandal as a "test for him and
the church," his spokesman said
Wednesday, as bishops around
Europe used Holy Week's solemn
call for penitence to announce new
pledges of transparency in dealing
with the abuse of children.
Swiss bishops urged victims
to consider filing criminal com-
plaints. German bishops opened a
hot line for victims. Danish bishops
launched an inquiry into decades-
old claims. And Austria's senior
cleric, Cardinal Christophe Schoen-
born, admitted church guilt as he
presided over a service for victims
billed as asign ofrepentance.
"Thank you for breaking your
silence," Schoenborn told the vic-
tims. "A lot has been broken open.
There is less looking away. But
there is still a lot to do."
A week after Pope Benedict XVI
excoriated Irish bishops for gross
errors of judgment in handling
cases of priests who rape children,
European bishops one after anoth-
er admitted to mistakes, reached
out to victims and promised to act
when theylearn about abuse.
Their mea culpas and pledges to
be more open and cooperative with
police echoed American bishops'
initial responses when the U.S.
priest-abuse scandal emerged in
2002. They come amid mounting
public outrage over a new wave of
abuse claims across Europe and
what victims say has been a pat-
tern of cover-up by bishops and the
Vatican itself.
And they were all announced
during the most solemn week of the
church's liturgical calendar. As the
Swiss bishops noted Wednesday,

Pope Benedict XVI acknowledges the crowd yesterday during his weekly general audience, in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican.
The Pope has called the recent sex scandal a "test for him and the church," while some bishops have urged reform.

Holy Week is a period of penance,
when the faithful are supposed to
admit their guilt, examine wrong-
doing, find ways to improve and
ask God and people for forgiveness.
Benedicthimselfwas experienc-
ing a Holy Week of "humility and
penitence," Vatican spokesman the
Rev. Federico Lombardi told The
Associated Press.
Asked how Benedict was
responding to the scandal swirl-
ing around the Vatican, Lombardi
replied: "The pope is a person of
faith. He sees this as a test for him
and the church."
Lombardi stressed, though, that
the 82-year-old pontiff was holding
up fine physically during the gruel-
ing Holy Week schedule.
Benedict is to celebrate an eve-
ning Holy Thursday service in
which he will wash the feet of 12
priests in a symbol of humility.
The service commemorates Jesus'
washing the feet of his 12 apostles
before the Last Supper.

After presiding over the Good
Friday Way of the Cross com-
memoration at Rome's torch-lit
Coliseum, Benedict will celebrate a
late-night Easter Vigil on Saturday
and then Easter on Sunday, when
the faithful commemorate Jesus'
resurrection - a time of rebirth
and renewal.
On Wednesday, the church
offered its highest-level official
response yet to one of the most
explosive recent stories regarding
sex abuse, on the church's decision
in the 1990s not to defrock a Wis-
consin priest accused of molesting
deaf boys.
Cardinal William Levada, pre-
fect of the Congregation for the
Doctrine of the Faith, said in an
article posted on the Vatican's Web
site that a lengthy trial for the Rev.
Lawrence Murphy would have
been "useless" because the priest
was dying by the time his diocese
initiated a canonical trial.
Levada was critical of The New

York Times, which first published
details of the decision last week.
He said the paper wrongly used the
case to find find fault in Benedict's
handling of abuse cases. A Times
spokeswoman defended the arti-
cles and said no one has cast doubt
on the reported facts.
While clerical abuse has for
years roiled the church in the U.S.
and Ireland, mainland Europe
woke up to the issue in its back-
yard earlier this year with the first
wave of reports from Benedict's
native Germany that boys had been
abused at a church-run school.
Since then, hundreds of people
have come forward with claims of
abuse - most dating back decades
- in Austria, Switzerland, the
Netherlands and elsewhere.
Swiss bishops were taking
Holy Week's intentions to heart
in admitting Wednesday they had
underestimated the problem. They
are now telling victims to consider
filing criminal complaints.

Bush wiretapping program takes
a hit in recent California ruling

From Page 1A
place for the arts, which is what
this building was built for," Huss
said.
Huss said the museum has
surpassed its attendance goals,
as they have already had more
than 250,000 visitors.
Ruth Slavin, interim co-direc-
tor and education director at
UMMA, said the first year has
been "fantastic" due to the scope
of the programs the museum
has offered to both the public
and students. Over this year,
the museum has hosted classes,
exhibitions, film programs and
many concerts, Slavin said.
But Slavin said the success
of the museum would not have
been possible without the initial
enthusiasm of the students at the
student opening.
"I think that success really
started at the very beginning,"
Slavin said.
Mary DeYoe, education pro-
gram coordinator at UMMA,
said the museum's one year cel-
ebration entitled "1 year, Many
Voices," will reflect the influ-
ence students have had on the
museum.
In preparation for the event,
students were asked to "respond
creatively" to an art piece from
the museum, DeYoe said. The
winning contributor's work will
be displayed along with student
performances, and films made by
students.
"We felt like it got students
engaged with the works of art,"
De~oe said.
Bob Bohlen, chair of UMMA's
National Advisory Board, said
the museum has also been
helped by the support of donors.
Bohlen was also chair of the
museum's capital campaign - a
five-year effort to finance the
expansion and reopening of the
museum - that raised almost
$100 million.
Bohlen said he and his wife
- who have an African art gal-
SAPAC
From Page 1A
video created by SAPAC called "A
Common Voice," which told sto-
ries of survivors of sexual assaults
and proposed various tools to help
avoid situations and environments
conducive to such crimes.
University Vice President for
Student Affairs Royster Harper
opened the event by discussing the
importance of bringing awareness
to the issue of sexual assault.
"Breaking the silence around
sexual violence is a critical strat-
egy and prevention," Harper said.
"Part of our gathering today is one
more way in which we can end or
continue to break the silence. Our
ability to create a safe community,
to hold perpetrators responsible
for his or her crime, requires that
we shift our conversations from
how he or she let that happen, to
how we, as a community, let that
happen."
Harper also highlighted the
importance of SAPAC's role on
campus as an organization that
promotes a community that doesn't
allow sexual violence.
"(SAPAC has) worked hard to
create programs and services, to

lery in the museum named after
them - donated to the museum
to aid the educational experience
it gives to students.
"I donated because I thought
that was a great way to have stu-
dents on the campus experience
and get them into a museum,"
Bohlen said.
But Bohlen said future dona-
tions may be hard to come by
if the economy continues to
decline.
"In this economic climate in
Michigan, donations are going to
be harder to get," he said.
Stephanie Rieke Miller, exter-
nal relations manager and senior
writer for UMMA, wrote in an
e-mail interview that despite
Michigan's economy, they are
hopeful that the donations will
continue.
"We anticipate that our cur-
rent donors and new prospects
will be engaged by the new
UMMA and support our ongo-
ing and future program needs,"
Miller wrote.
Private support will become
increasingly important for the
museum, with the expected bud-
get shortfall Miller said.
Huss said that though some
of the budget cuts are due to
the economy, much of the bud-
get decline is due the "unusual"
first year they have had, with
the launch of many new pro-
grams and costs of new exhibi-
tions.
To offset the financial impacts,
Huss said the museum will not
be filling any open or vacant jobs
and will also be reducing the
number of programs provided.
The reduction is also an effort to
make sure all the programs are
"high quality," uss said.
Despite future budgetary con-
straints, Slavin said the museum
has adapted well to the economic
conditions.
"Budgets are tight everywhere
on campus and we have done
amazing things with very little
money," Slavin said.
implement institutional policies,
and to create legislative initiatives
that truly can make a difference."
Moreno lauded SAPAC's con-
tinuous efforts to help reach out to
those victims of sexual assault -
currently the most underreported
crime in the country.
"It is one of the premiere pro-
grams, which is why the attorney
general asked that I visit this cam-
pus inrecognitionofthegreatwork
that is being done here," Moreno
said. "It is a comprehensive pro-
gram, it has early intervention, it
brings together not only SAPAC
but also folks who deal with health
and housing issues."
Magee added that efforts are
being made by the Department
of Public Safety to enable the col-
lection of data on sexual assault
crimes for analysis while main-
taining the anonymity of sexual
assault victims.
"We work collaboratively with
SAPAC and other entities on cam-
pus to develop an anonymous
report form," Magee said. "A lot of
input went into creating that form
where we can capture the spirit of
reporting statistical data and be
able to talk frankly about sexual
assaults and statistics that sur-
round sexual assault."

Federal judge rules
that wire taps of
0 Islamic charity, U.S.
lawyer were illegal
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - In a
repudiation of the Bush admin-
istration's now-defunct terrorist
surveillance effort, a federal judge
ruled Wednesday that govern-
ment investigators illegally wire-
tapped the phone conversations of
an Islamic charity and two Amer-
ican lawyers without a search
warrant.
U.S. District Court Judge
Vaughn Walker said the plain-
tiffs provided enough evidence
to show "they were subjected to
warrantless electronic surveil-
lance" by the National Security
Agency.
The judge's 45-page ruling
focused narrowly on the case
involving the Al-Haramain Islam-
ic Foundation, touching vaguely
on the larger question of the pro-
gram's legality.
Nonetheless, Al-Haramain
lawyer Jon Eisenberg said the rul-
ing had larger implications.
"By virtue of finding what the
Bush administration did to our
clients was illegal, he found that
the Terrorist Surveillance Pro-
gram was unlawful," Eisenberg
said.
President Bush authorized the
surveillance program shortly
after 9/11, allowing NSA officials

to bypass the courts and inter-
cept electronic communications
believed connected to al-Qaida.
Generally, government inves-
tigators are required to obtain
search warrants signed by judges
to eavesdrop on domestic phone
calls, e-mail traffic and other
electronic communications.
At issue Wednesday was a 2006
lawsuit filed by the Ashland, Ore.,
branch of the Saudi-based foun-
dation and two American lawyers
Wendell Belew and Asim Ghafoor.
Belew and Ghafoor claimed
their 2004 phone conversations
with foundation official Soliman
al-Buthi were wiretapped with-
out warrants soon after the Trea-
sury Department had declared
the Oregon branch a supporter of
terrorism. They argued that wire-
taps installed without a judge's
authorization are illegal.
It was the last active case pend-
ing before a trial judge challeng-
ing the wiretapping program that
ended in 2007.
"The ruling ends the case, but
without the fireworks everyone
expected," George Washington
University law professor Orin
Kerr said. "It ended with a whim-
per."
The plaintiffs were seeking $1
million each, plus attorney fees
in the case. Walker ordered more
legal arguments before deciding
on possible damages.
The ruling came after U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder said
the lawsuit threatened to expose
ongoing intelligence work and

must be thrown out.
In making the argument, the
Obama administration agreed
with the Bush administration's
position on the case but insisted
it came to the decision differently.
Holder's effort to stop the law-
suit marked the first time the
administration has tried to invoke
the state secrets privilege. Under
the strategy, the government can
have a lawsuit dismissed if hear-
ing the case would jeopardize
national security.
Holder said Judge Walker had
been given a classified description
of why the case must be dismissed
so the court could "conduct its
own independent assessment of
our claim."
That was a departure from
the Bush administration, which
resisted providing specifics to
judges handling such cases about
what the national security con-
cerns were.
Holder previously said the
administration would respect the
outcome of Walker's review.
Eisenberg called on the Obama
administration to accept Wednes-
day's ruling and forgo any appeals.
"We are reviewing it," Depart-
ment of Justice spokeswoman
Tracy Schmaler said.
In June, Judge Walker tossed
out more than three dozen law-
suits against the nation's tele-
communications companies for
allegedly taking part in the pro-
gram.
Congress in 2008 agreed
on new surveillance rules that

included protection from legal
liability for telecommunications
companies that allegedly helped
the U.S. spy on Americans with-
out warrants.
Walker previously upheld the
constitutionality of the new sur-
veillance rules. His ruling is being
appealed.
Anthony Coppolino, the U.S.
Department of Justice lawyer
who has been in charge of the
Islamic Foundation case under
both administrations, has never
addressed the legality of the wire-
tap program.
Coppolino has always argued
the case should be tossed out in
the name of national security
and said the government risked
exposing ongoing intelligence
work if the lawsuit were allowed
to proceed.
The government argued that its
"state secret privilege" trumped
the Foreign Intelligence Surveil-
lance Act, known as FISA, which
requires investigators to seek
wiretap approval from a special
court that convenes behind closed
doors.
Coppolino refused to even
discuss whether such a secret
warrant existed, arguing that to
confirm or deny would threaten
national security.
On Wednesday, the judge said
the government was wrong and
ruled that it should be assumed
investigators lackecd a warrant.
"FISA takes precedence over
the state secrets privilege in this
case," Walker wrote.

I

I

H&R BLOCK-

Today's Career Tip:
Your online presence should give visitors
a real sense of who you are.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN



0

8A - Thursday, April 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

a

WNIT RUN ENDS IN SEMIS
After historicIWNT Youth was a problem,
wins, Blue falls short but it's also the answer

Despite demolishing
other WNIT teams,
'M' fails to stop
dynamic 'Cane duo
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Junior guard Veronica Hicks
left the_
press con- MIAMI 76
ference MICHIGAN 59
in tears
after last night's 76-59 Women's
National Invitational Tournament
Final Four loss to Miami.
Hicks' face was telling of the
disappointing finish after Michi-
gan dominated its first four oppo-
nents of the tournament, winning
by an average of 24 points per
game.
"We had so much confidence
that we could finish out in this
tournament and I think that that's
something that speaks about this
team," Hicks said. "We are a spe-
cial team. We don't care what any-
body else says about how we're
going to finish.
"We decide how we're going
to finish and that's what we came
into this season with and that's
what propelled us to the height
that we got to."
Two Miami players, sopho-
mores Shenise Johnson and
Riquna Williams scored 43 of the
Hurricanes' points, playing espe-
cially well off of each other in the
second half.
When the two combined for
three 3-pointers in two minutes
to add to the team's 9-3 run, they
sealed the victory.

"Boom, boom, boom. That was
just the game," Borseth said. "That
took the wind right out of our sails
but I thought our kids played hard
and I was very proud of them."
Michigan jumped out to a quick
13-3 lead three minutes in and
held it for most of the first half
thanks largely to the momentum
freshman guard Dayeesha Hollins
brought to the court.
She scored eight points and hit
a layup with her back to the basket
before goingto the bench with two
fouls seven minutes into the half.
Michigan was able to hold onto the
lead though, shooting 45 percent
for the half. But with five minutes
left Miami took the lead for the
first time and went into halftime
up 37-33.
The Wolverines - typically a
second-half team - never regained
the momentum. They were out-
played and outshot 45 percent to
40 percent.
Senior Krista Phillips - who led
the team with 17 points against
Northwestern last week - fouled
out with nearly four minutes
remaining in last night's game.
Phillips picked up her third and
fourth fouls within the first two
minutes of the second half and
didn't see the court again until
seven minutes remained on the
clock.
She led the team with seven
rebounds in the first half and was
a huge presence in the paint both
defensively and offensively.
"I didn't think we had a chance
unless we did that," Miami coach
Katie Meier said. "That was defi-
nitely part of the game plan. You
saw us using her off of ball screens
as much as possible, trying to get
her away from the basket, trying

to get her some fouls. It was defi-
nitely something we planned on
doing, compliments to her."
Sophomore forward Carmen
Reynolds, Michigan's best sharp-
shooter and usually a top scorer,
improved from 0-for-2 and two
points in the first to 2-for-6 from
downtown to score eight points in
the second, but it wasn't enough.
Though Michigan shot nearly
40 percent in the second half,
Williams's and Johnson's back-
to-back-to-back 3-pointers with
seven minutes left in the game
solidified a sinking feeling in
Crisler Arena: that Michigan's
offense wasn't going to get out of
its 13-point deficit.
"Their whole style of play is just
push the ball, push the ball," Hicks
said. "When you are just throwing
up three's and they're going in it's
pretty hard to stop that.
Borseth's winningest season
with the Wolverines and the pro-
gram's furthest run in a national
tournament ended last night, but
not without a fight.
And Michigan came one step
closer to being a national competi-
tor.
"I think our program's going in
the right direction," Borseth said.
"We feel good about our kids. A
year like this hopefully makes
some people stand up and take a
look at our program and say, hey
you know whatthey're for real. We
want them to look at us and think
we're a viable option to come here,
to be a competitor on the national
level.
"We are a national university
obviously and we should be able
to compete on that so years like
this I think we can use to build
that."

For many, the Women's
National Invitation Tourna-
ment is little more than a
consolation
prize. ALEX
But HERMANN
throughout its
unlikely post- On Women's
season run, Basketball
the Michigan women's basketball
team played like it was so much
more than that.
And during that run, the
Wolverines showed me so much
about themselves.
Through the first four games
of the Wolverines' postseason,
they demonstrated the ability to
play with teams outside the Big
Ten. They flexed their muscle,
beating teams to the tune of 24
points per game on average.
By making it to the WNIT
Final Four in such fashion,
Michigan even showed that it
belonged - maybe even in the
field of 64. And for a program
with six freshmen that was
picked to finish last in the Big
Ten and is arguably the worst
program historically at the uni-
versity, what more could you
really ask for?
But in Wednesday's 76-59 loss
to Miami, the Wolverines showed
- lastly and, maybe, most impor-
tantly - that youth is a problem.
The result of this youth pres-
ently and its implications for the
future are obvious converses of
each other.
But based on what happened
Wednesday, youth is obviously
what did the team in.
Nobody would say it after the
game, but as Michigan's lead
began to deteriorate after the
Wolverines jumped out to a quick
double-digit lead, the team's
confidence slowly began to erode
with it.
The Hurricanes were the
first team to match Michigan
punch for punch this postseason.
Miami matched the Wolverines'
intensity, even surpassing it, put-
ting Michigan back on its heels.
And by the time the Wolverines
snapped back into the moment,
Miami's lead was too large to
overcome.
Don't get me wrong, the Hurri-
canes played a great game. Well,
two Hurricanes played great
games.
When Miami's sophomore
guard Riquna Williams had
four three-point plays on four
straight possessions, including
three triples, you could tell she

a

MARISSA McCLAIN/Daily
Junior Veronica Hicks gets her shot blocked in Michigan's loss to Miami last night.
Hicks was one of the team's leading contributors this season.

was alr
ing the
v
go(
Th
ve
finishe
cohort,
had 33j
terfinal
dence -
reboun
And
maine:
short, b
team.

eady on her way to hav- And a veteran squad doesn't
game of her life - she lose to a team like that, at home,
in arguably the biggest game of
their lives.
This isn't a veteran team -
Vhere's the that's the bad.
But where's the good in all
)d in all this? this?
That this isn't a veteran team.
at this isn't a And that's the perplexing and
dumbfounding result of having a
:teran team . team with six freshmen.
They'll all be back. Each of
them was a part of the Wolver-
ines' second-winningest team in
d with 26 points. Her program history.
Shenise Johnson - who Four starters will return next
points in the WNIT quar- year, with the most significant
l matchup against Provi- loss being 6-foot-6 center Krista
- added 17 points and nine Phillips.
ds of her own. And to Michigan, for right now
maybe I'm selling Char- and for the future, its unlikely
Clark's double-double WNIT was more than just a con-
but that was a two-man solation. It was more like a pro-
gram builder.

I
I

Don't underestimate
Michigan softball

Graduate Practice-Ready
At UDM Law you learn and experience the law. Our curriculum requires:
rigorous writing requirements, innovative law firm courses focusing
on theory and practice, externships that teach the law as you gain
valuable work experience, and global law courses that expose you to
international legal systems. All of these requirements give our grads
the UDM advantage-being practice-ready upon graduation.
Find out more about UDM Law.
UDMLaw.com
Educating and Inspiring since 1912

Just a couple weeks ago, I con-
sidered No. 20 Illinois the class
of Big Ten
softball this LUKE
season. I pre-
dicted that PASCH
they would On Softball
surpass
expectations
and finish the regular season
with the best record in the con-
ference.
And for good reason.
At the time, the Fighting Illini
were opening up BigTen play with
a 23-3 record. Their two starting
pitchers rivaled the dominance
of Michigan's own starters. And
sophomore hurler Monica Perry is
returning from a 2009 campaign
in which she set the program's sin-
gle-season strikeout record (yes, as
a freshman).
Their lineup, from top to bot-
tom, is downright scary.
It leads off with a .411 hitter,
who's then followed by a.419
hitter. By the time the middle of
the order bats in the first inning,
there's roughly an 80 percent
chance there's already a runner
on base, begging to be knocked
home.
And who better to bringthem
home than Illinois's clean-up hit-
ter Meredith Hackett, who's hit-
ting a Big Ten second-best average
at.427 and is fourth-best ina BI
with 28?
On paper, the team is nearly

flawless. Even more so than No. 2 including last season's Women's
Michigan (1-0 Big Ten, 24-5 over- College World Series.
all). Illinois's two premier pitchers
And last weekend, Illinois are both underclassmen - a fresh-
came to Ann Arbor to play what I man and a sophomore.
thoughtwould be one of the more And you could see it when you
competitive series of the season for read the body language of the play-
the Wolverines. ers on the field.
But it didn'tturn out that way. You could see it when Michigan
Not even close. senior Nikki Nemitz jumped early
The Wolverines manhandled on a fourth-inning-pitch and land-
the Fighting Illini in a 7-1 blowout ed it foul on the roof of the Indoor
victory. And I was forced to re- Track and Field Building a good
100 feet beyond the left field fence.
As the home crowd gasped in dis-
I was forced to belief, Nemitz stepped back into
the box with an ear-to-ear grin on
reevaluate my her face, eagerto straighten out
the nextpitch.
initial thoughts. The Illinois hurler was still
baby-stepping back to the mound,
seemingly confused as to how any-
one could hit a softball that far.
evaluate my initial thoughts. But this group of Wolverine
How is it that Michigan was softball players has witnessed
able to dismantle every aspect of plenty of that. This group has seen
Illinois's game? more and done more than any
How did they send Perry pack- other team in the Big Ten. There
ing after just two innings of work? are no freshmen starters on this
And how did junior pitcher Jordan team..
Taylor allow just five hits in a com- As we approach the beginning
plete game effort to limitone of the of April, the softball squad enters
best lineups in the country? the most important two-month
Upon reflection, the answer is stretch of play leading up to the
really quite simple. WCWS.
Michigan is far and away a more And once again Michigan's
battle-tested and experienced experience should propel them to
team. They've played together best Illinois and the rest of the Big
for longer than Illinois has. And Ten by the time the postseason
they've faced tougher competition, rolls around.


t -si
The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I Thursday, April 1, 2010

3 yr
r yr
F
r ' -. Jr - _ ... - ._
. -..
. _ _ . :: ti

TM.
t

weekend
essentials
Apr.1 to Apr. 4
CONCERT
Local band The
Macpodz will hit the
Blind Pig this Saturday
in honor of the 39th
Annual Ann Arbor Hash
Bash. If The Macpodz's
trippy funk doesn't put
you in the mood, it's all
good - the group will
be accompanied by a
gaggle of equally home-
grown artists including
Abigail Stauffer and
Laith al-Saadi. Tickets
$10 in advance, $15
day of. Doors 8 p.m.
i II II -
ON DISPLAY
After decades of secre-
cy, the Ghost Army, a
special unit of the Army
during WWII, will final-
ly be demystified by an
exhibit at the Hatcher
Graduate Library. The
group saw action in
June 1944 in Nor-
mandy, where itrwas
deployed with unusual
weapons (a sound
machine and inflatable
tanks) and completed
its mission without fir-
ing a shot. Open during
library hours. Free.

'Trafford Tanvi' takes a girl's everyday struggles
and delivers a knockout experience
By David Riva // Daily Arts Writer

st' an ordinary Tuesday night in the
Walgreen Drama Center. There's a
squeaking sound from vocal exer-
cises, pounding on the ground from a
dance practice and some shouting from an
impassioned soliloquy.
But in the Arthur Miller Theatre, where
rehearsals for "Trafford Tanzi" are taking
place, the thud of body slams and the resul-
tant grunts and howls overpower the other
noises of the building.
"What was that, the giant swan on
crack?" exclaims Malcolm Tulip, director
of "Tanzi" and professor in the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance, as he jokes about
the ungraceful movements of one of his
actors.
The cast of this unconventional and
adventurous wrestling musical is- warm-
ing up for the battle that's about to ensue
between its fiery protagonist and the rest of
the characters. As Tanzi laces up her knee-
high leather boots, she prepares to confront
her family and friends and take a stand
against their constant oppression.
A Story of Social Struggle
"Trafford Tanzi" is the story of a girl
growing up in 1950s England who strug-
gles mightily with the relationships in her
life. She has been a forgettable disappoint-
ment to those around her - Tanzi's mother
always wanted a boy, and her father can't
even remember the color of her eyes. As a
result, those around her serve as obstacles
that shape her miserable existence.
In reaction to this unfair treatment,
Tanzi literally and metaphorically begins
to wrestle with her school counselor, best
friend, husband, mother and father, all
while a referee tries to keep a fair fight.
The man in stripes is played by Music,
Theatre & Dance senior Torrey Wigfield,
who acts as a mediator in each of the 10
matches, interjecting snarky comments
while preventing the competitors from kill-

ing each other.
"The lead character kind of (grows) up
in this unjust world, and we can see her
kind ofbeing violated and ramshackled and
thrown about the ring a bit, (which) really
lends itself to her growing up in an unjust
environment," he said.
During these scuffles, Tanzi finds a bet-
ter sense of herself and eventually pursues
a career as a professional wrestler. Com-
pounding her existing obstacles, Tanzi
faces a strict social construct that says
women should never leave the kitchen, let
alone take part in an ultra-masculine sport.
In this sense, feminist commentary is prev-
alent throughout the work, but the message
of achieving a goal against all odds is appli-
cable regardless of gender.
Story and social struggles aside, how did
this crazy concept come about?
"There was a theater company - well, it
still exists - in Liverpool, England, called
the Everyman Theatre, and in the late '70s,
they were closed down for refurbishment,"
Tulip explained. "And they had to find
plays that they could do in other venues and
at the same time they were also looking to
do plays that had a more prominent role for
women."
The need for filling a non-traditional
space and the desire for less male-dominat-
ed material led British playwright Claire
Luckham to craft the script for "Trafford
Tanzi" in 1980. It made its debut and con-
tinued for some time in bars in Liverpool
before migratingto London.
One of the most remarkable parts regard-
ing the conception of "Tanzi" is the audi-
ence's placement on all sides of a genuine
wrestling ring. Constructing the ring from
scratch out of a canvas mat and stretchy
ropes gave it an authentic look without
having to break the bank on an expensive
object for temporary use.
A theater-in-the-round style of seating is
employed with the ring at the center. This
decision to break the fourth wall allows

for a blurring of the line between onstage
action and the seated audience.
The position of the stage in the middle of
the room provides an interesting challenge
for the actors.
"You can never stay facing one side,"
said Music, Theatre & Dance junior and
understudy Charlotte Raines. "You have to
always be moving around."
The constant motion of actors and bal-
anced arrangement of seating allows for.
a completely immersive experience for
onlookers.
For Tulip, attendees who are more
directly involved with the play provide a
rare opportunity for audience participation
as part of the show.
"We want people yelling and shouting,"
he said. "This is a play that people don't
have to sit and be quiet (for)."
Tulip thinks one of his hardest jobs is
going to be "to give people permission to
yell." He welcomes the "irreverent and
casual atmosphere" of wrestling as a con-
tributing force to the performance's overall
mood.
And with Wigfield's eloquently described
"drop kicks, head mares, arm locks, nose
drops, flying from off the top rope (and)
pinfalls" as the centerpiece of the evening,
some cheers and jeers shouldn't be too dif-
ficult to provoke.
Body-Slamming Stereotypes
Learning complex and physically
demanding wrestling moves was not some--
thing that happened overnight.
Rackham student Charles Fairbanks,
who spent last summer in Mexico as a lucha
libre, taught the entire cast the fundamen-
tals of professional wrestling starting the
second week of January.
Fairbanks gained experience under the
guise of "El Gato Tuerto" and filmed his
matches by attaching a camera to his mask.
"It was because of my experience in

these (more theatrical) wrestling arenas
that director Malcolm Tulip asked me to be
the coach," he explained.
Instead of apprehension and uncertain-
ty, the actors pursued the endeavor with
positive enthusiasm.
"We all just dove head first, went for
it, and I can now put on my resume that I
know professional wrestling," Raines said.
There's an inherent risk in the pursuit,
however, which inevitably led to some
minor injuries. Tulip said that staying
healthy was a priority throughout the rig-
orous training period.
Regardless, both director and actors
alike see the benefit of an alternative form
of performance aside from the normal song,
dance and dialogue.
For Tanzi, played by Music, Theatre &
Dance junior Arielle Goldman, the wres-
tling serves a dual purpose. On one hand,
"a lot of the moves are there just to be big
and (to contribute to) the performance,"
she said.
On the other hand, they also "help to
express how she sees the world."
In her acting classes, Goldman has
worked on realizing her character's "inter-
nal monologue" using actions instead of
words.
A specific example of channeling emo-
tion through an act of physical expression
comes near the beginning, when Tanzi's
friend Platinum Sue (Erin Cousins, Music,
Theatre & Dance junior) pretends tobe her
friend only to tease and provoke her.
"I think her first instinct is that she
feels like crying," Goldman said. "But she
doesn't let herself, so her next instinct is
to grab Sue's doll and slam iton the ground
and break its limbs apart."
This rejection of things that are tradi-
tionally deemed "girly" is evident through-
out the comedy. Tanzi's tomboy personality
is one that Goldman says she can relate to,
even if only briefly.
See TANZI, Page 4B

FILM
Chances are you
missed "The Hurt
Locker" during its
initial theatrical
run. But you'll have
another opportunity to
watch the 2010 win-
ner for Best Picture
and Best Director
(Kathryn Bigelow)
at the State Theater.
Experience the film's
hair-raising thrills and
suspense as meant
to be - on a 30-foot
screen, surrounded
by people gripping
their armrests with
tension. Go to www.
michtheater.org/state
for prices and times.

AT UMMA
The Art, Anti-Art,
Non-Art exhibit, in
conjunction with
UMMA, will present
"Saying Yes to Say No:
Art and Culture in Six-
ties Japan," a two-day
symposium and per-
formance. Friday will
feature a lecture by
Reiko Tomii followed
by a performance
from New York-based
artist Ei Arakawa. Sat-
urday will feature an
international host of
speakers (9:30 a.m. to
5 p.m.). All events are
at UMMA and free.


PHOTO S BY MARISSA MCCLAIN
DESIGNED BY HERMES RISIEN
& MAYA FRIEDMAN


2B - Thursday, April 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - Thursday, April 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Singing in the bus

FOOL WARS
WENDY'S PANDA EXPRESS

0



Nothing quenches your thirst quite
like the water at Wendy's. Served in a
colorful cup with plentiful ice, the water
is the essence of wetness, and that wet-
ness is the essence of quenching that
epic, fry-induced thirst. It may not be up
to merman standards, but for the aver-
age freshwater fish, it would make a more
than suitable habitat. WATER
PIZZA HUT
We brought a crowd of unsuspecting
patrons into Palio's with the promise of
fine Italian water. But what they didn't
realize was that the chef didn't do any-
thing that night! Pizza Hut delivered all
the waters, and no one could tell the dif-
ference. Someone flipped over a table in
excitement. There were riots. All around,
a terrible idea.

When eating pandas, you're going to
want to wash it down with the delicious
water from Panda Express. The wonder-
ful Panda employees even let you serve
yourself, allowing you to construct the
perfect ice-to-water ratio that meets your
preferences. Thanks to the water, never
before has an endangered species tasted
so good.

SUBWAY
The true quality of Subway's water
shall remain a mystery forevermore.
This Daily investigator, upon asking for
a cup of cool, sweet water, was directed
to Pizza Hut instead. The kicker? There
totally is a water tab on Subway's foun-
tain drinks dispenser. They just won't
give you the cup. What the hell, Subway?
Major fail.

0

You've heard him sing, now listen to his story. The Michigan Daily delves into MAR ssAMcCLAIN/nauy
the story behind the legend of the singing bus driver. See this multimedia piece
on MichiganDaily.com.

Weekend Freebies
Because boredom doesn't end
when your cash flow does
Thursday, April 1
Hannah Tinti Fictian Reading
Wonderful literature, to free!
3222 Angel! Hall, 5 p.m. - '
Campus Philharmonia Orchestra
Classical music from Dvorak to.
Brahms, fo free!
E.V. Moore Building, 8 p.m.
Friday, April 2
Food is Fuel
Healthy eating advice, fofrel
University Hospitals, 12 p.m.
Junior Recital: Nathaniel May
Piano music, and a song aot
Sudoku, to freel \ \
Stearns Building, 8p.m.,
Saturday, April 3
Baroque Chamber Ensemble
Exactly what it sounds like, but with
the bonus of being fo freel
E.V. Moore Building, 8 p.m.

WHAT'S NEW
ON THE DAILY
ARTS BLOG
* A look back at Wale:
Check set our photo slideshow of
Wale, Clipse and The Big Sean grac-
ing the Power Center with beats.
Revel in the memory of the one good
thing MSA did this year.
. Linking Kevin Bacon to
Jesus with the Internet:
In this week's diversion, see if you
can get from the most random-ass
Wikipedia entry to Jesus in six steps
or less. Bonus points if you start
with a stub.
* Horny Jews in a book:
The book of this week, Philip Roth's
"Goodbye, Columbus" tells the
tale of a young chosen person's
sexcapades in a pool. Isn't that how
everyone celebrates Passover?

AND THE WINNER IS: NOT SUBWAY
Justin Bieber: the
next John Lennon

'My World 2.0' is the
greatest album since
sliced bread
By JASMINE ZHU
Daily Arts Writer
Awwww yeah, J-Biebs. Get it,
boy. GET ITTT.
1994 was a good time tobe alive.
Grunge saturated the New York
scene.
NAFTA *****
was estab-
lished. Justin Bieber
And Jus-
tin Bieber MYWorld 2.0
was born. Island
The musi-
cal messiah and Usher protegd
known as Justin Drew Bieber was
given to the world in March 1,
1994. I am not drunk.
Lil' JB became an internet
sensation via YouTube in 2007.
Scooter Braun, a former market-
ing executive for So So Def, was
essentially like, "dayum boi," and
then Bieber's career took off like
whoa. And then he began shop-
ping at American Apparel. JB has
an affinity for wearing Am Appy
cardigans in size XXS. This is his
signature style, and what makes
all the young fly honeys love him
so. Also his hair. His hair is volu-
minously luscious and probably
wonderful to run through with
reverent fingers, but we must
remember he is only 15.
Anyway. His album. My World
2.0 is really good. Better than
My World, even. Holistically, the
album feels more life-affirming,
with power-pop dance jams but
also really sad stuff, too. Bieber's
voice is beautiful like the sound
of angels softly crying in falsetto
after a thunderstorm. Although
one might think Canada and R&B

0

cOURTESY OF ISLAND

"I'm on a bike, motherfuckers. Don't you ever forget!"

music are mutually exclusive,
Bieber's genius allows him to com-
bine his Canadian heritage with
soulful R&B sounds. By the way,
there is a website called Lesbi-
ans Who Look Like Justin Bieber,
which is a tribute to Bieber's abil-
ity to reach out across all demo-
graphics. Canadians, R&B people,
lesbians. Also many more.
The star-studded album fea-
tures R&B heavyweights like
Sean Kingston and Ludacris. This
helps Bieber establish street cred,
which is often difficult for small
children. His features are cheru-
bic, and he has pillowy lips. But
listeners must not get too carried
away, because ... well, I'm getting
carried away.

Distorted vocals, accompanied
by urgent reverb-drenched gui-
tars and a heavy dash of synth and
dubstep rhythm, are not found on
this album. This album is much
better than that. The best song on
My World 2.0, though all of them
are perfect, is lead single "Baby,"
which features Ludacris. The
music video is sick, or ill, which
means it's very, very good. It fea-
tures JB wooing a preteen in the
bowling alley, which is a popular
location to find young love. Teen
dream.
J-Nasty is a young rising star
for sure. His youthful vibrancy is
very appealing. He is a beacon of
hope for music. Long live Justin
Bieber.



6

The Michigan Daily
Advertising Design
Department is hiring
a Layout Designer.
Applicants should have a knack for
spacial relationships and a distinct
attention to detail. Experience with
Adobe InDesign is a plus.
Begin this summer and work
a couple hours every weekday.

0
0

Think Summer, Think Fordham!
* Day/evening classes at two New York City campuses * Credits transfE
Competitive tuition rates " Comprehensive course selection

r easily



t

t


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, A prill1, 2010 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, April 1, 2010 - 3B


- Learning to laugh with Mankoff
'New Yorker' cartoon
editor tells 'U' what's

Getting schooled
in cooking

funny in mini-course
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Senior Arts Editor
Attending Robert Mankoff's
class is more like seeing a stand-
up comedy show than going to
lecture. In his course, you don't
have to politely chuckle when
the professor makes a bad joke.
* There's genuine laughter, and
audience participation builds upon
the humor. Mankoff will take any-
thing and everything and spin it in
a funny way, and in his Honors 493
class Humor: History, Theory, and
Practicum, he teaches his students
to do the same.
Mankoff is the perfect professor
for a course that essentially teaches
students how to be funny. He's jug-
gling his semester as an intermit-
tent lecturer at the University with
his job as cartoonist and cartoon
editor for The New Yorker, a maga-
zine known just as much for its car-
toons as its prose.
"I had wanted to be a cartoonist,
and then after I had a brief career
in graduate school, I thought I'd
give it a try," Mankoff said. "And
then after submitting only 2,000
cartoons to The New Yorker, I was
chosen ... and then I did cartoons
there for 20 years.
"But what I always really want-
ed was a small office in the Art &
Design building, and now I also
have achieved that," he added jok-
ingly.
Mankoff first came to Ann
Arbor for a speech that he made
to the University's Knight Wallace
Fellows in 2008 about his job and
journalism. After that, he realized
how much he wanted to explore
humor from its academic side and
approached the University's psy-
chology department about teach-
ing a class..
"I started off in the psychology
department teaching the sociology
and science of humor. ... Why do
we have humor? The evolution of
it, mechanisms of it, the cognitive
part of it, the developmental part
of it - social psychology, you know,
a real boring course," he explained.
"Gradually, (it has) evolved more
into a course in which I try to
inform (the students) of the psy-
chological research by showing
them humor in action - its cre-
ation - and this year it's much
more of a practicum.
. "You have satire, you have irony,
you have parody, you have all these
different forms, and that's the
point of the course," Mankoff said.
By introducing his students to
these different forms, his goal "is
actually to improve the students'
sense of humor."

Robert Mankoff submitted over 2,000 cartoons to The New Yorker before having one selected.

Yes, in this course (cross-list-
ed as an Honors, Art & Design,
and Institute for the Humanities
course), Mankoff is actually try-
ing to teach his students how to
be funny and appreciate different
types of humor. As part of his job
as cartoon editor, Mankoff must
evaluate the hundreds of cartoon
submissions The New Yorker
receives each week, so he needs to
have a decent idea of what makes
something funny.
"Nothing that's good is funny.
No good marriage is funny, no
good teacher is funny, no good
vacation is funny," he explained.
"There are numerous ways of see-
ing the incongruous things in life,
getting a little distant from them
and seeing the absurdity of that.
"For example, the absurdity here
in Ann Arbor, and everywhere, of
waiters and waitresses constantly
asking, 'How are you doing? How's
the food?' Well, you know, if a
quarter of the way through it was
OK, it's probably fine," he added.
"They don't have to keep check-
ing. Now one of the many different
mechanisms of humor (is) exag-
gerating things like this."
Still, the larger question at hand
is whether humor is an inherent
gift or whether it can be taught.
Mankoff believes the latter.
"Can humor be taught? It can be
manicured and it can be learned,"
he said. "Of course, like every-
thing else, people come to it with
different ability, different starting
points."
And because all his students
come into the course with dif-
ferent levels of experience and
natural talent, he uses a hands-on
approach to force them to keep
practicing. One of his methods is
to present a student with a statu-
ette and to make them accept the
award in a creative way.

"If I wanted to do improv with
you and wanted you to accept an
award, you'd freeze. You'd say, 'Oh,
I don't know what to do with some-
thing like this,' but I'd make you do
it over and over again and even-
tually you'd come up with some
ideas," he said.
And his students readily accept
his methods.
"It's kind of like a big party,"
said Art & Design senior Carolyn
Nowak, a student in Mankoff's
class. "Everyone tries to partici-
pate with their own jokes and their
own material."
"The man is an eccentric cross
between Christopher Walken and
Woody Allen," said LSA senior
Brad Bobkin. "You're born with
a sense of humor, but you can be
taught and persuaded to see things
differently. ... I think he's teach-
ing people to just walk with open
eyes."
Mankoff wants his students to
take note of everyday occurrences
and to see the humor in them. His
students constantly swap anec-
dotes online throughout the week
and build upon each other's expe-
riences. All he asks of his students
is to have fun and be funny.
Another one of his hands-on
learning activities is a perfor-
mance competition at the end of
his class. Each student will per-
form his or her own piece of com-
edy, and Mankoff will give a cash
prize to the student who does the
best job.
"I'm excited to see not just what
I put out, but what everybody else
does," Bobkin said.
And though some students may
fold under the pressure of the com-
petition, Mankoff always makes
sure nobody leaves the class feel-
ing any worse for wear.
"He takes everyone very seri-
ously, even if they're not very

funny," Nowak said.
The contest is sure to display
the wide variety and disparities in
each individual's sense of humor.
"Most people think seeing
humor is like seeing red. 'Hey,
that's red. Don't you think it's red?
We both agree it's red.' They think
humor is the same way," Mankoff
said.
In his class, Mankoff aims to
disprove this notion, to open his
students' eyes and to heighten
their awareness of humor, under-
standing its grand diversity it has.
"There are many different
things that are funny," he said.
"And differentthings will be funny
to different people."
For instance, Mankoff isn't a
fan of lolcats, believing they're too
easy to create and don't require
much thought. Still, he recognizes
their popularity and understands
that many of his students enjoy the
captioned felines.
As "what is funny" changes,
so does the role of the humorist.
Mankoff recognizes the ever-
shifting nature of the job and how
that makes it nearly impossible to
define the position.
"In 1977, The New Yorker and
other places were gatekeepers....
In order to be seen in terms of the
humor you produced, you had to be
employed as a humorist," he said.
"Obviously one of the big changes
has been the Internet. Everyone
can publish and everyone can do
that. And I think with that you get
a huge range of humor."
Mankoff doesn't necessar-
ily want his students to develop a
sense of humor that's too highbrow
for lolcats. He does hope that by
exposing them to different types of
humor and giving them the oppor-
tunity to create material, they'll
develop the ability to laugh a lot
more.

I n a city chock-full of res-
taurants fit for any craving,
eating out is not just the cool
thing to do, but the easiest thing
to do. Going
out to eat
with friends
or family is a
social norm
that doesn't
depend on age.
Ann Arbor cer--
tainly doesn't CHRISTINA
encourage ANGER
home cooking
for the most
part, but some of its restaurants
do offer cooking classes.
A bit of a contradiction, restau-
rant-sponsored cooking classes
revive the fun of making some-
thing from scratch, in the com-
fort of a well-stocked kitchen.
Why do these restaurants offer
classes that could, in the long
run, promote staying in? After
all, people going out to eat keeps
their bills paid.
Well, there's something to be
said about home cooking, even
by the restaurant biz itself, and it
may just go beyond the registra-
tion fee of the class.
My first cooking class in Ann
Arbor was at Pilar's Tamales, a
family-owned Salvadorian res-
taurant. Ten people squeezed
into the small shop and learned
how to make horchata, a sweet
drink made from ground-up rice
and sugar. Pilar's owner, Sylvia,
didn't push her products on the
class, only her love for horchata
and some of her opinions on mass
food production in general. It was
an experience nothing like eating
out or going to class - the tuto-
rial was more of a celebration of
the art of making food.
It was hard to imagine why
Sylvia would see fit to hold such
a class. The process could have
easily been YouTubed, the recipe
could have been attained from a
number of online sources or we
could have walked in, grabbed
one of Pilar's homemade horcha-
tas on the shelf and left in a Star-
bucks-esque frenzy.
Pilar's horchata sells for about
$4 a cup, and trying to show
the class how easy it really isnto
make seems apt to make business
dwindle. With a strictly bottom
line-oriented mindset, cooking
classes don't add up. They seem
like a portal into the magical
world of the restaurant kitchen,
offering advice on how to spice
up life at home without paying
the premium for the restaurant
experience.
Before Sylvia's class, I thought
perhaps cooking classes were an
easy way for restaurants to make
a buck and expand on something
I already knew. But the class felt
more like a family get-together,
where everyone shared ideas on
extra things to add to horchata.
I realized the $15Ipaid probably
bought merely the ingredients and
Sylvia's time - hardly indicating
an entrepreneur looking for easy

money. Sylvia is a catalyst, bring-
ing together people who want to
move beyond the typical tables,
booths and appetizers.
In Ann Arbor, cooking classes
are offered by nationwide chains
like Whole Foods, which offers
quick classes for as low as $5, and
by local restaurants like Zinger-
man's, which holds intensive
"BAKE!cations" that can last up
to a week. But classes don't have
to be taught bythe big guys, and
they don't have to be expensive.
Many small, family-owned res-
taurants near campus, like Pilar's,
hold affordable, intimate classes
that reveal a true passion for food.
Getting together to eat happens all
the time, but getting together to
cook, bake or learn is sadly a rarity
in a busy city like A2.
So instead of just eating out,
try a cooking class. It can be as
high-class as Paesano's, which
schedules culinary tours to Italy
every year, or it can be an occa-
sion to bring out the kid inside
who loved (and still loves) frost-
ing with a cake decorating class
at Dahlia's Custom Cakes. Even
the University holds classes
through MHealthy, with themes
ranging from Vegetarian Cuisine
to Mother's Day Brunch.
The truth is, cooking classes
are about as unnecessary as
restaurants themselves - all we
need is a grocery store, a cook-
book and some gumption. In a
way, cooking classes rub against
social norms, making home cook-
ing a quasi-public event. But
these classes help close the gap
between the chef and the every-
day restaurant connoisseur.
A more social
way to cook your
own meals.
People may not realize that a
love of food, not just profits, is
a large part at a restaurateur's
motivation. It may be possible to
judge a restaurant's culinary pas-
sion based on the kinds of things
they do outside of changing the
menu and keeping the salt and
pepper shakers clean. Pilar's, for
instance, held a benefit dinner for
Haiti and offers seasonal special-
ties to take advantage of local
harvests.
Sylvia told us she doesn't make
horchata for the money, but for
the rich tradition it represents in
Latin culture. Behind the cook-
ing class itself was the practice of
preparing foods together, an act
that lies as the basis for many cul-
tures. Even in a city as big as Ann
Arbor, it's possible to make cook-
ing a more sociable and enjoyable
event than dining out.
Anger wants to teach you how
to boil water. To join the class,
e-mail her at steena@umich.edu.

Three comedic styles for the
three U' improv comedy groups

By JEFF SANFORD
SeniorArts Editor
"What you see tonight has never been done
before and never will be done again."
Arthur Brannon III, LSA senior and co-
captain of University improv comedy troupe
Witt's End, is addressing a modest, unsure
audience.
"Now who wants to volunteer to have us go
through their wallet?"
This was as apt a preface as any for a Witt's
End performance, which on this night con-
sisted of a whirlwind of short, absurd skits
that somehow worked in common themes and
recurring characters - all invented on the
spot, of course.
"Watching one of our shows is like watch-
ing a play with disconnected scenes," Brannon
said. "It depends on what kind of night we're
having, but some nights the plot will be really
defined, and other nights it's just not. It just
depends on how it happens to fall."
This particular performance, while often
returning to prior jokes or situations (e.g.,
cheese infected with Republicanism), was cer-
tainly not dedicated to any coherent plot. It
was more like watching an unrehearsed "Sat-
urday Night Live" episode in super-fast for-
ward, with the decision of when to begin and
end a skit entirely up to the actors.
Witt's End, one of three improv comedy
groups on campus, started approximately 10
years ago when a member of another troupe,
ComCo, decided he didn't like the direction
ComCo was taking. Soon after splitting, Witt's
End fortified its distinct improvisational style,
switching from ComCo's traditional "short
form" structure to "long form," becoming the
first improv group on campus to primarily use
this style.
Short form vs. long form is probably improv
comedy's chief distinction. While short form
is generally more accessible and quick-hitting
(it's the kind that was featured on "Whose
Line Is It Anyway?"), long form allows for a

more nuanced brand of humor.
"Long form is more character-driven. You
have a basic form with two people, two really
strong characters, and so you start discovering
more about them. The humor from that comes
from how organic the relationships (are) and
how quickly people come up with things. It's
more about building relationships and explor-
ing that," Brannon said.
On the other side of the spectrum sits
ComCo, the University's oldest extant com-
edy group and purveyors of the art of short
form.
"Our comedy is a lot more easier to grasp on
to," said Alex Stuessy, Ross School of Business
junior and ComCo member. "You don't neces-
sarily have to be a theater major or somebody
who appreciates long form comedy. Our shows
Dispute over long form
vs. short form led to a
comedic schism.
usually are a lot more explosive, a lot more
fast-paced. And so it's a lot easier to just jump
right into the laughs."
ComCo was founded in the late 1970s, origi-
nally as a sketch comedy troupe that would put
on large-scale performances at the Michigan
Theater. But in the early 1990s, ComCo took a
significant hit when its relationship with Uni-
versity Activities Center (UAC), the University
organization that funded the group, soured,
according to ComCo leaders. Apparently, Andy
Dick was at least partially responsible.
"(ComCo) brought Andy Dick to campus
and apparently it flopped ... then the head of
ComCo got in a shouting match with the head
of UAC. We went from being this big per-
formance comedy group to being this small
10-member comedy group," said Adnan Pirza-

da, LSA senior and "de facto leader" of ComCo.
Years later, ComCo, aided by the over-
whelming success of its non-improv work (like
2007's written sketch "College Musical," a
parody of Disney's "High School Musical"), is
gradually ascending to its previous heights.
"We've actually been slowly building back
up. At my first couple shows we were lucky
to bring 30 to 40 people out. This entire year,
each and every one of our shows has brought
200 to 250 people, so we're sort of moving back
into sketch work," Pirzada said.
Straddling the long form/short form dis-
tinction is the University's newest improv
group, The Impro-fessionals. Established
three years ago by three female University
students, The Impro-fessionals was founded
out of pure entrepreneurial spirit and a desire
to bolster the feminine presence in the Univer-
sity's comedy scene.
"They just really, really wanted to start one.
And especially (co-founder Julia Young) was
really into female comedians and having a
group (that was) run and started by women,"
said Tali Gumbiner, LSA senior and co-found-
er of the group.
As newcomers to the University's comedy
scene, The Impro-fessionals are dedicated to
bringing in less experienced performers and
creating a more dynamic, learning-by-doing
comedy troupe. The group has also forged a
rather unexpected partnership with Hillel.
"That's a very interesting turn of events,"
said Gumbiner. "Initially our freshman year
we weren't affiliated with Hillel. And coinci-
dentally, through recruitment, our first year
everyone in the group was Jewish."
The budding group approached Hillel and a
deal was struck.
"(They) were like 'Yeah, we like to sponsor
groups who have a lot of Jews, even if they're
not a Jewish group.... We can give you money
to hire a coach and put on your bigger shows
and in exchange you'll perform for us when-
ever we want a comedy group'
See IMPROV, Page 4B


4B - Thursday, A prill1, 2010

The Michigan Daily, - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, April 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

TANZI
From Page 1B
"For agood awkward stage, I was
a tomboy," she explained. "I believe
it was the period of my life when I
was missing my two front teeth ...
and I refused to wear dresses. All
I would ever wear were boys' plaid
shirts from Old Navy and cut-off
shorts. SoI rocked the look at some
point."
"(With Tanzi) being a tomboy
and not a classic girly-girl, it made it
easier to relate to her, and painting a
clear picture of who she was made
her more likeable tnno" she added.

Portraying a tomboy may not
have been too difficult, but Gold-
man found that playing the role of a
championship wrestler with a Brit-
ish accent posed a greater challenge.
Overcoming the stereotype that
women should not be allowed to
compete with men in athletic.com-
petition - an opinion that still
remains true for some - becomes
a focal point of the performance.
After all, Luckham wrote the play,
during a time when sexismin sports
was a hot-button issue. Billie Jean
King had only recently defeated
Bobby Riggs in the "Battle of Sexes"
tennis match. Her victory spurred
a debate that - despite legisla-
tive efforts like Title TX - has not

ceased since. . social barriers in her pursuit to
An even clearer portrait of female become a championship wrestler.
oppression is presented in the role of For assistant director and Music,
Tanzi's Mum, played by Music, The- Theatre & Dance sophomore Pors-
atre & Dance junior Kelsey Lappa. cha Kazmierczak, Tanzi's effort in
"She's kind of the stereotypical attaining this goal is clearly a femi-
1950s woman-in-a-man's-world nist statement.
type of person," Lappa explained. "I hope (the audience) can take
"She thinks men are all pigs but away that women are still oppressed
she's also into conforming with all in one way or another (even if) in
the men ... (Tulip) said to me in one subtle ways we take for granted,"
of the rehearsals, 'Imagine a mother she said.
breastfeeding her child with a beer Ultimately, you don't have to be
in the other hand."' Betty Friedan or Hulk Hogan to
Attacking this image of a broken- enjoy "Trafford Tanzi." The pro-
down mother who cooks, cleans duction will put your loudest whis-
and takes care of her children all tle, capacity for laughter and tear
day is the story's primary purpose. ducts to the test as you root Tanzi
Tanzi faces countless physical and on until the very end.

'Trafford Tanzi' started out in bars in Liverpool before making its way to London.

Everything's Beachy

0

The cast of this production was trained by Charles Fairbanks, who spent last summer as a luchafibre.

By JASMINE ZHU
Daily Arts Writer
It seems almost too good to be
true, but Beach House will be play-
ing tonight at
the Crofoot in Beach House
Pontiac. And
fans of Victo- Tonight at
ria Legrand's 8 p.m.
haunting vocals The Crofoot
needn't worry. Ballroom, Pontiac
Fellow band Ticketsfrom $12
member Alex
Scally reas-
sured The Michigan Daily that
the Baltimore-based dreamy duo
will indeed be playing their fourth
Michigan concert this Thursday
to support their latest album Teen
Dream.
Scally talked to the Daily after
his band had just finished doing
a soundcheck before a concert in
Boston. The show came just days
after a whirlwind European tour.
The hectic schedule seemed to
have left poor Alex a little weary.
"I don't know," he laughed, when
asked about his favorite Beach
House song. "I hate them all."
Luckily for Scally, the band
always seems to be in the process of
creating a new album.
"We're always writing. So yeah,
there's always a new album brew-
ing," he said. "I think it comes from
different places for me and Victoria
both. I think t'm very much a musi-
cal being, I think about it all the
time, I listen to it all the time."
Scally said that however gruel-
ing the tour was, he was still having
fun.
"It's goin'gpretty well, we're try-
ing to figure things out," he said.
"It's nerve-wracking, but it's a good
time."
When asked about his favorite
venues, Scally couldn't decide, and
instead cited all four of the shows
Beach House played in Michigan
among his favorites.

Beach House just finished up a whirlwind tour of Europe.
"I personally enjoyed all four of you don't want to take home to
my Michigan shows. I'm not jok- Mom," he said.
ing. We played at a cool art museum While opening up, Scally also
in Detroit, we played in Ann Arbor, admitted to his current band
we played at the Magic Stick, crush.
which is like this crazy bowling "I kind of have a crush on
alley, and we played at the Ladies Washed Out, who we're going on
Literary Club in Grand Rapids. So tour with," he said.
we played like four really amazing And if he could be in any band
shows in Michigan alone that were other than Beach House?
all pretty interesting," he said. "Celine Dion's backing band,"
he said definitively and without
hesitation.
"tsn r eCarefully disarrayed outfits
seem to play an important role in
w rcking but it's many band's image. Scally's sar-
torial tastes, not unexpectedly,
a good time." lean toward secondhand shops.
Legrand gets most of her stage
clothing from thrift stores as well.
"We literally go to thrift stores
Things quickly got person- all the time. We actually went to
al during the interview. Scally one today. And we got some awe-
defined real love without any kind some clothing," he said.
of bullshitting. The best time and place to lis-
'Real Love' is a song that ten to Beach House?
Victoria wrote the lyrics for and "In the woods, blaring out of
titled. I think it's a kind of fucked a jeep. While you're making out
up, sick kind of thing. It's not with somebody," Scally said.
cryptic. It's not like the movies. Good to know.
It's kind of an unbalanced wild Also, Scally enjoys Twixbars as
kind of thing. The kind of thing his favorite candy treat.


Graduate Practice-Ready
At UDM Law you learn and experience the law. Our curriculum requires:
rigorous writing requirements, innovative law firm courses focusing
on theory and practice, externships that teach the law as you gain
valuable work experience, and global law courses that expose you to
international legal systems. All of these requirements give our grads
the UDM advantage-being practice-ready upon graduation.
Find out more about UDM Law.
UDMLaw.com

IMPROV
From Page 3B
"The relationship has been real-
ly wonderful for us," Gumbiner
added.
In essence, improvisational com-
edy is a collaborative process. Of
course, a strong rapport between
group . members is vital, but a
group's relationship with its audi-
ence is perhaps equally important.
"If an audience member is
engaged and listening, the payoff
is so much better when every-
thing clicks for us and we're in
that zone making people laugh.
Everything clicks. You feel good,"
Brannon said.
A disengaged or noncommittal
audience usually spells disaster.
"We're very frequently asked to
do appearances at charity events
or open for other groups ... and
sometimes they can be very dead
because they're not the audiences
that are coming out to see us. It's
very, very hard to be making a joke
onstage and having no response,"
Pirzada said.
Brannon knows the nightmare
of performing for another group's
less-than-enthusiastic audience

quite well. He described one show
in which they performed during an
"Indian dance extravaganza."
"It was like a crowd full of
drunk Indians and they were like
yelling at us, 'Get off the stage! Put
the dancers back on!' And we'd ask
for suggestions and they'd be like,
'7-Eleven, ha-ha-ha!' It was hor-
rible," Brannon said.
Still, there are far graver risks in
improv than the occasional drunk-
en jeering. With no script to rely on,
the show could bomb at any minute.
Clearly, it takes aspecialkind of for-
titude to take the stage having no
idea what you're about to say.
"(Improv is) mostly just about
being able to be completely vulner-
able and just letting yourself go on
stage," Pirzada said. "You're basi-
cally being an ass on stage so you
have to be able to let go of any inhi-
bitions."
Finding that certain type of
"ass" can be difficult. The groups'
audition processes try to gauge the
fearlessness - and the wits - of
potential members.
"The first thing (I was told)
was like, 'Be a porcupine that just
received the best news of his life.'
And to react quickly to something
like that requires not only quick
thinking but the ability to lust do

what your gut feeling says. We're
looking for people who have funny
guts, pretty much," Stuessy said.
Despite technically being com-
petitors, the improv groups on
campus have a generally amiable
relationship with each other.
"You see other people from
improv groups and you say hello.
..Idon't think anybody hates each
other. It's not like a rivalry. Every-
body's really doing their own thing
and it's all about making people
laugh anyway," Brannon said.
"I've been a fan of Witt's End,"
Pirzada said. "One of our members
who was in ComCo last year is
doing Witt's End this year because
she wanted to flip to more long
form, so there's maybe like a jokey
thing there. (But) we all put on
shows. We all get audiences."
It's not surprising that there's
no bad blood between groups,
even though they might often be
competing for the same audiences.
'There just doesn't seem to be any
room for animosity in between the
laughs.
"I mean, even if we flop it's going
to be pretty funny," Brannon said.
"Ifyou're not laughing with us,you
can laugh at us. Just come in, pre-
game it, have some fun. tt should
just be fun."
WANT TO
WORK
FOR DAILY
ARTS?
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu
for details on how to apply.

Educating and Inspiring since 1912


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomThrdvAni 200-1

Thursdav, Agril 1, 2010 -1C

e
,,: ..
w yr.
,
i
_ , .._

R4

The Best Of The Best...
ANN ARBOR APARTMENT LIVING
PINEM
VALLEY

PROPERTIES

1521) 693.8800
151Pine Valley Blvd.- Ann Arbor, MI 48104
www.pinevalleyapartments.com
info@pinevalleyapartments.com

7 Room Furnished House for September
2 Bed Apartments/Rooms to Rent in Kerry Town
1 Bed Apartments on Packard/Fernwood

I

4
r'
A R ME NT

Contact:
aIlmandproperties@sbcglobal.net
www.alimandproperties.com
(734) 973-7368

3615 C

;01
r, MI 48105
c.com
.com

-mu,
r uwn
CAMPUS
MANAGEMENT,
INC

337 E. Huron
Ann Arbor, MI 48194
(734) 663-4101
www.camnpusmgt.com
rentals( canipusmgt.com

Fall '10 Availabilities!

Online
Your Choice
COMING SooNy....

Wall

Efficiencie's to 6 be~droom houses
and everything in between.
Some with parking, laundry,
hig'h-speed internet and more
Larg'e group? We specialize
Check out our website at ca mpus mgt.c om
or stop into the office for listings.
"Proudly Serving the Ann Arbor and U of M
communities for almost 45 yr.!

ExetyMarftdI N


2C - Thursav. Anril 1. 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0
0
0

1417 S. University 1115 S. Forest Apartments
7 large bedrooms, 6 bedrooms, 1215 Hill
3 baths, 2 kitchens 2 baths, parking 507 S. Fifth
and parking

Cormpetitively Priced Apartments
Family owned since 1982
Great Service
1, 2, and 3 bedroom available
Available May, June, July & August
Bi-Level Apartments also available
Issa Properties
734 662 4446
www.issaproperties.com

PROPER TIE

We have exactly what you desire
for your housing needs.

SUniver ity

r

Efficiencies, one, two, three or six bedroom units.
In older homes or modern apartment buildings.
Please contact us at 734-662-5500
or www.michcomrealtycom

Geat City Views Can Be Yours
Reserve your fully-furnished room, studio, 1, 2, or 3
bedroom apartment for 2010/2011. Save your style!

ERTY MANAGEMENT
SPECIA STSN PAE
Available Properties for Fall 2010!
2 Large Units: 6 Bedroom Duplexes
Apartments: Efficiencies, 1, 2, & 3 Bedrooms
ALL RATES FLEXIBLE
ALL LOCATIONS ON CENTRAL CAMPUS

Excellent Maintenance
Heat & Water Included
Fitness Center & Pool
24 HR Lobby Attendant
* Secure-Entry Building
* Central U-M Campus
* FREE Food & More!

536 S. Forest, Ann Arbor, MI
(734) 761-2680
Think Outside the Box, Think U-Towers

Call Today! (734) 665-5552
Or E-mail: PMSl@PMSIproperties.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, Aprill1, 2010 - 3C

Tom Clark Apartments
September 2010 Leases
Efficiency, 1/2 bedroom
Great Locations
Within 2 blocks to campus
996-2836 * www.tcapts.com

TOWER PLAZA
CONDOMINIUM

I


Quiet, Secure, Highrise
One Block From University of Michigan Campus
Studio & One Bedroom Units
Sale or Lease
Leases Available
Starting Now through September
Call Brian Tomsic (734) 663-1530
www.towerplaza.net
Iniversit Realtv Asniates I I

Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com

ion!

1, 2, 3 & 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus
May & September available
Call to schedule a personalized tour

.ne
epos

C & I Management,
LLC
www.ChurchStreetRentals.com

Rental Info.
(734) 320-1244

NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2010!

~jTips W"Then Subletting
1. Advertise your unit on the Off-Campus Housing Web site
and/or the Michigan Daily.
2. Check to see if your lease requires the landlord to
approve the sublet in writing.
3. Print off your Sublease and Inventory Checklist from the
Web site at www.housing.edu (U of M student status required).
4. Make sure to get a security deposit, as ydu are responsible for the
subtenant's unpaid rent, unpaid utility bills and damages.
5. Check out the potential subtenant's rental history and get a
permanent address, permanent phone number,
as well as driver's license number.
Call the Off-Campus Housing Program at 763-3205 for further assistance
The Off-Campus Housing Web site can be found at
www.housing.umich.edu

" Great Location:
just I block from South U, near
B-school and School of Education
* Quiet Building, mature tenants

" Laundry

0 Free heat, free water, free parking

* Friendly Landlord
" No pets, no smoking

o Unfurnished

SPRING/SUMMER SUBLET
APARTMENT FINDER SERVICE.
19 DISTINCTIVE CAMPUS
LOCATIONS TO CHOOSE FROM.

800
Fuller
Apartments
(734) 769-7520
1& 2 Bedroom Apartments
Free Wireless Internet
Near Medical and
Central Campus
Quiet Study Building
$780-$1050/month
(www.housing.umich.edu)
{www.800fuller.com}


4C - Thursday, Aprill, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0
S
0

I~r|1ZT'Irook
F. R O F::E R T 1 E S
40 wonderful houses and apartments
CLOSE TO CAMPUS!!!
Most properties are less than 2 blocks from the campus perimeter.
Contact us and we may be able to help you find the perfect place to
live within walking distance of the University of Michigan campus.
(734) 665-5620
www.bartonbrook.com
May and September leases
Voted #1 by Michigan Daily readers!

The Spaly Group, Inc.
Now Leasing
(734) 769-1807
Close to Campus ~ Fully Furnished
Free Heat, Water and WiFi
Spring 2010
1327 Wilmot I bdrm apts.
Fall 2010
1321 & 1327 Wilmot 2 bdrm apts.
1506 Packard I & 3 bdrm apts.
For descriptions, photos and details -
visit our website!

a
0

0

0

0


