^H STEM CELLS,
RONTIER OF HOPE

, .. ,,,
tY
i
,..

Taylor Lewan upstages
Darryl Stonum as the
most entertaining
Wolverine during
Monday's presser.
)PAGE 8A


j. 5IA~L

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, September 29, 2010

michigandaily.com

N ANCING YOUR ED CATION
Lansing to
slash higher
ed. funding
2.8 percent
If Granholm signs decrease will result in about a $9
million loss for theUniversity.
budget, 'U' projected Down from the current fiscal
year, next year's budget will allocate
to lose $9 million in about $1.567 billion toward higher

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Artist Richard Wolk restores the mural on the corner of East Liberty and South State streets yesterday. Wolk was the original painter of the mural that features cultural
icons like George Orwell and Woody Allen and has become a landmark for the city.
T HE POLITICS OF H IG HER EDUCATION
 orjf NRC rankings turn from
much-awaited much-c riticized

stal
Pub
will se
ing fro
higher
the Mi
Pen
nifer

a i education. The 2009-2010fiscal year
to appropriations budget appropriated about $1.612
billion for the state's public universi-
By MIKE MERAR ties and colleges, State Rep. Rebekah
Daily StaffReporter Warren wrote in an e-mail interview
with The Michigan Daily on Mon-
ric universities in Michigan day.This represented 3.63 percentof
ee a 2.8 percent cut in fund- the state's total budget for the 2009-
tm the state, according to the 2010 fiscal year, which was $44.4
education budget passed by' billion, according to Warren.
chigan legislature Tuesday. The cut in funding is part of an
ding Democratic Gov. Jen- effort to minimize the state's $484
Granholm's signature, this See BUDGET, Page 2A

New methodology
paints hazy picture
of how 'U' compares
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
The National Research Council
publicly released it's most recent
setofrankings for Ph.D. programs
across the country in a press event
this afternoon.

While the rankings - which
are released approximately once
each decade - have tradition-
ally carried a great deal of weight
within higher education, some
leaders in the field are criticizing
this year's rankings, arguing that
they don't say much about the
change in the quality of Ph.D. pro-
grams across the country.
A major reason for the criticism
stems from a dramatic change in
the methodology used to calcu-
late the rankings - which delayed

the release of this most recent set
of NRC rankings by three years.
In addition, critics are concerned
that the new system presents the
rankings in ranges, instead of as a
single numeric rank for each pro-
gram at each institution as was
the case in the past.
With the new methodology
and the new format for presenting
programs' rankings, it is increas-
ingly difficult for even higher
education officials to say with
confidence whether their pro-

> Inside News
To see an infographic of how the
V'stacks up, see Page 5A.
grams have improved or declined
relative to the last NRC ranking,
which was released in 1995.
In 1982, 87 percent of the Uni-
versity of Michigan's Ph.D. pro-
grams were in the top quartile
nationally. That prestigious per-
centage fell in the 1995 rankings,
See RANKINGS, Page 3A

ACTUAL
PROJECTED
= 320
N _0 315
310
305
S2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
FISCA L YEAR

ICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
MSA pres. responds publicly
to criticism for the first time

Ass't AG for Mich.
has criticized
" Armstrong on his blog
By ROBIN VEECK
Daily StaffReporter
Michigan Student Assembly
President Chris Armstrong pub-
licly responded to verbal and cyber
attacks levied against him for the
first time at last night's MSA meet-
ing.
"I will not back down. I will not

flinch. I will not falter. Iwill not suc-
cumb to any unwarranted attacks.
What Iwill do is Iwill carry on with
the utmost pride and vindication,"
Armstrong read aloud to the assem-
bly from a written statement. "I,
along with the rest of this assembly,
were elected to this body to repre-
sent the University. And nothing said
about us, or regarding our personal
merits, will waive our commitment
to serve the student body."
Though Armstrong opted not to
specifically address any personal
attacks, he has recently been the tar-
get of a blog called Chris Armstrong

Watch. The blog, created by Andrew
Shirvell, an assistant attorney gen-
eral for the state of Michigan, has
accused Armstrong of advocating
a "radical homosexual agenda."
Shirvell has posted on his blog regu-
larly since April to criticize Arm-
strong, his friends, family members
and other members of MSA.
In addition, Shirvell has shown
up at events on campus criticizing
Armstrong, including the first MSA
meeting of the semester.
Armstrong said in an interview
after the meeting that he wanted to
See ARMSTRONG, Page 3A

Microsoft representative Tony Franklin discusses the benefits of using Microsoft for the University's IT system yesterday.
Microsoft pitches to do IT for 'U'

LIVING NEAR CAMPUS
In off-campus housing, it appears
bed bug wave has hit Ann Arbor

University Housing:
No recent incidents
reported in res. halls
By STEPHANIE BERLIANT
Daily StaffReporter
In recent months, bed bugs have
been making their way across the
United States, starting on the East

Coast and now the bed bug wave has
reached Ann Arbor.
Bed bug breakouts have report-
edly occurred in at least two units
of Corner House Apartments, locat-
ed on the 200 block of South State
Street, the Muriel Lester Coop-
erative House, located on Oakland
Avenue and an apartment on Arch
Street. Representatives from Lester
Co-op and the Arch Street apart-
ment had not returned phone calls

seeking comments by press time.
Amy Khan, the vice president of
CMB Property Management, which
manages Corner House Apartments,
said that after one residence report-
ed a possible infestation on Sept. 20,
a pest control company began treat-
ment the next day. Other residences
were inspected and treatmentbegan
on a total of four residences. Resi-
dents of the building say there may
See BED BUGS, Page 3A

Microsoft, Google
competing to be
new 'U' provider
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
Many current students forward
their University e-mails to different
web mail systems, favoring a more
cohesive model. Yesterday, Micro-
soft officials made their pitch as
to why the company should be the
go-to solution for the University's
IT needs.
Nine representatives from
Microsoft presented their ideas to

support the University's initiative
to rejuvenate its information tech-
nology infrastructure last night in
an East Hall auditorium to a crowd
of about 25 students and professors.
The presentation was hosted by
NextGen Michigan - a strategic
team within the University work-
ing toward the overhaul of the IT
system - and showcased Microsoft
Product Suite as a possibility for a
new, collaborative system for online
student resources. This Microsoft
program would replace the existing
University Internet resources that
are currently available to students
like CTools and ITCS Webmail.
In addition to Microsoft, the
University is considering proposals

from Google, which will be making
its pitch on Oct. 7.
Lynn Johnson, professor and
assistant dean of Informatics and
Innovation in the School of Den-
tistry, said that through employ-
ing a new IT system the University
hopes to become the leading insti-
tution of 21st-century information
technology. The initiative started
this semester and will be imple-
mented within three years, John-
son said.
"We want to go with the vendor
that has a strong relationship with
the University already," Johnson
told the crowd before the Microsoft
representatives took the floor.
See MICROSOFT, Page 3A


WEATHER HI: 70 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail The story behind the Daily's special nameplate today.
TOMORROW LO: 48 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE EDITORS

INDEX NEWS 2.......................,........ 2A CLASSIFIEDS......
Vol. CXXI, No.17 OPINION ............................4A SPORTS...
O2010TheMichiganDaily ARTS.........,........................6A THE STATEMENT....,
michigandoilycom

.6A
8A
.....1B


2A - Wednesday, September 29, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com I

2A - Wednesday, September 29, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY- THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths Professor Profiles Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

Hitting the high notes

With undergraduate degrees in
American history and computer sci-
ence, University Professor Charles
Garrett said he never thought he
would end up teaching music.
After receiving his degrees from
Columbia University, Garrett began
workingthere as a "computer person"
- doing things like wiring residential
halls for computer networking while
also taking classes onthe side, includ-
ing some music courses.
Garrett said the classes sparked his
interest, leading him to earn a third
degree - this time in music - and go
on to receive his Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of California, Los Angeles in
2004.
"I couldn't have predicted this is
the way things would turn out, but
I'm happy the way they turned out,"
Garrett said.
As a University faculty member
since early 2004, Garrett teaches
introductory classical, modern and

popular music courses as well as jazz
history courses and varying graduate
and undergraduate seminars. With
such a variety of classes, Garrett
added, he's found that there are end-
less teaching methods.
"I haven't found one way to teach,"
Garrett explained. "I've definitely
been influenced by my own teachers
in terms of how they engage with stu-
dents and in terms of treating music
as an important source of knowl-
edge."
Garrett's classes vary from tradi-
tional, discussion-based seminars to
extremely large lecture-based class-
es. In addition to having the ability
to do research and teach at the same
time, Garret said he appreciates that
the University places a high value on
music.
"Ilike havingthatcombo of having
the music school within a larger Uni-
versity," he said.
Garrett added that he appreciates

the University's abundance of oppor-
tunities to get involved in musical
life, especially for undergraduates.
Garrett doesn't limit his own life
to strictly classes, either. He said he
is the editor in chief for "The Grove
Dictionary of American Music." He
is currently working on a 4.5 million
word second edition, which will also
be available online when completed.
Garrett has already written an
Irving Lowens award-winning book,
"Struggling to Define a Nation: Amer-
ican Music and the Twentieth Cen-
tury," and is currently outlining ideas
for his newest book, which he says
will be about humor and music. Gar-
rett said he is tackling this twist on
music with no previous background
in comedy.
"It's a topic I think is interest-
ing and popular and widespread but
there hasn't been very much scholar-
ship on the subject," he said.
- ANNA ROZENBERG

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 eat. 252 734-418-4115 eat 241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:sun.-Thurs.51a.m.-2a.m.
734-418-411 5opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Lettersto the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts ection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaroono@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaly.com
SENIORNEWS EDITORS: NseAber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thi,,nvukars,DevsonThosby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer,JosephLichterman,VeronicaMenaldi,ElyanaTwiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura
Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:WillButler,WilGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje ManagingSportsEditor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Tim Rohan, JoeStapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Alex Hermann, Chantel Jennings,Stephen Nesbitt, Zak
Pyzik,AmyScarano, Nick Spar
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandafycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,Andrew Lapin, JeffSanford
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:KristynAcho, LeahBurgin,Sharon Jacobs,KaviShekhar
Pandey
Max Collins and photo@michgandaily.com
Sam Wolson sManagingePhontditors
SENIoRPOTOEDITORAriond,Mtarissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaily.com
Sarah SqUire ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR:Maya Friedman
TrevorCalero Magazine Editor calero@michigandailycom
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Jenna Skoller
Melanie Fiedand copydesk@michigandaily.com
AdiWollslenn CopytChiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Juliannatnim Sales Manager
SALES FORE MANAGER :St phanieBowker
MARKETING MANAGER:Gjon Juncaj
Hillary Szawala Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler Circulation Manager
Zach Yancer Web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISS 0745-967) is pblihed Moday though Fiday dring the fall ad
wintrtersbystdentsatthernivestyiofihiga.Onecopyisaailablefreofcrgetoall
readers.Additional copiesmay be pickeduopat theDaily' sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfaliterm,
(Sepmbrthrghpi)is$195.Univesityaffiiatesae subettsaedcedsbsriptioat.
On-campus subscriptionsforfaIltermare35.Subscriptionsmust be prepaid.TheOMichigan Daiy
isamember of The Assodated Press and The Associated Collregiate Press.

0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Candy thief
caught
WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN:Monday at11:15 a.m.
WHAT: A male subject was
discovered stealing candy
from the Michigan Union,
University Police reported. He
was arrested on an outstand-
ing fraud warrant from Liv-
ingston County.
Pot in the parking
structure
WHERE:South Forest parking
structure
WHEN: Monday at abouto:40
p.m.
WHAT: A male unaffili-
ated with the University was
arrested for smoking mari-
juana in the parking structure,
University Police reported.
MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at mi

Baby clothes'
burgled
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN:Monday at about2:40
p.m.
WHAT: An unknown subject
stole baby clothes from the
hospital gift shop, University
Police reported. The clothes
were valued at $32. There are
no suspects.
Bus-ted
WHERE:Geddes Bus Shelter
WHEN: Tuesday at about1:20
a.m.
WHAT: A female student was
arrested for minor in pos-
session after passing out on a
University bus early Tuesday
morning, University Police
reported. The bus driver
placed the initial call to Uni-
versity police.
ichigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

Susurrus
WHAT: The interactive
production 'Susurrus: A
Fire Exit Production' is a
contemporary reinterpre-
tation of Shakespeare's A
Midsummer Night's Dream.
WHO: Written and
directed by David Leddy
WHEN: Today from
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
WHERE: The Matthaei
Botanical Gardens

Career expo
WHAT: The Fall Career
Expo will educate stu-
dents about internship
and job opportunities
and connect them with
potential employers.
WHO : The Career Center
and the Office of Multi-
Ethnic Student Affairs
WHEN: Today from
2:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union

Orchestra Lecture on the
performance Weather
WHAT: A multimedia
WHAT: The perfor- stage presentation based
mance will feature Joseph on works by Henry David
Haydn's Symphony No. Thoreau by John Cage.
89 and Alexander Boro- The show involves speech,
din's Symphony No. 2. lighting, music, a weather
WHO: The Univer- soundscape and film.
sity Philharmonia WHO: Institute for
Orchestra, conducted by Humanities
Christopher James Lees WHEN: Today at 9 a.m.
WHEN: Today at 8:00 p.m. WHERE: The gal-
WHERE: Hill Auditorium lery of 202S. Thayer

At the Commonwealth
Games in New Delhi, India,
which begin today, 38 pri-
mates called langurs will be
used to keep the vast monkey
population in the city under
control, according to AOL
News.
The number of married
people over the age of 18
in America fell from 57
percent in2000 to 52 percentin
2009, according to The Associ-
ated Press. Researchers believe
the fall in marriage numbers is
linked to the recession.
The Department of Jus-
tice discovered that 200
FBI agents cheated on an
exam concerning new domes-
tic investigation guidelines,
BBC News reported. Suspicions
were raised when 200 people
passed the two-hour test in.
under 20 minutes.


service at that level," she said.
BUDGET Wilbanks wrote that moving
From Page 1A forward her office will continue to
consistently lobby legislators "to
million dollar deficit. maximize any opportunities we
But despite the decrease in fund- can with respect to higher educa-
ing, Cynthia Wilbanks, the Univer- tion funding."
sity's vice president for government "From the beginning to the end,
relations, wrote in an e-mail inter- we are actively involved in talking
view Tuesday that the University to the state legislators most directly
has taken necessary steps in prepa- involved in the higher education
ration for the decreased appropria- budget,"Wilbanks wrote.
tions. While the state appropriations to
"As we have done for the last higher education will probably be
several years, the Board of Regents decreased overall for the 2011 fis-
adopted a University budget back cal year, the amount of money for
in June," Wilbanks wrote. "At that scholarships increased over those
time we contemplated a possible funds in the currentbudget.
reduction from the state for fiscal Bauer said legislators took spe-
year'11." cial consideration to renew the
University officials were cau- state's commitment to help students
tious in drawing up the budget for fund their education through an
the next fiscal year because they increase in scholarship money and
speculated that there would be cuts financial aid. Lawmakers included
to higher education appropriations, about $100 million in scholarship
Wilbanks wrote. and financial aid appropriations in
"It was based on what we knew the 2011 fiscal year budget, accord-
at the time, and we felt it was a solid ing to Bauer.
position to take, given that there "What we were able to do in
was still uncertainty as to how the this budget was to increase overall
eventual budget decisions would be financial aid by about 10 percent,"
made,"Wilbanks wrote. she said.
Wilbanks added that the state This boost in scholarship and
House's higher education budget financial aid money comes afterthe
and Granholm's recommendations Michigan Promise Scholarship has
originally called for the same level cut during last year's budget nego-
of funding as the currentfiscal year, tiations. Based on a high school
while the state Senate's earlier ver- merit exam, the Michigan Prom-
sion called for areductionof3.1per- ise Scholarship, previously award-
cent. ed between $400 and $5,000 to
Though these cuts may seem 96,000 Michigan students, includ-
drastic, Warren wrote in the e-mail ing 6,096 University students. The
that the state of Michigan finds scholarship program cost the state
itself in a better position than most about $100 million.
others. Yesterday, the higher educa-
"Michigan is unique compared tion budget passed 31-6 in the
to other states in that we have Republican-controlled state Senate,
enduredbudget shortfalls for many while the state House, which has a
consecutive years, and therefore Democratic majority, approved the
have already made many of the budget by 61-43, according to The
painful budget cuts that other states Associated Press.
are just starting to confront," War- A "boiler plate" issue, as Bauer
reo wrote, put it, was whether or notcuniversi-
rBut State Rep. Joan Bauer (D- ties should be forced to reporttheir
Lansing), chair of the Higher Edu- embryonic stem cell research to the
cation Appropriations Committee, state. As part of the higher educa-
said in an interview with The tion budget, state universities won't
Michigan Daily Tuesday night that be required to report the informa-
she is disappointed in the decrease tion.
in funding for state universities. "We did not feel it belongs in the
"I'm not happy with this budget higher education bill," Bauer said.
because I think we should be put- "It did hold us up for a while. (The
ting money into education, not cut- House and Senate) had very differ-
ting it," Bauersaid. entopinions on that:'
When the state reduces higher The state legislature has already
education funding, Bauer said it approved the majority of the state's
directly impacts students. budgets, though several - includ-
"Every time we cut more from ing the transportation and human
the state budget, (universities) services budgets - need to be
either have to cut more programs approved before the Oct.15deadline,
or raise tuition to try to keep quality according tothe AP.

National Clandestine Service.
YOUR MISSION: TRANSLATION Your foreign language skills can
keep America safe. It's more
than just translating. It's about
BECOM E N NCS interpreting nuances and conveying
cultural insights for meaningfult
LA N G UAG E O F FIC ER. intelligence acquisition. le's about
making a difference, 2417.
Applicants must have US citizenship and the ability to successfully complete medical examinations
and security procedures including a polygraph interview. An equal opportunity employer and a
drug-free work force.
For additional information and to apply, visit www.cia.gov
T HE WORK OFA NATION. THE CENTER OF INTELLIGENCE.

0
0
0

,.
;;"° 3
." ° ...
r
. s-
,, ,r ^ ,
' , ,

4



0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 29, 2010 - 3A

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 29, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Schuete outraises
Leyton in Michigan
Attorney Gen. race
Republican Bill Schuette has
raised nearly three times as much
money as Democrat David Ley-
ton in the campaign for Michigan
attorney general.
Finance reports show Schuette
raised more than $1.1 million,
including more than $61,000 from
the Michigan Republican Party
and $34,000 each from political
action committees related to the
Michigan Chamber of Commerce
and Grand Rapids-based retailer
Meijer Inc.
The former Court of Appeals
judge spent more than $714,000
and has about $426,000 on hand.
Leyton raised nearly $403,000,
including $17,000 from the Michi-
gan Education Association's politi-
cal action committee. The Genesee
County prosecutor has spent more
than $143,000 and has more than
$259,000 on hand.
WASHINGTON
European terror
plot uncovered, U.S.
fires drone-missiles
Some missile strikes in a recent
surge of attacks by unmanned U.S.
drones in Pakistan were aimed at
disrupting suspected terrorist plots
aimed at Europe, a Western coun-
terterrorism official said.
The official said the targeted
strikes were aimed at al-Qaida and
other militant groups arrayed in
Pakistan's tribal region near the
Afghanistan border. The official
spoke on condition of anonymity
because the details of the terror
plot remain sensitive.
The Eiffel Tower in Paris was
briefly evacuated yesterday, the
second time in the past week
because of an unspecified threat.
The Obama administration has
intensified the use of drone-fired
missiles in Pakistan's border area
but this month there have been at
least 21 attacks, more than double
the highest number fired in any
other single month.
DETROIT
City approves union
contract, wage cut
The Detroit City Council has
approved Mayor Dave Bing's plan to
impose a contract on the city's larg-
est union.
The Detroit News and Detroit
Free Press report the council's
5-3 vote yesterday allows Bing to
impose a 10 percent wage cut on
the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees.
AFSCME represents 3,250 of the
city's 13,000 employees.
The union's lead negotiator Cath-
erine Phillips tells the Free Press
she plans to sue the city to overturn
the decision.
Most of the city's bargain-
ing units have agreed to the cuts
achieved through 26 furlough days.
The contentious talks between

the city and AFSCME have lasted
about a year. An independent fact-
finder released a report that largely
sided with the city.
BOGOTA, Colombia
No survivors in
Colombia landslide
Colombian rescue officials
said yesterday it will take at
least a week to unearth about
30 people who were buried by a
landslide as many changed from
one bus to another on a mountain
road blocked by a previous slide.
"There are no survivors, that's
for sure," the regional disaster
relief chief, John Freddy Rendon,
told The Associated Press.
President Juan Manuel San-
tos visited the scene Tuesday
between the towns of Giraldo
and Canasgordas in Antioquia
state northwest of Bogota.
"The situation is very diffi-
cult," he told reporters as rescue
teams with sniffer dogs probed
the tons of earth under which
Rendon said were buried victims
that included children, pregnant
women and the inhabitants of
five houses.
Witnesses described a roar as
first rocks and then earth swept
over the road Monday afternoon.
Amateur video shows the slide
bearing down and scouring away
the houses.
Heavy rains in recent weeks
across Colombia have triggered
flooding that has claimed at least
74 lives.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

ARMSTRONG
From Page 1A
speak to the assembly last night to
confirm his resolution to disregard
these types of criticisms levied
against him.
"I think it was important for me
to say what I said to the assembly
this evening, because I think it's
important for them to figure what
my mental state is and what I'm
going forward with," Armstrong
said.
Armstrong had declined to pub-
licly comment on the criticism he
has received from Shirvell since
taking office before last night.
MSA Vice President Jason Ray-
mond also voiced his support for
Armstrong in a statement to the
assembly last night.
"Over the past six months, obvi-
ously, members of this assembly
have been under attack by an indi-
vidual who was here at our first
meeting, Chris in particular, and
I'd just like to thank him and to
thank you for holding your heads
high and maintainingthe integrity
BED BUGS
From Page 1A
have been bugs in more than just
those apartments.
Bed bugs get their name because
they typically reside in box springs
and the baseboard of beds, coming
out to feed on human blood only
in the dark. They don't do much
damage beyond biting their hosts
- allergic reactions are typically
the worstconsequence. But getting
rid of bed bugs can be costly, time-
consuming and become a recurring
problem if not caught early or prop-
erly treated.
Two residents of Corner House
Apartments who were in one of
the treated units, who requested
their names be withheld due to the
stigma associated with having bed
bugs, said the management han-
dled it well, but it has stillibeen aslot
of trouble. The residents said they
have had to put every piece of laun-
dry in the dryer under high heat.
"Both ofour parents had to come
and help. We've had to vacuum and
Lysol all the furniture multiple
times," one of the residents said.
"We have to keep all of our clothes
in plastic tubs right now where the
bugs won't get in."
The four infested apartments
have been fumigated between
two and three times, and will be
inspected again today, Khan said.
After they are cleared, CMB will
replace the bed frames and mat-
tresses in every infected apart-
ment.
The residents said they real-
ized they had bedbugs when one
of them went to University Health
Services with several welts on her
arm.Afteradoctortheresaiditwas
probably bed bugs, the residents
called their landlord and found out
bugs had been found down the hall.
Both Khan and the residents
could only speculate about the
possible sources of the bugs, say-
ing they could have been brought
back on luggage when the residents
moved in or from furniture that
was already in place in the apart-

of this body," Raymond said.
At the assembly's first meeting
of the fall 2010 semester, Shirvell
made a public comment to the
Assembly, calling for Armstrong's
resignation due to his involvement
in Order of Angell, a senior honor
society. The society has been criti-
cized for using Native American
artifacts in its meetings and ritu-
als in the past. In 2007, the group
- formerly known as Michiguama
- changed its name and beganpub-
lishing a list of its members to the
public in an effort to be more trans-
parent.
"No MSA president and no
assembly in history has had to deal
with the kind of criticism we've
had to deal with over the past six
months," Raymond said.
Armstrong told the assembly
that criticism would not stop him
from continuing to work to improve
campus life.
"I will continue to fight like hell
for the students of this university
and to better this campus," Arm-
strong told the assembly. "I believe
in this assembly, and I believe in
this government."
ments.
Bed bugs have recently been in
the news after shops, theaters and
health clubs across New York City
were shut down after identifying
insect infestations. Detroit was
ranked as the third most bed bug-
infested city in America, according
to an August report by pest control
company Terminix.
The nationwide infestation
sparked the BedBug University's
North American Summit in Chi-
cago, Ill. last week, which dis-
cussed possible action plans for the
problem, according to Pest Control
Technology, one of the pest control
industry's primary news resource
centers.
PCT reported that the summit
discussed the spread of bed bugs
from bedrooms to office buildings
and in retail establishments.
Despite this recent surge, Uni-
versity Housing spokesman Peter
Logan said he isn't concerned about
a bed bug outbreak in the residence
halls because workers have been
keeping them clean.
"Over the past five years (Uni-
versity Housing) has had all of two
confirmed cases of bed bugs in our
residence halls. That's all," Logan
said. "By virtue of how we maintain
our facilities, we don't envision a
widespread outbreak of bed bugs."
Logan said in each case, the bugs
didn'tcspread to other rooms, as bed
bugs are infamous for doing. If bed
bugs were to become a problem in
residential housing, Logan said a
student evacuation would be very
unlikely.
"We'd confirm it was bed bugs,
we'd advise the residents how to
properly wash bed linens and cloth-
ing, then we'd monitor the situa-
tion," Logan said, adding, "there
wouldn't be a widespread outbreak."
For now, the Corner House
Apartments residents said they
hope their apartment will be
declared bug-free soon, and have
even started joking about the
ordeal.
"Now when we go to bed we say,
'Don't letthe bed bugs bite!"' one of
the residents said.

RANKINGS
From Page 1A
when only 79 percent of the Univer-
sity's Ph.D. programs ranked in the
top 25 percent nationwide.
Due to the variance of the new
range system used by the NRC,
today's figures found that anywhere
from an astounding 95 percent to a
dismal 20 percent of the Univer-
sity's Ph.D. programs ranked in the
top 25 percent nationally.
In an exclusive interview with
The Michigan Daily before the
rankings became publicly avail-
able, Rackham Dean Janet Weiss
discounted the emphasis often
placed on program rankings.
"It is what it is," Weiss said of the
NRC's rankings of University Ph.D.
programs. "It's a product of a par-
ticular methodological approach.
The methodological approach has
its advantages and the method-
ological approach has its disadvan-
tages."
"I think the message the NRC is
intending to convey and certainly
the message that I come away with
is that this doesn'ttell us very much
about how our programs rank in a
sense of any very close analysis
of how we compare to our peer
institutions," Weiss later added.
"It really is most valuable for tell-
ing us something about how these
individual data elements compare
to other institutions."
For instance, Weiss said Uni-
versity officials could examine the
raw data for criteria like the time to
degree completion among peer pro-
grams to determine whether the
University's program was on par
with its colleagues across the coun-
try. Then, officials could determine
what action, if any, needs to be
taken to improve in the areas that
the University values most.
"I think what most of what we
glean from (the survey and rank-
ings), in very broad strokes you
can see which of our programs are
very strongnationally and which of
them are more toward the middle,"
Weiss said. "We don't have any pro-
grams, fortunately, down toward
the bottom of the distribution."
And while it's true that the Uni-
versity is extremely competitive on
virtually all fronts, there are some

programs that could have signifi-
cant room for improvement.
Astronomy and astrophysics,
was ranked between the 13th and
32nd best in the country, though
only 33 programs exist nationally.
The University's interdisciplinary
program in cell and developmen-
tal biology also received less than
ideal marks, being placed between
the 74th percentile and the 14th
percentile nationally.
Other programs, like the Uni-
versity's Ph.D. program in public
policy can't easily be classified as
doing well or poorly, being placed
between the 9th percentile and the
89th percentile nationally.
In the interview last week,
Weiss remarked that she believed
the University's Ph.D. program
in statistics had made clear
improvements, while its Ph.D.
programs in anthropology and
classical studies had seemed to
drop in the rankings. But in an
e-mail interview this morning,
Weiss said she's not interested in
the rankings because of limita-
tions surrounding the data.
She pointed out in the inter-
view last week that the rankings
released by the NRC today could
arguably already be out of date
since the data used to generate
the rankings was drawn from the
2005-2006 academic year. Since
that time, many schools have seen
significant turnover in faculty -
which could alter both the raw data
collected for the rankings and the
perception of how important each
criteria is to faculty members in a
particular field.
"If you did this over again today,
you would get different results
because a lot of this is based on the
individual faculty members," Weiss
explained. "The thing that is going.
to be very useful for us is not the
rankings ... it's the data."
While the methodology consists
of complex statistical analysis and
different weighting systems that
produce separate ranges of rank-
ings for each Ph.D. program at each
school, the analysis can be boiled
down to two different general pro-
cesses.
The first, which generates what
the NRC calls its S statistic, uses a'
survey of all faculty members at all
universities within a specific Ph.D.

field to measure how important
the faculty believe each of the 20
criteria evaluated is to the overall
success of a Ph.D. program in that
field.
Those weights are then used to
generate 500 different rankings
with random variation for each
program. The NRC then elimi-
nates the top 5 percent and bottom
5 percent of the resulting range of
rankings for each school's program
in that field to determine the indi-
vidual program's ranking.
By eliminating the top 5 percent
and bottom 5 percent, the NRC
was able to eliminate outliers in
the range of possible ranges for
each program while still ensuring
a 90-percent confidence in the fig-
ures released, Weiss explained.
However, to eliminate potential
bias in what faculty members say
they value against what they actu-
ally value in the quality of Ph.D.
programs, the NRC also used a sec-
ond method of evaluation to gener-
ate an alternative set of rankings.
In this process, which generated
what the NRC called its Rrankings,
faculty across the country ranked
the quality of peer programs using
a one to six scale. The data was
then analyzed through a regression
analysis to determine how strong-
ly related each of the 20 criteria
evaluated were to the perception of
quality in the eyes of fellow faculty
members.
Those correlations determined
the weight awarded to each vari-
able and the results were combined
so that half of the responses were
included randomly to generate 500
results for each program. The NRC
again eliminated the top 5 percent
and bottom5 percent of the results
to generate a range of potential
rankings for each university's pro-
grams inthe field with a 90-percent
confidence rating.
NRC officials had originally pro-
posed eliminating the top 25 per-
cent and bottom 25 percent of the
results from both the R and S rank-
ings to generate a smaller range for
each program's ranking. However,
doing so could have resulted in
less accurate rankings because the
ranges would have only represent-
ed a 50 percent confidence rating
and ultimately the NRC decided to
broaden the ranges published.

WANT TO WORK IN THIS
OLD-TIMEY BULIDING?
Come to our LAST mass meeting at 420 Maynard Street:
THURSDAY SEPT. 30 @ 7 P.M.


MICROSOFT
From Page 1A
Roger Archbold, education
accounts manager for Microsoft,
said the company's proposal show-
cases "an evolutionary product."
Part of Microsoft's plan, Arch-
bold said, is to create a program
that's geared directly toward
University of Michigan students,
faculty and staff. He added that if
chosen, Microsoft plans to incor-
porate the existing CTools into
their software.
"We want to put (these pro-
grams) in the context of you as a
user," Archbold said.
Tony Franklin, an education
solution strategist for Microsoft,
discussed Windows Live@EDU,
which is a Microsoft program that
consolidates social networking
sites as well as e-mail, university
resources and instant messaging
through one web application.
This program also includes
SkyDrive, which saves documents
onto a web application from the
user's computer. This component
would replace MFile, the Univer-
sity's current integrated file stor-
age system. .
Because the University is such
a large institution, the winning
company stands to gain consider-
able prestige from the account. In
addition, if Google is successful,
the corporation would be able to
claim a portion of Microsoft's cur-
rent 97-percent market penetration
in the IT industry.
"We're Michigan - that's a big
account ... " Johnson said. "And
Google would like to go after that."
Scott Thompson, an education
solution strategist for Microsoft,
said the corporation is the best
choice for the University because of
its commitment to user privacy and
its strong customer service. He also

said the company's software would
be applicable to business software
for students after they graduate.
"We have integration across
technologies that is unmatched in
the industry," Thompson said.
The University Information
Technology Council will ulti-
mately decide which IT system
the University will use. In addi-
tion to the council, there is also an
IT Executive Committee, which
is composed of the University's
Vice President for Research Ste-
phen Forrest, University Provost
Philip Hanlon, Ora Pescovitz, the
University's executive vice presi-
dent for medical affairs, and Tim
Slottow, the University's executive
vice president and chief financial
officer.
In order to also have student
input in the decision, the Univer-
sity will send out a campus-wide
survey through CTools, which will
be made available after both pre-
sentations.
Students who attended the pre-
sentation said the Microsoft rep-
resentatives didn't persuade them.
Many students said they think
Google is still at the forefront of
student programs for information
technology.
LSA sophomore Omar Abdul-
jaber said he doesn't think the sys-
tem Microsoft presented is that
much different from the existing
Universitysoftware.
"I thought we were going to add
a unified system and I don't think
it's going to be different from what
we already have," Abduljaber said.
"Students will go with Google any-
ways, without seeingthe presenta-
tions."
Engineeringfreshman Kyle Mat-
timore also said Google is the popu-
larchoicefor Universitystudents.
"Google has so much positive
hype among students," Mattimore
said.

Martin Seligman
Director, Positive Psychology Center
Zellerbach Family Professor of Psychology
University of Pennsylvania

'

Positive Psychology &
Positive Interventions

Thursday, October 7, 2010, 4:00 PM
Rackham Auditorium (ground floor)
Also: Symposium on the Tanner Lecture
Ruut Veenhoven, Erasmus University, Rotterdam
Valerie Tiberius, University ofMinnesota
Kennon Sheldon, University of Missouri
Friday, October 8,2010,9:00 AM - 1: 0 PM
Rackham Amnphitheatre (fourth floor) Lunch follow
All events open to the public without charge (wwwlsa.umich.edu/philosophy)



4A - Wednesday, September 29, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRISTINA AT CHSUH@UMICH.EDU

I~C ligan 4alhj
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

CHRISTINA SUH

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

ikBorae r
Think Blue for prostate cancer

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent Solely the views of their authors.
Give us Google instantly
Ann Arbor is the right testing city for Google Fiber
The race to be one of Google Fiber's pilot sites has inspired
a lot of excitement in Cities vying for the new Internet
service. Ann Arbor - which has yet to change its name
for the cause, unlike Topeka, Kansas - is still in the running to
receive this ultra-high-speed Internet. Google Fiber would pro-
vide fiber-to-home network that is said to run 100 times faster
than most Internet services currently available. Bringing Google
Fiber to Ann Arbor would have huge benefits for students, the
University and the city as a whole. The community should con-
tinue its enthusiasm, and Google should see that Ann Arbor is
the right city to test Google Fiber.

*I

According to the Sept. 12 article in the
Daily, Ann Arbor currently ranks fourth
in community support levels for the effort
to attract Google Fiber. Another Michigan
city in the running is Grand Rapids, which
currently ranks second. These rankings,
which come from fiberforall.org, mea-
sure community support by way of social
media websites, tracking statistics such
as Facebook group members and Twitter
followers. There is currently no informa-
tion regarding whether these rankings
will impact Google's choice for a pilot city.
Google has said that it will announce which
cities it has selected to test the new fiber-
optic Internet service by the end of 2010.
As a research university, the University
of Michigan would benefit greatly from an
opportunity like this one. Faster Internet
would mean easier access to data and infor-
mation, something that would benefit almost
every program at the University. Google
would also benefit by testing the network in
a city full of innovative and knowledgeable
researchers, students and businesses.
The University would certainly benefit
from Google Fiber - researchers and stu-
dents would have access to more informa-
tion at a faster rate. Google Fiber would
be a particularly valuable asset to Univer-
sity Health Service by providing faster and

easier access to health records. With such
a large student body and community rely-
ing on UHS, faster access to records would
make this important resource function
even more efficiently.
And Google already has roots in Ann
Arbor. Its AdWords is headquartered
downtown and one of its co-founders is
a University graduate. Piloting Google
Fiber in a city that the company is already
tied to would ensure easy functioning and
easy access to data for Google - benefits
that other cities can't offer. This win-win
situation would facilitate a more accurate
and simple testing process. And with high
levels of community support, Google can
be sure that residents would be ready and
willing to help the company with its efforts
to study and improve Google Fiber.
Ann Arbor has more to offer in terms
of community support and testability
qualities than other nominees, making it
uniquely qualified to serve as a pilot city
for Google Fiber. The University and its
surrounding community remain depen-
dent on high-quality Internet access for
student work, research and health servic-
es. With advantages like these, there's no
need for Ann Arbor to change its name to
prove that it's top in the running to become
Google Fiber's test city.

Blue - yes, it's a color. But it's
also a very important color.
Especially today - except I'm
not goingto tell you why just yet.
Do you remem-
ber that Facebook
meme from a few
months ago, in
which women all
across America
began posting s
their bra color as
their status to sup-
port breast can- -
cer awareness? I ERIC
believe the mes-
sage they were SZKARLAT
spreading around
read something
along the lines of, "Postyour bra color
in your status and leave the boys to
wonder what it means!"
So it was essentially a secret girls'
club. What's unfortunately left out of
these messages is that men can also
contract breast cancer. It's a statis-
tical rarity, but there are usually a
couple thousand per year in the Unit-
ed States. And because of failure in
detection, death rates are much high-
er among male breast cancer patients.
That said, the
biggest risk fac-
tor for breast
cancer is wheth-
er you are male
or female. Obvi- i
ously, women
contract it at
a much higher-
rate. But I won-
der why we left
boys and men
to wonder what
the colors mean
since they can
still contract
breast cancer?
In her arti-
cle on Politic-
sDaily.com,
writer Donna - 50
Trussell wrote, b *
"My Bra? Color
Me Furious."
Throughout her
article, Trussell writes about how
many breast cancer survivors are
no longer wearing bras of any color,
so the entire Facebook status move-
ment was insensitive. She raises
good questions about ovarian cancer
and pancreatic cancer, such as why
they aren't touted so loudly as breast
cancer when their death rates well

exceed those of breast cancer.
But while I enjoyed much of her
article, Trussell's last line strikes
me as insensitive. Referencing such
campaigns and slogans as "Save the
Ta-tas," she says: "Never mind the
breasts. Save the women."
Does this somehow imply that sav-
ing women is somehow more impor-
tant than saving men? I'm all for
saving women's lives by eradicating
cancer, but that's a consequence of
something else: I'm all for saving peo-
ple. I'm all for finding cures for breast
cancer and ovarian cancer, for the
reason that I am all for finding cures
for all types of cancer. Some degree of
specificity toward a particular cause
is perfectly fine, but a disproportion-
ate amount of support for one cause
frustrates me. It especially frustrates
me when the reason given seems to be
what I would call gender protective
preference, that is, a stronger impulse
to save one gender rather than anoth-
er. It is a manifestation of sexism.
Here are some numbers for you:
The American Cancer Society esti-
mates that 217,730 new cases of pros-
tate cancer will emerge in 2010. They
estimate that 207,090 new cases of
0044 is7 fi,-
cro . Bra
(brashC rte ClnLc G
Illustration by Ma
breast cancer will emerge in the same
year. Prostate and breast cancers are
the second leading causes of cancer-
related death in men and women
respectively, after lung cancer, which
is first for both sexes.
The Susan G. Komen for the Cure
foundation lists over 100 races to
fundraise for breast cancer research.

ZERO, The Project to End Prostate
Cancer, lists only14 races forprostate
cancer fundraising and awareness.
Had you even heard of The ZERO
Project before now? I hadn't until I
started researching to write this col-
umn. Not even 2,000 people "like"
it on Facebook. Barely 2,000 people
have liked "Prostate Cancer Aware-
ness." As for "Breast Cancer Aware-
ness"? Almost 1.5 million "likes."
Almost 50,000 like "A World With-
out Breast Cancer," and more than 6
million have joined the cause "Turn
Facebook Pink for 1 Week for Breast
Cancer Awareness."
Six million strong against breast
cancer - it sounds amazing. But I
admit that I am jealous. Why the dis-
proportionate inequity? Why aren't
we more aware about the cancers that
are killing our fathers, grandfathers,
brothers and uncles? Are they simply
less marketable?
I've seen the effects of breast can-
cer. I've seen lives and families funda-
mentallyalteredbythe lossofaparent
to breast cancer. But I've also seen the
damage prostate cancer can do. I've
lost family members to prostate can-
cer because they weren't aware until
it was too late.
I am in favor of
putting an end
to both. I would
be joyous if one
were cured and
n , inconceivably
blissful if both
were cured.
If you didn't
know, Septem-
ber is Prostate
Cancer Aware-
ness Month.
And blue is the
hr. re.. 's 5 'e. color of prostate
'.0 m50 e'&e cancer aware-
* P -e.. cw0cer'ness. I know
it's almost over,
but maybe for
these last two
days you could
do something
dalyn Hochendoner as simple as
wearing a blue
ribbon, armband or - dare I say it -
some blue underpants to show your
support of prostate cancer awareness.
Then you can bust out the pink for
October - Breast Cancer Awareness
Month. But for now, Think Blue.
- Eric Szkarlat can be reached
at eszkarla@umich.edu.

W

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do
not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

ERIKA MAYER |

Uniquely 'U'


Unlike many of my friends with University
of Michigan legacies, there are no alumni in my
family. My parents went to Central Michigan
University and my aunts and uncles went either
there or to Purdue. But other than the fact that
my Boilermaker relatives can be a little over-
whelming at times, there's no family loyalty to
a particular university. On top of that, I didn't
really grow up in Michigan, so when the time
came to think about colleges, the University of
Michigan was just another university. I cheered
for the football team, but in comparison to real
fans I was tragically lukewarm.
When I started touring schools, I realized
something was different here at the University.
At every school I visited, students wore sweat-
shirts with the school's logo - even the Yale
Bulldogs deigned to pull one over their button-
downs - but at the University of Michigan there
was something a little different in the wearer's
attitude. My friends and I joke now that you can
wear whatever you want as long as it has the
Block 'M' on it. Everyone is excited tobe a Michi-
gan student, even on a cold, rainy morning.
The Michigan attitude of loving the school,
the institution and the community struck
home for me. My parents, mentally calculat-
ing the difference between in-state tuition
with an Ivy League education, encouraged this
by watching Michigan football and taking me
to a game. I still think they bribed my friends
to buy me a Michigan teddy bear for my 18th
birthday. They may have had ulterior motives,
but their strategy was grounded in something
I had seen myself - at Michigan I would get
much more than an education.
Most students vaguely understand that
making connections and "opening doors"
(whatever that means) is important for the
future. Usually, it's a fancy name attached like
Harvard or Columbia. But while Harvard has
around 20,000 students each year, the Uni-
versity has more than twice that many. Which
means - and I'll leave the calculations up to
the math geniuses in East Hall - there are a
lot more Wolverines out there than, um, Crim-

sons. And we have a better football team.
All of the silly tangible benefits of a good edu-
cation and a job and a future aside, Michigan
stands out because it creates a community that
unites complete strangers - even in foreign
countries. In the same day, a few fellow Wolver-
ines and I cheered "Go Blue!" at a stranger on a
street in London who happened to be wearing a
Michigan Law t-shirt and reminisced over living
in Ann Arbor with a man wearing a University
rock-climbing shirt in Edinburgh.
It says something about the University that
two weeks ago I was sitting in a Buffalo Wild
Wings hours from Ann Arbor with the water ski
team, next to a wedding party that made a pit-
stop between the wedding and reception, watch-
ing the guy who sat next to me in class two days
earlier run over 300 yards with his shoes untied.
It's the same connection that made a friend of
mine creepily snap a picture of a man in a Michi-
gan hat on a ferryboat in Seattle.
Whether the connection is forged in the stu-
dent section at football games, over the long, cold
walk to classes in the winter or on the late-night
drunken bus ride back to North Campus, there's
something that bonds students and alumni of
the University in a way I haven't seen at other
colleges. It's more than just school spirit, more
than maize and blue face paint and nail polish,
more than accumulating a ridiculous amount
of yellow t-shirts, more than the knowledge
that we really are the Leaders and the Best. It's
somethingthatbecomes a part of the students, a
part that never changes, a part that has alumni
still standing for "The Victors" decades after
they've graduated. The Michigan Difference
isn't some fundraising scheme brainstormed by
the administration, it's what happens when you
become a part of the Michigan family.
When people ask me why I chose Michigan, a
question I seem to hear a lot lately, I try to give
them a full answer. It's a great school and I get to
pay in-state tuition. And that's true, butI stayed
at Michiganbecause it's a way of life.
Erika Mayer is an LSA junior.

They, too, si ngAmerica

think it's rather fitting that the
fate of the DREAM Act, which
offers a path for the children of
illegal immigrants
to become citizens
if they graduate
from a U.S. high
school and then
complete two years
of a four-year uni-
versity or serve at
least two years in
the military, and
the repeal of the NOEL
"don't ask, don't GORDON
tell" policy, which
would allow mem-
bers of the LGBTQ
community to openly serve in the mil-
itary, were essentially woven together
in a recent defense appropriations bill
that failed in the U.S. Senate. But not
everyone agrees with me.
LGBTQ advocates were enraged by
Democratic Majority Leader Harry
Reid's decision to include both provi-
sions in the 2010 National Defense
Authorization Act because doing so
essentially guaranteed the bill's fail-
ure. Some Democrats felt that the two
policies should have been debated
independently of one another. Some
Republicans felt that the two policies
shouldn't have been debated at all.
But if you look closely enough,
you'll soon realize that each of these
opinions rests upon the same faulty
assumption - namely, that gay rights
and immigrant rights are mutually
exclusive.
Consider thatcfor boththese groups,
each day brings the possibility that it
could mark the beginning of the end.
A woman who accidentally reveals the
identity of her female partner could be
dishonorably discharged the same day
a high school senior is deported back
to his "home" country. Though seem-

ingly incongruent, these two scenari-
os are not all that different from one
another. Both tell the story of honest,,
hard-working individuals reduced to
nothing more than a single aspect of
their identities. But apparently noth-
ing else matters - not even twenty
years of decorated military service
or eighteen years of impressive work
ethic. Because in the eyes of the fed-
eral government, sexual orientation
has long been indicative of military
aptitude much in the way legal immi-
gration status has been indicative of a
person's right to learn.
Much like Coretta Scott King, I
believe that "we are all tied together
in a single garment of destiny... I can
never be what I ought tobe until you
are allowed to be what you ought to
be." It's important to realize that the
validation ofone minority group rests
heavily upon on the validation of
another. So while I would have loved
for the U.S. Senate to have instated
the DREAM Act and repealed "don't
ask, don't tell," I fail to see the point
in blaming another group of victims.
This does nothing to advance the fight
for social justice. Instead of point-
ing fingers at one another, advocates
from both sides should be working
together to end all forms of institu-
tional inequality. Because when it
comes down to it, these groups have
similar stories to tell.
If you don't believe me, read the
testimony of the following two people.
The first is from a Romanian student
currently living here in the United
States. He's been here his entire life
but is still facing deportation over a
problem he didn't even know exist-
ed. The other is from a queer young
woman currently training to serve in
the armed forces. Though she loves
her country, she's been forced to keep
her sexuality a secret.

My Romanian friend said to me
in an e-mail, "I came to the United
States of America when I was 5 years
old. I didn't come here illegally, nor
did I hop any borders. I wasn't smug-
gled in or paid an excess amount of
money to get in. I lived my life learn-
ing the American way. Aside from
being Romanian, I had become the
'All-American Boy.' But shortly after
graduating, I received a letter saying
that I would have to return to Roma-
nia because my visa had expired. The
DREAM Act is a way for me to stay in
the United States without havingto go
back to a country that I haven't been
to in 15 years. We are Americans too.
Grant us the same rights and we will
not falter. "
Minority groups
share common
interests in liberty.
Similarly, my female friend
explained, "I love my country. That's
why I decided to sign up for the mili-
tary. I believe in the American Dream
and I'm willing to put my life on the
line to protect it. SoI don't understand
why being gay should stop me from
doing that. I didn't ask to be gay, but I
definitely wouldn't change it. Repeal-
ing don't ask, don't tell is my only
chance at feeling like I truly belong
here. I'm just as much an American as
any straightguy or girl out there. That
doesn't change no matter what."
They, too, sing America.
- Noel Gordon can be reached
at noelaug@umich.edu.

01

0
0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Laura Veith

.


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 29, 2010 - 5A

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 29, 2010 - 5A

Biochemistry (Biological Chemistry)
A

92

Applied Physics

160
162

105

Chemistry
Physics
Biophysics

38

180

A SAMPLING OF THE NRC'S RANKINGS
In its most recent rankings released yesterday, the National
Research Council used a new methodology to characterize
how Ph.D. programs stack up against peer programs nation-
wide. Unlike prior years when a single rank was assigned to a
program, this year's rankings use ranges to more accurately
reflect the relative quality of Ph.D. programs. The first set of
ranges, the top line for each department, are based on facul-
ty perception of peer programs' reputations paired with data
collected from those programs. The second set of ranges, the
bottom line, reflect faculty opinions on how important each of
the 20 criteria considered are to the programs' overall quality.
The number to the right of each pair of lines is the number of
schools nationwide that have that department. The NRC's data
was drawn from the 2005-2006 academic year.
This is a sample of the rankings,
see them all at michigandaily.com

59

a30

48

162
160

8

106

Psychology
3 19
Cell and Developmental Biology
Economics
28
Environmental Engineering
Civil Engineering
3

237

Political Science

105
105

122

106

E 6
Electrical Engineering (Electrical and Computer Engineering)

118

136

English (English Language and Literature)

131
131

122

Chemical Engineering

106

87

Pharmaceutical Sciences

79

118

Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
45
Pharmacology,
1|ililin26
53
Computer Science (Computer Science and Engineering)
Medicinal Chemistry
67
81
Microbiology (Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology)
42
Anthropology

Cellular/Molecular (Cellular and Molecular Biology)
69
Taicology
60
63
Sociology

122
118

141

118

120

Mechanical Engineering

128

Mathematics

128
127

118

History

122
Philosophy
9
Immunology

138

Anthropology and History
45
/i$il 25

8L
82

90

Microbiology and Immunology
41
Biomedical Engineering
14
25
Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences

74
74

39

7R

27 '!
Materials Science (Materials Science and Engineering)

Physiology (Molecular and Integrative Physiology)
 12 /

2

27

63i

84

50

13

Industrial Engineering (Industrial and Operations Engineering)
74d

Biostatistics

Molecular and Cellular Pathology
37

25

92

27
Genetics (Human Genetics)
18
(214

14

78

Public Policy
1054

Statistics

66

61

Macromolecular Science and Engineering
43;
Geology
25
Health Services Organization & Policy

84

94
92

Communication Studies
Environmental Health Sciences

,58

83

181

64
Epidemiology
38
Industrial Health
63
Health Behavior and Health Education

92
92
92
92

75
74

Aerospace Engineering
31
5

GRAPHIC BY SARAH SQUIRE
SOURCE: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL


6A - Wednesday, September 29, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Wednesday, September 29, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Bore times galore in
Solondzs 'Wartime'

J.J. Abrams spies on NBC

Astounding art
direction can't save
recycled premise in
meandering film
By JOSHUA BAYER
Daily Arts Writer
"Life During Wartime" could
possibly be the most boring film
ever written about pedophiles.
Which isn't all that surprising,
considering this
is the second ' -
movie writer-
director Todd Life During
Solondz ("Wel- Warim
come to the
Dollhouse") has At the State
devoted to the IFC
subject.
Solondz has
always had a soft spot for stomach-
churning shock value, penning jet-
black comedies about phone sex
addicts, teen pregnancy and every-
thing in between. But while he's
never quite broken out of his psy-
chosexual muckraker mold, "Life
During Wartime" is his first film to
feel like pure retread.
In fact, "Wartime" essentially
plays like a half-assed remake of
Solondz's "Happiness" (his other
pedophile flick): The opening scene
is a lampoon of the opening scene
in "Happiness," a large majority of
the characters' names - and types
- are recycled and entire conversa-
tions provoke an eye-rolling sense
of ddjk vu. (Seriously, how many
times can we watch children ask-
ing their parents about male-on-
male rape before it gets old? Twice,
apparently.)
But, unlike "Happiness," "War-
time" doesn't crawl under your
skin. While the film's subject mat-
ter makes it sufficiently uncom-
fortable to watch throughout, the
movie never quite punches you
in the gut the way it wants to -
partially due to the script's auto-

By DAVID RIVA
DailyArts Writer
When a pilot opens with a roof-
top chase scene - loaded with
gunshots, broken
windows, balcony -***
jumps and fast-
paced, dizzying Undercovers
editing to keep up
with all the com- Wednesdays
motion - it seems at 8p.m.
destined to fall NBC
into the ranks of
forgotten action-adventure televi-
sion shows.
But just when it would be easi-
est to dismiss "Undercovers," a
subsequent scene shows its main
characters taking part in peanut-
butter hinging and tooth brush-
ing before bedtime. These tropes
of the domestic drama signal that
the show will likely combine two of
television's most stale genres.
This dichotomy between the
enthralling uncertainty of the
detective world and the comfort-
able monotony of the "normal"
world is rightfully established early
on in the first episode of"Undercov-
ers" and is the show's most appar-
ent and oft-exploited strength.
Steven Bloom (Boris Kodjoe,
"Soul Food") and his wife Saman-
tha (Gugu Mbatha-Raw, "Doctor
Who") are torn between these two
worlds and faced with a difficult

decision
the CIAr
vices. Nei
have bee
eral year
age a bo
Even tho
careers to
stability,t
tunity is b
The de
in Steven
not onlyt
of the day
nant rela
selves in
solving c
feet dash
needs to
each othe
Th
lif
1
S.
As a co
tha thriv
situations
rable exc
bad guys
Samanth
of an air
casuallyi

when a messenger from she once dated. These instances
requests the couple's ser- help to develop a strong dynamic
ither Steven nor Samantha between the couple as they try to
n active agents for sev- outdo one another with witty lines.
s, opting instead to man- Even though this is similar to the
oming catering business. behavior of Brad Pitt and Angelina
ugh they ended their CIA Jolie in "Mr. & Mrs. Smith," the
o start a life of routine and crime-fighting couple is a concept
this one-and-done oppor- still fresh enough to hold an audi-
too good to pass up. ence's attention.
esire for some excitement Despite the strength of the main
i's and Samantha's lives is characters, the supporting cast is
triggered by the dullness severely lacking in depth. From the
y to day, but also by a stag- geeky CIA fanboy who can't stop
ationship. Putting them- calling Steven a legend to Saman-
risky situations while tha's sister who can't seem to get
rimes together is the per- anything right, the minor roles are
i of spice that the couple filled with poorly written character
restore their passion for sketches.
r. After successfully completing
their first mission while growing
closer to each other, the Blooms
decide to accept an offer to con-
le domestic tinue working for the CIA. The
eof a CIA biggest question at the end of the
show, however, is just how long
pycouple. the couple will be able to continue
PY solvingcases that will stay interest-
ing., The fast-paced nature of the
show will alienate those looking
ouple, Steven and Saman- for an easy domestic drama while
'e in these high-pressure the romantic subtext might make
s and have some memo- an action-adventure enthusiast a
hanges while fighting off bit uncomfortable. Regardless of
. Take the scene in which its future, the pilot of "Undercov-
a is about to sky-dive out ers" adds some much-needed spice
plane. As she jumps, she to two of television's most common
informs Steven of a man genres.

*1

"Ice cream?"
plagiarism and partially due to its
on-the-nose-ness.
"Wartime" would be the per-
fect film to show in screenwrit-
ing classes as a textbook example
of how not to write an ensemble
character study. New characters
crop up in nearly every scene, but
instead of adding layers of psycho-
logical complexity they simply sit
around and speak squarely about
their emotions.
Virtually every encounter
involves bruised souls reuniting,
conversing blandly about how glad
they are to see each other and "how
hard" things must have been, and
then seeking some form of mutual
forgiveness. Although it's likely
that Solondz is satirizing the hum-
drum pettiness of human frailty,
this sort of therapy-by-the-num-
bers scripting gets old fast.
It's as if Solondz was sweating
so hard to juggle as many motifs
as possible that he completely for-
got to flesh out engaging scenar-
ios. Every adult male in the film
is either a pedophile or suspected
of being one, multiple characters
sermonize vaguely about "pretend-
ing" (as if they're all on some sort
of telepathic hotline together) and
- gasp - the film actually makes
continuous references to the fact
that our country is at war! How
subversive!
Thankfully, Solondz's knack for

facetiously twisted art direction is
in full force. Only he would choose
to depict a 12-year-old boy holding
a Twinkie after learning his ped-
erast father is still alive. And the
subtle way in which he juxtaposes
his disturbed characters against
garishly bright blow-up pools
and perfectly spherical hedges in
order to make them appear even
more displaced is nothing short of
genius.
While the majority of the script
may read like an incredibly ineffi-
cient public service announcement,
most of the acting is spot-on. Alli-
son Janney ("Juno") stealsthe show
as a scatterbrained Jewish mother
in limbo between cocooning her
children and absentmindedly cor-
rupting them. And newcomer
Dylan Riley Snyder devastates as a
preteen coming to terms with the
fact that his long lost father sodom-
ized boys his age, his involuntary
lip-quivers provoking the classic
Solondz squirm reflex.
In the end, "Wartime" is little
more than a caricature of Solon-
dz's already relentlessly satirical
aesthetic. While Solondz surely
deemed it clever to write about a
pseudo-rehabilitated phone sex
offender who "only dials on
Sundays now," it's this sort of
tongue-in-cheek indulgence that
ultimately prevents the film from
being genuinely disturbing.

"ICE CREAM!"

RECENTLY REMODELED DOU-
BLE ROOM sharing loft as a common
area with other tenants. 2 full baths,
kitchen, air, downtown location. Phone
days: 662-7888, evenings: 995-2433.

PARKING @ 930 S. Forest and 408
Hill. 734-222-9033. JMSprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, September 29, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 6 "The Thin Man" 38 " a date!" 52 He rid Ire. of
1 Hitchcock's wife pooch 39 Bywayof snakes, as the
and collaborator 7 Dentist's 43 Negotiated white legend goes
5 Floater with a suggestion water, perhaps 53 Pooh's creator
ladder 8 Holy scroll 44Thick-bodied fish 55 Unimpressed
9 Gamish on a 9 Not digressing 47 One vis-4-vis 56.speak
toothpick 10 Prix de _ de two 57 Freq. test giver
14 Radio tuner Triomphe: annual 48 Oregon State's 58 Prime-time time
15 Peace Prize city horse race cont. 59 Pontiac muscle
16 Kind of spray 11 Writer Dinesen 49 Diet doctor cars
17 Ringing sound 12Shop cleaner, 51 Med. drama 60 Road warning
18 Hurricane zone briefly sets 61 Up to, in ads
20 Unflappable 13 Caribou kin
22 Playful swimmer 19 Diagnostic proc. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Crabt 21"Shoot! EMMAD S . Ap GAP_
24dmi November 28 Drag OL NCAN
25 Iodybuilder's 27 Joust verbally QUAD P0 L 0 I N CAN
pride 29 Strong criticism U R G E ROAR Z O R R O
28 Altematively 30 MardiGras city's A D I N f I N I T U M E T O
33 "Time out!" Amtrak code T E C A T E R E O W I T
37 TV ad-skipping aid 31Trick-or-treat mo. E R S A T Z S A Y C C C I
40 "M*A*S*H" role 32 Bout stopper, for C H E S T S H A L E
41 Palo__, Calif. short C O M M E R C I A L P A P E R
42Dismayatthe 33 Wallop A D E E R A L L O Y S
dealer 34NFL scores TOSS AFT O D E S S A
451970 World's Fair 35"That's a rot- E M S E L F E S O A T T
Site not' R P T E 0 E
46 Hearth burn 36 Cupid, to the S EA GS P O NRE J O V E
consequence Greeks
47 Jacuzzi, e.g. 37 General T E H E E D O I NEA R E S
50 Polite cater associated with O R SON S L E D I S N T
response chicken xwordeditor@aol.com 09/28/0
4 7 8estroyer 1 2 5 a s n 5 10 11 12 13
destroyer
56 Sprinter'sdevice 14 1 16
60 sign of corporate 17 19
success, and a
literal hint to the 20 21h
puzzle therme -3
tsund inl18-, 20-, as
33-, 42- and 5e- a s as an as 2 as s a1 52
Across
62 Con 33 34 33 38
63 Supple
64 Cornerstonesword
65 Spotted 42 43 4
88 Prayeropening
87 Ball holdems as as 4n 48 as
68 Coastal raptors
DOWN s r s
1 Appends
2 Ray of W 51 62
"GoodFellas" 6
3 Some Musce
d'Orsay works s en as
4 Pool problemt
5Optimistic ByDan Naddor
(c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 09129/10

FOR RENT
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Reserve now
for 2011 (Spring or Fall). U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space for 2011 today with no
lease obligation. 2 blocks from Central
Campus and downtown. 1 to 4 bed-
room, private baths avail. Rates from
$660. 734-998-4400 www.-
4elevenlofts.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *1
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
!**FALL2011**! 5to9 bdrm.
houses. Keysmanagement.net
** AVAILABLE FALL 2011 **
945 GREENWOOD 5 bdrm/2 new
bath, new kitchen, 5 prkg, Indry,
hardwd floors, 734-834-4010.
2-9 BR Renovated Houses/Apts for
May '11. New furniture! 248-804-
0774 www.ChurchStreetApts.com
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAILABLE FALL '11 5 bedroom
2 bath houses call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com,
www.joycea2.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2011
Copi Properties
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
U.fM Diseounts!
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BARTENDERS NEEDED EARN
$250/day no experience required will
train full time/part time call now! 877-
405-1078 ex. 999
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
CARSON'S AMERICAN BISTRO is
now hiring experienced servers. Must
have lunch availability. Please apply
daily after 2:00pm at 2000 Common-
wealth Blvd.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
EARN SUBSTANTIAL MONEY, set
your own hours, be your own
boss, all while working around your
busy class schedule. No telemarketing.
Nixle was recently featured in Inc.
Magazine as one of the fastest growing
companies in the U.S. - Employment
Reqs: Full/PT student, 18+, motivated,
no experience necessary. Learn more or
apply attnixlesales.com or text NIXLE-
SALES to 888777
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back-
ground for a major film production.
Earnup to $200/day. Experience not re-
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
NEED SOMEONE TO pick up daugh-
ter at Tappan & take to home near
school in Burns Park. M-F at 3 & tutor
until 6. Available to take to various ac-
tivities. Please contact Jill Hunsberger
(734) 478-0628 for more information.
MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY operations, including the super-
vision, training and mentoring of under-
graduate students and lab members. As-
sist in the management of research
project(s) directed at lipid biochem-
istry. Provide expertise in biophysical
chemistry with preferred expertise us-
ing mass spectrometry, chemical syn-
thesis, chromatography and microbiol-
ogy techniques. Bachelor's degree in
biochemistry or related field, plus four
years of related experience in a bio-
chemistry laboratory setting required.
In-depth biochemical experimentation
laboratory knowledge essential.. Prefer
(1) Master's degree in biochemistry or
related field; (2) extensive lab manage-
ment skills; (3) experience with mam-
malian cell culture techniques; and (4)
experience using mass spectrometry,
chemical synthesis, chromatography,
and microbiology techniques. View
requisition 100472 at https://employ-
ment.unl.edu for qualifications, details
and to apply. Review of applicants be-
gins Aug 11. UNL is committed to a
pluralistic campus community through
affirmative action, equal opportunity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.

WE ARE SEEKING DYNAMIC
REP CUSTOMER SERVICE ORI-
ENTED INDIVIDUALS WITH
GREAT COMMUNICATIONS AND
TYPING SKILLS NEEDED TO
WORK ON BEHALF OF COMPANY
THIS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
WILL EARN UP TO $2000
MONTHLY ANY JOB EXPERIENCE
NEEDED.EMAIL AT ivan-
bartt0t@hotmail.com IF INTER-
ESTED.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
10AO/ R to inin ('link nnC- -~v

s1

ADurT.a A VING& a manciaay
stable couple longs to provide your
baby w/ unconditional love & security.
Expenses pd. Tom/ Marie 1-888-473-
8836. www.adopt4tomandmarie.com
ANN ARBOR COUPLE seeks respon-
sible, non-smoking student for driving
and after school child care. Two chil-
dren, 8 year old daughter and 11 year
old son. Must have own car and excel-
lent driving record. Flexible times, but
specifically Tuesday and Friday after-
noons. $13/hour plus mileage.
Stephanie - hailsteph@aol.com or
248.910.0951
NANNY NEEDED M,W and F for 9
month old girl. Non-smoker, reliable
transportation and references required.
Must be fun, caring, creative and mature,
gradstudent preferred. Contact zim-

*1

WRESTLING SHOES NEEDED!
SIZE 12.5-13.5. PLEASE CALL (989)
980-5142

EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
NEED STUDENT WHO knows Grad
Library/Buhr to obtain particular book
and article excerpts for use in research
project. I will provide citations, and
will pay $20 per excerpt. (248) 981-
dA"

nude, victon s a stype angene photog-
raphy. Flex hrs, great pay starting at
$40/hr + outfits. Must be 18. For inter-
view call: 734-678-4181 or email photo
to: georgedl@provide.net


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Wednesday, September 29, 2010 - 7A

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 29, 2010 - 7A

Joumana Hadded
talks Lebanese mags

"This was a mistrial, Your Honor. The ice crean jury did not include all flavors. Or sprinkles."

' Truth' be told well

By HEATHER POOLE
Daily Arts Writer
Images of overt sexuality on
the covers of magazines like
Cosmopolitan have become the
norm to young Western audi-
ences. Lebanese poet, translator
and journalist
Joumana Had- JOunalla
dad will discuss
the restrictions Hadded
that social con- Tomorrowat
straints have T0m
placed on Arab 5:0 p.m.
women and Michigan Theater
their represen-
tation in this week's Penny W.
Stamps lecture.
Haddad's lecture, "Taboos,"
aims to dissolve the assumed cul-
tural and gender roles that shape
the view of Arab women in both
Western and Eastern societies.
Her work has extended through-
out a diverse range of media,
including poetry, journalism and
collage art.
"Joumana is very much try-
ing to tear down the stereotype
of the Arab woman," said Chris-
stina Hamilton, director of visi-
tor's programs and the Penny W.
Stamps Speaker Series.
"The thing that ... really hit
our radar here (at the University)
was her work with this magazine
she started, JASAD, which is the
Arab word for the 'body,'" Ham-
ilton said.

Four
an oft
magaz
non. F
around
have s
in the
the m:
aspires
and "a
all itsI
ing wr
ists wi
rightfu
As fi
of JAS
of bot
for hei
contro
variou
attemp
down
rut bo
Guardi
Shc
in
female
her th
cism, i
Alth
enced
Hadda

nded in 2008, JASAD is of the restricted representation
en-controversial cultural of Arab women is partly internal.
ine published in Leba- "She feels that ... the first part
Explicit topics revolving of the problem of the stereotype
I the body and sexuality of Arab women comes from the
parked a heated response West but it also comes from Arab
Arab world. According to women themselves," Hamilton
agazine's website, JASAD said. "And she's trying to combat
s to break cultural taboos that."
ims to reflect the body in Haddad has received numer-
representations ... provid- ous awards, including the Arab
iters, researchers and art- Press Prize in 2006. She is also
ith the freedom that they head of the cultural page in a
lly deserve." daily Lebanese newspaper, An
ounder and editor-in-chief Nahar.
AD, Haddad is a recipient For speakers like Haddad,
h praise and resentment whose work is repressed in other
r work. JASAD's focus on parts of the world, the Penny W.
versial issues has sparked Stamps Speaker Series provides
s protests, including an "a forum for communicating
it by Hizbullah to close around issues of the day," Ham-
JASAD's stand at a Bei- ilton said.
ok fair, according to the "She's bringing the subject up
ian. Haddad's status as a in a forum where it can be dis-
cussed. So it's an opportunity for
people to ... gain another perspec-
tive, gain insight and ... possibly
)w ing wom en make a decision on how they feel
about it," Hamilton added.
a repressive Both Haddad's personal work
and her involvement with JASAD
aspire to release the stereotyped
Arab woman from taboos that
resonate in today's world. What-
leading figure has made ever preconceived notions one
e target of plenty of criti- might have, Haddad's lecture
ncluding hate e-mails. offers a fresh look at how mul-
ough JASAD has experi- tiple views in the Arab world
disapproval by audiences, render the body, women and
d feels that the problem sexuality.

A unique legal drama
that looks at both
sides of the system
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
SeniorArtsEditor
There's been a television void to
fill since the cancellation of "Law
& Order" was
announced over
the summer.
Admittedly, the The Whole
series had a rep-
utation of being
boring, exciting Wednesdays
only pre-law at10 p.m.
students and ABC
your parents.
Each episode
was a well known story of a righ-
teous legal team weaving through
bureaucracy to bring real justice to
their poor clients. Maybe this is a
void that shouldn't be filled at all.
However, ABC's new drama
"The Whole Truth" takes the "Law
& Order" formula and makes it
look like child's play. This new
show understands that even while
in opposition, both sides can work.
with compassion toward finding
justice. Even bad guys have human-
ity and sometimes the likeable guy
loses. "The Whole Truth" presents
the same case from the sides of
both the defense and prosecution

with an impressive objectivity that
stirs sympathy for all.
Laid-back defense attorney
Jimmy Brogan (Rob Morrow,
"Numb3rs") and high-strung pros-
ecutor Kathryn Pearle (Maura
Tierney, "ER") were strong friends
and even stronger competitors
in law school. Now the two find
themselves opposed in court.
Their undeniable respect for
each other juxtaposed with their
driving desire to win the case is
an unexplored dynamic in legal
shows. Throughout the pilot, they
call each other to brag about their
new evidence, and after the sen-
tencing they meet up for drinks
and a heartfelt moment. Perhaps
romance will develop in later epi-
sodes or seasons, but for now, it's
a pure, unspoiled professional
friendship.
The narrative straddles the
two sides of the case in a way that
exposes the inner workings of the
law firm and the defense attorney
office. The writing is done with
such skill that it's truly unclear
whether the defendant is guilty.
The defense's witness reveals
information that helps the pros-
ecution and the prosecution's wit-
ness does the same for the defense.
Enough substantial evidence is
produced for both sides, and just
when you think you figured it out,
another clue throws you off. Rather
than frustrating, it's an enjoyable

challenge, and the series promises
to always reveal the true wrong-
doer before the credits roll. "The
Whole Truth" keeps you guessing
until the very end in the most won-
derful of ways.
The writing is surprisingly fresh
for a procedural. Cheesy one-liners
about justice are substituted with
snarky, realistic dialogue. "Don't
say, 'Roger that,' " an annoyed
Pearle says as she scolds her assis-
tant district attorney. Perhaps she's
just as sick of corny catchphrases as
we are.
Still, "The Whole Truth" isn't
withoutitsjarringannoyances.Just
as "Law & Order" had the iconic
"dun dun" at every scene transition
(as though the change wouldn't
be clear without it), "The Whole
Truth" patronizingly informs what
side it's showing by zooming in on
the lawyer in slow-mo, transition-
ing to black and white and using
all-caps subtitles of "the defense"
or "the prosecution." Every time
this device is used, the show stoops
to the level of its predecessors. But
no procedural is perfect, and there
are many worse things "The Whole
Truth" could have been guilty of.
If you've been searching for
another "Law & Order," give "The
Whole Truth" a try, and even if
you aren't a law student or a par-
ent, you might enjoy a legitimately
realistic take on the courtroom
drama.

Danielle Evans reads
on themes of identity

COURTESY FCB
"To Ice Cream!"
Indefensible'Defenders'

By BRAD SANDERS
DailyArts Writer
Representing those who can't
speak for themselves, Danielle
Evans, a professor of fiction at
American Uni-
versity, will read D .l
as part of the Zell
Visiting Writing Evans
Series. Tomorrow
night, she will ursday at
read select stories 5:10 p.m.
from her collec- Helmut Stern
tion "Before You
Suffocate Your Own Fool Self."
Her collection's title comes from
a line in "The Bridge Poem" by
Donna Kate Rushin.
"There's a section in the poem
about translations, the idea of
being in constant negotiation, that
speaks to a lot of characters in
the book," Evans said in an inter-
view with the Daily. "It deals with
people who don't often get to tell
stories on their own terms, and
(is) directed at characters who are

making bad decisions where you
wish you could say something to
them."
A good deal of Evans's work
deals with race and its effects on
an individual's or group's percep-
tion of themselves and their roles
in society.
"I write a lot about people who
are a part of a contemporary racial
identity. We don't talk a lot about
racial families that have gone
through post-integration after
immigration," Evans explained.
"That's something I explore, what
it means to sort of know and to
think through the very individual
ways that people understand those
identities."
Evans also writes about human
sexuality and relationships, and
how they differ between genera-
tions.
"I think about generational
issues, like growing up where
divorce is more normal and what
that means with people interpret-
ing their own adult relationships,"

Evans said. "One of the things I was
really frustrated about in the fic-
tion I've read is people were blind-
ed by love or devotion or something
that made them not think things
through. I was interested in writ-
ing about women who thought
things through but did the wrong
thing anyway."
Some of Evans's stories have
come from real-life dialogue that
she has observed. Evans said she
Defending
the voiceless
through the
art of prose.
tends to build off of a certain idea
or predict the outcome of a conver-
sation.
"Some lines you may have over-
heard and thought, 'That's
interesting to say, who would
say that,' and build a charac-
ter around that," Evans said.
"Some people come up with
the perfect comeback three
hours after the conversa-
tion is over, and as a fiction
writer you can look at those
moments and say, 'What if I
said the right thing or knew
the right answer?"'
Evans takes an improvisa-
tional approach to choosing
her readings.
e. "It's about what you feel
like reading that day. There's
days where l love one story,
and days where I love anoth-
er, and some where I feel
like reading something more
funny or something more
9 serious," Evans explained.
"Sometimes I think about
audience - you read some-
thing different in aabar than
in an auditorium. I think
(about) what will be the best
for this crowd and context."

By LILA KALICK might hold an audience.
Daily Arts Writer Belushi's portrayal of a morose
Morelli proves mediocre as well.
CBS's thought process in mak- In the show, he's separated from
ing "The Defenders" is probably his wife and intent on having her
centered on the followed by a private eye whose
idea that every- investigative work yields photos
one loves a good of her on the back of some guy's
legal drama and motorcycle. He freaks out. This
no one can resist foray into his emotional side is
a show set in Defenders juxtaposed with his performance
Las Vegas. So Wednesday in the courtroom - a sloppy roll-
they figured, ercoaster ride that makes him
"Let's just throw atO p.m. appear more the maverick of the
these two things two attorneys. In the end, the
together and it'll tangent with his wife, which was
be great." The result was one epic probably intended to make him
nosedive of a show. more complex, is so shallow it
Lost trying to ascertain when seems gratuitous.
the plot of "The Defenders" will The pilot at least paid some
pick up, viewers can't be blamed attention to cinematography and
for having trouble remembering costume design. The glitz and
the names of the show's two main glamour of the strip at night are
characters, Nick Morelli and well contrasted with shots of the
Pete Kaczmarek. Played respec- hot and dry landscape of the des-
tively by Jim Belushi ("Accord- ert day. Belushi's horrendously
ing to Jim") and Jerry O'Connell loud tie choices complement his
("Crossing Jordan"), Morelli and Vegas persona in the courtroom
Kaczmarek are two colorful Las and allow him to deliver a few
Vegas attorneys who supposedly poorly written lady-luck jokes
"go all in when it comes to repre- with at least a little bit of gusto.
senting their clients." The firm's secretary (Tanya
Well, Belushi and O'Connell Fischer, "Law & Order") has the
certainly didn't go all in when craziest, most distracting makeup
preparing for these roles. Their and outfits, bringing new mean-
chemistry is at best forced most ing to the term "business casual."
of the time. O'Connell's comedic Lisa Tyler (Jurnee Smollett,
timing is completely off, not sur- "Friday Night Lights"), a new
prising considering he hasn't had addition to the firm, adds a strong
a stellar performance since his female element. However, allega-
breakout role in "Stand by Me." tions that she stripped her way
His secret sexual relationship through law school fail to be fully
with an attorney from another investigated and instead seem
firm (whom he supposedly hates) like an unimportant detail.
isn't believable enough for him We spend so much time dealing
to fit into the archetype of the with all these quirky characters
perpetual bachelor whose steam in the pilot that we barely notice

the legal drama. The show's first
case is a murder in which a young
man who had already landed a
plea bargain of three years of jail
time for involuntary manslaugh-
ter decides to throw caution to
the wind and prove his innocence.
The whole truth and nothing
but the truth - the legal jargon
incorporated in the court scenes
is either so dumbed down it's an
insult to the legal profession, or
so inaccessible to the audience
that you have to zone out the
words to keep your head in the
plotline.
Minutes before the decision
from the jury, Morelli and Kac-
zmarek grab a drink. "I feel like
I'm going all in on a pair of tens,"
This gamble
didn't pay off
well for CBS.
Morelli says, ruefully hanging his
head over the bar.
We of course can predict that
they are going to win the case,
but still have to suffer through
Morelli's speech to the jury fea-
turing one incredibly painful and
seemingly everlasting shot of him
leaning on the banister (making
him uncomfortably close to the
jury and the camera itself).
All this discomfort aside, it's
clear that CBS's gamble just
didn't pay off. "The Defenders" is
not sexy, not funny and not smart.
Verdict: Skip it.


Information Session
Thursday, Sept. 30th
6:30 p.m.
International Center, Rm
Apply by Oct. 1 for added programs leaving
in 2011 --Peace Corps'50th Anniversary Year!
800.424.8580 1peacecorps.gov/application

INTO 'MODERN FAMILY'? GO ONLINE!
Visit michigandaily.com for the Daily's
review of the show's second season.


*I

8A - Wednesday, September 29, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

, -, .
, ,.
r . --..> 'era,

Lewan captivates witt
his comedic uresence

N,

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Senior forward Carl Hagelin was named to the Preseason All-CCHA team.
Four icers named
to 2010 Preseason
All- CCHA squad

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editor
During a press conference Mon-
day following the Michigan foot-
ball team's win over Bowling Green
two days prior, junior wide receiver
Darryl Stonum held court at the
podium wearing a black necktie
with his short-sleeved Michigan
football polo, as well as a gigantic
pair of horn-rimmed glasses taped
together at the middle (the actual
usefulness of the glasses is still
under review). Stonum was enter-
taining, funny and informative in
fielding the reporters' questions.
When Stonum stepped down, up
walked redshirt freshman left tack-
le Taylor Lewan. There were a few
chuckles among the media, saying
Lewan had a tough act to follow for
his first time at the podium.
The media, of course, didn't
know Lewan.
The Scottsdale, Arizona native
was before the media Monday
because he started for the first time
against Bowling Green and played
nearly the whole game. He was
part of an offensive line that paved
the way for Michigan backs to gain
more than 460 yards on the ground.
That was the story.
But by the time he left the podi-
um, Taylor Lewan was the story.
When asked whether he and
his former high school teammate,
sophomore linebacker Craig Roh,
do any recruiting in Arizona:
"There's a kid who went to my
school, his name's Andre (Yrureta-
goyena)," Lewan said. "He actually
committed to Oregon, so I guess I
didn't do a very good job."
His favorite thing about Ann
Arbor?
"All the different people. You got
some weird people out here."
Lewan started really having fun

once he stepped down from the
podium. Reporters flocked to him
like sharks at a feeding frenzy, each
knowing that if Lewan kept going,
they would have to do little more
than transcribe his quotes for a
good mid-week story.
And kept going, he did. Lewan
held his audience captive by telling
tales of linemate Patrick Omameh's
eating habits ("He had like, eight
eggs Benedict, three omelettes
and like a muffin" at a buffet they
went to.), referring to himself as an
"attention whore" and calling his
teammate Stonum's look "ridicu-
lous."
But of course, according to red-
shirt junior defensive lineman Ryan
Van Bergen, that last comment in
itself was ridiculous, considering
Lewan's own wardrobe.
"During film, he was wear-
ing sweatpants, a fedora and a
sweatervest with no shirt on under-
neath," Van Bergen said at the press
conference, rolling his eyes.
Lewan kept the ball rolling, act-
ing more and more like a stand-up
comedian than a Michigan offen-
sive tackle. He said he is a wide
receiver trapped in a lineman's
body, meaning he has an outsized
ego while playing a position in
which he receives recognition only
when he's guilty of a penalty. Lewan
lamented the lack of stats associ-
ated with offensive lineman perfor-
mance.
"We don't really have stats,"
Lewan said. "We need something
cool. We don't really have anything
going on."
Lewan has the kind of harmless
ego and self-awareness that will
make him a media darling for years
to come. He knows how to make
himself sound ridiculous because
he knows exactly how ridiculous he
actually is.

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan hockey team
has had a good season and the
games haven't even started yet.
One day
after the Fs e
Wolverines First seen on
were ranked -the game
No. 4 in the
USA today coaches poll and four
days before they open the season
against Mercyhurst, four player
were selected to the preseason
All-Conference teams.
Seniors Carl Hagelin and
Louie Caporusso are preseason
selections for first team All-
CCHA. Hagelin was the top
vote-getter as a unanimous
selection. Caporusso was the
third forward selected, getting
five less votes than Miami's'
Andy Miele.
Seniors Matt Rust and Chad
Langlais were selected to the
second team. Rust beat out
Northern Michigan's Gregor
Hanson by one vote for the final
forward spot. Langlais was the
final defenseman to make the
squad as well.

Here are the full teams per the
press release:
2010-11 CCHA PRESEASON
ALL-CONFERENCE TEAMS
Preseason First Team
Forward:
Carl Hagelin, Michigan
Andy Miele, Miami (Ohio)
Louie Caporusso, Michigan
Defense:
Zach Redmond, Ferris State
Chris Wideman, Miami (Ohio)
Goaltender:
Cody Reichard, Miami (Ohio)
Preseason Second Team
Forward :
Carter Camper, Miami (Ohio)
Andy Taranto, Alaska
Matt Rust, Michigan
Defense:
Torey Krug, Michigan State
Chad Langlais, Michigan
Goaltender:
Pat Nagle, Ferris State

Redshirt freshman offensive lineman Taylor Lewan got his first start of his career in
the Wolverines'65-21 win over Bowling Green last Saturday.

Lewan is known for being very
aggressive. He said he was often
flagged for excessive blocking - "I
don't even know if that's a rule" -
which seems to be a penalty invent-
ed specifically for players like him.
His aggression has also shown
itself in practice, apparently. Lewan
has been in multiple fights during
practice or, as he calls them, "this
awkward, wrestling-tugging thing
that never goes anywhere."
His nice, gregarious nature off
the field and his nastiness on it
make for a very interesting con-

trast. Lewan showed himself to be a
well ofmediagoldthatdoesn'tseem
to be drying up any time soon. But
the craziest thing about him, some-
thing thatgoes beyond the realm of
sanity, has tobe the tattoo.
On his right index finger he has a
tattoo of a mustache. Just so he can
hold it to his upper lip for laughs 0
and the occasional pick-up line.
On Monday, Lewan held the
entirety of the Michigan media
captive. And in the future don't
be surprised if Lewan becomes a
household name for the Wolverines.

In fifth year, Neschke serves as mentor
to Wolverines' wealth of young talent

READY FOR
HOCKEY SEASON
TO START?
So are we.
STAY TUNED FOR THE DAILY'S
WEEKLY HOCKEY COVERAGE
ON TWITTER AND
MICHIGANDAILY.COM,
STARTING SATURDAY

By EVERETT COOK
For the Daily
Coming into the season, there
were plenty of questions about
the Michigan women's soccer
team's youth.
There were debates over
whether the influx of new players
would divide the team, making
it weaker, or if this youth would
make the team more cohesive and
stronger. Through tlgames, it
seems to be the latter.
The Wolverines' youth move-
ment is in full swing, but that
doesn't mean the veterans are
going away anytime soon. Michi-
gan coach Greg Ryan has relied
on his seasoned defense this sea-
son, which allows him to take
more risks on the offensive end.
"It allows us to attack more
freely," Ryan said. "We have put
an emphasis on attacking play
and have got more shots than we
have ever had at this point in the
season."
There is no shortage of veteran
talent, most notably on defense.

Senior defenders Kylie Neschke,
Amanda Bowery and Jackie Carron
all bring experience and leadership
to an otherwise young group.
Sophomore defender Alyssa
Engstrom is one of the players
who has benefited the most from
this veteran leadership, par-
ticularly from fifth-year senior
Neschke.
Recently, Engstrom has been
coming off the bench for Neschke,
and the pair have made for an
impressive one-two punch. Hav-
ing an older player there for guid-
ance is very important, according
to Engstrom.
"I think it helps so much to
have people who actually know
what they are doing, and have a
ton of experience to just bring a
calming presence to the field,"
Engstrom said. "It definitely
helps me a lot."
Being the oldest member of the
Wolverines (0-1-0 Big Ten, 5-2-2
overall) and a two-time captain
comes with a lot of responsibil-
ity, and mentoring some of these
young players is part of that

responsibility.
Neschke has embraced this
mentor role, while still continu-
ing to focus on her own play after
coming back from a season-end-
ing ACL injury. For some players,
it would be a tough decision to
try and come back for a fifth year
after that kind of injury. But not
for Neschke. She had to put in a
ton of off season work, but for her
it was well worth it.
"The team is awesome,"
Neschke said. "It was a big moti-
vation to get myself ready."
While Neschke's on-field suc-
cess is something special, it is
impossible to measure her impact
on some of the younger players,
especially Engstrom.
"She is a very vocal leader,"
Engstrom said. "She definitely
helps people relax and figure out
where they should beon the field."
Neschke has picked up an
immense amount of knowledge
in her five years, and with that
experience comes assurance and
a sense of comfort. Recently, Ryan
has been playing both Neschke

and Engstrom, with a belief that
Engstrom is growing rapidly as
a player due to the guidance of
Neschke,
"We have been starting out
with Kylie because she is very
sure of herself and very confi-
dent," Ryan said. "I think it helps
Alyssa to get some time watching
the game and Kylie to get ready to
step on the field."
Although the season is young,
Ryan can still plan for the future.
The defense will to be very young
next year, but the experience that
players like Engstrom and Sheli-
na Zadorsky are getting is invalu-
able.
"It is important to get as many
young players as much experi-
ence as we can in the back," Eng-
strom said.
As the Michigan women's soc-
cer team is learning, there is no
substitute for a good mentor.
With Neschke leading the way
for young players like Engstrom,
both the current and the future
of Michigan women's soccer is
bright.


LIKE SPORTS?

If so, you're qualified to write for Daily Sports.
Come to the final mass meeting of the semester at
420 Maynard St., tomorrow, 7 p.m.


0

0

8BThe Statement // Wednesday, September 29 2010
PERSONALSTATEMENT

REALITY RECONSIDERED
BY SASHA WANG

I was studying abroad in Spain last
semester when I received a Face-
book message from a CBS producer.
He told me he loved the sex blog I had
started six months prior and wanted
me to star in an episode of a docu-
mentary series that would appear on
The CW network about "classy, fabu-
lous and educated women who seem
to have interesting quirks." And my
favorite subject would be the focal
point of the first episode: sex.
The TV pilot seemed pretty rel-
vant to the double life I was leading:
ordinary college student vs. sex blog-
ger with a following of 15,000 unique
fans per month. I considered this TV
appearance a way to gain national
publicity for my alternative feminist
views about sex, while at the same
time showing that I was also just a
normal college student. It also seemed
like a good way to promote the web-
site, from which I was receiving ad
revenue.
Because I would only be appearing
on one-third of a 60-minute cable pro-
gram, I figured even if I weren't happy
with how I was portrayed it would
quickly become old news. But I could
never have predicted the effect the
STEM CELLS
From Page 5B
Despite the potential economic and
medical benefits, the original oppo-
nents of Proposal 2 and new embry-
onic stem cell challengers continue to
fight for greater research restrictions.
"Unfortunately, even though the
voters voted to protect embryonic
stem cell research in the state consti-
tution, there are repeated and ongo-
ing attempts to try to block this in the
legislature," Morrison said.
Right to Life of Michigan, a non-
profit organization against embry-
onic stem cell research, supports the
proposed amendments to the law. Ed
Rivet, Right to Life of Michigan leg-
islative director, said there needs to
be more public reporting because the
voters who approved Proposal 2 have
"a right to know" information like
how many embryos are being donated.
"That's just transparency and a lit-
9rle sun shining research, as you might

actual filming and creation of the show
would have on me.
As my time abroad progressed, I
began having daily contact with TV
producers, casting directors and pro-
duction assistants about legal paper-
work and planning for filming my
segment ofthe pilot. My mother was an
absolute wreck about this and did not
want me to make myself so vulnerable
on camera. She was worried I would
be exploited. Other family members
and friends warned me that, unlike my
website, I would have no control over
the editing of the show.
But the producers continually reas-
sured me it was a documentary and
not reality television, that the segment
.would represent me in a fair, truthful
way. I thoughtcmy family was justbeing
overprotective and I ignored them.
While I was still in Spain I reached
out to my friends about having them
appear on the show with me, but to no
avail. Not one agreed to appear. Under-
standably, as future doctors, lawyers
and businesswomen, the controversial
TV show could have been detrimental
to their careers - which they weren't
willing to risk.
Eventually Meg (name changed for
say," Rivet said. "You hear a lot about
sun shining government. Well, there
shouldn't be a problem with sun shin-
ing publically-funded research."
THE WORLD STEM CELL SUMMIT
On Monday, University research-
ers will join more than 1,200 scien-
tists, lawmakers, industry leaders
and patients - hailing from 30 coun-
tries - at the Renaissance Center in
Detroit for the 2010 World Stem Cell
Summit. Over the course of three
days, the sixth annual summit will
feature more than 150 speakers and
50 hours of presentations designed to
"unify the stem cell community" and
"advance the field in a robust way,"
according to World Stem Cell Summit
founder and co-chair Bernard Siegel.
"We want to make sure that we
can move this from the lab bench to
the bedside quickly to impact human
health and well being, and the meet-
ing makes that happen," Siegel said.
The summit is sponsored by the
Genetics Policy Institute and co-

I realized these "friends" played
a more important role in the show
E' than I had been led to believe. They
were mouthpieces the producers were
using to create a plot. And what we
were filming was reality television, no
matter what label the producers put
on it.
One night in particular made me
realize how fake this whole show
privacy reasons), the show's casting really was. One of the Snookies and
director, told me to scout out Facebook I went to happy hour at a bar in New
friends. Her constant reassurances York City's Financial District. The
convinced me that it didn't matter if producers bought us drink after drink,
they were my good friends because the but I somehow realized how ridicu-
segment would be about me and me lous the situation was. The producers
alone, not them. They just needed an would pause filming every 15 minutes
entourage to surround me. As a result, to talk to us separately to tell us in
which direction
"I realized the person on the camera they wanted the
wasn't me, but a caricature of me." go (typically, my
sex life). And after
my "friend" was
the fact that my Facebook recruiting rejected by a table of suit-clad busi-
resulted in two blonde versions of Jer- nessmen - the producers had asked us
sey Shore's Snooki didn't faze me much. to scope out men - I told them I was
About two weeks after I returned done filming for the night and insisted
home, we began filming in New York on a ride home.
City, where I was living for the sum- The stress the show was caus-
mer. Over the course of about amonth ing me resulted in physical as well as
and a half we filmed various segments, emotional reactions: a rash broke out
including paintballing with some male on my back that didn't go away until
acquaintances from my abroad pro- filming stopped. I wrote the producer
gram and barhopping with the Snook- an e-mail telling her how upset I was,
ies. And over the course of those 90 butI had signed a contract. I would be
days or so, I slowly began to realize fined if I didn't go on, soI had no choice
that my family's worries of exploita- but to continue with the show.
tion were coming true. I realized the Though reluctantly, I contin-
person on camera wasn't me, but a ued filming until the last day finally
caricature of me. approached. Even though I had told

the producers I didn't want to speak
with a therapist on camera, they insist-
ed. She asked me all types of personal
questions that I refused to answer
on camera, including ones about my
family. When I resisted, the therapist
reproached me, raising her voice: "Oh,
you're willing to write about your sex
life on the Internet, but you're not will-
ing to talk now?" I felt like I legally
had to cooperate, soI foolishly did not
stand up for myself.
Later in the therapy session, the
producers told me they wanted to film
my reaction to interview footage of the
boys I went paintballing with, but it
was clear the footage would make me
upset. I had had enough. I refused to
watch, and ripped off the sound gear
attached to my body as tears streamed
down my face. And, of course, Meg
asked me if they could film this. I
didn't respond, but instead grabbed
my belongings and ran for the studio
door, ignoring Meg asking me to keep
in touch.
The episode has yet to air and I'm
crossing my fingers that The CW has
chosen not to pick up the pilot.
I realized I was ready for a more pri-
vate chapter in my life. With the hope
of obtaining this, I shut down my blog.
I want tobe able to make decisions and
have experiences, both good and bad,
without having to worry about how
to share it with the rest of the world
and - possibly more importantly -
how they will react to it. Iam ready for
some silence.
Sasha Wang is an LSA senior.
gan meet this condition, Siegel said.
Check.
Overall, Siegel said organizers
chose Michigan because it is a "state
that supports the field."
In just a short time period, human
embryonic research has made con-
siderable legal and medical strides in
Michigan and across the country. But
even though medical breakthroughs
and events like the World Stem Cell
Summit give researchers hope for the
future of the field, political roadblocks
always have the potential to halt prog-
ress.
As Feldman points out, it's the sick
and dying against the healthy and
powerful.
"I wish one day they would come
into my clinic and ask my ALS
patients, who are suffering terribly,
whether they wanted to be denied the
one, bright ray of hope for a treatment
for this awful disease," Feldman said.
"it is just unconscionable what they
are attempting to do in the name of
politics."

hosted by the Michigan Economic
Development Corporation and the
University Research Corridor - a
research collaboration between the
University of Michigan, Michigan
State University and Wayne State Uni-
versity. Scheduled speakers include
Democratic Gov. Jennifer Granholm
and U.S. Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich).
The University will have a large
presence at the event. About a dozen
University researchers - including
Feldman, Wicha and Morrison - are
scheduled to give presentations. Feld-
man will lead a panel on current and
future clinical trials for stem cell
therapies, Wicha willgive atalk about
cancer stem cells and Morrison will
discuss the new insights his lab has
gained into the mechanisms that reg-
ulate stem cells and the links between
stem cells and disease.
Last year the summit was held in
Baltimore in conjunction with John
Hopkins University and the Univer-
sity of Maryland. Previous summits
partnered with the University of

Wisconsin at Madison and Harvard
University. When looking at poten-
tial locations to hold this year's con-
ference, Siegel said organizers based
their decision on three criteria. The
first: is important research occurring
in the state?
"Clearly, Michigan is a leader in the
field of stem cells," he said. "You have
first class researchers, not only at the
University of Michigan, but also at
Michigan State and Wayne State Uni-
versity."
Check.
Second, organizers evaluated resi-
dents' support for research.
"We were very impressed that the
voters of Michigan passed Proposal 2
basically to protect embryonic stem
cell research in the state Constitu-
tion," Siegel said.
Check.
Lastly, organizers looked for
philanthropic support for medical
research within the state. Taubman,
who will receive a National Advocacy
Award at the summit, helped Michi-




0

0

9 9

JM Th Saemn / ededa, etebr 9. 21

statement
MagazineEditor:
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief:
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor:
Jenna Skoller
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor:
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
Cover Photo:
Jed Moch
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year. To contact The
Statement e-mail calero@michi-
gandaily com
BREW
YOUR
OWN
BEER?
Enter it into The
Statement's second
annual home brew
competition.
E-MAIL CALERO@
MICHIGANDAILY.
COM FOR MORE
INFORMATION.

THEJUNKDRAWER
random student interview by will grundler

P leasestateyourname and class
standing for the record.
Melanie, and I'm a graduate stu-
dent in the School of Public Health.
Wow, you're our first graduate stu-
dent for Random Student Interview!
Really?
So, in what situation would you kick
a puppy?
Um, never.
What if you were both deserted on
an island, and you caught the puppy
eating your coconuts, and you had
told it a million times NOT to eat
your coconuts? Would you kick it
then?
Probably not.
You would probably just eat the
puppy, since you're on a deserted
island, right?
I guess...I hadn't thought of that.
Moving on, please name four types

of igneous rocks and how they form.
Woah!
I've got a geoscience exam tomor-
row, so...
Um...
In my planner there are instruc-
tions for the Heimlich maneuver.
If you were choking, and someone
retrieved their planner to help you
out, do you think your last thoughts
wouldbe, "Oh my god, I'mgonna die
at the hands of this idiot" or, "Oh my
god, I think I have French home-
work due tomorrow"?
Oh my gosh, I'm gonna die.
What do you think we should do
about the sungoing red giant?
Red giant? I don't think I knew about
that.
Oh, OK. In five billion years, it's
going to expand and engulf the
earth. Do you think we should do

anything for humanity?
I think something should be done.
I don't have the answer, but I think
something should be done. I'm sure
there's research goingon.
Do you think, as Americans, we're
healthy? Or do we need some work?
I think, looking around, it seems pretty
healthy.
You're eating Pizza Hut at the Union,
so what are your thoughts on that?
I just needed an outlet from eating
healthy food because I've been eating
really healthy lately, and I just needed,
to give into temptation once.
If an alien visited you and said, "You
are utterly insignificant, a speck on
the earth which is itself only a speck
on the universe," what would you
do?
I'd say, "Who cares? I don't know you!"
You wouldn't shoot him or hold him

captive?
Nope, he has his own opinion. Or she
has her ownopinion.
Is it ever acceptable to sell a Michi-
gan v. Michigan State ticket for, like,
$200, or do you think I should bump
it down to $100?
How much is it usually sold for?
The face value is $27.50.
Oh. Michigan State? That's, like, a big
rival, right? I don't really know.
It's kind of a big rivalry.
Sell it for $200.
OK, thanks a lot. This should appear
in "The Statement" tomorrow.
Oh, so where do I geta newspaper?
Usually they're just littered on the
ground.
Really? That's sad. I'm sorry.
- Melanie is a graduate student
in the School of Public Health.

--I I

EHICS
Funding Opportunities for Student
Organizations
The Center welcomes proposals for innovative projects that promote
learning and public discourse on ethics in public life. Examples of
projects and activities that will be considered include but are not limited
to: special events, symposia, workshops, film series, and publications.
The Center reviews proposals on a rolling basis and is currently
accepting applications. Grants will generally be in the range of $500to
$7,000.
Applications for program funding are currently being accepted.
Applications are considered on a rolling basis.
Further information and an application form are available at
www.ethicsum"ich"edu"fundine.

Information Session
Michigan League, Kaamazoo
7 October 20101: 7:00 p.m.
Application Deadline
25 October 2010
Interview Dates
16-17 November 2010
Toacpy okes cam u orrnom voe
Cronnector and the CL Web sic
SfSar.r.S. ccm

UNIERSITY OF MICHIGAN




0 0

0

0 0 0
Wednesday, September 0 The Statement 3B
news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance

A viral video of Katy Perry caused
parental backlash last week. The
video, originally recorded for
Sesame Street but later cut from
the show, showed Perry in a reveal-
ing dress trying to play dress-up
with an uninterested Elmo.

Mark Zuckerberg, founder and CEO A woman reportedly called Cana- A student at the University of Texas
of Facebook, announced on Oprah dian police to report a false bomb at Austin opened fire with an AK47
that he would donate $100 million threat on a passenger flight flying assault weapon on campus yester-
to the Newark, New Jersey public from Canada to Pakistan in an ef- day before shooting himself. He did
school system. The mayor of Newark fort to stop her ex-boyfiend, who not injure any others. The shooter,
and the governor of New Jersey ac- was on the plane en-route to be Colton Tooley, was a 19-year-old
companied Zuckerberg on the show. married in Pakistan. sophomore majoring in math.

AM

In the wake of North Korean leader
Kim Jong II's illness, the govern-
ment made an announcement that
his son, Kim Jong Un, was named
a four-star general, though it didn't
announce when or how he would
assume power.

1 11 11 1 1-0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7i 8 0 9 10
quotes of the week on the cheap
"While it's technically not illegal, it's morally wrong to throw eating well on a budget
a dead animal around." f
DANNY AUGER, of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in New
Zealand, on the charity event that included a possum carcass-throwing contest at
a rural school in New Zealand.
"I don't want a tomato picked by a Mexican. I want it picked
by an American, then sliced by a Guatemalan served by a
Venezuelan in a spa where a Chilean gives me a Brazilian."
STEPHEN COLBERT, of the Colbert Report, testifying in jest before Congress on
the issue of America's reliance on immigrant labor to do farm work.
"It's an echo of a disastrous decade we can't afford to relive."'O
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA, on his distaste for the GOP's new economic PHOTOILLUSTRATIONBY MAX COLLINS
plan called the "Pledge to America." ne of the inherent issues with moving off campus after living in the residence halls for
the beginning of college is the loss of the meal plan and, as a result, the necessity of
providing ourselves with meals. Without a meal plan or parents to feed us, it often becomes a
the rules choice of eating frozen/canned/old food to save money. But here are a few suggestions to eat
well without breaking the bank.
The first option to consider is, naturally, the clubs and organizations that meet every day
No. 269: No. 270: No. 271: on campus, providing free food for their members. You don't need to be a member of the club
Don't hit reply all to Never take a pedicab Actually, never take to get the free food. Just take some pizza and some soda and act like you belong. Tip: Univer-
sity funded events that advertise they will provide food are usually a safe bet.
ask to be removed when you're sober. a pedicab. If you don't like crashing meetings for clubs you have no intention of joining, there are
from a listserve, you numerous grocery stores around Ann Arbor that offer free samples to their shoppers. So, pre-
tend to be a shopper, and get as many samples as you can eat. Whole Foods is usually good
jackass. for some fancy cheese, or try Trader Joe's for some vegan chicken nuggets.
Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know. E-mail onthecheap@umich.edu.
by the numbers cST5OTEss
COURT ESY OF T HE STAR LEDG ER
The estimated number of students who The number of positions the Newark Public The rough percentage of students from the
protested New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's School systems cut this past June as a resultof Newark Public School system who fail to
budget cuts to the Newark Public School ' budget cuts. graduate.
system last April.

I

of the so-called "party schools" on neighbors to contact them direct- top ten were Big Ten universities. versity isn't in their rankings, but Mary Jo Desprez, the Alcohol
the national lists published each ly if they are too loud again so Seamus Mullarkey, senior edi- most students think the University and Other Drug Policy and Preven-
year by the Princeton Review and that the police don't have to be tor of the Princeton Review's "The doesn't make the list because of its tion administrator at the Univer-
Playboy. involved. Best 373 Colleges," said the rank- emphasis on education. sity, whose job is to provide alcohol
The police, obviously, are major Following these party-related ings were based on an online sur- "We party a lot on the week- and drug awareness to a wide array
players in the University's party incidents, Fox deals with a poten- vey completed by over 120,000 ends, but for the majority of the of students, said it's a good thing
scene. They, among other duties, tial fire at the Zaragon Place apart- college students from across the students here we work really hard the University isn't on any party
confiscate fake IDs and hand out ments, a few fights and a routine country. during the week," Business junior school list because, she believes,
citations for Minors in Possession bar inspection. But just because "The party scene (category) is Jenny Nowierski said. "I think the value of a degree earned from
of Alcohol and for open container there is a pause from calls to break based on a different number of what categorizes a party school is the University would diminish




..

0

4B8 -.

Wednesday, September 29, 2010 // The Statement B

months until they complete phase one
of the trial, and it's uncertain how long
phases two and three may last. And
after researching ALS for the last 20
years, Feldman wants to get it right.
HOW THEY GOT HERE
It wasn't long ago, however, that
researchers like Feldman couldn'ttouch
stem cells without fear of landing in jail.
Before the passage of the Michi-
gan Stem Cell Amendment - a bal-
lot initiative referred to as Proposal
2 - in November 2008, fertility clinics
were forced to throw away unwanted
embryos. The 53-47 voter approval
gave women in the state the opportu-
nity to donate their unwanted embryos
to research. The proposal also permit-
ted the creation of new embryonic stem
cell lines to study diseases and allowed
University researchers to transfer their
work to the state.
Before the proposal passed, Feldman
worked three months out of the year in a
lab at the University of California at San
Diego. Feldman said she made "great
strides" in California, where she laid the
groundwork for her current ALS clini-
cal trial.
"But it was difficult managing a labo-
ratory nearly 3,000 miles away," she
said. "It slowed progress and added
unnecessary costs."
Besides Election Day, March 9, 2009
stands out as an equally important day
for most University researchers. On
that Monday, the University announced
the opening of the A. Alfred Taubman
Medical Research Institute Consortium
for Stem Cell Therapies - a $2 mil-
lion center housed in the BSRB where
University researchers can develop
new stem cell lines. Earlier that morn-
ing, President Barack Obama issued an
executive order that would lift restric-
tions on embryonic stem cell research.
His announcement overturned former
President George Bush's executive
orders that limited stem cell research
and funding.
"This is a great day for America, and a
great day for science, and a great day for
the University of Michigan," Morrison
said in an interview with The Michigan
Daily at the time.
Today, Feldman calls Obama's deci-
sion "a huge triumph for anyone inter-
ested in medical science."

"It means we can obtain funding for
research that will eventually lead to eas-
ing the suffering of millions of people
afflicted with currently untreatable dis-
eases," she said.
Before the Michigan Stem Cell
Amendment passed, University
researchers were only allowed to use
human embryonic stem cell lines that
had been derived outside of Michigan.
Morrison said the regulation posed
major problems for research because
groups of people like African Ameri-
cans, Native Americans and indigenous
populations from North and South
America were underrepresented in
these lines.
"The existing embryonic stem cell
lines that had been derived in other
states don't come close to mirroring the
diversity that's present in our society,"
Morrison said.
More than a year and a half old, the
consortium is one of a few centers

ing research that creates or destroys
embryos.
The U.S. Justice Department is cur-
rently appealing the decision that Mor-
rison called a "nuclear bomb" for human
embryonic stem cell research.
"It's a far more extreme position than
we've ever encountered before," Morri-
son said. "If that injunction remains in
place for a significant period of time, it
will destroy the field because there will
be no federal support."
Wicha also said the injunction is "a
big blow" for stem cell research in the
United States. If the ruling isn't over-
turned, he said, scientists will take their
work outside the country.
Last year, the National Institutes
of Health gave $6.8 million in stimu-
lus funds to 13 stem cell research proj-
ects at the University. But at least five
NIH grants for projects related to the
treatment of human diseases will be
suspended this year if the injunction

"If I'mG going to spend years of mly life trying
. p,.e
to an swer a q ue stion, I really wa nt people
to Care what the answer is"

is dangerous for researchers because it
requires them to list their names and
addresses.
"Giving information about the
researcher allows some person with a
gun and a grudge to come to the lab and
start shooting," he said.
Any violation of the law would be a
felony, punishable up to five years in
prison. There would also be a $5,000
fine for failure to submit a report or
obtain written consent from an embryo
donor.
Goldman, who has analyzed the stem
cell legislation and has written recom-
mendations to Congress, said these
additions create a "chilling effect" that
will deter researchers from studying
stem cells.
"Why would someone want to do this
research with a possible felony charge
hanging over their heads if there was a
bookkeeping error?" he said.
According to Goldman, no state that
permits stem cell research requires the
amount of documentation proposed in
the bills, nor do any states impose sig-
nificant monetary fines for violations.
If passed, the amendments may
intimidate researchers and force them
to again move their work to one of the
other 45 states that allow stem cell
research, Goldman explained. He added
that this would only worsen Michigan's
"brain drain" and destroy the opportu-
nity for economic gains.
The 2008 Michigan Stem Cell Eco-
nomics Study, sponsored by the non-
partisan public policy institute The
Michigan Prospect, found stem cell
research could add nearly 4,000 new
jobs in the state. University Regent Oliv-
ia Maynard (D-Goodrich) is president
of The Michigan Prospect.
The study also reported that stem
cell research has the potential to treat
more than 770,000 Michigan residents
who suffer from diseases like diabe-
tes, ALS, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's.
For patients who often take time off
from work, stem cell therapies have
the potential to cut down sick days
and increase employee productiv-
ity. According to the study, if annual
employee absences decreased 2 per-
cent, the state would generate $19.2
million each year. Over 30 years, this
would total $576 million.
See STEM CELLS, Page 8B

* ta 5 a.m. and Eva Feldman is head-
ing to her office to devour a hearty
breakfast of scientific articles. Over
the next two hours she'll sample a bit of
cell biology, molecular biology and, her
favorite, neurodegenerative diseases.
By 8 a.m. Sean Morrison and Max
Wicha arrive, and all three begin
the tedious task of responding to the
hundreds of e-mails they've received
through the night. As the morning pro-
ceeds they visit their respective labora-
tories, which house not only their life's
work but also "their people," without
whom there would be no work at all.
The three, all top scientists at the
University, make up some of the prin-
cipal players in the most innovative
research in the world. Trying to solve
more than simple scientific questions,
they are on a mission to cure the most
torturous and fatal diseases that strike
mankind.
Wicha runs the University's Com-
prehensive Cancer Center. Morrison
directs the University's Center for
Stem Cell Biology Research as well as
the International Society for Stem Cell
Research. When they're not on cam-

pus they can most always be found in
Washington, D.C., Europe or Asia, pre-
senting their research at conferences
or meeting with international col-
leagues - Morrison traveled 135,000
miles least year alone.
But Feldman's day, it seems, can be a
bit more hectic.
On Tuesday she can be found in the
Neurology Clinic. Wednesday she's in
the Motor Neuron Disease-ALS Clinic
treating patients. Other afternoons
she's directing the A. Alfred'Taubman
Medical Research Institute.
For Morrison, Wicha and Feldman,
time is their enemy. While they're
barely afforded enough of it to breath,
the real challenge is working against
the clock to develop treatments that
may ease the pain and save the lives of
millions of people.
The answer, they believe, lies in
stem cells - microscopic units pres-
ent in all multi-cellular species that
can regenerate and morph into dif-
ferent cells, tissues and organs. While
scientists believe stem cells have the
potential to treat dozens of diseases
and conditions like Alzheimer's, diabe-

tes and spinal cord injuries, no one yet
knows their full potential.
And as researchers try to find out,
the clock keeps ticking.
"It takes years of your life to answer
a scientific question," Morrison says.
"So if I'm going to spend years of my
life trying to answer a question, I real-
ly want people to care what the answer
is."
Feldman doesn't mind the life com-
mitment that eats up her days, hours
and seconds.
"I don't really have a job,' " she
said. "I have a passion. And if you want
to call it a job, it's the best job in the
world."
CLOSE TO A CURE
In a laboratory on the fifth floor
of the Biomedical Science Research
Building, 30 students, Ph.D.s and life-
long researchers work ferociously to
find a treatment for a ruthless disease
- one that creeps through the body,
weakening tissues so that victims are,
quite literally, unable to move a mus-
cle. Even the seemingly most invinci-
ble athletes don't sta-d a chance.

Meet amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
- more commonly known as ALS - or
Lou Gerhig's disease, named after the
legendary New York Yankees baseball
player who suddenly came down with
the disease at the height of his career.
ALS damages nerve cells and motor
neurons in the spinal cord that control
muscle movement. The disease tends
to strike people in their 30s and 40s,
and once a patient is diagnosed it may
take only three to five years for the dis-
ease to take over the body and kill its
host. It's a painful process - as most
victims lose the ability to walk, talk
and even breath.
Feldman, who has seen thousands
of ALS patients die from the currently
untreatable disease, is on a medical
mission to find a cure.
"I would say on a near-weekly basis
one of my patients will pass away from
this disease," she said. "I am very
impassioned about understanding
ways and means to develop new treat-
ments."
The 30,000 people in the United
States diagnosed with ALS have reason
to remain hopeful, however, because

Feldman claims she's not too far from
a potential cure.
In January, Feldman started the
first human clinical trial approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
to apply stem cells to treat ALS. Five
ALS patients have since volunteered to
receive injections of neural stem cells
into their spinal cords. Researchers at
the University of Michigan study and
approve the cells before shipping them
to Atlanta where the patients undergo
the stem cell transplants at Emory Uni-
versity.
The majority of the work occurs in
Feldman's lab in the Biomedical Sci-
ence Research Building, where bottles
of solutions, petri dishes and test tubes
clutter shelves and rows of DNA-filled
refrigerators line the hallways.
"I've got more refrigerators than
I have shoes," Feldman joked while
strutting down a corridor lined with
white refrigerators.
The trial is still in its first phase and
can only move onto phase two when
researchers prove the injections cause
no harm to the patients. Once safety
is established, Feldman and her team

will enter the next phase, where they
will watch to see if the stem cells actu-
ally benefit patients by slowing the
progression of the disease. If success-
ful, Feldman can recruit more patients
for phase three, which, she said, must
confirm both safety and efficacy.
The goal is to enter 18 patients in
the trial, which is receiving stem cells
and funding from Neuralstem Inc., a
biotech company in Rockville, Md. In
an interview in July, Feldman said she
was not allowed to comment about the
five current patients in the trial. How-
ever, she spoke with optimism as she
relayed her progress, noting she antici-
pates no trouble finding the remaining
volunteers.
"I think the one really amazing
thing about this patient population is
how willing they are to step forward
and really do something that is brand
new, that is clearly experimental - it
has never been done before - and they
realize that it may not necessarily
help them, but it will potentially help
other patients with the disease in the
future," she said.
Feldman believes it may be 14

in the nation where researchers can
derive new human embryonic stem cell
lines. Since Proposal 2 passed, donated
embryos have been slowly trickling
through the door.
According to Gary Smith, co-director
of the Consortium for Stem Cell Thera-
pies and an associate professor in the
Department of Obstetrics and Gyne-
cology, the consortium has received
approximately 20 donated embryos
from four couples.
THE CONTROVERSY ISN'T OVER
Though voters approved the 2008
ballot initiative, the fight to impose stem
cell research restrictions in Michigan
and across the country continues.
In August, U.S. District Court Judge
Royce Lamberth issued a ruling that
blocked federal funding for human
embryonic stem cell research. Lam-
berth decided that Obama's March
2009 statement violated the Dickey-
Wicker Amendment - a federal law that
prohibits the government from fund-

remains in place, according to Morri-
son, who testified before the U.S. Senate
this month about how to change federal
law to prevent the judge from blocking
funding.
As researchers await a final decision,
the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled yester-
day that the government can continue
funding human embryonic research
while the appeal is pending.
Meanwhile, the Michigan state Sen-
ate passed a bill in April that amends the .
stem cell research guidelines spelled out
by Proposal 2. The bill, currently being
reviewed by a state House of Represen-
tatives committee, proposes new docu-
mentation requirements that mandate
researchers to write reports about each
donated embryo - tracking informa-
tion about when it was received, what
research was performed and the out-
come of any experiments.
Ed Goldman, an associate profes-
sor in the Department of Obstetrics
and Gynecology and an opponent of
the legislation, said this type of report

Top Photo: JED
MOCHDaily
Bottom photos
from tuft to
right: courtesy
of Sue OShe
MARISSA
MCCLAIN/
Daily,. JED
MOCH/s L
MARISSA
MCCLAIN/
Daily


