The Michigan softball
T team took a break from The Best of Ann Arbor
Big Ten play yesterday,
pummeling Central
Michigan, 8-0.
PAGE 10A

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, April 15, 2010

FITRTNG UP THE CROWD

michigandaily.com
.NIVERSITY LAW S .HOOL
Innocence
Clinic fights
appeal in
incest case
Prosecution recanted his testimony and tried
tirelessly to clear her record.
appealed judge's University Law students Erin
Opperman, Caitlin Plummer and
decision to throw Imran Syed - who is also a col-
umnist for The Michigan Daily
out conviction - said the Clinic has been inves-
tigating Swain's case since the
By WHITNEY WILD spring of 2009 when Swain wrote
Daily StaffReporter to the clinic requesting their
assistance.
Members of the University The clinic decided to move for-
Law School's Innocence Clinic ward with the case after deter-
argued their latest case before mining that Swain was both
the Michigan Court of Appeals in innocent and that her conviction
Lansing yesterday, the next step could be overturned.
after the prosecution appealed Innocence Clinic workers
the Clinic's trial court win in the tracked down potential wit-
case of Lorinda Swain. nesses to testify on behalf of
Swain was originally con- Swain, and found two new
victed in 2002 of committing an sources for her defense. They
incestuous sex crime for alleg- were able to contact Tanya Win-
edly performing oral sex on her terburn, Ronnie's bus driver for
teenage son Ronnie. a number of years, and William
Ronnie's testimony was the Risk, an older boy living in the
only piece of evidence brought neighborhood at the time of the
against Swain during the initial alleged incident.
trial, and Swain's attorneys failed Both Winterburn and Risk
to present credible witnesses to provided testimonies that con-
testify for her innocence. tradicted Ronnie's original testi-
Swain was found guilty of the mony. Asa result, in the summer
crime, but immediately following of 2009, Judge Conrad Sindt
Swain's imprisonment, Ronnie See INNOCENCE CLINIC, Page 7A

LSA junior Joey Eisman performs last night in the talent portion of the first annual Mr. Michigan pageant presented by The Foundation for International Medical Relief of Children.
Newdow, atheis wi a cause

Law School alum
brought Pledge of
Allegiance case to
the Supreme Court
ByVERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
"Why do we have the Fifth
Amendment right to protect peo-

ple from testifying against their
own interests? Shouldn't the law
be able to compel us to tell the
truth?"
Michelle Oberman, a friend
and former Law School classmate
of University Law School alum
Michael Newdow, recalled New-
dow asking these questions in
class one day during a lesson on
the Bill of Rights.
"He was known for asking ques-
tions that tended to derail class,

although that was not his inten-
tion," Oberman said.
This habit of questioning the
status quo of existing governmen-
tal procedures and documents has
earned Newdow a reputation as
one of the leading activists in the
country workingto have the words
"Under God" expunged from fed-
eral documents and declarations
like the United States Constitution
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
Newdow, who graduated from

(ON N UN NG R I $
the University's Law School in
1988, is best known for a lawsuit
he filed, which claimed that the
Pledge of Allegiance is unconsti-
tutional for including the words
"Under God." The case went allthe
way to the Supreme Court, though
See NEWDOW, Page 5A


AFTER THE QUAKE
Now back from Haiti,'U'relief
workers spread cause's message

DOG DAYS ON THE DIAG

Students, UHS
personnel tell stories
of time spent aiding
relief efforts
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
When Haiti reached out to the
world for aid in January, many
members of the University and Ann
Arbor communities heeded the
call. In the months since then, Uni-
versity Health Service workers and
students have continued to help the
 relief effort.
Now - thousands of miles from
the houses laying in rubble and the

disastervictims theyrushed to help
- those who have returned are dis-
cussing their experiences in the
country, in an effort to advocate for
the cause and encourage students
and community members not to
forget the extent of the disaster.
Tim Hausler, an LSA freshman
who accompanied his father to
Haiti to be a part of the relief effort,
said nothing prepared him for
driving through a city where nine
out of every ten homes had been
destroyed.
"Even after seeing all the news-
reels and disaster coverage, it
doesn't really click how bad it
is," he said. "But then when you
get there and you make the drive
from the capital to the epicenter of
the earthquake, you see so much

destruction."
Hausler said he feels nervous
that now, as disaster has begun to
strike other areas and the media
has been focusing less on Haiti,
students will think the problem has
been resolved.
"We cannot forget about what is
going on," he said. "They need us
now just as much as before."
The disaster is especially star-
tling because among the intense
damages are some houses that
have withstood the quake, accord-
ing to Hari Conjeevaram, associate
professor of internal medicine. He
added that even those who haven't
lost their homes are residing close
to the destruction.
"There is so much displacement
See HAITI, Page 7A

EATING IN ANN ARBOR
New noodle cafe to open on East Liberty

TORE HAN SHARMAN/Daily
Howell resident Amanda Retzbach brought her dog Molly, a rescue dog, to the PAWS of Ann Arbor event on the Diag yester-
day. PAWS of Ann Arbor is a student run organization that aims to keep pets in the homes of their elderly owners.
Grad student reps. decry low
grad voter turnout in elections

Tomukun Noodle Bar
to offer lunch, dinner,
late night drinks
By LINDSEY MANDICH
For the Daily
Within the next week or so, a new
Pan-Asian restaurant - Tomukun
Noodle Bar - will be opening on
East Liberty Street.
Tomukun will feature traditional,
Pan-Asian dishes with primarily
soup-based noodles, co-owner Tom
WEATHER HI: 67
TOMORROW LO 40

Yon said, adding that he believes
Tomukun will be unique to Ann
Arbor.
"We want to create a nice dining
atmosphere with great food at an
affordable price," Yon explained.
Yon said he wants to try to cre-
ate an affordable dining experience
with dishes averaging in price from
seven to 12 dollars.
Yon said he co-owns the restau-
rant with Victor Kim and Noerung
Hang, who will be the restaurant's
head chef.
Yon said he believes Tomukun's
Japanese ramen dish, which con-

tains of a pork-based broth that is
slow cooked for several hours, will
likely be the most popular menu
item.
He added that the restaurant will
serve traditional yet popular dishes.
"Anyone that is familiar with
Asian food will be familiar with our
food," Yon said.
In the fall, Tomukun will be alate-
night bar in addition to a restaurant,
accordingto Yon.
The restaurant has received
approval from the city and the state
for a liquor license, which will go
See TOMUKUN, Page BA

One Rackham rep.
elected with only
votes from himself
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Student Assembly
elections held last month yielded
the highest student voter turnout in
years with 5,488 ballots cast. But in

those elections, in which student 14
percent of students voted, Rackham
Rep. HamdanYousuf was the fourth
most successful candidate among
graduate students with 28 weighted
votes - all of them his own.
Yousuf, who has been an MSA
representative since 2008, is one of
four graduate students that serve
on the assembly. He said he believes
that MSA has not performed its
duty of representing graduate stu-
dents, who make up about 40 per-

cent of the University's student
population.
"It's been an ongoing struggle
for us," said Yousuf. "(We) don't see
how MSA is relevant."
Yousuf said the lack of graduate
student involvement in MSA is due
to the misconception that MSA is
the "undergraduate playground,"
adding that graduate student elec-
tions are "much less competitive"
than the undergraduate ones.
See MSA, Page BA

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 ore-mail
news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
'U launches website to discuss sustainability.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS ..................... 2A CLASSIFIEDS.. . . A.........6A
Vol. CXX, No. 130 SUDO KU................ .. ....3A SPO RTS.... ........... .......8A
©201 The MichiganDaly OPINION............................4A BEST OF ANN ARBOR...........1B
michigandoily.com


01

2A - Thursday, April 15, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY: TUSA:FRIDAY:
Before You Were Here 'Cmps a Photos of the Week

Reg istering transplant donors

Created in the fall uf last
year, Michigan Marruw
fur Minorities is a student
grnup luoking to increase
bunt marruw registratiun
amung minurity groups un
campus.
LSA junior Mahjabeen
Siddiqui, a cure leader of
MMM, said the group's gual
is to raise awareness about
the bunt marruw registry
foundation, Be The Match-
an urganizatiun created by
the Natiunal Macmow Donor
Prugram that already has
nmure than 8 nmilliun poten-
tial dunurs registered.
Anyonec between the ages
of 18 and 60 years, who meet
establishcd health guide-
lines can register In he a
naurrow donur, accurding
tu Be The Match. The reg-
istratiun process invulves

completing a health histury
form and taking a cheek
swab fur DNA analysis.
There are inure than
10,000 medical patients
every year in the United
States in need ofa bune mar-
row transplant, accurdingnuo
a release by Be The Match.
"Finding a match
depends un huw rinse a
patient's genes nmatch with
(the genes of) anuther indi-
vidual," Siddiqui wrute in an
e-mail interview. "The best
chance uf finding a persun
with a rinse gene nmatch is
within your uwn family ur
with peuple who are frum
yuur ethnicity."
MMM will fucus next
year un finding a larger
audience uf hunt marruw
donurs tu help patients with
life-threatening diseases,

Siddiqui said. Because the
group is shifting its fucus
to dunur recruitment, Sid-
diqui added that MMM is
currently in the prucess uf
changing its name.
"I would nut want uur
urganizatiun tu be pur-
trayed as if we are unly louk-
lug fur minurities, because
even Caucasians have a very
difficult time in finding a
match," Siddiqui wrute in
the e-mail.
"We initially started the
urganizatiun, thinking that
msinurities are in inure need
since there are less minuri-
ties registered within the
registry," Siddiqui wrote.
"Huwever, even though
there are fewer minuri-
ties registered, it's nut just
nminurities that need help
when it cumes tu finding a

match."
Siddiqui said MMM
will focus next year un
recruiting a large number
uf students to vulunteer fur
registry drives and to wurk
with uther student gruups
like the lucal chapter uf the
Red Cruss.
The -10 members that
make up MMM have been
invulved in bunt marruw
registry drives at events like
the UM vs. OSU Blood Bat-
tie and an MSA-spunsured
bluod drive, Siddiqui wrute
in the e-mail.
Siddiqui said she hupes
that thruugh the group's
effurts MMM can "give
peuple who nted bunt mar-
row transplants hupe that
they'll find a match on the
registry."
- DAVID BUCCILLI

Univesrity alumtC0 Kun Cho alurri and tugi
neern gutniur Andrew Kultonw dancmyin a
classroom in Masun Hall yesterday.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMPAN
Editur in Chiuf Business Manaeer
738-647-3336 734-764-0518
amilovitz@rnichigandailytuom tnidbusintesas~gmaicom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehuurs:Suu.-Thurs. 11axm.-2a.m.
tutrections corrions@michigandaily.com
letersluothe Idltor t othedaily@michigandaily.com,
PhotugtaphytDepartment photogmichigandaity.com
Arts Sectiun artspae@michigan~daityacom
Editurial Pate opinion@mrichigandaily.com,
Spurts Settion sports~michigandaily.comu
DisplaylSales display@nmichian~daily.,tou
tiassified Salts classifid@mkichiandaily.com
OnlinelSales onlineads@michiandaily.comu
Finance finance@michiandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aarunson MuagingtEditr aaronsoan@mich~iandailyacom
lillian Berman Managing rNew tditor bermn~x@mich~igandaily.comx
SEsNIO sREWSDTRaS:xicoe, , Ma llory'ones , Stphanie SteinbergKyle
AtrISTAsNTNWSsETtu RtSylan Cini,sarryn Fizgrald,osp itelrman,
Veronica Menaldi,AnnieTho, vn Thorsy, Eyn a ~Twigg
Rachel Van Gilder EditoralrPagetEditrrvangilder@michiganrdaiy.om
sSEORTRIAL. eAsEEDTORS: Biar laherEika naye,,Esily OrleyOaLaur
Ryan Karile ManuginguSportt ditor kartje@michigandaily.com,
SEIRStaRTuSEDutORS:NicoleAueach, Mark Barns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
ASSITNaseT SRSurE R:Mihalel lork, AlxHera, anPdge,aak
Pyzik,Tm an,Amy Scarano
JamieBluck oanagiugartt ditor blockt@michiganda~ilyacom
SENIORAReTStEITRCaolyn larekia,AdreLan,JffSanford
ASSITANT ARTnSETORuS:LahBrgin, Saron acbs, Ema Jk, Mik Kuntz,
Kavi~hekhatandey
Maxtuollins and photo@'iciandaiycom
Sam Waists Managighttditors
ASSITsAaNTHTEITORS: Aaron Augsburgr, Jak ro, aissra Mclai,
Srah Squire and designt@m~ihiandaiycm
Anna Lein-Zielinsksi ManagitngnDesignditors
TrevrtCalerosMatazinertdiuor cateo@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigan~daily.com,
Rachel Phillips Copy Chirfs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katieluozwiak Slsaaugr
SALESFORCE MNAGER: Mlly ig
Ryan Basinski ClassifiedManager
Jason MahakianProductionuManagr
Allison SantacreU Laout Manager
Vivian LeeeFintncr Mtnager
Brittany Morales CirculationsManager
Brad Wiley Proec Cordinator
The Michigan lairy(ISSN 07415967) is pblised Mndaytrough Fidaydurig thefall and
wintr termsby studentsatthe Uivesity of Micigan. Onecpy s ailable sfre o caretall
roades, Addititnal copiemy bepicked up t theDily'sfficefr$. Subscitionsforflltr,
startingtinSeptenbriaU.S.al re$1. Wntrtr (Jauaythrogh pl) s$115,yerlng
(Seter rou~gh prl) is 15.Univestyaffiitersubject totareduedsubuciption rte.
On-amts susciptiosfo flltr are$3 ubscrptiosmut be prpaid.lheMihigantily
it a smember ofThe rAsociated Pess and TheAsociated Collegate Prss

CRIME NOTES
Students caught Signs swiped
green-handed from Shapiro

0 *

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

'WHERE: Vera Baits 11, Cun-
gee House
WHEN: Tuesday at abouot6:15
p.m.
WHAT: Marijuana was seized
from six subjects after its
strung smell permeated the
hallway uf Vera Bait 11, Uni-
versity Pulice reported. One of
the sutbjects was arrested uon
an outstanding warreuc.
Digital camera
stolen in Mason
WHERE: Masun Hal
WHEN: Tuesday at 4 p.m.
wWHAT: A digital cametra
was stolen frona room 1330 in
Mason Hall, University Pulice
'reported. The camera was
University property.

WHERE: Shapiru Undergrad-
state Library
WHEN: Tuesday at about 3:45
p.
WHAT: Three directional
signs valued at $100 were
stolen frum the third fluor
of the Shapiru Undergradu-
ate Library, University Police
reported. There are no sus-
pects. The signs have been
missing since Jan. 1, 2010.
Car keyed in lot
WHERE: Lot SC-17, 3000
State Street
WHEN: Tuesday at about 1:15
p.m.
WHAT: A parked car was
'keyed' while in lot SC-i7, Uni-
versity Police reported. There
are no suspects.

Multimedia
performance of
Animal Farm
WHAT: A multimedia
sttudent production rof
George Orwell's satirical
novel, 'Animal Farm."
WHO: Basement Arts
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen
Drama Center, Studio I
Mike Posner
and B.o.B
concert
WHAT: Concert featur-
ing Mike Posner and Bo.B.
Proceeds will benefit Haiti
relief. Tickets required.
WHO: Theta Chi and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternities
WHEN: Tonight from
6:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
WHERE: 523 Main Street

Poetry reading
WHAT: Zell Postgraduate
Fellows will be reading their
works of fiction and poetry.
WHO: Department uf Eng-
lish Language and Literature
WHEN: Tonight from
5p.m.t106 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art,
Helmut Stern Auditurium
Goodness Day
WHAT: A day uf fun includ-
ing a giant inflatable
slide, various student groups
and discounts at lucal
restaurants.
WHO: Guodness Day
Planning Committee
WHEN: Today frum 11 a.m.
tu 4 p.m.
WHERE: Diag
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandailycom.

1Organizing forAmerica ran
a contest tu find a T-shirt
design about health care
refurm. The winning design
reads "Health Care Refurm is
a BFD" and the shirts will be
given tn anyune whu dunates at
least a $25 to the urganization,
accurding tu its website.
2 Michigans cummunity
culleges are repurting
enrullment numbers
at record highs this year,
In respunse, they may raise
tuitiun five 1o010 percent.
nFOR MORESEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3Apple has decided In post-
punt the internatiunal
release uf their new W~ad
because uf an uverwhelming
demand fur the gadget in the
United States, CNN reported.
Mure than 500,000 devices
have been suld since their
release un April 3.

0
0

MORE ONLINEL
-lvetCrme Notes? Get wore onlino at mhigandaily.cm/logs/the wino


0

0

0

classes at Lawrence Technological University! The University
offers educational opportunities for both traditional students
and working adults, and a curriculum that emphasizes theory
and practice - a rigorous, well-rounded education that's
valued by industry leaders, Choose from traditional, hybrid
(partly onsite and partly online), and fully online courses.
Choose a convenient location near you
" Southfield " Lansing " Traverse City " Petoskey
To have your applcation tee waived, visit ftu.edu/applytree

0

ANN ARBOR ARTHRITIS WALK
SATURDAY, APRIL 24, 2010
9:00 AM START TIME
The walk begins and ends at Huron High School, Enjoy a acenic one or
three mile walk through beautiful Gallup Park,
"Coffee & Healthy Snacks before the walk
"Music and free massages, face painting, moon walk, raffle and a
mini health fair after the walk
Contact Laurie
at 800-968-3030 ext. 230
e-mail: lruppiia~arthritis~org for details

0*

Build your team today!
Visit letsmovetogther~org or call 800-968-3030.

I OPUNDATIONO
taki e otttyol wie Cn e p:

Arthritis Walk Natoral Sponsors

AltHIatpS WALK

Notiona: sposur Natoal Sposr Natnlsotrt aiosal MdaSpno
fePL L~U 'd A itsi.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 15, 2010 -- 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
SALINE, Mich.
Saline area schools
lay off 63 teachers
The Saline Area Schools has
issued layoff notices to 63 teach-
ers.
Administrators say the pink
slips handed out Tuesday are part
of the Washtenaw County school
district's effort to further pare
down a $3 millionbudget shortfall
for the next school year.
Assistant superintendent Steve
Laatsch says the district expects
to eliminate about 20 full-time
positions. But 63 notices had to be
issued because of contract rules
on seniority and federal require-
ments governing who can teach
what subjects and grades.
Besides budget constrictions,
Laatsch says the district also is
cutting jobs because Houghton
Elementary School is being closed.
Staff members who received
notices are to meet this week to
discuss their options.
Saline is 35 miles southwest of
Detroit.
SAN DIEGO
Marine's Facebook
fuels debate
A Camp Pendleton Marine
has removed his Facebook page
after his comments fueled a free-
speech debate about whether
troops are allowed to criticize
President Barack Obama's policies
while serving in the military.
Sgt. Gary Stein said he was
asked by his superiors to review
the Pentagon's directive on politi-
cal activities after he criticized
Obama's health care reform
efforts and then was asked this
week to talk about his views on the
MSNBC cable TV channel.
Stein said his supervisor told
him of his right to an attorney
about the matter. He said he
decided to close hisFacebook page
and review his military code obli-
gations. He also contacted private
attorneys who told him he had
done nothing wrong.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico
Caribbean bans all
dumping into sea
Countries in the Caribbean
have agreed to bar the dumping
of all garbage at sea, ending rules
that allow the disposal of metal,
glass and other refuse a short dis-
tance from shore and almost any
trash farther out.
The nations adopted the new
requirement under the U.N.'s
International Maritime Organiza-
tion and it will take effect in May
2011, IMO consultant Jeff Ramos
said Wednesday.
The United Nations created
the ban to protect areas that are
vulnerable because of heavy ship
traffic or sensitive ecology. It has
already taken effect in the Antarc-
tic, the Baltic Sea, the North Sea,
the Persian Gulf and the Mediter-
"It's a big deal," said Ramos,
a U.S. Coast Guard commander
based on the Dutch island of Cura-
cao near Venezuela. "Especially in
the Caribbean, with all the tank-
ers and the traffic going to the

Panama Canal, it will make a big
impact."
CAIRO, Egypt
Ancient royal
scribe unearthed
The elaborate tomb of an
ancient royal scribe has been
 unearthed in a discovery that will
help illuminate the relationship
between Egypt and its eastern
neighbors, the antiquities chief
said yesterday.
The intricately decorated tomb
belonging to Ken-Amun, who was
in charge of overseeing the royal
records during the 19th Dynasty
(1315-1201 B.C.), was unearthed
in the village of Tell el-Maskhuta,
75 miles (120 kilometers) east of
Cairo, said Zahi Hawass, head of
the Supreme Council of Antiqui-
ties.
Tell el-Maskhuta was a settle-
ment in the Ismailia governorate
containing a garrison that sup-
plied and armed the ancient Egyp-
tian army before the troops went
on military campaigns east of the
O border.
Ken-Amun's tomb is that first
Ramesside tomb to be discovered
in Lower Egypt and is built from
mud brick, consisting of a rectan-
gular room with a stone-domed
ceiling. Hawass said the inscrip-
tions would aid in the understand-
ing of Egypt's relationships with
its neighbors to the east.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Paln puts own
spin on tax day

In this photo released by China's Xinhua News Agency, an injured woman is rescued yesterday after a quake in western
China. A series of strong earthquakes struck China killing hundreds of people and injuring more than 10,000.
arthquake i western
China kil hundreds

Those in Washington
must work for the
people, Palin says
BOSTON (AP) - Sarah Palin
rallied the conservative tea party
movement near the scene of its his-
torical inspiration yesterday, telling
Washington politicians that gov-
ernment should be working for the
people, not the other way around.
Addressing roughly 5,000
people, the 2008 Republican vice
presidential nominee accused Pres-
ident Barack Obama of overreach-
ing with his $787 billion stimulus
program. She also criticized the
administration's health care, stu-
dent loan and financial regulatory
overhauls.
"Is this what their 'change' is all
about?" Palin asked the crowd on
a sun-splashed Boston Common.
"I want to tell 'em, nah, we'll keep
clinging to our Constitution and
our guns and religion - and you
can keep the change."
Tea partiers planned to meet
for a final rally in Washington on
Thursday, coinciding with the
federal tax-filing deadline. Local
events are also planned in Oklaho-
ma, Ohio and other locations.
Palin put her own spin on Tax
Day, saying, "We need to cut taxes
so that our families can keep more
of what they earn and produce, and
our mom-and-pops, then, our small
businesses, can reinvest according
to our ownpriorities, and hire more
people and let the private sector

grow and thrive and prosper."
She also played to the crowd by
trotting out a trademark line as she
lobbied for more domestic energy
production.
"Yeah, let's drill, baby, drill, not
stall, baby, stall - you betcha,"
Palin said, though Obama recently
proposed to expand drilling off the
Atlantic, and Gulf coasts.
The gathering intended to hark
back to 1773, when American colo-
nists upset about British taxation
without government representa-
tion threw British tea into the har-
bor in protest - just a mile from the
site of yesterday's rally.
Americans are paying lower
taxes this year, but that is not
expected to last. In the next few
years, some increases will come
as part of the national health care
overhaul.
The modern tea party move-
ment claims both Republican and
Democratic members and is punc-
tuated by those who question the
legitimacy of Obama's presidency.
Some doubt he was born in the
United States, as his birth certifi-
cate shows.
Several speakers protested sug-
gestions of racist undertones to the
movement, which sprouted as the
nation elected its first black presi-
dent. Nonetheless, virtually the
entire speaking program and audi-
ence were white.
An exception was the singer of
the Tea Party anthem, Lloyd Mar-
cus, who made a point of describing
himself not as African-American,
but American.

Officials say at least
10,000 injured in
earthquake
XINING, China (AP) - Soldiers
and civilians used shovels and their
bare hands to dig through collapsed
buildings in search of survivors after
strong earthquakes struck a moun-
tainous Tibetan region of China yes-
terday, killing at least 589 people and
injuringumore than 10,000.
The series of quakes flattened
buildings across remote western
Yushu county and sent survivors,
many bleeding from their wounds,
flooding into the streets of Jiegu
township. State television showed

block after devastated block of
toppled mud and wood homes.
Local officials said 85 percent of
the structures had been destroyed.
Residents and troops garrisoned
in the town used shovels and their
hands to pull survivors and bodies
from the rubble much of the day.
Several schools collapsed, with the
state news agency saying at least
56 students died. Worst hit was the
Yushu Vocational School, where
Xinhua cited a local education offi-
cial as saying 22 students died.
Footage on Qinghai Satellite TV
showed bodies wrapped in blan-
kets lying on the ground while
rescuers pulled shards of concrete
from a pancaked school building.
Crews set up emergency genera-

tors to restore operations atYushu's
airport, and by late afternoon the
first of six flights landed carrying
rescue workers and equipment. But
the road to town was blocked by a
landslide, hampering the rescue
as temperatures dropped below
freezing. Tens of thousands of the
town's 70,000 people were without
shelter, state media said.
The airport in Xining, the near-
est big city some 530 miles (860
kilometers) away, was filled in the
predawn hours today with Chinese

I

troops in camouflage, firefighters
and rescue teams leading dozens of
sniffer dogs.

Today's Career Tip:
The best networkers know how
to reciprocate.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Are You Considering a Career in Health?
Consider the advantages of earning a
Master of Public Health (MPH) degree at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is offering
an exciting opportunity to become a public health professional
specializing in the prevention and control of disease,
particularly chronic disease.
Health and health-related industries are among the fastest-
growing in the nation, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, and those holding Master of Public Health degrees are
needed in a wide variety of health careers.
Our MPH degree provides intensive education and training in
public health approaches to prevention. Applications are now
being accepted for the MPH program's Fall 2010 semester. For
more information, visit our website:


6

4A - Thursday, April 15, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C C1 tta
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I

e onsp mean, look at
Ifeisisle so much, ou 11
t'ks gonna suck :
-Aib

EII MIA CinIsA I' cS'oslow@jCUMICH .EDU
And ReturnofhejediTe othing So esthecante for
s endin greatest so K oslowsk to workhardand
saga ever w ting teddybears ws thn f eretenig
mnui three more with that lamppost H
someone mis- He canmake up forydearsof
took foran actor poor drawing and bad Jokes!
and cast as
Anakin
Skywalker a*a
A. s °

0

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial hoard. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
An 'F' in budgeting
Legislators shouldn't cut community college funding
N o one should be priced out of higher education. Yet with
a potential tuition increase looming for Michigan's
community colleges, a college degree may become even
harder to attain. A new budget being discussed by the House
Appropriations Committee this week proposes to cut funding for
community colleges by 3 percent. While the gravity of the state's
budget woes is well known, the state's already-decimated higher
education funding cannot afford more cuts - especially to com-
munity colleges, which are a valuable part of the higher educa-
tion system. State legislators should recognize the importance of
community colleges and reject the proposed funding cuts.

1

...a,
*. a r*

6

,ZED

Lii [

lit

1" r
. .

m T

0

The year in review

On Monday, NPR reported that the
Michigan House Appropriations Commit-
tee is currently debating a budget proposal
to cut funding for community colleges by
3 percent. According to Mike Hansen, cur-
rent president of the Michigan Community
College Association, community colleges
may have to raise tuition rates between 5
and 10 percent for the fall semester to meet
demand. This potential tuition hike comes as
Michigan's community colleges are report-
ing enrollment numbers at record highs.
Institutions of higher education - com-
munity, public or private - are critical to
the future of the state. The path to a better
economy lay in the education of the work-
force of tomorrow. State legislators should
realize that with the economy still in crisis,
a raise in community college tuition could
deter low-income students from continu-
ing their education. For many students in
the state, the prohibitive cost of a private
or public four-year university leads them
to choose community colleges to fulfill
preliminary requirements before transfer-
ring to a larger institution. For these stu-
dents, attending a community college must
remain a viable option.
Community colleges play an integral role
in the higher education system. In addi-
tion to providing students with a cheaper
alternative to traditional four-year colleg-

es, many community colleges also serve as
vocational schools. They provide students
with an education tailored to careers that
many four-year institutions don't offer.
Important career fields like mechani-
cal service and law enforcement are often
certified through community colleges.
Increasing the tuition for schools that pro-
vide vocational training would be a disser-
vice to Michigan communities.
These institutions also provide an afford-
able education for adults looking for a fresh
start on their careers. With the auto industry
in peril and one of the largest state unem-
ployment rates in the country, Michigan's
community colleges have the potential to aid
in the diversification of the state economy.
Community colleges should remain a place to
retrain workers who have been laid off for a
new industry in an accessible, affordable way.
But many of these people already struggle
to pay for professional retraining. A further
raise in tuition could hinder the transition to
a more diverse economy for Michigan.
Raising tuition at community colleges
isn't the answer to the state's budget woes.
Education should be a means by which the
state can diversify its economy for more sus-
tainable growth. For many, that education
begins at a community college, and state leg-
islatures shouldn't hamper financial accessi-
bility to these institutions.

t was the best of times, it was
the worst of times, and when the
Tea Partiers come to the Diag
tonight it's going
to be a god-awful
time. But let's start
at the beginning,
backnin September,
when thousands
of students from
millions of coun-
tries with bajil- _
lions of diverse-
experiences came WILL
to the University GRUNDLER
of Michigan, all
united by a single -------
common purpose:
inebriation. But also football. So
when allegations surfaced that Coach
Rodriguez had overworked players to
the point of exhaustion and - in one
extreme incident - forced a player to
stand on one leg, rub his belly AND
pat his head all at the same time for
over an hour, students cried foul. No
one - no one - would taint the ath-
letic program.
But by October, no one was show-
ing up for home games after another
embarrassing season materialized.
In a stunning reversal, most stu-
dents quietly admitted that the foot-
ball team hadn't been overworked
enough, and they finally got around
to doing their schoolwork. Or they
would have got around to doing their
schoolwork if the threat of swine flu
hadn't thrown the entire campus into
a state of red alert and caused North
Campus to be quarantined, blockaded
and ultimately destroyed. No, sorry,
that was what happened in my imagi-
nation. What actually happened was
nothing, but many students took the
opportunity to skip classes by saying
that they were possibly dying.
This was a good idea since many
needed all the energy they could

get for November, which is the only
month hated by absolutely everyone.
It got cold, as usual, and dark and
depressing (as usual), and the foot-
ball team lost to Ohio State (as usual),
and the federal government decided
to tryto reform health care (as usual).
Normally we at the Daily don't like to
discuss off-campus issues, but the
passage of the preliminary health
care bill created quite a stir. All over
campus a majority of students said
something along the lines of, "Hey,
health care's getting there. Cool,"
while a minority of students brain-
stormed furiously for a new Obama
pun. (ObaMao was born.)
And so December entered the record
books, and if any hope was to be seen
on students' faces because of the prom-
ise of universal health care it would
have been a shrouded, misty kind of
hope, obscured by - I'm sorry, I'm
terrible at metaphors. What I mean to
say is that it started snowing and you
couldn'treally see people's faces. Other
than that nothing much happened.
People went on winter break...?
January was much more excit-
ing. It was a new year! Everyone was
excited and happy and hoped the
economy would turn around and they
laughed in that good, wholesome,
dumb American way every time they
wrote "2009" as the year. Countless
students started hitting the gym with
renewed enthusiasm and vigor and
notebooks to record whatever it is you
record in notebooks in gyms without
caring that people thought they were
complete imbeciles. It was a month
of innocence, of youthful gaiety, a
month that couldn't be beaten.
Until February. In February it
was announced that Obama would
be speaking at spring commence-
ment. Classes ceased for a day. The
bell tower rang for hours. Even win-
ter eased its icy spell. Not all stu-

dents were pleased, however. Some
felt cheated. Some felt robbed. Some
decided NOT to attend graduation,
to show the president who's boss.
The president wrote a public state-
ment for the Daily, urging students
to come to graduation, threatening
that if they did nout they would hurt
his feelings. That was a proud day for
the Daily, we must admit, publishing
a sitting president.
This year has been *
exciting. A girl
even talked to me.
But along with good news there is
always bad news. So it came to pass
in March the grievous news of the
Michigan Student Assembly - the
doomed website, the extravagant trips
to Okemos and Las Vegas, the lack of
cookies and punch at meetings, the
really boring meetings, the embarrass-
ingendorsementofTigerWoodsbefore
his affairs came to light. All contrib-
uted to a whopping 14 percent student
involvement in the annual elections -
and a new party in charge. MForward
faces a future full of responsibility.
Now we're here, in April. Another
academic year almost finished. Hard
to believe, right? There are many
things that happened in the past
eight months that a small column
such as this cannot detail thoroughly.
A girl flirted with me at a party once.
I think there's talk of a smoking ban,
too. Regardless, time goes on. Have a
good summer, kids.
- Will Grundler can be
reached at wgru@umich.edu.

BRYAN DAVILA, FELIX LOPEZ, NINA NWACHUKWU I
Making stress less

a

Each year, students at the University look
forward to spring as a relief from the bitter
Michigan winter. But as sunny days become
more common, spring harshly welcomes us
with research papers, exams, projects and
presentations. Excitement for spring is often
short-lived as April also marks the madness
known as finals season. Although stress is an
inescapable part of the college experience, the
culmination of a semester is no excuse for stu-
dents to engage in unhealthy habits.
Overwhelmed students often resort to poor
choices like caffeine addiction, sleepless nights
and other tactics when dealing with stress rather
than seeking healthy ways to relieve the tension
of finals. Though it holds true that every college
student has their own way to deal with the pres-
sure, stress becomes a problem when it prevents
them from maintaining a healthy lifestyle.
In addition to maintaining a perfect GPA,
many of us are balancing jobs or leadership posi-
tions in student organizations, applying for sum-
mer internships and tryingto preserve our social
lives. These commitments cause many of us to be
constantly stressed throughout the school year.
And as finals season rears its ugly head, student
stress reaches dangerous levels. According to a
Counseling and Psychological Services (more
commonly referred to as CAPS) College Student
Mental Health Survey conducted in 2006,30 per-
cent of a sample of 2,358 students sought coun-
seling services. This survey gives insight into the
current campus attitudes toward stress and the
lack of resources available to us. So then the ques-
tion becomes, how much higher would this per-
centage be if support and counseling were better
advertised? Universities need to promote more
outlets where students can express themselves
without the heavy hand of stress hindering their
thought processes.
Severe stress is an unspoken issue at the
University. While the University ensures the
physical safety of its students via Department
of Public Safety e-mails and texts, an office like
CAPS is a severely under-utilized resource,
indicating that most students either choose to
deal with stress on their own or are unaware
of this support. For incoming freshmen, the
importance of DPS and University Health Ser-
vice is emphasized. For example, posted safety
alerts and health fact sheets are in every resi-
dence hall. DPS e-mails are made available to
every University-affiliated person. While a few

resident advisors may post information about
CAPS and other support, stress relief often
becomes the responsibility of the student.
During Festifall, we all get student hand-
books that no one really reads, which is
another demonstration of CAPS's invisibility.
Somewhere in there, CAPS is probably listed,
but no one looks for this resource. Again, the
University - and perhaps CAPS itself - should
make CAPS and it programs more visible. The
University needs to educate its students about
stress and de-stigmatize psychological coun-
seling. Instead of viewing counseling as some
type of beneficial aid, as it should be, most stu-
dents see it as a crutch that holds them back
emotionally and socially. Oftentimes, talk-
ing with our peers about counseling can be
received with apathy, surprise and discomfort.
We need to abandon these attitudes; chronic
stress needs to be more aggressively and com-
passionately addressed by the administration,
faculty, peers and ourselves.
While CAPS is certainly a great campus
resource, most of us also overlook the power that
certain student-organized events can have on
our well-being. Like that arts and crafts event in
the Union. Or that film screening in Angell Hall.
Unfortunately, the arts are often overlooked as
stress relievers. Yet, art takes on many differ-
ent forms, and because of this, can appeal to all
of us. Since most student events revolve around
dialogue, film screenings and cultural shows,
there are an array of free, unconventional and
fun activities that can help us relax.
One event designed to relieve stress is a
Fighting Obstacles Knowing Ultimate Success
(F.O.K.U.S.), presentation of {Vanguards} - a
community-wide block party and music festival
celebrating the end of another hectic school year
and the glorious arrival of summer. Scheduled
from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday, Apr. 170nthe
Diag, {Vanguards} will combine live musical per-
formances from nationally recognized artists as
well as student and local performers. Addition-
ally, schoolyard games of years past like double
dutch, hula hoop and hackeysack will take place,
as well as the creation of a community mural to
give students a safe, fun and unique way to take a
study break from finals.
Bryan Davila is the vice president of
F.O.K.U.S. and Felix Lopez and Nina Nwachukwu
are CORE members of F.O.K.U.S.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be
fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. All
submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
BRIAN KOZIARA I
The real Tea Party platform

With all the talk these days about the Tea Party, and all
the misinformation and innuendo propagated by the Left
toward a genuinely organic movement, one must search
long and hard to find the true identity of the people who
consider themselves a part of this spontaneous and loose-
ly-affiliated movement. The Tea Party is not made up of
Sarah Palin types, as MSNBC would have you believe.
Nor is it made up of racists or homophobes frothing at the
mouth. Many Tea Party members will even tell you that
they loathe any sort of affiliation with the Republican
Party. So who exactly are the people who have planned a
rally on the Diag for 7 p.m. this evening?
The Tea Party, of which I am a participant, observer
and organizer, began early last year not as a response to
Rick Santelli's angry outburst on the floor of the Chicago
Board of Trade and not in response to the calls of conser-
vative politicians or radio talk-show hosts. It is instead
a release of pent-up anger over the size and scope of the
federal government. Many "Tea Partiers" were genuinely
concerned and upset about the deficit spending in Presi-
dent George W. Bush's later years, and this concern con-
tinued on into the current administration.
The defeat of President Barack Obama's radical agenda
is one of the main focuses of this movement, which seeks
to restore limited-government Constitutionalism to its
proper place in our society. Tea Party members view the
massive deficit spending and growing size of the federal
government (with all of its new regulations that are sup-
posed to protect people from themselves) as directly in
conflict with the principles espoused by our Founding
Fathers in our founding documents.
We view higher taxation as an imposition upon eco-
nomic prosperity. A man's right to earn, create and own
property is the essential building block of a free market
society. We view governmental mandates to buy health-
care as an imposition upon personal freedom and choice.
We view cradle-to-grave entitlement programs as irre-
sponsible and as "generational theft," a term invented by
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz).
The Tea Party movement is all about personal responsi-
bility, hard work, and the ability ofthe individual to improve
his or her own condition through their efforts. We see bank-
rupt entities like Social Security and Medicare, and then
listen to D.C. politicians promising newer, bigger programs
that will "work". And we don't buy it. At least someone

hasn't fallen for the sugar-sweet but nevertheless insub-
stantial and poisonous rhetoric of "hope and change."
So what does the Democratic party and the drive-by
media do in response? Pick out a few protestors who dare
compare Obama to Hitler. Make up stories about "homo-
phobic slurs" or "racial epithets" barely based in real-
ity and make these rare occurrences into the face of the
movement that has given millions of Americans a voice
for the first time in their political lives. And most notably, 4
the opponents of the Tea Party launch cowardly ad homi-
nem attacks on its members - everyday Americans who
are simply fed up.
How is it that during the Bush years, the Left in dis-
sent was "the highest form of patriotism," yet when the
Tea Party raises its head today, they are labeled as some-
how "un-American" and must be crushed? And why is
the Left, the supposed bastion of tolerance, so intolerant
of Tea Partiers speaking their minds? It is clear where
the double standard lies. And it is interesting to see the
leader of the College Democrats on campus speak about
the movement as being justifiable and a perfectly decent
method ofexpressingopinions one month and thencreate
a Facebook event to bash it the next. Apparently the Left
would rather rail against, belittle and carry out character
assassinations against members of the Tea Party instead
of addressing their real concerns.
The Tea Party represents Middle America. It is not
a conservative movement. It is not a libertarian move-
ment. It is not a Sarah Palin movement. It is not a Nazi,
bigoted, fringe or racist movement. And it is certainly not
a Republican movement. It is instead an American move-
ment, quintessentially seeking to return to our founding I
principles of limited government at their very core.
The Tea Party views the current agenda and big-
government policies as a trade-in of liberty for security
promised by a federal government that doesn't have that
great of a record of keeping its past promises. They see
it as fundamentally un-American. That's why Tea Party
members are exercising our First Amendment rights of
assembly, free speech and petition. The Tea Party sees .
a need for a fundamental shift in the direction of this
country and the role of the government in our lives. And
it is right.
Brian Koziara is an LSA freshman.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWDOW
From Page 1A
Newdow was eventually defeated.
In addition, Newdow is also
trying to get the words "In God
We Trust" removed from U.S.
currency and is working to elimi-
nate the presidential inaugural
prayer.
Mike's mother Roz Newdow
said she and her husband didn't
try to persuade their children
to take up any specific beliefs.
Instead all the members of the
family, which she described as
Jewish but secular, independently
became atheists.
"We're all atheists," Roz said.
"But it was all their decision."
But Newdow, who was born in
1953 in New York, claims he was
an atheist since he was in the
womb.
"I was born an atheist, as we
all were," he said in an interview
over the summer. "And I never
changed."
Julie Newdow, Newdow's
younger sister, said the family
never overtly discussed their reli-
gious beliefs among one another
until her brother's court cases
started.
But Newdow's work to reform
governmental language as it per-
tains to religion doesn't stem so
much from his religious convic-
tions as it does from his passion
for law, said Oberman, now a pro-
fessor at the Santa Clara Univer-
sity School of Law.
Newdow's fervor to preserve
the foundations of the Bill of
Rights has influenced his endeav-
or to reverse Americans' standard
to "profess and even embrace a
God-centered rhetoric in the pub-
lic sphere," Oberman said.
"His research shows unequivo-
cal proof of the founders' inten-
tion to make this country free
from persecution on account of
one's personal religious beliefs,"
Oberman said.
Newdow developed his pas-
sion for the constitution during
his time at the University's Law
School. After earning his bach-
elor's degree in biology from
Brown University in 1974 and his
medical degree from the Univer-
sity of California at Los Angeles
Medical School in 1978, he decid-
ed several years later to pursue
his law degree at Michigan.
In his early thirties when he
started law school, Newdow was
older than most students at the

University. Employing his medi-
cal background, he worked as a
locum tenens ER physician - a
physician who substitutes for
other physicians - at various hos-
pitals in Michigan during his time
as a law student.
While in Ann Arbor, Newdow
also grew to have a close friend-
ship with his professor, Peter
Westen.
The two - who still keep in
touch today - would meet dur-
ing office hours to talk about class
material, though their discus-
sions often meandered beyond the
course subject matter.
"He has maybe the most eager-
to-learn mind than anyone I
know, and it's certainly one of his
best qualities," Weston said. "He
always wants to learn."
Julie said that, as a kid, New-
dow would study the dictionary;
simply open the heavy book and
learn words he didn't know. She
said he'd also write songs about
some of the words, choosing the
most obscure vocabulary to fold
into the next verse.
"He was always just in anoth-
er stratosphere, another world,"
Julie said. "Not only because he's
so brilliant, but he has this work
ethic and at the same time is
extremely humble."
Julie said Newdow's pension
for making changes to the sys-
tem could be seen during his time
working in hospitals while he
was in law school. She said that
from her understanding, he told
many patients that the tests doc-
tors prescribed for them weren't
necessary, but instead were very
costly.
"He would try to change the
system that probably should
be changed," she said "He'd go
against bureaucracy. He can't
keep his mouth quiet if he believes
in something."
Though Newdow planned to
combine his expertise in both law
and health after law school, by
going into health law, he ended up
taking a different path.
Oberman said Newdow's deci-
sion to carry out his convictions
regarding religion in government
began when he was teaching his
daughter math at a store one day
a few years ago.
"While standing in line teach-
ing (his daughter) math sums...he
happened to notice the words, 'In
God We Trust' on the coin," Ober-
man said. "Soit began."
When he saw this phrase on the
coin, Newdow said he thought,

"This can't be right. I'm getting
this off."
Lawrence Marshall, Oberman's
husband and director of the Mills
Legal Clinic in Stanford Law
School, said Newdow's work on
the Pledge of Allegiance case that
went to the Supreme Court was
widely respected in the law com-
munity.
"It was just a tour de force,"
Marshall said. "Several very
prominent legislators came up to
me afterward with their jaws on
the floor. They were just so awed
by how marvelous a job (Newdow)
did at the relevant issue and most
importantly maintaining a cer-
tain tone and decorum."
Marshall added that Newdow's
work in the courtroom wasn't
surprising given his personality.
"He's among the most passion-
ate I know," Marshall said. "He
sees the world as it oughteto be and
refuses to accept it to be anything
else. He's incapable of accepting
the idea of institutions or people
to be less than the ideals that they
promote and claim to be."
Marshall said even though
Newdow ultimately didn't win the
case, it wasn't because his logic
was flawed, but rather because it
explicitly challenged the tradi-
tional foundations of the federal
government.
"It's very difficult for a court to
look at the law at this field and say,
'Yes it's fine to tell our school chil-
dren that our nation is under God
and that the children who don't
believe in God are inferior,"' Mar-
shall said. "It seems to me that
this is the implicit message kids
are being given every morning."
Marshall continued, "It's real
clear. But based on the law and
the principles of the first amend-
ment, the problems are at the level
of political realities that courts
have to deal with. This is what
caused the struggle."
Oberman said she thinks the
reason there is so much contro-
versy surrounding Newdow's
efforts is because of a biased opin-
ion against atheists' beliefs in the
United States.
"He is seen as being hostile to
God and to those who believe in a
deity," she said. "On the contrary,
his position is simply that God-
talk doesn't belong in the public
sphere."
One of the presiding judges on
the case at the U.S. 9th Circuit
of Appeals, Carlos Bea disagreed
with Newdow, saying that gov-
ernmental references to God

have, in the past, been accepted in
certain situations.
"Not every mention of God or
religion by our government or at
the government's direction is a
violation of the Establishment
Clause," wrote Bea.
Newdow said he believes those
who disagree with him don't have
a complete understanding of the
issue. He said he has asked people
if they agree that the government
should show equal respect to
everyone regardless of their dif-
ferent backgrounds, particularly
race. After they all answered "of
course," Newdow continued to
explain that this principle should
extend to religion, and that the
government shouldn't impose
one belief system over another
through oaths that children in
public schools have to recite each
morning.
Marshall said Newdow's
work toward this reformation is
"emblematic of Newdow's passion
and principle."
"As he repeatedly said, the idea
that you would have the nation
being necessarily theistic is very
problematic," Marshall said. "On
the other hand, there is also an
understanding that there are lim-
its on how far the courts are likely
to go even if a matter of logic and
principles (is) correct."
Now residing in California,
Newdow still does locum ER
work, and during his free time, he
said he enjoys playing the guitar
and songwriting.
Newdow said he's already
released three CDs featuring lyr-
ics representing his beliefs that
religion shouldn't be involved in
the government.
One song called "Be Fair," from
his WASP Side Story album dem-
onstrates his opinion regarding
the phrase "In God we trust."
"In God some don't trust," the
song states. "No, in God some
don't trust/ If you see Him, then
good for you/ But for others, He's
just not true/ show care, let's
share. Be fair."
Both Newdow's sister and
mother said they have been unbe-
lievably proud of Newdow in his
endeavors. Julie said she went to
the Supreme Court to watch him
argue his case and said he was
incredible.
"He (is) always challenging the
universe, seeing how well he can
do something on his own," Julie
said. "He thinks on his own, and
accomplishes a lot, not necessar-
ily following all the rules."

TOMUKUN
From Page 1A
into effect over the summer, Yon
said. Once it receives the license,
Tomukun plans to serve Korean,
Japanese, and Chinese beers, as well
as Soju-Korean rice wine and Saki.
"We will shut down the dinner
menu at 10 and then offer an appetiz-
er menu so bar goers can have appe-
tizers with their drinks,"Yon said.
Located on East Liberty Street
near State Street, Yon said he thinks
his restaurant will be part of a revi-
talization of the area.
"We love the location," Yon said.
"It seems like Ann Arbor is tryingto
revive (East) Liberty (Street)."
Additionally, the owners said they
believe Ann Arbor is a great place for
a noodle bar, a concept which they
said is popular acrossthe country.
"We modeled Tomukun off of the
popular noodle bars in larger cities
aroundthe country,"Yon said.
Yon,HangandKimsaidtheyhope
for a clientele of students, locals and
visitors alike, having already hired a
staff of students and Ann Arbor resi-
dents.

Thursday, April 15, 2010 - 5A
All three owners have experience
in the restaurant industry. Yon man-
aged Asian restaurant Yotsuba on
Washtenaw Avenue for three years.
Hang's family owns several Pan-
Asian restaurants throughout south-
east Michigan and has worked with
Kim in other restaurants around the
area.
When Tomukun opens, it will
serve food from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. on
weekdays, and 12 p.m. to 10 p.m. on
weekends. It will initially be closed
on Mondays, but Yon says this is only
temporary.
LSA sophomore Devyani Upadhy-
aya said she wasn't sure if she would
go to the restaurant.
"It sounds too similar to the other
restaurants on campus, like Noodles
and Company or Sadako," she said.
"I might try the bar when I turn 21
though."
But LSA junior Spencer Smith said
he will definitely try the food when
Tomukun opens.
"It sounds like something that
I'd be interested in," Smith said.
"It will be nice to have a restaurant
with Asian cuisine righthere intown
where I can sit down and have a nice
meal without eating a lot."


MSA
From Page 1A
Michael Benson, an MSA repre-
sentative since 2007 and recently
elected president of Rackhamgradu-
ate school, said graduate students
usually garner about 500 votes as a
collective group. He added that indi-
vidual graduate student candidates
often only need a handful of votes to
win while undergraduates running
in contested elections usually get
hundreds of votes in order to become
MSA representatives.
Yousuf, who technically needed
just one vote to win his uncontested
election, said he wrote in his name
on several online ballots, changing
punctuation with each entry to gen-
erate additional votes through the
faulty votingosystem.
The outgoing chair of MSA's Rules
and Elections Committee, Benson
said the voting website's flaw makes
the assembly "undemocratic." He
added that issues with the system, if
made public to voters, could be prob-
lematitfor the assembly.
"If other people knew about that
it could dilute the system," Ben-
son said. "This is an idiosyncrasy
between the voting system and the
MSA rules."
Yousuf said graduate student

underrepresentation has been- an
ongoing issue but was truly brought
to his attention during the MSA elec-
tions.
Graduate students who currently
serve on the assembly, Yousuf added,
are looking to increase the visibility
of graduate studentissuesoncampus
and the significance of the group as
a part of the University community.
MSA President Chris Armstrong,
who was elected in last month's
elections with a margin of more
than 1,000 votes, wrote in ane-mail
interview that he wants to make an
effort to engage graduate students
and make sure they are represefted
on the assembly because they are "a
crucialpartofthe UMcommunity."
"The first step is to fill each of
MSA's Rackham representative
seats," he wrote. "As has bee} the
case in the past, there are currently
several vacancies, which any Rack-
hamstudentcan occupy."
He added that he hopes that by
pushing more Rackham students to
run for positions in MSA, the assym-
bly will be able to better address the
needs of graduate students.
"What we hope to do come fall,
is encourage more of the graduate
studentbodyto represent their peers
who can then help MSA to engage
Michigan's graduate students," he
wrote.


HPV Fact Teo
The treatment for nit Iarts can
be a process and can involve
or burning the warts.
HPV Fact
Even after treatment, ital warts
can come back. In fact, 25% of cases
within 3 months.
Why risk it
Visit your campus health center
A MERCK i25 )R
Copyright O 201lMerwk& C., 1w Inc~l4la/l-~


6A - Thursday, April 15, 2010

The Michigan nailv.- michiganrailvs m

I-I

S

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! ! 4 BDRM. CONDO ! !
Aug 2010. North campus. FREE utiis.,
A/C, ldry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV, FREE Internet. $659/person/mo.
Call 313-838-2629.
! AVAILABLE MAY & Fall. Stu-
dios, one and two bedroom apartments
located on U/M Campus. Heat, water,
and prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty,
734-662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.-
com for more info.
! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has litmited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
11. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
tact. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close, to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
Apartments Available!

H AVE
YOU
HEARD
N'SEWS?
L OCAT I ON S
STA R T ING A T
$599
The Courtyards is
Pre-leasing for Fall 2010!
- NO service fees!
ACADEMIC LEASES!
r PAID utilities!
...and much more...
De CdkQRT ARDS I]
1780 Broadway
734.9946007
www.thecon ardsannarbor.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and I bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!!REDUCED RATES!!!
Apartments Going Fast.....
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Only I or 2 remaining of each!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location.
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus. Heat, water, park-
ing mcl., fully furnished, perfect sum-
mer locations!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
$$$$ SAVE A TON OF CASH $$$$
Leasing is almost completed. Remain-
ing apartments have been
REDUCED & are NEGOTIABLE for
fall move in. Don't
delay and miss out on the best off cam-
pus housing!
Call today for an appt. to see 761-8000.
primesh.com
*****AVAIL FOR FALL 119 E.
Liberty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5
min walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net

wt,,,lartobrook.cost, 734-665-56201
!! NEW LISTING Avail Fall 2010 !!
721 Church- Unfurnished I bedroom
apartrhent. Quiet atmosphere. Great lo-
catioa, I block from South University,
near ,B-School & Education School,
hardvwood floors, free heat, free water,
free parking. Laundry.
Call Ann 320-1244 or visit our web-
site Www.churcltstreetrentals.com
!! ROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.'
STUDIO APARTMENT FOR
RENT. 22nd floor. Tower Plaza
Condominium. Contact 248-444-5543.

WO URYtl IC it'(M<tMItUNIIES'
The Choice isYours!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ 1, 2, & 3 BedroomTownhome
+ WIFI Ready
+ AATA Bus Line
* 24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible Lease Terms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
+ Pool & Sauna
+ Pets Welcome
+ Continental Breakfast every Wed.
+ Concierge Resident Service
+ Business Center
+ Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
+ Roommate Leases Available
+ Hospitality Apartment
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
s 734-663-7633
*AmenitiesVary by Property
ww.WoodburyGardens.com
**3-BEDROOM** ON Geddes near
CCRB, great balcony, large living
room, heat, water, furnishings, parking
incl.
Varsity Management (734)668-1100.
**4-BEDROOMS** BEAUTIFUL
Burns Park mansion - converted into
enormous apartments with room for 5
or 6! Heat, water, furnishings, and
parking incl. Dishwashers, on-site laun-
dry, screened porch and a large yard!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL:
514 Lawrence- 6 bdrm house. Price
just reduced. $2,695. 2 bath, free high
speed internet, easy access to central
campus, nursing, medical and dental
schools. D/W and laundry. Parking
available. Call Campus Mgt. 734-663-
4101.
*Broadview Apartments
"Spacioust bedroom apartments
" Spacious 2 bedrooms with master bath
'Shut e arounducampus
-Large private balconies
with wrded views
*Pets welcome
-Models Open Daily
741-9300
LA (EXTENDED HOURS)
www.annarborapartments.net
**BUSINESS & LAW SCHOOL**
Huge 2-bdrms one block south, cov-
ered parking, new kitchens and baths,
heat, water, furnishings, and parking
acl.
Varsity Management (734)668-1100.
**CAMPUS 2-BEDROOMS** S.
Forest, Free WiFi, new kitchens and
baths, heat, water, furnishings, and
parking inc.
Varsity Management (734)668-1100.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1499/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$1999/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by April
15th. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.
I OR 2 bdrm aptsavail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-

ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
PRESENTS THE
Online (lc~fle
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

www.varsitymanagement.com

AFFORDABLE STUDENT
CO-OP HOUSING
Now Signing ContraCts for:
Winter 2010 &
Fall/Winter 2010/2011a
nter-Coopenrd-e
-$575/Month InCludes: Ciounctso tCC)
33il. Witiat
Al nealsonernct parking, 3 y1 Fsll,.in,
, 34-662-4414
soCial acti vities and utilities! www c.coop
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Quakers ofthe Ivy 39 Popular pens 52 On a lark
1 NYPD alerts League 41 Thug 53 "The Time
5 Disdainful 3 Watchesfor money 42 Affect adversely Machine" race
upperclassman? 4 Medicine man 43 Links launching 54 Tersechildish
9 Geeting often 5 Convertible type point denial
requiring 6 Cpl. orsgt. 45 Tranquil discipline 59 Niagara Falls
lip-reading 7 __ vez: again, to 47 Site of many a feature
14 Jacob's first wife Alonso student 61 Epitome of
15 Nbmerical prefix 8 Shoots in aforest? eperiment smoothness
16 Hmrsey's bell town 9 "Gotchar 49 Lacking pigment 63 Certain do-over
17 Doing what's just 10 Marriage 50 Like some 64 Scale syllables
not done agreement sweatshirts 66 Fleur-de-__
18 Sank in a cup 11 Pricey Suthern 51 Digestion aid 67 Scottish refusal
20 Cfi Field NLer Calioumia
21 Cunch targets beachfront city ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 26-Across supply 12 Likesome S A S . R A MS T E P
24 Capid's master? garages A
26 Pke whereliquor 13 Contemporary A GE EDIT P PU
Igevsheels? 18aUnwelcome O R AN G EZEST R EA P
29 You can't go impression S E TOW N SHE E N
back from it 22 Agile E S A I E O E V A S E S
32 Mhseum pieces 25 High style S T R E P R A D i O D I A L
33 Pqid player 27 Wide shoe
34 Elastic woud markings EBOG A D ILVLO R Y
35 Notfor neatniks 28 Cereal box abbr.
38 Sphere 29 Dawber who A L A A P S E E E L
40 Mrchhonoree, played Mindy GOLD COAST DEAN E
briefly 30Miner's matter A N D R E T I M A R E S
44 Many a lap dog 31 Benchmarks S E A L E P A N N E R S
46 Stereo jack letters 36 Unaccompanied E S P N T U R T L E D O V E
48 Fish story 37"eadyareyou? BLOC D R N O T E L E X
48 Early What knwyou
55Way backwhen ofuready?" BAT H SOAP S R A S
56 Vincent's speaker xwordeditor@aot.com 04114/10
successor as 1 a 3 4a 4 s 7 8 10 11 12 13
haseball
commissioner 14 1s 1
57 Dbkens pen name
58 Tttoo site 17 18 19
60 Part of MO
62 Tennyson work 2a 21 22 23
65 Sdbbing, and 2s 28 28
tapayer's
responsibility 2 so 0r
vis4-vis the ends
of117-, 29- and 32 33 34
40-Across
68 Where Hercules s 36 37 38 s 4o 41 42 s
sle alisa4 4 s 7 4
69 Former VOA
ouerseer 4 s50 51 Sn 523 4
70 S'icy Spanish
71 ake and
Sing!" playwright 57 5 59 so 1
72 C ash site 82 8 ea s se7
investigator: Abbr.
73 Little shaver s 70
$DOWN 71 72 73
1 Thret-time'60s-
76s heavyweight By Nancy Salomon0
chlamp (c)2010 Tribune Mediaservices,rInc.

625 ChurchS t. 1734! 668-1100
THANK YOU RESIDENTSI
Varsity Management has been
Voted Bes Landlord
20101
Studios - 4Bedrooms available for fall
lease, come see why we're #11
315 EAST LIBERTY Apartments and
lofts. Completely remodeled. Great lo-
cation. Day phone: 734-662-7888,
Evening Phone (after 5:30): 734-995-
2433.
809 SOUTH DIVISION Avail. Fall
'10- 4 bdrm, 1 bath. Lndry prkg dish-
washer incl. $2150/mo 810-225-9351.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD direct
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
Hurry infor BestSelection
Right now we have a few apartments at
Very Special Low Rates
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home awayfrom home
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48160
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 5 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking sopaL
316 W. Staium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps fmm
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1028 Fuller- Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
heat, water and parking included. Call
Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
a$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parkingandutlitles!
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.Icc.coop
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
.1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furmished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms aps. Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.jmsprop.com
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.

WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSeltA2.com 734-476-9768
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets.Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
Wo N Diseount?
 ".

Univcrxity
Think outside the Box (dorms)
Think U. Towers
Affordable Apartments
Hurry in for Best Selection
Right now we have a few apartments
atVery Special Low Rates
*call for more details
Visit us at
universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home away from home
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., Idry.,
bath., internet. Summer from $300,
Fall from $440. Call 734-276-0886.
COME LIVE IN KERRYTOWN!!!
Where city life, quietness and conve-
nience meet. 6 bdrm house, less than
3K. Heat Inc. Less than $500/person
Available May 1. Price + in summer.
734-777-3687.
EFFICIENCIES- 4 BEDROOM
apartment. Fall '10-'15. Most include
heat and water. Limited parking avail-
able. Cppo/Deinco 734-996-1991.
www.cappomanagement.com
FALL 2010 !1 bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
Post Realt
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
FALL BIG HOUSE at South U. and
Elm. 7 big rooms, 3 full baths, 2 kitch,
prkg and ldry. 8 month lease possible,
make offer 734-260-4003.-.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places onan interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
ions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff, Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MoroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStteManagers@umich.ed

ING CONSULTATIONS. Need guid-
ance? Jilliankerry@gmail.com, 734-
395-4999, www.jilliankerry.com

:.MA LADIIU'. a 3u ~ay poe-
tial. No esp. arc., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
AA INTERNET FANTASY Sports
Co seeks student programmer. F/T sum-
met, P/T fall/winter Must know C,
Linux. support@onroto.com
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
AAA LEARN THE secret shortcut to
Philosophy that colleges and govern-
ment have suppressed for years! Go:
www.aisnota.org
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.YouDriveAds.com
EARN UP TO $4,000 weekly promot-
ing college parties in downtown De-
troit. Must have experience. Great op-
portunity for greek org, or entrepreneur.
redhawkllc@gmail.com 734-335-0702
HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for healthy women
between the ages of21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 fortheir involvement
inaner program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
SPRING/SUMMER BABYSITTER
NEEDED. Mature, Responsible, Lov-
ing Sitter needed to have fun with our 3
children. Ages 2, 4, & 10. Part-lime.
Flexible hours. $12/hr. References a
must. Call Gabrielle @ 734-761-8844
or email gubgillard@yahoom.47
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
College Pro is now hiring painters to
work outdoors with other students.
$3000-5000 advancement opportuni-
ties. 888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
'organization fra.2vs.UMen

in Central Campus. Heat, water, park-
ng incl., fully furnished, perfect sum-
ner sublease!
/arsity Management (734) 668-1100.
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

0

0I

711 Arch - Between State & Packard 996-8566 or WIGoa .net
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
HUGE 5 BDRM/2 Bath house, 820 W.
Huron, all appliances, laundry, semi- EMPLOYMENT
furnished, parking, 5 min walk down-
town. Hidden GEM. $1900/mo. Avail WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
now, Sept 2010. 734-255-7427. summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
MAY LE ASES ST UDIO-3 bdrmas. Shop r lookin foranRy help in
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300 Sops are loing fr seasonal ep in
www.annarboCpartments.net all areas: Front Desk, Bell Stuff, Sales
www~uaar a enanet Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod- Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat & available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300. www.theislandhouse.com
www.annarborapartments.net
SPACIOUS 5 BRDM APT for Fall.
Central Campus, a/c, free prkg & tndry.
734-665-2723, shahtiger@hotmail.com
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
Eff., 1,2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central CHILDCARE
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget! AA FAMILY SEEKS loving/energetic
Unbelievable Deals! person to care for infant. May-Aug.
734-761-8000 Approx 40 hrs/wk. Prev, exp. w/ chil-
primesh.com dren. Car required. gsein@umich.edu
WWW.800FULLER.COM SUMMER BABYSITTER AVAIL-
(734) 769-7520 ABLE. College freshmen avail. for FT
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet or PT work. Reliable transportation/ex-
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi. cellent references. Call 734-665-6607.

0
0
0
0

6.

_.I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 15, 2010 - 7A

'Innocence Clinic officials optimistic about case

From Page 1A
ordered a new hearing for Swain,
and eventually the Innocence Clin-
ic was successful in getting Swain's
conviction thrown out and granted
her a new trial.
But Swain's road to freedom
became obstructed later in 2009
when the prosecution was given
permission to appeal the judge's
decision.
"That was a surprise," Syed said.
As part of the appeal, each side
HAITI
From Page 1A
there, but in between that are peo-
ple whose houses are completely
fine," he said. "So, in the midst of all
this rubble, people are living as part
of the destruction."
Conjeevram said despite the
devastation, the Haitian people he
encountered remained hopeful.
"The Haitians live in so much
faith because it is such a big part of
their culture," he said. "People real-
ly smile, go to church every Sunday
and sing songs in the middle of the
night."
Sacha Montas a University
emergency medicine resident,
said though the Haitian people he
encountered were exhausted by
all of the loss they had endured, he
sensed a strong appreciation for his
services.
"People were tremendously
grateful about our presence, which
was extremely rewarding," he said.
For the University members
and other relief workers, making
the trip to Haiti was only half the
battle. Once situated amidst the
rubble, they still needed to figure
out how to make sure those who
* needed aid were able to get it.

was given 30-minutes to present
their argument in front of three
judges yesterday. The judges will
decide in the coming months wheth-
er to uphold the ruling or reinstate
the conviction. No matter that rul-
ing, the case is likely to be appealed
to the Michigan Supreme Court.
Because Swain's original attor-
ney was ruled to be "constitutionally
ineffective," her attorneys from the
Innocence Clinic were able to pro-
vide new evidence to judges to have
her case overturned, Plummer said.
"One of the biggest challenges
initially was figuring out where to
even go or how to help," Montas
said.
However,accordingto many who
visited, infrastructure is improving
as private clinics open their doors
to help the needy and relief teams
from different countries are work-
ing closely together.
Marie Lozon, division director
of pediatric emergency medicine
at the University, recently returned
from a relief trip deployed by the
University aboard the United States
Navy ship "The Comfort."
Lozon said she was lucky to be
part of a crew that was very effi-
cient.
"We were so well prepared by
the University Health Services,"
she said. "We had the right shots,
the right medication, the right
paperwork, the right preparation."
Patients were brought aboard
the ship - which housed the only
working CT scanner in Haiti and a
number of intensive care units and
operating rooms - byeither boat or
helicopter, Lozon said.
Lozon stressed that working so
closely with the Navy gave her a
newfound appreciation for itswork.
"I'm not that familiar with the
military; I'm a U of M Ann Arbor

However, Syed said the defini-
tion of new evidence has not been
agreed upon.
"Exactly what new evidence
means was a big question for the
court today," Syed said. "Judges
aren't so sure - sometimes they
agree, sometimes they don't."
In court yesterday, prosecutors
stressed that Winterburn's and
Risk's testimonies did not qualify
as "new evidence," and alleged
that Judge Sindt's decision was
incorrect. The prosecution added
hippie," she said. "But the military
workers who devote their lives to
delivering care in a humanitarian
fashion are true American heroes."
Though many who journeyed to
Haiti to assist in the relief efforts
were medically trained, the need
stretches far beyond physicians and
doctoral care.
Conjeevaram said he quickly
realized rehabilitation was more
than just a medical process because
victims are in need of food, water
and other forms of care that have
not been readily available to them
since the earthquake.
"I was seeing patients and saying
things like, 'Take this tablet three
times a day with your meals,' " he
said. "And then the next question
they would ask was, 'But where is
my next meal coming from?"'
Lozon said oftentimes helping
her patients didn't involve her med-
ical skills.
"There was a little orphaned
boy that everybody fell in love with
aboard the boat," she said. "He had
a terrible medical problem and he
was developmentally delayed and
very scared. All he wanted to do
was be held and I'd be happy to do
that."
Though earthquake victims are
in dire need of aid, they're not the

that even if the testimonies were
classified as new evidence, they
were negligible pieces of evidence.
Plummer explained that pros-
ecuting attorneys "don't want
second guessing," of previous con-
victions.
But with the growing ability to
find new evidence through pro-
cesses like DNA testing, previously
closed cases are being reexamined,
Syed explained.
"The prosecution is very con-
cerned that if these types of cases
only ones in the country that need
help. Conjeevaram said since a lot
of focus is heavily concentrated on
disaster related injuries, people
with other problems are often for-
gotten.
"The main three hospitals in
Port-Au-Prince are inundated with
emergency surgeries," he said. "At
times the day-to-day patients who
just need their blood pressure med-
ication or their diabetes medication
are overlooked."
In addition, now that the rainy
season is approaching - which
Conjeevaram said spreads dust and
causes illness - medical care is
becomingeven more necessary.
Hausler said he "sensed a feeling
of dread" from the Haitian people
because of the recent onset of the
rainy season.
"It's already starting to rain
now," he said. "People do not have
their homes and they are becoming
terrified."
Though the relief workers have
many stories of desperation and
pain, they also have a few of hap-
piness.
Conjeevaram told of being
recruited by army officers to aid a
woman dying of starvation because
she had to feed and support her
children and grandchildren.

keep getting through, then it might
open the flood gates and everyone
would get to file new motions,"
Syed said.
Syed and Plummer explained
that while Swain has had a difficult
road so far, she is optimistic about
the outcome of the appeal.
"I think she just has a genuine
feeling that in the end, the right
thing will happen," Plummer said,
adding that Swain has found work
near her home and has a lot of sup-
port from her community.
"I was able to feed her some gra-
nola bars," he said. "And when we
came back, she was a completely
different person; it had helped her
so much. It was so touching to be
able to help someone and the army
officerswere so happy to have made
a difference."
Lozon said she felt a similar sen-
timent after caring for a mother
and daughter - both of whom had
their legs shattered during the
earthquake.
"I was able to make sure that
they got their operations and see
them go back to the island as an
intact family with their legs fixed,"
she said. "That was very gratify-
ing."
Hausler said he was deeply
affected after carrying a three-
year-old Haitian girl with a
105-degree fever and possible case
of typhoid on a stretcher to a nearby
hospital.
"I just wanted to get there as fast
as possible, but I was watching out
for every rock," he said. "I want-
ed to have a heightened sense of
awareness of every single bump so
I wouldn't shake this little girl who
was sitting there practically dying."
Coming back to the U.S., Hausler
said it was difficult to explain his
experience to his peers who had

"She seems to be doing well,"
Plummer said.
Though Innocence Clinic mem-
bers say they are confident in their
arguments and Swain's innocence,
they admitted they are not com-
pletely sure they will be able to win
the case.
"The judges were interested
in the right questions, which is
good," Syed said. "But we really can't
know what they're thinking or where
they're going to go with it, so we're
hoping for the best."
only witnessed the disaster in the
media.
"All of a sudden, coming back
and stepping out of the destruction
you see how detached people are
from it and it can be hard to relate,"
he said.
Montas also stressed that stu-
dents should recognize how lucky
they are to live in a place where a
similar disaster would not be as
devastating.
"We have to remember, (in Haiti)
there's no disability insurance
and there's no Medicaid," he said.
"There's nothing like anything in
America where if something hap-
pened to you that you didn't plan
for, it would be taken care of by the
government or by the infrastruc-
ture."
All of the workers emphasized
that even if students do not have
medical training, there are many.
things they can do to take part in,
the effort - like helping to rebuild
devastated buildings, aiding in
water reclamation or fetching tools
and supplies.
"There is a constant need," said
Conjeevaram. "And the truth is ;
when you actually do these things,
you grow as a person, and at the end
of the day it helps you more than r
the person you're helping."

SHOW US SOME LOVE. FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK.

DECIzDE'
WHAT
GOEU
NNR


The Michigan Daily
Advertising Design
Department is hiring
a Layout Designer.
Applicants should have a knack for
spacial relationships and a distinct
attention to detail. Experience with
Adobe InDesign is a plus.
Begin this summer and work
a couple hours every weekday.

2010 marks the launch of
Claremont McKenna College's Summer Session.
All of our summer offerings are concentrated versions of regular CMC courses and
will be taught by Claremont faculty. Summer Session courses embody the college's
unique focus on leadership and thoughtful engagement in the world and in the
liberal arts. Our twenty-plus courses are designed to appeal to a broad array of
college, graduate, and post-baccalaureate students from Claremont and beyond
Summer Session begins May 24 with most courses meeting MWF and running
six weeks through July 2. A three-week long MTWRF Religious Studies course
ends on June 11, and our seven-week Arabic immersion program ends on
July 9, meeting full time MTWRF.
For more information, please visit
http://www.claremontmckenna.edu/lasummer

All Inclusive Self-Storage Packages
All Maize packages include:
S6manfths rent
Boxes
* Roll of tape
* Lock
* Administration Fee
a Insurance
NATIONAL
Free #1 Airey Court*
Move-In 734-669-8880
Truck #2 Lohr Circle *
734-769-0119

Maize Pac
tartingat

' aU AnArbor
:$229
the STORAGE CHEST
#4 Jackson Rd.
734-747-9060 #5 734-222-0277

#3 734-222-0277

I

I i

I I f t



8A - Thursday, April 15, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Moundros tries his hand at defense*

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Mark Moundros probably saw
the writing on the wall.
In Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez's spread offense, the fullback
wasn't going to be as vital as it had
been for past Michigan teams. No
more power-I formations on first-
and-10, that's for sure. So the senior
fullback decided to take matters
into his own hands - he asked the
coaching staff to let him play some
linebacker.
And that's where Moundros has
found himself this spring. But he
will be playing both sides of the
ball for the Wolverines, as he will
continue to play fullback as well.
Moundros perfectly suits the
fullback position in the sense that
he's a physical player. And with his
style of play, Moundros requested
to lay the hits on the offensive guys
instead of protecting them.
"Mark's a traitor - no, don't put
that in there," Magee joked last
week. "Mark's in the plans at full-
back. He's been that guy for a cou-
ple of years, we know he's there."
Last year, Moundros contrib-
uted on special teams in every
contest. But in Rodriguez's spread
offense, the Wolverines have used
a lot of two running back sets
instead of featuring a fullback. And

"I don't want to say it's a sur-
prise," Rodriguez said. "But a guy
who's shown he's goingtobe able to
help us over there is Mark Moun-
dros. We've really been pleased.
He'll still play a little bit of offense,
but our focus for all of spring, for
Mark, has been on defense to learn
that new position. He's got a lot
of intensity, he's a strong guy and
very passionate.
"I've really liked what I've seen
out of Mark playing over there. I
think it's a move that's probably
going to stick. And at the same time
probably help play some fullback."
Tackling people isn't anything"
new for the Farmington Hills
native, he has 15 career special
teams tackles. And though he
hasn't missed a game in three
years, he has just 10 career starts
at fullback.
Rodriguez added that the move
this spring has been smoother
because of the great spring that
redshirt junior fullback John
McColgan has had.
Moundros's impact certainly
has been meager, paving the way
for running backs or stopping a
returner in his tracks. But it is rec-
ognized.
He isn't the most decorated Wol-
verine, but Moundros will attempt
to prove his worth on both sides of
the ball this soon.

TORE HAN SHARMAN/Daily
RedshirttuniorAnthony Toth hit his first career home run in Blue's win over CMU.
Home run surge
leads Blue past
Bowling Green
ByZAKPYZIK first home runs today," Kittle said.
Daily Sports Writer "It's really just a race for every-
one in the lineup to get one before
With five different Wolverines Dufek. He was our home run leader
hitting a home run in the last two lastryear and he's still got the goose-
games, it's clear that the strength egg this year."
of their But it wasn't just the batters who
lineup has BOWLING GREEN 5 proved solid for Michigan. Junior
helped MICHIGAN 8 pitcher Kolby Wood replaced red-
them win shirt junior pitcher Matt Gerbe
as of late. The most recent victory, in the fifth and threw two strike-
the 11th in 13 games, was yester- outs to kick off the inning. He only
day's 8-5 victory over Bowling allowed three hits in the two and a
Green at Ray Fisher Stadium of the half innings he pitched.
Wilpon Complex. "It was a nice rally tocome back.
Michigan took its first lead in Kolby gave us a little bit on the
the bottom of the first inning after bump which was good," Michigan
an RBI double from redshirt junior coach Rich Maloney said. "I felt
Anthony Toth. The Falcons tied it that we battled, stayed the course
up in the second and it stayed that and found a way to win."
way until Bowling Green scored Afterward, Burgoon was called
three times in the fifth inning to go from the bullpen to send the Fal-
up 4-1. cons home. Burgoon recorded the
But the Wolverines kept their save after tallyinh an impressive
heads up and their bats strong. In four strikeouts in five batters.
the sixth frame, Derek Dennis tal- "You have to find ways (like
lied an RBI double, but it was Toth pitching) to win, much different
who surprised the crowd when he ways, if you want to be a cham-
cranked his first career home run pion," Maloney said. "We've been
out of the park to bring in Dennis finding ways to win which is a good
from second. thing. Hopefully we can keep it
After the game, Toth made a jok- going. They never give up and we
ingjab at his teammate. stayed the course, we could have
"I want to thank Tyler Burgoon panicked, but we didn't. It was good
for my inspiration for my first home to get these two midweek wins."
run," Toth said. "He inspired me by The Wolverines' comeback was
telling me I am never going to get on the strength of its depth in the
one. He tells me that every single bullpen and in its lineup, just like it
day, whether we have a game or has been in most games lately.
not, so I'm glad I got that monkey "It was a big comeback," Toth
off myback." said. "We come into this midweek
Bowling Green couldn't keep games knowing that our opponents
up with the Michigan surge, and come in here and they circle us on
it was sophomore outfielder Mike the schedule. So, credit to Bowling
Kittle who sealed the deal when he Green they played really hard and
rocked his own first career homer we came out a little lackadaisical
in the eighth. but we were lucky enough to come
"It was thanks to the wind I back fighting and we got a good
think (that Toth) and I both got our win, so we'll take it."
WINNER 8 2007 TONY
AWARD INCLUDING
,'EST MUSICAL

Senior Mark Moundros willlikely play linebacker along with his duties at fubhack.
when the quarterback's a threat to yards and just two career touch-
run, there are even fewer touch- downs (one rushing, one receiv-
es to be had for fullbacks in the ing).
offense. But after more than a month of
To this point, Moundros has spring practice Moundros has had
made a meager impact on the stat time to getused to the new position
sheet with four career catches for and is catching the eye of his head
13 yards, three career rushes for 14 coach.

Graduating seniors Sroczynski and
Navas will leave M' with huge void.

By MATT RUDNITSKY
Daily Sports Writer
Standing a combined 12 feet,
eight inches tall and weighing an
aggregate of 407 lbs, graduating
seniors George Navas and Mike
Sroczynski will leave a huge void
to fill for the Michigan men's ten-
nis team (6-1 Big Ten, 10-8 overall).
It's not just their size that the
Wolverines will miss.
Since arriving as blue-chip
recruits in 2006, the two athletes
have been invaluable to the team,
earning 149 and 147 career match
victories, respectively.
"They've both been integral
parts of the success we've had,"
Michigan coach Bruce Berque said.
"Carrying the program back to one
that is not only challenging for con-
ference championships, but one
that's also relevant on the national
level.
"They've also taken owner-
ship in creating the identity that
the team is going to need to have
in future years to get to the next
level, and I'm confident that when
they're done here they will have
left the program in better shape
than it was when they got here. I
think that that's a nice compliment
to them and something they should
be really proud of"
The pair is currently the No.
38 doubles team in the nation and
he's been rotating at the No. 1 and
No. 2 doubles spots with the pair
of junior Jason Jung and fresh-
man Evan King. After not playing
together since freshman year, they
are currently an impressive 13-6
against top competition, including
a win over the then-No. 20 doubles
team in the nation and a tiebreaker
loss to the No.2 tandem.
"It's weird," Navas said. "When
we were trying to decide what the
doubles teams were going to be, I
told Bruce (Berque) that I had a gut
feeling that me and Mike would be
really successful together. I don't
know if it's because we played
together freshman year, but we
have pretty good chemistry on the
court, we always know what each
other is doing."
Navas' the team captain, has
been a mainstay for the Wolverines
primarily at the No. 4 singles spot.
He has a 6-1 Big Ten singles record,
a huge reason for their success in

0

a

SALAM RIDA/Daily

Senior George Navas and Mike Sroczynski are the No. 38 doubles team in the nation.

conference.
Sroczynski, a self-described
aggressive baseliner with a big
serve, has played mostly at the No.
3 spot and has a 3-4 Big Ten singles
record.
Throughout their four-year
careers, Navas and Sroczynski
have accomplished great things.
They were vital parts of Michigan's
Sweet 16 appearance in 2008, a
moment that they both acknowl-
edged as the highlight of their
experiences.
Sroczynski was also the 2008
Wilson/ITA Midwest Regional
doubles champion, winning the
title with Jung.
The two are good friends off
the court, despite being polar
opposites. They roomed together
freshman year, but Navas's need
for cleanliness didn't exactly mesh
well with Mike's style of living.
"The quality of his living situ-
ations are subpar," Navas said. "In
the dorm room, it was pretty dis-
gusting, and I'm a clean person.
Not to put it all on Mike, but yeah,

it's pretty much all on Mike. It was
just atrocious. Not the cleanest guy
in terms of living.
"We're good friends. Mike is a
big goofball, basically. He's a big
guy, and can be intimidating if you
don't know him, but he's really laid-
back and funny."
Though both Navas and Sroc-
zynski are going to miss the colle-
giate game and their relationships
on the tight-knit seven-man roster,
they already have plans for their
post-college lives. And like their
personalities, their plans are com-
pletely different.
Navas, an economics major, will
be working for Bank of America in
Charlotte, NC.
He made it clear that he's loved
his time on the tennis team, but
that his experience was about so
much more than the tennis, and
he's ready to move on.
But Sroczynski isn't givingup on
tennis just yet.
"My plans for next year as of
now are to play." Sroczynski said.
"I think I'm gonna give it a shot,

play some tournaments once tennis
is done here after I'm done graduat-
ing. And just see how it goes, give
myself a shot. I figure I've put a lot
into tennis, and I'd like to continue
that after my playing days here are
over."
The two know how important
they have been to the resurrection
of Michigan tennis, from a team
that had missed the NCAA Tourna-
ment for several years before they
arrived, to one that has made it five
consecutive years.
The two imposing figures -
Srocynski is 6-foot-6 and 220 lbs,
Navas 6-foot-1 and 187 - will be
tough to replace,but they have done 4
everything they can to prepare the
team for life without them.
"I want my legacy to be that I
helped Bruce develop the program
into what he wants to be," Navas
said. "Which is successful year in
and year out, good character guys
who want to work hard.It's tough
to do that, it's tough to get to that
point, but I think the team is finally
there."

I IF- -."qM llhl'l -MCWTV W7 NOW IM ME

FLNT
Earn U of M academic credits without
spending your summer in a classroom!
UM-Flint offers fully online courses throughout the
spring and summer semesters-great for students
planning to travel or work during the
spring and summer months!
Registration has already begun, and online classes fill
up quickly, so act now!
Enrollment is simple; just call UM-Flint's Office of
Extended Learning at (810) 762-3200 and we'll walk you
through the process step by step!

4*
,. , , k x s z;M $kr
"s c.
'w F
POP.
E
e
Nil low
is
' r ttFS i3.
F f <
3. 34 d .i oil
z ,
WIN>

BEGINS TUESDAY - Fisher Theatre - April29-MayO
Tickets at box office, Ticketmaster.co & 800-982-2787
Groups of12+: 313-871-1132
Info -BROADWAY IN DETROIT.com
Broadway in Detroit Sponsored by your Southeastern
Michigan Lincoln Mercury dealers"- DriveLM.c m


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomThrayApi15200-9

Thursday, April 15, 2010 - 9A

I
, 17 1 6 "G fa Ixa 1 t' Uar {1 { '. a - .
v o- a" r 5
Fri wT.*r sr l 1 t _ i er 5 k .f : s w r y -. ''a d "' t r' I 5 y y k
dcpi T.}fi r tl , ti uui{yr , E.
T+ raY d (C -r -w+ G'f 3 e 1 i i r 14 'r =,J 1 r i E F #t 1 t < h b r r- y;..
i. r5. $- x , ; r }+ = r t" ! t.' M". . h
3. 5 .,, }, y ! 4 r 4L i f 'i r 5..,. PM t . S r r", t.. ' 'yr 4i "la4 M} ' "{& i y ' S t;
- rP }i ^ 4 s + fr Af "S 4' i ix .,r "iS e.. t Ir v !.. h# 'i t;{-0i ' , ; F G>vA i# +
,N i 3 P 7 x a fi
-IJ
3 r, f a
! I j j 4 F Y+ ,w a r , ai rhi 7r t 1 . b-
} 'f' 1 } -{ 1rf f¢.r ,. Fi" , 1+; , ; lid a4- ;
j i" + 3 1 ti" u4 . Y '' M.. } <,S . hr y: ' r,
}- -1 } F r e Sy I 4 G Eu G y t 'rt
{i x+! ,l 4 au d N 'S 7II V F Ytf' F Y
*F "+a r i+Y} ..* ..r r F :'1 rsY c a -9' 4 1hrR t 4 ! rrt t 'T Y Y rl S f- Sa, r 4m4 i 14
°r''f l rr r. "rl . i" .Y r rc pp I"tr h-W - A .;x r'r «;: t !iL v "'± r r I ..,. w ;_ 1 .} r+ " t
k r!". Sri, i' a .,mow 4,. 2 .1 : s 1-- ; 5 a' ti':? 3 i, w '£ :n.
w Y i . s, M^ p. i ."ar f 4.. i++ c ;., t t* a h.:.r a e Y' 'P rTi aa4z-lY.{. ,,hn.
°"' } d r . F. r;y. t:+ . .y r. b f r a E y h y, 4 t rv .y., 12 ,N, .
!a' 5 1'rt {. "' t .. , y. s r Y'e' d1G i. r + we I! ? rt - l i1' ,5s
f ' b :-M S+r y} Nxh.i,. i3 ' F k', FY I a:r +T
.{,';'i4 5" "=ef't, 3".+{ v4 ^m 4 r k r . -- 2 rf "i 4 t i t-, ! r .i F y t4 o- i w .t ,r 7 ' i'rt
tir. a4 r 5
''. 4s
'r t- "' 5 7 -i'.:d "4 ., '"! r!# i «, L: Y..,t 1 il, ,,G1 } S -' . r r .f f K c r F _v ,, 'ny } Ja 1 ,4 : "5 '9
," Y - * 3' T l '"') M "Y x N r } v ; 4 ,. z 4n y} '' ,!
r.f . r rHA tw *v r k p ] E t' r.,
a " } }s } .. -rr :: .C +y +n t7 ' ,FIIJ aM. , t+ - t l T yyi. , y aa,[' tit. .,. r r .uli yi yn' MVt + j '1 3 . i' , rs ,p 51r. p'
f'r f f;'. , f a.T h ua} } Wrv r~ . r 4. S r yls ¢rSl y ;aC r+., F h ! + t~r W{7t r D z, . y d j ~I " " !$W *,E: r
7 t i^t « f ra . +t4 i t:' r-4 1 ?' + l # h },
f : + 4F+ ,xRO yTi i '''.y n r2pp S r w y r} t ' y mr ky S t
sfh f) 1 t k K", r.. t "pp, r! KJ h w.9G t 4 - Shy{ ' M. .ah*' e i ni t " -s. .r kW4 P iY .y r 9 6t-, 74J ty w4 ' J '
E Y"' ¢"*Y.'. W.7 7 r e~ F. km',ri Ri "wF.t"1v f f +. 3 .w4 rv .. } ,1 t. ,w ,! ,1" a , t ,.r i ry, 7 k . i - a " 'r e
i i 1' 4C 1 r ri Wit, 3r. t}r qI M'9y +t tra3S! i a MI +t + 1 v r i u!y tk} w ,tt a .'w ,A~".s. ;e.,< rd f"E ": Sll t i
i' t rr t r
w.4j.}t R W !*M ' ; ,,,+'rt 'a w,. .r 'k'. fi ,l..r; 6 ^ F . ?"k +r .1 e r7.a . ,.. mit h .y4N; c * x eF t k 7 a'V r+N ^"7t
s +, r , . +t rr mi'rS! w r. " w, fr+ " a.r, f: ,p k r J .i xr t i i u+ I ) ( F. p i l
. h' t ,tr y M. '.,., , p<a., r a tAM . ,. t ' r q ,*"K + } h + l.F, , "r p fy "h rvV v y %J "h ';4 v, -rF$ '
'. iY cty lq }. !.' pi . +:.;N! rHr ry. w ., ' .'rrwl ^,P ;;ro, 1 ,}, i i:.al i "!" .. y rrt . 3. I 5 .1 G '
- .7. (' d ' rJ^M^y at {.. 'tf."o f '.., ,.. r k 4!"4 ~, wq.71Y. ':F rF! tt" i M71 N' ' #' }w'' ,'iugrl +*' p . F ..'; s 'r 7i r'. , d l F,.1 ,b i "s w',. F 3 .rsJ t ~ - t ' '2!'a r
y' iq..a ,. {Mnb nnAw, w;+. rr tFF s N y * h k r , i+^y 1 t rro}ry , J.1} w r+ N z ::r Y
,1,sa .,.. yN '! r+ A a 4{k 'y5 "?, '. 'tlk"a^.^+',1 7M.F ' wt m +, ' *n .,1, wY " ' k y r d rAr ev 1 h i > 4 '. !'t iG 1 [ a, ,# 7 i V. Eh
T re .N y * i 7r rL} vif 'Y a,.l ' _~_ ' i y. yy T ... i w"j k.tirPa4 '."f 9N i , r ^lll 4yh4'.f .d'I'].
v=ra ! d kr r g r.,vd,.h r I r k Y bd:r ,w, n ~1 ; # fl u§ ° n1 ' .
r
W 77
44, e 7 2' R # N371g p' ;"
.- '. : , c , ~ k.."..wr n : s 21r .h R CF it r' I J. ,5++y H:
I+a ,I fiN} t '!I IAh t p. 'W i'". r a { I . ;SFf- ' Y g ?p . r";
S3}-
ii" '"A11.1
e tr faa 3 , ,
e 3r M. yy
YS E M1,
r s;
tN
P Y$ 21' .4
k4p
r
i T. .

INERNIMMV~iIII[ik i1'IUt~lIk tO IVA 11

ov

a I I

s i _
j 3 a t i i'- "i
i S i z t s :s ; z
F .... t


10A - Thursday, April 15, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Who is softball's No.l starter?

Speierman starts for
Wolverines, finds

0

By LUKE PASCH
Daily Sports Writer
The question has been posed
before: who is the number-one
starter for the No. 2 Michigan soft-
ball team?
It's really not a critical question.
The rotation consists of two equal-
ly dominant hurlers, and thus the
players and coaches don't really
ask it.
But sometimes people get curi-
ous.
With each complete game shut-
out that junior Jordan Taylor and
senior Nikki Nemitz throw, the
question becomes more difficult to
answer.
They're both All-Americans.
They both have an ERA below two.
Taylor has 16 wins in 21 appear-
ances, and Nemitz has 13 in 17.
But in the beginning of the sea-
son, the answer wasn't nearly as
ambiguous. Taylor was the hot
hand. And it appeared that she
had assumed the number-one spot
over the elder Nemitz.
As Nemitz stumbled to a 1-3
record to open the season, Taylor
surged ahead and won in her first
five starts before taking a loss in
a 2-1 pitchers' duel to then-No. 6
Missouri.
Taylor consistently got the nod
for three games in the five-game
weekend road trips. She stifled
some of the strongest top-to-bot-
tom lineups in the nation. And her
only two losses have come against

same dominant results

Senior Nikki Nemitz started the season 1-3, but has been arguably the Wolverines' best pitcher as of late.

top-15 opponents.
Even with those conspicuous
indicators, Michigan coach Carol
Hutchins wouldn't answer the
question.
"I have two All-American pitch-
ers," Hutchins said.
But everybody could see it. The
early-season box scores revealed
the number-one and number-two
pitchers.
Now, it's not so easy.
Since Big Ten play opened three
weeks ago, both pitchers have been
tossing the ball phenomenally.
Nemitz has won all three of her
starts, giving up just one run. Tay-
lor has won all four of hers, and
she also upped the ante by throw-

ing her first career perfect game at
Minnesota last weekend.
As Nemitz's resurgence
becomes reality, and as the Wol-
verines inch closer to postseason
play, the question pops back into
relevance.
Who will be number one on
May 21, the first day of the NCAA
regionals?
Who knows? Only one thing
remains certain - you're not going
to find out from Hutchins.
INJURY REPORT: Sophomore
shortstop Stephanie Kirkpatrick
has been inactive for the last six
games with a torn meniscus in her
left knee.
Hutchins revealed today that

she will likely be out for at least
the next two weeks, but she is
expected to be ready for postsea-
son action. She is scheduled for a
minor surgical procedure today.
"She was going to try to play
through it, but she's just not
mobile enough," Hutchins said.
"The good thing is we know she'll
work really hard."
With her absence from the
field, the defense has been moved
around quite a bit, as senior Molly
Bausher - an everyday center-
fielder - has temporarily filled
in at shortstop. Sophomore Bree
Evans moved from left to center,
and senior Kristen Larsen came
off the bench to occupy left.

By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan softball team took
a short break from pummeling Big
Ten schools
to play its C. MICHIGAN 0
second MICHIGAN 8
Mid-Amer-
ican Conference opponent of the
year yesterday.
But the result was still the same,
as the Wolverines beat Central
Michigan 8-0.
One thing was noticeably dif-
ferent for Michigan, as freshman
pitcher Stephanie Speierman took
the mound in her first career start.
The righty gave up no runs and
allowed just one hit through five
innings.
"I was very excited," Speierman
said after the game. "I was a little
nervous the first inning, and then I
sort of settled in. Then it was play-
ing softball."
The lone hit was a disputed
grounder to the third baseline in
the fifth inning. Senior third base-
man Maggie Viefhaus made a div-
ing catch to corral the ball but
couldn't get it to first base in time.
Michigan coach Carol Hutchins
came out to discuss whether or
not the ball had rolled foul or not.
The tough call notwithstanding,
Hutchins remained impressed with
the young pitcher's one-hitter per-
formance.
"I wanted to see what she could
do when the game was more mean-
ingful, as opposed to coming in a
mop-up type of inning when we've
been ahead," Hutchins said. "I was
really pleased with her. I thought
she was composed, she made her
pitches and she did a really nice
job."
The defense behind her was
excellent also, as Speierman struck
out just three batters, allowing the
Chippewas (17-3) to put plenty of
balls into play. The defense did not
commit an error.
"The whole team in general
was doing a great job, which I
really appreciated," Speierman
said. "Knowing that the defense is
behind me definitely makes it eas-

ier."
The defensive performance was
even more impressive considering
sophomore shortstop Stephanie
Kirkpatrick has missed the last six
games due to injury. This has forced
Hutchins to rotate the defense with
senior Molly Bausher moving from
centerfield to fill Kirkpatrick's posi-
tion in the infield.
"This seems to have happened
almost every year," Bausher said.
"Somebody has gone down and
somebody has to fill in - and that
somebody usually is me. Yeah, it's
tough to deal with, but having to
deal with it in previous years has
kind of given me an understanding
and (made me) comfortable withO
the situation."
Bausher also got it done at the
plate, capping off a six-run fifth
inning with a two-run RBJ double
to centerfield, effectively ending
the game due to softball's eight-run
mercy rule.
It was the fourth game in a row
Michigan (7-0 Big Ten, 31-5 over-
all) has ended the game in the fifth
inning and the seventh time in the
last nine games.
Junior first baseman Dorian
Shaw was the other major contribu-
tor in the fifth, nailing a home run
into the Alumni Field scoreboard
with two teammates on base. The
homer was her 14th of the season,
which leads the team and ties her
career high from last year.
But outside of that, the offense
- or at least the hitting - was non-
existent. Still, Wolverine batters
reached base on nine walks, despite
having just four hits on the day.
The only one of those hits that
came before the fifth inning was
sophomore Amanda Chidester's in
the first. Central Michigan's pitch-
er loaded the bases with three-
straight walks, givingChidester the
opportunity to drive in two runs on
a single.
Michigan has now won 10
straight and 23 of the last 24.
"Our team is very competitive
and we're explosive and it is hard
to keep us down," Hutchins said.
"They have a lot of confidence in
their game right now."

----------

Looking for something more added. "Professore Vacanti would've liberty. thinking of hiding in a closet for the just a
authentic than local favorite Pizza been proud of me. Or maybe I "Did we eat too many rest of its life hoping to be forgotten said
ADX'EIRTISIN G Barn, the group had decided to should say would've been feiro di Doritoes? Maybe. Throw a little and never found. Presi
venture out and Icy a new place. me." Frisbee around? Sure. But teachers were
PLASS TAKES7professore Vacanti re d t deserve to have a little fun too. And letter,
it's not like it hurt anyone," said the you h
ON LAW FIRM ~year-old Fineman. "In fact, I
[hiJnk the students should be thank- GREEK Greek
AS CLIENT - .I was so hungover the next day as run
A local college adv [ [at I just gave everyone A's SYSTEM Some
g the law nyway. I think it worked in their syster
entire law firm! The RUNNING OUT it alw
spending their ee bile students are demanding Engli
help the lawyers ga s, Here's no word yet on how OF LETTER said I
"We just d iu
Brian Fats. "WL
creative help aroun a re I
we really look forwa.f Elf A l
their ideas and work, taigate
them with legal spe
making them change
don't matter and basic.
waler it dow until
finny, not creative
any way." s;ALEON
After sub ig
round of idc clas tingEa
drowned in d chano
dead - -- -
app ON
like tiMASCOT
sued
paranc4GT/'
--GI wsT L u srsday
~,sr
Ts.
OR E I Z mmn favs x mse a imbaghs14f
eTAnd tUMVIP O D eCd s o R
G T 10 XTR CAS TSIQ
J1 J o L - - - -
STU "mow"I' ds°ai t %eaasflue scariest before the big exanr
T fredof Danny's, recalled. "It was As were Professor R -LIU, Police reps: ftc e Mone
AT RESTAU- like we time-warped into Italy or Dr. Denise Carrol's. Where was became agitated n confronted b
something. The waiter came over everyone during the last-minute Book on who w orth more.
and started talking in Italian! Um... question frenzy? Apparently, tailgat- altercation ensu that involv
what? I had no idea what to do." ing. several blows toF ehead o

bout every option out there,"
National Greek Board
dent, Henry Boggins. "There
only about 18,000 possible
combinations to begin with, se
ad to know it was coming."
The news certainly left the
k System in a state of turmoil,
mars began to fly immediately.
suggested a move to a 4-lettei
m, while others questionedawhy
'ays had to be Greek. "I think
sh is a pretty good language,"
Debra Boomgarden. "I mean,
United States, not a
stic country."

6

r
"Is

40

ng
lu
f I I
rtai
b."
at a
nio
:cid
yth
)nfi
s a
eap
ren
en i

renting
aaaaay
ich led
ars and
"Once I
tbooks, I
d much
find a
y negoti-
rents ag e for food,
n, back mass d toiletries.
could rent all , I'm pretty
n I wouldn't need a real
And if he doe I'll probably
guy to do t? sr me too."
r Mick 'arcConnelly has
ed that he will no longer buy
ing. Instead, he says with
dence, "I'm gonna rent."
Mick tells the story of renting
partment, which is "waaaany
er than buying one", which led
nting movies, renting cars and
renting his textbooks.

0

What began as a typical dining-ol
experience quickly turned into
scary situation yesterday whe
sophomore Danny Rivers and hi
friends realized that the Italia
restaurant that they had chosen ft
lunch... was completely Italian
speaking.

C


:.
"
m


r.

mow, 0
A
N
a
z
x
w a
zW
u
o w6imJ





0

-v

-f

-W

2B ThursdayA

BARA R
GOOD TIME CHARLEY'S
There are few things nicer than spend-
ing the first glorious days of summer
drinking a Long Island iced tea on a
sunny patio. This fact, among many
others, is why Good Time Charley's remains
one of the most popular student bars in Ann
Arbor, with lines out the door once tempera-
tures reach above freezing. With a wide out-
door patio, in addition to better-than-passable
food, generous drink specials and a preemptive
smoking ban, Charley's remains the go-to spot
for the 21+ set - or those with a decent fake. On
certain high-volume nights, the attentive staff
will even serve beer outside while bar-goers
wait on line: That's service. After all, you bet-
ter be more than a little buzzed before you can
entertain the idea of stumbling over to Rick's.
-SASHA RESENDE

ThursdayApn b11E
THRIFT/VINTAGE SHOP ->
SALVATION ARMY,.
o some, the words "Salvation of person has some interaction with it,
Army" mean a great place to from the wealthy suburban housewife-'
find ridiculously cheap cast-off gingerly handing over the OshKosh over-
Christmas sweaters. To others, alls with holes in the knees, to the enter-
it brings to mind those bucket-toting do- prising art student who buys them fora
gooders standing out in the snow ringing multimedia project exploring the empti-
bells and making passersby feel guilty for ness of childhood through clothing. The
hurrying past with a pocket full of cash. Salvation Army is the middle section of a
But these images barely scrape the sur- Venn diagram pairing"evangelical altru-
face of what the "S & A Boutique" really istism" with "trendy cool"; it'd be miles,.
is. Ultimately, it represents a slice of life: ahead of the competition, except there
After all, where else can you watch hip- really isn't any. And so, though it's not
ster college kids and grandmas on Social saying anythingnew, it's time to go ahead
Security fight over the same smelly old and deem the Salvation Army "Best of
jumper? The Salvation Army is an Ameri- Ann Arbor."
can culture major's paradise. Every sort -SHARONJACOBS ANNA SCHULTE/Daily
715 North University
pzzAcross from the Diag
L A't'61II iz

SUSHI
SADAKO
You know you're eat-
ing poorly rolled sushi
when it falls apart the
moment your chop-
sticks unite with the outer sea-
weed/rice layer, leaving nothing
but a dismantled crab-cuc-avo
corpse all over your plate - the
worst. But this is never a prob-
lem at Sadako, this year's Best
of Ann Arbor winner for sushi.
Here, the rolls are tight and
together and always fresh and
delicious. Couple this stress-free
sushi eating experience with a

serene restaurant atmosphere -
walls and waitstaff all outfitted
in a soothing baby blue. Though
sometimes slightly overpriced,
all's well because the restaurant
splurges on the smooth chop-
sticks that don't give you splin-
ters, and if you order more than
$6 of food, you get acomplemen-
tary miso soup and a mysterious
orange dressingsalad that tastes
delicious. Sadako, a previous
Best of Ann Arbor winner, defi-
nitely stays raw.
-EMMA JESZKE

PIZZA
THE ORIGINAL COTTAGE INN
The secret to a great Italian restau-
rant isn't just the food, though The
Original Cottage Inn certainly
delivers on that front. No, it's the
ambiance. And this Ann Arbor mainstay
knows how to present a gourmet Italian
atmosphere so coinplete you forget you're
eating next to a giant construction pit. The
eatery's two levels of ivy-colored brick
quaintness make you feel like you've just
stepped in from a Roman piazza, as does
the generous portion of olive oil your server
pours for dipping your bread. Then you taste
the deep-dish pizza, with its perfect sea-
soning and crunchy-doughy crust, and you
realize why groups like the Glee Club will
routinely take over the entire place: Italian
food this good begs to be shared with a few
dozen of your closest friends.
-ANDREWLAPIN
BEST
NEWSPAPER?
THE DAILY!
JOIN US.
Visit michigandaily.com for
information on applying.

V a rs i t y
Management
Here's what we think
makes us better:
Experience
Varsity has been a
family owned and
run business since
19631
a No Absentee
Landlords or
Investors
We care more about
the buildings we
monage because
we own them all!
o Not too small
not too big, but
Juuussst Riiiaahht
With 250 units in 23
locations; we have
enough variety to
find exactly what you
want without being
so big we can't find
you at all
a Give us a call for
your personalized
tour of our Studios -
4 bedrooms
available for fall.
" (734) 668-1100

WE DEHIVER!
734.214.6666 Thank you for votin
Best of Ann
CALL NOW!

lel rl 21 It


5

f

Voted Best Bar u
in Ann Arbor 2010
S YA {' f A4

E


a 1140 South University

f? (.

l


0

0

0

0

0

0

10E Thursdy, April 15,2010 of Ann Arbor

ThursdayApril15, 2010 // Best of Ann Arbor 36

SANDWICHES
ZINGERMAN'S
ingerman's Delicates-
sen is what puts Ann
Arbor on the foodie
map. Though the famous
sandwiches are pretty pricey,
you're paying for quality, and the
food doesn't disappoint. From
the famous #2 Zingerman's Reu-
ben stacked with sauerkraut and
tasty corned beef to the lesser-
known, but still delicious #73
Tarb's Tenacious Tenure turkey
sandwich smothered in avocado
and Wisconsin muenster cheese,
all can find something fresh and
flavorful to sink their teeth into.
Zingerman's has a fun, relaxed
dining atmosphere and a mouth-
watering selection of deli meats,
cheeses, breads, desserts and
more kinds of olives than you've
ever heard of. Best of all, parents
love taking their college kids to
Zingerman's, so milk that for all
it's worth. Calories don't count at
Zingerman's.
-LEAHBURGIN

BURGERS
QUICKIE BURGER
Lorated on the corner of Hill
and State, this small cor-
ner joint offers aromas that
grab the nostrils of every
passerby. The oversized burger
puts the Big Mac to shame in its
weight and quality, though its
"quickie" nickname is not refer-
ring to the taste: Its taste lingers
long after eating. Even if you
already ate a burger and fries on
top of that box of Franzia you pol-
ished off an hour ago, you'll still
consider eating another. The best
part about Quickie, though, isn't
getting the food. It's sitting in the
maize-and-blue interior with the
view of State St., making awk-
ward eye contact with the guy
from your English class as you
shove that huge burger in your
mouth. Conversations via Quick-
ie window are a one-of-a-kind
experience - nothing says friend-
ship like a wave at a familiar face
through the Quickie glass.
-ARIEL BOND

The Fifth Quarer
210 S. Fifth Ave. I Ann rbor, .I 734.332.0200

BURRITO
CHIPOTLE
Dear Chipotle,
Thank you for being the
most dependable, most
delicious burrito place in
all of Ann Arbor. Don't let any hat-
ers tell you otherwise. They haven't
yet learned how to look past your
cold, metallic appearance (seriously,
is it necessary to make customers
feel like they've just stumbled into

a robot factory?) and appreciate
what makes you so great: the simple
elegance of your menu, the hearty
chunks of grilled chicken in your
flagship item, the non-mushy beans
and the option of corn that makes
the burrito all the more satisfying.
But the rest will come around to you
eventually, once people realize that
sometimes burritos should actually

taste good when consumed while
sober. Which brings me to a pressing
matter: Guys, you have to start stay-
ing open late. Nobody in their right
mind has ever said, "Boy, this bur-
rito place would be so much better if
it closed at 10 p.m."
Sincerely,
A burrito lover
-ANDREWLAPIN

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily

BEST SELF-SERVING AD FOR ANN ARBOR
INSTITUTION? THIS ONE!
JOIN THE DAILY.
Visit michigandaily.com for information on applying.

UNIVERSITY FAN APPAREL
MDEN

T I INDIAN FOOD

W rail know what
the M in MDen
stands for, but
here's a bunch
of other things it could mean:
magnificent, mellifluous,
multipurpose, major, mar-
velous and merry. MDen is a
one-stop shop for all things
Michigan, whether you need

a seating cushion for your butt
at football games (which you
shouldn't if you're a real fan)
or an office chair for your butt
at work. Things can run on the
pricey side, but can you really
put a price on proudly pre-
senting the maize and blue?
Well, technically yes, .That's
kind of the wholepo'iit'of. an

establishment like MDen,
really. But for a true Michigan
fan, the prices are well worth
it. So when your baby, porch,
living room, bedroom, self,
bathroom, relatives and pets
all need to be decked out in
Michigan gear, MDen has you
covered. . ,,..
I5AMTERLDCK

RAJA RANI
Anyone walking west
of State Street on a
breezy day will get a
strong aroma of Indi-
an food (enticing or unpleasant,
depending on the person) burst-
ing from a house on the corner
of William and Division. But
wait! It's not a house at alt It's .
a restaurant called "Raja Rani,".3

which translates directly from
Hindi as "King Queen." Though
nonsensical, the name is regal
and alliterative, and will surely
draw you in with the promise of
delectable chicken tikka masala
and palak paneer. Some say that
the food is a tad too greasy, but
that's what makes it.so .damn
.delicious. And. its .affdrdable:

Eight bucks for the lunch buffet,
stocked with enough samosas,
naan and lamb curry to make
your dadi maa in Bangalore
proud. Holy Vishnu, that is a
good deal -- Raja Rani being
voted the best Indian restaurant
in AA is as obvious as an Indian
guy writingthiskblurb
KAVIPANDEY



1

w

-W

4M Thursday, April1 20 s fn r

Thursday, Apr5 Best of Ann Arb r 9B
.P (-COFFEE SHOP

ESPRESSO ROYALE
s fresh coffee the only thing that
wakes up your morning? Then
tumble out of bed and sleepwalk
to Espresso Royale. And for good
reason. With three downtown loca-
tions, Espresso remains convenient
and consistently delicious. Espresso's
coffee, whether a cup of no-frills
black or a fancier sampling, is full-

bodied without roaming into bitter-
ness. Get it in small, medium or large
rather than Starbucks's obnoxious
"European" sizes. A wide variety of
hot teas, plus a dash of chai and hot
chocolate, compliment Espresso's
java. But the libations don't over-
shadow Espresso's tempting muffins,
cookies and scones or hardier fare

like wraps, fruit and yogurt. And for
the eco-conscious patron staying to
study or chat with coffee and a treat,
Espresso offers glass cups at no extra
charge. Also free: friendly smiles
from Espresso's consistently upbeat
baristas - the perfect boost to a fra-
grant cup of joe.
-ADDIE SHRODES

U { _ l I L. MEETS FITNESS

t'

yourself down and enjoy delicious
eggs, pancakes, French toast, bacon
and other delights to your heart's
content. Your mouth, your stomach
and even your wallet (in some cases,
at least) will love you, even if your
arteries don't. It's the most impor-
tant meal of the day, so do it right.
-JAMIE BLOCK
BEST ARTS
SECTION?
DAILY ARTS!
JOIN US.
Send an e-mail to
shemma2010@gmail.com
for information on applying.

Est. 1987
CHINESE FOOD
SZECHUAN, HUNAN & PEKING CUISINE
CHEF JAN
2008 CULINARY OLYMPIC
GOLD MEDAL WINNER
October 19th to 22nd, 2008, Erfurt Germany
More than 1500 chefs from 53 countries competed
TOP GOLD MEDAL
AWARD WINNER:
2006, 2003, 2001, 1999, 1998, 1997,
1996, 1983
International Professional Culinary Competition
/The World's Largest Culinary Competition)
VOTED #1 CHINESE
RESTAURANT BY THE
MICHIGAN DAILY
1996-2009
Competition is essential for keeping up the quality in cooking
1 minimnum order, dine-in or carry-out.
Exdludes lunch and Daily Specials.
Expires "/20 Coupon rutb presented witkorder.
Dine-in or Take-out * Reservations welcome
 (734) 668-2445 LJ
OPEN DAILY 11AM to 10 Pm
1201 S. University (corner of Church) " Ann- Arbor



0

0

4

0

0

0

IM ThrdaApi 21//Bsto* AnAro

Thursday, April15, 2010 // Best fA A B

MEDITERRANEAN FOOD

T CHINESE FOOD

JERUSALEM GARDEN
Cheap (almost noth-
ing on the menu runs
over $10), convenient
(five minutes' walk-
ing distance from State Street)
and delicious - Jerusalem
Garden is any student's dream
dining destination. Jerusalem
Garden serves up sizeable por-
tions of tasty fare for vegetar-
ian and carnivorous patrons
alike. Some of its specialties
include shawarma, falafel with

hummus, stuffed grape leaves,
lentil soup and chicken fattoush
salad - a personal favorite.
Though some of the traditional
Middle Eastern food might
sometimes lack spice, Jerusa-
lem Garden puts its own unique
spin on many of the dishes and
everything is consistently fresh
and made to order. Takeout is
your best option given the lim-
ited space in the dining room
and grillside counter. Service is

extremely quick, and the staff
is friendly and helpful. When
the snow and clouds finally
dissipate over Ann Arbor, the
patio opens for service, further
adding to the relaxed atmo-
sphere of the restaurant. So the
next time you're craving some-
thing other than cheap pizza or
greasy burgers, try Jerusalem
Garden - you won't leave dis-
appointed or hungry.
-ALLIE WHITE

CHINA GATE
A nd (Jacob said),
'How awesome is
this place!? This
is none other than
the house of God, and this is
the gate of heaven!' " (Gen-
esis 28:16-17 RSV) This may
appear to be a passage from
the Bible, but in fact, it's a
direct quote from a friend of
mine after his first meal at
China Gate. OK, maybe it is a
passage from the Bible. But I

promise you, when you wal
through that door you reall
do get a little taste of heaver
From the excellent egg dro
soup to the kick-ass Kung-Pa
chicken, China Gate doesj
all. And most of the succes
can be attributed to the cul
nary brilliance of God him
self: Chef Jan. With more tha
40 years of experience and a
array of accolades to his nam
Chef Jan has helped Chin

.k Gate become Ann Arbor's
ly favorite hotspot for Chinese
n. cuisine. Whether you're in the
p mood for Szechuan, Hunan
o or Peking food, China Gate
it has something to offer. So
s the next time you're chowing
i- down on some of Chef Jan's
s- magical creations, make sure
n to give yourself a quick pinch.
n You may have entered the
e, afterlife.
a -MATTHEWKRASNOFF
BEST PLACE
TO WRITE?
THE DAILY!

ICE CREAM
STUCCHI'S
T he last thing anyone between two gooey Insomnia nation-wide chains with local
wants in Michigan Cookies - is heaven times branches, Stucchi's was born
in mid-January is two. Stucchi's is moderately in Ann Arbor and remains
an ice-cold frozen priced too, so you don't have (mostly) near and dear to
dessert. But come the warm to feel guilty about treat- Michigan. So grab a guilt-free
weather, there's no better ing yourself to this delicious spoon or cone and dip into a
place for ice cream than Stuc- piece of bliss. If you need wonderful moment of deli-
chi's. It tastes like heaven. any more convincing, feel ciousness during this bright
And the cookie-wich - a good about supporting a local and sunny exam season.
thick scoop of rich ice cream business. Unlike those pesky -LEAHBURGIN
BEST DAILY?
THE-
MICHIGAN
DAILY!
JOIN US.

CLUB
5TH QUARTER
Top 40 fare, moderately
priced drinks and a
giant mechanical bull.
What's not to love
about 5th Quarter? If you're
over 21 and prefer to spend
your boozy nights without hav-
ing your ears blasted off by the
Black Eyed Peas, you can prob-

ably name several things. But
that's part of the charm of 5th
Quarter. With an 18+ age limit,
the venue entices rambunc-
tious underclassmen who share
a taste for sweaty dance floors
and illicitly consuming alcohol
in club bathrooms. Although
most Michigan students

migrate to the even sleazier
Rick's once they hit the exalt-
ed 21st birthday, 5th Quarter
offers a fitting introduction to
the joys of dirty dancing, casual
hookups and Blue Balls - the
rum-and-blue-curacao mixed
drink, that is.
-SASHA RESENDE


IThank you for voting us
Want gourmet food
on a tight budget?

--Z- r a 7 a - a SUL

1st,

The Original Cottage
Inn is the place to be!
For reservatons ccatering and
banquets at a great pnce. cal
734-663-3379


est.2007
Quickie Burger
Bar & Gri4
Thank you for voting us
Best Burger 2009 & 2010
Best Late Night 2010
in The Michigan Daily Best of Ann Arbor Poll!
Dine-in
Carry-out
Delivery +& cCatering
,est 1ate Niht Fun Bar &
u12Drought Beers
Best +1rgel (734) 222-4555
www.quickie-burger.com

l l l l l l l l l i

I 1 I I I I I I I_ _I__

JOIN US.

Visit michigandaily.com for
information on applying.

Visit michigandaily.com for
information on applying.

- m





0

n
0

(I,/"
CDC v' O
0
C -
CD23 C
w , ~
m D
f.1

00u l
CDC
ro D m CD
N 0
WD
QQ D
O
CDp Sl
V1,
tn
0
CDe
YC

0
t")
CDCD
CD0
0

0
(DC-
v D

Q
O
t7ct
sai
uz
G"
CU
Q...
Vl
-r
(D
ro n
-0 C)
c
w
CI 1 R9
dH
Hd L+ IrA
4 S ,
3 f
S
! Ye
k4 y
e
"

-)
0
CD
KT
,-,

32
32 C
rn7

a
W

a

0

0

6

23-
(D _
L1)
0
2-Q3
CD

6

,I

i
#
R # # # R R i # # R R # i # # # # # R
A
r
rn
m
1
D
m
m
O
r
rn
m
1
it+
b
m
O
m
mm
S
D
Z
Ln
S
D
D

a

4

a

a

i

0


