Hockey co-captain Luke
Columnist Joe Sugiyama discusses the current state of mental health on Glendening, who's
campus and what each of us can do to improve it. > PAGE 4 a junior, Switched
lines over the
weekend and
Phillip Seymour Hoffman shows his prowess behind the camera in Jack sparked an offensive explosion on Sunday.
Goes Boating, his directorial debut. But the story is just OK. ) PAGE 6 4 PAGE 8

Tuesday, October 5, 2010

Ann Arbor, Michigan

rnichigandaily.com

THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY
In repatriation
efforts, 'U' sees
progress, but
much left to do

Administrators
say two staffers were
hired to handle
repatriation matters
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
The University's leading facul-
ty governing body met yesterday
to discuss,
among other
things, the
niver-
ing efforts
to repatriate
culturally
unidentifi- KYLE SWANSON
able human
remains for
whichgroups Administaton
of Native
Americans have laid claims.
Speaking before the Senate
Advisory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs, Vice President for
Research Stephen Forrest and
Toni Antonucci, an associate
vice president for research and
chair of the University's Cul-
turally Unidentifiable Human
Remains Committee, described
the University's current efforts
to implement a plan to repatriate
* culturally unidentifiable human
remains and associated funeral-

related objects in the University's
possession.
The two outlined recom-
mendations put forward by the
CUHR Committee and discussed
recent changes to the Universi-
ty's legal obligations, which came
as the result of a court decision
in March over provisions of the
Native American Graves Protec-
tion and Repatriation Act of 1990,
and the progress University offi-
cials have made in adjusting to
the new regulations.
The change requires institu-
tions like the University to alert
Native American tribes that
there is a possibility that "cultur-
ally identifiable" remains found
in the same region as the tribe
may be repatriated to the tribe.
In its report, released publicly
on Sept. 24, the CUHR Commit-
tee recommended that Univer-
sity officials take nine steps to
move forward with its repatria-'
tion work.
Among those recommenda-
tions, the committee said the
University should hire two dedi-
cated employees, one to deal with
requests from Native American
groups for possession of the cul-
turally unidentifiable human
remains, and the other to work
with University museum officials
to better inventory the remains
currently held at the University.
Antonucci told members of
See SACUA, Page 3

Michigan Democratic Governor Jennifer Granholm speaks at the World Stem Cell Summit held at the Marriott Renaissance Center in Detroit yesterday. The summit, which
is being held in Michigan for the first time in its six-year history, started yesterday and will last for three days.
Granhoim, Coleman laud
stem cell research in state

At World Stem Cell
Summit, politicians,
scientists stress
benefits of research
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily NewsEditor
DETROIT - While the fields of
science and politics often clash on
their views of stem cell research,
leaders from both groups are gath-

ering this week in hopes of bridg-
ing the gap between them.
Nearly 1,200 researchers, law-
makers, businessmen and patient
advocates from 20 countries are
attending the 2010 World Stem
Cell Summit at the Marriott Hotel
in the Detroit Renaissance Cen-
ter. The three-day event kicked
off yesterday with speeches from
University President Mary Sue
Coleman, Michigan State Univer-
sity President Lou Anna K. Simon,
Wayne State Interim President
Allan Gilmour, Democratic Gov.

Jennifer Granholin, Sen. Carl
Levin (D-Mich.) and several lead-
ing researchers at the University.
Bernard Siegel, founder of the
World Stem Cell Summit and
director of the Genetics Policy
Institute - a Florida-based orga-
nization that calls itself "the voice
of the stem cell community" - said
one of the main goals of the sum-
mit is to increase understanding
between scientists and citizens
who find it a "big challenge" to
comprehend scientific presenta-
tions.

"We know that our scientific
colleagues speak in tongues," Sie-
gel said to summit attendees. "It's
hard to understand what they're
saying for someone who might not
be wellversed in stem cell biology."
Granholm began her keynote
address by acknowledging that
not many politicians speak before
groups of scientists. However, she
informed the audience composed
of several hundred research-
ers that she identifies with their
endeavors.
See SUMMIT, Page5


LIGHT AT THE END OF THE TUNNEL
f.---

FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
Duncan: College affordability
crucial to economic recovery

Education Sec. says
Obama made strides
in streamlining
financial aid process
By BETHANYBIRON
Daily StaffReporter
in a conference call with col-
lege journalists yesterday, Unit-
ed States Secretary of Education
Arne Duncan partnered with
MTV's Vice President of Public
Affairs, Jason Rzepka, and Presi-

dent of the College Board, Gaston
Caperton, in a discussion about
the importance of college afford-
ability in increasing graduation
rates and improving the national
economy.
Duncan said that while prog-
ress has been made during the
Obama administration toward
increasing student funding and
simplifying the financial aid
process, there is still much work
to be done in order to fulfill
Obama's goal of being the lead-
ing country globally in college
graduates.
"The President's goal can only

be attained if an unprecedented
number of Americans enroll in
and then complete college, and
for millions of students, paying
for college is the biggest barrier
to completion," Duncan said. "So
one of our most important tasks
is to make college more afford-
able."
Obama increased Pell Grant
funding by $40 billion when he
signed the higher education bill
last May. The increased funding
allowed an additional 2.4 million
students to receive the grant.
The administration also
See DUNCAN, Page 3

Business sophomore Andrew Aitken studies in the north stacks of Hatcher Graduate Library last night.
MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
Hearing on protection order
n Si
aainsS irve 1 oS pone

STUDENT BUSINESSES
Owners: Pedicab business grows in first year

'+
S,

kiso yesterday, sonal protection order against
Andrew Shirvell, assistant attor-
ACUA praises ney general for the state of Michi-
gan, was postponed yesterday
VISA president afternoon until Oct. 25.
The hearing, scheduled for
By ROBIN VEECK 1:30 p.m. yesterday, was delayed
Daily StaffReporter because of "service issues,"
according to a Washtenaw Coun-
e hearing for Michigan Stu- ty trial clerk.
Assembly President Chris Shirvell, currently on a leave
trong's motion to file a per- of absence from his position at

the Attorney General's office,
has received national attention
recently for his attacks on Arm-
strong. Shirvell runs a blog called
Chris Armstrong Watch, and has
been vocal in protesting Arm-
strong's "radical homosexual
agenda" since Armstrong was
elected in the spring. In addition,
Shirvell has been seen at campus
events - including the first MSA
See ARMSTRONG, Page5

Students say classes
at 'U,' experience
helped them cruise
to success
By JORDAN ROCHELSON
For the Daily
Getting home can be a bit of a
challenge after a night of partying,
as can getting up the next morning
to make it down to the stadium in
time for kickoff. But thanks to a
local student-run business, both

have become a little easier for stu-
dents on campus.
Started two summers ago in
Petoskey, Mich., Petoskey Pedicab
first came to Ann Arbor last fall
when Business junior Calvin Sche-
manski and Josh Lycka, a junior
at Grand Valley State University,
decided to take their company on
the road.
Over the past year, the business,
which offers rides in carriages
powered by peddling drivers, has
blossomed - upgrading its fleet
from two pedicabs to three. The
founders attribute the success in
large part to what Schemanski has

learned about running a business
in University classrooms, but also
what the two have gained from
experience.
While the pair continues to
offer seasonal services in Petos-
key, Lycka said they plan to offer
their services exclusively in Ann
Arbor throughout the winter.
Lycka said the company will add
canopies to the pedicabs and offer
blankets to passengers during the
cold months, but he said the roads
might eventually become "too
snowy to work with."
But for now, Lycka isn't worry-
See PEDICABS, Page 5

The
dent
Armst


WEATHER HI: 68 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW L news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS ....................
'Answer This' plots to take over A2 this week. Vol. CXXI, No. 21 A P N EWS...............
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER ©D20tTh&Michigan Daily OPINION...............
michigandoily~com

.2 ARTS... . .......... 6
.......3 CLASSIFI$ .S................ 6
.......4 SPORTS....................8


4 A 41



01

2 - Tuesday, October 5, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY: TEDY
In Other Ivory Towers Mcia
The 'U' White
Many freshmen walking Coleman continued: "But
by 815 South University Ave. I do. t live there."
may wonder at first glance Perhaps the legend
what such a large, white comes from an earlier time
house is doing in the center in University history, when
of the University's Central the president of the Univer-
Campus. But it doesn't take sity didn't live in the house.
long for the rumor mill to From 1909 to 1920, then-
start churning. University President Harry
The most gullible are led Hutchins maintained his
to believe by know-it-all private residence, located
upperclassmen that Mary on the corner of Monroe
Sue Coleman doesn't actu- and Packard Streets. Mow-
ally live there - but only ever, Hutchins was the only
the most gullible, president in the history of
Asked about the legend the University not to live
that she resides elsewhere, on~ the property since the
Coleman said she finds the house was built in 1840.
myth amusing. During Hutchins's presi-
"I have heard that," Cole- dency, while the house sat
man said of the legend. otherwise vacant, it was
"I've thought, 'Okay, this is used temporarily as a Red
interesting, I wonder who Cross headquarters during
people think is living in that World War I for approxi-
house.' " mately one year.
CRIME NOTES

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

House
And though Hutchins
was the only president to
forgo living in the house,
the residence has also seen
other tenants during its his-
tory.-
The building once also
housed members of the
University's faculty. In t
fact, the original construc-
tion contract called for the 3
house to be "for the use of
the profes-sors of the Uni-
versity."-
Since that time, the
house, now valued at far a
more than its original
$7,712.50 appraisal, has .,
seen several renovations
and expansions. The most
recent work was completed
in 2005, when several codeg
and safety upgrades were vAEt FROMM/Daily
completed. tvery University yresident except Harry Hutchins has lived in the historical Usiversity
- KYLE SWAN1SON President's House on Soath University Avenae.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.cem
JACOB SNULOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-41a-411a ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smiloeitz@miehigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmnail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom offieehours: Sun:-Thurs.1it .m. - 2 a.m.
734-418-4115 ept.3
News Tipsnewse@m~ichigandaily.com,
torections correction@michigandaily.com
leesltothe Editor tothedaiy@miciganedaily.com,
Photography Department photo@m~ichigandiy.com,
Arts Section artspage@m~ichigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaiy.com,
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com,
Display Sales disptay@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classifiedyrmichigandaily.com,
Online Sales onlineads@m~ichigandaily.coem
Finance finance@m~ichigandailyecom
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattlAaronson ManagingEeditore aarnre snmichigandaily.com,
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor Berman@mnichigandaiy.com,
SEsIOR sEWSsETRNoles i5Ae , Stehaie SteinbegKle Swnn, Eha r ~:
Thiunavukka,eon ,Thorby
ASSSANTsNewssErITORS:BethnyBiron, eelanCinti, CaitlinHstnLindsae
Ker, oepnh Lihter,VeroenicaMenaldi, Elyan Tiggs
Rachel Van Gilder tditoeialtPagetEdtorevangitder@michigandaity.com,
SEsNEDRIeneALPAGE EDITORS:Michelleesaite, re, Laura eih
ASSISnAsNTEInORIALAEEDTORS:Wi ButeWitisrndve,as~endurane
Ryan Kartje ManagingeptsEditon 5artje@mnichigandaeilycome
SENRSRTeSee EDITORSs:akBunsn, Mhe lrhnteJenig, im Rohaen,
Nick Spar, Joe Sapleton
ASSISnANSeORTS EDIO:e n Estso es, t" eran , Sephen Nebit, LukeePash,
Zakeryzik AmyeScarnn
Jamie Blodk ManagingArnt ditor bloek@michigandaiycome
SENIORAS Ee DITORnS: Caolye aeki, Andew Lain, JeffSnfod
ASSTA RTsn SnaEDITanORS sten A, LnehBugn, Sharon Jac,Kav Shekar
Paden, savd Tax
MastColins and phton@mihigandailycom
Sam Wolson ManagingehotoeEditors
ASA NT PHOTOnE DITORlneS:JakeFromm, Jed Moch
AnnatLein-Zielinskidand designx~mihiandailycome
Saa Squine MaeningeesiniEditors
TreornCdens Magaine Editor ,alero@neichigadailyce
Melanie fried and copydesk@michigndailycome
Adi Wolistein CopytChiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Juliannatnim SaeseeManaer
SALESFREeMANAGER:StephaeBowker
MAREINGsaMANAGER:Gn ncaxj
HillarylSzawala Cleasified Manager
Jason Mahakian ProductionsManager
Meghan RooneyLateyanaer
Nick Meshkin FinaneeManaer
Chrissy WinklerCculeation Manaeger
ZachbYantneencerWbPo e Cordnto
TheteMichigan DilISSNt074-967)is pbished Monday through Friday durinthe falland
winter terms by sdents at thneriy ofMicigan. necpy isaaiabe freeof carge tall
reades. Additinal copies ybe icked up t theeDailysofiefolr $2. Sbsriptiosfrfalterm,
starting in September ,via 0.S. mail are $110. iter tem (anuary through April) is $11, yearloeg
(Septeber throughApril is $95. University affiiaetes are abettoededubecrbiption rae.
On-campussubscipnsfor fa I Item ae $35. Suscriptions musd be epaid. The Michigan Daily
isa enberfe Assocated es andmTheAseesociatedCleiePres.

*I


Wallet stolen
from lab
WHERE: Francis-Xavier Bag-
noud Building
WHEN: Sunday at about 11
WHAT: A male student
realized that his wallet was
missing while he was in the
basement computer lab, Uni-
versity Police reported. There
are no subjects or witnesses.
Toyota car stolen

Laptop swiped
WHERE: Shapiro Undergrad-
uate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 8:30
p.m.
WHAT: A male student had
his Apple Macbook stolen from
the fourth floor of the library,
University Police reported.
The laptop was left unattend-
ed for 30 minutes.
iWhone snatched
WHERE: Duderstadt Building
WHEN: Sunday at about 5:5l0

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
John Cage hosts 'The Big Chill'
multimedia film screening
weather lecture WHAT: A film about Uni-
versity students and the
WHAT: John Cage hosts a UM/MSU football game.
lecture combining speech, WHO: University of Michi-
music, film, lighting and gan Museum of Art
a weather soundscape. WHEN: Today from
WHO: Institute for 7:30 p.m. 10 9:30 p.m.
the Humanities WHERE: Helmut Stern
WHEN: Today at 9 a.m. Auditorium, Museum of Art
WHERE: Gallery
Room, Thayer A r Pn~ront


p~m.alLecture on{.GlVN f.V
WHERE: Schembechler Hall WHAT: A male student L cu eo
WHEN: Sunday at about 2:20 reported that his iPhone film criticism
p.m. was stolen, University Police
WHAT: A male student's reported. He accidentally WHAT: Lecture detailing
Toyota was stolen from the left his coat in the first floor what film criticism, why
Schembechler lot, Univeristy restroom stall and when he its important and how to
Police reported. The car was returned to reclaim it, the be a decent film critic.
later found with his backpack iPhone was missing from the WHO: Institue for
full of textbooks missing, coat pocket. the Humanities
WHEN: Today from
MORE ONLINE noon to 1:3O p.m.
Love Crime Notes? Gel Bresnvline atmichigandaily.com/bgs/The Winy WHERE: Room
2022, Thayer

t1l l ?.1 UCali
WHAT: Free craft projects
to relieve stress on a drop-in
basis.
WHO: University Unions
Arts and Programs
WHEN: Tonight from
8 p.m tol11P.M.
WHERE: MUG, Michigan
Union
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

1According to CNN,
researchers found that
liquifying numerous jel-
lyfish into a blender results in
new solar power solutions for
"cheap energy." The scientists
can use the green fluorescent
proteins in glow-in-the-dark
jellyfish to create fuel cells.
2While many students may
feel alone in the mental
health issues they face on
campus, the National College
Health Assessment, conduct-
ed by the American College
Health Association, reports that
about 86 percent of students also
feel overwhelmed by the pres-
sures of college life.
FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3According to the Her-
ald Tribune, a man from
Florida is recovering
from accidently shooting him-
self after having a face off with
a skunk. His injuries are not
life-threatening.


0
0

0i


The Michigan Daily - michigandailY.com

Tuesday, October 5, 2010 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 5, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
GAINESVILLE, Fla.
Shooting spree kills
two, wounds five
A gunman driving around
Gainesville in a red pickup truck
went on a shooting spree yesterday
afternoon, leaving two people dead
and five others wounded, police
said.
Police originally told The
Gainesville Sun that the gunman
was among those shot but later
would only tell The Associated
Press that he was no longer at large.
The gunman shot seemingly
unrelated people, starting around
4 p.m., Gainesville police Cpl.
Tscharna Senn said. Five people
were shot within city limits, while
the other two were shot in Alachua
County, Senn said.
There was no immediate motive
for the shootings.
" "We have no idea right now,
absolutely none," Senn told the
Gainesville Sun. "It appears to be
random."
Senn would not tell the AP
whether the suspect was dead,
wounded or arrested.
Gainesville Police Capt. Ed Book
told the Sun earlier that the suspect
had been pulled over and shot him-
self.
"We believe we're with the sus-
pect and the vehicle, and there is
no one out there running around,"
Book said earlier.
WASHINGTON D.C.
Americans traveling
* abroad cautioned
A new terror threat against
Europe isn't related to the United
States, but Americans traveling
abroad should take commonsense
precautions, the White House said
* yesterday.
President Barack Obama's press
secretary, Robert Gibbs, empha-
sized that Americans were not
being told to stay home.
Obama was briefed on the situ-
ation Saturday, Gibbs told report-
ers. On Sunday, the U.S. issued
an alert to Americans living in or
traveling to Europe to be vigilant
because of the threat of terrorism
there.
"We are concerned enough to
alert those who are in Europe to
be alert to their surroundings,"
Gibbs said at a White House brief-
ing. People should be alert to sus-
picious activities and should be
aware of where'to go in an emer-
gency, he said.
EAST LANSING, Mich.
MSU coach released
from hospital
Michigan State coach Mark
Dantonio was released from a hos-
pital yesterday after treatment for a
blood clot that was discovered less
than two weeks after surgery fol-
lowing a mild heart attack.
Dantonio was admitted last
Thursday with a blood clot in a leg
and missed the Spartans' 34-24vic-
tory over Wisconsin on Saturday.
He has missed twogames following
the heart attack Sept.19.
A routine postoperative exam

revealed the blood clot, which is
common after a variety of surgical
procedures.
No. 17 Michigan State (5-0, 1-0
Big Ten) plays at No. 18 Michigan
(5-0, 1-0) this weekend in a match-
up of unbeaten teams. A school
spokesman said shortly after Dan-
tonio's release that his role this
week was still to be determined,
but athletic director Mark Hollis
posted an upbeat message Monday
night on Twitter.
BOGOTA, Colombia
Police seize millions
in drug money
Colombia's defense minister says
authorities have seized $29 million
and 17 million euros in cash in a
home in a poor district south of the
capital, Bogota.
The official, Rodrigo Rivera, says
the money belonged to drug traf-
fickers including Daniel "El Loco"
Barrera. Authorities are offering
a $2.7 millon reward for Barrera's
capture.
Rivera says authorities have now
seized more than $140 million in
cash in the past month in an opera-
tion involving the cooperation of
U.S. customs officials.
Officials say several billions of
dollars in bulk cash are smuggled
into Colombia annually by traffick-
ers. They say most of it arrives by
* shipping container.
Officials say much of it comes
from Mexican traffickers while
some arrives from Europe.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

A Pakistani police officer stands guard on still smoldering oil trucks in Shikarpur in southern Pakistan on Friday
Pakistantensions
high over border isue

DUNCAN
From Page 1
developed the Income-Based
Repayment Plan, which allows
students embarking on public
service careers to delegate 15
percent of their incomes toward
loan repayment, and have their
delt forgiven after 10 years in
the field. They have also sim-
plified the "far too long, far too.
confusing" FAFSA form to make
it "significantly shorter, simpler
and more user friendly," Duncan
said.
"We eliminated that barrier
and we think that will help mil-
lions of students go forward and
explore their heart, pursue their
passion and not be saddled in
debt that prevents them from
doing that," Duncan said.
Duncan said reform and
increased funding for higher
education is crucial to yield-.
ing more college graduates and
developing skills necessary to
improve America's economy.
"We fundamentally believe
that education has to be the great
equalizer in America," Duncan
said. "We have to educate our
way to a better economy."
Caperton - who, in addi-
tion to his role with the College
Board, is also the former gover-
nor of West Virginia - echoed
Duncan's sentiments, saying
that getting a college degree is
crucial in securing a job and in
helping to increase economic
standards.
"A college degree today is
more important than it's ever
been, particularly in this global
society," Caperton said.
According to Caperton, only
56 percent of students gradu-
ate from a four-year institution
within six years and only 27 per-
cent graduate from community
colleges during the same time
span.
"What we don't want to see at
all are people wasting their time
in high school, coming to college
and not .completing their edu-
cation," Caperton said. "That's
really a double loss. Not only is
it difficult to pay, but also not to
get their reward of a college edu-
cation."
Caperton said student finan-
cial difficulties are the result of
the larger challenges the coun-
try has faced in dealing with
finances in recent years. Because

of this, he said, America is going
through a "readjustment period"
and will take time to rebuild.
"The difficulty we have today
in this country is we have lived
way beyond our means," Caper-
ton said. "People have under-
saved, we've over-spent, we've
had more cars and bigger houses
than we can often afford and the
government has not balanced
its budget but has spent more
money than it has."
Rzepka said that his main job
is to "use MTV's superpowers
for good," adding that he aims to
do this through encouraging col-
lege graduation rates. In 2005,
MTV, the Gates Foundation and
Viacom created "Get Schooled,"
a 5-year campaign that empha-
sizes completing high school
and preparing students both
academically and mentally for
college completion.
"It's no secret that young peo-
ople today are facing significant
educational barriers," Rzepka
said, "barriers that prevent
them from getting an education,
that prevent them for success
in life, barriers that previous
generations didn't face. And at
the same time, the future of our
country and the United States'
standing in the world has never
been more dependent on the job
we do in educating young Amer-
icans."
The group recently launched a
contest called the "Get Schooled
College Affordability Chal-
lenge" which calls for students
to brainstorm how to create a
simpler financial aid process.
According to Rzepka, there
are 2 million college students
each year who fail to apply for
the close to 70 billion dollars-
worth of funding provided
through financial aid. He said he
hopes this contest will make the
funds more accessible.
"This competition calls on
young people and college stu-
dents nationwide to harness
the power of technology and
to re-imagine the financial aid
process," Rzepka said. "We're
calling on young people to use
new, innovative digital tools that
make it easier for college stu-
dents to find money for school."
The contest ends on Dec. 17,
2010 and the winning group will
receive $10,000. In addition,
MTV and the College Board will
try to bring the winning idea to
fruition.

Pakistani closure
of supply line draws
militant attacks.
ISLAMABAD (AP) - Hundreds
of U.S. and NATO trucks carrying
fuel and other supplies for troops
in Afghanistan lie idle. Dramatic
images of Taliban attacks on these
convoys are splashed across front
pages in this anti-American coun-
try with a U.S.-allied government.
Pakistan's shutting of a key
supply line for coalition troops
in Afghanistan and the appar-
ent ease with which militants are
attacking the stranded convoys are
shaking an already uncomfortable
relationship between Washington
and Islamabad.
The tension comes just as Wash-
ingtonis steppingupitsshadowwar
on militants harbored in Pakistan's
border regions. CIA missile attacks,
which have killed dozens of insur-
gents including some high-ranking
al-Qaida operatives, are running at
record levels - a sign of America's
impatience with Pakistan's inaction
in some parts of the frontier.
SACUA
From Page 1
SACUA that both recommenda-
tions had been implemented,1
saying both staff members had
already been hired.
The CUHR Committee also
encouraged University officialsi
to renovate and establish a dedi-1
cated space in the Museum of1
Anthropology to accommodate;
appropriate storage of Native1
American funerary objects and1
human remains, as well as add1
space for meetings with represen-1
tatives of various Native Ameri-
can tribes.
According to the report, a
search for such space and consid-1
eration of the necessary renova-
tions is currently underway.
Report recommendations also1
urged University officials to make
the University's existing NAG-
PRA Committee a permanent,1
standing committee within the1
Office of the Vice President for
Research and to apply for any1
available federal grants to offseti
expenses that may result from
repatriation.
The CUHR Committee also1
recommended that the Univer-1
sity implement policies, similari
to those now legally required for1
culturally unidentifiable human1
remains, for repatriating associ-
ated funerary objects.
The University currently holds
approximately 1,600 remains and1
funerary objects that fall under
the current guidelines, Forrest,
and Antonucci told members"
of SACUA. However, they both1
stressed that it is very difficult to
amass with 100-percent accuracy
a full inventory of all such items at;
the University.
Antonucci explained that
inventoried remains may be dif-
ficult to classify in some cases.
Outside observers might presume
that collections of bone frag-
ments found together might all
be human if some were tested andI
found to be human, Antonucci
said. However, each bone frag-1
ment must be tested to determine

its individual biological origin,'
she said.
Additionally, the committee
recommended that a website be
established to keep the com-

Although they are allies in the
war against al-Qaida, the recent
events are a reminder that the
two countries' long-term strategic
interests are not always in sync. As
next year's date for the start of the
U.S. drawdown from Afghanistan
approaches, that gulfis onlygetting
wider.
The U.S. seeks an Afghanistan
free of Taliban fighters and wants
Pakistan to help by attacking them
on its side of the border. Pakistan is
hedging that when the Americans
go home, the Taliban will still be a
major power - and one amenable to
its anti-Indianagenda- sowants to
keep them as friends.
The U.S. has pressured Pakistan
to strike not only its enemy, the
Pakistani Taliban, butcalso Haqqani
network militants who attack the
U.S. on the Afghan side of the bor-
der
The Pakistani government pro-
vides vital intelligence tips that
help the CIA drone strikes. But
such cooperation, to the extent
that it becomes known in Pakistan,
puts the government at risk of look-
ing impotent in the eyes of its own
people: A foreign power that many
munity informed of repatriation
developments at the University -
something that has already been
done - and that a formalized pro-
cess for handling claims be estab-
lished internally.
Antonucci told members of
SACUA that the website, in
addition to serving a forum for
increased dialogue and inter-
nal documentation, is meant to
provide more transparency to
a process that has historically
been very contentious for both
members of the University com-
munity and Native American
tribes.
Members of the CUHR Com-
mittee also suggested that Uni-
versity officials send out formal
letters to members of the Native
American community who wish
to make a claim to some of the
remains and associated objects to
encourage an open dialogue.
Asked about the current use of
the University's collection, 'For-
rest and Antonucci told members
of SACUA that some research,
though limited, is still being done
on some of the objects that may
ultimately be repatriated.
Two University-affiliated
researchers are using part of the
University's collection in their
current research projects. The
first is a professor who is per-
forming fieldwork with Native
American tribes inArizona, while
the other is a graduate student on
campus who is using ceramics as
part of her research.
During yesterday's meeting,
Forrest acknowledged that the
University has had a troubled his-
tory with many Native American
groups, but said he is looking for-
ward to putting that behind him
and working to improve future
relationships.
"The past is the past," Forrest
said. "We're just trying to move
forward."
The Office of the Vice Presi-
dent for Research is currently
seeking input from the broader
University and Native American
communities through the end of
the month about the recommen-
dations of the CUHR Commit-

tee and the University's broader
repatriation efforts.
- Austin Wordell
contributed to this report.

believe is an enemy of Islam is firing
missiles and rockets on their terri-
tory.
In the most recent known strike,
a U.S. missile killed five German
militants takingsshelter in ahouse in
North Waziristan on Monday, intel-
ligence officials said. That region
has been named as the source of
a European terror plot that has
prompted American authorities to
issue a travel advisory. One or more
Gernan citizens are reported to be
linked to the plot.
There are renewed concerns
about the stability of Pakistan's
civilian government, which is
struggling to deal with the after-
math of the worst flooding in the
country's history. President Asif Ali
Zardari is desperately unpopular,
resented by many as a U.S. stooge
who got the job on a sympathy vote
after the assassination of his wife,
Benazir Bhutto.
The Pakistanis closed the main
NATO supply route last week to
protest a NATO helicopter attack
that killed three Pakistani border
guards. The alliance apologized for
the attack, which it described as an
act of self-defense.

VISIT THE DAILY'S MOBILE SITE:
m.michigandaily.com


0

4 - Tuesday, October 5, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
z Ann Arbor, MI 48109
--tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Today Robert Edwards' vision is a reality
and brings joy to infertile people all over the world:'
- A quote from the Nobel Committee, after the 2010 Nobel Prize for Medicine was awarded to Robert
Edwards for the development of in vitro fertilization, as reported by Time Magazine on Monday.
Teaching accountability

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A budget lesson
State cuts of education funding should be stopped
Last week, Michigan's public universities received an unfor-
tunate budgetary blow. The state's new budget, which was
passed Sept. 27, will slash funding for higher education. By
initial estimates, the cuts translate to a $9-million decrease in fund-
ing for the University. Enough cannot be said about the importance
of education. Primarily, the state's economywill increasingly depend
on jobs that require degrees from institutions of higher education.
And yet, Lansing continues to siphon funds away from education -
for primary, secondary and higher education. The state government
needs to reexamine its principles, stop the cut in funding and begin
to invest in the future leaders of the state.

Accountability is important in
our society. When you do a
job, you need to be prepared
to stand behind
it and defend the
results. From doc-
tors to lawyers
and engineers to ;
social workers, our
nation's profes-
sionals are held
accountable for
the jobs they do,
and face repercus- TYLER
sions if they fail to JONES
meet the mark. It's
this system that
ensures each indi-
vidual performs to a certain standard.
What, then, are we to make of
America's education system? It seems
that, though we are willing to hold
our doctors and lawyers account-
able, we have let our nation's educa-
tors slip by unnoticed. Children are
our nation's most precious resource.
The ability of the next generation to
compete with the best and brightest
throughout the world is of the utmost
importance. However, as school sys-
tems across the nation are increas-
ingly placed under the microscope,
it would appear that those charged
with preparing our youth are receiv-
ing a failing grade.
According to the new controversial
documentary on America's schools,
"Waiting for Superman," America
ranks 25th in math and 21st in science
of 30 developed nations. The top five
percent of American students rank
23rd out of 29 developed nations.
Since the 1970s, our nation has fall-
en behind in education. Before this
problem can be addressed, we must
determine where our education sys-
tem is lacking.
Let's use our University as an
example. At the end of each semes-
ter, students are sent a class evalua-
tion. As part of those evaluations, we
can rate the quality of the professor,
GSI and the class as a whole. From

these evaluations, faculty and admin-
istrators assess the effectiveness of
teachers, GSIs and overall classroom
instruction. This idea is not unique
to the University - colleges across
the nation have been using student
evaluations to assess the quality of
education since the 1920s. Yet, there
is disconnect between the effective
practices in higher education and
what occurs inAmerica's K-12 system.
I never filled out a class evaluation
in high school, and I certainly never
encountered a teacher evaluation.
This isn't to say that teacher evalu-
ations haven't been proposed and
supported. On the contrary, school
districts in New Jersey and Illi-
nois are putting increased support
behind teacher evaluations, much to
the chagrin of teachers' unions. Just
watching recent media coverage of
this uniquely American problem, it
becomes clear why teachers' unions
are so adamantly opposed to evalua-
tions: they would be held personally
accountable for the jobs they do in
the classrooms.
As members of the Statewide
Action & Grassroots Education Cam-
paign in Illinois lobby for paren-
tal access to teacher evaluations,
educators are fighting back harder
than ever. In response to the recent
uproar, an education expert preached
to Catalyst Chicago, an Illinois-based
publication focusing on education
matters, that making such informa-
tion public domain would "unfairly
hurt the reputation of some teach-
ers and potentially cause attempts to
crowd children into the classrooms
of other teachers." But it seems to me
that teachers who consistently fail
to educate children to a minimum
standard relinquish their right to an
untarnished reputation.
In addition to evaluations, K-12
teacher tenure must be abolished.
There is no single program as det-
rimental to the education system
as the one that protects inadequate
teachers simply because they've been

in the building for a few years. Ten-
ure makes it difficult to terminate a
teacher and protects ineffective edu-
cators from being held accountable
for their poor performance. Accord-
ing to the Hoover Institution, a con-
servative public policy think tank, a
Los Angeles union representative is
quoted as saying, "it's impossible to
get them out. It's impossible. Unless
they commit a lewd act." Tenure
must be eliminated in order for a real
assessment of educators to be pos-
sible. There must be a real threat of
termination for teachers who do not
perform in the classroom.
, High school
teachers need
better evaluations.
AlbertShanker,one-time president
of the United Federation of Teachers,
once said, "When school children
start paying union dues, that's when
I'll start representing the interests of
school children." It seems Shanker
didn't understand the purpose of
America's education system. Schools
are not public works programs, nor
do they exist for the advancement of
a union agenda. Schools exist to serve
America's youth.
But with no programs to assess
the effectiveness of a teacher and no
means of recourse if an educator is
deemed ineffective, teachers unions
have America's schools in a stran-
glehold. Until teachers can be held
accountable for the jobs they do, like
every other professional, and put the
interests of children ahead of petty
union agendas, our nation's youth
will pay the price.
- TylerlJones can be reached
at tylerlij@umich.edu.

0

The Daily reported last week that the
new budget will cut funding for all higher
education programs by 2.8 percent in the
upcoming year. The goal of the cut is to bal-
ance the state budget, which is currently
running a $484 million deficit. This is a
drop in almost $500 million from last year
for all public universities and a $9 million
loss for the University. University officials
anticipated such a cut and the University's
budget, which was passed back in June,
reflects this prediction. The state budget
also includes an increased amount of schol-
arship money available for students.
The cut in state funding shows that the
state legislature isn't properly prioritizing
higher education in Michigan. The deci-
sion to continue to decrease higher educa-
tion funding, which already represents less
than five percent of the total state budget,
is a poor decision on the part of the legis-
lature. Higher education is one of the most
valuable public resources the state can pro-
vide and it's crucial that these institutions
receive adequate state funding.
The state's economic crisis has shown
that Michigan can't continue to rely on
manufacturing jobs to recover from the
downturn. Education and research will
help create new jobs in the state - and cuts
show that the legislature doesn't under-
stand the significance of education. The

state government should reevaluate what
is important for Michigan's future and allo-
cate taxpayers' money appropriately. The
current and future job market makes a col-
lege degree essential, which is why Michi-
gan's public universities are so important.
The state has an obligation to support the
institutions that will give the next genera-
tion of Michigan workers an advantage.
While the legislators continue to take
money from education, it's important to
point out how the state uses other resourc-
es. According to the 2008 Annual Report
from the Department of Corrections, the
state spent over $2 billion on corrections
costs in that year - and corrections spend-
ing has steadily grown since 1998. And
Michigan is one of only four states that
spend more on corrections than higher edu-
cation in 2008. A more responsible choice
would be to allocate funds away from cor-
rections toward education. The state needs
to be sure that all funding to corrections are
vital and reevaluate their spending so that
higher education doesn't suffer.
Undoubtedly, somethingneeds to be done
to balance Michigan's budget. But taking
much-needed funding from higher educa-
tion isn't the answer. The state legislature
should recognize how important education
is to the future of our state and do every-
thing possible to financially support it.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300 words
and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. All submissions become property of
the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

0

STUDENT LEADERSI
A tolerant campus community

Mental health and 'U'

The University has long held diversity as
one its fundamental values. It prides itself on
actualizing this concept as part of the student
experience. This reputation attracts a variety of
individuals who contribute to the colorful mosa-
ic we have at the University. Students expect
a community that is accepting of all people,
regardless of "race, color, national origin, age,
marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, gender expression, disability, religion,
height, weight, or veteran status," as stated in the
University's non-discrimination policy.
In light of recent events surrounding Michi-
gan Student Assembly President Chris Arm-
strong, we as student leaders, would like to
reaffirm our commitment to an inclusive and tol-
erant campus environment. Discriminatory and
prejudiced acts of any kind are not acceptable at
the University. Our university serves as a model
to other institutions around the world due to our
inclusive attitude and growth towards inter-cul-
tural maturity. We, as a student body, have and
will continue to stand together and uphold this
valuedsense of community.
Such an inclusive environment is seldom
found in society. Thus, we must take full
advantage of and protect the opportunities
that come with this acceptance: stand strong
to your unique identity, have pride in your
individuality and accomplishments and carry-
on in your passions with a steadfast determi-

nation. It's only when we all express our true
selves that we can reap the full benefits of a
diverse campus.
As Wolverines, we must take continual
action to preserve and defend all that is special
about our university. We ask that you join us
as we stand up and commit to continue making
the University an environment that promotes
congruency, acceptance and paths towards
self-actualization.
Steven Benson is the LSA Student Government
president, Charles Bogren is the University of
Michigan College Republicans chair. Brendan
Campbell is the College Democrats at the
University of Michigan chair. Eric Elgin is the Dance
Marathon at the University of Michigan executive
director. Mike Friedman is the Interfraternity
Council President. Ryan Garber is the Hillel chair.
Carly Goldberg is the LSA Student Government
vice president. Richard Kallus is the American
Movement for Israel chair. Natalie Kittikul is the
Circle K president. Ankit Mehta is the MPowered
Entrepreneurship president. Myles Morgan is
the National Pan-Hellenic Council president.
Stephanie Parrish is the ONE Campaign founder.
Neal Patel is the South Asian Awareness
Network chair. Sanjiv Rao is the Multicultural
Greek Council president. Katie Rosenberg is the
Panhellenic Association president. Alex Wood is
the Student-Athlete Advisory Council president.
E-MAILSIMsNASIrMKAL t.aUMICtI.EDU

Ks University students, we're
all used to deadlines, projects,
idterms and finals. We've
seen what the
UGLi looks like at
three in the morn-
ing, we understand
that coffee is truly
the liquid of life
and we know that
practice exams
are essentially
pointless because
the real ones are JOE
always harder. SUGIYAMA
Simply put, we
have a lot on our
plate.
Though many students feel as
though they are alone in their plight,
according to the annual National Col-
lege Health Assessment - conducted
by the American College Health Asso-
ciation - about 86 percent of students
also feel overwhelmed bythe pressures
of college life.
Admittedly, feeling overwhelmed
comes with the territory when you
go to a competitive university, but the
study revealed that students often
feel stress from more than just a large
course load. Prepare yourself for an
onslaught of statistics - nearly 46
percent of students said they felt that
things were hopeless at one time or
another, 58 percent felt lonely, 31 per-
cent felt depressed to a point where it
was difficult to function, 49 percent
experienced extreme anxiety, and 6
percent seriously contemplated sui-
cide. I was shocked by these numbers,
especially the one concerning suicide.
Here at the University, there are about
26,000 undergraduate students. The
National College Health Assessment

statistics implies that about 1,560 stu- ety over the pressures of school and
dents at one point considered suicide it's these students who need to under-
during the past 12 months. stand the struggles of their classmates
These numbers are taken from a and lend a helping hand.
sample population and therefore don't
necessarily represent the distribution
of students at the University who suf-
fer from various mental health illness- 86 percent of
es. However, this study has been used
for the past 10 years as a measuring students feel
stick for the health of America's col-
lege students and the results are trou- overwhelmed.
bling. With such a large population of
students suffering, one can't help but
wonder what brings on these serious
mental health issues. Some have proposed that it's each
In my experience, there is noth- university's responsibility to offer
ing worse than having to cram for classes about how to study and handle
midterms or finals. For some classes, the workload presented by college in
there aren't enough hours in the day order to help students minimize feel-
to prepare for the inevitable two hours ings of stress and depression. This is
of hell that each exam entails. Before a nice thought, but offering a class
I read this report, I never thought about how to study doesn't necessarily
of my pre-test anxiety as something translate into Gaussian plume models
that could pose a serious threat to my or an insightful essay commenting on
mental well-being. And although I've how Hemingway's alcohol abuse is
never felt depressed to a point where evident in his writings.
"it affected my ability to function, I It's each student's responsibility to
can certainly see how a string of bad managehisor herown academiccareer,
grades and never ending assignments but it's also each student's responsibil-
can pose a serious problem. ity to be there for his or her friends
Professors, GSIs and the Univer- and classmates. Who can understand
sity as a whole don't intend to cause the pressures of school better than
students stress, but it seems to be students themselves? A sense of com-
an unavoidable result of getting an munityneeds tobe thereforthosewho
undergraduate or graduate degree. are struggling in their day-to-day lives,
With that in mind, students have an so thatthey have someone to turn to in
obligation to look out for their friends their times ofneed.We often pride our-
and classmates. If you notice a friend * selves as being a part of the Michigan
acting off or unusually anxious or Difference, but one of the biggest dif-
depressed, please do something. ferences we can make is for the health
Whether that's just listening to them and safety of our friends and peers.
vent or helping them get help, you
could truly be saving someone's life. - Joe Sugiyama can be reached
Some students don't suffer from anxi- at jmsugi@umich.edu.

0

SIMON BORST

0


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
farsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Laura Veith



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 5, 2010 -- 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 5, 2010 - 5

. At summit, Granholm says Michigan is
hungry' for potential stem cell revenue

From Page 1
"I just want you know that I'm a
scientist too - a political scientist
- and my lab is one of the laborato-
ries of democracy," said Granhom,
who received a Stem Cell Summit
Action National Leadership Award
for promoting stem cell research as
a way to create jobs in Michigan.
Granholm said she is thrilled
that the state is hosting the sixth.
annual summit - held for the first
time in Michigan - in conjunc-
tion with the University Research
Corridor, which is a research part-
nership between the University of
Michigan, MSU and Wayne State.
She said that "it takes a lot of
* chemistry" for the universities to
work together to not only sponsor
an important conference like this,
but also collaborate on research
projects.
In her speech, Granholm high-
lighted University of Michigan
researchers'recentsuccessincreat-
ing the state's first embryonic stem
cell line that will be used to study
human development. Granholm
said she hopes the achievement
will boost Michigan's economy by
attracting commercialization and
researchers to the state.
While it's estimated that the
summit itself will generate $1 mil-
lion for the state's economy, 'Gra-
nholm said the stem cell research
market is expected to grow from
about $100 million nationally in
2010 to about $8 billion in 2016.
"We're hungry in Michigan, and
we want a get a piece of that 8 bil-
PEDICAB
From Page 1
ing about the weather.
"Business has been great," Lycka
said, adding the Ann Arbor service
has seen anywhere from 80 to 200
passengers every Thursday, Friday
and Saturday night.
A trip from the fraternity house
to the Big House can be drasti-
cally shortened by getting into the
pedicab that can be seen roam-

lion," she said.
In an interview with The Michi-
gan Daily at the summit, Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman
- who spoke about the University
Research Corridor in her speech -
said the field of stem cell research is
"extremely important" to the state
and the University will play a vital
role in making new research dis-
coveries.
"I think we have a unique contri-
bution to make ... and I'm just very
impressed with what's going on in
all areas," Coleman said. "There
are so many levels of work that are
important that are occurring now,
and I just feel privileged to be part
of it."
However, Coleman, who has a
background in biochemistry, said
the public should not expect mirac-
ulous cures any time soon.
"In all research like this, people
are anxious because the diseases
are so terrible," she said. "We have
to be patient because we have to
make sure things are safe."
Granholm, Levin and other
speakers at yesterday's session
stressed that embryonic stem cell
research would not have been pos-
sible in Michigan if voters had voted
down a 2008 ballot initiative which
or lifted restrictions on embryonic
stem cell research. While 45 states
allow this research, Michigan is
one of only three states that have
amended their constitutions to
include provisions for embryonic
stem cell research.
In his keynote address, Levin
said the voters are the people

who should be thanked for mak-
ing Michigan a "hub" for stem cell
research.
"Almost overnight Michigan
was transformed from a difficult
place to conduct the cutting-edge
research to one of the hot beds of
that research," Levin said.
In his speech before summit
attendees, Siegel said one of the
main reasons organizers chose
to hold the summit in Michi-
gan was because residents have
expressed their support for stem
cell research.
"Let me make it clear, the World
Stem Cell Summit would not be in
Michigan if it were not for Prop. 2,"
Siegel said.
Medical philanthropist A.
Alfred Taubman, founder of the
University's A. Alfred Taubman
Medical Research Institute, also
spoke yesterday about research
limitations before 2008 and the
struggle to pass the constitutional
amendment.
"Just two years ago our scien-
tists couldn't make new stem cells
lines," Taubman said. "Well, they
could, but they would be commit-
ting a crime and that would land
them in jail for 10 years and cost
them $10 million if they had it."
Taubman also said he's relieved
that both Michigan gubernato-
rial candidates - Republican Rick
Snyder and Democrat Virg Bernero
- support stem cell research when
the other five primary candidates
opposed it.
"(You) can vote confidently for
either a Republican or Democrat

and know that you're casting a vote
for medical science," Taubman said.
Today, Taubman will receive a
National Advocacy Award for his
research donations and efforts to
lift stem cell restrictions. In her
speech, Granholm said she appreci-
ates all that Taubman has done for
the state.
"I am a big fan not because
you are a great human being but
because you are a doer, and this
stem cell research effort in Michi-
gan is all following in your wake,"
said Granholm while addressing
Taubman.
About 14 University researchers
are expected to give presentations
or lead panel discussions during the
three-day event.
Yesterday's speakers included
Sean Morrison, the University's
director of the Center for Stem Cell
Biology, and Eva Feldman, director
of the A. Alfred Taubman Medical
Research Institute and professor of
neurology.
Morrison led a PowerPoint pre-
sentation about the role of cancer
stem cells in tumors, while Feld-
man informed the audience about
her groundbreaking human clinical
trial that is using stem cells to treat
patients with Amyotrophic Lateral
Sclerosis, or Lou Gerhig's disease.
Feldman said researchers are "on
the threshold of discovery" in terms
of stem cells and their potential.
"Not only will they help us
understand basic human biology,"
Feldman said. "They're clearly
going to help us understand disease
processes."

ARMSTRONG
From Pagel1
meeting of the semester - accus-
ing Armstrong of being aracist and
elitist.
Armstrong filed the personal
protection order against Shirvell
on Sept. 13. Armstrong said in his
request for the order that Shirvell
represented a threat to his mental
and physical security.
"Since April of this year he has
been following me throughout U of
M's campus and Ann Arbor unnec-
essarily, blogging about me exten-
sively using bias and bigotry and
poses a threat to my own personal
safety," Armstrong wrote in his
request, according to information
from a report posted on annarbor.
com.
According to the report, on one
occasion Shirvell followed one of
Armstrong's friends during a night
of bar-hopping, hoping to encoun-
ter Armstrong.
"She explained Mr. Shirvell had
been followingthem around sever-
al Ann Arbor establishments that
night with the intention of seeing
me with them," Armstrong wrote.
Shirvell also called Speaker of
the House Nancy Pelosi's office on
a number of occasions while Arm-
strong was interning there this
summer, Armstrong wrote in the
report.
"Shirvell asked Tom (Arm-
strong's supervisor) if he knew if I
was a racist and if I had affiliation
with Order of Angell when they
hired me," Armstrong wrote of the
calls. "I was told a few other times
throughout my internship in D.C.
that he called the office additional
times."
On Sept. 6,Armstrongaskedthe
University. Department of Public
Safety for an escort to the MSA
sponsored Gayz Craze because
Shirvell had been protesting out-
side his house.
"Mr. Shirvell showed up outside
my house and began protesting
me, with his sign that said 'Chris
Armstrong Watch' and had my

face with 'racist' and 'liar' writ-
ten across my face. It also had
the same picture with a swastika
superimposed on my face," Arm-
strong wrote.
The University Department of
Public Safetybanned Shirvellfrom
the Ann Arbor campus on Sept.14,
although Shirvell has appealed the
trespassing warning.
Additionally, the University
community has rallied behind
Armstrong as the story was gained
national attention.
The Senate Advisory Com-
mittee on University Affairs
condemned Shirvell's attacks on
Armstrong in a statement read at
the faculty governing body's meet-
ingyesterday.
The statement commended
Armstrong for his "strength as an
individual and as the student gov-
ernment leader for this year."
SACUA also noted that the com-
mittee finds the belief that sexual
orientation is a matter of choice
is unsupported by science. The
statement also encouraged victims
of bullying in a private or public
manner in the University commu-
nity to contact "appropriate law
enforcement authorities" on the
matter.
Last week, University President
Mary Sue Coleman also empha-
sized the importance of promoting
a safe campus environment for all
students to express themselves.
"In addition to its internal
action, the University also has
called upon others in positions of
authority to take all appropriate
action to address this situation,"
Coleman wrote in a statement
released to The Michigan Daily
last Thursday.
In addition, a number of events
and organizations have mobilized
on campus to support Armstrong.
A petition was circulated last week
by the Spectrum Center to col-
lect signatures for an advertise-
ment in support of Armstrong that
appeared in yesterday's Daily.
- Daily News Editor Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.


ing the Hill Street area every Sat-
urday, Lycka said. And after the
game, exhausted fans can find that
same cab waiting right by the main
entrance to the stadium, he added.
Game-day business isn't quite
as lucrative as the nighttime party
scene. Still, the business typically
pulls anywhere from 20 to 50 cus-
tomers every Saturday afternoon,
Lycka said.
Though Lycka said he is happy
with the business's progress, he said
he wishes more students knew how

affordable using pedicabs can be.
"It's not an expensive thing,"
Lycka said.
The cost is at the customer's dis-
cretion. Each ride, within a mile,
costs whatever the passenger would
like to tip the driver, which typically
ranges from $5 to $20, he said.
Art & Design junior Jared Salin-
ger, who pulls one of the pedicabs
in Ann Arbor, said it isn't the money
that keeps him working. Rather, he
most enjoys interacting with his
clients.

"It's active, always moving and
meeting people. It's fun," Salinger
said last week. "Last night I had
some people who were singing."
"We are selling an experience
more so than just transportation,"
he said. "You would take a pedicab
more because you see it and it looks
fun and you've heard good things
about it."
Schemenski continued, "It's a
story to tell. You definitely tell your
friends about that crazy bike ride
you took."

WANT TO JOIN THE
NEWS SECTION?
E-mail berman@michigandaily.com
to get started.


.,..,.
. .
.,
:,::;:'.
'
_ .. ,':
..............
.>
:.

LUCKILY THE GM COLLEGE DISCOUNT DOESN'T.
In fact, it's the best college discount from any car company, and can save you
hundreds - even thousands - on a new Chevrolet; Buick or GMC. If you're in
college, a grad program or even if you're a recent grad, take advantage of this
COLLEGEOISCOUNT discount today and get a great deal on a new ride to call your own. Check it out:
2010 Chevrolet Camaro LS CSMC 2010 GMC Terrain SLE FWD
(Discount Example) (Discount Example)
MSRP (sticker price on vehie) $ 23 ,85500 M5RP (sticker price on vehide) $ 24,995.00
PreferredPicin g,23,330.24 referred Pricing $24,208.95
Yur Discou n't $ 524,7 d sounrDihss t r$r7n05
Don't forget... you can also combine your discount with most current incentives.

Discover your discount today at
gmcollegediscountcom/UofM

% cMC

1}. i , U# i. S I. is.iff i;;'°1. F. .7 ~,'k:.~- Fl (:i. - 1_ F,,i. ,, F F S w o F~'C eFF',s.,nFF4. ec 1o,,



0

6 - Tuesday, October 5, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
TV actors are no joke

0

"Man, Coolio sure let himself go."v
Jack's boat barely floats

Philip Seymour
Hoffman shows promise
behind the camera
By JENNIFER XU
Daily Arts Writer
Phillip Seymour Hoffman's direc-
torial debut seems a little late in the
coming. After all, a
man with three Oscar
nominations and a long
history of stellar per- Jack Goes
formances should hold
a pretty firm grasp on Boatng
the human condition. At the State
So while "Jack Goes Overture
Boating" - an allegory
of two innocent people
holding onto each other while the rest of
New York silently crumbles around them
- feels a bit anticlimactic on first reflec-
tion, maybe it's just overdue to the point
of being stale.
Really, everything about "Jack" is
a little wound down. Adapted from a
play by Robert Glaudini, the film tells
the story of Jack, a simple-minded limo
driver who just wants to find a serious
relationship. As the protagonist, Hoff-

man, who's hell-bent on making himself
look as repulsive as possible, resem-
bles nothing so much as a large, fleshy
baby. When his married friends Clyde
(John Ortiz, "Public Enemies") and
Lucy (Daphne Rubin-Vega, "Flawless")
set him up with the slightly odd, sexu-
ally paranoid Connie (Amy Ryan, "Gone
Baby Gone"), Jack's newborn demeanor
cracks a little to show his general inex-
perience.
If Jack were a girl, he'd probably get
a makeover and go shopping. Instead, he
just learns how to swim and cook a meal.
And slowly, as Jack's limited awareness
of the world increases in scope, he real-
izes that with his limo driver job and
three friends, he might not have it so bad
after all.
At its worst, "Jack Goes Boating" can
be excruciatingly dull. At best, it's relax-
ing. As a film with very little ambition in
regards to story content, "Jack" needs to
rely on characterization in order to pull
a viewer through. And though the four
actors do an admirable job of inhabiting
their respective characters, there isn't
enough fat in the screenplay to cushion
what essentially is a straightforward
parable about surviving in New York
City.
To Hoffman's credit, though, the film

never feels much like a play - there
is nary a strand of turgid, exhaus-
tive dialogue so typical in stage-based
adaptations. In fact, it might be that its
screenplay is too linear and clear-cut in
its plot progression that brings about its
unfortunate downfall.
However, the film does seem to hit its
stride somewhere in the middle third.
Jack and Connie, slightly off-kilter from
the rest of the world, do a lot of hugging
and kissing to make up for the melan-
cholic devastation leaking out of their
friends. But the best scenes happen in
the swimming pool, as Clyde patiently
teaches Jack how to hold his breath by
visualizing the little chlorine bubbles
gurgling around him. Later on, imag-
es of Jack lucidly slicing through the
water are intercut with a center shot of
him standing on a bridge practicing his
strokes while Fleet Foxes blasts in the
background.
With his debut, Hoffman has proven
his prowess behind the camera, though
his story development still needs a little
fine-tuning. But it's the little moments
in between that make the short, imper-
fect "Jack Goes Boating" a worthwhile
watch, which really speaks to the over-
lying themes of the film. As Clyde would
say, "Life is fucked up, but we get by."

"Hello. We're TV actors."
Those words, spoken by Rainn Wil-
son as he stood alongside Blake
Lively at the
2009 Golden Globes,1
were enough to incite
several seconds of
hearty laughter from
the Hollywood crowd.
And while it may seem
harmless, the remark _
and the reaction dem- CAROLYN
onstrate one important KLARECKI
stigma in the acting -
industry - some people
think TV actors are a joke.
Peter Krause? Bradley Whitford? Janu-
ary Jones? Oh, they're just TV actors. No
big deal. They're not special like Chris-
tian Bale or Natalie Portman. Those are
the real actors. They're in movies. Those
actors on the small-screen are only there
because they're not good/famous/pretty
enough for the cutthroat competition of
Hollywood movies. No, they just have to
be content wallowing in their 30-60 min-
ute time-slot, making considerably less
money and enjoying less fame.
Maybe no one states it quite so explic-
itly, but there tends to be this attitude
pervading the world of media-junkies that
TV actors are of a lesser caliber than movie
stars. TV is viewed as a stepping stone to
better gigs. And there's some truth to that.
TV actors aren't paid as much as those who
appear.in films and they generally don't
grace the "Star Watch" section of People
magazine. But that doesn't make them
inferior - just different.
Actors working on a movie usually have a
few months to film their scenes. "Pirates of
the Caribbean" was filmed in five months.
Five months spenton one project where
the actors probably weren't called to set for
half of the scheduled film days. Most TV
actors stay on for an entire season, appear-
ing in every episode, and each episode takes
a week or more to film. The first season of
"Lost" also took five months to film, but
in the end there was 1068 minutes of aired
footage. "Pirates" had a run time of 143 min-
utes. TV acting is hard. It's time-consuming
and the pay-off isn't always great.
According to TV Guide, Jon Hamm
of "Mad Men" makes $75,000 per epi-
sode, making his season's earnings about
$975,000. Forbes reports Leonardo
DiCaprio's paycheck for "Inception" was
more than $50 million. Both "Inception"
and "Mad Men" are critically acclaimed
works of art and both salaries are beyond

anything I could ever hope to earn, but
there is a huge discrepancy between them.
Hamm has filmed 49 episodes and still
hasn't reached a quarter of DiCaprio's
"Inception" money. So it's reasonable to
think that actors would only take TV gigs
if they had to.
But think of all the incredibly talented
TV actors out there. Hamm, Nathan Fil-
lion, Tina Fey and Terry O'Quinn are
all amazing actors who could make the
jump to movies any time they wanted to.
And some have. Some actors do use TV
as a stepping stone to movies, buta lot of
actors come back to it too. TV acting has
its advantages and provides challenges not
normally available in the world of film.
The beauty of the television serial is
that the characters can be much more
complex and developed than those in
movies. This gives actors a chance to get
to know a character and portray them
more dynamically than they ever would
More character
depth, less respect.
be able to in a film. There is time to under-
stand who you're playing, to explore your
character's ups and downs, to guide them
through the dark moments and to cel-
ebrate the victories.
As viewers, we have a whole season to
get to know and care about the characters
on TV. Moviegoers only spend a few hours
with the big-screen characters, and come
to forget many. We establish relationships
with the TV characters, inviting them
into our living rooms each week. We see
them regularly, and because of that, they
become a little more accessible to us. TV
actors aren't presented for us to worship
on a 30-foot screen. They don't grace us
with their talent only once each year. Peo-
ple on TV just seem much more real.
So while the stigma of TV acting may
not be totally unfounded, I beg the film
snobs to lay off. It's arguably harder to
act for the small-screen and clearly the
gig doesn't pay as well. TV actors are the
unsung heroes of the acting biz. They do it
out of love for the medium, the story and
the character, and that's something worth
admiring.
Klarecki is a method actress playing
a columnist on an upcoming TV show.
E-mail her at cklareck@umich.edu.

0
0

0

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

FOR RENT
!**FALL2011*t! 5to 9 bdrm.
houses. Keysmanagement.net

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, October 5, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Conclude, with 32 Electrician, at 52 Makes eyes at
1 Houlihan portrayer "up" times 53 Giraffe's
in 5-Across 3 Castaway's place 33 Steer catcher trademark
5 Korean War 4 Shocking 35 The "m" in 54 Fed. workplace
sitcom weapon E = mc' watchdog
9 Reading aids 5 Appliance brand 39 Broadway flier 55 Cookbookverb
14.. Major: Great that helps you 40 Nonstick spray 56Actress Skye
Bear wake up? 41 "ijusttflew in, and 57 "Living" payment
15 Actress Hayworth 6 Suffers boy are my arms 58 Hobble
16 Native Alaskan 7"The Simpsons" tiredl" e.g. 59 Salinger heroine
17 Site for flashy disco guy 46 Tree feller 60 "Pygmalion"
couplesdancing 8 _ corpus 47 Snarls, as traffic playwright
19 Contiscate 9 Like a desperate 51 Scrambled tare 63 Season oponer?
20 Popular csim effort ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
briets 10 Actor Guinness
21 ssue an 11lsrael'sG olda C O.C K Y R A K E D A S S
embarrassing 12 "The Godfather" A C H O I V I E D V M I
retraction author Mario P E A N U T G A LL E R I E S
23Fol caller 13 Goulash, e.g. R A M D U O 5 6EL L A
24 Groupo freet 16Summerdrink IN Z B T E R B A L
toughs 22Tiny army
25 Competed in a member S L ! C E R A M 0 t
race 24 'Start that job L I E T H S T A N D P A T
28 Annual college now!" ADO 0 A NDSS I G N E X E
football game in 25 Indian nobles B E N S T E I N I N R E D
Arizona 26 Centipedevideo A T T S S P E E C H
34tPhysicsobit game creator JE L L YSHOES W HA T
36 Ending for absorb 27 "Cross my A VL! A S TH R 1Sl' HA T
37 Supreme Court heart!"
justice Sotomayor 29 Lodge S A N D W 1 C H I S L A N D S
38 Spicy deep-fried 30 Hits on the ODE EMC E E U N C L E
stuffed appetizers noggin N E D SPURS S T E E R
42 Crop up 31 Outdo xwordediton@aol.com 10/04/150
43 Indian bread 1
44 Takes to court 1 a a a 5 0 0 8 0 10 111201s
45 Nap period, in 14 1n 1
Latin America
48 Paid athlete 17 15 19
49 Sign over a door 2 2 70 12
50 Sign before Virgo on0Oz100
53 "Ain't happening"
57 Emulates Jell-O
61 Bar, in law 2s in on 2 3 o n1 32 3
62 2t04tAdam
Sandier movie, 3 an no a -
and a hint to the
puzzle theme 38 39 40 41
found in17-,28-, 42 4a 44
38-and45-Across
64 Bridal registry 4 ao n47
category65 p4152
66 Poet Lazarus
67 Musical Carpenter so so 50 on on sa s ci
68 Word with 1626 on
pressure or review
69 Gush 64 65 66
DOWN 67 68 69
1 Figure (out), in
slang By Jeff Chen10/05/10
(c)2010 Tribune Media Services, tnc.


Reservations
Start
October 12th
Spring & Fall
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIo, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus
for 2011/2012
JJniversity
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI48104
734-7h1-2680
UNIVERSITYTow ERS-MI.COM
INFO@U-TOwERs.CoM

Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
YoeM Diseounts!
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 110 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus,free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylatghumich.edsi
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 7-516/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your atention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAILABLE FALL '11 5 bedroom
2 bath houses call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com,
www.joycea2.com
WELCOME BACK!!! CHECK us
out on October 12th when we start tak-
ing Reservations. Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus! We have Stu-
dios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom furnished apart-
ments available for Spring/Fall. Call us
at 734-761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit us at:
www.University'rowers-Ml.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

JANUARY 2011 8 month lease 428 S.
Division eff. $750, 929 S. Division eff.
$700 1 bed $800, 602 Catherine room
only $475, tenants pay electric call
Cappo 734-996-1991
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Port $2340,
tenants pay all utilities, call Cappo
Deinco 734-996-1991
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.

MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY operations, including the super-
vision, training and mentoring of under-
graduate students and lab members. As-
sist in the management of research
project(s) directed at lipid biochem-
istry. Provide expertise in biophysical
chemistry with preferred expertise us-
ing mass spectrometry, chemical syn-
thesis, chromatography and microbiol-
ogy techniques. Bachelor's degree in
biochemistry or related field, plus four
years of related experience in a bio-
chemistry laboratory setting required.
In-depth biochemical experimentation
laboratory knowledge essential. Prefer
(1) Master's degree in biochemistry or
related field; (2) extensive lab manage-
ment skills; (3) experience with mam-
malian cell culture techniques; and (4)
experience using mass spectrometry,
chemical synthesis, chromatography,
and microbiology techniques. View
requisition 100472 at https://employ-
ment.unl.edu for qualifications, details
and to apply. Review of applicants be-
gins Aug 11. UNL is committed to a
pluralistic campus community through
uffirmative action, equal opportutnity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

! 4 ELE VEN OrFTS - Reserve now
for 2011 (Spring or Fall). U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space for 2011 today with no
lease obligation. 2 blocks from Central
Campus and downtown. 1 to 4 bed-
room, private baths avail. Rates from
$660. 734-998-4400 www.-
4elevenlofts.com
2-9 BR Renovated Houses/Apts for
May '11. New furniture! 248-804-
0774 www.ChurchStreetApts.com
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011*!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2011
www.COpiprOperties.COm
734-663-5609

EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back-
ground for a major film production.
Earn up to $200/day. Experience not re-
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
HOUSESITTER NEEDED TO care
for my 2 cats and stay in my home.
Small compensation and lots of food.
Begin Feb. 27th-Mar. 4th. Call Janis at
663-5026 or email jjjaaa322@aim.com.
PART TIME AFTER-school help
needed (13 & 6 yrs; 12-15 hrs/wk; 4-7
pm M-Th). Looking for someone expe-
rienced in childcare, clean driving
record. Pl. respond with a resume, list
of 2-3 refs, contact info to lonara-
jen@yahoo.com
WE ARE SEEKING DYNAMIC
REP CUSTOMER SERVICE ORI-
ENIED INDIVIDUALS WITH
GREAT COMMUNICATIONS AND
TYPING SKILLS NEEDED TO
WORK ON BEHALF OF COMPANY
THIS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
WILL EARN UP TO $2000
MONTHLY ANY JOB EXPERIENCE
NEEDED.EMAIL AT ivan-
bart10l@hotmail.com IF INTER-
ESTED.

ANN ARBOR COUPLE seeks respon-
sible, non-smoking student for driving
and after school child care. Two chil-
dren, 8 year old daughter and 11 year
old son. Must have own car and excel-
lent driving record. Flexible times, but
specifically Tuesday and Friday after-
noons. $13/hour plus mileage.
Stephanie - hailsteph@aol.com or
248.910.0951
NANNY NEEDED M,W and F for 9
month old girl. Non-smoker, reliable
transportation and references required.
Must be fun, caring, creative and ma-
ture, gradstudent preferred. Contact zim-
mere@saline.k12.mi.us
the daily classifieds...
they're kind of a big deal.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 5, 2010 - 7

ILM REVIEW
uFrench film goes lowbrow

"Not now. Still with fam. Sext u l8r."
Simply'rdinar

By DAVID TAO
Daily Arts Writer
A French film about classical
music combines arguably the two
most highbrow
forms of enter-
tainment still in
existence. Yet TkeCocert
"The Concert"
is surprisingly At the
conventional and Michigan
crass. Despite a The Weinstein
veneer of sophis- Company
tication, director
Radu Mihaile-
anu's ("Train of Life") attempt at
dramedy is nothing more than a
predictable, done-before underdog
story, full of lazy character develop-
ment and tone-deaf execution.
Our underdog is Andrei Fili-
pov (Aleksei Guskov, "Ragin"), a
washed-up former conductor of
Russia's premier orchestra, the
Bolshoi. After resisting the Com-
munist Party's order to fire all
Jewish musicians, he was sacked
alongside those he tried to defend.
He has spent the decades since his
termination as a janitor, cleaning
the orchestra's building and long-
ing for the past. When he stumbles
upon an invitation for the Bolshoi to
perform at Theatre du Chatelet in
Paris, he sees a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity. By bringing his old
orchestra back together and pos-
ing as the Bolshoi, Filipov hopes to
regain his credibility and put his
life back on track.
With the help of best friend
Sasha (Dmitri Nazarov, "Prince

Vladimi
Barino
ex-man
pov reu
makes
lar con
with th
edy ste
French
fective
sudden
to offen
a sea of
types-
thieves
The
thesep
and o
attemp
ipov ha
a progr
A
stoa
ing Tch
cult Vi
the w
Jacque
rious iB
reasons
prefere
Appare
do with
during
was en(
ment d
that fat
and ag

ir") and Gavrilov (Valeriy strings. The movie also mentions
v, "The Best Movie"), an some kind of mysterious relation-
sager of the Bolshoi, Fili- ship that Filipov has with Marie-
unites his old orchestra and Jacquet's checkered past - it's all
arrangements for the titu- very vague and almost impossible
cert. As Gavrilov negotiates to understand.
se Parisian theater, the com- Nonetheless, Filipov is the film's
ms mainly from his botched hero, so he gets what he wants
, milked endlessly and inef- regardless of his motives or their
ly.Wemeettheorchestraand real-world achievability. Mihaile-
ly the jokes turn from lame anu's impatient direction either
nsive, as we're introduced to smashes down or glazes over the
f ethnic and religious stereo- barriers that stand in his protago-
- Russian alcoholics, Gypsy nist's way. Nothing really seems to
and money-grubbing Jews. matter in the grand scheme of the
movie seesaws between film, not his orchestra's unwilling-
pathetic attempts at humor ness to rehearse, not their violent
ther similarly unappealing drunkenness and certainly not the
ts at drama and intrigue. Fil- fact that Marie-Jacquet has never
s just two weeks to assemble played Tchaikovsky. Characters tell
am, but he insists upon play- Filipov that his concertis "bound to
fail," but the words are hollow and
unconvincing - never has it been so
undedogobvious thacadirector is rooting for
Ln underdog his protagonist.
That the film almost manages
ry done laZil to work around this gaping flaw is
a testament to Guskov's charisma.
He plays Filipov with a hard-faced
haikovsky's impossibly diffi- look of perpetual determination
olin Concerto, and demands that cuts through the tastelessly
orld-famous Anne Marie- scripted antics. Throughout the
t (Melanie Laurent, "Inglou- film, his character seems oblivious
asterds") as the soloist. The to his unnaturally good luck, sport-
s behind these particular ing a genuinely worried expression
nces are rather unclear. that allows the audience to suspend
rntly, they have somethingto their disbelief long enough to enjoy
h Filipov's last performance, the film. In the end, the film's cli-
which his violin concerto matic musical finale is made all the
ded prematurely by govern- more powerful by his presence as
Decree. Blurry footage from its anchoring force, even if the route
teful event is repeated again the film took to get there is confus-
gain to tug on our heart- inglyunrealistic.

ABC family drama
can't save evenings
from boredom
By LINDSAY HURD
Daily Arts Writer
It's a bird! It's a plane! No, wait,
it's just the Powells, the less-than-
original family of
superheroes on **
this year's token
supernatural No Ordinary
show "No Ordi-
nary Family." Fady
ABC's new spin Tuesdays
onthefamilyshow at8 p.m.
takes the idea of ABC
"The Incredibles"
and tries to make
it more realistic. Instead of trying to
save the world, the Powells use their
powers to solve "real life" issues.
Unfortunately, this mix of dread-
fully normal problems and super-
natural abilities is just downright
obnoxious.
The biggest issue with the Pow-
ell family is their lack of variation.
The family too closely resembles
the standard families of many TV
dramas, which nowadays doesn't

feel real for many viewers. Mom
(Julie Benz, "Dexter") is a success-
ful, smart and beautiful scientist
solving the all the world's prob-
lems, Dad (Michael Chiklis, "The
Shield") works for the local police
station but also loves being at home,
daughter Daphne (Kay Panabaker,
"Fame") is the semi-popular girl at
school with the cute boyfriend and
JJ (Jimmy Bennett, "Orphan") is
the lazy son who has a learning dis-
ability. Conveniently, the family has
lots of money and doesn't seem to
have a care in the world, other than
tryingto spend more time together.
"No Ordinary Family" is almost too
normaltobe real.
Though the characters aren't
inventive, "No Ordinary Family"
has a great cast of actors for the
main roles - the show's saving
graces. Chiklis plays a convinc-
ing family-man-turned-superhero,
with a teddy bear build that makes
him both threatening and love-
able. Benz once again picks up the
role of the overworked mom who
is neurotic but loving, suggesting
that this is the only character she
can play. Panabaker portrays the
perfectbratty teenage drama queen
with her cute looks, and Bennett is
equally effective. Chiklis also nar-

rates much of the show, sounding
like Danny DeVito in "Matilda" -
endearing and easy to listen to.
Despite the stellar casting, it's
just all too convenient that the pow-
ers the family gains are ones that
will magically help them navigate
the "issues" in their lives. Mom
transforms into a super speedy
human, so she can fit everything
she needs to do into one day. Dad
acquires super strength and injury
immunity, allowing him to better
fight crime at his police job. Daphne
develops the ability to read minds,
helping her navigate the difficult
world of high school. And JJ is sud-
denly incredibly smart, allowing
him to overcome his learning dis-
ability. The family is already some-
what formulaic, but add in the fact
that they get equally typical powers
and it's just a fiasco of stock charac-
ters with well worn means of solv-
ing their issues.
Unfortunately for the Powell
family, their lives as superheroes
are more annoying than anything
else. The whole fun of watching
superheroes save the world from
evil monsters is completely lost
with this self-absorbed family who
can't seem to escape their little
bubble of a world.

EXHIBIT PROFILE
A new acquired taste at Clements

ALBUM REVIEW
Folds and Hornby collide

By PROMA KHOSLA
For the Daily
The William L. Clements
Library, stately neighbor to the
University president's house and
haunt for campus
history buffs, Fine Tuning
recently began a Grea
to establish new
guidelines for ColleCtion
its collections of
18th and 19th- Through Oct. 8
century media. Clements Library
The library
features a collection of primary
source materials relating to the
history of the Americas and while
a new policy for acquiring pieces
is still in the works, curators have
put together "Fine Tuning A Great
Collection: The How and Why of
Recent Acquisitions," an exhibi-
tion that exemplifies the goals of
their new collecting guidelines.
Notable pieces in this exhibi-
tion include letters from Susan
B. Anthony and Harriet Beecher
Stowe, and an original handwrit-
ten version of Daniel D. Emmett's
"Dixie" from when the writer was

84. The graphics case features
paintings of New York City ("View
of the Ruins after the Great Fire
in New York") and Philadelphia
("Philadelphia from the Jersey
Shore"), as well as a trompe l'oeil
of Abraham Lincoln, a painting-
within-a-painting that creates a
three-dimensional illusion.
"It's a very ... eclectic collec-
tion in this exhibit," said Brian
Dunnigan, associate director and
map curator. "The idea was to cut
across all our divisions and give
some sense of the different kinds
of things we collect and also try to
answer the question of how we col-
lect and why we collect, and how
they fit into the broader holdings in
the library. We're collecting with
real purpose in mind in an attempt
to be able to support scholarship
the best way we possibly can."'
Dunnigan also discussed the
organizational structures of the
collection and library, which at this
point in the process remain stable.
"We collect, for the most part,
from European discovery of Amer-
ica until about 1900. The exhibi-
tion covers a number of formats

and the organization of the exhibit
is set up like our organization here
at the library itself," Dunnigan
said. "The new policy will limit the
time period and scope of subject
matter in the library. This is part-
ly defined in the exhibit, where
the chronological cutoff point for
media is 1900, with the exception
of photographs and wartime cor-
respondence."
The library and the exhibition
are organized by four main divi-
sions: books, manuscripts, maps
and graphics. The library has also
found a decent-sized collection of
cookbooks, menus, advertisements
and information on the food ser-
vice industry, which are kept track
of by the curator of culinary his-
tory, but remain divided based on
medium. Graphics include imag-
es, prints and some photography
from the late 19th and early 20th
centuries. The map division col-
lects cartography of the Western
hemisphere and the manuscript
division deals mostly with hand-
written letters and original work,
which encompasses the library's
most famous pieces.

By DAVID RIVA song crescendos into the stirring
Daily Arts Writer strings of the chorus, it's unabash-
edly anthemic and competes with
On the opening track of Lonely some of Folds's most memorable
Avenue, Ben Folds sings "I'm a musical moments.
loser / I'm a poser ... Everything Bombast isn't Folds's only aim,
I write is shit." This self-depre- however. On "Practical Amanda"
cating persona and "Picture Window," he exhib-
is one Folds has * its his ability to bust out a rousing
never shied away ballad. His latest foray into dan-
from in the past, Ben Folds cier tracks, anchored by spastic
but what makes synthesizers, is on full display in
it so intriguing and Nick "Saskia Hamilton."
this time around Horby There's plenty here for the die-
is that he didn't hard Folds fan as well. "Claire's
pen the words. Lonely Avenue Ninth," "Your Dogs" and "Doc
The man Nonesuch Pomus" all have the upbeat piano-
behind the lyrics pop style to which Folds enthusi-
for Folds's seventh full-length stu- asts have grown accustomed.
dio album is novelist and screen- Lyrically, Hornby's style is
writer Nick Hornby. If you recall bizarrely similar to Folds. The
John Cusack's role as a broken- aforementioned "Levi Johnston's
hearted vinyl enthusiast in "High Blues" is a compelling tale of a
Fidelity" or Hugh Grant's middle- young man who received some
aged bachelor in "About a Boy," unwanted media attention leading
you're familiar with Hornby's up to the 2008 presidential elec-
work. His character-centric stud- tion. Told from the perspective of
ies of everyday people encounter- Bristol Palin's boyfriend, the song
ing ordinary circumstances like expresses the grievances of an
devastating breakups, ungraceful Alaskan teenager who just wants
aging and youthful uncertainty to be left alone. Although Folds
parallel some themes Folds has normally stays clear of political
addressed on past albums, includ- subject matter, Hornby's lyrics
emulate the delicate sincerity that
Folds regularly employs.
.a One success of the album that
A collaboration could easily be overlooked is
Folds's awareness of the emotion-
for the ages. al sentiments expressed in Horn-
by's lyrics, which Folds translated
flawlessly into music. This abil-
ing the decline of a meaning- ity to interpret someone else's
ful relationship ("Losing Lisa"), thoughts and feelings into music
growing old ("Bastard") and teen- is another achievement Folds can
age pregnancy ("Brick"). add to his lengthy resume.
And so it seems like a per- The record's most evident flaw
feet match. Both of these artists is its lack of cohesion. Instead of
are greats in their own separate functioning as a collection of ideas
realms - Hornby in storytell- with a consistent line of progres-
ing and Folds as a composer - sion from track to track, the album
and Hornby's lyrics complement jumps from story to story without
Folds's arrangements well. At any connectivity. Admittedly,
this point in his career, Folds has Folds hasn't necessarily crafted
decided to pool all of his energy a cohesive narrative across an
into crafting arrangements to entire album in his past work, but
accompany someone else's words. when Folds releases a record, it's
The product of this natural - if usually clear what's on his mind
not slightly superfluous - pair- and what's happened in his life for
ing marks one of Folds's strongest the past year or two. This obstacle
musical displays to date while isn't impossible to overcome as a
remaining thematically consistent listener, but it certainly makes the
with his past work. album easy to skip around and dif-
It only takes one listen to "Levi ficult to listen to from start to fin-
Johnston's Blues" to figure out ish in one sitting.
that Folds put his narrow focus on After 15 years in the business,
musical composition to good use. there is very little Ben Folds has
He masterfully sprinkles minimal not accomplished. Chart-topping
usage of cymbals, plunked piano albums, a Top-40 hit and a rabid
chords and a sharp bassline dur- fanbase have allowed him to take
ing the opening verse as the lyrics part in some unique creative
establish a narrative. When the endeavors, like performances

with full orchestras in venues
the Sydney Opera House, writing
music for an animated movie and
working with the likes of William
Shatner. When Folds announced
his latest project, it would have
been easy to dismiss the concept
as frivolous or extraneous. But
on Lonely Avenue, Folds shows
that he knows a good opportunity
when he sees one and working
with Nick Hornby has proven to
be one of the best decisions of his
career.

Master of Science
in Biotechnology
Intergrated training for biologists, chemists, & engineers
Earn a graduate degree in only 15 months
and prepare for a rewarding career in
biotechnology or pharmaceuticals.
Apply today at: www.MBP.northwestern.edu
NORTHWESTERN
UNIVERSITY


6

8 - Tuesday, October 5, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


lMAX COLUINS/Daily

Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez's offense is among the best in the country. The defense is a different story.
Skewed time of possession
deepens 'M' defensive woes

r

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Editor
Check out the Michigan football
team's offensive and defensive stats.
They're polar opposites. On offense,
you'll find national rankings in the
top 20 for most
categories. The NOTEBOOK
defense, on the
other hand, is the worst in the coun-
try at stoppingthe pass, allowing an
average of 307 yards per game.
During Monday's press con-
ference, Michigan coach Rich
Rodriguez addressed the contrast
between his two units. On offense,
the players have gained experi-
ence and the execution on the field
matches that. The defense can't say
the same.
"I think there's some moments
on defense where we have gotten a
little bit better but there's also some
things we have not gotten better at
and it's going to take a little more
time," Rodriguez said. "Some of it is
goingto be coming with experience,
and as they get more reps, but you
know, we are not a real deep team
over there."
Because of the brevity of the
Wolverines' drives against Indiana,
the Michigan defense was forced to
spend a lot of time on the field. The
Hoosiers held the ball for nearly 42
minutes. Part of that was the Wol-
verines' offensive efficiency, but the
other ingredient was the defense's
inability to stop the Hoosiers on
third down - they converted 11-of-
19.
Rodriguez estimated that several
defensive players were on the field
for more than 100 snaps, while the
offense was on the field for less than
half of that. And when Michigan's

starters got tired on defense, Rodri-
guez was forced to play less experi-
enced backups.
"You're leery to take them out
because the next guy in is not close
to him from a physical or experi-
ence standpoint," Rodriguez said.
"We are in a tough, tough situation,
but we have to just keep battling
through that. And the best way to
limit that is to get more three and
outs, to get more shorter posses-
sions and hopefully get a few turn-
overs."
There were some positives to take
away, even though the Wolverines
allowed 568 yards of total offense.
Rodriguez said that Michigan did
tackle better, which has been a
point of frustration this season.
As Rodriguez sees it, the Wolver-
ines are still 5-0, which is the most
important statistic.
"We have won and it's like win-
ning a prize and winning $10,000
and being all upset because you
have to pay taxes on half of it,"
Rodriguez said. "Still going to take
the money, you know, and be happy
with it and we won. May not be as
excited as taking home money but
you're still taking half."
ROBINSON GOES DEEP: Sopho-
more quarterback Denard Robinson
wasn't completely perfect last Sat-
urday against the Hoosiers.
He did win his third Big Ten
Player of the Week award of the sea-
son and posted 494 total yards and
five touchdowns, but there were a
couple of deep passes that Robinson
could have connected on in the sec-
ond half.
"He's missing three out of ten,
that's not bad," Rodriguez said. "He
missed a couple on Saturday, the
one wide open to Junior (Heming-


way) - he would love to have that
one back. But he's really been pretty
good at it for the most part. But a
lot of it is just a little bit of touch on
it and he'll get better the more we
throw with it but I've really been
pleased with his accuracy for the
most part."
Robinson still finished with
career highs in passing yards (277)
and passing touchdowns (3) and
completed 10-of-16 passes.
RIVALRY WEEK STARTS NOW:
Michigan has lost to its in-state
rivals from East Lansing each of the
past two seasons.
Now the excitement on both
sides is at its most intense in years
- both teams are 5-0 and ranked
in the top-25. The Wolverines have
always placed a great deal of impor-
tance on the matchup.
"They are all big, but this one is
bigger," Rodriguez said. "The rival-
ry games are always bigger. I'msure
they will tell you the same thing. It's
a huge thing for both teams every
year. The more you win, there's
more at stake and there's more at
stake this year because both teams
are undefeated."
INJURY REPORT: Rodriguez said
that no new names were on the
injury list after the game against
Indiana.
Rodriguez did note that junior
running back Michael Shaw and
fifth-year senior nose tackle Greg
Banks were fine. Redshirt freshman
running back Fitzgerald Toussaint
is day-to-day.
And to keep Robinson fresh for
Saturday, Rodriguez said the quar-
terback would be limited in prac-
tice, as would some of the defensive
players who had extensive playing
time.

Daily Sports
Power Rankings
Nick Spar 11 Daily Sports Editor
1 Denard Robinson, Quarterback (Football)
It's hard to imagine that, just a month ago, the early-season Heisman frontrunner wasn't even Mich-
igan's clear-cut starter. With each zigzagging run and touchdown pass, we easily forget just how lost
he looked under center at times last season, especially when he tried to pass the ball. But here's what's
easy to remember: the Wolverines wouldn't have salvaged victories over Notre Dame or Indiana (or
Massachusetts,efor that matter) if it weren't for Shoelace.While Tate Forcier led his owngame-winning
drives over the Fighting Irish and the Hoosiers ayear ago, only a quarterback who seems to dominate at
will on every snap can compensate for the miserable state of the Wolverines' defense.
Lexi Zimmerman, Setter (Women's Volleyball)
Despite a 1-1 record last weekend for the volleyball team, Zimmerman stays put at No. 2. For starters,
the loss came to No. 4 Penn State, a team akin to John Wooden's UCLA Bruins in the realm of college
athletics. (The Nittany Lions have won 115 of their last 117 matches, dating back to 2007.) In that match,
as well as the team's victory against Ohio State, Zimmerman managed to post more than 30 assists
and more than 10 kills. With each assist, she's inching her way closer to the all-time Big Ten record.
And none of the Michigan athletes who tie their shoes or cleats or skates had incredible eye-popping
performances in the last week, so Zimmerman still deserves the hype more than a week after breaking
the Michigan assists record. Besides the football team, only the volleyball team has more than one of
its players in the rankings (see No. 5). 4
3 Nkem Ezurike, Forward (Women's Soccer)
Ezurike is climbing the rankings after yet another clutch performance on Saturday. She scored a
game-tying goal in a double-overtime 1-1 draw against Northwestern. It was already the second.time
this season she scored a game-tying goal that helped the Wolverines earn a draw. The freshman has
six goals in her first 10 collegiate games.
Michigan Offensive Line (Football)
The offensive line had an entirely different role against Indiana than it did against Bowling Green.
Only two players - Denard and Vincent Smith - had carries against the Hoosiers, whereas virtually
every running back and quarterback on the Wolverines' roster had a carry against the Falcons. At
times, the line didn't open up enough holes for Smith. But as long as the offense is putting up its usual
42 points per game, the unit as a whole is doing enough to hold its spot in my book.
S Alex Hunt, Outside Hitter (Volleyball)
Hunt has been arguably the most consistent player for Michigan this season, maybe even more
consistent than Zimmerman. She has tallied 250 kills, more than double that of any other Wolverine.
Thirty of them came last weekend, but her high level of play is nothingnew, as two weeks ago she was
named BigTen Player of the Week.
Junior Hemingway, Wide Receiver (Footbqll)
Hemingway surges into the rankings after hauling in the most important pass of the day
against Indiana - a slightly underthrown ball that he went up and grabbed with less than 30
seconds left in a tie game. The 42-yard reception brought the ball to the Hoosiers' four-yard line
and all but sealed the deal for Michigan. Hemingway also had a 70-yard touchdown catch early
in the third quarter, making him the fourth Michigan receiver this season to have 90-plus yards
in a game.
7 Sam Critser (Women's Tennis)
In just her second collegiate tournament, Critser won her section of the draw at the Wolverine
Invitational after rolling through three consecutive matches. Michigan controlled the tournament
from start to finish. Junior Michelle Sulahian won the other half of the draw and the doubles teams
took seven of their nine matches.
Roy Roundtree, Wide Receiver (Football)
Hemingway may be ranked ahead of Roundtree, but Roundtree is becoming Denard's favorite
target. He has surpassed 80 yards in three of the first five games and has totaled 14 catches for
244 yards in the last two. Roundtree also gets credit for responding well against Notre Dame (8
catches for 82 yards and a touchdown) after being injured from a huge hit in the opener against
Connecticut.
Zara Saydjari, Forward (Field Hockey)
Through two weeks, the field hockey team has taken ownership over the ninth spot. Last week,
goalkeeper Haley Jones earned the spot for posting her third shutout of the season. This week, Sayd-
jari takes Jones's place after scoring both goals in a 2-1 upset win over No. 6 Michigan State. The field
hockey team also almost took down No. 1 Maryland two days after Saydjari's performance, but the
Terrapins ultimately held on for a 4-3 win.
Danielle Tauro (Women's Cross Country)
At Michigan's first scored meet of the season, Tauro finished sixth individually at the 20-team
Wisconsin Invitational last weekend. She shattered her personal-best 6000-meter time and helped
the Wolverines to a fourth-place finish.

i
"

S

Early on, Glendening embracing co-captainship role

By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
After the Michigan ice hockey
team's disappointing 4-4 tie with
unranked Mercyhurst to open
the season on Saturday, Michigan
coach Red Berenson decided to
switch up the team's top line head-
ing into Sunday's exhibition contest
with Western Ontario.
Berenson moved junior co-
captain Luke Glendening from
left wing on the team's third line
to right wing on the top line. With
two goals and one assist in the Wol-
verines' 4-2 victory, it's safe to say
Glendening made the move pay off.
The Grand Rapids native spent

the latter half of last season playing
on a line with senior Louie Capo-
russo and junior David Wohlberg.
The three Wolverines netted a com-
bined 38 goals on the season, with
63 assists.
But to kick off this season,.Glen-
dening played on No. 4 Michigan's
third line with sophomore A.J.
Treais and freshman Luke Mof-
fat, while Caporusso and Wohlberg
added sophomore Chris Brown to
their line. While Caporusso scored
one goal in Saturday's game, Wohl-
berg and Glendening were kept off
the stat sheet against Mercyhurst.
On Sunday, after moving Glen-
dening to the top line, the unit
exploded offensively. The chemis-

try and familiarity among Wohl-
berg, Caporusso and Glendening
was evident. They finished the
night with a combined twelve shots
on Western Ontario netminder Josh
Unice.
With Wohlberg at left wing,
Caporusso at center, and Glenden-
ing at right wing, the line scored
three of Michigan's four goals.
Caporusso finished with three
assists on the night, and Wohlberg
added a goal and assist of his own.
"(The three of us) just know
where each other are going to be on
the ice," Glendening said after prac-
tice Monday. "We're used to playing
with each other, the spacing and all
that. It really helps when we don't

('.school of
information
Connect with SI
AN INFORMATION SESSION FOR PROSPECTIVE MASTER'S AND PH.D. STUDENTS
Noon-4 p.m. Saturday, Oct. 23
Great Lakes Room, Palmer Commons
RSVP by Monday, Oct. 18 at si.umich.edulrsvp
A graduate degree from the School of Information
prepares you for an exciting array of Information Age careers,
Our Ph.D program prepares you forteaching and research in academia
and corporate research labs. Find out how our flexible, multidiscplinary progam wi bene t you!
A Michigan MKi can lead to a career as:
Archivist, Librarian, Research Analyst Web Marketing Manager, Multimedia Consultant, Data nalyst ,
Usability Engineer Information Architect, Auction Designer/Manager Cromputational Linguist,
Natural Language Engineer, Policy Advisor Museum Curator Community Organizer - and many more!

have to think out there and we ju
have to play and have fun."
While he's unsure whether h
will remain a line-mate of Woh
berg and Caporusso, Glendenin
would rather not focus on it.
"Any way we can create a foi
| Honoring our pas(

>phomore ever to be named an alternate captain on the Michigan hockey team.
st mula to win is what we need," he Wovlerines.
said. The other alternate captain last
ce That perspective shows why season was then-junior Carl Hage-
l- Glendening was named an alter- lin, now Glendening's co-captain.
ig nate captain for Michigan last sea- Having led by example together
son - the first sophomore ever to before, Glendening is comfortable
r- be voted into that position for the in the leadership role.
"(Carl and I) are both hard work-
ers and that's what our leadership
Inspiring our future. styles are," Glendening said. "I
think also there's a time for being
vocal and we are both learning that
as we go. There are times we need
to step up and say something and
make sure whatever needs to be
said is said, that people aren't left
thinking'well what's going on?"'
Tempering his offensive suc-
cesses from Sunday with his
team-first attitude, Glendening
will take a level head into Michi-
gan's upcoming road series against
e Corps Volunteer Generation. Bowling Green. But as a defen-
sive-minded forward, Glendening
 Event:knows that while the Wolverines
irector Aaron Williams found theback of the net often this
30 p.m. past weekend, solid defense will be
the key to this team's ultimate suc-
nIrton cess.
"I think definitely we need to
work on defense," Glendening said.
is leaving "We need to take pride in that ...If
iversary Year! we're letting up as many goals as
we had this weekend, it's going to
1il you go? be tough to score that many every
gov/application night."

Be part of the next Peac
Special Information
Meet Peace Corps D
Thursday, October 14 at 6::
Kuenzel Room, Michigan U
peacecorps.umich.edu
Apply this Fall for program
in 2011 -- Peace Corps'50th Ann
Life is calling. How farv
800.424.85801 peacecorps.


