ON THE BRINK,
NE MOVES ON, ONE SINKS
Denise Muresan will play in the ln'Hereaft
USTA/ITA regional finals today, while had the gut
Evan King was eliminated in the semis Eastwood h
yesterday by a Buckeye rival. PAGE 7
clI 1icligan 0aij

AnIroMcia

Tuesday, October 26, 2010

michigandaily.com

Data show
increase in
minority
enrollment

Total University
enrollment reaches
all-time high
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Data released yesterday by
University officials show that the
University student population
has reached an all-time record.
This year, there has also been a
rise in underrepresented minor-
ity students in the freshman class
- though officials admitted that
because of new reporting proce-
dures, this year's numbers are not
directly comparable to those from
year's past.
The Office of the Registrar
reported yesterday morning that
overall enrollment for the Uni-
versity's Ann Arbor campus is at

41,924 students for the fall semes-
ter, 250 more than the previous
record set last fall. The rise reflects
a 3.1-percent increase in the num-
ber of undergraduate students and
a 6.7-percent increase in the num-
ber of graduate and professional
students.
Contributing in part to that
growth was a larger-than-expect-
ed incoming freshman class. Uni-
versity officials predicted over the
summer that freshman enrollment
would increase by about 300 stu-
dents from last year, which would
have brought the incoming class
to about 6,350. However, the data
released yesterday show that the
number was even higher than
predicted, with 6,496 freshmen
enrolled at the University this fall.
Perhaps most notable in the data
released yesterday is an increase
in the underrepresented minority
See ENROLLMENT, Page 2

Nursing senior Amy Montes, a volunteer with the HIV/AIDS Resource Center, administers an oral HIV test to a University student yesterday. Patients receive results in about
a week and undergo further testing if the initial result is positive. HARC representatives administer tests on Mondays in the Spectrum Center at the Michigan Union.
MSA p-rident drops petition for
protection order, against Shirv ell1

-Total Students
K Underrepresented Minorities
40000 0
30000 n
20000
10000 s
0 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10

Assistant AG's
lawyer says Shirvell
is a 'victim of the
liberal media'
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
A court official in the office of
Washtenaw County Trial Court
confirmed yesterday that a peti-
tion for a personal protection order

brought by Michigan Student
Assembly President Chris Arm-
strong against Michigan Assistant
Attorney General Andrew Shirvell
has been dismissed.
The official, who works in the
office of Judge Nancy Francis, the
judge assigned to the petition, said
the case was dismissed without
prejudice by the petitioner, mean-
ing Armstrong is free to re-file a
personal protection order against
Shirvell in the future.
Earlier this month, Shirvell
called for Francis to step down

because her sister, who is a pub-
lic official, had openly criticized
Shirvell. Francis ultimately did not
remove herself from the case.
A hearing was scheduled for 1:30
p.m. yesterday to consider the peti-
tion, after the original Oct. 4 hear-
ing was postponed. Court officials
cited a "service issue" as the reason
for the re-scheduling.
The request for a personal pro-
tection order stems from the con-
troversy surrounding Shirvell's
blog, Chris Armstrong Watch, in
which Shirvell accuses Armstrong

ofpromoting a"radicalhomosexual
agenda" and calls Armstrong an
"elitist" and "racist."
The controversy received nation-
al media attention from media out-
lets like CNN, with Shirvell and his
boss Michigan Attorney General
Mike Cox both appearing on the
network. Cox came under scru-
tiny for employing Shirvell on the
public's dime in light of Shirvell's
actions. Shirvell later took a volun-
tary leave of absence and has since
closed off his blog from the public.
See ARMSTRONG, Page 3

ALOBAL EDUCATION
For fourth time since 2005, 'U'
tops nation in student Fulbrights

Number of faculty
grants lags behind
peer institutions
By KYLE SWANSON
DailyNewsEditor
Students at the University
received more U.S. Department of
State Fulbright Studentgrants than
any other school this year, Univer-
sity officials announced yesterday.
Leading in the number of student
Fulbright recipients is nothing new
for the University, which has had
the most Fulbright Student grants

four timessince2005. However,the
number of Fulbright grants given to
faculty members was substantially
lower than many of the University's
peer institutions.
This year, 39 students at the Uni-.
versity received and accepted Ful-
bright scholarships, up from 28 lasi
year and 31 twoyears ago.
Four other University students
were offered Fulbright grants this
year but declined in order to pur-
sue other opportunities. The total
of 43 students who were offered an"
award is the highest in the Univer-
sity's history.
Other universities leading the
pack with a high number of Ful-

bright student recipients included
Yale University, where students
netted 31 Fulbright scholarships,
and Brown University and Stanford
University, which each were award-
ed 24 Fulbright student grants.
In an interview yesterday, Uni-
vedrsty Provef Philip Hanlon said
he was delighted that the Univer-
sity was at the top of the list.
"We're very interested in glob-
al engagement and how we can
improve the way our students are
experiencing the world and the
Fulbrights are a great way for our
students and graduates to do that,"
Hanlon said.
See FULBRIGHT, Page 3

From Left: Regent Andrew Richner (R-Grosse Pointe Park), Libertarian candidate Leslie Lazzerin and Democratic candidates
Paul Brown and Greg Stephens participate in a debate at the Senate Assembly meeting yesterday.
Candidates for regents clash
on inancla ut ure of'U'

At least 37 fall ill at Tridelt house

Slottow talks cost
cutting at Senate
Assembly meeting
By CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter
Speaking before the main faculty
governance body yesterday, the two
University regents running for re-

election and the candidates vying for
their spots clashed over the best way
to handlethe University'sfinances in
the upcomingterm.
Challengers Paul Brown (D-
Ann Arbor) and Greg Stephens
(D-Saline) discussed their plans to
address tuition increases during the
debate in front of Senate Assem-
bly yesterday. Incumbent regents
Andrew Richner (R-Grosse Pointe
Park) and Andrea Fischer Newman

(R-Ann Arbor) touted what they
called track records of effectively
handling the University's finances.
Libertarian Leslie Lazzerin also par-
ticipated in the debate.
In his opening statement, Richner
cited the University's stable finances
in light of the state's economic down-
turn as a reason to keep him on the
board. Newman took a similar tack,
saying she wants to stay on the board
See REGENTS, Page 3

Officials speculate
that outbreak might
be norovirus
By BRIENNE PRUSAK
Daily StaffReporter
At least 37 people reportedly fell
ill Saturday evening while at the
Delta Delta Delta sorority house on
Tappan Street in Ann Arbor.
University spokesman Rick

Fitzgerald said three people were
transported to the hospital via
ambulance and three others visited
the hospital of their own accord.
They were all treated and
released that night, Fitzgerald said,
adding that the students have been
advised to stay at home until they
feel better.
Out of the 37 affected, one or two
of the people do not live at the Delta.
Delta Delta house, Fitzgerald said.
Fitzgerald added that while at
first the illness was speculated to be

severefood poisoning, officials now
believe that it may be norovirus,
which often gives rise to stomach
flu. Symptoms typically manifest
suddenly between 24 to 48 hours
after the initial infection.
According to documents issued
by the Washtenaw County Pub-
lic Health Department, the stom-
ach flu runs its course in two or
three days but is communicable to
healthy individuals for up to two
weeks.
See ILLNESS, Page 3


WEATHER HI:68 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news michigandaily.cvm and let us know.

NEW ON MCHIGANDA V.COM
Seeing Red: Pelosi meets a worthy adversary.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE PODIUM

INDEX N EW S ...................................2 ARTS....................
Vol. CXXI, No. 34 AP NEWS .........................3 CLASSIFIEDS,.......
e OTheMichigan aily OPINION..............................4 SPORTS.............

..............5
.............6
............7


0

2 - Tuesday, October 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com



MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

Lunar lunacy.

Though many myths perme-
ate different corners of cam-
pus, there is one that almost
every student, alum, parent or
visitor has heard at one time
or another - a University of
Michigan flag stands proudly
on the moon.
Unfortunately for Wolver-
ines everywhere, the myth
isn't true.
And while such a revelation
may crush students, faculty
and staff across campus who
believe the legend, they can all
take comfort in knowing that
even the University President
was disappointed to find out
it's just a myth.
In an interview last month,
University President Mary Sue
Coleman said she believed the
rumor.
"Oh yes, I believ'e there is (a
Michigan flag on the moon),"

Coleman said. "It was planted
there by the astronauts, by the
Michigan team."
But once told the truth -
that no University of Michi-
gan flag has ever left a space
shuttle, though several have
left the earth's atmosphere -
Coleman said she was shocked.
"Oh really?" Coleman
asked. "I thought it was true.
I could have bet you just about
any amount of money that it
was true."
Coleman isn't the only one
confident in the veracity of the
myth.
In fact, one Facebook group,
"Oh Ya? Well We Have a Flag
On the Moon Bitches," cur-
rently has 363 members. On
the other hand, only 32 people
are pembers of the "People
Who Are Real Mad That We
Actually Don't Have A Flag On

The Moon" Facebook group.
If there was any doubt
about the fact that the flags did
return to Earth, skeptics need1
look no further than Harm
Buning, a professor emeri-
tus of aerospace engineering
at the University. During an
interview with The Michigan
Daily in 2006, he proudly dis-
played one of the University
flags that made the historic
Apollo 15 journey in 1971.
At the time, Buning
explained that 20 flags bear-
ing the University's seal were
sent to the moon with Apollo
15, though all safely returned
to Earth without leaving the
shuttle. The flags' journey so
close to the lunar surface is
what has led many to specu-
late that one remains there DAVID TUMAN/Daily
today. Aerospace Engineering Emeritus Professor Harm Buning holds a montage of
- KYLE SWANSON Apollo 15 memorabilia including a Michigan flag that orbited the moon.

42
Ann Ar
www.r
JACOB SILOVI
Editor in Chief
734-418-4115 ext. 12
smilovitz@michigandai
CONTACT INFORMATI
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
letterstothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales

'di4ui 0 Ai1
0 Maynard St.
bor, MI 48109-1327
nmichigandaily.com
TZ KATIEJOZWIAK
Business Manager
52 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
ly.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com

OM

ofie heou:Su.-Thur.11a.m. - 2a.mw.
7a4-418-4115 opt.a
neees@mihigandailycome
correconsn@michigandaily.ome
totedaityn~eietigandaity.com
photo@michigaedaily.coem
artspage@michigandaily.com
opinio@mihigandlay.com
sports@micigandaily.com
* display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com,

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Aluminum foiled Pot arrest in park Solar power Israeli politics

WHERE: 2705 Block South
Industrial
WHEN: Monday at about 12
p.m.
WHAT: Two or three tons of
aluminum were stolen from a
dumpster outside of a building
on South Industrial, Univer-
sity police reported. There are
two suspects, one identified as
having a lightcbrown goatee.
Unattended
scent stolen
WHERE: Taubman Health
Care Center
WHEN: Monday at about 8:30
p.m.
WHAT: A bottle of perfume
was stolen from a hospital
patient's unattended bag, Uni-
versity police reported. There
are no suspects.


WHERE: 1239 Kipke
WHEN: Sunday at about 11
p.m.
WHAT: A 36-year old male
was arrested at Alan Park
when he was stopped by a
police officer and was found
to have an outstanding war-
rant for marijuana possession,
University police reported. He
posted $300 bail.
Toilet troubles
WHERE: Burton Memorial
Tower
WHEN: Monday at about 1:45
a.m.
WHAT: An accidental water
leak from a sixth floor men's
room toilet at Burton tower
caused damage to 12 ceil-
ing tiles down to the second
floor below, University police
reported.

presentation uiscussion

WHAT: A talk will be given
by University Vice President
of Research Stephen Forrest
on leading an earth-friendly
lifestyle, featuringtips on
solar powering a home.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Hatcher
Harlan Graduate Library,
Galleryin Room 100
Crude oil film
WHAT: A film about the
pollution of the Ecua-
dorean Amazon and the
mass lawsuit that followed
will be screened. The
film is entitled, "Crude:
The Real Price of Oil."
WHO: Epidemiology
WHEN: Today at 5p.m.
WHERE: Henry F.
Vaugn School of
Public Health Building I

WHAT: A lecture by
Sarai Arahoni of Bar-Ilan
University entitled, "The
Bitter Taste of Success"
will be given, discussing
gender politics in Israel.
WHO: Judaic Studies
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: 202 South
Thayer, Room 2022
CORRECTIONS
" An Oct.22 article in
The Michigan Daily
("Area businesses hope
arrival of NCRC will
add economic boost")
inaccurately reported
the NCRC's full occu-
pancy. The complex is
projected to hold 3,000
employees by 2019.
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Russell Brand and Katy
Perry spent their first mar-
ried night in a tent under
armed guard after a man-eat-
ing tiger appeared attheir wed-
ding celebration in India, the
Sun reported. Nobody was hurt
by the tiger, who has already
killed three locals this year.
Journalist Juan Wil-
liams was fired as a news
analyst for National Pub-
lic Radio after comments he
made about muslims. Tom-
maso Pavone says he never
should have been let go.
* FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
An American charity that
pays 300 dollars for drug
addicts to become steril-
ized is continuing its opera-
tion into Great Britain, ABC
News reported. The group has
already paid 3,600 American
drug addicts to recieve long
term birth control procedures.

OnlineSales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattAaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman ManagingNews Editor berman@michigandaily.com
nhiunavuklka,,,Dvon h,,by
Tssson krsED R Ncomoe,, Aber, Stpaneeinberg. ,jKyle Ownce,, Eshay
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS:Betany Biron Dylan Cini Caitdin Huston, Lindsay
Krame,JosephLi,5,,,ern, eia enaii, leyan.,bo,
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: MichelleDeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORTA LPAGE EDITORS:WiliButer,WillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Karte Managing Sports Editor karje@michigandaily.com
SENIORSPORTS EDITORS: MarkBurns, MichaelFlorek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
NickSpar,JoeStapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes,Stephen Nesbitt, Luke Pasch, Zak Pyzik, Amy
JamieBlockManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaly.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,JeffSanford
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:KristynAcho,LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,KaviShekhar
Pandey.,David Tao
MaxCollinsand photo@michigandaiy.cow
SanWolon Ma~nOiegPbeto Editors
SIO HOnOo IOR:sinona, MaissaMcClain
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS: JakeFromm,Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaiy.com
SarahSquire ManagigDesignEditors
T GEoafero Magazikeditoe calero@michigandaiy.com
MebanieFriedand copydeskemichigandaily.com
AdiWollstein CopyChiefs
BUSINESSSTAFF
JuliannatCrim SalesManager
SALES FOREMANAGE: GSephanie swker
Hillary Szawala Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler Circulation Manager
Zach YancerWebProject Coordinator
The Michigan Daily ISSN 0745-%7) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms bystudentsatthe Universityof Michigan.onecopyisavailablefree of chargetoall
readersAdditionalcopiesmaybepikedupattheDailys officefor$2.Subscriptionsforfall term,
starting in September, via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term (anuary through April) is $115, yearlong
(September through April) is $195. University affiliates are subject to areduced subscription rate.
On-campussubscriptionsforfalltermare$35.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.TheMichiganDaily
isamember of The AssociatedPress and The Associated Collegiate Press.

,.


UNIVERSUM
TOP 100
IDF'ALEMPLONEO
2010 TUDE NTSURVEY
D "Mb MA
; r
A
Day one
and there's no telling
what you can achieve
New challenges. Global insight. Opportunities to grow.
An internship at Ernst & Young offers you all this and more.
From day one, you'll be part of an inclusive environment that
welcomes your point of view and supports whatever you bring
to the table. We're looking for future leaders, so this is your
chance to show us what you've got.
What's next for your future?
Text EY Edge to 58592 to learn more about our people,
culture and opportunities.
!ERNST& YOUNG
Quality In Everything We Do
rM

ENROLLMENT
From Page lA
student community at the Univer-
sity this year. Officials reported
that underrepresented minority
students made up 10.6 percent of
this year's freshman class, which
is up from 9.1 percent last year.
However, that increase could
be due in part to revised reporting
guidelines under the Higher Edu-
cation Opportunity Act, which has
altered the way student ethnicity
data are collected and reported.
Students previously self-report-
ed their primary ethnicity, which
could include "other." Under the
new guidelines, students must
choose only from the list of eth-
nicities provided, but are allowed
to select multiple ethnicities if
they identify with more than one
group.
In an exclusive interview with
the Daily yesterday, University
Provost Philip Hanlon said he
was heartened to see the num-
ber of underrepresented minor-
ity students in the freshman class
increasing.
"It remains a very high prior-
ity to have a class that is diverse
across every possible dimension,"
Hanlon said. "We think that ben-
efits the entire University com-
munity and the learning of all
students to be part of a diverse
class."
However, Hanlon said he
would like to see the number of
overall students at the University
decrease in future years.
"I think that we are prob-
ably at a larger enrollment than
I would feel comfortable at and I
think President Coleman as well,"
Hanlon said. "So we're going to
be working hard to try to hit our
targets and bring that back down
a little bit over a period of years."
Hanlon's comments were con-
sistent with what several Univer-
sity administrators - including
Coleman - have said over the past
two years.
"We've been working on try-
ing to shrink a little bit and some
years we've been more successful
than others in holding the line,"
Coleman said in an interview last
month. "I mean, I'm thrilled that
so many people want to come to
the University of Michigan, but
we also have to be very cognizant
of the experience students get, and
we want that to be a good experi-
ence."
But while officials saythey want
to reduce class sizes to provide a
better experieqce at the Universi-

ty for all students, incoming class-
es have continued to grow over the
past few years. Though many fac-
tors can be cited for the increase,
the primary reason is uncertainty
in predicting how many accepted
students will enroll.
In 2009, then-University Pro-
vost Teresa Sullivan said she
believed the economic downturn
was partially responsible for such
uncertainty.
Though the economy may play
a lesser role this year, the problem
is likely to become even greater
in this year's admissions pro-
cess. Enrollment estimates have
become even more unpredict-
able now that the University has
adopted the Common Application
this year.
Hanlon said yesterday that
he expects the University to
receive a great deal more appli-
cations from prospective fresh-
men because of the ease of the
Common Application. The result
could be that the rate of students
admitted to the University who
decide to attend - known as
the yield of enrollment - could
be lower. Hanlon added that it's
unclear right now how much
lower the yield could be.
"That makes it even more chal-
lenging this year," Hanlon said.
"At least based on what we've seen
so far, we'll have many more appli-
cations, probably 10,000 or more
additional applications than we
did lastyear."
Hanlon explained, "The eas-
ier it is to apply, the more people
with lower interest (in attending
the University) that will apply
because it's easy."
Hanlon said that a surge in
applications with that demo-
graphic would likely result in a
lower enrollment this year. He
added that Universityofficials will
have to examine trends at other
schools that have switched to the
Common Application to help pre-
dict what the new enrollment rate
may be.
Similarly, Coleman said in an
interview in July that switch-
ing to the Common Application
could make predicting the yield
more difficult for Ted Spencer, the
director of the Office of Under-
graduate Admissions.
"We need to sort of look at our
models again and figure out how
we're going to manage this again
because next year when we go to
the Common Application, every-
body predicts that we're going
to go up again (in applications),"
Coleman said. "We're going to test
Ted ,Spencer's ability to build his

class because you know it's going
to be a big challenge."
But another major challenge
University officials face is main-
taining growth in the number of
underrepresented minority stu-
dents at the University. This year
is the first year since 2003 that
the number of underrepresented
minority students increased as
a percentage of the total student
population, and the first year
since 2005 it increased as a real
number.
But in a statement released this
morning, Lester Monts, the senior
vice provost for academic affairs
at the University, said this year's
data demonstrates that the Uni-
versity is continuing to uphold its
mission.
"Since its earliest years, the
University of Michigan has
offered an uncommon education
to the leaders and the best among
the men and women of this state
and far beyond," Monts said in a
statement, speaking to the high
academic caliber of the incoming
class. "We have upheld that tradi-
tion with this exceptional enter-
ing class."
Legal restrictions like the state-
wide ban on affirmative action
approved byvoters in2006, paired
with the University's rigorous
standards, are both realities that
admissions officers must face
when considering who to admit to
the University.
"There's no guarantee that
we can do anything when you
can't use race as one of your fac-
tors," Spencer said in an inter-
view last year. "But we're going
to do everything we can to start
early outreach programs, identi-
fying students in the ninth, tenth
grade."
Along with Spencer, numerous
University officials - including
both Coleman and Hanlon - have
repeatedly told The Michigan
Daily that the University must
continue to work toward building
a more diverse student body.
"It's concerning to us," Coleman
said at this time last year of the
decreases experienced in under-
represented minority enrollment.
"I don't think there's a silver bul-
let, but we have to be more aggres-
sive."
Among those efforts are numer-
ous outreach and awareness pro-
grams, as well as ongoing efforts
by University leaders like E. Roys-
ter Harper, vice president for stu-
dent affairs, and Dean of Students
Laura Blake Jones to help improve
the campus climate for current
and potential studen s.


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 26, 2010 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 26, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
BRAMPTON, ONTARIO
Canadian to go to
prison for leading
terrorism plot
The ringleader of a homegrown
Canadian terrorist group has been
sentenced to 16 years in prison for
leading a terror cell plotting to
attack Canada's Parliament build-
ings, electrical grids and nuclear
stations.
Fahim Ahmad had pleaded
guilty in May mid-trial to partici-
pating in a terrorist group, import-
ing firearms and instructing his
co-accused to carry out an activity
for a terroristcgroup. .
Justice Fletcher Dawson handed
down the sentence yesterday.
Ahmad and 17 others were
arrested and charged with terror-
ism offenses in 2006. The group
became known as the Toronto 18.
The jury had been told Ahmad
was the leader of the terror cell and
held two training camps to assess
his recruits' suitability.
WASHINGTON D.C.
Homeland Security
nears decision on
virtual fence
The Homeland Security Depart-
ment is close to a decision on what's
next for a costly, problem-plagued
"virtual fence" ordered by Con-
gress four years ago to help secure
the U.S.-Mexico border.
What was supposed to be a
fence of integrated technology to
keep watch on most of the nearly
2,000-mile border has ended up
in use across about 53 miles of the
Arizona-Mexico border at a cost of
at least $15 million a mile.
In a report this week, the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office said
DHS has committed $1.2 billion for
the project, known as SBInet, and
inadequately managed it.
"A way forward on the future of
SBInet is expected shortly and will
be fully briefed to Congress when
ready," Matthew Chandler, DHS
spokesman, said Friday.
The border fence project and its
contractor, Boeing Co., have been
repeatedly criticized in GAOreports
for delays and cost overruns.
NEW YORK CITY
As bedbugs creep
out NYC, tourists
crawl away
New York City's bedbugs have
climbed out of bed and marched
into landmarks like the Empire
State Building, Bloomingdale's and
Lincoln Center, causing fresh anxi-
ety among tourists who are cancel-
ing Big Apple vacations planned for
the height of the holiday season.
Some travelers who had
arranged trips to New York say
they are creeped out about staying
in hotels and visiting attractions
as new reports of bedbugs seem to
pop up every few days. And officials

in Mayor Michael Bloomberg's
administration are concerned
about the effect on the city's image
and $30 billion tourism industry.
The discoveries of pests at
high-profile places are often not
full-blown infestations, or even
in public areas. Bloomingdale's
reported finding exactly one bug in
the famous department store, the
Empire State Building had them in
the basement and Lincoln Center's
were in a dressing room.
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.
Former hiccupping
girl charged with
murder
A teenage girl who became
famous after hiccuping uncontrol-
lably for weeks has been charged
with luring a man to a house where
he was robbed and fatally shot.
Jennifer Mee, 19, of St. Peters-
burg and two others are charged
with first-degree murder in the
death of Shannon Griffin, 22, on
Saturday.
Mee's unusual condition landed
her on NBC's "Today Show" in
2007 and got her a hug from coun-
try star Keith Urban.
But her life fell into disarray
when the hiccups finally stopped
five weeks after they started. She
ran away from home twice and her
family has sued a hiccup cure com-
pany for allegedly using her image
for profit without permission.
-Compiled from
Daily wjre reports

ARMSTRONG
From Page 1
Armstrong has remained relatively
quiet onthe issue, but did appear on
Anderson Cooper360 to discuss the
situation.
In the personal protection order
petition filed with the court, Arm-
strong wrote that Shirvell posed "a
threat to my own personal safety"
and that Shirvell had protested at
events Armstrong attended. Arm-
strong added that Shirvell had
called Speaker of the U.S. House
of Representatives Nancy Pelosi's
office during his summer internship
to speak with his supervisor about
his membership in Order of Angell
- a senior honor society on campus
with a controversial past.
In a statement released lastnight,
U. Ashwin Patel - Armstrong's
attorney - explained Armstrong's
dismissal of his petition for a PPO.
"The petition for a personal
protection order was dismissed
by Chris Armstrong because he
received assurance that he will no
longer be contacted by Andrew
Shirvell," Patel wrote. "At this time,
Chris would like to focus on his
classes, finishinghis senioryear and
his work with MSA."
Philip Thomas, Shirvell's attor-
ney, said in an interview yesterday
that though Armstrong has been
portrayed as the victim, he believes
Shirvell is the true victim.

"I really believe that my client
has turned out to be a victim of
the liberal media," Thomas said. "I
looked at all the Anderson Cooper
tapes ... nobody ever said 'Oh there
should be a hearing, a determina-
tion should be made as to whether
this is legitimate or not."
Thomas continued, "This is the
United States of America, we have
a right to free speech. If the stan-
dard applied in this case were to
applied in our society, then Presi-
dent Obama could go and get a PPO
against Rush Limbaugh or the Tea
Party or against any of the different
political action groups and that's
not what PPOs were designed or
intended to protect against."
Thomas added he didn't feel the
circumstances warranted a PPO
because Armstrong said in a police
report that he was feeling "some-
what harassed" by Shirvell.
"That's not what PPO law is
designed and intended to guard
against, not somebody feeling
somewhat harassed," Thomas said.
"It's designed to protect people who
have been threatened and who have
had people show up at their work
and sending them text messages
and all of that."
Thomas also said he feels the dis-
missal of the PPO petition, which he
called a "fair outcome," should lead
to the withdrawal of the Univer-
sity's trespass order againstShirvell
and disciplinary hearing with the
state that is scheduled for Nov. 5.

The University's Department
of Public Safety issued a trespass
warning for Shirvell on Sept. 14,
banning him from the University's
Ann Arbor campus. Prior to the ban
from campus, Shirvell protested at
several events where Armstrong
was in attendance, including at a
Michigan Student Assembly meet-
ing during which he called on Arm-
stronglto resign.
DPS spokeswoman Diane Brown
confirmed this morning that the
trespass warning is still active. She
said the ban from campus could
only be lifted after a review of the
warning in a meeting between DPS
Chief Ken Magee and Shirvell.
Brown said Shirvell requested
such a meeting shortly after the
trespass warning was issued, but
that it has not been scheduled and
that Magee is currentlyout of town.
Thomas said yesterday that he is
not happy with the lack of progress
in moving the appeal forward to
lift the trespass order on Shirvell.
However,hesaidhehopesthewith-
drawal of the petition for PPO will
help expedite the process, though
he said he's not sure it will.
"I would like to see the U of M
say, 'Hey, we're going to dismiss
this notice and we're going to dis-
miss it because the application for
a PPO was dismissed or we're going
to expedite it,"' Thomas said. "But
while I want to see those things
happen, I can't say for sure that it is
going to happen."

A1
4---------


FULBRIGHT
From Page 1
University officials focused on
globalization in their self-study
during its decennial reacredita-
tion process last year and Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman
has developed a challenge to double
the number of students who have an
international experience while at
theUniversity.
"Some of our strongest students
are applying for Fulbrights and
being successful," Hanlon said.
In a press release issued yester-
day, several other University offi-
cials echoed Hanlon's satisfaction
with the performance of students in
the Fulbright competition.
Ken Kolman, the acting direc-
tor of the University's International
Institute and the acting vice provost
for international affairs, said in the
REGENTS
From Page 1
to help the University sustain its
resources.
Both Democratic candidates said
they would focus on implementing
newtuition plans if elected.
Lazzerin's speech focused less on
finances and instead on the atmo-
sphere she would aim to create for
students, if elected. Drawing on her
experience doing service work with
Detroit youth, Lazzarin said she
would be able to effectively focus
on students' needs. She added that
she also would promote an envi-
ronment that is supportive of free
speech and creativity.
Stephens, who previously ran in
2002, said if elected, he would work
to make the University more afford-
able and accessible for students.
Asked about the most important
challenges for the University in the
upcoming years, Stephens spoke
again about the importance of
reducing tuition costs as well as
the importance of increased faculty
engagement.
Brown said he believes the Uni-
versity will meet many financial
obstacles, which the regents and
faculty can overcome by having
more of a public presence and advo-
cating for public funding. State
legislators voted to cut funding for
public universities by 2.8 percent
last month.
Newman said that though the
biggest challenge facingthe regents
in the upcoming term will be deal-
ing with the University's finances,
the cost-cutting measures that offi-
cials have already started putting
into place will help the University
maintainits stable finances.
Richner also focused on the Uni-
versity's financial struggles, but
added that the University must still
work to maintain its prestigious
academic reputation.
A question from a faculty mem-
ber shifted the conversation from
finances to diversity atthe Universi-
ILLNESS
From Page 1
Fitzgerald went on to say that
the health department took the lead
on this case, because the soror-
ity house is off-campus. They
will conclude tests and be able to
confirm the cause of the illnesses
within the week, he said.

For now, the health department
is conducting interviews of those
affected by the illness and taking
inventory of what the people ate
in order to figure out the cause of

press release that the high number
of Fulbrigbt recipients at the Uni-
versity reflects the quality of the
Universityoverall.
"The number of Fulbright grants
speaks to the caliber of our stu-
dents and their passion for interna-
tional research and study," Kolman
said. "Our success in earning these
reflects Michigan's commitment
to fostering global and cultural
exchanges."
Kelly Peckens, who directs the
Fubright Program advising at the
University's International Institute,
praised the student recipients in the
same press release.
"These students have worked
tremendously hard to prepare their
projects, and we are very proud to
have them represent U-M across the
globe," Peckens said. "Our grantees
are researching some of the world's
most pressing issues with optimism
and sensitivity."
ty. Addressing a question about the
promotion of racial diversity in the
future, all candidates agreed that
diversity is an importantcpart of the
University experience.
"I feel we have almost a sacred
obligation to truly have a racially
diverse campus and truly give all
students from all our neighbor-
hoods in the state and around the
country a chance to matriculate
here," Brownsaid.
Brown said he feels a change in
the admissions policy would bring
the needed diversity to campus. He
added that the University should
also work harder to recruit a more
diverse faculty body.
Newman and Richner both
claimed the University has done
well in promoting diversity thus far,
despite the state-wide ban on using
affirmative action in admissions.
"I think we've done a good job in
dealing with Proposal 2 and taking
a holistic approach towards admis-
sions, and the record is improving
and on the rightctrack," he said.
Stephens said he feels that while
the University is doing a good job
attracting minority students, the
actual retention rates are very low.
Though he said he feels this is a
nationwide trend, reducing the
cost of tuition should help increase
retention rates, he said.
SLOTTOW TALKS COST
CUTTINGMEASURES
Tim Slottow, the University's
executive vice president and
chief financial officer, told Senate
Assembly members yesterday that
officials are continuing to balance
cost-cutting measures to reduce
the University's financial risk.
Slottow said officials are focus-
ing on cost controls, diversifying
revenue streams and continuing
to invest in buildings on campus,
while trying to evaluate the Uni-
versity's internal workings.
"We're both working from top-
down and bottom-up to ensure
that even the detailed financial
contamination, Fitzgerald said.
The sorority house - located at
718 Tappan St. - has been thor-
oughly cleaned and the Univer-
sity has advised students to stay
away from others who are sick,
wash their hands and cover up
their mouths when they cough
in order to minimize contamina-
tion.
Chapter Advisor Susan Lcus

wrote in an e-mail interview that
sorority officials are not sure yet
what caused the sicknesses.
Taylor Robinson, a sopho-
more in Delta Delta Delta, said

And while the record number of
student recipients is good news for
the University, an analysis of Ful-
bright Scholar grants - given to
faculty members - provides a more
sobering statistic.
Asked about the University's
performance in securing Fulbright
Scholar grants, Hanlon said he
knew it was an issue, but that he
wasn't in a position to comment on
it.
"All I can say is I noted that as
well and I want to try to understand
that better," Hanlon said.
University professors netted only
five Fulbrgh Scholar awards, paling
in comparison to many other univer-
sities. Harvard University led the
pack of faculty receiving Fubright
awards, netting 38 grants. The Uni-
versity of California at Berkley and
Columbia University followed close
behind, earning24 and 23 Fulbrights
for faculty, respectively.
transactions as well as the larger
broad ones you may hear of have
a continuous focus on continuous
improvement in reducing the risk
to protect both the financial and
reputational risk of the Univer-
sity," Slottow said.
Using a disciplined budget
strategy, Slottow said the Uni-
versity is working to cut millions
of dollars from its next operating
budget. The cuts include ratio-
nalizing information technology
services, condensing office duties
and streamlining facilities main-
tenance.
Slottow added that these cuts,
like with the custodial services,
may take a while to be implement-
ed, because the University does
not want to disturb daily research
and teaching activities.
"It will take us a while to get to
a point where we can provide com-
modity-type basic services to folks
in a less expensive way but also
not have it affect your research or
your ability to teach, hopefully to
enhance it," he said.
Looking at an overview of the
University's budget, Slottow said
there is still a "healthy relation-
ship" between total assets and
total liabilities. But, he added
that the amount of liabilities has
recently increased due to a new
$1.6 billion addition for post-
retirement health care.
other threats to the Univer-
sity's budget include increased
post-retirement benefits, increas-
ing health care costs, the chang-
ing nature of capital markets and
general building energy and main-
tenance, Slottow said.
To alleviate these threats,
Slottow said the University
recently finished a dependent eli-
gibility health benefit audit, which
removed 914 dependents from the
University's health care plan.
Slottow said he feels the Uni-
versity can gain more capital by
investing in campus buildings in a
"thoughtful" and "sophisticated"
way.
the members of the sorority have
been asked not to comment on the
issue until they know more.
As of yesterday afternoon,
Fitzgerald said there were no new
cases reported.
The last major outbreak of
norovirus occurred at the Ross
School of Business shortly after
the completion of its construc-
tion in January. Ten people who

had eaten at the Siegle Cafe
and 13 of the caf's workers fell
ill and reported intestinal and
stomach issues characteristic of
the virus.


4 - Tuesday, October 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

Jb 1J*i4 igan 0aith
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ELAINE MORTON

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Let there be light
Lighting needs to be improved for student safety
afety is an important concern for students, whether they
are on or off campus. And adequate street lighting is essen-
tial to keep students safe. Earlier this month, the Ann
Arbor City Council decided against plans decrease city street
lighting. It's important that the city continues to recognize the
importance of streetlights by implementing policies that improve
lighting to protect residents - both student and year-round -
rather than reduce it to save money. And it is the responsibility
of the Michigan Student Assembly to represent students' inter-
ests. City Council must work with MSA to improve off-campus
lighting without overspending to maintain this important safety
measure for students.

RlOW Yot'c~l" Vosti8
ryd ReCA &C.tI +s '
A APocerNTLitemnton
'AKf300K
CL A ss ?,iNa " F
hen I get on a plane, I've ple. This viewpoint is far from being liams for his remarks, the move back-
gotta tell you if I see people worthy of termination. fired - within a day of his remarks,
who are in Muslim garb, The day after the decision to ter- according to a Oct. 21 report in the
and I think, you minate Williams, Vivian Schiller, Los Angeles Times, Williams signed
know, that they're NPR's President and CEO, added fuel a hefty $2-million contract with Fox
identifying them- to the fire. Speaking about Williams's News, whose executives were eager
selves first and firing, Schiller argued that "his feel- to cash-in on the controversy. It's
foremost as Mus- ings that he expressed on Fox News a fitting conclusion to a story that
lims, I get worried, are really between him and his, you highlights the worrying state of our
I get nervous." know, psychiatrist or his publicist." domestic media institutions.
These were the If Williams crossed the line with
caustic remarks his statements, Schiller's remarks
by Juan Williams, jumped well past it. Her suggestion
National Public TOMMASO that Williams either has psychologi- Diverse opinions
Radio news ana- PAVONE cal problems or made the statement
lyst, during a guest as part of a publicity stunt was of are essential for
appearance on Fox poor taste at best.
News's O'Reilly Yet, Schiller's remarks begin to good journalism .
Factor last week. Two days later, he expose the real reason Williams was
was on the phone with Ellen Weiss, terminated. Appearing on NPR last
Senior Vice President for News at Friday to discuss the firing, journal-
NPR. "That crosses the line," Wil- ist Richard Prince said that Williams Over the past decade, the media has
liams recounts her saying. Shortly had become "a headache" for NPR. become increasingly polarized politi-
thereafter, Weiss informed Williams, He argued that Williams was termi- cally. It's in this light that Williams's
an 11-year NPR veteran, that there nated because NPR was in the middle termination is most concerning. Now,
would be no discussion - NPR had of a pledge drive and, more impor- NPR has lost one of its more moderate
terminated his contract. tantly, because of Williams's associa- voices and has thereby reinforced alle-
At first, it would appear that NPR tion with Fox News. "You can't serve gations of the organization's liberal
made the right decision. But Wil- two masters," Prince concluded. bias and allowed Fox News to exploit
liams' statement needs to -be contex- Now, I'm no fan of Fox News, and the situation. The real loser, in this
tualized. After his remark, O'Reilly I realize that many of NPR's donors case, is us - a public that's left to rely
responded that Williams's anxiety were upset with Williams's remarks, on mediasources that are increasingly
was the reason why it's fair to say but diversity of opinion is vital for bound by political ideology instead of
"Muslims attacked us on 9/11." That's journalism. journalistic principles.
when Williams retorted, "Hold on... Asra Nomani, a visiting professor When diversity of opinion dies,
becauseifyou said Timothy McVeigh, of journalism at Georgetown Univer- journalism dies with it. Journalism
the Atlanta bomber, these people who sity who also discussed Williams's requires a lot more than just news
are protesting against homosexuality firing on NPR, seems to agree. "What reporting - it needs analysis and
at military funerals... you don't say Juan Williams expressed," Nomani debate, which in turn, calls for a vari-
first and foremost 'we've got a prob- said, "is the sentiment of many peo- ety of perspectives. While it's too late
lem with Christians,' that'd be crazy." ple, including Muslims ... I believe, for NPR to ask Williams to return -
Clearly, Williams's statements unfortunately, that NPR short-cir- I don't foresee him giving up a two-
lacked finesse - a costly omission cuited a conversation that we really million dollar paycheck - there is
when discussing sensitive issues. Nev- need to be having." an important lesson to be lear-ned
ertheless, any careful observer will Indeed, NPR has found itself from his firing. sometimes it's best
realize that Williams wasn't being a defending Williams's termination to engage, rather than to denounce,
bigot. Rather, he was making the case rather than engaging in a construc- those with whom we disagree.
that while we should be aware of our tive dialogue regarding religion, ter-
own bias, we should refrain from pro- rorism and xenophobia. Further, if it - Tommaso can be reached
jecting it onto an entire group of peo- was NPR's objective to punish Wil- at tpavone@umich.edu.

0

According to an Oct. 5 AnnArbor.com
article, City Council voted at its Oct. 4
meeting to repeal a plan that would turn'
off 17 percent of city streetlights. Their
decision came following complaints from
residents who were affected by the pilot
program. With the plan, the city would
turn off lights based upon a 1970s study on
the smallest amount of lighting required
for safe driving. The move was intended
to save the city about $120,000 annually in
energy costs. The city has decided to move
forward with other money saving plans,
such as using more LED lighting in the city,
according to an Oct. 21 Daily article.
While all students must be smart about
their safety, college-aged women are par-
ticularly vulnerable. Especially here in
Michigan, where it's dark by late afternoon
in the winter months, quality lighting is
vital. Improved lighting not only makes
these students feel more secure - as con-
firmed by the pilot program - but it also
helps them be aware of their surroundings
and potential threats,.
But costs must be taken into consider-
ation, too. Switching to LED lights is one
way to save money in the long term and
also become more environmentally friend-
ly. Installation of LED lighting is already
underway in some areas and it's important
that the city continues to invest in this

smart lighting option.
And to increase lighting around the
town, the city should also encourage local
business owners to switch to LED lighting.
Using cheaper lights may make business
owners more likely to leave lights on lon-
ger after the end of business hours, which
would make the city brighter and safer.
LED lights cost less to fuel and could pay
for themselves in the long term.
Students travel on foot more than the
average Ann Arbor resident, and City
Council needs accommodate students'
need for safer streets. It's the Michigan
Student Asssembly's responsibility repre-
sent students and work with City Council
to encourage the installation of more lights
throughout the city in areas frequently
traveled by students. For years, MSA presi-
dents have promised to work with City
Council to improve off-campus lighting,
but these promises haven't come to frui-
tion. In fact, the LSA Student Government
has managed to make more progress on
the issue than MSA. MSA must put student
safety at the top of its to-do list.
While saving money is important, cut-
ting city lighting is not a safe option. City
Council, with the help of MSA, should
work to improve the quality of lighting in
the city and help students and year-round
residents alike stay safe.

Reevaluate femininity

-the
podium

Seeing Red: Kylie Kagen takes a look at John
Dennis, the Republican candidate giving U.S. House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi a run for her money.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Podium.

ADRIANNA BOJRAB
Commit to reducing waste

In Sanskrit, "darshan" means "vision." How
befitting this is, as Dashan Karwat, a Rackham
third year Ph.D. student in the aerospace engi-
neering program has devoted one year of his
life producing little to no waste, including recy-
clables. Karwat began this lifestyle metamor-
phosis on March 29 after realizing how wasteful
his lifestyle was. Darshan, a humble and focused
individual, is not looking to gain notoriety
through his pursuits. Karwat was born in New
Jersey, but his family originates from India. He is
currently studying "the environmental impact of
alternative fuels in aviation through experimen-
tal combustion studies, and regulatory policy for
air pollutants," according to a Rackham student
spotlight.
His commitment is rooted in his passion for
creating a more sustainable environment. He
has produced between one and two pounds of
waste in the past six months, includingrecycling
products. The average person creates 821 lbs of
waste in the same amount of time. His humble
experience is quietly chronicled through his
online blog, entitled "Minimizing Entropy,"
enabling many to follow and support him on his
daily pursuits. His minimalistic approach to life
is "refusal," he simply rejects the idea of becom-
ing a part of the waste problem that is negatively
affecting life around us.
Living in Ann Arbor, many of us choose to
support the local community by buying our
groceries from the farmers market and skip-
ping food packaging, which amounts a large
portion of the waste we create each year.
Though many people opt to recycle packaging,
and it does prove to be the lesser of two evils,
recycling still generates excess waste.
Committing to limit this waste altogether
would be the better option. Karwat was recently
quoted in an Oct. 10 AnnArbor.com article say-
ing "recyclingis something people doto feel good
about consumption. Rather than simply buy less
or use what you have, you can feel that you're
doing your part when you recycle." He is abso-
lutely right. Karwat describes his experience as

simply a change in consciousness. The more con-
scientious people are of their individual choices,
the morethey can impact the world around them.
I am an ardent practitioner of yoga. Yoga
teaches Ujai Breath, a sort of "ocean-like"
sound, bringing a sense of awareness and a
burning focus. When I find myself in challeng-
ing situations, I focus on my breath, utilizing
a new sense consciousness of a traditionally
involuntary practice, breathing. Though it
takes practice, it is possible to bring awareness
to even the most involuntary practices, like
breathing - and waste.
Waste is automatic, involuntary, something
that few of us have reflected upon. We have
always chucked things into the garbage, never
daring to think how it may be affecting our
Earth. Filling up landfills and polluting our
air, we can no longer ignore the detrimental
effects. However, if you employ a new sense
of consciousness, you can reverse this vicious
cycle. Though most of us aren't as extreme, and
will not commit to producing no waste in the
next year, we can do small things to reduce our
consumption and minimize our guilt.
Investing in a metal coffee mug or glass
water bottle is a good first step to reduce the
hundreds of paper cups, plastic bottles, lids
and insulators we students rely on each day. In
addition, many local coffee places will discount
your total as an incentive for green living.
Even the smallest of changes, like dishtowels
instead of paper towels and bringing your own
bags to the market, can be beneficial. We can
be the generation to turn the tables on the lazy
practices of waste. The more conscious we are,
the more successful we will be in our every-
day efforts. Karwat even carries his own set
of silverware to restaurants. Make a commit-
ment and stick to it. Live intentionally by chal-
lenging yourself to make one environmentally
friendly decision a day and renew a sense of
focus back to a thoughtless ritual, waste.
Adrianna Bojrab is an LSA junior.

y picture of the world has
always looked a bit rosier
than the picture I was
shown in my history textbooks and
sociology classes.
I tend to believe
that I am a part of
a community of
people who would
never stand as an
obstacle in my pur-
suit of a good life.
But I'm just start-
ing to gain aware-
ness of the subtle, LIBBY
yet powerful, chal- ASHTON
lenges I stand to
face that have
nothing to do with
the more commonly discussed prob-
lems plaguing our generation. I am
a woman and though the odds aren't
stacked against me quite like they
were 50 years ago, our society is still
a long way from gender neutrality.
A basic sociological understand-
ing of gender teaches that men are
the advantaged group. Their pursuit
of power and leadership is compat-
ible with the norm, making it easier
for a man to succeed in such a pursuit
while those of us who diverge from
that archetypal image of the "Person
in Control" have to do what we can to
legitimize ourselves in the world of
power.
The women on the television
series "Mad Men," who personify the
efforts of 1960s women to legitimize
their role in the workplace, ended
the show's fourth season recogniz-
ing how fruitless their attempts at
working the system had been. Joan
(the advertising firm's sexually iconic
office manager) said to Peggy (the
eager young copywriter who des-
perately wants to earn a name for
herself at the firm) on their way out
of the office, "I'm just a meaning-
less secretary and you're a humor-
less bitch." Though much progress
has been made since the time period

when Joan and Peggy were scratch-
ing at the glass ceiling, women still
struggle with the social weight their
gender carries.
"The Fashion Conservatives," a
recent article in The New York Times,
explored the two modes by which
Joan and Peggy achieved power - to
rely on their femininity or strip them-
selves of it entirely - in the context
of politics today. The article con-
trasted Sarah Palin's "conventionally
feminine" look with Hillary Clinton's
decades-in-the-making collection of
pantsuits. While a handful of female
Republican politicians have taken
Palin's cue to dress up the battle gar-
ments and lead the Tea Partiers for-
ward, the rest of the women in politics
"adhere to a rigid, patently dated style
that has the allure of a milk carton," as
the Times article puts it
Clinton'sconvictionto keepherfem-
ininity wholly separate from her public
persona led herto decline an invitation
to appear in Vogue during the 2008
presidential election. Anna Wintour,
Vogue's editor in chief, responded to
Clinton's decision with an angry edi-
tor's letter, saying "the notion that a
contemporary woman must look man-
nish in order to be taken seriously is
frankly dismaying." But it appears as
though Clinton may have been onto
something, as the political women who
have decided to don their ruffles are -
coincidentally or not - taken perhaps
the least seriously of all.
Barneys New York's creative direc-
tor, Simon Doonan, was quoted in the
article arguing that "flamboyance
and politics are mutually exclusive."
While he likely consciously used the
term "flamboyance" to refer to fash-
ion, it could be taken to refer to any-
thing that explicitly diverges from
masculinity as a standard trait among
people in power. So it seems that a
woman - or even a gay man - can
successfully achieve power as long
she (or he) walks, talks and dresses
like the men who traditionally hold
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:

the positions they're after.
My own awareness of my struggle
to be taken seriously as a woman
developed only in the last couple of
years, after I decided to concentrate
in a subject matter that is largely
male-dominated. For the first time in
my academic career, I feel reserved
about raising my hand in one of my
philosophy classes because my man-
ner of speech is entirely different
from that of three fourths of the class
and my GSI. I often find myself think-
ing about how to condense my com-
ment into as few words as possible,
while working to speak much slower
and at a lower register than what
feels natural.
There's still a long
way to go for
women's rights. *
A friend of mine recalled her
mindset during her semester in
Washington, D.C. She employed
the hyper-feminine route, feeling
committed to looking beautiful and
"exceptionally womanly" to make
her stand out among the men in suits
around her. Though she felt able to
express her femininity in a profes-
sional setting rather than feeling
forced to tuck it away, she wasn't able
to simply be without thinking about
what to do with her gender identity.
The march toward gender neutrality
in the public sphere is long-running
and I celebrate the distance we've
travelled. Still, I believe my pretty
picture of the world is attainable -
but only if we recognize the imper-
fections of the picture of today.
- Libby Ashton can be reached
at eashton@umich.edu.

Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis,
Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 26, 2010 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 26, 2010 - 5

Internet to TV's rescue

COURTESY OF ARNER BOS.
"Personwhoneedsanewkitchensayswhat." "What?"C
Unhappily 'Hereafter'

Easi
ca

"Her
Clint Ea
Airea
it's madt
the he
ing fact
tell
("tnvict
ly thoug
a great
is to sa
be cert
watchin
nothing
and dec
even mo
has esse
Eastv
as epic,
as "Un
"Letters
lion Do
Even tl
women
vated b
nally m
show bi
and pro
Eastwo
about t
* the gro

twood's disaster enjoyed.
But "Hereafter" is so egregiously
n't be saved by over-directed and didactic, it even
manages to make Matt Damon's
Matt Damon ("Green Zone") character unrelat-
able - something few directors
By BEN VERDI have been able to do. While East-
Daily Arts Writer wood has been known, and award-
edby the Academy, for his relatively
eafter" is the worst movie heavy-handed directorial style, this
astwood has ever made. film is an example of what happens
dy a dud, when the man in charge has had so
e worse by much success it becomes impos-
eartbreak- sible for anyone else to tell him that
you can Hereafter he's making a terrible mistake, or
Eastwood that his project is going nowhere.
us") real- At Quality16 The film follows people with
ght he did and Rave near-death experiences who return
job. That Watter Bros. to their normal lives only to find
y, we can out they can still communicate
:ain after with and be influenced by the dead.
ig this film that there was And it's so full of possibilities for
Eastwood didn't oversee interesting dramatic turns and rev-
ide himself, which makes it elations that it almost seems like an
re depressing that the movie accomplishment in itself to turn a
ntially no message at all. story with this plotline into some-
wood has been behind films thing so boring.
profound and successful There are intriguing moments at
forgiven," "Mystic River," the film's outset, but the only poten-
s from Iwo Jima," "Mil- tially meaningful memories you'll
llar Baby" and "Invictus." leave with have to do with the com-
hough he's 80 years old, plexity and pain underneath the
still find themselves capti- tough exterior of Damon's charac-
y his grizzly voice and eter- ter - a tension in male protagonists
asculine aura. Most men in that Eastwood knows how to high-
usiness - actors, directors light no matter how uninteresting
ducers - probably look at the story. Sadly, Damon is only on
od's IMDb page and dream screen one third of the time, and
asting just one ounce of when he isn't you'll find it hard to
undbreaking success he's keep your eyes open.

The people who have had near-
death encounters are conflicted
about their experiences and new-
found abilities in different ways,
with Damon's situation being the
most interesting. He has had this
supernatural talent for most of his
life and has grown to think of it as
more of a curse. When people find
out how serious his spooky abili-
ties are, they routinely run from
him, and he's lived a lonely life
because of it.
Regrettably, Damon's conflicted
relationship with his past, which is
the only mildly entertaining aspect
of the movie's three interwoven
plotlines, doesn't end up teaching
us anything. Nor are we provided
any tangible sense of closure with
the ending. "Hereafter" is like a ter-
rible first draft of "The Sixth Sense"
that lacked direction and purpose
before rewrites.
For an Eastwood movie, it's sur-
prising how little there is to take
away. This film beats us over the
head, forcing us to listen to its mes-
sage for two hours but, once we
finally agree to listen, we're shown
how little the filmmakers actually
had to say with their latest project.
Eastwood no doubt wanted
"Hereafter" to spark questions
about what really happens- to us
when we die, and what it would be
like to talk to our loved ones from
beyond the grave. But all he man-
ages to do is show us that he hasn't
got many interesting opinions left.

elevision isn't easy to
define. When you think
about how the majority
of us watch our shows nowadays,
you realize
TVs often
aren't involved
at all. For bet-
ter or worse, '
television has
migrated to
the Internet,
and there have CAROLYN
been count- KLARECKI
less debates
as to how this
is affecting the industry (some
resulting in apocalyptic predic-
tions). Yet I feel there's an essen-
tial element to the future-of-TV
debate that's being missed by
many pundits. It isn't the move
from TV to Internet, but the
other way around.
Yes, the Internet is making its
way osnto your TV screen and has
been for a while, though with
little success. In 2007, Apple
released Apple TV. It wasn't
cute and tiny and couldn't be
controlled with a touch-screen
or dial, which probably explains
why I don't know anyone who
owns one, but a second-genera-
tion version was released earlier
this month (in true Apple fashion,
it's smaller and with more Gigs).
This little device lets you access
the Apple store, YouTube, Netflix
and Flickr directly from your TV,
which is nice for those who don't
have a magical HDMI cable.
There's speculation that this
re-release of Apple TV is due
in part to Google's latest foray
into the television industry with
Google TV. The project was
announced back in May and will
essentially let you surf the web
with your remote. You can google
things, you can watch TV and
you can google things while you
watch TV. Oh, and it comes with
apps. It seems pretty awesome.
or maybe it would, if the develop-

ment were going at all smoothly.
The TV industry clearly views
the Internet as a huge threat. The
Internet is the really cool cheer-
leader to TV's geeky chess player
and TV feels left in the shadow of
the Internet's spotlight. You can't
really expect TV to be thrilled
about sharing the only thing it
has that the Internet doesn't: the
actual box.
And because of this, the broad-
cast networks are giving Google
one hell of a time at getting this
project up and running. In an
article in Friday's Wall Street
Journal, it was reported that
ABC, CBS and NBC are blocking
their programming that is nor-
mally available on a web browser
from being played on Google TV.
Not being able to watch the best
TV on your TV will definitely
throw a wrench in the plans. It's
also been reported that Hulu
plans on opting out of Google TV,
making the technology pretty
close to worthless.
Why won't the
networks let
Google do them
a solid?
So the TV-versus-Internet
struggle continues. Yes, watching
TV online is awesome and conve-
nient. No, it's not making signifi-
cant money for the TV industry,
which still depends primarily on
advertising sales. Yes, it's single-
handedly causing the cancellation
of great shows. But come on - it's
awesome and convenient! So now
throw in the twist of Internet on
your TV. Yes, maybe TV deserves
(or even needs) a safe haven away
from the web, but this might be
the only way people will use their

television sets, though in all hon-
esty, it's not likely.
I don't know what the net-
works are getting all worked up
over. Google TV doesn't seem
that great to me. It offers noth-
ing new that I can't already do
on the Internet for free. The only
new advantage is not having to
balance my computer on my lap
while watching TV. Nevermind
the fact that keyboards and
mice are way easier to use than
a remote. Though Google has a
Midas touch these days, so who
really knows what will happes?
Even if the technology is suc-
cessful - and again, I honestly
don't know why it would be - the
worst it could do is encourage
people to sit in front of their tele-
vision sets some more and that's
not abad deal for the TV net-
works. Imagine: You just got done
watching a YouTube video of a
dog doing parkour and you get
a hankering to watch "National
Dog Show" re-airings or remem-
ber that promo for "America's Got
Talent" with the zany animal act,
so you minimize your internet
screen and sift through the chan-
nel guide. The Internet could use
its power for good and bring some
life back to that box you only use
for movies and video games.
So at the end of the day, after
all the fence-riding and inner
conflict over the Internet's slow
slaughtering of television and the
undeniable convenience of online
streaming, Google's and Apple's
crazy new schemes remind us
that it's not all about the comput-
er screen anymore. TV is trying
to makea comeback. This whole
TV-Internet rivalry is changing
much too fast to keep predicting
the effects. I, for one, am sick of
the endless debate and will just
settle in for the ride.
Klarecki has a giant app for that.
To buy it from her giant app store,
e-mail her at cklareck@umich.edu.


Avey Tare tears it up on new disc

By DAVID RIVA
DailyArts Writer
An unfortunate consequence of
being part of a musical collective is
that a musician's
solo or side proj-
ects will often
be viewed as a
derivative by- AveyIare
product of his or Down There
her parent band. Paw Tracks
Such is the case
for groups like
Wolf Parade, Broken Social Scene
and The New Pornographers and
their many musical offshoots.
The members of Animal Col-
lective have fallen on both sides
of this paradigm throughout the
band's 10-year existence. Panda
Bear's 2007 release Person Pitch,
for instance, was universally
praised for its innovative fusion of
abstract electronic beats and bar-
bershop harmonies, while Avey
Tare's 2007 collaboration with
his wife on Pullhair Rubeye was
Things are
looking up on
'Down There.'
met with mixed reviews and was
stamped with the insultingly low
rating of 1.0/10 by Pitchfork.
On Down There, Avey Tare
debuts his first proper attempt at
a solo album (he did a split 12" in
2003, but it can only be found in
a physical format). The result is a
* hypnotic underwater journey of
looped drum tracks and aquatic
electronics.
The standout opener "Laugh-
ing Hieroglyphic" wastes no time
establishing Avey Tare's patented
sound of a disjointed beat backed
by a repetitive accordion, which
allows him to burst into a cathar-
tic contemplation about lions,
worms and "getting lost in the big
sound."
"3 Umbrellas" also plays to
many of Avey Tare's strengths

as an alternating organ and xylo-
phone track builds and he evenly
distributes his urgent vocals with
tribal harmonies in the back-
ground. However, the song refuses
to build or crescendo and no layers
are added to the initial track to add
texture. Instead, the song is cut off
by one of the album's most bother-
some features: Random soundclips
are inserted between tracks and
sometimes even in the middle of
songs. Basically, they have no real
purpose.
The album proves to be a bit
top-heavy as songs like "Cemeter-
ies" and "Heather In The Hospital"

suffer from a sleep-inducing down-
tempo vibe and too many random
voiceover injections.
"Oliver Twist" sports a thump-
ing 808 kick beat and contains the
best example of emotional vocal
performance from Avey Tare,
which is one of the album's most
intriguing components. Much of
Animal Collective's material con-
tains inaudible vocals oftentimes
shouted or screamed. On songs like
"Peacebone" and "Grass" frompast
AnCo albums, very little emphasis
is put on actual pure singing. Even
though Avey Tare's vocals are still
See AVEY TARE, Page 6


GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
Monday 10/25 - Friday 10/29
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
The sittingfee is just $15!
This price includes your portraitfeatured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu
, Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
YEARBOOK


6 - Tuesday, October 26, 2010
AVEY TARE
From Page 5
distorted at times on "Oliver
Twist," the song's most potent
moments come when he belts out
lines like, "It's hard to sit myself
down and just think about the
ocean" and "Shouldn't I be con-
tent with what I've got?" The fact
that these songs contain some
kind of tangible meaning outside
of the pure abstraction within
which Animal Collective nor-
mally operate signals a potential
change in at least one of AnCo's
members' entire approach toward
making music, which has been
previously hinted aton 2009'sFall
BeKind EP.
However, songs like the haunt-
ing "Ghost of Books" prove that
Avey Tare will probably never

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

write songs exclusively about
real-world, material things. He
repeats, "So I ran away with my
ghost, yeah," over and over as the
bassline and bubbly beats of the
song fade out.
As the firstfull-length release by
a member of AnCo since the astro-
nomically adored Merriweather
Post Pavilion, the measuring stick
for an Animal Collective side proj-
ect is at an all-time high. Avey
Tare's tribal ruminations on Down
There are as accessible as Merri-
weather,but not as contagious. The
hypnotic nature of most of Down
There's tracks is less appealing to
the ear than the layered texturing
that made Merriweather so. suc-
cessful. In the end, the songs on
Down There lay the groundwork
for compelling and transcendent
tracks, but they never build to any-
thing greater, leaving the listener
teased but unsatisfied.

Liz Phair returns to show she shouldn't rap

'Funstyle' features
industry anger and
identity crisis
By CASSIE BALFOUR
For the Daily
It would be easy to dismiss Liz
Phair's latest album Funstyle as
catastrophic.
Phair has spent
her career strug-
gling with her .
musical identity,
from her indie- Funstyle
darling persona Self-released
(Exile in Guyville)
to the slick,
generic pop-industry product she
became during her soul-sucking
foray with a major label (Liz Phair,
Somebody's Miracle). It has all led
to the release of the experimental
and often wacky Funstyle, but one
has to sift through the admittedly
scattershot album in order to find
the tracks that signal Phair's bom-
bastic return to her indie roots.
Opening track "Smoke" starts
out with Phair trilling over a
poppy electronic beat and then
segues into a cartoony skit, reveal-
ing that Phair knows her album
won't be well received with lines
like "It's career suicide, kaboom."
"Smoke" and the truly bizarre
"Bollywood" are infused with
zany skits and some truly mis-
guided spoken-word verses. In the
faux-Indian-infused "Bollywood,"

Phair bitterly "raps" about selling
out in order to feed her kid, which,
though not exactly pleasant to lis-
ten to, provides some context as
to why Phair would release such
a weird album. It is essentially a
middle finger to the music indus-
try that stifled and took advantage
of her.
The closing track "U Hate It"
also mocks the record executives
and the music industry. It features
voiceovers from record execs dis-
cussing how much they hate the
album while Phair croons indig-
nantly and makes terrible puns
("you're being a penis ... colada,
that is").
"You Should Know Me" is jar-
ring in that it's so radically differ-
ent from the nearly unlistenable
"Smoke" and "Bollywood." The
track is the kind of stripped-down,
slightly off-key song that made
Phair into an indie hit back in
the '90s. Another standout is the
funky, horn-infused jam "My, My,"
which finds the middle ground
between her charmingly out-of-
tune warbles and weird caricature
of music that blights Funstyle. Its
sexy swagger waxes nostalgic on
early work like Exile in Guyville,
but with a synthy overtone. She
sings with a smirky lilt "Could
have been a good girl, but I'm not,"
as if almost defying the listener to
dismiss her latest album.
"Bang! Bang!" is surprisingly
atmospheric, with Phair's voice
dreamily ricocheting. But this
experimental track doesn't totally


zR

0.

work. It starts to drag after a while,
despite having a richly textured
sound that with some tuning up
could be fantastic. In fact, that's an
inherent problem - it isn't polished
at all. It's messy and incoherent, yet
a refreshing departure from the
overly produced junk Phair was
releasing when she was still chas-
ing after mainstream success.
When Phair isn't getting caught
up in poor satire and distract-
ing listeners from the other more
promising tracks, she actually

COURTESY OF LIZ PHAIR
demonstrates impressive range.
From funky sounds to her earthier
girl-and-guitar vibe, Phair's tal-
ents occasionally manage to shine
beneath some of the muck. Fun-
style has Phair finally helming her
own ship, and she uses this new-
found creative freedom to explore
new sounds. Now that Phair has
had this little tantrum out of
her system and has shed her pop
sheen, she is free to reinvent her-
self as an independent songstress
- hopefully minus the rap.

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

FOR RENT
4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Reserve now
for 2011 (Spring or Fall). U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space for 2011 today with no
lease obligation. 2 blocks from Central
Campus and downtown. I to 4 bed-
room, private baths avail. Rates from
$660. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3800 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
625 Church St. 1734) 668-1100
Now Taking Reservations for
Fall 20101
1-5 bdrms & houses
See our 23 locations at
www.varsitymanagement.com

.em
PROPSRTY MANAGEmsNT
Olned and OV
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio -4 Bedrooms
CentralC al 'us L Downslow
rNorth iCampus r West Sde
Let Our Fam nily Take Care of'Yours
734.41 9300
www.amaborapartments.net
FALL 2011 6 br, 3 bath, fully remod-
eled, furnished $3500 248-798-4755
FALL 2011 FINE 6 bedroom house.
523 So. Fourth Ave, furn, dwshr, dis-
posal, launrdy, parking, central A/C,
high speed internet, hardwood floors,
alarm system, heat and water included.
734-662-7121 or gpmiles@aol.com
FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State St./Athletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., I
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
MAY AVAILABILITY 6 bedroom
$3275 rooms $600. 701 Catherine
(near kerrytown). 734-777-3687

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, October 26, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 6 Magazine VIP 36 Hobbling gait 48 Sch. founded by
1 Homey 7 Carved pole 37 Love handles, so Franklin
5 Boeing product 8 No more seats, to speak 49 Dietary standard
8 Shoulder wraps on a sign 38 Botanical branch often measured
14 Convese 8 Capital east of point in mg.
competitor Osloa, 42 Stings 53 NFL rushing nos.
15 Fuss 10 "Mysterious and 43 Companion 55 "Overhead"
16 Immensely spooky" TV 44 Purple shade engine part
popular family name 45 Worldwide: 56 Poetic pugilist
17 *"That's a 11 Ahab's quarry Abbr. 57"Man oate
certainty" 12 Start oneswork 46 Took the wheel Thouand Faces"
19 "Ripe" part of life day, maybe 47 Ecstatic film critic, Chaney
20 Ceremonial act 13 Angioplasty e.g. 58 Archvillain Luthor
21 Mousse user implant
2 oSay"Welldone," 18 Like muchfamily ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
say , history SETIH M OPS A L TA R
27 Ro k examiner? 22 enders, in f1ETAD TOJE POOL CT H
28 A seeming copspeak ILI AD T 0E P TCH
etemity 23 Enlightened
29 Q.E.D. word 24 Rumored S E S A M E K A S K I N
30 Bozo Himalayan beast B A N DW E A V E
31 Remark from 25 Word with group P N 0 I A N
Rex or pressure o A M E w I S E 6 0 P A
34*Cover the 26 Britishnobleman F R A N K D t n C U 5 5 f 0 N
night'scheck 27 SonofG o SE N A EAR ARGO
39 Function Bach cantata I
40 Suave to atfault 30 larion
41Lo -tongued 3fBolivianrange J E R RYR I G D
catoondog 32Stagecoach ELON SBA R O T A T E
42"Brave New controls REPOS S T A G P A R T Y
World"drug 33 Fuss KNELT E ON T U T OR
43 Obvious 35 Sign at a cul-de- Y A D D A N R A T V P E
46*Generate sales sac
leads xwordedftor@aol.com & 0/os
50 Knock one's 1 2 a 4 s 6 0 6 9 10 11 12 13
knuckles against ,4,,s
51 Nae sayer
52 To excess 7-
54 Attendance
check, and a hint 21
to the puzzle
theme inthefirst 22 23 240 2
words oftthe
starred answers
59 Blew off steam s a s1 32033
60 Doctor of music?
61 Skin lotion :4 m e3 so as
additiveI
62 Somed daaist 39 40
paintings 424 4 1
63 Venzon rval
64 Coquette 4 4 49 59
DOWN so1
1 Chard afemative
2 Egg cells 6 55526575
3 Chard altemative0
4 Himalayan beast 59
5 Chandler's 20 3 64
"Prien 5" -
girfriendith on 11,ncs,,Che
annoying laughb ().00 os.., tot.,iaSrcs,,,..I,.. 1=16/10

For Bet
Selection,
Reserve
TODAY!
Spring & Fall
ON CAMPUs, FRISHED
STUDIO, ,2 &3 BEDROOMS
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus
for 2011/2012
-we
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-763-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MCOM
INFO@U-TOWERS.COM
! EXCELLENT 6-BR, 2 Bath colonial
on Central campus(1143 S.forest Ave.).
5 mins walk to college with 2 Refriger-
ators/Microwave/Toaser/Sink/Free
laundry/Private deck/Free parking.
(MAY 2111)- Call 734 578 4625
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
tre/decor Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. Horvathroperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!!!!!2011/12 LEASING Has
Started!!!!!! Appointments to view be-
ginning Friday October 29th! Great lo-
cations throughout central campus!
Call 761-800 primesh.com
1109 S. State St.
Fall 20111
5 bedroom
w/ finished & basement
Varsity Management
(1341668-1100
wwwvarstymafagemntcom
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL houhe near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully fumished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free lundry,
central air, 734663-1370, ay leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Court $2340,
tenants pay all utilities call Cappo
Deinco 734-996-1991
526 Packard Rd.
Fall 2011
Brand new 3 bedrooms,
hardwood
Varsity Management
(7341668-1100
www.varsitmanagemenL.com

920 Dewey Ave.
Fall 2011
5 bedroom w/ finished
attic & basement
Varsity Management
11341668-1100
www.arsitmnagsmsnuc.m
FREE BUBBLE ISLAND TEA, with
every new tour. We are now taking
Reservations. For best selection come
in today, we sold out early last year.
Don't miss out on the Best of Central
Campus! We have Rooms, Studios, 1,
2 & 3 bedroom furnished apartments
for Spring/Fall 2011. Call us Today at
734-761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit us at: www.UniversityTowers-MI.-
com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1007 5. State. Faihed,
free landry, free parking.
$4300/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122NOW
*NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
921 PACKARD FALL '11 3 story 5
bdrm house for 6 furnished 3 full baths
3 kitchens laundry parking 7342721320
AMAZING NEWER PROPERTY-
located just 8 minutes N of Ann Arbor
has 2 & 3 BRfrom $585/mth. 971 -
1279 sq ft. 24 Hr Fitness Ctr, Pool,
Volleyball, Playground. Washer/Dryer
& 2 Full Baths in each home. Please
call 734.449.4213.
5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2011 *
www.Copiproperties.cOm
734-663-5609
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE 2011-
12 Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
* Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet! Call today
for an appointment to see! Prime Stu-
dent Housing 761-8011 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location
!**FALL20S1**! 5 to 9bdrm.
houses. Keysmanagement.ne
AVAIL Sept.'11 l&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill S.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 611-952-5269 or Email
louisbressan@ahy oo.com.
Rates Now Available
for Fall 2011-2012
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
" Central Campus locations
* *Fully Furnished
" *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com

uou r auru nu.
Fall 2011
Newly remodeled 5 bedroom,
hardwood
Varsity Management
1341668-1100
wmavrsitluanagsment.0cm
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealty.com
734-665-8825
WWW.S00FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
!NOW RESERVING FOR FALL
2015! 1 & 2 bedroom apartments. 3
bedroom house on Church. C & I Man-
agement, LLC. Call Patty 734-320-1245
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
848 Tappan Sts
Fall 2011 .
Remodeled bi-level
4 & 5 bedrooms
Varsity Management
1341668-1100
wwwmarsfilmanagelllsll~lom

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
2 UM PROFS seek babysitter for in-
fant boy. 3-4 daytime hours on each of
2 weekdays Wed/Fri preferred. Experi-
ence with infants required Bums Park,
close to central campus. richardande-
ve@gmail.com.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrn. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back-
ground for a major film production.
Earn up to $200/day. Experience not re-
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
FULL/PART-TIME SERVERS
needed at the Original Cottage Inn. Ap-
ply within Monday-Friday between 2
and 5. 512 E. William.
HAIR STYLISTS - MARK NINE
HAIR SALON - Seeking stylists to
rent booths or work commission call
734.761.8930 or email nesa@marknine-
haircom. WWW.MARKNINEHAIR.-
COM.
SALVATION ARMY OF Washtenaw
County is looking for Volunteers to
Ring the Bells for the Holiday Season!
Contact Gregory Keith@usc.salvation-
army.org to volunteer.
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & PUB now hiring individuals
for our kitchen staff and office staff.
Apply in person at 310 Maynard, Ann
Arbor. 734-995-10011.

ANN ARBOR FAMILY looking for
experienced, responsible, non-smoking
student for reg. afternoon childcare for
18 month old son. Must come w/ good
references. Regular Tues/Thurs after-
noons starting next semester, w/ more
flexible once/week options starting
ASAP. $12/hr. (734) 834-0375 or
Jane.glaer@gmailcom
OCCASIONAL BABYSITTER
NEEDED for 5 and 2 1/2 yr. old boys.
Email: a2babysitter@yahoo.com

3 BDRM 2 bath $1299/month washer
dryer 2 walk out patios fireplace NICE
Nov - April call Jeanne 734 775 5232
emaildialjdial@yahoo.com

HELP ME WIN my gf a ring VOTE
simongjewelry.com/sweepstakes/159

COLLEGE STUDENT STEALS -
SAVE BIG! Get the campus daily deal
sent directly to your cell phone! Just
TEXT WOLVERINES to 69302 for
college area exclusive special offers
and discounts!
MARK NINE HAIR SALON - 320
Miller, STE 175, Ann Arbor. Down-
town AA. Servicing all types of hair.
Bring in this ad & receive 25% off.
734.761.8931 or visit WWW.-
MARKNINEHAIRCOM
EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
SALVATION ARMY OF Washtenaw
County Hiring Seasonal Paid Bell
Ringers for the Holiday Season--734-
668-8353

- " 0
___"I aie


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 26, 2010

Muresan moves,
on to ITA finals
By IAN SHEETS of Notre Dame.
For the Daily Nguyen's run ended against
No. 6 Maria Mosolova of North-
Senior Denise Muresan has western.
continued her tremendous play Bolender won three straight-
after her semifinal run last set matches including a big win
weekend at the ITA All-Amer- against No. 73 Zara Harutyunyan
ican Tournament in California of Akron, to set up a quarterfinal
by making it to the finals of the matchup against Muresan.
USTA/ITA Midwest Champion- The match was character-'
ships this weekend. ized by long baseline rallies and
Along the way to the finals, fierce play by both Wolverines.
Muresan, the twelfth-ranked The freshman got off to the better
player in the nation, defeated start and took the first set, 6-1, but
players from Notre Dame and eventually Muresan's big-match
Northwestern, as well as fel- experience and consistency came
low Wolverine, sophomore Mimi through as she took the next
Nguyen, to set upa clash between two sets for a 1-6, 6-3, 6-1 win. It
the tournament's top two players was the only set Muresan lost all
on Tuesday in Ann Arbor. weekend.
The rest of the Michigan wom- The singles final will pin the
en's tennis team had a strong tournament's top two seeds
showing over the weekend. against each other with Muresan
Freshman Brooke Bolender and taking on the No.i seed, Kristy
Nguyen both advanced to the Frilling of Notre Dame, at 10 a.m.
quarterfinals of singles play. Tuesday at the Varsity Tennis
Nguyen grinded out two tough Center.
three-set matches, first topping Muresan also won three don-
her teammate, senior Rika Tat- bles matches to reach the quar-
suno, in the second round, and terfinals with fellow senior Kari
then winning in a third-set tie- Wig before losing to Illinois in a
break over Chrissie McGaffigan tiebreak, 9-8 (3).
Ki'ng fallsin 1TA
regIon's semiafinal-

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
Sophomore quarterback Denard Robinson warms up prior to an Oct.16 game against Iowa. He has been cleared to play this weekend at Penn State.
Campbell shows offensive
potential, Robinson ready

By TIM ROHAN to accurately grade how the changes
Daily Sports Editor have panned out so far.
Still, fifth-year senior offensive
No matter what position he plays, guard Steve Schilling has high
Will Campbell will probably be the hopes for both Campbell and Wash-
largest in the bunch. ington, who isn't so small himself at
Michigan football coach Rich 6-foot-4, 315 pounds.
Rodriguez said NOTEBOOK "It was fun to get to see them
during Monday's play on the other side of the ball,"
press conference that the 333- Schilling said. "I always thought
pound sophomore defensive line- (Campbell) played D-line like an
man worked on the offensive side of offensive lineman. He liked to fin-
the ball last week and will continue ish us in practice sometimes instead
to do so the first couple of days this of making tackles. ... Obviously he
week, "to see if it sticks." hasn't played it since high school
Rodriguez alluded to the pos- - it's been a few years. But he can
sibility of Campbell moving to the be a really, really good offensive
offensive line last Thursday during lineman. He's athletic, he's big, he's
his weekly radio show. strong and when he learns what he's
Rodriguez said redshirt fresh- doing, I definitely think he's going to
man offensive lineman Quinton have some success.
Washington also changed positions "Quinton, if he gets a head of
for the time being, switching over to steam running at you and hitting
defense. you, it's going to hurt. So for him
Campbell had previously being on defense, I'm pretty excited
approached him and the coaching to see what he can do against anoth-
staff about the potential move and er team if he's running out there and
it was decided that the bye week tackling some guys."
would be a good time to test it out. Schilling said he thought both
Rodriguez warned that just a changes could end up being for the
handful of practices weren't enough better. Campbell, a former five-star

recruit, struggled to see playing
time on the defensive line outside of
particular goal line situations and
special teams. And Washington was
stuck behind two entrenched start-
ers at guard in redshirt sophomore
Patrick Omameh and Schilling.
Rodriguez said he thinks Camp-
bell has potential.
"We were really simple last week
and his head will still be spinning
for a while," Rodriguez said. "But I
think he'll be a natural there at guard
just based on a couple of days."
ROBINSON IS READY: Sopho-
more quarterback Denard Robinson
said Monday that he is feeling 100
percent after leaving Michigan's
38-28 loss to Iowa early in the third
quarter with a shoulder injury.
To rehabilitate, he received treat-
ment for the shoulder "almostevery
day." Robinson, though, still partici-
pated in practice last week.
"I hate sitting out," Robinson said.
"I hate watching my teammates
practice and me not being a part of it.
But I guess you try to get better and
you shouldn't rush anything. Take
care of your body first and every-
thing else will fall in place."

During Monday's press confer-
ence, Robinson didn't attribute
either of the interceptions he threw
against Iowa to his shoulder injury,
saying he justneeded to make better
decisions with the ball.
As for his rushing numbers, Rob-
inson hasn't been racking up the
yardage like he did earlier in the sea-
son against the likes of Indiana and
Notre Dame, but he said it wasn't
due to his lingering knee injury.
"I just made some bad reads and
hesitated a little bit and it kind of
messed me up," Robinson said.
His 86 yards against Michigan
State was a season-low and his 105
yards against the Hawkeyes was his
third-lowest total. Buthis 1,096 total
rushing yards still leads the country.
INJURY UPDATE: Other banged
up Wolverines include junior defen-
sive tackle Mike Martin, redshirt
junior center David Molk and
junior running back Michael Shaw.
All were "very limited" in practice
last week, but Rodriguez expected
the trio to be able to go this week
in practice. All three should be able
to play on Saturday against the Nit-
tany Lions.

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Writer
In a repeat of something Mich-
igan fans have become all too
familiar with, a Buckeye once
again defeated a Wolverine.
This time it was Michigan
men's tennis sophomore Evan
King, who, for the second time in
as many weeks, narrowly fell vic-
tim to Ohio State's Blaz Rola.
Competing in the five-day
USTA/ITA Midwest, Regional
Championships in South Bend,
Indiana, King won his first four
matches. And with a spot in the
championship on the line, Rola
upended King on Monday in the
semfinals, 4-6, 6-2, 7-5.
King had a chance to serve for
the match, but Rola came up with
three winners to take the advan-
tage.
"The level of tennis was very
good from both players," Michi-
gan coach Bruce Berque said.
"Even though (King) lost, I felt
like he came a long way since that
last time he played (Rola)."

On Oct. 9 in Tulsa, Oklahoma,
King and Rola squared off in a
match that ended in a manner
eerily similar to Monday's con-
test. The Chicago native took the
first set from Rola in each match
but failed to put away his oppo-
nent.
"It was a really good, high-
quality set," King said. "(The last
set) was a pretty fun set. We were
both hitting the ball hard, all the
games were just grinds. At the
end, he had one more good shot
than I did."
Rola, who King beat on the
junior circuit, beat fellow Buck-
eye Matt Allare in the cham-
pionship match. After two
consecutive losses to his coun-
terpart, King is looking forward'
to getting back on the court with:
Rola, especially given the nature:
of their schools' rivalry.
"It's going to be a fun, little
rivalry that we could see for the'
next three years," Ring said:-
"That guy was definitely the:
favorite for the final, and I gave;
See KING, Page 8'

M' counters size with strategy against UNO

Berenson, players
comment on defensive
adaptation in home
weekend split
By STEPHENJ. NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
"It's like two kids in a sand-
box," Michigan ice hockey coach
Red Berenson said after practice
Monday, reflecting on last week-
end's series split. "It's not always
the big one that gets the toy, it's
the one that wants it the most."
Facing off against then-No. 10
Nebraska-Omaha on Friday and
Saturday at Yost Ice Arena, the
fourth-ranked Wolverines (2-0-
0 CCHA, 3-1-2 overall) certainly
were the little kids.
Michigan knew it wasn't a
match physically for the Mav-
ericks - a group that boasts 15
players over the six-foot mark, led
by 6-foot-8 defenseman Andrej
Sustr.

And after Friday's 4-2 loss,
Berenson's team looked not only
small, but bashed and broken.
The defense was spread out by
ice-length stretch passes, and its
gaps were exposed and exploited
by Nebraska-Omaha's nation-
leading offense.
Defensemen were outmanned,
crowding around their own net
for the majority of the night. Four
shots slipped by senior goaltender
Shawn Hunwick before the Wol-
verines finally managed to score,
but that wasn't until just six min-
utes remained in the third period.
Despite holding a 36-26 shot
advantage, Berenson insisted that
his team had been out-chanced,
and the defense was the weak
spot he wanted to focus on after
the loss.
Whatever he did prior to
returning the following night
was the perfect remedy for the
defense.
On Saturday, it was Nebraska-
Omaha (5-1-0) that looked over-
whelmed.
Michigan scored eight sec- F

onds in and didn't let up, as five that works for us, but we thought
players scored and the team we could get away with too much
coasted to a 6-1 victory. with them.
The Wolverines' attacking "We realized that if we get
strategy rendered the Maver- behind their defense, then we
icks' size a non-factor, and senior could just move around them.
defenseman Chad Langlais cred- They're a big defense, butthey're
slow down low, and I think
we exposed them on Saturday
night."
"I think We The offense penetrated the
Maverick zone time after time,
exposed them knocking a combined six goals
past the Nebraska-Omaha goal-
On Saturday tenders.
But the forwards weren't just
night. scoring goals - they played a
major role in keeping the potent
Maverick offense at bay.
After the defense was left
ited the turnaround to Michi- stranded on Friday night, the
gan's adaption to its attacking coaches stressed the importance
scheme, which was able to coun- of the forwards being two-way
ter Nebraska-Omaha's size. players.
"They have a big defense, and According to Langlais, the
(on Friday) some of our forwards full team effort on defense was
were trying to skate through a key to Saturday's resounding
that," Langlais said. "Sometimes victory.
Yost Ice Arena nrIfn
& YOST
BTB Burrito 0CE3Ar0
Scary Skate
Thursday, October 28th
8:OO-9:SOpm
Costume Contest - Pumpkin Curling - Ice Skating - Music
FREE skate rentals when you come wearing a costume!
www.umich.edu/yost

I


8 - Tuesday, October 26, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Daily Sports Power Rankings
By Nick Spar 11 Daily Sports Editor

Lexi Zimmerman,Setter (Volleyball)
U After an unexpected three-set loss to Indiana on Friday, Zimmerman carried Michigan to a five-set
win over Purdue on Saturday. She had a season-low 23 assists against the Hoosiers but followed that
up with a whopping 58 assists against the Boilermakers. I checked to see if those 58 assists were close
to breaking any sort of NCAA record and learned two things. Zimmerman's career high in assists isn't
even Saturday's 58 - it's 75. And the NCAA record for assists in a five-set match is 109. But hey, Wilt
Chamberlain's 100 points don't make 75 points something to scoff at. With last weekend's matches,
that's eight straight for Zimmerman with at least 20 assists, five kills and five digs.
2Denise Muresan (Women's Tennis}
2 On Monday, Muresan earned a spot in Tuesday's final of the Midwest Regional Championships.
if she wins, we could very well see a new No. 1Sin these rankings next week. But as for this week, she
won four matches in the last three days to earn the No. 2 spot and, more importantly, a chance at a
title. The only set she lost was in the quarterfinals to fellow Wolverine Brooke Bolender.
Men's Golf Trio: Kim, Garber and Thompson
3 Senior Lion Kim and freshman Joey Garber are familiar names in the rankings, but the trio is com-
pleted with the addition of junior Matt Thompson. All three finished in the top eight at last weekend's
Bridgestone Intercollegiate, which helped Michigan record its third lowest 54-hole score ever. The suc-
cesses of Kim are well documented and Garber is a freshman who has wasted no time in making an
impact. But Thompson - who finished in sixth place at nine-under - very well could be the key for the
Wolverines when their season resumes in February. He helped guide Michigan to its best NCAA Finals
finish since 1952 two seasons ago asa freshman. Now a seasoned veteran, Thompson could be a part of
the formula for another deep postseason run. If only we didn't have to wait until April to find out.
4 Evan King Men's Tennis)
N Ohio State's Blaz Rola seems to be King's only nemesis. The sophomore rolled through four straight
matches at the Midwest Regional Championships in South Bend, dropping only one set on his way to the
semifinals. But he fell to Rola in the semis, the same Rola who defeated King at the ITA All-American
Championships two weeks ago. Rola was the third-ranked player at that tournament, and King took the
first set in both matches between the two, so consider both losses quality losses. But the sophomore was
just a few points away from knocking off one of the nation's elite players and advancing tothe champion-
ship round.
Alex Hunt, Outside Hitter (Volleyball)
* It is a bit odd that Zimmerman stays put at No. 1 and Hunt drops only a spot after the discouraging
loss to the Hoosiers. But the duo helped the Wolverines avoid a completely disastrous weekend with the
tight five-set win over Purdue, as Hunt contributed 26 kills and nine digs. Michigan is still among the Big
Ten's elite, dropping just two spots to No. 15 after the weekend split. And Hunt ranks 17th in the nation
in kills per set.
Bryan Hogan, Goaltender (ice Hockey)
60M Last week, Hogan and Shawn Hunwick shared a spot in the rankings after solid performances from
both. But after Hunwick's start in last weekend's home series against Nebraska-Omaha ended with a 4-2
loss and Hogan's a 6-1 win, it seems the scale has shifted in Hogan's favor. The team's quality of play was
clearly better in front of Hogan than it was in front of Hunwick. But Hunwick allowed a couple of soft
goals and Hogan made 35 saves to earn a win. So maybe the Michigan coaching staff prefers Hogan over
Hunwick for now, which yes, is a complete 180 from last week's prognosis.

- - - I I ---I j - V

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
7 ScooterVaughan, Forward (Ice Hockey)
m Is it time to start the Scooter-for-Hobey discussion? Not quite, considering many fans Mightnot even
know hockey season started. And because it would be an exponentially hastier discussion than the
Denard-for-Heisman chatter, which was hasty in its own right. But Vaughan, a converted defenseman,
has had a pleasantly surprising startto the season. He is tied for the team-lead in goals (four) and helped
incite Michigan's rebound victory over Nebraska-Omaha on Saturday with two scores.
NkemrEzurike, Forward (Women's Soccer)
S EzurikeJs back in the rankings after leading Michigan to an upset road win over No. 23 Min-
nesota in dramatic fashion on Friday. She scored the game-winning goal to break a scoreless lie fi
double-overtime. The game was just 27 seconds away from ending in a tie. The Wolverines were
outshot 12-1 in the first half, so in a sense that victory was complete robbery. And if they went on to
tie or losethat game, the weekend would have been a heartbreaker since Michiganwas on the wrong
end of a 1-0 double-overtime loss two days later,
David Wohlberg, Forward (Ice Hockey)
Wohlberg set a school record by scoring eight seconds into Saturday's game against the Mavericks.
U And despite the lopsided 6-1 outcome, it was a much-needed goal. If Michigan wasn't able to gain any
early momentum on Saturday and earn a split, it would havebeen pretty reminiscentof the early-season
home struggles that plagued the team for much of last season.
10.KourtneyMoody (Women's Cross Country)
KuMoody edged outteammates Mackenzie Adams and Taylor Pogue to claim her first-ever victory at the
EMU Fall Classic. Five Wolverines finished in the top 16 and several Michigan runners recorded personal
best 5,000-meter times. No one could outdo Moody, though, as she shattered her personal bestby 41 sec-
onds - aperfect confidence booster heading into the Big Ten Championships this Sunday in Madison.

to the semifinals with a victory forward to seeing improvements
KING over Ohio State's Balazs Novak, out of some his other competitors
From Page 7 6-2, 6-2, on Sunday. as they build on this past weekend.
After combining to finish 13-9 "I'd like to take another step
in singles play, the Wolverines forward," Berque said. "I'd like
him all he could handle." have little time to rest. They trav- to see us have better results and
King began his draw with el to East Lansing this Friday to to reach for a higher level fur-
opening-round wins over Cleve- begin the weekend-long Big Ten ther in the draw. It's good to play
land State's Yannick Goossens Individuals, tournaments back to back so it's
and DePaul's Ben Hartman Though they will not send their a good opportunity to continue
before upsetting Notre Dame's top players - King and senior some of the things they got into in
No. 69 Daniel Stahl. He advanced Jason Jung - Berque is looking match play."
GIVING UP HIS
WOLVERINES
SEASON TICKETS
WAS PAINFUL .

0l

When U-M alum Jason Rockland heard that the school repeatedly
forces hard tubes down cats' delicate throats and cuts into pigs'
necks and chests for a cruel and deadly medical training
procedure even though U-M teaches the same skills using
superior humanlike
simulators elsewhere
on campus, he took
serious action- A
he sold his football
season tickets and
redirected those
funds to PETA to
support our campaign
to end these barbaric
practices.

Join Jason
and speak out
for animals at
U-M by visiting
PETA.org/UMich.
PCTA
PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL
TREATMENT OF ANIMALS



