Will Grundler reveals the truth
r' behind Bitey (right) and other
University secrets that have
come to light in the recent
MichiLeaks scandal.
PAGE 4A
iEI4yan &at

Ann Arbor, Michigan
FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
In Promise's
wake, chance
for aid revamp
from Lansing

Thursday, December 2, 2010

michigandaily.com

ONE SATISFYING SHAVE

Legislators say they
don't expect to bring
back Promise grant
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
In-state students seeking an
alternative to the Michigan Prom-
ise Scholarship that was elimi-
nated in the state's 2010 fiscal year
budget may find aid in the form
of need-based scholarships in the
next legislative term under Gover-
nor-elect Rick Snyder.

Snyder and the slate of incoming
state legislators haven't completed
an extensive budget analysis yet,
but both say they're working to
combat the loss of the scholar-
ship that provided $500 to $4,000
in merit-based funding to nearly
96,000 students. And while state
legislators say they don't expect to
bring the scholarship back, they're
confident they'll be able to address
the overall structure of the state's
financial aid system.
Snyder spokesman Ryan
Kazmirzack said in an interview
that one of Snyder's initiatives is to
See FINANCIAL AID. Page 7A

ANNA SCHULTE/Daily
LSA sophomore Eric Olivero shaves his beard for the first time since the end of October yesterday after participating in a No Shave November competition in South
Quad. He won a prize of $10 in Blue Bucks.
' ers increased resources to
address student eating disorders

THE GREAT LAKES
Measure regulating
Asian carp passes
easily in U.S. House

Bill on its way to
Obama's desk has
support from many
interest groups
By JONAH MOST
For the Daily
The United States House of Rep-
resentatives approved the Asian
Carp Prevention and Control Act
by a voice vote yesterday - a bill

that regulates bighead Asian carp
under the Lacey Act, banning
importation and interstate trans-
port of the invasive species cur-
rently threatening the Great Lakes.
The Senate unanimously passed
a companion measure earlier this
month, and the bill will now head
to President Barack Obama's desk
to be signed into law.
If signed, the bighead carp will
join company with silver carp,
which the Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice has regulated since 2007.
See ASIAN CARP, Page 7A

UHS official: 70
percent of students
have struggled with
disordered dieting
By JENNA SIMARD
Daily StaffReporter
The University's Health Ser-
vice and Counseling and Psycho-
logical Services offer a variety
of resources for students deal-
ing with issues such as stress
management, sexual health and
depression. And for students who
may be dealing with eating dis-
orders, there are more resources
now available than in previous
years.
To more actively promote

healthy body images and life-
styles on campus, UHS estab-
lished a new program called the
Body Peace Corps earlier this
year. Kellie Carbone, the pro-
gram's healthy eating and body
image educator, said she believes
students need to shift their per-
ception of what a healthy body
looks like.
"We want people to shift from a
thin ideal to a healthy ideal," Car-
bone said.
About 70 percent of students on
campus have struggled with dis-
torted dieting, calorie swapping
or full-blown eating disorders,
according to Carbone. She said
she believes that it is University
students' tendency to strive for
perfection in all aspects of their
lives that causes many students to
engage in disordered eating.

"Students are so used to being
at the top of the-class, but they
come here and are one of many
brilliant minds," Carbone said.
Andrea Lawson, a social work-
er at CAPS who focuses on eating
and body image concerns, wrote
in an e-mail interview that about
15 percent of the total students
who make use of CAPS express
concern with eating and body
issues.
Twenty-five percent of the Uni-
versity's student body most likely
suffers from some sort of eating
disorder, Lawson wrote, the most
common falling into the category
of "Eating Disorders Not Other-
wise Specified." Bulimia Nervosa
is the second most common dis-
order, affecting 1 to 3 percent of
students here, she said.
CAPS doesn't keep track of

how University students compare
to students at other universities,
Lawson said.
Julie Stocks, a registered dieti-
cian at UHS, said about one-third
of her patients struggle with some
type of eating disorder. She said
her patients aren't confined to a
certain group of the student body
but come from all across the Uni-
versity's many communities.
Stocks said she thinks there
are some components of any
group setting that may trigger
an increase in eating disorders,
but in reality it all boils down to
whether a person has a predispo-
sition for that type of condition.
"There are so many dynamics
when looking at a group," Stocks
said. "Therehastobesomepredis-
position to it. There are biological
See DISORDERS, Page 7A

WORLD AIDS DAY 2010
Groups aim to educate about effects of AIDS

World AIDS week
features movie
screenings, bake sales
By SAMANTHA NORMAN
For the Daily
It may come as a shock to many
that the incidence of HIV/AIDS is
greater in Washington D.C. than
in some parts of Africa. But the
Planning Committee for World
AIDS Week, along with other orga-
nizations on campus and in the
local community, are working to
educate students and area residents
on the issue.
World AIDS Week, which began
Monday and will end Friday, fea-
tures events ranging from bake
sales to movie screenings. As part
of the week, students and com-
munity members also observed
nationally-recognized World AIDS
Day yesterday, which aims to halt
the spread of the disease and work
against the stigma associated with
it.
Carrie Rheingans, chair of the
Planning Committee for World
AIDS Week in 2009, said

GR ADUATE STUDENT GOVERNMENT
With 7.03-percent
Urnot RSG sees
participation jump

while World AIDS Day plays a
critical role in educating about the
disease, there isn't enough time to
cover all of the diverse associated
topics in one day.
"That's why we made this a
whole week instead of just one
World AIDS Day, because there are
so many issues that relate to HIV
(that) it's hard to talk about one
thing without talking about every-
thing," Rheingans said.
The week began on Monday
morning with a kick-off breakfast
and bake sale at Mason Hall that
included displays for the upcoming
events for the week.
On Tuesday, CoitusLove put on
a theme Jeopardy game in Angell
Hall called, "What Do You Know
About Sex?" The Latino Students
Organization also presented a dis-
cussion on Tuesday led by Mark
Padilla, assistant professor of
health behavior and health edu-
cation, in the Michigan League
about HIV/AIDS in Latin America
and the Caribbean.
Closing out Tuesday night,
Peers Utilizing Leadership Skills
for Education - a student-run
organization sponsored by the Uni-
See AIDS, Page 7A

Officials decided
not to collaborate
with MSA, UMEC
and LSA-SG
By RACHEL BRUSSTAR
Daily StaffReporter
At last night's Rackham Stu-
dent Government meeting, mem-
bers of the assembly reviewed the.
results of the fall 2010 RSG elec-
tions, which saw an increase in
voter turnout and the election of
13 representatives.
The elections, which coincided
with the other student govern-
ment elections on campus, took
place on Nov. 17 and Nov. 18.
Though RSG officials opted out
of collaborative voter turnout
efforts - in which LSA Student
Government, University of Michi-

gan Engineering Council and the
Michigan Student Assembly com-
bined resources to promote the
elections - turnout in this semes-
ter's RSG election was up from
both fall 2009 and winter 2010
elections.
In an interview after last
night's meeting, RSG President
Michael Benson said RSG officials
decided to opt out of the collabora-
tive voter turnout efforts because
graduate students tend to be more
spread out than undergraduate
students, making it difficult to
effectively distribute stickers, fly-
ers and other'promotional materi-
als that were a major part of the
collaborative campaign.
"There's no one central gath-
ering point, there's not even a set
of three or four classroom build-
ings," Benson said. "We have
Rackham students that are mas-
ter's students, for example, in the
See RSG, Page 7A

ANNA SCvULTE/Dais
TOP: School of Public Health students Greg Powers and Kristen C nver and
Social Work student Lisa Arthur man an HIV/A IDS awareness table in School
of Public Health yesterday. BOTTOM: Pins at the table yesterday.



WEATHER HI:35
TOMORROW LO: 25

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEWCON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Big Ten wins ACC/Big Ten Challenge.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEWS.........
Vol. CXXI, No. 59 AP NEWS...
'201t The Michigan Daily OP INION .. .
michigandoily.com

..... 2A SPORTS.................. . 5A
... 3A CLASS iFIEsDS.........6A
.............4A THE B-SIDE.. . .. . .... 1B

4


i

2A - Thursday, December 2, 2010

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Fantasy football for charity

Kinesiology senior Michael Simpson
says he loves to play fantasy football.
Simpson said as a freshman, he
knew that his peers at the University
also loved to crunch stats and make last
minute trades so they'd be number one
come Monday night. So he decided to
create a club where sports lovers could
engage in friendly competition.
But it wasn't enough.
"I wanted to make it better for every-
body," Simpson said, motivating him to
add a philanthropy aspect to the club
and create the perfect balance of char-
ity and contest.
Since the club's inception in 2007,
members have raised funds for chari-
ties like the American Red Cross,
the United Way, St. Jude's Children's
Research Hospital, the University's
C.S. Mott Children's Hospital and the
American Breast Cancer Foundation.
Once a club member drafts a fantasy
team on a website such as Yahoo!, he or
she is required to donate a minimum of

$30 to the club's collective money "pot."
In more traditional fantasy football
leagues, the winner of a league would
generally receive this pot at the end of
the season. But at the end of the fantasy
season, funds are distributed to each
participating member's charity and
extra funds go toward the member of
the winning league's charity.
LSA junior Jordan Gluck, the club's
finance chair, said he's been donating
through the club since his freshman
year.
"When I was a freshman, I collected
money from my parents and grandpar-
ents," he said. "(In the past) they've
sent money to St. Jude's Children's
Hospital ... so I decided that would be
my charity."
Simpson said he'd like to expand
the charity aspect of the club, citing a
silent auction for sports memorabilia
as a possible project to benefit a local or
national organization.
Simpsons added that he strives to

maintain the simplicity of the club and
praised its minimal time commitment.
"People just want to play fantasy
football, and do it for a good cause," he
said.
Gluck echoed Simpson's sentiments,
adding that the club gives students the
unique opportunity to do charitable
work on their own time.
"It's more of an entertainment kind
of thing...but it also allows you to con-
tribute to charities and do charitable
work," he said.
Banking on the popularity of fantasy
football, club leaders hope to organize
fantasy basketball and baseball compe-
titions during future semesters.
Simpson added that the possibilities
for fantasy sports are endless.
"Any sport can have a fantasy
(aspect) to it," he said. "We try to find
the people that are passionate about
donating to charity first and playing
second."
- CLAIRE GOSCICKI

ANNA SCH ULTE /Dai
Ann Arbor resident tob Goldey plays the saxo-
phone on the sidewalk near the Diag.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMSLOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115ext. 1241
smilovitz@rnichigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours: Sun.-Thurs. 1a.m. -2 a.m.
734-418-411s opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaity.com
Lettersto the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@nichigandaily.com
Classified Sales classiied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaiy.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aarnonon@michigandaily.com
Lillian Berman Managing News Editor B erman@michigandaily.com
SNOESED~k'IOS:oNiolsbe Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thiunavukkaas, Deon Torsbay
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph Lichterman, Veronica Menaldi, Elya na Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial PagetEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley,Laura Veith
ASSISTANT E DITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:WillButler,WillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartie Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandailycom
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe St pleton
ASSISTANTSPORTSEDITORS:BenEstes,StephenNesbitt, LukePasch,ZakPyzikAmy
Jamie Block ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTSEDIT O aoly Klarecki, drew Lapi, JeffSaod
ASISANsARTS EDI)ORS:Kristy ncho,LeahBurgiSharon Jaos, Kavi Shekhar
Pandey, David Tao
Max Collinsand photo@michigandaily.com
Sam Wnlsnn MaoogigPhootEditrs
SENIO PrOO ITRArel ond, MarissaMcClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinski and design@michigandaily.com
Sarah Squire Managing DesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Maya Friedman
TrevarCale EMgazinendirn r calero@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Adi Wollstein copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna CrimtSalesManager
SALES FORCEMANAGER: Stephanie Bowker
MARKETING MANAGER:Gjon Juncaj
HillarySzawala classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan RooneyLayout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy WinklernCirculation Manager
Zach Yancer Web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the Universityof MichiganOne copyis available free of charge toall
readers.AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupattheOaly's officefors2.Subscriptionsfor tallterm,
startinginSeptemberviaU.S.mailare$110.Winter term(anuary throughAprilis15,yearlonsg
(September through April)is$15.eUniversity afiliates aresubject toareducedsubscriptionrate.
n campussubscritionsralltermare$35.Subscriptionsmutbepreaid.TheichiganDaily
is a membrsrerofeAsocated Pess and Tie Associated Cllegiate Pres.

9

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Bike jacked from Woman's wallet, ONE Night
Grad. Library men's restroom Stand for.
WHERE: The Diag WHERE: Shapiro Undergrad- HIV/AIDS
WHEN: Wednesday at about uate Library
12:45 a.m. WHEN: Tuesday at about WHAT: A free conce
WHAT: A male's bike was sto- 12:45 p.m. aimed at raising awar
len from the front of the Hatch- WHAT: A female subject's and educating membe
er Graduate Library while wallet was stolen while left the local communitya
locked to a pole with a U-style unattended, University Police HIV/AIDS. The conc
lock, University Police reported. reported. The wallet was later will feature some of t
There are no suspects. found in the men's restroom.- University's most pro
There is currently a male sus- nent performance gro
pect. WHO: ONE Campaig
Chemistry Bldg. Cadmium spill Student Organization
WHERE: oot Quadr
kynabbed hits hospital floor WHR:Es ud

rt
reness
ers of
about
ert
he
)mi-
oups.
n
rangle

Author gives
talk on book
WHAT: Ted Rall, a political
cartoonist and columnist,
will discuss his book, "The
Anti-American Manifesto."
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
Deafness talk
WHAT: Current and former
University students will dis-
cuss their experiences being
hard of hearing and deaf.
WHO: Services for Students
with Disabilities
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League,
Vandenberg Room
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Sam Hengel, a 15-year-old
student from a high school
in Wisconsin, died Tues-
day after shooting himself in
the head, USATODAY.com
reported. Hengel shot himself
following a hostage standoff in
which he took his teacher and
classmates captive for 6 hours.
Three University song-
books, published in 1889,
1904 and 1913, are the
original records of the songs
that tell Michigan's history,
including "The Victors."
>> FOR MORESEETHE B-SIDE, INSIDE
For a five-month test
period, New York City
will send two ambu-
lances to life-threatening 911
calls, a New York Times article
reported. The first ambulance
will try to save the victim's life,
while the second is intended to
harvest critical organs.

WHERE: Chemistry Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about 8
p.m.
WHAT: A University key was
stolen while left unattended,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects and the
key has not been returned.

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about 4:15
p.m.
WHAT: Cadmium spilled on
a floor and counter, University
Police reported. It was imme-
diately cleaned up and there
were no injuries.

Charity dance
WHAT: A charity ball
benefiting Make-a-Wish
foundation which will
include food, prizes, silent
auction, and more.
WHO: Michigan Ballroom
Dance Team
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League,
Ballroom

MORE ONLINE
Love CrimeNotes? Getmore online atmichigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire


'is 0
WALLY SANTANA/AP
Fisherman Kwak Yong-sun, 50, left, rests with his family members at a makeshift shelter on Wednesday.
Sout Korean refugees
struggle after shelling

U.S., South Korea
put halt on recent
military exercises
INCHEON, South Korea (AP) -
A South Korean fisherman whose
neighborhood was swallowed by
flames in last week's North Kore-
an shelling saw a TV image of the
North's leader, Kim Jong Il, and
cringed.
"I want to kill him," said Kwak
Yong-sun, who now lives on the
floor of a public bath house on the
mainland. "I almost died because of
that man."
Kwak, 50, sleeps shoulder to
shoulder with other evacuees from
YeonpyeongIsland on a mattress in
a huge room in the spa, which has
been converted into a refugee cen-
ter.
He complained of noise, stale air
and a lack of sleep. "It's not a place
where human beings can live," he
said.
The Nov. 23 artillery barrage
killed four people - two South
Korean marines and two civilians
- and sharply raised tensions on
the divided peninsula.
The United States and South
Korea yesterday ended military

exercises that included the aircraft
carrier USS George Washington.
The drills were meant asa warning
to the North following last week's
exchange of artillery fire.
At the heavily armed Panmun-
jom village inside the Demilita-
rized Zone north of Seoul, a North
Korean soldier said in a rare inter-
view that he hoped for peace.
Lt. Choe Song Il told Associ-
ated Press Television News that he
hoped tensions between the two
countries would be eased "as soon
as possible, ina peaceful way."
"I know that there were casual-
ties on the South side," Choe told
an APTN crew from the North
Korean capital of Pyongyang that
he had been assigned to escort to
the Demilitarized Zone.
"I hope that such military con-
flict between North and South
should never happen again," he
said.
It was unclear whether his con-
ciliatory comments were sponta-
neous or not, and whether they
merely reflected one soldier's opin-
ion or were meant to reflect the
military's stance as a whole. North
Korean citizens usually are very
careful about expressing opinions.
They were striking words at
a time of heightened tensions

between the Koreas and a depar-
ture from the bellicose rhetoric of
North Korea's state-run news agen-
cy, whichhas threatened "full-scale
war" this week if the country's ter-
ritory is violated by any military
maneuvers.
South Korean intelligence chief
Won Sei-boon told lawmakers that
North Korea is likely to strike again,
Yonhap news agency reported.
Won said in a briefing that North
Korea likely carried out last week's
attack in part because it needed a
"breakthrough" amid internal dis-
satisfaction over a plan to trans-
fer power from Kim Jong I1 to his
youngest son, according to Yonhap.
His comments could not immedi-
ately be confirmed.
To ease tensions, China pressed
for an emergency meeting in com-
ing days among the six nations who
previously negotiated over North
Korea's nuclear program - the two
Koreas, China, Russia, Japan and
the United States.
"The parties concerned should
keep calm and exercise restraint,
and work to bring the situation
back onto the track of dialogue and
negotiation," Chinese Foreign Min-
ister Yang Jiechi said in Beijing,
according to the Chinese official
Xinhua News Agency.

0
0

I



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 2, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Industry execs say
auto sales show U.S.
market in recovery
After a year of watching auto
sales slowly increase month by
month, industry executives are
finally willing to firmly declare
that the U.S. market is in recov-
ery.
People who had been too afraid
to make a big car purchase are
finally coming back to dealer-
ships, a little more confident that
they won't lose their jobs. And
that's reflected in November's
auto sales figures: Industry sales
were up 16.9 percent for the month
compared with a year ago. Ford,
General Motors, Chrysler, Honda,
Nissan and Hyundai all posted
double-digit gains.
"We're starting to see people
showing an inclination to go back
into the dealerships, to go back into
the malls," said Jim Bunnell, gen-
eral manager of General Motors
Co.'s U.S. sales operations. "It's
not going to happen overnight, but
we think as we roll through 2011,
we're going to see a nice, gradual
improvement and recovering in
the automotive sector."
NISKAYUNA, N.Y.
EPA investigates
radiation release at
NY nuclear lab
The U.S. Environmental Pro-
tection Agency is investigating
whether the release of radioactive
material into the air and water at a
Cold War-era atomic power labora-
tory in upstate New York violated
federal laws.
The investigation stems from
the open-air demolition of an old
research building at Knolls Atomic
Power Labs near Albany. On Sept.
29, radiation above safe levels was
discovered on workers' boots, and
demolition work there has since
been suspended.
EPA Regional Administrator
Judith Enck said in a statement
yesterday that the agency is inves-
tigating whether the releases of
radioactive material into the air
and the Mohawk River violated
federal environmental laws.
EPA officials would not elabo-
rate beyond saying the investiga-
tion is ongoing.
TEHRAN, Iran
Iranian government
to boost security for
nuclear scientists
Iran said yesterday it will
increase security for its nuclear
scientists as a funeral was held for
a leadingexpert killed in a mysteri-
ous assassination that the govern-
ment blamed on the Mossad and
kthe CIA.
tIranian state media said the kill-
ing of the scientist and the wound-
ing of another on Monday was part
of a Western campaign to sabotage
its nuclear program, which the U.S.
and its allies suspect is aimed at

producing weapons - something
Iran denies.
According to Iran, that cam-
paign included the abduction of
Iranian scientists, the sale of faulty
equipment and the planting of a
destructive computer worm known
as Stuxnet, which briefly brought
Iran's uranium enrichment activity
to a halt last month.
JOINT BASE LEWIS-MCCHORD, Wash.
Army sergeant
pleads guilty to
shooting Afghans
An Army staff sergeant charged
with shooting at unarmed Afghans
has pleaded guilty in a deal that
requires him to testify against
other defendants.
Staff Sgt. Robert Stevens of
Portland, Ore., acknowledged his
guilt to aggravated assault and
other charges at his court-mar-
tial Tuesday in Washington state.
Prosecutors dropped a conspiracy
count.
Five soldiers are charged with
killing three Afghan civilians for
kicks. Stevens is not one of them
i but acknowledged that in March
he followed an order from Staff
Sgt. Calvin Gibbs to shoot at two
Afghans in a field who posed no
threat. Those Afghans were not
injured.
Gibbs is accused of leading the
0 alleged conspiracy but says the
shootings were justified.
A military judge still must
accept Stevens' plea.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

Militia of more
than 1,000 in
Somalia forms

U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, left, smiles as she talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the start of
the OSCE Summit at the Palace of Independence in Astana, Kazakhstan yesterday.
Belarus to sacrifice
stockpile of uranium

Group is said to be
funded by a mystery
donor nation
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - In the
northern reaches of Somalia and
the country's presidential palace,
a well-equipped military force is
being created, funded by a mys-
terious donor nation that is also
paying for the services of a former
CIA officer and a senior ex-U.S.
diplomat.
The Associated Press has
determined through telephone
and e-mail interviews with three
insiders that training for an anti-
piracy force of up to 1,050 men
has already begun in Puntland, a
semiautonomous region in north-
ern Somalia that is believed to
hold reserves of oil and gas.
But key elements remain
unknown - mainly who is provid-
ing the millions of dollars in fund-
ing and for whatultimate purpose.
Pierre Prosper, an ambassador-
at-large for war crimes issues
under former President George
W. Bush, told AP he is being paid
by a Muslim nation he declined to
identify to be a legal adviser to the
Somali government, focusing on
security, transparency and anti-
corruption.
Prosper said the donations
from the Muslim nation come
from a "zakat fund," referring to
charitable donations that Islam
calls for the faithful to give each
year. The same donor is paying for
both training programs.
Somalia hasn't had a fully func-
tioning government since 1991
and is torn between clan war-
lords, Islamist insurgent factions,
an 8,000-strong African Union
peacekeeping force, government
forces and allied groups. Given
that mix, the appearance of an
unknown donor with deep pock-
ets is troubling, said E.J. Hogen-

doorn, a Nairobi-based analyst
with the International Crisis
Group.
"We don't know if this
unknown entity is operating in
the interests of Somalis or their
own self-interest," he said in an
interview. "If it's a company, there
has to be a quid pro quo in terms
of (oil and gas) concessions. If it's
a government, they are interested
in changing the balance of power."
The new force's first class of
150 Somali recruits from Punt-
land graduated from a 13-week
training course on Monday, said
Mohamed Farole, the son of
Puntland President Abdirahman
Mohamed Farole. The son, who is
a liaison between the government
and journalists and diplomats,
told AP the new force will hunt
down pirates on land in the Gal-
gala mountains.
The range lies 125 miles (200
kilometers) north of the nearest
main pirate anchorage but is home
to an Islamist-linked militia that
complains it has been cut out of
energy exploration deals.
The Islamist militants led by
Mohamed Said Atomhave clashed
with government forces several
times this year. A March report by
the U.N. accuses Atom of import-
ing arms from Yemen and receiv-
ing consignments from Eritrea,
including mortars, for delivery
to al-Shabab forces in southern
Somalia. Al-Shabab is Somalia's
biggest insurgent group and has
ties with al-Qaida.
The president's son empha-
sized the force was dedicated to
anti-piracy, but said that he hoped
greater security in the region
would bring more investors into
"public-private partnerships"
with the government.
"You cannot have oil explo-
ration if you have insecurity,"
Mohamed Farole said. "You have
to eliminate the pirates and al-
Shabab."

Decision to give up Soviet-origin nuclear weapons i
1994, but retained highly enriche
nuclear materials uranium stocks for research pu
poses.
follows Obama's U.S. officials portrayed Belaru
.p.l.c . sudden reversal as a recognitio
policy initiative that it would benefit from buildin
a power-generating nuclear reacto
ASTANA, Kazakhstan (AP) that runs on low-enriched urani
- In a sudden turnaround, the um, which cannot be used to mak
former Soviet republic of Belarus nuclear weapons without furthe
announced yesterday that it will enrichment. Clinton said the U.S
give up all its weapons-grade ura- would support Belarus in its pur
nium - fresh momentum for anti- suit of such a reactor, but detail
proliferation efforts even as the were not released.
U.S. welcomed Iran's decision to With its decision to give up it
resume talks on its controversial stockpiles of highly enriched ura
nuclear program. nium by 2012, Belarus secured a
On a day of whirlwind diploma- invitation to the next nuclear secu
cy capped by the Belarus deal, U.S. rity summit, to be held in Sout
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Korea in two years. Earlier thi
Clinton praised Iran's return to month the U.S. completed, wit
nuclear talks, urged Europe to do British help, an even.more ambi
more in Afghanistan and insisted tious project to securetons ofhighl
that recent WikiLeaks disclosures enriched uranium and weapons
would have no lasting effect on U.S. grade plutonium in Kazakhstan.
relations around the world. "We can be confident it will no
The Belarus decision is a diplo- never fall into the wrong hands,"
matic victory for President Barack Clinton said of the newly secured
Obama, who has set a goal of secur- Kazakh nuclear materials.
ing all the world's nuclear materials Clinton used the occasion of
within four years as a centerpiece a major pan-European security
of his strategy for denying nuclear conference to personally reas-
weapons to terrorists. sure leaders whose governments
Belarus, which had been a hold- were the subject of sometimes
out, was banned from an April unflattering mention in the
nuclear security summit hosted by leaked State Department docu-
Obama, along with Iran and North ments that Washington remains
Korea. a reliable partner. She foresaw,
The amount of material Belarus however, more fallout triggered
will send to Russia for disposal by the embarrassing WikiLeaks
was not mentioned but is believed episode.
to be enough to make at least sev- "I anticipate that there will be
eral nuclear bombs. Belarus, which a lotcof questions thatcpeople have
gained independence in the break- every right and reason to ask, and
up of the Soviet Union, gave up its we stand ready to discuss them
Sweden demands
arrest of founder of
WikiLeaks website
Julian Assange who has "such casual disregard"
for her obligations
accused of rape, "Given that Sweden is a civi-
lized country, I am reluctantly
sexual molestation, forced to conclude that this is a
persecution and not a prosecu-
unlawful coercion tion," Stephens wrote in an e-mail
to The Associated Press.
LONDON (AP) - Swedish offi- Ny declined specific com-
cials ratcheted up the pressure on ment on Stephens' criticism,
WikiLeaksfounder JulianAssange saying that her decision to seek
yesterday, asking European police Assange's arrest had been tested
to arrest him on rape allegations inthe Swedish courts.
as his organization continued to "I see nothing unusual, or any-
embarrass the Obama administra- thing that breaches the rules in
tion with a stream of leaked diplo- the processing of this case," Ny
matic cables. told AP. She added that there was
The 39-year-old Australian nothing unusual about issuing an
computer hacker disappeared international arrest warrant for
from public view after a Nov. 5 someone who has left the country
press conference in Geneva. He and is accused of a crime as seri-
has spoken publicly only through ous as rape.
online interviews, while a state- Assange's whereabouts aren't
ment from his lawyer said the Aus- known, but a European arrest
tralian was being persecuted by warrant applies to countries
Swedish officials who are seeking across the continent. In England
his arrest on allegations of rape, and Wales, such warrants are
sexual molestation and unlawful vetted by the Serious and Orga-
coercion. nized Crime Agency (SOCA)
Sweden's Director of Public before being passed on to the rel-
Prosecution Marianne Ny said that evant local police forces. SOCA
a European arrest warrant had declined comment yesterday, as
been issued for Assange in con- did London's Scotland Yard. But
nection with the allegations. Lon- a German security official, speak-
don-based lawyer Mark Stephens ing on condition of anonymity,
complained that Assange had yet said that a warrant for Assange
to receive formal notice of the has been issued in Germany.
allegations he faces - something The exact nature of the allega-

he described as a legal require- tions facing Assange aren't com-
ment under European law - and pletely clear, although Stephens
said that Assange had repeatedly has in the past described them as
offered to answer questions about a partof"a post-facto dispute over
the investigation, to no avail. consensual, but unprotected sex"
Stephens was scathing in his and Swedish prosecutors have
condemnation of Ny, saying he'd disagreed about whether to label
never come across a prosecutor the most serious charge as rape.

n at any time with our counterpa
d around the world," she told a ne
- conference after a summit meeti
of the Organization for Secur
s' and Cooperation in Europe - t
n first such high-level meeting of t
g 56-nation group inl years.
r Asked about Iran's latest mo
- Clinton told reporters she
e encouraged that Tehran has agre
r to return to Geneva for a new rou
S. of international talks on its disp
- ed nuclear program.
s However, a uranium-exchan
agreement that was announced f
s lowing talks with Iran in Octot
- 2009 - but which later unravel
n and led to a negotiating impasse
- would have to be modified to ta
h into account the fact that Iran h
s since produced more enriched u
h nium, Clinton said.
- The Iran talks are schedul
y for Monday and Tuesday. Parti
- pating with the U.S. will be Bi
ain, France, Germany, Russia a
w China.

rts
ws
ng
ity
he
he
we,
is
ed
nd
ut-
ge
ol-
ber
led
ke
as
ira-
led
ci-
rit-
nd


i

GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
December 6--10*
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
The sittingfee is just $15!
This price includes your portraitfeatured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu
Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
YEARBOOK.

i I



4A - Thursday, December 2, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CAMERON AT CNEVEU@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

CAMERON NEVEU I

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Big freeze from the big man
Public pay freezes shouldn't be standard solution
T hough it appears the economy is finally turning around,
it may be a while before public employees see a pay raise.
Early this week, President Barack Obama announced a
plan to freeze federal workers' wages for two years. It isn't outra-
geous to say that Michigan Governor-elect Rick Snyder may follow
his lead. Snyder has already said that he wants public employee
payments to be "comparable with the private sector." While freez-
ing wages might help balance the federal budget - and could be
implemented here in Michigan if necessary - top ranking officials
shouldn't fall back on this temporary solution.

On Monday, Obama announced a plan
to freeze federal employees' pay for the
next two years. The freeze was a response
to increasing pressure to cut compensa-
tion. While Snyder hasn't made a formal
announcement about his plans regard-
ing state employee compensation, he has
made comments about the issue during
his campaign and since his election that
indicate he will do everything he can to
fix the economy - even if it requires dif-
ficult decisions. Snyder has said that he
understands peoples' livelihood is at stake,
but that there needs to be a middle ground
between "what's comparable with the pri-
vate sector and what's financially afford-
able," according to a Nov. 18 article in The
Washington Post. Snyder has said he is
open to discussion.
Obama's decision, while difficult, was
a necessary short-term fix in light of the
current state of the economy. He explained
that getting the deficit under control is
going to require some sacrifice by govern-
ment employees. But Obama's decision was
also an attempt to create cooperation with
congressional Republicans, who will take
control of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives in January. Newly-elected Republi-
can representatives already had plans to
enact a similar plan when they take con-
trol of the House. This decision will hope-

fully decrease conflict between the liberal
president and conservative House.
The state of Michigan currently has one
of the most serious deficits in the country.
Snyder was elected on a platform of finan-
cial management. Throughout his cam-
paign, he has maintained that cuts to state
spending will be necessary to balance the
budget. But while a pay freeze is a practi-
cal and effective way to help control the
budget, it's not a great option. It is under-
standable that funding needs to be cut from
many sectors right now, but the government
needs to ensure that it is trimming fairly -
and temporarily - from each department.
Pay freezes shouldn't become a fallback
option. To create a consistently balanced
budget, Michigan will have to consider
a long-term budget overhaul - and the
federal government must reconsider its
spending and taxes, too. While pay freezes
can help to fix the current problem, the
freeze must be lifted when the economy
stabilizes and other ways of reducing the
budget deficit are implemented in its place.
Snyder was elected because he assured
voters that he could stabilize the economy
and balance the budget. Implementing pay
freezes may be a necessary component to
reduce the state deficit. But the federal
government can't allow its temporary
solutions to become permanent.

ICRAs rsJ aIJJt-(t_ BE 1C CAN36W46
CEIAO.W _!& RIVAS...
\Ie)
*esn*u,,s ow) HA5 TIE- 90TwEJTIAL
TO $ -TN ANs
(.a6ATE,$T 'SPORTS
f RIVAL Y1
MichiLeaks
A nenormouscacheofsecretUni- this unorthodox decision is "prob- (Records show that tuition for fall
versity documents was recently ably the best of both worlds. I think. 2009 increased by 5.6 percent for in-
made available to the Daily and I mean... maybe? I was the head of a state residents.)
other award-win- pizza company, LOL (sic). But I want According to one document, the
ning publications, to see where this thing goes." University of Michigan Press turned
with the excep- The job of provost, currently held down the manuscript of "Harry
tion of The Michi- by Philip J. Hanlon and long sus- Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" in
gan Review, and pected to be a fictional position, is a 1997 because it "failed to adequately
the controversial fictional position. Philip J. Hanlon is, explore the plight of Muggle-born
contents are only however, a real person and belongs to wizards who apply to the Hogwarts
adding to the wide- _ the University's custodial staff. School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
spread unrest over Multiple documents and e-mails and relate it to the University's own
yet another embar- link University President Mary Sue beliefs about affirmative action."
rassing women's WILL Coleman, and previous presidents
field hockey season. before her, to the prolonged illegal
Some have ques-_GRUNDLER ownership and captivity of a wolver-
tioned the authen- ine. We at the Daily possess a very Shocking 'U'
ticity of these authentic-looking letter from past
documents. This is, of course, a bit University President Lee Bollinger, documents w ere
like questioning the authenticity of addressed to "Mary" in the year 2002,
Jesus. The documents are almost cer- which includes the following para- recently released.
tainly true, but even if they aren't - graph: "Lastly, DON'T forget to feed
and that's a very small "but" - like Bitey (sic), who prefers live mice.
maybe a 10-percent chance, is it really You will find him in the basement (of
worth the risk of eternal damna- the President's House) on most days, Aren't you glad you sat down? And
tion? Probably not. Well, maybe that unless he escapes. He's been there that's just a few of the documents.
argument doesn't make a whole lot of since the Reagan administration There are many, many more - almost
sense. At any rate, if the documents (which was a complete failure, if you 200,000 in total. As more secrets come
do turn out to be false, please voice ask me)." If true, the animal would be to light, as they undoubtedly will,
your concerns to: Jacob Smilovitz, the last known surviving wolverine in there will be those who will denounce
Editor in Chief, 420 Maynard St., the state of Michigan, making the pos- their publication by the press. But the
Ann Arbor, MI, 48109, United States session a federal offense. press has a civic duty to enlighten the
of America, and demand that he get Multiple documents reveal that ignorant public. And most of the stuff
better columnists - or at the very Ted Kaczynski, or the "Unabomber," the Daily publishes is justcplain boring
least an e-mail address. wasn't removed from the alumni mail- by comparison.
Now, I don't have enough room to ing list until 2006 due to an embar- Yet those who will denounce this
include every tidbit of information, so rassing oversight. great university of ours, on the other
I'll just list the most shocking details. A memo allegedly from the Board hand, must be silenced by all means
You may want to sit down before read- of Regents and dated Jul. 18, 2009 necessary besides murder. It's a uni-
ing these. Seriously. Are you sitting confirms widespread beliefs about the versity that we all know and love. It's
down? Okay, here we go: committee's lack of touch with reality a university for which we live and die.
Contrary to the two schools of and its fondness for occult practices. It's more than a university. It's the
thought concerning the future of The first half of the memo urged the University of Michigan. It may have
Michigan football, the Athletic University to offer $3.25 billion or its share of dirty secrets but we must
Department will neither fire Rich roughly half of the current endow- stand by it at all times, good or bad,
Rod NOR keep him as head coach. ment, to the state of Michigan in rain or shine, even though, as multiple
Rather, the Michigan football team return for the Upper Peninsula, citing documents indicate, it's planning to
will simply be dissolved next season. the possible "research benefits." The phase out financial aid by 2013.
According to a leaked e-mail from second half stated that after rolling
Athletic Director David Brandon, "The Die of Knowledge" and getting a - Will Grundler is an assistant
dated Nov. 2, 2010, to each member six that the tuition should increase by editorial page editor. He can be
of his Special Planning Committee, "about that many percentage points." reached at wgru@umich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should
be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
Letters are edited for clarity, length and factual accuracy. All submissions become property
of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
OPEN HOUSING INTIATIVE I

A broader view of open housing

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing. If you
are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL MICHELLE DEWITT AT DEWITTM@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
EMILY ORLEY I
Keep high-speed rail on track

0

Ann Arbor is considered to be one of the
leading cities in the movement to go green. The
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's list of
on-site green power producers in the agency's
Green Power Partnership list ranked the city of
Ann Arbor 12th in the country this year with
about 29 percent of its electricity produced by
renewable energy. Ann Arbor is also ranked in
the top 15 most bicycle-friendly cities in Amer-
ica. But there is one environmentally-friendly
component missing from this major metropolis:
a train. While the city has a public bus system
run by the Ann Arbor Transportation Authori-
ty - and many of its buses are hybrids - it lacks
a form of multi-city public transportation. This
problem was on its way to being fixed, but there
may be a stumbling block in the plan.
In October, U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-
Mich.) announced that the state would receive
$150-million federal grant to create a high-
speed railway system. The rail would travel
from Kalamazoo to Dearborn and pass through
Ann Arbor, Ypsilanti, Jackson, Albion and Bat-
tle Creek. Now it appears there is a financial
block in the train's way.
According to a Tuesday annarbor.com arti-
cle, Michigan will be forced to send back its
federal funding if the state Senate doesn't agree
to allocate the required matching funds. The
state House of Representatives bill needed for
the funding was passed on Nov. 10 and is cur-
rently awaiting approval from the state Senate.
While I understand that the Michigan econo-
my isn't exactly at it's finest and that there may
not be $37 million lying around, the Senate needs
to figure out a way to scrap together the money.
Most major cities in the country have some form
of a train system. Our Midwest neighbor, Chica-
go, has had an electric rail for nearly a century.
While the high-speed rail would help many
cities around the state, Ann Arbor will greatly
benefit from the addition. Ann Arbor is a high-

traffic city. Hundreds of people commute to
Ann Arbor each day. And yes, Ann Arbor has
already established many efforts to reduce its
carbon footprint. Projects like Commuter Chal-
lenge - which encourages people to make their
daily commute on foot - and others developed
by getDowntown, which creates commuting
alternatives to driving, have helped to offer the
community eco-friendly routes. But on a day
like today, when it's below freezing and snow-
ing, I doubt that many people would decide to
walk to work instead of drive.
The high-speed rail is an essential addition
to the city. Not only will it help commuters
who travel to Ann Arbor for work or leisure, it
will also benefit students. While the airBus -
which is sponsored by the Michigan Student
Assembly - is offered before and after vacation
breaks for $7 per student, many out-of-state
students take a cab to Detroit Metro Airport
instead. Not only is that up to a $60 fare, it also
increases traffic around the holidays. With a
high-speed rail, students would be able to get
to the airport more quickly and cheaply.
Additionally, building a high-speed rail will
create many jobs. Workers from multiple cities
will need to be hired to build the tracks and peo-
ple will need to be hired to monitor the stations.
The condition of Michigan's economy is
mediocre at best. The city of Detroit, particu-
larly, has taken a huge hit by this economic
downfall. But as economist John Keynes said,
the only way to help a struggling economy is
for the government to put money back into it.
The state government needs to subscribe to
this theory. Michigan will never be revived if
it doesn't begin to incorporate more efficient
and advanced technology. The high-speed rail
will decrease air pollution, decrease traffic and
help commuters save money. It's a perfect start.
Emily Orley is a senior editorial editor.

While we truly appreciate the coverage that The Michi-
gan Daily has given to open housing, the most recent edi-
torial discussing the issue missed the substantial progress
and key conversations that the Open Housing Initiative
has been promoting over the last two years (Closed hous-
ing, 11/29/2010).
The Open Housing Initiative believes that adding the
option to choose a roommate, regardless of gender, is the
next step in honoring the history of social justice and
respecting the lived experiences of University students.
The implementation of open housing will foster a safer,
more inclusive community for those living in the residence
halls as mandated by the Living at Michigan Credo, the
University's non-discrimination policy and the Michigan
Difference Commitment.
The Open Housing Initiative has made significant prog-
ress in the two years of its existence. This semester has
brought about the most significant movements forward in
the form of continued educational outreach and the report
submitted last week by the Open Housing Initiative to Uni-
versity administrators.
The increased attention to educational outreach ele-
vated this proposed policy change to the agendas of both
the Vice President of Division of Student Affairs E. Roys-
ter Harper and Dean of Students Laura Blake Jones and
their respective advisory boards. Because Harper over-
sees University Housing and Jones oversees students, they
each hold a large stake in shaping University policy. These
conversations were not taking place at any level of the
University administration last year, so the fact that these
two advisory boards are now devoting significant time to
considering open housing and how to implement it is an

incredible step forward.
The report submitted this semester provides a detailed
outline of what policy options would bebest suited for this
campus. The report logically outlines where University
Housing is failing to abide by its own credo and the univer-
sity's non-discrimination statement. It also provides the
exact method by which University Housing can implement
the policy. This includes changes to the application process
as well as when and which students would have access.
Administrators were expecting this proposal be sub-
mitted in January 2011 because of the extensive research
and thought required to make it impactful. The fact that it
was submitted two months in advance of this expectation
allows them time to digest and analyze the proposal and
have other necessary conversations.
The Monday editorial from the Daily failed to include
these important details. For this reason, we believe it was
irresponsible for the Daily to have effectively declared
the initiative dead on arrival for next fall's on-campus
residents. The Daily should have realized that Housing
administration is not the only relevant actor involved
in the discussion regarding this important change to
University policy. The Daily should have spoken to oth-
ers involved in the conversation on open housing before
making such sweeping statements. We agree that prog-
ress on this issue has been difficult, but students have not
stopped fighting. To insinuate that we have not met our
goals is simply incorrect.
This viewpoint was written by Chris Armstrong,
Brendan Campbell, Allison Horkey and AlexSerwer
on behalf of the Open Housing Initiative.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Asa Smith, Julian Toles, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 2, 2010 - 5A

Blue rolls to easy win
over Demon Deacons

M
58
B
Ther
outside
day
night,
but
despite
the f
Michig
team rr
the Der
The
cent fr
percen
in thei:
Forest.
The
sive fir
for the
the gar
The
Michig
the of
Forest
its exp]
This
early
Veroni
unansv
over a r
ines up
The.
was ne,
"I ju
.500 at
home,
to lose
said aft
"So

[ichigan holds needs to be done for us to get this
win, is what needs to be done."
Vake Forest to After scoring zero points in
Michigan's 67-49 loss to Texas
season-low A&M last Saturday, Hicks
po t istepped up big in a game the Wol-
points in rout verines really needed to win.
She finished with 13 points,
y EVERETT COOK going 3-for-5 from behind the
Daily Sports Writer
"She feels like she has to do
'e were snowflakes falling well every game," Michigan
of Crisler Arena Wednes- coach Kevin Borseth said. "I'm
glad to be able to see her, espe-
WAKE FOREST 58 cially after last game, to come
MICHIGAN 91 back tonight and have a good
game."
rigid temperature, the It was junior forward Carmen
an women's basketball Reynolds who came up the big-
anaged to make it rain on gest, though.
mon Deacons. Reynolds led all scorers with
Wolverines shot 66 per- 25 points, 15 of which came from
om the floor, including 52 beyond the 3-point line.
t from the three-point line The Wolverines got the ball
r 91-58 victory over Wake into the post often, which forced
the Wake Forest players to col-
Demon Deacons' offen- lapse defensively.
epower was a big concern Nobody benefited from this
home team coming into extra room more than Reynolds.
ae. "Their defense gave us pitch-
big question was whether rhythm threes and Carmen is
an (4-3) could run with one of those kids that can make
fensively minded Wake those shots in the game," Borseth
team (5-2) and slow down said.
losive offense. "She is a tough kid to leave
question was answered open."
on when senior guard Though Michigan scored a
ca Hicks scored eight season-high 91 points, its defense
wered points in a little may have been more impressive
minute to put the Wolver- than its offense.
by 10. Wake Forest came into this
tone was set, and the lead game featuring the 13th-best
ver relinquished. offense in the nation, averaging
st knew that we were at 84 points a game.
nd already lost a game at The Wolverines forced 19
and you really don't want turnovers and rarely allowed the
a game at home," Hicks Demon Deacons an open shot,
ter the game. holding them to a season-low
it was like, whatever 58 points. Wake Forest is par-

ticularly strong in transition, but
Michigan slowed the game down
to the pace it wanted to play in.
"We didn't want them to get
transition conversion shots, so
we practiced getting back on
defense and avoided letting them
make any layups on fast breaks,"
Reynolds said. "I think that real-
ly converted to the offensive end
as well."
Sophomore guard Nya Jordan
and sophomore center Rachel
Sheffer also played key roles.
Sheffer scored 15 points, and
provided an exceptional post
presence.
Jordan scored 11 points and
set up outside shooters by driv-
ing inside.
She limped off the court late in
the game with an apparent ankle
injury, but it didn't seem to be
serious.
In the first game of the four-
year-old ACC/Big Ten challenge,
Michigan gave the Big Ten an
early advantage in an event the
conference has always struggled
in.
Since its inception in 2007, the
Big Ten has never won the chal-
lenge, though the Wolverines are
now 4-0 in those games.
This victory sets Michigan
up nicely for its looming road
matchup at Iowa State.
The No. 19 Cyclones have
not lost a non-conference game
at home since 2004, and their
rowdy fan base could cause prob-
lems for the young Wolverines.
"We want to keep the momen-
tum going this Sunday against a
top-20 team," Reynolds said. "It
is going to be a challenge, but
we will carry the momentum
with us and keep our confidence
going."

ActFROMM/[
Freshman forward Tim Hardaway Jr. is averaging 12 points per game for the Wolverines this season. Against the Tigers at
Littlejohn Coliseum on Tuesday, Hardaway Jr. put up 15 points, going 2-of-6 from behind the arc.

ily

New Wolverines
seem different in '10

n Michigan's home opener
against South Carolina
Upstate last month, I spot-
ted a secluded fan snoozing in
the student
section of
Crisler Arena. LUKE
The kid PASCH
was likely
hung over _ On Men's
the football Basketball
team had
just downed
Purdue earlier that afternoon,
and most students need some
recovery time after the raging
that follows one of Michigan's
rare Big Ten football victories
nowadays.
But it was still quite the trans-
formation from the start of last
season. When I showed up to
Crisler a few minutes late for
the 2009-10 home opener against
Northern Michigan, still high
off Michigan's run to the NCAA
Tournament a year earlier, I
found myself jostling for one
of the crummy student section
seats next to the band on the
baseline.
It's not rocket science. The
seats fill up when the Wol-
verines (4-2) win. And after a
dismal 2009-10 season in which
Michigan coach John Beilein
failed to garner even an NIT
invitation and an offseason in
which the team's two leading
scorers - who accounted for 53
percent of all scoring last season
- left for greener pastures, who
could blame the students for
not showing up (or not staying
awake)?
But a funny thing happened
in the game against South Caro-
lina Upstate.
A few minutes into the sec-
ond half, when the Wolverines
were struggling to put up
points, freshman forward Tim
Hardaway Jr. drove to the hoop
through traffic, elevated himself
well above the rim and poster-
ized the Spartan center as he
slammed one home.
Yep, sleeping beauty in the
student section awoke, and he
quickly stood up to applaud
FOLLOW
DAILY
SPORTS
ON
TWITTER
@michdailysports

along with fellow fans, albeit a and that's an understatement.
little confused about what had The Wolverines are one of four
just happened. teams in Division I with no
A few minutes later, freshman fourth-year starters (no seniors,
forward Evan Smotrycz caught no redshirt juniors). Every
a pass in the corner and took an game, the team invariably shows
open baseline to the basket for its youth on the court at some
another dunk. And on Michi- point - a poor pass here, a lack
gan's next possession, juniorr of hustle there.
guard Zack Novak threw one And for Michigan fans, it's
down, hanging on the rim near- downright scary that Beilein
ly long enough for a technical. will enter Big ten play in less
That one got the Maize Rage than a month and start three
going. They hadn't seen that first-year players in the front-
much spunk in a Michigan play- court.
er in any game since the team's But there's a reason to think
tourney run. that this year's team is still
good. There's a reason these
Wolverines went to Atlantic
Any given day City over Thanksgiving break
and stuck with No. 8 Syracuse.
a different There's a reason they beat Clem-
son on Tuesday in the hostile
Michigan player confines of Littlejohn Coliseum.
It's the same reason every
can beat you. coach in the country hates play-
ing against a Beilein-coached
team. On any given day, a dif-
ferent Michigan player can beat
But the Wolverines weren't you.
done. Seconds later, Novak On opening day, Hardaway
blocked South Carolina Jr. led the Wolverines' scoring
Upstate's Chalmers Rogers and effort with 19 points in his col-
passed up to sophomore guard legiate debut. In game three
Darius Morris, who finished against Gardner-Webb, Mor-
with a dunk on the fast break. ris registered 21 points and
Three straight Michigan pos- 10 assists for the team's first
sessions. Three dunks, all from double-double of the season.
different players. And a crowd Against Syracuse, it was junior
that was smaller than the Michi- guard Stu Douglass with a big
gan Ultras contingent - the stu- day. Against Clemson, it was
dents who fill the substantially Smotrycz.
smaller bleacher seats of the You get the point. Last year,
U-M Soccer Complex - cheered the team's success lived and
louder than they had all of last died with the scoring abilities
season. of Manny Harris and DeShawn
I know what you're think- Sims. This season, opponents
ing. That was South Carolina won't know who to prepare for,
Upstate. Michigan's scrub play- and that makes Michigan a very
ers could have beaten them. And scary group of youngsters with
you're right, the Wolverines' tons of upset potential.
first few games this season were Go to Crisler, stay awake and
light matchups. see it for yourself.
The team's goal for the post-
season is still the NIT. I'm defi-
nitely not saying you should go
tell your friends that Michigan
is making it back to the NCAA
Tournament this year. Beilein's
current squad is just too young,
The new Line
r Chinese Cuisine
Kai Barden spcializing
in Hong Ken
W Hunan& pn the winter ony
Szechuan private patio overlooking
(734)995-1401 Style.Many sandy beaches and I
116 S.MainSt. vegetarian gorgeous crystal clear e
dishes green waters of the
(Between W. Huron and dGulf of Mexico.
Washtenaw) Carryout
and reservations accepted. Mon-Thur 111 Visit our w
Wetseacohol F&a 11-11 Professio
Open 7 Days Sun 121Interiorp
A t

Michigan 'D' keys victory
over Wake offensive power

BY CAITLIN SMITH
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's bas-
ketball team has finally proven it
has a defense.
After struggling on the defen-
sive end of the court since the
beginning of the season, the
Wolverines (4-3) shut down a
competitive scoring opponent.
In a well rounded effort, Michi-
gan beat out Wake Forest 91-58
on Wednesday night at Crisler
Arena.
The Demon Deacons (5-1) are
known for their offensive prow-
ess, averaging 84 points per
game so far this season and tally-
ing more than 100 points in two
of their contests.
"(Wake Forest) can get up and
down the court and they can do
it in transition extremely well,"
Michigan coach Kevin Borseth
said after the game. "But we
got back and closed those lanes
down and played pretty good
defensively and kept them at bay
when we had to."
Although Michigan's strategy
was to play man-to-man defense
for the majority of the game,
there was no player who stood
out among the rest.
Instead, the Wolverines dis-
played a strong defensive pres-
ence as a team, and that proved
successful.
The balanced Demon Deacons

have f
threats
points
ines ke
scoring
Wak
by 6-f
Sandra
12.3 pi
per ga
to get i
Cl
la
the W
around
two po
Mic
junior
ages 11
per gai
four po
Alth
reboun
sive gl
defens
the po
mizing
attack.
Wolver

our prominent offensive time it needed to get back, reset
who average at least 11 and defend.
per game. But the Wolver- "(We hit our shots) and then
pt all but two players from we got our defense to come
g in double digits. back," Borseth said. "And then
e Forest is typically led all of a sudden you're playing
oot-3 sophomore center against a set defense as opposed
Garcia, who averages to playing a defense that's just
oints and seven rebounds maybe three-on-three.
me. But Garcia struggled "And (Wake Forest) is a very
into her offensive game as good three-on-three."
By eliminating Wake Forest's
typical transition plays and exe-
cutingshots on the offensive end,
"W e got the Wolverines sealed the deal.
bac aMichigan also forced 19 Demon
Deacon turnovers, resulting in
24 points.
osed those in fact, Michigan has shown a
nes d w unique defensive trend over the
past three years, under Borseth's
leadership. The Wolverines have
a 40-13 overall record when hold-
ing their opponent to less than 60
olverines smothered her points. Conversely, Michigan is
I the basket, holding her to 11-35 when its competition scores
ints on the night. more than 60 points.
higan also shut down If the Wolverines continue to
guard Secily Ray. She aver- play with a solid defensive effort,
points and seven rebounds like that which emerged against
me, but was held to a mere Wake Forest, there may be a posi-
ints on Wednesday. tive turn for this barely over .500
ough Michigan was out- team.
ded 23-4 on the offen-
ass, its hand-in-your-face NEXT GAME: AT
ive mentality made up for IOWA STATE
nor differential by mini-
Wake Forest's transition Check the Daily in print and
And the sharp-shooting online at MichiganDaily.com
rine offense gave it the for coverage.



6A - Thursday, December 2, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

With hockey sticks, Berenson remains traditional

By MARKBURNS hockey sticks, as various companies
Daily Sports Editor such as Bauer and Easton provide
samples to every Wolverine begin-
For some kids in Regina, Sas- ning in the early spring - minus the
katchewan, a broken hockey stick freshmen, who are at somewhat of a
met its demise in a garbage can. But disadvantage when it comes to pick-
Red Berenson saw it as an opportu- ing out a stick for the entire season.
nity to continue playing the game he As equipment manager Ian Hume
loved. said after Wednesday's practice, the
"I never had a new stick," Beren- University picks up the costs of the
son, now in his 27th year coaching samples, with players testing out
Michigan hockey, said after Wednes- sticks throughout much of the sum-
day's practice. "I'd go to the rink in mer. Some players will keep their
town and ... find broken sticks. t'd old model while others will switch
take them and glue and screw them brands for any number of reasons
or nail them together and be happy." "that may not have anything to do
Growing up in Canada in the late with the stick," according to Hume.
1940s and '50s, Berenson never had In mid-July, Hume calls players to
the luxury of owning a $200, one- get their top-stick choice for the fol-
piece composite stick like his current lowing season.
players are fortunate enough to pos- "My ultimate goal would be to
sess. keep all the players under thirty
With the cost of sticks hover- (total) sticks for the year," Hume
ing around SO or even 75 cents, the said.
resourceful Berenson fixed any stick Over his twenty-year stint with
he could get his hands on. Michigan, Hume said that there have
But today, Berenson and his team been those players who have been
don'thavetoworryaboutpurchasing relatively easy to deal with regard-

ing their sticks, but there have been a
particular few who have been "high-
maintenance" such as Jack Johnson
and Chad Langlais, to name a few.
"My all-time stick nightmare guy,
Billy Muckalt," Hume said of the
1998 graduate. "He played in an era
where guys were using wood blades,
and graphite or aluminum shafts.
If he didn't score in the first period,
he'd have one of the student guys put
the blade from stick one into stick
three, take the blade from stick three
and put it into two. Then, put blade
two into shaft one.
"He was a little high-mainte-
nance. There might be some psycho-
logical issues going on there, but we
don'tget into that."
The low-maintenance guys? Take
the "old school" Berenson.
Ever since he dug into trash
cans back in Regina, Berenson has
kept the wood stick in his reper-
toire, sometimes flip-flopping back
and forth between the original
and the modern one-piece com-
posite sticks that most Division I

players use today.
Berenson explained that the com-
posite model is "much lighter" than
your normal wooden stick, with
players having the ability to shoot
better with the newly designed
equipment. But with the enhanced
technology comes a moderate price,
as some players can't stickhandle as
well.
"The sticks have a resiliency or a
stiffness to them that when the puck
hits them, the puck booms off them,"
Berenson said. "It might help your
shot, but it doesn't necessarily help
your passing, receiving, your play-
making and so on."
Sporting a wooden Reebok stick
in practice on Wednesday, Beren-
son said he isn't a fan of the more
expensive and less durable sticks.
He referenced two particular Chi-
cago Blackhawks - Stan Mikita and
Bobby Hull of the mid-1960s - who
excelled using the wooden stick,
though theirs were curved com-
pared to Berenson's straighter edge.
He claimed that "they could shoot

Michigan coach Red Berenson is in his 27th year coaching the Wolverines.

the puck as well as anyone can shoot
now." i
And until Berenson finds a better,
more suitable alternative to the old-
fashioned wooden sticks, he won't
ask Hume for any new stick samples

from Bauer or Easton representa-
tives anytime soon.
"He's holding out," Hume joked.
"He might be the only guy in the
free world that's using a wood stick
right now."

0


ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
We are working the rates....
Parking available Now at
520 Packard & 511 Hoover!
Also, 2011-12 Parking for Sale
Many "Prime" locations
throughout central campus.
Call 734-761-8000

5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609
6, 7, AND 9 BDRM houses available
Fall. Central Campus and Kerrytown.
Call Deinco 734-996-1991 or visit
cappomanagement.com
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitnrts room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available Sping & Fall.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
APARTMENTS GOING FAST.....
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com

! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today.l to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.

Affordable Student Co-Op Hosing
Now signing Room & Board contracts for
Winter 2010 &Fall-Winter 2011-2012
~$575/Month Includes full meal plan, Internet, parking, utilities,
Leadership Opportunities, & Much More.
Inter-Cooperative council
@ wbc.cop (4 734.662-4414
StudentOwned and Operatedsince 1932
RELEASE DATE- Thursday, December 2, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 31 Caboodle partner 52Algerian port
1 Thread bearer 1 Felled, in a way 32 Lash LaRue film, 53Apollo 13 gp.
6 Classic name in 2 Queen sacrifice e.g. 54 _'acte
shoes in chess, e.g. 33 Joined by melting 55 Bygone bird
10 Dressed 3 Shrek or Fiona 34 Artist _ Hals 56 Teddy Roosevelt
14 Aquarium 4 Yellow ribbon site 36 Parts of biographer
concern of song directions 58 "1 have an _l"
15 Fabled craft 5 island welcome 40 MBA, for one 59 Student'sspot
16 Old 6 Lodestone 43 One looking 60 Arg. miss
17 "So I hear your job 7 Hook nemesis, askance 62 Cry while
as exercise class for short 45 Lockjaw showing one's
instructoris _" 8 Monterrey water 47 Dropdramatically cards
19 Word with belly 9 "_ a chancel" 51 Breakfastfare 63 Actor Tognazzi
or blast 10 Bionic beings
20 "Forget it 1 MGM co-founder ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
comradel" 12Field ofexpertise G A B S TOAST CCU P
21 AncientAndean 13 "Coming Home G
22 Davenport actor
shopper 18 "Delta of Venus" G L U E RUDER G E L S
probably author G E R M A N M E A S L E S
23Artist Magritte 22"Everybodyis_, L A T E X K E Y S P A
25 Branch honcho: only on different E M S E L S A N A S A L
Abbr. subjects": Will D R O P D O W N M E N U
26 Pops(out) 2 Ratch I S L A B A M B t I T E M
29 So I hear your 24 at T H A T S O N E O N M E
jobas a "Avatar say T A I N O M
burlesquedancer 25Cretan king of T I D A L N E E D L A C
is _su" ane myth Y AY I C K L EE CH
35Choice 26 SLR setting L E M O N M E R I N G U E
37 Big, outmoded 27T6a of T A U T N I E C E E R M A
pieceof "Spanglish" O N C E A FOUL M E E T
equipment 28 Of a pelvic bone W OKS NE WSY Y E S
38Paris pronoun 30 Gascony/good- 1/EY N
39 Accountant, at bye xwordedetor@aol.com 121/10
times 1 2 a s e 7 5 9 10211 1 1s
41 Airportsafety org.
42 Carousing 10 i5 s
44 Shinyfabric n
46"So I hear your
trash removal 20 21 22
business is."
48 Revenge seekers 23 aa
insa 1984 film
49 Dollar sign shape 2 2728 a so 1 3 a2 33 3
50 Baltic resident s se an
52 Early aftemoon
hr s s9 40 41
55 Disease attacker
57 Helps out 2 43 as 45
61 Demagogue's
delivery a
62 "So I hear your as, ,,
scuba diving
business is _" 52 as sa ss sa s7 5 s9 o
64 Wine region
southof th2e 1
Matterhorm
65 "Got it, Daddy-ol "
66 Party person sn 6,6
67 DEAagent
68 Frosty's button ByPanrion
69 Honshu city (e201oTribuneMediaservices,inc. 12/02/10

the Om4
PROPERTY MANAEMET
Oged and
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
rCentral Campus Dwnown
eNorth Campus d west Sde
Le Our Fanciy Take Care of Yours
lrv , l,,azeShsak- nmry"M""ni"*
24 Iw armo-as, ra17' li'imu m 
734,741.9300
WWW.mmbOrapartneltsnet
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdnm. pts.
Cll Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
Open House 12/4 & 12/5. 2-4pm
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
Open House 12/4 5-7pm & 12/5 11-
1pm
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at734.662.5270
Open House 12/4 5-7 pm & 12/5 1-
3pm
CaB above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathPropeties.com or
tall 734-972-7368.
!! CORNER HOUSE APTS "'!
2 & 3 bd.s, lots of closet space, fat
screen tvs, modem funtsure & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!AWESOME 4 bdrm near the rock.
Free prkg. lndry. Avail. Fall '11.
734.223.7777.
FALL 2011
Great 2 Bedroom Apartment with
Balcony. Located across from the
CCRB Modern Kitchen and Buth with
Granite Floors and Bar Top.
Heat and Water Included.
$1499/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL 2011
Large 6 Bedroom House with Huge
Bedrooms! 2 Full Baths. Located near
South Univeisty and South Forest.
3 Floors of living space, and
newly carpeted for coming year!
$3699/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FREE BUBBLE ISLAND TEA, with
every new tour. Now Taking Reserva-
tions. For best selection come in today,
we sold out early last year. Don't miss
out on the Best of Central Campus! We
have Rooms, Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bed-
room furnished apartments for Spring/-
Fall 2011. Call us Today at 734-761-
260 or Visit us at: www.University-
Towers-Mcom
!!AWESOME 6 & 7 br / 3 ba homes.
great floor plan/location! fireplace/cool
kitch/pkg. $3600/ $3950 313-215-8115
FALL 2011 HOUSES 1

6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, lovingly maintained, $3250 +
utilities, Jim at Spring Valley
734-426-4772.
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
FALL 2011
Amazing 4 Bedroom Apartment.
Right on South University Ave.
2 Full Luxury Baths, Huge Living
Space, Heat and Water Included
$3299/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Included*
Even comes Furnished!!
(And HAIL to the Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 ptimrsh.com
*Varies by location
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
SPACIOUS 4 BEDROOM APTS!
1039 Baldwin
Two 4 Bdr. Apts. available in a
gorgeous converted house.
High ceilings, bay windows, fireplace,
hardwood floors, & screened in porch!!
Large backyard, heat, water, & parking
included!
734-668-1100
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! 1 bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com
www.varsitymanagement.com

For Best
Selection,
Reserve
TODAY!
Spring & Fall
ON CAMPiu sFURNISHED
&IUDIO,,1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Csampus
for 2011/2012
~-Univerity
.Towe&
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-26801
UNIVE RStt OT WERSM-I.COM
INFO(U-TOWERS.COM
AVAIL Sept'11 1&2 Bdrm. fur.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 SState dry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATION!!!
543 Church! Best location in town!
Right across from East Hall. Studios, 1
br, 2br, & 4br, 2 bth, bi-level apts.
w/spiral staircases. Updated kitchens
w/dishwashers and all apts. are fully
furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, My leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!* NOW LEASING FOR.2011*!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
1506 GEDDES
Great 3 bdr. apartments perfect for 3-4
people!! The apartments have large liv-
ing rooms, balconies or patios, tons of
closet space, dishwashers, and double
sinks in bathrooms. Near the CCRB &
CC Little!!
734-668-1100
Rent with the Best!
Fal 1 & 2 bed apts
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
ino@postrealtyproperties.com

. 2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #BI or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
2-BEDROOMS ON PACKARD
331 Packard, 526 Packard,
539 Packard, 917 Packard
Premier campus locations near South
Quad! Very spacious apartments with
heat, water, & parking included. All
apartments have dishwashers and A/C.
www.varsitymagement.com
3 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #1,
$1850/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM FOR Sept., furn., private
deck, excellent security, parking, wash-
er/dryer, non-smoking. 537 Elizabeth
St. $1479, includes heat. 734-996-8506
5 BDRM, 2 bath, laundry, parking,
heat included, May-May, 815Arch,
call 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Fumished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BEDROOM HOUSE great location,
2 blocks to mudbowl, Linden St., free
laundry & parking, furnished, 2 baths,
fireplace, central A/C, large bedrooms,
new kitchen all ammenities, Fall 2011,
$3600. Ask for Jim 734-426-4772.
SERVICES
AMAZING JOBS. WORK during
finals week buying back textbooks.
buyback agent (commission avg 11.62-
/hr). buyback captain ($12/hr).
www.umich.dormbooks.com
734.709.3222
www.scienceworddoctor.com
For your scientific writing needs.
Services include grants, clinical
reports, abstracts and manuscripts.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

0'

0

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

# Beds Location
9 606 Cathenne
7 510 Catherine
7 1129 White St
6 418 N. State
6 605 E. Hoover

Rent
$4700
$3700
$3950
$3500
$3720

6
4
4

1207 Church $3600
827 Brookwood $2400
927 S. Division $2240

Looking for housing for fall 2011?
Studios,1,23a. 5sedrooms
Now Available!
Fully furnished
Feat, water: and parking included most
locations
Many newly remodeled
Call to schedule a tour today!
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 661-1100

Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 2, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, December 2, 2D1D - 7A

FINANCIAL AID
From Page 1A
refocus the scholarship so that it is
geared toward helping need-based
students. He added that Snyder
plans to focus on trying to lower
the cost of tuition.
Last February, Democratic Gov.
Jennifer Granholm's budget pro-
posal included plans for an altered
version of the Promise Scholar-
ship through a $4,000-tax credit,
given to students who earn a col-
lege degree at a university in the
state and then work for one year
in Michigan, as part of an effort
to stimulate the state's economic
recovery.
However, the proposal never
came to fruition, leaving thou-
sands of students still without
funding.
In a statement issued to The
Michigan Daily yesterday, Gra-
nholm's spokeswoman Katelyn
Carey wrote that the governor is
discouraged by the fact that legis-
lators haven't funded the scholar-
ship, especially given her quest to
increase college graduation rates
by making college more afford-
able.
"Doubling the number of col-
lege graduates has always been
a top priority for Governor Gra-
nholm and she remains deeply
disappointed that it still remains
unfunded," Carey wrote. "The
governor has worked to put the
toughest educational standards in
place and the Michigan Promise is
an important step in reaching that
goal."
State Rep. Joan Bauer (D-Lan-
sing), chair of the House Higher
Education Appropriations Com-
mittee, said she doesn't foresee
a reinstatement of the Michigan
Promise Scholarship similar to
Granholm's proposal because of
the vast funding needed to sup-
port it and the state's large budget
deficit.
"I don't see the Promise grant
becoming as it was under Gra-
nholm just because of the sheer
magnitude of financial resources
needed," Bauer said. "I don't see
that being something we discuss
a great deal next year, but I think
we need to have a very serious
discussion about financial aid in
general."
Bauer said financial aid and stu-
dent loans will continue to be a
major focus in the upcoming legis-
lative term, particularly in simpli-
fying and modifying the system as
a whole in order to lower student
debt.
"What I would foresee is
revamping the financial aid sys-
tem," Bauer said. "We have been
really taking a look on the whole
issue of financial aid and trying to
come up with a system that makes
it simpler, that will address the
whole issue of college being acces-
sible and affordable to our stu-
dents."
Cynthia Wilbanks, the Univer-
sity's vice president for govern-
ment relations, said the large state
deficit will make it difficult to
create large-scale programs like
a revamped Michigan Promise
Scholarship. However, she added
that the legislature and Snyder
RSG
From Page 1A

Ford School of Public Policy... (you)
have Ph.D. students in humanities
or the arts, or social science who
would be out in the fields or in a
remote library, and scientists and
engineers that are working at a lab,
so there's really no good way to dis-
tribute them."
Benson said that instead, RSG
decided to pursue different ways
to promote the election including
a Facebook advertising campaign,
widespread posting of fliers on
North Campus and e-mailing the
entire Rackham student body.
"Every time we sent those out
we'd see a significant spike in vot-
ing," Benson said.
In addition, Benson said during
the meeting last night that RSG
would look to work with other gov-
ernments again in future elections.
At last night's meeting Manoj
Jegannathan, fall 2010 RSG elec-
tions director and Rackham stu-
dent in the Naval Architecture
program, said in a presentation
that RSG saw an increase in voter
turnout from both fall 2009 and
winter 2010 elections, with 563 of
the 8,005 total Rackham students
- 7.03 percent - voting in the elec-
tions within their respective divi-

would be analyzing the budget
thoroughly to see how govern-
ment programs can help students.
Like Bauer, Wilbanks said she
believes the incoming legislators
will work toward a more structur-
al change to the financial aid sys-
tem as a whole rather than specific
scholarship developments.
"I can say that at least for a
number of state legislators who
have served the last several years
and were very unhappy with
the elimination of the Michigan
Promise Scholarship, as well as
the deep cuts that were made to
other financial aid programs like
the competitive scholarship pro-
gram, there has been an inter-
est in looking at a more holistic
approach to financial aid for stu-
dents attending Michigan univer-
sities and community colleges,"
Wilbanks said.
While Bauer said lowering
tuition costs for students would
continue to be a major initiative in
the legislature, she said it will be
challenging and she doesn't antic-
ipate any increased funding for
universities because of the large
state deficit.
"I hate to say this, but I think
there's absolutely no chance there
will be any additional appropria-
tions for universities," Bauer said.
"I think the issue for them is how
great, how deep will the cuts be in
their funding."
Despite this, she said she hopes
the legislature realizes thatinvest-
ing in education plays a major role
in fixing the ailing state's econo-
my.
"I feel very strongly that we
need to be investing in education
in Michigan, if we are to turn our
state around," Bauer said. "It con-
cerns me greatly that an all-cuts
budget, without any additional
revenue, is probably goingto mean
big cuts for education at all levels,
but particularly higher educa-
tion."
Wilbanks said it is essential that
Snyder and all the legislators care-
fully examine the budget before
attempting to structure higher
education funding and University
appropriations, especially since
they are such major portions of the
state budget.
"WehavetogiveGovernor-elect
Snyder time to study all aspects
of the state budget, including the
state support for universities and
students, which represents a sig-
nificant portion of the state's gen-
eral fund," Wilbanks said.
Wilbanks said she and other
University officials are excited to
hear Snyder's plans to focus on
University development to help
foster economic growth, an issue
which she said will play a crucial
role in developing programs with-
in the University.
"We have heard (Snyder) say
that higher education is impor-
tant to the economic diversifica-
tion of the state and I think all of
us are pleased with his recogni-
tion of that," Wilbanks said. "He
has worked closely with the Uni-
versity of Michigan in helping to
develop regional economic strate-
gies that help leverage the type of
work that we are doing to improve
Michigan's economy."
sion. .
Within these divisions in the
elections, 16 candidates contested
for positions.

The results were divided among
the four divisions of RSG, which
include Division I: Health and
Biological Sciences, Division II:
Engineering and Physical Sciences,
Division III: Social Sciences and
Division IV: Arts and Humanities,
and Education.
Three full term seats were elect-
ed in Division I, four full term seats
and three half term seats were
elected in Division II and three full
term seats were elected in Division
III.
Division II saw the highest turn-
out with241students participating,
while Division IV, which had one
open seat, had only about 20 stu-
dents vote in the elections. How-
ever, the Division IV election saw a
four-way tie, which will be decided
by the RSG executive board at their
meeting on Wednesday.
Despite the increase in over-
all voter turnout in the elections,
RSG members mentioned that they
looked to improve promotional
efforts and to reach out to Division
IV, especially in future elections.
The representative-elects of
RSG are invited to begin attending
the official board meetings starting
next Wednesday.

Students gather on the Diag last night for a Hanukiah lighting hosted by the local Chabad House in honor of the first night of Hanukkah.

DISORDERS
From Page 1A
components and peer pressure
components."
Lawson wrote that CAPS has
many psychological services stu-
dents can turn to if they suspect
they are suffering from an eating
disorder.
"Students can make an appoint-
ment with a CAPS counselor, or
they could request an Eating Pat-
terns Assessment - a special group
of three sessions designed specifi-
cally to get a better understanding
of the role of food, mood and exer-
cise inthe life of a student," Lawson
wrote.
Lawson also described another
service at CAPS called Stories of
Recovery, which is a support group
for students working to overcome
eating disorders and is led by pro-
fessionals in the field.
In addition, staffers at CAPS
and UHS work together to treat
students who are struggling with
eating disorders, as the doctors and
registered dieticians at UHS collab-
orate with the counselors and social

workers at CAPS to provide the best
treatment plan for students, Stocks
said.
And though there are many
resources for students on campus
to help them with these particular
issues, Stocks said it is a little more
difficult to treat college students
than other patients. One of the
most effective forms of treatment
for people with eating disorders,
Stocks said, is the Maudsley meth-
od, which relies on a family support
system to helpa patient through his
or her condition.
"Students in college are gener-
ally farther away from their family,"
Stockssaid. "This makes it more of a
challenge to treat students in a col-
lege setting."
Some students were surprised by
how many studentson campus have
or have had an eating disorder. LSA
freshmen Megan Baker and Bren-
nan Schiller said they haven't seen a
lot of issues with disordered eating
on campus, but they have noticed
students' struggles to remain thin.
"I've noticed a lot of people are
really conscientious, they'll go work
out right after they eat," Schiller
said.

Some studies have claimed that
certain groups within a university
contribute to increased levels of eat-
ing disorders on college campuses.
These include a study published in
February in Northwestern Univer-
sity's research journal "Sex Roles,"
which suggests that the soror-
ity rush process leads to increased
levels of eating disorders and body
shame amongcollege-aged women.
The study - called "Here's
Looking at You: Self-Objectifica-
tion, Body Image Disturbance, and
Sorority Rush" - focused on 127
freshman women at "a U.S. Mid-
western university," according to
the study's abstract. The women,
some of who went through the pro-
cess of rush and some who didn't,
took four online surveys about eat-
ing habits and self-esteem at four
different times during and after the
rush process.
The study found that women
who went through the rush pro-
cess responded more positively to
the questions about disordered eat-
ing and body self-objectification,
as compared to more negative
responses from women who didn't
participate in rush.

Some Universityexperts, howev-
er, are not convinced that this find-
ing is entirely accurate.
Lawson wrote that she believes
that eating concerns are an issue in
any living community and that the
Greek community should not be
singled out.
"I think it's important to reach
out to the Greek community around
body image and eating concerns,
but it's also important to reach out
to all communities at (the Univer-
sity)," Lawson wrote. "Eating dis-
orders affect men and women of all
races, ethnicities, socio-economic
classes and backgrounds, and aren't
bound to what or who we may think
has one."
LSA freshman Jill Clancy, who
went through the recruitment pro-
cess this semester, said though she
never felt any pressure to feel thin
or look a certain way, she said many
girls are often conscious of their
appearances.
"I hate to say this but some
(sororities) do have the certain ste-
reotype to be the blonde Barbie,"
Clancy said. "I had a good rush
experience, but I think a lot of it is
about stereotypes."


ASIAN CARP
From Page 1A
Many government officials and
interest groups, who have clashed
on other measures regarding the
regulation of Asian carp, jointly
expressed support for the bill in
recent months.
Confident that the legislation
would garner enough support,
House leaders passed the bill under
suspension of the rules - a process
that allows for expedited consid-
eration with limited debate and
requires a two-thirds majority for
passage.
Rep. Judy Biggert (R-Ill.), who
sponsored the legislation, praised
its victory as a triumph of bipar-
tisanship, according to a press
release.
"I'm very pleased we were able
to work with our colleagues from
Michigan to secure enactment of
this measure, and grateful for the
support of my colleagues from
throughout the Great Lakes states,"
she said in the press release.
Joel Brammeier, president and
CEO of the group Alliance for the
Great Lakes, said in an interview
that he supported the bill but ques-
tioned its impact.
According to Brammeier,
because bighead carp are already
outlawed in all of the Great Lakes
states, the bill will be a good mea-
sure for other watersheds, but
won'thave much of an effect on the
Great Lakes system.
"It's a little bit like closing the
barn door after the horse has run
away," he said.
UnLock Our Jobs, a coalition of
business groups formed to protect
commercial interests from what
they view as unwarranted Asian
carp regulation, also expressed
AIDS
From Page 1A
versity Health Service - hosted
an event in the Michigan League
called the "AIDS AnywHERE
Forum," which featured several
keynote speakers with informa-
tion on HIV/AIDS transmission
and those affected by the disease.
"Instead of just sharing about
HIV from a medical standpoint,
we're actually hearing about
it from people who have HIV,
which is completely different,"
said Roslyn Taylor, a coordina-
tor of special projects for PULSE.
"We wanted to get people who
actually have it and discuss the
real life situations with HIV."
Yesterday, on World AIDS Day,
people were encouraged to wear
red to support the fight against
HIV/AIDS. In addition the day
included a screening of the movie

support for the measure.
"To be perfectly clear, the
coalition doesn't want Asian carp
advancing to the Great Lakes any
more than our so-called oppo-
sition," said Mark Biel, chair of
UnLock Our Jobs.
One possible target of the legis-
lation is a religious group, which
is said to ritually release the fish
into Lake Michigan, according to
Prof. David Jude of the University's
School of Natural Resources and
Environment.
Several other regulatory mea-
sures pending in congressional
committees are more widely con-
tested.
The Close All Routes and Pre-
vent Asian Carp Today Act, pro-
posed by Sen. Debbie Stabenow
(D-Mich.) and Rep. Dave Camp
(R-Mich.), directs the U.S. Army
Corp of Engineers to immediately
close several key waterways.
The bill was introduced several
months before the Supreme Court
denied a request from Michigan
and four other Great Lakes states
for an injunction to close the water-
ways.
The CARP ACT intends to pro-
vide a physical barrier that pre-
vents the Asian carp - already
prevalent in the Mississippi River
- from advancing farther into the
Great Lakes.
According to the Environmental
Protection Agency's website, the
invasive carp, which can weigh as
much as 100 pounds and grow to
four feet in length, "pose a signifi-
cant risk to the Great Lakes Eco-
system."
However, UnLock Our Jobs has
defiantly opposed the passage of
the CARP ACT, citing its potential
to slow the transport of commodi-
ties valued above $16 billion that
move through the Chicago locks
"And the Band Played On" - a
film about the debate in the sci-
entific community following the
discovery of the epidemic - pre-
sented by student group OUT-
break. Following the screening,
the group hosted a discussion
on the differing perspectives of
HIV/AIDS in the U.S. and China.
Rheingans said the World
AIDS Week events intend to
cover a wide variety of topics
pertaining to the disease in order
to target multiple audiences.
"It depends if somebody wants
movies or research; the events
focus on specific communities,"
she said.
Rheingans added that the
week also stressed the impor-
tance of HIV/AIDS testing.
"We're really trying to encour-
age people to get tested," she
said. "At every event, we'll have
handouts where people can get
information to go get tested."

each year. According to the interest
group's website, closing the locks
could cost billions of dollars in
delays and increased product costs.
Rep. Biggert echoed the senti-
ments of the group, saying that she
also opposes the bill.
"Measures like these may catch
headlines, but they won't catch
carp," she said in a press release.
A second contested measure,
also introduced by Stabenow and
Camp, would require the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers to complete
a study of how to best separate
the waterways within 18 months.
According to Brammeier, a cur-
rent study from the Army Corp is
expected to take five years.
The study "is nothing but an
attempt to force the hand of region-
al officials to pursue hydrological
separation," Biel said.
The fault lines in this debate
appear more geographic than par-
tisan, with support for regulation
centered in Michigan, Ohio and
Minnesota - states whose econo-
mies are heavily dependent on
Great Lakes tourism.
Nine of the 12 co-sponsors of the
House version of the CARP ACT
represent Michigan.
This summer, in a letter to Presi-
dent Obama, outgoing Democratic
Governor of Ohio Ted Strickland
warned that Asian carp pose both
an ecological and economic threat
to the state.
"Ohio's $10 billion a year Lake
Erie tourism industry would be
destroyed - along with 114,000
jobs," he wrote in the letter.
Politicians in Illinois may look to
balance ecological concerns with
the financial impact of regulation
on commercial shipping, which is
particularly importantto the state's
economy. The Chicago locks are
also a crucial component of Chica-
Testing is available to Uni-
versity students during World
AIDS Week in multiple locations
like the Spectrum Center in the
Michigan Union, the Office of
Multi-Ethnic Student Affairs
in the Union, University Health
Service and the HIV/AIDS
Resource Center in Ypsilanti.
The Ypsilanti center, Rhein-
gans said, is a useful resource for
the community for issues associ-
ated with HIV/AIDS.
"It's the only local AIDS orga-
nization for our area," she said.
"If anybody who is a student has
HIV, they can go to that orga-
nization and get some support
with services (such as) coordi-
nating medical appointments,
access to medication, or hous-
ing."
Rheingans said a main goal for
World AIDS Week is for all of its
events to run smoothly and to
foster collaboration among par-

go's sewage treatment system.
Debate over the extent to which
the carp are an ecological threat is
still ongoing.
This is in part due to the capture
of an almost 20-pound carp in Lake
Calumet by a fisherman this past
June. The carp was the first to be
caught past the electric barrier,
which was putinto placeto prevent
the migration of invasive species
into the Great Lakes basins.
For some, this fish and subse-
quent DNA samplings provide
evidence of the inadequacy of an
electric barrier to control carp
movement and the need for a per-
manent hydrological separation.
Others, including Biggert, inter-
preted the catch of just one fish as a
sign of the success of current mea-
sures.
"The fact that months of collec-
tion and fish kills have yielded only
a single fish confirms that no self-
sustaining, breeding population
of Asian carp has reached beyond
the barrier system to threaten Lake
Michigan," she wrote in the press
release.
Jude, who said he supports an
eventual hydrological separation,
added that he is also cautiously
optimistic, adding that some stud-
ies suggest the fish couldn't even
survive in Lake Michigan due
to low plankton levels and cold
waters.
"Even if we get carp into the
lakes it's going to take a long time
for them to colonize," Jude said.
"One or two fish isn't going to cut
it."
Catfish farmers first imported
Asian carp in the 1970s as a means
of removing algae from their ponds.
But, in the 1990s, Asian carp
spread into various waterways in
the Mississippi River Basin when
the ponds overflowed.
ticipants. All of these efforts, she
added, serve the ultimate goal to
raise awareness of the complex-
ity of the issue of HIV/AIDS.
"We really want to have stu-
dents realize that just because
they're here on the U of M cam-
pus, they're not unaffected by
HIV," she said. "We want stu-
dents to learn how HIV can
affect everything."
Taylor echoed Rheingans' sen-
timents, saying that the overall
goal was to illustrate how far-
reaching the issue is for every-
one.
"We wanted to break down the
stigmas and stereotypes around
the virus," Taylor said. "A lot of
people still believe that HIV/
AIDS is a disease that mainly
affects the homosexual com-
munity, which is incorrect. We
wanted to prove and show to
everyone on campus that we are
all susceptible to HIV/AIDS."

TWEET, TWEET. WANT
THE LATEST CAMPUS
N EWS?
Follow the Daily on the Twitter machine:
@MICHIGANDAILY


8A - Thursday, December 2, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Thursday, December 2, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

3
Q
II ;Il
o
I- k
l
off'
a_
fYl



This holiday season,
upgrade your family to the
fast and free Chrome browser.
google.com/chrome/students

I


{
0

0

Go-_>gle

02010 Google

: '<
i t ! 1c

i


0 The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I Thursday, December 2, 2010

S U N G
THE MICHIGAN SONGBOOKS
GIVE A VOICE TO THE
UNIVERSITY'S HALLO WEtD
H I S T O R Y
B y Joe Cada gin, D aily Arts Wri t,, r
Photos and de sign by Marissa McCl i{n

n a crisp, quiet
eveninginearly
fall, a group of
students gath-
ers beneath an
enormous oak tree near the
center of campus. The year is
1904, and these fresh-faced
young people have returned
to the sleepy little town of
Ann Arbor for another year
of classes, parties and foot-
ball games. The Wolverines
would finish 10-0 that year,
capping the season off with
a decisive victory over the
University of Chicago.
As the students light a
bonfire, they begin to sing
the University's alma mater,
"The Yellow and Blue."
Splitting into four-part har-
mony, their voices rise with
the smoke of the fire into
the highest branches of the
mighty oak tree above them.
As the last chord fades away,
a feeling of optimism and
good cheer spreads through
the group as its members
eagerly look forward to the
coming school year.
Today, this lonely oak
tree is no longer the site of
such gatherings. Dubbed the
Tappan Oak after the Uni-
versity's first president, the
tree still towers over cam-
pus on a small strip of grass
on the west side of Hatcher
Graduate Library. Though
thousands of students pass
beneath it every year, none
stop to sing the University's
alma mater as in days of old.
The Tappan Oak is tes-
tament to a time without
iPods, when singing was
an integral part of campus
life. In the early 19th cen-
tury, faculty and students
started composing school
songs to honor the Univer-
sity. What began as a hand-
ful of pieces grew into an
enormous repertoire of Uni-
versity fight songs, hymns,
nostalgic songs and comic
ditties collected in a series of
songbooks that continued to
expand into the post-World
War II era.
The Original
Songbooks
Like the Tappan Oak,
this treasure trove of songs
lies all but forgotten to the
larger student body. Yet the
music has managed to live
on, thanks to a few groups
devoted to performing
* Michigan songs and pre-
servingthem for posterity.
"We think of ourselves in
the Men's and Women's Glee
Clubs as sort of the custo-
dians of these pieces," said
Paul Rardin, the director of
the Men's Glee Club and an
associate professor of choral
conducting in the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance.
Series of Michigan song-
books serve as relics of a

bygone era. The earliest of
these books, "Songs of the
Yellow and Blue," was first
published in 1889. The small,
teal-colored volume con-
tains the earliest Michigan
songs, including the Univer-
sity's alma mater.
Two other important
songs contained in this first
songbook are a pair of Glee
Club favorites. The valiant
"Laudes Atque Carmina"
("Songs and Praises"), which
opens every Men's Glee Club
concert, is a Latin hymn of
praise to the University. The
reverent "Goddess of the
Inland Seas" places the Uni-
versity on par with ancient
Greece.
"'Goddess of the Inland
Seas' was composed in the
late 1880s by a faculty mem-
ber, and of course the faculty
members back then were all
well versed in the classics,"
said Carl Smith, a retired
CPA who serves as faculty
adviser for the Men's Glee
Club. "You have to remem-
ber that this university was
founded on the classics, and
it just added and expanded
from that."
In 1904, the University
released a new, expanded
songbook titled simply "The
Michigan University Song
Book." Among the songs
included was a four-part
arrangement of Louis Elbel's
famous march, "The Vic-
tors." Composed for the 1898
football team, Elbel's iconic
piece was given lyrics in
1904 when the Men's Glee
Club added it to its reper-
toire.
"Michigan's Favorite Col-
lege Songs," the most com-
prehensive volume to date
and the last of the three main
volumes, was published in
1913. The new songbook was
the first to feature the fight
song "Varsity," which the
Michigan Marching Band
still performs at football
games. The book also fea-
tured new numbers from the
Michigan Union Operas.
Beginning in 1908, an all-
male group known as the
Mimes began writing and
performing comic operas in
order to raise money to build
the Michigan Union. The
group continued perform-
ing new works through the
mid-'50s, when the Mimes
opened up to women and
became the campus Broad-
way musical troupe known
as "Michigan Union Shows,
Ko-Eds, Too," or MUSKET.
"Those were big events
on campus," Smith said of
the Michigan Union Operas.
"Some of them were large
enough that they toured
to New York, Chicago and
Detroit. ... They were, in
many cases, farces or plays
on current (events regard-
ing) faculty, students, activi-
See SONGBOOKS, Page 4B

weekend
essentials
Dec. 2 to Dec. 5
ON DISPLAY
You want to see a con-
cert; your friends want
a dance show. Compro-
mise and go to "By the
Way: Music In Plural-
ism" at the Duderstadt
Video Studio Friday or
Saturday. Made by five
'U' students, it's a one-
of-a-kind multimedia
exhibit, incorporating
everything from diverse
music and live video
processing to choreo-
graphed modern dance.
Doors open at 7:30
p.m. Admission is free.
AT THE MIC
Today through Satur-
day, Basement Arts
will be performing
"Dorothy," directed by
School of Music, The-
atre & Dance student
Porscha Kazmierczak,
at the Walgreen Drama
Center. Written by Gra-
ham Reid, "Dorothy"
contrasts the "inner"
and "external" worlds
and deals with choices
and consequences.
The show will be per-
formed at 7 p.m. tonight
through Saturday and at
11 p.m. tomorrow. Free.
FI LM
No holiday season
is complete without
watching little Ralphie's
adventures with Scut
Farkus, Chinese turkey

and a leg lamp during
his quest for an official
Red Ryder carbine-
action 200-shot range
model air rifle with a
compass in the stock
and the thing that tells
time. The 1983 classic
"A Christmas Story" is
playing this Sunday at
4 p.m. at the Michigan
Theater. Just make sure
you don't shoot your
eye out before then.
Admission is free.
CONCERT
Got those pre-finals
blues? Head to the
Blind Pig tonight to
hear Frontier Ruckus
bring the noise and
let loose. Since the
release of the band's
2007 EP lAm the
Water You Are Pump-
ing, University alum
David Winston Jones
and co. have been
going strong, releas-
ing bluegrass folk-
rock tunes that would
make any Americana
aficionado swoon.
Doors open at 9 p.m.
Tickets from $12.


2B - Thursday, December 2, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com I

Judging A Book
By Its Cover
Why read a single page when the cover
tells the whole story?

SINGLE REVIEW

J. Cole's success just affirms that
the rap game is changing. No lon-
ger is hip hop ruled by the street
lore of stand-
ing on the cor-
ner hustling and
writing rhymes J. Ce
on brown bags
before getting "Tat Deep for
that big record theintro"
deal. Where was
J. Cole before he became the first
artist signed to Jay-Z's burgeoning
label Roc Nation? On scholarship at
St. John's University, cracking the
books and graduating with highest
honors.
"Too Deep for the Intro," the
first song off J. Cole's most recent
mixtape Friday Night Lights, is

more of his familiar blend of hon-
or-student ruminations and open-
diary anecdotes. Over a wonderfully
chilled-out beat that samples the J
Dilla-produced Erykah Badu track
"Didn't Cha Know," he rhymes,
"Should I admit that a slutty bitch
was my first smash?" and then goes
on to describe the episode in detail.
The self-consciousness of the line
(and the song in general) leaves him
vulnerable, like any artist airing it
all out for the sake of art. It's the new
generation of "keeping it real": Share
the truth, regardless of how reveal-
ing it is. While not the most lyrically
impressive J. Cole track, "Too Deep"
reaffirms his position as the hot up-
and-comer.

40

a

Before "In the Beginning," the
Dexter team said, "Let there be
Lumen," and she was good. But by
this week, Julia
Stiles's role as **
Dexter's vengeful
partner in crime Dexter
has worn its wel-
9n the
come. She contin-
ues to serve almost Beginning"
no purpose except Showtime
making Dexter
(Michael C. Hall) re-explain all his
methodology that fans already know.
To the show's credit, the story-
lines are beingweaved together more
intricately than in any prior season.
All of the relationships, whether they
be professional, familial or intimate,
serve some purpose in the grand and
imminent climax.

But looking ateach plot on its own,
things moved too slowly and predict-
ably. Season villain Jordan Chase
(Jonny Lee Miller) is setting a com-
plex trap rather than taking care of
business the simple, murderous way.
General menace Stan Liddy (Peter
Weller) has learned some pretty
damn compromising information but
is just sitting on it. The only break-
through is the newfound intimacy
between Lumen and Dexter - but
it doesn't feel believable coming so
soon after Lumen's trauma.
"In the Beginning" goes to show
that building tension does not always
make for entertaining television.
With so little time in the season, the
shit needs to start hitting the fan
soon.
--JAMIE BLOCK

EPISODE REVI[

-JEFF SANFORD
V-W

If you're looking for mystery,
intrigue and spicy recipes, look
no further than world-renowned
chef Barbara Hot's latest mem-
oir, "Sexy Hot Tales." Part erotic
nonfiction, part cookbook, "Sexy
Hot Tales" offers a much-awaited
glimpse into Hot's turbulent past.
Barbara grew up in the slums
of Nashville, Tennessee, but
always found solace and peace
in watching her mother cook -
especially spicy food. When Bar-
bara entered her adult years, they
told her she couldn't make it as a
chef, so Hot was forced to turn to
a life as a call girl. She remained
optimistic and found new and
inventive ways to work vegeta-
bles into her new c areer, eventu-
ally resulting in a Nashville-wide
vegetable fetish epidemic. one

night, luck came knocking as
Barbara entertained Guy Fieri
for a steamy evening of food and
fun. Before Hot could say "I ant
the cover of mny memoir to have a
steaming chili pepper," she was
cooking ineals for the Queen of
England.
There's no doubting Hot's tal-
ent as a chef or sex artist, and
her writing ability is just another
talent she can add to her resumd.
Her use of gustatory imagery
is the stuff only a prostitute-
turned-chef could write. The
recipes following each chap-
ter beautifully complement the
chapter's theme, and are tasty to
boot! Look for more from Barba-
ra Hot because this call girl/chef/
author is on fire!
-CAROLYN KLARECKI

The new trailer for "The Lincoln
Lawyer," based on a Michael Con-
nelly book, is none too subtle about
the morality of its
protagonist. Want **
to know how he
got his name? He The Lincoln
gets chauffeured Lawyer
around L.A. in a
shiny black Lin- Lionsgate
coln paid for with
bribes from his clients. Oh, and the
license plate reads "NTGUILTY." A
sleazy lawyer? In Hollywood? Well,
I never.
But the biggest giveaway to the
Lincoln Lawyer's shady underpin-
nings may be that he's being played
by Matthew McConaughey ("Fool's
Gold"). One glance upon McCo-
GATE naughey's carefully permed locks,

one gaze into his inexplicably glis-
tening face (glistening with acting
intensity, of course) and you'll know:
This dude means business. He's
totally the kind of guy who could
pass the California bar exam ... with
extreme prejudice. And having him
star alongside Marisa Tomei ("The
Wrestler") can only mean one thing:
Somebody's gettin' nekkid.
Where this preview does win
restraint points is in the closing sec-
onds, when McConaughey pulls out
a gun from his suit's breast pocket,
then locks eyes with Ryan Phillipe
("Stop-Loss"). No actual gunshots
nor loud noises necessary. If after
this promising moment, "Lincoln
Lawyer" still ends up being the
cheesiest legal thriller ever, I'll sue.
-ANDREWLAPIN

Stunts and swordplay in the Ring.

The Ring of Steel
stages combat all
over Ann Arbor
By BRAD SANDERS
DailvyArts Writer
The sun is shining as LSA Pro-
fessor David Doris leads his class
into the Law Quad for an exercise.
Suddenly, a large group of dis-
guised figures appears from out
of the distance and charges the
unsuspecting students, engag-
ing in simultaneous sword battles
around them. Once finished, the
attackers flee, leading their wit-
nesses to wonder what in the
world just happened.
They will later learn that this
was a staged event set up by their
professor and The Ring of Steel, an
organizationoncampus that focus-
es on learning various aspects of
staged combat from different eras.
The members of The Ring of Steel
mostly use their talents to cre-
ate fight sequences in local films
and professional theater, like the
Michigan Opera Theatre, and to
create live performances of their
own that can be seen at Renais-
sance festivals, haunted houses,
science fiction conventions and
even weddings when the bride is

kidiaped from the altar.
"Ring of Steel" refers to the
group's pride in its swordfight-
ing abilities, as well as to its social
cohesion.
"We're swinging swords at 200
miles an hour at each other's head
and if I can't trust you, I can't per-
form with you," said Christopher
Barbeau, the organization's mae-
stro. "It's a double entendre - it's
a ring of friends, and it's also the
sound that steel makes when it hits
(steel)."
"I've come about three days
a week for the last three years,
and picked it up relatively quick-
ly because I came from a dance
background and had the physical
coordination skills," added Diane
Miller, the student president and a
junior in the School of Music, The-
atre & Dance. "That helps a lot with
martial arts. My favorite weapon
is broadsword because it's big and
heavy and barbaric."
Members can learn a variety of
martial arts techniques includ-
ing aikido, jiu-jitsu and tae kwon
do, and can also take advantage
of the group's collection of 2,000
weapons, including whips, visu-
ally stimulating light sabers and
semi-automatic guns with plugged
barrels.
Aside from weapons, The Ring
of Steel also focuses on stunt work.

During fight sequences, it is not
uncommon to see one of the com-
batants fall off of a high surface,
jump off of a mini trampoline and
flip in midair, break through sheets
of glass or be completely enveloped
in flames.
To be lit on fire, the actor must
wear underwear made out of
Nomex - the material worn by
racecar drivers - and get soaked
in heat-resistant stunt gel applied
to many layers of clothing. The
actor must then be covered in rub-
ber cement. Once the heat is felt,
the actor falls to the ground and is
extinguished by multiple onlook-
ers.
"We can pretty much do every
burn in the movies," Barbeau
explained. "There's a little bit of
timing and skill on your part in
how you move because it's real
flames. You have to make sure the
fire doesn't go in your face."
For some of its other stunts, The
Ring of Steel uses special equip-
ment not commonly found on a col-
lege campus.
"We use quick-release shackles
(for entrances by flight) that aren't
intended for human use," Barbeau
said. "We're all using it for human
use but it's manufactured for
releasing a sail. They're learning on
professional-level equipment. This
is what is used in Los Angeles."
With all of these dangerous
weapons and stunts, one may won-
der how many injuries can result
from being a member of The Ring
of Steel. However, each of the fights
are calculated and rehearsed, with
the actors memorizing each physi-
cal movement, fall to the ground
and drop of their weapon.
"In telling the story of a fight,
we have to make it bigger and a
little slower than a real fight, and
we can build in safety protocols,"
Barbeau said. "So this is kind of
like wrestling your dad over actual
fighting."
"I've got a couple sword scars,
but to be honest I probably have
more scars from my cat," added
Dave Melcher, a 'journeyman' in
The Ring of Steel, or the equiva-
lent of a second-degree black belt.
"Like any sport, injuries do hap-
pen."_
According to Barbeau, theatri-
cal combat is one of the earliest
forms of drama, with documented
pictures of cavemen reenacting

0

of Steel performs at Renaissance festivals, haunted houses, science fiction conventions and even some weddings

their victory over thousand-pound
bison. From here, The Ring of Steel
has marked the evolution of staged
combat over 1,800 years, learning
the styles of each era leading up to
present day. In addition to fighting,
members are expected to perform
to music and participate in small
skits that inspire battle.
"You can't certify fights with-
out having a performance because
that's the ultimate integration of
things," Miller explained. "You
have the martial arts, then the
ancient swordplay techniques,
then the musical elements of
rhythm and ... the choreography
and then on top of the pyramid is
acting, so you have to be able to
keep everything in your head and
recite things."
"There are stuntmen who learn
to perform stunts at a high level
and ... they're just doing a stunt
anyway, but they have to learn
martial acting," Barbeau added.
"Like reacting to head punches and
things like that. They have to sell
being in pain from a bad landing."
The Ring of Steel prides itself
on performing scenarios from a
variety of different genres, usu-
ally customizing its shows to the
type of event and audience. In the
past, The Ring of Steel has created

shooting battles in the Wild West,
medieval swordfights and rendi-
tions of Shakespearean plays such
as "Romeo and Juliet." Barbeau
alone has choreographed more
than 500 stage performances in
his 39 years as The Ring of Steel
maestro.
For LSA senior Breezy Mullins,
her favorite performance was set
outside of the Quality 16 movie
theater for the premiere of "Indi-
ana Jones and the Kingdom of the
Crystal Skull." The show, themed
around the movie, featured Mul-
lins as a cleaning lady whose mop
was stolen by Indiana Jones.
"It wasn't like other perfor-
mances where you fight and sit
down; this one was constant, it was
to music and it made you feel like
a Hollywood stunt person, because
it was at the level of Hollywood
stunt work," Mullins said. "We did
gun work, explosions, fire, sword
work, high falls, rolling, a little bit
of everything."
The Ring of Steel will put on a
series of performances entitled
"Midnight Madness" on Main
Street every Friday in December
outside of The Black Pearl restau-
rant. Viewers will be taught about
staged combat and will be able to
watch three- to five-minute skits

lasting for a total of about two-
and-a-half hours. Playing off the
name of the restaurant, the group
will fight as pirates and and will
also perform scenes with muske-
teers and "Star Wars" light saber
battles.
"Our big theme right now is
pirate shows, my favorite show in
our repertory theater," Miller said.
"There was this one that had a
four-way fight - there was cutlass
versus rapier and dagger. We had
two of those going at the same time
and then at one point they inter-
sect. That's a fun show."
For many members of The Ring
of Steel, the organization is more
than just a local group of stu-
dents and townies. Melcher has
been with the group for about 11
years, and with all of that train-
ing, according to Barbeau, still
only knows about 70 percent of
what The Ring of Steel is capable
of. Even Barbeau admits that he is
still learning new techniques after
almost 40 years of experience, and
continues to find new excitement
every year.
"Light us on fire, throw us
through a third-story plate glass
window while we're swinging a
flaming broadsword," he said, "and
we're very happy people."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 2, 2010 - 3B

Dios mio, we're
going to Tios

Before the 1970s, Ann Arbor had more movie theater options than just the Michi,

and the State.

M.46-issing multiplexes
Why you had to Lecturer Jonathan Marwil of Ann Arbor's Most prominent is M-Flicks, which sporadi-
movie theaters, the author of "A History of tally screens movies. But these groups are
hitchhike to see the new Ann Arbor," among other works. nowhere near as popular or relevant as they
Marwil said that back in the WWII era, were back in their heydays.
'Harry Potter' film at least 80 million Americans out of 150 mil- At one point, the abundance of Ann
lion went to the movies once a week. Arbor film societies meant that you could
By LILA KALICK "Movies were a primary and inexpensive see a movie any night of the week at the
DailyArts Writer form of entertainment," he said. Modern Languages Building, Angell Hall or
At that time, Ann Arbor was teeming the Natural Science Building. Marwil, who
Well, Saturday night at eight o'clock, with movie theaters. Two theaters on Main attended graduate school at the University
I know where I'm gonna go Street, the Wuerth and the Orpheum, were in the late '60s, recalls how the whole busi-
I'm a gonna pick my baby up open in addition to the Michigan and the ness of student film societies worked.
and take her to the picture show. State. By the end of the 1940s, the Wuerth "For them, to rent the prints wasn't very
Everybody in the neighborhood and the Orpheum had closed. The build- expensive for either foreign or older films,"
is dressing up to be there too. ings they occupied on the 300 block of Main he said.
And we're gonna have a ball, Street now house the restaurants Gratzi According to Marwil, the business of stu-
just like we always do. and The Chop House. Where the Maynard dent film societies began to collapse in the
Street parking structure now stands, there late'70s.
So Motown sensation the Drifters used to be the Majestic, a grand movie pal- "The '60s and notably the '70s is the high
S crooned in the song "Saturday Night at the ace fashioned out of the skeleton of a roller point of interest in this country in film.
Movies" way back in 1964. It's a Saturday rink. The Majestic closed in 1942, and now Then it begins to die and it's been dead for a
night in 2010 in Ann Arbor, Michigan. You the Fifth Quarter nightclub occupies the long time," Marcnil said.
are not going to the movies. You can't get emptied space. So what happened? How did Ann Arbor
to the movies. You have no car and it's two Relatively more recently, South Univer- go from a cinema boomtown to a relative
degrees outside, so you don't want to walk sity was home to yet another movie theater, movie theater desert?
to the bus. the Campus. Built in the 1950s, the Campus Marwil cites a general indifference
LSA senior Ali Phillips recalls being continued to show first-run Hollywood among young people toward film. Around
stranded her freshman year with a group films until it closed in 1987. A strip mall the end of the 1970s when the hype around
of friends at Rave Cinemas in Ypsilanti. replaced it. the film societies had died down, the big
Her group had decided to take the bus to "Ann Arbor used to be one of half a dozen theaters on the periphery had already come
Meijer to go Christmas shopping and then most important towns in the country to into being.
walked the short distance to the theater to see film," Marwil said. "Robert Altman "They were getting the movies. People
catch a quick flick. came here several times to show his films. who wanted go to the movies had cars," he
"When we got out of the movies at nine He didn't go to Toledo. ... He didn't go to said. "The Campus went on showing first-
o'clock, we didn't realize the buses closed Princeton or Northwestern. He came to run movies, but what did the students do?"
so early," she said. "We had to call a cab." Ann Arbor. Ann Arbor had this reputation "They did the same thing they did to
The two movie theaters closest to cam- deserved of a serious interest in film." Shaman Drum," he said, referencing the
pus, the Michigan and the State, show Michigan's central campus once housed independent bookstore on State Street that
mainly independent, classic or foreign a strong collection of student film societies, closed in 2009. "They didn't go."
films. In order to see a blockbuster, stu- which reached their heights in the 1960s Marsil said the current student gen-
dents must drive or take the bus to either and '70s. One such group was the Cinema eration is relatively apathetic toward film.
Rave or the Goodrich Quality 16 on Jack- Guild, which showed old movies and for- The rise of television, home video and ulti-
son Road. But it wasn't always this way. eign films in the lecture halls. mately our use of computers has removed
"They were cheaper," Marwil said. "You the important function movie theaters once
The golden years of A2 movie houses would never see an old film at any one of the played in our lives, he claimed.
main theaters." So the movies moved out. They fled
"It involves a little of history," said LSA Film societies still exist today on campus. See THEATERS, Page 4B

I nthe past 15 years a neno eligiarn
has swept through the United
States. It has outpaced even the
boldest of movements wishing to con-
vert the masses with gesticulating,
gyrating shouts for
salvation.-
Yes, you've
guessed it. I'm talk-
ing about Burritoism;
rice, beans, some
kind of protein, salsas
cheese and of course
the messiah of all
ingredients, guaca- LILA
mole. Fortunately, an KALICK
abundance of options
exists for pious pil-
grims seeking this holy deliverer of
sustenance.
In Ann Arbor, students travel far and
wide, or perhaps two blocks from their
houses, to sample the burritos BTB
cranks out at a prolific rate until the
wee hours of the morning. Then there's
Chipotle, where the burritos are baby-
sized and the guacamole is undoubtedly
always worth the nearly $2 extra.
At Panchero's ... the food is not good.
In fact, it's really bad. Step away. Like-
wise, the burritos at Bandito's on South
Fourth Street are just plain weak.
On the high end, the Prickly Pear
on South Main Street offers the most
sumptuous southwestern game in town,
but it's hard on the pocketbook.
One establishment stands alone as the
appropriate middle option between the
burrito joints and the dimly lit ambiance
of the inaccessible Prickly Pear - Tios
Mexican Cafe on East Liberty.
The greatest thing about Tios is that it
doesn't try to be anything but itself.Yes,
it calls itself a "Mexican Cafe," but that's
just anon verarching theme. The cafe is not
Mexican, California-Style Mexican or
Southwestern - it is a solid mix of all three
with some seriously strange add-ons.
Inside, reproductions of Picasso's
The Old Guitarist (who is wearing a
Tios T-shirt) and Dali's Meditative Rose
(which is replaced by a bundle of chili
peppers), as well as a couple of large
southwestern murals, playfully pepper
the cafe's mustard-colored walls. These
are just the preliminary symptoms of the
contagion of multicultural confusion that
makes the Tios experience infectious.
More signs include the illogical com-
bination of gimcrack adobe and Span-
ish artifacts seated behind the hostess
stand. If you're not already baffled as
to the restaurant's identity, its schizo-
phrenic menu seals the deal. The cafe
offers an array of burrito joint main-
stays with a few outright outliers.
For example, it may seem strange

that there is a Jamaican Jerk Chicken
salad on the menu at a supposedly
"Mexican" restaurant. Then it pops
up again in taco form alongside an
edamame taco. Silly Tios, edamame is
what you eat before sushi, not what you
put in a taco! Another abnormal offer-
ing, sweet potato hush puppies, can be
found in the appetizer section. Then
there is the Tijuana cheese steak. Crazy
never tasted so good.
You'll also find the classics you'd
expect out of just about any Americano
Mexican mainstay: burritos, enchiladas
and chimichangas. The massive "wet
burrito," drenched in sauce and covered
in cheesy goodness, provides an excel-
lent homemade alternative to compete
with Chipotle's version down the street.
If the burrito drowning in sauce in
front of you isn't soaked enough, along
the wall to the right of the entrance sits
Tios famous collection of sauces and sal-
sas, more than 365 of them.
The wetter the
better ... when it
comes to burritos.
Two summers ago, Tios relocated to
East Liberty from its original location
on Huron after a controversial debacle
with its landlord. The move to Liberty
was unanticipated, but Tios added a full
bar in the process. As a result, an all-
over-the-place drink menu matches the
restaurant's unorthodox take on Mexi-
can cuisine.
The "Bloody Maria," made with Ann
Arbor's own Clancy's Fancy Hot Sauce,
is a perfect pairing for the huevos ran-
cheros. Diners might even venture to try
some South American favorites by sam-
pling an Argentine Malbec or Brazil's
best, a caipirinha!
But lest you be misled, this place stays
true to its Mexican roots in some sense,
offering a wide array of tequilas for your
consideration. A sign outside advertises
the "Best Margaritas in the State." This
statement is false. The margaritas are
good. They are not the best in the state.
Keep your hopes at an appropriate level.
What the margaritas are is huge, as
are the portions. The prices are moder-
ate. The happy hour is bumpin' and the
place is a stone's throw from campus.
It's definitely worth a try!
Kalick is scaling Mount Nachisrno
for the third time. To help her out,
email her at Ikalick@umich.edu.

* The Grinch of Christmas music

By CASSIE BALFOUR
Daily Arts Writer
The best time of the year is when the
Ann Arbor city workers scurry along
South University like renegade elves
stringing up hundreds of lights along the
otherwise dingy street. One night in late
November, out of nowhere, I'll be trudg-
ing back from the Fishbowl at three in the
morning stressed beyond belief. I glance
up and notice the twinkling lights herald-
ing the start of the holidays, and my heart
grows three sizes larger. Suddenly, I'll
be inundated with the holiday spirit and
thoughts of snowman-shaped cookies,
reindeer, Christmas trees and cozy Santa-
patterned jammies.
Now, you might be wondering why
I'm babbling on about my favorite holi-
day treats. This is because I dislike, nay,
detest, one aspect of the holiday season
that a startlingly number of people enjoy.
I hate holiday music. I hate that I have to
hear it as soon as the last piece of Hal-
loween candy is gobbled up, but mostly I
hate that every pop star feels the need to
contribute to this ever-growing "genre"
of music.
Why does Mariah
Carey need two
Christmas albums?
I'm not immune to the charms of the
holidays or even Bing Crosby's smooth
crooning. I'm not here to proclaim a war
on Christmas or even its annoying carols.
I do, however, have a strong aversion
to pop stars putting out vapid holiday
albums. Maybe too many winters spent
stuck in traffic for hours with nothing
but Christmas pop songs on the radio has
hardened my heart, but I can't help but
feel cynical when some starlet tries to rev
up his or her career by cashing in on the
most wonderful time of the year.
I associate sugary-sweet pop rendi-
tions of "White Christmas" or any song
about that creep Jack Frost with trips to
overcrowded malls. This Black Friday,

my hometown mall was decked out with
tacky holiday cheer. As I dragged myself
to the perfume counter of Macy's, I was
greeted by Jessica Simpson's new Christ-
mas album Happy Christmas. I say "new"
because this is the pop star's second foray
into the world of Christmas music. It
seems like the perfect vehicle for Jessica
- she doesn't have to write her own music
or come up with anything original, save
for the songs "My Only Wish" and "Kiss
Me for Christmas," for which she takes a
co-writer credit.
For the most part, it's yet another for-
gettable cover of Christmas standards
done by the pouting "musician." Pop stars
should only be allowed to release one
Christmas album; their second one should
be met with derision and instead of profit,
they should only get coal.
Of course it would be rash to condemn
all holiday albums as a greedy way to
cash in on the season. Though it pains me
to compliment her, Mariah Carey's first
holiday album infused the concept with
some fresh covers like the well regarded
(by people who aren't me) "All I Want for
Christmas is You," which features Carey's
astonishing vocals and maybe even some
genuine yearning for something other
than fast cash. However, Carey's latest is
of another ilk. The cleverly named Merry
Christmas II You (get it?) has a blatantly
photoshopped Mariah on the cover sur-
rounded by every holiday-themed item
imaginable (snowmen, lights and what
appears to be the star of Bethlehem).
The terrifyingly decked-out cover art is
pretty indicative of the horrendous album
itself. It contains straight-up covers of
Christmas standards, never mind the
extra heapings of holiday bells and whis-
tles. The album is dull, unimaginative and
pretty much a poor follow-up of Carey's
first Christmas record. I'm sure there are
some innovative holiday albums out there,
but the ones I've heard make me want to
strangle all nine of Santa's reindeer.
This terrible trend of putting out holi-
day albums when one is in need of both
money and attention needs to stop. It
should have stopped when my beloved
(and Jewish) Bob Dylan put out a com-
pletely serious, un-ironic album entitled
Christmas in the Heart back in 2009. In his
defense, all the proceeds went to charity

Get a glimpse into Michael
Jackson's three-disc "Vision"
DVD collection. Starting off
with classic MJ and descend-
ing into mediocrity, it may or
may not be your perfect holi-
day gift.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Filter

'Tis the season to Photoshop your thighs.
(this doesn't excuse his baffling version
of "Here Comes Santa Claus") - unlike
those of Katharine McPhee, who you've
probably never heard of or mercifully
have forgotten (she won some season of
"American Idol").
On her Christmas album Christmas is
the Time to Say I Love You, McPhee cap-
tures everything that is wrong with mod-
ern Christmas albums: Some generic pop
singer lazily sings a couple of sentimental
Christmas covers, gets some radio play
and makes some easy money. The fact I
will be forced to listen to some of these
tracks anytime I step foot into an over-
crowded mall from mid-October until
early January sickens me.
All I want for Christmas is for the mad-

ARE
YOU
FINE?
JOIN
FINE
ARTS.
E-mail join arts oumichedu lot
information on applying.

ness to stop, for pop stars to write some
original music sans jingling bells or jolly
beats and please, for the love of the season,
stop bombarding me with sexy, breathy
versions of "Baby, It's Cold Outside" (I'm
looking at you, Nick Lachey and Jessica
Simpson). It just makes me uncomfort-
able.
I'm not trying to be grinchy. I'm sure
there are lots of people who think that
the world needs another pop version of
"Jingle Bell Rock." But to quote my favor-
ite holiday movie "Love Actually," "On
Christmas you tell the truth." I can't help
how I feel.
However, Bob Dylan, ifyou came carol-
ing at my house, I certainly wouldn't turn
you away.


4B - Thursday, December 2, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'iEATERS
From Page 3B
toward the outskirts of town, where
the land is cheaper.
Flight ofthe first-run films
Still, the lack of options and
big feature films close to campus
raises questions. There are two
movie theaters right next to cam-
pus. Why can't students see the big
titles there?
Louis Dickinson, the State The-
titer manager and Michigan The-
ater front of house coordinator,
said that part of the reason the
State and the Michigan don't show
first-run Hollywood films is due
to capacity. The two local theaters
don't have enough screens to make
showing big Hollywood films like
"The Dark Knight," "The Town"
or "The Social Network" attractive
to distributors, and the promise
of a certain number of screens on
Which to play the film is necessary
to make a venture profitable.
" 'Jaws' is what changed movie
theaters," Dickinson said. Before

the release of the 1975 Steven
Spielberg blockbuster, "you could
be a small one-screen theater. You
could have an engagement of a film
for a week. You could make a pretty
good return on it. And you could
change out another film after that
week was over."
According to Dickinson, "Jaws"
was the first film for which distrib-
utors required theaters to show a
film a certain number of times on a
fixed number of screens. Once the
film clamped down contractually,
its model started to surface for all
first-run Hollywood films.
Both the Michigan and the State
have only two screens, modest
next to the monster screen capac-
ity of Quality 16 or Rave.
LSA senior Amanda Seppala
doesn't feel miffed about the lack
of first-run films at the State and
Michigan.
"It makes sense that the State
and the Michigan allocate resourc-
es to movies people wouldn't nec-
essarily see," Seppala said. "I feel
more disenfranchised about the
loss of the dollar theater at the
(Briarwood) mall (this past sum-
mer)."
LSA freshman Adam Berkovec

agrees.
"I know that the movies at the
State and the Michigan aren't
mainstream movies, and it doesn't
bother me," he said. "It would suck
if I didn't have friends with cars."
In terms of whether he feels
the Michigan and State ought to
show big blockbuster films, Berk-
ovec said, "It might .be beneficial
to them. But it's also cool that they
don't show movies you can see any-
where else."
The film selections of the Michi-
gan and the State are also based on
ideology. The Michigan is commit-
ted to bringing films to Ann Arbor
that wouldn't normally get such a
big run.
In 1979, the Michigan Theater
was in danger of being torn down,
and the Michigan Theater Historic
Trust was established to save the
theater. Since then, the Michigan
has been a nonprofit whose central
mission was at first live theater and
music before transitioning to mov-
ies in the late '80s.
"The Michigan sets the trend for
a certain demographic," Dickinson
asserted. "I know that we show
films that wouldn't really fly at the
other two theaters. The hope is

that someone might come and see
a film here that they might not nec-
essarily seek out."
Despite a trend toward inde-
pendent, foreign and shorter-run
films, the Michigan has shown its
share of mainstream blockbusters.
Pixar's "Up" played there in 2009
and was the first movie to use the
theater's Sony 4K projection sys-
tem. The Sony 4K projector at the
Michigan is the most powerful 3-D
projector in the state.
"'Up' was the flagship movie -
we had to show it," said Dickenson.
Oddly, the projector has only
been used for one project since
"Up": "Ice Age: Dawn of the Dino-
saurs." It flopped. Dickinson said
that the film just didn't work for
their audience.
"We were able to market ("Up")
because it's a Pixar - top-of-the-
line 3-0 computer animation," he
said. "It fits into the art house men-
tality. Pixar films are gorgeous."
In order to get "Up" from its dis-
tributor, the Michigan had to open
at nine in the morning and show
seven screenings each day until the
theater closed at midnight.
LSA senior Courtney Rabideau
said that she sees a movie about

once every three weeks. When she
does, she isn't upset about them not
being first-run Hollywood films.
"AnnArbor prides itselfonbeing
a vehicle, a platform for older and
independent movies. It is a point
of pride for Ann Arbor," she said.
"You can't see movies you can see
anywhere else, because Ann Arbor
isn't anywhere else."
Music, Theatre & Dance sopho-
more Erin Mernoff said, "It would
be more convenient if the theaters
showed big movies," but added, "I
like that they show the indepen-
dent films because most theaters
don't mention them."
LSA senior Noah Stahl, a con-
centrator in the Screen Arts and
Cultures program and a former
writer for The Michigan Daily, val-
ues the unique experience he gets
from seeing films at the Michigan
and the State.
"Whenever I sit down in the
Michigan Theater, I have to take
a moment to appreciate this jewel.
It's like walking into a time cap-
sule," he said.
Stahl too enjoys the "grungy
'70s feel" of the State and claimed
the experience "takes you out of
Ann Arbor."

He assumes that people would
find it annoying to have to drive
out to Carpenter or Jackson to
see a film, but there is "some-
thing unique about having small
independently oriented theaters"
here in town. Stahl's bottom line:
"Both places - the Michigan and
the State - have a ton of personal-
ity. More than any of these multi-
plexes."
Despite the trial she faced
attempting to see a mainstream
movie her freshman year, Phil-
lips doesn't feel that the role of the
Michigan and the State theaters
should change. The films they play,
she said, "give (the theaters) a dif-
ferent atmosphere. If they showed
blockbusters, they'd be more insti-
tutional or commercial." However,
she admitted to never having seen
a film in either theater in all of her
time at Michigan.
In any event, the role of the
Michigan and the State theaters
doesn't stand to change any time
in the near future. For now at least,
most of those in student neighbor-
hoods will continue to spend Sat-
urday night in Ann Arbor having
a ball somewhere else besides the
movies.


The three main historical Michigan songbooks were published in 1889,1904 and 1913.
A snapshot of
$ONGBOOKS turn-of-the-century Michigan
from Page 1B

ties and happenings at the Univer-
tity."
These three historical song-
books - compiled in 1889, 1904
and 1913 - represent a golden age
of Michigan songs. Although two
more songbooks were arranged
in 1967 and 1990, only a smatter-
ing of newly composed songs were
added.
"There was obviously a need for
these songbooks and lots of songs
to fill them because there was so
much singing going on," Rardin
said. "These are the ones that have
1 een handed down to us and we
love them."
Smith, who sang second tenor
in the Men's Glee Club during the
mid-'60s, is a Michigan songbook
aficionado. He has made it his mis-
sion to collect every edition of the
three historical songbooks.
Along with Rardin, Smith
recently co-edited a new song-
book - "Sing to the Colors" - that
Was released earlier this year to
commemorate the 150th anniver-
sary of the Men's Glee Club. The
handsome hardcover volume is
the product of a year and a half
of research, compiling, editing
and notating. As an added bonus,
the book contains a small "pocket
songbook," which offers the gui-
tar chords, melodies and lyrics for
sveral Michigan songbook favor-
ites.
"With this one tiny little article
that we could stuff nicely in the
back cover, we were able to include
a great many pieces," Rardin said.
"The pocket songbook takes care
of our longing to sort of return
to the day when you would have
needed to carry around your song-
book to the football game or to the
tailgate or to the dorm meeting."

Rardin's remark reveals how
popular singing was on campus
around the turn of the century and
into the '40s. Michigan songs and
recreational singing were an essen-
tial part of social life, acid were
deeply ingrained in the residential
and Greek communities.
"The fraternity and sorority sys-
tems were extremely strong," Smith
said. "(Members) had to dress for
dinner, and they brought their
songbooks to dinner. They would
go around the table every night and
somebody would lead the group in
song. You didn't have the Internet,
you didn't have TV. Back in the teens
and '20s basically all you had were
parties. I imagine that (they would
sing) after football games, before
football games and at concerts."
"It was just a totally different
environment," he added. "It's hard
to imagine U of M with a third or a
quarter as many students as we have
today and no North Campus and no
Michigan Stadium - you played
football at Ferry Field or Regents
Field."
Though students today may
claim to be die-hard Wolverine fans,
their devotion is different from that
of early University students. While
present-day fans may claim to know
the lyrics of "The Victors" by heart,
students of the early 20th century
could sing an extra set of lyrics to
this march that are rarely heard
today. Moreover, early University
students had dozens more chants
and fight songs at their disposal to
cheer on their team.
"I love this place today in 2010,
but these folks back then must
have loved it an awful lot because
they generated all these songs to
sing about it," Rardin said. "I think
they're wonderful for modeling
loyalty to the University. Having a
high-profile athletics program as

we do here, some of that's built in."
"It's easy to feel a certain sense
of allegiance," he continued. "But I
think for people to feel it on an artis-
tic level rather than on an athletic
level is very moving to me - the idea
that we could express loyalty to the
University through music."
The Michigan songs serve as
windows onto this long-gone era.
By reading the lyrics, one can get a
sense of how students lived during
the first half of the 20th century, as
well as how different campus was
then.
"Some of the songs reveal places
that are no longer there that are
interesting: Joe's and The Orient,
the P-Bell, which I think was called
the Pretzel Bell," Smith said. "These
were watering holes that don't exist
anymore. And I think those are fun
references to hear and think, 'Wait a
minute - I wonder where that build-
ing was,' or, 'I wonder what that's a
reference to.' That can, I hope, spark
some curiosity about campus as it
used to be."
Many of those songs serve as
a kind of map of early campus,
describing University buildings that
standtoday, and manythathavelong
since disappeared. The bittersweet
"Michigan Goodbye" from the 1909
Michigan Union Opera "Koanza-
land" gives a nostalgic picture of
campus: "Farewell to you, old State
Street / And so long Tappan Hall /
Good bye to you, dear Barbour gym
/Library chimes and all."
"The Bum Army" from the 1910
opera "Crimson Chest" makes sev-
eral references to social events
and practices of the time. The song
mentions an event known as the
"Junior Hop," or "J-Hop" for short.
This popular school dance was held
annually by the junior class begin-
ningin 1872.
"The Bum Army" praises the
beauty of the "Ypsi girls" and
"Ypsilanti maids." Smith explained
that at the time, Eastern Michigan

University was a "normal college"
meant only for education students.
Because students at normal colleges
were predominantly female, Ypsi-
lanti was an ideal place for a Univer-
sity of Michigan man to find a date
on Saturday night.
WWII: Beginning of the end
Yet just as these places and events
faded away with the passing of time,
so too did the tradition of singing
Michigan songs. Today, only the
Men's and Women's Glee Clubs and
the Michigan Marching Band keep
the flame of Michigan music burn-
ing through regular performances
of pieces from the songbooks.
There is no single explanation as
to why Michigan songs are no lon-
ger a part ofcampus life. In organiz-
ing the latest songbook, however,
the editors drew some conclusions
from their research.
"These books used to be pub-
lished every 10 years up to the 1920s
and '30s," said Gavin Bidelman, .a
2007 'U' alum.
He went on to explain that as the
years passed, the books were pub-
lished less and less frequently, in an
"exponential decline."
A doctoral candidate at Purdue,
Bidelman transferred vocal scores
from the original songbooks into a
computer to be printed into the lat-
est edition.
"It's probably due to the dying
interest in performance," he said.
"People used to sit around pianos
and sing at holidays, and I don't
think anybody does that anymore.
It's a different time - a difference
in era."
Smith pointed to an emergence
of popular new forms of media,
including the radio, phonograph
and television, as competition with
the performance of Michigan songs.
With the ability to listen to music on
records or over the airwaves, Smith
argued that live performance at
home or in the dorm lost its impor-
tance.
Perhaps the most significant fac-
tor leading to the demise of Michi-
gan music, Smith said, was the
second world war.
"You had a tremendous change
on campus during World War II and
focus really for the total war effort,"
he said. "Most major research cam-
puses of any large size turned their
total effort to providing officers and
other specialized training for the
war effort."
Smith said that following the
war, the University exploded in size,
leading to an entirelynew way oflife
on campus.
"I can only guess (it was the)
sheer size of the institution, change
in the atmosphere of students from
pre-World War II to post-World
War II, influx of G.I.s needing jobs,
less partying and more down-to-
work," Smith said.
"(A University education)

became more expensive, though
nowhere near as expensive as it has
been over the last four years," Smith
added. "But still, a real change in
atmosphere - new buildings, just a
sheer expansion in research, more
focus and attention on academics."
With a larger and more career-
oriented student body, the traditions
of the past, including Michigan
songs, became lost in the shuffle of
campus life. According to Smith,
students no longer had time to learn
fight songs or University hymns.
The songhooks today
Sixty-five years after the end of
World War II, the Michigan song-
books have yet to make an entrance
into contemporary student life.
Thanks to groups like the Men's and
Women's Glee Clubs, however, the
tradition of writing new Michigan
songs has not been wiped away for-
ever. In fact, Rardin recently wrote
a song entitled "Michigan Remem-
bers" for the newest edition of the
songbook.
"The words get to you every time
because it's a beautiful, beautiful
song," said LSA junior Matthew
Griffith, who serves as the public
relations manager of the Men's Glee
Club. "The imagery of it reminds
you of a fall semester in Ann Arbor."
"I think a lot of times we kind of
take for granted our college experi-
ence. We focus on work and getting
things done. We forget about how
unique and beautiful the college
experience is."
Although a handful of students,
alumni and faculty are still devot-
ed to preserving and expanding
the Michigan songbook, Rardin
believes it is unlikely that the Michi-
gan songs will ever gain the main-
stream appeal on campus that they
once had.
"I hate to sound pessimistic, but
I think it's a tall order," he said.
"Singing is so specialized now. Now
the view is that singing is something
you do if you're a music major or if
you go to church or synagogue."
While it is improbable that the
University will ever see a renais-
sance of Michigan music, Griffith
hopes that the Michigan songbook
will garner some interest among
21st-century students.

"It would make my heart warm to
have students know these songs," he
said. "Do I see them being as popu-
lar as they were in the past? No ...
but I think that there is still an inter-
est in these songs."
In spite of the songs' archaic
references and old-fashioned lan-
guage, there is much in the Michi-
gan songbook to which students can
relate. While it may be difficult to
imagine a modern frat boy in a bow
tie and tails singing "Goddess of the
Inland Sea," it's less of a stretch to
picture him holding a red cup and
belting "The Friar's Song": "Drink!
Drink! Joy rules the day, / Who will
have thought of the'morrow?"
The lyrics to Michigan songs also
reveal similarities between turn-
of-the-century students and those
of today. The 1904 song "Blue Book
Man" shows that blue books have
been a source of worry and distress
for over 100 years, as does 1918's
"Bluebook Blues": "Never miss'd a
test or got below a 'B' / Finished the
semester with a Bluebook labeled
'K!'
Another shocking similarity can
be found in the ditty "A Faithful
Pipe to Smoke" from the 1908 opera
"Culture": "Yet even such misfor-
tunes / To freshblown hopes will
lead, / Ifa fellow draws his troubles
/ In a pipeful of the weed." While
"weed" is probably in reference to
pipe tobacco, one can't help chuck-
ling at how pertinent this line is to
the a certain hobby of many stu-
dents today.
Although there is much for cur-
rent students to relate to in the
Michigan songs, these gems are in
jeopardy of being lost forever. Even
if the glee clubs and the march-
ing band preserve some remnant
of these songs, their fate lies, ulti-
mately, in the hands of modern-day
students.
Students may never again sit
around their dorm, fraternity or
sorority to sing one of the rousing
choruses from the Michigan song-
books. But one can still hold on to
the hope that one day, the students
of the University will once again
gather around the Tappan Oak to
join in the words of the alma mater:
"Sing to the colors that float in the
light; / Hurrah for the Yellow and
Blue!"

9

0
0


NOW OPEN
at 108 S. Main in Ann Arbor!
Vegan fare even omnivores are
coming back for again and again!
Taking vegetarian cuisine to a whole new level!
Soups, salads, burgers/sandwiches and pizza...
Even meat lovers are lovin it.
Come and check us out.
www.jazzyveggie.com
Also on Facebook. Search for Jazzy Veggie.

m

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Song titles include "Blue Book Man" and "A Faithful Pipe to Smoke."
HURRY!
A .,- Liiitd TimssOffer:
GoldPlaied
BektAnkA for
e-veyotder over $30!
IderfiertCode:
r~FRE18K1 tM
? a Checkount.
slRe IKIOvs
ft& 4, Sar
$4www.elliescollectionmcom GjtCriiae vWbefrVx w!

0



