From The Daily: With their practical ambition, MForward's Chris Armstrong and Jason Raymond are the right picks to lead MSA. PAGE 4A

In this week's Statement, the editors offer up their
picks for the 10 students of the year - in our view,

the best of the Leaders and Best.

THE STATEMENT, INSIDE

(bc Lid.ilgan IaijM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, March 24,2010

michigandaily.com

LIGHTS, CAMERA, ANN ARBOR

UNIVERSITY L AW SCHOOL
Students in
Innocence
Clinic called
as witnesses

Students and Ann Arbor residents enjoy music and hors d'oeuvres before the first film of the 2010 Ann Arbor Film Festival The 48th annual festival, which started yester-
day and continues through Sunday, features 170 films from more than 20 countries.
All not aboard: Plans for A
to'Detro it rai line delayed

Prosecution seeks
testimony from 'U'
law students who
worked for defendant
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
A recent development in a case
being handled by the University
Law School's Innocence Clinic
has left some from the legal team
with raised eyebrows.
In an action that Innocence
Clinic co-director Bridget
McCormack calls an "unusual
move," prosecutors have put the
Innocence Clinic's law students
on the witness list for a retrial
scheduled in April.
The Innocence Clinic helped
Dwayne Provience - convicted
of the morder of Detroit resident
Rene Hunter in 2001 - get out of
jail last November citing with-
held evidence. But, since Provi-
ence has been let out of jail, the
legal team has faced many new
developments.
Wayne County Prosecutor
Robert Stevens filed a witness
list on March 5 that includes six
students who have enrolled or
interned at the Innocence Clinic,
a law student who watched some

witness interviews and a jour-
nalist from California who had
viewed Clinic sessions lastyear.
In an interview yesterday,
Wayne County Prosecutor Maria
Miller said she was unable to
comment on the case at this time.
McCormack said in an inter-
view that a Michigan court rule
states that law students work-
ing in innocence clinics may
represent and advise clients and
therefore have the same rights as
non-student attorneys do, includ-
ing not being called as witnesses.
"It's as if the prosecution put
me on the list," McCormack said.
In an e-mail interview, Inno-
cence Clinic co-director David
Moran said he thinks students
should be treated as attorneys for
the entirety of a case.
"It is improper, except under
extreme circumstances, to call
the lawyers for the other side as
witnesses in your case," Moran
wrote. "Under Michigan's stu-
dent practice rule, law students
working in a legal clinic are stu-
dent attorneys and are entitled to
be treated like lawyers."
Moranis asking WayneCounty
Circuit Court Judge Tim Kenny
to take the student attorneys and
the journalist off of the witness
list. Kenny has asked Moran for
a written argument by March
See CLINIC, Page 3A

Off
int
lin
mak

icials cite lack of train line that would run from Ann
Arbor to downtown Detroit will
erest, funds for now have to wait a while longer,
as the agency responsible for the
ie which would transportation project announced
a setback to its plans.
:e stop at airport Southeast Michigan Council of
Governments cited a lack of fund-
By SCOTT SUH . ing and interest from the public in
Daily StaffReporter the commuter service as reasons
for the delay. While SEMCOG had
ents and local residents initially planned to make the ser-
ating a new daily commuter vice available by October, it has not

yet announced a new date for the
line's opening.
The organization eventually
hopes to offer a train line that
makes four round-trips on week-
days and three on weekends. The
commuter train, which will start
from Ann Arbor, will make stops in
Ypsilanti, Dearborn and the Detroit
Metro Airport before reaching
downtown Detroit. A one-way
trip from Ann Arbor to Detroit is
expected to take approximately one

hour, with the cost of a round-trip
ticket starting at about $6 or $7.
In the meantime, SEMCOG will
provide a line service for various
special events in the Detroit area
beginning in October. Carmine
Palombo, SEMCOG's Director of
Transportation Programs, said the
organization hopes the demonstra-
tion line will promote the train
service and increase interest for its
use.
See COMMUTER LINE, Page 3A

Stud
anticip:

MICHIGAN STU-LNI ASSE, a.YA CONE FOR A CAUSE
MSA launches committee to
address diversity on campus

Diversity affairs
committee aims to
build 'welcoming'
environment
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
LSA sophomore DeAndree Wat-
son, a current MSA representative,
says he has big plans to stir up stu-
dent advocacy on campus.
In January2010, Watson drafted

a resolution to create a Diversity
Affairs Select Committee within
the Michigan Student Assembly.
The resolution passed by a margin
of 26-8 and created a committee
with the goal of addressing issues
of discrimination on campus.
Watson said he formed the
committee because no other MSA
committee resolves issues of dis-
crimination.
Watson said he was inspired to
start the select committee after
talking with members of the Black
Student Union and discovering that
students in the group did not feel

welcome on campus, outside of their
interactions within the group itself,
"What shocked me is that they
don't feel welcome here," Watson
said. "(The University) is about
competition and survival of the fit-
test type, and it'll tear you down if
you're not ready for it." With the
help of the committee, Watson said
he plans to make the campus cli-
mate more "welcoming."
"Students need to feel comfort-
able here in order to thrive and be
successful," Watson said.
According to Watson, the Diver-
See COMMITTEE, Page 7A

MICHIGAN fOOTBALL
Students, alumni excited for
first night game at Big House

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Art & Design freshman Casey Maxwell collects donations for the Ann Arbor Summer Fairoutside Ben & Jerry's on State Street
yesterday. Maxwell said the organization teamed up with Ben & Jerry's on its free cone day to sell tickets for a free waffle cone.
Bobb to speak at School of Ed. graduation

Some concerned
about possible spike
in drunk behavior
By JENNFIER DOMINGUE
Daily StaffReporter
LSA sophomore Bri Ward had
only one word to describe the recent-
ly-announced first-ever primetime
WEATHER HI: 55
TOMORROW LO: 25

game at the Big House: "Epic."
"We are making school history
here," Ward said of the match-up
against Notre Dame planned for
Sept.10, 2011.
After last week's announcement,
many students, alumni and season
ticket holders expressed excitement
at the prospect of an 8 p.m. game at
Michigan Stadium. But some said
they wondered whether a night
game could mean increased security

or a more debaucherous atmosphere.
University alum Alberto Farah,
a season ticket holder from Troy,
Mich., wrote in an e-mail interview
thathe was surprised when he heard
about the announcement last week,
but thinks the decision was a good
move for the Athletic Department.
"I felt like it was about time we
joined the rest of our conference, and
the nation, in showcasing our Univer-
See FOOTBALL, Page 7A

Granholm's pick to
overhaul Detroit's
public schools will
speak on May 1
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily NewsEditor
University officials announced
today that Robert Bobb - the emer-
gency financial manager appointed

by Democratic Gov. Jennifer Gran-
holm to overhaul the Detroit Public
School sys-
tem - will First seen on
deliver the
ammanmt
address for
the School of Education on May l.
In his role with the Detroit Pub-
lic Schools, Bobb is responsible
for creating strategies for dealing
with the school district's academic
achievement struggles and a near-
ly $400 million deficit. Bobb has

served in the position since he was
appointed in March 2009. His term
is set to end in March 2011.
In a statement released earlier
today, School of Education Dean
Deborah Loewenberg Ball said
Bobb was an excellent choice for
commencement speaker.
"Robert Bobb has a passion-
ate determination to make urban
schools work, Ball said in the state-
ment. "He is articulate about the
urgency of the need for change
See BOBB, Page 3A

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news dimichigandaily.conm and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGA NDAILY.COM
In memoriam: U alum, auto industry giant dies.
MIcHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEW S ...............
Vol. CXX, No. tt 1 OPINION...........
2010 The Mchigan Daily SPO RTS..
michigaedailycam

...................2A CLASSIFIEDS............. 6A
..................4A SPO RTS ............................. 8A
..................SA THE STATEMENT..................1B

i

4


2A - Wednesday, March 24, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

STUDYING SOLO

MSA's influx of independents

On Oct. 30, 1992, just before the
November MSA elections, The Michi-
gan Daily reported that MSA members
were concerned about a dwindling
number of party-affiliated candidates.
While some parties were able to fill
their slate, others, like the Progressive
Party, lacked representation from the
smaller programs within the Univer-
sity.
Nancy Eisenstein was one of the
LSA representatives for the Conserva-
tive Coalition at the time. According to
the Daily article, she said she felt that
the lack of party affiliation was a result
of poor publicity.
"I don't think either one of the par-
ties did a good job in letting people
know that the elections (were) coming
up and that students could run on one
of those two tickets," Eisenstein said at
the time.
Allison Insley, the 1992 MSA Elec-
tion Director, gave a different perspec-
tive. Insley said she was impressed

with the number of candidates, noting
thatalarge amountwereindependents.
Representatives from MSA had dif-
ferent attitudes toward the influx of
independent candidates.
Brian Kight, a School of Engineering
representative and independent mem-
ber, disagreed and told the Daily at the
time that the increase in independent
candidates shows a lack of organiza-
tion among the parties.
"If the parties were run better
and were better organized then they
would be recruiting better," Kight told
the Daily at the time. "When we've
had more organization, parties have
had larger slates. But, in this election,
there's been no organization - things
have been done sort of last minute."
Rob Van Houweling, the Student
Rights Commission chair at the time,
said thatlarge numbers of independent
candidates was "a good sign," adding
that students who "really [wanted] to
work" could run without becoming

distracted by party loyalty.
According to the article, the MSA
vice president at the time, Hunter
Van Valkenburgh, said he felt that the
problem with elections was student
apathy, rather than the parties' orga-
nization.
"I don't think it's the parties," Van
Valkenburgh told the Daily at the time.
"We haven't engineered a system so it
can only be two parties like the Demo-
crats and Republicans. It's not like that.
There's plenty of room for indepen-
dents to win."
Tobias Zimmerman, an LSA repre-
sentative at the time, pointed out that
in that period, MSA had little power
because of the University's Board of
Regents.
"MSA could have that power," he
said at the time. But only, he added, "if
students and MSA chose to take that
power."
- WHITNEY WILD

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.inichigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-nose
smilitzn@rreichigandaily-e e mdbusiness@rnsaiteeom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun.-Thurs. it ae. -2ea..
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections correctionshmichigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedailymichigandaily.com
Photography Department photomichigandaily.corn
Arts Section artspragemichigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian enman Managing News Editor berman@mihhigandaly.com
SNOEEDI TOS NcleAealoyJneStpaie Stei"berg, Kyle
STANTNE DIOR n Cimiarry nFitz ald, Joseph Lichterman,
RachelVan Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
AST'ANT'EDITORIALPAGEEDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Alex Schiff, Matthew Shuter
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.eom
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Jamielock MaagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.eom
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,JeffSanford
ASSISTANTARTSFmTORS:LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs, EmmaJeszke,Mike Kuntz,
Max Collinsand photo@michigandaily.com
Sam Wolson ManagingPhototEditors
SNOPH TO DTRFO uTMDIA: Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Ariel Bond
SSI ANT PHOTO EDITORS: Aaron Augsburger, Jake Fromm, Marissa McClain,
Sarah Squire and desigoicigandaiy.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison G hama n
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor caero@michigandaiy.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@omichigandaily.com
RachelPhillips Copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly'rwigg
MARK ETING MANAGER: Michael Sch rotenboer
Ryan Businski classifiedManager
CLAStTIeIEASSISTANT MANAGER:KaylaILaFata
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Allison Santacteu tayout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan DailyOSSN 0745-%7) is published Monday through Friday during the falland
wintertermsbysudentsattheuniversityofMichigan.Onecopyis avalablefreeofchargetoail
readersAdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupattheDailysofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,
starting inSeptember via USmail are $110 Winter term(January through April)is$Sis. yearlong
(September through April) is $195 University affiliatesare subject to areducedsubscription rate
n-cmampus subscr iptionfo fall termare$3 5.Subsriptiost be prepaid.TheMichiganDaily
is a mrember of Tie AssociatedPresandaThe Aseociated ColleaePess.

01

LSA sophomore Vishrut Srivastava studies inan
empty Angell Hall auditorium before rehearsal for
the a capella group Maize Mirchi.

CRIME NOTES
Shower in the $100 in bike
grad. library parts stolen

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Free pancakes Presidential
from DoRAK libraries talk

WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Monday atl10:40 a.m.
WHAT: An unaffiliated
53-year-old male was caught
usingthe shower on the fifth '
oor inside of the Hatcher
Library, University Police
reported. He was escorted off
the property.

WHERE: 1400 block Wash-
ington Heights
WHEN: Monday at about 2
p.m.
WHAT: A male student had his
handlebars, shifters and brake
handles, all estimated at $100,
stolen from his bike, University
Police reported.

WHAT: The Do Random
Acts of Kindness Club is
offering free pancakes to all
people passing by their
station today.
WHO: Do Random Acts of
Kindness
WHEN: Today 9 a.m. to noon
WHERE: Mason Hall
Posting Wall

$320 iPod taken Cell phone swiped
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher A
WHERE: University Hospital Graduate Library performance
WHEN-Mnrn dt t bi 120 WHEN-Mniv dt nht t 330

WHAT: A talk on presi-
dential libraries and muse-
ums, their operating costs
and historical regalia.
WHO: Museums Theme Year
WHEN: Tonight 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Gerald Ford
Library
Talk on OCD
WHAT: A symposium on
diagnosis and treatment
of obsessivedcompulsive
disorder andits affects
at different ages.
WHO: Michigan Institute for
Clinical and Health Research
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Ann Arbor
District Library
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

A U.S. couple who bragged
on an episode of Dr. Phil
about the money they make
selling shoplifted toys online
have been seentenced to prison,
according to. BBC.com. Mat-
thew Eaton got 27 months and
Laura Eaton, was sentenced to
one year. The couple pleaded
guilty to conspiracy to trans-
port stolen goods.
University students and
Olympic silver medalists
Meryl Davis and Charlie
White have been named stu-
dents of the year by the Daily's
magazine section.
> FOR MORE,SEETHE STATEMENT, INSIDE
Just after Vice President
Biden introduced Presi-
dent Obama for the signing
of the health care bill, he was
caught on video camera whis-
pering into Obama's ear, as he
embraced hnm the East Room,
"This is a big fa***ing deal,"
according to MSNBC.com.

: m vonaay a a out i:/
p.m.
WHAT: An iPod touch valued
-at $320 belonging to the Well-
ness Research Center of the
University Hospital was stolen,
University Police reported. The
case is under investigation.

w ti: onuay ar a oui :a
p.m.
WHAT: A female student
had her $275 cell phone stolen
while she left it unattended for
15 minutes when she went to
get a drink of water, University
Police reported,

WHAT: Peter Wispelwey
will perform his pieces on
the cello. He has traveled
around the world perform-
ing his work on both a
modern and period cello.
WHO: University Musical
Society
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham
Graduate School

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

FAN THE MICHIGAN DAILY ON FACEBOOK

0

Live your life.
You earned it.

You worked hard
to get this far.
0 0

What do you do now? Start your career?
Move out on your own? Travel the world?
Buy health care coverage?
It's time to live your life knowing you're covered
by Michigan's most trusted name in health care.
With the largest network of doctors with local and
nationwide coverage, MyBlue offers affordable
health care plans for every stage of life.

0
0
0

Make it easy on yourself.

MVI

Young
Adult BluesM

Visit: bcbsm.com/bluelO
Call: 877-4MY-BLUE (469-2583)
Contact: your Blues-contracted agent

IiSM

Blue10


i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Mich. gov. shuffles
board after errant
tax credit
Gov. Jennifer Granholm issued
new rules Tuesday requiring a state
agency to conduct more extensive
background checks before award-
ing tax credits, after a $9.1 million
credit was given to a convicted
embezzler on parole.
The governor's executive order
and executive directive will change
who sits on the Michigan Economic
Growth Authority board that issues
the tax credits, put a business integ-
rity verification program in place
and require background checks for
some tax credit applicants.
Granholm wants to make sure
there's no repeat of a news con-
ference last week where she
shared the stage with tax credit
* recipients, including RASCO CEO
Richard A. Short, only to find out
the next day through The Associ-
ated Press that Short had a prison
record.
WASHINGTON
Military to decide
on 'don't ask, don't
tell' this week
Pentagon Press Secretary Geoff
Morrell says that the Defense
Department is close to changing
how it enforces its policy on "don't
ask, don't tell," which bans gays
from serving openly.
In February, Defense Secretary
Robert Gates directed his legal
counsel to suggest ways to relax
enforcement of the policy, which
is based on a 1993 law. Of particu-
lar interest is minimizing cases
of "third-party outings," where
V a service member is kicked out
after being reported by others to
be gay.
Morrell said Gates is likely to
announce a "way ahead" on the
matter by the end of the week.
CARACAS, Venezuela
Politician's arrest
for TV remarks
raises concerns
The arrest of an outspoken gov-
ernment opponent for his critical
remarks on a TV talk show drew
condemnation yesterday from
opposition parties and human
rights activists who said the case
shows freedoms are being eroded
in Venezuela.
Opposition politician Oswaldo
Alvarez Paz was detained by police
on Monday and has been charged
with conspiracy, spreading false
information and publicly inciting
violation.
A coalition of more than a dozen
parties opposed to President Hugo
Chavez said in a statement that
Alvarez Paz was arrested for a
"crime of opinion" in an attempt to
silence criticism and encourage a
climate of self-censorship. Opposi-
tion leaders called the 67-year-old
former Zulia state governor a politi-

cal prisoner.
Human Rights Watch also con-
demned the arrest.
"This is a major setback for
freedom of expression in Venezu-
ela," said Jose Miguel Vivanco, the
group's executive director for the
Americas.
BEIJING
Eight children
stabbed to death
at Chinese school
A former medical worker alleg-
edly stabbed to death eight young
children and wounded five others
yesterday in a bloody rampage out-
side an elementary school in east-
ern China.
The attacker struck in the morn-
ing as students arrived for classes,
mingling with parents at the school
gates before suddenly pulling out
his knife and slashing children,
according to witnesses interviewed
on local television.
in the aftermath, doctors
treated small children and bod-
ies lay covered in bloody sheets
after the attack at Nanping City
Experimental Elementary School
in Fujian province. Police offi-
cers manned a cordon around
the school. Some comforted dis-
traught parents.
China has witnessed a series
of school attacks in recent years,
most blamed on people with per-
sonal grudges or suffering from
mental illness, leading to calls for
improved security.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Idaho Gov. C.L "Butch" Otter speaks to reporters in his ceremonial office, accompanied by other elected state officials, in
Boise, Idaho yesterday on the state's decision to sue the federal government over health care reform legislation.
White Hueo
concerned about
health care lawsuit

CLINIC
From page 1A
25. A hearing is also scheduled for
March 29 to discuss striking the
student attorneys from the witness
list and to discuss the progress of
discovery motions the clinic has
filed.
According to an article by the
Metro Times, Stevens argued in
a March 15 hearing that because
the students have made statements
to newspapers, made a YouTube
video about the case and inter-
viewed witnesses, he should be
allowed to call them as witnesses.
The statements and interviews
have occurred over the more than
one year that the student attorneys
have been working on the case.
During the last few weeks, there
have also been other developments
in the case.
In a hearing on Jan. 27, Judge
Kenny ruled that a key witness -
Larry Wiley - could not testify
in the retrial scheduled for April
5 without incriminating himself
for lying under oath. Wiley said he
had lied due to pressure from the
police during the first trial, where
he testified that he had seen Provi-
ence shoot Hunter while Provi-
ence and his brother drove by a
Detroit street corner in a beige,
two-door Buick.
If Wiley doesn't testify in the
retrial, his testimony from 2001
cannot be used as evidence.
A police report also surfaced
in December that states seven
other eyewitnesses claimed that
Hunter's shooter was driving a
vehicle that looked different from
the beige Buick that Wiley had
described in his original testimo-
ny.
Five witnesses said in the report
that the vehicle was a Chevy and
three of those five thought it was
a Caprice Classic four-door sedan.

Wednesday, March 24, 2010 - 3A
The other two witnesses were
unsure of the model, but said the
vehicle was gray.
Second-year law student Brett
DeGroff, an Innocence Clinic
student attorney, said the recent
developments - like the newly
discovered witness testimonies
and that Wiley's testimony from
the first trial will probably not be
used - are important for keeping
Provience from going back to jail.
In December, the Innocence
Clinic also obtained documenta-
tion from the prosecution filed on
April 26, 2002. The documents
list the cars owned by Antrimone
Mosley, one of the Mosley brothers
linked to Hunter's murder and two
other murders unrelated to Provi-
ence's case, according to police
officer progress notes. Among the
cars listed is a gray 1985 four-door
Chevy Caprice Classic.
Along with this newly obtained
evidence, Detroit Police Officer
William Ashford told prosecutors
that evidence points to the Mos-
ley family and not Provience.
Ashford's investigation linked
the murders of Detroit residents
Courtney Irving and Maurice
Sutherland to Hunter's homicide
and linked all three of the murders
to the Mosley family.
The Innocence Clinic student
attorneys have argued that the
Mosleys killed Hunter because the
Mosleys suspected Hunterhadsto-
len their trailer full of marijuana.
The students have also claimed the
Mosleys murdered Irving a month
later becauseIrving knew that the
Mosleys shot Hunter. Sutherland
was then murdered a few months
later allegedly when the Mosleys
also suspected him of stealing the
trailer.
The Innocence Clinic filed dis-
covery motions for the homicide
files of Irving and Sutherland but
have yet to receive the files from
the prosecution.

13 attorney generals
say health care bill
is unconstitutional
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) - The
White House says it isn't worried
that 13 state attorneys general are
suingto overturn the massive health
care overhaul, and many legal
experts agree the effort is futile.
But the lawsuit, filed in federal
court seven minutes after President
Barack Obama signed the 10-year,
$938 billion health care bill, under-
scores the divisiveness of the issue
COMMUTER LINE
From Page 1A
"We hope to first of all intro-
duce commuter line service to the
region, since there hasn't been a
commuter line service since the
early 1980s," Palombo said. "There
will be a learning curve to learn
how to ride and a learning curve
for us to make sure that we are
providing efficient service."
Last December, as part of a larg-
er grant to the state of Michi-
gan, the U.S. Senate budgeted
$3.5 million specifically for the
construction of a rail between
Ann Arbor and Detroit, with
the hopes that the daily service
would be available by October.
However, Palombo pointed out
that the project still needs more
funds to cover all its costs.
"As we were continuing to
move forward with the project,
we had made certain assump-
tions about certain aspects of the
project being done and dollars
showing up," Palombo said. "It
got to the point that it was pretty
obvious that the dollars weren't
going to show up to do all of the
projects that need to be done."
Despite reports that a $100
million federal transportation
earmark made in 2005 may also
be available to SEMCOG, Pal-
ombo said the agency has not
fulfilled all the requirements
necessary to qualify for the
additional funds at this time.
However, Palombo said there
is a possibility the earmark
might become available in the
future for the commuter line
project's use. Meanwhile, SEM-
COG has been raising money
from various federal programs,
BOBB
From Page 1A
and the importance of bringing
the best skills and teamwork to
bear in this effort.
Ball continued by saying she
believes Bobb's expertise is very
relevant to the students gradu-
ating.
"Our graduates are educa-
tors who must play key roles in
the improvement of education,"
Ball said." Mr. Bobb will chal-
lenge them with both a clear
sense of the problems but also
of real hope."
In addition to his work with
the Detroit Public Schools,
Bobb is the owner, president
and CEO of a consulting firm
that collaborates between the
private and public sectors.

He has also served in sev-
eral government posts -
including president of the
Washington, D.C. Board of
Education, city administrator
and deputy mayor of Wash-
ington, D.C. and city manager
of Oakland, Calif., Richmond,
VA, Santa Ana, Calif. and Kal-
amazoo, Mich.

and the political rancor that has sur-
rounded it.
Florida Attorney General Bill
McCollum led the effort to file the
suit that claims Congress doesn't
have the constitutional right to force
people to get health coverage. It also
says the federal government is vio-
lating the Constitution by forcing a
mandate on the states without pro-
viding resources to pay for it.
"To that I say, 'Bring it on;" said
White House domestic policy chief
Melody Barnes, who cited similar
suits filed over Social Security and the
Voting Rights Act when those were
passed. "If you want to look in the
the private sector and a secondary
high-speed rail fund to cover the
program's expenses.
According to a Jan. 10 article
in The Michigan Daily, many stu-
dents are looking forward to the
proposed commuter line, since it
promises many advantages to its
passengers. For example, fans tak-
ing the train to Michigan football
games on Saturdays would be able
to avoid the parking fees, which
can run up to $20 or more.
As reported in the January

face of a parent whose child now has
health care insurance and say we're
repealingthat... goright ahead.'
A 14th state, Virginia, did not join
the bigger lawsuit, brt filed its own,
which other states are also consider-
ing.
McCollum, a Republican run-
ning for governor, has been talking
about suingto overturn the bill since
December. This month he invited
other attorneys general to join him.
So far South Carolina, Nebraska,
Texas, Michigan, Utah, Pennsylva-
nia, Alabama, South Dakota, Idaho,
Washington, Colorado and Louisi-
ana have agreed.
Daily article, Ann Arbor City
Councilmember Carson Hohnke
said Ann Arbor is also hopeful the
commuter line will benefitthe city
by reducing incoming traffic on
weekends and decrease pollution
levels.
While the city has been pressed
to contribute to covering some of
the costs, the economic downturn
has left little room in its budget
to assist with the commuter line
project, Hohnke told the Daily at
the time.

JOIN DAILY NEWS.
E-mail berman@michigandaily.com
Spring League Registration
now open
A2 U Iti mate.org
Games are
Sun 3-Spm
Thur 6-8Pm
At Fuller and Olson Parks
All are welcome! A2Ultimate.org


'hoosing the right career requires equal parts
knowledge, insight, and planning.
If yOU are weighing your career options, consider
this: US News & World Report places pharmacy on
its 2009 short list of Best Careers
-- and ranks the University of
Michigan College of Pharmacy
one of the best in the nation.

I,

r


4A - Wednesday, March 24, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

JE 1Jtdigan 3a4 y
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

MIKE RORRO I
Say yes to a new student constitution .

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles and illus-
trations represent solely the views of their authors.
Vote Armstrong, Raymond
Benson, Goldberg have clear goals for LSA-SG
Tangibility. It seems to be the buzzword in this year's elections for
the Michigan Student Assembly and the LSA Student Govern-
ment. As polls open today, students are suffering from a loss of
faith in MSA, and many are unaware of the work of LSA-SG. For LSA-
SG, progress hinges on the creation of funds and clear strategies. And to
make MSA a valuable use of students' money, its leaders must overcome
students' negative perceptions of the assembly grown from years of scan-
dal and a litany of institutional failures to produce real results for the
campus community.

Today, elections begin for the Michigan Student Assem-
bly and your school or college government. If you've read
the candidate statements, your vote may hinge on who has
the most experience, who would do the best job or even -
in the case of at least one past MSA election - which can-
didate handed you a free Coke on the Diag.
It's more likely that you're notplanningto vote at all. You
pay for student government, but you may feel like little of
that money comes back to you, personally. Student govern-
ment is difficult to follow, nobody seems to know who is in
charge and it doesn't create camaraderie across disciplines.
But today when you log on to vote, alongside seats for
school and college representatives and MSA president, you'll
find MSA Ballot Question One. The ballot asks students to
replace the existing student constitution with a new version
proposed by Students for Progressive Governance.
S4PG is an organization of University undergradu-
ate, graduate and professional students who have spent
the last year reviewing and redrafting the current stu-
dent constitution. S4PG's proposal would fundamentally
change student government in three principal ways.
First, the new constitution would provide every stu-
dent with greater access to the student budget. Every
semester, each student pays $7.19 to University-wide stu-
dent programming. That money goes to MSA, where it is
divided and doled out to organizations and commissions
most of us have little contact with.
The new constitution would create the University
Council - a body in which school and college government
representatives can call for a vote on any resolution pro-
posed by their constituents. If the Council approves the
resolution, it will be put before MSA for consideration.
That means that if you want access to the University's
student programming budget, anyone on your school or
college government can help you get it.
The new constitution would also improve clarity and
accountability in student government. MSA's current

organizational structure is a mishmash of overlapping
duties and prerogatives. When something goes wrong,
nobody is held responsible.
Now go to S4PG.info and look at the organization
charts created by the new constitution. The charts look
cut-and-pasted from your 7th-grade social studies text-
book: a two-chambered legislature, a unitary executive,
and an independent judiciary. And there's a reason for
this. We want government to be familiar to students and
approachable. We want you to know who to call or e-mail
when things go wrong and who to re-elect when things
go right.
Third, the new constitution would encourage greater
collaboration among students across campus. The Uni-
versity Council would simultaneously concentrate and
disperse the best ideas and practices from student govern-
ments across campus. A more democratic student judicia-
ry will incorporate a greater range of student voices. And
clearer executive authority over University commissions
will maximize efficiency in student programming.
Unavoidably, the new constitution has flaws, too. It was
created by a diverse, dedicated collection of students, but
when such a collection convenes for the benefit of their
joint wisdom, it must accept the biases, local interests and
errors in judgment of the members, too.
There is no doubt S4PG made several such errors. But
this constitutions weaknesses are no match for its vir-
tues: access, clarity, and collaboration. See for yourself
- log on to S4PG.info. Read the current constitution and
the changes proposed by S4PG. Then go to vote.umich.
edu and cast your ballot.
Vote yes on MSA Ballot Question One, and you'll have
more accessible, more accountable and more collabora-
tive student government.
Mike Rarro is the chair of Students for Progressive
Governance and MSA vice president.

0

The past year has seen a breakdown of
students' trust in MSA. In November, a
special investigation by the Daily exposed
MSA's illegal practice of appointing stu-
dent representatives to the Department of
Public Safety Oversight Committee. Short-
ly thereafter, the Central Student Judi-
ciary, campus's leading judicial body, ruled
that MSA President Abhishek Mahanti had
unconstitutionally appointed students to a
convention to overhaul the student body
constitution. And, to top it all off, Mah-
anti revealed this month that his project to
repair the MSA website not only overran
its budget by $6,000, but it also failed to
turn out a working product.
MSA presidential candidates are dis-
tancing themselves from these failures.
It's true that MSA's problems are largely
institutional - though the blame for the
website debacle rests almost exclusively
with Mahanti. But that doesn't let MSA
candidates for president and vice president
off the hook. New MSA leadership must be
ready and able to change the assembly and
to give students results that they can see.
The Michigan Vision Party is repre-
sented by MSA presidential candidate Ian
Margolis and vice-presidential candidate
Tom Stuckey. The new MForward party is
under the leadership of presidential candi-
date Chris Armstrong and vice-presiden-
tial candidate Jason Raymond. Four-time
MSA presidential candidate Kate Stenvig
has returned to run on the Defend Affir-
mative Action Party ticket, accompanied
by LSA freshman Sofia Bolanos as vice-
presidential candidate.
In some ways, MVP and MForward - the
two most powerful parties - are surpris-
ingly similar. Both stress student involve-
ment. MVP has relied on direct contact
through events like MSA Mondays, while
MForward has reached out to a diverse
group of student organizations. Both sup-
port the revamped all-campus constitu-
tion. Armstrong and Raymond value the
prospective University Council's ability to
connect directly with students. Margolis
has stressed the importance of impeach-
ment - which is included in the prospec-
tive constitution - to hold representatives
accountable. And, most importantly, both
have said they are committed to making
projects come to fruition. These types of
concerns are what make both parties valu-
able. And no matter who becomes MSA's
president and vice president after all the
ballots are counted, MVP and MForward
have important - and complementary -
roles to play in MSA.
MVP's refreshingly simple platform
has focused on small projects that yield
obvious results. MVP has concrete ideas
to improve accountability by mandating
bi-weekly reports to the assembly and
increase accessibility by creating a live
online helpdesk. And Margolis has been
heavily involved with the "Block M" at
football games and the successful Go Blue,
Beat OSU pep rally. Starting small seems
smart, especially considering MSA's his-
toric failure to deliver on its promises.
But these types of common sense tasks
shouldn't be the goal to strive for. They
should be an expected level of functioning.
In stark contrast to MVP, MForward has
campaigned on emphasizing MSA's poten-
tial as an advocate for student concerns.
MForward's goals include halting tuition
hikes and implementing long overdue gen-
der-neutral housing options for students.
But though it has set far more ambitious
goals than MVP, MForward has nonethe-
less kept most of their promises within
the boundaries of MSA's responsibilities.
Admittedly, efforts to stop tuition hikes
are probably futile. But MForward could
make gender-neutral housing a reality.
Armstrong, the former chair of the LBGT
Commission, has a record of making things
happen - even when it's difficult. He was
instrumental in bringing the 2011 Mid-
west Bisexual, Lesbian, Gay, Transgender,
Ally College Conference to the University.
MForward has the enthusiasm and experi-
ence to reach their - albeit large - goals.

Yet, there must be a balance between
ambition and realism. And DAAP, as usual,
has a list of goals far beyond the scope
of MSA's power, showing that the party
simply doesn't understand of the role of
MSA. Stenvig isn't a representative: She's
an activist. But as important as activism
is, MSA doesn't have the jurisdiction to
address her causes.
And DAAP's vice-presidential candidate
simply isn't qualified. Bolanos is a fresh-
man. She doesn't have the experience to
prepare her to serve as vice president of
MSA.
Students want to see the results of MSA
action in their lives - and they should see
these results. But MVP may be setting
its standards too low. One of MSA's most
important achievements over the past year
was its lobbying for the Good Samaritan
Law, not the campus concert scheduled for
later this month. And while MForward's
dedication to advocacy may seem lofty at
first, their goals are within reach. Under
the leadership of Armstrong, it seems like
MForward's ambition will pay off for the
student body.
But consistent progress on the smaller
issues that MVP has stressed is impor-
tant, too. MForward shouldn't lose sight of
its primary responsibility to fund student
organizations and make student life better
in a variety of tangible ways as it pushes
for big changes. But the competence Arm-
strong and Raymond exhibit inspires trust
that they can balance big advocacy with
small improvements.
A s usual, this year's election for LSA-
SG president and vice president is
uncontested. But even though presi-
dential candidate Steven Benson and vice-
presidential candidate Carly Goldberg are
unopposed, they have built a focused vision
for the future of LSA's governing body.
Benson and Goldberg have demonstrat-
ed a clear grasp of the issues affecting
their constituents and a passion for finding
solutions to their concerns. The pair seeks
to raise awareness of student rights, host a
career fair comparable to those of the Col-
lege of Engineering and the Ross School of
Business and improve their transparency
by increasing interaction with the student
body. This platform presents an agenda
with achievable goals that will make stu-
dents' lives easier in tangible ways.
Speaking directly to LSA-SG's promise
to deliver is a ballot question to raise the
amount of money funneled to LSA-SG
from student tuition by $0.50. This ini-
tiative would raise an additional $7,000
to fund student organizations. Due to the
language of the ballot question, the money
would be apportioned solely for distribu-
tion among organizations no matter how
the annual budget allocation changes. The
increase would facilitate student engage-
ment on campus without inflicting any sig-
nificant burden on the student body.
Benson and Goldberg also have ample
experience. Benson has trimmed the fat
in the body's internal spending to increase
the money that LSA-SG gives back to stu-
dent organizations. Goldberg is the current
chair of the LSA-SG appointments com-
mittee, and she has highlighted the need
to undertake quality projects as opposed
to doing as many projects as possible.
While their proposals will clearly benefit
students, their ideas can't become a reality
without more concrete strategies to imple-
mentthem. For example, more active efforts
could be done to utilize connections with
LSA alumni to improve the caliber of the
attending companies at LSA career fairs.
Yet, while they need more specific plans to
execute their agnda, there is no reason to
believe they won't succeed and improve the
lives of students across campus.
The Daily's Editorial Board endorses
MForward candidates CHRIS ARM-
STRONG and JASON RAYMOND for
MSA president and vice president. We also
endorse STEVEN BENSON and CARLY
GOLDBERG for LSA-SG president and
vice president.

STEVEN BENSON, CHRISTINE SCHEPELER AND JEFFREY WOJCIK|
Funding better campus experiences

In this week's studentgovernmentelections, which begin
today, we hope you will take a few minutes out of your day
to support University student-organizations. Certainly, we
would like you to vote for representatives based on their
platforms, pick people who have demonstrated hard work
in the past and choose students who you think will priori-
tize your concerns for the coming year. Voicing your vote is
a great way to ensure that the LSA student government to
which you pay $1.50 each semester remains accountable.
But this year's election isn't entirely about student
government members. It's also about that $1.50 collec-
tion. At the top of the LSA student government ballot, you
will find that the first question asks for an increase in our
collection of $0.50, which would increase the amount of
money students pay to LSA-SG to $2.00 per student per
semester. That $0.50 will generate about $7,000 more
each semester that will go directly to student organiza-
tions. In this way, by voting for ballot question one you
can significantly increase the financial resources avail-
able to your student organization. We want to encourage
all LSA students to vote yes on LSA-SG Ballot Question
One so that we can provide additional funding to student
organizations for years to come.
Roughly 70 student groups apply for approximately
$100,000 from LSA-SG every semester. LSA-SG funds reg-
istered student organizations thousands of dollars to rent
out room space, advertise for events and host excellent
programs across campus. We receive funding applications
from groups as large as Dance Marathon and the Indian
American Student Association, as well as requests from
smaller organizations like the Maya Dance team. While we
have been ableto help many student organizations succeed
by paying for portions of their event costs in the past six
semesters, LSA-SG has been frustrated by a budget that is
too small to completely fund all the reasonable and appro-
priate requests that come our way.
Student organizations submit outstanding applica-
tions with clear budgets and explanations of events for
the semester. From cultural shows to topic forums, every
event is very well planned, but also very expensive. Unfor-
tunately, given our current operating budget, we can only
offer between $13,000 and $16,000 (depending on student

enrollment and other factors) to these applicants. This
often forces LSA-SG to turn away student organizations
in their time of need. Your $0.50 each semester would
combine with other LSA students' money to help us sup-
port the great work and efforts students like you put into
campus organizations.
After accounting for inflation, using the past semester's
survey of the student body, and looking at student group
funding need, we believe $2.00 is a reasonable amount to
ask students to contribute, amid the current economic cli-
mate. We know we are asking for more money, but after
working for several years to cut our costs on student gov-
ernment, we think this is the best way to help student
organizations at this time. Beyond moving internal adver-
tising to paperless alternatives, we have saved money by
eliminating weekly room rental costs by hosting meetings
in Mason Hall instead of University Unions. We have cut
back on internal costs, held cheaper retreats eachyeifr and
our funding chairs have worked hard to scrutinize budget:
applications to maximize our allocations toward funding
student organizations. We provide less food at our meet-
ings, limit our supply costs and pay our election dirdctor
less, all in an effort to put more of our collection to stu-
dent organization funding. Of co'urse, we will continue to
cut our operating costs to further maximize the amount
we allocate to student groups. Yet while we have signifi-
cantly increased the portion of your $1.50 that goes to stu-
dent groups, it is still not enough. Please vote for LSA-SG
Ballot Question One to ensure that LSA-SG has the proper
resources to support student efforts.
Thank you in advance for voting in the election, regard-
less of what college you are in. If LSA-SG has funded your
group in the past, please vote for LSA-SG Ballot Question
one so that we can continue to fund the amazing events
your group puts on for the student body. If LSA-SG hasn't
funded your group in the past, please vote for LSA-SG
Ballot Question One so that we may have more financial
resources to giveyour events in the comingyears.
Steven Benson is the presidential candidate for LSA-SG,
Christine Schepeler is the current LSA-SG president and
Jeffrey Wojcik is the current LSA-SG vice president.

0
0
6
0

KATE STENVIG |
DAAP will mobilize 'U' student body

The election that begins today will determine whether
or not the Michigan Student Assembly can continue to be
the democratic hub of student politics. MSA, especially at
moments of heightened student activism, has been and can
be a powerful advocate for the interests and needs of the
whole student body. The Defend Affirmative Action Party
believes that it is crucial for MSA to maintain its right to be
the independent organizing center for the most powerful
constituency on campus - the student body. DAAP is the
only party running in this election committed to preserv-
ing and strengthening the power of the MSA.
The central issue in this campaign is whether or not the
anti-democratic and dangerous Students 4 Progressive
Governance Constitutional proposal, which is a sweeping
overhaul of the University stu-
dent constitution and student
bill of rights, should be adopt-
ed. If adopted, the S4PG con-
stitution would significantly Yesterday, the Mic
weaken the power of MSA and and MForward fa
students' ability to act indepen-
dently through our officially viewpoints. To
recognized governmental body. Affirmative Acti
It would also end critical civil c why it
rights and free speech protec- case for hy i
tions for students, most impor-
tantly the right of immigrant
and international students,
and transgender and transsexual students to be protect-
ed against discrimination based on national origin, gen-
der identity and expression. And it would give the MSA
president veto power, significantly lessening the ability of
students to exert democratic control of our student govern-
ment in order to assure that it expresses our will.
Now more than ever, we need a strong MSA led by a
party determined to organize the tremendous but cur-
rently disorganized power of students. DAAP is that party.
Students in California and at public universities across
the nation are responding to rising tuition costs, increased
privatization, inadequate financial aid, declining enroll-
ment of minority students and program cuts by buildinga
new mass student movement. Their mass actions, building
occupations, sit-ins, marches and pickets beginning last
fall stopped more tuition hikes and moved both the Dem-
ocratic and Republican parties of California to propose

-h
)d
e,

state finance reform to protect the University of California
system. African American and Latino students at Univer-
sity of California-San Diego, who are a tiny portion of the
school's student body, responded to a racistfratparty and a
noose hanging in their library by occupying the University
of California-San Diego Chancellor's office. They demand-
ed that the administration back their words of concern
with concrete changes to the admissions process to raise
underrepresented minority student enrollment. They won.
Undocumented students at California universities are now
poised to win a DREAM Act scholarship.
DAAP is committed to bringing this movement to the
University of Michigan. On Mar. 4, students at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin and students at other Big Ten universi-
ties took decisive direct mass
action, turning their huge stu-
dent body into the most impor-
tant force for progress in the
higan Vision Party state. Students on this campus
ced off in dueling cannot afford more tuition
hikes. Even those of us that are
ay, the Defend from families once classified
)n Party makes a as affluent or upper-middle-
class are reeling from the eco-
serves your vote. nomic crisis and cannot cover
5- to 10-percent tuition hikes
every year for the foreseeable
future. Minority students have
had racial slurs scrawled on their doors and feel increas-
ingly frustrated by the administration's seeming incapac-
ity to take even obvious and minimal steps to correct the
increasingly hostile climate we face on campus.
Over the next year, our campus needs to assume its right-
ful place asa center of student struggle. If we build the new
student movement here on this campus, then we know that
students on other universities across this state, including
Michigan State University - which is facing massive pro-
gram cuts, large tuition increases, and a steady decline in
minority student enrollment - will join with us and act.
We ask every studenthere who supports student democ-
racy, student rights and a free and independent student
government to vote DAAP. We need bold leadership and
this is our moment. Let's seize it and act.
Kate Stenvigis the DAAP presidential candidate for MSA.


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 24, 2010 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 24, 2010 - 5A

A 'Bounty' of mediocrity
Aniston and Butler have W

'U' student talks
Gallery Project

awkward chemistry
in unexceptional, sexy
action flick
By BEN VERDI
For the Daily
This is not Sparta, but it's not terrible
either. "The Bounty Hunter," a sexy action
flick, is perfectly average in every way. You
sit down, watch it, laugh a few times and are
reminded of traditional
plot conventions used in
cop movies and romantic
comedies. It isn't awful. It Th Bounty
isn't all that great. It's pre-
dictable, uncomplicated, Hunter
but in a way, comfortable. AtQuality16
It's a movie, which is all and Showcase
you should expect it to be.
Watching "Bounty
Hunter" feels like put-
ting on new socks in the morning. Yes, put-
ting on clean(er) socks is something you do
every day, but the moment you do it, you feel
a tad happier thanyou were previously. Then
you continue living your life as if nothing
changed.
The film borders on "buddy-cop," except
this time the duo is comprised of the sub-
tly seductive Jennifer Aniston ("Love Hap-
pens"), and the awkwardly Scottish Gerard
Butler ("300"/every Michigan State pre-
game montage). An unlikely pair, you say?
Well, while that may be true, don't underes-
timate the unintentional comedy that comes
from watching King Leonidas shove Rachel
from "Friends" into the trunk of a car so lux-
urious it's unclear how his bounty hunter's
salary can afford it.
The stars of this movie forge an on-
screen chemistry by virtue of the fact that
they probably will never speak to each other
after the movie. premieres. Nor did they

"Awwwww. Five more minutes! Pleeeeeeeeeease?"
have any knowledge of the other's existence
before they began filming. Butler and Anis-
ton play off one another the way two extro-
verts awkwardly converse in an elevator,
showing vulnerability and openness only
because they know their floor is coming up
soon.
While the comedy is mostly unintention-
al, there are some genuine laughs to be had.
Jason Sudeikis ("Saturday Night Live") is
a surprise, and he (justly) has enough lines
throughout the' entire film to satisfy the.
comedic urges of most audiences. Aniston's
drunken, sex-obsessed single mother char-
acter is off-putting enough to be funny, but
not detailed enough to be nasty.
There aren't enough ways to refer to how
average this film is, nor to how OK with it
you'll be afterward. People often use the
word "average" to denote something that
(subconsciously) they have deemed below-

By BRAD SANDERS
Daily Arts Writer
The dining hall can be a very dull
place to eat lunch, but never fear, the
University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art Andrea
has a solution. As
part of the museum- MCDonnell
themed year at the T
University, students Tomorrow
in the Museum atl2 p.m.
Studies Program UMMA multi-
purpose room
are invited to speak
about their work in
the "Brown Bag Series," during which
listeners can eat their lunches while
they listen and learn.
Tomorrow, Andrea McDonnell, a
Rackham graduate student in com-
munication studies and museum stud-
ies, will be discussing the role of a
non-collecting art institute in society.
McDonnell originally studied
American culture at Vassar College
in New York and worked at an art
museum during and after her studies.
Realizing she wanted to teach art and
popular culture, she came to the Uni-
versity in order to fulfill her goal.
"I just completed my Museum
Studies Certificate Program, and as
part of this program you're required
to do a practicum, which is basically
an internship at an arts institution,"
McDonnell said. "Last summer I was
an intern at The Gallery Project in
downtown Ann Arbor. They're a non-
collecting arts institute, so they don't
own any works of art. Everything is
contributed based on what particular
show is happening at the time."
Her lecture, "The Empty Ves-
sel Makes the Loudest Sound: New
Museology and the Promise of the

Non-Collecting Art Institution,"
speaks to her experiences during her
internship and what she has learned
from The Gallery Project.
"The Gallery Project is an empty
vessel in that it doesn't have its own
collection. It doesn't bring any par-
ticular artist or artworks to the table
so to speak," McDonnell explained. "I
would like to argue that it's a positive
thing, as it helps the gallery to make
meaningful exhibits and be more flex-
ible and innovative than they would
be able to if they had a permanent col-
lection."
Aside from explaining the impor-
tance of this museum, McDonnell will
also reveal the other functions of The
Gallery Project.
"I'm going to be talking about how
the gallery works with other organi-
zations to hold fund-raising events,
such as The Cupcake Station and a
local band called the Chris Canas
Making lunch
more fun with art
discussion.
Connection," McDonnell said. "This
was actually supposed to be their last
month in operation, but they were
able to raise enough money to stay in
operation for two more years."
McDonnell hopes to attract a large
variety of people to her lecture, and
also to promote The Gallery Proj-
ect's next fund-raising event, its sixth
birthday party, so it can continue to
serve its purpose in the city.

average. Here, the word "average" is meantto
signify the perfect middle-ground between
"The Shawshank Redemption" and "Corky
Romano."
Let's face it. Walking into the theater to
see "Bounty Hunter," you know what you're
getting into. It delivers on its promised plot
that involves a male ex-cop hunting down
his ex-wife, which, on paper, should create
situations allowing for comedy, romance and
action scenes. The movie does what it can
with all three, but doesn't go deeper into its
characters. And perhaps this is the way all
films should be viewed: Not everything you
watch should be held in comparison to the
best thing you've ever seen.
Take someone special to this movie.
Soak in the humor and the romance, take a
moment to appreciate that King Leonidas's
career isn't over yet. Then pack up, leave the
theater and continue living your life.

ARTS IN BRIEF

LECTURE PREVIEW
Discussing the
modern world of
found footage
An1ttwM, O~iler
Tomorrow at 5:10 p.m.
Michigan Theater
Free
From YouTube to avant-garde
cinema, previously shot footage
has become increasingly inte-
grated in diverse forms of media.
As-an>experimental filmmaker,
Matthias Miller's films embrace
this popularized use of "found
footage."
Tomorrow, Muller will add
himself to the long list of note-
worthy and cross-disciplinary
lecturers as part of the Penny W.
Stamps Distinguished Speakers
Series. His lecture will surround
the history and use of found foot-
CONCERT PREVIEW
Performing Bach
and Britten
Peter Wispelwey and
Jennifer Koh
Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m.
Rackham Auditorium
Tickets from $20
This Wednesday and Thurs-
day, two prominent string musi-
cians will be making their UMS

age in his own work and other
mediunms.
The wide-ranging uses of
found footage are as diverse as
its sources. Accordjng to Mller,
found footage can include educa-
tional films, propaganda footage
and commercials.
As part of his'lecture, Miller
plans to discuss the ambiguity
between duplication and origi-
nality associated with the use of
found footage.
"In film, the question about
what constitutes an original and
what makes a copy is a rather
delicate one, for the medium is
based on the very idea of repro-
duction," Muller wrote in a first
draft of his speech he provided
to the Daily.
In addition to this controver-
sy, Miller will discuss the mul-
tiple purposes of found footage
as its use becomes increasingly
widespread.
"Over the years, in music
videos and commercials, on
debuts, both with solo concerts
featuringBach's work.
Dutch cellist Pieter Wispelwey
will perform a program consist-
ing of four suites, two by Bach
and two by Benjamin Britten, an
English composer most famous
for his work "Hymn to St. Cecilia."
Throughout his career, Wispelwey
has performed all over the world,
from Buenos Aires, Argentina to
Sydney, Australia.
The next night, violinist Jen-
nifer Koh, who has been consis-
tently praised for her work - she

bouTube and even in big-budget-
box-coffice-hits, found footage
has become a well-established
aesthetic standard, something
global TV-audiences are quite
familiar with," Mller wrote.
"The terminologies applied to
this practice range from collage
and compilation film to mash-up
and recycled cinema," he added.
Miller has won several inter-
national awards including the
Golden Gate Award at the San
Francisco International Film
Festival and a special mention
at the 59th Berlin International
Film Festival. He has also orga-
nized and served as a curator
for the Found Footage Film Fes-
tival.
In addition to his lecture, a
series of Miller's films, includ-
ing "The Memo Book (Aus Der
Ferne)" and "Alpsee," will be
shown at the Michigan Theater
on Saturday as part of the Ann
Arbor Film Festival.
HEATHER POOLE
is referred to as a "superb soloist"
in a review by the Telegraph -
will perform a concert of two of
Bach's partitas, as well as works
by composers Eugene Ysaye, Kaija
Saariaho, Elliott Carter and Esa-
Pekka Salonen.
Despite this being a UMS debut
for Wispelwey and Koh, both art-
ists have already made names for
themselves throughout the world
music community, performing
internationally and releasing sever-
al criticallyacclaimed recordings.
ERINSTEELE

No waste on 'Plastic Beach'.

By SHARON JACOBS
AssistantArts Editor
How cool is Damon Albarn? This
cool: He helped invent Britpop
as Blur's lead singer; he released
a critically
acclaimed album,*
The Good, The
Bad ft The Queen,
with a four-man
supergroup that Plastic Beach
didn't even have EMI
a name; he wrote
the music for a
Chinese opera about a monkey king
("Monkey: Journey to the West");
and he fronts the world's first vir-
tual band, the hand-drawn Goril-
laz, whose latest album Plastic
Beach uses digital instruments to
comment on artificiality. You really
can't get much cooler than Damon
Albarn - enterprising musicians,
beware.
With Plastic Beach, the charac-
ters (in every sense) of Gorillaz find
their virtual identities mirrored in
the music. Listeners have become
used to the idea of a cartoon band.
What's new on Plastic Beach is that
the songs mimic real life, too.
The imitation is apparent from
the intro track, as recorded sounds
of seagulls and crashing waves are
overlaid and then overcome by an
equally swelling orchestral approx-
imation of an ocean. In "Superfast
Jellyfish," squeaky, super-high
vocals play like island steel drums.
Guest artists Gruff Rhys (Super
Furry Animals) and the members

of De La Soul 'trade 'cutesy lines
praising the latest prepackaged
breakfast treat.
Mos Def's stream-of-conscious-
ness delivery on "Sweepstakes" is
likewise framed by ambient noises.
Rhythmic slot-machine beeps help
power the track into a brash cel-
ebration of risk-taking, before it
fades out in a whistled chorus.
Plastic Beach is loosely a con-
cept album about consumerism
and waste. But if Gorillaz is judg-
ing the fake, combustible culture
to which it belongs, it's only doing
so implicitly. Lou Reed sums up
the general attitude of the album
on "Some Kind Of Nature," as he
wryly intones: "Well me, I like plas-
tics / And digital foils." The disc is
a mixed bag, serving as both "some
kind of majesty" and "chemical
load."
Despite its conceit, Plastic Beach
doesn't preach the issues. Its
poppy hooks and arcing melodies
speak for themselves. The album is
catchy-cool from start (Snoop Dogg
lackadaisically welcoming us to the
"plastic beach") to finish (Albarn
- or animated vocalist 2D - brag-
ging: "We left the taps / Running
/ For a hundred years"). With
Albarn's slick, conniving voice and
steadily marching music under-
neath, frankly, pollution has never
seemed so enticing.
Of course, the album has some
shortcomings - "Empire Ants"
drifts a bit longer than it should
and "Cloud of Unknowing" feels
lost at sea - but nothing seriously

interrupts the album's flow. And
its highlights are nothing short of
beautiful: "On Melancholy Hill"
finds Albarn crooning a dreamy
melody over electronic distortion,
while atmospheric love song "To
Binge" rolls along like a gentle frol-
ic in the waves.
Generally, the album is calmer
and softer than Gorillaz's earlier
work. Nothing even approaches
the crazed energy of "Feel Good
Inc." or "Dare," but "White Flag"
matches their quirkiness. Fun and
Gorrilaz goes
all-out digital on
latest album.
funny, the song's delicate Middle
Eastern instrumental opening runs
smack into a mouthful of British
rap backed by arcade-game beeps.
Plastic Beach is a fresh commen-
tary on disposable industry - both
the physical industry polluting the
oceans and the music industry, in
which artists often seem like noth-
ing but cartoon faces singing other
people's songs. Maybe the two-
dimensional members of Goril-
laz are a sign for the future of pop
music - virtual art made by virtual
artists. It's a disconcerting idea, but
with Damon Albarn's kooky hip-
ness, it's one we should probably
get used to.

Comedy Central succeeds with monstrous new comedy

By ROBERT SOAVE
Daily Arts Writer
Transitioning to life in the city
can be tough. Everyone is in a
hurry, the neigh-
borhood doesn't
seem friendly and
it's easy to get Ugly
lost. "Ugly Amer-
icans" is about AmdCans
trying to survive Wednesday at
in a city as vast 10:30 p.m.
and dangerous
as New York - a (sedy Central
task made even
more difficult in the world of Com-
edy Central's latest cartoon series,
in which the Big Apple is crawling
with monsters.
"Ugly Americans" takes place in
an alternate New York City where
monsters from vampires and were-
wolves to aliens and zombies (and
land whales, too!) spend their time
trying to make ends meet, just like
their human counterparts. Blending
real-life issues like fitting into city

life and the plight of immigrants in
America with the hilarity of ran-
dom monsters, "Ugly Americans" is
a coarse, yet thoroughly enjoyable
satire.
A smart move was balancing out
the crazy, fiendish inhabitants of
New York City with a main char-
acter who is basically just a random
guy. Meet Mark Lilly (Matt Oberg,
"30 Rock"), a good-natured and
completely human social worker
at the Department of Integration.
Lilly is described by his boss - a
demonic overlord named Callie
Maggotbone (Natasha Leggero,
"Aqua Teen Hunger Force") - as
the office's "token bleeding heart."
He wants to help the monsters of
Manhattan become fully function-
ing members of society.
Unfortunately, his co-workers
are largely apathetic or even hostile
to immigrant monsters. His partner,
a lazy wizard named Leonard Pow-
ers, would rather transform office
paperwork into alcohol. In addition
to looking out for underprivileged

monsters, Lilly has to try to survive ing to survive in an often unfriendly
his secret and dangerous affair with world. "Ugly Americans" isn't just
his evil boss, Callie. "Pissing where outrageously funny television, it's
you mix the potion, eh?," observes also a fairly convincing lesson about
Leonard. "Been there. Good times." what native-born Americans and
"Ugly Americans" succeeds by immigrants have in common.
combining monsters with the mun- Even so, the gross-out humor
dane. When Lilly asks his room- will likely earn the series some com-
mate, Randall (Kurt Metzger,"The parisons with the former Comedy
Best Girlfriend Ever") - who is per- Central cartoon "Drawn Together."
Though this series had its moments,
the over-the-top crudeness really
prevented it from becoming a must-
Satire, but w ith watch cartoon. But aside from that
zo bis less-than-desirable simiarity, "Ugly
more zombies. Americans" has more in common
with the unforgettable "Futurama."
The challenge now is for Comedy
petually unemployed and recently Central to head its new series in the
zombified -- about his plans for the direction of the latter rather than
day, he replies:, "Thought I'd stare the former.
blankly out of cold dead eyes for To do this, "Ugly Americans"
a while how I do. Then check out needs to flesh out (ha!) its world.
'Kung Fu Panda."' "Futurama" had its characters
Sure, zombies want to eat brains, exploring new planets and encoun-
but they also want to find steady tering different alien creatures in
jobs. Even the scariest and most every episode. Lilly and his friends
disgusting monsters are only try- will exhaust their funny lines and

COURTESY OF COMEDY CENTRAL
"If you eat my Cadaver-O's one more time, I will eat your brain."
mannerisms unless they're pushed Americans" could become the next
out of their comfort zones - no hilarious and socially relevant car-
matter how strange those comfort toon series. Just take it easy on the
zones are. foul language and toilet humor,
With a monstrously funny prem- Comedy Central, as hard as that
ise and cast of characters, "Ugly may be for you.


6A - Wednesday, March 24, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom6

0

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
! ! 4 BDRM. CONDO!
Aug 2010. Narth campus. Free otil.,
A/C,.ldry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV. DSL. $695/person/mo.
Call 31 3-838-2629.
'AVAILABLE FALL Studios, one
and two bedraom apartments located
an U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg inet. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
FOR GRAD) STUDENTS ONLY l 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartmtents for 2010-
t1. New builditng, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to dowtttown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4eleven lofts. com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
lacl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.t-IRPAA.com 996-4992.
!AVAILABLE FOR FALL!'.
Spaciouts unfurnisbed two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dislh-
wasther laundrybalcottytree parktng.
Call 734-944-2405.
1221 S. State #2
8 MO. LEASE
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPT PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
!! NEW LISTING Avail Fall 2010 !!
721 Church- Uinfurnished I bedrootm
apartment. Quiet atmospbere. Great lo-
cation, I block from Soutb University,
near B-Scbool & Education Scbool,
bardsvood floors, free beat, frec water,
free parking. Laundry.
Call Ann 320-1244 or visit our web-
site www.clturcbstreetrentals.com
V! ROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.
W IMAY STUDIO and I bdroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-701-1220 or visit
www.postrealtypropetiscom

DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorms),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Parest
An Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
trrrt CENTRAL CAMPUS!!!!!!!
APTS. AT UNBELIEVEABLE
SAVINGS
Discounted rates plus lots of estras
for free.
734-701-8000
primeshbcom
!'AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off sttmmer rent. Newly retmod-
eled kitchen & ,bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments. net
AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus. Heat, waler, park-
ing inet, fully furnished, perfect sum-
nter locations! Varsity Management
1734)0668-1100.
**2BEDROOMSuu TWO Central
Campus locations on S. Forest, Free
WiFi, new kitchens and baths, beat, wa-
ter, furnishings, and parking inc. Var-
sity Management 1734)1068-1100.
**3BEDROOMuu ACROSS St. from
CCRB, close to Arbomretui, great bal-
cony, large living room, beat, water,
furnishings, parking inc. Varsity Man-gmn 74 6-10
**4BEDROOMSaa BEAUTIFUL
Burns Park tmansion - converted into
enormous apartments with room for 5
or 6! Heat, water, furnishings, and
parking inc. Dishwashers, on-site laun-
dry, screened porch and a large yard!
Varsity Managetnent (734) 668-1100.
uOAVAIL. FOR FALL 119 U. Lib-
erty. Leg 3 bdnu apt. 1100 sq. ft. 5 min
walk to Campus. 734-769-8555. .
*nBUSINESS & LAW -SCHOOLau
Huge 2-bdrtns one black south, cov-
ered parking, new kitchens ,and baths,
beat, water, futmishings, and parking
inc. Varsity Management (734) 168-
11110.

HOMES FOR RENT
3Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent' until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
1 FORECLOSURES AR ACCEPTED
Ann Arbor." (888) 883-7083 " www.sciofarms.com
matfr ,Ypsilanti." (888) 310-6850." www.4lakeview~com 0
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichois Lewis
ACROSS 3 Mitesized 37 Granasonnat 49 Nec York city
1 Hippo's attire in 4 Like many salons Ene 5SO"Who tures it
"Fantasim" 5 Andalasia aoen 38 Train sation they do?!"
5Fashionably 5 Bulls and boanrs 40 It includesnterms 52 Math subgroup
smart 7 Prefix cith metric at endearment 53 Las: Abbr.
9 Sun ray 8 Inormal 41 Meeting at Cong. 55 They, in Calaiu
13 Actress Lena dimcussion 40 Diacrtical pair at 87 Llama land
14 "Lion's share' 9 Shell cllector, dots 88 Church approval
fabulist maybe 47 On a winning 58 Suffiinwih
10 Hockey great 10 Cormerstone steak Congo
Phil, familiarly ahr. 48Apply before a2 Rooting anund
17 John Denver#1 1t In....: likely mill cooking, au spice 03 Gardner of "On
hit 12Meek tomeat the Beach"
19 Largestnofthe 15 Org. tar drivers't NWRT REIU UZE
Near Islands 30 Eco-riendlyl NWfeOPEVOSPUZE
20 Placefor a gp. D I S C 0 VIE a T S T I S
massage 22'"Tough luck" ALTOS A LT HO OR E
21 Campaign 24 Senator CochranPIANOPLAYER TOP
landers at Mimsissippi
23 Locale ina 1987 25 Legendary siren SANG A I IL R E CA NT
Cheech Merit 27 Bighbatch 0OLD S M E R YL
title 28 Mariner's A DD I DEALS M BA
26 "Yay!" cancern G RU B BY SLAM B A NG
27 Charon's river 298Part ofYSL R 0 KB R T S E EASE L
30ORub elboms 31 The LinKing" o P E R A H A T T A L B S B
(w~ith) liness SOL UPSH T STE
32 Western: 3Furnishestfood 50L UP5H01
history class, tar F I L M S 0 N Y S
briefly 34dTemple area of 0 P E N E D I L 0 EG0A D
33lIndustry kingpin Jerusalem A LA GR A ND F I H AL E
35SBullies 360"Sonic the T AR OUNCE NO VE L
398"Guysand Dolls" Hedgehog" SN L SMEAR K N E E
showstopper developer aaaearecm asn
42 Mississippi River wretoaocm 0231
explorer 1 2 3 4 s 6 z 8s 9 1331182
43 Take cbarge
44 Baby talk curd 13 14 15 It
45 Trial sites 17 181
47 Rough ile anund
48 Measaring tool 20 21 22
5t Billiards blander
54 Fork orsponnz3 44 23 s
50 Longtime huddy
600 __.-Honey: candy z39 1
01 "Or. Zhivago" m3 m a3at 37te3a
melody
04 "Cool" rapper? 39 40 41
65 Polished
00 They're removed 42 43 44
via shafts
07 With 68-Across a ea
and 08-Across, 9 o 5 2 53
classic game i i i i i i
showand this II r11' ti stirltrat se
puzzle's tatle
68 See67-Across i60 iii 1i 62
09 See67-Acros
DOWN 67 69a6
1 Repulsive sort
2 ouse near the B erArida
funny oe (c)2t10tribuneMedia Services,tInc.3/24/10

annrborupartttents. net
-AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdr. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawi. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3076.
*FALL 200* HUGE 2 Bdrn
--- Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Locaio, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-882.
*FALL 200 HUGE 3 Odurt
Bi-Level Apt. 112 Baths
Prime Locatiotn, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-66-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (were avail)
when you sign a iem lease by Marct
31st. That a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagetent.cono for
avail. propetles
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Catpus,
www.michcomrealty.comu or
734-62-5500,for appointmuent.
-d OR 2 bdm ats avail. UI ofM
discounrt! Spectacular North Campts
Location. Call 734.6638463.
2 BDRM ACROSS front Wet &
South Quad. Furnished, FRE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartents.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedroomts - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universityowers-
micom - THINK OUTSIDE TE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
2BDRM CONDO, QUIET second
floor corner; balcnya/,laundry.. prkg,
gym, heated poo, racket ball, sana,
avail 6/I or 5/1. $975. 734-761-9210.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 drmns total. 3 bth, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrmt-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM htse avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White SL. 7 drs total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bd-$3200
7-bdrim-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
934 S. STATE #2 - 6 ed 2 Bath avail.
Sept 1, 2010 $3750 + elec, mne! heat,
parking, coin laundry. 734-668-668.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an tnbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 15
bats. Add FRE'E internet, HD direts
with DVR, fitness room, study & Is
lounge & you have Geddes bill apart-
tments! Call today to reserve your iew
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annrborapartmentls.net
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdnn. fumn. aps. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL 9/1/10 WILLIAM & tDivi-
sian. Eff, I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. a pt. w/
ectriy buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storagec lockers Gallatin Realty
Co 7343680256
Online Classfied
Rental Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?

Visit michigandaiiy.com/
classifieds to see ail of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient mapl
Also be sore to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?
Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
section on
APRIL 1ST!
by contacting:
(734) 764-0557
AVAILABLE FALL
Beautiful I bdrt. apt. H-adwod
floors, ay window, new kitchtn. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 5. 5th- 4 drm house, onsitalauvn-
dry and a parking spt.
421 Blakely CL.- 3 bdrtm house will
have newly renished hardwood floors
an move in day. Furished, washer &.
dryer. Parking foimt cars.
316 W Sadium- 3 drt house.. hard.
wood floors, disltwashr ainsite laun-
dry. Parking incltded. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now am fr Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. ()/ 734-663-4101
Ask about or specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FAL,2010:
109 Catherine, 209 N Ingalls, and
1021 Fuller- 2 bedmrot apartments,
close to nursitg dental and medical
schools, easy' access to central catps.
Furnished, ostite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdri's, eat, water
and parking included.
Call Cmpus Mt (Nd; 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrim aparmenstn avail--
able in the shadow of 1 of M tospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 While- Studio apartment withiit
walking distance of central campupts,
parking inltded.
Cll Campus Mgt ( 734-63-4101.
Ask about mr specials!
Student Co-op Housing!
Now Signitg Cntracts for
Fall/Winter 200/1
x$575/Menth includema,
Internet, carinad ulitites
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www,iccoop
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1128 Fuller - Prices just reduced
2 bedroomt apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursing, dettal and medical
schools, easy access to central cattpus.
Furnished, onsite lattdry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 l~-
vted 5 blocks fromn central cmps..
heat, water and parkin included. Cll
Caimpus Mg'(734-663-4101.
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT, 2010
1,23 bdrms apes. Near Business Shtol
attd Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.jmsprap.caam
AVAILABLE NOW TO AUGUS'
10!!! Roomts / EFICIENCY I tBed
avail. now. 450-500 + lec. Near Cle
Campus. Cll Cappa 734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
ciots 2 bedroomni hose. Hardwood
floors. -Fireplace. Surt roam. Cla, dy
buaseent FOOTIALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. Sate S., off of
Stadium. Call 941) 962 - 9014.

FALL 2010 f 1 bedroom apt. available
itt primte location. Heat & Water itt-
eluded. $799/month. 734-665-8025.
FALL 21110 7 Bedroom 3 bath house.
Free parkitig. $3200 per mtontht. 1207
Prospec Call Briant 734-261-6836.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrrnt-
(sutabble for 3) apt. 528 5. Fifth Ave.
'urn, disposal, dwslhr, Indry, prkg.
Walkout balcony. $11tOO + elec. 734-
662-7121 or emuail gpmiles( iaol.com
HOUSE FOR FALL small company
offers 7 bedroom at South U. and
Washetetnaw $4000 andI 6 bedrootm at
1115 South Foarest $2700. Eigst u uth
leases possible. 734-210-4003.
LARGE I BDRMS Perfect for twit.
Also sttidios and 2 bdrmts. I-tat & Wa-
ter ittcl. 1215 Hill S1. 734-2611-4003
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 hdrms.
avail. ott Central Camvpus. 741-9300
www.anna rboaparmenats.et
*'Briiadview artient
" Spacius 2 bsrwsasithmstah
+Shiuttle aoiuddampis
uLreprivaebaulcoiea
with wmddviws
'Sodls OpenODily
r 1 741-9300
1(E7114DED HOURS)
wwwanarborapartmentsnet

Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with otdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view..
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balcoies or patios.
Walk-is closets. Free storage.
Os-site laundry. Swimming pool..
Pet friendly!
U@UM Discounts!
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaitycnslclassitieds
See great places annuaa interactive sap
am Classified lisinsg witha hll descrip-
tions, features, asd prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
601 Monroe - Behid S. Quad
Eff., 0-level I and 2 Bdrt. ats.
Call Amattda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonraeManagersri uiniich.edtu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bldrm,. pts (ver 1100 sf. earl)
Call David at 24.935.2159 or entail
8lsSonmtlSateMaiagrs(uiicl.edss
711 Arch - Between Sate & Packard
I & 2 Bdrm. pts.
Call Phil at 734662.5270
Call above nuutbers or email for
showings or please sop by!
New Lower Raes!
MAY TO MAY Leases
3 Bedmooms "Park Plaza"
13211 . Universit
Negotiable Rates
734-71-8000
primesheaom
NORTH CAMPUS I & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els upon aweekdays nson-psu. Sat &
Sun noon-ps. 734-741-9300.
www.antsarbaapartnsnts. nsta
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE; Internet
FREE I feat
FREE Wtler
REE Parking-
FREE Mintennce --
Fully Furnshaaed
On Site Lausdy
Et,,2 & 3 Bdraos
Stop by ssur office tit 610 Churchl
am call ss at 734-71-8000
prismesh.comn
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALLING RATES
EI., 1, 2 & 3 Bedromstson Central
Campus
We will work wills YOUIR budget!
Unbelievabe Deals!
734-761-8000
prinmsesacms
WHY RENT WHEN yost can Buy?
Check oun all of mthe available poper-
ties fr sale in th- ar-.
swwtlSellA2.cnsn 734-476-9768
W WW.800FULLERCOM
(7341 769-75211
1 & 2 bdrm . saden, clean, qiet
5min walk. Free Wi-FL.
SUBLETS
AVAILABLE MAY! IHIagsol-bdmnss
on Central Casspss ansIl sDowtwn.
Bea, water, parking isscl.. fuslly fur-
iished, perfect sumimer sblease! Var-
sity Management (734) 668-1100.

AVAIL MAY-AtC: lisge roons &
closet, parch, wsshs/dlryr, pinkg. S. Divi-
sion/Hill. $400.. brlssnain'uLumiclt.edu
SPRING/SUiMMER SUBLE'TS 19 lo-
cations to choose frost. fCall for a coitm-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annmarho ruprtmetnts. nm
SERVICES
BUSINESS CHIINESE: LEARN Bussi-
nessfChinsese usaCkise-in Chsinese-
Bussiness Law Summer Program in
Beijing. rwsv.stuudy abro, d-china.org

HELP WANTED
!!!RARI'NI)UING!!5300(dy _,poltn-
tial. Naoep.sie.. ctraing proidited.
A~fi 18+0--K. S800-965-6520 xsi12>.
APPLY NOW! FUNIDRAISE for she
L1: Michsig-an Tel-ft sad, 99.2. Nbc NEW
camspits lscatiosn'l ' btdesa-pply ),'
scaasel'fstduis I. als in 763-,8773.
HELP CREATE 2sA FAM ILY
EGG D(N(I'NEIIaEI)
IVF Michigan, PIC.
The Recogaized lIrours
in Infertility-Treatoxmean.t,
flouroslle lsc,sts i ~ ro
is loakIssItr eath oitte
betwseen ite -soscNii-3
lamr -asasyssaso.;cc",daissao.
All ethiss-ckrssd
are needed.
Tis progsrit am ossssplesaly
anoanymoassit
Qualiied sdaosi-s sir
accepuctet'1;! itspc~_.:: i Il
be lisstsci.._iycsspsssd
931010Isi ius ss assaea
in astr prusgusis'a
fluster 'sued } pi,-use 1!
73-43- t47bb
MYSIerI Y lIOP"I ER
Ear 05utp tus51511 pur day,.I sy .not Ru-
spumred. tk!sdercc a 'rppor Needed
to Jssslr itesa I i n-'D tsae I= stablish-s
meats. tl isO 700-4791.
SEEKING PART lIE suisinir sit-
tar with sers flesxibtslet hoursIssr10 and
7 yeamrusld. Musti
like advenstures as-isis Isybasseown
car/able ts drivecids ito soa ;iot snacks
Pleasee esail eissi'tse: iu t d
STUDJI) TAY'OU1 TS.C(M
Paul Surey !askers nec-dad in A2.
100% FREE so o st. Click ottSurveys.
THE',IS EIIlNt-.ILA NGUAG
Osar'asaztio,s ?aus .v ls.'-M as ep.
99f-05bb6sir sarisess oni

0

4

SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
LOCAL IBIF R M1) 1 l OR itpaid
sussnissar int- n i. t , special
sc it1s. atr -otis g l>lsstssassstuatent,
21, w ,/ car. Fics. rtoyti <&_W Inc. 734-
480-4012sir easasil ii:'seur Imsabeascm
THE 2t010t("ANC.R RELARCH
SIUMMED.INT!! S I POfiRAM
As pars if its GUtuneei r ltogy raining
Proigrsa. thme Itlsivrssty sal Michigan
assampretenssie astetesasin part
witha lussdtss"fsousathyN Nssional Insti-
titles O Iall lealItuspsrovidins' expo-
stirs io cassuslisu or othihlymtts
vated amid 5 sisstud allayuussergradu-
ates. This prussess-t.till, poet! Ilse sic
cessul app'liC sis tt p !siss t o c-
plate paist e cs asi tue lsld of
cnscer reseoichto InsIkeypm's wtlte
teirms ofI mhe N1l11 "us:ts w :e specially
encousarage appicatassassemis smaidividu-
ala froms populaios !rei i ascurrently
ssndcrroprcntssl isa b viasselsiand he-
hairasml rsussircl is Use program is
assmed at studt Isalahs ace completing
theiur sspissoaas:ssirjunior unsdergradus-
ama sear thiis -ap! iiso
lim ogrmasam sailsIrusso Er seaweeks,
Jusne 7th -'A 11LttulSith, 411 hrs/ week.
Stiudents aelsus vI a ntscurrently
hasse11-M smussissrs will be matched
w ibh an approplriate U-M facsslty. Only
U.S. citizens sic permanent resident
aliens are eligible so apply. Isnterns wsill
be paid $4,900 Isirtins 0 -wek perioid.
Yosur applicatiasn rts asbe uoaded hy
March 31 at ah laIsliossing site:
wwastscaacznrsyteri -
Qtiestions? faint acItas Navel at
unossl1 -;umsichaedut
WORK ON MAC KINAC Islanidhms
sumssnmrt-tMks itilJone friends. Ihhe
Isaod 16ssfis ptlfla'asEsudge
Shosa ircloekWIiss s cat>nal Ihelp in
all a <i [ !:esit Idck Isi Ss Sale
lcks Hs iatv nsol itchussrStall.
t>issiiss butsad dases dmeals
asian t.lislit IdltiiiiSs s tt

0

CHILDCARE
RESPONSIBLE, AC II F, CAR-
ING, and ceaivaeire giver req~uired
fair 5 yr. ala1 hay 10yr.oad (girl this
sutainer Rec.u!isit'infsaali sudent -
jr, srair grad at tt pielF iwn cai;
required botasceti tiuste 1: i4-Ass;27;
San- Iptia aily; 91/le est aisle of
AnnaArbor.fCllLs 5al,73 1397-9b76.
SUMMER
SUBLETS --
LARGVE 31 1Mral.tissuiblease on
C -ut.C sas piss,,res far$4011.f-'sms..water&
seat tacki. 1l inAtn St. Mail to
erdesv5stt Issis a~ocusin

4

I

Call us; (734) 764-0557 E-mail us: datlyclassilied etgmnail.com
Fan us: (734) 831-1054 Visit us: Mon-Fri, gain-Spin
Line Ad Deadlilne is 11:30am, ovabuoamevs day, erior to ealcatiort
Open Rates $0.30 per line (first issue;, $215 paet'itn(ns c5ut ni ssues)
Frequency & Bulk contracts are availble - :enntact!os t;m denii
Student Discount is 20% when 0-s mie pl icad in pem o 5wit; studIent ID'
All adv mast be yreyaid unless yrior billing privilig es rhase ibeensn tubloved
We accept Visa, HasterCard, American Expreass, , isronoc, --!9em c.nch
Contact usfrt o mominformation, is luding pl acingCl it oPtpadv
enn-omu nOitu~in 5i, oe-bus nes dv onlr

I
I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 24, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 24, 2010 - 7A

COMMITTEE
From Page 1A
sity Affairs Select committee will
solve problems in a multifaceted
way, by recognizing the various
identities of every student at the
University and working with dif-
ferent groups.
"The committee demands col-
laboration from all other issues
across the campus," he said. "It
includes the point of view of every
committee on campus."
Watson said there was tension
within the assembly during the
voting process. Those who voted
against the committee, according
to Watson, were worried that the
assembly would be spread too thin
among its various committees.

"They didn't want to expand the
bureaucracy of the Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly," he said.
As an MSA representative,
Watson said it is his job to stimu-
late advocacy on campus and to
help students who are fighting for
rights.
The Diversity Affairs Select
Committee, according to Wat-
son, serves the needs of students
more than other MSA committees
because the committee aims to
advocate for students.
"We are going to be the ones
going to the Division of Student
Affairs to make sure the proposed
changes will happen," Watson said.
"This committee is purely for solv-
ing a problem, not to entertain stu-
dents."
One of Watson's goals for the

committee is to change the pro-
cess for reporting biased incidents
within University residence halls.
Biased incidents include acts that
target a student's race, ethnicity,
religion, gender or sexual orienta-
tion. Watson said most students do
not know how to report biased inci-
dents, and if they decide to report
a crime, it is a convoluted process
with no definite procedure.
"There needs to be something in
writing that explains what the end
result will be and the steps to get-
ting there," Watson said.
Currently, students can report
biased incidents on campus by
going in person to various depart-
ments, including the Dean of Stu-
dents Office, Department of Public
Safety, Counseling and Psychologi-
cal Services, the Spectrum Center,

Multi-Ethnic Student Affairs, Ser-
vices for Students with Disabilities,
among other locations.
The Diversity Affairs Select
Committee plans to meet with
Royster Harper, vice president of
Student Affairs, to discuss chang-
es to the protocol used to address
incidents of discrimination in resi-
dence halls.
Unlike other universities, Wat-
son said the University does not
have concise language that spells
out how to deal with acts of dis-
crimination. He cited the Universi-
ty of California at San Diego, which
has clear regulations and conse-
quences regarding punishment for
perpetrators of biased crimes on its
campus.
Watson gave an example where
a noose was hung on a student's

door ina residence hall. He said the
perpetrators admitted to the crime
because of pressure from students
on the California campus.
"They came forward because
there was so much animosity, so
much energy on the campus, com-
pelling them to come forward and
apologize that they did it," Watson
said. "The culture is there because
of the policies in place."
Currently, the University of Cali-
fornia at San Diego has a written
statement that says a student may
be expelled for acting out in a bias
incident.
Watson said the newly-proposed
Students 4 Progressive Governance
student constitution will help to
bolster the committee's efforts.
The current constitution con-
tains wording that labels students

by race, gender and sexual orien-
tation when referring to acts of
discrimination and student rights.
The revised constitution will not
contain wording that specifies stu-
dents' identities.
"(The language) allows the con-
stitution to be breath and be flex-
ible in the future," Watson said.
Graduate student Elson Liu, a
former MSA Rackham represen-
tative who used to be a member of
the Diversity Affairs Select Com-
mittee, said he became involved in
the committee because issues of
diversity are relevant to students
on campus as well as all universi-
ties across the nation.
"I believe diversity is an asset
to a campus community," Liu said.
"Universities have a compelling
interest in diversity."


FOOTBALL
From Page 1A
sity and football program in prime-
time,"Farahwrote. "WhileIstrongly
feel that the tradition at Michigan is
vital to our program's image, I also
feel that we sometimes cling too
strongly to antiquated ideals in order
to preserve that tradition."
Farah added that the game could
draw attention to the University by
bringing in more fans and potential
new recruits.
"From a fan's standpoint, I think
it makes that game a 'big' game -
regardless of the opponent - and
raises the program's profile among
casual fans and, more importantly,
potentialrecruits," Farah wrote.
LSA freshman Britany Doughty
said she is looking forward to the
night game and the possibility of
future night games because it will
give her a chance to sleep in before
attending the game.
"of course I'm going to be there,"
Doughty said.
Other students said the atmo-
sphere surrounding the game will
be interesting to watch as the game
gets closer.
Engineering junior Demetri
Golematissaidheislookingforward
to experiencing a night game at the
Big House, adding that he thinks the
gamewill increase studentmorale.
"I think the game is going to be
a huge boost for the Michigan foot-
ball program," Golematis said. "It's
somethingwe've neededfor areally
longtime. Knowing Michigan fans,
there's going to be a lot of excite-
ment that day - the atmosphere is
going to be surreal."

LSA freshman Devitt Cooney
agreedthatthe game was going to be
a major event on campus.
"There's going to be a lot of
momentumbuildinguptothegame,"
Cooney said. "Night games are the
best - all big games are at night."
But Engineering freshman Sam
White said the excitement could lead
to increased security concerns on
the nightofthe game.
"I work at the games with DPS,"
White said. "It'll definitely be crazy
with everyone drinking all day. We'll
see how this night game goes."
Engineering senior Chris Ham-
mond said he was definitely going to
watch the game - which is sched-

uled to be broadcast on ESPN or
ESPN2 - on television and ques-
tioned how athletic officials will
light the field.
"It's going to take a lot to light
up the stadium," Hammond said,
as he mused about the engineering
issues involved in holding a night
game.
Hammond added that if the
Wolverines lose, the experience
could be worse than if the team
lost the typical daytime football
game.
"There's going to be alot of secu-
rity," he said. "There will probably
be a huge proportion of drunken
students. It could go very badly,

dependingonifwe winornot."
According to a March 19 article
in The Michigan Daily, Athletic
Director David Brandon said the
night game would be an "experi-
ment," and if it proves successful,
there may be more night games in
the future.
"This is the first time we've done
it," Brandon said. "Hopefully we'll
just get better and better at it. If all
goes well, we'd love to have at least
one game a year scheduled at nightat
Michigan Stadium. It would be a ter-
rific tradition to start."
University alum Tom Ringel,
from Miami, Fla., has been a sea-
son ticket holder for 41 years. He

wrote in an e-mail interview that
he thinks the game could usher ina
"new era in Michigan football" and
that the national broadcast of the
game will attract athletes to the
University.
"The additional exposure of
primetime football will be great
for recruiting," Ringel wrote. "The
excitement will be felt over the sta-
dium knowing that nationwide tele-
vision audiences will be watching
the Blue."
Ringel added that he hopes this
game will improve the team's repre-
sentation inthe Big Ten.
"It will be great to put some
excitement back in the program

to get Michigan football back to
the top of the Big Ten," Ringel
wrote.
Though there was a lotof enthusi-
asm among the students and alumni
who were discussing the future
game, many students mentioned that
the game was a little too distant for
them to really get excited.
"It seems a little far away for me
to care aboutrightnow," White said.
LSA freshman Brian Green said as
it gets closerto the date of the game,
the student body will express more
fervor.
"It's exciting - just the idea of
being under the lights - but it's too
far awaytobereallyexcited,"hesaid.

I

,.
y>:. -
e. ; ,
=
, ,
x
;:f, x
A
'.c Ji
s;,q :tiM;
'
": ' s.
a-.. . a ? 7 f1

GET INVOLVED
Sus.tainabiLity
Teach-In

LEARN from faculty experts
* GIVE VOICE to your concerns
TOPICS
Climate and Energy
Water and the Great Lakes
Food and Health
Sustainable Accessibility
umich .edU/eartday

9:30 am to noon
9 am - refreshments
Meihigan eagpe
911NotheUiersity
Ann Arbor
I A
i ''e LA

E

*Wickedisbs, LLC

Featured Job Listing #10407

Executive Coordinator of Leisure
Salary: $450,000/week + expenses
Responsibilities include leisure seeking,
world travelling and outrageous party throwing.
Must be able to enjoy the most expensive
accommodations, most exotic locales and
pampered service.
No restrictions apply. Schedule optional.

Face it. Fantasy jobs do not exist. But the job that's an
absolutely perfect fit for you does. Find it at MiPerfectJob.com.
perfect job.com




8A - Wednesday, March 24, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOOTBALL
'1' looks to improve,
tries 3-3-5 formation

ICE HOCKEY
'M' learns from last season's
first-round loss to Air Force

0

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily SportsEditor
Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez's name is often associated
with college football's evolving
spread offense. It's no secret his
offensive strategy was one of the
main reasons he was brought to
Ann Arbor.
And through the past two bowl-
less seasons, glimpses of offensive
development and a potentially
electric running game provided
some positive moments for the
Wolverines.
The defense, on the other hand,
provided some of the scariest and
gut-wrenching moments.
This spring, it's up to defensive
coordinator Greg Robinson and
his coaching staff to prevent those
defensive lapses and breakdowns
from happening again.
For the first time in four years,
the Wolverines' defensive coordi-
nator isn't coming in and starting
from scratch. And at the very least,
that means his players understand
Robinson and his coaching style.
"It's just more of a comfort level
of being able to trust him," senior
cornerback Troy Woolfolk said
Tuesday. "When he first came, I
didn't know too much about him.
I like his way of coaching, and I
believe in what he says."
Trusting the coaching staff's
guidance is important for a unit
that was the worst scoring defense
in the Big Ten last year. The 2009
defense gave up 33.2 points per
game, nearly two points more than
the second-worst defense in the
conference, Indiana's.
Woolfolk said he's noticed the
defensive coaching staff taking a
different approach this spring.
"The coaches are taking it really
step by step this year to kind of
change the problems we had last
year, the blown coverages, missed
assignments," Woolfolk said.
Another change this spring is
the increased use of a 3-3-5 forma-

Bemidji State brings
style of play similar
to last year's
NCAA opponent
By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
On March 27, 2009, the Michi-
gan hockey team took the ice in its
NCAA regional game against Air
Force, with coach Frank Serratore
standing behind the Falcons' bench.
A year after the first-round loss,
the Wolverines will take the ice in
their NCAA regional game against
a team also coached by Serratore.
Welcome to the Twilight Zone.
There are some obvious differ-
ences. This time, Serratore's first
name is Tom (Frank's brother), the
team is Bemidji State and Michigan
will don the road blues, since they
are the lower seed.
But the teams do have their
similarities. The Beavers have a top
line that contributes most of their
offense, just like Air Force's line led
by Jacques Lamoureux. They also
have an under-the-radar goalie, in
the form of Dan Bakala, similar to
the Falcons' Andrew Volkening.
"Bemidji has a line that has as
many goals as any of our lines and
Air Force did too," Michigancoach
Red Berenson said. "I think they're
similar. I think they've got more

experience. They've been in the
tournament more. They've beaten
some really good teams."
Last year's Wolverine team was
riding high headed into their tour-
nament, after winning 10 out of the
last 12 games and were riding an
unlikely goalie into the playoffs.
None of that mattered a year ago,
when Michigan launched every-
thing on net and dominated in
every way except the scoreboard,
getting shutout2-0. Despite being a
No.1 seed, the Wolverines returned
to Ann Arbor the same way they left
it, without any hardware.
"Some people say just to forget
about it, but I think that's a great
learning process," junior Louie
Caporusso said. "Number one,
don't underestimate our opponent,
even though I think we did outplay
them. Number two, we need a col-
lective effort from every single per-
son on the team.
"It's the NCAA Tournament,
everyone's got to show up. You
can't have a handful of guys and
say these are the guys that showed
up, these arerthe guys that didn't.
You're not goingto go far like that."
As Michigan's 2009-10 cam-
paign got started, the stink from
the Air Force game that ended last
season seemed to stay with it. It
didn't get any puck luck against the
Falcons despite outshooting them
43-13. Then-sophomore Matt Rust
hit the post. Former Wolverine for-
ward Brandon Naurato whiffed on

a wide open net. By the time the
buzzer sounded, Volkening had
shut out the nation's fifth-ranked
scoring offense.
Seven months later, the Wolver-
ines were looking at a 4-7 record to
start this season and the goals still
weren't going in. They had outshot
their opponents by more than 60
shots in the first 11 games but still
endured a five-game losing streak,
their longest in 21 years.
But luck has seemed to turn
around in the postseason. Both of
freshman Kevin Lynch's goals over
Miami (Ohio) on Friday resulted
from passes by junior Carl Hagelin
- that were intended for Rust.
"There are times when the puck
goes in for you, but most of the time
you have to pay a price to score,"
Berenson said. "On the flip side, the
puck doesn't always go in. This is
the time of year you want to make
your chances count but if they're
not going in, you better be play-
ing your absolute best without the
puck."
Saturday will mark 365 days
since Michigan lost to Air Force
and the loss still lingers over the
heads of the Wolverines. The only
way to remove it would be a win by
the same team that finished sev-
enth in the conference and barely
scraped its way into the NCAA
tournament.
Can Michigan really keep the
run going? In the Twilight Zone,
weirder things have happened.

CLIF REEDER/Daily
Michigan defensive coordinator Greg Robinson struggled last season, as Michigan
finished as the worst scoring defense in the lig Ten, allowing 33.2 points per game.

tion, a defense that typically show-
cases speed and puts pressure on
its secondary. Woolfolk, who said
he's never played in that kind of a
defense before, thinks it could be
one of the best defenses for the
type of athletes Michigan current-
ly has on its roster.
Offensive players are praising
the 3-3-5, too.
"I like it," senior offensive guard
Steve Schilling said. "There's a lot
of things they can do out of it. I
think it's good for us as an offen-
sive line to go against it every day
in practice. We see more of a 4-3
look in games a lot of times, and
you usually see the odd (set, like
3-3-5) in long-distance situations.
"To be able to go against that
and work our run game against
that defense, which we don't see
that often, is going to be good for
us when it comes time to game-
plan for those other teams."
Rodriguez feels that his
defense needs to be versatile
enough to challenge a variety
of offenses this fall, and he also
knows something must change

from last season.
"I think it was a combination of
things defensively that we didn't
play as well as we like (last year),"
Rodriguez said. "We certainly
didn't have the depth and didn't
have the experience that we want-
ed or needed to have, and it seemed
like we played good for two or
three plays in a row then gave up a
big one. Or played good for a quar-
ter, then let a team go up and down
the field on us."
Michigan fans remember those
mements, particularly opponents'
gains on third downs. But Rodri-
guez seems confident that the new
defensive formation, as well as a
new focus in practice, will help
right the defensive ship.
"I think the defensive staff has
a good plan," Rodriguez said. "I
think we've made a few moves, as
I mentioned, to try and help us and
frankly we just have to be better
technique-wise. I think we have
to play better fundamentally, play
more physical, and get more guys
to the football. And I think we'll do
that."

Your idea could help
score the Google
internet investment
Create a 30 - 90 second video that shares
what Ann Arbor can do with super high speed
internet that would benefit our community, our
region, or the world. It's about innovation and
imagining the possibilities.
for the most compelling videos are Apple ipads,
Conor O'Neill's, Mden, Zingerman's, Jolly Pumpkin &
Weber's Restaurant gift certificates, and much more.
Events Page
http://la2m.org/a2fiber
Entry Form
http://la2m.org/a2-fiber-contest-entry-f orm
Rules
http://la2m.org/a2-fiber-you-tube-contest-rules
Internet access 100 times faster
than your current cable/DSL
The University of Michigan and the City of Ann
Arbor have teamed up to convince Google to pick
Ann Arbor for Google's Fiber for Communities trial.

6
6

AREL BOND/Daily
After starting the season slow, junior center Louie Caporusso has been a star for the Wolverines lately. He scored both of
Michigan's goals in its CCHA Championship win over Northern Michigan and was named to the All-CCHA Tournament team.
Wolverinefans should take
their allegiance to Fort Wayne

Don't take anything for
granted.
That's sound advice
to live by. The Michigan hockey
team sure learned it this season
when it went
from a pre- TIM
season top-five ROHAN
team to being
on the brink On Ice Hockey
of missing the
NCAA Tourna-
ment for the first time in 20 years.
Junior forward Louie Caporus-
so said that in his first two years
he just expected to make the tour-
nament, but not this time around.
The Wolverines had to work for it,
obviously, by winning the CCHA
Tournament.
The marathon Michigan
sprinted to make the tournament
was lined with maize and blue
supporters passing out paper cups
of water alongthe way. The Wol-
verine faithful have been fantastic
throughout the team's improbable
run.
Don't stop now. Get to Fort
Wayne, Ind. this Saturday no mat-
ter what it takes.
I know it's expensive, espe-
cially for poor college students, to
travel more than two hours and
stay overnight in Indiana to sup-
port the Michigan hockey team.
But it will be worth it, I promise.
The waves of fans who lined
the rafters of Joe Louis Arena last
weekend know what it was like
to sing "The Victors" and watch
junior goaltender Shawn Hunwick
get mobbed by his ecstatic team-
mates. The group of optimistic

fans who traveled to Munn Ice
Arena in the CCHA quarterfinals
against Michigan State - turn-
ing the venue into a virtual have
atmosphere for Michigan - were
rewarded with a sweep over the
Wolverines' rival.
It's a two-way street: the fans
see great hockey and the players
feed off of the fans.
Michigan coach Red Berenson
was sincere when he told all of Joe
Louis Arena and reporters alike
that the Wolverines wouldn't have
gotten as far as they have without
their fans.
Don't get me wrong, the play on
the ice has improved from what
fans have seen in Yost Ice Arena
for most of the season. But the
fans are factoring into Michigan's
run, and this weekend is do or die
once again for the Wolverines.
You maybe asking yourself,
who the hell is Bemidji State? But
the Beavers shocked the hockey
world last postseason, defeating
Notre Dame and Cornell on their
way to the Frozen Four. This isn't
going to be a walk in the park. You
should take the line that Berenson
and his players have taken since
the matchup was announced on
Sunday - they're not looking past
Bemidji. They're not taking any-
thing, or anyone, for granted.
Seniors, with the state of the
remaining Michigan sports, this
might be the last time that you
can see an actual NCAA tourna-
ment game featuring the Wol-
verines. And for the rest of the
student body, this could be history
in the making. If the Michigan

hockey team hasn't taught you
enough in the past three weeks,
then listen to me. This team is
in the middle of accomplishing
something special - but it needs
your support.
You've been there all along.
Don't let anything get in the way
of possibly witnessing this year's
saving grace for Michigan sports.
And if you're one of those people
saying, "Well I'll just wait until
they get to Ford Field," guess
what, you probably haven't been
paying attention to me or the Wol-
verines.
Nothing is guaranteed. There
is only one game that is absolutely
going to happen and that's the one
Michigan is playing this Saturday
night.
Every Wolverine knows the
impact of the fans on the game
and throughout the run. They've
all had nothing but positive things
to say about the support.
"We have the best fans in the
world," Caporusso said. "I love
Michigan fans, they get me up
for every game. Without them, I
don't think I'd be the player, or I
don't think that we'd be the team
that we can be. I can't thank them
enough. It would mean so much
for us to have them in Fort Wayne
with us. I feel like, even when
they chant my name sometimes,
even when I'm not playing my
best, itstill shows their support in
me, and the team - and I just love
them."
How could you not go to Fort
Wayne after Louie said that? Are
you buying your tickets yet?


0

0

"(The competition) was to prove to
(the University) that you don't have to
be a business student, and you don't
have to be an engineer," she said. "All
you have to do is have an idea."
Leland continued on to become
MPowered's external project man-
ager, and was later elected president
at the end of her sophomore year.
As president, she spends about 20
hours a week with MPowered which
includes holding meetings with
members and representatives from
other student organizations, as well
as other University and Ann Arbor
members and ventures. Leland meets
regularly with the University's Cen-
ter for Entrepreneurship, which she
said started around the same time as
MPowered and strives to reach simi-
lar goals through academics.
Leland said that as president she
doesn't have the chance to focus on
any single project as much. Rather,
she ensures that all projects are car-
ried out smoothly.
"A lot of my job is reminding the
team that what they're doing is so
important and so valuable and that
they're really having a huge impact
on the future of the University,"
Leland said. "It definitely, at times,
can become overwhelming for peo-
ple, and it's important for me to make
them realize that their time is not
being wasted and they're part of a
really exciting business."
MPowered hosts opportunities
like a career fair, MPowered Con-
nect and Entreprelliance. It also par-

Junior Lauren Leland joined
MPowered when there were
only about 18 members. Now
she is president of the 60-member
organization, which strives to inspire
innovation and entrepreneurship at
the University.
MPowered was started in 2007 by
two students who wanted to bring
innovative spirit to the University.
Leland said they were inspired by the
pioneering culture in the San Fran-
cisco Bay area, where someone with
an idea could find funding simply by
running into a venture capitalist in a
coffee shop.
"There's no reason Michigan
couldn't be the exact same," Leland

said. those problems."
Now, Leland carries on the tra- Leland got her start in MPowered
dition by helping the organization by working on the Green Campus
expose students to entrepreneurship Competition, which partnered with
and by supporting student ventures LSA's theme semester last fall, and
on campus. she later became a project manager
Leland, a Business junior, became for 1,000 Pitches - a contest that asks
involved with MPowered in May students to pitch business or product
2008 to pursue her interest in social ideas in a YouTube-style video.
entrepreneurship. "We really reached out to stu-
"Social entrepreneurship is using dents who might not have ordinar-
an entrepreneurial way of thinking ily thought about entrepreneurship,"
to solve social problems," Leland Leland said. "It really targeted a lot
said. "So tackling things like pov- of diverse groups on campus. The
erty, homelessness and hunger, and health category targeted pre-med
solving them not just by charities students, and the social entrepre-
and non-profits but by actually inno- neurship category targeted a lot of
vating and thinking of ways to solve the liberal arts majors."

ticipates in competitions like 1,000
Pitches, the Alternative Energy Com-
petition and the Michigan Toy Story
Competition.
"We really are changing the cul-
ture," Leland said. "To me, entrepre-
neurship allows everyone to reach
their highest potential."
Leland said MPowered strives
to demonstrate that entrepreneur-
ship affects everyone. She added
that innovative thinking is the key to
approaching problems and to making
"the biggest change and the biggest
difference."
"We think there's value for every
student in MPowered," Leland said.
"And while there are those that are
actually living and breathing student
ventures ... there's this whole other
group out there that we want to be
able to influence by showing them
that no matter what they get into,
participating in this entrepreneurial
thinking is going to help them be bet-
ter at it."
Even before joining MPowered,
Leland started the Homeless Aware-
ness to Action organization with
students in her English 125 class.
Originally an English project, the
organization reached beyond the
actual class, working with residence
halls to donate food to shelters, col-
lecting cans from fraternity parties
and working with churches to bring
dinner to the homeless.
"The premise behind it was, before
I even realized it, a social entre-
preneurial venture because it was
thinking of innovative ways to use
the resources we have to help fight
homelessness on campus," Leland
said.
Leland said she hopes to combine
her passion for entrepreneurship and
her business training in the future to
continue this drive for social change.
"I want to make a positive social
impact and, to me, business is the
most powerful sector that I can do
that in," Leland said. "Corpora-
tions have a lot of control and a lot
of power, and to work within the
business sector to try and make
businesses realize it's their respon-
sibility to really initiate social
change is a really exciting thing."
- LILLIAN XIAO
CALDWELL
From Page 3B
It's tough timing though.
Caldwell's integrated project for the
Art school - a sequential diorama
exhibit - must be finished by mid-
April.
But if anyone can balance the
hectic schedule and demanding life-
style, it's the gymnast who created
his own classification: the artist-
student-athlete.
- NICOLE AUERBACH

Students of the Year

SYMPOSIUM ON THE TANNER LECTURE
SATURDAY, MARCH 27TH I 9:00 A.M._- 1:30 P.M.
MICHIGAN UNION, PENDLETON ROOM
Lunch to Follow


U U U V V V V V V



-W

-07

_W

_W

T

_W

-IV

-W

0 Th Satmet / eneda, arh 4 200

statement
Magazine Editor:
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief:
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor
Allie White
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor-
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
Cover Illustration:
Allie Ghaman
Sarah Squire
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

STUDENTSOFTHEYEAR
editors' note
T our readers,
This week, The Statement brings you its annual Students of the Year issue. Like the other special issues before this, we've scrapped our usual content
- Junk Drawer, About Campus and Personal Statement - and have dedicated the entire magazine to one theme.
For this issue, we had the especially challenging task of picking just ten "Students of the Year" out of the 26,208 undergraduates at the University - sort of a
best of the Leaders and Best, if you will.
Though the students on our list are certainly unique - we have a pair of Olympic silver medal winners, the president and founder of a national veterans orga-
nization and a political activist vying for a spot on the Washtenaw County Board of Commissioners - one thing remains constant between them all: the desire
to change the world around them.
"There's something in the eyes of our generation," one of our students said. "I feel like we're on the cusp of a better future."
Change the world? Maybe. Make a difference? Definitely.
Enjoy,
Trevor Calero and Allie White, Magazine Editor and Deputy Magazine Editor

Afghanistan with his friends.
"I'm sitting there thinking about
(how) I'm wasting my time and wast-
ing my life sitting in this classroom
when there's something far more
important for me to be doing," Blumke
said.
Because he had trouble integrat-
ing into campus life, Blumke thought
other veterans could possibly be hav-
ing the same problems. So, in the
spring of 2007, he started the Student
Veterans of Michigan and was funda-
mental in founding the Student Vet-
erans of America in January 2008, of
which he is the first president.
As president, Blumke works on the
national level to advocate for veterans'
issues.
In the first six months of his presi-
dency, Blumke said he went to Wash-
ington seven times in support of the
passage of the Post- 9/11 GI Bill.
The bill, which became law in 2008
and went into effect last August, pays
for veterans' tuition at public colleges
and universities and gives them a sti-
pend for books and housing. Blumke
said the new GI Bill is helping veter-
ans continue their education.

,March-24, T m 7B
"(Before), if you wanted to go to
school and you had a wife and kid, or
a husband and family, it wasn't really
an option," Blumke said. "You had to
work and support your family. Now,
with this new GI Bill, you can go to
school and you can have a family and
you can move on with your educa-
tion." *
On a local level, with over 200
chapters nationwide, Blumke said the
SVA is dedicated to easing the transi-
tion to college life for returning veter-
ans so they won't have to struggle like
he, and countless other veterans, did.
Blumke added that in the two years
since SVA was formed, veteran servic-
es on college campuses have improved
drastically. He said it's critical that
veterans help one another adjust
because they have shared experiences
that a majority of the population can't
relate to.
"Today, a lot of the college campus-
es are better suited for returning vets,
and I also think that veterans on cam-
puses across the country are doing
a better job of helping each other,"
Blumke said. "I think that's probably
the most important piece of that puz-
zle because we're doing a better job
taking care of each other."
Though he is graduating in August,
Blumke said the SVA will continue to
advocate and assist student veterans so
they will be able to stand out for their
achievements, not their differences.
- JOSEPH LICHTERMAN


Dedicated and Energetic Individuals
to be Advertising Account Executives
for next fall!
lIEWARD
Real world advertising and sales experience!
Please send resumes or questions to
dailydisplay@gmail.com
to the attention of Stephanie. Bowker.

FAN THE DAILY ON
FACEBOOK

Derek Blumke has always stood
out from his peers.
Last week, when it seemed
like all of Ann Arbor was either study-
ing for midterms or celebrating St. Pat-
rick's Day, Blumke was in Washington,
D.C. As the president of Student Veter-
ans of America - a national organiza-
tion dedicated to assisting veterans on
college campuses - Blumke was par-
ticipating in roundtable discussions
regarding the implications of repeal-
CAROLE
From Page 5B
that he was inspired after observing
disadvantaged peers achieve academi-
cally despite their difficult circum-
stances.
"Seeing all these people who have
these disadvantages but that are ten
times smarter than me and work a
lot harder than me, it kind of made
me really want to be involved or to do
something about it," Carole said.
Carole said that, in terms of the engi-
neering job market, being a minority is
actually an advantage but many African
Americans lack the confidence to excel
MICHELON
From Page 5B
director where I'm dealing with very
technical things, like making sure
the lighting works," he said. "The
challenge of producing in general is
that you're bringing together person-
alities. My job is essentially making
sure that the choreographer is get-
ting along with the directors."
Michelon cites this as one of the
most difficult things to assess about
his job.
"As a senior, I'm now trying to

ing the military's Don't Ask, Don't Tell
policy at the Pentagon, and veterans'
benefits on Capitol Hill.
Similarly, in the fall of 1999, when
most of his peers were enrolling in
college, Blumke joined the Air Force
where he served for six years, includ-
ing three tours of duty in Afghanistan.
In 2007, at age 26, when people
his age were starting their profes-
sional lives, Blumke enrolled as an
undergraduate at the University after
academically and struggle when com-
peting with peers in the classroom.
"It's definitely not that they're less
smart, and it's definitely not that they
don't work hard," Pascal said. "It's that
they approach their education in a very
different way. They have a lot to prove
and they have alot to fight for."
Through NSBE, Carole has worked
to foster confidence among its members
by building a community and "having
those individuals uplift each other and
really show each other that they can
succeed."
Besides establishing faith within the
group, a big focus for Carole is giving
back to the community by mentoring
Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti area schools
evaluate the impact I've left on my
organization after I leave. Because
it's so relationship based, it's hard
to tell how long this thing lasts," he
said.
"I can tell myself that I worked
really hard to give MUSKET a good
name on campus in this way, but good
producers, they're not too progres-
sive - you keep things running and
keep things working well," he added.
"It's a day in, day out kind of job. Any
real advancement in the group and
any strides won't be noticed by the
public because it's all internal."
More recently, Michelon has been

spending two years at community col-
lege.
When he first came to campus,
Blumke said he felt isolated from his
fellow classmates - most of whom
were much younger than he was
- and struggled with depression.
Blumke said he would be in class and
hear the people sitting next to him
talking about their weekend plans or
the latest gossip, and all he would be
able to think about was being back in

Today's Career Tip:
Meet with professionals today to create your
personal development plan. 9-Noon at the Alumni Center
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
umalumni.com/r21

and encouraging future black engineers
in the community. Carole said he would ; WASHINGTON
also like to see the group play a larger ; From Page 3B
role in uniting students on campus and "
in helping to instilla more positive atti- . "The organization
tude among minority engineers. ; organization of nine
Ultimately, Carole said he hopes tions, so we try to n
someday people will look beyond the * ships between the ot
concepts of minorities and race issues, " Next year, Washi
and race-based organizations like his Teach For America
will no longer need to exist. * ber in Memphis and
"I guess that's a really, really long- * middle school Engli
term goal," Carole said. "But the hope " became interestedi
is that the inequalities that exist will go . school when she pa
away at some point and the community ; internship that allos
can form by itself and it won't necessar- * with incarcerated
ily be just there to support people." understand the sub
- BETHANYBIRON . on their children
,,cases, the neglect th
00because of the deta
looking to expand his management ; parent.
capacities, taking on the job of pro- . "I was just very s
ducing the Go Blue, Beat OSU rally , the kids could be;
back in November. ; their mothers and th
"I've had more fun at Go Blue ; dren are put in when
than in my entire life," Michelon .0,,,,,,,,,
said. "Once again, producing is from ,
conception to execution. Back in the VW HAT'S T
summer, I was just sketching on nap- *
kins what the rally would look like : MUST I
and how we're going to organically
bring X amount of students to the: Tel us for The
Diag. That night, I was able to look *
out and see that crowd of people. You
don't get that as much in theater."
- JENNIFER XU : CAL

n is an umbrella
other organiza-
nanage relation-
her nine."
.ington will join
as a core mem-
d hopes to teach
sh. Washington
in TFA in high
rticipated in an
wed her to work
mothers and
bsequent effects
and, in some
hey experienced
achment from a
tuck about how
separated from
e positions chil-
they don't have

people in their home telling them
they need to go to school, they need
to do these things," Washington
said. "I just thought it was incredibly
unfair that kids aren't in the same
schools as I am just because there
wasn't someone there to tell them
that college was the way to go."
Washington said she has always
liked working with children, and
through her experiences in teach-
ing dance to underprivileged chil-
dren in Atlanta, as well as attending
a performing arts high school, she
believes that art can level the play-
ing field.
"I'm really passionate about the
arts and I feel like the arts are a very
equalizing sort of thing," Washing-
ton said. "The arts can speak to any-
one no matter what your education
level is. You can express yourself
through art in ways that you can't
necessarily do through an essay."
- ANNIE THOMAS

IE ONE THING EVERY STUDENT
DO BEFORE GRADUATION?
Statement's first-ever Bucket List Issue.
SEND AN E-MAIL TO
ERO@MICHIGANDAILY.COM


0

0

0

SA senior Yousef Rabhi got an
early start on political activism
when, at age three, he helped
clean up Mallets Creek in Ann Arbor to
raise awareness about urban pollution.
The involvement hasn't stopped
since.
Perhaps it's no surprise then that
Rabhi is currently immersed in the
most significant campaign of his politi-
cal career: his own.
In a group whose members range in
age from late 30s to early 60s, 21-year-
old Rabhi is the youngest candidate
vying for a spot on the Washtenaw
County Board of Commissioners.
Rabhi, who is running as a Demo-
crat, said that years of political activ-
ism have made him not just a qualified
candidate, but a formidable one as well.
His political career is marked by
several key turning points.
First, Rabhi arrived on the Univer-
sity's campus a wide-eyed idealist with
visions of radical social change.
"When I first came to campus I was
full of inspiration," he said. "I was.
ready to change the world."
However, Rabhi said his experi-
ences taught him to set more realistic
goals, saying "The University (showed
me) the challenges one faces as an
activist."
From his early involvement in
University groups like Michigan
Peaceworks and SOLE - Students
Organizing for Labor and Economic
Equality - Rabhi said he learned first
hand that social change is a gradual
process.
"The important thing is to never get
discouraged," he said. "Every step is a
FIGURE SKATERS
From Page 5B
on the Wolverines at the Big House
with his dad every football Saturday.
"I was pretty much a Michigan
maniac my whole life, and it was
always a dream of mine to be able to
come here," White said.
Davis said she was set on attending a
smaller school but knew if she wanted
to keep skating with White, she would
have to don the maize and blue.
"I decided I'd give Michigan a try,
and I'm so glad I did," Davis said. "It
was the best decision in the world."
After returning from Vancouver,
the Olympians didn't have much time
to celebrate their win in Ann Arbor.
White said it was "back to the grind" as
they continued training for the World
Championships in Italy, where the two

step in the right direction."
As a freshman, he and 11 other
members of SOLE were arrested after
holding a sit-in in President Mary Sue
Coleman's office demanding the Uni-
versity tighten its code of conduct for
apparel suppliers.
According to Rabbi, the arrest was a
critical juncture in his life.
"Getting arrested - it wasn't really
a wake-up call, but afterward I real-
ized there were other ways to affect
change," Rabhi told the Daily in Janu-
ary. "Politics is one of them."
Rabhi subsequently joined the board
of the Ann Arbor Democratic Party
and eventually became its vice chair
for campus relations. He also founded
and led a student group endorsing
Dennis Kucinich in the months leading
up to the 2008 presidential election.
Last August, Rabhi got a taste of
local campaigning when he worked on
current Ann Arbor City Councilmem-
ber Steve Kunselman's (D - Ward 3)
election bid.
The work mainly involved student
outreach, Rabhi said.
When the primary election arrived,
Rabhi said he went to student neigh-
borhoods and encouraged them to
vote, in some cases walking people to
the polling station himself.
Kunselman ended up winning the
primary election by six votes, according
to an Aug. 4 article in the Daily.
In the article, Councilmember Kun-
selman said Rabhi's work directly con-
tributed to his victory.
"I feel pretty confident in sayingthat
it was the student vote that tipped the
scale," Kunselman said. "And Yousef
gave me a presence in those (student)
neighborhoods that I had not had in
previous races."
Rabhi's prior political activism con-
vinced him that not only was he inter-
ested in the commissioner position, but
he was qualified for it as well.
"I'm only 21-years old and I have all
this experience already," Rabhi said. "I
have proven my ability to serve in the
.........................
compete this week.
Though Davis and White spend
most of their time training off campus,
both said the University community
has recognized them for their achieve-
ments at the Winter Games.
White cited one instance at Zinger-
man's Deli when a group of Univer-
sity students congratulated him, while
Davis said she went to Good Time
Charley's for a friend's birthday and
people wouldn'tcstop buying her drinks.
In addition to student recognition,
the University Board of Regents hon-
ored the ice dancers with a framed
commendation at their monthly meet-
ing last week. During the meeting,
President Mary Sue Coleman called for
a recess to allow time for the regents to
greet and take pictures with the ath-
letes - and their medals.
Due to various public appearances,
White and Davis said they have not yet

community."
The Board of Commissioners is
charged with assigning state funding to
cities and townships, as well as setting
budgets countywide. Rabhi said he's
running both to help defend key ser-
vices the county provides, like health
care for the working poor and homeless
shelters, and "to make sure the commu-
nity's voice is heard."
Rabhi, who's running in the student-
heavy 11th district, faces competition
from two other Democrats, LuAnne
Bullington and Michael Freed, accord-
ing to Jennifer Beauchamp, a Washt-
enaw County Deputy Clerk.
Nevertheless, Rabhi is confident that
he can win, especially with community
support.
To that end, he has already garnered
public support from several influential
local residents, including Ann Arbor
City Councilmember Mike Anglin (D -
Ward 5).
In an interview with the Daily, Ang-
lin said he considers Rabhi clearly ready
for the Commissioner position.
"I think he's quite qualified," Anglin
said. "And not only does he know grass-
roots (campaigns), he's participated in
them."
Rabhi's current campaign work
includes getting donations, designing a
website and finalizing a campaign logo,
all as he prepares for the Aug. 3 primary.
Though he has confronted the reali-
ties of local political activism, Rabhi
said he has not lost the sense of hope
and optimism that led him to political
activism in the firstplace.
"There's something in the eyes of
our generation," Rabhi said. "I feel like
we're on the cusp of a better future."
- DYLAN CINTI
WHO: YOUSE 1ABH
WHAT: CACNDI)DAT T.
WHY: P.. , T /'. 11AC 1 V V:

Sacrifice. It's a word that's cer-
tainly familiar to Michigan
gymnast Kent Caldwell these
days. But the way he uses the word, it
doesn't seem like such a bad thing.
As a result of his decision to
double major in Cognitive Science
and Behavior as well as Fine Art,
Caldwell is a fifth-year senior in
both LSA and the School of Art and
Design - he also happens to be the
epitome of a student-athlete at the
University.
He's known from the start of his
academic career that it would take
five years to accomplish his goals,
and as a result, he's taken advantage
of the spectrum of academic and
artistic offerings on campus in addi-
tion to stepping up to the challenges
of a varsity schedule.
Fortunately, the plan worked out
well for Caldwell this year when he
was able to use his final year of eli-
gibility and compete for the Wolver-
ines once more. (Caldwell missed last
season with a fractured fibula.)
If taking 16 to 17 credits a semester
on top of daily workouts at the Coli-
seum - not to mention extracurricu-
lar activities - means less down time
or sleep, those are sacrifices Caldwell
said he is more than happy to make.
"I feel like gymnastics keeps me

on my academic game; they help football and basketball. And while
each other," Caldwell said. "I'm able most students have spent much of the
to come into the gym and not think winter bemoaningsub-par seasons in
about school for a while, and it gives those same major sports, the Michi-
me a break. When I'm at school, I gan men's gymnastics squad has qui-
get a break from the gym. I can keep etly inched itself closer and closer to
those two parts of my life sort of dis- the top of its sport, even earning a
tilled. Because of that, it strengthens No. 1 ranking for a two-week period
both components." last month.
Caldwell has been selected as both The rankings are calculated on
a College Gymnastics Association a purely mathematical basis, but
Academic All-American and Aca- Caldwell said there was something
demic All-Big Ten three times, and special about knowing his team was
his outstanding academic perfor- considered the nation's best, even if
mance earned him a nomination for the ranking was fleeting.
a Marshall Scholarship - awarded to "It's cool to be able to tell other stu-
graduates from U.S. colleges or uni- dents, 'Hey, we're ranked No. 1 right
versities with a minimum GPA of 3.7 now,' " he said. "But at the end of the
for a chance to study in the United day, we're really looking at each per-
Kingdom. formance throughout the season, and
On a team loaded with upperclass- (asking) 'are we improving?'"
men, the redshirt senior fits right Last year's men's gymnastics team
in with teammates he's competed was co-Big Ten Champion - along
alongside for years. "Chemistry" is with the University of Illinois - and
a word often overused in sports, but finished second in the NCAA Tour-
for this year's squad, it's the perfect nament.
term to sum up how well a team with Caldwell said the ranking created
just two freshmen and two true soph- "some pressure and expectations"
omores can work together. The team for this season, especially given the
dynamic is nothing new. veteran-laden roster. As the team
"We all understand each other looks toward the postseason that
really well," Caldwell said. "We have begins in two weeks, the Wolverines
such good gymnasts. It's so cool to know they can rely on their veterans,
be a part of that, and to be training including Caldwell on both floor and
alongside these guys who are incred- vault, to anchor their squad.
ible at what they do." See CALDWELL, Page 8B
Most students
on campus don't
follow the men's WH'O: K E .N T CA LDWXTL L,
gymnastics team -
or at least not with WHAT: MEN'S GYMNAS TICS
the intensity they ..'.'..'''.
reserve for the rev- WHY: 5CHO1L0 A R ATjHl ET
enue sports like

chosen where they plan to display their
medals.
At the time of the interview last
week, White said he usually carries
it for "safekeeping," but believes he'll
showcase it in the library at his house
in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. - where he
keeps all his medals. Davis said her
medal was on her kitchen counter but
that she wants to frame it and display
it on a wall.
"Something besides tucking it
away," she said. "You know we don't
want to hide it. It's something we
should be proud of."
When asked about their future
goals, Davis said they're not done skat-
ing, and the 2014 Winter Olympics
Games are "definitely a possibility."
"Going for gold again would be an
amazing experience, and we haven't
ruled that out," White said.
-STEPHANIE STEINBERG

. PANDEY
From Page 4B
and hospital administrators, Pandey
* noticed a lack of communication.
" "The villagers didn'thave enough
: knowledge about health care. They
didn't realize the doctors there
. were legitimate doctors who could
. help them get better," Pandey said.
* Now, thousands of miles from the
humid hospitals in Honduras or the
* suburbs of India, Pandey has not
. forgotten her experiences. She said
: her time abroad didn't "quench her
t thirst" to enact change.
. "My long-term career goal is
. starting my own non-profit where I
* can work to deliver. low cost medi-
cine and medical equipment to plac-
. es around the world," she said.
: -MICHELE NAROV

WANT TO
JOIN
MICHIGAN
DAILY NEWS?
E-mail
berman@
michigandaily.
corn

H ailing from Atlanta, Ga., She has held a number of posi-
Lauren Washington chose tions with various University orga-
to come to the University nizations, including serving on the
because she wanted a big school that executive board of her multicultural
had a strong athletic tradition and council, holding leadership positions
also provided her a with wealth of in her sorority - Delta Sigma Theta
opportunities - the fact that her Sorority Inc. - and serving as an
entire family are University alums LSA representative in MSA. She also
may have played a part in her decision served as co-chair of the minority
as well. affairs commission on MSA - a posi-
Through her four years on campus, tion Washington said was very impor-
Washington seems to have made her tant to her.
desire a reality. "I kind of just dabble "I did a few things on MSA," she
in anything, wherever work needs said. "My favorite was co-chair of
to get done," said Washington, the the Minority Affairs Commission,
current president of the University's just because there are a lot of issues
chapter of the National Pan-Hellenic there that are very close and dear to
Council - an organization of nine my heart"
historically African-American frater- In her current role as president of
nities and sororities, according to the the University's National Pan-Hel-
NPHC website. lenic Council, Washington serves as
This hard work ethic has followed spokesperson for the group and helps
Washington since freshman year plan all the events the organization
when her involvement be an. sponsors like the annual Step show,
as well as monthly community ser-
WHO: LA U R EN WA SH NG TON vice events and programs. Last year,
................................................................... Washington served as secretary for
WHAT- NA TL. PA N HBE I LE NIC C OUNCI L NPHC.
[WHA. AT L.PANHELL NIC , .TC L "It's a lot of work that goes into
S ..........i "........ "......i ................... .... ...-.....i..... I' lto"o k th tg e t
WHY: E UCATI ION E(UALI ITY (being president)," Washington said.
..........................i.......................................,...*See WASHINGTON, Page 7B




9W

qw

ot many students can say
they've won an Olympic medal
before graduating college. But
University students and ice dancers
Charlie White and Meryl Davis can.
After skating together since the age
of five, Davis and White competed in
the 2010 Olympic Winter games in Van-
couver where they won the silver medal
in the ice dancing competition.
Though they almost returned to
campus with the gold - they scored
5.83 points less than the champions,
Canadians Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir
- the two said they are thrilled with
their performance.
"We put in so much time and effort
over the 13 years we've been together,"
White said. "To be able to skate so well*
at the Olympics and come away with a
silver medal was very satisfying."
But the road to Vancouver was not an
easy one.
Besides their daily five hours- of
training, the two have had to balance
homework, tests and papers while still
finding time for their social lives. Davis
admitted it's challenging trying to have
a normal college experience as a stu-
dent and world-class athlete.
"We've made sacrifices in terms of

not going to a birthday party on a Fri-$
day night or not being able to take all
the classes you want to or not being able
to graduate on time," she said. "But in
comparison to most other athletes at
the Olympic level, we've been very for-
tunate."
Davis added that she and White are
part of a small group of Olympic figure
skaters who have been able to attend
school throughout their career.
"We've been making sacrifices, but
nothing is really deterring us from
our goal," Davis said. "We've always,
through our career, had that mindset
that we knew we didn't want to regret5
anything later on in life."
Despite time constraints, both WhiteE
and Davis participate in extra curricu-
lar activities outside of ice dancing.
In high school, White played hockey
and the violin, and Davis is currently a
member of the Delta Delta Delta soror-
ity at the University.
"We were able to do a lot of things
that so many figure skaters and Olym-
pic athletes really just eliminate in ans
effort to make sure they're getting the{
most out of themselves and their sport,"
White said. "But really, it's such a bene-
fit to you as a person and probably helps
you in your sport as well to be able to do
different things and have different life
experiences."
While many professional skaters
decide not to attend college to focus
solely on their athletic careers, White;
said he always knew he would attend
the University. As a boy, he would cheer
See FIGURE SKATERS, Page 6B

Engineering senior Pascal Carole
never thought he would one day be
President of the University's chapter
of the National Society of Black Engineers.
But after partaking in a summer engi-
neering program at the University before
his freshman year, Carole discovered many
of his friends were joining NSBE and decid-
ed to jump on the bandwagon. The decision
not only helped him academically, but it
allowed Carole - who grew up in Toron-
to, but was originally from the Caribbean
island of Maratinique - to connect with his
culture in a way he had never before expe-
rienced while living outside of the United
States.
"I never really fully identified with Afri-
can Americans," Carole said. "But being
part of NSBE and getting to know a lot of
those people kind of gave me a sense of the
adversity that exists for a lot of black engi-
neers. I really started to take hold of that
mission and see that it's something that
can be worked on and something you can
believe in."
Carole attributes his rise in the organi-
zation to his dedication and commitment
to the society's mission - "excel academi-
cally, succeed professionally and positively
impact the community" - as well as the fact
See CAROLE, Page 7B

WHO: MERYL DAV S & CHARL IE WHITE
WHAT: OLYMPIC ICE DANCING
WHY: SILVER MEI)AL

WHO: PA SCA L CA RL E
WHAT: NATL. SOCIETY OF BLACK ENGINEERS
WHY: EMPLOYMENT EQ.UAL TY

eha Pandey is not eas-
ily confined. While many
engineering students focus
only on science and math courses, she
makes it a point to take classes like
"The History of the Partition of India"
or "Science, Technology, and Public
Policy." And, when others might have
been satisfied with local community
outreach, Pandey took her efforts to
other parts of the world.
Pandey is president of the Society
of Women Engineers, an organization
that works to create a support system
for women in the engineering field and
encourage constant community out-
reach.
SWE holdsnumerous events, includ-
ing engineering workshops in local
schools, shadow programs for prospec-
tive engineering students, summer
programs for high school students and
fundraising for science and engineer-
ing organizations.
Pandey said her proudest accom-
plishment as SWE president has been
overseeing the campaign to hold the
regional Society of Women Engineers
conference at the University.
"We've been trying to host a confer-
ence since 2008," she said. "Finally,
this year in January, they voted for us
and now the conference will be held in
February 2011 on North Campus."
Nearly 700 female engineers from
the Midwest will come to the Univer-
sity to participate in the conference.
But Pandey - who is fluent in both
Spanish and Hindi - quickly realized

she wanted to take her efforts beyond
Ann Arbor. Months into her sopho-
more year, she applied to the Engineer-
ing World Health program at the Duke
Global Health Institute. That summer,
Pandey traveled to Honduras to train
hospital technicians to use laboratory
equipment.
Pandeysaidthe mostenjoyableparts
of her trip were those outside her job
description - working with other vol-
unteers to better the community. F
"We made posters about health care
and did skits in the waiting room," she
said. "And in our free time, we decided
to hold English classes (for locals)."
In 2009, Pandey applied for another
international opportunity - the sum-
mer in South Asia Undergraduate'
Fellowship program through the Uni-
versity. Months later, she was living in
a hostel with six other girls and mini-
mal running water.
They worked for Seva Mandir, a
non-profit organization, analyzing the
infrastructure of a hospital in rural
India and recommending improve-
ments. After interviewing villagers
See PANDEY, Page 6B.
WHO: ME H PANDEY
WHAT: SOCIETY OF WOM E NENGIN EERS
.......................................................................
W HY: HE:UMA N TA RTIA.N AID
........................................................................

M ost student productions at
the University have a faculty
member on board to deal with
financial difficulties or internal dis-
agreements. But MUSKET, an on-cam-
pus student musical theater company
founded in 1908, is managed exclusively
by students. The company produces
two shows every academic year while
exercising complete fiscal and creative
autonomy, allowing directors to follow
their visions all the way through with-
out interference.
But there's always the one person at
the top; the one who runs the show. The
one who takes care of all the invisible
human relationships and drama that
surface during production, the stuff you
hear about but never see beneath the
perfectly sustained smiles during cur-
tain calls. The one responsible for every
aspect of production - from conception
to execution, from choosing the shows
to hiring the directors, to settling con-
flicts and marketing the final product.
And for MUSKET, Mike Michelon is
the one.
Alongside a co-producer, Michelon
works behind the scenes to sustain the
WHO: MIK EM IC ELON
WHAT: MUSKET
WHY: PRODUCE R

most important life blood of MUSKET
- the reputation and branding of the
company.
Heading a company of 50 to 60
motivated students every season, the
producing team is responsible for the
internal organization of MUSKET -
hiring people, overseeing all the depart-
ments, facilitating human relationships
and eventually marketing the show.
"Ultimately, it's our job to getbutts in
seats at the end of the day," Michelon, a
senior in the School of Music, Theater &
Dance, said. "It's about the process lead-
ing up to that.
"The joy of live performance is that
you only have three shots to get it right:
Friday, Saturday, Sunday," he said.
"Something could happen and, ulti-
mately, everything falls on us. It's our
investment - our time investment and
our name investment."
Michelon started with MUSKET asa
freshman working primarily with light-
ing and set design. At the beginning of
his sophomore year, he took an interest
in producing and switched his focus at
the University from production-based
curricula to a more producing-based
one. Michelon is currently studying
Arts Management, a subset of theater
and arts administration combining an
interdisciplinary curriculum of busi-
ness courses with theater courses.
"The thing about producing is that
I'm not in the role of the technical direc-
tor where I'm dealing with very techni-
cal things, like makingsure the lighting
See MICHELON, Page 7B


