Brittany Smith: Campus organizations should stop competing and start working together to further their respective causes. . PAGE 4A

46F 44W 46F
n at

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, February 18, 2010

michigandaily.com

THE FOUNDATIONS OF A UNIVERSiIY
Exodus from
Mich. could
alter in-state
ratio at U
* As population drops, decrease in the number of in-state
students who attend the Universi-
officials concerned ty, but she said she doesn't expect
to see a significant decrease any
about maintaining time soon.
"I think it will be a few years
public character before we see a noticeable drop
. off," Sullivan said.
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN Sullivan said the potential issue
Daily StaffReporter could be that with fewer resi-
dents living in Michigan, officials
University officials are wor- will be forced to make a choice
ried that Michigan's shrinking between maintaining the current
population could result in fewer ratio of in-state to out-of-state
in-state students applying to and students by accepting in-state stu-
enrolling in the University down dents with lower qualifications or
the road. allowing more non-resident stu-
Census figures released last dents into the University.
December showed that Michi- The ratio of in-state to out-
gan's population had dropped of-state students generally has
below 10 million for the first time stayed the same, Sullivan said,
since 2001. Between July 1, 2008 and will continue, to stay the
and July 1, 2009, the state lost same. She added that there have
32,759 residents, according to the been slight fluctuations in the
Census Bureau. ratio because the yield - the
Since2004,the ratio ofresident percentage of admitted students
M to non-resident students enrolled who submit their deposit - varies
at the University has remained from year to year.
steady. Though there have been Sullivan said any drastic
small fluctuations, generally 65 change to the ratio of resident to
percent of all students has been non-resident students admitted
from Michigan, while 35 percent to the University would have to
has been from out of state. be approved by the University's
University Provost Teresa Sul- Board of Regents. Specifically,
livan acknowledged in a recent Sullivan cited the University of
interview the potential of a See POPULATION, Page SA

GETTING DEFENSIVE

MARISSA MCCLAIN/daily
Biology research scientist Ray Barbehenn and research assistant and LSA junior Cristina Pecci examine poplar trees for a United States Department of Agriculture-sponsored
project in the E.H. Kraus Building greenhouse yesterday. Barbehenn began the project, which examines the tree's chemical defenses against Gypsy Moth Caterpillars, in 2004.
Official:, WithObamacbuldgt
U' research fund ing ol soar

Pr
fe(
rest

oposal increases Barack Obama's budget proposal
for the next fiscal year, according
leral funding for to Stephen Forrest, the University's
vice president for research.
earch 6.4 percent Obama's recent $3.8 trillion
budget proposal allotted over $61
By MIKE MERAR billion to research funding - a 6.4
Daily StaffReporter percent increase from last year.
The University stands to be one of
versityresearcherscouldreap the biggest beneficiaries from the
cant benefits from President increase, according to Forrest.

Butdespitetheprojectedincrease
in research funding, some Univer-
sity researchers are still unsatis-
fied with federal research spending
levels and are concerned the down
economy could have a negative
effect on University research.
Forrest said the University is
uniquely position to be one of the
biggestbeneficiariesoftheproposed
increase in research spending.

"We are the third largest
research university in the country,
and we've been growing in the top
ten universities," he said.
About 65 percent of the Univer-
sity's research money comes from
federal funding, Forrest said, while
less than one percent of the Univer-
sity's research funding comes from
the state.
See RESEARCH, Page SA

Uni'
signific


A PRIVATE SPOT OUT IN THE OPEN
L 1 Ei

At event, regional tensions
strain over Asian carp issue

Ypsilanti plays host the United States Environmental
Protection Agency, the Council on
to discussion about Environmental Quality, the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, the U.S.
Interstate quarrel Fish and Wildlife Service and the
U.S. Coast Guard outlined their
By VALIANT LOWITZ strategy to deal with the invasive
Daily StaffReporter species in a committee meeting
held yesterday in Ypsilanti.
Growing concerns about the The panel heard concerns and
invasion of Asian carp into the statements from residents of both
Great Lakes sparked heated debate regions at last night's meeting.
yesterday between residents of U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow
Chicago and those of the greater (D-Mich.) was present to address
Michigan area. the growing concerns and offer
A panel of representatives from her services to help push the issue

on Capitol Hill.
"As chair of the Senate energy
sub-committee, an oversighthear-
ing will be held this Thursday to
focus on this very topic," she said.
Stabenow addressed the panel
and called for immediate solutions
to the Asian carp issue.
"I would urge you to come up
with urgent deadlines, clear dead-
lines, and a focus and understand-
ing for what is at stake here," she
said, "We're dealing with some-
thing very, very serious and we
need to act as quickly as possible,
See ASIAN CARP, Page 5A

School of Art and Design sophomore Leanne Phelps sits on the steps of the Chemistry building to study for an exam yesterday.
She said the steps are "very open and relaxing." "It feels as though I'm sitting on a flying concrete carpet," she said.
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
'U' researchers find early detection
system for transplant complication

Theme semesters meant to unify'U'

Mor
25 p
0 disc

tality rate drops ion for a disease that affects patients
who receive bone marrow trans-
ercent with early plants that will allow for more spe-
cialized treatment and for patients to
-overy of disease know they have the disease before it
becomes life threatening.
By LILLIAN XIAO Graft-versus-host disease afflicts
Daily StaffReporter about half of patients who receive
allogening bone marrow, which can
ersity researchers have dis- be outwardly manifested in a skin
I a method of earlier detec- rash. However, a rash is also a very

common reaction to the antibiotics
used to treat bone marrow trans-
plant patients. A skin biopsy was the
only wayto determine if the rash was
due to GVHD or the antibiotics, but
thanks to a University study pub-
lished last month, doctors can now
use a blood test to detect the disease.
In addition to the skin rash,
GVHD, which is a response to the
See STUDY, Page 3A

LSA dean picks a
new theme every
semester or year
By OLIVIA CARRINO
Daily StaffReporter
While flipping through the
course catalog, students may
notice many course offerings
related to museums. But what they
may not notice are the fact that the
courses are part of this year's LSA
theme year.
The LSA2009-2010 theme year,

"Meaningful Objects: Museums
in the Academy" focuses on the 12
various University museums and
how they contribute to cultural,
intellectual and social life around
campus and greater southeastern
Michigan. As part of the theme
year, the University has launched
an interdisciplinary undergradu-
ate minor in Museum Studies and
is offering 29 museum-related
courses throughout the year.
According to the LSA website,
the overall goal of theme semes-
ters is to "connect the great intel-
lectual and cultural strengths of
the University of Michigan to the

issues defining our world today."
Evans Young, assistant dean
for LSA undergraduate educa-
tion, wrote in an e-mail interview
that the theme semesters were
developed to promote dialogue
and connection between those
involved with the University and
individuals in the community.
"The theme semesters are ini-
tiated by faculty in the College,
who are excited by the opportu-
nity to plan and present campus-
wide activities that will engage
students, colleagues, and the
wider community in conversa-
See THEME, Page SA

Univ
covered


WEATHER H I: 34
TOMORROW LO 23

GOT A NE WS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459or e-mai
newsomichigandaily.com a

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS......
i A'residents bravecold,support SpecialOlympics. . V.cXX, No.97 SUDOKU..
nd let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/TH E WIRE 02010 The Michigan Daily O P IN IO N..
michigandaily.com

................2A CLASSIFIED5................
...............3A SPORTS..................
...............4A TH E B-SIDE..................

,.6A
.7A
...1 B

j

t


2A - Thursday, February 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, February 18, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

ood Stamp Advocacy
Before they even get their law The group has about 60 in people's benefits and talk to
degree, some University Law members who work in a two- DHS on their behalf.
students are already doing pro step process to inform citizens Adams said the most reward-
bono work. of the state's benefits and advo- ing part of being a member of
The Food Stamp Advocacy cate to DHS after beingtrained FSAP is interacting with people
Project is an organization on by an internal advisor, accord- and helping out members of the
campus run by University Law ing to FSAP co-chair Tripp community in adtime of need.
students that aims to make Adams. "Foodstamp applicationneed
Washtenaw County residents Adams, a third-year Law is off the chain in Michigan right
more aware of the availability of student, said the members set now," Adams said. "DHS is com-
public benefits like food stamps up screening sites at commu- pletely overloaded. I like screen-
and give them easier access to nity centers and shelters like ings because interacting with
these services by communicat- the Delonis Center and Alpha people is the fun part."
ing with Michigan's Depart- House, both located in Ann Adams said in addition to
ment of Human Services. Arbor, to help people fill out food helping clients the group gives
Second-year LawstudentEric stamp applications and cater to members real-life work experi-
Mao, a member of FSAP, said the any individual needs they may ence, preparing them for future
group tries to offer a "helping have. careers.
hand" to citizens in need. "We also use a budget calcu- "At the screening sites you're
"There are so many people lator if people think they should interacting with clients, which
out there who could benefit be getting more benefits," is training you, and when you're
from some of the state's assis- Adams said. writing letters to DHS it's the
tance programs," Mao said: "We The FSAP members thentake same thing you're going to be
try to make sure they don't fall the information gathered at the doing as an attorney," he said.."
through the cracks." screeningsites to analyze trends - LIZZYALFS

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smnilaeitzC)michigandaily.coe tmdbosiress@gsai.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Offe hours:-Sun.-Thurs, a.m. - 2 a.m.
News Tips news@mnichandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.corn
Lettersto the Editor tothedaily@mnichigandaily.com
PhotographyDepartment photo@michigandaily.com
Arts ection .ctp,-em anailsom

Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales

opiion)rnichigandaily.com,
spors@ichiooedaiie.com
display@michigandaily.com

Members of the University of Michigan's Food Stamp Advocacy Project, which
meets once a month at various locations, provide information and assistance
to people applying for food stamps.
CRIME NOTES
Stickyfingers Thief makes

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Political lecture All you can
on Japan eat buffet

steal thumb drive
WHERE: Taubman Medical
Library
WHEN: Tuesday at about 2:45
p.m.
WHAT: An unknown person
at the medical center had a
Dell Laptop, two external
hard drives, and two thumb-
drives stolen, University Police
reported. The company back-
pack was left unattended in
the 2nd floor corridor.
Vehicle damaged
WHERE: Church Carport, 525
Church
WHEN: Tuesday at about 1:15
p.m.
WHAT: A graduate student's
vehicle was damaged in a
traffic incident, University
Police reported.

grate escape
WHERE: 3231 Baxter, Lot
NC-61
WHEN: Tuesday at about
10:45 p.m.
WHAT: Two black truck
graces were stolen from an
unattenaded vehicle yesterday,
University Police reported.
The black grates were there
to hold salt in the truck bed.
There are no suspects.
Facebook
harassment
WHERE: Vera Baits II
WHEN: Tuesday at about 9
p.m.
WHAT: A female resident
complained to her RA after
a harrassing wall post was
discovered on her Facebook
webpage, University Police
reported.

WHAT: Visiting Professor
Julia Adeney Thomas will be
discussing Japanese politics
during the 1950s.
WHO: Center for Japanese
Studies
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 1 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work, Room 1636

WHAT: Local restuar-
ants will provide food
and entertainers will per-
form. Admission is $5.
WHO: Camp Kesen
WHEN: Today from 6 p.m.
to 8 p.m.
WHERE: East Hall,
Math Atrium
Performance of

BoOK reading by
sing-a-long blog
Award-winning

According to ABC News,
sororityhazinghas become
more widespread and
increasingly violent. Recently,
pledges of a sorority at Penn
State University-Altoona
reported being beaten, violated
and verbally abused.
Motown Records is cel-
ebrating its 50th Anni-
versary. The University
is hosting a symposium with
students, lecturers and indus-
try leaders. There will also
be a performance by a Uni-
versity motown ensemble.
FORMORE, SEEB-SIDE, PAGE 3B
Larimer County, Colo-
rado settled a lawsuit for
wrongful imprisonment
for $4.1 million. Tim Masters
was convicted of murder in
1999 and spent nearly a decade
behind bars before he was freed
in 2008, reported CNN.

Online Sales onlineads@mzichigandaily.cor
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
lillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandailycom
SEIO NEW DR S:Ncle Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
ASSTN NEWS EInTORS ylan Citi, Darryn Fitzgerad, Joseph Lichterman,
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial PageEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR E DITORIA L PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
Weith
ASS] STANT EDITOR] AL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Alex Schiff, Matthew Shutler
Ryan Kate ManagingSport sEditr r kartje@h ia iganaily.ca
SEIR SOT DRNcoles a uerbach, n, ak Bu,,r,,Gioerrs , Ch, ris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
JamieBlock an gingArnsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS:CarolynKlareckiAndrewLapin,JeffSanford
ASS] SANTARTSEDITORS:LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,BrigidKilcoin,MikeKuntz,
MaxCollinsand photo@michigandaily.com
SamWolson ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR FOR MULTIMEDIA: Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Arie Bond
ASSIsANT PHOTO EDITORS: Aaron Augsburger,Jake Fromm, Marissa McClain,
Sarah Squire and design@michigandaily.com
AnnaLein-Zielinski ManagingD ign Editors
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandailycom
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: AlleWhite
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips Copytchiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KatieJozwiak Sales Manager
MAKTNG ANAGER ichalShotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Allison SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee FinancesManager
Brittany Morales circulationManager
Brad Wiley Projectoordinator
The Michigan Daily(IssN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by studentsattheUniversityofMichigan.Onecopyisavailablefreeofchargetoall
readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daly's office for $2. Subscriptions for fall term,
statinginSeptemberr vi U.S.mailare$1t0.Winter term(January through April)is$115,yearlong
(SeptemberthroughApriis$195.Universityaffiliatesaresubjecttoareducedsubscriptionrate.
On-campussubscriptionsfor falltermare $s.Subscriptionsmust beprepaid.TheMichiganDaily
is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

fiction authorv
WHAT: Award-winning, fic-
tion author Ron Carlson will
be reading his works.
WHO: English Language &
Literature - MFA Prgram
in Creating Writing
WHEN: Today from 5 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art,
Helmut Stern Auditorium

WHAT: Students will be
performing Dr. Horrible's
Sing-a-long Blog.
WHO: Basement Arts
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen
Drama Center, Studio I
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.


MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get moreonline at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire



UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

WHAT DO
RHODES/MARSHALL/MITCHELL
SCHOLARS
DO AFTER THEIR STUDIES
- Well, this guy became
president.
What will you do?
Anything you want.
You've written your own game
g plan so far in life. Why not take
it one step further and become
a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell
Scholar?
William Jefferson Clinton, President of
the United States of America, 1992-2000
Come to a Rhodes/Marshall/Mitchell Orientation Session:
Tuesday, January 19, 2010 . 5:00-6:00pm
Kalamazoo Room, Michigan League, 2nd Floor
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 . 5:00-6:00pm
Pierpont Commons, Center Room

Start Your Career
in Accounting.
Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA
for non-accounting majors:
. Earn two degrees in just 15 months.
" Complete a 3-month paid residency at a leading
accounting firm.
. Proven track record of 100% job placement.
Take the first step.
Visit us online or at an information session near you. Learn
more about the program and upcoming events at:
www.msamba.neu.edu.
617-373-3244
gspaoneu.edu
ww.msamba.neu.edu Northeastern University
A4

s

Monday, February 22, 2010 . 5:00-6:00pm
Pendleton Room, Michigan Union

0
"

To learn more, please contact the Provost's Council on Student Honors at
734-763-8123 or visit the website at
www.provost.umich.edu/scholars/

1(


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 18, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, February 18, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
GEORGETOWN TOWNSHIP, Mich.
Text messaging is
cause of teen death,
police officers say
Police say a Grand Rapids-area
teenager killed in a traffic accident
was exchanging text messages with
his girlfriend at the time.
Ottawa County sheriff's Sgt.
Steve Austin says investigation and
interviews showed 18-year-old Eric
Helm was texting before the Jan.12
crash in Georgetown Township
The Jenison High School student
died after his vehicle crossed into
oncoming traffic on a curve and
collided with a pickup truck.
Austin tells The Grand Rapids
Press he believes Helm was dis-
tracted by texting and failed to
negotiate the curve.
A proposal to ban sending or
receiving text messages while driv-
ing is pending in the state Legisla-
ture. More than half the states have
banned at least some drivers from
sending text messages, according
to the National Conference of State
Legislatures.
SACRAMENTO
Calif. research
shows pot can ease
muscle spasms
The first U.S. clinical trials in
more than two decades on the
medical benefits of marijuana
confirm pot is effective in reduc-
ing muscle spasms associated
with multiple sclerosis and pain
caused by certain neurological
injuries or illnesses, according to
a report issued yesterday.
Igor Grant, a psychiatrist who
directs the Center for Medicinal
Cannabis Research.at the Univer-
sity of California, San Diego, said
five studies funded by the state
involved volunteers who were
randomly given real marijuana or
placebos to determine if the herb
provided relief not seen from tra-
ditional medicines.
"There is good evidence now
that cannabinoids may be either
an adjunct or a first-line treat-
ment," Grant said at a news con-
ference where he presented the
findings.
WASHINGTON
President phones
outerspace from
White House
Outer space? President Barack
Obama is onthe phone for you.
" Yesterday, Obama telephoned
astronauts aboard the Interna-
tional Space Station and praised
the work being done some 200
miles above the Earth. He also
told astronauts that he wants to
continue to invest in NASA even
- as the current fleet of space shut-
tles is nearing retirement.
"The amazing work that's being
done on the International Space
Station, not only by our Ameri-
can astronauts - but also our col-
leaguesfromJapanandRussia- is
just a testimony to human ingenu-

ity, a testimony to the extraordi-
nary skill and courage that you
guys bring to bear, and it's also a
testimony to why continued space
exploration is so important - and
is part of the reason why my com-
mitment to NASA is unwavering,"
Obama said into the phone while.
looking at live video piped back
into the Roosevelt Room.
NAIROBI, KENYA
U. S. maybe to blame
for hungry Somalis
U.S. restrictions designed to
stop terrorists in Somalia from
diverting aid are hurting humani-
tarian operations in the lawless
Horn of Africa country, U.N. offi-
cials said yesterday.
U.N. agencies have not seen any
evidence from the American govern-
ment that food aid is being diverted
to Islamists fightingthe U.N.-backed
Somali government, said the top U.N.
humanitarian official for Somalia,
Mark Bowden.
"What we are seeing is a politi-
cization of humanitarian issues,"
Bowden told journalists in the
Kenyan capital of Nairobi. "The
options for a lot of Somalis look
pretty bleak."
The U.S. reduced its funding to
Somalia last year after its Office of
Foreign Assets Control expressed
fear that the extended supply line
and insurgent-heavy areas where
aid agencies were operating meant
aid could be diverted to a group
with links to al-Qaida.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Haiti frees
detained
missionaries

SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/AP Photo
Toyota Motor Corp. President Akio Toyoda speaks during a press conference in Tokyo yesterday. Toyota is looking into possible
power steering problems with its Corolla subcompact.
Safety concerns for
Toyota owners, mount
with faulty steering

Judge releases eight
of the 10 Americans
held in country
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti
(AP) - Eight American mission-
aries were freed from a Haitian
jail yesterday, nearly three weeks
after being charged with kidnap-
ping for trying to take a group of
children out of the quake-stricken
country.
The eight - looking bedraggled
and sweaty - walked out of the Hai-
tian jail escorted by U.S. diplomats
just after dusk. They waited until
they were safely inside a white van
before flashing smiles, waving and
giving a thumbs up to reporters.
Hours earlier, judge Bernard
Saint-Vil told The Associated
Press that eight of the 10 mis-
sionaries were free to leave with-
out bail or other conditions after
parents testified they voluntarily
handed their children over to the
missionaries.
"The parents of the kids made
statements proving that they can
be released," he said, adding that
still wants to question the group's
leader and her nanny.
The group planned to fly out
of Haiti late yesterday, defense
attorneyAviolFleurantsaid. Their
destination was not immediately

known. Kimberly Flowers at the
U.S. Embassy would not confirm
that the Americans were leaving
on a U.S. government chartered
plane, citing privacy law. She said
that as U.S. citizens, they were
entitled to evacuation flights.
The missionaries, most from
two Baptist churches in Idaho,
are accused of trying to take 33
Haitian children to the Domini-
can Republic on Jan. 29 without
proper documents. Their deten-
tions came just as aid officials
were urging a halt to short-cut
adoptions in the wake of the
earthquake.
The missionaries say they were
on a humanitarian mission to res-
cue child quake victims by tak-
ing them to a hastily prepared
orphanage in the Dominican
Republic and have denied accusa-
tions of trafficking.
Group leader Laura Silsby orig-
inally said they were taking only
orphaned and abandoned chil-
drenbutreporters found that sev-
eral of the children were handed
over to the group by their parents,
who said the hoped the Baptists
would give them a better life.
Saint-Vil said he still wants to
question Silsby and nanny Charisa
Coulter about their visit to Haiti in
December before the earthquake,
but he asked for Coulter tobe hos-
pitalized because of her diabetes.

Automaker faces
new round of
difficulties after gas
pedals, brakes recall
WASHINGTON (AP) - First
it was gas pedals, then brakes.
Now Toyota and the government
are looking into complaints that
the popular Corolla is difficult to
steer straight, raising a new safety
concern ahead of next week's con-
gressional hearing about the auto-
makers recalls.
But how worried should drivers
be? Or is this an example of how
any problem at the Japanese com-
pany now gets intense scrutiny?
The executive in charge of
quality control said the company
is reviewing fewer than 100 com-
plaints about power steering in
the Corolla. Toyota sold nearly 1.3
million Corollas worldwide last
year, including nearly 300,000 in
the United States, where it trailed
only Camry as Toyota's most pop-
ular model.
The executive, Shinichi Sasaki,
said drivers may feel as though
STUDY
From Page 1A
introduction of foreign bone mar-
row into the body, manifests itself
in liver damage and GI tract dam-
age. Bone marrow transplants are
used to treat sickle cell anemia, leu-
kemia, lymphoma and other blood
diseases.
University researchers recently
discovered that a protein, elafin,
may be used to identify whether
patients with rashes have GVHD.
Elafin - which can be detected
through a blood test - will not
only enable medical professionals
to diagnose GVHD, but it will also
predict the intensity of the disease,
according to Professor of Pediatrics
and Internal Medicine James Fer-
rara, the study's senior author.
Ferrara, who is also director of
the Adult and Pediatric Blood and
Marrow Transplant Program, said
the protein develops as inflam-
mation on the skin in response to
attacks on foreign bone marrow by
the immune system.
Ferrara said he collaborated
with former University Prof. Sam
Hanash, the foremost expert on
the study of proteins, to find a way

they are losing control over the
steering, but it was unclear why.
He mentioned problems with the
braking system or tires as possible
underlying causes. U.S. officials
are also investigating.
He stressed that the company
was prepared to fix any defects
it finds and that executives were
considering a recall as an option,
although no decision had been
made.
In Japan, President wAkio
Toyoda said he did not intend to
appear at congressional hearings
next week in Washington, prefer-
ring to leave that to his U.S.-based
executives while he focuses on
improving quality controls. Toyo-
da, grandson of the company's
founder, said he would consider
attending if invited.
Also yesterday, a Transportation
Department official said the agency
planned to open an investigation
into the reports about the Corolla.
The preliminary investigation
is expected to begin Thursday
and involve an estimated 500,000
vehicles. The official spoke on
condition of anonymity because
the department had not yet noti-
fied Toyota of the probe.
to identify elevated protein levels in
GVHD patients.
"We wanted a simple test that
we could use, and initially our hope
is that if we could start treatment
early, we can control GVHD in a
larger number of patients, but we
needed a good test," Ferrara said.
This is the first lab test of its
kind developed to identify signs of
GVHD, Ferrara said.
"It was like looking for a needle
in a haystack the size of Michigan,"
he said. "We got lucky."
According to Ferrara, GVHD
has an overall mortality rate of 40
percent. Detection within a week
allows medical professionals to
control its progression, lowering
the mortality rate to 15 percent,
while lack of detection will raise
the mortality rate up to90 percent,
he said.
Currently, all allogeneic trans-
plant recipients are given medicine
before the operation as a preventa-
tive measure, Ferrara said. Patients
exhibiting rashes post-operation
are given high-dose steroids as
a step to avoid the possibility of
GVHD, but they weaken a patient's

In an attempt to reassure car
owners, Toyota Motor Corp. said
it would install a backup safe-
ty system in all future models
worldwide that will override the
accelerator if the gas and brake
pedals are pressed at the same
time. Acceleration problems are
behind the bulk of the 8.5 million
vehicles recalled bythe automaker
since November.
The emergence of potential
steering problems with Corolla
presented another roadblock in
the automaker's efforts to repair
its image of building safe, reliable
vehicles. Dealers across the U.S.
are fixing accelerators that can
stick, floor mats that can trap gas
pedals and questionable brakes on
new Prius hybrids.
Auto industry experts said
any power steering troubles on
the Corolla were less worrisome
than accelerator pedals or brakes
because drivers could still steer
the vehicle, even though doing so
may be more difficult.
The government investigation
comes even though the automaker
said it has received relatively few
complaints about the popular
compact.
immune system. Ferrara said this
treatment method has not changed
in the past 40 years.
Ferrara said he hopes that detec-
tion of elafin levels will allow for
more personalized treatment,
where patients with higher levels
will be offered more intensive ther-
apy and patients with lower levels
will be given fewer steroids.
Ferrara said he and fellow
researchers are riow working
together with the University
Medical Center to introduce this
technique into medical practice.
He said he hopes that the test will
be available to all patients, not just
ones at the University, by the end
of this year.
Ferrara said they already
received calls from people in Texas
and North Carolina, askingwhether
the researchers would accept blood
samples to test for the disease. But
Ferrara said the researchers aren't
ready to apply the technique to
practical use justyet.
He added that he hopes to make
the elafin test more widely avail-
able by accepting these samples in
the future.

Mexican pres.
promises to look
into border city
complaints

Calderon says he
will investigate
crimes in city near
El Paso, Tx.
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico (AP)
- President Felipe Calderon prom-
ised federal investigations into all
complaints of extortion and kidnap-
ping in a Mexican border city over-
whelmed by druggangviolence.
Calderon made the pledge after
meeting yesterday with hundreds
of residents of Ciudad Juarez, across
the border from El Paso, Texas.
"The city will again become a city
of law," said Calderon, who traveled
to Ciudad Juarez after meetingwith
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano in Mexico City to
discuss the drug war and aviation
security.
It was the second time Calderon
visitedthecitysincetheJan. 3mas-
sacre of 15 people in a working class
neighborhood fueled anger over the

government's failure to stem the
bloodshed. More than 2,600 people
were killed in the city of 1.3 million
people last year despite the presence
of thousands of federal troops and
police, making it one of the world's
deadliestrcities.
Hours after Calderon spoke,
gunmen killed the mayor of Gua-
dalupe y Calvo, a town on the other
side of Chihuahua state from Ciu-
dad Juarez, said Eduardo Ezparza,
spokesman for the state prosecu-
tors' office.
The attackers ambushed Mayor
Ramon Mendivil's car on ahighway
as he headed back to his town from a
meeting in Chihuahua city, the state
capital. One of his body guards was
also killed.
The motive for the attack was
not immediately known. The town
has seen a burst of violence recent-
ly. The bodies of five men were
found dumped on a dirt road there
last weekend, and on Wednesday,
three police investigators were
killed hours before the attack on
the mayor.

naciuum

If you're a high performing undergraduate with a
passion for sustainability, then check out the Graham
Institute's new Sustainability Scholars Program.
Each year, this competitive program will accept only
25 students, who will then pursue a 10-credit series of
interdisciplinary courses focused on sustainability
(including a place-based course).
After successful completion of the program, you'll
receive an exclusive Sustainability Scholars Certificate
from the Graham Institute. Upon graduation, you'll
also receive a special notation on your transcript
acknowledging this scholastic accomplishment.
So, go ahead. Start making your mark for a better
world. Check out the details and online application at
www.graham.umich, and apply by Marh 25, 2010!

A


0

4A - Thursday, February 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4C iidi an tip
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
He she/ze
The University should adopt gender-neutral language policy
M ost students would identify themselves as either male
or female. But students who defy the traditional gen-
der binary have brought to light the importance of
using gender-neutral language on campus. Limited use of gender-
neutral language on campus has resulted in an exclusive environ-
ment for students that don't categorize themselves as "he" or "she."
But a recent resolution by the Michigan Student Assembly could
encourage the use of gender-neutral language on campus. Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman should sign MSA's resolution and
University departments should adopt policies that require the use
of gender-neutral language to create an inclusive environment for
everyone, regardless of gender identity.

wow - in less than 30 hours almost
17K of you are following - amazing -
watch out Kim Kardashian."
- White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs, commenting on the number of followers
on his Twitter account, as reported by Fox News yesterday.
ELAINE MORTON E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU
eli ir ~s ~~~l.' r,-e~~st.l I ,~.~ ' ~s
3 ecf, cuYf, 's 0 . ,'s' S t rv ra0 isr so css eie 1e:>
sty' pA L' Y
1 n O1' 01' ' (C
/'} ,A }V " 0Y 3' t. x
Pit~
Hail to the maverick

0

As reported by the Daily on Monday, MSA
recently passed a resolution that would
change the language of the Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities to be
gender-neutral. The resolution is current-
ly being reviewed by the Senate Advisory
Committee on University Affairs, the facul-
ty's main governing body. If SACUA passes
the resolution, it will proceed to Coleman's
desk for final approval. Currently, there are
no University policies that enforce the use
of gender-neutral language.
There have been some movements on cam-
pus to use gender-neutral language. Some
professors in the Women's Studies Depart-
ment have begun to use gender-neutral lan-
guage. Similarly, the Department of English
recently determined that the use of the sin-
gular "their" - formerly a grave grammati-
cal error - was appropriate instead of "he/
she." And some gender-neutral students sub-
stitute pronouns like "ze" for "he" or "she."
Gender-specific language contributes
to a learning environment that excludes
some students. Gender-neutral language
has a base in efforts to eliminate the ways
that language favors males - most people
are familiar with using "he/she" instead
of a singular male pronoun to be inclusive
of women. Though individuals who don't
identify with any gender haven't usually
been the focus of gender-neutral language,

the use of binary gender language doesn't
include their identity. On campus, students
are excluded by the use language that is
specific to either gender in the classroom
and assignments.
Adopting a University-wide policy would
be the most effective means to encourage
an inclusive environment. The symbolic
weight of such a policy would create a sig-
nificant impact among students and faculty.
What's more, gender-specific language is
not merely a problem at this University, but
also nation-wide. By adopting such a policy,
the University would stand out as a leader
on the progressive front.
And it wouldn't be a burden on professors
and staff. It would simply require profes-
sors to more carefully consider their words
and avoid using gender-specific language
that doesn't include all students. And, as the
Department of English has determined, not
even the use of the once-abhorred singu-
lar "their" is grammatically out-of-bounds.
Students should also be encouraged to use
gender-neutral language.
But first, the University should enact
measures proposed in the MSA resolution
to include gender-neutral language in the
Statement of Student's Rights and Respon-
sibilities. If this resolution passes, more
progress in the use of gender-neutral lan-
guage will follow.

D ear Sarah Palmn,
I know you've been busy
with book signings and tea
parties and all, so
I won't blame you
if you haven't had a
chance to read any
of my columns. To
be honest, if you
had read them,
you may have got-
ten the wrong
impression of me.
For some reason, MATTHEW
my readers tend to
think I'm some sort GREEN
of glib pawn of the
pro-choice, pro-
gay, elitist, Jew-
ish, liberal establishment. Under that
assessment, one would think that I'd
detest everything for which you stand.
But, boy, would that be wrong!
In the reflection of your rim-
less glasses, I see the heartbeat of
America. It calls to memory images
of the good old days that I never had
the opportunity to know - before all
those crazy "rights" movements in
the 1960s - when life just seemed so
pleasant for everyone, you know? The
future just looks brighter when I hear
you talk about returning to family val-
ues and taking the power away from
the educated elites. You've proven that
you don't need to spend all four years
at one college to have a lot of thought-
ful plans for the country.
On matters of so-called "health
reform," your resolve to keep the gov-
ernment's greedy hands off of Medi-
care is just what we need in a leader.
If you were our president, when our
men and women come back from Iraq
and Afghanistan (and presumably Iran
and North Korea by then, am I right?),
there wouldn't be any death panels
denying them their needed operations.
When it comes to the recession, I

know all your economic expertise will
surely come in handy. Your idea that
tax cuts will help reduce the national
deficit is spot on! You understand that
spending money on what liberals call
"infrastructure" is really just irre-
sponsible pork barrel phooey. And I
know you won't tolerate the injustice
of Wall Street getting a bailout when
my friends and I on Main Street can't
afford going to the Chop House on a
Friday night.
So let's get down to brass tacks: You
have simply got to run in 2012! I know
you're thinking about it, so I'm letting
you know that you have my endorse-
ment. You and I both know that it was
John McCain who held you back in the
fast election. Those temper tantrums
and that haircut! Gevalt! With so
many brilliant ideas for the country,
so much vigor and charm, how could
any real American resist you?
But before you rush back to the
Republican Party, I think you ought
to consider your options. Why should
you constrict yourself to the parochi-
alism of the Republican Party? It's
so rigid and status oriented - hardly
a place for a maverick! Do you sum-
mer in Kennebunkport or do you hunt
caribou on the Aleutian Islands? No,
ma'am, you're not one of them. And
that's a good thing!
The two-party system is old hat.
Now's the time for a party that nei-
ther defers to big business nor goes
overboard with social reforms. We
need a party to oppose the corrupt
Republicans and Democrats alike,
and to stand up for "Average Joes" all
across America.
Just a week or two ago, those patri-
ots over at Gallup asked everyday
Americans who they'd be most likely to
vote for in 2012. Among independents,
24 percent said they were unsure or
would vote for a candidate not from
the two major parties. Sounds to me

like a pretty good place to start for a
third-party 2012 bid. And judging by
the way President Barack Obama and
the Democrats lose support from cen-
trists every day, it also looks like that
number will only increase.
How could any
real American *
resist you, Palin?
Now, I know you might be think-
ing, "Well, gee, if I run, I'll just take
real American votes from my conser-
vative pals up in Washington, giving
the election to the liberals." And it's
true that this methodology has a basis
in history. Third-party candidates
almost always fail, and they oftenruin
the electoral chances of the candidate
nearest to them ideologically. If you
run, you are all but guaranteeing vic-
tory for the Democrats.
But it would send a message. Real
Americans must be heard! It may be
political martyrdom - but think about
all the publicity for the movement!
I know you've been doing a lot of
palm-reading lately, so perhaps you
don't need me to predict the future for
you. You might already know that it's a
good idea for you to run for president
in 2012 as a third-party candidate,
and an even better idea to convince a
handful of real Americans to run for
congressional seats in your party, too.
If that happens, the political land-
scape in Washington will definitely be
brighter after the 2012 election.
Your friend,
Matthew L. Green
- Matthew Green can be reached
at greenmat@unich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
MSA shouldn't eliminate MedicalAmnestyActmakes
rights in a new constitution irresponsibility acceptable

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be
fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
Cooperation, not competition

TO THE DAILY:
The new all-campus constitution being pro-
posed by the Students for Progressive Gov-
ernance is not progressive. It should not be
approved by MSA this week or adopted by the
student body in the March election. The last
attempt to re-write the constitution by hold-
ing an unelected constitutional convention was
ruled unconstitutional by the Central Student
Judiciary and was ordered to disband. The con-
vention was effectively reconvened as a student
group in order to achieve the same purpose.
The proposed new constitution is far less dem-
ocratic, more bureaucratic, much more vague
and omits many important rights and protec-
tions that are provided to students and student
organization in the current constitution.
While the current constitution's Bill of
Rights protects against discrimination based
on "race, sex, color, religion, creed, national
origin or ancestry, age, marital status, sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expres-
sion, disability, Vietnam-era veteran status,"
the proposed new constitution omits national
origin or ancestry, gender identity and expres-
sion and veteran status. This is unacceptable.
The proposed constitution also omits the Bill
of Rights article on dissenting opinions, which
under the current constitution protects the
right to be graded solely on academic perfor-
mance and not be penalized for disagreeing
with a professor's views.
The proposed constitution would give the
MSA president the right to veto resolutions
passed by the assembly. The assembly would
then have to meet a two-thirds vote in order to
overrule the veto. This would allow one person,
the president, to severely undermine the abil-
ity of the assembly to put the democratic will of
the student body into action. As we continue to
face a crisis in public education and a decline in
minority student enrollment, we cannot allow
our democratic rights and our ability to mobilize
the power ofxhe student body tobe abridged.
Kate Stenvig
Rackham Representative to MSA

TO THE DAILY:
The Daily's recent editorial about exempt-
ing intoxicated minors from legal repercussions
when seeking medical attention overlooked
some key factors when calling for the state Sen-
ate's action on the Good Samaritan bill (The safe
callfor Michigan, 02/15/2010).
The attention-grabbing first line of the edi-
torial, "An individual shouldn't be punished
for doing the right thing," fails to negotiate
the other side of the discussion. The individual
currentlybeingpunished under existinglaws is
an underage adult consuming alcohol illegally.
Why does someone breaking a law deserve to
be protected? Perhaps the drinking age should
be lowered, but by making the decision to drink
illegally, minors are immediately in danger of
facing legal trouble and are acceptingresponsi-
bility for any situation that arises.
Should this be the avenue we take to corral
college binge drinking? The Michigan Student
Assembly, by petitioning the state government,
thinks so. By accepting the fact that college
students will continue to drink inordinate
amounts of alcohol, we are surrendering the
fight to curb the lethal behavior.
An increase in 9-1-1 calls at Cornell University,
which is cited in MSA's resolution to support the
Good Samaritan bill, may be a result of the law
being passed. Increased 9-1-1 calls at Cornell
University may also be a result of an increase in
underage drinking due to the law being passed.
Without the danger ofpotentiallygettingintrou-
ble for calling for help from a friend, one might
ascertain minors will drink more freely.
So where should we look to fight the deadly
game of college binge drinking? Passing the
Good Samaritan bill is not the answer we need.
It forfeits our ability to successfully attack
binge drinking, the root cause of alcohol-relat-
ed deaths. Admitting defeat to the higher edu-
cational problem of alcohol is not in the best
interest of the University, nor does it follow its
role as "in loco parentis."
Stephen DeMare
LSA Senior

remember my first year on this
campus like it was yesterday.
I recall being surprised to see
packed librar-
ies on a Sunday. I
remember being
introduced to the,
bell curve system
and dreading the
competitive spirit
it brought forth.
To this day, I still
don't understand
how this system BRITTANY
is helpful. For SMITH
example, students
placed in Math
115 still take Math
105 and do exceptionally well, and
their sky-high scores are a detri-
ment to other students who aren't as
advanced. This, in turn, makes the
grading for less advantaged students
even more stressful, adding to an
already exacting course load.
But I digress. What stood out the
most - and what continues to catch
my attention - are the innumerable
student organizations on campus.
Students are involved in a laundry
list of organizations. Sometimes they
overlap in interest, and other times
they are as diverse as the campus
community itself. But what makes
me scratch my head is this question:
do students really have an invested
interest in the organizations in which
they hold leadership positions, or do
they simply claim leadership in mul-
tiple organizations for their own self-
interest?
The events that student organiza-
tions plan often overlap with other
organizations' plans. In my experi-
ence, however, I have noticed that
the student leaders of similar orga-

nizations are hesitant to collaborate
on events with each other. Instead, it
seems that students prefer to work in
a fragmented model - one where each
organization works alone. But in real-
ity, some organizations with overlap-
ping interests would produce better
events if they decided to work togeth-
er instead of as separate entities.
I am again left to wonder why this
is so. Perhaps it is because the cul-
ture at the University is one in which
students are self-absorbed and more
interested in the "I" instead of the
"we." If collaboration could further
advance an organization's mission
to, for example, provide mentor-
ship to inner-city youth, then it's not
apparent why collaboration is often
replaced by multiple student orga-
nizations with parallel agendas but
fragmented activities.
My question about the lack of coop-
eration isn't condemnation - it's curi-
osity. I wonder why collaboration is so
rarely pursued on campus. And I can't
help but ask if student leaders' self-
interest is the cause. If student orga-
nizations with similar interests were
suddenly a singular organization, the
student leaders that run these orga-
nizations would no longer be able
to have resum6-building leadership
titles, which wouldn't be as helpful
to their future prospects. But I would
hate to think that students have lead-
ership titles in one or multiple orga-
nizations simply so they can impress
prospective employers and graduate
program admissions officials. This
helps explain why student organiza-
tions don't collaborate to a greater
extent. Holding separate events may
not always be the best way for groups
to advance their causes, but it does
allow leaders to say that they orga-

nized the events themselves.
The optimistic part of me would
like to think that the culture of this
university is one that defines lead-
ership as independent and that stu-
dent organizations prefer to advance
causes in their own independent
fashion. However, I admit that when
I see students who don't seem to have
a fire in their belly for the interests
that their organization serves, I can
only assume the title that they hold
is held for personal interests and not
the community's interests.
Student orgs
should collaborate
for greater results.
Sadly, it seems that some student
organizations have been reduced by
their leaders to resum6 builders. The
interests many student organizations
serve might be better furthered by
cooperative efforts between similar
groups. Consolidation is perhaps too
much to hope for, but greater col-
laboration between student leaders
is a very real possibility if leaders can
set aside their egos - and their resu-
mes - and work together to produce
greater results. It's not always neces-
sary for organizations to hold their
own independent events, and leaders
should consider if their organizations
could better further their cause by
partnering with others in the com-
munity.
- Brittany Smith can be reached
at smitbrit@umich.edu.

0
"

0I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Some researchers say more
research funding is needed

From Page 1A
Because so much of the Uni-
versity's research funding comes
from the federal government, For-
rest said he was pleased with the
Obama administration's commit-
ment to research.
He added that the increase in
research funding will put students
in a better position to succeed in a
troubled economy.
"What we see in this budget is
a tremendous investment in the
necessity to carry out research,
as part of both spurring the eco-
nomic recovery as well as keeping
America at a very long-term com-
petitive position from work force
generation from our students," he
said.
- Though the increased research
spending in Obama's budget will
ultimately mean more money for
University researchers, Forrest
said the researchers will still have
to compete in order to get that
money.
"These are not earmarks," he
said. "This is money that goes into
competitive programs that are
competed for nationally, in some
cases internationally. You have to
have the best ideas to win."
Forrest said no specific Uni-
versity program would stand to
benefit more than others, but cer-
tain research areas are bound to
acquire larger budgetary alloca-
tions.
POPULATION
From Page 1A
Iowa as an example of a univer-
sity that shifted from a focus on
in-state students to out-of-state
students.
"Iowa has been losing popu-
lation for a long time," Sullivan
said. "So they have a much higher
fraction of non-resident students
because there just aren't that
many high school graduates any-
more in Iowa. It's just a fact that
the Great Plains states are depop-
ulating."
As a result, over the course of

He explained that, historically,
about 10 percent of federal fund-
ing goes to the Institute for Social
Research, 20 percent to the Col-
lege of Engineering, 40 percent
to the Medical School and the
remaining to various programs at
the University.
Eva Feldman, director for
the A. Alfred Taubman Medical
Research Institute, said though
she is pleased with Obama's com-
mitment to research as evidenced
in his proposed budget, she is still
unsatisfied with current funding
levels, specifically for biomedical
research..
"Approximately 80 to 85 per-
cent of grants go unfunded, so
there's a lot of good research that
currently is not being funded,"
she said. "We see (biomedical
research) as a pivotal part of our
nation's well-being, our nation's
industry, where we really highly
achieve."
Forrest said the federal distri-
bution of funding can often over-
look certain areas of research
- most notably energy and sus-
tainability.
"I think particularly in the area
of energy research, that we've
always been in this country very,
very under-funded compared to
the challenge that we're trying to
confront," he said.
Forrest said despite some areas
being overlooked, the budget pro-
posal indicates the Obama admin-
the past decade the percentage of
resident students at the University
of Iowa has decreased 10 percent.
In 2000, 68.8 percent of all Uni-
versity of Iowa students were from
Iowa, but in 2009 that number
dropped to 58.8 percent.
Sullivan said it's not likely that
that kind of drastic drop will
occur at the University any time
soon. The University enrolled the
largest number of undergraduates,
26,208 students, in its history last
fall.
Statistics provided by Univer-
sity officials in January showed
that applications to the University
increased 4.9 percent overall from

istration places a high value on
research - especially in light of
the current economic situation.
"You have to balance (research
spending) against the other soci-
etal needs," Forrest said. "I think
(the budgetproposal) shows a deep
commitment and necessity to this
for our economic well-being and
our strategic well-being."
Sean Morrison, director of the
Center for Stem Cell Biology at
the Life Sciences Institute, said
despite the projected increase in
federal funding for University
research, the economic situa-
tion has made it more difficult for
the federal government to fund
research.
"Over the past several years,
levels of funding for biomedical
research have declined relative to
the historical rate of growth," he
said. "Because-of the difficult eco-
nomic climate, the current admin-
istration would like to increase
funding for (the) National Insti-
tutes of Health, but they're con-
strained in their ability to do so
because of the budget problems."
Morrison added that though
the budget proposal will likely
help University researchers, there
is still a concern that the Univer-
sity could soon feel the effects of
reduced research spending.
"There may be a lot of labora-
tories that may lose a lot of their
funding and close down complete-
ly," he said.
the previous year. Additionally, in-
state applications increased by 6.6
percent.
It was still too early in the
application process to determine
whether or not there will be an
increase in the yield or how many
students will actually enroll next
fall at the time they provided the
statistics, University officials said.
But they added that the numbers
are a good sign.
Regardless ofMichigan's declin-
ing population, Sullivan said, the
University will continue to admit
only the best students.
"The quality of the students is
really important," Sullivan said.

ASIAN CARP
From Page 1A
with a sense of urgency."
Asian carp - an invasive spe-
cies introduced into the Mis-
sissippi river in the late-1970s
- prey heavily on the same foods
that sustain fish native to the
Great Lakes. Fears surrounding
the invasive fish center on their
devastating effect on the ecosys-
tem and the commercial fishing,
sport fishing and tourism indus-
tries associated with the area.
Michigan residents and politi-
cians have called for a closing of
the shipping locks that connect
the Illinois River to Lake Michi-
gan in an effort to stop water
from carrying the fish into the
lake.
Residents of Chicago, who
rely on the shipping and tourism
industries, responded by saying
that closing the locks to Lake
Michigan could negatively affect
job opportunities in their area.
"Any closure of the Chicago
locks will affect my job, as well as
many jobs," Jennifer Perry, who
works in the commercial boat-
ing industry in Chicago, told the
panel last night. "The issue goes
far beyond just closing the locks
and separating (Lake Michigan
and the Illinois River)."
A recent DNA test on fish
scales and tissue suggests that
THEME
From Page 1A
tions on challenging issues," he
wrote.
Theme semesters first began
in 1980 and became more regular
in the 1990s when Professor Edie
Goldenberg was the LSA dean.
Today, current dean Terrence
McDonald selects a new topic
each year, if not each term.
The theme is chosen bythe LSA
dean from many proposals devel-
oped by LSA faculty in various
departments and programs.
Theme semesters have included
topics like food, Detroit, sexual-
ity and comedy. Some of the most
recent themes have been "The
Universe: Yours to Discover,"
"Energy Futures," "China Now"
and "The Theory and Practice of
Citizenship."
To further the involvement of
students with theme semesters,

Asian carp are present in the
Illinois River. Perry said the
data currently available was
inconclusive and, because the
fish have yet to be spotted, did
not immediately suggest that
the carp had entered the Illinois
River.
But Michigan residents told
the panel last night that the inva-
sive carp could have detrimental
economic affects on their area.
"When you consider the fish-
ing and tourism industries in
the Great Lakes, it far outweighs
the costs to the Chicago tourism
industry," an audience member
who said he was from Michigan
told the panel.
"While we're talking, they are
swimming," another audience
member who said he was from
Michigan told the panel.
The Great Lakes fishing indus-
try currently accounts for over $7
billion of the Michigan economy,
according to figures cited during
the meeting.
Cameron Davis, senior advisor
to the EPA, said he understood
the importance of the issue to the
industries in both northwest Illi-
nois and western Michigan.
"The devastation of the carp
is something that is of great con-
cern to the regions," he said in
an interview following the pub-
lic comment session. "We have
a strong fishing industry in the
Great Lakes that is very impor-
LSA sponsors the Summer Reads
program for incoming first-year
students in Michigan Learning
Communities.
Students in MLC have the
option of reading a book that
usually relates to the upcom-
ing semester's theme. This year,
MLC students read "Mr. Wilson's
Cabinet of Wonder," by Lawrence
Weschler, a book about the Muse-
um of Jurassic Technology in Los
Angeles.
Additionally, to make the theme
more prominent around campus,
the University sponsors various
events throughout the year. These
include a series of lectures, film
screenings, tours and exhibits all
pertaining to the theme. Most of
the events are free and open to
the public.
LSA sophomore Marissa Sala-
zar, said despite the course offer-
ings and free events, she thinks
the theme semester would be
more popular if the University did

Thursday, February 18, 2010 - 5A
tant and valuable. We also have
some cargo coming through that
greatly affects the Chicago and
northwest-Indiana regions."
At last night's meeting, Lorne
Thomas, captain for the U.S.
Coast Guard, said the Coast
Guard is lending its support to
the operation.
"We have the ability to regu-
late the maritime industry," he
said. "We also have the ability to
restrict the waterways if we need
to and get the fish killed. That's
the coast guard's primary role in
all of this."
Michigan politicians have
called for a preliminary injunc-
tion to close the Illinois water-
ways that lead to southern Lake
Michigan. The United States
Supreme Court rejected the
injunction late last month.
In 2002, an electric fence was
built near the Chicago Sanitary
and Ship Canal to contain the
fish, but scientists have discov-
ered genetic material from the
carp extending beyond the bar-
rier.
Despite the roadblocks in the
carp debate, the panelists were
optimistic that a consensus could
soon be reached between the
Chicago and Great Lakes indus-
tries.
"I think people are frustrated
and people are scared," Davis
said, "but what I saw today was a
lot of hope."
more to make it widely known to
students.
"I think it would be a good idea
if it was more publicized," she
said. "But there might not be a
point unless your major is toward
that or you're really interested in
that. So it depends on what the
theme is."
LSA freshman Jina Kim, said
that while not many students
know about the theme, she still
thinks having a theme semester is
a good idea.
"No one knows (about the
theme)," she said. "I don't think
any of my friends have taken (a
museum class), but I think it's a
good idea to do a theme, it keeps
the whole school centralized and
focused."
LSA freshman Alexandar
Serafimovski, also said he wasn't
aware of the theme semester, but
would be interested in taking
theme-related classes if he "liked
the theme and had the time."


HPV Fact
The treatment for can
be a process and can involve
, or the warts.
HPV Fact
Even after treatment,
can come back. In fact, 25% of cases
within 3 months.
Visit your campus health center.
MERCK p co:1
All rights reserved. Printed in USA.-21050004(41)-01/10-GRO


6

6A - Thursday. February 18. 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
2 BEDROOM, completely remod-
eled, large kitchen with modern appli-
ances. Full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. Pet friendly. Call Laura for
your private tour at Church Street
Apartments LLC. 734-994-0644.
12-BED: 2-BATH BI-LEVELS !
Walnut @ Geddes
Heat, water, furn., 1 parking spot incl.
Perfect for 4 to share
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
4 ELEVEN LOFTS open house event
Thur-Sat, Feb. 18-20, 9a-9p. Tour Ann.
Arbor's #1 student housing, 2 blocks
from campus. Enjoy free catered food,
get dinner-on-us at signing. Select
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start,
including single bedrooms. Per-person
contracts, rates from $655 + all utilities
at flat rate. All-inclusive per-semester
raes from $4450. Visit or call for de-
tails. 734-998-4400.
www.4elevenlofts.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
48575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilities!
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icc.coop
S 4-BEDROOMS!
Baldwin & Cambridge
Hardwood floors & 10 ceilings
Beautiful, quiet neighborhood
Heat, water, furnishings, parking icl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
! 6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.

'0'l9Ied and
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms

It Pays to Stay at
The Courtyards!

734.741.9300J
www.annarborapartments.net
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com
! AWESOME LOCATION 9 Bed-
room, 3 bathrooms, fully furn, 2 large
fridges, full size washer & dryer, on
site parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CENTRAL CAMPUS 2-BDRMS !
Two S. Forest locations w/ free wireless
Tappan @ Oakland w/ several floor
plans avail.
521 Walnut to choose your furniture.
1039 Baldwin w/ brand new kitchens
and a yard.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
Studio &
1 drm, nits
Towor Plaza Condominium
Q sc. Hris -: O bcC k K rm Cerp.. j
11- BriarComc H
734-663-1530
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
!!!!MAY TO MAY!!!!
AND
SHORT TERM LEASES
734-761-8000
primesh.com

All inclusive rates
No more high utility bills
, Free Internet
E Free satellite TV
( Fully furnished
"THE
" COURTYARDS.
S T U 1 E N T APARTMENTS
1780 Broadway (734)994-6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!LETS MAKE A DEAL!! New low
rates available.
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments.
Fall 2010, Across from East Quad.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., lndry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Check our web-
site www.churchstreetrentals.com or
Call Ann 734-320 1244.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
**2 BDRM**. WSHR/DYR in unit.
Walking distance to UM Medical Cen-
ter. $800/mo, incl. water. Call 734-395-
5288 or 248-855-3143.
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY l & 2 bdrm apts. Near
Ctral Campus. $500-750. Includes
H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
1221 S. State#2
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 20 10
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL: 6
bdrm house. Price just reduced.
$2,695 514 Lawrence**
2 bath, free high speed internet, easy ac-
cess to central campus, nursing , medi-
cal d dental schools. Dishwasher and
laundry. Parking available.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
*6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, First
months rent free! Fall 2010! 1007
State. Furn. Newly renovated 1st
Floor and Bthrms. Free Prkng and
lndry. Call 734-717-9288.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
[paments Aaiable]

WOODBURY (C- _11 NITES
The Choice is Yours!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ WIFI Ready
+ AATA Bus Line
f*24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible Lease Terms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
+ Pool & Sauna
+ Pets Welcome
+ Continental Breakfast every Wed.
+ Concierge Resident Service
+ Business Center
+ Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
+ Roommate Leases Available
+ Hospitality Apartment
+ Includes All utilities
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
Mrln' 734-663-7633
*AmenitiesVary byProperty
www.WoodburyGardens.com
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-
6380. www.benjaminrentals.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, lndry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spacestlndry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
8 MONTH LEASES for fall. Two
houses to choose from: 7 bdrm for 8 at
S. University and Washtenaw, 6 bdrm
for 7- Mid S. Forest area. 734-260-4003
$$$ SWEET DEALS $$$
At
Prime Student Housing
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Make us an offer we can't refuse!
734-761-8000
primesh.com

(1e Micitigan 0ai33
PREsES THE
O"line CMassifleel
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visic michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see ol of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
^^^^YOUR MOM CALLED^^^^'
She wants you to live with
Prime?!!
Reduced Rates.... at Great Locations!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., moder, clean, quiet
5 mt. walk .Free Wi-Fi.
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2200
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.com

Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
treat bfr 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
tot entertaining
* Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Ecercise Room, Rec. Room
* Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
S- 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sq/s & 1.5
baths.Add FREE internet, HO directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve yoar new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff, I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.

4

NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrns. Mod-
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn. els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State. Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735. www.annarborapartments.net

AFFORDABLE STUDENT
CO-OP HOUSING!
Now Signing ContraCts for:
Winter 2010 &
Fall/Winter 2010/2011
-$575/M(,onth InCludes: i(1r:I)
All meals, internet, parking, 37' EW
social activities and utilities! w ec:o:p

0
0

2
2
1
1.
1!
21
2:
2,
2
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
3

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 65 Bean holder 36 Lynx family 46 Street boss?
1 One might read 66 Antiquity, once members 48 Like most
"Mom,"for short 37 Lawlessness wheelchair-
4 Core training DOWN 38 Ladies of Spain accessible
muscles 1 Cookout site 41 Indian garb entrances
7 Old jet set jet, 2 Responded to, 42 Bettor's concern, 50 "Inferno" author
briefly as a stoolie's tip which can follow 51 Reindeer
0 "Cheers" 3 *Climber's each half of the caretakers,
bartender support answers to traditionally
3 Green opening 4 Concurs starred clues 54 River dam
4 Pained 5 Songwriter 43 Word-for-word 55 Explorer
expression / Jacques 44 Either 2 in Hernando de -
6 Trac II successor 6 Incite to pounce 2 + 2=4, in math 88 Tbighs, at times
7 H-1 in HI, e.g.: (on)
Abbr. 7 Bun-making site ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
8 Dye, unually 8 Tugs' hardens
9 Docile 9 Shoretflier S M I T E S N O B F U J I
0 Do a cobbler's 10 Delayed T E T R A O O N A I T E R
work 11Large wardrobe A N E A T R A Z RE D A T A
2 *In the 12 Star of "I'm No B U M P I N T H E N I G H T
netherworld Angel"(1933)T7O0I 0 N
4 Think the world 15 Builder of tiny
5 Pocket protector 16Persistently I F O N L Y A L E E K O S
contents bothered S PrA GO J U L C LAW S
6 Clintonswas one 21 Love personified T O M V S O P U T O P I A
7 Ginormous 23 Corporate rule S P K E H E E L S T I N Y
9 Lets out, maybe 25 One treating
0 Some defensive 28 Number of C L 1 0 PO P
linemen Sinbad's V O L L E Y B A L L G A M E
1 Storm part voyages V I A L LEAF E A V E D
2 Eggs, to Agrippa 29 Nautical "Holdit" A C H E D A R E A L O N G
3 Lions, on a 32 Advanced exams N E U R S H E D S E N S E
scoreboard 34Australianexports xwordedtor@aoLcom 02/1710
34 Use bank 35 More lit enreluinnm 27/

"protetion"
36 Hist. maors'
degrees
39 Allotment word
40 Call. dorm
41 1944 invasion
city
45 Like some bands
47 Super trendy
49 Hackneyed
50 Lairs
52 Sharp-crested
ridge
53 Place where a
driver may be
required to stop
55 Cheshire Cat,
notably
86 But head?
87 Wrap up
59 Savings plan for
later ypt.
60 Larger-life link
61 Do over
62 Indian bread
63 Part of CBS:
Ab4r.
64 Hi-_...graphics

1 2 3 4 15__16_M 7 $ 9 10
13 14 15 16
17 18 19
20 21 22 23
24 25 26
27 2$ 29
No 31 32 33
34 35
36 3T 38 39 40 41 42
45 46 47 48
49 50 5t 52
53 54 55
56 57 58 59
60 s1 62
63 64 65 66
By Damon l Gulczynski
(c)2010 tribune Media Services, Inc.

0 11 12
3
2 4 444
9
2
B
02/18110

Nwwv.Bartonbrookxcom, 734-665-5620
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1699/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.mnichcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.amarborapartments.net
321 E. Liberty
6 BDRM APT.
$2800
SEPT. 1,2010
2 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS,
2 BLOCKS TO DOWNTOWN
4 PARKING SPACES
WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549

thecourtyar saF'
STU_
e CO TY RD
A Broadwp A R T M EArbNrT M

01


I



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 18, 2010 - 7A

Michigan's win at Iowa
marked by milestones

Blue strives to use
home-ice advantage

By GJON JUNCAJ ling, Virginia native did not appear
Daily Sports Editor in a contest. Wright wore a head-
band Tuesday, over a white gauze
IOWA CITY - It's never too late which covered an injury on the
for firsts. . right side of his forehead.
And after 25 games spanning Beilein said he held Wright
three months, the Michigan men's out of full-contact drills Monday
basketball team made recent his- and that the forehead injury lim-
tory with Tuesday night's victory ited him Tuesday enough that
over Iowa - twice. the coaching staff decided to sit
The Wolverines' 80-78 overtime Wright on the bench. Beilein
win at Carver- declined to say what led to the
Hawkeye Arena NOTEBOOK injury.
provided Michi- "The facts are that - over the
gan coach John Beilein with two last day - I believe Anthony had
miniature milestones, one that done nothing wrong to what the
halted a streak of futility and the facts that were presented to me,"
other topping a benchmark that's Beilein said Tuesday. "If the facts
been three years in the making. have changed, then I will take
Tuesday night marked the Wol- appropriate action. For now, the
verines' second consecutive road facts are the facts that we dis-
victory, something the program cussed."
had not accomplished in four years Wright said Tuesday that he did
- when Beilein was on his way to not believe the injury limited him
leading West Virginia to an even- on the court.
tual Sweet 16 berth in the 2006 "Coach's decision," Wright said
NCAA Tournament. when asked why he did not play.
"We saved our timeouts and "If I play 40 and we win, or if I
were able to use them at differ- play zero and we win, it's the same
ent times to make sure they got thing."
enough rest," Beilein said of his MAKING HIM LOOK GOOD:
current players during Tuesday's Michigan's biggest weakness
postgame radio show. "To win on throughout this season arguably
the road is very difficult, and they has been its interior defense. The
showed a lot of resiliency tonight." Wolverines are next-to-last in the
Michigan (6-7 Big Ten, 13-12 Big Ten in defensive field goal per-
overall) topped another plateau centage. More important, Michi-
Tuesday on its way to its third true gan's undersized frontcourt is
road win in nine tries this season. allowing opponents to hit 50 per-
The Wolverines' 14-for-27 three- cent of their two-point shots this
point shooting performance sig- year.
nified the only time Michigan has Tuesday night reiterated just
shot over 50 percent from behind how much room the Wolver-
the are during the Beilein era. ines' interior defense still has for
That's two-plus seasons, span- improvement. Iowa sophomore
* ning 92 contests - a stretch during forward Aaron Fuller tallied 30
which the Wolverines have led the points and grabbed 13 rebounds,
conference in triples attempted. both career highs.
Michigan is third in the Big Ten in Fuller - who was averaging just
3-pointers attempted this season. eight points and six rebounds per
WRIGHT BACK IN THE FOLD: contest entering Tuesday - hit 11
Redshirt junior forward Anthony of 13 field goals, knocking down an
Wright was expected to practice array of short turnaround jumpers
yesterday after sitting out Tuesday over whomever Michigan threw
with a right forehead injury. It was at him in the post. Fuller also
the first time in 11 games the Ster- wreaked havoc on the offensive

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Editor
Every year before hockey season
starts, like any other coach, Michi-
gan's Red Berenson closely exam-
ines the upcoming schedule.
And like any other coach, Beren-
son insists that the games within
the confines of Yost Ice Arena, in
front of a home crowd, are chalked
up as must-wins.
"You probably say, 'We've got to
be at least .500 on the road, and we
have to win all our home games,'"
Berenson said. "How many teams
win all their home games? Not very
many. But the odd team does."
But through four games at home
this season, Michigan (12-11-1
CCHA, 17-15-1 overall) was operat-
ing in an odd fashion, but not in the
way Berenson would have hoped for.
The Wolverines opened their
home slate this season with a 3-2
win over Niagara. But they dropped
the next four at Yost, with two losses
at the hands of No. 1 Miami (Ohio),
one loss to intrastate rival Michigan
State and even a loss to CCHA base-
ment dweller Bowling Green.
For junior forward Louie Capo-
russo, the losses at home to Miami
were two of the most heartbreaking
this season.
"We've went into (Miami's) rink
and have always given them trouble
in their rink, and they've always
had trouble coming here and getting
wins," Caporusso said. "I don't think
freshmen on the team really under-
stood how desperate they were toget
a win against us like that."
It was a sense of urgency that the
Wolverines weren't familiar with at
the time, but now understand com-
pletely.
* The 1-4 record at home was the
worst Michigan has ever experienced
through five home games in Beren-
son's 26-year tenure. And despite the
rough start, Berenson contends that
the team's performance wasn't due to
a lackofconfidence.
"Michigan's never been a team
that's had trouble with confidence at
home,'.' Berenson said. "You look at
our home record the last two years,

10 years, 20 years, we're as good as
anybody. We have a great environ-
ment here, and I think our team has
really thrived on playing at home in
the past."
But as two of the nation's elite
programs - now-No. 2 Wisconsin
and Minnesota - came to Yost for
the annual College Hockey Show-
case on Nov. 27 and 28, Michigan
showed a different kind of fervor
that had been missing in front of the
home crowd all season.
The Wolverines outscored the
Badgers and Gophers 7-2 in what
Berenson calls the team's "most
complete effort" of the season.
"It got us playing at the level at
home we wanted," Berenson said.
"And it gave us results."
Michigan took those results,
against the country's elite talent,
and has turned it into a 6-0-1 run at
home since then. After dropping the
contest to Bowling Green on Nov.
20, the Wolverines have only given
up four goals at Yost Ice Arena.
And though they may not have
had the same positive results on
the road - the Wolverines have
lost their last five away games -
the ability to win at home will be
imperative if they plan on securing
a bye in the first round of the CCHA
Tournament.
Michigan takes on fourth-place
Northern Michigan this weekend
with 10th-place Notre Dame waiting
in the wings for a home-and-home
series next weekend. If the Wolver-
ines have any hope of securing the
fourth and final bye in the confer-
ence tournament, they have to win
out, and that means three games in
front of a home crowd at Yost.
It's a position of urgency. But for
Caporusso, it's all he could ask for.
"Desperation ishuge whenyou're
playing, and these teams coming in
are desperate too," Caporusso said.
"Notre Dame and Northern Michi-
gan are desperate. This is desperate
hockey. It's playoff hockey, and this
is where everyone needs'to come
and play, especially at home.
"And when you're playing in
front of a crowd like Yost, there's no
excuse not to win every game."

5A D ALSALAH/Daly
Michigan coach John Beilein experienced two milestones in Tuesday's win at Iowa.
glass, nabbing six boards and con- his body to spin and draw fouls....
verting several putbacks, thanks to Iowa's going to love watching him
hard cuts to the rim and aggressive over the next two and a half years."
boxingout. SOME LONG-OVERDUE HELP:
As frustrated as the Wolver- Redshirt sophomore guard Laval
ines became with each of Fuller's Lucas-Perry's 11-point effort Tues-
baskets, he did earn at least one day was his first double-digit scor-
admirer on Michigan's sideline. ing output since Jan. 7. Michigan
"He's got a unique ability for a had gone seven games without
guy who's not a classic four-man a third player in double figures
because he's six-(feet)-six," Beilein entering Tuesday, dropping five of
said. "He plays much bigger than those contests. The Wolverines are
that. A lot of four-guys can't create 7-1 this season when three players
off the dribble like he does, and use reach double-digit points.


s-i

I

v

Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
Universi it
WT
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and ldry. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.

CORNERHOUSE
APARTMENTS
205S. State St.
on corner of State and
Washington
2 & 3 bdrm. Apt. Homes
Beautifully Furnished
Outstanding views
Garage parking
Central air
9 foot high ceilings
Premier campus location
Models open daily
734-741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @i 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

Management
621 Church St. (734)668-1100
1039 Badwin
Studio, : Beddrooms, 4 edroons
tUnbeievallf spacious aya><tmentr
l >ts irffoor, high eins,hba y
wdws, and firepaces sn a
beau,,t$ftrl cvs'rl,'st2 m sivi.
Yfluge backyardin a quiet
neighbor hoonf 3ea 1,waler,
fu"n"hi"s '&prbnsg"n" ld''
Califor youryersotalizedtour!
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers rumich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers ei~umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic campus, Law &
Business schools. Groups or individual.
SINGLE LEASES. $600/bdrm & ip.
-w 734-418 2050
w ww.828g reeneapts.cois

p
s -"
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry.Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
Uo#M Discounts!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parkiig included.
Call Campus Mgt @( 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices

SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS -Children's
sleep-away camp, Northeast Pennsylva-
nia 6/19-8/15. Ifyoa love children and
want a caring, fun ensironment we
need Counselors, Instructors and other
staff for our summer camp. On cain-
pus Interviews February 25th. Select
The Camp That Selects The Best Staff!
Call 1.215.944.3069 or apply on-line
at www.campwaynegirls.com

WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandliouse.com
ADVERT SE
e HWITB ILY
' MICHIGAN DAILY

For Friday, Feb. 19, 2010
ARIES
(March 21to April 19)
Money issues are important today.
While something behind the scenes sup-
ports you, squabbles with children or
about spending money on fun stuff could
arise. Patience!
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
You might feel more emotional about
things today because the Moon is in your
sign. In particular, little meltdowns at
home or with family members are possi-
ble. (Schmoozing with friends is fun.)
GEMINI
(May 21to June 20)
Since you make a good impression on
important people today, you might as
well milk this for all it's worth.
However, be careful about little argu-
ments with daily contacts, especially sib-
lings.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
Make travel plans or explore ideas in
publishing, higher education, the media,
medicine and the law. Discussions with a
female will promote ideas in these areas.
LEO
(July 23 toAug. 22)
Since your private life is suddenly
made public today - especially under
the scrutiny of authority figures, like
bosses and VIPs - be very careful. A
public argument is possible. (Don't lose
face.)
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Do something different today. Go
someplace you've never been before.
Talk to people from other cultures. You
want a change of scenery.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Disputes with others (friends or
groups) about shared property or how to
spend an allotted amount of money

might arise today. Fortunately, things at
work are good.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Be patient with partners and close
friends. A fleeting blowup could occur
(very brief). Fun social tites are the
order of the day.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Be patient with co-workers today.
Instead, turn your attention to family and
events at home, because here is where
you will have positive experiences.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Sports, parties, the arts, show business
and playful activities with children are
sources of joy and pleasure for you
today. (Try not to squabble about shared
property with someone else.)
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Disputes with partners at home might
flare up today. Oy! However, on the
whole, this is a pleasant day. Guard
against spending too much money on
something. (Might this be the source of
the arguments?)
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Don't be impatient with others today,
especially at work. Instead, show your
positive side, because this is your win-
ning year! Put on your game face.
YOU BORN TODAY You have grit
and determination. You're not a quitter!
Sensitive in childhood, you soon learn
how to defend yourself. You have a
strong drive for success and can work on
your own or with others. You are a leader
and will fight for the rights of others.
Your year ahead will be wonderfully
social and excellent for partnerships.
Birthdate of: Jeff Daniels, actor;
Victoria Justice, actress; Eddie Arcaro,
legendary jockey.

WHY RENT WHEN yoa can Buy? E W N D
Check out all of the available proper- HELP WANTED
ties for sale in the area.
www.tSellA2.com 734-476-9768 !!!BARTENDING!!! $3001
tial. No exp. nec., training
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAI
s R y U: Michigan Telefund, $9.2
campus location! Students
www.telefund.Lllnici.edu or
MYSTERY SHOPPI
Rent with the Best! Earn up to $150 per day. Ex
F 1 a quired. Undercover Shoppe
F & bd p to Judge Retail and DiningI
Now leasing ments. Call 800-722-4

/day poten-
provided.
x 125.
SE for the
'5/hr. NEW
s apply @
763-8773.
'ERS
p. not Re-
rs Needed
Establish-
4791.

O 2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

STU DENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% IREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon a iserv.net


8A - Thursday, February 18, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Blue gymnasts ready for top talent.

Wolverines face two
top-five teams in
coming Weeks
By MICHAEL LAURILA
Daily Sports Writer
For the No. 3 Michigan men's
gymnastics team, the schedule
doesn't get much more intimidating
than it is in the next three weeks.
On Saturday Michigan will face
No. 2 Oklahoma, followed by No.
4 Stanford and top-ranked Illinois
the weekend after. In 2007, the
Wolverines were in a similiar posi-
tion, yet were unable to sustain suc-
cess late in the season, in part due
to injuries.
"We're just going to have to be on
top of our game and stay healthy,"
Michigan coach Kurt Golder said.
"We do have enough depth, so if we
do experience sickness or injury,
we should still be able to overcome
anybody. The teams are so close
that when you're in the top three
or four teams anyone could win
it. I think we have a little advan-
tage because of our depth, but that
remains to be seen."
That depth that was evident last

weekend. With top athletes such as
juniors Chris Cameron and Thomas
Kelley resting after their two-day
performance in the Winter Cup
Invitational, the Wolverines still
beat the No. 11 University of Illinois
at Chicago.
Barely graduating any seniors
after last season's NCAA runner-
up finish, Michigan has an arsenal
of battle-tested veterans on its side.
"I think experience does play a
huge role in winning meets," Cam-
eron said. "The best thing about
this team is that it's so fresh. We're
really coming to realize the level of
gymnastics that we're doing is more
than it was back in'07,'08, and even
last year. That's why we're so con-
fident in winning. We're using that
past experience to make us way bet-
ter right now."
Cameron is currently nursing a
hand injury, which will not hinder
him from competition, but he will
compete in different events from
his usual slate. After his perfor-
mance at the Winter Cup, he is cur-
rently the second-ranked gymnast
in the nation.
Even with several talented ath-
letes accustomed to the national
stage, the Wolverines are not flaw-
less.

"We still have to improve," Gold-
er said. "We're not good enough
right now to win a champion-
ship, but were certainly pointed in
that direction and we can be good
enough. We're not a good enough
team where we can just coast from
this point on."
Two years ago, Oklahoma visited
Michigan at about the same time in
the season, in an almost identical
position as well. In front of 1,760
fans, the Wolverines won by a mar-
ginal three points.
"It was the most fun meet I've
ever competed in," redshirt senior
Kent Caldwell said. "We sold out
Cliff Keen and there was really
good energy there.
"Hopefully, all those things will
come together again for a really
good meet."
Along the stretch, not only will
the Wolverines' experience come
in handy, but also the camaraderie
they have developed.
"We know what to expect and
how to encourage one another,"
Cameron said. "We also know little
ticks that people have so we avoid
those. It makes everything really
smooth. There's a trust there that
you develop with teammates over
time."

Junior Chris Cameron sat out last week's meet against Illinois-Chicago after qualifying for the U.S. Nation
Cup Invitational two weeks ago.

Over career, Curtis emerged
as leader in Maize and Blue

Fuzetti takes his talent from .
Ann Arbor to Kansas City

By STEPHEN NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
Senior Sarah Curtis stood up,
smiled to the crowd, accepted a bou-
quet of flowers and hopped onto the
awards podium last Saturday. She
had completed that routine four con-
secutive times, beaming with each
announcement.
In her final home Big Ten meet
for the No. 16 Michigan women's
gymnastics team, Curtis took the
all-around crown, placing in the top
three spots in three events.
"She puts 100 percent of her-
self into everything that she does,"
Michigan coach Bev Plocki said of
the senior. "She is a very passionate
gymnast. When she walks into the
doors of the-gym she puts everything
into her gymnastics. She also puts all
of herself into her academics."
For Sarah Curtis, it was the aca-
demics and gymnastics program
at the University of Michigan were
enough to make her to reject other
top-notch schools like Stanford,
UNC, Alabama, Arizona and Oregon
State - most of which were closer to
home - and choose Ann Arbor.
"I chose Michigan for it's great
combination of everything that was
important to me," Curtis said. "I'm
huge on academics, and this is obvi-
ously one of the most prestigious
universities, and there is also a very
good gymnastics team. They really
had the whole package, unlike every
otherschool that I was looking at."
The day before former Michigan
assistant coach Joanne Bowers came
to visit her in Reno, Curtis received a
call from her front-runner, Stanford,
saying the university had insufficient
funds to offer her a scholarship for

her freshman year.
When Bowers invited her to visit
the University of Michigan that
August, Curtis who was interested
in Michigan's pharmaceutical pro-
gram accepted. And Michigan's call-
ing card for her academically was the
pharmaceutical program.
"When Joanne came I wasn't
really thinking about Michigan too
much," Curtis said. "But in light of
what Stanford said, I told her, 'Sure,
I'll take a trip there.'"
To make things easier, she took a
call from Oregon State - the univer-
sity she followed growing up - the
day before stopping at Michigan.
They said that they only had one
scholarship left, and that she needed
to make a decision soon so the money
would not be wasted. Resenting the,
added pressure, Curtis stepped away
from the offer. Finishing her stretch
of East Coast visits, she stepped onto
the Michigan campus.
"It was just one of those things
where I really could already tell that
I fit here in Ann Arbor," Curtis said.
"I felt that I was really here, right
where I was supposed to be. It was
a hard decision to make, but I finally
made the call."
After arriving at Michigan for
her freshman year, Curtis jumped
right into a position in the all-around
.behind then-junior Nellie Kippley,
taking third in her first two meets
and surpassing Kippley for second
place in her third meet.
But disaster struck as Curtis took
a tumble and ruptured her Achilles'
tendon during warm-ups for a home
matchup against Denver. The injury
required surgery, effectively ending
her season and leaving her future as
a gymnast in question.

"How do I describe my freshman
year? Turmoil," Curtis said. "Not
being able to compete when I could
have been a stronger contributor to
our team was disappointing, but it
kind of let me find my niche on the
team."
The highly touted prospect recov-
ered from an unsuccessful freshman
campaign to set her high marks as a
second-year gymnast and was named
the team's co-most valuable gymnast.
She now carried a new mentality.
"Every time you put on the block
'M' leotard, you never take it for
granted," Curtis said. "You never
know what's going to happen."
Curtis was named team captain
as a junior, and currently ranks
seventh in team history with 23 all-
around scores posted over the elite
39.000 mark.
"I think Sarah has matured into a
real leader of this team," Plocki said.
"She isn't an extremely vocal person,
butshedefinitelyisalead-by-example
type of athlete. She is one of the hard-
est workers, doesn't ever complain,
she competes like she practices, and
she practices like she performs."
Curtis earned a spot on the All-Big
Ten first team after her sophomore
and junior years. For a career full of
gaudy results, the team element has
risen above her own feats: in her ten-
ure Michigan has gone 32-2 in BigTen
performances, the two losses coming
duringherinjury absence in 2007.
"My goals coming here were to do
well in school here, enjoy school, and
still participate in gymnastics at the
same time," Curtis said.
Just as the team's motto is "Mis-
sion: Possible," with Curtis's success-
ful career, her personal maxim could
read, "Mission: Accomplished"'

By BRIAN MECHANICK
For the Daily
It was 5:22 p.m. on Jan.14. Some
Michigan students were in class,
some were studying, and some
were sleeping. But one Michigan
senior sat anxiously on his com-
puter as he found out his dream
had come true. Mauro Fuzetti had
just been drafted by Major League
Soccer's Kansas City Wizards.
Fuzetti's journey began in Rio
de Janeiro, where he was born. The
son of a former Brazilian profes-
sional soccer player, Fuzetti found
his love of the game in the futebol
obsessed culture. Fuzetti modeled
his game on Brazilian superstars
Ronaldo and Ronaldinho.
However, it was in his move to
Houston where Fuzetti became a
star in his own right.
At Stratford High School,
Fuzetti was a playmaker and
three-time team MVP. After
choosing to play collegiately at
Michigan, Fuzetti began a stellar
career, in which he was a four-year
starter for the Wolverines, garner-
ingAll-Big Ten honorsin his junior
and senior seasons. As his time
in Ann Arbor came to a close, his
attention turned towards the 2010
MLS draft.
Luckily for Fuzetti, he had a
friend to help him through the
process. Peri Maroievic, Fuzetti's
teammate for three years at Michi-
gan, experienced the same process
the previous year. He was drafted
No. 5 overall by FC Dallas.
"We talked alot about the whole
process," Fuzetti said. "Every-
thing I was going through he had
gone through. Step-by-step he was
giving me advice with the agents
and the combine."
The MLS combine, which took
place Jan. 9-12 would prove piv-
otal in determining Fuzetti's
MLS prospects. More than 60 of
the best prospects came together
to demonstrate their skills and
scrimmage against one another
fighting to prove their draft stock.
"It's different than playing for
your college team," Fuzetti said.
"On a college team everyone is a

good player, but they are still on
certain levels, being freshmen,
sophomores and upperclassmen.
But at the combine everyone is at
the same level of quality, so the
speed of play and the level is just a
little bit higher. It's a lot more fun
to play and it's a lot better quality
soccer."
Coming out of the combine,
Fuzetti caught the Wizards' eye.
"At the combine we wanted to
address a couple of our needs,"
Kansas City assistant coach Kerry
Zagavin said. "One of them beinga
good, solid midfield player. Mauro
at the draft looked to possess some
of the qualities that would make
him attractive within our team."
And while he hadn't been one
of the most heralded players going
into the combine, Fuzetti held his
own against the best in the nation.
"He makes good decisions on
the ball," Zagavin said. "Some
guys play more with athleticism
and some guys play more with
their intelligence within the game
and I think Mauro bringsthe latter
of that. ... Mauro is good with his
right foot and his left foot but his
timing coming out of midfield and
ability to get himself involved and
integrated into the game is pretty
good."
With only two days between the
end of the combine and the MLS
Draft, Fuzetti was left with noth-
ing left to do but wait for his name
to be called.
On draft day, Fuzetti had to wait
through forty picks until he was
drafted 41st-overall in the third
round.
"Only the first round was shown
on ESPN," Fuzetti said. "So after
that you had to follow it on your
computer, which is even worse.
You have to wait name by name to
pop up on the computer, but once
you finally see your name it's the
best feeling ever."
The elation over being drafted
was short lived however, as he was
soon off to Kansas City to partici-
pate in training camps and fight
for a roster spot. Looming over the
league, however, are labor negotia-
tions that have threatened a lock-

out this season. Fuzetti admitted
that he does think about a poten-
tial lockout, but as it's outside of
his control, he tries to prepare for
the season as best as he can.
The Wizards' experienced
players like Josh Wolff and Davy
Arnaud, both U.S. National Team
members and MLS veterans -
have provided leadership for
Fuzetti, making the adjustment to
his new team easier.
"I've actually had a chance
to have dinners with both as a
group," Fuzetti said. "It's nice to
have people like that who are will-
ing to share information with you
and try to make you more success-
ful."
After only the beginning of the
preseason, Fuzetti has experi-
enced a level of soccer far more
difficult and intense than he expe-
rienced at Michigan. Zagavin says
that Fuzetti has shown himself
well so far in camp.
Still, neither Fuzetti nor Zaga-
vin can make any guarantees for
his MLS future. As a middle-round
draft pick, nothing is a given for
Fuzetti. The whole Wizards orga-
nization understands that in an
MLS where over 80 percent of its
players have non-guaranteed con-
tracts, player will be cut if he stops
producing.
Fuzetti has an opportunity
though, playing for a Wizards
team that was third worst in the
MLS last season. Zagavin admit-
ted that the Wizards are going
through a youth movement and are
looking for rookies to contribute.
"Just getting some playing time
as a rookie," Fuzetti said when
asked about his goals, "establish-
ing some sort of role on the team
where I can come in and make an
impact in the game."
But, even though he is taking a
pragmatic approach to this season,
that does not mean he doesn't have
bigger goals for the future.
"As far as my highest goals go,"
Fuzetti said. I probably am looking
to play in the MLS three, four, or
five years and then depending on
how well I do, be able to go play in
Europe somewhere."

@"
"

2010 sE#tuwer Fatcial Aid App1'c s:
PLANNING TO REGISTER FOR
SPRING/SUMMER CLASSES
-f, nOW is the time to
apply for financial aid.

To be considered for all aid programs, be sure that:
" you register at least half-time during your
appointed enrollment time, and
o the Office of Financial Aid receives all of your
Spring/Summer application materials/information
by:
Friday, March 12, 2010.
SPRING/SUMMER AID APPLICATION
AND INSTRUCTIONS ARE ON THE WEB:
www.finaid.umich.edu/forms/ssrff 10

helping U
go blue!
University of Michigan
Office of Financial Aid (OFA)
2500 SAB&
B430 Pierpont Commons
(734) 763-6600
financIal.aid@umich.edu
www.finaid.umich.edu

01

r t y,



weekend
essentials
Feb. 18 to Feb. 21
ON EXHIBIT
"Dis Illusion" is the
School of Art &
Design's latest exhibit.
Delving into different
realms of expression
like holograms and
digital manipulation,
"Dis Illusion" explores
the function of illusion
and disillusion and how
realities can be created
and destroyed. "Dis
Illusion" is on display
until March 12 at the
Work Gallery on 306
S. State Street, from
noon to'7 p.m., Tuesday
through Thursday. Free.
CONCERT
Chicago stalwart Tor-
toise bring its minimal-
ist, highly innovative
post-rock to the Blind
Pig Friday night in
support of its new-
est record, 2009's
Beacons of Ancestor-
ship. Twenty years
in, Tortoise remains
one of the few consis-
tently engaging bands
to bridge the ever-
widening gap between
Gen X-ers and college
hipsters - but don't
worry, your.parents
still probably won't
like them. Tickets
$18, doors at 9 p.m.
FILM
How dedicated are you
to winning your Oscar
pool? Allow yourself to
thoroughly experience
the comprehensive.
list of nominees by
checking out the Oscar
Nominated Short Films
- both animated and
live-action - open-
ing Friday, playing
through the weekend
at the Michigan The-
ater. There's a reason

these films are given
out annually at the
awards show - they
can be incredible,
bite-size works of art.
AT UMMA
"Herb and Dorothy"
tells the real-life story
of Herb and Dorothy
Vogel, a working-
class couple with a
love of modern art.
The film details how
they built an extraor-
dinary modern art
collection on a limited
budget while befriend-
ing the artists who
produced the works.
The film is showing
Friday at 9:30 p.m. in
UMMA's Helmut Stern
auditorium. Free.

,


2B - Thursday, February 18, 2010

FOOD WARS

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
rn f


CHINA GATE
Anyone can deep fry the shit out of
bad chicken and make it relatively palat-
able. So the quality of most General Tso's
Chicken depends on the sauce. China
Gate's General Tso's sauce is heavy with-
out being overbearing, has an appealing
balance of sweet and spicy and mixes well
with the rice. The portion-to-price ratio is
also agreeable. A tangy experience.

T-K WU
Nicknamed "the Wu" by Daily Arts,
this Liberty Street mainstay's General
unfortunately misfires. The chicken is
too squishy and sports a disturbingly
bright red glisten, while the sauce's spice
level is just shy of tolerable. Probably not
helped by the copious peppers. The Wu's
still delicious, but indulge your feminine
side and stick with the Princess Chicken.

GENERAL TSO'S CHICKEN

LUCKY KITCHEN
Theysay "Luckyin chicken, unluckyin
love." Well the people at Lucky Kitchen
must have sad romances, because their
chicken is pretty damn good. Tender and
juicy chicken mixes with a thick, delicous
sauce. What's missing here is the kick.
General Tso's is at its best when it has a
little spice, but Lucky Kitchen offers a
purely savory experience.

SAN FU
San Fu provides a cheap, swift and
marginally satisfying General Tso's
Chicken dish. The chicken itself is of
McNugget quality, which is to be expect-
ed. But while the sauce is runny and
underwhelmingly spicy, it's not a com-
plete disgrace. San Fu's rendition is not
the best in town, but it's not so bad as to
shame the good General.

AND THE WINNER IS: CHINA GATE
CAMPUS CLASH
LAST WEEK'S RESULTS:
Charlie White and Meryl Davis skate out onto the Olympic ice. As they begin
their routine, each is lulled by the other into a false sense of security. That is,
until Charlie White uses a flourish of the arm to whip out his tarantula.and
toss in onto Meryl's shoulder. But Meryl is prepared for Charlie's sudden but
inevitable betrayal, and she starts up a game of "Bop It Extreme" then tosses
it to Charlie as a misdirection. And while Charlie does become quite
distracted, it is too late. The tarantula has already struck.
WINNER: CHARLIE WHITE
THIS WEEK'S FIGHT:
ABISHEK BARACK
MAHANTI , OBAMA
ARMED WITH: ARMED WITH:
The audacity to lead The audacity to hope. And
MSA. And a curling rock. a sharpened ski pole.

The Daily Arts weekly show
"Accost'd" continues with more
belligerent entertainment action.
To find out which president your
University companions find the
sexiest, watch the powerful,
attention-commanding video at
michigandaily.com/section/arts.
Weekend Freebies
Because boredom doesn't end
when your cash flow does
Friday, February 19
Museum Studies Brown Bag Lecture Series
PhD Christine Efta talks about creatingan
audio tour an East Asian history, to tref
UMMA multipurpase roam, 12 p.m.
Reduce por stress with a Relaxation'
Warkshsp, fotfree at the CAPS ihry
Michigan Union room 3100,12:1S.m.
UMix Latenight
Comics, "Precious" and make-your-own
Wanted posters, fo free!
Michigan Union, 10p.m.
Saturday, Februaty 20
SMTD at UMMA .
The Dance on Camera Festival comes '
A2 from NYC fo free.
Helmut Stern Auditorium, 7 p.m.
Specialist Degree Recital
Edward Hanlon, bass, sings selections from
Mozart, Mussorgsky and more, fo free!
Walgreen Drama Center, 8 p.m.

WHAT'SNEW
ON THE DAILY
ARTS BLOG
. Globetrotting with
googly eyes: The online diver-
sions this meek mill keep your
mouth saying "Aww" and your brain
saying "Wherethe hell is Nordland?"
. Lost' fans not kept in
the dark: This week's episode
of "Lost" wasan epic win. Read
our post to see if you agree, but if
you spend your time watching and
rewatching this episode instead,
we'll understand.
. Satirizing Sarah: There's
a feud going on between Sarah
Palin and "Family Guy," and the
true definition of "satire" hangs in
the balance. Andrew Lapin walks
you through the controversy with a
handy cheat sheet.


I'

*I

There's a difference between communicating ideas and experiencing them. It's the
difference between memorizing a foreign language and thinking in one. Between
studying ruins and excavating them. Between analyzing dreams and living them. The
difference is huge. And it's the very essence of the University of Chicago Summer
Session. Where students are engaged at every level-intellectually, socially, personally,
and professionally. Where you can benefit from the value of taking university courses
in an accelerated, intensive format. Join us this summer for an extraordinary learning
experience at the academic home to 85 Nobel laureates.
FOR STUDENTS IN HIGH SCHOOL, COLLEGE, AND BEYOND.
JUNE 2I-AUGUST 27, 200
3, 4, 5, 6, AND 9-WEEK SESSIONS
For more information, visit
summer.uchicago.edu/um
or call773/702-6033

w THE UNIVERSITY OF
CHICAGO



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 18, 2010 -- 3B

Celebrating Motown at the U'
Professors, students combo with School of Music, Theatre & example of the label's role in shattering
Dance students. Friday will begin with a racial barriers, saying that Motown "made
and industry insiders panel discussion, followed by a conversa- this incredible breakthrough in terms of
tion with former Motown employees and getting black music and black artists into
reflect on Motown's two more panel discussions. mainstream America.
"People from the School of Music, The- "It seems hard to believe today, but at .N
massive influence atre & Dance ... are talking about it from a the time in '65, the Supremes had three
historical and a cultural perspective," said number-one hit records in a row, they're
By DAVID RIVA MT&D Ph.D. Candidate Scott Edgar, mem- on the Ed Sullivan show, they're on all the g
DailyArts Writer ber of the "Going to School on Motown" big network TV shows at the time, but I
panel discussion. "There's people from can't get them on the cover of a weekly TV F l
In the music world, unanimous accep- Detroit talking about it in terms of an urban guide, because the editor of the TV guide
tance, critical praise and unquestion- perspective, there's people from recording is saying, 'We can't put black people on the
able staying power are each difficult to agencies talking about that perspective cover of a TV magazine ... people keep this - r.

achieve individu-
ally, let alone all at "Growing Up
once. Every person Motown:
has specific tastes,
and every class, cul- Stevie Wonder,
ture, gender and race Michael Jackson
has a style or sound
unique to itself and the Making
Flash back to the of Motown"
middle of the 20th
century, when a Today and
Detroit-based record tomorrow,
label broke these con- various times
ventions of isolation Palmer Commons
and segregation and Free
created a phenome-
non that transcended
normal explanation. Fifty years after its
inception, Motown Records and the artists
it produced have remained a topic of con-
versation in music, pop culture, academia
and beyond.
The University's Center for Afroameri-
can & African Studies, in conjunction with
University Unions' Arts and Programs
S Division and the School of Music, The-
atre & Dance, has taken advantage of this
common point of interest and gathered a
diverse group of scholars, students and
industry professionals to weigh in on the
lasting impact of Motown.
"Growing Up Motown: Stevie Won-
der, Michael Jackson and the Making of
Motown" will take place today and tomor-
row at Palmer Commons. Today's events
include a student panel highlighting vari-
ous Motown-related projects at the Uni-
versity, a keynote address and a student
performance by "The Motown.10," a jazz

and I think that's important because all of
those components are what built Motown."
The two-day symposium is not just a
bunch of super-fans celebrating some of
the world's most beloved artists. It's also
a critical assessment of the label's influ-
ence on the advancement of equality in
the entertainment industry and Motown's
role as the soundtrack for a time of great
social change.
"It's an absolutely central part of Amer-
ican history," said University of Wiscon-
sin professor and author
Craig Werner, today's
keynote speaker. "With-
out Motown, you cannot
tell a story of the changes
in America from the late
1950s, really, to the present.
"Motown changed the
ways in which white people
with no particular commit- MO T
ment to civil rights ... under-
stood African-American
experience," he said. "It was opening a
door that's been, in one way or another ...
opening ever since."
"I think that there's a very, very strong
argument to be made that without Motown
you can't have Barack Obama," Werner
added. He will address this topic in his
talk, "Heaven Help Us All: Stevie Wonder,
Michael Jackson and the Meaning(s) of
Motown in the Age of Obama."
Al Abrams, a former press agent and
public relations consultant at Motown
Records, agreed with this connection to
our nation's current commander in chief
and backed up the bold claim with an


in their living room all week long by their
TV set, they can't keep looking down at it
and seeing these black faces looking up at
them.'
"And of course, in my typical naivety,
I say, 'Well ... they could always turn the
cover over and look at the ad on the back."'
With enough perseverance, Abrams
helped to land stories in TIME, News-
week and LIFE magazines. But exposure
for his artists through mainstream media
outlets was not his only accomplishment.
Getting disc jockeys to play
Motown records on white
radio stations proved to
be an exceedingly difficult
challenge.
"When we started out,
even (the artists on Bill-
board's) Hot 100 chart ...
were segregated," he said.
W No "There was a separate chart
for blacks. We broke that
barrier. That's one of the
things I'm very proud of. That doesn't exist
anymore thanks to what we did."
"I still believe ... it's a straight line of pro-
gression even SO years later to the election
of Barack Obama," Abrams added.
The fusion of scholars like Werner
and first-hand witnesses like Abrams is
what makes the symposium particularly
intriguing.
"People are still doing dissertations
and books and articles on Motown, and
we wanted to bring some of that scholar-
ly activity together with people who had
actual memories (and people) who had
worked for the company," explained Pro-
fessor of Afroamerican and African Stud-
ies Angela Dillard, a co-organizer of the
symposium.
Furthermore, students will provide an
entirely distinct viewpoint from a genera-
tion that listened to Motown on the oldies
station with their parents and grandpar-
ents.
Instead of emphasizing Motown as an
integral part of American history, School
of Art & Design senior Michelle Dimuzio
said, "It's just feel-good music."
"It's very simple in its message ... it can
appeal to any person and it's really fun to
dance to and ... get stuck in your head," she
said.
Dimuzio is still conscious of the greater
consequences of Motown. She is focusing
her Integrative Project in the School of Art
& Design on Motown and noted the music's
specific influence on modern R&B and hip
hop.
An obvious roadblock arises when con-
sidering a young person's point of view:
Can 20-year-olds really relate to music

COURTESY OF CBS
An integral band to Motown's success, the Jackson 5, perform on the Ed Sullivan Show.

Despite the popularity of Motown music, black artists still faced obstacles in the media

made 50 years ago?
LSA junior Jalynn Lassic doesn't see
this as an issue.
"A song can be 50-years-old or 50-sec-
onds-old. If it's written well, if it has a good
beat ... (it's) always going to be relevant,"
she said.
For Music, Theater & Dance senior Wil-
liam Stanton, Motown is compelling to
study from a music producer's standpoint,
rather than solely through a cultural or
historical lens.
"Everything in the recording (process)
... by today's standards ... was absolutely
wrong," he explained. "It was largely engi-
neered by people (who) didn't know any-
thing about the equipment and didn't know
anything about engineering in general ...
The sound equipment that comes free on
an average Mac is far beyond what some
engineers had back in the day.
"And yet there's still something about
the way that they did it," he said, "working
though the limitations of their day (and) it
just sounds phenomenal."
He added, "There's this kind of energy
that they put into it that is very appealing
(and is) much more meaningful than the
equipment itself."
Dimuzio, Lassic and Stanton are all on

the "Going to School on Motown" panel
and have personal ties to the Detroit area,
some stronger than others.
Lassic, for instance, has a "great aunt
(who) knew Diana Ross and some of the
Motown singers ... (she) tells stories about
how they hung out with them early in their
career."
The music itself took a primary posi-
tion in CAAS Program Associate Elizabeth
James's upbringing: "Being a little girl and
hearing these songs, I'd go ask, 'What does
this mean?' and my parents would talk to
me about it and yet it was introduced in a
way with such beautiful melodies that they
haunt me still.
"The whole notion of possibilities in
the midst of the Detroit rebellions, I know
that definitely helped our family through
a lot of hard times," she added. "You could
always put on Motown music and feel bet-
ter."
These personal stories will share the
stage with lectures, discussions and a per-
formance in what Dillard hopes will not
only be "a multi-generational celebration
but also (a) critical reflection on Motown
and what it meant."
For more information on events and
times, visit www.umich.edu/-iinet/caas.

Stevie Wonder is the subject of two seperate lectures to be given at the symposium.

The lighter side of Our Town'

By EMMA JESZKE
Daily Arts Writer
Audiences go to the theater expecting to
watch a play safely behind an imaginary bar-
rier, the theatrical "fourth wall," and willingly
* suspend their disbelief. Gen-
erally, they do not expect to
be directly addressed by the "Our Town"
actors or that the production
will purposefully call atten- Tonight at
tion to itself. But that's what 7:30 p.m.,
"Our Town" does from its very Tomorrow and
first line. Saturday at 8
"Our Town," one of the p.m., Sunday
most frequently produced at 2 p.m.
American plays, opens the Mendelssohn
Department of Theatre & Theater
Drama's winter season with Tickets from $9
a contemporary perspective
on the 72-year-old work. This
production amplifies the self-referential quali-
ties of the play, which follows a narrator called
the Stage Manager who serves as a mediator
between the audience and the everyday interac-
tions of the people in the fictional town of Gro-
ver's Corners, New Hampshire.
Director Jerry Schwiebert, clinical assistant
professor of performing arts in the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance, said that his adaptation
of "Our Town" isn't a complete departure from
the traditional tendencies of the production.
However, specific, minimal design choices were
made in order to place emphasis on the simplic-
ity and richness of the text. The stage setting
consists of little more than two tables and some
chairs. The fly system (ropes, counterweights,
and pulleys offstage that move curtains, scen-
ery, etc.) is completely exposed on stage left.
There will be no props used by the actors, and
the lighting design will highlight areas of the
stage rather than create an elaborate spectacle.
"If you have a fast horse, don't put two jock-
eys on its back," Schwiebert said. "What I mean
is, if you have a really good play, you don't need
to mess it up. The approach was to tell the story
simply, to make the stage look empty."
"It's a chance to see how powerful the theater
can be without glitz, without trumpinit up -

for your car
" Free taxi back to campus
S 14/7drop off/ pick-up
Family owned
. . ulmethak
ta r A 'o ProAutoTechs.com -734.665.9707

This production of 'Our Town' uses minimal set elements to put the focus on the actors.
just an actor on stage talking truthfully to you," too artificial.
he added. "My thought was that the actions that (the
Characters in "Our Town" range from as old actors) play define and age the character,"
as 60 to as young as 11. Even though the actors Schwiebert explained. "We'll just let (the actors)
portraying the variety of ages are all University be themselves, let them show the character and
students, Schwiebert explained that theatrical how they behave differently, and I think that
aging makeup w al not be used because it sems f See OUR TOWN, Page 4B


4B - Thursday, February 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Keeping Ann Arbor
artists close to home

KUPPERS
From Page 1B
tive," Kuppers said about her and Mar-
cus's intimate book of poems.
"Many people speak to us abouthow
empowering ic was to them. to see some-
one speak about love and sexuality in the
context of disability, and from a position
of being involved in it, rather than analyz-
ingit."
The book's title verges on taboo. "Crip-
ple" holds negative connotations; it's a
harsh word to the ears of many disabled
people.
"We've had a few people that respond
very negatively to the title 'Cripple Poet-
ics'because of the word'cripple'in it. (But)
we use the term because of its poetic rich-
ness; there's so much more heft, so much
more richness," Kuppers said. "There's so
much more weight, so much more meta-
phorical density in the word 'cripple' than
there is in 'disability.'
"We are very interested in the mean-
ings of the word, how it sounds in the ear,
how it ripples off my tongue," she added.
"I think disability culture depends on
opening itself up to all connotations of
disability."
Disability Culture
"I am disabled, living with pain and
fatigue, and I've been a dancer my whole
life, too," Kuppers said.
With an optimistic attitude, Kup-
pers often sought out the positive side of
potentially negative situations. She men-
tioned how she prefers to "always focus
on the more productive aspects."
Because she is able to "see and track its
progress," she said, "(the disability move-
ment) is a very exciting cultural move-
ment to be part of: it changes the world we
live in, and we can experience this diver-
sification, this new richness."
However, disability culture is more
than the rectification of discrimination.
While the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 affords similar protections
as those in the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
"there (are) still plenty of places out there
in the. world that I can't really access,"
Kuppers said.
"Internationally, many dance depart-
ments and theater departments are still
inaccessible to wheelchair users - I still
can't get into the spaces. So I could not do
what I'm doing (elsewhere in the world),
and I am very glad to be living in the U.S."
In keeping with her positive person-
ality, she acknowledged that while "dis-
crimination and lack of access have been
intimate features of my life, at the same
time they've been the machines that
always pushed me to create my art and
shape a creative politics," she said.
Disability culture is about accepting
and transforming the challenges that
come with living in a discriminatory
world and celebrating the richness of
human responses to hardship.
Kuppers received a Ph.D at an arts col-
lege in the United Kingdom, a profession-
ally challenging yet liberating experience
"as a theorist, writer and performance
artist in an arts-focused environment."
As an undergraduate performance
studies major, Kuppers explained, "I was
able to take classes, but they usually had
to be moved to other, more accessible
buildings, and that was very awkward
because it was always focused on me."
Kuppers is disabled, moving about with
her powerchair, but her calm demeanor
doesn't evoke sympathy. Instead, just
watching one of her performances, talk-
ing with her about life or being in one of
her classes challenges students to cele-
brate their bodies and their places within
the community.
Through the University

In "English 346: Embodiment/Envi-
ronment," a performance studies class
also taught by Kuppers, LSA junior Adam
Gorring wrote in an e-mail interview
that aside from its "New Traditions"
fulfillment, the fact that yoga mats were
required for an English class definitely
stood out.
"I was so intrigued Ihad to sign up," he
wrote.
"I like my students to be present to
themselves," Kuppers explained, stress-
ing the beauty within one's body in the
present moment, disregarding limita-
tions.
Kuppers hopes her students will "learn
something that will be of use to them for a
really long time."
In describing English 346, Kuppers
said the class uses "experiential anatomy
exercises, relaxation exercises and cre-

Ann Arbor is an artistic city. This is some-
thing I have believed since I got here way
back in 2007, and Ihave been unwavering
in that view. But in a poll on AnnArbor.com,
58 percent of voters feel
differently, saying that a
lack of a viable inexpen-
sive performance space
is driving away the city's
artists. When I first saw
these results, I thought'
they were ridiculous.
Ann Arbor's art scene is -
undeniably rich, right? JAMIE
We find evidence of this BLOCK
on posting boards, in our
inboxes and from strang-
ers passing out flyers on the Diag. But then
I realized how narrow my focus has been.
While the University still serves as a beacon
for artistic excellence, the rest of the city isn't
always so lucky.
According to an AnnArbor.com report,
City Council has passed a resolution encour-
aging an "innovative process of community
collaboration" for finding a viable arts space
(City officials, artists share concerns that
Ann Arbor may be losing its cultural vitality,
2/2/10). Arts Alliance, a local arts advocacy
group, has its sights set on 415 W. Washing-
ton, an out-of-use garage, as a potential loca-
tion for a community arts center. While this
would undoubtedly be a boon to the city's
art scene, there are some other performance
spaces the city could tap into in the mean-
while: the University's spaces.
The University campus includes quite
a few performance spaces, none of which
are in use each and every night. Sure,
it's not ideal to hold performances on
arbitrary weekdays, which may be all the
'U' performances schedule would allow,
but there is still an opportunity for Ann
Arbor's professional artists to perform in
the University's spaces.
Now, this isn't aone way street. It would
require collaboration from both sides of the
University's borders. Ann Arbor organiza-
tions ought to start communicating with the
arts organizations on campus responsible
for booking these stages. The University
Musical Society and the School of Music,
Theatre & Dance are always bringing in
great performers from all corners of the
country and the world. But in the inter-
est of keeping Ann Arbor a viable arts city
for all the artists the University spits out
into it, the 'U' ought to offer the city some
artistic sanctuary. And for visual artists, the
University could set aside a spot in the now-
expansive University of Michigan Museum
of Art for local exhibitions.
Some University students and faculty
may present a valid objection to this idea:
There are only so many artists the school
can bring in each year, so shouldn't the 'U'
try to bring in the best instead of the clos-
est? But there's enough to gain to make up

for the fact that the Ann Arbor artists may
not always be the best artists (though they
often could be). This collaboration wouldn't
just give local artists an opportunity to
find some exposure in the general sense, it
would also show the students just what the
city has to offer.
There are several arts organizations that
students simply don't know about because
the organizations' headquarters lie far
beyond the traditional student hangouts.
For instance, who knew there was an Ann
Arbor Comic Opera company? I sure didn't,
but that's exactlythe kind of thing I would
make the time to go see. Now it would be
much more difficult, though, because lack of
viable space sent them to Canton. Bringing
performances to the University will show the
studentbody what entertainment lies over
yonder. Once there is a better community
space for these artists, they will find not only
a new building, but a new student fanbase
following them there.
'U' space should be
more available to
local artists.
And that's the other consolation for those
who feel this is a poor use of space: It wouldn't
be forever. According to the AnnArbor.com
report, the City Council is asking for recom-
mendations regarding arts spaces in February
of next year. And hopefully the powers that be
will come together so that, once recommenda-
tions are made regarding415W. Washington
or another similar space, the new arts space
can be up and running as soon as possible.
Tamara Real, the president of Arts Alli-
ance, said in the AnnArbor.com report that
in a 2008 artists census, there were over
1,000 responders from Ann Arbor. We have
reached a point at which the Blind Pig, the
Ark and the Performance Network just aren't
enough. We need to provide an affordable
performance space for these artists, or else
they willbe forced to leave. I don't want stu-
dents who come here several years from now
to see an artless Ann Arbor.
Obviously, programming for the rest of
this year in University performance spaces
has already been decided. But next year
really isn't so far away. As the University's
arts administrators schedule performances
and exhibits for nextyear, I beseech them to
look local. I still believe that Ann Arbor is an
artistic city, but I acknowledge now that this
isn't a given. Let's do whatever possible at the.
'U' to help our city keep its culture.
Block has nowhere to perform his
comic opera. To let him use your dorm,
e-mail him at jamblock@umich.edu.

Kuppers hopes to teach her students how the differences among us are revealed in performance.

ative movement exercises as a way of vali-
dating our bodies as source of knowledge,
validating who we are as producers."
But where's the English part in all of
this?
"Students are asked to make connec-
tions between the experiences they'd
had in the classroom and their analysis of
poetry and prose passages," Kuppers said.
She said by doing this, she reveals to
her students that there are, in fact, other
ways to delve into literature.
"Instead of analyzing a text from exist-
ing interpretations, I'm trying to get stu-
dents to understand that there's another
way to develop a critical understanding,
and that is by really listening to your own
physical, emotional, intellectual respons-
es, and using those as the center from
which to approach the outside world,"
she- said. "What does it feel like to give
space to a poem in your own body, in your
mouth, with your breath?"
"New Traditions" may seem like a
foggy title to students outside and even
inside the English major, but that may be
the best thing about it. Kuppers described
her Disability Culture class as if reading
from the syllabus - there's no fluff.
According to her, it's a class "in which
we talk about this emerging cultural
form, the disability culture movement.
We look at a wide range of causes and look
at the responses that they have created,
given the kind of world we live in. And we
look at how the world has changed, the
discrimination that people, have faced,
and the creative outpouring that -is hap-
pening."
Outside of the Classroom
Kuppers is the author of a number of
books that bridge the gap between bod-
ies, performance and disability, but she
doesn't tend to toot her own horn.
"There's something strange about put-
ting your own work in the classroom," she
explained.
While all of her work is very personal
and a narrative of her life as a witness-
ing critic, her most intimate book is
undoubtedly "Cripple Poetics," a book not
assigned in her classroom.
"It's the poems (Marcus and I) were
writing to each other as we were getting
to know one another," she said, "(But) at
the same time, it also is a meditation on
embodiment and disability ... A lot of this
book is not really about a conventional,
highly private, heteronormative love-
relationship. This is a book of connections
between many different people, a more
expansive love."
On top of her books, she has also helped
produce several short films. The artis-
tic film "water burns sun," starring both
Kuppers and Marcus, won first prize in
both the international Disability Film
Festival and the U.S.-based Focus Film
Festival in 2009. "The Anarcha Project:

Sims and the Medical Plantation" touch-
es on discrimination from two angles as
it tells the heartbreaking story of three
African-American slave women and the
ruthless crimes against them during
"gynecological experiments."
It's in projects like these that Kuppers's
intentions for cultural development are
reflected. She is not bound by the limits
of discrimination within disability; she
merely uses that as a jumping-off point.
"My work is about the depth of (our)
culture," she said, "a wider and deeper
experience that's not just about celebra-
tion and pride, but celebration and pride
with an acknowledgement of pain."
When reflecting on her experiences,
both academic and artistic, it's clear both
are exposed in the written word as well as
in her performances. Kuppers's and Mar-
cus's work reflects a lifestyle that's "depen-
dent on interdependence ... (they) are not
two people alone (but) are constantly in
connection with others," Kuppers said.
Aside from personal work, Kuppers is
also involved with research. "I've learned
to balance between the two," she said,
regarding juggling traveling and teaching.
"Next fall semester, I've received a fellow-
ship atnthe Australian National University
in Canberra, where I'm going to investi-
gate international disability culture in a
post-colonial context."
How We Live Our Lives
Talking with Kuppers is almost over-
whelming. It doesn't just spark a need for
change or involvement within disability
culture, it pushes, pulls and creates a des-
perate need for an awakening of a person-
al experience, in connection with others'
personal experiences.
"The focus of the class is to teach the
students the differences in people and
how those differences are revealed in
community performances," Gorring
wrote, appreciative of Kuppers's class
atmosphere. "So whether people are dif-
ferent physically in one way or another,
the idea is to respect both the people and
what they are presenting."
Understanding discrimination in all its
facets is an important part of a liberal arts
education. As students, we're often taught
the important dates, the big movements,
the strides in society. We learn to sympa-
thize and empathize. But with educators
like Petra Kuppers, that's just not enough.
Disability culture is this strong wom-
an's tool for learning and teaching others
about self and about community.
"Disability culture, in a sense, stems
from a need to overcome obstacles and
find community," she said. "That's really
quite how we all live our lives, right?"
And when learningto overcome obsta-
cles means understanding ourselves as
individuals in a collective environment,
perhaps we, too, can embody the spirit
and quiet force of Petra Kuppers.

0


OUR TOWN
From Page 3B
just sort of magically brings you in without
starting with a lie."
Because of the lack of visual elements,
heavy focus was placed on the script and
acting choices during the rehearsal process.
Students working on the production agree
that this approach has been a one-of-a-kind
educational opportunity, and they feel that
it has both enhanced their personal experi-
ences and the show as a whole.
"I get to see a different perspective on
directing," said Roman Micevic, School of
Music, Theatre & Dancesophomore and assis-
tant director of "Our Town." "(Schwiebert)
has a very interesting approach, where he
focuses in on the text, and then through the
text and working with the actors, he develops
the characters and the action thatgoes on the
stage."
The director chose to stress certain inter-
pretations of the play's thematic elements to
inspire choices for the production to create
an overall arc of meaning for the audience.
"I think the line that is probably the most
important in the show is: 'Choose the least
important day of your life, it will be impor-
tant enough,' " Schwiebert said. "That's real-
ly the idea."
Carrie Fisk, a School of Music, Theater
& Dance freshman who plays Emily Webb,
explained that watching clips of various ver-
sions of "Our Town" showed that poignant
moments of the show are often focused on
seriousness and negativity - something this

production steers away from.
"Just as with life, if we weigh too much on
the negative, we lose track of the positive,"
Fisk said. "So it's been really fun to (work on
a production) where we are exploring the
positivity in it and the fun in it, and just the
silliness of everyday life."
"When we're showing the regular life
of these characters in the first two acts,
we're not commenting on the seriousness,"
Schwiebert elaborated. "In fact, we've upped
the tempo, making it go by quicker, at a nor-
mal family pace."
Fisk explained that "Our Town" is very
pertinent to college students despite its clas-
sic status and age. The play deals with the
complicated nature of human connections,
relationships and what it means when people
are too worried about the details instead of
appreciatingthem.
"We get too overwhelmed," Fisk said. "It
starts in the end of high school, but it gets
really intense (in college). There is so much
going on with homework to do, people to see
and relationships to build and you just get so
caught up in everything.
"I think it's nice to see (in 'Our Town') how
before any of the overhead of the digital age,
these things did still happen," she said. "We
did still have human things to deal with, and
we still have to take the time as ahuman being
to stop and enjoy what we have instead of
worrying about the time we don't have."
It's this ultimately optimistic message,
communicated through a simple, bottom-up
production approach, that the Department
of Theatre & Drama's production of "Our
Town" will bring to a playtraditionally noted
for its heavy subject matter.

0
0

PICTURE
YOURSELF
WORKING
FOR THE a
DAILY.
JOIN OUR
PHOTO STAFF.
E-mail
photo@michigandaily.com
for information on applying.


