iC i1 Yt 4.3allm

* Ann Arbor, Michigan
UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION
In meeting,
Sullivan
talks budget,
Obama visit

Tuesday, February 16, 2010
BOXING IN THE BASEMENT

michigandaily.com

Provost says her
office is in a
seasonal lull period
By ANNIE GORDON THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
Speaking before the Senate
Advisory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs yesterday, Provost
Teresa Sullivan discussed issues
ranging from
the state bud- NOTEBOOK
get and Michi-
gan Promise Scholarship to the
announcement that President
Barack Obama will be speaking at
spring commencement.
But despite the range of top-
ics she discussed at yesterday's
meeting, Sullivan reported that
her office is relatively quiet right
now.
The recent announcement of
Democratic Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm's budget proposal for the
next fiscal year was a topic of
conversation at the meeting, as
Sullivan mentioned that state-
funding levels for the University
are expected to remain the same
as last year.
While the budget plan was bal-
anced with proposed increases in
taxes, Sullivan said she doesn't

feel optimistic about budget real-
ities since she believes the taxes
will likely not be put into effect.
Sullivan also discussed Gra-
nholm's proposal to reinstate the
Michigan Promise Scholarship -
a merit-based program that gives
in-state students between $500
and $4,000 over the course of
four years to help pay for tuition.
Sullivan talked about Gra-
nholm's proposal to bring the
scholarship back with "delayed
gratification" for students as a
tax credit that would be awarded
if the graduate decided to stay in
Michigan for one year after grad-
uation.
In addition to the state bud-
get, Sullivan also discussed her
office's progress on the Univer-
sity's budget for the upcoming
year: She said she is holding two
budget meetings with deans each
day in order to make sure the
budget makes it to the Univer-
sity Board of Regents' desk by the
June deadline.
"We are working towards
having the budget ready for the
Board of Regents in June," Sul-
livan said.
Sullivan also talked about last
week's announcement that Presi-
dent Obama would deliver this
spring's commencement address.
See SACUA, Page 7

Dentistry student Mohammad Almazedi watches Rackham students Ibrahim Boulares (left) and Paul Gromek (right) fight during a meeting of the newly formed Muay Thai
Kickboxing Club yesterday. The club meets in the basement of the Intramural Sports Building, which is missing a punching bag. Graduate Library employee Bryce Burasinski
said besides the missing punching bag, the group doesn't mind practicing in the basement because it adds to the ambiance of the sport
UNIVERSITY oA RrD OF RrEGENTS

Project will add
bike lanes and bus
shelters to North
University Ave.
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
At its monthly meeting on
Thursday, the University's Board
of Regents is set to consider moving
forward on construction project

without city funds that would typi-
cally receive financial support from
the city.
The project to the Central Cam-
pus Transit Center includes resur-
facing North University Avenue
between Church Street and Fletch-
er Street, adding bike lanes, reduc-
ing the number of motor vehicle
lanes to one in each direction and
providing new bus shelters.
While resurfacing North Univer-
sity Avenue, upgrades to the water
main under the street would also be
made to improve fire protection to

nearbybuildings.
The project would also incorpo-
rate revisions to the flow of pedes-
trian traffic and would create an
accessible entrance on the westside
of the Ruthven Museum.
The project is estimated to cost
$4.5 million and will, if approved,
be funded by the University and
through federal funds.
In a letter to the regents, Tim
Slottow, executive vice president
and chief financial officer, wrote
that often a project of this nature
would be shared with the city, but

that the city is not able to allocate
funding quickly enough to take
advantage of the federal funds
available for the project.
MUSEUM RENOVATION
AND COLLECTION
RELOCATION
The regents are also set to con-
sider a $17.6 million project that
would pay for a 46,000-square-
foot renovation to the Varsity Drive
Building. Upon completion of the
See REGENTS, Page 7

4' UNIVERSITY HOUSING
In West Quad, an increase
in false fire alarms of late

Official sent e-mail
warning students
about dangers of
prank fire alarms
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
Though most students living in
a residence hall are accustomed to
being woken up in the middle of the
night by a fire alarm and having to
brave the cold in their pajamas at

least a couple of times a year, the
residents of West Quadrangle resi-
dence hall have experienced more
than the typical number of false
alarms.
Since Feb. 1, West Quad has
experienced three false fire alarm
incidents, the most recent of which
went off at 3:39 a.m. yesterday
morning. The false alarms are
part of what Declan Lugin, asso-
ciate director of housing security,
described as a "disturbing trend
emerging in West Quad" in an
e-mail he sent to West Quad resi-
dents yesterday.

He also encouraged students
with any knowledge of the inci-
dents to report the information to
the Department of Public Safety's
anonymous tip line or to tell their
resident advisor or hall director.
In addition, Lugin wrote that
pulling a fire alarm unnecessarily
could be dangerous for those living
in the building.
"Any time hundreds of people
evacuate a building, there is risk
of injury. Whenever a fire alarm
is activated for non-emergency
reasons, it can breed complacen-
See FALSE ALARMS, Page 7

Dr. Rick Hodes gives a lecture entitled "Health in Africa: Working in Critical Conditions" in the Public Health Building. Dr.
Hodes, who is on the board of Will Work for Food, discussed his experiences helping children in Ethiopa for almost 30 years.
For doctor, chemo on the porch
an option if it could better a life

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
MSA reps form new party

At campus event,
Rick Hodes talks
about career helping
children in Ethiopia
By DEBJANI MUKHERJEE
Daily StaffReporter
Rick Hodes, a senior attending
physician at the Mother Teresa's
Mission, spoke at the School of
Public Health yesterday about
his work to improve the health of

those living in Ethiopia.
The event, "Medicine in Africa:
Working in Critical Conditions,"
was sponsored by Will Work For
Food, UM Hillel, University of
Michigan School of Public Health
and the Center for Global Health.
As a specialist in spinal condi-
tions, heart disease and cancer,
Hodes said he first began treating
those living in Ethiopia when he
went there as a relief worker dur-
ing the 1984 famine. He returned
to Ethiopia in 1985, and in 1990
was hired by the American Jew-
ish Joint Distribution Committee

to give medical assistance to the
Ethiopian Jews immigrating to
Israel. Soon after that, he came
across Mother Teresa's Mission,
and now has a practice in Ethio-
pia under that mission, with help
from the American Jewish Joint
Distribution Committee.
In his presentation last night,
Hodes said Ethiopia is a coun-
try where the chance of dying
in childbirth is higher than the
chance of dying from heart dis-
ease in the United States. Medical
care is sparse and of low quality,
See HODES, Page 7

MForward will focus
on bringing together
campus leaders
By TORREY ARMSTRONG
Daily StaffReporter
Several members of the Michi-
gan Student Assembly announced
the formation of MForward, a new
MSA political party, in a press
release distributed Sunday.
"More so than any previous MSA

party, MForward brings together a
diverse slate of student candidates
spanning across majors, students
organizations, and campus com-
munities," party officials said in
the release.
LSA juniors Chris Armstrong
and Jason Raymond will run for
MSA president and vice president,
respectively, on the MForward
ticket this spring. Currently, Arm-
strong serves as chair of MSA's
LGBT commission and Raymond
is chair of MSA's external relations
committee.

"Over the past year, a lot of us
felt that the assembly wasn't doing
everythingthat it can for students,"
Armstrong said in an interview last
night. "It didn't really connect stu-
dent government to the student
body at large, and it didn't really
lobby on their behalf in a substan-
tial way. This party is an effort to
change that"
Though Raymond praised MSA's
events and programming in the last
year, he said the assembly has more
improvements to make in terms of
See MFORWARD, Page 7


WEATHER HI: 33
TOMORROW LO:26

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newslmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
How to go all out for Fat Tuesday.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE

INDEX NEW S................................. 2 A RTS .................................... 5
Vol.CXX, No.95 SUDOKU........... ........... 3 CLASSIFIEDS......................6
m© tlThei chigan Daily OPINIO N .....4 SPO RTS................................ 8

:0


2 - Tuesday, February 16, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editar in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbasineas@gmailecom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours:Sun.-Thurs.11a.m.-2 a.m.
News Tips news@michgandaity.con
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com

Called back from retirement

Though it's Anthropology
Prof. Roberto Frisancho's
last semester teaching, that
hasn't stopped him from still
making sure his students
don't fall asleep in class.
Frisancho technically
retired in 2009, but he said
University officials asked
him to continue teaching the
trademark class he developed
- Nutrition and Evolution -
to maintain the course's high
enrollment. When Frisancho
first started teaching the
class only 18 students were
taking it. That number has
grown to over 325.
"If you sit in my class you'll
see that it is very interactive,"
he said. "I have a big laser
pointer thatI will point at the
students to answer questions.
No one sleeps in my class."
Frisancho, who grew up

in Peru, won a Fulbright fel-
lowship to study biological
anthropology at Pennsylva-
nia State University in 1963.
Frisancho said during his
time in graduate school at
Penn State he took classes
with many teachers who
were too preoccupied with
their own research to be dili-
gently prepared to teach a
class.
Frisancho said he made
the decision that if he ever
became a teacher, he would
never waste his students'
time in this way. It seems he
has remained loyal to this
promise, postponing his own
research to continue teach-
ing after a 41-year career.
Having the opportunity to
share information with such
a large audience is the reason
Frisancho said he loves his

profession.
"To me teaching is a great
privilege because Iam able to
share my knowledge and dis-
coveries with my students, a
type of public sharing that is
not accomplished by publish-
ing a book or article," he said.
Frisancho has traveled
all over the country for his
research, which focuses on
developmental human adap-
tation to extreme environ-
ments as well as aspects of
evolutionary nutrition.
At the beginning of his
career, Frisancho took stu-
dents on trips to the Boliv-
ian Andes to guide them
in conducting research on
nutritional problems that
disproportionately affect
minority groups in develop-,
ing countries and the U.S.
While he has published six

books and over 200 articles
and has won several presti-
gious awards, Frisancho said
winning the title of Arthur
F. Thurnau Professor of
Anthropology in 1999 for his
outstanding contributions to
undergraduate education has
been his greatest accomplish-
ment, due to its recognition
from his colleagues.
After teaching, Frisancho
plans to focus on writing and
publishing his seventh book,
"Ongoing Evolution."
When Frisancho is not
busy writing, teaching, con-
ducting research or travel-
ing around the world, he said
chances are he's probably
playing tennis.
"I am a tennis addict," he
said. I belong to three clubs
and play daily."
- LAURENSLUTSK'Y

Photography Department
Arts ection
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales

photo@michindaiy.omo
artsae@niihigadaiy.omw
opinion@miciadiy.om~o
sports@ichigandaity.ox
display@wiothianodaily.com
classifid @mich igandaity.con

ANNA SCHULT/Daily
Prof. of Anthropology A. Roberto Frisancho will
retire at the end ofthe semester in April after 43
years with the University.

CRIME NOTES
Hospital patient
assaulted
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Sunday at about 12:45
p.m.
WHAT: A patient was assault-
ed by a male employee of the
University Hospital, Univeristy
Police reported. There were
no injures as the result of the
incident.
Man arrested
on warrant
WHERE: Michigan League
WHEN: Sunday at about 5:15
p.m.
WHAT: A man not affiliated
with the University was arrest-
ed on an outstanding warrent
for failure to appear in court,
University Police reported. The
man was takento jail without
incident.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Buckle up or
shut up
WHERE: 1100 Block of State
Street
WHEN: Sunday at about 5:00
p.m.
WHAT: Two male subjects
were engaged in a verbal alterca-
tion over a child safety seat in a
vehicle, University Police report-
ed. No injuries were reported.
Hit and run
WHERE:1600 East Medical
Center
WHEN:Sunday at 3:30 p.m.
WHAT: A red Dodge vehicle
backed into a parkingspot at
which point it was struck by
another car causing minor
vehicle damage, Univeristy
Police reported. The second car
fled and there are no suspects.
No injuries were reported.

Showcase sale
on Apple goods
WHAT: Take an additional
6 percent off Apple products
including computers, iPods,
software and accessories.
WHO: Information and
Technology Services
WHEN: Today from 9 a.m.
to 6 p.m.
WHERE: U-M Computer
Showcase stores at the Mich-
igan Union and Pierpoint
Commons
Ensemble
performance
WHAT: A performance of the
contemporary music ensem-
ble featuring new conductor
Christopher James Lees.
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHO: School of Music, The-
atre & Dance
WHERE: UMMA

Artsbreak
WHAT: A free chance to do
arts and crafts. Past projects
include painting pumpkins
and decorating canvas tote
bags, among other things.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Mug Room
Meditation class
WHAT: A four week training
program designed for people
new to meditation.
WHO: UMHS Cardiovas-
cular Medicine at Domino's
Farms
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: UMHS Cardiovas-
cular Medicine at Domino's
Farms, Conference Room
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily com.

Accordingto The Los Ange-
les Times, Utah state Sen.
Chris Buttars is propos-
ing a plan to make senior year
of high school optional to help
alleviate Utah's debt. He has
since revised his original plan
by making senior year optional
only for students who have
already received their required
credits.
According to the World
Health Organization, in
2008 there were 33.4 mil-
lion people living with HIV and
2 million AIDS related deaths.
>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
According to The New
York Times, President
Barack Obama's adminis-
tration is working on a plan to
ban candy and sweetened bev-
erages from schools to combat
the obesity epidemic.

Online Sales onlineads@mictigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@niichigandaily.com
lillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
s NEWSEaeR S :Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Swon,E shwar, Thirunavukkaas
ASSoTnsTNeWnNwSEnTOR:sylanCni,Darryn Fizeald, Joseph Lichterman,
VeronicaMealdi4,Aniehoaseon horby,Elana Tiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandailycom
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
Veith
ASSISTANTEDTORIALPAGEEDITORS:MichelleDeWitt,AlexSchiffMatthewShutler
Ryan KarRe ManagingSports Edior, karje@mhigandaily.mon
sSNORnSeaRSnEDaTOnS: Nicole Acerbach, MarkBan,.Gjon Juc, C hris
Meszaros, Joe St apleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyzik, Tim nohan, Amy Scarano
Jamielnc ManagingArsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTSEDITORS: Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, JeffSanford
SSSANT ARSEDITORS: Leah Burgin,Sharon Jacobs, Brigid Kilcoin, Mike Kuntz,
Kaoinhekhareandey
Max ghllinstand Ed photo@michigandaily.com
Sam Walsan Managin hotoEditors
SENIORPHOTO EDITOR FOR MULTIMEDIA:ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
ASISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Aaron Augsburger, Jake Fromm, Marissa McClain,
Jed Moch
SarahSquire and design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielnski ManagingDesignEditors
SENOR DESIGN EDITOR:Angea Chih
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandailycom
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
MelanieFried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
RachelPhillips CopyChie s
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak Sales Manager
SALESFORCE MANAGER:Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Allison SantacreU LayoutManager
Vivian Lee FinanceManager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily(ISSN0745-967)is pubished Mondy gdathoghiay duringthe fall and winter
terms by studentsat theUniversity of Michigan.Onecopyis avalable free of charge toalireaders.
Additional copies may be picked up at the Dalys office for $2.Subscriptions for fall term, startgin
September, viaU.mal are $110.Winter term January through Apriis$115,yearlong(September
throughApi i$195. Unveitaffiltsare subttoarededobciptinrten-cmus
sub AsocritdnPssr ateheASSciptidonoteia idmehPries gas. Daiysameberof
Te Asca:tedtPress andThe Asoctiatollegiat res.

0!

MORE ONLINE
Loe Crime Notes? Get moreanline at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

. . . . I i

400
-v ~s

Undergraduate and graduate
courses available online or
face-to-face at 12 CMU Centers
Auburn Hills
Clinton Township
Dearborn
East Lansing
Flint
Grand Rapids
Livonia
Saginaw
Southfield
Traverse City
Troy
Warren

0

Apply for summer classes
between January 15 and
April 4, 2010 and we'll waive
the $50 application fee!
Go to www.cmich.edu/summer
for promo code.
Appliesonlyto Off-Campus &Onlinegueststudent
admissions except DHA. Does notapply to admission
fees to rheMountPleasantrcampus.
CMU is anAA/EO institution (see www.cmich.edu/aaeo).
wwwcmich.eduloffcampus 27426 110

CMU has the quality classes you need this
summer, in the formats you want:
- Online
- Weekend or evening face-to-face classes
- Compressed terms

Open registration for
summer term begins
March 3,2010.

0

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 16, 2010 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, February 16, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT, Mich.
Ex-speaker of the
house accused of
drunk driving
The former speaker of the Mich-
igan House was arrested on suspi-
cion of drunk driving after police
said he was so inebriated that he
couldn't stand up on his own.
Witnesses called police Feb.
9 to report they saw a man, who
police later identified as former
Republican Speaker Craig DeR-
oche, drunkenly leave his car and
walk up to a store in Saline, near
e Ann Arbor, Saline police Chief Paul
Bunten said.
Officers arrived at about 5:30
p.m. to find DeRoche stumbling in
the snow, Bunten said.A breath test
showed his blood-alcohol content
was 0.249 percent, more than three
" times Michigan's legal limit for
driving of .05, police said.
"The officers were very con-
cerned because, although that's a
very high blood-alcohol level, he
couldn't stand up without being
helped," Bunten said.
Police took DeRoche to a hospi-
tal, where he was evaluated and a
blood test was administered. Test
results won't come back for a few
weeks.
RICHMOND, Calif.
Two wounded in
church shooting
" Two victims wounded during
a brazen shooting inside a North-
ern California church were coop-
erating yesterday with police in
the search for a hooded gunman
and two other suspects.
The victims and several other
witnesses were initially reluctant
to aid investigators but have since
provided leads, police Sgt. Bisas
French said.
"If I knew something, I'd say
something, but others can't see
an advantage in that," said Frank
Robinson, a Richmond native who
lives near the church. "If those
guys were bold enough to shoot
up a church, who's to say they
won't come up to your front door
and shoot you?"
Police still don't know why the
man opened fire Sunday at the
New Gethsemane Church of God
in Christ in Richmond, but inves-
tigators don't believe the attack
was random.
WASHINGTON
Bayh to retire from
U.S. Senate
Yesterday's stunning announce-
ment by Sen. Evan Bayh that he's
retiring from a Congress he says he
no longer loves makes him the latest
to flee Washington as many voters
seem furious about the country's
economic malaise and poised to
take it out on incumbents.
The decisionby the Indiana Dem-
ocrat, who was in strong position to
win a third term in November, gives
Republicans a formidable chance to
capture the seat in his GOP-leaning
state. It also compounds the prob-
lems facing Senate Democrats this

fall as they cling to their majority in
the chamber, where they now hold
59 of the 100 votes.
Bayh joins a growing roster of
recent Democratic retirements
that includes Rep. Patrick Kennedy
of Rhode Island and Sens. Chris-
topher Dodd of Connecticut and
Byron Dorgan of North Dakota.
Yet the congressional casualty list
has a decidedly bipartisan flavor,
with recent retirement announce-
ments coming from Rep. Lincoln
Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., and other GOP
House members from Michigan,
Indiana, Arkansas and Arizona.
DAKAR, SENEGAL
Cocaine traded for
arms in West Africa
Cocaine shipped to West Africa
by Latin American drug cartels
is now being traded for arms, the
U.N.'s drug czar said yesterday -
an exchange of contraband that is
especially dangerous in a region
now home to cells of an al-Qaida-
linked terror group.
Antonio Maria Costa, execu-
tive director of the United Nations
Office on Drugs and Crime, says
"there is more than just spotty evi-
dence" indicating a link between
drug traffickers and terror groups.
"And before this becomes a very
serious problem, it has to be dealt
with and nipped in the bud," Costa
said in an interview with The
Associated Press, on the sidelines
of a seven-nation drug summit in
the Senegalese capital of Dakar.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Clinton: Iran could see
military dictatorship

JAVIER GALEANO/AP Phc
People chant in prayer as they walk the streets of Port-au-Princess GSunday one
month after a magnitude-7.4 earthquake struck.
Fears of another
quake haunt Haiti

Sec. of State says
U.S. faces obstacles
in halting Iran's
nuclear program
ARIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) -
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rod-
ham Clinton said yesterday Iran is
sliding into a military dictatorship, a
new assessmentsuggestingarockier
road ahead for U.S.-led efforts to
stop Tehran from obtaining a nucle-
ar weapon.
As the first high-level Obama
administration official to make such
an accusation, Clinton was reflect-
ing an ever-dimming outlook for
persuading Iran to negotiate limits
on its nuclear program, which it has
insisted is intended only for peace-

ful purposes. The U.S. and others
- including the two Gulf countries
Clinton visited Sunday and Monday
- believe Iran is headed for a nucle-
ar bomb capability.
Clinton also was revealing the
logic of the administration's plan
to target the Islamic Revolution-
ary Guard Corps with a new round
of international sanctions intended
to compel Iran to curb its nuclear
ambitions before it increases the
likelihood ofamilitary clash.
Clinton flew to Riyadh, the Saudi
capital, where Foreign Minister
Prince Saud al-Faisal seemed to
express doubt about the usefulness
of seeking more sanctions on Iran
over its nuclear program. In a joint
appearancewithClinton,hesaid the
threat posed by Iran's nuclear ambi-
tions demands a more immediate
solution. The Saudi foreign minis-

ter didn't identify a preferred short-
term resolution.
"Sanctions are a long-term solu-
tion. But we see the issue in the
shorter term because we are closer
to the threat," he said.
U.S. officials said privately that
they were unsure of al-Faisal's
meaning and that they were certain
Saudi Arabia was not opposed to
new sanctions. They said the Sau-
dis have some doubt that sanctions
can be effective.The officials spoke
on condition of anonymity in order
to describe diplomatically sensitive
conversations with the Saudi leader-
ship.
Clintonwasdrivenin KingAbdul-
lah' s about 65 miles northeast to
Rawdat Khurayim, a secluded royal
hunting retreat where the vacation-
ing king hosted her for lunch - and
where a large-screen TV was on.

Builders and relief
workers worry
.about large quake
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti,
(AP) - Hundreds of houses that
survived Haiti's killer quake still
stand empty even as quake vic-
tims desperate for shelter crowd
the streets. The reason is fear:
Nobody is quite sure they can
withstand another quake.
At least 54 aftershocks have
shuddered through Haiti's shat-
tered capital since a Jan.12 quake
killed more than 200,000 people.
They have toppled weakened
buildings faster than demolition
crews can get to them, sending up
new clouds of choking dust. On
yesterday, three children were
killed when a school collapsed in
the northern city of Cap-Haitien.
It wasn't clear what caused the
collapse, which occurred after
a late-night tremor and heavy

"I tried sleeping in the-house for
a night, but an aftershock came and
I ran outside," said Louise Lafonte,
36, who beds down with her family
of five in a tent beside her seeming-
ly intact concrete house. "I'm not
going inside until the ground calms
down."
That may be awhile. Seismolo-
gists say more, damaging after-
shocks are likely and there's even
a chance of another large quake
following quickly after the initial
catastrophe in the capital of 3 mil-
lion people.
In 1751, a large quake hit the
island that Haiti shares with
the Dominican Republic. About
a month later, another one
destroyed Port-au-Prince.
A magnitude-7.4 quake that
killed more than 18,000 people
in northwestern Turkey in 1999
was followed three months later
by another of magnitude-7.2 only
100 kilometers (60 miles) from
the initial epicenter.


Contilnuing U-U Students...
Do You Need Financial Aid
for Fall/Winter 2010-2011?
Don't forget
to submit your 2010-2011
Free Application for Federal
Student Aid (FAFSA)I

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
@ronalSoltodellalfacifico Specials All Hight
$2..50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25% Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER
310 Ma nard St.. To Go Orders 734.995.0100 -Next to the Maynard Parkin Structure
H,-,,U

Complete the FAFSA online at www.fafsa.ed.gov
FAFSA DEADLINE:
APri 30 > To be Considered for federal and
institutional aid
Allow 3-4 weeksfor processing!
Note: Michigan residents who also want to be
considered for state aid must submit the FAFSA
by March 1.
For more infotlnation, see www.finaid.umich.edu,

WJ)FA
helping U
go blue!
U-M Office of Financial Aid (OFA)
2500 SAB & B43 Pierpont Commons
(734)7,63-66(X)
wwsvfinaid.umih.edu
financialaid lihnnticlsedu


If you're a high performing undergraduate with a
passion for sustainability, then check out the Graham
Institute's new Sustainability Scholars Program.
Each year, this competitive program will accept only
25 students, who will then pursue a 10-credit series of
interdisciplinary courses focused on sustainability
(including a place-based course).
After successful completion of the program, you'll
receive an exclusive Sustainability Scholars Certificate
from the Graham Institute. Upon graduation, you'll
also receive a special notation on your transcript
acknowledging this scholastic accomplishment.
So, go ahead. Start making your mark for a better
world. Check out the details and online application at
www.graham.umich, and apply by Manrh 25, 2010!
G RAHAM
INSTITUTE


4 - Tuesday, February 16, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

7 44 I i*gan Batij
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

The percentage of Americans
3 2 / who said that skating was
their favorite event featured
in the winter Olympics.
- According to a recent Marist Poll, as reported by The New York Times last week.

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Updati ngyour status
'U' should make rapid HIV testing available on campus
Though students often joke about promiscuity on campus,
the dangers of sexually transmitted infections and HIV/
AIDS are very real. But with the help of a new public ser-
vice campaign called the P2 Initiative, the University's social scene
could become safer for students. The P2 Initiative will consist of
a series of advertisements encouraging students to get tested for
HIV/AIDS. But the P2 Initiative isn't enough to combat the threat
of HIV/AIDS. The University should provide students with the
most efficient testing services available, and students should heed
the advice of the P2 campaign and get tested.

Excited with exception

According to the World Health Organi-
zation, there were 33.4 million people liv-
ing with HIV in 2008. That same year, 2.7
million people were newly infected with
the virus and there were 2 million AIDS
related deaths. Alarmed at these numbers,
various University groups are working to
promote health on campus. A joint proj-
ect between University Health Services
and the Multi Ethnic Student Association
is in the works. Advertisements by the P2
Initiative will feature students with the
slogan "know your status." This project is
a further development of the Promiscuity
Project sponsored by the Alpha Phi Alpha
Fraternity, Inc.
It's a common misconception that HIV
and AIDS only affect certain parts of the
world or particular cultures - diseases don't
discriminate. It's encouraging that student
groups are tackling the issue. Many students
have the impression that because they do not
live in an AIDS-prevalent society, they won't
get infected. But unsafe sex on college cam-
puses puts students at risk. Anyone practic-
ing unsafe sex can be infected.
It's important that students understand
that these illnesses affect students and
that they can - and should - act to protect
themselves and others. The best way for
students to stay safe from these diseases is
to be aware of their personal health status.
It's not enough for students to assume they
don't have the disease. All students should

use the resources available on campus and
get tested in order to ensure that illnesses
aren't spread.
But for many students, getting tested for
HIV/AIDS can be intimidating. To get test-
ed, students must go to University Health
Services and return or call after two weeks
for results. UHS also offers sexually trans-
mitted infection screening on a walk-in
or appointment basis, with results in two
to three days. That testing is available is
good, but a two-week wait increases stu-
dents' stress over the issue and may dis-
courage them from getting tested.
To make the process less daunting and
encourage students' safety and health,
UHS should make rapid testing available
on campus. Rapid HIV testing provides
results in about 20 minutes. Rapid testing
will be provided by the Washtenaw County
Health Department on select days in the
next few months, but students should have
more access to this important resource.
And with a premier hospital here on cam-
pus, there's no reason this technology
shouldn't be available at the University -
especially considering the positive health
effects it would have on students.
Students should take every possible pre-
caution against contracting HIV/AIDS,
and getting tested is the first step. The Uni-
versity should work to make rapid testing
available on campus, and students should
utilize testing options available to them.

As a student whose time at the
University is drawing to a
close this spring, I had been
anxiously awaiting
the announcement
of the commence-
ment speaker for
this year's gradu-
ating class. This
speaker, as every-
one on campus
must by now be
aware, was finally
revealed last week ROBERT
to be none other SOAVE
than President
Barack Obama.
Though I was out
of Ann Arbor this weekend - missing
the celebratory parades and firework
displays that probably took place on
the Diag - I can deduce from the
reaction on Facebook that my fel-
low students were overjoyed by the
choice.
And you-know what? I share their
satisfaction, though with a serious
caveat.
After all, it can't be credibly denied
that Obama is one of the public fig-
ures most relevant to the lives of
University students, regardless of
whether you love him or hate him.
Unprecedented numbers of students
identified with his candidacy and
were inspired to vote for him. But
even beyond that, for the first time in
years, University students were suf-
ficiently energized by a presidential
candidate on behalf of whom they
spent hours rallying, fundraising and
registering others to vote all over
campus.
It is also an honor for the Universi-
ty to feature a president of the United
States as its commencement speaker
for the second time in three years.
(Bill Clinton addressed the class of
2007.)
Because of this and all the other

reasons that make Obama an impor-
tant figure for college students of the
times, I agree that he is the right choice
for commencement speaker and I look
forward to his speech. But I must take
issue with the Daily's over-the-top edi-
torial about just how perfect Obama is
(Big man at the Big House, 02/12/10).
Particularly, it demonstrates the hol-
lowness of pro-Obama fanaticism to
suggest that, "There is no leader bet-
ter qualified to provide students with
advice on leadership."
People, and perhaps University
students in particular, tend to ideal-
ize political leaders, especially high-
profile ones like presidents. From
Franklin Roosevelt to John Kennedy
to Ronald Reagan, we award mythic
status to the presidents who have
meant something to us. We consider
their achievements the result of unim-
peachable personal integrity and
intellectual beliefs put into practice.
In reality, political leaders are
just like anyone else. They have the
same incentives and motivations as
your average person: they want to
be successful, powerful and popular.
Whether they succeed or fail at this
doesn't make them good leaders, but
rather good politicians.
Obama is certainly no exception.
Take, for example, his handling of
"Don't ask, Don't tell," the U.S. mili-
tary's controversial policy of allow-
ing gay people to serve in the military
only if they keep their sexuality a
secret. During the 2008 presiden-
tial campaign, Obama advocated the
repeal of the policy, promising to
work with the military to do so when
elected. But once in office - despite
having the power to instantly end
enforcement of the policy, if not the
policy itself - Obama did nothing.
Only last month, after a full year of
largely ignoring the issue, did the
president take any action.
Of course, the action he took is

unlikely to lead to a change any-
time soon. In his State of the Union
address on Jan. 27, Obama announced
that he would work with Congress to
repeal the ban. If he cared enough
about ending discrimination in the
military though, Obama could simply
instruct the military not to enforce it.
Then, once it became clear that open-
ly gay people who serve in the mili-
tary aren't a detriment to the armed
forces, it would be time for Congress
to act. But certainly he must know
that leaving it up to Congress (which
has struggled with health care
reform since the middle of summer)
is the best way to ensure inaction on
any issue.
Despite the hype,
Obama is not
without flaws.
Obama's motivation for placing this
policy's reform in the hands of Con-
gress is no mystery: he doesn't want
to risk a backlash against him or his
party with a national election coming
up next year. That doesn't sound like
such a perfect leader to me.
So, class of 2010, please con-
tinue the celebratory festivities. If
I'm pelted by confetti and heart-
shaped Obama candies when I enter
the Diag, I won't be complaining.
But part of graduating from college
means becoming more realistic about
the way government works and what
political leaders are like. Let's keep
that in mind.
- Robert Soave was the Daily's
editorial page editor in 2009. He can
be reached at rsoaveggmich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
MADELINE O'CAMPO |
It's my graduation, not Obama's

0

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be less than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy.
All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedoily@umich.edu.
MFORWARD
MovinMSforward

0

For years, the Michigan Student Assembly
has faced a crisis of relevancy. When students
look at MSA, they see a group of elected peers
that fails to engage with the campus and live
up to campaign promises. Students remember
the $7.19 MSA fee they pay each semester, but
can't call to mind any substantial action the
assembly has taken to better their lives. The
2010 MSA election will be a decisive moment to
do away with business as usual in the assembly
and bring relevancy back to MSA.
MForward is a group of student leaders who
have joined together to meet this challenge
with fresh ideas, bold action and commitment
to a student-oriented community. Under the
banner of "Ideas, Action, Community," MFor-
ward seeks to transform MSA from a stagnant,
self-interested body into avibrant forum where
inter-student dialogue is encouraged and facil-
itated.
MForward will be led by proven, experi-
enced and energized students from a broad
coalition of student organizations and com-
munities. Our candidate for MSA president,
LSA junior Chris Armstrong, has proven him-
self a leader in the LGBT community as Chair
of the assembly's LGBT Commission. Arm-.
strong has a track record of being a powerful
advocate and a tenacious leader. Over the past
year, Armstrong has successfully worked to
bring the 2011 Midwest LGBT conference to
campus, increasing the University's stature in
the national LGBT community. Our candidate
for vice president, Business junior Jason Ray-
mond, has been the student body's greatest
defender on the assembly, leading efforts to
stave off tuition increases through the Stop the
Hike campaign.
Armstrong and Raymond, as well as our
growing slate of representative candidates,
have records of being inclusive, progressive
and engaged leaders in every facet of the Uni-
versity community.
MForward will harness the drive of our
candidates into an idea-focused assembly that
pulls from the best that the University of Mich-
igan offers. Our assembly must be a strong

voice advocating on behalf of students. Over
the past year, we have heard almost nothing
from the MSA leadership on the issues - big
or small - that are most relevant to students.
MForward is committed to holding town hall
meetings with the student body and student
groups to build a voice that speaks for Michi-
gan students.
We will immediately take action to make
MSA a better body for students. We will trans-
form the much criticized student organization
funding process by integrating organization
treasurers, making the process more accessible
and transparent. Our pledge is to roll out this
new and improved funding process next fall.
Furthermore, we will deliver on the promise
to streamline the MSA website and make it a
community building tool for students. Most
importantly, we will continually engage all
parts of campus in a dialogue regarding stu-
dent priorities and creative ways to maximize
MSA resources.
MForward promises to hold the adminis-
tration accountable. We will ensure that the
administration is in constant consultation with
the students on issues that affect them. The stu-
dent body isn't represented well when its elected
representatives fail to consistently engage the
administration as independent, equal partners.
We seek to form a broader coalition of represen-
tatives across majors, student organizations and
communities to show that the student body is
engaged and will not be silenced.
The MForward mass meeting will be held
this Wednesday, Feb. 17 at 7 p.m. in the Hen-
derson Room of the Michigan League. We are
seeking passionate campus leaders, especially
from under-engaged communities like the
Dental and Nursing Schools, among others, to
join our effort.
We strongly believe that the success of the
Michigan Student Assembly is dependent on
the excitement and passion its representatives
bring to the body.
This viewpoint was written by Chris Armstrong
and Jason Raymond on behalf of MForward.

Unless you've been living under a rock, you know that
President Barack Obama is speaking at spring commence-
ment. And you've probably also heard that everyone in
Ann Arbor and everyone graduating is pretty thrilled
about it. But this isn't entirely true. There are more than
a few people on campus who are less happy about it. I'm
one of them, and I've been doing a lot of explaining about
why I am so upset.
I only get to graduate from college once in my life. My
family was going to come all the way from Oregon, and
we were all looking forward to it, and now I'm not going
to graduation.
Here's why: University President Mary Sure Coleman
announced the speaker with this statement: "President
Obama has captured the imagination and enthusiasm
of many students with his inspiring words of hope and
change. We are honored to welcome a leader of his dis-
tinction and look forward to his message. We could not
be happier for the graduates who will celebrate their
academic achievements with the president of the United
States" (President Obama to deliver spring commencement
address, 02/11/2010).
What about the students who haven't had their imagi-
nations and enthusiasms captured by "hope and change"?
There are some students here who aren't Obama fans.
Maybe we're not so happy to celebrate with him.
And I'm not convinced that it's graduates' achieve-
ments that we'll be celebrating. I have a feeling that
the whole weekend is going to be everyone celebrating
Obama instead. He's got rock star status in this town.
Friends who weren't planning on coming to commence-
ment called me asking for tickets when they found out
about him. The University is planning ways to deal with
increased demands for tickets. People won't come to see
us - students who have worked for four or more years to
get a degree - they will come to hear Obama. This week-
end was supposed to be our graduation, not his event.
And for those of us who aren't Obama fans, it's going
to feel a lot like the night of Nov. 4, 2008, when all of Ann
Arbor danced in the streets, butI went to bed at 10:30 p.m.
and worried about what this meant for me and my coun-
try. I wished I was almost anywhere except Ann Arbor.
Everyone here is supposed tobe open-minded and accept-
ing, but it felt like I had a target painted on my back when
I pinned a McCain-Palin button to my bookbag during
the campaign. My friends tried to talk me out of voting
Republican and treated me like an idiot when I refused. I

was made to feel afraid and ashamed to express a legiti-
mate viewpoint. This discrimination is as unacceptable as
anything inflicted on any other minority community, but
because we're Republicans, people in Ann Arbor some-
how think that it's okay.
Half of the country didn't vote for Obama. Recent
approval ratings show that over half the country doesn't
think he's so fabulous now. And the fact that this never
gets addressed - because Democrats are overwhelm-
ingly the majority in Ann Arbor - bothers me. Don't get
me wrong: I think it speaks volumes for the University's
prestige that the current president is our commencement
speaker. But Obama is one of the most polarizing figures
in a country that's weathering one of the most tense polit-
ical climates in years, and it's that polarization that makes
me question if he's a good choice.
I went to commencement when former President Bill
Clinton spoke in 2007. I'd go if he were speaking this
year, even though I dislike him. But he's not the current
president. He's not the focal point for so much emotion on
both sides of the political aisle. He doesn't have control
over issues that so many people feel so strongly about. He
doesn't represent a party and an agenda that many people
oppose. Obama is all of these things, and his presence
will turn the graduation ceremony into a political event.
Everyone in Ann Arbor - business owners, politicians,
students - now has something they want him to focus
on in his speech like jobs, manufacturing or Michigan's
economy. These are all important things that the presi-
dent needs to talk about. But our commencement ceremo-
ny is not the place to do it.
I wanted to go to my college graduation and pose in my
cap and gown with my friends. I wanted to walk into the
Big House for the last time as a student and out for the
first time as a graduate. Now I won't, because I wanted a
graduation, not a political event.
I'm deeply disappointed in the University for perpetu-
ating the myth that everyone is inspired by Obama and
that everyone will be happy that he's speaking. I wish
someone had considered that maybe some people don't
want graduation day to be about Michigan's economic
woes or the president or the state of American politics.
These are all things that everyone, party affiliation aside,
is concerned about. But this one day out of the year, our
college graduation, is supposed to be about us.
Madeline O'Campo is an LSA senior.

The Daily is looking for a diverse, passionate, strong group of student writers to join
the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for formulating and
writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 16, 2010 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Tuesday, February 16, 2010 - 5

'Pippa' prevails

Just do it already

Suburban drama
channels 'The
Feminine Mystique'
By EMILY BOUDREAU
DailyArts Writer
Pippa Lee's world looks nearly
* perfect on the surface. Lee (Robin
Wright Penn,
"New York,
I Love You")
has been hap- The Secret
pily married
to a recently l
retired, much Pippa Lee
older publisher Atthe Michigan
(Alan Arkin,
"Marley & Me") Elevation
and now they've
moved into a suburban neighbor-
hood in Connecticut to live out the
rest of their lives in peace in "The
Private Lives of Pippa Lee."
The film opens with a celebra-
tory dinner. Pippa Lee, the guests
all agree, is an "enigma"- and she
is. Penn is remarkably good at being
mysterious. She says very little in
the first few scenes, but her ges-
tures and little smiles as she clears
away the plates hint at a compelling
past.
As the film progresses, the sugary
coating of her life dissipates. She is
trapped and no longer knows who
she is. Now that she has found her-
self in a neighborhood full of elderly
citizens who die and get wheeled
out by paramedics, she realizes she
needs to find a new purpose in life.
Unfortunately, the more she tries
to start a new life, the more her
past comes back to haunt her. She
starts sleepwalking and develops
an uncomfortable attraction to her
neighbor's "half-baked" son Chris
Nadeau (Keanu Reeves, "The Day
the Earth Stood Still").
The story is helped by the vari-

Life on a dairy farm: creepier than you think.
ous side characters to which the
audience is all-too-briefly intro-
duced: Pippa's speed-taking mother
(Maria Bello, "The Yellow Handker-
chief") and her aunt's-lesbian lover
(Julianne Moore, "I'm Not There")
who takes pornographic photos are
among the most intriguing. While
not always fully developed, they add
an element of fantasy that allows the
narrative to have its sarcastic edge.
"The Private Lives of Pippa Lee"
has a dryness to it that prevents it
from becoming too dramatic and
can even be comical at times. The
struggles of the characters are not
to be taken too seriously and pos-
sess a refreshing spontaneity that
makes uncovering the next element
of Pippa's story enjoyable.
Blake Lively ("Gossip Girl") plays
the younger Pippa Lee in flash-
backs. Her performance is solid,
but it's difficult at times to see the
connection between her character
and Penn's. Lively wanders in and
out of various situations without

Now that we've plowed through Valentine's
Day weekend, you've probably got a few
chocolates left in that heart-shaped box,
your roses are just starting to
wilt and you've scraped the bot-
tom of the ten and Jerry's pint
bare.
Because relationships are on
our minds with the passing of
this pseudo-holiday, our televi-
sions are naturally barraging
us with romance. "The Office,"
"Community," "Modern Fam- CAROLYN
ily," "30 Rock," "HowI Met Your KLARECKI
Mother" and plenty more TV
favorites just aired their Valen-
tine's Day episodes, getting us all excited that our
two favorite characters willfinally realize they're
supposed to be together. Of course, they don't.
They never do. The most we get on the Valentine's
Day special is a wistful glance as character A (once
again) acknowledges feelings for character B.
Valentine's Day is an excuse for TV shows to keep
up the "Will they or won't they?" romantic tension
between their lead characters. It's the oldest formula
in the book for shows to set up a potential romantic
partnership and hint at it incessantly. It took five
seasons for Jeannie and Major Nelson to get mar-
ried in "I Dream of Jeannie." And today it's even
more annoying with shows that seemingly let go of
the potential relationship only to bring it back into
focus when the plot lags. I understand that "Scrubs"
underwent a network change, but J.D. and Elliot's
on-again, off-again relationship was the most irritat-
ing thing on television.
What if their story was real? When you've got two
friends with great chemistry who aren't together,
maybe it excites you at first, but if that untapped
relationship sits for years it starts to become really
annoying. If you know someone in an on-again, off-
again relationship, you know you're not going to sit
down with a bowl of popcorn when they start to talk
about it. You're going to roll your eyes, sigh and wish
they would just make up their minds.
Isn't it strange how relationship troubles are
entertaining when they're fake? We spent 10 years
watching the rise and fall (and rise again) of the
romance of Rachel and Ross on "Friends," but we
can't stand the same from people we know. Clearly,
that's because we're only putting up with the TV
drama for about an hour each week and we can turn
it off when it gets old. Still, there are a few couples
on television that don't make me want to change the
channel.

Jim and Pam of "The Office" are happily mar-
ried. They went through the requisite four seasons
of awkward tension before they got there and "The
Office" is starting to lose its edge, but the show
hasn't completely failed in the wake of their wed-
ding.
Jin and Sun only had one season of turbulence on
"Lost" before they became the loving, happy couple
they are - unless you consider Sun thinking Jin is
dead for three years as being unhappy. They're main
characters who are in on all the action and don't
need the added romantic drama of going back and
forth between Sawyer and Jack. I'm looking at you,
Kate. There isn't a single "Lost" fan who enjoys your
complicated relationship with the men of the island.
OK, so those examples of happy TV couples are
weak - one resulted from the drawn-out tension I
hate, and the other has much bigger problems to deal
On-again, off-again TV
relationshps are
ruining primnetime.
with - but that's exactly my point. There ought tobe
some modern television stories that revolve around
normal people in normal relationships.
The only recent show that I can recall that has
done this and done it well is ABC's "Modern Fam-
ily." The whole premise of the show is to examine
the life of the typical American family, showing that
the typical American family doesn't exist. We see
three very different happy couples all with regular
happy-couple problems like arguing over how to
punish the kids. It's simple, it's funny, it's compelling
and it doesn't need seasons of relationship drama to
keep it that way.
If one show can do it, why not more? The exas-
perating love stories of today's television should be
reserved for middle-school girls who care about that
sort of thing. Let's end the "Will they or won't they?"
plot device, because we all know how it's going to
end. Of course Ross and Rachel will be together, J.D.
and Elliot will get married and, clearly, Kate ends up
with Jack. Now I'm goingto go buy myself another
pint of Ben and Jerry's.
Klarecki. isn't spooning anything but ice
cream. To be her on-again, off-again lover,
email her at cklareck@umich.edu.

ever really establishing who she is
or how she makes the jump from
being a problem child to the woman
everybody adores.
Of course, this loss of identity
is a common theme in suburban-
based dramas. "The Private Lives
of Pippa Lee" mirrors the plight
of the suburban housewife laid
out in Betty Friedan's book "The
Feminine Mystique." Lee experi-
ences boredom, emptiness and loss,
but director Rebecca Miller ("The
Ballad of Jack and Rose") clearly
intended the film to be more than
just another tirade against the sub-
urban prison. And she succeeded.
"Pippa Lee" doesn't dwell on its
titular character's melodramatic
past, but instead focuses on her
connections with the people in
her life and the way they affect her
mental state. With all the changes
and uncertainty that her life and
those involved in it bring, there's
enough room to be pleasantly sur-
prised.

Artful contradictions Wandering with Wolbers

By ERIN STEELE
Daily Arts Writer
How can art represent stead-
fast beliefs - beliefs held so
strongly that
their possessor In Spite of
could only be the Evide
called stubborn? teEdn
The Gallery Through
Project's latest Fed.21
exhibition, "In Gallery Project
Spite of the Evi- 205S. Fourth Ave
dence," asks art-
ists to abstractly
answer the central question,
"How is it that people can main-
tain steadfast beliefs in an idea
even when presented with evi-
dence that seems to contradict
it?"
The Gallery Project presents
"In Spite of the Evidence," a
thought-provoking multimedia
exhibition featuring 32 estab-
lished and emerging artists who
have set out to answer this very
question through the lens of their
own artistic vision using every
medium imaginable, including
video, digital art, collage, sculp-
ture and more.
All the pieces on display, like
Sherry Moore's "Safety Net,"
which is assembled with only
safety pins and thread, may leave
the viewer wondering how each
artist feels about his or her beliefs
or other opinions and how such
views can be interpreted in his or
her work.
"The idea is that people have

someth
think a
tendenc
other p
or evid
present
belief,",
GloriaI
galleryt
Since
the ga
themed
"The
is cultu
thought
alistic,"
All th
case th
well as
country
or new t
Es
el
Gal
"We'
voicesa
speakin
added.
Thisf
differen
potentia
it like "
whichd
victions
"We

ing they believe in or sial, but we tryto think of subjects
bout, and that there is a that are of interest in the world,"
y for people, even though Pritschet said. Past exhibits have
eople disagree with them included "Nature Repercieved,"
ence to the contrary (is "Animal Intelligence" and "Gen-
ed), to still have their own der Agenda."
said founding co-director Because of the gallery's com-
Pritschet, who runs the mitment to exposing different
with Rocco DePietro. points of view, Pritschet often
its opening in April2005, finds it becomes a launching pad
lery has curated nine for newer artists.
exhibits each year. "We have some people in mind
goal is to have work that who we invite, but as a nonprofit
rally aware, courageous, (organization) one of the things
t-provoking and individu- we've always done is we will
Pritschet said. look at people's submissions,"
ae exhibits typically show- Pritschet said. "We try to support
e work of local artists as emerging artists and to provide
artists from around the a venue for seldom-heard voices.
, who may be established We look at people who are mar-
to the art world. ginalized from the art scene, but
we never compromise and have
mediocre work."
Pritschet mentioned that one
of her greatest pleasures was to
vidence at present the work of a well known
artist who had won several
Very Project. awards in New York City right
next to an artist who was apply-
ing for an MFA at the University
of Michigan.
re interested in as many Although The Gallery Project
as we can get who are was originally intended by its
g to the theme," Pritschet founders to be a five-year proj-
ect, Pritschet and DePietro, both
focus on a wide variety of artists themselves, have recently
t viewpoints diffuses the decided to extend their lease for
al controversy of an exhib- two more years. Their next exhi-
In Spite of the Evidence," bition, "Mind," which opens with
deals with personal con- a reception on Feb. 26 and runs
like religion and politics. through March 28, will celebrate
don't try to be controver- the extension.

By BRAD SANDERS
Daily Arts Writer
Saskia Olde Wolbers takes audi-
ences on journeys throughtheir own
psyches. The London-based film-
maker will be pre-
senting five of her NowThat
distinctive films as
part of the Penny Part of Me
W. Stamps lecture Ha Become
series on Thursday
at 5:10 p.m. at the Fiction
Michigan Theater. Thursday at
There's noth- 5:10 p.m.
ing typical about Michigan Theater
Wolbers's films Mi
- there are no
physical actors, as the audience is
transported into the eyes of the nar-
rators who wander through unfamil-
iar and dreamlike worlds and express
their thoughts through voice-over.
The lecture is titled "Now That
Part Of. Me Has Become Fiction"
because her films are meant to have
the effect of the "traveling imagi-
nation," which is how Wolbers
describes the common experience of
people when they read fiction. The
films also use narrators who attempt
to construct their own realities, like
a man who lies to his family for sev-
eral years, saying that he's a doctor.
"The ideas for my films come from
a variety of sources, usually a situa-
tion that is described by a newspaper
that doesn't have much insight into
the real story, so you have to imagine
it," Wolbers explained. "I'm very led
by chance, and that's what I come
across."

Wolbers's complex storylines are
told in intricately constructed set-
tings that represent anything but
reality.
"Apart from the film I made in
2007, which is set in West Africa,
everyfilmisinan aquarium,withliq-
uid dripping from the sets," Wolbers
said. "The sets are miniature and are
usually made from a combination of
metal and plastic."
Her filmmaking style is uncon-
ventional as well, as she usually lets
the results of the filming process dic-
tate the overall story.
"As I work very organically, the
complete text is not finished until
I am done with all of the filming,"
Wolbers said. "It is sometimes very
intuitive, but at other times very
directional."
Wolbers will be showing "Kilo-
watt Dynasty," "Placebo," "Interlop-
er," "Trailer" and "Deadline," as well
as scenes from a new film.
The audience can expect more
than just viewing Wolbers's ground-
breaking films. They will also hear
what goes on behind the scenes.
"I talk about the research that's
involved, alittle bit about how I make

the films, the process, references
... as well as other things that influ-
ence me," Wolbers explained. "The
lecture will start with a still image
usually referring to the research,
and each transition between films
will be accompanied by a different
still image."
Wolbers is very passionate about
her work and hopes to entertain as
well as enlighten the viewers of her
films.
Films for a rainy
afternoon.
"I think that the perfect audience
walks in on a rainy afternoon and
finds this story that's quite intimate in
a way," he said. "It has sort of a photo-
documentary style, even though the
visuals are more akin to fiction than
to filmmaking, because you're not
really seeing what you're hearing. I
guess there's an element of mystifica-
tion - Itry to create a different sort of
space for the audience members."



Xile f ihi iJC an 43aij Invites you to see
Shutter Island
Thursday, February 18th
State Theater
For your chance to receive a pass to check out the new thriller, come down to The
Michigan Daily office through 2/17 and sign up for our email list to be in the loop
for more great offers!
*No Purchase Necessary. While Supplies Last. Seating is not guaranteed and is available on a first
come, first served basis. Theater is overbooked to ensure capacity. Employees of the Michigan Daily
and promotional partners are not eligible to win.
IN THEATERS FEBRUARY 19TH
www.shutterisland.com

,.,nmoe vowneu s e v e t-..spa.
Attend an information session.
Wednesday, February 17th
6:30 p.m.
U-M International Center, Room 9
800.424.8580j www.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will 'you go?

4 r a


6 - Tuesday, February 16, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 2 BEDROOM, completely remod-
eled, large kitchen with modemn appli-
atces. Full size washer &mdryer, on site
parking. Pet friendly. Call Laura for
your private tour at Church Street
Apartments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! 2-BED: 2-BATH BI-LEVELS !
Walnut @ Geddes
Heat, water, furn., 1 parking spot incl.
Perfect for 4 to share
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for 2010, May or Aug start. 2
blocks from campus, single bedrooms
through 5-person lofts. Per-person con-
tracts, rates from $655, all utilities in-
cluded at flat rate. All-inclusive per-
semester rates from $4450. Call or stop
by for details. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
! 4-BEDROOMS!
Baldwin & Cambridge
Hardwood floors & 10' ceilings
Beautiful, quiet neighborhood
Heat, water, furnishings, parking incl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
! 6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilities!
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icc.coop
! AVAILABLE FALL Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
! AWESOME LOCATION 9 Bed-
room, 3 bathrooms, fully furn, 2 large
fridges, full size washer & dryer, on
site parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
! CENTRAL CAMPUS 2-BDRMS !
Two S. Forest locations w/ free wireless
Tappan @ Oakland w/ several floor
plans avail.
521 Walnut to choose your furniture.
1039 Baldwin w/ brand new kitchens
and a yard.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.

tht
owuopre like ir
OWSedaand
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!!!MAY TO MAY!!!!
AND
SHORT TERM LEASES
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!SPRING BREAK special!! Great
rates available through Spring
Break. Check our website. 715
Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartmets
Fall 2010, Across from East Qd
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, famished/nfurished., ldry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
$$$ SWEET DEALS $$$
At
Prime Student Housing
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Make us an offer we can't refuse!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
**DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story.
Wshr/dyr in unit. Half a mile to UM
Medical Center. $750/mo, incl. water'
Call 734-395-5288 or 248-855-3143.
tudio & J
d Bdrm. UnitsJ
Tower Plaza Condominium
Chi & Sa ecre Hi._ ris n c k : fromarrs
Cal:. [ "n"Tomsk
734-663-1530 '
*6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, First
months rent free! Fall 20101 1007
State. Fum. Newly renovated 1st
Floor and Bthrms. Free Prkng and
Indry. Call 734-717-9288.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.tSellA2.com 734-476-9768

* 20 1
# BDRMS Location Price
6 1221 S.State #2 $2000
5 420 S. Division #2 $2200
3 1123 Church St. $1500
eff. 1117Church #2 $500
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-LeveltApt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1699/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-LevelApt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.miccomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
1221 S. State#2
6 BDRM
$2000
FALL 20 10
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
1.OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-
6380. www.benjaminrents.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
8 MONTH LEASES for fall. Two
houses to choose from: 7 bdrm for 8 at
S. University and Washtenaw, 6 bdrm
for 7- Mid S. Forest area. 734-260-4003
^^^^YOUR MOM CALLED^^^^
She wants you to live with
Prime!!!
Reduced Rates.... at Great Locations!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add F E interet, HDdirectv
with DV, fitess room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
930 b t t

SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and ldry. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Famished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near
Ctral Campus. $500750. Includes
H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
321 E.Liberty
6 BDRM APT.
$2800
SEPT .1,2010
2 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS,
2 BLOCKSTO DOWNTOWN
4 PARKING SPACES

(The Midpcgan 1a941 Spring and Fall
PRESENTS THE . Leases Available

Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-m.com
Upmrseisty
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and Indry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer. &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandailycom/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic campus, Law &
Business schools. Groups or individual.
SINGLE LEASES. $600/bdrm & up.
734-418 2050
www.828greeneapts.com
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2200
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartmentsnet
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff.. 1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, lndry, tenantspay
all util. 5 br-$3000, 6-bd -$3200,
7-bdr-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.

DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.

CORNERHOUSE
APARTMENTS
205S. State St.
on corner of State and
Washington
2 & 3 bdrm. Apt. Homes
Beautifully Furnished
Outstanding views
Garage parking
Central air
9 foot high ceilings
Premier campus location
Models open daily
734-741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

0
0

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., trainng provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREEto join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net


I I

Los Angel
Edi
ACROSS
1 Western Florida
city
6 Rice-
11 Air gun ammo
14 Catherine of
"Beetlejuice"
15 Binary system
digits
16 Exercise unit
17 *Relaxing soak
19 Brew insa yard
20 "Just _
suspected!"
21 "... have you _
wool?"
22 Company whose
calling is calling
23Biokin
26 *Great concert
turnonut
29Sympathetic
connection
31 Cease
32 Blood system
letters
33 Confirmation, e.g.
35 Outperforms
39Manyan exec's
remuneration
43 Work with hair
44 Pre-coIl. catchall
45 Bit of Internet
mirth
46 Binary system
digits
49 Pulls an
all-nighter
51 *Un y slection
55 Course with
many problems
56 Hip-swiveling
dance
57 Beachgoer's shirt
58 Rioting group
60 Former California
fort
61 What you can say
about sketches,
end about the
answers to the
starred clues
66 NFL's Cardinals,
on scoreboards
67 Free-for-all
68 McDermott of
"The Practice"
69 Soap-making
need
70 "ne.my case"
71 Figure out
DOWN
1 Heavy weight

Yiuwww.annar oraparmensmnei
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
es Times Daily Crossword Puzzle Browse FREE! All Cities &Areas.
ted by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis 877-367-7368 http://www.subletcom
2 Bigeye or 37 "Rainbow"fish 53 Song from the AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. fur.
yellowfin, at a 38 Mythical air past apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
sushi bar dweller 54Three-time N.L Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
3 Cheese partner 40 Regional plant life stolen base
4 Radio signal 41 Corsica neighbor champ Jose AVAIL.9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
booster 42 Skeptic's demand 59 Gambler's -
5 Sighs of 47 Herbook is read concerns sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
contentment during the Jewish 61 Pa. plant in the security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
6 HIV-treating drug holiday Purim 1979 news arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
7 Masonry- 48 "Remington _" 62 Like Gen. Powell Co. 734-368-0256.
reinforcing rod 50 Pre-fetus stage 63 Every last one
8 Tree-dwelling 51 Shallow sea area 64 Sound file suffix AVAILABLE FALL.
apes 52 Speed things up 65 LA.-to-Helena dir. Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
9 "Almost ready- floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
be patient" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
10 Sufix with Brit __T_____EACAH___ALA___
11'Top Chef" TOSEA CAHN ALAS
network A B C T V O R E O Z ENO AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
12Downstairs,atsea P I A N O P A R T I T I O N 934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
13 Blow, asdough A T L A N T A B R A V E (734) 260-7215.
18 Well driller SS LOY OAKLEY
22 Skin care maven WWW.800FULLERCOM
Adrien C E O F I N N I D A (734) 769-7520
23 Uncouth W H A T E L S E I S N E W 1 & 2bdrm.,mode, clean,quiet
24 Good thing to S T Y E C I A E E N S 5min. walk. Free Wi-Fi
kick W E A RE TH EW OR L D
25 Hobbyist'sglue A L T W O O D A O L
27 Westernmost
Aleutian island P E T R E L A T M F O B
28 Kurt of Nirvana A L D O U S H U X L E Y
30 Point inthe right G O O D L O O K S LEAS T
direction E L B A F L E E U N I T E
34 Preceding, in M E I R FAST SORE S
poetry_
36 Teo-Mex dip xwordeditor@aol.com 025/10-
1 2 3 4 S 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 3
17 18 19
23 24a2 2s 2 , 2a Experience the Difference
1 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
32 at 34 3 s ar 37 Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
1 Free High-Speed Internet
a 4 sas HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwaoher, disposal
u1 52s5 s3 us "Contemporary Furniture
" Closeto CCRB
st 57o 9 "Exercise Room, Rec. Room
so s1 82 es 5a es . Study Lounge w/ Computers
88 5z Models open Daily
6, 70 71
By Nancy:Kavanaugh it02/16/il 741-9300
(c)20w0 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2//nnr e T
www.annarborapartments.net

WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962-9014.
properties
Rent with the Best!
Fail 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
www.varsitymanagement.com
Management
625 Church St. (734) 668-1100
1039 Badw in
Studio, 2 Bedroomns, 4 Bedrooms
'Unbelivabiy saciousa yartments
- a rdicooflors, hli hceiings, bay
windows, anfirep ces in a
beautifi<oiiverted mansion.
suge backyardin a quiet
neighborhood /hat, nwaer,
furnishings,, &yarking m c.e
Ca/ffor yourpersona'ize rour!

SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS -Children's
sleep-away camp, Northeast Pennsylva-
nia 6/19-8/15. If you love children and
want a caring, fun environment we
need Counselors, Instructors and other
staff for our ssmmer camp. On cam-
pus Interviews February 25th. Select
The Camp That Selects The Best Staff!
Call 1.215.944.3069 or apply on-line
at www.campwaynegirls.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

0
0
0

Summer
'Nmpleyment
Page
By advertising on this year's Summer
Employment Page you can reach over
40,000+highlyqualifiedWolverines!
'Ihis is agreat opportunity for
internshipsorsummerpositionsto
reach the eyesof many eligible students.
Presented by The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Feb.18 at 1:30 am
Published Feb.25
dailyclassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557

FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com

I


*I



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 16, 2010 - 7

. CFO Slottow says the University
is fixing maintenance backlog

From Page 1
For the event, which will take
place amid the ongoing construc-
tion at Michigan Stadium, Sullivan
said all elevators and bathrooms
would be ready in time, but that the
stadium's new club suites would not
be ready for use.
"We understand that a lot of fac-
ultymay want to come to graduation
this year," she added with a laugh.
Sullivan also talked about pro-
posed changes to the grievance pro-
cedure for resolving faculty disputes,
noting that it is currently under
review by Law School professors
who areexaminingitslanguage.
Sullivan discussed faculty pro-
motions too, telling SACUA mem-
bers that she would begin reviewing
recommendations for promotions
after spring break.
The promotions process involves
a series of sessions during which
Sullivan will meet with two faculty
reviewers. The reviewers who aid
Sullivan in the review are selected
by the Office of the Provost and are
senior faculty members.
Afterreviewingthe case, Sullivan
will occasionally speak with a dean,
especially if the review committee
was not persuaded by a dean's point
of view.
CFO TIM SLOTTOW
DISCUSSES BUILDING
MAINTENANCE
Tim Slottow, executive vice
president and chief financial offi-
cer for the University, also spoke
MFORWARD
From Page 1
functioning as an actual student
government.
"We want to give students
another, better choice in the
March elections, and what that
means is focusing on advocacy
and representation," he said. "It
means more work on tuition, the
Good Samaritan policy, gender-
neutral housing - the issues that
need to be addressed and need to
be addressed soon."
According to the press release,
the party's members plan to
announce their slate in a mass
meeting this Wednesday night.
Ambreen Sayed, MSA chief of
staff, insisted the combined expe-
rience of its members distinguish-
es MForward from current and
former party initiatives in MSA.
"The group we've composed
has seen the best and the worst of

Taliban steps
up attacks
in Marah
stronghold

ANNA SCHULTE/Daily
University Provost Teresa Sullivan speaks to the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs - the leading faculty govern-
ing body - yesterday. Sullivan discussed the proposed state budget and the Michigan Promise Scholarship, among other topics.

at yesterday's SACUA meeting.
Slottow explained the process for
determining which buildings on
campus are most in need of main-
tenance.
He said University officials use
a one-to-four scale to judge which
buildings are in need of the most
repair. A building rated a one is
deemed to potentially place the
MSA," said Sayed, who will run
for re-election as an Engineering
representative in March. "Our in
depth knowledge will help us to be
effective and more responsive to
the student body."
LSA junior Chris Dietzel, who is
also running for representative as
a partof MForward, said the desire
for more thorough communication
with students was a primary rea-
son for the party's formation.
"Havingexperience withgroups
on campus, I know that students
have a lot to say but don't always
realize how they can voice their
opinions," said Dietzel, who is also
president of the campus group Do
Random Acts of Kindness.
"My hope is that I can serve the
organizations I'm a part of through
MSA, and that I can bring student
voices to the assembly and make
sure that they're heard," he said.
According to the press release,
MForward will comprise leaders
from organizations like Fighting

building's inhabitants in extremely
dangerous situations if the build-
ing goes without repair.
Slottowsaidthe Universityis cur-
rently working on trying to fix the
backlog of deferred maintenance for
many Universitybuildings.
He said the Facility Condi-
tion Index allows buildings to be
assessed for their conditions and
Obstacles Knowing Ultimate Suc-
cess, the Indian American Student
Association, Dance Marathon at
the University of Michigan and the
Student Athlete Advisory Council,
in addition to DoRAK.
"We think diversity of the
organizations we represent is as
important as the diversity of our
members," Armstrong said.
He added that he and fellow
party members intend to work
more closely with the Student
Association of Michigan, a collec-
tion of student governments from
campuses across the state.
Armstrong said that the party
intends to pursue legislative goals,
like reforming MSA's funding pro-
cess, in addition to channeling stu-
dent voices into new legislation.
"We're hoping to work with the
treasurers from different student
and administrative organizations
to figure out how we can fix our
funding," he said. "We know we
can streamline a lot of the money

then the proper maintenance or
corrections to be done.
"We are trying desperately to
reduce deferred maintenance,"
Slottow said. "It's going in the right
direction over time."
"We use the FCI to identify what
buildings are the worst and also to
pick up what the overall trend is
across campus,"he added.
we receive in order to use it more
effectively."
Sayed said she was confident
that if elected, the party will make
effective and meaningful changes
no matter what the specific legis-
lation is.
"We have a hard-working group
of people who like to think big, yet
be very pragmatic with the solu-
tions we create," she said. "I think
we're going to set and keep the
bar high with whatever comes our
way."
According to Armstrong,
because elections will be held in
March, the next several weeks will
be critical to MForward's efforts
to make its presence known and
garner support from the student
body.
"The campaign leading up to
the election is a way for us to con-
nect with leaders and students on
campus," he added. "We want to
foster an environment that will aid
MSA in the years to come."

Taliban fighters
moved into Marine
compound and
opened fire
SMARJAH, Afghanistan (AP)
- Taliban fighters stepped up
counterattacks against Marines
and Afghan soldiers in the militant
stronghold of Marjah, slowing the
allied advance to a crawl despite
Afghan government claims that the
insurgents are broken and on the
run.
Taliban fighters appeared to be
slipping under cover of darkness
into compounds already deemed
free of weapons and explosives,
then opening fire on the Marines
from behind U.S. lines.
TwoNATOservicemembersdied
Monday from bomb strikes in Hel-
mand, but neither was part of the
Marjah offensive, military spokes-
man Sgt. Kevin Bell said. NATO did
not provide their nationalities.
Also yesterday, NATO said
five civilians were accidentally
killed and two wounded by an
airstrike when they were mistak-
enly believed to have been planting
roadside bombs in Kandahar prov-
ince, east of the Marjah offensive.
The airstrike happened one day
after 12 people, half of them chil-
dren, were killed by two U.S. mis-
siles that struck a house on the
outskirts of Marjah. Afghan offi-
cials said yesterday that three Tali-
ban fighters were in the house at
the time of the attack.
On the third day of the main
attack on Marjah, Afghan com-
manders spoke optimistically Mon-
day about progress in the town of
about 80,000 people, the linchpin
of the Taliban logistical and opium
poppy smuggling network in the
militant-influenced south
Brig. Gen. Sher Mohammad
Zazai, commander of Afghan
troops in the south, told reporters
in nearby Lashkar Gah that there
had been "low resistance" in the
town, adding "soon we will have
Marjah cleared of enemies."
Interior Minister Hanif Atmar
said many insurgent fighters had
already fled Marjah, possibly head-
ing for Pakistan.
In Marjah, however, there was
little sign the Taliban were broken.
Instead, small, mobile teams of
insurgents repeatedly attacked U.S.
and Afghan troopswith rocket, rifle
and rocket-propelled grenade fire.
Insurgents moved close enough to
the main road to fire repeatedly at
columns ofmine-clearingvehicles.
At midday at least six large gun-
battleswereragingacrossthetown,
and helicopter gunships couldn't
cover all the different fighting loca-
tions.
Allied officials have reported
only two coalition deaths so far
- one American and one Briton
killed Saturday. There havebeen no
reports of wounded. Afghan offi-
cials said at least 27 insurgents have
been killed so far in the offensive.

Nonetheless, the harassment
tactics and the huge number of
roadside bombs, mines and booby
traps planted throughout Mar-
jah have succeeded in slowing the
movement of allied forces through
the town. After daylong skirmish-
es, some Marine units had barely
advanced at all by sundown.
As long as the town remains
unstable, .NATO officials cannot
move to the second phase - restor-
ingAfghan government control and
rushing in aid and public services
to win over inhabitants who have
been living under Taliban rule for
years.
Afghan President Hamid Karzai
approved the assault on Marjah
only after instructing NATO and
Afghan commanders to be care-
ful about harming civilians. "This
operation has been done with that
in mind," the top NATO command-
er, U.S. Gen. Stanley McChrystal,
said yesterday.
Despite those instructions,
NATO said two U.S. rockets veered
off target by up to 600 yards and
slammed into a home Sunday out-
side Marjah, killing 12 people. Six
children were among the dead, a
NATO military official confirmed
Monday, speaking on condition of
anonymity because theinformation
had not been formally released.
In London, Britain's top military
officer, Air Chief Marshal Sir Jock
Stirrup, called the missile strike a
"very serious setback" to efforts to
win the support of local communi-
ties, who are from the same Pash-
tun ethnic group as the Taliban.
NATO said the Kandahar air-
strike was ordered yesterday after
a joint NATO-Afghan patrol saw
people digging along a path "and
believed that the individuals" were
planting a roadside bomb. When
they realized their mistake, troops
flew the wounded to a NATO hospi-
tal, the statement said.
"We regret this tragic accident
and offer our sympathies to the
familiesof those killed and injured,"
said Maj. Gen. Michael Regner, the
NATO command's deputy chief of
staff for joint operations. "Our com-
bined forces take every precaution
to minimize civilian casualties, and
we will investigate this incident to
determine how this happened."
About 15,000 U.S., Afghan and
British troops are takingpartinthe
massive offensive around Marjah
area - the largest southern town
under Taliban control.
The offensive is the biggest joint
operation since the 2001 U.S.-led
invasion of Afghanistan.
The main attack began before
dawn Saturday when dozens of
helicopters dopped hundreds of
Marines and Afghan soldiers into
the heart ofthe city.Although there
was onlyscattered resistance onthe
first day, Taliban fighters seem to
have regrouped, using hit-and-run
tactics to try to prevent the Ameri-
cans and their Afghan allies from
gaining full control of the area.
The Taliban snipers appeared
highly skilled at concealing them-
selves.


REGENTS
From Page 1
building's partial renovation, the
Museum of Zoology's "wet" col-
lection will be moved to the site
for storage and it will be available
for the University community to
access.
The project will also renovate
part of the Alexander G. Ruthven
Museums Building.
Renovations for both projects
are scheduled to be completed by
the summer of 2012 and will be
FALSE ALARMS
From Page 1
cy," Lugin wrote in the e-mail.
"Complacency that may result
in residents being less willing to
evacuate in the event of an actual
fire."
LSA sophomore Michelle
Beckwith - who has lived in
West Quad for the past two years
- said she is genuinely frightened
when a fire alarm goes off in light
of a real fire that occurred in West
Quad last year.
"It's kind of a problem. I lived
here last year and we had them,
but this year it's definitely more
ridiculous and I'm always afraid
it's a real fire since we did have a
real fire last year," Beckwith said.
"So now it's hard for me to go 'Oh
it's just a fire drill.' Fire alarms
freak me out. I take off running, I

paid for through the University's
investment income.
If regents approve the recom-
mendation submitted by Timo-
thy Slottow, the project will be
issued for bids and will be able
to be awarded, provided the win-
ning bid is within the approved
budget.
UPDATE ON UNIVERSITY
REACCREDITATION
Though no action will be
required on the topic, the regents
will also hear an update on the
don't even put shoes on."
Beckwith said the fire alarms
have been disrupting the sleep-
ing habits of both herself and her
friends, who are growing frus-
trated from the sleep depriva-
tion.
Beckwith agreed with Lugin,
noting that with the increased
number of false alarms, many
West Quad residents opt not to
evacuate because they know there
isn't an actual fire.
"What really bothers me
though is when people call it a fire
drill," Beckwith said. "We haven't
had a fire drill since September.
But people keep calling them that,
but it's not a fire drill. This is not
preparing us for a fire at all, this is
doing the opposite."
Resident Advisor and LSA
senior Dominick Young is also
concerned about students ignor-
ing the alarms and said that every

University's re-accreditation pro-
cess. The University must com-
plete the re-accreditation process
every 10 years in order to 4ualify
for federal aid. The last re-accred-
itation process was completed in
2000.
As part of the process, the
University completed a self-
study report that focused on the
five topic areas required by the
Higher Learning Commission
- the University's mission, its
preparedness for the future, the
in-class experience, out of class-
room engagement and applica-
time an alarm is pulled, students
should react as if it were an actual
fire.
"The more that it happens, the
more and more students are less
apt to actually evacuate the build-
ing which is a problem because
every time the fire alarm is pulled,
we need to treat it like it's the real
thing," Young said.
Young added that it's impor-
tant for anyone who knows who
is pulling the alarm to come
forward, because of the serious
nature of the issue.
LSA freshman Daniel Zamler
said in response to the increase
in the number of false alarms, he
and his roommate have covered
the fire alarm light in their room
to stop the alarm from going off
for an extended period of time.
"I mean it's obviously been
waking me up at like 4 o'clock in
the morning three or four times

tion of knowledge.
The HLC gives those schools,
which will likely be reaccredited
the opportunity to do an addi-
tional study on a special topic of
their choosing. Because the Uni-
versity falls into this category,
University officials conducted a
study on internationalism at the
University.
The process will conclude later
this year, when a 13-person team
from the HLC visits campus from,
Mar. 15-17 to interview top admin-
istrators and other representatives
from the University.
now which is unpleasant," Zam-
ler said. "We had to actually
tape over the fire alarm light in
our room, because one time they
couldn't shut off the fire alarm for
six hours or something."
Zamler said he has also noticed
a decline in residents actually
evacuating during the alarms.
"The whole building is techni-
cally supposed to evacuate, but
it has become kind of a mundane
thing that kind of pisses people
off, so not a lot of people actually
go outside," Zamler said. "That
would be bad if people thought
there was a fake fire and there
actually was one."
According to Lugin's email,
pulling a fire alarm is a violation
of University Policy and Michi-
gan State law. It's a misdemean-
or punishable by imprisonment
for up to a year or fines of up to
$1,000, according to the e-mail.


HODES
From Page 1
and most people don't get to see a
doctor in their life, he said.
Hodes said one of the biggest
problems he faces is not always
having access to advanced medical
equipment, forcing him to make do
with the bare minimum necessary
to treat patients.
"In Ethiopia, I started giving out
chemo(therapy) on my front porch,"
Hodes said.
Due to limited options for medi-
cal care in Ethiopia, Hodes said he
usually sees very advanced cases of
illnesses like Hodgkin's Lymphoma
and spinal tuberculosis. Among
other resources, Hodes said he uses
generic drugs bought from India to
treat his patients.
Hodes said his work focuses on
getting his patients to hospitals
where they can be operated on, if
surgery is needed. He works closely
with hospitals in Ghana that oper-
ate for free and with a hospital in
Cochin, India, sending patients to
hoth so they can receive the treat-
ment they require for free.
At his practice, Hodes sees about
20 to 25 patients a day. He said he
does not advertise his work, but
people from all over the country

travel long distances to see him.
"I got one (patient) the other day
that came from about 400 miles,"
Hodes said. "They just assume that
I'm in town and take thebus from all
the way across town to come see me."
Hodes said one of the main issues
facing patients in Ethiopia is the
lack of medical care available for
patients in the early stages of many
diseases and malnutrition.
He cited iodine deficiency spe-
cifically, noting that if children
in Ethiopia had readily available
access to iodine they would be able
to raise their IQ by 7 percent.
Though he is mostly concerned
with finding solutions as fast as
possible for his patients, Hodes said
his long-term goals include hav-
ing surgery more readily available
in Ethiopia, adding that he doesn't
see himself returning to the United
States to live permanently for at
least five years.
"Right now a lot of things are
takingoff," Hodes said.
Hodes encouraged students to do
the same, emphasizing the impor-
tance of taking time to do service
ahroad.
"There is a big world out there,
(students) should get out and do
some work outside of Michigan
and outside of the United States,"
Hodes said.

he wire
WANT THE LATEST NEWS HEADLINES?
FOLLOW THE DAILY'S NEWS BLOG.
michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


8 - Tuesday, February 16, 2010

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

8 - Tuesday, February 16, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Hogan's inconsistency
continues in Nebraska

Freshman Darius Morris had arguably his best game last week against Minnesota, establishing himself as an on-court leader.
Blue heads to Iowa

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
For the first time in quite some
time, the Michigan men's basketball
team will go on the road with some-
thing it has lacked most of the sea-
son: confidence.
And why not?
After arguably MIChigan
the Wolverines' at IoWa
best performance Matchup-
away from Crisler Michigan 12-12;
Arena, a 71-63 win Iowa 9-17
over Minnesota .
last Thursday, 8en: Toright
they come into
tonight's matchup Where: Carv-
against Iowa on a er-Hawkeye
bit of a roll. Well, Arena
as muchof aroll as TV/Radio:
one true road win Big Ten Network
puts you on.
Michigan can focus on its many
positives from Thursday's win, like
another solid team defensive effort
and the on-court leadership of fresh-
man point guard Darius Morris.
Still, Michigan coach John
Beilein isn't exactly convinced that
these positives will automatically
appear tonight in Iowa City.
After Sunday's slate of wild bas-
ketball games, which featured two
Big East upsets of No. 3 Syracuse
and No. 8 Georgetown by unranked
teams, it makes sense that Beilein
remains cautious.
"Watching scores right now,

there's not a lot of carry-over,"
he said. "There's inconsistencies
everywhere about how your team is
going to perform. You look at those
Big East scores from (Sunday), and
you just - that's why I think people
love college basketball."
Of course, a matchup like Mich-
igan-Iowa - two teams in the bot-
tom half of the Big Ten standings
- isn't as high profile as Sunday's
upsets. But the message is clear:
past success isn't necessarily an
indication of future success.
And that brings the Wolver-
ines (5-7 Big Ten, 12-12 overall) to
tonight's game. Michigan defeated
Iowa handily last time the two
teams played, a 14-point win on Jan.
30. Senior forward DeShawn Sims
led the way with a double-double,
and he combined with junior guard
Manny Harris for 40 points on the
game.
But, as Beilein warned, that
doesn't mean tonight's game will be
easy.
"Watch any (Iowa) game - the
halftime score is going to be pretty
close," Beilein said. "They have been
able to shorten games. They only
have a seven- or eight-man rotation.
There's nobody who doesn't know
their role on the team. They can stay
in any game. "Their record doesn't
show it, but they're getting better
and better every day"
The Hawkeyes (3-t0,9-17) recent-
lv pulled off a nice upset of their

own, a home win over NCAA Tour-
nament bubble-team Northwestern
last week. Going into Carver-Hawk-
eye Arena, like going into any Big
Ten team's home arena, is difficult,
even for teams like the Wildcats.
To prepare for all games - home
or away - Beilein says he likes to
blast music throughout the prac-
tice the day before the contest. He
doesn't want his players to get used
to communicating in a quiet envi-
ronment, because that's not what
they'll face - even in Crisler.
"We're always trying to make it
difficult so they're used to having
that adversity," he said.
That coaching tactic, as well as
others that keep the players focused
on basic drills, seemed to work -
at least in Thursday's win. Morris
said yesterday that he thinks the
team has had some great practices
recently, and that he's felt a good
team vibe lately. From the coaches
to scout team players and everyone
in between, nobody wants to mail in
the rest of the season - even with an
NCAA Tournament appearance out
of the picture.
"The season is never over," Mor-
ris said. "You always hear stories
about teams that catch on late.
One thing about Beilein's teams is
they're known for getting better. At
one point, we weren't getting better.
Now, I think it's starting to click.
Hopefully, a win at Iowa (today)
will show that."

Jun
goal
up
f
The
senior]
Dan Sw
weeken
On
smarte
Bryan I
cial we
ericks o
With
in thet
game,
who w:
glass at
the pui
forwar
And sk:
Swanso
two-on
Rich
past ti
and rig
scored
positioe
Twe
Swanso
ice in a
tunity.'
omore
went tt
pass.
ButS
puck b,
Hogan'
And
made i
were do
Hog,
defense
during

ior goaltender's the netminder was blasted with
odd-man rushes at will.
s-against average "He made good saves, and he
gave up goals he should've saved,
about 16 percent simple as that," Michigan coach
Red Berenson said. "There were
from last year times when he saved us, and there
were times where he cost us. Four
By TIM ROHAN goals against is not good enough.
DailySports Writer And that's a team thing too, but
Hogie is the last line of defense."
Wolverines won't forget Hogan finished each loss with
Nebraska-Omaha forward 27 and 24 saves, respectively, and
vanson, not after this past deserves credit for keeping the
id. games from getting obscenely out
Saturday, Swanson out- of hand.
d Michigan junior goalie With all of the odd-man rush-
Hogan and sealed a cru- es Nebraska-Omaha got, things
ekend sweep for the Mav- could have been much worse for
tver the Wolverines. Michigan.
ten minutes remaining "There's been a lot of pressure
third period of Saturday's on him," Berenson said. "Our
a Nebraska-Omaha player team has not been consistent and
as double-teamed near the neither has Hogie. You're hoping
t the top of the circle sent that your goalie can win you a
ck to streaking freshman game here and there. And I think
d Brandon Richardson. he's been a factor in some of our
ating with Richardson was wins. But he also, like the rest of
tn - they had created a our team, has been the victim of
-one, odd-man rush. some of our losses as well."
ardson passed the puck This season has been a roll-
he Michigan defenseman ercoaster to say the least for the
ht to Swanson, who easily goalkeeper.
on Hogan, who was out of Hogan has four shutouts on
n on the pass. the season, a 2.30 goals-against
nty-three seconds later, average and an average of 21 saves
sn carried the puck up the per game. But he has had week-
nother two-on-one oppor- ends like this past one in Omaha
This time, Michigan soph- when the offense struggled and
defenseman Greg Pateryn he needed to keep the opponents
o his stomach to block the down, but couldn't.
After a 2008-09 campaign dur-
Swanson calmly pulled the ing which he went 24-6 as a start-
ack and ripped a shot over er and had a 1.97 GAA, he has lost
s shoulder. more than double that amount
just like that, Swanson of games this season. One of the
t history. The Wolverines biggest differences, and one that
one. showed up this past weekend, was
an and the Michigan that the offense was scoring goals
e gave up eight goals in all in bunches when Hogan started
the weekend sweep, and last season. This year, the support

just hasn't been there.
But a lack of offense wasn't
completely at fault for Nebraska-
Omaha's sweep, either.
Berenson saw his goalie out of
position on some of those odd-
man rushes which resulted in
goals. Hogan was put in a tough
position, but he wasn't playing the
pass and was just waiting on the
shot. When the puck was passed,
the Mavericks had a wide-open
backside of the net to work with.
"There were times when he
had no support and times he
didn't read the support," Beren-
son said. "Like, if I know this guy
(to my side) is wide open, and
I'm focused on (the guy with the
puck), and I'm convinced he's
going to shoot. And he passes it.
I'm toast. I didn't read it. Every
time they got a two-on-one, they
scored."
Nebraska-Omaha prevailed in
the end because of the smallest of
errors.
The sweep could have crip-
pled the Wolverines' chances of
making the NCAA tournament
- Swanson put a dagger in the
game, the wee, end and possibly
Michigan's season, too.
INJURY UPDATE: Senior cap-
tain Chris Summers was held out
of Saturday's 4-3 loss to Nebras-
ka-Omaha due to concussion-like
symptoms. Berenson said Mon-
day that Summers told him that
he feels "100 percent." Summers
will skate today and probably
take limited contact for a couple
of days.
And he will take a baseline
test today to see whether he
indeed suffered a concussion in
Omaha.
Berenson said he was "opti-
mistic" his captain would play
this weekend against Northern
Michigan.

FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK


0"

0

TAKE AN ADDITIONAL
6% OFF ANY APPLE
PRODUCT IN STOCK.
One-day only! All Apple iPods,
computers, software,
and accessories.
Tues, February 16
9:00 am - 6:00 pm

_ .
k +g
3 ,
wf

U NIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


