Ii iclpgan 0a4:3Itj

I
michigandailycom

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, December 7,2010

oA LIGOVER ANC
SACUA panel
report shows
low minority
faculty rates

University President Mary Sue Coleman and Vice President for Student Affairs E. Royster Harper at a fireside chat in the Kuenzel Room of the Michigan Union yesterday.
At the chat a student pressed Coleman on Michigan football coach Rich Rodriguez's job security.
Coleman: Rodri uez ob
decision is AD'S to make

Before faculty body,
Coleman talks new
state funding for
'U' renovations
By CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter
Rex Holland, a professor in the
Medical School and the School of
Dentistry, spoke about the low rate
of minority faculty members on
campus, in a meeting before the
Senate Advisory Committee on Uni-
versity Affairs yesterday.
Holland discussed a study by
SACUA's Multicultural Committee,
which examined the percentages
of minority faculty members using
data compiled from 1994 to 2008.
Holland said the study found that
though the percentage of Asian fac-
ulty members has increased since
the data was collected, the percent-
ages of black and Hispanic faculty
remained unchanged.
There was not enough data on
American Indians and Native Alas-
kans for inclusion in the study, he
said.
The study's charts show that
black faculty members made up
only 4 percent of the professorial

population in 1994, followed by a
small peak in 2002 but a subsequent
decline. The number of Hispanic
faculty was similarly low, with only
2 percent of the faculty identifying
as Hispanic in 1994.
According to Holland, percent-
ages for minority representation
in individual departments varied
widely. Some departments had high
percentages while other depart-
ments had almosteno minority far-
ultymembers.
The study also found that while
recruitment of minority faculty may
have increased, the rate of minor-
ity faculty retention has also gone
down, Holland said.
Though the study was released
in 2008, Holland said he was dis-
appointed that it had not attracted
greater notice from the administra-
tion and other faculty groups.
Biology Prof. John Lehman,
another SACUA member, said he
was confused about the numbers in
the study because there was no indi-
cated value against which they were
measured. He said without a value
to compare the numbers against, it
was hard to discern the true dispari-
ties.
SACUA Chair Ed Rothman said
he was concerned that the num-
bers reflect differences over time
See SACUA, Page 2

At fireside chat,
Coleman also talks
state of'U' athletics
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
University President Mary
Sue Coleman publicly addressed
the job security of head football
coach Rich Rodriguez today, say-
ing that any decision regarding
the coach's future is up to Athletic
Director David Brandon.

"I hired a
terrific ath-
letic director,'
Coleman said
at her month-
ly fireside
chat. "And I
said, 'Dave, KYLE SWANSON
this is your
decision.' And
he said, 'Yes,
and I'm going to make a decision.
And I said, 'Great."'
The question came amid recent
media and fan speculation about
Rodriguez's job status after his

first winning season as Michi-
gan's football coach and his third
straight loss to Ohio State.
Some have speculated that
Stanford's football coach and for-
mer Michigan quarterback Jim
Harbaugh would be hired for
the job should it become avail-
able. However, Stanford's Ath-
letic Director Bob Bowlsby said
Sunday that the school offered
Harbaugh a sweetened contract,
which he says the coach has indi-
cated he plans to accept.
Coleman's response to the first
question fueled several students

to ask follow up questions.
Asked whether she was happy
with the overall performance of
the Michigan football team, Cole-
man said all programs have high
points and low points.
"All programs go through tran-
sitions," Coleman said. "You can't
tell me that there's any program
in the country that hasn't had its
ups and downs."
However, Coleman added that
often the bad times seem to last
longer than they actually are.
"When you're struggling to
See COLEMAN, Page 6


AN EDUCA'HON OR A VOCAf ON?
Fewer students choosing to
enroll in humanities majors

GUNDAY MONDAY

English Department
offers peer mentors
in attempt to boost
participation
By ALYSSA ADLER
For the Daily
With the effects of an eco-
nomic recession and pushy
parents nudging students to con-
sider majors perceived as offer-
ing skills directly applicable to
the job market officials say fewer
students are enrolling in majors
like history or English. But in

an effort to maintain enrollment
and reverse the trend, professors
and administrators are trying to
remind students of the value of a
liberal arts degree.
The history department has
seen a recent drop in student
concentrators, according to
Kathy Evaldson, undergradu-
ate program and student ser-
vices coordinator, for the history
department. Though the depart-
ment doesn't directly assist in
career counseling - it sends stu-
dents to the Career Center - she
said officials still actively encour-
age students to think more open-
ly about future goals.
"I've been in touch with a lot

of alumni," Evaldson said. "I ask
them what they're doing, and
pass that information on to cur-
rent students, just to let (the stu-
dents) know that the sky's the
limit."
Evaldson said the history pro-
gram teaches concentrators how
to think critically, analyze texts,
research and write - skills that
are important in many fields. She
added that history concentra-
tors go on to a variety of careers,
including law, medicine, museum
preservation and everything in
between.
"We had a student a few years
ago start his own home health
See MAJORS, Page 2

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
Residents of Mary Markley Residence Hall meet and discuss what they call "Gunday Monday" yesterday. The men typically do ten
push-ups to build community in their hallway, but theevent was shut down yesterday by Departmentof Public Safety officers.

THL Al RBUsiNESS w sf fa fe
Local business owners say influx of chains a cause for concern

Some say city still
friendly to locally
owned businesses
By ANNA ROZENBERG
Daily StaffReporter
Though the face of Ann Arbor
is changing with independently
owned stores like Shaman Drum
closing up shop and chains like
Five Guys Burgers and Fries
moving in to replace them, local
business owners and leaders in
the State Street and Main Street

areas say they believe the city
will continue to be a thriving hub
full of locally-owned restaurants
and shops.
Maura Thomson, executive
director of the Main Street Area
Association, said Main Street
caters to those looking for high-
end fashion, home decor and
food. She added that the area's
success can be attributed to its
solid businesses and low turn-
over rate.
"We have quite a bit of longev-
ity," she said.
Thomson said that despite the
turbulent economy in the recent

past, the Ann Arbor community
has been consistently supportive
of local businesses.
"The past couple years have
been really tough, but we are
really lucky," Thomson said,
mentioning that this past year
saw an increase in sales for busi-
nesses in the the Main Street
Area Association.
While Main Street establish-
ments continue to attract con-
sumers inrorested in supporting
local businesses, turnover on
State Street may lead to a greater
presence of national and global
chains on campus.

Ed Davidson, owner of Biv-
ouac - an outdoors supplies
store that has been located on
State Street for 37 years - said he.
remembers the campus McDon-
ald's that opened on Maynard
Street in 1976 and hopes that the
fast food restaurant wouldn't
survive today if it re-opened on
campus. Davidson also said he's
concerned about the 7-Eleven
location that will open its doors
at the end of the year on South
State Street in the space formerly
occupied by Ritz Camera.
"In the last few years, it's been
more national chains or regional

chains versus locally owned,"
said Davidson. "I wish it weren't
so."
Davidson said this trend may
be due in part to the inability of
local businesses to compete with
national chains, which generally
have more money at their dispos-
al. Throughout his time on State
Street, Davidson said he has had
to change his products to meet
the evolving demands of his cus-
tomers to remain competitive.
Despite the fact that national
chains like 7-Eleven and CVS/
Pharmacy will be moving to
State Street soon, Davidson said

he's confident Ann Arbor will
remain a vibrant city that is wel-
coming to independently owned
businesses.
"It has a great future because
there's so many people ...
between students and professors
and tourists," said Davidson.
Tom Heywood, executive
director of the State Street Asso-
ciation, agreed saying he still has
faith that Ann Arbor will stay
healthy, regardless of the appar-
ent influx of national chains to
State Street.
"While it seems there is a lot of
See BUSINESSES, Page 2

WEATHER HI:26 GOTANEWSTIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO newscmichigandailv.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Borders looks to merge with Barnes & Noble
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX N EW S ..................................2 ARTS..............
Vol. CXXtNo. 62 SPORTS .............................3 CROSSWORD..
S2etheMichiganDaily OPINION..............................4 CLASSIFIEDS..
michigandaily.com

.................6
.................. 6


Tuesday, December 7, 2010

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

TuesdayDecember7, 2010 he Michian Daily- michignda ..yco

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

A matrimonial myth?

There's a myth on campus that no
hopeless romantic can resist.
According to campus lore, any couple
that kisses under the Engineering Arch
at the stroke of midnight is destined to
marry.
And while the myth is impossible to
prove or disprove, some couples who
have gone on to marry after kissing
under the arch say the legend is more
than just a fairy tale.
For one such couple, Matthew Straw
and Julie Foster-Straw, a 2009 gradu-
ate of the University, the efficacy of the
legend of the Engineering Arch isn't in
doubt.
"It's true!" Julie wrote of the myth in
an e-mail interview last week.
The two met last year while working
at Vinology on Main Street.
Julie said her now-husband knew the
implications of kissing at the spot so he
took her there on the couple's first date
after they ate dinner at Seva on East Lib-

erty Street and saw a show at the Ann
Arbor Comedy Showcase.
"We walked under the arch and he
asked if he could do an 'experiment'
with me," Julie recalled. "We kissed and
it worked! We were married July 15th,
2010."
The couple tried to return to the arch
on the day of their wedding to take pic-
tures while recreating their first kiss
and to commemorate the myth that may
have been responsible for their mar-
riage, but Julie said the weather didn't
cooperate.
"We tried to take pictures there on
our wedding day, but there was a rain
storm right after the ceremony," Julie
wrote.
Matthew and Julie currently live in
Atlanta, where Julie is a graduate stu-
dent at Emory University's School of
Public Health and Matthew is a manager
at a local restaurant and a photographer.
- KYLE SWANSON

SAM WOLSON/Daily
One campus myth suggests that a kiss under the Engineering Arch could lead to tying the knot.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMLOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext.1241
smilevirz@michigandailycom -ndbusineaagjnai-- c m
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours:sun.-Thurs.11s.nm.-2a.m.
734-418-4115sopt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportslSection sports@michigandaily.com
DisplaySales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
OnlineSales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaity.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENR 0 NEmS1WIORS Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thnb avukkarasu,Deonbehosbr
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph Lichterman,VeronicaMenaldi, Elyana Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Michelle DeWitt, EmilyOrley,eLaura.Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGE EDITORS: WillButler,WillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje ManagingsportsEditor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chanel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes,Stephen Nesbitt,Luke Pasch, ZakPyzik,Amy
Scarano
Jamie Block ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandatycom
SENORoARS EDsITORS:Caroynlre ckeei,ueAndre ai, eff Sar
ASI TNs DEDITOS:ristAhoLeahB ,ShaonJco,KaviShekhar
Pandey, David Tao
MaxCollinsand photo@michigandaily.com
SamnWolsn ManagngrhoEditors
SNIORPHTEDITOR Arel Bondarissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna tein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaily.com
Sarah Squire ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR:Maya Friedman
T oalen NMganemEditnor calero@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Adi Wollstein CopyChiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER:StephanieBowker
Hillarylzawala ctassifiedManager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
MeghanRooneyLayoutManager
Nick MnshkindFianeMnaer
Chrissy WinklerCirculation Manager
Zach YancerWeb Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during thefall and
winter terms by students at the Universityof Michigan. One copy is available free of charge to all
readers.Additionalcopies may bepickedupatthe oaily'sofficefor $2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,
starting i tmen, via U. Sailaren$110. Wintrterm ttlnsrythrousr l)nsyearlong
(Septemnberthroughprilis $19niestafiliate arsbjettareucdsbcrition at.
On-campus subscriptionsforfaltermares35.Subscriptionsmust beprepaid.TheMichigan Daily
isa memberof The Associated Pressand The AssociatedCollegiate Press.

0
6

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Man arrested for Stop sign gone, Author lecture, Art show with
carrying alcohol, fake sign in place book signing works for sale
marijuana WHERE: 2145 Hubbard WHAT: Blake Pardoe will WHAT: Students are
WHEN: Sunday at about 7 a.m. discuss his book, "Lost invited to submit original
WHERE: School of Social WHAT: A stop sign was myste- Eagles: One Man's Mis- artwork and participate
Work riously removed from the side sion to Find Missing Air- in a student art show.
WHEN: Saturday at about 10 of the road, University Police men in Two World Wars." Exhibited works will be
a.m. reported. There are no sus- The lecture will be fol- available for purchase.
WHAT: A man unaffiliated pects. A temporary stop sign is lowed by a book signing. WHO: University Unions
with the University was found there until a real replacement WHO: University Libraries Arts and Programs
in possesson of alcohol and can be found. WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m. WHEN: Today from 11 a.m.
marijuana, University Police WHERE: Room 100 to 5 p.m.
reported. He was arrested. at the Harlan Hatcher WHERE: The Michigan
Deer meets road, Graduate Library League
M.I.P. issued at car, Grim Reaper
South Quad WHERE:1000 Cedar Bend CCORRECTIONS
WHEN: Sunday at about 9:30 curators talk " A Dec. 6 article in The
WHERE: South Quadrangle p.m. Mcia al "lde
WHEN: Sunday at aboutn12:20 WHAT: A subject's vehicle WHAT: Curators at the Mi g Daily ("Pledges
AT: Arsashinto a sreer wnr it Clements Library will misattributed the author
WHAT: A female student was ran linto the street, University be discussing the cur-
arrested for minor in posses- Police reported. No one in the rent exhibition, "Sugar of the story. It was writ-
sion of alcohol, University car was injured but the deer tinrhe Arlan'cWorld" ten by Emily Kempa.

The Facebook campaign to
change profile pictures to
cartoons claiming to sup-
port the National Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children is a fraud, The Daily
Mail reported. Rumors have
spread that the cartoons are
being used by pedophiles to
attract child Facebook users.
The University of Nebras-
ka, which will switch
from the Big 12 Confer-
ence to the Big Ten Conference
next year, has 21 teams includ-
ing bowling and rifle.
>FOR MORE,SEE OPINION, PAGE4
Protesters in Berlin are
getting undressed in
order to fight high rents,
AOL News reported. The group
arranges public viewings of
overpriced apartments, and
then strips naked and holds
impromptu dance parties.

Police reported.

suffered a fatal injury.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Getmoreonlneatmichigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire

WHO: William L. Clements
Library
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: The Great Room
at William Clements Library

. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.


BUSINESSES
From Page 1
national chains ... society has more
national chains than it does inde-
pendent businesses," Heywood
said.
Heywood added that landlords
always need tenants and national
chains are always looking for good
opportunities, while independent
businesses are also looking for
affordable spaces.
Heywood said he thinks Ann
Arbor businesses are able to sur-
vive in the financial downturn due

to the 60,000 University-affiliated
people who frequent local busi-
nesses.
"(AnnArbor)isoneofthehealth-
iest downtowns in Michigan, pri-
marily because of the residents and
the University," Heywood said.
Heywood said the shops along
State Street have been able to adapt
to the ever-changing environment
either by keeping up with shifting
product demand or by construct-
ing new stores. He added that it is
impossible to predict the future of
State Street, but he is confident the
area will keep its spirit.
"I think the neighborhood is


TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
University President Mary Sue Coleman at yesterday's SACUA meeting in the Fleming Administration Building.
Pa nel offers recommendations
to boost minority facul tyrates

From Page 1 a draft of a charge calling on the
committee to look at the reten-
without taking into account the tion problem at a later meeting.
history of minority percentages
in that field or the candidates COLEMAN TALKS STATE
available at that time. APPROPRIATIONS FOR
Faculty members said it was RENOVATIONS AT 'U'
unclear which departments had
made efforts to recruit minority University President Mary
faculty in the past. Sue Coleman began the SACUA
In response to the low rate of meeting by referencing recent
minority professors revealed by state legislation, which will pro-
the study, Holland outlined sev- vide money for the University to
eral committee recommenda- renovate buildings at the Ann
tions for boosting the numbers, Arbor, Flint and Dearborn cam-
including having greater inter- puses.
actions between departments, According to the University
meeting with the provost more Record, the legislation that was
frequently and strengthening approved on Friday will give
efforts to recruit and maintain $383 million in state funding for
American Indian and Native projects across the state, with a
Alaskan faculty. Holland also limit of $30million for each proj-
said that he thought the most ect.
important issues underscored by Coleman said she is "very, very
the study are why minority fac- pleased" about the legislation,
ulty chose to leave the University adding that the money allocated
and why there were disparities to the University's Ann Arbor
in minority percentages between campus will be used to reno-
the units. vate the nanofabrication facility,
Rothman said he would brings called the G.G. Brown Memorial

Building.
Speaking about the challenges
she's faced during her terimo as
president, Coleman, whose con-
tract was recently extended by
the University's Board of Regents,
said the most formidable obstacle
she's dealt with was managing
the University's budget in the
face of an ailing economy.
"This has been a really chal-
lenging time for the state of
Michigan, because we really have
been in a recession for the past 10
years," Coleman said.
But Coleman said this financial
challenge has actually allowed
the University to grow stronger,
because of the management tech-
niques it has in place. She added
that the University is currently
on "as firm of a financial footing
as (it) has ever been."
Coleman also said that in her
upcoming term, she would like to
increase the amount of interna-
tional alumni donations.
"This is going to be an area
that we hope will be fruitful in
the future," Coleman said.

MAJORS
From Page 1
care business, and I've seen his
billboards out on I-94. He's entre-
preneurial," she said.
Susan Parrish, the interim
director of undergraduate stud-
ies for the Department of English
Language and Literature as well
as an associate English profes-
sor, echoed Evaldson's sentiment,
saying English concentrators
learn skills that are applicable to
many careers. According to Par-
rish, many students who major in
English have an interest in fields
such as teaching, publishing and
journalism, especially since the
University doesn't have a specific
school or concentration for
journalism.
"When people think 'English'
they think about things like book
clubs, which are associated with
the after hours of work," Parrish
said. "But in truth, you can build a
career out of almost anything the
English department offers."
However, Parrish said the per-
ception that English is a more rec-
reational major has led to a drop
in enrollment. She added that the
department is looking for ways to
maintain and attract more concen-
trators.
"We are actually currently
undergoing some curricular
changes to address that because
we don't want to lose any concen-
trators," Parrish said. "We're doing
a lot of soul-searching about why
numbers in our concentration are
going down."

The department has already
implemented a few changes to
address the issue. This year for the
first time, two peer advisors are
available to help students. Accord-
ing to Parrish, the English depart-
ment hopes that the student peer
advisors will make students feel
more comfortable coming into the
main office and asking questions
about the department or major.
"We're trying to make students
feel completely welcome," she said.
LSA senior Laura Winnick is
one of the department's two peer
advisors. She said she hopes to
take her English degree to "spac-
es where creativity is important
and prized," including classrooms
and non-profit organizations. She
explained that despite misconcep-
tions, English is extremely practi-
cal beyond the realms of teaching
and writing.
"Even if a job position does not
directly involve inscription, the
crafting of language is crucial to
the act of arguing, the art of being
persuasive, and the ability to pres-
ent oneself," she wrote in an e-mail
interview. "This is what the Eng-
lish major provides its students
with - the ability to write and the
challenge to write well."
In addition to learning valuable
skills, majors in the humanities
also give students the opportunity
to learn about a subject they're
passionate about, according to Tim
Dodd, the director of the Newnan
LSA Academic Advising Center.
"I want people to divorce the
notion of major from the idea of
vocation," Dodd said. "Your major
should be the content area that

going to get even more vibrant in
the next five or six years," said Hey-
wood. "I'm optimistic, you can call
me crazy."
David Jones, owner of White
Market, said that in his 27 years
as owner of the store, he has seen
many businesses come and go in
the State Street and greater down-
town areas. The turnover, he said,
is just part of business.
"Things change all the time,"
Jones said, adding that he has
seen five or six different busi-
nesses occupy the space next to
White Market during his tenure
as manager.
spurs your brain to be smart, so
you might as well choose the con-
tent area that you like, since all the
majors make your brain smart"
Dodd added that regardless of
their major, students gain useful
tools for a variety of jobs.
"All majors bequeath the same
things," Dodd said, "Content may
be different, but the skills that
you use to acquire that content are
pretty similar across all majors."
LSA senior Marissa Kresch said
she hopes to use her major in phi-
losophy and her minor in Program
in the Environment to become
involved in urban farming and the
ethics of food quality, but she said
she thinks philosophy is more than
just a path that leads to a specific
job.
"If you come to college and view
college as a professional train-
ing ground with no intention of
becoming a professor or a philoso-
pher, then I would say that philoso-
phy is not practical,"she said. "But
if you view college as preparation
for the world or the impact you
intend to make, then I say philoso-
phy is a very practical major."
Though Dodd noted the impor-
tance of finding a major that best
suits one's interests and talents, he
says students shouldn't be "mind-
less" about picking their major.
"Just waving a Michigan diplo-
madoesn'tgetyou ajob, but careful
research does," he said. "Going to
the Career Center early and often
does. It's important to love your
concentration, but also be very
clear-headed and very informed
about the particulars of future
opportunities."

TWEET, TWEET.
Follow the Daily on Twitter @michigandaily


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, December 7, 2010 - 3

Rodriguez responds to
criticism from banquet

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Sophomoreguard Darius Morris tallied a double-double against Concordia with 19 points and 12 assists.
'M' struggles mighti
in win over' ConCOri'a

ByBEN ESTES advantage at the first media
Daily Sports Writer timeout. But Concordia (5-5)
stayed in it, cutting the score to
The pregame release from 27-22 with 7:14 left in the first
Concordia University listed the half and entering the break with
Michigan men's basketball team's just a 10-point deficit.
record at And the Cardinals contin-
6-2, even CONCORDIA 65 ued to fight in the second half.
though MICHIGAN 86 When forward Ryan Walton hit
the Wol- a jumper with 11:28 remaining,
verines had actually won just they once again found them-
five games coming into Monday selves down just five points.
night's matchup between the two But Michigan eventually pulled
schools. away, going on a 9-0 run to take a
It appeared, then, that the 75-57 lead with 6:48 remaining to
game was already conceded to effectively ice the game.
Michigan, the Divison-I institu- The Wolverines were adamant
tion with an enrollment more that they weren't overlooking the
than 40 times greater than that small-school opponent, and that
of its NAIA Division-II counter- it was more just a matter of their
part Concordia. own poor play.
No one told that to the Cardi- "You have to keep getting bet-
nals, though. ter as the game goes on," junior
Concordia refused to quit guard Stu Douglass said. "I think
Monday night, hanging around the message was there ... We defi-
throughout a game expected nitely didn't underestimate them
to be more of a blowout before in the second half. We knew what
finally falling to the Wolverines they were capable of."
86-65. Michigan couldn't seem to
"I'm sure none of us expected find a rhythm defensively. The
thattype ofexcitement when they Wolverines had no answer down
saw this game on the schedule," low for Concordia's Rocko Hol-
Michigan coach John Beilein said mes, who finished with a career-
after the game. "Being a former high 29 points. Beilein even
Division II coach, which I equate compared the 6-foot-5 Holmes to
to an NAIA school (like Concor- former NBA pro Charles Barkley
dia) ... whenever we played Divi- in how managed to leverage his
sion-I teams, we had a good plan. way to spots in the paint despite
We could stay with teams, and his underwhelming size, repeat-
that's what Concordia did today." edly calling him "crafty."
Michigan (6-2) appeared to Flustered by the Cardinals'
be the far superior team both shooting, the Wolverines rarely
physically and athletically as doubled Holmes, as they knew
soon as both squads came out that 3-pointers could keep Con-
for warmups. And when the cordia in the game and didn't
Cardinals' first shot turned into want to see him find open shoot-
an embarrassing airball, they ers when passing out of the lane.
appeared to be in for a long night Holmes consistently got the
at Crisler Arena. ball deep in the post and scored
The Wolverines held a 17-6 over whoever was guarding him.

On top of that, Michigan had
trouble calling out switches on
Concordia's screen-heavy sets,
another issue related to the Wol-
verines' youth and something
Beilein emphasized as needing
improvement.
"They scored a lot of points,
and we've been very prideful in
our defense this year," Doug-
lass said. "We just didn't come
out and communicate as well we
should've.
"(With) their motion, I don't
think we expected to have to
communicate so much on screens
and slips and all those sorts of
things," he said. "I think we just
underestimated how much work
we had to do on the defensive
end."
Redshirt freshman forward
Jordan Morgan paced the Wol-
verines with 23 points. Sopho-
more point guard Darius Morris
scored 19 and added 12 assists,
while junior guard Zack Novak
pulled down a career-high 14
rebounds to lead the team.
But Beilein pointed out that
Michigan is only getting contri-
butions from those players and
one or two others right now, as
many of the team's young players
are struggling to find their way.
"But we're going to be young
all year long, it's not going to
stop," Beilein said.
"We'll just get better at being
young."(that) our inexperience
doesn't show through. They were
able to exploit (us) because of
that.
"But we're going to be young
all year long, it's not going to
stop. We'll just get better at being
young."a show, we're just trying
to shut them down. We're going
to get pucks deep, hit guys and
just get everything to the net."

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez must have known the second
he lifted his arms into the air dur-
ing the Michigan football team's
end-of-the-year football banquet
that he
would be NOTEBOOK
questioned
about his impassioned speech.
And at Monday's football press
conference, he was. Repeatedly.
"Every coach has his own per-
sonality," Rodriguez said. "I've
always been emotional at our
senior banquets. You feel so close
to a team and particularly the
senior class and I'm proud of the
way they've hung in there."
Rodriguez has been tak-
ing some extra criticism since
Thursday for the events of the
banquet. At one point during the
evening,.the coach said, "I hope
you realize that I truly want to
be a Michigan man." Later, he
had all the players join hands
and became visibly emotional
while a recording of Josh Gro-
ban's You Raise Me Up played
over the loudspeakers.
"Everybody's going to have
their opinions on things and
that's fine," Rodriguez said. "I
appreciate everyone's interest in
what happened and what went
on, and try to sensationalize it. I
would rather talk about the bowl
game."
The antics at the banquet
prompted widespread response
from Michigan fans, with many
decrying what they perceived as
Rodriguez essentially begging for
his job.
. Some have argued that Rodri-
guez's hold on his position grows
weaker every day that goes by
without a vote of confidence from
his athletic director, Dave Bran-
don. Brandon has steadfastly
insisted he will evaluate the coach
after the bowl game.
So does that make the Gator
Bowl a must-win?
"I think every head coach at
this level goes into every game
thinking,'Boy, this is the game,'"
Rodriguez said Monday. "I think
people will try to put more impor-
tance on one than the other and
I understand that ... but I think
coaches put an enormous amount
of pressure on themselves to win
every game."
BOWL PRACTICES: Through-
out the season, a lack of experi-
ence on defense has led to many
execution issues on a unit loaded
with first year seniors, especially
in the secondary.
That's one of the reasons a bowl
game was so celebrated. Sure,
Michigan will be playing against
Mississippi State in the Wolver-
ines' first bowl game since the
2007 season, but Michigan is also
drooling over the 15 or so extra
practices they'll have to prepare
for the Gator Bowl.
"The first practice will be Fri-
day afternoon and we'll practice
Saturday morning, then Sunday
we'll be off," Rodriguez said.

Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez received national attention last Thursday during
an emotional speech at the team's end-of-the-year banquet.

"Anywhere from 11 to 12 practices
here and four.to five at the bowl
site."
The extra practices will be
essential in helping the defense,
which finished the season on a
sour note, giving up 37 points to
Ohio State on Nov.27.
Junior nose tackle Mike Mar-
tin said any time players spend
with coaches is time well spent.
"You improve any time you can
get your work in," Martin said.
"Whenever we get into a practice,
we're always sure we're ready to
work and get better."
The practices will focus on
Mississippi State but also on get-
ting players healed up and ready to
play on Jan. 1. Junior wide receiv-
er Darryl Stonum said he thought
most of the players with nagging
injuries will be as healthy for the
Gator Bowl as they've been since
week one against Connecticut.
Specifically, he said Michigan
fans would likely see the most
healthy version of sophomore
quarterback Denard Robinson
since the first week of the season.
"He (Rodriguez) told us there
wasn't going to be too much beat-
ing our bodies up," Stonum said.
"It's more individual drills, going
over fundamentals. There won't
be too much banging and scrim-
maging and stuff like that. No
need to beat ourselves up, might
as well save it to beat up on Mis-
sissippi State."
PLAYERS STAND BY RODRI-
GUEZ: While the players were
at the press conference to talk
about Mississippi State, the cloud
of uncertainty hanging over the
Michigan football program and
its coach was sure to surface.
But the players made one thing
clear: they are standing by their

coach.
"I don't think there's a guy on
our team that's not supportive of
coach Rodriguez right now," Ryan
Van Bergen said. "If anything it
just brings us together. We have
our wagons circled around coach
Rodriguez. Our team counts on
him. We rely on him. We all have
faith in him. The criticism stuff
doesn't pull us apart like it might
seem."
Added Darryl Stonum: "I'd
be pretty devastated if anything
happened (to Rodriguez). I'm
pretty sure he'll stay here. ...
Coach seems pretty confident."
Van Bergen took issue with
the timing of the decision, which
Brandon has stressed would come
after the bowl game.
"I would appreciate it to be
declared I think," Van Bergen
said of Rodriguez's job status.
"But I have 100 percent faith in
Dave Brandon too. ... I think it
would be more beneficial to just
come out and make a statement
just so some of the players have
an idea. But obviously there's rea-
sons I don't know about that it
can't be done at this point."
INJURY REPORT: After being
banged up for much of the season,
Robinson should be fine for the
bowl game. "He should be able
to do everything when we start
practice on Friday." ... Redshirt
junior wideout Junior Heming-
way should be okay. Rodriguez
expects Martin, senior linebacker
Jonas Mouton, sophomore wide
receiver Je'Ron Stokes, Stonum
and redshirt freshman running
back Fitzgerald Toussaint all to
practice by next week.
-Daily Sports Writer Nicole
Auerbach contributed to this report.

It's time to take
Ohio State seriously

Before facing off against
Ohio State for a pair of
games last weekend, Mich-
igan coach
Red Berenson
insisted that STEPHEN J.
he didn't NESBITT
consider the
Buckeyes and On Ice Hockey
Wolverines to
be rivals on the ice.
"I can't sell them a rivalry that
really doesn't exist," Berenson said
after practice last Wednesday, sug-
gesting that to his team, Ohio State
is just a regular opponent.
When comparing the teams' his-
tories, Berenson's point is clear: it's
no contest.
Michigan has captured nine
NCAA championships in its 23
Frozen Four appearances, while
Ohio State has never played for a
national title.
The Wolverines lead the all-time
matchup 66-31-11 - a total that
includes an eight-year, 34-game
undefeated stretch for Michigan
that began in 1990. In that span,
Ohio State wasn't even competi-
tive - just two of its 27 regulation
losses were by one goal.
Truth be told, Michigan's storied
program is a benchmark in college
hockey, while Ohio State hasn't con-
tended with the nation's best teams
in its 49 years of existence. But
when the two teams took the ice
on Friday and Saturday, the history

books remained on the shelf.
This time around, Ohio State
had a new look. First-year Ohio
State coach Mark Osiecki, formerly
an assistant coach at Wisconsin,
has his team playing fundamen-
tal hockey. Although they aren't
necessarily near contending for a
national title, they are competitive
enough to be a roadblock.
Fans in Columbus have taken
notice of the changes, and though
the Buckeyes may not fill their
rink - the 20,000-seat Value City
Arena - the wheels haven't fallen.
off of their bandwagon just yet.
Rather, it's gainingspeed.
Even though Michigan hadn't
swept consecutive games in
Columbus since the 1999-2000
season, the 11th-ranked Wolverines
expected take the two-game series
last weekend with ease.
Berenson refused to call the
matchup a rivalry, but after the
Buckeyes nearly sent Michigan
home empty-handed, Michigan
(5-3-1-0 CCHA, 9-5-4 overall)
should be singing a different tune.
Through 59 minutes on Friday,
the Wolverines had the advantage
both in intensity and on the score-
board, butgave up a goal with just
under 11 seconds to tie the game,
2-2. The Buckeyes capped off their
comeback with the game-winning
tally early in the overtime period.
As the scarlet and gray jerseys
celebrated by the end boards,

several dismayed and defeated
Wolverines skated off the ice and
headed to the dressing room - the
absences were noticed during the
postgame handshakes at center ice.
In the press conference follow-
ing the game, Berenson defended
his players, as did senior forward
Louie Caporusso.
"It was such a quick endingthat
everyone was celebrating and some
of the guys just forgot and came
off the ice," Caporusso said. "We
don't usually do things like that.
It wasn't by any means disrespect,
they just forgot."
Whether it was a case of for-
getfulness or not, avoiding the
standard handshakes can stir up
plenty of strife on the opposing
team --just ask the Detroit Red
Wings about their thoughts on
Sidney Crosby skipping out on the
handshakes after the 2009 Stanley
Cup finals.
Sometimes, it doesn't take much
to ignite a rivalry.
Regardless, Ohio State (3-6-1-1,
6-8-1) is no longer getting beat into
the ground on a yearly basis by
Michigan, and has proven itself an
admirable adversary for the Wol-
verines. The teams meet in Ann
Arbor for another pair of games in
early February. And a little advice
for Michigan: tread lightly around
these Buckeyes.
Oh, and don't forget the hand-
shake.

YouTube music video a
hit for red-hot Michigan

W
vira
for
Th
team
durin
weeke
Barba
In f
verint
becon
after
spawi
with t
progr
Thi
bers d
Drake
the br
Jeff
first g
day's
Mary
"I

ith key goal and Cal," Quijano said on Monday.
ey g "She showed me the video. They
i1 video, big week did a wonderful job."
Scenes from the video were
senior defender shot at various locations, includ-
ing the team's charter flight, the
Jeff Quijano locker room and Columbia, S.C.
- the site of Michigan's third-
By MATT SLOVIN round victory.
Daily Sports Writer A brief introduction shows
the team being honored at the
e Michigan men's soccer Big House as conference cham-
has kept things interesting pions.
g its remarkable run to this Amateur music video produc-
nd's College Cup in Santa tion has become a recent trend
ra, Calif. on the college soccer scene.
fact, the tenth-ranked Wol- The UCSD squad recently
es (17-4-3) have recently dropped a cover of "Love Like
e YouTube sensations Woe" by The Ready Set.
the release of a video The on-field success of
ning from a friendly rivalry the Wolverines - who have
:he California men's soccer advanced further than any other
am. team in the program's history
e video shows team mem- - combined with the online
lancing and lip-synching to success of the video has led to
's chart-topper "Over." It is speculation that more clips may
ainchild of senior defender be on the way.
Quijano, who notched his According to senior midfield-
toal of the season in Satur- er Alex Wood, "something might
3-2 overtime victory over be in the works".
land. For Quijano, who will be play-
have a friend (who) goes to ing about an hour away from his

hometown of Canoga Park when
Michigan faces Akron (20-1-2)
on Friday, the video exchange
between the two programs is
just part of a master plan for
future entertainment.
"Hopefully it becomes kind of
a yearly thing where (Cal) would
... make a video and we'd kind of
make one that responds," Qui-
jano said.
The hardest part for Quijano,
the video's producer, whose cre-
ation has accumulated well over
6,000 views so far, has been con-
vincing his teammates to make
the leap from the field to the
studio.
"I told these guys 'I'm gonna
start filming,' " Quijano said.
"They were a little sketchy at
first, but I think it came out
well."
When asked about the video,
Wolverine head coach Steve
Burns couldn't help but laugh.
And who could blame him? As
long as his team continues its
winning ways - the tourna-
ment's No. 10 seed has won nine
straight games - the fun is okay
with him.


4 - Tuesday, December 7, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

i1E 1JIdlIani 0 a4
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ELAINE MORTON

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

"Cflt T 21o UNP6RARM&IJR:.$0D OASi, 6RF:9 16 ~4_KIN
Svy i N( F ORRlS?
Welcome the Cornhuskers

0

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Funding a home
County must work to decrease homelessness
Jf you've been encountering more panhandlers around cam-
pus lately, you're not alone. The number of homeless indi-
viduals in Washtenaw County, specifically in the city of Ann
Arbor, increased in 2009. But area homeless shelters haven't been
able to keep up with the influx of people in need of help. As the
weather in Michigan gets colder - even dangerously cold - it's
especially important that homeless people have a shelter avail-
able. Washtenaw County and its residents have a social responsi-
bility to help the homeless. The county should allocate resources
toward expanding homeless shelters and programs for helping

0

these individuals to find jobs.
According to the Washtenaw County
Office of Community Development, the
number of homeless individuals registered
in the county has grown from 3,940 in 2006
to 4,618 in 2009, as reported in an Oct. 25
Daily article. This increase has resulted in
overcrowding at shelters around Washtenaw
County. Ellen Schulmeister, executive direc-
tor of the Shelter Association of Washtenaw
County, attributes this increase to the "gen-
erosity of students." Brian Nord, a found-
ing member of the tent city for homeless
individuals known as Camp Take Notice,
believes that homeless people are drawn to
Ann Arbor because of the safety of the city.
The residents of Washtenaw County
should devote time to understanding and
battling homelessness. While giving money
to the panhandlers is kind, it may have an
effect of keeping homeless individuals from
becoming financially self-sufficient. Stu-
dents and other residents should make an
effort to realize the causes behind the pov-
erty of the homeless.
It's a public duty ofthe county to help those
who are financially less fortunate. Home-
less shelters are able to provide food, water
and a bed to people who would otherwise go
without. Currently, the Delonis Center - the
main homeless shelter in downtown Ann

Arbor - is able to help 1,200 to 1,500 people
annually in a variety of ways by maxing out
its resources. But the shelters still aren't able
to help everyone in need. Washtenaw County
needs to allocate more funds toward improv-
ing shelters and building more so they can
help more people.
Shelters can't single-handedly solve the
problem of homelessness. Though home-
less shelters are important in the short term,
homeless individuals still need help in the
long term. Individuals often move from
shelter to shelter and are never lifted out of
poverty. It's crucial that there are resources
in place to help homeless people to find jobs
and eventually a permanent place to live.
The Delonis Center currently has a long-
term residential system in place, but it needs
the resources from the county to expand so
it can serve more people. Washtenaw Coun-
ty needs to increase social services aimed at
decreasing poverty and homelessness, which
are necessary to reduce the number of peo-
ple who rely on the shelters.
The increase in the number of home-
less individuals in Ann Arbor has stretched
resources too thin to help all those in need.
The county needs to allocate resources to
provide immediate help to the homeless,
while also helping to lift them out of poverty.

As the fall sports season for the
Big Ten draws to a close, it
brings the end of an era. Next
year schedules,
teams and com-
petition level will
change for all Big
Ten sports when 4
the University of
Nebraska joins
the conference.
We shouldn't get
comfortable with -
just the addition of COURTNEY
Nebraska - there's
potential for even FLETCHER
more teams to
join the Big Ten in
the coming years.
While most fans won't be personally
affected by the addition of Nebraska
- after all, it's just an extra team on
the schedule - it affects the Big Ten
greatly.
The level of competition from
Nebraska will be undeniably high.
The Cornhuskers live and breathe
athletics and have outstanding sup-
port from fans. They have 21 teams
- including bowling and rifle - that
are all talented. At the end of each
year, the National Association of Col-
legiate Directors of Athletics gives
out an award called the Directors
Cup. This award runs on a system
that awards each team a certain num-
ber of points. Whichever school has
the most points at the end of the year
is crowned the strongest Athletic
Department. Last year, five Big Ten
schools were in the top 25 - the Uni-
versity of Michigan included - and
so was Nebraska. The Big Ten isn't
just adding easy wins to its sched-
ules, it's adding a high-level competi-
tor that not only has the potential to
hold its own, but could possibly be a
powerhouse Big Ten team.
Highly competitive teams are fol-

lowed closely by fan support. The Big
Ten is known for having outstanding
and downright rabid fans. Rivalry
games like Ohio State vs. Michigan,
Michigan vs. Michigan State and
Purdue vs. Indiana all bring out the
best - or worst - in fans and games.
If you've ever played Nebraska or
been to a Husker event, you know
these fans are no exception. The
state of Nebraska has no profession-
al teams or notable tourist attrac-
tions, but they have the University
of Nebraska. They think they're the
best, expect the best and play the
best, which means they'll fit right in
with the mentalities of schools like
Michigan State University and Ohio
State University. I think teams will
enjoy competing against the Huskers.
It's an experience that can't be for-
gotten. For example, when the volley-
ball team beat the Huskers in three
short games on their home court in
fall 2006, I've never heard 5,000 peo-
ple so quiet.
Scheduling is going to be the big-
gest change for athletic teams. For 20
years, teams have enjoyed the same
rotation in schedules. For exam-
ple, volleyball has enjoyed an even
"round-robin" schedule where every-
one plays each other twice each sea-
son - once at home and once away.
With new teams comes larger rota-
tions and fewer meetings of teams.
There has been fear that rivalries
would be lost. Can you imagine a
football season without a Michigan
matchup against Michigan State or
Ohio State? While fans enjoy watch-
ing our football team beat up on the
University of Connecticut and Illi-
nois, those aren't the games that they
enjoy the most. Keeping the confer-
ence strong is important, but I think
keeping traditional rivalries alive is
as, if not more, important.
So far, rivalries have stayed in tact,

0
but with the possibility of adding
more teams I think we'll see fewer of
these matchups. There's a possibil-
ity that fewer meetings will lead to
rivalry games becoming an even big-
ger deal, leaving teams with two-year
bragging rights. But I can only see fans
liking this if their team wins. Nobody
wants Michigan State boasting for
two straight years without a chance
at redemption. But because the con-
ference is driven by money and the
media, it seems these games would
stay on the schedules simply because
of the revenue that they bring in.
Nebraska could
be a powerhouse 0
Big Ten team.
While the Big Ten will benefit
from the addition of Nebraska, the
biggest beneficiary is Nebraska itself. *
The Big Ten is a stronger and more
prestigious conference than the Big
12 - Nebraska's current conference
- which should improve the school's
recruiting. The Big Ten is stronger
than the Big 12 in academics as well.
At first I resisted the idea of add-
ing new teams to the Big Ten, but I'm
starting to come around. People said
the same thing when Pennsylvania
State University was added 20 years
ago and it has turned out to be one
of the strongest teams in the confer-
ence. While nextyear might be a little
shaky as the Big Ten adjusts, I think
it's going to turn out to be an over-
whelming positive in the end.
- Courtney Fletcher can be
reached at fletchco@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should
be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University
affiliation. Letters are edited for length, style, clarity and accuracy. All submissions
become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing. If you
are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL MICHELLE DEWITT AT DEWITTM@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
Make time for contemplation

Who's to say what it means
to bea true'Michigan Man?'
TO THE DAILY:
I'm so glad all the Michigan Men happen to
write for the Daily. It's such a fresh breath of
air for you guys to let us, the students, know
who really is and isn't fit for the overused and
now meaningless title of "Michigan Man."
Hell, I had no clue all you young journalists had
the merit and experience to judge who should
be fit for the throne as head coach of our foot-
ball team.
Imran Syed's recent column (The next Michi-
gan Man, 12/06/2010) is so full of shit that you
can tell from his picture that he's enjoying his
own stink. I didn't know that "Until three years
ago, all was well with the state's great Univer-
sity and its football team." I forgot about Lloyd
Carr giving up on recruiting, giving up on bowl
games (losing five out of his last seven) and giv-
ing up on "The Game" with Ohio State (losing a
pitiful seven out of his last ten).
So, Syed, was Bo a "Michigan Man" because
he grew up in Ohio, played for Miami of Ohio
and coached for Ohio State or is it because he
won games? Because if it's the latter, then that
would mean all it takes to be a "Michigan Man"
is winning games. But that would contradict
your point that there is more than just winning
required to be deemed a "Michigan Mar."
Please tell me how many other coaches these
days are "leaders" that push for better academ-
ics and an all-around better campus - because
I can't find any. Do you know why I can't find
any? It's because all the fans (and the media,
which includes you) have been getting so
worked up about any flaw in Michigan athlet-
ics that we simply won't allow for anything but
the best coaches and players.
You see, back in the day the students didn't
all wear the same silly colors to games (What
is this, Michigan State?) and there weren't 500

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Michigan apparel stores on campus. People
had a little more patience when it came to los-
ing. Coaches weren't fired every three years
because the virtue of patience was a little more
prominent. Yes, Roderiguez has a bad record,
but as supposedly smart as this school is, get-
ting rid of him doesn't seem to be wise. With
wisdom comes patience. If you did the math (3
wins, 5 wins, and this year 7), you would know
that things are headed up. But no: You want
results and you want them now. Give me, give
me, give me. You sound like a "Michigan Man."
I mustn't forget Managing Sports Editor Ryan
Kartje, either. Kartje wrote a scathing column
speaking against the head coach when Michi-
gan was chosen for abowl game (GatorBowlputs
Michigan's coachingfarce in spotlight, 12/06/2010)
- which is a privilege, not a right, by the way.
Athletic Director Dave Brandon is keeping Rich-
Rod until after the game because he, unlike you,
has patience and doesn't jump to conclusions like
the media and the ungrateful student population.
Iknow if Bo had sung the same Josh Groban song
while still alive, you would have certainly praised
him faster than I could say "ironically-nonathlet-
ic sports columnist."
Do you really want current Stanford foot-
ball head coach Jim Harbaugh to be the next
Michigan head coach? The guy who grew up a
brat in the Michigan football system? The guy
who didn't grab the coaching job the first time
around because he was too busy bad-mouthing
his former alma mater for their supposed lack
of academics? The guy who grew up with a sil-
ver, maize and blue spoon in his mouth? Have
you read the news recently? Harbaugh has a
nice big contract at Stanford. And he'll prob-
ably stay there - but my guess is that's only
because he doesn't want to have to deal with
the bratty, self-entitled students at Michigan.
Keep up the great junior high journalism,
guys.
Sam Zettell
School of Music, Theatre & Dance senior

n writing my last column (Pur-
suing the Semester's Theme,
11/22/2010), I sought to bet-
ter understand
the nature of the
LSA theme semes-
ter, "What makes
life worth liv-
ing?" I wanted to
articulate why I "
felt slapped in the
face every time I
saw it advertised
around campus. I LIBBY
wanted to know
the intentions of ASHTON
the professors who
organized it. I also
wanted to grasp the implications of
probing such self-conscious thought
among students at the University.
That aspiration to have a sense of
what it would mean for us - students
who live a specific lifestyle and face a
specific set of challenges - to answer
the question posed by the theme
semester required further conver-
sation, consideration and a longer
word-count. I decided that I should
learn about how anyone considers the
meaning of life and then assess how
well-situated we are to make the con-
sideration ourselves.
I spoke with the two professors
who organized the theme semester,
Psychology Professor Christopher
Peterson and Ford School of Pub-
lic Policy Professor John Chamber-
lin. I suspected both perspectives
would offer personal and profes-
sional insight on considerations of
the meaning of life. I also hoped
they would maintain an awareness
of undergraduate students' unique
position. From our conversations and
from my own introspection, I think
I'm on to something.
Answering the question "What

makes life worth living?" requires
two steps: first, living an active life
that has meaning and second, living
a contemplative life that allows for
the appreciation of meaning. At first
glance, it seems that action requires
harder work and leaves more room
for mishap than contemplation. After
all, things that stand in our way of
action are often out of our control,
whereas what stands in our way of
thought is under no one else's control
but our own.
When I asked Chamberlin what
made his life worth living, he said
his theme semester t-shirt reads,
"Justice Makes Life Worth Living."
His answer is consistent with duties
of government, which his field (pub-
lic policy) is responsible for study-
ing. When I asked Peterson the same
question, he responded in an e-mail,
"work, love, play and service." A basic
understanding of the duties of gov-
ernment might demand that a just
society allows all people to lead an
active, meaningful life of work, love,
play and service.
So if society does its job in guaran-
teeing the freedom to actively pursue
happiness, does it have a further obli-
gation to guarantee the space to con-
templatively pursue happiness?
Internalizing the richness of life
requires time - time to wander
(both in place and in thoughts), time
to form beliefs as well as challenge
them, and time to create something.
But, as Chamberlin and many others
of his generation have noted, we - as
University students - don't have that
kind of time. We've found ourselves
in a system that places extreme pres-
sure on the task of leading an active,
meaningful life but inhibits our abil-
ity to engage the equally important
task of contemplation.
Chamberlin acknowledged the

conundrum. He noted that the stu-
dents he admits to the Ford School of
Public Policy are expected to havetop
grades, display serious leadership in
several extracurricular activities and
remain interesting, energized and
engaging people. We have a campus
full of students who race from one
source of meaning to the next, rarely
stopping to breathe let alone read a
piece of fiction for pleasure. These
students' ability to lead a maximally
fulfilling life is stifled by their leading
lives that are too full.
Internalizing
the richness of life
requires time.
The pathways to meaning and hap-
piness vary with each person. For
some, love is the answer. For others,
it's freedom. Peterson said cheering
on the Wolverines could be a primary
source of purpose for someone.
But the "What makes life worth
living?" t-shirt that can be worn by
everyone reads "balance." We seem
to live in a culture that's collectively
off-balance. I would call for a serious
reprioritization. In order for society's
future leaders to do their jobs well,
they must be nourished emotionally,
psychologically and spiritually. As we
transition into finals and then into
our all-too-short winter break, I hope
we're forced to consider the balance
in our own lives and restore what's
not there.
- Libby Ashton can be reached
at eashtonwumich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Seth Soderborg. Julian Toles, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner



Ouq q/
An woo*uozewe
Ei fry e i ., tYF i. nt c"wt" .s it :r #' fi o-'. a
of s3 S.t N k .Ya ".-lrlrr'e ;v W y1 # ,k
ctr}r.., .}" . xr Y 1{"3 1 ! .i . L-. Sa. .f'i E ' rw 7 1r r },?r f f .rti :.- - f "Ar. mow !" . ?ti,4 t + y 4t r ->. t:.bvx r-i,'rS ,ro' J +r &xqYb.'aY '..SYs ' . .Y .e. ar.'4 . - d -v
a. r e.:: f v ftitlta
- T.rr"" 'G 4 K 1' T t 3 - rY .4 ! pp wF k l r Y f ! t t e 1' y+ : w 7 ; 9
f - t"t
ow r^7"d " r - r r A t; 3 r ial 1, Y r, f 1 h ,. 7 f 4
{ f t..l r yr i a 'S F ntx Y i'
ky' / T .f R FY. 4 ^ TY'Fn '6i y? h L-.;} Is f t
s a f {. .1 - 1 1 : Y , a . .. v 'NF'"^ ws t. .}1 Jr .r" ! rldi -t t i-wt w .lr
+_! ,Kr + t P i C 1 : s r ... L w y j y a. :hF ^f'-+i 4 r r f t t y ,
-s t .W. o- lH a y .6
r-N i *r.: r. l . ?!.p "d f 'T"-52 3. '. +a 7y y f a a.  q {-
+~ .r +t ; ...alt Y+r f C } t } . w t n h t'rfx#"+x " "#tl :a +.f , y+ fYfi,
+ L iaa ., r' t .. x w l1" i" FJ. ,tt, F-b t5t" t t :" u 1 * .
. WW d ,.ti# I ,r "i J.c' d: - a'Sf d f e I ,
' rt!"4 t l ,; ..n , 1 f ra+ / Iw C. . F(I"F Y^iY:. t4 y }y}rq{ V.a-i}f.r * sv
.. kfiJ.
(r:i".
F c ..
? k fl
* ya r
3." z t w"7 i r" .
L1 } 3
V iv y
T 'wl t yk y ^
w
am{Y: 1 r"2 r - Y 1 t
r k" "imk Y 5-
770777 w
a , as max.
x
0"Yx
4
y^ 1 t [ r
Rk '
.v
ARM
kfr. i
. ali r
awe-sati+R r^ It }/+w ,a' j + . n3 _=
tFh t W r-: y _ *:
# F6 a M! 3 .#-v
#a WIT I
k w' a 4 t " .fi- k 1 i. r.. if ' .
6 f a Fz f 3 7 lqa Pi '.s^ ,W"f
S4 V T5 iv/
y t F 4. A) ^i
.dii , i ..- any ", i i # h . hT' ^ {t j . r i'''h
RS Jk # 3 q bp1.- r.. k" 1 f . -f .4 y :r. k ; '1-JF .n F r 2 t{...
ciW
!k FL+.f q.{ a;% f i' Y f .-h i k7A '"'tr5 , t; R-s

,lv. t k w ri s r h ^r v M 5$ 'S s9t ar I, q :3 R-iNt a.}
{,T :{L +FR f 9 4 f z 4 Iha Vii. 1 1} G II {
w.LL t y 1 . t, Z a }vs { i.t# F, a. Y'1 Yt x#' Srscr
' ' - Ax ixv may +.r*" yr A "^ 4r ; F*",.r R yF-: f i. #,.1i ' F, 'k . '
I .. y T f 1 { 1 M S S Y + S' . .K t .zF 1 ' L, t a..Y.a3hh +tr ,
'M'1w Wk.r a Tt . 1. .... h y f f ;." " "ca.. 4'f""z :d } +, 5i yi' +J.k4 2#
a k'! d, ^ 1 4 f i b r rw, 5: r Y 3i '
k v rt., r' f F .- Ji! r . ^s 'H .3{ 4 iC3Y"*rr yr y }:sSvkrS :
k " -!R h.. }F x * ' Z 3 .N!L Z" two i +'+ Ft.4 4i t,4A 7 Y t
fF yaAr'a >.+, i i*ry r .'f4bi
gyp. r r $b
i w:. r 1 1 a. + r0.- tq -# 3 ++. A%. ; t 1. . 4s iT4 f +.. 1F4T.
.+ri 5 A F:.c k . r.y 1yT Qy -rI
a ; 1: !1r ikll
s t Iy.4xf t a t I . .l;i W + >r r +:' n. , # ,. 7
a.ri f + 4 .r v. i .r 4 b t^. yin 7 ,{ a zs e.d { e .
Ora a G 1 - a... r f ,e. t -. ., t
Pg? , }k..:y a . -30 .. a is  tP51} 'ss+ , e: s t z SI-'i t" fs,
;'Y F i t t .r,. y t+i.. .r. a r s r ir rt f , ". r5{Y , , ":,>t}r .,ty t '3 v wRa t Y+ r f r } '
ry t a Y r J /yK J+ S T Z f
's y A' _L y x t yF f i r{{d
71 i N i t ,. r a h:: r vJi r e yy++'y } Y y. y.
A -.I k 1 -h + K:"t A F.I F r L+ k r 3 } ri r.:.
r f 4g}a i k IY.i a ;'gi r s..r .
x S4 oval"
0 7: lot":s.1 wff .'k'c'R P2 xxk . 'ei, mow-
..

S - OLOZ'L aagwaaao Aepsanl

wog r(liepue i4:)iw - Ape(] ue2 y3iVYayl ,


6 - Tuesday, December 7, 2010
COLEMAN
From Page 1
sort of regain the former glories,
it feels like it's going to go on for-
ever and we're never going to get
there," Coleman said. "But we'll
get there again."
Coleman went on to talk about
several football programs across
the country that she said have
seen struggle recently - includ-
ing Florida, which went 13-1 in
2009 but then went 7-5 this sea-
son, and Alabama, which. was
expected to compete for a nation-
al championship this year, but
will instead be playing Michigan
State in the Capital One Bowl.
"This is the waxing and wan-
ing as you readjust to new things,"
Coleman said.
In slight contrast, Coleman

0

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

answered another student's ques-
tion about the criteria for success
she has for athletics at the Univer-
sity by sayingthere are real expec-
tations that do include winning.
"We have expectations for all
of our teams that they're going to
compete regularly to be at the top,"
she said. "We knowthatthey're not
going to be champions every year,
you can't be, but we want to be."
Coleman continued, "And
that's what we aspire to. You've
got to keep believing. Don't ever
stop believing."
But Coleman said winning
doesn't define a program's value -
athletic or academic at the Universi-
ty - describing University students
and Michigan fans as being "big"
when they face disappointment.
"We're not defined by whether
we win or lose," she said. "We're
defined by being a great school

that is competitive in everything
it does, whether it's the athletic
arena or the academic arena."
Coleman also explicitly reaf-
firmed her support for the Ath-
letic Department overall, saying
the University remains dedicated
to its athletic programs.
"We are committed," she said.
"We're committed to having great
programs with great integrity in
every sport."
One sign of that commitment
that Coleman pointed to was the
recently completed addition of
skyboxes and premium seating at
the Big House.
"This is very important to
Michigan and this will always
be important," she said. "We've
made a huge investment in the
facilities and it's something that
brings everybody together. I
think it's absolutely wonderful."

CRISLER'S CLAUS

0
0
0

WANT TO JOIN THE DAILY'S
NEWS SECTION?
E-mail berman@michigandaily.com to get started.
APPLICATIONS ALWAYS WELCOME.

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Bad Axe, Mich. resident Fred Kalis and his grandson watch as Michigan plays Concordia University at Criser Arena on yesterday.
Michigan won the game 86-65.

PARKING
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals NiKerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com

Rent with the Best!
Fa & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing

Contact Post Realty for
PARKING AVAILABLE showng or more information:
665-8825 734-761-8220 or
WE HOLD THE KEY.... info@posrealtyproperties.com
To Your New Home!t
Prime Student Housing !!Beautiful Large Homes!!
734-761-8000 7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
primeshbcom campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 6 & 7 Bdrm/3 BA Homes.
great floor plan/location! fireplace/cool
QR R E N T kitch/prkg. $3600/$3950 313-215-8115
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing !* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best www.carlsonproperties.com
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve 734-332-6000.
your space oday.l to 4 bedrooms, fr-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks 0004 BDRM HI-LEVEL house near
from Central Campus and downtown Kerrytown avail July. Large modem
734-998-4400 www.4eevenlofts.com kitchen, 1. baths, faly furnished and
________________________ much more! 741-9300
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdnn.! www.annarborapartments.net
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking. *AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992. Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED- Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun- 1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR $650/month, water included, May
MAY 2011. HorvathPrperties.com or lease, 734-332-6000,
call 734-972-7368. www.carlsnprperties.com
5 & 6 BR Houses n.umc
2011 _____
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609 6e e m. rnne
734-62 4414 icelon
RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, December 7, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 68 Critter that can 33 Joe of 46 Majestic
1 Prepared for pie, follow the endstof "GoodFellas" 48 Melon exterior
as apples this puzzle's five 36 Senate cntest 50 Villainous literary
6 Skirtfold longest answers 37 God with arrows alter ego
11 1,150,to Brutus 38 Staff associate? 51 Promise to pay
14 Speed skater _ DOWN 39 Lake Superior 53 Little laugh
Anton Ohno 1 NPR auto show natives 57 Golfer's pocketful
15 Get-up-and-go 2 Hamlet's love 40 Some 58 Spiritual guide
16 Author Levin 3 Writer's payment Impressionist 60 Stick in the lake?
17 What cats and 4 Shady bunch? paintings 61 Govt. hush-hush
bats do 5 Anonymous John 41 Sickens org.
18 Procter & 6 Destination in a 44 Mexican peninsula 62 Bettor's hangout,
Gamble laundry two-part route 45 Bayer product briefly
product 7 "Many-splendnred ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Earl Grey et at. thtingofsong
21 "The loneliest 8 ComicPhilips P H I s H S H A G L A G S
number," in a 9 30daymo. DONHO A O N E ALE E
sng 10eHerb inaO EN
22 Nckel nr baaqaetgarni ARGOT DONT O EN
cadmium 11 Toothpaste E P A E S2TeAsNso r
3 Theawrks camparison wordadePAMECA E YAA
4 CFavnrte 1 Credlikearaen A I R F 0 R C 0 A 0
5imian 13tikeFanarchy GRAF T RAIDS B EN
7KeepAmeica 19Nateto RAPS PARRY LOVE
Beauttfl 2eAcrassDInnAerse AN NT CO AE 0 SINEW
coneems 24 "Orange" tea C H I L D SUP P ORT
30lLawyers' charges grade EM C 0 0 5 5 A L
3! Craftthbatcan be 25SA lang tine NDATION
rolled 28t1-minate H.S. FO D O N A O
32 "As ye sew, so exam iDEA NCAA UNTIE
shall ye _" 28 Beach lover's L E A R E L i N L E T B Y
34 Country ites. goal E L K S D A L E A R O S E
35 New England 29 Eurasian range xwordeditor@aol.com 12/6o /1
storm 1 2 3 4 s3 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 
39 Brun legend 1
42 Rank below
marquis 17 1s1a
43 Nutritious beans
47 Razz 221z22
49 Space particles 23 24 s
52 Asks to the party
54 Kingof France n a 2 so
55 9-Down adviser
56 Kentucky county 31 32 as 34
named for a
trailblazer an 33
57 Itfollows Wed. as 40s1 42 4 44 4 4
58 Stride
59 Beach Boys 47 as 49 so s
album with bees
and flowers on 52 .s3 54 ss
the covet 5s.sr s
62 Beyond the inege
63 Columnist s 60 81 62
Bacbwald
H4 Alleviated 63 a
65 mix: hiker's
fare "3 87
66 Snake sound
67 Wipeout n1arste, s.kha s s .
isi2tiiI~ein,, Slsin~r~ir,.te.12/7/10

the biffe
4Oned and
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
-CentraCi capus r ow-wn
rNrth Campus aWes Sde
Let Our Family Take Cre of Yours
:+htine se ,SU n Mpey j"'b,"
UnSipe N , 1wa'
734.74 1.9300
WWw.amnlaborpartmnttS.ett
7 BDRM HOUSE! Great Location,
Huge Rms, 3 Full Bths, 2 Ktchns, Prkg
& Ldry. Call 734-260-4003 or visit
Hi4StreetProperties.com
ACROSS FROM WEST & SOUTH
QUAD. 1 & 2 bdrms moder
furniture, garage parking and
FREE heat & laundry. 741-9300
annarborapartments.net
-NOW SHOWING
APARTMENTS-
For 2011-12!
18 great locations
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Furnished, Heat & Water Included,
1 Parking Pass & FREE Internet.
Call today to see your new home!
734-761-8000
primeshom
*Amenities Vary By Location
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 &2 Bdnn. fur.
aps.4O2 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,&H20incl. 734-904-6735
AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
m.ny are farnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATION!!!
543 Church! Best location in town!
Right across from East Hall. Spacious
4br bi-level apts. Updated kitchens
w/dishwashers, heat & water included,
and all apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
!!AWESOME 4 bdrm near the rock.
Free prkg. Indry. Avail. Fall '11.
734.223.7777.
SPACIOUS 4 BEDROOM APTS!
1039 Baldwin
Two 4 Bdr. Apts. available ina
gorgeous converted house.
High ceilings, bay windows, fireplace,
hardwood floors, & screened in porch!!
Large backyard, heat, water,
& parking ncluded!
734-668-1100
FALL 2011 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4700
7 510 Catherine $3700
7 1129 White St $3950

6 BEDROOM HOUSE great location,
2 blncks no mudhewl, Lindett St., free
laundry & parking, furnished, 2 baths,
fireplace, central A/C, large bedrooms,
new kitchen all ammenties, Fall 2011,
$3600. Ask for Jim 734-426-4772.
6, 7, AND 9 BDRM houses available
Fall. Central Campus and Kerrytown.
Call Deinco 734-996-1991 or visit
cappomanagement.coin
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagersumich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (ever 1105 sqft. each)
CallAdam at 248.904.5562 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!!!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Included*
Even comes Funished!!
(And HAIL to the Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-1000 primeshocom
*Varies by location
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MY NEW YEARS Resolutions...
Exercise...At least until my
spring break trip
Study more for my classes...Maybe
No more drinking...LOL
Find my apartment
for the fall..Definitely
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., moden, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island
Drink with
soy new tour!
Voted Best
Apartments in
2009 by
Michigan Daily!
ON CAMPUS, F/URNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDRtooms
AFFORDABLE AND MII
BETTER THAN THE DOWS!
YO DESERVE TO STEP P 0'
Coontact usfor a
tour today!
536 Sotth Forest
Ann Arbor, Ml 48104
734-761-2680
tUNIElR':mI1' Ot5twERS-MILCtM
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM FOR Sept., frn., private
deck, excellent security, parking, wash-
er/dryer, non-smoking. 537 Elizabeth
St., $1479, includes heat. 734-996-8506
4 BEDROOM BI-LEVEL apt in
house. Fits up to 6 people, lot of closet
space, bay windews and 2 covered
parking spots. 741-9300
5 BDRM, 2 bath, laundry, parking,
heat included, May-May, 815 Arch,
call 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, 2 baths, lovingly maintained,
$3200 + utilities, Jim at 734-426-4772.
FALL 2011
Large 6 Bedroom House with Huge
Bedrooms! 2 Full Baths. Located near
South Utiveristy and Seth Forest.
Floors of living space, and
newly carpeted for coming year!
$3699month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
GREAT 7 BDRM. 7-8 person house
near campus. 2.5 bath. Large rooms,
free prkg., laundry. $3900/mo. Avail.
Sept. 2011. Call 734-761-9210
!!! CORNERHOUSE APTS !!!
2 & 3 bdrms, lots of closet space, flat
screen tvs, modern furniture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!! HURRY, these are going fast!
Amazing deal! 1100 sqft bi-level fits
up to 5, flat screen tv, HD direct, inter-
net, heat and much more. On-site fit-
ness, recreation and FREE laundry.
741-9300
annarborapartments.net
SPACIOUS 2 BEDROOM APTS!
911 & 1001 S. Forest
Great location w/heat, water, wi-fi,
& parking included. Fully furnished &
very spacious! Updated kitchens &
bthrms, leather or suede furniture, A/C,
laundry, and intercom entrance.
5 minutes to Central Campus!
www.varsitymagement.com
PACKARD 5 BDRM
Completely remodeled & very spacious
5 bdrm apt. Two of the bedrooms are
very large and can easily be doubles!
Eat-in kitchen, hardwood firs, & 2 full
baths. Washer & dryer on-site and just
one block from the union!
734-668-1100
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsotnproperties.com

7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were AFFORDABLE
and MUCH Better than the Dorms!
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tourt We
have Studios,1,2 & 3 bedroon fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appointments. www.UniversityTowers-
MIcom
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! 1 bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com
FALL 2011
Amazing 4 Bedroom Apartment.
Right on South University Ave.
2 Full Luxury Baths, Huge Living
Space, Heat and Water Included
$3299/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL 2011
Great 2 Bedroom Apartment with
Balcony. Located across from the
CCRB. Modern Kitchen and Bath with
Granite Floors and Bar Top.
Heat and Water Included.
$1499/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com

0
0

734.709.3222
www.scienceworddoctor.com
For your scientific writing needs.
Services include grants, clinical
reports, abstracts and manuscripts.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed anorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUME HELP. MICHIGAN under-
grad and law school grad will help you
revise/draft your resume. Flat fee $50.
Email rabro@umich.edu
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

0

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTENTION U OF M Students
HOLDAY HELP
1-5 week work program, flex sched,
$16,25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice,
no exp necessary, all ages 17+,
Apply now, start after finals!
734-975-7299
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
WITH
~MICHIGAN DAILY

6
6
4

418 N. State
605 E. Hoover
827 Brookwood

$3500
$3720
$2400

515 Walnut
South U, & Ge ddes
2br 2 bth bilevel appsl w/
rooftop paios perfect for 4
people! Large living rooms
tons of closet space, and

4 927 S. Division $2240
Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991

pdated kitc
'ished w/ it

. Fully

wwwvsarsitymonagement.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, December 7, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, December 7, 2010 - 7

Hollywood's wintry mix

Franco gets Ginsberg
in heavy-handed 'Howl'

ondemned to consistently
late nights in the weeks
leading up to December
exams, I was awarded a small but
valuable gift
for my efforts
last Wednes-
day. At 6:15 in
the morning,
finally set to
sleep, I looked
out the win-
dow to see ANKUR
what I'd been
waiting for: SOHONI
snow.
Light, float-
ing snow was slowly falling out-
side the window. As I watched it
S descend below the lights on Pack-
ard Street, I suddenly remem-
bered why I chose to endure
the constant street noise of a
front-facing room in my house.
I had once again discovered the
upside of an Ann Arbor winter. If
it's going to be cold, it better be
snowing.
Despite my fatigue and inevi-
table sleep deprivation, the snow
got me jumping up and down,
celebrating the moment like a kid
on Christmas morning. With the
visual cue of a snowfall, my inter-
nal calendar turned to the holiday
season.
My love of snow and the
holiday season is largely based
on movie depictions - that kid
rejoicing last Wednesday wasn't
actually me, it was Fuller (Kieran
Culkin) in "Home Alone 2." Film
has historically exploited the sea-
son to the fullest extent, and yet
has perpetuated holiday family
values in direct, easily under-
stood fashion.
Christmas sells big, and film
studios are acutely aware of it.
Kids come home from break,
adults get work off. The peak
of Oscar season is one of the
best times for the blockbuster,
as shown by the mid-December
releases of all three "Lord of the
Rings" films and the box-office
Toruk Makto "Avatar." With
such a huge audience at its dis-
posal, the film industry wastes no
opportunity to cash in on Christ-
mas.
November and December are
perennially characterized by
films like "Christmas with the

Krank
these f
a terri
dom te
mitiga
makin
related
If you1
not lov
you'll
At t
numbe
larly r
yet tel
of thes
narrat
sion of
Stev
a-true
If You
gnale.
paradi
a spreE
identit
contac
Hanks
Releas
film fit
marke
settini
W
snc
I
Ki
econoi
nale's
from h
him in
the se
"Ed
somet
tive en
When
carves
(Wino
dance
score,
in the
expels
the mi
Christ
pushe
"H(
Alone
(Maca
his far

s" or "Elf." Yes, most of tion by placing him in the holiday
films are pretty terrible. But season.
ble Christmas film is sel- Those who saw the recent
'rribly received. Christmas "Harry Potter and the Deathly
tes the risk of bombing by Hallows: Part 1" may recall a
g your enjoyment directly scene in which Harry (Daniel
d to your holiday season. Radcliffe) and Hermione (Emma
love Christmas, you might Watson) visit Godric's Hollow,
ve "The Santa Clause," but Harry's birthplace, on Christmas
probably enjoy it anyway. Eve. Harry has no family and is
he same time, there are a for all intents and purposes quite
er of films which are simi- alone in his responsibilities. In
eleased, similarly set and that moment, what more pain-
I non-holiday stories. Most ful time is there to visit the place
se fabricate Christmas as a your parents died?
ive tool to support the ten- The point is that the holiday
f the A story. season is prevalent outside of
ven Spielberg's based-on- "Christmas films." It is a creative
-story caper "Catch Me signifier beyond the holidays
Can" shows Frank Aba- themselves.
Jr. (Leonardo DiCaprio) So, when I saw snow, it wasn't
ng around the world on so much that I celebrated snow
e of check fraud and false itself, but the feeling of family,
:ies, somehow coming into warmth and togetherness it sig-
t with an FBI agent (Tom nifies to me. I looked at the side-
) every year on Christmas. walk and imagined a dancing girl
ed in December 2002, the in a white dress more than I wor-
t within the Christmas ried about the next day's cold.
t but its narrative holiday For secular and/or fun-loving
g was more than purely holiday celebrators like me, films
inform - and can themselves
become - holiday tradition. My
int ' f brother, for example, looks for-
Vinter's first ward every year to the almost
S 1 , daily TV presentation of "Home
owfall maKes Alone" in December. On the other
negfe ik hand, as I walk down a snowy
med feel like State Street, I'll hear John Wil-
eran Culkin. iams's "Somewhere in My Mem-
ory" playing in my mind. The
romance of the holiday season,
and thus the weather associated
rmic - it highlighted Abag- with it, has become a part of my
isolation and disconnection perspective.
his family by positioning That's not to say that when I
contrast with the spirit of took the twice-weekly 20-min-
ason. ute walk from South Quad to the
ward Scissorhands" does Argus Building last year, I enjoyed
hing similar, and it's effec- the persistent barrage of cold. But
hough to make me obsess. there's a big difference between
Edward (Johnny Depp) perception and reality, and
ice sculptures and Kim watching from my window on a
'na Ryder) does her ice Wednesdaynight, only one of those
under Danny Elfman's mattered. While the actuality of
it's the most beautiful thing living on a snow-covered college
world. And when suburbia campus brings us brown, slushy
Mr. Scissorhands, it's all streets and uncomfortable walks
ore tragic for it being on to class, film can create a world in
:mas that the neighborhood which the dream of a white Christ-
s him away. mas always comes true.

Poet biopic doesn't
leave much to the
imagination
By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
Young men and women decked
out in Ray Ban glasses, skinny ties
and penny loafers pack the room.
Smoke from
their cigarettes **
twists its way
forward where Howl
it lingers under
a heavy spotlight At the
on stage. One Michigan
young man steps Oscilloscope
into the light,
adjusts his heavy framed glasses
and begins to read: "I saw the best
minds of my generation destroyed
by madness, starving hysterical
naked..."
With these words, Allen Gins-
berg's immortal poem "Howl"
gave a voice to the Beat Genera-
tion. The film "Howl" tries to cap-
ture the essence of the poem and
examine Ginsberg's (James Fran-
co, "127 Hours") own experiences
- his writing process, the mean-
ing and imagery of the poem, as
well as the obscenity trials that
followed its publication.
Franco may as well be in hip-
ster heaven with his Ginsberg
part. Playing the poet adds just
the right amount of coolness to
any actor's resume. But at first
it seems that his beard isn't wild
enough, he's too handsome, too
suave. Franco just doesn't seem
to be enough of an outsider. He's
more of a Neal Cassady or a Jack
Kerouac type.
However, as soon as he starts
reading the poem, any doubts
about Franco's ability to pull off
the role vanish. "Howl" (the poem)

Look at that fucking hipster.
was written to be read aloud and
Franco is aware of this. He aptly
captures the jazz-inspired rhythm
and manages to insert humor at
exactly the right parts - poems
about "alcohol and cock and end-
less balls" can't possibly be read
with a straight face the whole way
through.
But of course, the problem with
such a convincing performance
is that it becomes a Franco-as-
Ginsberg-fest and "Howl" doesn't
just belong to him. It's not just
his story, but also the story of
the minds of a generation. There
isn't just one way to interpret the
poem.
Part of the film's struggle is in
interpreting the poem. As Gins-
berg reads the poem, the black and
white film dissolves into a strung-
out animation. The process of
reading a poem is based on inter-
preting for oneself what things
like "storefront boroughs of tea-
head joyride neon blinking traf-
fic light" actually mean. Instead
of allowing the audience to figure
that out, there's a cartoon about

it. But this is very limiting - the
animation just might not work for
some viewers. While it's perfectly
OK that the animators thought
a particular line would be best
shown as a forest of giant dicks,
that's not necessarilythe only way
to read it. But it still comes across
like that is the message, despite
the movie's best efforts to deal
with and incorporate a variety of
themes ranging from Eastern phi-
losophy to drug-induced hazes.
At any rate, poetry interpreta-
tion is sticky business and perhaps
a difficult pursuit on film. But
what "Howl" provides a context
for the poem through the obsceni-
ty trial without turning the movie
into a biopic or a documentary.
Jon Hamm ("Mad Men") plays the
lawyer defending the poem and,
near the end of the movie, delivers
a strong monologue about free-
dom of speech. From a historical
approach, this is perhaps the most
significant part of the legacy of
"Howl" as a poem - as a reminder
of the American tradition of free-
dom and a celebration of diversity.


sme Alone" and "Home
2" take Kevin McCallister
ulay Culkin) away from
mily, emphasizing his isola-

Sohoni? More like Snow-honi!
To tell him his new nickname rocks,
e-mail asohonidumich.edu.


GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
December 6-10
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union

"Wait till Uncle Jesse sees me now!"
* More Bob Saget, please

By ALEX RUSS the series premiere, Saget travels
DailyArts Writer around the country with national
bikers club Iron Order, attempting
There are two Bob Sagets in the to earn his right to become a mem-
TV world. One is the family man ber of their brotherhood. He wit-
we all came to know and love on nesses many order events along
"Full House" the way, like a rather unorthodox
and "America's wedding and an emotional memo-
Funniest Home rial for a fallen brother.
Videos." Then, While the show's premise is
there's the other Strange perfectly fine, Saget's presence
Bob Saget: the DayS it feels completely unnecessary.
vicious, foul- B& &wgt Aside from a few wisecracks
mouthed stand- about how the bikers' partying
up comedian Tuesdays "would rage on until dawn, just
who occasion- at 10 p.m. like my bar mitzvah," there isn't
ally pops up on A&E much of anything to make Bob
HBO's "Entou- Saget a more idea host than some
rage." So, when it random guy off the street. Saget is
came time for Bob to host his new a funny man, and while this show
show, "Strange Days with Bob doesn't necessarily need his foul-
Saget," which Bob were we going mouthed side, it could use a little
to see? While it turns out that more spunk from him.
"Strange Days" emphasizes Good Another severe drawback to
Bob, there were very few things this show is its 30-minute time
about this show that could criti- slot. While Saget does have a
cally be considered "good." chance to open up to members
In each episode, Saget follows of the Iron order, much of it
a different group or subculture remains unexplored due to time
for a few days, like a bikers club constraints. A lot more depth
or a group of hunters, and learns could have been explored about
about their thoughts on life and the bikers and even Saget himself
what they do with their time. In if the time allotment had been.

increased to an hour.
Still, the show does an impres-
sive job of debunking stereotypes.
Throughout the episode, it's clear
the Iron Order is just a group of
people who like to have fun. To
put it more bluntly, they rage. A
lot. There were beer showers on
more than one occasion. But it's
also clear that these are kind,
normal, everyday people who just
happen to be massive and have
tattoos covering almost every part
'Strange Days'
needs spunk.
of their bodies. Everyone treats
Saget with respect and could not
be more open or kind toward him.
"Strange Days" does have its
merits, but it underuses its big-
gest asset - Bob Saget himself -
and feels too short for Saget and
his new biker friends to really
have developed any kind of con-
nections. Saget, you're a proven
comedian, stick with what you're
good at.

The sittingfee isjust$1So
This price includes your portrait featured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code:.87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu
Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
YEARB OOK

JOIN DAILY ARTS. IT IS YOUR DESTINY.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for information on applying.

; __ -,


0

8 - Tuesday, December 7, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com





This holiday season,
upgrade your family to the
fast and free Chrome browser.
google.com/chrome/students


r Est
i !;"
. i.% 1 ' :i
4""
>,

0
0
0

0-

0

0

Go. ale

02010Google

Y



