j4Wi4JW 1 HIZ 'IlaiIV

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, December 3, 2010

michigandaily.com

IT'S OK BY RED

U IVERS[Y LiRARIES
HathiTrust
expands
partnerships,
Online works

S ~~M A XC cL UNS/Dai y
For a full story on Berenson's skate at the t he Michigan ice hockey coach Red Berenson tests out the recently constructed ice rink at Michigan Stadium. Michigan
Big House check out the Daily's Sports blog will play Michigan State on the outdoor rink in the Big Chill at the Big House on Saturday, Dec. 11. "Usually when you
at michigandaily.com/blogs/thegame. game skate on outdoor ice, its lumpy and it cracks easy," Berenson said. "I'm impressed that this isn't all cracking."
CAMPUS COMMUNITY
Somn-ething blue ents brin
school spirit to wxeddings at 'U'

Digital library
doubled its partners
in last year
By K.C. WASSMAN
Daily StaffReporter
The HathiTrust Digital Library,
which has housed online collec-
tions from research institutions
and libraries across the country and
world since 2008, recently widened
its breadth of information.
The digital library doubled its
partnerships over the past year,
bringing the total to 52. Among the
library's 26 new partners are The
Library of Congress, Harvard Uni-
versity and the University of Madrid
- the first international partner.
John Wilkin, executive director
of HathiTrust and associate Uni-
versity librarian, said HathiTrust is
attractive to institutions that have
an abundance of content and are
searching for a place to house their
digital works.
"(The University of) Madrid has
lots of content and needs to store it
at a lower cost," Wilkin said.
In addition to new partners,
HathiTrust also added new features
within the library, including a full
text search of the library's infor-
mation base and more resources

for users with "print disabilities,"
Wilkin said.
Those affiliated with partnering
institutions also have new privi-
leges, like the ability to download
entire books orato create and share a
personal collection of books.
Founded in partnership with
the University of California system,
UniversityofVirginia and the Com-
mittee on Institutional Cooperation
- of which the University of Michi-
gan is a member - HathiTrust is
not restricted to partnering institu-
tions, and is availableto anyone with
Internet access. However, partner
affiliates have access to more fea-
tures. Wilkin said he believes the
University plays a part in allowing
this vastcollection to remain public.
"There is this Michigan commit-
ment to public good," Wilkin said.
"When we open things up, we open
it up to everybody whether they're
paying for it or not. It's very impor-
tant to have this library without
walls."
The University prepared for the
creation of its digital library when
it first partnered with Google to
digitize its collection, according
to information provided by library
staff. In the agreement with Google,
the University "insisted" on being
able to publicly share the digital
copies it receivesfrom Google.
See HATHITRUST, Page 2

Eighty-one couples
have wed at the
League, Union so
far this year
By MARY HANNAHAN
For the Daily
LSA senior and bride-to-be
Emily Patterson says she's hav-
ing her dream wedding, but it's
not going to be on a beach or in a

fancy banquet hall. Instead, Pat-
terson and her fiancee, Kinesiol-
ogy senior Mike Adler, wanted
to tie the knot in a place more
meaningful to them.
"We really liked the idea of
tying in the fact that we met
at Michigan into our wedding
because that's just part of who
we are," Patterson said. "So
there's no other better place
than the ballroom at the (Michi-
gan) Union."
Patterson and Adler are
among many faculty, student

and alumni couples choos-
ing to get married at Univer-
sity venues. The Union and the
Michigan League attract a lot
of interest, and the University
of Michigan Museum of Mod-
ern Art - though more expen-
sive and less available - is also
growing in popularity.
Since January, 81 weddings
have been held in the League and
the Union, both of which cost
approximately $1,600 to rent
for a space in the buildings for a
day, according to Nancy Harper,

special events manager for the
University Unions, which Harp-
er said normally runs about $7S
per person for food and drinks,
including alcohol.
The League and the Union
operate separately from the Uni-
versity; profits generated from
the weddings are used for build-
ing operations and help offer
student organizations free use
of the Union space for events,
according to Harper.
The building managers for
See WEDDINGS, Page 2

LSA THEME SEMESTER-_1
Death penalty opponent Prejean:
Witnessing suffering'made me'

In talk on campus,
nun praises Mich.
death penalty policy
By SABIRA KHAN
Daily StaffReporter
While many in the University
community have spent the past
three months pondering the LSA
theme semester, "What Makes
Life Worth Living?", a speaker
on campus last night has thought
about this query for the last three
decades.
Author and activist Helen

Prejean talked to a crowd of
approximately 150 Ann Arbor
residents in Blau Auditorium
about her involvement in a cam-
paign to outlaw the death penalty
- a goal Prejean said makes her
life worth living.
Prejean was invited to speak on
campus by Commonweal Maga-
zine, the University Law School
and the University's Women's
Studies department as part of the
LSA theme semester. A nun from
New Orleans, Prejean has worked
with prisoners on death row for
three decades.
Prejean described an "awak-
ening" to the issues of social

injustice, saying a revealingexpe-
rience on a church retreat trans-
formed her from a sheltered nun
who believed that "poor people
only need God" to an active vol-
unteer, aware of the importance
of participating in service to meet
community needs.
"Witnessing the suffering that
comes from injustice changed
me and it made me," she said.
"It changed the way I read the
newspaper, it changed the books
I read, and a desire welled up in
my heart of what I want to with
my life."
After a volunteering session at
See PREJEAN, Page 2

cHRIS RYBA/Daily
Silvio Medoro, owner of Silvio's Organic Pizza, shows off some of the locally grown greens the eatery uses yesterday. Silvio's on
North University Avenue is one of many restaurants in the area that use locally grown ingredients.
eateries buy local to
boost freshness, business

GREEK LIFE
With substance-free housing,
an alternative Greek lifestyle

Fraternity leaders
say policy changes
focus, cuts down on
insurance costs
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
The "substance-free" label
doesn't usually come to mind
when talking about fraternities,

but three campus houses are try-
ing to buck that stereotype.
Sigma Chi, Phi Delta Theta and
Beta Theta Pi fraternities have
substance-free houses, according
to Mike Friedman, president of
the Interfraternity Council. And
while such a policy may deter
some, officials from these frater-
nities said being substance-free
has many advantages.
Substance-free fraternities
tend to attract men interested in
"focusing more on the profession-

al relations and less on the social,"
Friedman said.
"Internally, it communicates
the shift in focus in the organiza-
tion," Friedman said. "Externally,
it gives a certain image and repu-
tation, and from a risk manage-
ment perspective, it sheds a lot of
the liability that a lot of fraterni-
ties willingly take on."
Though the substance-free
fraternities aren't allowed to
host parties with alcohol at their
See SUBSTANCE-FREE, Page 6

Restaurant owners
say they want to help
local economy
By SARAH ALSADEN
Daily StaffReporter
Many Ann Arbor eatery own-
ers, longtime "eat local" pro-
ponents and newcomers to the
bandwagon alike, have found
that buying local ingredients
results in more than just fresh-
ness - the choice itself to sup-
port area farmers and businesses

appeals to customers.
Seva Restaurant, a vegetarian
establishment on East Liberty
Street, has been incorporating
local items into its menu since
its opening in 1973. Seva's owner,
Maren Jackson, said she noticed
a recent trend of other restau-
rants embracing local food, too.
Seva is a member of the
Washtenaw County Think Local
First, a network of local business
owners that aims to educate the
community about the advan-
tages of supporting local busi-
nesses, Jackson said. Though it
is often more ex- usive to pur-

chase organic and local foods,
she added thataSeva continues
to do so because of the quality of
the products and the restaurant's
willingness to help the Michigan
economy.
"(Purchasing local produce)
supports our local economy,"
Jackson said. "We're trying to
do as much as we can to help the
Ann Arbor and Michigan econo-
my grow."
Nicole Young, a chef and
kitchen manager for Arbor
Brewing Company on East
Washington Street, said her res-
See LOCAL, Page 6

WEATHER HI:33 GOTA NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LU: 23 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANOAILYvCOM
Around campus: Bukeyes or Taliban?
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE PODIUM

INDEX NEWS......
Vol. CXXI, No. 60 AP NEWS
X200 TheMi higan Daily O PINIO N.
m ichigondoilycom

..2 ARTS...........
..3 CLASSIFIEDS
.4 SPORTS........


2 - Friday, December 3, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Friday, December 3, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 0

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

LEFT LSA sophomore Eric Olivero
shaves his beard on Wednesday,
Dec. 1, 2010 for the first time
since October. Olivero partici-
pated in a "No Shave November"
competition in South Quad for his
hall and won a prize of $10 in Blue
Bucks. (ANNA SCHULTE/Daily)
TOP RIGHT Five-year employee
Nicolas Perry works at the Ninfa
Lab at Biomedical Research
Building on Tuesday, Nov. 30,
2010. Perry's field is in synthetic
biology, and he studies bacte-
rial genetics. (ERIN KIRKLAND/
Daily) TOP LEFT Tri-City Enter-
tainment employee Rick Mosher
helps install the boards on the
ice rink in the Big House that is
being constructed for the outdoor
hockey game against Michigan
State next Saturday. Dec. 11, 2010.
(MAX COLLINS/Daily)

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandailycom tmdbusiness@gmailcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours: Sun.-Thurs. 1n a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-418-4115 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
torrections corrections@michigandaily.com
letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
ClassifiedSales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com

0
0
0

Finance

fnance@michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Valet receives Backpack bandit Bluegrass

CORRECTIONS

Iake $ bill
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Wednesday at about
9 a.m.
WHAT: An unknown subject
paid University Hospital valet
staff with a fake $5 bill, Univer-
sity Police reported The case is
currently under investigation.
Students light up
in South Quad
WHERE: South Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at about
7:45 p.m.
WHAT: Six male students
were caught smoking marijua-
na, University Police reported.
Officers seized a small amount
of the drug from several of the
students.

WHERE: Hatcher Graduate
Library
WHEN: Wednesday at about
11:45 p.m.
WHAT: After leaving her
backpack unattended for one
hour, a female student had her
iPod, clothes, books and back-
pack stolen from the fifth floor
of the library, University Police
reported.
Dorm room
smoke out
WHERE: Oxford House
WHEN: Thursday at about 1
a.m.
WHAT: Two male students
were caught smoking maru-
juana in their room, University
Police reported. Both of the
students werearrested, and the
evidence was seized.

concert
WHAT: A performance by
bluegrass band the Caro-
lina Chocolate Drops. The
band started out perform-
ing in town squares and
farmer's markets but has
since had sellout shows
at concert venues.
WHO: University
Musical Society
WHEN: Tonight from
8 p.m.to11p.M.
WHERE: The Michi-
gan Theater
Poetry slam
WHAT: The event will
include an open mic ses-
sion, a competition among
seven poets and a perfor-
mance by a featured poet.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight from
B p.m. to 11 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
The University Club

" An article in Thurs-
day's edition of The
Michigan Daily (" With
.03 percent turnout, RSG
sees participation jump")
incorrectly stated that
Education falls under
Division IV of Rackham
Student Government.
. An article in Thurs-
day's edition of The Mich-
igan Daily ("Missing
multiplexes") incorrectly
stated that Fifth Quarter
occupies the space once
held by The Majestic. It
occupies the space once
held by a theater special-
izing in foreign films.
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

A recent study found that
the dopamine receptor
gene DRD4 is linked to
promiscuity, LiveScience.com
reported. The gene has also
been linked to alcoholism,
gambling, love of horror films
and political liberalism.
Former Michigan men's
basketball coach Tommy
Amaker returns with the
Harvard Crimson to Crisler
Arena on Saturday for the first
time since he was fired follow-
ing the 2006-2007 season.
, FOR MORESEE SPORTS, PAGE8A
On Monday, a district
court in Texas will decide
whether capital punish-
ment is unconstitutional, The
Huffington Post reported. The
state has a high rate of wrong-
ful convictions, and twelve peo-
ple have been exonerated from
death row in Texas since 1976.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thirunavukkarasu, Devon Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph Lichterman, Veronica Menaldi, Elyana Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial PagetEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:WillButler,WillGrundler,uHarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartie Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar,JoeStapleton
ASSISTANTSPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes,StephenNesbitt, LukePasch,Zak Pyzik,Amy
Scarano
lamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandailycom
SENIOvAunS EDInOS:CaroynKlarekiuAndreLain, ffSanford,.
ASSTuNT REuSIEDTRSristAchoLeahBurgnSharonucobs,KaviShekhar
Pandey, David Tao
Ma ollinsand d photo@michigandaily.com
SamnWulsun Maosgiogebono Editos
SENIORPHOTO EDITOR: ArielBond, Marissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinskiand design@michigandailycom
Sarah Squire ManagingDesignEditors
SENIORDESIGN EDITOR:Maya Friedman
Trevotalero EMgainoeEditor calero@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandailycom
Adi Wolstein copychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
JuliannaCrim sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Stephanie Bowker
MARKETINGMANAGER: GjonJuncaj
HillarySzawala classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
ChrissyWinkler circulation Manager 
Zach Yancer Web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daiy ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wintertermsbystudentsattheUniversityofsichigan.Onecopyisavailablefreeofchargetoall
readers. Additionalcopies maybepicked upatthe oaily'sofficefors2.subscriptionsforfallterm,
startingin september, viaU.S.maiare$110.WintertermJanuary through April)is$115, yearlong
(September throughApril)is$s195. Unversity affiliatesare subject toareduced subscriptionrate.
On-s a'"s ""siptiensforfall ternaet.Suscriensmusthepepaid.TheMichiganDaily
s a emberofTeossoiatdPrssadmTessoiated Cllegiate ress.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes?Getlmore online at michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire


House censures Rep.
Rangel for misconduct

Congressman: 'In my
heart I truly
feel good.'
WASHINGTON (AP) - Vet-
eran Rep. Charles Rangel, the
. raspy-voiced, backslapping former
chairman of one of Congress' most
powerful committees, was cen-
sured by his House colleagues for
financial misconduct yesterday in
a solemn moment of humiliation in
the sunset of his career.
"I brought it onto myself," Rangel
told the House. But he also said poli-
tics was at work.
After the 333-79 vote, the
80-year-old Democrat from New
York's Harlem stood silently at the

front of the House and faced Speak-
er Nancy Pelosi as she read him the
formal resolution of censure.
Then, in response, he admitted
he had made mistakes, including
his failure to pay all his taxes, fil-
ing misleading financial statements
and improperly seeking money from
corporate interests for a college cen-
ter bearing his name.
But he also declared, "In my heart
I truly feel good." He said, "A lot of it
has to do with the fact that I know
in my heart that I am not going to
be judged by this Congress, butI am
going to be judged by my life."
It was only the 23rd time in the
nation's history that a House mem-
ber received the most severe pun-
ishment short of expulsion. Aside

from the embarrassment, censure
carries no practical effect and ends
the more than two-year ordeal for
the congressman who was re-elect-
ed to a 21st term last month with
more than 80 percent of the vote.
Relief and defiance took over the
moment Rangel finished speaking.
Somber, Pelosi quietly slipped out
of the chamber, but some Demo-
crats gave him a standing ovation.
Rangel made it only a third of the
way up the aisle when a phalanx of
well-wishers stopped and hugged
him; he responded by saying some-
thing that made them laugh. He was
smiling forthe rest of the 10 minutes
or so that it took to get through his
colleagues to exit the chamber, his
humiliation past.


HATHITRUST
From Page1
HathiTrust gives University stu-
dents easy access to a wider array
of resources than in previous years,
Wilkin said. This is due in large
part to the fact that HathiTrust
holdings are included in each Mir-
lyn search, eliminating the need
for students to go from library to
library to look for a book, he said.
"A person doing research today
has access to a more and more
comprehensive body of materials
PREJEAN
From Page 1
an adult education center, some-
one asked Prejean to be a pen pal
to a prisoner on death row. She
became the inmate's spiritual
- advisor, and has since dedicated
her life to abolishing the death
penalty in the United States.
"Human rights aren't given to
people for good behavior and they
can't be taken away from people
for bad behavior," she said.
Prejean explained that it was at
this point, after being exposed to
injustice and learning to stand for
something, that she discovered
what made her life worth living.
"What makes life worth liv-
ing is flowering into, discovering,

without having to search out those
materials," Wilkin said. "(He or
she) can focus on the conclusions
rather than the hunt, and the con-
clusions are most important."
Tom Hubbard, an information
resources reference specialist' at
the Hatcher Graduate Library, said
the now-expanded HathiTrust has
untapped potential as a resource
for University students.
"I don't know how much aware-
ness the student community has of
it, but if they are aware it will help
their research," Hubbard said.
Mariah Cherem, a first-year
being seized by a passion bigger
than us," she said. "It's a great
grace when it comes to us."
Protecting people's rights is
an innate human desire and a
responsibility that we have as
humans, Prejean said.
"We are people of justice, and
we are the ones who have been
entrusted with the Constitu-
tion of the United States, and we
are the ones who have to make
it work in our daily lives and in
our dealings with each other and
when something is wrong, we
have to be the ones to change it,"
she said.
After her speech, Prejean took
questions from the audience and
addressed regional differences in
attitudes toward the death penal-

graduate student in the School of
Information, echoed Hubbard's
concerns about the lack of stu-
dent awareness, but said she feels
HathiTrust can help students in a
variety of ways.
"It's useful for students'
research interests in school, but
also for their personal interests,"
Cherem said.
According to information pro-
vided by University library staff,
the partner institutions will par-
ticipate in a "constitutional con-
vention" in 2011 to formally review
HathiTrust and outline its future.
ty. She explained that while New
Jersey and New Mexico have
recently banned the use of the
death penalty, it is still "holding
strong" in the South, but that the
"practice is diminishing" toa cer-
tain degree. For example, many
southern states now require that
juries be informed about alterna-
tive sentences like life in prison
without parole.
Prejean commended Michigan
on historically being opposed to
the death penalty.
"Thank you, Michigan, we
hold you up like a beacon," she
said as the audience broke out
into applause. "You've never suc-
cumbed to the pressure of the
death penalty and that's some-
thing to be proud of."

The Michigan League Ballroom set up for a wedding. Many alumni, students and faculty turn to University venues to host
their weddings. The League and the Union have played host to 81 weddings since January.

WEDDINGS
From Page 1
the Unions are students. Wedding
planning, Harper said, provides
students with management and
communications experience, as
well as practice at handling last
minute emergencies.
Harper added that a majority of
clients are alumni, but that they
also serve many current students
in the University's medical and
law programs. The League and the
Union are also popular wedding
locations for faculty, staff and doc-
tors lookingto get married.
The University of Michigan
Museum of Art is another on-
campus wedding venue, which
started hosting private events
after reopening in 2009. Accord-
ing to Kathryn Huss, chief admin-
istrative officer of UMMA, though
the option to use the space as a
wedding venue is not publicized
on UMMA's website, people hear
about it through word of mouth.
UMMA held its first wedding in
August 2010 and has since hosted
six more weddings. Four venues -
with prices varying from $1,000 to

$5,000 - are available for recep-
tions and ceremonies. According
to Huss, UMMA has earned about
$100,000 from weddings so far,
and the museum uses the profits
to support exhibitions and educa-
tional programming.
But the museum's aesthetic
qualities that make it so appealing
can also be a bit limiting. Huss said
UMMA will not hold more than
250 people for a seated dinner, a
measure intended "to protect and
preserve the safety of the art col-
lection."
"We're very careful. There's
only a certain number of people we
can accommodate safely within
the artwork, so some people want
to have a larger wedding than is
capable here," Huss said.
University alum Courtenay
Holscher married Craig Sanford
at UMMA on Saturday, Nov. 20.
The newlyweds, both 23, met dur-
ing their freshman year in Burs-
ley Residence Hall and graduated
from the College of Engineering
together in 2009. Though the cou-
ple currentlylives in Denver, Colo.,
Courtney said they wanted to get
married on campus because of
their history together at the Uni-

versity.
In searching for a venue, San-
ford found that UMMA was
more expensive than the League
or Union, but said the price was
worth the building's beauty and
location.
Business senior Lee Quacken-
bush, president of the Men's Glee
Club, said he's heard great things
about Sanford's wedding from an
acquaintance who attended the
event.
"It was gorgeous and it was
very much Michigan-themed,"
said Quackenbush, who recently
proposed to his girlfriend at Hill
Auditorium.
Quackenbush plans to marry
LSA senior Heather Jones on Dec.
31 in Grand Rapids, Mich. Though
they considered having the wed-
ding on campus, both their fami-
lies live in Western Michigan, and
Quackenbush said the location was
one of the most important factors.
"We looked at the Union, the
Museum of Art and the church
at the corner of State and Wash-
ington (Streets), but those were
much more expensive than what
we're looking at," Quackenbush
said.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, December 3, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Design students
develop coats for
Detroit homeless
An industrial-design major at
the College for Creative Studies
in Detroit, Veronika Scott spent
all her cash from summer jobs
and then some - donated by fam-
ily and friends - to design and
sew three coats, actually, each an
improved version of the last.
She calls it the Element
S(urvival) coat. She is sure it will
save lives in Detroit, and some-
day across the nation and world.
As fanciful as that sounds, some
people have bought into it.
College for Creative Stud-
ies Dean Imre Molnar, a former
design director for Patagonia,
the outdoor clothing company in
Ventura, Calif., took one look at
Scott's design in November, and
"this stopped me dead," he said.
"This is extraordinary. If this
garment is successful in Detroit,
it's going to work across the
country and around the world
for homeless people, to say noth-
ing of the relief industry. Wher-
ever you have an earthquake, the
Red Cross could distribute these
things across the world," he said.
ANNISTON, Ala.
KKK snowman
enrages neighbors
A white separatist drew com-
plaints from neighbors and a visit
fromlaw enforcement officers after
building a snowman shaped like a
member of the Ku Klux Klan on his
front lawn.
Kootenai County sheriff's depu-
ties told Mark Eliseuson Wednes-
day that he could be charged
with a crime because the 10-foot-
tall snowman was holding what
appeared to be a noose. Deputies
were called by neighbors who were
appalled by the pointy-headed
snowman with two dark eyes.
Hayden for decades earned
notoriety for being near the for-
mer rural compound of the Aryan
Nations.
Eliseuson could have been
charged with creating a public
nuisance. Idaho law defines such a
nuisance as anything "offensive to
the senses" or that interferes with
the comfort of an entire neighbor-
hood. Eliseuson removed the noose
and toppled the snowman after he
talked with officers.
ANCHORAGE
Alaska sees rapid
climate change
Alaska wildlife officials have
released a report acknowledging
that scientific and traditional evi-
dence increasingly shows climate
change at unprecedented rates
throughout the Arctic.
The report released this week
marks a departure for the state,
which is suing to overturn the
federal listing of polar bears as
a threatened species because of
declining sea ice habitat.
The report, called "Climate
Change Strategy," says warming

temperatures could affect Alaska's
bodies of water, leading to changes
in sport fishing and subsistence
opportunities.
A Department of Fish and Game
official, Doug Vincent-Lang, says
the agency has stayed out of the
climate change debate but thought
it was time to take stock of the
effects.
MEXICO CITY
U.S. Cable: Mexico
concerned about
drug cartel power
A leaked U.S. State Department
cable says Mexican authorities
worried in 2009 that they could
lose parts of the country to drug
traffickers.
An October 2009 cable from the
U.S. Embassy in Mexico City says
Undersecretary for the Interior
Geronimo Gutierrez Fernandez
"expressed a real concern with
'losing' certain regions."
Gutierrez said the situation was
hurting Mexico's reputation at
home and abroad and that if Presi-
dent Felipe Calderon didn't have
"tangible successes" in his war
against cartels, "it will be difficult
to sustain the confrontation into
the next administration."
The document was posted
online yesterday by the newspaper
El Pais of Spain as a growing list
of sensitive U.S. government mes-
sages were released by WikiLeaks.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

, , a
p y o:
v::<
S ':
Md 1' i '

Sec. of Security
urges action on
DREAM Act

DEREK GEE/The Buffalo News
Jimmy Salomon, of Cheektowaga, waits outside his car on the New York State Thruway in West Seneca, N.Y., where was
stuck for several hours yesterday. The storm buried parts of Buffalo and its suburbs under 2 feet of snow.
Highway jam leaves
hundreds rstrande.d

On conference call,
Napolitano says bill
is now cost-neutral
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
United States Secretary
of Homeland Security Janet
Napolitano urged legislators to
take action on the latest version
of the Development, Relief and
Education for Alien Minors Act,
known as the DREAM Act, in a
conference call with journalists
yesterday.
The DREAM Act, first intro-
duced in Aug. 2001, would grant
temporary, six-year residency
to aliens who entered the coun-
try before the age of 16, lived in
the U.S. for five years before the
bill's enactment, are U.S. high
school graduates, and serve in
the military or attend college for
two years. Democratic Majority
Leader Harry Reid and Majority
Whip Dick Durbin filed the lat-
est version of the DREAM Act on
Tuesday.
"I think it's important to point
out that the DREAM Act fits into
a larger strategy of immigration
enforcement and would actually
complement the Department
of Homeland Security's efforts
to prioritize our enforcement
resources on removing danger-
ous criminal aliens from the
country," Napolitano said.
Newchangesto the actinclude
barring illegal immigrants from
qualifying for in-state college

tuition and preventing them
from sponsoring family mem-
bers for legalization. to previous
versions of the bill, immigrants
would also be eligible for certain
forms of federal aid, like food
stamps.
The DREAM Act was an
amendment to the Defense
Authorization Act, which failed
to pass the U.S. Senate in Sep-
tember.
On the call, Napolitano said
the latest version of the bill is
cost-neutral, appeasing oppo-
nents who contend that the mea-
sure would cost taxpayers too
much money.
"The cost argument doesn't
hold water," she said on the call.
In addition to the practical
benefits of the bill, Napolitano
said getting the act passed is
important because it doesn't
make sense to punish those who
entered the country illegally as
children by no fault of their own.
"What makes sense is to allow
these young people a way to
adjust their immigration status
that is firm but fair," she said.
Napolitano also said the act
"sets the right priorities for our
country" by strengthening the
nation's workforce and military,
since more people would be able
to contribute to the economy
after earning the temporary
legal status.
However, Napolitano said the
DREAM Act "is not a substitute
for comprehensive immigration
reform," which she, as along
with President Barack Obama,
supports.

Drivers stranded for
up to 14 hours on
3-mile-long strip
BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) - Hun-
dreds of cold and hungry motorists
spent hours yesterday stranded on
a western New York highway after
an accident caused a backup and
the idling trucks and cars got stuck
in heavy snow.
A Lake Erie-fed storm that began
Wednesday and continued through
Thursday buried parts of Buffalo
and some suburbs under more than
2 feet of snow. Downtown Buf-
falo was largely spared. Dozens of
schools canceled classes.
Police closed Interstate 90 about
3 a.m. yesterday after a truck jack-
knifed the previous evening and
vehicles became backed up and
buried in blowing snow, State
Trooper Daniel Golinski said. Driv-
ers also were stranded on a 3-mile
stretch of Interstate 190.
Though parts of I-90, better
known as the New York Thruway,
were reopenedby midday, an11-mile
stretch remained closed as dark-
ness fell. Traffic, mostly big rigs,
was backed up for about two miles
in the eastbound lanes and a mile
headed west after sunset. Authori-
ties expected it would take several
more hours to clear the mess.
Jack Geiselman, who was
stranded for 14 hours in 32-degree
weather, took it all in stride.
"Itend nottobe aranter-and-rav-
er about things and the point is, it's
nothingIhave anycontrol over," the
60-year-old semi-retired civil engi-
neer said. "I guess the way I look at it

is, it's over. Iguessstuffhappens. It's
not the end of the world."
Geiselman was traveling in a
Honda Civic from Keene, N.Y.,
to Cleveland with his black lab
Boomer to help his daughter gether
house ready for a baby due between
Christmas and New Year. He had
with him a sleeping bag and plenty
of warm clothing and gas. He said
state troopers came by with coffee
and food for people in cars.
Emergency crews on ATVs
passed out water and protein bars,
and buses picked up motorists and
delivered them to a shelter at a
senior citizen center.
State Police had no reports of
medical emergencies, although one
older motorist who uses oxygen was
among the stranded and was taken
to safety, said Capt. Michael Nigrelli.
Not to be discouraged, two truck
drivers who left their tandems
idling in the morning tramped
through the snow for about half a
mile to pick up a breakfast sand-
wich and coffee off the highway.
They seemed almost cheerful
despite the hit on their livelihood.
"The wheels are not moving and
we're making nothing," said Don
Lanphere, 51, a trucker for 32 years
who was hauling dog food. "The
only guys making money are the
plow operators."
"I had the radio on listening,"
said Curt Doverspike, 40, a trucker
from Jamestown. "They said we
should begetting out soon. Nothing
ever happened so we just went to
bed, woke up this morning. We're
just kind of used to it."
He said regular travelers were
venting their frustrations but the
truck drivers were calmer.

"There's traffic jams, accidents
all the time," Doverspike said.
"You just get used to it. I guess it's
easier for us than those in the cars
because they get frustrated. We
have a bed. If we get bored, we lay
down and go to bed."
Nigrelli said the combination
of fast-falling snow and the large
number of commercial vehicles
- many of which had to be towed
out after the snow piled up around
them - made re-opening the road
slow-going.
"Unfortunately, that's not some-
thing that can be undone very
quickly," he said.
Some truckers left the road to
find refuge at truck stops, parking
lots and city streets, but most kept
their rigs parked on the highway,
especially the tandem drivers.
Matt Welling was hauling a dou-
ble tractor-trailer full of groceries
when traffic came to a standstill.
He spent the night "sitting back,
playing a little Solitaire on the com-
puter, taking a nap," the Wegmans
driver said after more than eight
hours stuck on the road.
"I'm pretty chilly, hungry. A nice
cup of coffee would do pretty well
right now," he said by cell phone.
Driving restrictions were in
place in southern Buffalo and sub-
urban Cheektowaga, Depew, Lan-
caster and West Seneca, where
bands of snow hung stubbornly
overhead.
A snow warning was in effect
until late yesterday night, with sev-
eral more inches possible before
the storm was expected to drift
south, meteorologists said. Addi-
tional snow was in today's forecast,
though in lesser amounts.

S. Korean president
criticized as weak

Comments come in
wake of attack by
North Korea
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -
South Koreans called President Lee
Myung-bak "The Bulldozer" when
he plowed into office nearly three
years ago with vows to stop cod-
dling North Korea with uncondi-
tional aid.
These days, however, the nick-
name has started to ring hollow.
It originally denoted toughness
and resolve, stemming from Lee's
days as an aggressive construction
CEO. But North Korea's brazen
artillery attack on a South Korean
island last week and a response
slammed as weak are raising ques-
tions about Lee's readiness - and
even willingness - to stand up to
the North.
In the face of criticism, Lee
replaced his defense minister and
moved to boost troops on front-
line islands. He has also promised
tough consequences for any future
aggression and expressed his out-
rage over the "ruthlessness of the
North Korean regime."
He has issued similar pledges
before, and the North Korean
shelling on Nov. 23 that killed
four South Koreans and destroyed
parts of Yeonpyeong Island has
prompted questions over what
critics say is a failed policy toward
the North.
The Dong-a Ilbo newspaper
said in an editorial that after Seoul
blamed North Korea for sinking a
South Korean warship in March,
Lee "promised a 'manifold retalia-

tion' in the event of another provo-
cation and a strike on North Korea's
missile base if necessary."
"But his warnings have prov-
en hollow," the newspaper said.
"Many wonder ifPresident Lee was
resolute in deciding on retaliation"
for the island attack.
The government faced more
headaches yesterday, when oppo-
sition lawmakers expressed out-
rage over South Korean spy chief
Won Sei-hoon's surprise acknowl-
edgment of an intelligence break-
down.
Won told lawmakers in a pri-
vate briefing that the South had
intercepted North Korean mili-
tary communications in August
that indicated Pyongyang was
preparing to attack Yeonpyeong
and other front-line islands. Won
didn't expect that attack to be on
civilian areas and considered it
a "routine threat," according to
the office of lawmaker Choi Jae-
sung, who attended the closed
session.
South Korea's main opposition
Liberal Democratic Party said the
government had failed to deal with
the North's artillery barrage, even
though it had intelligence on an
impending attack.
"Our intelligence system didn't
work," Jun Byung-hun, the party's
chief policymaker, said in a state-
ment.
The National Intelligence Ser-
vice yesterday declined to com-
ment.
Lee, who turns 69 this month,
has been criticized for leading a
military whose response to the
Yeonpyeong attack was seen as
too slow and too weak: the North

fired 170 rounds compared with 80
returnedby South Korea.
Satellite photos showed only
about 10 South Korean rounds
landed near North Korea's army
barracks along the west coast,
according to the office of lawmaker
Kwon Young-se, who said he saw
the images provided Thursday by
the National Intelligence Service.
There is also disappointment
with the South's perceived lack of
preparedness despite warnings the
North might stir up trouble amid an
internal power transfer from Kim
Jong Il to his son.
"After all the skirmishes and
provocations, the country should
have had a contingency plan - a
rudimentary strategy of supple-
menting military power with naval
and air forces" in the front-line
island area, Song Ho-keun, a pro-
fessor at Seoul National University,
wrote in the JoongAng Ilbo news-
paper.
To ease tensions, China, which is
North Korea's only major ally, has
pressed for an emergency meet-
ing of the six nations who previ-
ously negotiated over Pyongyang's
nuclear program: the two Koreas,
China, Russia, Japan and the Unit-
ed States.
After walking away from the six-
nation talks in April 2009, North
Korea has shown it is eager to
restart them to gain much-needed
fuel oil and aid in exchange for
nuclear disarmament. But Wash-
ington, Tokyo and Seoul are wary
of talking with the North, and their
top diplomats planned to meet in
Washington on Monday to plot a
strategy on dealing with the coun-
try.

Man sought in
L.A. publicist's
death kills self
Hollywood publicist suspect in the case and had been
under surveillance for some time.
shot multiple times Chasen, 64, was shot multiple
times as she drove home from a
after leaving Oscar party after attendingthe premiere
of the movie "Burlesque," whose
film Upremil8ee soundtrack she was promotingfor
an Oscar nomination.
LOS ANGELES (AP) - A man The attack stunned Hollywood,
wanted for questioning in the where Chasen was well-known
slaying of a Hollywood publicist after promoting the Oscar-win-
killed himself in the lobby of a ning film "Driving Miss Daisy"
dreary Los Angeles hotel as police and other major movies and stars
closed in with a search warrant since the 1970s. It came in the
- the latest mysterious turn in a midst of award season, her busiest
case that began on a posh stretch time of year, when she helped stu-
of Beverly Hills. dios mount expensive promotion
The death deepened the mys- campaigns for films.
tery into the slaying of Ronni Police haven't released a possi-
Chasen, who was shot in her lux- ble motive in her slaying, and they
ury Mercedes as she drove home remained tightlipped about prog-
from the premiere of an Oscar ress in the investigation. The sui-
contender last month. cide Wednesday was first reported
Residents and witnesses told by the Los Angeles Times.
various stories aboutthe man. One Residents of the Harvey Apart-
resident said he bragged about ments knew the man as "Harold"
the killing and was waiting for a but differed on his last name.
$10,000 payment, but a man who Resident Terri Gilpin, 46, said
worked in a nearby music studio Thursday that she had heard him
was skeptical of a connection to bragging about the killing and
Chasen's death. talking about how he was going to
Witnesses said the man be paid $10,000 and was waiting
appeared to shoot himself in on the money.
the head Wednesday, splatter- She said he told her, "You know
ing blood across the lobby of the that lady on TV, that publicist, I
Harvey Apartments, a residential did it, I did it."
hotel where people rent rooms by Asked why she didn't call
the month. The building is in a police, Gilpin said she and her
stretch of warehouses and small husband didn't believe him. Gil-
businesses next to a dive bar pin said the man always seemed
called Gold Diggers Entertain- paranoid, would ask if police were
ment. looking for him, and "had a screw
Resident Anmmicka Sanders loose."
said Thursday when police let her Gilpin said she once called
back in the building Wednesday police on him because he wan-
night, she saw blood all over the dered into her apartment.
stairwell and a body covered by a On Wednesday, she said she
white sheet. was taking a nap when she heard
The dead man was identi- a single shot fired.
fied but his name was not being "I thought it was backfire, but
released because the next-of-kin I was kind of half-asleep, in a
had not been notified, Los Ange- drowsy state of mind," she said.
les County coroner's spokesman "It was kind of likea pop."
Craig Harvey said Thursday. He Sammy Zamorano, who works
was a black male in his 40s and his in a nearby music studio and was
last known place of residence had in the apartment building within
not been established, Harvey said. a minute of the suicide, said the
Beverly Hills police Chief body was slumped against a wall
David Snowden told The Associ- with arms on either side. He said
ated Press in an e-mail that the he did not see a gun.
man "was a person of interest Zamorano said the man spent
only" in Chasen's death in Beverly hours each day hanging around
Hills. Police spokesman Tony Lee outside the building, always had
emphasized at a news conference a bicycle and usually wore gloves.
that the murder investigation was "To me he was mental, crimi-
not over. nal, but not so sophisticated. He
The Los Angeles Times, citing had very bad vibes. To me, this
four unnamed sources, reported guy is not too honest. He looked a
Thursday that the man was a little disturbed," Zamorano said.


0

4 - Friday, December 3, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL JEFFAT JEFFDZ@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JEFF ZUSCH LAG

Meanwhile, in Italy - We must show them how important And we must show them this
our education isto us. We must show by blocking public roads and
My fellow students! The government them how much we value learning throwing trash at people!
seeks to cut the education budget and knowledge.
and limit our research time. We can
not let this standj-
16f1
prnA\ eia\D cp\DI'f
-E E
YEEEAAAHHH!

6

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Online adviser
'U' should advertise Academic Center resources
egistration is always a chaotic time for students.
When the LSA Course Guide goes live, students
often scramble to make appointments with academic
advisers in hopes of creating an ideal schedule. To accom-
modate students looking for academic advising, the Newnan
LSA Academic Advising Center recently updated its website
to offer students more resources for managing their course
loads. The additions are a good first step - one that other
departments should consider reproducing. But simply pro-
viding the resources isn't enough if students aren't aware of
them. Advising offices must publicize changes so that stu-
dents can fully utilize available resources.

Thanksgiving up

According to a Nov. 28 Daily article, a
variety of changes have been made to the
online tools available on the Newnan web-
site. Among the changes - which have been
in the works for about two years - were
updates to the Peer Academic Advising
office website and instructional videos on
how to use Wolverine Access and prepare a
class schedule. There is also a new Academic
Success Strategies website that focuses on
organizational and study skills, according to
Timothy Dodd, director of the Newnan LSA
Academic Advising Center. According to the
Daily article, many students who were asked
about the changes commented that they
weren't aware of the website.
The online updates from the Newnan
Advising Center are a great addition to
current academic advising resources. The
website allows students to quickly pick
and choose what they need to know. Infor-
mation about distribution requirements,
scheduling and everything else that goes
into registering for classes is readily avail-
able on one website. The resources are
easily accessible and enable students to
get questions answered without having to
make an advising appointment.
Though some students need time to sit
down with an adviser, others are only after
smaller pieces of information that don't
necessarily require a face-to-face conver-

sation. The extra tools also allow students
to get self-help on their own time through
the ease of the Internet, without strug-
gling to schedule a visit to Angell Hall.
This is particularly useful during registra-
tion times, when advising appointments
are often tough to come by.
Now that these additions are complete,
it's crucial that the Newnan Advising Cen-
ter makes sure students are aware of them.
Many students only seek advising when
they are new to the University or getting
ready to graduate. The center should pro-
mote online services so that students know
how to access and use the resources that
are available to them.
The Newnan Advising Center dem-
onstrated an understanding of students'
needs by giving them the option of face-to-
face help or online information. But sched-
uling is stressful for all students - not
just those in LSA. If the increased online
services prove a hit with students, other
advising offices on campus should imple-
ment similar systems.
The Newnan Advising Center should
continue to expand its online resources to
take the pressure off itself and students. If
the current changes are successful, other
schools and departments at the University
should follow in Newnan's footsteps and
update their online resources too.

A s my family gathered around grown-up's table when you laugh
the table last Thursday eve- during your mom's marathon prayer.
ning, we named what we were Your grandma still tells the family
thankful for this she wishes she never had children.
year. While my And even the most seasoned Resi-
mother answered dential College veteran isn't prepared
"God" and my for your vegan cousin's rant about
uncle chose to say innocent life slaughtered as you bite
"pie," I, being the y into a drumstick - after all, those
delightful child non-shaven, hemp-wearing, no-good,
that I am, thanked rock 'n' rollin' hippies in East Quad
the Pilgrims. After are too stoned to complain about any
all, without them, food set in front of them. The only
we wouldn't cel- MELANIE thing that has really changed is the
ebrate the worst interrogation process. That is the
holiday known to KRUVELIS horrible period during which Aunt
man. Leslie waits right until you shovel
Alright, so sweet potatoes in your mouth to ask
maybe it's a little unfair to pick on you innumerable questions about
poor old Thanksgiving. Overlook- your classes, professors, grades, etc.
ing that whole smallpox epidemic - questions that are next to impos-
and the near destruction of an entire sible to answer due to a semester-long
culture, Thanksgiving's not so bad in love affair with alcohol.
principle. Who doesn't like mashed Luckily this "helliday" feast
potatoes? And it's not just Thanks- doesn't last forever. Eventually, the
giving that brings me down - Blah- casserole turns cold and the mood
nukkah, Kwanz-ugh and the other turns from irritatingly friendly to
holidays that are not so easily turned bloated and depressed. If you play
into puns. From the time they start your cards right, the bitter battle
playing Christmas music on the radio between the Wolverines and the
up until the drunken splendor of Buckeyes can provide the perfect
New Years Eve, I can't help but feel opportunity to escape and see the
utterly disappointed. And it's not just people you really wanted to see -
because I have no one to kiss under your high school friends. But even if
the mistletoe besides my cat Patches. you're lucky enough to actually have
Let's examine Thanksgiving. In friends, odds are you'll be disappoint-
theory, last weekend should have ed, for two key reasons.
been better than a night with that The first is Facebook. Yes, we're
dreamboat from "Dawson's Creek." supposed to miss friends when we go
Not only was it a necessary break off to college. And most importantly,
from extensive procrastination, but it we're supposed to feel satisfied when
was also a chance for students to visit we realize that our old enemies are
with family. up to no good. But thanks to constant
But it's important to note that in Facebook updates, the thrill of catch-
order to spend time with relatives, ing up is nonexistent. Scroll through
one must actually spend time with your news feed for a few minutes and
said relatives. And once you real- you'll find out all too quickly that the
ize no one brought you a check "just senior class president is now an alco-
'cause," family can get, well, old. holic, the prom queen is on the fast-
You're still getting kicked out of the track toa future in "Girls Gone Wild"

films and your ex-best friend is still
getting with that weird guy. Thanks
to Mark Zuckerburg, the excitement
of discovering you're still better than
everyone else is gone.
Thanks for the
worst holiday
ever, Pilgrims.
That leads right into the second rea-
son: the development of the "Harvard
of the Midwest" psyche. After nearly
three months straight in Ann Arbor,
you'll inevitably carry the burden of
knowing you are indeed superior to
everyone else. (Take that, George-
town. Bet you wish you would've
accepted me now... sigh.) Suddenly, all
your high school friends seem to be so
... vapid ... obtuse ... cretinous ... that
they fail to recognize the intellectual
value of ellipses! No one else uses air
quotes to strengthen an argument!
What do you mean you want to go to
Macy's for "Black Friday" shopping -
don't "you" understand you're simply
bolstering a false "sense" of the free
enterprise system? Perhaps this may
seem pretentious, but we deserve it -
thevoice ofDarthVaderwenthere, for
love of Zeus's beard.
Luckily for us, the horrors of com-
ing home are long gone, along with
our decent physiques. Life's going
back to normal here in Ann Arbor,
which means we can all go back to
panicking over our econ grades and
spending evenings in the fetal posi-
tion, clutching on to our bio textbook
for dear life. Happy Finals!
- Melanie Kruvelis can be
reached at melkruv@umich.edu.

0

01

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Asa Smith, Julian Toles, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner
ANDREW WEINER

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University
affiliation. Letters are edited for clarity, length and factual accuracy.
All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous
letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

AIDA ALI|

Break in the Big Apple

Bad omens

I can't shake this thought. I keep pushing it
to the back of my mind, but it creeps right back
up to the front again, refusing to be ignored.
Maybe it's because the weather has finally
made up its mind and decided it wants to be
winter. Or maybe it's those pesky final exams
on the horizon. Maybe it's because the pasta
in North Quad was so dissatisfactory today (it
takes talent to screw up macaroni and cheese,
but they did it). All these little annoyances keep
drawing me to the same conclusion: The world
is ending.
For starters, while walking in front of Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Coleman's house, I
noted the elegance of 20 large, black leaves on
an otherwise barren tree. This weather doesn't
allow for many pretty things to look at around
campus, so I allowed myself to appreciate the
sight. That was, until I realized that the leaves
were, in fact, crows. Take a look up at the bleak,
gray sky (which itself foretells the end of days).
Every time I look up, there are at least 4 mil-
lion crows. That's not even an exaggeration-
I counted. Twice. There really couldn't be a
more in-your-face harbinger of doom than a
mass of black, Hitchcock-esge birds blocking
out the sun.
And the squirrels. The Daily recently
reported that squirrels' unusual social behav-
ior is because they have too much contact with
humans. Wrong. They're just trying to gain our
trust so they have the element of surprise when
they finally attack.
But it's not just the creatures of Ann Arbor that
are makingmepessimistic. It's whatI'mlearning
in classes, too. I've always known Im supposed to
feel bad about being white, but I didn't know until
this semester that I'm also supposed to feel guilty
that I'm male, middle class and able-bodied. My
sociology class has fixed that, though. Now I'm
aware of all the other things I should feel guilty
about and the millions of people who aren't as
fortunate as me.
Luckily, I won't have to worry about people
for much longer because soon we won't even
have a planet on which to be disadvantaged.

After reading Bill McKibben's new book,
"Eaarth," I have an incredibly bleak outlook
on the future of our planet. Though I can't pro-
nounce the book's title, I do understand the
idea McKibben attempts to convey. We humans
no longer live on the planet our parents were
born on - we've created an entirely new one.
Who knew?
Earth is a receding memory. In his book,
McKibben details the many, many ways in
which our planet has changed. Some of the
facts he points out are downright terrifying.
Storms are getting more frequent, stronger
and are happening in places that they have
never happened before. Spain recently had its
first-ever hurricane. Florida has been bom-
barded with hurricanes more than ever. Storm
intensity has increased so significantly that
it's becoming a problem for the interior of the
United States as well.
But hold on - that's only the beginning.
Things are going to get much worse. The parts
per million of carbon dioxide in the atmo-
sphere is far above the number scientists say is
the absolute safe maximum. And even though
we know how to fix much of the problem, there
are many government and corporate interests
standing in the way of progress in order to pro-
tect their profits.
One of the most shocking discussions in
"Eaarth" is the problem several small island
nations are facing. Because so many millions of
tons of ice are melting, oceans are slowly but
surely rising. The Maldives, an island nation
off the southern tip of Africa, has recently
been buying large tracts of land in Australia -
not for vacation homes for its citizens, but for
emergency relocation sites. The Maldives fears
that the entire nation will soon be underwater.
I know I live in Ann Arbor, notthe Maldives.
But when I suddenly feel the shadows of bil-
lions of crows pass over me, I can't help but
think, "What has this world come to. And why
are there crows? It's December!"
Andrew Weiner is an LSA freshman.

This Thanksgiving break, I knew I wouldn't be going
home. But I wouldn't have thought that I'd be spending
Thanksgiving Eve at Pacha - the nightclub franchise
from the Spanish island Ibiza - in New York City.
I have been to New York City multiple times. The city
never fails to blow my mind. My first trip to NYC was at
age of 7. I remember the time when everything seemed
so big and glamorous, and the World Trade Center tow-
ers still dominated the city's skyline. The New Yorkers
whizzed past me to get on with their busy lives. They
were clearly distinguishable from the tourists with maps
and brochures in hand, wearing expressions of wonder
and excitement. Over my repeated visits, I have noticed
different things about the city like its layout and the
architectural marvels. The glamour of the city is like a
strong gust of wind that hits you as soon as you arrive.
No other major city in the United States holds a torch to
New York. Whether I'm in Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Chica-
go or Boston, none of these places make me feel like NYC
does. There's an "X-factor" in New York that is unlike
every other city in the U.S.
New York's uniqueness is largely the media's doing.
"Friends," "Sex and the City," "How I Met Your Mother"
and several other television shows revolve around the
lives of young friends living in NYC. The city has a big
role in shaping this lifestyle and identifying the char-
acters. And that's not even mentioning the hundreds of
movies based in the city. It might just be the glamorous
portrayal of New York City that makes it beautiful when
I visit. Or perhaps it's the glamour that people see in the
city that leads them to portray it as such on the screen. It's
probably a bit of both.
Lately, the news surrounding New York has focused
on the financial difficulties facing the city. According to
a Dec. 1 article from the New York Daily News, a survey
reported 52 percent more stalled building projects this

year compared to last. This is horrible for a big city like
New York. The financial crisis in the city has not only
affected the livelihood of its residents, but also the land-
scape of the city itself.
But on the other hand, celebrities face no trouble in
finding homes for themselves. Sarah Jessica Parker and
her husband Matthew Broderick bought a $21.5 million
apartment yesterday in New York "after a marathon
house hunting expedition," according to ninemsn.com.
An impressive number of big celebrities from all over the
world have luxurious houses in NYC. This has become a
style statement for movie stars, singers and performers. It
adds to the glamour and fashion of the city.
But New York is more than just a financial hub and
celebrity dwelling. The art and culture of the, city is
diverse. Broadway shows, Madame Tussauds wax muse-
um, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, various parades -
including the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade - and the
brilliant graffiti markings throughout the city give New
York its rich culture that doesn't seem to be affected by
the financial crisis.
A visit with friends made me see a whole different side of
New York. I can now boast that I have ridden the subway at
3 a.m., walked the streets all night long and shopped at 5th
Avenue on Black Friday. It might not be a lot to some, but for
me, this trip marked a special pointin mylife.
Like any other city, there are the darker sides to NYC
too. But the culture and charm of the city overshadows
these shortcomings. I could get used to living in New York
City - or at least the New York City I have created in my
mind, thanks to media portrayals and my experiences as
a tourist. But I am a city girl through-and-through and
have put it down as my dream to one day belong on the
streets of New York as a resident and not a tourist.
Aida Ali is an LSA sophomore.

01

0r

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing. If you
are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL MICHELLE DEWITT AT DEWITTM@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, December 3, 2010 - 5

History gets it into 'Gear'

The music of
my generation

British auto series
gets action-packed
American version
By BRIANNE JOHNSON
DailyArts Writer
With winding race-ways, vivid
blues and the angry growls of
an engine gain-
ing heat, the ***
Americanized
adaptation of the Top Gear
BBC's original
"Top Gear" is Sundays at
one bikini-clad 10 p.m.
model away from History
debuting as the
longest car commercial ever pro-
duced. The aerial shots and dra-
matic graphics are as cool as the
Lamborghinis are sleek, but the
droning lists and lectures weigh
on the action and appeal only to
the most dedicated of car enthu-
siasts.
Hosted like a testosterone-
charged talk show, "Top Gear"
is punctuated by friendly banter
between three bro-types: pro-
fessional racecar driver Adam
Ferrara, actor/stuntman Tanner
Foust and car and racing analyst
Rutledge Wood. Between clips of
impressive and compelling pre-
taped action, the men are like
eager older brothers, engaging the

"The whistles goWOOOOOOOO!"
crowd and touting their favorite
cars. But that's nothing compared
to the heart-dropping danger
when the real beasts come out to
play.
"Top Gear" kicks off the first
segment in Griffin, Georgia - but
who knows why it permitted the
reckless game to follow? A quaint
neighborhood transforms into
the setting of a high-speed, video
game-like battle between "Ameri-
can super car," the Dodge Viper,
and a Bell AH-1 Cobra Attack
Helicopter. The 10-mile round
trip is unbelievably dangerous as
the adrenaline surges through
the television screen and clutch-
es the viewer, who is left blindly
grasping for a seatbelt. The indus-
trial goose-chase has all the req-

uisite over-the-top action tropes
- dwindling survival chances
and glistening chrome included.
Comparing the spectacle to "Bay-
watch" star Pamela Anderson, the
men joke, "There's not much real
about it, but who cares?"
Therein lies the problem; as
exhilarating and fascinating as
near-death cruises are, the verac-
ity of the show's recklessness is
questionable. Obviously far more
safety measures have been taken
than the public is made aware of,
including keeping all those Geor-
gian homeowners indoors.
But even though they're prob-
ably safer than they look, the
drivers' whiplash-inducing turns
and demonic speeds are definite-
ly cringe-worthy. You can't look

away, though. Speeding through
an empty neighborhood in a hot
rod is every man's dream. And
that's what makes "Top Gear" so
entertaining: It's the perfect tele-
vised escape from reality because,
as much as it can alter your heart-
beat, you won't be the one chang-
ing your permanent address to that
of the nearest hospital.
But when "Top Gear" does
step on the brake and tone down
the action, only the unpleasant
stench of burning rubber and an
onslaught of boring details straight
out of a car manual remain. The
show attempts to substitute action
with big names in a segment titled
"Big Star, Small Car." They intro-
duce the challenge of testing a
measly HS4 Suzuki's full potential
in a rigorous race track. Of course,
no other dare-devil could possibly
do the job like 80-year-old retired
astronaut Buzz Aldrin. As if a tor-
turous turn on "Dancing with the
Stars" wasn't enough to scare off
the poor man, Aldrin buzzes (ha!)
through the track as if on a relent-
lessly boring suburban-Grandpa
rampage.
Taking the suburbs by storm,
"Top Gear" brings the action -
and, unfortunately, the included
information - to even the slow-
est of towns. "Top Gear" is a shiny
new model of the classic British
series, deservedly claiming its spot
in America's garage.

By ARIELLE SPECINER
Daily Arts Writer
While driving down the scenic
west coast of Florida with the con-
vertible top down and music blast-
ing, my dad turned to me and asked
a riveting question: "In 30 years,
will you know the words to this
song playing right now?"
It happened to be Katy Perry's
"California Gurls," a pretty generic
pop ditty, yet a memorable tune.
I pondered this question for a bit,
and it got me thinking: seriously,
with so much music swimming
in my mind, what will stand out
in the next few decades to me and
my children? What will be my gen-
eration's Beatles, Rolling Stones or
Madonna?
When I was around five years
old, my parents used to pop Alanis
Morissette's Jagged Little Pill into
the car's six-disc changer, along
with albums by the Beatles, U2,
Jimmy Buffett, Bruce Springsteen
and Blondie. As I aged, my reluc-
tance to listen to what my parents
thought was "cool" grew as well.
No one wants to listen to what
their parents listen to. It's just not
cool. I'm sure that future genera-
tions will feel the same rebellious-
ness, but about which artists? Will
it be groups like the Beatles, whom
I grew up listening to, rejected in
favor of "cuoler" bands and then
finally embraced? Or will it be
groups like Hanson- the artists
I thought were cool back in my
childhood days?
With the AM/FM radio becom-
ing more obsolete, more niche
satellite channels are emerging.
This leaves future radio listeners a
choice of more specific sounds, nar-
rowing their general genre capac-
ity. For example, my top 40 radio
station in New York, z100, plays
the hits of today but will also play
throwbacks to the '80s and '90s.
However, on my Sirius satellite top
20, I listen to the same top hits over
and over and over, leaving me with
no knowledge of the great tunes of
the past. This affects the fact that
someday my family car's CD chang-
er will have more Taylor Swift as
compared to its Joni Mitchell.
As the music of today blasts
through the speakers, prominent
memories build, with this genera-
tion's tunes as its background noise.

I think that's why we will remem-
ber not only the CDs we listen to on
the car rides home with our par-
ents, but also, and perhaps more so,
the music we're growing up with in
our iTunes libraries.
As we age, we will not only remi-
nisce about the classic rock we lis-
tened to with our parents, but also
the poppy top 40 hits that make
some of our best memories. Though
Miley Cyrus's "Party in the USA" is
not the most heartfelt song, I will
always have memories of dancing
and singing to it on football Satur-
days with my friends. Also though,
I will always remember stealing my
dad's Beach Boys albums and stick-
My kids will
love Katy Perry.
ing them in my Walkman when I
went to day camp so my friends and
I could sing and pretend we were on
a tropical island.
I idolized the Spice Girls and I
will forever remember every word
to "Spice' Up Your Life" (and sadly
enough, the dance that goes along
with it). The stars of our generation
and past generations will stick in
our memories, and the memories of
or children, ton. They'll be classics
to us, even if they're notbseen that
way by the world.
It really depends on the memo-
ries that are shared with the music,
not so much whether a song is
popular or acclaimed. Songs aren't
always memorable because of their
complexity in instrumentals or
poetic lyricism, but because they
have a significant meaning in our
lives through our memories. And
it will be those memories we will
share with future generations.
So yes, when I grow up I'll
remember the great oldies: Alanis
Morissette, the Beatles, Jimmy
Buffett and the others my parents
introduced me to. But just because
those were my parents' classics
doesn't mean they'll all be mine. To
answer my father's question: Yes,
I will also remember the words to
"California Gurls" and countless
other current pop hits in 30 years,
because of the great memories that
were made along with that music.

A tragic love story comes to UMMA

By ERIN STEELE "There are eight scenes from differ-
DailyArts Writer ent operas, all different and moving
in their own way."
As Juliet once famously asked Jennifer Goltz-Taylor, curator of
from her balcony, "Romeo, Romeo, the crossover series and music the-
wherefore art ory lecturer, puts things in motion
thou Romeo?" The Romeo for "Project" after the museum's
This question expansion and restoration project
will be answered was completed in 2009.
in multiple ways Project Goltz-Tayor said that she was
on Saturday at inspired to feature the brand new
the University of Tomorrow structure in the iconic balcony
Michigan Muse- 7 p.m. scene in "Romeo and Juliet."
um of Art when UMMA With the help of Lisa Borgsdorf,
the School of Free UMMA's manager of public pro-
Music, Theatre grams and campus engagement,
& Dance presents "The Romeo and Goltz-Taylor began to conceptual-
Juliet Project," an opera collage ize the performance, which is part
concert inspired by the museum's of a larger series of about 10 con-
newly built balcony space in the certs for which UMMA has teamed
Maxine and Stuart Frankel and up with the School of MT&D.
Frankel Family Wing. "We are dipping our toe into the
"Project" is composed of selec- theatrical," she added.
tions from four interpretations Borgsdorf and Goltz-Taylor feel
of William Shakespeare's famous that the balcony area is an excellent
play, including Charles Gounod's facility that enhances the multi-
"Romeo et Juliette," Vincenzo Bell- interpretational nature of the show.
ini's "I Capuleti e i Montecchi" and "We don't have space custom
Leonard Bernstein's "West Side built for performance, but our
Story." spaces can make things interesting
Clinical assistant professor in unique ways. Sometimes your
of opera in the School of MT&D weaknesses turn out to be your
Joshua Major, who is producing the strengths," Borgsdorf said. "The
"Project" and directing the musical apse provides different kinds of
pieces, said working on the concert opportunities, in terms of the expe-
made him see "that there are many rience, than a music hall."
ways to interpret the story." Though the apse may not be
"It is very interesting to see the sonically up to par with the famous
different musical points of view acoustic perfection of Hill Audito-
that the story inspires," he said. rium, Goltz-Taylor still feels it can

be an inspiring venue. One of the goals for the perfor-
"It's far more visually stimulat- mance is for each person to take
ing and dynamic with the shapes away their own interpretation of
and the lines and everything than a the beloved Shakespeare play.
concert hall, which is more acous- "'Romeo and Juliet' is kind of a
tically and visually focused," she pop-culture phenomenon that has
said. wide appeal," Borgsdorf said.
According to Major, who has not "Normally, we see a story told
participated in an UMMA event for from one point of view from begin-
ning to end, and with 'Romeo and
Juliet' there have been many differ-
ent points of view for how to tell that
Putting the apse story, but still we see it from one of
those points of view from beginning
to good use. to end," Goltz-Taylor said.
"When we talk about all the
ways you could stage or understand
many years, the unique apse pres- 'Romeo and Juliet,' understanding
ents challenges. how those points of view interact is
"The challenge (as director) is largely an intertextual experience,"
getting all eight scenes to work she added. "With a collage we get
in a space that is unfamiliar and to have an intertextual experience
without the usual resources of a within one telling of the story."
theater."
Borgsdorf also acknowledged
the challenges of putting together
the show inthe new space.
"Tobe able to create concerts that
drawfromexhibitions,youneed tal-
ented, flexible people who are will-
ing to take chances," she said.
These talented, flexible people
are graduate voice majors, who will
perform on Saturday in front of
what should be a diverse audience.
"There's a real intergenerational
audience with lots of students, not
just music students," Borgsdorf said
of the other performances in the
crossover series.

A monster of a Mechanicals play

By DANIEL CARLIN
For theDaily
Serial-killing prostitutes have
feelings too and tonight, Rude
Mechani-
cals will per- SELF DEFENSE,
form "SELF
DEFENSE, or deaItl of
or death of some Salesmen
some sales-
men," which Tonight and
will force its tomorrow at 8
audiences to p.m.,Sunday
question a at 2 p.m.
woman's true Mendelssohn Theatre
motives in a Tickets from $3
serial killing
case.
"SELF DEFENSE" was inspired
by the true story of Aileen Wuo-
rnos, whom some might call the
first female serial killer. Roughly
20 years ago, Wuronos, a prosti-
tute working to support herself
and her girlfriend, was convicted of
murdering seven male motorists in
Florida.
Wuornos inspired the creation of
many other artistic pieces, like the
2003 movie "Monster," for which
Charlize Theron won an Academy
Award. The movie highlights the
uglier perspective of Wuornos's life
(including Theron's infamous scene
cleaning herself in a public bath-
room). "SELF DEFENSE" looks at
that human within "the monster."
Though Wuornos confessed to
her killings and was given six death

sentences that withstood repeated
appeals, she contested that the
men had tried to murder her first.
Therefore, she claims, each act was
self defense.
The play re-imagines Wuornos's
life, allowing for a more sympa-
thetic portrayal of her story. Jolene
Palmer, the character based on
Wuornos, is played by LSA senior
Amanda Jungquist. In preparation
for the role, Jungquist did immense
research to try and understand the
human side to Wuornos that didn't
come through in the media.
"(The play) presents her as a
human being - as someone who is
not a monster. It shows all the com-
plicated layers of a person, person-
ality, their life and circumstances,"
Jungquist said. "She's angry, she's
full of love, she's full of fear, full
of hate, she's funny, sarcastic and
crazy."
Director Emilie Samuelsen said

the plays forces audiences to "stop
and reconsider the rules that you
think exist, but really don't. (It)
makes you think differently about
the legal system, social hierarchy
that we set up in our own world and
how the media effects all of that."
The play's realities were
brought to life for the cast as they
took advantage of the various
resources provided on 'campus.
One of their main events was a
workshop with the Sexual Assault
Prevention and Awareness Cen-
ter. The discussion was focused
on self-defense and incarcerated
women, two important compo-
nents of the production.
According to Samuelsen, the
workshop opened up a lot of ques-
tions and made the material in the
play feel real for the cast.
"We are art reflecting life. Real
life," she said. "This is what really
goes on."

HURRY
Lixa d Tike Offer:
FRE18K Whte
Cold Elaed
a; FREE 18K1 0M
Feed codal
stt
ww w.ellhescollectioni.comi


6 - Friday, December 3, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Silvios Zingerman's Deli
among eateries buying local

From Page 1
taurant also buys a variety of local
produce from farms and distribu-
tors across Michigan. Young said
she was initially surprised at the
variety of food available locally,
which the restaurant has used in
its seafood dishes.
Young said that though many of
her customers have been coming
to the pub for years, the establish-
ment has begun to attract a new
customer base interested in the
dishes that feature local food.
"We are getting a reputation
as a promoter of local foods, and
we have people who come in for
that and ask about it and we're
very up front with people about
which ingredients on the menu
are local," she said.
Young said the restaurant's
owners, Matt and Renee Greff,
were drawn into the local food
scene about three years ago.
"It started out as the right thing
to do to support the local econo-
my, and the environmentally cor-
rect thing to do to reduce the food
miles, and that brought in cus-
tomers who value our approach,"
Young said. "So now it's become a
mutually reinforcing system."
Young said Arbor Brewing
Company has come to rely on

items from other local produc-
ers and distributors, including
Ann Arbor Tortilla Factory, Ed's
Breads and Zingerman's Delica-
tessen.
Grace Singleton, a managing
partner at Zingerman's Delica-
tessen on Detroit Street, said the
deli supports local farmers and
distributors. Zingerman's uses a
variety of local items for its menu,
ranging from dairy products
and berries to wheat for its bake
house.
"We're in a really great location
because of the farmer's market, so
you can walk over and talk to the
people who are growing our food
... it's a really nice relationship,"
Singleton said. "Produce is bet-
ter fresh. It helps with the flavor
of the product and it's great to
be able to use products that have
been picked yesterday or even the
same day."
Like Zingerman's, Silvio's
Organic Pizza on North Univer-
sity Avenue features a menu that
relies heavily on local produce.
Carolyn Teisan, front house man-
ager at Silvio's, said the restaurant
uses 75 percent local products in
the winter and up to 90 percent in
the summer.
The restaurant uses local pro-
duce for everything, from dairy

products, vegetables and pasta to
beer, which is made at the Arbor
Brewing Company, Teisan said.
"I think most people have no
idea to what extent the food back
there in the restaurant is either
local organic or some sort of spe-
cialty food," Teisan said, adding
that Silvio Medoro, the restau-
rant's owner, himself goes to the
market to purchase the items
from local growers on Saturdays.
Teisan said Medoro tries to bal-
ance buying local foods with his
vision for the restaurant.
"I think it's a mix of being as
local as possible and also staying
true to his vision of doing authen-
tic cooking from his region of
Abruzzo, Italy, which is why some
of the wine and certain products
we carry would come from there,"
Teisan said.
Amy Brown, a recent Silvio's
customer and Grass Lake, Mich.
resident, said she came to town
just for the food. She said items
on the menu have many nutrients
and that the number of gluten-
free options is impressive.
"It's great for the local econo-
my and I think the energy of the
food is better because you get
more nutrients in it, the closer it
is from farm to the place you eat
it." Brown said.

SUBSTANCE-FREE
From Page 1
houses, they are permitted to do so
elsewhere, Friedman said.
Friedman said the substance-
free fraternities are a "part of the
same community" as the other fra-
ternities.
At the University, all sororities
are substance-free.
LSA junior Tom Hardenbergh,
president of Phi Delta Theta, said
the fraternity's national organiza-
tion became substance-free about
10 years ago.
Hardenberg said the impetus
behind the change was to reduce
liability. Ever since, the frater-
nity's insurance - both at local
chapters and nationally - has gone
down "dramatically," he said.
"Our house on the inside is fan-
tastic," Hardenbergh said. "It's so
much cleaner and well maintained
than anywhere else."
Having the house in such great
shape has led to increased dona-
tions from the chapter's alumni,
Hardenbergh said. It also frees up
money for home improvement and
educational programming for their
members and other members of
the Greek community.
Though the house itself is sub-
stance-free, Hardenbergh said he
doesn't feel his fraternity is miss-
ing out on much.
"The great part of Ann Arbor is
that everything is close, so there

are many other places to go," he
said.
Officials and recruits discuss
the fraternity's "dry" status dur-
ing recruitment, but Hardenbergh
said it hasn't noticeably affected
interest.
"Dry and wet fraternities will
attract certain people," Hard-
enbergh said. "It comes down to
that person deciding what kind of
environment they want to live in,
what kind of brothers they want
to be around and what they want
their next few years to be like. Do
they want it to be filled with doing
a whole lot of cleaning and worry-
ing over liability or do they want
to have that greatly reduced and
more time to focus on studies, ath-
letics or their social life?"
Phil Fernandez, director of re-
establishment for the University's
chapter of Beta Theta Pi, said Beta
chapters across the country and in
Canada aren't required to be sub-
stance-free, but any new or return-
ing chapter mustbe.
Beta returned to the University
this semester after the national
organization closed the campus
chapter in 2007 for not being up
to certain national standards, Fer-
nandez said in an interview last
month.
Fernandez, a Beta alum from
Miami University of Ohio, said
Beta is clear with its interested
members on their substance-free
policy.
"That may be a distinction of

ours, but we're not saying that our
way is (the) right way," he said.
"We arejustchoosingtohave alco-
hol not be in the house."
Being one of three substance-
free fraternities on campus isn't
an issue for the chapter, Fernandez
said.
"Is it different?" he said. "Yeah,
but we embrace that difference."
He added that though alcohol
isn't permitted inside the house,
Betahas no problemwithitsbroth-
ers who are of legal drinking age
drinking out of the house.
Fernandez said substance-free
fraternities aren't anti-alcohol fra-
ternities. Instead, withBetain par-
ticular, Fernandez said, by taking
alcohol out of the house, they are
"trying to create a classier experi-
ence and fight the stereotype."
Every year, Beta National Head-
quarters does an analysis on both
its substance-free and standard
chapters, Fernandez said. Each
year, the results come back the
same - the chapters that are sub-
stance-free out-perform the other
chapters in academics, hours of
service, campus involvement, lead-
ership position, and less risk man-
agement incidents," he said.
"The numbers don't lie," he said.
Sigma Chi, the third substance-
free fraternity on campus, man-
dates this policy strictly on a local
level, not as a requirement of its
national organization. The frater-
nity declined to comment on the
topic.

FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK.

ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Keny-
towt, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.wwwarborprops.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
We are working the rates....
Parking available Now at
520 Packard & 511 Hoover!
Also, 2011-12 Parking for Sale
Many "Prime" locations
throughout central campus.

2-BEDROOMS ON PACKARD
331 Packard, 526 Packard,
539 Packard, 917 Packard
Premier campus locations near South
Quad! Very spacious apartments with
heat, water, & parking included. All
apartments have dishwashers and A/C.
www.varsitymagement.com
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
7 BDRM HOUSE! Great Location,
Huge Rms, 3 Full Bths, 2 Ktchns, Prkg
& Ldry. Call 734-260-4003 or visit
HillStreetProperties.com
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
MAY LEASES I Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
I 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today.l to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
A WM ta scnoe,
a- C
Cotat .44 vaibe * o"
W (t*6e roI

2 & 3 bdnns, lots of closet space, flat
screen t's, modern furniture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

. e the e
SOwned and
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
S Nort rcs OLSd
Let Our Fail Take Care of Yours
734.741.9300
WWWaltI'rboapBIalestRilet
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! 1 bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com
SPACIOUS 4 BEDROOM APTS!
1039 Baldwin
Two 4 Bdr. Apts. available in a
gorgeous converted house.
High ceilings, bay windows, fireplace,
hardwood floors, & screened in porch!!
Large backyard, heat, water, & parking
included!
734-668-1100
!AWESOME 4 bdrm near the rock.
Free prkg. lndry. Avail. Fall '11.
734.223.7777.
3 BDRM FOR Sept., furn., private
deck, excellent security, parking, wash-
er/dryer, non-smoking. 537 Elizabeth
St., $1479, includes heat. 734-996-8506
5 BDRM, 2 bath, laundry, parking,
heat included, May-May, 815 Arch,
call 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
FALL 2011
Amazing 4 Bedroom Apartment.
Right on South Utiversity Ave.
2 Full Luxury Baths, Huge Living
Space, Heat and Water Included
$3299/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com

# Beds Location
9 606 Catherine
7 510 Catherine
7 1129 White St
6 418 N. State
6 605 E. Hoover

FALL 2011 HOUSES

6
4
4

1207 Church $3600
827 Brookwood $2400
927 S. Division $2240


Rent
$4700
$3700
$3950
$3500
$3720

RELEASE DATE- Friday, December 3, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Source of the 32The Waltons" 50 Mississppi
1 Actor Gyllenhaal food thickener handyman source
5 Big rolls alginate Tucker 538onthe Beaufort
9 "Zr the Greek" 4len aens 38 C ty on its own 4seate
neting SuWil aunuciate? bay 84 Elvs _Presley
14 Very top 6 Sun-dried 39 Sch. in Troy, N.Y. 55 Billy _
15 Cartoon drooler structures 40 item in a stirring 56 "The Long, Hot
16 Invoice word 7 Fintstones' picture? Summer" vixen
17 Downed shot Snorkasaurus 43 like an infamous _ Vamer
18 Eugene O'Neill's 8 linebacker Junior "A" 57 Some HDTVs
daughter who played in 12 46 Exposes 58 Bright side?
19 Lab flask consecutive Pro 48 Make stand out 59 Dallas NBAer
contents, perhaps Bowls 49 Divine 62 See 35-Across
20 Where a witch's 9 Treetop rocker
influence ends? 10Changesthe ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 River past attur
Memphi 11 Kuati VIP S P O O L M C A N C L A D
24 Tim's "Tool Time" 12 Unlikelfolks on A L G A E A R G O Y O R E
sidekick et al. "Hoarders" W O R K I N G O U T B E E R
25 Ofice employee 13 Satumdrivers? N Y E T I N C A I O W A N
to avoid? 21 light melodies R E N E M G R
33 Teen sensation? 22 Some trafficM
34Whatarecentex monitors F L I E S T A K I N G O F F
may need 25 Condemns S E L E C T D I N O S A U R
35 W 62-Down, 26Becomefinally T Ot A U D I T O R T S A
catl 27 Antacid target ON A SPRE E SAT E EN
36 Early 16th- 28 Texasand A I C K I N G E N E N US
century date Tennessee, in
37 "Also sprach Toulouse E S S L E T T
Zarathustra" 29Gulagerof"The O N E P M D R U G A I D S
composer Virginian" RANT G O I N G U N D E R
41 Sade on a 30 insurance A S T I I D It G G U E S T
beach cmaynmd N A RC N O SE OS AK A
42 Cookie recipe for a muntain
morsels 31 Televise again xwordeditor@aol.com 12/0210


Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE great location,
2 blocks to mudbowl, Linden St., free
laundry & parking, furnished, 2 baths,
fireplace, central A/C, large bedrooms,
new kitchen all ammenities, Fall 2011,
$3600. Ask for Jim 734-426-4772.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, lovingly maintained, $3250 +
utilities, Jim at Spring Valley
734-426-4772.
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
6, 7, AND 9 BDRM houses available
Fall! Central Campus and Kerrytown.
Call Deinco 734-996-1991 or visit
cappomanagement.com
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 6 & 7 Bdrm/3 BA Homes.
great floor plan/location! fireplace/cool
kitch/prkg. $3600/$3950 313-215-8115
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
www.varsitymanagement.com
Looking for housing for fall 2011?
Studios,. 1, 2, 3 4& 5 edrooms
Now Available!
Fuly furnished
Heat. water, and parking included most
locations
M~any newly remodeled
Ca to schede a tourtoday!
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100

GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Ef., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
Open House 12/4 & 12/5. 2-4pm
815S. State - Between Arbor & HI
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
Open House 12/4 5-7pm & 12/5 11-
1pm
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. aps.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Open House 12/4 5-7 pm & 12/5 1-
3pm
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!!!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Included*
Even comes Furnished!!
(And HAIL to the Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
FALL 2011
Great 2 Bedroom Apartment with
Balcony. Located across from the
CCRB. Modern Kitchen and Bath with
Granite Floors and Bar Top.
Heat and Water Included.
$1499/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL 2011
Large 6 Bedroom House with Huge
Bedrooms! 2 Full Baths. Located near
South Univeristy and South Forest.
3 Floors of living space, and
newly carpeted for coming year!
$3699/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
1506 GEDDES
Great 3 bdr. apartments perfect for 3-4
people!! The apartments have large liv-
ing rooms, balconies or patios, tons of
closet space, dishwashers, and double
sinks in bathrooms. Near the CCRB &
CC Little!!
734-668-1100
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqfti& 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available Spring & FalL
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
APARTMENTS GOING FAST.....
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #1,
$1850/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'l 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735

AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATION!!!
543 Church! Best location in town!
Right across from East Hall. Studios, 1
br, 2br, & 4br, 2 bth, bi-level apts.
w/spiral staircases. Updated kitchens
w/dishwashers and all apts. are fully
furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com

AMAZING JOBS. WORK during
finals week buying back textbooks.
buyback agent (commission avg 11.62-
/hr). buyback captain ($12/hr).
www.umich.dormbooks.com
734.709.3222
www.scienceworddoctor.com
For your scientific writing needs.
Services include grants, clinical
reports, abstracts and manuscripts.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUME HELP. MICHIGAN under-
grad and law school grad will help you
revise/draft your resume. Flat fee $50.
Email rabro@umich.edu
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed inA2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

44 Fitting
45 Phoenician
dialect
47Shuttle
evangelist?
51 Paof a roadie's
load
52_ bomb
53 Bird in alandfill?
59 Actress Thomas
who is now St.
Jude's National
Outreach
Director
60 Foralofus
6! Certain line
crosser
63 Sunbum soothers
64 Actor Baldwin
65 Kate _, a.k.a.
Batwoman
66 Air ducts
67 "There you have
68 USMC rank
DOWN
1 Setup punch
2 Fosseyfocus

1 2 3 4 S 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 18 16
17 1s 19
20 21 22
23 24
25 26 27 28 29 333 34 35
3B 9? 36 39 40 41
42 43 44 45 46
47 48 49 60
51 52
53 54 55 56 57 1,58
59 B0 61 82
63 64 65
66 87 68

I-4

By Pamela Amick Ktawitter
(c)2010 Tribune Media services, Inc.

12/03/10



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, December 3, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, December 3, 2D1D - 7

Icers head to Columbus
for series with Buckeyes

Amaker returns to
Crisler with Harvard

By CASSANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
To just about every Michigan
athletic program, a matchup
with Ohio State
immediately
draws talk of Michigan at
the rivalry. Ohio State
But for the
S No. 11 Michigan Matchup:
hockey team, Michigan 8-4-
an upoming 4; OSU 5-7-1
an upcoming
weekend match- When: Tonight
up in Columbus at d3
is nothing more 7:05 p.m.a
than two games
Michigan needs Where: Value
to win to come City Center
home with a six- TV/Radio:
point weekend. lie Ten
"I can't sell Network
(the team) a Live Blog:
rivalry that michigandaily.
really doesn't comw
exist," Michi-
gan coach Red
Berenson said after Wednesday's
practice.
Over the history of the series,
the Wolverines (7-2-1-0 CCHA,
8-4-4 overall) have more than
taken care of business against
the Buckeyes, boasting a 65-30-
11 series advantage. But Berenson
said that Michigan tends to bring
out the best in Ohio State.
"We can do all the scouting we
want ... but (Ohio State) will be
a different team when they play
us," Berenson said.
Despite holding the historical
edge, the Wolverines haven't had
as much recent success against
the Buckeyes. Looming in the
rear view mirror is the fact that
Michigan has split three of its
last four series with Ohio State
dating back to the 2007-08 sea-
son. g
Coming off a tie with Wis-

consin and a 3-1 loss to No. 15
Minnesota in the 18th and final
College Hockey Showcase last
weekend, the Wolverines have
faced the reality that, to be a top-
tier team, they need to perform
both nights, regardless of the
opponent or environment.
"The only people that can beat
us are ourselves," senior forward
Scooter Vaughan said. "(Last)
weekend in Wisconsin, special
teams beat us. The next Sunday
we came out flat, and they had
the power-play goal. We didn't
rebound as well, we weren't real-
ly in there.
"I think if we come out and
play our game and don't worry
about the other team as much, I
mean we need to respect them,
but if we come out and do what
we need to do, we're going to
have a good game."
Ohio State coach Mark
Osiecki, formerly a member of
Wisconsin's coaching staff, is in
his first year as head coach of the
Buckeyes.
Coming off a weekend split
with a shootout win and a loss to
No. 14 Alaska, Ohio State (2-5-1-
1, 5-7-1) is riding the recent suc-
cesses of junior Danny Dries,
who factored into each of the
Buckeyes' three goals against
Alaska, and senior Peter Boyd,
who is three points shy of netting
100 career points for Ohio State.
But this weekend's match-
up looks to be a battle on each
defensive end, as Michigan and
Ohio State rank 17th and 22nd
in team defense, respectively.
The Wolverines allowed seven
goals in the Showcase last week-
end - four on Friday and three
on Sunday - and know that they
will need their netminders to
be stingy, especially against an
Ohio State power play that ranks

fifth in the CCHA.
Senior goaltender Shawn Hun-
wick is expected to start on Fri-
day, with Bryan Hogan getting
the nod in Saturday's contest.
"I think when you go on the
road, you've really got to be self-
ish defensively," Berenson said.
"If there's a battle cry going
into this weekend, it's going to
be defense. Better defense, bet-
ter penalty killing, stay out of
the box and then we'll make our
chances count. We can't have to
score five goals to win a game on
the road."
As Ohio State will be Michi-
gan's last opponent before The
Big Chill at the Big House, the
outdoor hockey game to be
played at Michigan Stadium
against Michigan State, the Wol-
verines have to put their sub-par
"(Ohio State)
will be a differ-
ent team when
they play us."
Showcase weekend behind them
and remain focused on rebound-
ing against the Buckeyes.
"(In) road hockey, we're not
putting on a show," Vaughan
said.
"We're trying to take the
momentum away from them.
They're the home team, they
have the home crowd. They're
trying to put on a show, we're
just trying to shut them down.
We're going to get pucks deep,
hit guys and just get everything
to the net."

By ZAK PYZIK
Daily Sports Writer
Harvard's men's basketball
coach TommyAmaker is nostrang-
er to Michigan basketball.
In fact,
Amaker has won Harvard at
almost as many
games with the Michigan
Wolverines as Matchup:
current Michi- Harvard 5-1;
gan coach John Michigan 4-2
Beilein. When: Satur-
In Amaker's day at 1 p.m.
seven years of Where:
coaching in Ann Crisler Arena
Arbor, he won TV:
an NIT title Big Ten
and amassed a Network
109-83 record, Live Blog:
posting four michigandaily
winning seasons
in the process.
In March 2007, the Michigan Ath-
letic Department fired Amaker
and hired Beilein in his place just a
month later.
This Saturday, Amaker returns
to Crisler Arena for the first time
to take on Michigan (4-2). In 2007,
Amaker coached his first game
against the Wolverines and won
62-51 in Cambridge, Mass.
In a teleconference on Thursday
morning, Amaker said he isn't ner-
vous about how the fans at Crisler
will greet him. He said he's just
excited to play Michigan since it
will be a competitive game for his
program.
Harvard (5-1) is riding a five-
game winning streak since los-
ing to George Mason, 66-53 in its
opening game. Like Michigan, the
Crimson boast a roster without any
fourth-year players. Junior for-
ward Keith Wright and sophomore
guard Christian Webster have
led Harvard to its best start since

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Freshman forward Evan Smotrycz led Michigan with 18 points against Clemson.

Amaker took the reigns in 2007.
Wright and Webster have both
averaged 16 points a game and
accounted for more than 45 per-
cent of the Crimson's scoring this
season. Most recently, Webster tal-
lied 18 points and a team-high four
rebounds to blow out Fordham,
80-57.
But Michigan has showed that
it can compete against big-time
shooters and even hang in games
against top-notch defenses.
The Wolverines are coming off
arguablythe best week oftheir sea-
son. Though they have lost two of
their last three games, they nearly
pulled off an upset against then-
No. 9 Syracuse on Nov. 26. The
Orange beat Michigan 53-50 after
the Wolverines led by two going
into halftime. Less than 24 hours
later, they lost 65-56 to the Univer-
sityof Texas -1ElPaso.
On Tuesday, Michigan traveled
again and defeated Clemson at
Littlejohn Coliseum, 69-61, in the

ACC/Big Ten Challenge, a game
that the Tigers were favored in.
Freshman forward Evan
Smotrycz led the Wolverines with
a game-high 18 points and six
rebounds.
Freshman guard Tim Hardaway
Jr. also helped in the upset effort,
adding 15 points of his own. Michi-
gan led by as many as 20 points in
the contest.
"It was big for us to have that
type of expert and execution
(against the Tigers)," Beilein said
after the Wolverines' win against
the Tigers. "It becomes so men-
tal after that. You just want to go
home, butyou've still gottoplay."
On Saturday, the Wolverines
return home after a three-game
stretch on the road. Michigan
remains undefeated at Crisler this
year, but Harvard will be its first
true test athome.
As for Amaker and the Crimson,
a win in Ann Arbor would solidify a
hopeful start for a young team.

FOLLOW DAILY SPORTS ON TWITTER @MICHDAILYSPORTS

GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
December 6'-10l
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union

The sitting fee is just $15!
This price includes your portraitfeat
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.Our)
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu

Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
YEARBOOK

great location to Uof M north campus. affordable rates.


8 - Friday, December 3, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

Emotional Rodriguez
speaks at team banquet

Freshman forward SoonylSaad has been an offensive force in the Wolverines' run to the NCAA Elite Eight. He is the natan's
second-leading goal scorer with 19 tallies.
ichga n ace TerrapSins
in NCAA Elite Eight match

Blue looks to ride
"Three Amigos" to
College Cup berth
in College Park
By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
For the Daily
Six weeks ago, the Michigan
men's soccer team had just suf-
fered a resounding 7-1 loss to top-
ranked Akron to
drop its overall
record to 8-4-3. Michigan at
The WolverinesM
were looking to
finish the regu- Matchup:
lar season strong Michigan
and earn a 16-4-3; Mary-
respectable seed land 19-2-1
in the Big Ten When: Sat-
Tournament. urday 1 P.M.
Little did they Where: Lud-
know this would wig Field
be their last loss
to date.
Eight straight wins, a Big Ten
championship and two NCAA
Tournament victories later, the
No. 10 seed Michigan (7-2 Big
Ten, 16-4-3 overall) is seeking the
school's first berth in the College
Cup - college soccer's final four.
No. 2 seed Maryland (19-2-1)
stands in Michigan's way. The

Terrapins have won 15 straight
games and an ACC championship
en route to their national quarter-
finals appearance.
Maryland and the Wolverines
will square off on Saturday in
College Park at 1 p.m.
Michigan's tournament path to
the quarterfinals included a sec-
ond-round 2-1 overtime win over
Central Florida and a 4-1 Sweet 16
victory against South Carolina.
Maryland has beaten Pennsylva-
nia, 4-0, and Penn State, 1-0.
Michigan enters the matchup
led by the self-titled "Three Ami-
gos" - senior forward Justin
Meram, freshman forward Soony
Saad and his brother, sophomore
midfielder Hamoody Saad. Soony
and Meram have been on a goal-
scoring tear throughout most of
the season, with one of the two
scoring a goal in each of the Wol-
verines' last 14 games. Soony is.
the second-leading scorer in the
country with 19 goals this season,
while Meram has 15.
The team has tallied the most
soccer victories (16) in school his-
tory and hopes to become the first
Big Ten team to reach the College
Cup since Indiana won the tour-
nament in 2004.
"What makes this team so spe-
cial is that we've got great own-
ership," Michigan coach Steve
Burns said. "Every man on the

team really feels he has a part on
the team and has to perform his
role for the team to do its best."
The Wolverines face a pro-
lific Maryland offensive attack,
which includes forwards Casey
Townsend - a Traverse City,
Mich. native - and Jason Her-
rick, as well as midfielder Matt
Kessel. The trio has combined for
27 goals and 21 assists this season.
"They like to play a lot of long
balls," redshirt junior goalkeeper
Chris Blais said of Maryland. "So
we have to make sure they're not
getting anything easy over the
top, and I have to stay on my line."
This year's upstart Wolver-
ines squad stands in contrast to
Maryland, an established soccer
power. Maryland has won three
national championships, includ-
ing titles in 2005 and 2008 while
Michigan's program is just 11
years old and is trying to make a
name for itself in the ranks of col-
lege soccer.
The two schools have never
met in men's soccer.
If Michigan triumphs Satur-
day, it will play the winner of the
California-Akron matchup on
Dec. 10 in the College Cup semifi-
nals in Santa Barbara, Calif.
"It would mean a ton to every-
one that's ever been involved in
Michigan soccer if we made it to
the College Cup," Blais said.

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Writer
LIVONIA - Amid rumors
regarding his job security and
silence from Michigan, athletic
director David Brandon, foot-
ball coach Rich
Rodriguez NOTEBOOK
decided to make
a statement of his own at the
team's annual banquet Thursday
night at Laurel Manor.
Rodriguez capped off the night
with a plea: "My name is Rich
Rodriguez," he said. "I'm hon-
ored to be the head football coach
at the University of Michigan. I
hope you realize that I truly want
to be a Michigan man. Thank
you."
This comes five days after Ohio
State embarrassed Michigan
37-7 in Columbus, prompting the
media to question Brandon about
Rodriguez's job security and
potential successors. Brandon
has said repeatedly that he won't
evaluate Rodriguez until the end
of the year, which includes the
upcoming bowl game. The Wol-
verines finished the regular sea-
son with a 7-5 record, but their
only Big Ten wins came against
Indiana and Purdue, teams that
sit in the bottom third of the con-
ference standings.
Rodriguez's speech, the last
part of the three-and-a-half-hour
event, focused on the reasons he
became involved in the coach-
ing profession. Rodriguez said
his aim has always been to make
a difference in players' lives, to
"raise them up" academically and
athletically.
"As coaches, we're going to
make you into something you
never thought you could be. We're
going to raise you up," Rodriguez
told the crowd. "A funny thing
happened on the way to raising
kids up, a funny thing happened
to me. I found out the kids raise
us up as coaches. The times that
we're down, when we're thinking,
'Is this worth it? Is this worth it
for your family?'
"Somebody comes up to you
and says, 'Thanks, coach.' Or
they tell you about an achieve-
ment. They got accepted into law
school. They got an A on a paper.
They broke a record in the weight
room. All of the sudden, it raises
you up."
Rodriguez said he didn't know
how to thank his players, his
coaching staff and fans who have
supported him throughout the
turmoil of the past three years,
so he turned to the Josh Groban
song "You Raise Me Up." Rodri-
guez quoted the first verse and

the ch
I cans
raise n
seas/ I
your sh
to mor
He s
the son
and he
banque
song b
ers. He
and pla
ing han
song pl
Prio
r
trul
Mi
Rodrig
worst t
gan an
the futt
"Our
coming
earlieri
BRAT
DESTIN
jectiom
Insight
Dec.28
of cere

MAXCOLLINS/Daily
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez guided the Wolverines to a 7-5 record this season
and his record is 15-21 overall in three seasons in Ann Arbor.

0

srus: "You raise me up, so mentioned that at the start of last
stand on mountains/ You night's banquet.
ne up, to walk on stormy When Brandon spoke immedi-
am strong, when I am on ately after, he said, "Frank thinks
oulders/ You raise me up, we might be going west. I think
e than I can be." we might be going in a different
aid he's been listening to direction."
g the past couple of weeks, Beckmann then addressed
wanted to share it with the Brandon again, mentioning the
t crowd. Then, Groban's Gator Bowl and Outback Bowl,
lasted through the speak- two New Year's Day bowls played
e, his wife Rita, Brandon in Florida. Brandon nodded yes.
iyers stood on risers, join- TEAM AWARDS: After a
ds above their heads as the record-setting season in which
ayed. he became the first quarterback
r to the end of his speech, in NCAA history to pass for 2,000
yards and run for 1,500 yards in
a year, sophomore Denard Rob-
inson was given the Bo Schem-
'I hope you bechler team MVP award.
Earlier this week, he was
eahze that I named the Big Ten Offensive
Player of the Year.
y want to be a Senior linebacker Jonas Mou-
ton won the team's award for best
ehigan m an." linebacker, leading the Big Ten
in tackles with 111. Fellow senior
linebacker Mark Moundros was
awarded for demonstrating "the
uez emphasized how the most enthusiasm and love for
imes were behind Michi- Michigan." Junior nose tackle
d how excited he was for Mike Martin was named the
ure. team's top defensive lineman.
time is coming, and it's Redshirt junior offensive line-
in a big way," he promised man Zac Ciullo received the Dr.
in the night. Arthur D. Robinson Scholar-
NDON HINTS AT BOWL ship Award as the team's leading
IATION? Most bowl pro- senior scholar. Redshirt junior
s put Michigan in the center David Molk and senior
Bowl in Tempe, Ariz., on guard Stephen Schilling shared
and the banquet's master the award for the team's top
monies Frank Beckmann offensive lineman.

Blue ousted in first round of NCAA Tournament

By HEIKO YANG Wash. during the first round of
For theDaily the NCAA tournament. The loss
brought the Wolverines' postsea-
The boot, the sweatshirt and son hopes to a disappointing end
the glum expression on junior and marked the first time in four
outside hit- seasons Michigan has failed to
ter Alex MICHIGAN 0 progress beyond the first round.
Hunt's face WASHINGTON 3 The typical storylines applied.
said it all. Young players made youthful
With the Michigan volleyball mistakes. The hitters couldn't get
team's most dominant hitter sit- past their blocks. The team com-
ting on the bench, what little mitted 13 service errors. Senior
magic left in a season that had setter Lexi Zimmerman ran all
started out with so much promise over the court, looking like she
was gone. was pulling out all the stops to
No. 23 Michigan (23-10 overall) will one more game out of her col-
lost, 3-0, to No. 11 Washington legiate career.
(22-8) on Thursday night at the But it wasn't enough, and as
Bank of America Arena in Seattle, the last point sailed out of bounds
STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their best
to predict, against the spread, what Nicole
happens in the 2010 football season. Auerbach

and the poorly filled stands let out
tepid applause, the question that
had been on everyone's minds
from the start of the match now
hung palpably.
What if Hunt had been healthy?
"(This was) absolutely a winna-
ble match (if Hunt had played),"
Michigan coach Mark Rosen said
following the loss. "It would have
been nice to have her go on one of
her 20-kill tirades because that
really changes the whole game."
The Wolverines had only
a week to practice with their
adjusted lineup after Hunt rolled
her ankle during the regular sea-
son finale at Northwestern on
Nov. 27. Rosen was forced to call

upon freshman outside hitter
Lexi Erwin and redshirt junior
middle blocker Karlee Bruck to
fill the void.
And for a brief moment, the
Michigan offense held strong.
Despite six service errors dur-
ing the first set, the Wolverines
appeared to dictate the pace of
the game. The hitters came out
swinging with confidence and
caught the Huskies' defense out
of position on multiple occasions.
Erwin tallied five straight kills
without an error, and freshman
middle blocker Jennifer Cross
provided key hits to establish her-
self as an additional threat.
But the fresh energy and

aggressiveness couldn't overcome
the experience and consistency of
a veteran Washington team.
As the match progressed, the
Huskies picked on Michigan's
youth by serving to the younger
players and knocked the Wolver-
ines out of system in the pass-
ing game. The hitters eventually
faltered and lofted their hits out
of bounds. Costly service errors
prevented Michigan from hold-
ing any momentum. Eventually,
Washington's game plan looked
as if it was simply to let the Wol-
verines beat themselves, which
they did more and more efficient-
ly in each set.
"It's funny because I thought

the stuff we did the worse was
what they have no control over,
which was serving," Rosen said.
"It's the one part of the game that
they do not have an effect on. The
ironic part is that it's such a big
part of our game and who we are.
We haven't had a match like that
all year; it was completely out of
the blue."
Perhaps the only bright spot
for Michigan was the perfor-
mance of the back row defenders.
The defense kept the team alive
in tight rallies when the offense
sputtered.
Junior libero Sloane Donhoff
posted 12 digs and senior libero
Maggie Busch tallied nine. .

No.1 Auburn (-7) at South Carolina
No. 2 Oregon (-16) at Oregon State
No. 9 Oklahoma (NC) at No. 13 Nebraska
No. 11 Boise State (-43) vs. Utah State
No.15 Virginia Tech (-4) vs. No. 21 Florida State
No.17 Nevada (-14) at Louisiana Tech
No. 23 Arizona (-5.5) vs. Arizona State
No. 24 West Virginia (-21) vs. Rutgers
No. 25 No. Illinois (14.5) vs. Miami (OH)
Illinois (-4) vs. Fresno St.
Overall

Auburn
Oregon
Oklahoma
Boise State
Virginia Tech
Nevada
Arizona
West Virginia
Miami (OH)
Illinois
139-106-10

Ryan
Kartje
Auburn
Oregon
Oklahoma
Boise State
Virginia Tech
Nevada
Arizona
West Virginia
No. Illinois
Illinois
137-108-10

Tim
Rohan
Auburn
Oregon
Nebraska
Boise State
Florida State
Nevada
Arizona
Rutgers
No. Illinois
Fresno State
135-110-10

Joe -
Stapleton
South Carolina
Oregon
Nebraska
Boise State
Virginia Tech
Nevada
Arizona
Rutgers
No. Illinois
Illinois
139-106-10

Nick
-Mattar
Maize Rage
President
Auburn
Oregon State
Nebraska
Boise State
Florida State
Nevada
Arizona State
Rutgers
No. Illinois
Illinois
N/A

SAD YOU CAN'T WATCH MICHIGAN SOCCER IN THE ELITE EIGHT? 5

CHECK MICHDAILY.COM FOR A LIVE BLOG AND UPDATES FROM COLLEGE PARK.


