* The Daily's managing sports editor and editor in chief offer up their bound-to-fail picks for the NCAA Tournament, which starts today. PAGE 8A

The University of Michigan Ballroom Dance Team
turns those who thought they'd never dance into
champions, year after year. SEE THE B-SIDE
IL£d1an 0aIj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, March 18, 2010
A PINT FOR ST. PATRICK

michigandaily.com

UN ~ ~ 3IVR ITY ADITTON
At briefing,
cmte. says
'U' should be
reaccredited

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Ashley's Restaurant employee Matthew Altruda prepares glasses of green beer yesterday in honor of St. Patrick's Day at the State Street watering hole.
Private eners, Dems clash
over student aid overhaul

HLC delegation
also recommends
University officials
examine diversity
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
In a briefing for the Universi-
ty's executive officers and deans
yesterday morning, the chair
of the Higher Learning Com-
mission del-
egation that h
evaluated the
University,
announced
that his com-
mittee would A
recommend KYLE SWANSON
the Univer-
sity be reac- Covin U
credited. A IT n l
The Michi-
gan Daily was given exclusive
access to the meeting, where
Celestino Fernandez, who was
chairing the HLC's delegation
to University, said the commit-
tee will suggest the University
be reaccredited, adding that the
final decision will be made by the
HLC's Board of Trustees later
this year.

Though Fernandez told the
approximately 30 University offi-
cials and fellow HLC committee
members at the briefing that the
HLC site visit committee had
found a great deal of evidence
that the University is meeting or
exceeding standards set forth by
the HLC, he said the University
should examine its commitment
to diversity.
During the process of reac-
creditation review, the Univer-
sity is evaluated by the HLC on
five key criteria areas - how the
University fulfills its mission, the
University's plan for the future,
the quality of the classroom
educational experience, campus
community engagement outside
the classroom and the way in
which the University serves and
interacts with members of the
campus community.
Fernandez said, if anything;
the University officials "under-
stated" the University's perfor-
mance in their self study report
- a document that compiles
information from across campus
on the University's operations
to help both University officials
and HLC representatives better
understand if and how the Uni-
versity is meeting standards.
However, Fernandez did say
See HLC, Page 7A

Supporters say plan
wouldn't spell huge
job losses for banks
By BETHANY BIRON
and MIKE MERAR
Daily StaffReporters
Legislation currently awaiting
a vote in the Senate, which calls
for student loans to come directly
from the government - instead of

through private lenders subsidized
by the government - is facing
severe opposition from banks and
other private lenders concerned
that if the bill passes they could see
their revenues plummet.
But despite the criticism of the
proposed legislation, support-
ers, including those in President
Barack Obama's administration,
are lauding the change, saying it is
crucial in helping students afford
to attend college. In addition sup-
porters of the bill say they believe

the student loan industry doesn't
stand to lose as much money or as
many jobs as critics claim.
Mike Kantrowiz, publisher and
creator of Finaid.org - a website
with information on financial aid
- said the legislation would help
students by allowing them to go
directly through their school to
receive a loan, but that the bill is
not without criticism.
"There has obviously been a lot
of lobbying going on behind the
scenes," Kantrowitz said.

Rich Williams, higher educa-
tion associate for the U.S. Public
Interest Research Group, also
noted that banks heavily oppose
the bill because of the possibility of
losing the money they receive from
the government to back the loans.
"The banks, receiving all of
these subsidies, really want to hold
on to that money," he said.
Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for
JPMorgan Chase, said the bank
has had to prepare for the possibil-
See BANKS, Page 7A


MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
MForward looks to revive
push for Sat.night dining
Housing official says running in the election - is reviv- port of Saturday night dining t
ing a push that began last year to University Housing, RHA and Th
proposal could be bring Saturday night dining back Michigan Daily.
to the residence halls. This weekend, MForward i
viable if there's MForward presidential can- hosting a dinner in three dinin

REHEARSAL IN THE ROUGH
sI

o
e
is
ig

student interest

By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
In preparation for next week's
student government elections,
MForward - one of the parties

didate Chris Armstrong, an LSA
junior, said Saturday night dining,
which is not currently available
in the dining halls, should be on
the agenda for the Residence Hall
Association and University stu-
dents.
MSA passed a resolution last
February to write a letter in sup-

halls to raise awareness and create
dialogue among residence hall res-
identstobringthe new mealoption
to the table.
"We want to push (Saturday
night dining) as an issue and make
it something that students care
about and want to see changed as
See MSA, Page 7A

LOCAL GOVE R E N
City Council still waiting on
results of graffiti ordinance

School of Music, Theatre & Dance graduate student Robert Benton practices his euphonium outside the School of
Music building in preparation for a rehearsal yesterday.
Prof. launches site to help the unemployed

Council planning
to review report on
ordinance passed
last January
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
Graffiti Alley - a small space
next to The Michigan Theater on
East Liberty Street - is one of the
most colorful places in Ann Arbor,

with walls covered top to bottom
in paint from various graffiti art-
ists.
While Graffiti Alley is consid-
ered a kind of haven for graffiti
tags, the spread of graffiti around
the city has become a major con-
cern for property owners, prompt-
ing the Ann Arbor City Council to
unanimously pass an anti-graffiti
ordinance in January 2009.
The results of the ordinance,
which went into effect in May
2009, have yet to be reviewed by
City Council members, though

See a video from Graffiti Alley
council members say there
appears to be some positive feed-
back about the ordinance's effect
on the city.
The ordinance requires prop-
erty owners to remove graffiti
within seven to nine days of the
time of an issued notification
from the city. It also allows for a
less severe punishment for prop-
erty owners, who are required
See GRAFFITI, Page 7A

Program offers
online courses to
help baby-boomers
reinvent careers
By CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter
in an effort to help unem-
ployed baby-boomers who lost
their jobs as a result of Michi-
gan's down economy, a University

professor has created a new pro-
gram, which provides resources
geared toward baby-boomers to
help them get their employment
search back on track.
Launched two weeks ago, the
LEARN program is a series of
free online courses designed to
teach workers and baby-boomers
how to reinvent their careers.
Currently the program - a joint
collaboration between the Ross
School of Business, the Maria
Madeline Project Inc., five Michi-
gan libraries and WJBK/FOX 2

News - offers eight health care
courses.
Lynn Wooten, a professor in
the Business School, said she
was interested in becoming a co-
creator of the LEARN program
because of the need recently for
career resources for unemployed
workers in the state.
"I really envisioned it as a
service to our state to think
about how do we help workers
transition into this new econo-
my," she said.
See LEARN, Page 7A

WEATHER HI: 66 GOT A NEWS TIP?
TOMORROW LU:42 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
College football tickets prove tobe recession proof.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS ................................2A CLASSIFIEDS.. ..A....... 6A
Vol CXX, No.111 SUDOKU.... ............ ...........3A SPORTS.....,.......... 8A
(201 The Michigan Daily OPINION...........................4A THE B-SIDE .................... 1B
michigondaily com

} r .

A A



2A - Thursday, March 18, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers
MAKING MUSIC

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Professor Profiles Before You Were Here Campus Clubs Photos of the Week
Hospice Student Companions

Though many pre-health students
spend much of their time focused on
acing their organic chemistry exams
and MCATS, one student group is
working to give them a way to spend
their free time that may help in their
future careers.
Founded during the 2007-2008
school year, Hospice Student Com-
panions allows students to volunteer
at nursing homes and work with hos-
pice patients.
The goal of the group is to make
students more aware of patients liv-
ing in hospice, and to create an arena
for students to volunteer their ser-
vices, according to LSA senior Anna
Chase, co-founder and president of
Hospice Student Companions.
The club works with the Howell-
based nursing home, the Howell Care
Center, where volunteers visitpatients,
most of whom are 85 years of age and
older and are given six months or less
to live, according to Chase. Some stu-

dents also visit hospice patients in
their ownhomes, she said.
Prior to the club's formation,
working with hospice patients was
typically an option reserved only for
pre-med students. Chase said the club
was created so that all students who
express an interest in the medical
field can volunteer.
"The actual volunteer work is my
favorite," Chase said. "I love when
you walk into the room and see the
patient light up and smile."
The club has about 40 members
who are trained to become hospice
volunteers by professionals from in-
House Hospice, located in Southfield,
Mich.
Chase said student volunteers play
an important role in hospice patients'
lives by providing them with com-
panionship. Most volunteers work
one-on-one with a patient once a
week. During this time they talk, play
cards or help the patient create a "life

review," which is a journal document-
ing the patient's life memories.
In addition to educating the cam-
pus community on the importance
of hospice patients through the club,
Chase also said she hopes to organize
seminars on grief management to
educate the community.
Kinesiology junior Christina
Monolo, a member of Hospice Student
Companions, volunteers at the Hill-
side Terrace Nursing Home. Monolo,
a pre-med student, said she wanted
to get volunteer experience working
with patients but was hesitant to vol-
unteer at a hospital because she want-
ed to work directly with the patients
rather than do remedial tasks.
"I wanted to volunteer with hos-
pice patients because I wanted to
be the last impression on their life,"
Monolo said. "My favorite part of vol-
unteering is being the highlightof the
patient's week and makingtheir day."
- MELISSA MARCUS

Michael Haithcock teaches the Symphony Band class in
the School of Music yesterday.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-336734-764-050
smilovitz@michigandailyecom rmdbuainesoiygnsaitcam
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours: sun.-Thurs.11a.. - 2 a
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections correction@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.coni
SportsSection sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michiandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattAaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
lillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIO0 suE 1TO0S :ksiol eAber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Swanono, EshwarThirunavukkarasu
AsoISTANT NW S 00TO0S Dylan Cint, Drryn Fitgerald, Joseph Lichterman,
Rachel Van Gilder EditorialPage Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
SSTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MichelleDeWitt,AlexSchiff,OMatthewsbutler
Ryan Hartje ManagingSports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyzik,Tim Rohan, AmK Scaran
amie Block ManagAtsEditor block@michigandaiy.coni
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, Jeff Sanford
ASS NTARSFDITORS:LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,EmmaJeszke,MikeKuntz,
KoviShekhrno.0y
Max Collins and photo@michigandaily.com
Sam Wolson ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR FORMULTIMEDIA: Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
SENIOR PHIOTO EDITOR: Ariel Bond
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:Aaron Augsburger,Jake Fromm, Marissa McClain,
Jed Moch
Sarah Squire and design@michigandailycom
Anna Lein-Zielinski Manaigrnisignditors
TrevorCalero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Attie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips copyychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katiel1ozwiak SalesManager
SALES F00CE MANAGEOR: Molly Twig
M^ARKETIN MANAGER:Michael0 OhSotenboer
Ryan Businski ciassified Manager
CLASSIFIEDASSISTANTMANAGER:KaylaLaFata
lason Mahakian Production Manager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Vlivian Lee Financc Manager
Brittany MoalesCircolationsManager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The MichiganOaily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday thro gh Friday during the fall and
wnter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy isaviable free of charge to al
readers.Additionalcopiesmay bepickedupat theaily'sofficefor $2. Subscriptionsfor falterm,
starting in september, via U.S. mailare $110. Winter term (JanuarythroughAprl)is$115,yearlong
(September through April)is$19.University affiliatesaresubject toareueddisubscriptionrate.
On-campus subscriptns for fall term are $35. Subsriptons mu t be repid. The Michigan Daly
is a meohe Asnsrocid Prenod TheAo~iaeColleiePres.

i

a

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Cup of java spills,
ruins laptop
WHERE: 1301 Beal Avenue
WHEN: Tuesdayat about 7 a.m.
WHAT: Coffee was acciden-
tally spilled on a University-
owned Lenovo Thinkpad,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.
Thief goes postal,
steals stamps
WHERE: Fleming Adminis-
tration Building
WHEN:Tuesdayatabout3:30
p.m.
WHAT: Three rolls of stamps
valued at about $132 were sto-
len from a closet in a locked
staff office, University Police
reported. There are no sus-
pects.

Parking tickets
swiped
WHERE: West Medical Cen-
ter
WHEN: Tuesday at about 9:45
a.m.
WHAT: 208 parking valida-
tion tickets worth about $50
were stolen from behind the
Cancer Center front desk, Uni-
versity Police reported. There
are no suspects.
Bathroom bandit
pilfers case
WHERE: East Medical Center
WHEN: Tuesday at about 9:30
p.m.
WHAT: A hospital visitor's
nylon bathroom case was sto-
len, University Police report-
ed. There are no suspects.

Diag Pride Rally
WHAT: Speakers from
the University and the
LGBTA community will
highlight the rally.
WHO: Spectrum
Center, SAGE
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 7 p.m.
WHERE: North
Campus Diag
Talk on impact
of media sexism
WHAT: Author Dr. Lyn
Mikel Brown will discuss
her research from her novel
"Packaging Girlhood" and
its implications for parents
and girls. Admission is free
and open to the public.
WHO: Institute for
Human Adjustment
WHEN: Today from
7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: The Neutral
Zone, 310 East Washington

Dressing in drag
WHAT: University stu-
dents and drag queens will
perform, showcasing drag
culture between acts.
WHO: Ambatana, South
Quad Multicultural Council
WHEN: Today from
at 8 p.m. to 10 p.m.
WHERE: South
Quad Cafeteria
CORRECTIONS
* A Mar.17, 2010 arti-
cle in the Daily titled
"MSA pres. apologizes
once againforwebsite
expense" incorrectly stat-
ed Jim Brusstar's title. He
is MSA's Student General
Counsel and an Engineer-
ing representative.
* Please report any
error in the Dailyto
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Under the influence of
marijuana and several
shots of whiskey, a Ken-
tucky man left his five-week-
old son in the oven overnight,
CNN reported. The door to the
oven door was kept open and
the appliance was not turned
on. The man was arrested by
police and his son was found
to unharmed.
An improvisational cre-
ative arts orchestra will
be performing tonight at
Rackham Auditorium at 8 p.m.
, FOR MORE, SEE THE B-SIDE, PAGE 3B
According to a vatican
researcher, Leonardo da
Vinci predicted that the
world will end in 4006, Times
Online reported.

0

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


0

40

Check out the programs for students sponsored by the Alumni Association-all designed to
prepare you for life after college and connect you to the U-M alumni family (more than 480,000 strong!).

l Ready 2 Launch-
From March 17 through April 16, take advantage of online
advice, in-person programs and text messages that help you
put your best foot forward after graduation.
1) Text and Win-Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to join
and to be eligible to win our weekly prizes*
" Get daily career advice right to your phone (through 4/16)
* Win one of our great weekly prizes (like a Coach bag and
$250 Macy's gift card)
2) Get in-person help at our R2L events at the Alumni
Center (all events on Wednesdays, 9 a.m.-noon)
3/24: Create your professional development plan
3/31: Create your branding toolkit (resume review, branding
statement & interview prep)
4/7: Describe your qualities in 30 seconds by crafting your
personal pitch
4/14: Find out how to build your network
[~] Michigan Apprentice-Win a one-day job shadowing
opportunity with a high-profile U-M alum. Applications are
due Sunday, March 28.

Li30-Minute Mentors-Get your career questions answered
by friendly and helpful Michigan alumni in a casual setting.
Friday, April 9, at the Alumni Center. Registration required.
Plus-don't miss these great events!
® Welcome Wednesdays-Stop by the Alumni Center for
free bagels and coffee. Final two events-March 10 and
March 17, 8 a.m. 'til noon!
l Enter to win the Class of 2010 T-shirt Design Contest-
Winning designer gets $250!
Graduating? Free Alumni Association one-year'
memberships-Sign up at Grad Fair on March 10-11,
ticket pickup April 26-28, or at
umalumni.com/freegradmembership.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

60

6

0

0

For details and registration information, visit www.umalumni.com/students or www.facebook.com/AAUMstudents.
* By texting "UMSTUDENTS" to 41411, you'll join our Ready to Launch text group that will last through April 19. You will receive text messages through 4/16 related to this program only. After April 19, the group will be deleted.
Standard text messaging rates apply.

4.

£ i



I* The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 18, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March 18, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Obama says nuclear
Iran could trigger
arms race
President Barack Obama says a
nuclear-armed Iran could trigger an
arms race in the Middle East, some-
thing his administration wants to
avnid.
Obama told Fox News Channel's
Bret Baier that keeping Tehran
without a nuclear weapon is one of
his highest priorities. Baier asked
Obama if a nuclear-armed Tehran
would be a failure of his administra-
tion. Obama's reply was to empha-
size work already under way among
international partners to isolate
Iran.
Iran has accelerated its nuclear
program despite previous U.N. pen-
alties, but the United States and
some of its allies say a renewed dem-
onstration of world resolve could
finally push Iran to negotiate.
BEIJING
Life sentence for
Chinese supreme
court judge upheld
A court in northern China has
upheld a life sentence for a former
supreme court judge convicted of
embezzlement and bribery, a state-
run newspaper reported.
Huang Songyou, former vice
president of the Supreme People's
Court, is the highest judge to be
tried and convicted on such charg-
es, part of a continuing battle by
the Communist Party against deep-
seated corruption.
The Hebei Province People's
High Court yesterday upheld the
life sentence handed down by a
lower court in January, the Legal
Evening News reported. Huang had
no reaction after the decision was
announced, the newspaper said, cit-
ing lawyer Gao Zicheng.
Huang, 52, was accused of tak-
ing 3.9 million yuan ($574,000) in
bribes from a law firm in return for
favorable rulings on cases between
2005 and 2008.
Hewas alsochargedwith embez-
zling 1.2 million yuan ($176,000) in
government funds while serving as
president of a city-level court in the
southern province of Guangdong in
1997.
Huang was fired and expelled
from the Communist Party in
August. The official Xinhua News
Agency has said he confessed to
the charges during the investiga-
tion and that most of the bribes
and embezzled funds were recov-
ered.
LANSING, Mich.
® Detroit state police
post could be closed
A House subcommittee has pro-
posed closing the Michigan State
Police post in Detroit.
The budget bill was approved by
the subcommittee yesterday. It next
goes to the House Appropriations
Committee.
Democratic Rep. Richard LeB-
lanc says the proposal includes

transferring the state troopers in
Detroit to other posts and spending
more money on state police crime
labs than Gov. Jennifer Granholm
has proposed. He said all of Wayne
County is patrolled by either sher-
iff's deputies or local departments.
The Michigan State Police
oppose the proposal to close the
Detroit post.
The Senate Appropriations Com-
mittee yesterday approved several
budgets including 3 percent cuts to
university and community college
funding and another $118-per-stu-
dent reduction to K-12 schools.
WASHINGTON
Biden makes gaffe
at White House
St. Patrick's event
Vice President Joe Biden asked
for God's blessing for the late
mother of Irish Prime Minis-
ter Brian Cowen during a White
House celebration of St. Patrick's
Day - except the elderly lady is
very much alive.
"God rest her soul," Biden said
last night as he introduced Cowen
and President Barack Obama. He
quickly caught himself and noted
that it's Cowen's father who is no
longer living. Of the prime minis-
ter's mother, Biden said, "God bless
her soul."
Biden then cited the Irish prov-
erb that "a silent mouth is sweet to
hear" and yielded the podium to the
president.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

KM. CHAUDARY/AP
A Pakistani court charged five Americans yesterday with planning terrorist attacks in Pakistan and conspiring to wage war
against nations allied with Pakistan.
Court in Pakista n charges
5 Americans as ter-rorists

State prison
numb ers fall
for first time'
since 1972
Incarceration rate According to official state data
collected by the Pew Center,
falls .4 percent 1,403,091 people were under the
jurisdiction of state prison authori-
amidst state ties on Jan. 1, down by 5,739 from
a year earlier. The report, being
budget crises released Wednesday, said this was
the first year-to-year drop in the
NEW YORK (AP) - Spurred state prison population since 1972;
by budget crises, California and when there were about 174,000
Michigan together reduced their prisoners.
prison populations by more than Since then, the nationwide pris-
7,500 last year, contributing to on population has soared, in part
what a new report says is the first because of stiff sentencing laws
nationwide decline in the number giving the U.S. the world's highest
of state inmates since 1972. incarceration rate.
The overall drop was slight, With more inmates to handle,
according to the Pew Center on state corrections costs quadrupled
the States - just 0.4 percent - over the past 20 years, according
but its report suggests there could to the report. Many states are now
be a sustained downward trend in fiscal disarray, and legislators
because of keen interest by state are looking afresh at ways to curb
policymakers in curtailing correc- prison spending, but the Pew sur
tions costs. vey revealed a wide variation of
"The political and policy envi- responses.
ronment has changed drastically," In 23 states, the number of pris-
said Adam Gelb, director of the oners increased in 2009 - notably
Pew Center's Public Safety Perfor- in Indiana by 5.3 percent and in
mance Project. Pennsylvania by 4.3 percent.
"There's now a realization on However, 27 states reduced their
both sides of the aisle that there are prison populations - ledby Califor=
research-based strategies to pro- nia with a drop of 4,257 and Michi-
tect public safety and hold offend- gan with a drop of 3,260. New York,
ers accountable without sinking Maryland, Texas and Mississippi
ever more public dollars into pris- also reduced their prison popula-
ons," Gelb said. tionsbymore than1,000.

Men face up to life in
prison for allegedly
planning attacks
ISLAMABAD (AP) - A Paki-
stani court charged five young
Americans yesterday with plan-
ningterroristattacks inthe South
Asian country and conspiring to
wage war against nations allied
with Pakistan, their defense law-
yer said.
The men - all Muslims from
the Washington suburb of Alex-
andria, Virginia - pleaded not
guilty to a total of five charges,
the most severe of which car-
ries a maximum sentence of life
in prison, defense lawyer Hasan
Dastagir told The Associated
Press.
"My clients were in good shape
and high spirits," Dastagir said.
The men, all in their late teens

or early 20s, were charged by
an anti-terrorism court inside
a prison in Sargodha, the city
in Punjab province where they
were arrested in December.
They were reported missing by
their families in November after
one left behind a farewell video
showing scenes of war and casu-
alties and saying Muslims must
be defended.
Their lawyer has said they
were heading to Afghanistan
and had no plans to stage attacks
inside Pakistan.
The court also charged the
men with planning attacks on
Afghan and U.S. territory, said
Dastagir. The charges did not
specify what was meant by U.S.
territory but could be a reference
to American bases or diplomatic
outposts in Afghanistan.
The men also were charged
with contributing cash to
banned organizations to be used

for terrorism and with directing
each other to commit terrorist
acts.
"This last charge carries life
in prison while the rest of the
charges have lesser punish-
ments," Dastagir said.
The trial will begin on March
31, and the prosecution is slated
to present more than 20 witness-
es, Dastagir said.
The defense plans to bring
witnesses from the U.S. and pro-
vide evidence of community ser-
vice carried out by the men back
home, Dastagir said.
Pakistani police have publicly
made several accusations against
the young men, claiming the sus-
pects contacted Pakistani-based
jihadi groups. They accused the
five of using the social network-
ing site Facebook and video-shar-
ing site YouTube while they were
in the U.S. to try to connect with
extremist groups in Pakistan.

Idaho Gov. signs bill to
sue over health care plan

First state adopts
measure to sue if
health insurance
becomes mandatory

cover some 30 million uninsured
people, end insurance practices
such as denying coverage to those
with pre-existing conditions,
require almostallAmericans toget
coveragebylaw, andtryto slowthe
cost of medical care nationwide.
Democratic leaders hope to

that's a critical mass. That's a con-
stitutional mass."
Last week, Virginia legisla-
tors passed a measure similar to
Idaho's new law, but Otter was the
first state chief executive to sign
such a bill, according to the Ameri-
can Legislative Exchange Council,

BOISE, Idaho (AP) - Idaho vote on it this weekend. which created model legislation for
took the lead in a growing, nation- With Washington closing in on Idaho and other states. The Wash-
wide fight against health care a deal in the months-long battle ington, D.C.-based nonprofitgroup
overhaul yesterday when its gov- over health care overhaul, Repub- promotes limited government.
ernor became the first to sign a lican state lawmakers opposed "Congress is planning to force an
measure requiring the state attor- to the measure are stepping up unconstitutional mandate on the
ney general to sue the federal gov- opposition. states," said Christie Herrera, the
ernment if residents are forced to Gov. C.L. "Butch" Otter, a group's health task force director.
buy health insurance. Republican, said he believes any Otter already warned U.S.
Similar legislation is pendingin future lawsuit from Idaho has a House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and
37 other states. legitimate shot of winning, despite Senate Majority Leader Harry
Constitutional law experts say what the naysayers say. Reid in December that Idaho was
the movement is mostly symbolic "The ivory tower folks will tell considering litigation.
because federal laws supersede you, 'No, they're not going any- He signed the bill during his
those of the states. where,' " he told reporters. "But first public ceremony of the 2010
But the state measures reflect a I'll tell you what, you get 36 states, Legislature.
growing frustration with Presi-
dent Barack Obama's health care
overhaul. The proposal would
---------

Today's Career Tip:
Get personal at the Alumni Center with professionals
who can help with your professional development.
Schedule your appointment today.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips,
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

"
°s,,

The Tomcha & Vlasch Project
Unusual Music for
Unusual People
tomchavaschproject.com

Would you like to get
The Vice President for
advisory board for the
most pressing to the s
information can be fo

more involved with current issues surrounding the student body?
Student Affairs is looking for students to serve on her student
2010-2011 acadenic year, and advise her on the topics that are
students at the University of Michigan. Applications and more
rnd at: http://uuis.umich.edu/student-matters/dsaadvisory.htmi

S 0J[NTTIC TSQ LY 1 0 IT STL STI m'
M AAILABL E A l fLt U 5 =R.En S4 - CAM PUM BOO PO t 01
,20', sosresas .5nP

The deadline for applications is 5pm March 26, 2010

4

k


4A - Thursday, March 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

tE JiCdigan ,Ealy
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MS 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

a

Attention Wal-Mart customers:
All black people leave the store now.
- An unauthorized announcement made over a New Jersey Wal-Mart PA system, as reported
yesterday by Time magazine. Wal-Mart officials have apologized and are investigating.

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Requiring repatriation
'U' should return Native American remains
ver the course of the last two decades, University officials,
students and Native American organizations have been
locked in a controversial debate over museum artifacts
deemed "culturally unidentifiable." But this week, the debate over
these artifacts at the University's Museum of Anthropology may
finally advancing after years of gridlock. Recent changes to the 1990
Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act will force
museums, including those at the University, to re-evaluate "cultur-
ally unidentifiable" remains and return them to the Native Ameri-
can community. The University should act in a timely manner and
return the 1,390 "culturally unidentifiable" remains it currently
possesses to the appropriate Native American groups.

This watchdog is ticked

f you're a regular reader of this
column, you know that some-
thing might be wrong with you.
But you also
know that some-
thing might be
wrong with the
University, too. ;
And you know that
I'm a watchdog of
the University. You
know that if some-
thing isn't right,
I will loudly alert WILL
others of the prob-
lem, in hopes that GRUNDLER
they will make it
go away. This is
what beinga watchdog is all about.
Well, something isn't right. In fact,
everything is wrong. I am referring
to, of course, the tour groups that are
all over campus. PLEASE STOP THE
TOURS. The Daily will double what
you are making to stop, tour guides!
E-mail my editor for details!
No, I am kidding. The tours aren't
the problem. They are only part of
the problem. A lot of bad things have
been happening on campus ever
since the weather turned unnaturally
warm, and not just smarty professors
telling us "We told you so" about cli-
mate change.
Actually, one bad thing happened
off-campus. Like thousands of other
students whose sole reason for exis-
tence is Michigan sports, I was shak-
en beyond measure last Friday when
the basketball team lost to Ohio State
after a buzzer-beater. Our - and by
"our" I mean "the basketball team's"
- last chance to make a miracle run
to the NCAA Tournament was shat-
tered, and now we - and by "we" I
mean "the basketball team" - are
not even in the NIT. This is just an
embarrassment. I mean, why do the
sports teams think students go to
school here in the first place?
It gets worse. If you thought our

athleticswere a jokeyou'll be pleased
to know that our faculty thinks the
LAW is a joke. I'm referring to last
week's traffic violation by Vice Presi-
dent of Student Affairs E. Royster
Harper and University President
Mary Sue Coleman, who were caught
speeding to Bursley Hall. Accord-
ing to a report on Daily's news blog,
E. Royster Harper, who was driving,
had the nerve to tell the police officer,
"Don't you know who I'm with?" To
teach hera lesson, the officer ordered
her out of the car, cuffed her and
yelled repeatedly, "Whatndoes the
"E" stand for!? Huh? No one knows!
Edith? Eleanor!? What gives!?"
This last exchange hasn't been ver-
ified, but nonetheless the vice presi-
dent of student affairs thinks joking
with an officer of the law is morally
acceptable.
So, to recap, tour groups, athlet-
ics and administrators - one would
hope the embarrassment would end
there. One would hope, as a Wolver-
ine, that one could hold one's head
up high and say, without a shred of
sarcasm, "At least we'll always have
our student government." Indeed,
in turbid times, the Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly has always been a last
vestige of respectability. No longer.
The recent website scandal has torn
the very fabric of MSA and its many,
many faithful supporters apart.
At first I thought the website scan-
dal stemmed from the fact that when
you google "MSA," the Michigan
Student Assembly website doesn't
appear until page two, after such
organizations as the Michigan Snow-
mobile Association and the Miner-
alogical Society of America. MSA,
of course, is way more relevant than
these trash organizations, and should
really have the top spot in the Google
results (currently held by Mine Safe-
tyAppliances Company). But THEN I
discovered the real scandal: MSA was
buildinga NEW website (presumably

to overtake Mine Safety Appliances)
and went over its budget by $6,000,
for a total of $9,000 on a site that still
doesn't work.

We're in the midst
of dark days here
at the University.

0

As reported by the Daily yesterday, a com-
mittee representing NAGPRA approved an
alteration to the initial 1990 legislation on
Monday. Under NAGPRA, museums are
obligated to keep public record of Native
American artifacts in their possession.
The changes approved on Monday would
require museums to inform nearby tribes of
where "culturally unidentifiable" remains
were unearthed. Based on that informa-
tion, Native American tribes may request
the return of the artifacts. The change will
take effect on May 14 and will be followed
by a 60-day comment period. Under the new
rules, the University's Museum of Anthro-
pology will be required to re-examine the
1,390 artifacts in its collection.
The University has refused to take
action to return "culturally unidentifi-
able" remains to Native American groups
for years. Since NAGPRA's inception in
1990, the University has been repeatedly
asked to re-examine its Native American
remains by tribes hoping to find remains of
members of their groups. And though the
University returned a fraction of its human
remains, along with other artifacts, to
Native American tribes in 2005, the Uni-
versity has still failed to act upon other
"unidentifiable" artifacts. But this cultural
insensitivity is unacceptable. The Univer-
sity should take more aggressive action to
identify and return the artifacts.

While the University may feel the pos-
session of these remains is important for
research and educational initiatives, it can't
simply ignore the request of Native Ameri-
can groups to regain ownership of their
history. Native American groups at the Uni-
versity have been fighting for decades for
the proper return of these artifacts, and the
University has unacceptably taken exces-
sive efforts to avoid fulfilling its legal obliga-
tion to do so. The University has an ethical
responsibility to stop dragging its feet and
return the property that rightfully belongs
to Native American tribes.
The battle between the University and
Native American groups has been long
and contentious. But with the passing of
new NAGPRA regulations, the University
now has no excuse for its inaction. It must
make more efforts to return the artifacts.
And now the University has an opportuni-
ty to put the controversy behind them and
return the artifacts without undue delay.
Making sure that these artifacts are
returned in a timely fashion won't make
up for the delay, but it will help establish
a beneficial relationship between the Uni-
versity and Native American groups. This
would herald an important step towards
the reconciliation between the two par-
ties while still allowing the University to
continue its research - without hoarding
anyone's heritage.

During the outrage that followed,
many students experienced intenise
psychological and physiological reac-
tions: shock, disbelief, disgust, loss of
appetite, loss of purpose and rashes.
I think I threw up - though I con-
fess I can't remember exactly what
happened. For the first time in MSA
history, it failed to accomplish whatit
had set out to do.
In my previous columns about the
moral shortcomings of this institu-
tion we all love, Ihave urged students
to not let these types of things get
to them and to instead focus on aca-
demics. But who comes here for the
academics? I realize now that this is
a shallow solution at best. I realize
now that as I pass those infuriating
tour groups, and those infuriating
tour guides - with their little yellow
jackets on, standing on some bench -
I want to stuff a brochure down the
guide's throat and yell to the group,
"What's wrong with you? Can't you
see what a failure this place is? How
do you think you'll get a job after-
ward, with no athletic presence in
theBig Ten and astudentgovernment
who can't even enact a website?"
I guess this is why I see so many
students getting drunk on the week-
ends. These are dark days.
- Will Grundler can be
reached at wgru@umich.edu.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and
accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
ADRIAN MADRIZ
Love all your neighbors

ELLEN STEELE |
Time to modernize gendered housing

6

Perhaps you've seen someone on the Diag
holding a sign that says "God Loves Every-
one (Yes, including the gays)." And perhaps
he's told you "God bless you, and have a good
day." If you haven't taken the time to speak to
him, you should. He's a pretty nice guy. I know
because I am that guy.
If you count yourself among those that are
confused by my message, don't be ashamed,
you're not alone. Some-people wonder, "How
can a person who is openly gay be a devout and
true Christian?" Answering this question in its
entirety can't be done in the 800 word limit of
this viewpoint, but it's not as simple as saying
"Read Leviticus 18:22 and it's written plain as
day. Homosexuality is just wrong!"
I often (perhaps too frequently) have this
debate with individuals who claim to be "true
Christians." Every time someone thinks theBible
condemns homosexuality, they are coming from
a philosophy that views the Bible as the inerrant
and infallible word of God. The simple response
to these objections is that the Bible just isn't iner-
rant or infallible. One only need observe verses
like Ephesians 6:5 (which condones slavery) or
Matthew 15:4 (which commands parents to killI
the children that disrespect them with a rod) to
realize that the Bible is not perfect, and that it has
some questionable things to say. However, I do
believe that the Bible contains the word of God.
It's just a matter of analyzing the Bible's many
verses critically and with this core philosophy at
the forefront of your mind: Love your neighbor
as yourself.
Using the Bible to disparage any group of
people, including gays, is a dangerous misuse
of the text. Using God as an excuse to hate any
group of people is not only wrong, but is one
of the main reasons that the religious are in
such poor standing among the agnostic and the
atheist. And religious people should care about
what the faithless think about them.
For an extended discussion of these ques-
tions and the issues that they raise, I encourage
students to attend the 2010 TBLG Interfaith
Conference this Saturday, . Mar. 20 from 12
p.m. to 5 p.m. at the Dana Building. It's being
organized by Spectrum of Faiths, an Inter-

faith LGBT organization at the campus. The
aim of the organization and the conference
in general is to help shed some light on these
issues and allow for a different kind of discus-
sion that doesn't end with, "Well, if it's in the
Bible, that's the way it is, and there's no point
in debating it even further." The issue is deep-
er and more complex than that. Additionally,
the conference will address how other faiths,
including Judaism and Islam, are handling
these issues related to sexual orientation and
gender expression. Attending this conference
is a valuable opportunity to learn about the
important role that faith can and does play in
the lives of gays and lesbians.
The bottom line is that if you believe in a lov-
ing God (which I do) and if you believe that God
holds love higher than all other values, there
is no credible way you can object to the genu-
ine love that two people, of any sexual orienta-
tion, have for one another. That also includes
romantic love. Perhaps you don't think that
homosexuals are capable of displayingthis kind
of love. I know many a street preacher that hold
this view. Maybe they think that gay and lesbian
love is not really love, but rather a misplaced lust
that can only manifest itself sexually and pro-
miscuously with the aid of crystal meth. I can
assure them that this view is fundamentally
flawed, and I often find that the people in some
of the most loving, committed and long lasting
relationships, are gay. In the great majority of
cases, they don't even have the official bonds of
marriage keeping them together. Their relation-
ship is sustained in its entirety by the passion-
ate commitment that they have for one another,
and I can find fewer things in life more beauti-
ful than that. The thought of God rejecting this
kind of love is illogical and inconsistent with the
one central commandment: Love your neighbor
as yourself (Romans 13:8).
I encourage you as students of this great
University to learn more about these issues,
and continue to find ways to accept LGBT indi-
viduals into the fabric of your communities,
both secular and spiritual.
Adrian Madriz is an LSA senior.

This week, the Residence Hall Association will be con-
ducting a survey of current residents in order to gauge
student interest in creating a gender-neutral housing
option in the residence halls. I encourage all eligible resi-
dents to respond to the survey to give Housing an accu-
rate portrayal of the community's opinions.
Gender-neutral housing means that Housing residents
would have the option to choose a roommate they would
like, regardless of gender. Two people of different gen-
ders could live in the same room. Gender-neutral housing
would be offered in specific areas within the residence
halls, in addition to the single-sex and co-ed floors that
already exist. The proposed policies aren't meant to elim-
inate housing choices or force residents into housing situ-
ations, but simply allow more options for all students.
The current housing policy that restricts students to
same-sex rooms is outdated. Many universities already
offer gender-neutral housing options, including the Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley, the University of Pennsyl-
vania, Brown University, and the University of Chicago.
As a leading progressive public university, the University
of Michigan should join these institutions in allowing
gender-neutral housing.
The creation of a gender-neutral housing option is
essential to assuring equality in the dorms for all people,
regardless of their gender, gender expression or sexual
orientation. Gender-neutral housing will benefit the
entire campus community by making the dorms more
inclusive. The University has already made improvements
to the housing policy by offering more options to trans-
gender students, but an openly-available gender-neutral
housing option could help many LGBT students feel more
comfortable in the residence halls.
By forcing men and women to live separately, the Uni-
versity promotes heteronormativity, or the discrimina-
tory mindset that heterosexuality is the norm and other
sexual orientations are less valid. The current housing
standards don't allow men and women to room together,
therefore preventing couples from living together. How-
ever, gay and lesbian couples can share the same room.
The current policy denies that men and women can live in

close quarters without having a sexual relationship.
Many students of different genders choose to live
together off-campus. They are aware that gender alone
isn't a good indicator of whether people will be able to
live together peacefully, feel at ease around each other
or address conflicts successfully. As adults, we should be
able to determine the best living situation for ourselves.
For many students, living with a friend of a different gen-
der would not only be a reasonable choice, but it would
also be the best decision for both parties. However, the
message our same-sex roommate policy sends to those
who would prefer an alternative is "pay up for a single or
get out of the dorms."
Men and women may wish to live in single-sex hall-
ways for personal or religious reasons, and the University
won't violate their rights by randomly assigning them to
a roommate of a different gender. Moreover, University
Housing will continue to offer co-ed halls without gen-
der-neutral options. Gender-neutral housing will simply
be another choice available to students who specifically
request it.
Gender-neutral housing would be beneficial to all stu-
dents regardless of their gender or sexual orientation. It
gives students the right to determine their own living
situation and thereby empowers them. Gender-neutral
housing could create a greater sense of community in
the dorms and make University Housing more appealing
to upperclassmen. The dorms should accommodate the
needs and rights of all students.
Gender-neutral housing may seem like a radical shift,
but it would not differ much from the co-ed floors Hous-
ing already offers. It is time for the University to offer a
gender-neutral housing option to all students.
To take the survey and support gender-neutral hous-
ing, please follow instructions in the e-mail sent out yes-
terday by the RHA. The results will help determine how
to best structure gender-neutral housing at the Univer-
sity.
This viewpoint was written by Ellen Steele on
behalf of the Undergraduate Chapter of the ACLU.

The Daily is looking for diverse, passionate, strong
student writers to join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members
are responsible for discussing and writing the editorials that
appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

0

A

I

4 t -


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 18, 2010 - 5A

New CFO says GM could
-end with a profit in 2010

Lidell says Brazil,
China sales could
offset European and
North America sales
DETROIT (AP) - If the econ-
omy cooperates and auto sales
recover a bit, General Motors Co.
has a reasonable chance of turn-
ing a full-year profit in 2010, its
new chief financial officer said
yesterday.
Former Microsoft Corp. CFO
Chris Liddell, at his first meet-
ing with reporters in Detroit, said
the automaker is making money
in Brazil and China, struggling
in Europe and somewhere in
between the two in North Amer-
ica.
"Relative to where we were a
couple of years ago, that's enor-
mous progress," he said in a con-
ference room at GM's downtown
Detroit headquarters.
A full-year profit for GM, which
left bankruptcy protection in July,
would be the company's first since

2004 when it made $2.7 billion. It
has posted more than $88 billion
in losses since then.
Liddell also said it's pos-
sible that GM will sell shares to
the public in the second half of
2010. But he wouldn't set a time-
table because GM must be mak-
ing money, auto sales and the
economy have to recover and the
financial markets must be recep-
tive.
GM also has tobe selling its cars
and trucks well within a recover-
ing market, he said.
"It's impossible to sit here in
March and say when all those fac-
tors are going to come together,"
Liddell said.
GM has received $52 billion in
U.S. government aid, and Liddell
said he would like to repay the
$6.7 billion loan portion of the aid
before June.
Liddell would not predict how
much of the remainder would be
repaid from the stock offering, but
said it likely would take years for
the government to divest itself of
its 61 percent share of the auto-
maker.

Liddell, 51, left his job at Micro-
soft with aspirations of becoming
a CEO. New GM CEO Ed Whitacre
Jr. said Liddell would be a candi-
date for the top job, but that was
before Whitacre took the post
himself.
Liddell said his new job is a
challenge and wouldn't say much
about whether he'd like to suc-
ceed Whitacre. He added he had
other opportunities that paid
more and would have been less
difficult, but he was attracted by
the challenge and importance of
helping to resurrect GM, which
he said affects the lives of mil-
lions of people.
"Other than that, it was an
extremely rational decision," he
joked.
He also said the automaker's
financial operations are not as bad
as characterized by Steven Rat-
tner, the former head of the gov-
ernment's auto task force.
Rattner said in an October mag-
azine article about the task force
that GM had "perhaps the weak-
est finance operation any of us had
ever seen in a major company."

TOM GREEN COUNTY JAL/AP
Colleen LaRose, the self-described "Jihad Jane" who thought her blond hair and blue eyes would let her blend in, is a rare case
of an American woman aiding foreign terrorists and shows the evolution of the global threat, authorities say.
. Cases show challenge
of do-mestic terrorists

More than a dozen
U.S. citizens sought
on terrorism charges
in the past two years
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
growing front in the war on terror-
ism may be no farther than Main
Street.
The terror cases that have
emerged in the past week have one
common characteristic: The sus-
pects are all Americans.
One is a woman who looked
after the elderly in suburban Penn-
sylvania. Another a security guard
from New Jersey.
Altogether more than a dozen
Americans have been captured or
pursued for allegedly supporting
jihad, or holy war, over the past two
years. The cases demonstrate with
increasing clarity what authorities
have long known: The terrorist
threat does not just come from the
skies, far away, but from Home-
town, U.S.A.
Some were inspired by the
U.S. involvement in the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars, federal pros-
ecutors said. Others, like the
accused Pennsylvania woman,
allegedly wanted to avenge what
they considered an insult to the
Prophet Muhammad. Many trav-
eled overseas to get terrorist
training. Some fomented plots on
their computers in the comfort of
their own homes.
There is no evidence that these
cases are connected in any way. But
they underscore the new reality
that there is a threat from violent
Islamic extremism from within the
U.S. It is difficult to say whether
the uptick in cases is because law
enforcement has gotten better at
catching suspects or if there are
simply more to catch.
FBI special agent Brett Hoving-
ton said the government needs to
do more scientific research around
the country on why Americans are
becoming radicalized and turning
toward violent extremism.
Hovington runs the FBI's com-
munity relations unit, which focus-
es on this type of outreach across
the country. Speaking to lawmak-
ers yesterday about countering
violent extremism, Hovington said
sociologists, political scientists and
psychologists can help in this area.
Most of the recent wave of cases
ended with suspects captured
before they could act on their plans.
But some of the people were just
about to execute their plans when
they were caught, like the Denver-
area airport shuttle driver, Najibul-
lah Zazi. Zazi pleaded guilty in
February as the leader of a plot to
bomb the New York subway system
in September 2009 with explosives
made frombeauty supplies.
In the case of Army Maj. Nidal
Hasan, law enforcement was too
late to prevent the attack. Hasan, a
U.S.-born Army psychiatrist of Pal-
T-SHIRT PRINTERY
SCREENPRINTINGIEMBROIDERY

FULLCOLOR DIGITALPRINTS
ANYQIANTIIY
IN5 DAYSOR LESS
5 II1EOAMPUS
1002 PotiacTr.
TL, .734-994-1367
*ISince 197:,,,

estinian descent, is charged with
killing 13 people during a shoot-
ing rampage at the military base in
Fort Hood, Texas.
Law enforcement knew of both
Zazi's and Hasan's contact with
people with suspected terrorism-
ties before they were arrested. Zazi
was under FBI surveillance when
he was caught. And the FBI knew
about Hasan's e-mails with a radi-
cal Islamic cleric but did not think
he posed a serious threat.
Determining how quickly a sus-
pected homegrown terrorist goes
from adopting extremist rheto-
ric to becoming a suicide bomber
is a continuing challenge to law
enforcement. Some people never
make that leap. Others do it in a
matter of months or years.
"Individuals can be radicalized
in a number of ways - by direct
contact with terrorists abroad or in
the United States, over the Internet
or on their own through a process
of self-radicalization," said Assis-
tant Attorney General David Kris,
the top counterterrorism official at
the Justice Department.
These cases, Kris said, "under-
score the constantly evolving
nature of the threat we face."
For years U.S. officials have
predicted there would be a rise in
homegrown terrorism.
"Now we're beginning to see
the predictions coming true,"
said Michael Chertoff, the former
Homeland Security secretary.
Because of this, Chertoff said, it
is critical for communities to look
for unusual behavior. Law enforce-
ment, he added, needs to continue
to educate people on the differing
signs of terrorism.
There is no single reason people
drift toward terrorism.
"It's a combination of psychol-
ogy, sociology and people who,
just for cultural reasons, gravitate"
to Islamic extremism, Chertoff
said. "We can't assume we've got
months and years."
Colleen LaRose, the Pennsyl-
vania woman who allegedly met
violent jihadists online under

the name "Jihad Jane," took only
months to radicalize, prosecu-
tors say. LaRose, according to her
boyfriend, never showed religious
leanings during the five years they
dated. Then, her boyfriend came
home last summer, and she was
gone. In a June 2008 YouTube
video, the blond-haired, green-
eyed Muslim convert said she was
"desperate to do something some-
how to help" ease the suffering
of Muslims, federal prosecutors
allege.
Some homegrown terrorists
take much longer to show their
militant leanings. In the case of
North Carolina drywall contrac-
tor Daniel Boyd, federal prosecu-
tors say he nursed his ambitions for
jihad over decades. Boyd is accused
of leading a group of men - includ-
ing two of his sons - who planned
to kidnap, kill and maim people
in other countries in the name of
jihad.
One of Boyd's neighbors said he
didn't think Boyd was a terrorist.
"If he's a terrorist, he's the nic-
est terrorist I ever met in my life,"
Charles Casale said.
Boyd decried the U.S. military,
praised the honor in martyrdom,
bemoaned the struggle of Mus-
lims and said "I love jihad" on
audiotapes obtained by federal
authorities.
It is not a new concept for
Americans to join the jihadi cause.
In 2001, John Walker Lindh was
arrested in Afghanistan for fight-
ing as part of the Taliban. Raised
Catholic, the California native was
12 when he saw the movie "Mal-
colm X" and became interested in
Islam. A few years later, the teen-
ager converted to Islam.
In 2008, intelligence officials
predicted there would be more
homegrown terrorists over the
next few years and their attack
methods would become more
sophisticated. Officials continue
to be concerned with the Inter-
net as a means to spread rationale,
inspiration and training for the
Islamic extremist agenda.

No deal to stop, congressional
resolution on alleged genocide
As resolution nears
passage, T .Crkeypulls
Washington, D.C.

WASHINGTON (AP) - A con-
gressional resolution that would
recognize World War I-era kill-
ings of Armenians by Ottoman
Turks as genocide could go for-
ward despite opposition from the
Obama administration.
Assistant Secretary of State
Philip Gordon told reporters there
is no deal with Democratic con-
gressional leaders to block the res-
olution. That contradicts earlier
claims by the State Department.
"Congress is an independent
body, and they are going to do what
they decide to do," Gordon said
ahead of speech at the Brookings
Institution.
Turkey strongly opposes the
resolution. It withdrew its ambas-
sador to Washington earlier this
month after a congressional com-
mittee approved the measure.
Gordon acknowledged the con-
gressional committee vote had set
back relations at a time when the
United States is seeking help from
Turkey to rein in Iran's nuclear
ambitions. But he said the United
States has not seen a deterioration
in cooperation with Turkey on a
wide range of foreign policy mat-
ters.
The Obama administration has
urged lawmakers to keep the mea-

mWnaI'

Members of Workers' Party marched in Istanbul last week, after Sweden's parliament
approved a resolution calling the 1915 mass killing of Armenians in Turkey a genocide.

sure from a vote in the full House.
It is not clear whether supporters
of the resolution have enough sup-
port to bring it to the House floor.
"I recognize that we have a
tough job ahead of us to garner the
necessary support," said the reso-
lution's chief sponsor, California
Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff.
Gordon said the resolution is an
obstacle for reconciliation talks
between Turkey and Armenia.
The two countries reached a deal
last year to normalize relations
and open their border, but it has
not yet been ratified by their gov-
ernments.
But Gordon denied the process
had stalled.

"I really think that those two
countries' leaderships are commit-
ted to doing this," he told reporters.
He said that the Obama admin-
istration thinks the historical
issues are best addressed by the
two countries as part of reconcili-
ation talks.
Historians estimate that up
to 1.5 million Armenians were
killed by Ottoman Turks around
the time of World WarI, an event
widely viewed by scholars as the
first genocide of the 20th cen-
tury. Turkey, however, denies the
deaths constituted genocide, say-
ing the toll has been inflated and
that those killed were victims of
civil war and unrest.

reg. $105
30%Of
PrOterku II~ '
ils Ir

BU SUMMER'1O
Learn. Explore. Discover.
This summer, experience one of the world's top-ranked universities-in
one of the nation's great college towns. Boston University Summer Term
has 700 courses to choose from, in over 70 subjects. Study with award-
winning faculty. Fulfill your academic goals. And fall in V with Boston.
Learn more at bu.edu/summer.
Summer'1: May 18-June 25
Summer 2: June 28-August 6
BOSTON
Boston University Summer Term UNIVERSITY
Ani'equalayyiirtnfty; affirrmative aciianiinstitution,

I



6A - Thursday, March 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

665-8825

Have you heard the news?
THE COURTYARDS

FOR RENT IS PRE-LEASING FOR FALL
! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one 2010!
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and *WAIVED APP FEES!
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info. FREE RENT!
! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4 * D I
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces PAID UTILITIES!
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
11. New building, 2 blocks from cam- *WASHER/DRYER IN UNIT!
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV, *,R
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate. $30070 FREE REVT!
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com *ON NORTH CAMPUS!
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992. THE
! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!! *COURTYARS
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom. S r V 1) tN t A RT I
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish- 17780 Broadway
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking. 734 994 6007
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!MAY STUDIO and I bedroom apts _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit -
www.postrealtyproperties.com *AVAILABLE FALL 20t0, Large 3
______________________________ bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
420 S. Division #2 *FALL2010 HUGE 2 Bdrm
8 MO. LEASE Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
5 BDRM $1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
$2200 *FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
SEPT 20 10 Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
(734) 663-5609 Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.com

WOODBI-1Y "k), 6 UNTIES
01110 Es (I~tLt is6_t, £11 . MNlES
The Choice is Yours!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ 1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Townhome
+ WIFI Ready
+ AATA Bus Line
+ 24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible LeaseTerms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
f Pool & Sauna
+ Pets Welcome
+ Continental Breakfast every Wed.
+ Concierge Resident Service
+ Business Center
+ Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
+ Roommate Leases Available
+ Hospitality Apartment
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
rus 734-663-7633
*AmenitiesVary by Property
www.WoodburyGardens.com
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
2BDRM CONDO, QUIET second
floor corner; balcony,a/c,laundry, prkg,
gym, heated pool, racket ball, sauna,
avail 6/1 or 5/1. $975. 734-761-9210.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-52750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
ApartmentsAvailabe!

!!!!!!!!!!! CENTRAL CAMPUS!!!!!!!!
APTS. AT UNBELIEVEABLE
SAVINGS
Discounted rates plus lots of extras
for free.
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
**AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E. Lib-
erty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5 min
walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
**NEAR UNION - studio to3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.

Studio & 1
Bdrm. Units
QtTower Plaza Condominiam
Cal rianT oms-
734-663- l530
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by March
31st. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.

HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURESAREACCEPTED
Ann Arbor - (888) 883-7083 " www.sciofarms.com
roai1130110Ypsilanti .(888) 310-6850.www.4lakeview.cOm

YggVarsity
Management
625 Church St -(734) 668-1100
1-BEDROOMS:
801 W.Madison -Old West Side, quiet neighborhood
1015 Vaughn-PerfectforBusinessorLawSchools
521Walnut-Newfuiture CCRBsolose
418 E.Washington - Grad Student Haven,studios too
2-BEDROOMS
1039 Baldwin -Newkitchens,hardwood floors
911& 1001.Forest-Free wireless,greatlocation
1015W.Huron8801W.Madison-OldWesttde
917Packard - Tonsof space for just a littlemoney
84lTappan-Location,location,&coveredparking
1015Vaughn-Graduatestudentsmustsee
3-BEDROOMS
331 Catherine- Kerrytown, allnewinteiior, gorgeous
1506Geddes-Onlylleft,solosetocentralcampuss
4-BEDROOMS
*1039Baldwin-Hardwoodfloors,highceilings
*1346Geddes-Perfect centralloc,hugebi-level
www.varsitymana.gem nt.com
AVAILABLE FOR FALL2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms apts. 734-222-9033.
www.jmsprop.com
FALL 2010 ! 1 bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
1221 S. State #2
8 MO. LEASE
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1028 Fuller - Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Famnished, onsite laund and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
heat, water and parking included. Call
Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
01028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
01116 While- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW TO AUGUST
'10!!! Rooms / EFFICIENCY/ 1 Bed
avail. now. $450-$500 + elec. Near Ctrl
Campus. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter in. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
Post Realty
:properties
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm-
(suitable for 3) apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave.
Furn, disposal, dwshr, Indry, prkg.
Walkout balcony. $1100 + elec. 734-
662-7121 or email gpmiles@aol.com
FALL 2010: GORGEOUS HOUSE!
719 McKinley: New kitchen (granite,
stainless dishwasher/range), laundry,
wood floors, newer bathroom, A/C,
Parking (5+ cars), 3 BR, Living Rm,
Dining Rm, Study Rm ($2,250/month).
For pictures/questions email
wabaningo@gmail.com
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view,
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
UNfM Diseounts!
H -.63843

DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorms),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*Broadview Apartments
Spacias Iberoom aparmen
'Spacious 2 bedrooms with master bath
"Shute around campus
'Large private balconies
with wooded views
'Pers welcome
'Models Open Daily
L.1 1 IBIT D UUIII
\ (XTENDEDHOUR)
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY TO MAY Leases
3 Bedrooms "Park Plaza"
1320S. University
Negotiable Rates
734-761-8000
primesh.com
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic campus, Law &
Business schools. Groups or individual.
SINGLE RM LEASES. $580/bdrm &
up. SIX-BD RM UNITS $3,480.00 and
up 734-418-2050
www.828greeneapts.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
wwwannarborapartments.net
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water

FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laondry
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768

PRESENT THE
Onine (laseifed
Reittal Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
STILL LOOKING FOR HOUSING
FOR FALL 2010?
Lets make a deal. 715 Church- 1 & 2
bedroom apartments. Only a few left!!
Close to B School, 1 block from South
U, big rooms, lots of closets and stor-
age space, many built-ins, nice
kitchens, tiled bath w/ double sinks and
friendly landlord. Call Ann 320-1244
or visit our website
www.churchstreetrentals.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734)769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, andutilitest
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.tcc.coop

I

200 N. INGALLS Summer-Sublet
$435/mo. utilities inc. great location
avail. May 3 to Aug. 19
jjacquem@umich.edu
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list 734-741-9300.
anonarhorapartments.net

0

1
3
1
1
1
1
2
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
3
3
41
4

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Shore thing 39 Most crazy 51 Mass seating
1 Relatives of odds 4 Take a powder 41 Limb 52 Repeat
5 Presently 5 See 32-Down immobilizers 53 Monorail unit
9 Attacks verbally 6 Big name in 42 Battle reminder 54 Grouch
14 Marjorie spongy toys 44 Chart 55 Popularversion
Moningstar's 7 Drop 45 Shrewd of a design
creator I Genesiu builders 48 Go after, as flies principle acronym
5 San - 9 Cheroot relatives 49 Choicelfor spelled out by the
16 Fortuneteller's 10 Literally, Spanish Hamlet Csarts of bthis
deck for "thetar 50 "Oncessa puzzleonfur
17 Old Dodge 11 Vicinity
18 Divas moment 12 Some spores, all midnight longest answers
19 More than plump grown up dreary ..." 56 Ooze
0 Park warning 13 Jeanne d'Arc et ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
3 Flier that had a al.: Abbr.
St. Louishub 21 Possesses SEwS A F I R E I N I T
4 Compete 22 Alternative to N C A A N A N A S T O N E
51971hit for odds O U T T A S I G H T A M F M
Ringo 25 Eliciting an E S S E S E A S E U P
13 Sticking places? "Ewwwl" M E R P L ASTER C A S T
14 Ford Field team 26 Takes a little off E L S A LOG RAT E S
15 Collar 27_.Lama
17 Firing chamber 28 Weather, in TAKEB11N L I P 0
8 First professional poems M I C RIO S O F T W O R D
musician to 29 _ Olay O N E I A S W A R M
bowe 30Backhbiter? A L C A N E 5 L E M I T
Chairman of the 31 Glitch w I L L I AM T E L L S P A
Board of Lincoln 32 With 5-Down, A P I E C E N I S E I
Center former PLO R O C A R O A D R U N N E R
9 Galileo spatran chairman D U N S O R T E A U T A H
0 Sumac of sog 36 Low STET S ER FORE
1 2009 "Survivor" 38lWordwith baror 5 T E T 5 E E R 5 F 0 R
seting days xwordeditor@aol.com 03/17/10

lwww.Bartonbrook.com. 734-665-56201
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400.LCalt 734-996-1991.
8 MONTH LEASES for fall. Two
houses to choose from: 7 bdrm for 8 at
S. University and Washtenaw, 6 bdrm
for 7- Mid S. Forest area. 734-260-4003
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DYR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
tome available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborpartmen net
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot
421 Blakely Ct- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?
Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
section on
Advertise in this Section
by contacting:
(734) 764-0557

4

ING CONSULTATIONS. Need guid-
ance? Jilliankerry@gmail.com, 734-
395-4999, www.jilliankerry.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x125.
FREE PORTFOLIO ATTRACTIVE
girls needed for nude/semi nude pho-
tography. Flex hours & great pay! Must
be 18 for interview. Call: 734-678-
4181 or email georgedl@provide.net
HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for healthy women
between the ages of 21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 for their involvement
in our program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.

42 Muslmmystics
43 Bone injury in
which the skin is
intact
46 Like
47 Posed
48 Regular
Letterman show
segment
57 Biker's invitation
58 Pale tan
59 Buffalo's lake
60 Concerned with
61 " the heck!"
62 Freelancer's
encl.
63 Word that may
appear above a
silhouette of a
mana
64 Nat all
65 1/2 fl.oz.
1 Hirsute 'Star
Wars" creature
2 Seward
Peninsula city

1 2 3 1 21 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 113
14 15 16
17 18 19
20 22
23 24
2fi 26 ZT 28 29 30 31 32
33 34 35 36
37 38 39
ao a1 az
43 a4 a5
as 47
48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 58
S7 58 59
80 61 62
83 $4 65
By Donna S. Levin 03/18/10
(e)20I0 Tribune Media Services, Inc.




A

A 1


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Al-Qaida leader believed
to be killed by U.S. miss*le

Leader said to have
played a key role in
bombing of CIA post
in Afghanistan
WASHINGTON (AP) - An
al-Qaida leader believed to have
played a key role in the bombing
of a CIA post in Afghanistan last
December was apparently killed
by an American missile strike last
week, a senior U.S. official said
yesterday.
The counterterrorism, offi-
cial said Hussein al-Yemeni was
believed killed in a strike in
Miram Shah, the main town in
North Waziristan. The official
spoke on condition of anonym-
ity to discuss sensitive informa-
tion.
Drone strikes in Pakistan's bor-
der region, largely conducted by
the CIA, have escalated in recent
months, proving an effective
BANKS
From Page 1A
ity of the bill passing by creating
a contingency plan that takes into
account the potential change in
the system.
"We think that ultimately
what's going to happen is that
the government will be doing the
direct student funding and banks
will be doing private student lend-
ing," he said.
Kelly added that recently the
number of private student loans
has been steadily increasing,
while federal student loans have
been falling.
Lisa Westermann, a spokes-
woman for Wells Fargo, wrote in
an e-mail statement that regard-
less of the proposed legislation,
Wells Fargo would continue to
support students in any way that
they can.
"We remain committed to serv-
ing the financial needs of students
and families through responsible
lending of student loan prod-
ucts and to our team members
who serve these customers," she
wrote.
In a conference call with col-
lege journalists yesterday, U.S.
Rep. Timothy Bishop (D-NY)
responded to critics who have
said that the plan will lead to the
loss of jobs within the student aid
LEARN
From Page 1A
" Tony Fama, co-creator of the
program and president of the
MariaMadeline Project - anorga-
nization that provides resources
for baby-boomers - said LEARN
participants can watch online
instructor-led courses, download
workbooks and take an indepen-
dent study class without the con-
straints of a traditional classroom
setting.
All of the courses are housed
on the Maria Madeline Project's
website, SOplusprime.com, which
is geared toward baby-boomers,
Fama said.
Fama said the courses offered
by the program help baby-boomers
who have lost their jobs learn the

new skills necessary to compete in
the current job market.
"People are going to need to re-
MSA
From Page 1A
an issue," Armstrong said.
Armstrong added that offering
students the option of Saturday
night dining is important because
for many students Saturday night
is a "large drinking night," and a
lack of an option for dinner could
be "dangerous" for those who can-
not afford to eat in Ann Arbor res-
taurants and choose to drink on an
empty stomach.
Armstrong, who also serves as
chair of MSA's LGBT Commission,
said if elected, he will build a better
relationship between the RHA and
MSA to discuss and implement a
Saturday night dining option in the
dining halls.
According to a Feb. 17, 2009
* report in the Daily, then-LSA Rep.
Timothy Bekkers, who introduced
the resolution along with Business
Rep. and MForward member Alex
Serwer and LSA Rep. Virat Gupta,
called the lack of Saturday night
dining a "pretty big social justice
issue."
"Ithink (closed dininghalls) hurt
the people who can least afford to
be here at this school already," Bek-
kers said at the time.
Then-Student General Counsel

way to target al-Qaida and Tal-
iban leaders hiding in the rugged
mountainous border. While Paki-
stani officials have criticized the
strikes, it is widely believed that
Islamabad privately supports the
attacks and works with the U.S. to
provide intelligence.
CIA director Leon Panetta
said the stepped-up campaign
has driven Osama bin Laden and
other leaders deeper into hiding
and left al-Qaida and the Taliban
in Pakistan's tribal regions in dis-
array.
"Those operations are seriously
disrupting al-Qaida," Panetta told
The Washington Post in an inter-
view. "It's pretty clear from all the
intelligence we are getting that
they are having a very difficult
time putting together any kind of
command and control, that they
are scrambling. And that we really
do have them on the run."
Al-Yemeni is considered an
important al-Qaida planner and
explosives expert who had estab-

lished contact with groups rang-
ing from al-Qaida in the Arabian
Peninsula to Afghan and Paki-
stani Taliban militant groups. He
is also known as Ghazwan al-
Yemeni.
The counterterrorism official
said al-Yemeni was in his late 20s
or early 30s and was a conduit in
Pakistan for funds, messages, and
recruiting but that he specialized
in suicide operations.
A jihadist Web site linked to
al-Qaida recently announced his
death, said Bruce Riedel, a former
CIA officer who now is a senior
fellow at the Brookings Institu-
tion's Saban Center.
"This is another sign that drone
operations and stepped-up efforts
against al-Qaida are having an
impact in the tribal regions,"
Riedel said yesterday. He said
al-Yemeni served prison time
in Yemen in 2005 before being
released and has since moved
through Afghanistan and Iran
and was a trainer for the Taliban.

HLC
From Page 1A
theHLC committeefeltthe Univer-
sity should focus additional atten-
tion to one area within the first
criterion, which calls for the Uni-
versity to operate "with integrity to
ensure the fulfillment of its mission
through structures and processes
that involve the board, administra-
tion, faculty, staff and students."
Without going into extensive
detail during the meeting, Fernan-
dez said the University should
ensure this pledge is held and con-
tinues to be upheld by taking a look
at its commitment to diversity.
However, Fernindez reported
the concern was minor enough that
the HLC delegation would not pro-
pose outside intervention, instead
telling University officials they
should look into the matter.
At the meeting, University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman said she
was happy with the process and
was appreciative of the hard work
both members of the HLC delega-
tion and officials at the University
had put into the process.
In an interview following the
meeting, Coleman declined to com-
ment on the concern regarding
diversity raised by the HLC delega-
GRAFFITI
From Page 1A
to pay to remove any graffiti on
their buildings.
The ordinance was implement-
ed after City Council received
complaints from people who
believed many property owners
did not care enough to remove
graffiti when it appeared on their
buildings.
City Councilmember Chris
Taylor (D -Ward 3), one of the
sponsors of the initial proposal
for the graffiti ordinance, said
that while City Council hasn't
analyzed official numbers, he
believes the ordinance is doing
its job.
"Where I used to see graffiti,
I'm not seeing it anymore," Tay-
lor said.
According to Taylor, City
Council is waiting to review the
ordinance until a report is fin-
ished in upcoming months.
Though graffiti is sprawled on
sides of property in Graffiti Alley,
the area remains unaffected by
the ordinance simply because

Lion, saying it was too early to dis-
cuss the matter since the University
had notyet receivedthe delegation's
report. However, Coleman said she.
appreciated the delegation's input
and advice, adding that the com-
mittee was trying to help the Uni-
versity advance its work.
HLC delegates will now return
to their respective universities and
will work on drafting the commit-
tee's report to the HLC. The com-
mittee has four to six weeks to draft
the report, but Fernindez said in an
interview Monday that he expects
the report tobe compiled earlier.
Once the reportis written, a draft
will be sentto University officials to
review for factual accuracy over a
two-week period. In the interview,
Fernindez stressed that University
officials would only be allowed to
offer factual corrections - like if a
name or date was mixed up.
After the committee reviews the
draft with suggested corrections, it
will finalize its report and will sub-
mitittothe HLC Board of Trustees
who will make the official decision
about whether or not to reaccredit
the University.
It is possible that if the University
does not agree with the assessment
offered by the HLC delegation in its
report, it could appeal the findings.
However, Coleman did not make
people have chosen not to file
complaints, according to City
Councilmember Sandi Smith (D-
Ward 1). The ordinance is geared
toward new graffiti that appears
on the sides of clean buildings.
"There is a gray area in the
ordinance, which is for art on
the side of a building," Smith
said. "It seems to me that every-
body looks at Graffiti Alley
as something they don't want
whitewashed."
Smith cited the mural on the
side of Potbelly's at the corner of
South State Street and East Lib-
erty Street as another example of
art on a building. Even if some-
one were to complain about the
mural, the city would likely not
require its removal.
Smith said that she was not a
big proponent of the ordinance
when it was passed, though
she has yet to notice any major
changes to the frequency of graf-
fiti as a result of it.
"I don't know that we see any
more or less (graffiti) than we did
before," Smith said. "In terms of
what deems it a success, I guess
that's in the eye of the beholder."

Thursday, March 18, 2010 - 7A
any indication yesterday that she
planned to do so based on what she
knows about the HLC's findings at
this point.
TheUniversityundergoes areac-
creditation review every 10 years.
During the last review in 2000, the
HLC did not raise concerns about
diversity in its report.
"With strong leadership from
the president, provost and execu-
tive officer, the University of
Michigan is a national leader in its
passionate commitment to diversity
and affirmative action," the 2000
reaccreditation delegation from the
HLC wrote in its report.
It is not yet known what the HLC
delegation will include in it's report
to the HLC Board of Trustee's and
what statement, if any, willbe includ-
ed abouttheir commentson diversity.
The HLC delegation arrived on
campus Sunday to start a two-day
series of interviews that ran on
Monday and Tuesday before leav-
ing after yesterday morning's exec-
utive briefing.
However, HLC representatives
have been working on review-
ing University documentation for
quite some time prior to their visit.
University officials have been pre-
paring the documentation and
coordinating the site visit for the
past three years.
When The Michigan Daily
checked the progress of the
graffiti ordinance in July 2009,
the system for reporting graffiti
was complaint-based, meaning a
resident had to file a complaint
with the city in order for the city
to issue notices to property own-
ers.
According to Taylor, the same
method is still used for the ordi-
nance.
Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Diane Brown said
it's difficult to measure the fre-
quency of graffiti on campus.
Just like the city's complaint sys-
tem, not all cases of graffiti are
reported to DPS.
Brown also said the University
allows a certain level of artis-
tic expression. University policy
permits temporary graffiti, like
chalk, on horizontal surfaces.
Anything written with a perma-
nent material, like paint, or on
a vertical surface is considered
destruction of property.
"We want to embrace free-
dom of expression but not to the
point of destruction of property,"
Brown said.


business, saying that private loan
and bank programs will still be
allowed to operate. He added that
the loss of jobs won't be too sig-
nificant, because the student aid
industry isn't very "labor inten-
sive."
"The direct student loan pro-
gram still relies on private con-
tractors, banks to service loans
and to do some of the adminis-
tration of loans," Bishop said. "So
there's going to be work under
this program, in fact there contin-
ues to be work under this direct
student loan program."
Bishop said the student aid plan
requires the balancing of resourc-
es and making sure that the bill
will be beneficial to both students
and employees who work in the
student loan industry.
"There's no question in terms of
the benefit to students, benefit to
families. And because of the fact
that there will still be a role for
private servicers in the system,
we think we've struck the right
balance with the SAFRA law."
Pamela Fowler, executive direc-
tor for the University's Office of
Financial Aid, wrote in an e-mail
interview that, for the 2008-2009
academic year, 1,833 undergradu-
ates used private lenders for their
loan needs.
Students are eligible for two
types of student loans, either sub-
sidized or unsubsidized, with the

latter not based on need.
Fowler added that for the 2008-
2009 year, 7,512 undergradu-
ate students received subsidized
loans, while 8,160 undergraduate
students received unsubsidized
loans.
Fowler noted that there is
duplication between the num-
bers, as some students receive
both subsidized and unsubsidized
loans.
Williams of the U.S. Public
Interest Research Group said he
believes the proposed legislation
is important because students like
those at the University who tak-
ing out loans are incurring debt
that has increased dramatically
over time.
"Just twelve years ago, only
one-third of students needed to
borrow to go to college, and their
average debt was $12,000," he
said. "In 2008, two-thirds of col-
lege students are borrowing to
graduate and their average debt is
closer to $25,000."
Kantrowitz of Finaid.org said
he thinks the proposed legislation
could benefit parties other than
students taking out the loans.
"The argument is that you get
all of the savings," Kantrowitz
said. "You can use the savings
for a combination of student aid,
other priorities and deficit reduc-
tion, and you don't have to raise
taxes to increase student aid."


brand themselves," he said.
The goal of the courses is to help
participants find the right career
by gainaing a better understanding
of their strengths.
"We're the bridge between the
former career and the new career,"
he said.
Once the participants choose a
career, LEARN will help them find
the right school for their occupa-
tion and teach them how to fund
that education, Fama said.
Wooten said she chooses the
courses for the program based
on research about the sectors in
which opportunities for employ-
ment are growing.
According to the Department
of Energy, Labor and Economic
Growth, from October 2007 to
October 2009, jobs in the private
health care and social assistance
sectors grew 2.4 percent. Dura-
ble goods manufacturing jobs
declined 26.4 percent in that same

time period.
Because health care has sur-
passed manufacturing as the
leading industry in Michigan, the
program wanted to offer those
courses first, in order to give its
participants the "greatest benefit,"
Fama said.
Courses to come later this
year include classes on emerging
technologies and governmental
non-profit jobs, as well as some
intermediate computer skills
training.
Wooten said she is excited to
offer the computer-based courses
because they can help unemployed
workers create a resume.
Thus far, there has been a large
amount of interest in the program
due to its advertisements on the
Fox 2 news channel, according to
Fama.
"In one week we've seen a huge
jump in our website traffic," he
said. "It really is unbelievable."

PTC IS HIRING!
- 5 entry level programmers
- Comp Sci degree (or equiv)
- Based in Ann Arbor, MI
Tinyurl.com/ASWEAnnArbor
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: MichiganTelefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply (i,
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
OCCASIONAL BABYSITTER(S)
for 2 & 4 yr olds. Exp., refs., and
transp. required. Dog & cat in house.
$10/hour. Call Emily at 734-975-4310.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

RESPONSIBLE, ACTIVE, CAR-
ING, and creative care giver required
for 8 yr. old boy & 10 yr. old girl this
summer. Req./details: female student -
jr, sr, or grad at UofM pref; own car;
required between June 14-Aug 27;
8am- 6pm daily; $10/hr. West side of
Ann Arbor. Call Lisa @ 734-997-9676.


and current Rackham Rep. Michael
Benson said at the time that MSA
would push RHA to offer the option,
accordingto the Daily article.
"It's an issue that affects all of
our constituents," he said at the
time. "So now we'll work collabora-
tively, as we have in the past, with
RHA to try and find some sort of a
solution."
Caitlin Sadler, president of the
Residential Hall Association, said in
an interview this week thatthe issue
of Saturday nightdiningcould be via-
ble with sufficient student interest.
"If the students currently in the
residence halls are very interested...
it's definitely something that could
be solved," Sadler said.
University Housing spokes-
man Peter Logan echoed Sadler's
sentiments, saying that Saturday
night dining was cancelled in 2005
because of the low student turnout
in the dining halls. A dinner option
for Sunday - which hadn't been
available since 1965 - was revived
instead.
"It was determined that the stu-
dent interest at that time was more
geared toward a Sunday evening
meal," Logan said. "Saturday eve-
ning dining did not have significant
participation in it because, as you
can imagine, many students have
differentplans on Saturday night."

Logan added that maintaining
both Saturday and Sunday din-
ner options would cost Univer-
sity dining facilities an additional
$300,000.
"When we make a significant
change in operations that has an
increase in expense, we have to fig-
ure out a way to offset that expense
so that we aren't making it an addi-
tionalburdenontheresidential stu-
dent," he said.
"I doubt very much, personally,
that students at this point would
want to undertake an additional
meal that would add sufficiently to
their board expenses," Logan said.
East Quad resident and LSA
senior Elizabeth Jackson said Sat-
urday night dining would be con-
venient, especially during the cold
winter months.
"During winter, I don't want to
leave the dorm, and I don't want to
pay for delivery," she said.
Engineering sophomore Wil-
liam Mohr, said he doesn't mind
the lack of a dinner option on Satur-
day nights because it gives him an
excuse to eat out with friends over
the weekend.
"It's a nice break from cafeteria
food," Mohr said.
- Daily Staff Reporter Suzanne
Jacobs contributed to this report.

LOCAL BEER DISTRIBUTOR paid
summer internship. Sales, special
events, marketing. Business student,
21, w/ cr. Firs ehrs. O & W, Inc. 734-
410-4012 or email info@onmbeer.com
THE 2010 CANCER RESEARCH
SUMMER INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
As part of its Cancer Biology Training
Program, the University of Michigan
Comprehensive Cancer Center, in part
with funding from the National Insti-
tutes of Health (NIH) is providing expo-
sure to cancer research for highly moti-
vated and talented college undergradu-
ates. This program will provide the suc-
cessful applicants an opportunity to ex-
plore potential careers in the field of
cancer research. In keeping with the
terms of the NIH grant, we especially
encourage applications from individu-
als from populations that are currently
underrepresented in biomedical and be-
havioral research. The program is
aimed at students who are completing
their sophomore or junior undergradu-
ate year this spring.
The program will run for ten weeks,
June 7th - August 13th, 40 hrs/ week.
Students selected who do not currently
have U-M mentors will be matched
with an appropriate U-M faculty. Only
U.S. citizens or permanent resident
aliens are eligible to apply. Interns will
be paid $4,500 for the 10 week period.
Your application must be uploaded by
March31 at the following site:
www.mcancer.org/carsip
Questions? Contact Car Nosel at
cnosel@umich.edu

For Friday, March 19, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 toApril 19)
The next four weeks are all about you,
dear Aries. It's your turn to recharge
your batteries for the rest of the year.
Fontunately, people and opportunities
wilt bedrawn to you inexplicubly.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Work alone or behind the scenes for
the next month. You need time to think
about what you want your new year
(birthday to birthday) tobe all about.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
You have a popular month ahead. Get
out and schmooze with others. Accept all
invitations. Join clubs, groups and
organizations.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
For the next six weeks, the Sun will be
at high noon in your chart, shining down
on you like a spotlight. Others will
notice you more thanusual-especially
bosses, parents, teachers and VIPs.
Make the most of this!
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Make plans to travel. You want to
broaden your horizons. Any kind of
study or the exploration of new subjects
and ideas will delight you.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
In the month ahead, you'll be more
focused on debt, insurance matters,
inheritances, bills, taxes and the wealth
and resources of others, especially part-
ners. You want to figure things out.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is the time ofculmination in your
life when youare seeing some successes,
and, at the same time, seeing what you
have to let go. The quicker you do this,

the happier you'll be.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You're keen to get better organized!
You want your life to run more effi-
ciently and effectively. Therefore, get
the appropriate tools to improve things.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
You feel playful, flirtatious, prankish
and full of fun! The next six weeks are
perfect for a vacation, love affairs,
romance, playful activities with children
and sports.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Home, family and your domestic
issues will be your primary focus for the
next month. Discussions with a parent
could be significant. Tackle home
repairs.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
You're keen to enlighten others. The
next six weeks are a wonderful time for
writers, teachers, actors and people who
work in sales and marketing.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Write down your moneymaking ideas.
Your focus is definitely on your cash
flow and your financial scene in the next
six weeks. Whee!
YOU BORN TODAY Many of you
are multitalented, but your success is
also due to your dogged perseverance
and your ability to perfect your talents.
People find you charming because no
matter what you do, you have an almost
innocent purity. You're always active
and hardworking. This year, you have an
opportanity to study or learn something
important to you.
Birthdate of: Jeanne Beker, fashion
journalist; Glenn Close, actress; Bruce
Willis, actor.

os2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

I


6

8A - Thursday, March 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


The Daily's bracket
Picks by Managing Sports Editor Ryan Kartje
and Editor in Chief Jacob Smilovitz

After much number-crunching and Cinderella search-
ing, we've have had enough arguing with each other.
We've prepared what we believe is this year's golden
NCAA bracket. Have fun watching it fail miserably.

0



First Round Second Round Sweet 16 Etlte Eight Final Four NATIONAL Final Four Elite Eight Sweet 16 Second Round First Round
March 18-19 March 20-21 March 25-26 March 27-28 April 3 CHAMPIONSHIP April 3 March 27-28 March 25-26 March 20-21 March 18-19



1) Kansas (32-2
(16 Lehigh (22-10) Oklahomo City
(8) UNLV (25-8)
(9) Northern Iowa (28-4)
(5) Michigan St. (24-8)-
(12) New Mexico St. (22-11) spokane, Wash.
(4) Maryland(23-8)
(13) Houston (19-15)'
Tenness e 25-8IDWE ST
" ST. LOUIS
1 1 San DieoSt. 25-8 providence, .I.
3 Georgetown 23-10
(14) Ohio (21-14)
k
07 klahomg St. (22-M---
10 Georgio Tech 22-12 Milwaukee
2 Ohio St. 27-7
(15) UC Santa Barbara 20-9
INDIANAPOLIS
April 3
1 Syracuse 28-4
16 Vermont 25-9 Buffalo, N.Y.
(8) Gonza a (26-6)
9) Florida St. 22-9
5 Butler 28-4
(12) UTEP (26-6) son Jos*
4 Vanderbilt 24-8
(13 Murray St. (30-4 WEST-.
(6) Xavier 24-8)AECT
SALT LAKE CITY
11 Minnesota 21-13 Milwaukee
3 Pittsburgh 24-8)
(14) Oakland (26-8)
7 Brigham Young 29-5),
10 Florida 21-12 Okahoma City
2 Kansas St. 26-7)"
(15) North Texas (24-8)"

INDIANAPOLIS
April 5
CH PIO
ccr

1 Kentucky 32-2
New Orleans 16 East Tenn. St (20-14
(8) Texas (24-9)
(9) Wake Forest (19-10)
(5) Temple (29-5)
Jackson ii.e FI. (12) Cornetl (27-4)
(4) Wisconsin (23-8)
(13) Wafford (26-8)
EA ST Mar uett 22-11
SYRACUSE
san , 11 Washin ton 24-9
3 New Mexico 29-4
(14) Montana (22-9)
7 1 n 1-10
Bsuffalo. N.Y. 10 Missouri 22-10
2 West Virginia 27-6
15 Morgan St. 27-9
16a1Arkansas-P 71
INDIANAPOLIS
April 3 16b)Winthrop19-13) OPENING ROUND OAME
1 k 29-51
Jockonnilln, Fs. 16 Ark-PB/Winthrop
California 23-10
9 Louisville 20-12
5 Texas A&M 23-9
Spokane, Wash. 12 Utah St.(27-7
4 Purdue 27-5
SOUTH 13 Siena 27-6
HOUSTON 6 or Dm (2-1
New Orleans 11 Old Dominion 26-8
\M ( 3 Baytor 25-7
(14 Sam Houston St. 25-7
1 7 Richmond 26-8
Providence, a. 10 Saint Mary's 26-5
(2 Villanova 24-7
15 Robert Morris 23-11

6
6

R
In summer,
Yale turns,
up the,. heat.
And you'reinvited.
In summer, Yale takes over 200 courses
in Humanities, Science, Drama, Art,
and more, and condenses 13 weeks
of learning into a five-week curriculum.
Are you up for it?
z i
Full Yale University credit.
Two five-week intensive sessions.
May 31- July 2
July 5-August 6
Residential College living
See website for information and application requirements.
www.yale.edu/suinmer
Email: summer.session @yale.edu 203 432-2430
Yale Summer Session
SAME VERITAS. MORE Lux.

ine loiowing stuUents wiu oe among tiose recognizes uuringshe ronors uonvocaluon
program on Sunday, March 21, 2010. These individuals have demonstrated the highest
(evel of undergraduate academic success by achieving seven or more consecutive terms
of all A's and earning the designation of Angell Scholar. The University of
Michigan congratulates these students on their superior scholastic achievement and
wishes them continued success. Check the Honors Convocation website at:
www.honors.umich.edu for more information on the Honors Convocation program.

Ten Term Angell Scholar
Christine Nicole Beamer*
Nine Term Angell Scholar
Amir A. AI-Dabagh*
Eight Term Angell Scholai
Adam Munther Ajlouni*
Rana A. Al-Dabagh
Kohei Fujimoto*
Thomas Stewart Hooker*
Elizabeth Helen Klemperer*
Amanda Kathleen MacDonald*
Alan Elijah Mishler*
Hannah Rose Sheehy*
Wan Ying Teoh
Eszter Zavodszky*
Seven Term Angell Schol
Dmitriy Ansolis
Michael Colin Arbit
Andrew Herbert Bissonette
Timothy Dobson Blasius
Alfred Chung
Ginger Cline
Frank Michael Davis
Shannon Barbara Dibble
Alex Richard Dopp*
Diana Joyce Flora*
Sara Elizabeth Fortin*
Meghan Kathleen Gallagher
Robin Lily Goldberg
Megan Lynn Haubert*
Daniel J. Hermes
James John Ignatz-Hoover
David Andrew Lawrenchuk
Alexandra Leigh Legutko
Stephanie R. Mantey
Michael Thompson McCann
Eric Raymond Muir*
Paula Therese Muldoon
Dominic Joseph Piro*
Lesley Helen Plimpton
Katie A. Schott
Charles Frank Schuler IV
Trevor William Sponseller
Joseph Alexander Starek*
Elisebeth Claire Turner*
Mounica Vallurupalli*
Andrew Garrad Warren
Steven Carl Weindorf
Elizabeth Reed Yarina
*Denotes graduates

School of Music, Theatre & Dance
College of Arts and Sciences-UM Flint
rs

College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Arts and Sciences-UM Flint
College of Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Music, Theatre & Dance
School of Nursing
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts


ars
College of Engineering and Computer Science-UM Dearborn
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Engineering and Computer Science-UM Dearborn
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Health Professions and Studies-UM Flint
College of Engineering
College of Engineering
School of Music, Theatre & Dance
College of Engineering
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
College of Arts and Sciences-UM Flint
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Music, Theatre & Dance
College of Engineering
School of Music, Theatre & Dance
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Music, Theatre & Dance
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning


t


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 18, 2010 - 9A

Recruiting victory
pays huge dividends
for Michigan golf
By MICHAEL WELCH Intercollegiate in late October,
For the Daily which placed Michigan in first at
the event.
It came down to a battle That impressive showing - the
between Michigan and Wisconsin team's lowest round this year -
to land the prized golf recruit. has continued into the spring sea-
And in the end, Michigan won. son.
"We were able to wrangle him Schultz had the best record at
away from the Badgers," Michigan the Big Ten Match Play and led
coach Andrew Sapp said of Jack the Wolverines at the Fresno State
Schultz. Lexus Classic.
Schultz, a Wisconsin resident His only disappointment is
and the 31st-ranked recruit in the that he didn't shoot an under-par
country, mentioned Michigan's round.
strong academics, great team But he said his plan is to shoot
atmosphere and the distance from under par in Boca Raton next
home as major reasons for choos- week and doesn't feel pressure to
ing Michigan. improve his game.
According to Sapp and Schultz, "My short game's been getting
the rest has gone , a lot better lately,"
accordingto plan. Schultz said. "In
At the begin- Fresno, I didn't
ning of the sea- "W e kind of hit it as well but I
son, Schultz got up and down
established him- expected him and hit a bunch of
self as one of putts so hopefully
the starters and to come right in I'll be able to put it
hasn't lost his 1j 1, together."
place since. and help US." Sapp is assured
Sapp has not of Schultz's all-
been surprised by around game and
Schultz's play. believes focus will
"We kind of expected him to be the key to the freshman's con-
come right in and help us right sistency down the stretch.
away," Sapp said. "I think it's just maintaining
In Michigan's first two tour- his focus when he's playing two
naments in late September, Jack rounds a day," Sapp said. "But, he
finished third both times and his has the ability when he gets in a
strong first day at the Wolverine groove to click off some birdies
Invitational contributed to the and pars one after the other."
Michigan team's only tournament Sapp has stressed this' focus
victory this season. for the team as well, hoping that
Confidence has been integral to toward the end of the season the
Schultz's strong play this year, and team will start strong and close
it showed when he followed two out tournaments when they are
poor tournaments with a nine- gunning for the win on the final
under first day at the Bridgestone day.
THINK YOU HAVE THE
PERFECT BRACKET?
Well, ours is better
than yours.
SEE PAGE 8A FOR THE
DAILY'S OFFICIAL PICKS
FOR THIS YEAR'S DANCE

Lebler playing best hockey
as M' career winds down

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
When Brian Lebler came to Ann
Arbor, most of the time he was
gasping for air.
"He was a lumbering skater.
He would just kind of lumber up
and down the ice. He had limited
endurance. When we would do our
down-and-backs, he would just
die. SoI was all over him about his
conditioning, about his weight."
For the senior, two words are
more important than the rest of
Michigan coach Red Berenson's
take on his early time with the
Michigan hockey team - "was"
and "would."
Despite his past shortcom-
ings, with his Michigan career
dwindling Lebler has elevated his
game and, according to Berenson
is, "playing the best hockey of his
career right now," and it's hard to
argue against it. The Penticton,
British Columbia native has set
career highs in goals (12) assists
(9) and points (21) this season and
proved to be more of a factor than
the stats have shown.
In Michigan's series-clinching
win over Michigan State last Sat-
urday, the game-winning goal
came from Lebler's linemate,
freshman Chris Brown. But it was
Lebler who hit a Spartan defense-
man in the corner to free up the
puck. Lebler then rolled to the net
to get a whack at the puck, right
before Brown found it and put it
in.

"He's a physical force out there
and that might have led to Brown's
winning goal," Berenson said. "It's
not a pretty goal but it looks pretty
goal on paper."
The late game effort was miss-
ing in Lebler's previous seasons,
as his conditioning and skating
wasn't where it needed to be. He
played in just 29 of the team's 41
games as a sophomore, registering
just eight points. 1
But last season, he took a small
step forward, scoring 16 points
and establishing himself as a
power forward for the Wolverines.
"Last year I thought we a saw
big difference in his condition-
ing and his skating and he looked
lighter on his feet and he was play-
ing lighter," Berenson said. "Then,
he got working on his shot ... then
he got working on his work ethic
.... When all those things start
coming together you start getting
some results."
Lebler's physicality and his
6-foot-3, 212 pound frame have
found him a niche at power for-
ward on the third line, playing
along with Brown and freshman
A.J. Treais.
The three have been playing
together since the start of the
postseason and have notched two
goals in four games.
As the only veteran presence on
the line, Lebler has been forced
into a leadership role.
"I feel like I have to be a leader
everywhere," Lebler said. "But
those two guys are mature hock-


ARIEL BOND/Daily
Senior Brian Lebler is playing "his best hockey," according to coach Red lerenson.
ey players and they know what and howyou'retryingtogetbetter,
they're. doing out there. ... I don't and how you're trying to become a
feel like I have to carry them, or better player every year."
I don't feel like they don't know INJURY NOTES: Senior captain
what they're doing out there. Chris Summers will be out for
Sometimes I feel like they're kind both games this weekend with a
of teaching me." knee injury. He hasn't skated since
Michigan plays for its season he left Michigan's Mar. 6 game
on Friday against No. 2 Miami in against Lake Superior State.
the CCHA semifinals, Berenson Junior goalie Bryan Hogan
won'tbe quite as uneasy about see- skated in his first full practice yes-
ing Lebler "lumber" down the ice. terday since injuring his knee Feb.
Something has finally clicked. 25. Berenson has stated thatjunior
"I think he, like a lot of players Shawn Hunwick is his starting
he finally gets it," Berenson said. goalie, but is still unsure whether
"He gets it. He gets the fact of how Hogan will dress in the backup
hard you have to work every day, role.

ON HUMAN VLES
SYMPOSIUM ON THE TANNER .ECTUR
;USAN NEIMAN
nofh~me FrdoMAT ORRAIN -DA e":'
ARCH 26,2 010 I 4:00 PM
EXALANDER NEHAMAS
UNIVERSITY OF AICHRGAN

SusanJ. Douglas
returns to Nicol is
Books to talk about
her new book
En/l'ligtevd, Sexism.
Discussion, Q&A and
signing to follow.
THuRsoAY, MARcH is
7:00 P.M.
NicoLA's Boots
WESTGATE SHOPPING
CEtTER
TIMES BOOKS
An imprint of
Henry Halt and company
wwwisen*yhaltam
wwwasasjdaotglas.cram

THE SFOUC VE MES5{tG
rOAIS p3NE
FEMINISM'S wotK
x
i
=j
h fl'
+w q
z
v6LA
pofY of

"A must-read: whip-smart, witty,
and scathingl inshtful.
Susan Douglas has penned a brilliant-and often funny-
critique of the myths about equality, ambition, and
femininity that are currently being served up as 'reality' in
Our media-crazed culture."
-SUSAN JANE GILMAN, BESTSELLING AUTHOR OF
HYPOCRITE IN A POUFFY WHITE DRESS

Saturday, March 27th - Screening of
8:00 p.m. A documentary
about The Night Ministry health outreach
bus in Chicago, musical introduction by
Jerome's Dance Grooves and Steve Rush.
Director Todd Lillethun and Director of
Photography Brendan Kirwin will join us.
Sunday, March 28th -
5:00 p.m. A festive re-creation
of the triumphal entry of Christ into
Jerusalem. We'll have a Jazz parade!
Thursday, April 1st -
5:30 p.m. A simple Mediterranean meal
in commemoration of The Last Supper.
Friday, April 2nd -
5:30 p.m. Featuring a reading of the
Passion Gospel by the women of Canterbury
House.
Friday, April 2nd -
8:00 p.m. The life of Jesus
has inspired films ranging from "The
Greatest Story Ever Told" to "The Life of
Brian." Bring your jammies and a pillow!
Saturday, April 3rd -
8:00 p.m. A culmination of the Holy
Week celebration, with fire-juggling and
the re-telling in scripture and music of the

SUSAN J. DOUGLAS
I hor o WI L IE THEG IRLS A RI

.

I


10A - Thursday, March 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Borseth lifting Wolverines out of shadows

M ichigan women's
basketball has been
basement dweller for
most of its 36-year history. But
those years of obscurity appear to
be over. A
When
Michigan SCARANO
coach Kevin On Women's
Borseth took Basketball
the job inAnn
Arbor three years ago, the pro-
gram had seen six postseasons

and never advanced past the
second round ina national tour-
nament.
Borseth went to the WNIT in
his first year at the helm, and the
Wolverines wound up losing to
Michigan State. After going10-20
in his second year, the Wolverines
sat on the NCAA Tournament
bubble going into Monday's Selec-
tion Day. While they didn't make
the pool of 64, Michigan is poised
to make a deep run in the Nation-

al Invitational Tournament - and
that could be a blessing. If it had
made the NCAA, that would have
meant playing at one of a number
of sites spread throughout the
country against the best teams
in the nation. Advancing would
have been a tall task for a young
team with very little postseason
experience.
But Michigan can very realisti-
cally do some damage in the NIT,
and a championship could take

Help convince
to bring high speed
broadband to your
A2 home!
Visit www.a2fiber.com
Crea a YouTube video
www.youtube.com/a2fiber
Become a fan
www.facebook com/a2fiber
Follow on Twitter
www.twitter.com/a2fiber
TELL EVERYONE YOU KNOW
TO DO THE SAME.
Internet access 100 tirmes faster
than your current cable/DSL
The University of Michigan and the City of Ann
Arbor have teamed up to convince Google to
pick Ann Arbor for Google's Fiber for Com-
munities trial. One of the key components of
Google's selection process is applicants must
demonstrate strong community support and
participation.

the program out of the shadows.
And maybe next season they will
see the NCAA. After all, with
two starting freshmen and four
returning starters, having a num-
ber of familiar faces in the next
three years is only goingto play
to Michigan's advantage, helping
them alongthe road to becoming
a basketball powerhouse.
And Friday's first-round NIT
matchup against Kent State (20-
10 overall, 12-4 MAC) is just the
beginning.
"I'm just thrilled,
excited, anxious," fresh-
man guard Jenny Ryan
said. "I have no idea what
to expect. We're just so
excited because it's a new
thing for a lot of us. Half
the team has never seen
postseason play before, so
it's crazy."
As he has done on two
occasions in past coaching
jobs, Borsethlooks to turn
the program around. He
took Michigan Tech to the
NCAA Division II Tourna-
ment seven times in his 11
years as head coach before
coaching University of Wis-
consin-Green Bay to seven
NCAA tournament berths
in his nine years there.
This has been the first

year players recruited by Borseth
have seen significant minutes,
and with three graduating seniors
and only one junior, the program
will be almost entirely picked by
the veteran postseason tourna-
ment coach next year.
While Borseth didn't have
much of a choice in starting two
freshmen this season after six
seniors graduated lastyear - four
of whom started - not only has
it proved a success, but the expe-
rience freshman gaurds Ryan
and Dayeesha Hollins will have
gained going into their sopho-
more year could help the team
finish out those few extra games
they needed for a Tourney bid.
There is no question that before
the talented freshman class ledby
Ryan and Hollins complete their
careers at Michigan, the team, like
the others Borseth has taken to
new heights, will no longer be one
of anonymity.
"I think that anybody around
basketball that understands rec-
ognizes what we're going through
in trying to build our program,"
Borseth said on Big Ten Media
Day before the season. "I think
they can see that. It's going to
work. It's worked every other
place, and it's going to work here.
It's just the amount of time it's
going to take."

6

40

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Michigan coach Kevin Borseth led Green lay and
Michigan Tech to postseason appearances.



Wakepa.
.m._ptheC

EI

6

Party I

THINK
THESE ARE
COOL?

ans/Coors Ligh
ff Pints- All 28 Drafts
Heineken & Amstel ligh
I A Winne A 01

Guys: Free Cover With This
210 South FifhlAvenue
734.332.0200

>-
0f
D

GET INVOLVED
SustainabiLity
Teach-In

OR JUST
RECYCLED?
design your
own with
Daily Design

U"
-

" LEARN from faculty experts
" GIVE VOICE to your concerns
TOPICS
Climate and Energy
Water and the Great Lakes
Food and Health
Sustainable Accessibility
umich .edu/earthday

9:30 am to noon
9 am - refreshments
Michgsn Leagse
911 North University
Ans Ars
.rant s And , oss' o V
r -U &%'s' n .: 'bilsyf lR ,

E-MAIL DESIGN
@MICHIGAN
DAILY.COM
FOR MORE
INFORMATION
*'o

1A


Ty
AThe Michigan Daily michigandailycom IThursday, March 18, 2010



weekend
essentials
Mar. 18 to Mar. 21

CONCERT
Randy Weston's father
used to tell his young
son he was "an Afri-
can born in America."
It's an aesthetic that
figures strongly into
the grown Weston's
sound, a fusion of New
York jazz and African
music. This Saturday,
the Kerrytown Concert
House hosts his trio
in a concert spon-
sored by the Center
for Afroamerican and
African Studies at
the 'U.' Tickets $10,
show starts at 9 p.m.
ON STAGE
Use your money for a
good cause and sup-
port a charity aiming to
stop domestic violence.
Yoni Ki Baat is present-
ing its 5th annual mul-
ticultural monologue
show, "Lips Unsealed,"
featuring original piec-
es by University stu-
dents. "Lips Unsealed"
will feature pieces that
tackle "domestic vio-
lence, sexuality, culture
and relationships."
Shows are Friday and
Saturday at 3 p.m. in
East Quad's Keene
Theatre. Tickets from
$5, available at MUTO.


How the 'U' Ballroom
Dance Team creates a
championship squad out
of students who have
never danced before.


takes a ragtag group of students with
T here's an organization on campus that
limited experience and turns them
into a team of champions. The Uni-
versity's admissions process is brutal, its athletic
teams recruit vigorously and its artists are tal-
ented, but most have been honing their craft for
years. It's only the University of Michigan Ball-
room Dance Team that turns complete novices
into world-class competitors.
On a Saturday afternoon in the CCRB, you're
likely to stumble across the usual sights and
sounds: people running on treadmills, lifting
weights, sweating it out and feeling the burn
on various complicated exercise contraptions.
In the CCRB's mirror room, however, you'll
find something unique, something that initial-
ly resembles an awkward middle school dance
but upon further observation is clearly much
more.
It's here that the Michigan Ballroom Dance
Team hosts its weekly newcomer lessons. The
room is lined with people shedding their win-
ter boots for dance shoes, while a few brave
couples casually dance to the loud music blar-
ing through the studio. Some watch their arms
or hips in the large mirror, repeating a move
over and over until they're satisfied with how
it looks, while others are simply killing time
before class begins.
An older couple dressed in all black takes the
center of the room and begins class. The room
is almost instantly divided by gender as about
30 women line one side, and 30 men take the
other. The coaches start on the Rumba, slowly
breaking it down, explaining and demonstrat-
ing the quick Latin dance.
Each dancer watches intently, moving his
or her feet along with the instructors', trying
to match each step. That reminiscence of pre-

pubescent dances completely dissipates as the
British man in the center yells, "Men, grab a
woman!" The crowd follows his commands -
"quick, quick, slow, slow" - and the room of 60
men and women becomes a room of 30 couples
moving in unison, surprisingly seamless for a
beginner class.-
In this class, the team was working en
Rumba and Foxtrot, but there are many more
dances the teammembers mustlearn. Ballroom
competitions are divided into two categories,
Latin and Standard, and each category consists
of five dances. Rumba, Jive, Paso Doble, Samba
and Cha Cha make up the Latin dances while
Standard consists of Waltz, Foxtrot, Quick-
step, Tango and Viennese Waltz. Not only do
the dancers have to be proficient in each and
every one of these dances, they have to be able
to perform them unchoreographed, on the fly.
Though most team members have never
partner-danced before joining the team, the
Michigan Ballroom Team is one of the best in
the country, having won seven national cham-
pionships - the International Team Match in
2001, 2002, 2007 and 2008; and the American
Team Match in 2001, 2003 and 2004.
Many of the members, like Engineering
freshman Ryan Pollard, had never danced
before joining and got involved on a whim.
"I had four other friends who decided to join
at the same time, so that was pretty much all
(the persuasion) I needed," Pollard said.
Business junior Daniel Lian joined in a simi-
lar fashion. He and his partner, LSA junior Sofia
Yokosawa, have been dancingtogether for almost
three years now. They found each other using the
dance team's partner search, an event the team
hosts to help newcomers find someone they're
compatible with for ballroom competitions.
See BALLROOM, Page 4B

at its very roots and when
you really learn a deeper side
of ballroom, it has to be a
form of expression and it has
to be very personal.
-Alex Rowan, Ballroom
Dance Team President

FILM
This Saturday, gather
up all your droogs for
a midnight showing
of Stanley Kubrick's
1971 masterpiece "A
Clockwork Orange"
at the State Theater.
Though notorious for
its extremely graphic
depictions of sex (it's
not for the faint-heart-
ed), the film is a fasci-
nating examination of
free will and authori-
tarianism. So brush up
on your Nadsat and
get ready for a bit of
the old ultra-violence.
AT THE MIC
The Taubman College
of Architecture and
Urban Planning will
be hosting "Future of
Urbanism." It boasts
acclaimed speakers
who will discuss top-
ics like "New Public
Spaces" and "Cities as
Theaters for Conflict."
The panels and lectures
will take place at Rack-
ham Auditorium on
Friday at 4:30 p.m. and
Saturday at 9 a.m. Free.

IGN BY ANNA LEIN-ZIELINSKI

I


2B - Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOOD WARS
CHICKEN BURRITO

4

CHIPOTLE
No matter how many times yo
chow down on a Chipotle grille
chicken burrito, it always hits th
spot. For first-timers: Go with th
black beans over the pinto, ask fc
corn and keep in mind that th
"medium" salsa has more kic
than they'll admit. While the nor
tillas aren't made on the spot, th
delicious chunkiness of the me,
helps make up for it.


BTB


u Although BTB doesn't pack its
d burritos as thick as most burrito a
te joints in town, it takes special s
te care in marinating its chicken c
or and steak, to give ample flavor t
te for enjoyment both drunk and y
k sober. The tortilla doesn't domi- r
r- nate the fresh beans and rice, g
te giving it a surprisingly savory m
at taste to complement the shock- t
ingly reasonable price. u
AND THE WINNER IS: PANCHERO'S

PANCHERO'S
If you want to experience the
absolute best tortilla in town, be
ure to get your burrito from Pan-
hero's. Thedoughisflattenedand
ossed onto the range right before
your eyes before being filled with
ice and beans and other burrito
goodies. That magical tortilla is
what sets this burrito apart from
he rest, making a savorable dish
ntil the very lasthbite.

The Daily Arts weekly show
"Accost'd" continues with more
belligerent entertainment action.
To find out the true meaning
of St. Patrick's Day, watch our
green-clad, four-leafed video at
michigandaily.com/section/arts.

4
4

e

CAMPUS CLASH
LAST WEEK'S RESULTS:
As the fight begins, the stem cells are vastly outnumbered by the
Michigan Senate. But before you can filibuster, the stem cells split and
divide, clearly trying to form some sort of ray gun. The Senate knows
that action must be taken, but they also kind of want to go on vacation,
and someone added some gun legislation to the anti-stem-cell-ray-gun
bill, so they don't really get to it. By the time they come back from their
break, the stem cell is a fully grown ray gun. Pew pew pew.

THE MSA VIC GOOGLE
WEBSITE FIBER
ARMED WITH: ARMED WITH:
The worst weapons Knowledge of your
$9,000 can buy. wost private thoughts.

I

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 18, 2010 - 3B

Corralling creativity
will oniy stigmatize

A festival of student plays

There are a lot of delicious foods
out there in the world, and
myself enjoy a tasty treat every
once in a while. Sometimes, I'll even com-
bine two of these deli-
cious items together
to make an even more
delicious entity. But
even someone with as
little cooking experi-
ence as I have knows
that you can't just
throw a bunch of ran- JAME
dom-yet-tasty ingre- BLOCK
dients into a pot and
expect a good result.
I fear that in creating the new living-
learning community Living Arts on
North Campus, the University and the
Arts on Earth Program have made this
same oulinary error. All the individual
parts are worthwhile, but the idea as a
whole might not be constructive.
Inspired by a University class on the
creative process and slated to initiate
next fall, the goal behind the com-
munity is to encourage the sharing of
creative ideas across disciplines and to
get students more involved in the arts
on campus. Beyond that, not much has
been specifically laid out. The plan is to
let much of the programming arise natu-
rally from the students' creativity.
On a checklist, this seems like an awe-
some new option. Being in a think tank
with my fellow creative minds? Seems
awesome. Getting inside access with
performers and lecturers who come from
across the nation and the world? Seems
yet more awesome. Living next to people
with whom I may actually have some-
thing in common? Seems awesome for
me, but maybe not so awesome overall.
In essence, Living Arts is a Residential
College on North Campus, and it's likely
to develop a similar reputation. Now, I'm
a member of the RC, I love the RC and
I would recommend the RC to anyone.
But there's one problem with the RC that
I'm afraid will rear its ugly head again in
Living Arts. If we put all the people with
pink mohawks, a bajillion piercings and
off-the-wall artistic projects in one place,
there will be some level of alienation.
I'm certainly not blind to the stigma
that all RC students are crazy progres-
sive liberals with weird hair and hobbies.
Many of us here in the RC make the same
comments, but in a more loving tone. I
worry, though, that Living Arts will be a
second beacon of alienation. It is a place
that the artistically reluctant could see
as a corral, keeping those weirdos con-
tained in a single area, a safe distance
from the rest of the students.
When a certain group of people is
deemed the "artistic group," outsiders
are even less likely to get involved. It's
like when the girl you had a crush on in

middle school would dance in a circle
with her friends. You're far less likely to
talk to her if you have to break into an
established group. Trust me, I was a shy
little kid. It's intimidating.
Instead of implementing the Living
Arts plan into a specific community,
why not just have similar programs that
are universally available? If we want a
creative think tank, we don't need to
take the "tank" part literally by making
everyone live together. The nobler effort
would be to create some special program
or campus group that made a conscious
effort to recruit artistic thinkers not only
across the disciplines, but also across
campus. Not only does this provide a
more diverse perspective, but it allows
the students to share the ideas they learn
from other program members with the
people around them. In Living Arts, you
wouldn't be able to share these ideas
with your community because your ideas
came from within that community.
Take the Living out
of Living Arts.
And there's really nothing Living
Arts wants to do that can't be done on
this broader scale. If the people behind
the program think there ought to be a
chance to have some casual conversation
time with the speakers and performers
the 'U' brings in, they should certainly
arrange this. But why not make it avail-
able to everyone? To be honest, there
aren't enough people who would have
the interest and free time to attend every
event, so overcrowding should hardly
be a worry. Besides, nobody reads flyers
or campus-wide event e-mails, so most
people won't even know the opportunity
exists. This way it's still a self-selecting
program, but without the corral.
Basically, Living Arts is taking the
wrong approach to the right ideas. Per-
haps the culinary comparison could use
some revision. If I want to make a deli-
cious smoothie (and why wouldn't I?) I
will get some delicious fruits and throw
them in the blender. Living Arts aims to
make itself a smoothie too (I mean, who
doesn't love smoothies?). But while all its
fruits are ripe and tasty looking, they're
gettingthrown into a wok instead of the
ultimate blender that is our campus. And
if Living Arts were a bit further reach-
ing, maybe someone involved could have
stopped me before I used this artistically
appalling metaphor.
Block is making you a metaphorical
smoothie. To metaphorically get it,
e-mail him at jamblock@umich.edu.

Student playwrights'
work performed in its
rawest form.
By EMMA JESZKE
Daily TV/New Media Editor
This weekend, Ann Arbor has an oppor-
tunity to see theater in its rawest, purest
form. Playfest, a fes-
tival that features Playfest
staged theatrical
readings of student- Thursday through
written plays, offers Saturday at 7 p.m.
a new twist on the Studio One
traditional produc- Free
tions put on at Studio
One. With no sets or costumes, and actors
with scripts in hand, audiences can get an
inside lookat student playwrights as their
work is presented in public for the very
first time.
The process behind this year's Play-
fest started last fall with the course The-
atre 327: Intermediate Playwriting, when
Department of Theatre & Drama Prof.
OyamO selected six student playwrights
whose work seemed ready to be pushed
a little further. Consequently, these writ-
ers enrolled in Theatre 429: Playwriting
Towards Production, a course designed
to help them understand their work as an
object to be produced, culminating in pro-
ductions during the week-long Playfest.
"In a sense, (the course) is kind of like
a whisper of a professional developmental
situation," OyamO said. "The object is to
have (students) develop the play as far as
they can."
"The thing isn't to make people write
in a particular, rigid form," OyamO
explained. "This is art, there is no such
thing as (a right way) in my opinion. But
the idea is to somehow or another get them
to recognize what they are doing and why
they are doing it. And to remind them to
write from their heart and intuition as
opposed to some particular notion of how
a play is supposed to be.
"I mean, Edward Albee does not write
like Shakespeare," he added.
After students enrolled in the course
discussed their work in class, each play
was assigned a student director to draw
up theoretical scenic designs and, of
course, cast the plays. In Theatre 429 stu-
dents with all different areas of theatri-
cal expertise are given the opportunity to
work together on something original and
virtually independent from the authority
of a professor.
"Playfest is representing the collabora-
tion process," said Emilie Samuelson, a
School of Music, Theatre & Dance junior
and one of the Playfest writers. "And that's
what theater is about - collaboration. To
take what we've learned and to try it out on
our own, to apply it to something, is really
important."
Audiences attending Playfest will have

Playfest gives student playwrights the opportunity to get peer feedback on their work.

a chance to participate in the collaboration
process too. The director of each play will
lead a talk-back session with the audience,
during which audience members can ask
the playwright questions or offer general
comments. The playwright will then ask
the audience questions, aiming to gain
feedback on the production and gauge the
overall response.
"It's hard to imagine how something
is going to be received," Samuelson said.
"You can justify it in your head all you
want, but whether or not the audience is
going to get it, you never know."
OyamO believes the talk-back session
with the audience is crucial to the profes-
sional developmental aspect of Playfest.
"When we get that audience feedback,
it becomes a very educational situation
where you are learning by doing," he said.
"Some kids get very excited and some may
be a little scared, but you have to get over
that.
"There is no such thing as failure if you
learned something," he added.
Playfest gives students who may not
necessarily be writing concentrators a
one-of-a-kind opportunity to have their
voices heard and to participate in keeping
the contemporary theater fresh..
"Going out into the real world, the
chance of getting a staged reading for an
inexperienced playwright is slim to none,"
Samuelson said.
"With the way the theater is right now,
it seems like there are so many revivals,"
said Matt Bouse, School of Music, Theatre
& Dance junior and Playfest writer. "So
it encourages students to write and then
rewrite. New work is cool and important,
and it helps to keep the theater alive. And
(Playfest) is good for us as playwrights, to
give us some encouragement and ... to see
what people appreciate about (our plays)."
Student-driven productions at the Uni-
versity in the past, including those at Play-
fest, have reached past the scope of the 'U'
and opened a lot of doors for the students
involved.
In 2008, former School of Music, The-
atre & Dance student Seth Moore's "Jone-

sin' was first heard at Playfest. It caught
the attention of Malcolm Tulip, clinical
assistantprofessor ofctheatre & drama who
produced the show as a mainstage Uni-
versity production in winter 2009. This
summer, Moore will be at the O'Neill's
National Playwrights Conference with
"The Man with America Skin," a piece that
premiered in 2009 at Playfest. "A Very Pot-
ter Musical," a completely student-driven
'production with Basement Arts that pre-
miered last winter, has a fan following all
over the country and has become a You-
Tube phenomenon.
"You may be looking at some talent
that's going to be up on a board some-
day, and you can say you saw them first,"
OyamO said.
The ideas students are exploring in
their work featured in this year's Playfest
rest on all sides of the spectrum - ranging
from an absurdist black comedy that starts
with the unexpected arrival of a pizza man
and ends with mayhem and murder, to an
abstract, poetic and idealistic piece about
failing to escape from a destructive life
cycle.
"I can never be certain what these kids
are going to write," OyamO said. "A lot of
the time people say 'Write whatyou know,'
but it's all experimental, so you can pretty
much go wherever you want - there are no
restrictions. Except porn, none of that; I'd
say try cable for that."
Although the opportunity has passed
to see "Living Dead" by Bouse (Monday),
"Pictures of You" by Samuelson (Tuesday)
and "The Tyler Family Portrait" by School
of Music, Theatre & Dance freshman Alli-
son Brown (Wednesday), there are still
three more plays. "Boundary Trauma" by
School of Music, Theatre & Dance junior
Allison Stock premieres tonight, "Caged"
by LSA junior Alison Rieth premieres
Friday, and "Elbow Room" by School of
Music, Theatre & Dance senior Tedra Mil-
lan will close Playfest on Saturday.
"It's interesting to see what young
people are writing," OyamO said. "What
do they think about the world and what's
happening? To me, that's worth seeing."

'No notation necessary for the
daring Creative Arts Orchestra

By JOSHUA BAYER
DailyArts Writer
Not many musical directors would con-
fess, with an impish grin, that their perfor-
mances are just as likely to
"crash and burn" as they rea'e
are to be "completely thrill- A
ing and awe-inspiring."
Meet University lecturer OChestra
Mark Kirschenmann: jazz
trumpeter, solo electronic Tonight at
musician and director of the 8 p.m.
Creative Arts Orchestra, the Rackham
University's fully improvi- Auditorium
sational, genre-shredding
music ensemble.
"There's kind of a stigma sometimes that the
composer hands down this tablet that's etched,
and here it is," Kirschenmann said. "And you
are the player, therefore you will play it exact-
ly the way I've written it for you. So you are,
therefore, then the re-creator."
One of CAD's missions is to shatter this ste-
reotype of musical composition - especially in
the realm of classical music - as a fixed, air-
tight entity. In fact, CAO scarcely even looks at
musical notation at all.
"For the most part, we just set up and play.
We'll just set up in a circle, all 15 of us, and
we'll just start from nothing," Kirschenmann
said. "We won't be reading any music, we
won't be taking any cues. I'm not going to be
up there conducting. I'll be sitting, playing in
the ensemble. And it will just be continuously
unfolding."
Given CAO's unadulteratedly off-the-cuff
nature, it makes sense that its free-the-music
agenda is just as much a recipe for disaster as it
is for experimental genius. But this is precisely
what makes CAO so precious.
The concept of a fully improvisational
orchestra comes packaged with such a hefty
risk quotient that, according to Kirschen-
mann, "There are almost - in the university
system of the world - no ensembles like this."
When 'U' professor and accomplished jazz

musician Edward Sarath founded CAO 20
years ago, the vast majority of those in the
School of Music - students and professors
alike - thought that the idea was, quite simply,
a bit bananas.
According to Kirschenmann, who jumped
on board CAO in 2002, the fledgling ensemble
was met with "real skepticism and, in fact,
opposition." Even jazz musicians, the quintes-
sential proprietors of the improvisation game,
found the whole escapade to be a tad batty.
But, thankfully, CAO has weathered the
storm of practicality and will be unleashing its
renegade brand of music-making at Rackham
Auditorium tonight at 8 p.m. This brings up a
question: Exactly what should one be expect-
ing from this show?
Will Marriott, a tenor saxophonist in CAO
and sophomore in the School of Music, The-
atre & Dance, put itbluntly: "Don't expect any-
thing. Nothing canbe expected. Just go (to the
show) with an open mind and open ears and
experience music."
Taking an improv-
based approach to
classical music.
And, as frustratingly abstract as his dis-
claimer is, Marriott is right on the money.
More than anything else, CAO is out to shatter
boundaries and confound expectations. As far
as any sort of setlist, Kirschenmann asserted:
"We won't decide, probably, until two minutes
before we walk out."
An integral part of this anything-goes men-
tality is CAO's insistence on uniting musi-
cians with incredibly diverse backgrounds and
tastes - the ensemble isn't even restricted to
students in the School of Music.
"Students tend to get categorized and strati-
fied by their majors. We want to dissolve all

that," Kirschenmann said. "Why can'tclassical
players, jazz players, composers (and) music
tech people all get together and make music?
And improvise. And share their common expe-
riences, put them all into this bigpool and let it
brew and simmer.
If anything can be expected, it's a lack of
stuffiness. CAO's performances are a far cry
from any sort of classical jazz standard. The
ensemble often incorporates electronic ele-
ments, unafraid to warp traditional tones with
laptops and effects pedals.
And Gabriel Saltman, a baritone saxophon-
ist in CAO and sophomore in the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance, commented that the
jamboree isn't even limited to musical instru-
ments, stating that it's fair game "to yell, or
speak words."
Saltman actually composed a piece for CAO,
titled "Faces," which will likely debut tonight,
despite the ensemble's aversion to written
music. The catch? The piece contains absolute-
ly zero standard musical notation.
On paper, "Faces" is an expressionistic
accumulation of various shapes and colors,
from which musicians are expected to extract
emotion from and, in turn, convert into sound.
Thus, while the piece is indeed written, its
abstract nature guarantees that it sounds
drastically different each time it's played - an
aspect accentuated by the fact that Saltman
will be conducting the piece in real time, mix-
ing and matching sets of musicians on the spot.
Marriott also composed an unorthodox
piece likely to debut tonight, a kind of musical
equivalent to a "Choose Your Own Adventure"
book. The piece consists of divergent pathways
gradually layering on top of each other as the
musicians spontaneously riff on the central
melody and choose from a variety of open-
ended "routes."
Clearly, tonight's performance is going to be
an unpredictable one. And whether it's a tri-
umph or a "crash-and-burn," it certainly won't
be bland. So leave your expectations at the
door and brace yourself for something truly
unclassifiable.

Spring League Registration
now openr@
A2Ultimate.or
Games are
Sun 3-5p ur o~
At Fuller and Olson Parks
All are welcome! A2Ultimate.org
Michigan Sustainability Job Fair
March 19th, 12:30pM-5:30PM
Dana Commons - Internships & Career Positions - Undergrad & Grad Students.All Majors
Interview with Michigan-based companies focused on social
change and a sustainable GREEN future

HIRINIG.
APPLY ONLINE by MARCH 19th
www.umich.edu/info
Campus
Information
Centers
Michigan Union & Pierpont Commons " (734) 764-INFO

DAILY ARTS CAN CURE YOUR HANGOVER. JOIN US.
E-mail join.arts(Wumich.edu for information on applying.


4B - Thursday, Marchl18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

BALLROOM
From Page 1B

"It's kind of like speed dat-
ing, but it's speed dancing," Lian
explained. "Everybody who
needs a partner gets in the same
room and you kind of go through
everybody, talk with them for
about a minute just to see if you
can match up your interests in
terms of, like, how much you want
to practice, and commitment lev-
els and that sort of thing, and
then you can dance with them for
a little while."
Though most people join with-
out any serious convictions,
they're often captivated by how
much fun ballroom is and quickly
find themselves competing against
- and often beating - the danc-
ers who impressed them as new-
comers. Ballroom Dance Team
President and recent 'U' alum Alex
Rowan is one of the best dancers
on the team, but he has only been
dancing for two and a half years.
He joined in his junior year upon
transferring to the University.
"Someone invited me to the
Welcome Week lessons that are
hosted every fall to recruit new
members and they kind ofspark
an interest," Rowan said. "I didn't
know what ballroom dancing
was. You know, you'd heard of the
dances like the waltz ... but you've
never, like, physically done them."
Rowan is now president of one
of the best collegiate ballroom
dance teams in the country and
consistently takes first place at
national competitions.
The sport of
ballroom dance
It's Feb. 13, the night of the 10th
Annual University of Michigan
Ballroom Dance Competition, and
the bleachers at the Saline Middle
School gymnasium are full of spec-
tators and fans of ballroom. Color-
ful gowns trail serenely behind
the couples as they not only move
to the music but become a part of
it. The dancers' body language
expresses their obvious joy to be on
the floor, making the scene all the
more exquisite. The sheer beauty
of their movement makes it easy to
forget this isn't just a performance
for an audience to admire - that
the romantic and elegant imagery
is only a small part of the evening.
The competition is akin to a
large sporting event, but instead
of two large basketball players tip-
ping off to begin the game, Tchai-
kovsky's "Waltz of the Flowers"
fills the gym and eight couples
begin gracefully twirling and
floating across the dance floor. The
basketball court is dramatically lit
with large spotlights, and mem-
bers of the crowd cheer and yell
out the numbers of their favorite
competitors. The competitive air
clashing with the grace of dancing
creates a surreal experience where
the lines separating art and sports
are blurred.
"My original interest in ball-
room was because it was analo-
gous to a sport ... I was an athlete
and I saw it was a way of train-
ing your body, staying in shape,"
Rowan said. "But at its very roots
and when you really learn a deeper
side of ballroom, it has to be a form
of expression and it has to be very
personal."
Not only does ballroom improve
athletic ability, it requires an ath-
letic attitude and training ethic
that go beyond that of most other
competitive activities. While most

athletes only have to train in one
sport at any given time, these
dancers have to master 10 dif-
ferent styles of dance all at once.
Every team member must perfect
the basic steps, stylistic elements
and additional moves and tricks
for each and every dance style.
The judges first focus on key
criteria like whether the danc-
ers are in time with the music,
whether their posture is correct
and whether they're natural and at
ease on the dance floor. If these are
accounted for, the judges consider
proper footwork and stylistic ele-
ments for each dance when decid-
ing who will move onto the next
round.
In other artistic competitions
like gymnastics or figure skat-
ing, specific moves are required,
but in ballroom the dancers have
complete artistic freedom within
the confines of the dance's style.
And while figure skaters and
gymnasts go into a competition
with a well-rehearsed routine in
mind, ballroom dancers don't even
know what their music will be
before it plays as the performance
begins. Routines are formed as
they dance, with moves being sig-
naled by small physical cues from
the male. Ballroom routines are
incredibly difficult to compare and
rank, considering that no two cho-
reographies are the same.
"A lot of it, being a guy at least,
is thinking about what moves you
want to do next," Lian said. "Any-
thing we want to do, we have to let
(our partner) know through our

Ballroom routines are developed entirely on the fly in competition.

bodies, thus they have to kind of
pick up on it.
"Many times our leads might
not be perfect ... and a lot of the
times their steps are a little more
complicated than ours," he added.
Ifrecallingthebasic steps, addi-
tional moves and stylistic elements
in front of an enthusiastic crowd is
stressful or daunting, the dancers
certainly don't show it. The com-
petitors are calm, cool and col-
lected both on and off the floor at
the February competition. Rowan
and his partner, recent 'U' gradu-
ate Anastasia Alekseyev, are just as
comfortable and at ease as they are
gracefully flawless.
Of course, accidents do happen.
"I've fallen. I was doing the
Viennese Waltz with my partner,
and she stepped on some guy's foot
and ... pulled me down, and we,
like, totally crashed on the floor,"
Rowan confessed. "You fall and
you get back up and you just start
dancing again."
Making champions out
of newbies
of course, an integral part of
any team is the coaches behind it,
and when a ballroom team consist-
ing mostly of dancers with little
prior experience is as successful as
Michigan's, it's clear the instruc-
tion is spot-on. Coaches Steve and
Susan McFerran are responsible
for taking beginner dancers and
working with them until they
become top competitors. They
have been coaching the ballroom
team since its establishment in
1997.
"My mom put me in ballet, tap
and jazz classes when I was four,
and so I did that until I was about
15 years old," Susan McFerran
said. "I found out about the ball-
room dancing and disco and hustle
and all these different things, and
that's when I got into the partner
dancing."
For Steve McFerran, ballroom
was always a part of his life.
"I guess for me my parents just
told me, 'That's what you're going
to do' - I didn't really have a lot
of say in it," he said. "(My parents)
competed, and then I started in a
class and the teacher said, 'There's
a girl around your age who I think
would be good,' and we went to
competitions together."
They said that after years as
successful competitors, the move
toward coaching felt right.
"It was just sort of a natural pro-
gression ... when you get toward
the end of your career as a compet-
itor," Steve McFerran said.
"If you've been successful, peo-
ple will call you, and they want
to take lessons, and they want
to have coaching from you, and
you start judging and coaching
(it's a) thing you do after you
stop competing," Susan McFerran
explained.
Their reputation as successful
instructors, coaches and competi-
tors isn't just known in the realm
of ballroom. Along with fostering a
team that has won seven national
championships, the McFerrans
have also helped ice dancers Emily
Samuelson and Evan Bates win
the World Junior Figure Skat-
ing Championships, take third at
the U.S. National Figure Skating
Championships and qualify for the
2010 Winter Olympics in Vancou-
ver. s
"These ice dancers have to do

different ballroom dances on ice,"
Susan McFerran explained. "They
have compulsory dances, and one
year it might be like tango, then
next year it might be jive, another
year it might be waltz."
The coaches of Samuelson and
Bates, Yaroslava Nechaeva and
Yuri Chesnichenko, contacted the
McFerrans because of their exper-
tise and experience with these
dances.
"They wanted to know what a
waltz or foxtrot is really like and
so they wanted us to teach them
that," Steve McFerran explained.
"When they go to portray iton the
ice and their coaches put their cho-
reography together, they can use

things that really look like ball-
room dancing."
While they may dabble in ice
dancing, the McFerrans are com-
pletely dedicated to the success of
the Ballroom Dance Team. Susan
McFerran credits "the (coach-
ing) consistency that we've been
able to have with this team" as the
main reason Michigan is often the
best among its competitors. They
approach their instruction in a
way that allows the team members
to practice individually what they
learned in their lessons.
"We try to structure it so that
we're very specific about what (the
style) should be," Steve McFerran
explained, "so that when people
come to the classes, they leave
without any doubt about what
they're supposed to do."
Beyond the weekly instruction
the McFerrans provide, the pairs
meet to practice on their own as
much as they deem necessary,
making the dancers' commitment
to the team just as important as the
coaching.
"Most people put in between
two and six hours a week," Rowan
said. "It's completely contingent
on your own interests and what
your schedule flexibility is like.
I started putting in four hours a
week; bythe end of my first semes-
ter, I was doing, like, eight to ten
hours a week."
Finding friends on the
dance floor
The Ballroom Dance Team is
one of the largest competitive
student groups on campus, with
more than 200 active members,
but it started with only eight cou-
ples. The camaraderie among the
dancers makes the team feel much
smaller.
The students on the ballroom
team inevitably become close.
More experienced dancers help
beginners learn new steps and ask
for feedback on their own moves.
They cheer each other on at com-
petitions, hoping just as much for
the success of their fellow couples
as for themselves. They go to the
studio not just to practice, but to
relax and be with their friends and
teammates.
"(The dancers) really make a lot
of friends," Susan McFerran said.
"You really feel like you can meet
so many people. It's just really
positive."
The friendship among the team
members strengthens their danc-
ing ability as they help each other
perfectthe steps and styles.
"The way ballroom is run here
is that it's very mentor-based,"
Rowan said. "You always have
someone to help you with danc-
ing. You have just an outstanding
opportunity to learn how to ball-
room dance."
There are many reasons people
get involved with ballroom dance.
But no matter what their reason
is for joining, everyone finds the
friendships they made to be the
best part of the ballroom dance
experience.
"It's the social aspect that
makes it fun. And also, well, obvi-
ously the whole 'Dancing with the
Stars' phenomenon that's spread
throughout (the country), that's
kind of given ballroom dancing a
little jump-start," Lian said. "But
when you're in the room with,
like, a hundred other people and
you get to interact ... you're doing

something with them that's fun
- that's unique - what it really
comes down to is the relationships
you build with other people."
The dancers agree that the
experiences and opportunities
they've had with the Ballroom
Dance Team are among the best
parts of their collegiate careers.
"The fact that you're a mem-
ber of a student organization
that takes in so many Michigan
students and, like, changes their
lives in an extremely unique and
unexpected way is something I'll
always look back on," Rowan said.
"(I'll) always cherish that memory
and be proud that I was a part of
this team."


