e ic1 i n 4:3al1m

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, April 16, 2010

AN ANN ARBOR TEA PARTY

michigandaily.com
Endowment
payout rate
may change,
officials say

SA M WOL SON/Daily A photo slideshow from the Tea
Ann Arbor resident James Parisha (left) argues with Ann Arbor resident and Tea Party member Brian Noonad at a Tea Party pht a t t
rally held in the Diag yesterday on Tax Day. N na ataTa Party at A 11
SOAR FR E NTS
U signs preferred admissions
agreement with GrandVal

Decision comes
amid increasingly
complex budget
situation for the 'J
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
GRAND RAPIDS - In areport
given at the University's Board
of Regents Meeting yesterday,
University officials hinted that
they maytbe considering a change
to the annual payout from the
University's
endowment.
And while 4
officials say
they're in:
the process
of reviewing - '
the endow-
ment's pay- KYLE SWANSON
out policy,
they said it
hasn't yet A(diinistra n
been decid-
ed whether any change would
be made or if a change would
increase or decrease the endow-
ment's payout.
In a routine report to the
Board of Regents, Regent Kath-
erine White (D-Ann Arbor)
said the board's Finance, Audit

and Investment Committee was
reviewing the payout policy to
determine how effective the cur-
rent payout rate was.
"We also reviewed our endow-
ment spending rule," White said
in her report, adding that all
eight of the regents were pres-
ent for the committee meeting.
In addition to the regents, several
University officials were present
at the meeting, including Univer-
sity Provost Teresa Sullivan, Vice
Provost Philip Hanlon, who will
succeed Sullivan as provost in
July, and the University's Chief
Investment Officer Erik Lund-
berg.
The University currently oper-
aces under' a five-percent annual
payout rule, meaning that each
year five percent of the seven year
rolling average of the University's
endowment value - determined
by calculating the mean of the
endowment's past 28 quarters'
actual value - is allocated to the
University's budget.
The process, which was adopt-
ed in 2006, replaced a three-year
rolling average process as a way
to insulate the University from
market volatility and to pro-
vide steady and reliable fund-
ing streams to the University's
units. According to the Univer-
sity's Office of Public Affairs
See ENDOWMENT, Page 2

Regents also hear
from LEO, OK Ford
9 estate transfer
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
GRAND RAPIDS - The
presidents of the University of

Michigan and Grand Valley State
University signed a doctoral phar-
macy preferred admissions agree-
ment yesterday.
University President Mary Sue
Coleman and
GVSU President NOTEBOOK
Thomas J. Haas
officially launched the Pharmacy
Preferred Admission Program at
the University's Board of Regents

monthly meeting. The agree-
ment will allow a select few GVSU
freshman to receive . preferred
admissions to the University of
Michigan's doctoral pharmacy
program.
The College of Pharmacy will set-
aside up to eight spots each year in
its PharmD doctoral program for
GVSU students. The positions in the
four-year program will be awarded

to GVSU freshman who complete
pre-pharmacy courses, maintain an
acceptable grade point average and
score high enough on the Pharmacy
College Admission Test.
The students will also have to stay
in regular contact with a pre-profes-
sional advisor, obtain a year of health
care work experience and do a cer-
tain amount of community service.
See REGENTS, Page 3

UNIVERSITY HOUSING
New 'U' social networking tool to aid
incoming students find roommates

Pilot program allows
students to find
more compatible
roommates online
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
After listening to her friends
recount horror stories about
their college roommates, incom-
ing freshman Alyssa Handschuch
was relieved to meet someone she
wanted tolive withviathe group for

accepted students at the University
of Michigan on Facebook.
"This year one of my friends is
stuck with someone she had no
desire to room with," she said. "I
didn't want to be put in that situa-
tion."
With the increased prevalence of
Facebook and other social network-
ing sites, incoming freshmen now
have the choice to look for room-
mates online, instead of leaving
their housing decisions in the hands
of the University.
University Housing is currently
in the process of testing a social net-
working tool to help students find

roommates without resorting to
sites like Facebook or uroomsurf.
cm - a site that matches incoming
students based on certain criteria.
About a year and a half ago, Uni-
versity Housing officials started to
create a new website to provide stu-
dents more choices inselectingtheir
roommates. The pilot program was
offered for the first time this year to
incoming Mary Markley Hall resi-
dents.
Currently, University Hous-
ing offers incoming freshmen the
option of being matched with a
random roommate or requesting a
See WEBSITE, Page 3


GOVERNING TIE GREEKS
Councils aim to increase joint programming

University alum and Michigan Lt. Gov. John Cherry speaks yesterday at an education policy conference on campus.
Lt. Gov. talks reforms for
Sa nt
duca low fundimg teven

Despite difficulties
in the past, Greek
councils will hold
service day together
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Though the Multicultural
Greek Council and the Interfrater-
nity Council fall under the same
umbrella of Greek Life on campus,
collaborative efforts and projects
haven't been amajor priority - until

recently.
LSA senior Alejandro Moreno-
Koehler, outgoing president of
MGC, wrote in an e-mail interview
that co-sponsoring events is "theo-
retically easy" since the two active
executive boardswould be involved,
but past difficulty in implementing
collaborative events suggests oth-
erwise.
"The reason this answer is not
simple is because many individu-
als on both sides really do not know
much about each other," Moreno-
Koehler wrote. "Due to this lack of
information on both sides, imple-
menting and sponsoringevents with

IFC has beendifficult."
Moreno-Koehler added that
another issue with co-sponsorship
is the disparity in the size of the two
councils. MGC has fewer available
members to commit to events than
IFC.
He wrote that, on average, an
MGC chapter ranges from 5 to 15
active members with the largest
organization - Omega Gamma Pi -
having 36 members.
Engineering junior Michael
Friedman, president of IFC, wrote
in an e-mail interview that IFC
chapters average about 63 active
See COUNCILS, Page 3

Profs. also discuss
changing focus of
education system
By SCOTT SUH
and LILLIAN XIAO
Daily StaffReporters
University students and faculty
gathered over the past few days to
discuss the current state of Amer-
ica's public schools as part of the
two-day Annual Jack L. Walker

Conference.
The event, called "Education-
al Inequality in Michigan - An
Inequality of Opportunities,"
began with a panel discussion fea-
turing guest speakers and Univer-
sity professors on Wednesday, and
Democratic Lt. Gov. John Cherry
gave a speech on the state's educa-
tion system yesterday.
Named in honor of the late Uni-
versity professor Jack L. Walker,
who was instrumental in creating
the annual forum on campus to
discuss issues regarding educa-

tion, the event touched on a wide
variety of topics, from adoles-
cent literacy to higher education
financing.
Presentations and discussions
extended beyond issues within the
state to those at the national level
as well.
Cherry spoke on the second
day of the conference in the Busi-
ness School's Blau Auditorium
about changing the state's funding
structure to increase the possibil-
ity of post-secondary education for
See CHERRY, Page 2


WEATHER HI: 51
TOMORROW 37

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
U.S. Rep. John Dingell hosts a Facebook town hall.
MICH IGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS ...............
Vol. CXX, No.131 SUDOKU.............
Q 00 The Michigan Daily O P I N I O N............
michigandaily.com

..............2 A R T S . .................S..... ... ... .., .
. 3 CLASSIFIEDS ......................6
..............4 SPO R T S .................... ....... ... 8

B6.


2 - Friday, April 16, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Professor Profiles Before You Were Here Campus Clubs

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmaiL.com

0

LEFT Inside the School of Public
Policy on Wednesday. (MARISSA
MCCLAIN/Daily) TOP RIGHT
Tea Party protesters sit on a
bench in the Diag yesterday
during the Ann Arbor Tea Party
demonstration. (SAM WOLSON/
Daily) BOTTOM RIGHT PAWS
of Ann Arbor - a student-run
organization that aims to bring
pets to the homes of the elderly
- brought dogs to the Diag on
Wednesday in an effort to raise
awareness for its cause. (TORE-
HAN SHARMAN/Daily)

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classifiled Sales
Online Sales
iance

officehours:Sun.-Thurs.1a.m.-2a.m.
734-763-2459
news@michigandaily.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@michigandaiy.com
photo@michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandaily.com
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
claasified@niehigandailyeenm
onlineads@michigandailyecom

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

CRIME NOTES

Chair valued at Textbook swiped

$75stolen
WHERE: 1501 Catherine St.
WHEN: Wednesday at 9 a.m.
WHAT: A brand new Herman
Miller chair valued at $735
was stolen from room C246A,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.

WHERE: Ross Academic Center
WHEN: Wednesday at2:20p.m.
WHAT: A male student's "The
Aims ofArgument" textbook
was stolen from a desk inthe
basement after he left it unat-
tended to use the bathroom,
University Police reported. The
book isvalued at $85. There are
no suspects.


Annual Latino Environment
Culture Show symposium
WHAT: The 10th Annual WHAT: The Natural Scienc
Latino Culture Show "Nues- and Environment Master's
tra Historia" takes place Project Resource Symposium
tonight. The performance WHO: School of Natural
will feature music, poetry, Resources and Environment
drama and student-cho-~ WHEN: 8:45 a.m.
reographed dance. There WHERE: Dana Natural
will also be a musical per- Resources Building, Room
formance by Grupo Ayo. 1040
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office M U i
WHEN: 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Movie at UMix
WHERE: Mendelssohn
Theatre WHAT: There will be
a showing of the movie
Stephen Lynch "Invictus," laser tag
and a performance by
comedy show ComCo and Witt's End.
WHO: University Unions

:e
n.
it

Rear window on Female staffer's
VW smashed Mcard taken

1Wal-mart Stores were
ranked first in CNNmon-
ey.com's Fortune 500 list
for this year, money.enn.com
reported. The company, which
saw an increase in profits in the
fiscal year 2010, was ranked
second lastyear.
University student travel
to northern Mexico was
put on hold on Tuesday
by the University's Travel
Oversight Committee after a
recent increase in violence in
the region.
>> PQRMORESEE OPINION, PAGE 4
At nearly 400 parks across
the country next week
visitors won't have to pay
entrance fees as part of Nation-
al Park Week, the Associated
Press reported. Various special
events will also take place at
many parks like planting gar-
dens and park clean-ups.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor Berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Swanson, Eshwar Thirunavukkarasu
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Dylan Cinti, Darryn Fitzgerald, Joseph Lichterman,
Veronica Menaldi, Annie Thomas, Devon Thorsby, Elyana Twiggs
Rachel VanGilder Editorial PageEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITOR IAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
ASSISTANT EDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MichelleDeWitt,AlexSchiff,MatthewShutler
Ryan Kartle Managing Spors Editorb artje@michigandaily.con
SEIRSOTSEIOS icole Aerbac, Mrk Buns, Galana, Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
emzik,Timnohan, Amy Scarn
JaienBl"ck Ma EagiArtditor block@michigandaity.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, JeffSanford
AS SANTARS EDITORS: LeahBurgin, Sharon Jacobs, Emma Jeszke, MikeKuntz,
KaviShekhaney
MaxCollinsand photo@michigandaily.com
SamWolson ManagingPhoto Editors
SENI4ePHOTOEDITORFORMULTIMEDIA:ChanelVonHabsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Aaron Augsburger, Jake Fromm,Marissa McClain,
Jed Moch
Sarah Squire and design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lain-Zielinski ManagingDes~ignEtditrse
SENIOR DESIGN EITOR:Alison Ghamandtr
Trevor Calero MagazineEditor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
MelanieFriedandycopydesk@michigandaiy.com
Rachel Phillips Copy Chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KatieJOzwiak sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER:KaylaLaFata
JasonMahakian ProductionManager
Allison SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian LeeFinance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project coordinator
The Michigan Daily (IsSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during thefall and
winter terms bystudentsattheUniversity of Michiganmnecopyisavailablefreeochargetoal
readers.Additionalcopiesmay bepickedup at the Saiy'sofficefor $2.Subscriptionsfor falterm,
startinginSeptember, viaU.S.mailare$110. Winter termJanuarythroughApril)is$115,yearlong
(September through April) is$tl.Universityaffiliatesaresubject toareducedsubscriptionrate.
On-campussubscriptionsforfaltermare$35.Subscriptionsmust beprepaid.TheMichiganDaily
isamemberof TheAssociated Pressand TheAssociatedCollegiatePress.

S

WHERE: 1114 State St.
WHEN: Wednesday at 3:20
p.m.
WHAT: The rear window of a
female student's Volkswagen
was found broken after some-
one accidentally hit it with a
baseball bat, University Police
reported. There is $1,000
worth of damage.

WHERE: Ross School of Busi-
ness
WHEN: Wednesday at 9 p.m.
WHAT: A female staff mem-
ber's Mcard and University
office keys were stolen after
she left them unattended, Uni-
versity Police reported. There
are no suspects.

'

WHAT: Guitarist Stephen
Lynch will perform as part of
Pike Comedy Night. Proceeds
will go toward Wyclef Jean's
Foundation for Haiti Relief.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Theater

Arts & Programs
WHEN: 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get moreonlineat michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


ENDOWMENT
From Page 1
and Media Relations' website, the
endowment contributed approxi-
mately $244 million in expendable
revenue to the University's budget
last year.
In an interview after yester-
day's meeting, University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman said
the review was being conducted
because a stipulation mandating
it was included in the regents'
vote that implemented the cur-
rent 5-percent payout policy.
"We changed from a three-
year rolling average to a seven-

year rolling average about four
years ago," Coleman said. "And
so in that action item we did four
years ago, we said periodically we
wanted to go back and look at just
the rule itself of five percent, so
that's the discussion we've been
having."
Coleman said the reason
behind reviewing the policy is to
ensure that the payout amount is
still in the best interest of both
the short-term and long-term
needs of the University.
"We're trying to balance pay-
ing for the future with provid-
ing enough money for the units
today and that's a tricky balance,"
Coleman explained, saying it is

important to consider the effects
of possibly raising or lowering the
endowment payout.
However, Coleman stressed
that no final decisions on the
issue have been made yet.
In an interview with The Mich-
igan Daily following yesterday's
meeting, Timothy Slottow, the
University's executive vice presi-
dent and chief financial officer,
echoed Coleman's comments.
Slottow said University offi-
cials were indeed considering
modifications to the current five-
percent payout rule. And while
Slottow said all options are on the
table right now, he indicated that
reducing the endowment payout

might make more sense at this
point in time.
Such discussion comes amidst
a challenging budget round for
the University, in which Uni-
versity officials say they are
planning for as much as a 20- to
25- percent cut in state appropri-
ations. Such a cut would elimi-
nate approximately $68 million
from the University's budget
unless additional revenue can be
found from another source.
To cope with some of the bud-
get hardships, Coleman has called
on the University to "double its
efforts" in cost containment. The
University has eliminated $135
million in annual recurring costs

over the past seven years. Last allowed for an increased payout
year, Coleman said she expected to the University's budget, Slot-
that another $100 million in cost tow explained.
cutting would be in place within The University's spending rule
two years. has remained fairly consistent
Cutting the mandatory endow- over the past 25 years, having
ment-spending rule could mean only been changed twice since
less money for units on campus. 1986.
However, if the payout rule cut is Starting in 1986, the endow-
modest, nominal funding could ment payout was determined
be maintained at current levels based on how well investments
or even increased if the endow- performed in a given year -
ment's performance does not meaning that if the endowment
diminish. rose 5 percent overall, then 5
Even though the University's percent would be allocated in the
endowment lost $1.6 billion in budget. That rule changed in the
real terms last year, the seven 1990s, when the payout rule was
year rolling average value of set at 5.5 percent of the endow-
the endowment was such that it ment's calculated value.


CHERRY
From Page 1
Michigan residents. He stressed
the value of preparing students at
a young age to embark on a post-
secondary education.
"It's not good enough that every
child has access to a free and pub-
lic education, a K-12 education,"
Cherry said. "A K-12 education
must assure that every graduate is
prepared and ready for a post-sec-
ondary experience."
Cherry also repeatedly stressed
adjusting the state's education sys-
tem to help make innovations that
will change the state's economy.
"For our economy to flourish,
our wealth must be based on man-
ufacturing processes that are fed
in part by sophisticated technol-
ogy that we excel in creating and
operating," Cherry said. "Our eco-
nomic success will be directly pro-
portional to the extent that we can
shift from leveraging our muscles
to leveraging our minds."
The state's current educational
funding is not only too minimal,
but outdated as well, Cherry said.
State officials are seeing the same
results from the funding they
would've expected to see years
ago, instead of the product they
would expect in the 21st century,
Cherry said.
In 2004, at Democratic Gov.
Jennifer Granholm's request, the
Cherry Commission on Higher
Education and Economic Growth
was launched. The commission has
laid out "recommendations" for
educational improvement ranging
from professional development for
teachers to incorporating entre-
preneurial skills into the K-12 cur-
riculum.
Cherry said officials may need
to make changes on the current

public school post-secondary
curriculum, which places an
emphasis on obtaining a col-
lege education because it raises
the question of how that educa-
tion applies to students who wish
to transition straight from high
school to full-time work.
He added that the vastly dif-
ferent skill sets that used to be
required to pursue these pathways
are now becoming increasingly
similar.
"The clear division between
vocational and college prep is
quickly disappearing," Cherry
said.
On the first day of the confer-
ence, University professors Maris
Vinovskis, Elizabeth Moje, Brian
McCall and Greg Markus spoke
in the School of Public Policy's
Annenberg Auditorium.
Vinovskis, a public policy and
history professor, spoke about
national education policies, saying
that many of the programs dedi-
cated to improving education in
the country don't receive the atten-
tion they require to be successful.
He added that in recent years,
the government has tended to
exaggerate the efficacy of these
policies.
"We have a long history of
promises unfulfilled in American
development," he said.
Moje, an Arthur F. Thurnau
professor in the School of Edu-
cation, discussed some of the
findings of her ongoing research
project, which is devoted to study-
ing adolescent literacy in the Unit-
ed States.
Moje said she has found that
too much focus has been put on
improving test scores and academ-
ic achievement at the individual
level, and that a greater empha-
sis should be placed on seeking to
enhance the environment in which

students learn.
"What we really need to be
attending to, and what isn't attend-
ed to in these policies, is that we're
not thinking about the structures,
the systems, and the culture in
which education is enacted, in
which we attempt to teach people
and provide opportunity for all,"
Moje said.
Moje's research presentation
was followed by McCall, a profes-
sor of education, economics and
public policy, who discussed the
issue of higher educational financ-
ing from a student's perspective.
He talked about the debilitating
effect that debt can have in not
only affecting a student's ability to
attend graduate school, but also in
making future decisions.
"Debt also affects the type of job
you choose, because with the loans
that you have to repay, you may
look for a job that has high wages
but isn't quite as interesting or not
something that you really want to
do," McCall said.
In concordance with McCall's
arguments, Markus, a professor
of political science and a research
professor atthe University's Center
for Political Studies and Institute
for Social Research, spoke of the
moral and ethical reasons for pro-
viding equal educational opportu-
nities to all students, regardless of
their financial status.
Markus addressed the students
in attendance and encouraged
them to continue to pursue initia-
tives that will improve the state's
educational system.
"I urge you to not be paralyzed
waiting for the final research to
come inas to the one best thing you
should do," Markus said. "Don't
wait for that research; we know
that there are things that can be
done."
After Cherry's speech yes-

terday, America Reads Director
Whitney Begeman, and student
representatives from the Detroit
Partnership and Students for
Educational Equality spoke about
proposed solutions for improv-
ing educational systems both in
Michigan and throughout the
country.

Thespeakersplacedanemphasis
on elementary-level and post-sec-
ondary education and highlighted
the importance of these develop-
mental periods in helping students
thrive in educational settings and
later on in the workplace.
Student representatives from
the University's Detroit Partner-

ship spoke about the importance
of encouraging young children to
pursue a college education.
"We are trying to motivate these
kids to be excited about obtain-
ing a post-secondary education,"
Business senior Neil Thanedar,
executive director of the Detroit
Partnership, said.


is

2010 marks the launch of
Claremont McKenna College's Summer Session.
All of our summer offerings are concentrated versions of regular CMC courses and
will be taught by Claremont faculty Summer Session courses embody the college's
unique focus on leadership and thoughtful engagement in the world and in the
liberal arts. Our twenty-plus courses are designed to appeal to a broad array of
college, graduate, and post-baccalaureate students from Claremont and beyond.
Summer Session begins May 24 with most courses meeting MWF and running
six weeks through July 2. A three-week long MTWRF Religious Studies course
ends on June 11, and our seven-week Arabic immersion program ends on
July 9, meeting full time MTWRF
For more information, please visit
http://www.claremontmckenna.edu/Iasummer

^1

6


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, April 16, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Executive Patterson
withdraws lawsuit
on Oakland County
smoking ban
Oakland County Executive L.
Brooks Patterson on yesterday
backed off on a legal challenge
against the state over funding for
enforcement of a smoking ban
that's set to take effect May 1.
The lawsuit was filed with the
Michigan Court of Appeals, but
Patterson shortly afterward decid-
ed to withdraw it because of oppo-
sition to the move from more than
100 residents of his county, which
includes Detroit's northern sub-
urbs.
"I work for the people of Oakland
County and through their c-mails
and phone calls they have unani-
mously told me they are opposed
to the lawsuit," Patterson, a Repub-
lican, said in a statement yesterday
afternoon.
Patterson said he supported
the smoking ban to keep the pub-
lic from being at risk from the ill
effects of secondhand smoke but
described the law as an unfunded
mandate and wanted a court order
for funding.
PORTLAND, Oregon
Oregon rules that
workers can still be
fired for medical
marijuana use
The Oregon Supreme Court has
ruled that workers can be fired for
using medical marijuana even if
they have a card from the state pro-
gram authorizing its use.
The case involves a worker in
Eugene who was fired after telling
his boss before taking a drug test
that he was using medical marijua-
na approved by his doctor.
In a 5-2 opinion, the court said
state law is trumped by federal law
that classifies marijuana as a drug
with no proven medical value. A
dissenting opinion said federal law
did not bar Oregon from setting its
own policy on medical marijuana.
The ruling overturned a state
Bureau of Labor and Industries
decision that said the employer had
to make a reasonable accommoda-
tion for a worker with a physical or
mental impairment.
WASHINGTON
Supreme Court
refuses audio in
upcoming case
For the first time in four years,
the Supreme Court has gone an
entire term without granting the
quick release of audio recordings of
high-profile arguments.
The court said Wednesday it has
rejected a request from four broad-
casters for the same-day audio in
an important First Amendment
case next week that pits a Christian
campus organization against the
University of California's Hastings
College of the Law.
With television cameras and
reporters' tape recorders barred

from the court, the availability
of audio provides the public with
a chance to hear the justices at
work.
The last time the court provided
audio the same day as an argument
was in September in a key case
about limits on campaign spending
by corporations and labor unions.
PARIS
Official confirms
* French bishop hid
sexual abuse case
A letter confirmed by the Vatican
shows top Holy See official in 2001
congratulated a French bishop for
shielding a priest convicted of rap-
ing and sexually abusing minors.
The Sept. 8, 2001 letter from
Cardinal Dario Castrillon Hoyos,
then the head of the Vatican office
in charge of priests, praised bishop
Pierre Pican for risking prison time
to defend the Rev. Rene Bissey.
French Catholic publication
Golias published a copy of the letter
on March 30. The Vatican has faced
accusations of secrecy that allowed
priests to rape and molest children
unchecked for decades.
Vatican spokesman the Rev. Fed-
erico Lombardi yesterday called the
letter "proof" that cases of sexual
abuse of minors must be handled by
the Congregation of the Doctrine of
Faith. They have been since 2001.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

REGENTS
From Page 1
At the signing ceremony, Haas
said the partnership will help the
schools continue to offer benefits to
Michigan.
"We have wonderful diversity
and we're providing(what) the state
needs, and that's an educated work-
force, citizens for this state and citi-
zens for this nation and the world,"
Haas said. "So I'm very thrilled to
see how this collaboration is going
and I know there will be others
alongthe way."
Because GVSU doesn't have a
pharmacy school, the agreement
willallowstudentstopursueoptions
they didn't necessarily know about,
Frank Ascione, dean of the Univer-
sity of Michigan's College of Phar-
macy, said in a press release.
"This program allows the U-M
College of Pharmacy to tap into a
new pool ofin-state talent," Ascione
said in the release. "At the same
time, it creates opportunities for
outstanding Grand Valley students
who may not have considered this
to be a possible career path."
WEBSITE
From Page 1
roommate, possibly with the aid of
uroomsurf.com or other roommate
finding sites.
While developing the new pro-
gram, officials consulted LSA
Student Government and the Resi-
dence Halls Association.
LSA-SG junior representative
Adam London worked on the proj-
ect last year and said LSA-SG's role
in the project provided input from
a student perspective.
"It was certainly a collabora-
tive process," he said. "University
administrators at all levels were
very willing to meet with LSA-SG
to discuss nuances of the plan."
The resulting University pilot
program acts as a self-contained
networking site, allowing users to
send and receive messages and to
create personal profiles based on
their responses to a survey.
However, unlike other online
social networking tools, the Uni-
versity process still maintains
some degree of "blindness." Stu-
dents are given anonymous iden-
tification numbers instead of being
labeled by name. They can choose
to give out personal information
only after messaging anonymously
with another user.
University Housing spokesman
COUNCILS
From Page 1
members. The largest IFC organi-
zation - Alpha Epsilon Pi - has
roughly 150 members.
Moreno-Koehler wrote that
holding events boils down to a
"numbers game" but shouldn't
prevent both organizations from
workingtogether.
"Past and current e-board mem-
bers from IFC and MGC have
started to work together to cre-
ate relationships and educate each
other so that functions can and
willihappen inthe future with little
logistical problems," he wrote.
But Moreno-Koehler wrote that
members of both councils now
have definite plans to have more
joint events in the near future.
"Since a huge part of being
in Greek life is community ser-

vice/philanthropic activities,"
Moreno-Koehler wrote. "New
members and e-board members
from both councils feel that
participating in a day of com-
munity service involving the
Greek Community would allow
us to help out and build future
Serving
Ann Arbor
since 1980

The firstcgroup of GVSU students
will be admitted to the program
in the fall of 2011. This agreement
marks the first of its kind made by
the College of Pharmacy, though
the University has already made a
similar partnership with GVSU. An
agreement reached in 2009 allows
University students graduating
from the School of Kinesiology to
enroll in GVSU's master's degree
program in occupational therapy.
LEO REPRESENTATIVES
ADDRESS REGENTS
Two representatives from the
Lecturers' Employee Organization
spoke to the regents yesterday at
their monthly meeting regarding
different aspects of the ongoing
contract negotiations between the
union and the University.
Elizabeth Axelson, the lead nego-
tiator for LEO and a lecturer in the
English Language Institute, spoke
pointedly against potential pay cuts
for lecturers. If enacted, she said,
the University would be slashing
the lecturers' salaries, which she
said are already too low.
"Minimum salaries are $30,000
Peter Logan said this system allows
students to portray themselves free
from social pressure, in a way that
other sites don't allow them to do.
"Facebook pages are not always
the best judge of a real personal-
ity," Logan said.
By eliminating all external fac-
tors like photos and other media,
the process allows students first to
find people they are compatible to
live with and then to learn every-
thing else about them.
In addition to the anonym-
ity, the University Housing option
avoids excessive hobby and interest
questions, like music preferences,
instead focusing on "background-
neutral questions" like study and
room organization habits.
Michael Zabriskie, director of
the Housing Information Office,
said the office likes to focus the
questions onroominghabitstopre-
vent students from seeking room-
mates exactly like themselves.
"We value the differences that
are present within our student
population," he said. "And we hope
students will take advantage of
those opportunities too."
Logan said the questions are
constructed to be extremely open-
ended, forcing students to be as
genuine as possible.
"The key thing is framing ques-
tions so that you don't predispose
students to answer in a certain
networks between individuals on
each council."
Scheduled for the upcoming
fall, Greek Community Service
Day will be a collaborative effort
between all four Greek groups -
IFC, MGC, Panhellenic Associa-
tion and the National Pan-Hellenic
Council.
Moreno-Koehler added that
events like the community service
day allow Greek life organizations
to work together to "showcase the
positive impact" the Greek com-
munity has on the University.
Friedman echoed Moreno-
Koehler's sentiments, writing that
the difficulty with both organi-
zations is not their ability to co-
sponsor events but rather that a

in Ann Arbor, $26,000 in Dearborn
and $25,000 in Flint," Axelson said.
"The median fulltime lecturers sal-
aries is $44,000 - this is less than
new, inexperienced, high school
teachers with master's degrees.
It's also less than the national aver-
age as reported by the AAUP. They
announced $53,112."
Axelson said LEO is proposing
an annual 3-percent, or $2,000, pay
raise, which she said in 10 years
would bring lecturers' salaries to
the median salary of professors at
the University, minus monetary
gains from research.
Catherine-Daligga, a laid off lec-
turer, spoke tothe regents on behalf
of LEO Vice President Kirsten Her-
old, who was ill.University officials
decided not to reappoint Herold
earlier this month, much to the cha-
grin of LEO.
Daligga discussed how lecturer
layoffs, which result in fewer dis-
cussion sections for classes, make
it more difficult for undergraduate
students to fulfill their distribution
requirements and force them to
take upper level courses for which
they are ill prepared.
"This winter time for the first
way," he said.
Another important element of
the University service is that it
doesn't automatically match stu-
dents, instead implementing a
"self-selection process" that asks
students to browse other profiles
before making a selection.
Zabriskie said instead of click-
ing a single button and generating
a roommate, students embark on a
search that forces them to reflect
on what behaviors they truly can
and cannot live with.
"We're not looking for anything
like eHarmony where you click,
and we find the perfect match for
you," he said.
He added that another advan-
tage of the self-selection process is
that students are more involved in
the process, which strengthens the
relationship between roommates.
"If they feel like they've been
invested in the process they'll try
harder to make it work," he said.
Despite past measures to revamp
the roommate system, Logan said
the pilot program is the Univer-
sity's first "controlled effort" at
involving social networking tools
in University Housing because it
statistically measures the effec-
tiveness of the project.
This week marked the fourth
data collection from participants in
the program, comparingits success
with a population of students who
large number of opportunities for
"collaborative programming" are
overlooked.
He added that the chapters in
each council work on independent
levels with a different set of rules
and regulations issued by the two
disparate governing bodies.
"This is a significant barrier
that prevents collaborative social
events between chapters in dif-
ferent councils," he wrote. "If an
individual chapter feels they'll
benefit in terms of manpower
and resources by partnering with
another organization, they'll
often reach out to a fraternity
within their council."
Past event collaborations
between the IFC and MGC

time in my eighteen years of teach-
ing here, we experienced serious
shortages of 100 and 200 level
courses in LS&A," Daligga said
on behalf of Herold. "For the first
time ever, first year winter writing
courses were completely full, with
students waitlisted even for classes
that met Mondays at 8a.m."
She continued, "Yet, no further
sections were open. This left most
lecturers with a reduced load -
two, instead of three, courses - and
students having to delay their first
year writingcourses until their sec-
ond year. We saw the same picture
across the college."
LEO representatives and Univer-
sity officials meet weekly to negoti-
ate the contract. According to an
article in The Michigan Daily last
month, the parties hope to reach an
agreement by the end of May.
REGENTS APPROVE THE
TRANSFER OF FORD ESTATE
The regents authorized the trans-
fer oftheHenryFord Estate-Fairlane
tothe Edsel and Eleanor Ford House.
Donated to the University by the
Ford Motor Company in 1956, the
did not participate from the same
key demographic.
Zabriskie said the program was
offered to upperclassmen during
housing sign-up this year, with
about 200 participants, though it is
still in the process of being evalu-
ated.
"We don't want to not offer the
service while we're figuring out
if its effective or not," he said. "If
nothing else we are offering stu-
dents more options, which I think
is always good."
While the program is being
assessed, University Housing offi-
cials said they still are unsure
which population of freshmen will
be offered the program next year
and how it will be implemented.
Uroomsurfcom is a relatively
new roommate finder tool simi-
lar to the University's pilot pro-
gram. The site was created by Dan
Thibodeau and Justin Gaither
afterthe pair observed hundreds of
incoming college freshmen search-
ing for roommates on Facebook.
"At that point we had an, 'aha!'
moment, because we knew there
could be an easier way to find com-
patible roommates," Thibodeau
wrote in an e-mail interview.
The resulting site matches
incoming freshmen based on
their responses to a survey that
includes topics like "hygiene, spiri-
tuality and study/party time split."
include Greek Week, Greek
Awards Night, Taste of Michigan,
the Greek Life t-shirt and the flyer
mailed to incoming first-year stu-
dents over the summer.
Events like these, Friedman
wrote, are part of a recent trend
as previous council members have

Ford Estate, and a subsequent gift
of $6.5 million, allowed the Uni-
versity to establish the "Dearborn
Center" that evolved into the Uni-
versity's Dearborn campus.
The Dearborn campus pays over
$300,000 annually to maintain the
estate. If the University had kept
the property it is expected that it
would have had to pay in excess of
$12 million in order to do necessary
renovations to the estate's infra-
structure and critical buildings.
The University will transfer the
estateto the Ford House, which will
operate the estate like a museum.
The University will not receive any
type of payment for the transaction,
Timothy Slottow, executive vice
presidentand chief financial officer,
told the regents.
"The transfer of the Henry Ford
Estate to the Ford House is expected
to enhance program partnerships
and to promote shared initiatives of
the University and the Ford House,"
Slottow wrote in a letter to the
regents. "In addition, the Ford
House will commit to raising suffi-
cient funds to enhance the steward-
ship of the property and to achieve
this level of museum practice."
Users can choose to enhance their
uroomsurfcom profiles by upload-
ing profile photos or videos and by
including additional information
about their hobbies and interests.
Students make official room-
mate requests through their
schools' housing systems after
beingmatched.
The site launched on Feb. 1,
2009, and attracted 3,000 users
by the end of its first day. The
counter at the bottom of uroom-
surfcom's homepage continues to
click upwards as thousands more
students sign up each week. As
of April 9, 2010, uroomsurfcom
boasted more than 45,000 users
and networks from over 700 col-
leges and universities.
Thibodeau wrote that the posi-
tive response to uroomsurfcom
has been overwhelming.
"We get e-mails almost every
day from students thanking us for
creatingthe site," he wrote.
Of the site's current users, 364
are incoming University of Michi-
gan freshmen. Handschuch said
she first heard about uroomsurf.
corm from others in the accept-
ed University student Facebook
group.
"I haven't made an account, but
I checked it out briefly to see what
it was about," she said. "If I hadn't
already found someone to live with,
I'd definitely consider using it."
shied away from joint projects in
the past few years.
"There's been no grassroots
pull for such initiatives," he wrote.
"Neither the members nor the
leaders of these councils have
made this type of collaboration a
priority."

All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
/ // - &at 7/ (6C 10-C
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
310 Ma nard St.-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Ma nard Parkin Structur
H,.-.

PJS
RECORDS &
USED CDS
617 Packaird
Upstairs from
Subway
Paying $4 to $6
for top CD's in
top condition.
Also buying
premium LP's
and cassettes.
Open 7 days
663-3441
The selection is
ENDLE SS


4 - Friday, April 16, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL DANIELAT DWGOLD@UMICH.EDU

be icdigan Eatlm
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

DANIEL GOLD

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Room(mate) service
Social networking tool will make housing better
N ew students who are early risers concerned about being
randomly paired with a roommate who likes to party late
can relax. The University has partnered with LSA-Stu-
dent Government to create a new online roommate search service
in order to help students who are "going in blind" find compatible
roommates. This social networking program will give students the
opportunity to choose roommates that will not conflict with their
lifestyle. The University should continue to seek student input on
the initiative to tailor it to what students want from a roommate
and create a healthy environment for students.

SPRING FOOTBALL
WOW! Our Sure they do,
Offense Leeks - they're playing
GREATl! our defense.
Coming together for a cause

0

According to a report today by the Daily,
the University worked with LSA-SG to
construct a new way for students to choose
roommates with which they can be com-
patible. Students will create anonymous
profiles listing certain behavioral tenden-
cies like sleeping schedules and study pref-
erences for potential roommates to view.
To protect students' privacy, no personal
information will be available without a
user's consent. Participation is voluntary,
and those who don't want to be placed in
the new system can still opt for a random
selection. University Housing is currently
testing a pilot version of the program.
This new networking tool has the poten-
tial to improve students' first-year experi-
ence by providing them with a comfortable
living situation. Though being set up with
a suitable roommate won't remove all the
anxieties of beginning a college career,
the program will help the University avoid
pairings that turn out to be disastrous and
stressful for both people. Giving students
the opportunity to choose a compatible
roommate will help avoid the problems that
often arise from the University's traditional
system of random pairing.
But the purpose of this program isn't for
new students to find a roommate with an
identical personality. Roommates from dif-
ferent backgrounds can expose each other

to new interests - and this is an important
aspect of college life. To ensure that stu-
dents aren't just looking for a twin, most
of the information provided on the pro-
files won't be oriented on likes and dislikes.
Instead of focusing on activities, favorite
music, etc., the profile will help students
to find roommates that won't disturb them
while trying to sleep the night before an
important exam. This ensures that students
will use the program to find compatible -
not identical - people with which they can
live for the academic year.
Since students will be the primary users
of the service, it's crucial that their input be
gathered regarding its implementation. To
this end, the University collaborated with
LSA-SG on this initiative in order to solicit
student feedback as to how they could bene-
fit from such a program. This is a rare exam-
ple of the University actually reaching out
to students and considering their opinions
that shouldn't diminish in further efforts to
refine the program.
This program could be an extremelyuse-
ful tool and foster a healthy environment
for new students. But to make sure that
this networking program remains focused
on helping students, the University should
continue to work with students to provide
them with the most beneficial living situa-
tion possible.
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
could decide that undergraduates shouldn't be
allowed to consume alcohol. But that would be
a difference of degree, not of kind - and that's
the real problem with the campus-wide smok-
ing ban.
John Eitel

spent this past Saturday behind
bars - raising money for cancer
research. The rules were simple.
My friend put me
in a makeshift jail
for a small dona-
tion of $5, and I
had a half hour
of cell time to
beg passersby to
match this dona-
tion and bail me
out. From 12:26 to
12:50 I stood with LEAH
an outstretched POTKIN
arm, begging for
a few cents to be
dropped into my
red solo cup. Thankfully, I succeed-
ed, and was released onto the track
surrounding Palmer Field to take my
first lap asa participant in the annual
Relay for Life event to raise money
for the American Cancer Society.
Palmer Field was lined with tents
and booths of different teams, all
working together to fight the battle
against cancer. The event began at 10
a.m. Saturday, and for 24 hours, par-
ticipants walked and ran around the
track, making frequent pit stops at
the booths along the way. Some high-
lights included the '90s TV trivia sta-
tion, the tie-dye station, the energy
drink flip cup table and, of course,
the jail. With each completed lap
I was increasingly impressed with
the capabilities of the University's
student body, as it became clear that
Wolverines succeed not only as indi-
vidual organizations, but also when
they band together working as a larg-
er community.
As a sorority member and an active
participant in campus Greek Life,
I am well aware of the many ben-
efits a community atmosphere offers.

Between philanthropic events and
community support, Michigan Greek
Life succeeds in raising money for
different organizations worldwide.
Greek Life was of course a presence
on Palmer Field on Saturday, but so
were countless other student orga-
nizations. While I am accustomed to
seeinghow the Greek community can
work together, I wasn't used to see-
ing organizations ranging from the
Michigan Electronic Dance Organi-
zation, to the football team, to Team
MoJo all working collectively toward
a common goal - and it was truly
something remarkable.
At such a large university, there
are obviously countless ways to get
involved. While this has its obvious
advantages, the drawback is that
with so many organizations, students
are blind to most throughout the
entirety of their years here. Sure, we
get the Facebook messages and event
invites, but we never really know
more than an organization's name
(maybe slightly more if we take the
time to read the chalk writing in the
Diag or are kind enough to takea flyer
from a poor soul handing them out in
front of the Grad). But let's be honest:
For the most part, we're all immersed
in our own organizations and rarely
take time to work together or appre-
ciate each others' efforts. Relay for
Life, however, succeeds in pulling off
an event that joins the jocks, nerds,
frat boys, nurses, dancers and count-
less others to fight for a common
cause and learn about each other in
the process.
Not only was I not bored for even a
second at Relay, but seeing people all
so enthusiastic about the same thing
also made me feel like I was really a
part of something. Call me crazy, but
I was so in awe of the whole event that

I even (voluntarily) came back to see
what the atmosphere was like at 4 a.m.
As I walked around the candlelit track
(after dark there is a Luminaria Cere-
mony where names of people touched
by cancer are written on bags with
candles inside and placed along the
track) I felt an overwhelming sense of
unity, as Relayers took turns sleeping
in tents and walking the track, show-
ing not only their dedication to the
fight against cancer, but their dedica-
tion and support for each other too (as
all teams had members participating
throughout the 24-hour period).
Student groups
unite for a cure
at Rela for Life.
Since I first set foot on campus, I
have known that the University is
an amazing school with an amaz-
ing student body, and participating
in this event only further confirmed
this belief. Students should take time
to recognize not only their own orga-
nizations, but those of others as well,
as we all need each others' support in
order to function most effectively as
a community. I urge all students to
take this advice. But if nothing else,
I urge everyone to get their ownteam
together and participate in this event
next year. And if you're really gener-
ous, dropping a few cents in my solo
cup to bail me out of jail would be
much appreciated.
- Leah Potkin can be reached
at Ipotkin@umich.edu

Key issues overlooked in
discussion of smoking ban
TO THE DAILY:

Much has been said about the smoking ban, Staff
but I feel in the hue and cry on both sides a few
key issues have been glossed over or ignored. ' hasn't 
Several administrators, most recently Simone
Taylor, have gone to great lengths to mentions-d -in
the depth and breadth of student input on the s IU LJp
issue (The smoking ban initiative includes stu-
dent body's imput, 4/13/2010). And administra- TO THE DAILY:
toes have made a great effort to reach out to
students and the wider University community Simone Taylor's1
- after the decision was made. day (The smokingba
People around campus are upset about the body's' imput, 4/13,
ban because there was no opportunity for claims and illustra
input while the initial decision on the policy versity sees its stu
was being made. The uproar is about the pro- controlled at will.
cess, not necessarily the decision. And now Taylor claims th
administrators 'reach out' to talk to the com- ing ban is beingi
munity - but only about how to implement the input. She claimst
policy, not whether the policy makes any sense committee has has
for this campus. This isn't a conversation, it's a 1,500 students reg
whitewash. of the ban.
Dr. Robert Winfield, the University's chief But all "input" ha
health officer, helpfully lets us know that the mentation, rather tI
decision to make all three campuses smoke versity should hav
free was due to smokers gathering outside resi- Taylor's idea of stu
dence hall entrances (Campus-wide smoking dents to say how b
ban reflects what students want, 03/07/2010). their personal free
But isn't that like using a sledgehammer to kill rather than being a
a mosquito? versity's intrusions
This is where an honest effort to engage the ties in the first pla
community would have been helpful. There group is now in the
were so many other options that could have recommendations f
been pursued, rather than the 'nuclear option' shows the entired
that was taken. Options like establishingsmok- implement, not whe
ing zones, as they do at the hospital. Options And if Taylor cat
like modifying the language of the residential open and reasonabl
hall contract to require (instead of request, why hasn't the Uni
as it says now) smokers to stay away from the responses to the st
building. Options like better enforcement. out regarding the;
The real shame of the smoking ban is that it's because the vastt
remarkably myopic. Sure, it's relatively easy to their opposition tot
cross onto city property from Central Campus language of inevita
to smoke. But if you drove your son from Tra- Finally, why, if it
verse City to the University Hospital to get the ued, are all the su
best medical care no matter the cost, and find pletely closed off to
out your son has inoperable cancer, what kind Taylor cites "an i
of kick in the teeth is it to say 'Sorry sir, there is ing some of the be
no smoking allowed on campus'? and staff from acr
What about the international students (and, But this was a smal
frequently, their parents) who live in North- ed in a common cau
wood Community Apartments? Where would of adult students w
people go to get off-campus if they are at Pier- activity. If Taylor c
pont Commons on North Campus? input, she should h
I am a non-smoker, for what it's worth. But the 1,400 signaturt
in the final analysis, this is about University so far by the Burn t
President Mary Sue Coleman deciding, with- the ban.
out input, that the University can go beyond
state or federal law to decide for adults what Sam vanKleef
they can or cannot do. Hypothetically, she Business sophomore

The Daily is looking for diverse, passionate, strong student writers to join
the Editorial Board this summer. Editorial Board members are responsible for
discussing and writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL ALEX SCHIFF AT ASCHIFF@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
MATT MISIAK I
War on Drugs has led to violence

truly considered
iton smoking ban
letter to the editor on Tues-
an initiative includes student
/2010) was laughable in its
ted perfectly how the Uni-
udent body: as sheep to be
at the campus-wide smok-
implemented with student
that the Student Life Sub-
d valuable input from over
arding the implementation
as been regarding the imple-
han whether or not the Uni-
e the ban in the first place.
dent input is allowing stu-
best they can be robbed of
doms and health decisions,
llowed to object to the Uni-
and violations of our liber-
ce. The very wording, "this
e process of formulating its
for policy implementation,"
discussion is about how to
ether or not to implement.
red so much about allowing
4e input from students, then
iversity made public all the
udent survey that was sent
smoking ban? Perhaps it's
majority of students voiced
the ban despite the survey's
bility and leading language.
nput and openness is so val-
bcommittee hearings com-
the public?
mplementation plan reflect-
st work of student, faculty
oss the entire University."
, cherry-picked group unit-
tse of oppressing a minority
xho are engaging in a legal
ared so much about student
have paid more attention to
es that have been gathered
he Ban Campaign opposing

Apr. 13, 2010, the University's International Travel
Oversight Committee suspended student travel in Mex-
ico. This was due to the State Department's issuance of
a travel warning, which the committee says "informed
citizens of the risks of travel especially in parts of north-
ern Mexico, which have seen an increase in the severity
of violence and other criminal activity." The Oversight
Committee has concluded that "travel near the border
has become particularly hazardous" and that the situa-
tion is "unpredictable and fluid, and will likely continue
to remain so."
Why is it, you might wonder, that students can't safely
travel the world and enrich their learning experiences
through its diversity? What has happened in Mexico, a
home to a rich culture and exquisite art, that has caused
enough "violence and other criminal activity" to merit
the University's express concern for students wishing to
study abroad? If you don't know the answer, then itis time
to learn and help fight for change to put an end to the vio-
lence being wrought by drug cartels. If you ever want to
travel to Mexico for your studies, or if you want to help
save the innocent Mexican citizens caught in the middle
of the "criminal activity," you should write letters to your
congressperson or senator.
The problem in Mexico doesn't stem from a lack of
moral values amongst its citizens, a crazed Mexican dic-
tator vying for world power or an anti-government revo-
lution occurring there. It is being created right here, in
the United States. The so-called War on Drugs is contrib-
uting to the violence in Mexico, the cartels that control
the drug trade and general degradation in the quality of
human life that follows from this prohibitionist policy.
It's simple economics. Demand drives supply. If there
is a commodity that people want and are willing to pay
for, then there will be a supplier who is willing to sell
the commodity. The laws of supply and demand directly
apply to the black market - if you make a commodity (like
cocaine, cannabis or heroin) illegal, it becomes extremely

lucrative to provide that product. The demand for the
product is high and the supply is low, so the price of the
merchandise skyrockets.
An inherent problem with prohibition is that it takes
the control of a substance or item and puts it directly into
the hands of criminals - individuals willing to break the
law to make their profit. The immense profits available
create stiff competition between criminal organizations,
which, in turn, often resort to violence in the form of turf
wars. And it's generally the citizens of the surrounding
areas who suffer.
The point I am tryingto make is this: America's War on
Drugs is a failure. If you check your facts, drug use in the
U.S. is on the rise (especially among young adults), and
the potency of illegal narcotics has increased in recent
years. Not only that, but by keeping drugs illegal we are 0
also ensuring that there will always be money available
for criminal organizations such as the Juarez Cartel,
which effectively continues to fund violence in Mexico.
Does Juarez sound familiar? It should. Juarez City is
one of the many cities listed by the University Oversight
Committee as a danger zone. It was also the location of
the brutal murder of high school students on Jan. 31, 2010,
who were celebrating their soccer victory. They paid the
ultimate price for America's failure, which is the inabil-
ity to recognize that it is the drug war that is so harshly
affecting Mexico's citizens.
I encourage the whole student body and, indeed, the
whole of the American citizenry to evaluate and consider
the impact this self-proclaimed war has had, not only on
you and me, but on the rest of the world. It's time to remove
the money that drives the cartels. It's time for America to
legalize and regulate, not prosecute and damage. I urge
students to become active members in their world and
fight for those who cannot fight inequality alone. It's time
to stop creating violence and suffering in Mexico.
Matt Misiak is a member of Students for Sensible Drug Policy,

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith

40


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, April 16, 2010 - 5

He's like a Doctor in a bowtie store.
Lord of time and TV

Tromooner.
Tremendous 'Treme'

Latest incarnation of
'Doctor Who'
dazzles with stellar
cast and storytelling
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Senior ArtsEditor
"Because it will change your
life."
This phrase, which the Doctor
utters to his new-
est companion, is
the very essence
of "Doctor Who." r
Many have been
skeptical of the Saturdays
reported bril- at9 p.m.
liance of BBC's BBC America
famous series,
which is the lon-
gest-running science-fiction show
in history, but after taking a leap of
faith, they find themselves enam-
ored and captivated by the timeless
classic. The latest season is sure to
continue in this fashion, pleasing
old fans while acquiring new ones.
The Doctor is not a doctor by
regular conventions. This doctor is
a Time Lord, an alien species with
time traveling capabilities, and he's
the last of his kind. Through 31 sea-
sons of "Doctor Who," the Doctor
has journeyed through time and
space in his blue police-box time-
machine, known as a TARDIS
(Time And Relative Dimensions In
Space), protecting the universe and
saving humankind with the aid of
a companion and his sonic screw-
driver. Each time the Doctor or his
time machine gets seriously hurt,
it regenerates into a new form. The
31st season marks the beginning of
the reign of the 11th Doctor (rela-
tive newcomer Matt Smith) and his
quest to repair the Universe, mend-
ing mysterious new cracks in time

and space.
Playing the iconic role of the
Doctor is an incredible challenge.
With die-hard fans full of every
criticism imaginable scrutiniz-
ing every move, it's not a task most
actors would be up to. But Smith's
portrayal is absolutely stunning.
He manages to maintain a love-
able quirkiness, yet also balances
eccentricity with a believable fear-
lessness and thirst for adventure.
Concerns that "Doctor Who" has
strayed from its legacy by casting
the youngest-ever Doctor will be
forgotten after mere minutes of
Smith's performance.
The Doctor's newest companion
is Amy Pond (relative newcomer
Karen Gillan) who was once visited
by the Doctor as a girl, and spent
most of her life obsessively wait-
ing for his return. When he finally
does come back, she runs away with
him on the night before her wed-
ding. Gillan is just as charming and
talented as her co-star, making the
cast nothing less than magnificent.
Today's science fiction shows
are often cluttered with innumer-
able CGI sets and characters, and
a large part of the charm of the
early "Doctor Who" series is its
old-school effects. The latest sea-
son strikes a balance between old
and new. We're given breathtaking
shots of Starship UK - 29th-cen-
tury Britain, floating like an island
through space - and intricate and
elaborate ancient tombs, as well as
the tried-and-true clunkiness of
our favorite evil robot-aliens: the
Daleks. Though the modernized
"Doctor Who" has undergone some
aesthetic changes (the TARDIS
interior no longer looks like a game
show set and is now reminiscent of
Willy Wonka's chocolate factory),
the series abstains from any over-
the-top effects that would serve
only to show off how far technology
has come.

However, the most remarkable
aspect of "Doctor Who" is neither
its beautiful yet restrained visuals
nor its stellar cast. What sets "Doc-
tor Who" above the rest is - and
has always been - its superb story-
telling prowess. Inonly anhour and
a half, the premiere creates a narra-
tive that introduces the new Doc-
tor, unites him with his companion
and launches him into an adventure
where he has only 20 minutes to
capture an escaped shape-shifting
alien prisoner and return him to
the inter-galactic police force, the
Atraxi, who are threatening to
incinerate Earth. Somehow this
complicated plot is introduced,
developed and resolved at a natu-
ral pace with plenty of humor and
excitement.
Due to excellent writing, the
dialogue is snappy and the stories
are complex, engaging and sus-
penseful; a single episode of "Doc-
tor Who" accomplishes in an hour
what most movies cannot accom-
plish intwo. And "Doctor Who" has
done this hundreds of times. Natu-
rally, it can't be expected that each
and every story has outdone box-
office'hits, but the sheer magnitude
of individual tales this series has
produced says a lot about the legacy
we're witnessing.
Any TV show that can withstand
758 episodes, 47 years, 31 seasons
and 11 lead actors must have some-
thing incredibly special at its very
core. This isn't just a TV show, it's
a British national phenomenon that
has created its own culture.
The journey on which we are
about to embark with our 11th Doc-
tor will not only live up to the stan-
dard set by years of excellence, but
will likely accrue many new fans if
they're willing to make the leap of
faith and trust the Doctor. Maybe.
"Doctor Who" won't change your
life, but at the very least, it should
change the way you think about TV.

The creators of 'The
Wire' strike again
with HBO drama on
New Orleans
By JEFF SANFORD
SeniorArts Editor
In some circles, "Treme" could
be the most anticipated television
show ever. These
ever-growing *
circles encom-
pass those who trm
have vocally
declared creator Sundays at
David Simon's 10 p.m.
previous series H60
"The Wire" to
be one of the
greatest of all time - member-
ship includes a smart multitude
of critics, writers, professors and
even President Obama. It's good
company.
For those uninitiated to the
"David Simon is'God Club," let's
get this out of the way: "The
Wire" truly has good claim to be
the greatest ever. It's a richly com-
plicated, superbly written por-
trayal of a city's decay, examined
from the perspective of the police
force, the criminals it hounds and
the corrupt tangle of bureaucracy
that's supposed to oversee it all.
Still, that's only half the picture.
The real brilliance of "The Wire"
is that it exposes the how and why
behind real-life problems through
an impressively thorough, com-
plexly human, Great Books-esque
narrative. It is unequivocal True
Art.
So for "Treme," the bar is
stratospheric. But is it even pos-

sible for Simon's new show - or
any TV drama for that matter
- to live up to the institution-
cracking, perspective-altering
"The Wire?"
Well, the beautiful part is that
for Simon and his loyal nation of
Simonites, "Treme" doesn't have
to. The show, while occasion-
ally evoking the muckraking,
let's-look-deeply-and-critically-
at-this-mess sentiments of "The
Wire," exists on an incomparable
plane. Sprawling, ambitious and
painfully true to life, yes; but
"Treme" is about exploring one's
intimate and spiritual relation-
ship with his or her city. It's a
largely optimistic narrative, with.
adversity and the human spirit as
its subjects and music in its soul.
"The Wire" was about bureaucra-
cy, government and institutions.
"Treme" is about the individual.
The show is set in New Orleans,
three months after Hurricane
Katrina, and the pilot includes
plenty of heart-sinking shots of the
city's decimation. It follows a group
of musicians, business owners and
other locals who are reconfiguring
their lives after the disaster.
Like "The Wire," there's a
troupe of characters who could be
called the show's "stars." There's
Antoine Batiste (Wendell Pierce,
"The Wire"), a trombonist who
gets by on a gig-to-gig basis and
can barely pay his cab fare, and
Davis McAlary (Steve Zahn, "Sav-
ing Silverman") is a charmingly
obnoxious, spliff-smoking guitar-
ist and radio DJ.
Non-musicians include Creigh-
ton Bernette (John Goodman,
"The Princess and the Frog"), a
rabble-rousing college professor
and proud New Orleans native,
and Albert Lambreaux (Clarke

Peters, "The Wire"), a Mardi
Gras Indian intent on restoring a
destroyed bar as well as his tribe's
presence in the Big Easy. And the
list goes on.
Obviously, for a show so dense,
the 80-minute pilot had to take
pains to introduce the labyrinth
of characters and their situations,
and in so doing, was a little light
on plot development. But brilliant
flashes that hinted at the show's
promise were .readily apparent.
The production itself is done
right; it's directed beautifully,
with both the city's grandeur and
destruction captured through the
lens. Music informs every scene,
whether it comes out through the
Sun Ra poster beaming from the
wall of McAlary's bedroom or the
trombone that Batiste puts up for
collateral when he doesn't have
cash for the cabbie.
Still, behind the ebullient tra-
ditional New Orleans music and
Simon's trademark humor, there
is real sadness. The seemingly
simple recurring question "How's
your house?" takes on a special
resonance for those who lost
everything after the levees broke.
Restaurateur and chef Janette
Desautel (Kim Dickens, "Fri-
day Night Lights") twice replies
"Don't ask me about my fuck-
ing house," communicating that
among all things lost or destroyed,
the devastation of the home is
particularly painful.
"Treme" features essentially
personal stories - sad, hopeful,
angry, carefree and otherwise.
We've seen what Simon can do
when tackling big-city organi-
zations. Now, he has turned his
sights on something much more
intimate - the human soul. It
looks to be similarly compelling.

Basement farming Learning the hard way with The Dap-Kings

By BRAD SANDERS
Daily Arts Writer
What happens when farm ani-
mals become tired of their caretak-
ers? Naturally, they revolt.
The Base-
ment Arts Animal Farm
play "Ani-
mal Farm," Tonight at 7 p.m.
derived and 11 p.m.,
from George tomorrow at 7 p.m.
Orwell's Walgreen Drama Center
original Free
communist
satire, is based on Joseph Stalin's
Russian revolution of the mid-20th
century. Not finding the pleasing
result they expected after their
uprising, the animals begin to
question whether life was better
when they were subordinates.
The show's director, Lou King,
a junior in the schools of LSA and
Music, Theatre & Dance, found
inspiration to put on the play after
reading an article with a similar
story.
"I read an article about this tent
city that developed in Providence,
R.I., where a group of homeless
individuals had created this uto-
pian society where they had their
own rules and their own code of
life," King said. "Everyone worked
for the good of the community
and they would kick people out if
you were to do anything that was
against their code."
"Eventually, the people revolted
against their leader because they
thought his codes were becoming
ridiculous, and it reminded me of

reading 'Animal Farm' junior year
of high school," King added.
The play contains many of the
same points that Orwell made
about political society as a whole.
"I was really drawnby the novel
about what the human says in the
end when the pigs are meeting
them, that you have your lower
animals to contend with and you
have your lower classes. That was
the inspiration of the production
and how we ended up performing
it," King said. "The play in general
discusses ideas of health care for
the elderly, retirement, the strong
protecting the weak; these rules
that would be in the ideal society.
We see how it plays out, and it
doesn't play out in a utopian way."
King worked with many stu-
dents in the School of Music, The-
atre & Dance as well as the School
of Art & Design to create an enter-
tainingvisual and auditory experi-
ence for the audience.
Staging Orwell's
masterpiece.
"The play ended up being very
sculpturally based. The costumes
are made out of recycled and found
materials," King explained. "The
music that you will hear was com-
posed directly for the show, and it
features puppetry."
Erin Murray, a junior in the
See FARM, Page 7

By JOE DIMUZIO
Daily Arts Writer
I Learned the Hard Way is a tough album to
critique. On one hand, it does exactly what it sets
out to do: It's sequenced, written and produced
well; it's filled with excellent arrangements, per-
formances and slick musicianship; it's got style,
swing, everything.
And it's boring for all the same reasons.
ILearned the Hard Way, like The Dap-Kings, is
a curiosity. Led by Sharon Jones, The Dap-Kings
is a tight, professional band with a compulsive
desire to record songs that sound like lost soul

classics, (or at least songs worth inclusion on a
PeanutButter Wolf compilation). Under the lead-

ership of Jones, the
band issued its first **
LP in 2002 on their
own label, Daptone Sharon I
Records, which has TheD
since put out records
by a smattering of I Learned,
similarly intentioned Daptone Ret
groups. Over the
course of four albums,
Sharon Jones & The Dap-Kings

Jones &
-Kings
the Hard Way
cords
's music has

last 50 years; JB-style funk, Philly, southern and
northern soul, Stax-styled horns, Muscle Shoals,
Motown, the list goes on. The Dap-Kings play as
though hip hop and disco never happened.
This commitment in style wouldn't make a
difference if the tunes weren'tenjoyable. Luckily,
I Learned the Hard Way has some of the group's
strongest work yet. With a sound more polished
than ever, Way is crisper and more polite than
The Dap-Kings's previous albums. Every solo,
echo and drum break is purposefully sequenced
for maximum impact. Each call-and-response is
tuned and timed to high heaven. Rumor has it
See SHARON, Page 7

evoked numerous black music touchstones of the

Earn U of M academic credits without
spending your summer in a classroom!
UM-Flint offers fully online courses throughout the
spring and summer semesters-great for students
planning to travel or work during the
spring and summer months!
Registration has already begun, and online classes fill
up quickly, so act now!
Enrollment is simple; just call UM-Flint's Office of
Extended Learning at (810) 762-3200 and we'll walk you
through the process step by step!

Today's Career Tip:
Best of luck with your career,
Class of 2010!
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


6 - Friday, April 16, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

- G ETes s rAPARKI Gwnere avaul)
when you sign a new lease by April
30th. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.

ANN ARBOR TANDEM hang glid-
ing. www.dfscinc.org 517-223-8683.

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! ! 4 BDRM. CONDO !
Aug 2010. North campus. FREE utils.,
A/C,dry. & free garage prkg. Cubie
TV, FREE Internet. $659/person/mo.
Call 313-838-2629.
AVAILABLE MAY & Fall. Stu-
dios, one and two bedroom apartments
located on U/M Campus. Heat, water,
and prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty,
734-662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.-
com for more info.
! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
11. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!! NEW LISTING Avail Fall 2010!!
721 Church- Unfurnished 1 bedroom
apartment. Quiet atmosphere. Great lo-
cation, I block from South University,
near B-School & Education School,
hardwood floors, free heat, free water,
free parking. Laundry.
Call Ann 320-1244 or visit our web-
site www.churchstreetrentals.com
ROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.
!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!!REDUCED RATES!!!
Apartments Going Fast.....
Efficiencies, 1,2 & 3 Bedrooms!
Only 1 or 2 remaining of each!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment tosee!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location.
!'AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

www.varsitymaoagement.cow
625 ChurchSt. (734)166-1100
THANK YOU RESIDENTS!
Varsity Management has been
Voted Best Landlord
2010!
Studios - 4Oedrooms available for fall
lease, come see why we're #1!
!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus. Heat, water, park-
ing incl., fully furnished, perfect sum-
mer locations!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
$$$$ SAVE A TON OF CASH $$$$
Leasing is almost completed. Remain-
ing apartments have been
REDUCED & are NEGOTIABLE for
fall nooe in. Don't
delay and miss out on the best off cam-
pus housing!
Call today for an appt. to see 761-8000.
primesh.com
*****AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E.
Liberty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5
min walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
**3-BEDROOM** ON Geddes near
CCRB, great balcony, large living
room, heat, water, furnishings, parking
incl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
**4-BEDROOMS** BEAUTIFUL
Burns Park mansion - converted into
enormous apartments with room for 5
or 6! Heat, water, furnishings, and
parking incl. Dishwashers, on-site laun-
dry, screened porch and a large yard!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
**ALL MAY/JUNE APARTMENT
RENTALS RECEIVE 1 MONTH
FREE IF YOU RENT BY 4-30-10!!!
GRADS, FRESHMAN & PROFES-
SOR'S WELCOME.
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MLCOM
734-761-2680.
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL:
514 Lawrence- 6 bdrm house. Price
just reduced. $2,695. 2 bath, free high
speed internet, easy access to central
campus, nursing, medical and dental
schools. D/W and laundry. Parking
available. Call Campus Mgt. 734-663-
4101.
**BUSINESS & LAW SCHOOL**
Huge 2-bdrms one block south, cov-
ered parking, new kitchens and baths,
heat, water, furnishings, and parking
incl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
**CAMPUS 2-BEDROOMS** S.
Forest, Free WiFi, new kitchens and
baths, heat, water, furnishings, and
parking incl.
Varsity Management (734)668-1100.
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.

PRESENTS THE
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaly.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient inap!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1499/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdnn
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$1999/mo.734-665-8825.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytowers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
315 EAST LIBERTY Apartments and
lofts. Completely remodeled. Great lo-
cation. Day phone: 734-662-7888,
Evening Phone (after 5:30): 734-995-
2433.
809 SOUTH DIVISION Avail. Fall
'10- 4 bdrm, I bath. Lndry prkg dish-
washer incl. $2150/mo 810-225-9351.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborpartments.net
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
Hurry insfor Best Selectiont
Right now we have a few apartments at
Very Special Low Rates
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home awayfrom home
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48160
Done the
Sudoku yet?
9
1 7 6
4 7
9 4 2
2 5 1 7
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL2010:
535 . a5th-4 rmn nhouse, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fal 2010.

Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1028 Fuller- Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
heat, water and parking included. Call
Campus Mgt @734-663-4101.
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms apts. Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.jmsprop.com
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., ]dry.,
bath., internet. Summer from $300,
Fall from $440. Call 734-276-0886.
COME LIVE IN KERRYTOWN!!!
Where city life, quietness and conve-
nience meet. 6 bdrm house, less than
3K. Heat Inc. Less than $500/person
Available May 1. Price + in summer.
734-777-3687.

*Broadview Apartments
Spacious 1 bedroom apartments
"Spacius 2 bedrooms with master bath
Shosle around campus
iLarge private balcoes
with wooded views
'Pers welcome
-Mt 'lsOpenDaily
-l '1"7 741-9300
(EXTENDEDHOOus)
www.annarborapartments.net
DEALS, REDUCED RATES & Fee's
Don't go home without securing your
new apartment.
All May /tJune apartment leases
receive 1 month FREE.
This special won't last ong, when
they're gone, they're gone!
You won't have to share OR don't have
to live on North Campus this year...
University Towers has all your housing
needs ON Central Campus
at Greatly reduced rates.
Don't miss out on the Best ON Central
Campus Deals!
Call the Best at 734-761-2680.
uniersitytowers-mi.com
EFFICIENCIES- 4 BEDROOM
apartment. Fall '10-1t. Most include
heat and water. Limited parking avail-
able. Cappo/Deino 734-996-1991.
www.cappowanagesent.com
FALL 2010 ! 1 bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/monh. 734-665-8825.
FALL BIG HOUSE at South U. and
Elm. 7 big rooms, 3 full baths, 2 kitch,
prkg and ldry. 8 month lease possible,
make offer 734-260-4003.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 oremail
6088MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
81 5SOuthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
I & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
HUGE 5 BDRM/2 Bath house, 820 W.
Huron, all appliances, laundry, semi-
furnished, parking, 5 min walk down-
town. Hidden GEM. $1900/mo. Avail
now, Sept 2010. 734-255-7427.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
NORTH CAMPUS I & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
SPACIOUS 5 BRDM APT for Fall.
Central Campus, a/c, free prkg & Indry.
734-665-2723, shahtiger@hotmail.com
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
STUDIO APARTMENT FOR
RENT. 22nd floor. Tower Plaza
Condominium. Contact 248-444-5543.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.SellA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

SUBLETS
!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus. Heat, water, park-
ing incl., fully furnished, perfect sum-
mer sublease!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
6 BDRM SPRING/SUMMER SUBLET
Rooms available in house-on Central
Campus, parking incl., price negotiable.
Call 248-225-0570.
. TA

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520x 125.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeonbl/iserv.net

AA INTERNET FANTASY Sports
Co seeks student programmer. F/T sum-
mer, P/T fall/winter. Must know C,
Linux. support@onroto.com
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
AIA LEARN THE secret shortcut to
Philosophy that colleges and govern-
ment have suppressed for years! Go:
www.aisnota.org
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.YouDriveAds.com
EARN UP TO $4,000 weekly promot-
ing college parties in downtown De-
troit. Must have experience. Great op-
portunity for greek org, or entrepreneur.
redhawklic@gmail.com 734-335-0702
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to jo. Click on Surveys.
HELPCREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
1VF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for healthy women
between the ages of 21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 for their involvement
in our program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.
SPRING/SUMMER BABYSITTER
NEEDED. Mature, Responsible, Lov-
ing Sitter needed to have fun with our3
children. Ages 2, 4, & 10. Part-time.
Flexible hours. $12/hr. References a
must. Call Gabrielle @ 734-761-8844
or email gabgillard@yahoo.com
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
College Pro is now hiring painters to
work outdoors with other students.
$3000-5000 advancement opportuni-
ties. 888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com

A Aoe uslvenergeos
person to care for infant. May-Aug.
Approx 40 hrs/wk. Prev. exp. w/ chil-
dren. Car required. gseinphomich.edu
AFTER SCHOOL/SUMMER SIT-
TER/DRIVER needed for 14 y.o.
twins. Schedule is flexibe. Must be
non-smoker with car, excellent driving
record, enjoy summer at the pool,
sports and other activites and refer-
ences. rglickghumich.edu or 734-747-
8949.
EDUCATED/ LOVING PERSON
needed to care for 3 & 4 year old girls.
Approx 20 hrs/wk, mornings, Mon-
Thur. Car Required. Call 734-754-1145.

summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

0
S

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 62 Latin infinitive 30 Day star? 44 Bachelor pad
1 Fire stalter? 63 Hope unit 31 Airport safety gp. amenity
4 Squabble 32 Squad carcop, 45 Colored circle
8 Exorbitant DOWN often around the pupil
13 Mo. in01781 in 1 Desert known for 34 Taxonomic suffix 46 One wayto break
which Comwallis Joshua trees 35 Choppyseas the news
surrendered 2 Nickname for a feature 49 Get-up-and-go
14". Really Going player who 36 Nancy's region 50 Legal hire
Out With im?: performs under 3 Doler 1 Underwear initials
Jue Jackson ht prowsuro 40 Author Harto 02 Sprint
16 Volcanic flowers? 3 Like espresso 0!DQarrelu 03 "ER" aroau
17 Princeton 4 Bonn pronoun 43 Works 57" Whastho "
jazzman? 5 Fired (up)
19 Retirement 6 Author Sholem ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
legislation 7 Pad _: Asian A P E SMS N O B H I M10 M
acronym noodle dish A
20 One wayto run 8 Record holder
21 "Egg-laying for 9Sullied I N B A D FORM HOLE D
Dummies," etc.? 10 Not a good sign N Y M E T A B S I C E
23 Disappear 11 Facility SAN T A OPEN B A R
25 Par__ 12Jr.'sexam P O I N T O F N O R E T U R N
26 Subj. including 15 Abbr. often A R T P R O Y E W
grammar following a M E S S Y o RI S T P A T
27 What a New York comma T 0 Y M I C L I E
baseballowner 18 Brewfollower? A H E A D O F S C H E D U L E
would doto 22Classic Welles L O N G AGO S E L I G
ensure player role S O Z A R M M O D U S
fitness? 24 "Let it stand"
321t's hard to cut 28Genesis N EYMLE A U LSI N G L N
through 29 Shipping
33 Company with container O D E T S N T S B T Y K E
toy trucks weights xwordeditor@aoltcom 04/15/10
34 Young hooter 1 2 a 4 s ue 9 10 11 12
37 LAX datum
38 Its youngest 13 14 15 1
British member, 17 1
Elise Tan
Roberts, was 20 21 22
admitted at age 2
39 Pres. Jefferson at3 02
40 Like Wiener 29 27 28 9 3031
shnitzel
42 Sign outside a 32 33
boarded-up JFK?
44 Joker3
47 Figure oftspeech 394o 4t
48 Hard to endure
50 Little Londoner? a2 at 44 45 4
54 Rte. through
Houston
55 Litmus reddeners so 51 5 2 3 s4
56 Carpet-cleaning
android? 55 s0 07
58 Indian royal
59 Parts of some
support 81 82 63
systems?
60100% By Dan Naddor
61 Imitators (c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 04/1610

For Saturday, April 17, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 0toApril 19)
This is an excellent day for business
and commerce. Trust your moneymak-
lng ideas. Many of you can boost your
income or get a better job today.
Purchases also will please you.
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
This is a wonderful day to get out and
schmooze with others. You're in rare
form! All group activities will delight.
(You likely will learn something new as
well.)
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
If you work behind the scenes or
alone, you will get your rewards,
because important people approve of
what you're doing (even if you're being
very low-key about it).
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
All group activities will be positive,
joyful experiences today. Get out and
schmooze with others! Classes, clubs,
organizations, conferences and conven-
tions will please you.
LEO
(July 23 toAug. 22)
You might fall in love with somebody
older, richer or from a different back-
ground at this time. Something seems to
be taking place that brings different and
unusual opportunities to you.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Grab everychance to travel that sud-
denly comes your way today. Your
appreciation of beauty is heightened, so
enjoy museums, art galleries, parks and
beautiful buildings. It's a good day for
publishing and the media.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Gifts, goodies, favors from others and
practical assistance can help you today.
Somehow you are on the receiving end

of what other people own or wish to
bestow on you. (Great!)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You can learn something new from
friends and partners today. They might
introduce you to different ways of doing
things or show you the ways of other
cultures.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
You feel healthy and strong today!
This is a pleasant day at work, especially
for budding romance. (Romance with
people from different backgrounds is
likely.)
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Romance, love affairs, sports, playful
diversions, show business and the enter=
tainment world are all fun choices today.
Kick up your heels and enjoy yourself!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
This is an excellent day for real estate
deals. It's also an excellent day to shop
for anything for your home or a family
member.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Relations with others are warm and
friendly today. People are big-hearted
and generous toward each other. Get out
and enjoy the company of others, espe-
cially siblings and relatives.
YOU BORN TODAY You have two
distinct sides to you: One part of you
seeks security, respectability and solid-
ity; the other side wants wild and reck-
less adventure! Your practical nature
generally wins, because you have excel-
lent money savvy. Fortunately, both
sides are hardworking and active. Expect
a social, fun-loving year ahead that is
particularly good for relationships.
Birthdate of: Victoria Beckham,
celebrity/singer; Thornton Wilder, play-
wright;Karen Blixen, author.

0
0

22010 KingFeatures-Syndicate,Inc.

0
0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, April 16, 2010 - 7

Lynch's lyrical comedy

It'sthe little things in life.
'Private Chefs' is
a public fai* ure
By CHRISTINA ANGER the Botox party, where the age-
Daily Arts Writer less host poo-pooed the trio soup
appetizer and reminded her
Most shows that feature private chefs that some of her
respected chefs create a kind of Botoxed guests wouldn't be able
aura around to open their mouths very wide.
the figure- * Chef Brooke told the camera in
head, mak- response to her rejected soup that
ing him or Pfiva Cef& every chef knows Botox is made
her seem from botulism, "and botulism is
untouchable. Of BewirIy Hills what happens when mayonnaise
Chef Ram- Fridays at10 p.m. is left on the counter." Not quite
say on "Hell's Ftod Ntk the zinger she was hoping for, as
Kitchen" is the Botox host later squinted at
downright Peterson's forehead and offered a
fearsome. This kind (and most free treatment.
kinds) of chef knows what he or It's not exactly fun to watch the
she is doing and doesn't want to be role of chef and client get com-
questioned, interrupted or chal- pletely reversed. "Private Chef"
lenged. Food Network's "Private manages to hold attention for its
Chefs of Beverly Hills" takes this full hour spot, but instead of illus-
stereotype and pulls a 180 - the trating the impressive menus and
chefs aren't the ones to be feared presentation from private chefs,
here, the clients are. Clients mean- it reminds us how pathetic and
ing the rich, know-it-all, Botox- snobby people who hire private
addicted, puppy-lugging zombies
of Beverly Hills, USA.
The pilot followed three teams
of two chefs, each sent on private Too much Botox
chef duty for a terrifying event: a .
doggy debutante, a Botox party spols the
and aglamcampingktrip (i.e. glam- cookin show
ping, duh?). The show could really g
go on without the private chefs _______
entirely - the ridiculous Beverly
Hills parties are enough to enter- chefs are. The group of five or six
tain. At every job, the private chefs men who went "glamping" was
weren't revered for their talent or almost too much to handle. After
knowledge, but condemned and complaining about a cold appe-
tossed around by the clients. tizer that was meant to be cold,
"Private Chefs" is less of a cook- the men "roughed it" and actually
ing show and more of a lifestyle caught two trout, which they then
feature, and it doesn't fit into the demanded be cooked alongside the
respectable mold of shows like Apricot Glaze Cornish Game Hen.
"Top Chef" and "Hell's Kitchen." "Private Chef" should be a dis-
Because the chefs don't make appointment to chefs everywhere.
the rules, the cooking takes sec- As they say in some of the best
ond place to Beverly Hills cul- kitchens, sometimes the client
ture, which 'dashes with Food isn't always right; but on "Private
Network's ostensible goal for the Chef of Beverly Hills," the clients
show: to give a glimpse into the are the alpha dogs and the chefs
wide varieties of professional are the ... bitches. Sometimes the
home cooking. truth hurts just as much as try-
Chefs Stuart O'Keeffe and ing to eat after a Botox injection.
Brooke Peterson were sent to Sorry, Beverly Hills!

S
musi
to
PIKE
liner St
demons
that's
more
just
dotes,
liners
silly it
Lynch
Tenacio
Adam S
and
of the
chords(
shortlis
popular
an acou
their s
punchli
In a:
the Da
fusion o
organic
the dor
Univers
"Whe
roommo
in band
guitar .
taught:
get then
"It w
so stone
Short
1993 wi
headed
worked

aginaw-born caught his first big break: a half-
hour special for Comedy Central.
cal comic comes "I went fromperforming almost
exclusively in the New York area
the Michigan to headlining rock clubs and the-
aters all over the U.S.," he wrote.
By DAVID RIVA Lynch went on to release two
DailyArts Writer live recordings, a studio album
and a greatest hits compilation
Comedy Night head- before scoring a gig on Broadway
ephen Lynch has always as the lead role in "The Wedding
trated a form of comedy Singer."
about 2009 saw his return to the
than recording studio with the release
anec- PIKE Comedy of 3 Balloons, a collection of songs
one- Night2O1O. tackling hot button issues like
and S y AIDS and Anne Frank as well as
nsults. Stephen LyflCh light-hearted topics like mafia
joins Tonightat movies and Charlie Brown.
us D, 7 30 p.m. The album is ambitious in its
andler instrumentation and song struc-
Flight Michigan Theater tures, employing a full band for a
Con- Tickets from $20 majority of the tracks as well as
on the string and piano parts to add more
t of comedians who gained texture and convey a fuller sound.
'ity by performing with Much of Lynch's lyrical con-
stic guitar to complement tent might be considered taboo,
idesplitting stories and irreverent and even disturbing at
nes. times. But like most comedians, he
n e-mail interview with doesn't seem to care.
ily, Lynch explained the "Anything people hold sacred is
f music and comedy as an funny to take the piss out of," he
process that happened in wrote.
.ims of Western Michigan Growing up in Saginaw, Lynch
ity. has many fond memories of Michi-
en all my friends (and) gan, including "summers at the
ates at WMU - who were beach (and) apple-picking in the
s - taught me how to play fall." In his return home, he will
.. I would take what they perform for a college audience, a
me and make up songs to crowd he's grown accustomed to
a to laugh," he wrote. on past touring circuits.
vas easy because they were "Most of the time, the shows
d all the time," he added. are free to students," he wrote. "So
ly after graduating in I tend to put on a real half-assed
th a B.A. in Drama, Lynch performance. You know, really
out to New York where he give it 20 or 30 percent. Save the
and performed until he good stuff for the paying crowds."

Stephen Lynch enjoys apple-picking and summers at the beach.

Fortunately (or unfortunate-
ly - depending on the size of
your bank account), there is a fee
attached to Lynch's Ann Arbor
show. But those hard earned dol-
lars you spend will go to Wyclef
Jean's Yele Haiti Foundation as
part of Pi Kappa Alpha's philan-

thropic work.
With this perfect combina-
tion of laugh-inducing multitask-
ing and earthquake relief there's
really no excuse not to head over
to the Michigan tonight to see a
fellow Michigander thrive in the
spotlight.

CMT's 'Gator 911' wrestles with
alligators and unoriginality

By LINDSAY HURD
Daily Arts Writer
After the death of everyone's favorite ani-
mal-loving jungle man Steve Irwin, the world
probably thought they would never again
watch someone wrestle an
alligator with such charis-
ma, hilarity and aptitude.
Enter Gary Saurage and
company, who know way Gator 911
more than anyone should Fridaysat9 p.m.
about alligators and have a CMT
great time showing it off.
In "Gator 911," CMT is
clearly taking inspiration from Animal Plan-
et's "The Crocodile Hunter" by taking what
Irwin did and simply relocating it to Texas.
From culverts to golf courses, Saurage and his
gator-hunting crew capture the scaly beasts
bare-handed, with the occasional rope, lasso
or fishing pole. Afterward, they relocate the
creatures to either Saurage's gator sanctuary
or to the wild, where they won't have a chance
to harm humans.
Gary Saurage can't
match Steve Irwin.

about an alligator's lifestyle and attack meth-
ods is on the verge of creepy. Clearly, he has had
one mad obsession with gators for his entire
life and he won't be stopping anytime soon.
But one sour point of the show is Saurage's
use of the alligators in his sanctuary to practice
his handling skills. Throughout the show, he
always professes his love and care for the crea-
tures and expresses that he just wants them to
live a peaceful life - that is, until he decides
that he needs one to practice on. It clearly was
not a pleasant experience for the animals to
be captured, relocated and then jumped on
while Saurage practices his skills and custom-
ers come to his conservatory to watch. Saurage
better hope that PETA doesn't watch CMT or
else he mightbe in trouble.
Needless to say, the manly men of "Gator
911" will make you forget metro-sexual even
exists. From the overly chauvinist pickup truck

with "Gator 911" sprawled across it, to the sheer
cajones it takes to step into muddy water with
a 9-foot gator, these dudes are not reaching for
the hair gel anytime soon. At one point, Sau-
rage gets a fishing hook caught in his leg after
he wrestles a gator to the ground. Instead of
going to the hospital like a normal person, Sau-
rage takes a pair of pliers, yanks out the hook
and then walks it off - all within 30 seconds so
he can get back to catching his gator.
From gator-pouncing to corky personali-
ties, "Gator 911" has everythingviewers would
want from a thrill-seeking program. Because
of Saurage's unlimited bravery, someone's got
to wonder if he does this show because he loves
his gators or if he's just showing off. And simi-
lar to the deceased Irwin, everyone watching
the show is wondering how long until Saurage
and crew get an arm or a leg chomped off by a
pissy alligator.

SHARON
From Page 5
everytoolused bythe Kingsisvin-
tage, and it's not hard to believe.
"The Game Gets Old" opens
the album with some blaxploita-
tion horns before it drops into
crisp Stax soul, leading smoothly
into the schizophrenic "I Learned
the Hard Way," a song so tight
you wish it would loosen up. The
remaining 10 songs cover a lot of
ground, from the eerily timely
"Money" to the slinky doo-wop
of "If You Call" and instrumental
burner "The Reason."
Third track "Better Things"
is a clear highlight. Sounding
like a lost Motown classic, with a
bouncing, rhythmic guitar chug,
handclaps and a little electric
piano, Jones proclaims "I'm a bet-
ter woman than I have been" and
shouts "I got better things to do!"
as a bass riff and horn section play
cat and mouse. There is an ease to
the band's playing here, and great
vocals by Jones ice the cake.
But when it comes down to it,
FARM
From Page 5
School of Art & Design, worked as
the costume director for "Animal
Farm," and worked with King dur-
ing her freshman year in an East
Quad production of "Girl in the
Goldfish Bowl."
"I had to collaborate with Lou to
see what his vision was and made
the costumes using trash basically,"
Murray said. "It's kind of puppetry
based; most of the animals are
removed from the actor that is play-
ing them. It was really exciting see-
ing the costumes I worked on for so
long be worn by the cast members."
"Animal Farm" will be set in the
Providence-inspired tent city, the
trash being the only provisions for
the animals' survival.
"Aside from just being a junk-

there's just a crucial lack of the
most important thing of all on
Way, and that's soul. For all of
the band's immaculate play and
arrangements, everything feels
self-conscious and controlled. In
all of the impressive saxophone,
guitar and drum solos, there isn't
a single unhinged feeling of joy, or
the illicit sensation of funk. Jones
is a terrifically talented vocalist
with great pipes and character,
but the most appropriate word to
describe her seems to be "flex-
ible;" she can croon, wail and
testify when the songs call for it,
but seldom do you feel that she is
truly letting it all go. Her voice
is about as characteristic as the
Kings's tunes themselves: evoca-
tive, well-played and written, but
ultimately trapped by the group's
aspirations.
I Learned the Hard Way is
worth a listen for any soul fan, no
doubt, but don't expect anything
game-changing. Sharon Jones &
The Dap-Kings are talented, and
a dynamite live act. Album-wise,
the songs are good and occasion-
ally great, but they're not replac-
ing The Payback anytime soon.
yard, we also have a large wind-
mill structure that will extend into
the grid of Studio One, and the play
will be more a part of the audience
instead of them just facing the
stage," King added.
Through working on "Ani-
mal Farm," King has been able
to explore a new area of theater,
encourage the actors and design-
ers to reach their full potentials
and create a balance between the
political and artistic aspects of the
performance. He also expressed a
correlation between the produc-
tion's theme and the interactions
involving the homeless in the U.S.
"The treatment of homeless
people in America is correlated
with the animals in the play," King
said. "Just walk down State Street,
you ignore and avoid the homeless.
It's dehumanizing, and these ani-
mals are dehumanized individuals
as well."

In the world of reality TV, unfortunately, it's
hard to be innovative these days, and alliga-
tor wrangling is definitely nothing new. When
Irwin first appeared on the scene, his show was
exciting and original. But while "Gator 911"
may not be ground-breaking at this point, the
thrill of the catch is still there. These are still
wild animals, and the threat of being seriously
hurt is always apparent, which is admittedly
entertaining, if in a sadistic way. Viewers will
watch in amazement as the crew searches out
and then continues to catch alligators like it's
no big deal.
But the amount of knowledge Saurage has Best orgy ever.


8 - Friday, April 16, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Quarterback BATTLE

*I

Again, the three-headed monster at Michigan's quar-
terback position rears its head. But this year,
the competition could be closer than ever.
Michigan fans have seen their fair share
of sophomores Tate
Forcier and Denard
Robinson, as both
took significant
snaps under center
last season. But Satur-
day will be fans' first look
at electrifying early-enroll-
ee Devin Gardner, whose
hype precedes him. Ranked
the No. 1 dual threat quarter-
back in the nation last year
by all the major recruiting
sites, the 6-foot-4 signal caller
has been receiving rave reviews for
his competitive nature, and there's

no doubt he'll have something to prove when Satur-
day afternoon rolls around. And now, with Forcier's
status uncertain for Saturday's game, Robinson may
have his turn to shine.
But don't expect Forcier
and Robinson to shed the 0 
limelight so quickly. The -
race for the starting spot
at the quarterback
position is in
a dead sprint,
especiallyafter
Robinson has
impressed coaches
with his improvement
this spring.
one thing is clear. All
eyes at the Big House on
Saturday will be locked
under center.
ARIEL BOND/Daly ,

With spring practice nearing its end and the spring game coming up this
weekend, the Daily football beat breaks down five of the biggest storylines
Michigan fans can follow on Saturday.
Cam GORDON

0
0

------- - ------

Spring's SURPRISE PLAYER


When redshirt freshman Cameron Gordon arrived
at Michigan this fall, he was a 6-foot-2, 210-pound,
super-athletic wide receiver.
After redshirting his freshman year, Michigan
coach Rich Rodriguez decided the team had enough
talent at wideout and not enough at free safety. He
moved Gordon to safety and, apparently, the switch is
working great for everyone involved.
"There's no question that move was one of the bet-
ter moves we've made, personnel-wise," Rodriguez
said. "I think he's a natural there."

Questions have been swirling around the safety
position the entire offseason. The collection of safe-
ties who saw the field last year underperformed, and
the injury to sophomore Vlad Emilien, who's in the
running for the startingspot, made depth at the posi-
tion this spring a serious issue.
But Gordon has stepped up and appears to be mak-
ing a push for the starting job. It will be interesting
to see if he appears to be a step up from last year's
starters, as the buzz surrounding his spring seems to
indicate.


After watching then-freshman wide receiver
Roy Roundtree catch a pinpoint SO-yard bomb from
Forcier in last year's spring game, it was clear that
Roundtree was something special. And when all was
said and done last season, Roundtree led the team in
receiving yards (434) and touchdowns (3), which even
the most in-tune Michigan football followers never
would have hedged their bets on in the preseason.
So Roundtree's performance begs the question:
Who is this year's surprise Spring Game performer?
Mere's three players who may surprise you on Satur-
day:
1. FITZGERALD TOUSSAINT: Despite redshirting
last season, Toussaint's speed is being noticed in a big
way. And with Vincent Smith out for the spring with

an ACL tear, it could be Toussaint's time to show that
he can fill the cleats of departingrunningback Carlos
Brown.
2. TERRANCE ROBINSON: They've been tryinghim
all over the field in spring practice (at slot, in the back-
field, etc.), and the coaches have made it clear they
want him on the field. Robinson's biggest criticism has
been his hands, so if he can show an improvement in
that category, he may be making plays this fall.
3. KENNY DEMENS: Senior linebacker Obi Ezeh has
had a rollercoaster of a career with the Wolverines,
and Ezeh's loss at middle linebacker could be Demens's
gain this season. The Oak Parknative has been the talk
of the linebackers this spring and has all the skills tobe
a tackling machine at the position.

Running back BATTLE

With graduating seniors Brandon Minor and Car- le. But he showed flashes in his freshman year.
los Brown gone, the tailback position is wide open Also in the mix is redshirt sophomore Mike Cox,
place. spring. Cox exploded for 82 yards on 11 carries and T e
Leading the pack to replace the duo is junior Mike two touchdowns when he got his chance against Dela-
Shaw, who is the veteran of the bunch now, but hasn't ware State last season. Rodriguez even went as far x
seen enough carries in his first two years on campus as to speculate that early-enrolle Stephen Hopkins Rodriguez ruffled some feathers when he men-
to showcase his abilities. Sophomore Vincent Smith is wouldn't be redshirted because he fills a role as tioned a few weeks ago that the defense was working
still recovering after tearinghis a bigger back. Toussaint could challenge for with running a 3-3-5 during spring practice. Defen-
ACL in the 2009 season fina- carries too. sive coordinator Greg Robinson downplayed the idea
soon after, but the formation is intriguing for Michi-
gan this year.
The Wolverines have run a bit of the 3-3-5 in
recent seasons, and Rodriguez ran it when he was at
West Virginia. It gives Michigan a bit of flexibility
within the 3-4 scheme that the Wolverines ran pre-
dominantly a year ago. Identifying who plays where
SAID ALSALAH/Daily



r
t
t

within the scheme will be interesting. But all in all,
it will just be a tweak that Robinson throws in when
he wants a faster linebacker, say for example Stevie
Brown of last year's team, to drop into coverage and
play like a fifth defensive back.
It gives the defense more flexibility and could
help in defending running quarterbacks or spread
offenses with more speed on the field. The key will
be whether the front six defenders can get pressure
on the quarterback when the Wolverines drop into
the 3-3-5.

Looking for something more added. "Professore Vacanti would've liberty. thinking of hiding in a closet for the just about every option out there,"
authentic than local favorite Pizza been proud of me. Or maybe I "Did we eat too many rest of its life hoping toube forgotten said National Greek Board
Barn, the group had decided to should say would've been feiro di Doritoes? Maybe. Throw a little and never found. President, Henry Bggins. "There
A V E I venture out and try a new place. me." Frisbee around? Sure. But teachers were only about 18,000 possible
CLA SS TAK ES Prfessore Vacant erused i , deserve to have a little fun too. And letter combinations to begin with, so
t's not like it hurt anyone," said the you had to know it was com ing."
O N LAW FI 6nyear-old Fineman. "In fact, I The news certainly left the
1nk the students should be thank- G R EEK Greek System in a state of turmoil,
A S CLIENT M...u I was so hungover the next day as rumors began to fly immediately.
A local college adv L [t I just gave everyone A's SYSTE M Some suggested a move to a 4-letter
taking on the law. yU" " way. I think it worked in their system, while others questioned why
entire law firm! The vr" RUNNING OUT it always had toube Greek. "I think
spending their se ile students are demanding English is a pretty good language,"
help the lawyersg a siere's no word yet on how O F LETTER said Debra Boomgarden. "I mean,
"We Just d "i United States, not a
Brian Fats. "W n stic country."
creative help aoufoI
r ly o ae treIWE BUY ACK
their ideas and work, tailgate W
them with legal spe
making them change
don't matter and basic
water it dow untilF~7 I4C (C I(
f y nt creati ve
any way s"
round of id clas
drowned us d bchan
dead' - - -
Sent MONE
led MASCOT
paran-
libel.C( r . ' A _. ( u1
hb ( MSGM (67463') ;%aMS IM/ N(
G T $0EXTRA GET 004 R T
HEI CA'{ELLh
T -~ iwas Thursday a renting
frt was the scariest before the big exa aaaaay
O RDER PIZZA moment of my life," Karl Winsey, a Jay Limbaugh's off: ich led
friend of Danny's, recalled. "It was As were Professor R - Police rep c e n ars and
AT RESTAU- like we time-warped into Italy or Dr. Denise Carrol's eWhe was became agitated n confronted b "Once I
something. The waiter came over everyone during the last-minute Book on who w rth more. oks, I
RA NT4l47 and started talking in Italian! Um... question frenzy? Apparently, tailgat- altercation ensu that involv ."
what? I had no idea what to do." ing. several blows to head o much
Fortunatel for the ou '' and accrdin to some witnesses a find a
ynegoti-
g rente agree for food,
iton, back masa d toiletries.
If I could rent al , I'm pretty
ertain I wouldn' need a real
b." And if he tins I'll probably
nt a guy to do tl rme too."

0


