OVER-EXPLORED
Once innocuous, Dora the
Explorer's makeover sends
the wrong message. )PAGE 5

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, February 9, 2010

michigandaily.com

PATROLLNG CAMPUS POLICE
SACUA votes
to overhaul
DPS oversight
elections

LSA senior Adam Runkle (back left) and Engineering junior Adrian Calderon (back middle) go over notes while LSA junior Brian Lee (front right) reads at an adult and
transfer student study group held at the Chemistry Building last week.
Life at'U' offers mix of benefits
and hardships for adult students

Plan would split
representatives
between tenure,
non-tenure faculty
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily News Editor
The process of electing fac-
ulty members to the Department
of Public Safety Oversight Com-
mittee caused a heated debate at
yesterday's meeting of the Senate
Advisory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs.
While some present at the meet-
ing were not immediately satisfied
with the proposed election proce-
dures, SACUA - the leading fac-
ulty governance body on campus
- passed a resolution outlining
how faculty members would be
elected to the DPS Oversight ConS-
mittee - a policy that will take
effectjpmediately.
The oversight committee is an
organization that is meant to act
as a check on University Police
and investigate grievances filed
against the Department of Public
Safety.

The election procedures passed
by SACUA will accommodate a
decision to split faculty elections
between tenured faculty and non-
tenured faculty, so that each votes
only for the representative within
their respective group.
SACUA will be charged with
overseeing the election of a rep-
resentative for members of the
Senate:Assembly - a body of
more than 4,000 tenured faculty,
researchers and librarians - while
Human Resources will head the
election for more than 2,300 non-
tenured faculty.
Approval of the revised faculty
election procedures will set the
faculty election process in motion
for the first time since 2001, when
the last election of a faculty mem-
ber to the oversight committee
took place. Michigan statute Pub-
lic Act 120 requires the election
of student, staff and faculty rep-
resentatives to the committee -
with each member nominated and
elected by its respective constitu-
ency.
While the decision to hold a
faculty election will bring elec-
tions to the committee more in
line with legal requirements, no
See SACUA, Page 7

813 adult students
enrolled at the
University last year
By NATALIE BERKUS
For the Daily
Before setting foot in Angell
Hall, Brian Lee, a 27-year-old LSA

student, had already had "the best
four years" of his life.
Prior to enrolling at the Uni-
versity, Lee served in the U.S.
Air Force at a base in Califor-
nia. Though he wouldn't give up
those four years for anything, Lee
decided it was now time to pursue
his college degree.
"In our society today, it is
what's expected when you want

to get any kind of job whatsoever,"
Lee said. "When you're trying to
write a resume, if you don't have
a college background, that auto-
matically lessens your chances of
being able to get hired."
Lee is one of 813 adult students
who were enrolled at the Univer-
sity last year. And because the
University recognizes undergrad-
uate students over the age of 24 as

financially independent, many of
them receive extensive financial
aid.
Adam Runkle, co-president of
the Organization for Adult and
Transfer Students, is a 27-year-
old transfer student from Kalam-
azoo Valley Community College.
He said being above the age of 24
brings with it a financial advan-
See ADULT STUDENTS, Page 7


THE CAMPUS BAR SCENE
South U. mainstay Mitch's
Place closes due to economy

POLICE ON PACKARD

Employee: Landlord
offered no help to
keep bar open
By JILLIAN BERMAN
ManagingNewsEditor
Mitch's Place, a mainstay in
the South University Avenue bar
scene, known for its cheap beer
and comfortable atmosphere,
closed last night due to econom-
ic concerns, according to a bar

employee.
Jody Thompson, who is listed
as a contact on the bar's website,
wrote in an
e-mail to First reported on
The Michi- Mchigdn,; ally com
gan Daily
last night that in light of the
economic recession the bar was
forced to close.
"We have closed," Thompson
wrote in the e-mail. "The eco-
nomic downturn has forced us to
close our doors, we could not get
any relief from the landlord."

Though there was no infor-
mation regarding the permanent
closing of the bar on Mitch's web-
site last night, the website stated
that the bar was closed yesterday.
Students on campus had mixed
reactions upon hearing the news
last night.
First-year Law student Colleen
Manwell said she is sad to see the
bar go. She added that during her
time at the University as an under-
graduate, she had heard the lore of
Mitch's from older students, who
See MITCH'S, Page 7

NCAA COMPLIANCE
'U' hires new Athletic Dept. official

Texas's Elizabeth
Heinrich will fill
vacant compliance
office post
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
The University recently hired
Elizabeth Heinrich to join the
Athletic Compliance Division of
Michigan's Athletic Department.
An official announcement of
the hire has not yet been made,
but Associate Athletic Director
for Compliance Judy Van Horn
confirmed the hire in an e-mail
to The Michigan Daily yester-

day. The hire is a routine replace-
ment for a vacated position, not
an expansion of the compliance
office, Van Horn wrote.
Heinrich will begin her role
as Assistant Athletic Director
for Compliance later this week,
replacing Matt Stolberg who left
the Athletic Department in Janu-
ary. Stolberg left to accept a posi-
tion at Penn State University as
its Associate Athletic Director for
Compliance.
"I am pleased to announce
Elizabeth Heinrich as a new
employee with the Athletic
Department's Compliance Ser-
vices Office staff," Van Horn
wrote. "Elizabeth begins her ten-
ure as Assistant Athletic Director
for Compliance with the Univer-

sity of Michigan later this week."
Heinrich comes to the Uni-
versity after working for the past
four years as compliance coordi-
nator for the University of Texas
at Austin.
"She has been highly esteemed
by the Texas coaches and staff,"
Van Horn wrote in an e-mail.
"In addition, Elizabeth is provid-
ing national leadership with the
National Association for Athletics
Compliance's Reasonable Stan-
dards Committee."
Prior to working at Texas,
Heinrich worked for several years
at a law firm in Boston and for one
year at the NCAA, where she spe-
cialized in secondary infraction
with the agents, gambling and
See COMPLIANCE, Page 7

SAM woLsuN/Daly a To see more photosfrom the search,
e dn aehite van and a
K-9 unit vehcle to 731 Packard St. with a search warrant Ios4LE e w ire ndiy~ocheck out the tally's teas bhlogate
enter a toy floor apartmnnt of the hoilding yesterdaymciadiycm/lg/h ie
S TiUsD E NT GOocVsEnR stEiNtT
Ross student gov. changes its constitution

New document
revamps the makeup
of the governing body
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
The Ross School of Business
Student Government Associa-
tion recently passed a new and
shortened version of the body's
constitution. In the process, the
constitution went from seven to

four pages and the bylaws went
from 23 to 13 pages and revamped
the governing body's structure.
Previously the Ross SGA was
split up into two bodies under the
executive board: Bachelor of Busi-
ness Administration SGA and the
Masters of Business Administra-
tion SGA. The old structure also
had a governing body of non-vot-
ing members that would advise the
council. Now, the SGA Executive
board oversees three councils: the
Graduate Council, the BBA Coun-
cil and the Part-time MBA council.

The constitution was passed last
week by leaders of each set of Ross
SGA constituents with a 97-per-
cent approval rate. According to
the Ross SGA Constitution syn-
opsis given to the representatives
who were voting on the change,
the main reasons for the revisions
were to "create a structure that
better represents all Ross stu-
dents," and to "simplify the consti-
tution and give a more appropriate
level of detail when needed."
Christine Baron, who recently
See SGA, Page 7



WEATHER HI:26
TOMORROW LO 18

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Daily Arts picks the week's best online diversions.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS...........
Vol. CXX, No.90 SODUKIU......
Q010 The Mchigan Daily O P I N I O N.....

...2 ARTS....................5
.3 CLASSIFIEDS..... .........
.4 SPO RTS................... ........ B...8

T

4 1


2 - Tuesday, February 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 0

MONDAY: WEDNESDAY:

In Other Ivory Towers Prfso Poie Before You Were Here
Engfineering successU

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

Though Engineering Lecturer Jeff
Ringenberg is beau known for his atti-
tude in the lecture hall, many of hia
students are more familiar with him
outside of the classroom.
"I teach on Central Campus, andI
ride the bus down," he said. "And every
single time I've gone down there, I've
talked with a student from a previous
semester."
As one of the instructors for Engi-
neering 101 - a mandatory class for
freshmen engineering students -
Ringenberg plays a large role in guid-
ing those who come to Ann Arbor with
hopes of being engineers.
"One year, I had three sections
of 101, and there are six sections,"
Ringenberg said. "So I taught half of
all the freshman in Engineering."
Ringenbergdirects studentscthrough
their first projects as engineers. He
said he tries to keep his courses rel-
evant for students by integrating new
and advancing technology.

"I think that students grow up with
(technology) nowadays, and it's a part
of their lives," Ringenberg said. "I'd
rather that they experience something
in the classroom that they're used to
than something they've never really
had as a part of their lives."
Ringenberg oversees projects rang-
log from basic programming to devel-
oping new iPhone applications.
"One group (of students) is working
on a program to help students learn
how to program for the iPhone, and
hopefully for the iWad when it comes
out," Ringenberg said. "Another one
of the groups is working on a native
application for CTools."
Ringenberg is also working on his
own projects. He said most of these
projects revolve around teaching and
classroom innovations.
"I'm thinking about having students
use their cell phones to take online
question and answer (quizzes), so they
don't have to buy that $80 clicker," he

said referring to Qwizdom - a clicker berg has also taught overseas.
required in many large lecture classes "I taught for two summers in China.
at the University. That's something students might not
Ringenberg has turned one of his know about me," Ringenberg said.
projects into a classroom competition "And I met (former Michigan foot-
in Engineering 101, called Michigan ball coach) Lloyd Carr in China. He
Lecturer Competition. Students break had just gotten an honorary doctorate
up into teams and present to the class, from U of M, so I thought it was really
Then students vote on the presents- funny that he was a doctor and I was
tion they like best. a doctor, so I took the picture with
In addition to his time teaching him."

engineers here in Ann Arbor, Ringen-

ALEXA BREED VELD

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor is Chief Business Managee
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilovitz@miehigandailyeom tmdbusiness@gmsailcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsraom Offceu r s Sun.-Thurs. 11 ax. - 2a.m.
News Tipsnes@michigandaily.comx
Corrections co'w ine@ihigandaily.comx
Letes tothe Editor tothedailymicigaendaily.comx
Pholtraphy Department photo@mihigandaily.com
Arts Section axpat,@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinin@iigadailycom
Sports Sectian sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales dispay@mihiandaily.com
Classified Sales classifid@michigandaily.com
Online Sales oniads@michigandaily.coi
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Maxning Editor aaronso@icigadaiy.com
Jillian Berman MnageingesEeditor 5,,xan@michieandaily.com
SEIRNW EIOS icoleAber, Malloy Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kye
Rathel Van Slider Editoril PeEditor vangilderxmihiadaiy.com,
SENIOR EDITORIs AL AEEDISnBranla,nherty, Erika Maye,Emily Orley, Laura
Ryan Kartje ManinSpeortditor karje@michigandaily.com
SEsNIO PS E DIsOsS Na iole Auerbch,.MrkBun,Gio Juaj, Chris
Me~sszrse Steo50
Jamielack M.,,,eingexs Editor blok@mihiandailycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Carolyn 55aeki, Andrew, Lapin, Jeff Sanford
55ASSISTANT ARTS 50DITORS: eBugin, Sharon Jacobs, BrigiKilcoi,Mike Kutz
KaviShekhar~aney
MaxtCollins and ephotomichigandailycome
Sam Wolsan ManagingePhot dtrs
SENIOR PHTO EDITOR OR MULTIMDIA hnel Vn Hbsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTAeNsOsO EIOS:.Aro, Augsburner, Jake romm, MarissaeMclain,
Sarah Squire and desig,@mihiandailycom
Anna Lein-Zieinski MnagingesigenEditoen
SEaIOnDEnSIGN EDIOR:sAngeaChili
Tarevralern Megazine Editor ealeo@michieandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydeskic,higandailyecom
Rachel Philips Copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KaielJozwiak SseMaener
SALESFORCE MANAGER:Mlly Twigg
Ryan Basinski Classified Masner
CLASIFIED ASSTATSMANAG0ERKylaLaCata
Jason Mahakianerdctio Manere
Allison lanlacres Leyout Manager
Vivian Lee FinanceeManager
Brittany Morales CicionM nere
Brad Wieyeriec Co oao
The MichigantDily (ISSN 0745-967) ie pubished Mndy through Friaingethe fall ad
winteerm yetdets atte Uiersity f Mihiga. Oe opy ie fee f hr~e to al
redes.Adiioalcopies ae iced up t threDly'fie fr 2. Subscrption fofall te,
startng n Setember,via U.S.mail ar$11. Witer term (auar though Apri) is$15, yearlong
(Septeeber through Apr i sP$95. Uiversity affiliate ae ubjet to ardeubitinte a.
On-campusesbsitins for falltemare1$35. Subscriptionsmust b re~paid. TheMicianaily
isa eer of TheAsatd PesadTAssroiateCllegite Pres.

0
0

CRIME NOTES
Unattended
iPhone swiped
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 4:15
p.m.
WHAT: A black iPhone was
stolen from the sixth floor
stacks of the Graduate Library,
University Police reported.
The iPhone was left unattend-
ed for about a minute.
Graffitist in
Angell Hall
WHERE: Angell Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about 4:15
p.m.
WHAT: A student reported
that a man was writing graf-
fit on the walls of the men's
restroom, University Police
reported.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Rear bike tire
stolen from pole
WHERE: Diag near North
University Avenue
WHEN: Sunday at about 12:30
WHBAT: The rear tire of a
bicycle valued at $200 locked
to a light pole was stolen, Uni-
versity Police reported. There
are no suspects.
Laptop stolen
WHERE: Hutchins Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about 8:30
WHAT: A black Sony laptop
valued at $2,000 was stolen
from an unlocked locker in the
basement, University Police
reported. The laptop was left
unattended for about four
hours.

Photography Discussion on
lecture minority

WHAT: Award-winning
photojournalist Santo Mofo-
keng will be discussing his
independent photography
series, Chasing Shadows.
WHO: Institute for the
Humanities
WHEN: Today from noon to
1:10 p.m.
WHERE: 2025S. Thayer,
Room 2022
Workshop on
volunteering
WHAT: A workshop on find-
ing a program to volunteer
abroad and on breaking lan-
guage and cultural barriers.
WHO: Ginsberg Center
WHEN: Tonight from 6:30
p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: East Hall, Room
4448

experience
WHAT: myBROTHERS, a
forum of men who identify
themselves as men of color,
will be discussing their expe-
riences living as minorities
on campus.
WHEN: Today at 11:30 am.
WHO: Institute for the
Humanities
WHERE: 202 South Tihayer
CORRECTIONS
. An article in yesterday's
edition of the Daily (In cam-
pus firefighting, AAFD, 'U'
share complex relationship)
incorrectly stated why the
fire station on North Cam-
pus was created. It was cre-
ated to better serve the area,
. Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily com.

1According to abcnews.
com, a new study shows
evidence that beer could
help strengthen human bones.
While the study has not offi-
cially shown a direct connec-
tion, they discovered that beer
contains silicon, a mineral that
helps maintain bone density in
humans.
2 The joinr public-pri-
vate sector space plane,
The Venturestar, cost
$1.2 billion before a scaled-
down prototype failed.
snFOR MORE, SttOPINION, PAGI 4
3 According to Reuters,
researchers found that
people who drink two or
more sweetened soft drinks a
week have an increased risk of
pancreatic cancer. While the
reasoning may be sugar intake,
the, researches also say that
regular soda drinkers tend to
have other bad health habits
that lead to cancer.

0

MORE ONLINE
LoveCimNotles? Getmoresonline at nichigandaiycm/lgs/lhe wire

0
0

'1


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 9, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Bernero enters bid
for Dem. primary in
governor's race
Partisanship and insider poli-
tices are blocking efforts to restore
Michigan's economic health, Lan-
sing Mayor Virg Bernero said yes-
terday as he kicked off his bid for
the Democratic nomination for
governor.
Speaking at the Detroit Chassis
LLC plant, the 45-year-old son of a
former General Motors Co. worker
said the state has tried Republican
and Democratic ways of governing
and now needs to find "the Michi-
gan way."
"Our current leaders have deliv-
ered little more than the same old
partisan bickering, obstructionism
and gridlock," he said to roughly
100 supporters.
Bernero is no stranger to the
Statehouse; he served in the House
O 2001-02 and in the Senate 2003-
2005, where he took office the same
year Democrat Jennifer Granhoim
took over as governor.
He left three years into his four-
year Senate term to become Lan-
sing mayor in January 2006 after
winninga nonpartisan election.
MIDDLETOWN, Conn.
Power plant blast
kills five in Conn.
Authorities have released the
names of the five men killed in an
explosion at a power plant that was
under construction in a Connecti-
cut town.
Middletown police say Peter
Chetulis ofThomaston, Conn.; Ron-
ald J. Crabb of Colchester, Conn.;
Raymond Dobratz of Old Saybrook,
Conn.; Chris Walters of Florissant,
Mo.; and Roy Rushton of Hamilton,
Ontario, died in Sunday's blast at
the Kleen Energy plant.
Kleen Energy says about 114
workers were on the site and nine
subcontractors were working there
at the time.
The company says six workers
are still hospitalized.
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Federal gov. pledges
$78.5M to help fix
Asian carp problem
Navigational locks and gates in
" Chicago-area waterways crucial
for shipping may be opened less
frequently than usual under a $78.5
million campaign to prevent Asian
carp from overrunning the Great
Lakes, federal officials said yester-
day.
. The plan falls short of clos-
ing the navigational structures
entirely, as demanded by Michi-
gan and five other Great Lakes
states. They fear the locks will
provide an opening to the lakes
for the giant carp, which some
scientists say could devastate the
region's $7 billion fishing indus-
try.
But the Obama administration
described the plan as part of an

effective strategy for keeping the
invasive fish at bay while long-term
biological controls are developed.
The government said it would take
25 actions to slow the advance of
the carp, which can reach 4 feet
long and 100 pounds.
Nancy Sutley, head of the White
O House Council on Environmental
Quality, called the plan "an unpar-
alleled effort on the part of the fed-
eral government."
"Today, we have an opportunity
to work together to prevent envi-
ronmental and economic damage
before it happens," Sutley said after
talks yesterday with several gover-
nors from the region.
CARACAS, Venezuela
Chavez declares
energy emergency
in Venezuela
President Hugo Chavez has
signed a decree declaring an energy
emergency in Venezuela to facili-
tate his government's efforts to
ease severe energy shortages.
Venezuela imposed electricity
and water rationing in Decem-
ber to prevent a collapse of the
electricity grid as severe drought
drops water levels behind the
Guri Dam to critical lows. The
dam supplies most of Venezuela's
electricity.
Energy Minister Ali Rodri-
guez says the government must
accelerate plans to reduce energy
consumption while boosting pro-
duction.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Man without
passport causes
security breach

DAVIDGOULDMAN/AP
Automotive technician Jason Winston, works to correct a gas pedal recall on a Toyota Camry at a dealership in New York Saturday
U.S. p lcians involved
CRsiin Toyotarecalsal to
have ties with carmaker

Portion of Detroit
airport evacuated,
nothing found
ROMULUS, Mich. (AP) - A por-
tion of a terminal at Detroit Met-
ropolitan Airport was evacuated
yesterday after a man without a
boarding pass walked through a
passenger screening checkpoint
and refused to obey security offi-
cers, officials said.
The man failed to stop about
7:45 a.m. at the McNamara Termi-
nal, the Transportation Security
Administration said. He was sub-
dued by airport police after a stun
gun failed to stop him, an FBI agent
said.
In a criminal complaint filed
with U.S. District Court in Detroit,
FBI agent Michael Thomas said the
man, identified as Kaylan L. Poli-
cherla, walked through the check-
point and a metal detector with his
hands inhis jacket pockets.
Transportation Security

Administration workers activated
an alarm, security doors were low-
ered at the portion of the terminal
between the security checkpoint
and terminal concourse, and peo-
ple were evacuated from that area,
airport spokesman Mike Conway
said.
A TSA screener followed Poli-
cherla until airport police arrived
and ordered him to stop, Thomas
said. An officer discharged a Taser
at Policherla but it had no effect,
and officers then wrestled him
to the floor and handcuffed him,
Thomas said.
Dogs were used to search the
portion of the terminal that had
been evacuated, but nothing was
found, Conway said. Security
screening resumed about an hour
later, officials said.
The complaint alleges that Poli-
cherla violated federal security
requirements. Policherla remained
in custody yesterday evening, buta
court appearance was not immedi-
ately scheduled, FBI spokeswoman
Sandra Berchtold said.

U.S. senator and
congresswoman owe
wealth to Japanese
car company
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
lawmakers now investigating
Toyota's recall include a sena-
tor who was so eager to lure the
Japanese automaker to his state
that he tramped along through
fields as its executives scouted
plant sites, and a congresswoman
who owes much of her wealth to a
Toyota supplier.
They and others on the con-
gressional committees investi-
gating Toyota's massive recall
represent states where Toyota has
factories and the coveted well-
paying manufacturing jobs they
bring. Some members of Congress
have been such cheerleaders for
Toyota that the public may won-
der how they can act objectively
as government watchdogs for
auto safety and oversight. The
company's executives include a
former employee of the federal
agency that is supposed to oversee
the automaker.
Toyota has sought to sow good
will and win allies with lobby-
ing, charitable giving, racing in
the American-as-apple pie NAS-
CAR series and, perhaps most
important, creating jobs. Will
those connections pay off as it
tries to minimize fallout from its

problems?
The Senate's lead Toyota inves-
tigator, West Virginia Democrat
Jay Rockefeller, credits himself
with lobbying Toyota to build a
factory in his state. A member of
a House investigating panel, Cali-
fornia Rep. Jane Harman, repre-
sents the district of Toyota's U.S.
headquarters and has financial
ties to the company.
Rockefeller, chairman of the
Senate Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee, has
known Toyota's founding family
since the 1960s. He was so closely
involved with Toyota's selection
of Buffalo, W.Va., for a factory that
he slogged through cornfields
with Toyota executives scouting
locations and still mentions his
role in the 1990s deal to this day.
"By the time Toyota decided
to make Buffalo its new home,":.
Rockefeller said in 2006 during
the plant's 10th anniversary, "I
felt like a full-fledged member of
that site selection team."
Rockefeller's committee is
expected to review whether the
National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration acted aggres-
sively enough toward Toyota.
The agency's new chief, David L.
Strickland, worked for eight years
on Rockefeller's committee as a
lawyer and senior staffer.
Strickland has such close rela-
tionships with Rockefeller and
other senators that Republican
Sen. George LeMieux of Florida
asked Strickland at his confir-

mation hearing two months ago
whether he could disagree with
Rockefeller, his former boss: "The
oversight for you in your role will
be from the committee that you
once served on," LeMieux told
him.
"I will be honest with you, sir,"
Strickland answered. "I've had
disagreements with the chair-
man personally. But he signs the
paycheck, and he wins. But I will
have no problem with thatall, sir."
Rockefeller sees no reason to
step aside from his committee's
investigation. Consumer protec-
tion is a cornerstone of his work
as chairman and that is reflected
in the steps he and the commit-
tee are taking, including NHTSA
briefings and plans to hold hear-
ings and seek recall-related docu-
ments, Rockefeller spokeswoman
Jamie Smith said. '
"While this important work
proceeds, Sen. Rockefeller is
encouraged that Toyota is mak-
ing every effort to minimize the
impact on its U.S. work force,
especially during these difficult
economic times."
Smith said. "He hopes and
expects that Toyota will remain
a strong company and is capable
of getting back on the right track
with safety and consumer confi-
dence."
LeMieux on Monday asked
Rockefeller to hold a hearing
promptly.
"This is a matter of public safe-
ty," LeMieux wrote.

Iran said to increase
its nuclear' capacity
Iran informs U.N rods needed for the reactor.
France and the U.S. said
that nuclear efforts the latest Iranian move left no
choice but to push harder for a
are peaceful fourth set of U.N. Security Coun-
cil sanctions to punish Iran's
VIENNA (AP) - Iran pressed nuclear defiance.
ahead Monday with plans that Even a senior parliamentarian
will increase its ability to make from Russia, which traditionally
nuclear weapons as it formally opposes Western ambitions for
informed the U.N. nuclear agen- new U.N. sanctions, suggested
cy of its intention to enrich ura- the time had now come for such
nium to higher levels. additional punishment
Alarmed world powers ques- Konstantin Kosachev, head of
tioned the rationale behind the the international affairs com-
move and warned the country it mittee of the State Duma - the
could face more U.N. sanctions if lower house of parliament - told
it made good on its intentions. the Interfaxnews agencythatthe
Iran maintains its nuclear international community should
activities are peaceful, and an "react to this step wyith serious
envoy insisted the move was measures, including making the
meant only to provide fuel for regime of economic sanctions
Tehran's research reactor. But more severe."
world powers fearing that Iran's Iranian President Mah-
enrichment program might be moud Ahmadinejad had already
a cover for a weapons program announced Sunday that his coun-
were critical. try would significantly enrich at
Britain said the Islamic least some of the country's stock-
Republic's reason for further pile of uranium to 20 percent.
enrichment made no sense Still, Monday's formal notifica-
because it is not technically tion was significant, particularly
advanced enough to turn the because of Iran's waffling in
resulting material into the fuel recent months on the issue.


Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
GoronaSo/Mode3IaPciMco Specials All Night
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25% Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER
310 Maynard SI - ToO Orders 734.995.1100 ~Next Ix Ihe M ynard Parking Slrucure

Are You Considering a Career in Health?
Consider the advantages of earning a
Master of Public Health (MPH) degree at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is offering
an exciting opportunity to become a public health professional
specializing in the prevention and control of disease,
particularly chronic disease.
Health and health-related industries are among the fastest-
growing in the nation, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, and those holding Master of Public Health degrees are
needed in a wide variety of health careers.
Our MPH degree provides intensive education and training in
public health approaches to prevention. Applications are now
being accepted for the MPH program's Fall 2010 semester. For
more information, visit our website:


4 - Tuesday, February 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL BRUNO AT BRUNORS@UMICH.EDU

t it i tgan' fallt
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

BRUNO STORTINI

d" , - J

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

. r
.
G c
.
..,
°,. .
r
r
-;,
j a._
I ; 4
_
v o'
es


Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imminent invasion
U.S. Supreme Court needs to intervene to stop Asian carp
t sounds preposterous that one of the biggest threats to the
Great Lakes is a fish. But Asian carp, an invasive species,
are no laughing matter, and could seriously damage the
Great Lakes' ecosystem. Last week, Michigan Attorney Gener-
al Mike Cox filed a second request with the U.S. Supreme Court
for an injunction to force Illinois to close commercial waterways
through which the fish are migrating. Since the Great Lakes are
an interstate resource, their safety lies squarely in the hands of the
federal government, which has so far refused to act. The Supreme
Court should issue an injunction to stop the progress of Asian carp
toward the Great Lakes.

; as-.
>1 ____

fn r j
7_ ' s ,K

0

I .. ..war ..w4 Q
t
Fj( y t T
t tll .. _ v . -

4

A just defense offree speech

Asian carp, imported to the Mississippi
River area to control algae populations,
have now migrated north and are threat-
ening the Great Lakes. The fish are cur-
rently contained behind electric fencing at
the Illinois border. But detection of traces
of Asian carp DNA north of the barriers
suggests that the fences are failing. On
Dec. 21, Cox filed a request for an injunc-
tion with the U.S. Supreme Court to force
Illinois to close locks between the Chicago
Sanitary and Ship Canal and Lake Michi-
gan and stall the progress of the fish. The
Supreme Court chose not to hear the case.
Cox renewed his request on Feb. 4.
Should they enter the Great Lakes, Asian
carp will upset the balance of the ecosys-
tem by taking up more than their fair share
of resources. And as if the environmental
damage wasn't alarming enough, the result
of damage to the lakes would be economi-
cally disastrous. The invasive fish would
endanger the billion-dollar commercial
fishing and tourism industries throughout
the region. Michigan, particularly, can't
afford the loss of another major industry.
All of the Great Lakes states will suffer
should the carp reach the lakes. But Illi-
nois, which depends upon the trade in the

Illinois River, has refused to close its com-
mercial waterways. Illinois is discount-
ing the long-term effects of damage to the
Great Lakes. Illinois's shortsighted refusal
to close the waterways will only lead to
interstate catastrophe. Currently, the rest
of the Great Lakes states are trying to urge
Illinois into action - yesterday, Michigan
Gov. Jennifer Granholm joined Wisconsin
Gov. Jim Doyle and Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn
at the White House to discuss the issue.
But if Illinois refuses to act, federal inter-
vention will be necessary.
The Supreme Court has refused to inter-
vene in the matter - it shut down Cox's first
request for an injunction without even hear-
ing the case. But because this is an interstate
dispute and it will affect all the Great Lakes
states, the federal government has a respon-
sibility to get involved. The Supreme Court
should hear Cox's case, and issue an injunc-
tion to force Illinois to close its waterways
and halt the progress of the Asian carp.
The effects of damage to the ecosys-
tem caused by Asian carp would reach far
beyond one state, and the federal govern-
ment must get involved to prevent disaster.
The Supreme Court needs to take decisive
action to stop the Asian carp invasion.,

P resident Barack Obama's
State of the Union address
last month stirred some con-
troversy when
he criticized the
United States
Supreme Court T
for their ruling in
Citizens United v.
Federal Election
Commission. In a
5-4 decision, the "
court defended
a corporation's CHRIS
right to spend
money on politi- KOSLOWSKI
cal campaigns and
advertisements.
Departing from State of Union tradi-
tion, Obama voiced his disapproval of
the court's ruling, saying it "reversed
a century of law." Justice Samuel
Alito, similarly ignoring court mem-
bers' customary silence during the
speech, shook his head and mouthed
"not true" during Obama's remarks.
The exchange was just the latest
breach of etiquette during a State of
the Union Address that marks the
increasing intensity of partisan poli-
tics in Washington.
This partisan fervor is exactly what
kept Justice Clarence Thomas away
from the floor of House of Represen-
tatives last month. The 19-year Court
veteran's refusal to be a silent State
of the Union whipping boy, along
with his staunch defense of the First
Amendment during Citizens United
v. Federal Election Commission, has
earned him the top spot as my favor-
ite Supreme Court justice. He rose
from-humble beginnings and fought
through oppression to become a stal-
wart proponent of American freedom
as defined by the Constitution. He's
the epitome of the unshakable Ameri-
can underdog, and he should be your
favorite too.
Thomas's absence from this year's

State of the Union sent an important
message to Washington. The Supreme
Court is intended to be an institution
free of the political squabbling that
defines the executive and legislative
branches of our government. That's
not to say there aren't healthy ideolog-
ical differences on the Court. But as
an institution, the Court is-supposed
to be as politically impartial as possi-
ble. This is why justices serve life-long
terms and why justices traditionally
do not react during State of the Union
addresses.
This year, however, Obama's pot-
shot indicting the Court for simply
protecting the First Amendment
broke down the respect that has tra-
ditionally existed between the judi-
cial and executive branches. Rather
than twiddling his thumbs or reacting
like Alito when Obama criticized the
Court, Thomas's lack of attendance
clearly communicated a sentiment
I wish all the justices shared - the
Supreme Court has no place at the
State of the Union Address.
In a recent speech to the University
of South Florida's law school, Thomas
defended the Court from Obama's
condemnation. Thomas argued that
First Amendment protections for the
individual also apply to organizations
assembled to influence political cam-
paigns. "If ten of you got together and
decided to speak, just as a group, you'd
say you have First Amendment rights
to speak and the First Amendment
right of association," Thomas said. "If
you all then formed a partnership to
speak, you'd say we still have that First
Amendment right."
Campaign finance reform passed
through the legislature like the
McCain-Feingold Actis inobviousvio-
lation of these basic First Amendment
rights. Some would argue that cam-
paign contributions from "Big Busi-
ness" unfairly drown out the influence
of the "little guy" in elections. Thomas

knows a fear of the influence of special
interest advertisements doesn't justify
the hedging of rights guaranteed by
the First Amendment. It's an individ-
ual's duty to vote in a way that reflects
his or her personal beliefs. Thomas
understands that it's neither the gov-
ernment's responsibility, nor its right,
to protect citizens from political
advertisements.
Justice Thomas
represents the
best of America. *
Thomas's defense of the First
Amendment and refusal to be vic-
timized by a president with a seem-
ingly deficient understanding of the
Supreme Court's responsibilities and
traditions is just the latest demonstra-
tion of the intelligence, resolve and
bravery which has made him the ideal
justice. Throughout his career, Thom-
as has led the charge to return the
Court to its roots in judicial restraint
and defense of the Constitution.
Fighting through allegations of sexual
harassment, claims that he lacked-the
prerequisite knowledge to serve on
the nation's highest court and rac-
ist accusations aimed at pegging him
as an "Uncle Tom;" Thomas has been
the most influential voice in stemming
the Court's fifty years of unwarranted
activism. He's been a resolutg ssp-
porter of individual rights and equal-
ity, most notably in his opposition of
affirmative action. You should cele-
brate his role in preserving the values
that have made this country great.
- Chris Koslowski can be
reached at cskoslowgumich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Nlift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy,Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
JORDAN BIRNHOLTZ
NASA's new adventures

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be
fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions
become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
AMERICAN MOVEMENT FOR ISRAEL
In Middle East, it's time to negotiate

0

Forty years ago, it was widely believed that
the United States would travel to Mars by 2000.
It's now 2010, and it's unlikely we'll launch a
manned spacecraft to Mars before 2040. Pre-
dicting the future of spaceflight is literally
rocket science, and it's hard to know if private
spaceflight will be a sustainable business.
There are a number ofunanswered questions
regarding the commercial viability of space-
flight. A small number of companies, includ-
ing Virgin Galactic and Bigelow Aerospace, are
currently investigating the possibilities. The
latter, founded by Las Vegas hotelier Robert
Bigelow, aims to put inflatable space hotels into
orbit. It's a lofty goal, and it's unclear if there's
a real market for such a stay.
Private space ventures, it follows, are sub-
ject to the business cycle. Exciting a prospect
as it is, it's uncertain if a long-term market
truly exists for anything other than launching
cargo and satellites.
A year and a half ago, one imagined that
plenty of people would fork over the six figures
that would be necessary to participate in space
tourism. Since the recent market contraction,
it's a lot less clear who will pay for this luxury.
In the 1990s, the joint public-private sector
space plane, the Venturestar, consumed $1.2
billion before a scaled-down prototype failed.
The entire project was abandoned. It was an
enormous waste of time and valuable resourc-
es. For this reason, the best route forward is to
continue to fund public endeavors, like NASA,
while still subsidizing the private market.
NASA technology has played a huge role
in developing modern technology. The array
of devices derived from NASA .research and
development is enormous. Without satel-
lites, there could be no GPS and no cell phone.
Similarly derived from NASA research are the
cochlear implant, grooved roads and the com-
puter mouse. NASA fulfills a role much greater
than simply putting humans into orbit. It's a
technological incubator.

And NASA allows for pure scientific
research. There isn't room in the market for
that at this point. It may not seem as economi-
cally vital, but it's a worthwhile exercise to
learn about the universe.
This doesn't mean that it's sensible to keep
NASA around forever. The private sector may
one day fulfill all of our stellar needs. That day
certainly isn't here, however, and it's unclear
how far off it is. One ought to expect similarly
positive externalities of private space compa-
nies. For this reason, the federal government
should help foster these through subsidies.
This is the route President Barack Obama is
taking, and it's the right one. He has promised
a $6-billion increase in the NASA budget over
five years. Obama also called for $6.1 billion to
fund private space companies, hoping to find a
privately-built craft that can supply the Inter-
national Space Station. He's added $51.5 mil-
lion to NASA's biomedical research on humans
budget, too.
Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) has criticized
Obama for his latestbudget. "The president has
sent Congress a budget proposal that contains
more spending, more borrowing and more
taxes," read a recent statement from his office.
But Cornyn has simultaneously criticized
Obama for not spending enough on the Project
Constellation.
As emotional and glorious as another trip
to the moon may seem, it's not the best use of
NASA money. Biomedical research and other
projects are more likely to yield the positive
externalities, which justify the agency in an
economic sense. Cornyn claims that neglecting
the moon project will lead to a decrease in the
country's "global status." This is nonsense.
His criticisms are at best ignorant and at
worst an abusive politicization of science.
There's plenty to criticize in our president's
agenda, but this isn't one of them.
Jordan Birnholtz is an LSA freshman.

Ending the occupation of Palestinians and ensuring
Israeli security is the overall goal for moderates on both
sides of the Middle East conflict.
According to many historians, the 1973 war was a major
driving force for the peace agreement signed between
Israel and Egypt only six years later. However, there is
another avenue to achieve peace that does not require
such tragic violence: negotiations.
Since Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
formed a new government in March 2009, there have.
been no direct negotiations between the Israeli and Pales-
tinian leaderships. Palestinian National Authority Presi-
dent Mahmoud Abbas insists that there be a full Israeli
settlement freeze in both the West Bank and East Jerusa-
lem before bilateral talks can resume.
At the beginning of Netanyahu's term, this might have
made sense. Netanyahu was considered a hard rightist.
He refused to back a two-state solution, and during his
election campaign he fervently supported the settlement
movement in the West Bank.
However, like many politicians, Netanyahu has
changed his platform. In June 2009, he delivered an
important policy address supporting a Palestinian state,
and a few months later agreed to freeze settlement activ-
ity in the West Bank for 10 months. George Mitchell, the
United States special envoy to the Middle East, comment-
ed on Netanyahu's move saying that, "it is more than any
Israeli government has done before, and can help move
toward agreement between the parties."
In addition to Netanyahu freezing settlements, the
prime minister has initiated several concrete gestures to
assist the average Palestinian individual. Israel's policy of
removing checkpoints throughout the West Bank along
with additional security cooperation between the two
sides has boosted the Palestinian economy in the West
Bank by seven percent, according to the International
Monetary Fund. For over a decade, Palestinians have not
experienced such a dramatic financial growth.
It is true that currently Netanyahu refuses to freeze
building within East Jerusalem as Abbas demands. How-
ever, is not settling differences between the two parties
the reason why negotiations exist? If everyone agreed,
then a peace treaty would have been signed years ago.
Israel also has significant disagreements with the Pal-
estinian National Authority regarding terror incitement

in Palestinian schools and security threats, but Israel has
not derailed peace talks. A year ago, Netanyahu's policies
were hawkish, but he has taken significant steps towards 0
peace while in office. Despite Israel taking these moder-
ate steps, Abbas is punishing Netanyahu by refusing to
hold negotiations.
It is interesting to note that before Netanyahu, the first
Israeli prime minister to freeze settlement building in the
West Bank, Abbas never had a policy of refusal to enter
into negotiations. Intense final status talks were held
with former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, who
according to Abbas "had a great desire for peace." aven
during the Second Intifada, a period of extreme violence,
both sides continued to meet. But now Abbas refuses to
speak directly with Netanyahu.
Maybe Abbas believes that Netanyahu is a right wing
leader who will never really change. But politicians in the
Middle East can and do change. Before Egyptian Presi-
dent Anwar Sadat flew to Jerusalem to extend a hand for
peace, he initiated one of the bloodiest wars in the Middle
East. Former Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin
was a champion of the settler movement. This same man
was later the first Israeli leader to evacuate settlers in a
peace treaty with Egypt. If Abbas is looking for Netan-
yahu to make a bold decision at the negotiating table, he
has to give him a chance.
In the Middle East, history has proven that an absence
of negotiations can take a violent turn. When talks stalled
between former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and
Palestinian Chairman Yasser Arafat in 2000, violence
filled the void and lead to the bloody Second Intifada.
Sometimes leaders are faced with a dramatic decision. It
is either yes or no, forwards or backwards - there are no
alternatives. Sometimes the reality really is that simple.
Former Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban said, "Pales-
tinians never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity."
Whether this statement is accurate or not, the past cannot
be undone. And this suspicionstill lurks on both sides. After
almost a year of stagnation on the peace front without nego-
tiations, something needs to change. Abbas, please prove
Eban wrong. Too much is at stake for both Israeli and Pal-
estinian children. Seize the moment, or the extremists will.
This viewpoint was written by Aaron Magid on
behalf ofthe American Movement for Israel.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of passionate, strong
student writers to join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board
members are responsible for discussing and writing the
editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU
FOR MORE INFORMATION.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 9, 2010 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, February 9, 2010 - 5

How purple crayons
changed my life

COURTESY OF SCREEN GEMS
"Before things go any further you should know this: I am a robot, and I'm starting to rust."
No love for 'John'

Channing Tatum acts
like a half-naked robot in
derivative romance
By HANS YADAV
Daily Arts Writer
Every once in a while, a movie emerges
that shatters the romantic genre mold. It
tweaks the tried-and-true formula with a
bit of unorthodox exper-
imentation. In the case
of "Eternal Sunshine of
the Spotless Mind," a Dear John
vastly different, sci-fi-
ish angle was examined At Qualityl6
to create a work of art and Showcase
that is both memorable Screen Gems
and sentimental.
"Dear John" is not one of those mov-
ies. When the smoke clears and all is said
and done, "Dear John" is a film that would
probably do more harm than good to any
relationship if one were to take that spe-
cjal someone to see it.
'For starters, theplot p doesn't-get any
more timeworn than a young girl (Aman-

da Seyfried, "Jennifer's Body") falling in
love with a complete stranger (Channing
Tatum, "G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra").
The catch is that the couple has only a
few weeks together before they must part
ways - one going back to college, the
other back to life in the army. But before
they separate, both parties promise to
stay in touch via written letters.
Seyfried's character Savannah Curtis
says writing to each other every day is
like being together without being physi-
cally together - really heartbreaking
stuff, interrupted only by the minor real-
ization that hundreds of movies have
already exhausted this motif. Predictably,
the couple's relationship is strained by
distance, and soon "unforeseen" events
occur that threaten to drive the two apart
forever.
But hey, if the story is no good, then at
least the acting can pick up the slack. It
should come as no surprise, though, that
it really doesn't. Although the major-
ity of the cast is passable, one person in
particular severely drops the ball. Armed
with his extensive arsenal of one "bad
boy" expression, Tatum single-handedly
destroys what little redemption "Dear

John" might have had. The expression of
pain on his face during those tear-jerker
scenes is matched only by the pain on
the viewers' faces when they are forced
to witness the man attempt acting. It's
frustrating to keep guessing what exactly
Tatum is trying to convey in his dialogue.
What's even stranger is that "Dear
John" is sort of reminiscent of "Trans-
formers 2." Not to say the former is any-
where close to as flashy as the latter, but
what "Transformers 2" was for many
guys, "Dear John" could be for many
women. Hell, it even has its own robot in
the form of Channing Tatum.
"Transformers" director Michael Bay
capitalized on every moment of Megan
Fox screen time, and the same can be said
about Tatum's role in "Dear John." The
opening scene, for goodness sake, centers
on Tatum walking out of the surf in full
beach-bod mode. Any glaring shortfalls
of the movie are cleverly covered up by an
uncovered Tatum.
If "Dear John" were a letter, it wouldn't
be the sappy romantic type that makes
one's heart flutter. Instead, it would be
the eviction notice telling you to get out
before it's too late.

There are aspects of our child-
hoods that we carry with us
when we get older, and one of
these for me has been the children's
book. It is children's
literature that often
becomes our first
foray into suspended,
belief and imagined.
landscapes. It is when
we first question what
it means to see the
world and see how life WHTNEY
can change suddenly POW
at night. It's when the
moon comes out and fearful things seem
to emerge from vapor.
Many children's books engage with
concepts and ideas that, crafted by an
adult illustrator's and writer's hands,
can be imbued with very adult-like ques-
tions about existence and the problems
that come with it. I found, re-visiting
some of the books of my past, that these
messages seem to have permeated my
childhood and, in effect, permeated my
adulthood as well.
One of the books my mother read to
me was "Harold and the Purple Crayon"
by Crockett Johnson. The book unset-
tled me with the oddly blank pages tiny
Harold traversed with a single purple
crayon in his hand. As a child, it struck
me as frightening that he was mother-
less and alone as he went about drawing
what he needed for security, being self-
sufficient ina world where everything
was empty and yet to be drawn except
for himself. When hungry, he would
draw pictures of pies to sate his appetite,
and when he was scared of the dark he
would draw the moon to light his way as
he walked in the emptiness of the page.
As a child I found this book pro-
foundly and achingly lonely. The adult
in me sees and recognizes Harold, not as
a lonely child, but as a representative of
what we all are - alone within ourselves
in our inner worlds. Life itself is a singu-
lar, individual process.
The book also comments on filling the
blank slate of one's life with one's own
hands and inventing what we become
rather than inheriting a preconceived.
meaning or direction of existence from
those who came before us. This is some-
thing many of us deal with as we grow
older: the creation of self through what
one does, not what one is given. I sup-
pose at six I wasn't ready for this rev-
elation - the prospect of constructing
families, homes and safety from scratch
- but now I understand it, and it's not as
terrifying as it once was.
Another book my mother read to me
as a child was "Love You Forever" by
Robert Munsch. My mother used to sing
the refrain of the book to her own tune,

her voice honed and pitch-perfect: "I'll
love you forever / I'll like you for always
/ As long as I'm living / My baby you'll
be."
She would always cry after reading
the lines as they appeared in the book,
and I didn't understand why. The book
has soft pencil drawings of a child as he
grows up, from a tiny infant to a messy
baby to an impassioned, raucous teen-
ager to a homesick college student and
finally to an adult, when he, as an older
man with grayingstreaks in his hair,
holds his own mother in his arms as she
(possibly clearer to adults than to chil-
dren) is passing away, singing to her his
own version of the song: "I'll love you
forever / Ill like you for always / As long
as I'm living / My mommy you'll be."
As a child S saw "Love YounForever" as
a look into the life of a person who went
through momentous events S had yet to
experience: tween-hood, teenage-hood,
adulthood. I was watching the moments
of a boy whom I would later come to fol-
low with the flow of time, unbeknownst
to myself. And for my mother, and now
me, the book itself seems to reiterate and
How children's
literature helps us
shape ourselves.
make bittersweet the passing of time
and its circularity - letting go of chil-
dren at certain moments, figuratively
or literally, and having them return at
the end, post-bruises, teary eyed with
skinned knees. We learn to forgive our
parents for what they have done and
they, in turn, forgive us and have always
done so since we were children.
These books and others unravel some
perception of life in a way that's under-
standable to children and adults. My
experience of children's books is not
isolated to that one moment of being
six when my body was consumed in the
books' hard covers. Instead, my experi-
ence of these books and their themes
is something I have taken with me and
have been able to see and build upon in
my adult life. Books are things we carry
with us from beginning to end, build-
ing those perceptions of selfhood and
personhood we first begin tobe aware
of as children and we learn to construct
and shape when we enter adulthood and
beyond.
Pow needs someone to read
her a bedtime story. To volunteer,
e-mail her at poww@umich.edu.

Too much exploring, Dora

By ANT MICHELL
Daily Arts Writer
In this day and age, I think it's a nearly
inarguable fact that television has a monu-
mental effect on children, and unless par-
ents are willing to lock their offspring in a
magical anti-media closet complete with
corruption filter, there's very little chance
of insulating kids from what's on TV.
As a big sister to a seven-year-old and a
three-year-old, I've made it my sworn
duty to make sure my siblings
are exposed to only quality TV,
along with telling them that
George Washington was a
knight of the round table
and that Hannah Mon-
tana is a "loose goose."
In the spirit of this
oath, I bought them a
season of the "Teen-
age Mutant Ninja
Turtles," hid
my sister's
Barbie movies
under her bed and rejoiced
in the knowledge that their pure
little minds were secure.
Recently, however, I've
noticed adarkshadowonthe hori-
zon, looming over my siblings'
TV exposure. One show I had
always approved of was "Dora
the Explorer." I've sat through
countless hours (and hours and
hours) of "I'm the map" and
"Swiper, no swiping!" and I've
got to say, I'm smitten.
She's educational and multicultural.
Considering there are 35.3 million His-
panic Americans as of 2001, and the num-
bers are increasing, I'd say that's a fairly
appropriate and significant theme to feed
our youth. She's cute and pudgy and her
god-awful bowl haircut makes her all the
more lovable. Her belly of leftover baby
fat sticks out from under the little kid
t-shirt. She talks to animals and goes on
adventures while still managing to teach
topographical science to all those impres-
sionable little minds out there.
However, a short time ago I found some-
thing out that not only left me speechless,

but basically ripped out my tongue and has become. She's not a Spanish-speaking,
dangled it from my vocal cords. According proud Hispanic college graduate back-
to Nick Jr., there will be two new iterations packing across Europe. Instead, Dora has
of Dora: an older, whored-up Dora who will become a Bratz-doll lookalike, with signifi-
star in "Dora's Explorer Girls" and a Dora cantly lighter skin and hair (which has been
Links doll targeting girls ages five to eight. highlighted and straightened) who wears
According to the website, the new show was leggings and color-coordinated flats that
created to "reflect the new play patterns of match her earrings and makeup.
the doll's intended audience." Dora was one of the only figures on chil-
Considering all the bad press about the dren's TV who didn't tell little girls that
new development, it's understandable that they should be skinny, coated in at least
the website has undertaken some seven layers of makeup and wear clothes
massive damage control, adver-
tising the interactive com-
puter game packaged with D
the Dora Links doll as fea- Dora the Explorer'
turing "relatable pro-social is just a televised
themes" like "volunteer-
ism, water conservation and ntewodrug ow.~
planting trees." However, 10*g ay
minutes of sample game-
play featured on You-
Tube reveals little that accentuate their (as yet) nonexistent
beyond the fact that her boobs. Dora shouldbe about brains, person-
extensions can be changed ality and heart. Now she's about shopping,
and her lip color, blush, ear- cute clothing, accessories and the objectifi-
rings and necklace color can be cation of women.
customized. The only foreign It's not that I'm a feminist. And it's
language sample I heard was not that I'm overly sensitive. However, I
the Spanish word for "jewelry am a big sister, and I don't want my little
store." brother or sister to think that
Not to worry. The network the moment you pass
will continue to pro- out of kindergar-
duce the darling and age- ten, sex appeal
appropriate "Dora the and cute-
Explorer." But per- sy clothes
haps this will leave become the
the old Dora as noth- r sole reasons
ing less than a tele- f for living. Inter-
vised gateway drug net parodies show
that one day will the new Dora preg-
pull children into the world nant, smutted-up and
of the hardcore "Explor- drugged-out of her
er Girls," leaving them disillusioned mind. God
cracked-out on ditz and ''only knows what Boots
slut-ification. Indoctri- / could be up to. Open-
nation! Do I sound like ing a brothel? Rolling a
a raving lunatic looking blunt using Map? Help-
over my shoulder for Big Brother? ing Swiper knock over a
Ask any marketing student if I'm liquor store? Maybe no
that far off. one else is ignited with
Regardless, my beef is not with the passionate hatred that
the motivation behind this new flares in my bigsister soul,
Dora, but instead with who Dora PHOTOS COURTESY but maybe you should be.
Or NICKELODEON

TLC counts to 19 with
family exploitation

By LINDSAY HURD
DailyArts Writer
The Duggars have how mt
dren? Oh, that's right. There
them now, all from the
same parents.
After the last few sea-
sons, the Duggar family 19 K
shows America why the Cou
phrase "and Counting"
is prominently fea- Tuesi
tured in the title: The at 9p
42-year-old Michelle TLC
Duggar has ,had two
children since the show
started back in 2006. And it doe
like she'll be stopping anytime s
After the massive success o
Kate Plus 8," TLC took America
sion with families that have
amounts of children and amp
"19 Kids and Counting" follows
gar family of Tonitown, Ark., c
of father Jim Bob, mother Mic
When you nan
kid Jinger, it's t
to call it off*
their 19 children: Joshua, Jan
David, Jill, Jessa, Jinger, Josepl
Joy-Anna, Jedidiah, Jeremiah
James, Justin, Jackson, Johanr
nifer, Jordyn-Grace and Josie.'
an uber-conservative Baptist fa
is morally opposed to birth co:

therefore, keep popping out the kids.
Exactly how does the family man-
age that many children? According to
any chil- Michelle, the older kids help supervise
are 19 of the younger kids. The Duggar parents
also have strict rules about the use of
computers and television. (But appar-
ently starring on a show is acceptable.)
ids and All of this, as Jim Bob and Michelle put
it, makes for a happy family. In fact, they
are so happy it's annoying. Everyone is
days always smiling and it seems like the par-
.m. ents have never had a fight in their lives.
In past seasons, the series's main focus
has been on normal (albeit oversized)
family-type activities like taking vaca-
esn't look tions in their giant mobile home and
oan. celebrating Christmas. This season's pre-
f "Jon & miere, however, focuses on the newest
a's obses- Duggar baby, Josie, who was born almost
massive four months early. The family has relo-
plified it. cated to Little Rock, Ark. to be near Josie
the Dug- while she is in the hospital.
onsisting While the show focuses heavily on
helle and the children, there is a lack of actual
entertainment. The "19 Kids" family
does pretty much what all families do,
only on a bigger scale. Nothing is sur-
ie a prising because everyone has lived it in
" their own lives. And because the par-
im e ents never fight (maybe that's the secret
to a happy marriage, Jon and Kate) it's a
retread of "Leave it to Beaver" suburbia.
Moreover, many of the events featured
on "19 Kids" seem scripted, defeating
ta, John- the purpose of watching a family live its
h, Josiah, "normal life."
h, Jason, Basically, the only thing that "19 Kids
nah, Jen- and Counting" leaves its audience with
They are is one question: How long until Michelle
mily that. Duggar is pregnant again? Give it a few
ntrol and weeks.

LOVE FOOD? AND WRITING? WRITE FOR THE DAILY'S FOOD BLOG, THE TABLE.
E-mail ertgreen@gmail.com for information on applying.


0

9, 2010

The N

F

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

FOR RENT
! 2 BEDROOM, completely remod-
eled, large kitchen with modern appli-
ances. Full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. Pet friendly. Call Laura for
your private tour at Church Street
Apartments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for 2010, May or Aug start. 2
blocks from campus, single bedrooms
through 5-person lofts. Per-person con-
tracts, rates from $655, all utilities in-
cluded at flat rate. All-inclusive per-
semester rates from $4450. Call or stop
by for details. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
1 6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modem appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM .
$2400
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
! AWESOME LOCATION 9 Bed-
room, 3 bathrooms, fully fun, 2 large
fridges, full size washer & dryer, on
site parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1699/mo. 734-665-8825.
TOUGH ECONOMY DISCOUNT!!!
7 large bdrm 3 bath house $4500/month
2 blocks to Diag. 734-260-4003.

Wed and 090
20 Locations todServe You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!VALENTINES DAY offer!! Sign
before Feb. 14th, 2010, get a gener-
ous signing bonus! 715 Church- 1 &
2 bdrm apartments. Fall 2010,
Across from East Quad. Beautiful, ex-
pansive spaces, closets galore, far-
nished/unfurnished., lndry, free prkg,
free heat & water. Call Ann 734-320
1244 or cimgtlic@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!AVAILABLE NOW 2 bedroom apart-
ment in historical house near EMU.
$800/mo includes heat. 734-878-1463.
$$$ SWEET DEALS $$$
At
Prime Student Housing
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Make us an offer we can't refuse!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
*6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, First
months rent free! Fall 2010! 1007
State. Furn. Newly renovated 1st
Floor and Bthrms. Free Prkng and
Indry. Call 734-717-9288.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
LARGE 5 BEDROOM for 6. Walk to
campus. Furnished, parking, laundry.
Reduced price $2800. 734-272-1320.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

P4c idign aiHE
PRESENTS THE
O - + " i,&-

# BDRMS Location
6 1221 S. State #2
5 420 S. Division #2
3 1123 Church St.
1 721 Catherine #5
ef. 1117 Church #2

Price
$2300
$2400
$1600
$750
$550

Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Teo drink coupon
with every new tour.

wwvarsitymanagement tom
Managemnent
625 Church St. (734) 668-1100
1039 BWdwin
Studio, 2Sedrooms, 4 Bedrooms
Uobetievabfq pacou a rtmsit,
34ardseoo Jftooshighlr mgs, bay
wnscto 5 aofirpf ces in a
beatiful converted mansion.
:fuge backyardfin a quiet
neighborhood. Heat, water,
fztrnishins, &parksg mcidedt
Cafo yourpersona/tzedour

"o SUN HOMES
HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
Ann Arbor - (888) 883-7083 - www.sciofarms.com
Ypsilanti - (888) 310-6850 - www,4lakeview.com
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Land O'Lakes 37 Org. with 46 Museo hangings
1 Part of DMV product Senators and 47 Eyelashes
6 Need a backrub, 3 Run out of gas Capitals 49 The Star Wars
say 4 "I've got you now!" 38 Qu6becois's films, e.g.
10 "_-daisy!" 5 Add insult to approval 50 "Squawk Box"
14 Nobel Peace injury 39 Queens tennis network
Prize winner Root 6 Major or Minor stadium 51 Bush advisor Rove
15 Walk like a drunk tarot card group 41 Civil rights activist 53 Brass component
16 Entre 7 So-so mark Chdvez 54 Prefix with China
(between us) 8 Penta- plus one 42 Munitions center 55 Awfully long time
17 Using a treadmill, 9 Mt. Fuji statistic 44 Bermuda rentals 57 Fraternity letter
e.g. 10 Dweebish 45 University of 58 Word before
20 29-Down, for one 11 Leavesfor the Oregon city break or care
21 The Beatles'_ holidays?
Loser " 12 Sleeping girl in ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
22 Relatingtotflight anEverly N A A R0L 0 R 0 L F E
technology Brothers hit A A.E
23 Laurel andcGetz 13 "Hang on " OS EN A BED A L I E N
25 Medicine amount 18All-in-oneApple N E W T I S E E T A M E D
totake computer M I N N E S O T A F A T S
26 Regionalairtravel 19Crest A B E A B S N U T
brand since1984 23 Mmes., in Madrid M I X M O S E S M A L O N E
31 Either Bush, e.g. 24 Kids' outoor OT I S W I B S T E P I N
32 Round-bayer's winter projet E C
words 26 Resting on
33 Baker'smeas. 27 Trifling B E A U T Y O P O N E A
36 Leftoverbits 28Old-time A N N I C 0 A K L E Y S R I
371 "1don't think so!" breaking news E G G E W E E S L
39"_ boy!" cry SHOOT 1 N G S TAR S
40 Ontheauthorityof 29 Bambi's aunt C O R G I E L L E O A S T
41 Friend 30 Actress Adams of
42 Vietnamese, e.g. 'Enchanted"
43 Aviator who said 34Marquee name R E N E E S E W S K E N T
"the lure of flying 35 Gasp xwordeditor@aol.com 02/08/10
is the lure of 1 2 3 4 s 6 s 5 510511 12 13
beauty'
47 Corp. heads 14 1s 16
48 Hospital staffer
49 Beerunit ' '
52 Former telecom
giant 2
53 Former Pakistani 24 25
president
56 Movie DVD is 27 2 29 at
special feature,
perhaps 31 32 3 34 35
59 Encircle
60 Fiber-rich food 38 30 a3 63
61 "Dog the Bounty 4 41
Huntet" network,
andahinttothe 43 44 4
theme in this
puzzle's four 47 48
longest answers
62 Many MP-3 49 5s s1 52 s3 50 55
player batteries 50
63 Game with six
colorful characters s 9 601
64 Google
alternative 62 63 64
DOWN By jtulian Lim0 9
1 Honeyed liquor (c2oTribune Media Services, Inc.

Copi Properties
734.663.5690
****MAY TO MAY****
AND
SHORT TERM LEASES
734-761-8000
primesh.com
****YOUR MOM CALLED****
She wants you to live with
Prime!!!
Reduced Rates.... at Great Locations!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
**DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story.
Wshr/dyr in unit. Half a mile to UM
Medical Center. $880/mo, including
water. Call 734-395-5288 or 248-855-
3143.
*3BEDROOMS-CAMPUS*
1506 Geddes
Great location
Great price
Heat, water, parking,
& furniture incl.
www.varsitymanagement.com
*4 BEDROOMS*
Hardwood floors
10' ceilings
Heat, water, parking,
famnished
(734) 668-1100
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff., 1, 2& 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
$575/Month includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilities
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icccoop
*AVAILABLE MAY 2010*
1001 S. Forest
2 Bedrooms
Nice, new kitchens
& furniture
(734) 668-1100
*BUSINESS OR LAW Students*
1&2 Bedrooms
848 Tappan
New kitchens, balconies
Heat, water, furnished
Covered parking
www.varsitymanagement.com
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
8 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
4-7 ROOM hse. Kingsley & State. re-
modeled, $500/rm. 248-910-2286.
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-
6380. www.benjaminrentals.com
p. E

Xr
Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
* Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec.,Room
* Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

SICK OF THE DORMS? Call us for information.
CAN'T FIND A 734-761-2680
PLACE TO LIVE?
info@u-towers.com
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the 536 South Forest
great houses and apartments Ann Arbor,MI48104
greatUniversityTowers-micom
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenientmap!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510 AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg 2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
spaces, lndry, tenants pay all util. 5 ing, dental and medical schools, easy
bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7 access to central campus. Furnished,
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991. onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall neo, 101 N Ingas, 1028 FullerB
2 bedrooms located next to CCR.B,
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3 1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay Furnished, high speed internet and park-
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200, ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991. 663-4101. Ask about our specials!
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.A
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY h
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735. sh2 bd apmen thoavaillefurnshed,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
I 22 I S. State #2 *Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
6 BDRM cluded. 1116 White.
Call Campus Management 734-663-
$2300 4101
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near
Ctral Campus. $500-750. Includes
COPI PROPERTIES H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
(734) 663-5609 WOULD YOU BE OUR
VALENTINE?
Enjoy A Move & Dinner On Prime
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe- Check out our reduced rates...
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5 We have some sweet deals!
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv Sign by Valentines Day!
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv 734-761-8000
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart- Primesh.com
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi- Post Realty
sion. Eff, 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/ properties
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256. Rent with the Best!
AVAILABLE FALL. Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2 Now leasing
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms- Contact Post Realty for
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect showing or more information:
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca- 734-761-8220 or
tions available at michigamental.com info@postrealtyproperties.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
(734) 260-7215. - your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa- Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood and furniture included - Contact us
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING! forget your FREE Bubble Island
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of Drink with every new tour.
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
|Apartments Available]|

NEED A SUMMER job? Come to the
Summer Engineering Academy/Insti-
tute Staff Information Session. Learn
more about staff positions, selection
process, and program specifics. Thurs-
day, February 18, 2010 at 5:30 PM in
165 Chysle CenterFor.questions
plea00 emit Miesha Wite at
whitemn@umich.edu.
SUMMERFOF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS -Children's
sleep-away camp; Northeast Pennsylva-
nia 6/19-8/15. If you love children and
want a caring, fun environment we
need Counselors, Instructors and other
staff for our summer camp. On cam-
pus Interviews February 25th. Select
The Camp That Selects The Best Staff!
Call 1.215.944.3069 or apply on-line
at www.campwaynegirls.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discoanted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com
the studentsI

.naRuININ M $0 audu tay poten-
tial. No exp. nec., tralning provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr NEW
campus location! Students apply @
vww.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude Victoria's S type lingerie
photography. Flexible hrs, great pay.
Must be 18. For interview call:
734-678-4181.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-7224791.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
VETERINARY ASST./RECEP-
TIONIST. Part-time. No experience
necessary. Will train. Arbor Hills Ani-
mal Clinic. Call 734-668-1466.

www.Bartonbrook.comi, 734-665-5620
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and Idry. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and Indry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N, Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
.535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely CI t.3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fell
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
321 E.Liberty
6 BDRM APT.
$2800
SEPT. 1, 2010
2 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS,
2 BLOCKSTO DOWNTOWN
4 PARKING SPACES
WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549

at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amandaat 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1,2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by! .
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdrm & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734418 2050.
www.828greeneapts.com
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.

Summer
Eumployment
Page
Byadvertisingonthisyear'sSummer
Employment Page youcan reach over
40,000+highlyqualifiedWolverines!
This is a great oppurtunity for
internships or summer positions to
reach the eyes of many eligible students.
Presented by The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Feb.8 ,at11:30am
Published Feb. as
dailyclassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557

0
0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 9, 2010 - 7

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, February 9, 2010 - 7

Members of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs - the leading faculty governing body on campus - meet to discuss new procedures for faculty elections
to the DPS Oversight Committee in the Fleming Administration Building yesterday.

SACUA
From Page 1

E
kf
I
I
I
r

action was taken to address other
procedural concerns raised by
independent attorneys in a Nov.
16 article in The Michigan Daily,
who stated that elections appear
to violate state law because not
every person is allowed to vote for
a representative to the committee.
A Instead the newly passed elec-
tion procedures will limit tenured
faculty to voting only for them-
selves and the same will be true of
non-tenured faculty.
SACUA Secretary John Lehm-
an, who has been charged with
overseeing the tenured faculty
election and drafted the new pro-
cedure approved by SACUA yes-
terday, explained that members of
the tenured faculty will be able to
nominate one of their peers. The
nominees will be posted on a web-
site with their biography and elec-
tion statements so that voters can
learn about the candidates.
Voting will be open online for
one week. To keep the election
confidential, tellers will be able to
see which faculty members voted,
but not who they voted for. This
will enable tellers..6 makk suie
nobody votes twice, Lehman said.
The candidate who receives the
highest number of votes will win
the election.
Lehman, a professor of ecology
and evolutionary biology, said he
hopes to finish the election pro-
cess by the end of the month.
"I want to do it as fast as I can-
as soon as we've got all our proce-
dures set up," he said.
However, SACUA members at
yesterday's meeting did not say
when the winner's term would
begin.
Lehman said one option is for
the term to begin April 1 - the
same time as the non-tenure track
faculty position - while the other
is for it to start as soon as the elec-
tion results are announced.
However, the process approved
at yesterday's meeting had some
MITCH'S
From Page 1
called it "the best bar on campus."
"When I was an undergrad, like
a freshman or a sophomore, seniors
would talk about the old Mitch's
and how great it was," she said.
"When theyopened it above ground
it never really caught on which was
kind of a bummer."
She added that the bar was a
great place to take large groups, cit-
ing a celebration she had at Mitch's
with her friends on St. Patrick's Day
the morning after they pulled an
all-nighter to complete their senior
thesis papers.
"It was really easy to get in, there
was never a line and if there was a
line that was because it was shorter
than all the other lines," she said.
"They have really, really cheap
COMPLIANCE
FromPage_1
amateurism unit.
Heinrich earned her undergrad-
uate degree from Notre Dame and
her lawdegree from BostonUniver-
sity, where she graduated summa
cum laude, Van Horn wrote.

"The Athletic Department's
* Compliance Services Office is
dedicated to providing the highest

concerned over how representa-
tive and independent the over-
sight committee would actually
be.
Former Pathology Prof. Doug-
las Smith explained to SACUA
members his belief that the new
election procedures will make it
difficult for a non-tenured faculty
member to rule in a case "where
there is likely to be opposition
from the administration." Smith
is not a member of SACUA.
"You need four out of six votes
for this committee to sustain a
grievance. You're going to have
two votes that will be very diffi-
cult to vote against the wishes of
the administration," Smith said,
explaining that the non-union.
staff member who sits on the com-
mittee may be pressured to vote
one way or another by administra-
tors.
SACUA Chair Michael Thou-
less, a professor of material sci-
ence and engineering, told Smith
and SACUA members that he had
originally proposed to the Univer-
sity's Human Resources to have
SACUA pick the two faculty mem-
bers who would sit on the commit-
tee.
However, Thouless said Smith
had approached himduring the
summer and explained that it
would not be fair for SACUA to
pick faculty committee members
exclusively from the faculty sen-
ate, because non-tenured faculty
members would be excluded from
the eligible pool of candidates.
As a result of the discussion,
Thouless said he decided to revise
his recommendation to the Uni-
versity's Human Resources office.
"This is not part of an HR con-
spiracy," Thouless said, referring
to why the elections were sepa-
rated. "This came about because a
valid point had been raised."
However, at yesterday's meet-
ing, Smith said his concern about
the election was misinterpreted.
In an interview last week,
Lehman said he didn't believe the
two seats needed to be split up,
but that SACUA could handle the

election for both positions.
"I think SACUA feels it could
run the entire election and have
all these people in one pool, but
they weren't given that choice,"
Lehman said.
In an interview yesterday,
Kathleen Donohoe, associate
director of policy for Human
Resources, said Human Resources
worked with both the office of
the Provost and SACUA to come
up with a procedure that would
give "everyone the opportunity to
be considered for nomination and
elect their representative."
Human Resources will open
nominations for the non-tenured
position on Monday. Donohoe said
clinical faculty members and lec-
turers will receive an e-mail ask-
ing them to nominate themselves
or another non-tenured faculty
member.
Nominations will be open for
two weeks. Immediately after-
ward, non-tenured members will
receive another e-mail asking
them to vote using an online ballot
that will be posted for one week.
The term for the non-tenured
faculty position will begin April 1.
Though faculty will not be able
to vote for both positions, Dono-
hoe said she believes the new
procedures comply with the state
statute that mandates commit-
tee members to be nominated and
elected by students, staff and fac-
ulty.
"We're comfortable that by
being able to nominate and elect
a faculty member to the seat
that we're meeting whatever the
requirements are of Act 120,"
Donohoe said.
She added that Human Resourc-
es has been using a similar voting
procedure for staff members to
the committee for several years.
Staff members in unions are
allowed to nominate and elect a
union member, while non-union
staff members nominate and elect
a non-union candidate. Indepen-
dent lawyers who talked to the
Daily in November said the prac-
tice seemed to violate the law,

since not all staff members were
allowed to vote for both staff rep-
resentatives.
When asked about the recent
concerns about the legality of
election procedures to the com-
mittee, Timothy Slottow, execu-
tive vice president and CFO for
the University, said in an inter-
view last month that he was aware
of the issues but that he wasn't
qualified to comment about it.
"I'm not a lawyer," he said. "If I
was a lawyer, and I had expertise
then I would be able to tell you
my opinion and it would actually
mean something."
Because HR reports to him,
Slottow is responsible for ensur-
ing staff elections for the over-
sight committee are run properly.
And despite legal concerns of
excluding voters each year, Slot-
tow said the staff elections are run
in accordance with the law.
"I believe that that is occurring
appropriately and adequately and
in a way that meets our needs," he
said.
While he is not responsible for
student or faculty elections for
the committee, Slottow said last
month he wanted to help SACUA
"tighten up" its election proce-
dures.
"It's my belief that currently
the committee is serving its pur-
pose, and if there's anything we
need to do to clarify the policies
and procedures, then we need to
do it," Slottow said.
But at the end of yesterday's
meeting, Thouless admitted that
in addition to election procedures,
there are still other issues with
the committee that need to be
addressed.
"One of the things we should do
is get these elections going to get
this committee back functioning
again and then think about, more
broadly, the issues of the commit-
tee," Thouless said. "That should
be done once we have a properly
elected committee."
-Daily News Editor Kyle Swanson
contributed to this report.

Kim Jong Il says
North Korea is
committed to
being nuclear free
Leader tells Chinese from Pyongyang. Kim reiterated
his country's "persistent stance
envoy he will to realize the denuclearization" of
the peninsula, it said.
keep peninsula Wang delivered to Kim a let-
ter from Chinese President Hu
weapons free Jintao, in which he said Beijing
is also ready to enhance coopera-
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) - tion and work with North Korea
North Korean leader Kim Jong I to maintain peace and stability
assured a high-level envoy visit- on the peninsula, it said. Hu also
ingfrom Beijingthat Pyongyang is invited Kim to visit China, Xin-
committed to a nuclear-free Kore- hua added.
an peninsula, China's state news Earlier today, Pyongyang's offi-
agency reported earlier today. cial Korean Central News Agency
Kim reportedly made the reported that Wang conveyed to
pledge yesterday at the start of a Kim a verbal message from Hu
week of diplomacy designed to get and that the North Korean leader
the stalled six-nation nuclear dis- asked him to convey his regards to
armament talks back on track. A Hu. KCNA said the two had a "cor-
high-level U.N. envoy also was due dial and friendly conversation"
in Pyongyangtoday. but didn't elaborate on what was
North Korea walked away from discussed.
the disarmament talks last year The location of the meetingwas
during a standoff over its nuclear unclear, with the caption of two
and missile programs. The disar- KCNA-dispatched photos saying
mament process includes the two it took place in Pyongyang while
Koreas, China, Russia, Japan and a Xinhua photo caption citing the
the U.S. eastern city of Hamhung.
Pyongyang, however, has been North Korea has offered simi-
reaching out to Washington, Seoul lar disarmament promises in the
and Beijing in recent months, and past, but a Seoul-based analyst
has taken tentative steps toward still called Kim's remarks a posi-
discussing how to get the process tive development.
going again. "I think Kim Jong Ii will soon
"The sincerity of relevant par- send his envoy to China to more
ties to resume the six-party talks is clearly disclose his disarmament
very important," Kim said during plan and set a date for his coun-
a meeting with top Chinese Com- try's return to the six-party talks,"
munist Party official Wang Jiarui, said Yang Moo-jin of Seoul's Uni-
Xinhua News Agency reported versity of North Korean Studies.
Runkle said many of the Uni-
ADULT STUDENTS versity's adult students are
From Page 1 seeking higher education after
fulfilling commitments to the
tage that has made his life "much military, family or other organi-
more enjoyable," but it also brings zations. He added that with the
a stigma that surrounds adult and down economy he anticipates the
transfer students. University will see an increase
"Last year I worked with a guy in the number of adult students,
who asked, 'Where are you from?' lookingto pursue a more intensive
and I told him my story and he degree program than is typically
said, 'Oh, you're a community col- offered by two-year institutions.
lege student? What,you weren't The number of students
smart enough?' Runkle said. enrolled at community colleges
Runkle added that in spite of between 2007 and 2009 increased
these issues adult students remain by nearly 17 percent, according to
unified by their similar situations, data released in December of last
which often demand thatnthey bal- year by the American Association
ance academic work with another of Community Colleges.
professional commitment. "You've seen a drastic increase
"There is a big sense of pride, in community college students,"
because we're competing with Runkle said. "If the economy
individuals who just got out of doesn't improve, they will want to
high school, whose parents are transfer here."
usually capable of supporting Erica Sanders, director of
them," Runkle said. "A lot of us recruitment and operations in
have jobs as well as being stu- the University's Office of Admis-
dents, so the pride in the commu- sions, said adult students are often
nity is drastic." attracted to the University because
Edgar Watson, a 30-year-old they want to pursue programs that
student in the College of Engineer- are only offered at an institution
ing who hopes to become a soft- like the University of Michigan.
ware engineer, said he decided to "Applicants talk to us about
come to the University to earn a their interest in the University of
degree that would make him com- Michigan, specifically because of
petitive in the down economy's our academic programs," Sand-

increasingly tough job market. ers said. "We hear comments
"If you don't have a degree, it's like, 'I want to study languages
a lot tougher to find a job out there and you offer 60 of them' or,
that isstable," he said. "It became 'Your Department of Psychology
harder and harder, but I think is the best in the country for my
that's the time we're in." area of interest."'
"We decided that there were
SGA some changes that we could
From Page 1 make," she said. "Not only to
help (the constitution) fit how we
became the president of the Ross function, but also to try to set upa
SGA when the new constitution better structure for future years."
passed, was the main advocate Though the basic frame of the
behind the revision. Her previ- document is staying the same,
ous position vice president of Baron said it will offer more
graduate-day students - was opportunities for collaboration.
expunged with the new constitu- "I think there is going to be
tion. some good information sharing
Baron said the old document going on among the councils," she
was behind the times, prompting said. "The next step is that we are
the executive board to move fast going to adjust and change our
toward restructuring. bylaws."
"I noticed that our constitution Lily Chen, vice president of
and our code were slightly out- clubs on SGA, said the new docu-
dated," she said. "We felt the need ment will make the body more
to tighten it up and made it match transparent to the students it rep-
more on how we were actually resents.
operating." "The constitution is sort of
She added that the demograph- . like a guiding light for the entire
ics of the school are changing and school," she said. "I'm really
not all students were fairly repre- excited, hopefully this will help
sented in the old constitution. In clean this up and operate more
2005 The BBA program added a efficiently."
sophomore year and the master's Chen, who is a Business School
students were recently incorpo- junior added that the executive
rated into the Ross SGA. board's goal was that their hard
"We wanted to make sure they work would be accepted by the
had representation as well," she student representatives.
said. "Honestly, this year's board
According to Baron, the pre- has tried to remain unanimous
vious constitution also failed to - have one voice" she said. "In
have the "consistency" necessary the end, we realized what were
to support the needs of Business the best options for the students
School studente here."


beer. It's pretty much the only bar
you can take a group of 15 people
and walk right in."
Though it's difficult to get her Law
School friends to go there, Manwell
said she will missuthe barand hopes it
will be replaced with a venue where
she can "get a decent cocktail."
"It's hard to get grad students to
go there because the beer is so bad
and it's kind of like a trashy atmo-
sphere, butwhenyou're in the mood
for it, it's exactly the right fix," she
said. "There's .no where else on
campus that was a trashy bar where
you could get cheap beer."
LSA senior Michael Joyce said he
will definitely miss the bar, adding
that he went there every Wednes-
day night for $2 pitchers of beer.
"It was my favorite bar to go to.
Period," he said. "Can't really argue
with $2 pitchers."
He added that though he doesn't
levels of service to the University
community," Van Horn wrote.
The Athletic Department's Com-
pliance Services Office has come
under scrutiny over the past sever-
al months after a Detroit Free Press
article alleged that the Michigan
football program violated NCAA
rules regarding practice time and
off-season workouts for its players.
A formal NCAA investigation
into those allegations was launched
on Oct. 23 when NCAA Vice Presi-

think the closing will change the
South U. bar scene much, Mitch's
had a "relaxing atmosphere" that
will be hard to replace.
"You didn't really feel like you
had to dress up to go there," he said.
Kinesiology senior Meghann
Swiderek said she usually only
went to Mitch's on Wednesday
nights, but with the closing of the
bar she'll probably have to end her
nights earlier.
"It was usually a good spot to
pre-game or end up," she said. "Like
at 1:30 (am.) if you wanted more
beer before going home."
LSA senior Danny Fries said he's
"kind of indifferent" about the clos-
ing of the bar, though he added that
he will also miss its comfortable
feel.
"It was a little more down-to-
earth bar, it felt a little bit more
local, a little bit more homey," he
dent for Enforcement David Price
sent a letter of inquiry to Universi-
ty President Mary Sue Coleman. At
the time, Price wrote that he hoped
to complete the investigation by
Dec. 31 - though the date was a
goal, not a deadline.
No word on the investigation's
findings has been released, though
the University's Board of Regents
met in a closed-door session last
week to receive an update the
investigation, a source familiar

said. "I guess it was one of those
places where if you didn't really
want a super crazy bar night you
could go there so it'll be sad to lose
that element of the bar scene."
Fries added that the closing of
the bar won't really change his late
night routine.
"It was never a 'we're all going
to Mitch's' kind of a thing, it never
happened like that," he said.
School of Music, Theater &
Dance senior Ben Stange, who's
only been to the bar once, said he
doesn't think the closing will be as
big of a deal as it would be if other
bars in the neighborhood closed.
"I don't think it's as big of an
impact as if say (Good Time) Char-
ley's closed," he said. "I think that's
more of a big name on campus."
- Daily Staff Reporter Elyana
Twiggs contributed to this report.
with the situation told the Daily at
the time.
In an e-mail yesterday, Univer-
sity spokeswoman Kelly Cunning-
ham said there was still no word on
the investigation's findings.
At the same time, an internal
investigation into the allegations
has been underway since Septem-
ber. No updates or comment on
the internal investigation have
been issued since the probe was
launched.

FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK


8 - Tuesday, February 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Berenson: TV timeouts, ice
problems stifle momentum

By MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Editor
Television timeouts at any level
of hockey can be a coach's best
friend or his worst nightmare.
They fit the latter category
on Saturday night for coach Red
Berenson and a Michigan hock-
ey team try-
ing to preserve NOTEBOOK
momentum in
the Camp Randall Classic. And
problems with the crease occupied
by goalie Bryan Hogan for two
periods added further sterilzing
stoppages.
"The ice started off being
great," Berenson said. "Then we
had chunks of ice breaking out in
the crease.... It probably did affect
the game, because the delays were
coming at bad times. It was like
having an extra 10 TV timeouts. It
didn't help our team, because we
had the momentum."
That was the case especially
late in the third period, with the
Wolverines leading the Badgers
2-1, as the outdoor rink's ice prob-
lem reared its ugly head. Hogan's
crease was significantly worse
than the one at the opposite end,
with maintenance crews having
to repair the ice every few min-
utes.
This constant stop-and-start
play made it very difficult for
Michigan to string together any
consistency or momentum late in
the game.
Berenson and other Wolver-
ine officials who made the trek to
Madison took note of the overall
gameday atmosphere. Michigan
will be hosting The Big Chill at the
Big House in early December and
Berenson hopes there will be some
significant differences, specifi-
cally dealing with the nightmarish

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Wisconsin guard Jason Bohannon hita halfcourt shotajust before halftime Saturday.
'M' can't touch
Badgers' snipers

Michigan coach Red Berenson looks on at the Camp Randall Classic in Madison.

delays.
Berenson said he made some
suggestions to Executive Associate
Athletic Director Michael Steven-
son after the game.
"One thing I would do is take
the TV timeouts right out of an
outdoor game," Berenson said.
"In fairness to the fans, I would
even advertise that there will
be no TV timeouts - this game
is going to be played the way it
should be."
NOTHING IS GUARANTEED:
Take no CCHA teams for granted.
That will be the mentality of
the Wolverines as they face Bowl-
ing Green tonight in a must-win
matchup at Yost Ice Arena.
Last weekend, last-place West-
ern Michigan stole two games
from visiting Notre Dame while

Northern Michigan swept third-
place Ferris State in Big Rapids -
two tell-tale signs that anyone can
beat anybody in this conference.
"We're in a good hunt now,"
Berenson said. "This will come
down to the wire. We need to take
this one step at a time, and (Bowl-
ing Green) is our first step."
Currently, the Wolverines sit in
sixth place. There are six points
separating them from Ferris State.
If Michigan can win against the
Falcons tonight and then sweep
the next series or two in the wan-
ing weeks of the regular season, it
could finish as high as second in
the standings.
"I was looking at the stats today,
and if we can win these next three
games, then we have a chance of
being in second place," junior for-

ward Louie Caporusso said. "We
are not out of it at all. ... We are
going to be fine if we play up to our
potential."
SWITCHING 'EM UP: In Michi-
gan's 2-1 win over the Falcons last
Thursday, freshman defenseman
Lee Moffie landed himself in the
penalty box, and consequently, on
the bench.
Moffie was whistled for two
penalties in the final 10 minutes of
regulation, with the second infrac-
tion coming with just three min-
utes left in the game.
So against the Badgers this
weekend, junior Tristin Llewellyn
replaced Moffie on the blue line,
with Berenson hoping to gain some
veteran leadership and steady,
defensive play from the Ann Arbor
native.

For Borseth, a disciplined route to success

Michigan coach Kevin Borseth
jumped and yelled angrily on the
sideline of the women's basketball
team's 74-40 stomping of Minne-
sota on Sunday.
He erupted as an overthrown
pass caused his team to turn the
ball over as Michigan led the
Golden Gophers 50-27 with less
than 12 min-
utes remain- ZAK PYZIK
ing.
Why was On Women's
Borseth so Basketball
upset over
something so inconsequential?
After all, he wound up playing
freshmen Kate Thompson and
Sam Arnold in garbage time after
Michigan took such a comfortable
lead.
He even played senior Kayln
McPherson and sophomore Jamil-
lya Hardley, who together have
only played for a total of 56 min-
utes this season. (Their combined
total is less than that of Thomp-
son, who has played the third-
fewest minutes with 77.)
It's odd that Borseth was so
irritated bythe Wolverines' mis-

takes, especially since players
that haven't seen much game time
were the ones making them.
But this outburst proves that
Borseth is a good coach who is
capable of making decisions that
account for the future of the pro-
gram down the road.
Borseth completely understood
the implications of the mistakes
his players made. Errors like
those can make the opponent's
score look like it was much more
of a competitive contest than it
was. And Borseth knows the sig-
nificance of style points - they
can be an answer to the nebulous
formula for an NCAA tournament
berth.
So the next question: Why is
Borseth the cherry Michigan
needed on top of its sundae? How
is he effectively solidifying his
legacy in Crisler Arena?
For starters, he has united a
team that lacked chemistry less
than one year ago.
Last February, against the same
Golden Gophers at home, Michi-
gan lost 60-59. Even though the
Wolverines started four seniors,

Michigan's roster lacked the juice
it needed to overcome that one-
point mountain.
But this year is different. Bors-
eth has established a family-type
of environment at practice which
has translated to the hardwood
quite visibly.
Borseth is winning the games
that matter.
The Wolverines have beaten
No. 7 Xavier and No. 23 Penn
State. And Michigan kept two
games against No. 5 Ohio State
within three points.
That winning - in part - has
resulted from Borseth making
aggressive strategic decisions all
season.
One instance was in the Wol-
verines' first conference game, a
54-51 win over Iowa. The unique
part about the win was Borseth's
decision to institute a full-court
press in the last three minutes of
the game, even though Michigan
had been leading by eight points.
"We had to try to slow them
down," Borseth said after the vic-
tory. "We were trying to get the
ball out of their hands a little bit.
Trying to up the tempo a little
bit instead of just getting to half
court and laying the punches like
Muhammad Ali. It's better tobe a
little more aggressive."
Executing a tiring strategy like

a press requires well conditioned
players with the necessary stam-
ina. And though that execution is
seen on the court, it starts in the
offseason.
In the offseason, Borseth has
made magic happen not only with
his current players but by recruit-
ing players who are ready to fit
and work in his system.
Two years ago, he signed now-
sophomores Courtney Boylan and
Carmen Reynolds. And Borseth
truly recognized a lot of potential
in Reynolds. She's turned out to
be a keeper, and is leading the Big
Ten in 3-pointers with 52.
Then, Borseth signed six play-
ers before his third season, two
of whom, Dayeesha Hollins and
Jenny Ryan, have been on the
starting roster all year. Ryan ranks
second on the team in rebounds,
snatching 140 boards, and leads
the team with 45 steals. And Hol-
lins sits at first on the team for
assists with 80.
So Borseth may look a little silly
jumping around in frustration
after small, seemingly meaning-
less mistakes.
But as long as he continues to
win the big games and win the
little games by big margins, his
persona will put the Wolverines
in a good position by season's
end.

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Editor
In a half that was dominated by
Wisconsin on Saturday, the Bad-
gers' Jason Bohannon added the
exclamation
point when he NOTEBOOK
launched a shot
just beyond halfcourt right before
the buzzer sounded which - to the
shock and frustration of the Michi-
gan men's basketball team - some-
how found the bottom of the net.
It was just another blow to Mich-
igan in Wisconsin's thorough beat-
down of the Wolverines this past
weekend. Not only did Wisconsin
shoot almost 70 percent in the first
half, but the Badgers had plenty of
luck on their side too.
Wisconsin made 9-of-13 from
behind the arc in the first stanza,
many of which were contested. But
the halfcourt shot, which came on
the coattails of a late Michigan run
to cut the Badger lead to 11, was the
proverbial nail in the coffin.
"It was just one of those days,"
junior guard Manny Harris said.
"Still, we were only down 14 at
halftime and we've come back from
leads like that before. We've just got
to keep working."
After falling to a 15-point defi-
cit with five minutes to play in the
first half, Michigan started to rally
back, led by its two stars - Harris
and senior forward DeShawn Sims.
Right before halftime and with the
shot clock turned off, Michigan
dribbled out most of the remaining
time, then the Wolverines found
Sims in the post who connected on
a layup with two seconds left.
Instead of running out the last
two ticks, the Badgers inbounded
the ball to Bohannon, who crossed
halfcourt and launched a prayer
from the right sideline that inexpli-
cably went in.
It was enough to drain the con-
fidence of the Wolverines and end
the half on an even more sour note.
"The last-second shot there at
the end of the half was a perfect
example of what was happening,"
Michigan coach John Beilein said.
"Nobody scores over 50 points on
(Wisconsin), so when you see (them
score) 40 points at halftime, you
know you're in trouble."
While the Wolverines could have
recovered from their bad luck, a 14
point lead against the best defen-
sive team in the conference was a
tough task from the onset of the
second half. Michigan scored just
18 points after halftime, when Wis-

consin completely shut down the
three point shot and held Sims and
Harris to a combined seven points
in the half.
"That was really frustrating, but
a shot like that can do either two
things," freshman guard Darius
Morris said. "It can either just real-
ly demoralize you or it can give you
aspark and I think itwas alittlehalf
and half for us."
REBOUNDING WOES: While
rebounding is often a struggle for
an undersized team like Michigan,
it was even more obvious Saturday.
Not only did the Badgers dominate
on the offensive glass, they extend-
ed multiple possessions to more
than 60 seconds, tiring the Wol-
verine defense and opening up the
opportunity to exploit a tired team.
Late in the second half, Wiscon-
sin drew down the shot clock until
it nearly expired. Even though they
missed two consecutive shots, the
Badgers picked up both offensive
rebounds and held onto the ball for
nearly a minute and ahalf. The Bad-
gers were unable to convert on that
possession, they did an effective job
of running out the clock and quickly
putting the game away.
"It could have been a two- or
three-point game at halftime very
very easily because we forced them
into so many shot clock situations,"
Beilein said. "But they missed
seven shots they got five offensive
rebounds, that takes your heart
away. Now you're guarding them
for 60 seconds. We guarded them a
couple of times for 60 or 70 seconds.
That's really hard to do."
ANOTHER LETDOWN: While
Michigan runs much of its offense
from behind the arc, attempting
almost 25 3-pointers per game, the
Wolverines attempted less than
half that amount on Saturday, tak-
ing just 11 shots from downtown.
The Wolverines made both of
their two 3-point attempts in the
first half, but their number of looks
were limitedby the aggressive Wis-
consin defense. Every time Michi-
gan tried to get open off the screen,
the Badgers' man-to-man defense
was up to the task. The problem
was even more pronounced in the
second half, when Michigan missed
all nine of its 3-point attempts.
"They chase you off every screen,
and they were going to take that
part away from us," Beilein said.
"We weren't trying to not shoot
(threes). We were trying to get open
ones; we just couldn't get any. They
are just a very good defensive team,
both individually and as a team."

for more information call 734/615-6449
The University of Michigan College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
presents a public lecture and reception


This summer,
put your knowledge to work in Boston.

Summer Study Internship Program
May 18-August 13,2010

Learn More.
617-353-0556
bu.edu/summer/internship

Tuesday, February 9, 2010
Alumni Center, Founders Room
4:10 PM

LSA



