POLITICAL RAP GAME
What the political credibility of
hip-hop artists today says about
the evolution of the industry.
PAGE 4A

j,:

UbeP lEll:a Iim

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, December 8, 2010

michigandaily.com

MOVING EXPRESSION

GET TING AROUND ANN ARBOR
AATA mulls
bigger buses,
monorail in
transit plans

Rackham student Tracy Halloran performs at the School of Dance's Composition and Improvisation Dance Class Showings yesterday. Students presented an informal perfor-
mance of their semester composition studies.
A NN A~3
ouncil to con sid medic
marijuana zoning ordinance

In new study, route
between Central and
North Campuses is
a major priority
By DYLAN CINTI
and ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporters
The Ann Arbor Transit
Authority is currently working
with University and city offi-
cials on two long-term projects
to enhance transit on a local and
county level.
The first project, the Ann
Arbor Connector Feasibility
Study, seeks to pinpoint advanced
transit options that would be
installed in the city, like trains or
larger buses. The second project
is the AATAs countywide tran-
sit master plan, which is aimed
at improving and expanding the
city's busing system. Both plans
are in the development stage and
aim for both short-term and long-
term improvements, according to
city transportation officials.
NEW MODES OF CITY
TRANSIT
An electric-powered train
system could lie in Ann Arbor's

future - or so city officials hope.
The city-sponsored Ann Arbor
Connector Feasibility Study was
designed to identify alternative
modes of transportation that
could improve transit citywide.
Recently submitted in a draft
form to the AATA, the study
endorses three modes of trans-
portation: an enhanced busing
system, a light rail transit system
and an elevated train system,
which would include a monorail.
URS Corporation, an engi-
neering and technical services
organization based in California,
performed the study. The aim
of the study was to identify the
transit options that would best
accommodate Ann Arbor's trans-
portation needs, according to
Richard Nau, URS vice president
for transit and railroad business.
Chief among these needs,
according to Nau, is a more effi-
cient mode of transit between the
University's North and Central
Campuses.
"One of the things that's driv-
ing the study is improving the
connection between the North
Campus and the Central Cam-
pus," Nau said.
According to Jim Kosteva, the
University's director of commu-
nity relations, students, faculty
and staff make more than 20,000
See TRANSPORTATION, Page 3A

Assessment comes
shortly after other
a SE Michigan cities
ban medical pot
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StafflReporter-
 Medical marijuana dispensa-
ries could be allowed in retail
zones - with some restrictions
- if the Ann Arbor City Council

approves an ordinance recently
drafted by the Ann Arbor Plan-
ning Commission.
The ordinance would also put
restrictions on the establish-
ment or expansion of medical
marijuana dispensaries -. or
nonresidential places where one
or more caregivers transfer
medicine among themselves
and/or to patients - within the
city. In addition, the ordinance
applies to cultivation facilities
and home occupations, which
are defined by the commission

as single-family dwellings used
for nonresidential purposes
involving medical marijuana.
The Ann Arbor City Council
reviewed the ordinance once on
Oct. 18 and will do so again on
Dec. 20.
The ordinance in question
addresses a temporary mora-
torium regulating the avail-
ability of medical marijuana in
Ann Arbor, which City Council
passed on Aug. 5. This tempo-
rary moratorium, set to expire
on Jan. 31, was designed to pro-

vide the planning commission
time to finalize regulations for
dispensaries before too many
opened.
Ann Arbor City Planner Jill
Thacher said that it's typical for
the council to make changes to
proposals during second read-
ings, and she expects this ordi-
nance will be no different.
The biggest obstacle in draft-
ing the ordinance, Thacher said,
was the commission's lack of
knowledge about the medical
See ORDINANCE, Page 3A


MSA rejects measure calling for
Athletic Dept. to fire Rodriguez

A PATRIOTIC TALE

MSA VP: Resolution
'distracts' from more
pertinent business
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
Daily StaffReporter
At the final Michigan Student
Assembly meeting of the semes-
ter last night, representatives
shot down a proposed resolution
to encourage the University's
Athletic Department to dismiss
Michigan football coach Rich
Rodriguez.

The resolution, proposed by
Public Policy junior and ex-officio
representative Nathan Hamilton
and LSA freshman and represen-
tative Omar Hashwi, received 5
yes and 24 no votes to be placed
on last night's meeting agenda.
The resolution states that,
"Rodriguez's first two years at
Michigan featured two losing
seasons, no bowl games, and
accusations of possible NCAA
violations in regards to the hours
the team practices ... and Rodri-
guez currently has the lowest
winning percentage of any coach
in the history of Michigan foot-

ball."
Fans and media have been
speculating on Rodriguez's job
status after his third straight
loss to Ohio State at the end of
last month. University Athletic
Director David Brandon has said
repeatedly that he would evaluate
Rodriguez at the end of the sea-
son, which he defines as after the
Wolverines play Mississippi State
in the Gator Bowl on New Year's
Day.
Speaking before the assembly,
Hashwi recalled football seasons
past, highlighting the differences
See MSA, Page3A

Author Blaine Pardoe autographs his biography titled "Lost Eagles" for Doug Bauer at the Hatcher Graduate Library yesterday. Par-
doe's book is a biography about Frederick Zinn, a University alum and World War I Air Force pilot.


As Fulbright expands sites,'U'
alumni optimistic about future

SNRE students, faculty participate
in UN Climate Change Conference

Program also sees
increase in number
0 of applicants
By SARAH ALSADEN
Daily StaffReporter
State Department officials
recently expanded the reach of
the Fulbright Scholars Program

and both grant recipients and
applicants from the University
are hoping the expansion will
mean more opportunities for
University graduates.
The program, which offers
students grants to pursue Eng-
lish Teaching Assistantships,
independent research and study
in countries around the world,
will now offer grants specifically
designed for students with inter-

disciplinary interests like entre-
preneurship, sustainability and
innovation. Two hundred-fifty
students pursuing ETAs have
either left for their assignments
or will be leaving in early 2011
thanks to the expansion, accord-
ing to Rosalind Swenson, direc-
tor of the Fulbright program
at the Department of State's
Bureau of Educational and Cul-
See FULBRIGHT, Page 2A

Ten 'U' students
attend symposium in
Cancun, Mexico
ByVERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
For most, Canemn, Mexico is
one of the go-to spots for a fun-
filled spring break. But for about
30 University students, professors

and alums, the location has taken
on a whole new meaning in recent
weeks.
These individuals are attending
the two-week United Nations Cli-
mate Change Conference, which
started Nov. 29. A few University
representatives were in Cancn
during the first week and others are
participating in the second week
of the conference, which is now
underway. According to a press
release issued by the University,

there are 10 students participating.
Miguel Sossa, MBA and MS can-
didate from the Erb Institute for
Global Sustainable Enterprise, said
that in the first week, representa-
tives from 132 nations attended
the conference and explained their
goals for the conference.
According to the press release,
the participating nations were
the ones who signed the United
Nations Framework Convention on
See CONFERENCE, Page 3A


WEATHER
TOMORROW

:27 GOTANEWSTIP?
26 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news areichigandaily.com andlet us know.

NEWON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Molk named as finalist for Rimington Trophy
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEWS..........
Vol, CXXI No. 63 SUDO K U.U...D .
2 0 The MichiganDaily OPINION......
michigandoily.com

... 2A A RTS .................
... 3A SPORTS .............
...4A THE STATEMENT

5A
7A
.......1B


a

2A - Wednesday, December 8, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY: TUESDAY: * * THURSDAY: FRIDAY:

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths Professor Profiles Campus Clubs Photos of the Week
In the SexLab

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandailycom tmdbusiness@gmail.com

University alum Jos Bauermeister
has both learned and taught the School
of Public Health's Health Behavior and
Health Education Program curriculum,
a combination that he says makes him a
better teacher.
"Having been through the program,
I sometimes try to make certain aspects
of the work a little more rich, fun or
dynamic," he said. "I remind (students)
that there is a method to the madness."
Bauermeister graduated from the Uni-
versity in 2004 with his Master of Public
Health degree and again in 2006 with
a Ph.D. in Health Behavior and Health
Education, one of five degrees offered by
the School of Public Health. He returned
to the University to teach in 2009 after
a post-doctoral fellowship at Columbia
University.
As an assistant professor in the
Department of Health Behavior and
Health Education, Bauermeister - who
calls his method of instruction "dynamic
and approachable" - currently teach-

es a core departmental graduate-level
course and said he plans to teach courses
on human sexuality during upcoming
semesters.
He said his interest in human sexuality,
which has led him to study topics such as
HIV/AIDS, the fostering of sexual rela-
tionships on the Internet, and health pro-
motion strategies, stemmed from doing
research when he was a student.
Today, Bauermeister is devoted to bet-
ter understanding sexuality as a valu-
able component of public health, and he
pursues his interests through a research
group called the SexLab.
Researchers from the SexLab col-
laborated with the School of Information
and the HIV/AIDS Resource Center on
campus to develop projects ranging from
analyzingsmoking habits among sexual-
minority women to investigating young
men's motives for choosing not to receive
HIV testing.
One project he said he is particularly
excited about overseeing in the near

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
SportsSection
Display Sales
tlassified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

Office horsn.Thrs. 1am.n-2 a.m.
7344415 opt.3
news@michieandaiy.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.co
pfhue@rnichigaodaily.com
arspagegihigadaiy.com

Assistant Prof. Jose Bauermeister's work in the SexLab consists of interviews for research.
future is a "PhotoLove" project that will recommendations to people in health
attempt to understand how young men fields while drawing attention to impor-
who have sex with men conceptualize tantissues.
love. Bauermeister said the lab's success is
"We're asking them to take pictures contingent upon his close bond with his
about how they visualize love," he student researchers.
explained. "It's another way of under- "We work as a family in getting things
standing people's lives." done," he said. "We put our hearts and
The results of SexLab projects allow minds into it."
Bauermeister and his team to put forth - CLAIRE GOSCICKI

sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classiied@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Veteran Talk Choir

False alarm
WHERE: Oxford Housing
WHEN: Monday at about 11:30
a.m.
WHAT: A fire extinguisher
went off in the dining hall,
started by an unknown person,
University police reported.
There was no fire, and the
extinguisher was later rein-
stalled.

Forgetful student
notifies police
WHERE: East Quadrangle
WHEN: Monday at about 11:15
p.m.
WHAT: A male student's
M-Card went missing from the
first floor of East Quad after it
was left unattended for some
time, University police said.

Lunchbox lifted Partners in pot
WHERE: University Hospital get goods taken
WHEN: Monday at about
12:45 p.m. WHERE: Alice Lloyd Hall
WHAT: A staff member WHEN: Tuesday at about
reported that a lunch box with 12:15 a.m.
an assortment of delicious WHAT: Two male students
food was stolen, University were investigated for possess-
Police reported. The lunchbox ing marijuana in their dorm
was stolen from the staff mem- room. An unknown amount
ber's office, police said. There of marijuana was confiscated,
are no susnects. University Police said.

WHAT: Hear from Ford
School students who have
lived and worked under
the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell"
policy. They willibe dis-
cussing the policy and the
consequences of repeal.
WHO: The Spectrum Center
WHEN: Today from
12 p.m. to 1 p.m.
WHERE: Room 1210
in Weill Hall
Public lecture
WHAT: Rami Khouri, an
international political colum-
nist and author and director
of the Issam Fares Institute
of Public Policy and Interna-
tional Affairs at the Ameri-
can University of Beirut, will
speak to the general public.
WHO: International
Policy Center
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall

Performance
WHAT: The Chamber Choir
will be conducted by Jerry
Blackstone ina free event.
WHO: The University of
Michigan Chamber Choir
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Wal-
green Drama Center
Concert Band
WHAT: The Concert
Band's end of the term
performance will be con-
ducted by Rodney Dorsey.
WHO: The University of
Michigan Concert Band.
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
CORRECTIONS
Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Police officers at passport
counters in Philippine air-
ports have been barred
from saying, "Merry Christ-
mas," according to MSNBC.
com. The greeting has been
prohibited because customs
dictate that children who say
the phrase are soliciting gifts
from relatives.
MSA President Chris
Armstrong's term has
been defined to this point
by the controversy surrounding
Andrew Shirvell's blog and the-
outcry that followed. He says
it's now time to change that.
>FOR MORE,SEETHE STATEMENT,INSIDE
New electronic pickpock-
et devices can steal your
information from credit
cards or passports using radio
frequency identification tech-
nology, Washingtonpost.com
reported. This is the reason
some novelty magazines are
selling metal lined wallets.

EDITORIAL STAFF
MattAaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Bennan Managing NeowsEditor bermanpmihigandaily.com
SoNO NEWS E ITORS: Nico e Abr Stephanie S einberg, 0rl eanon, Ehwar
Thirunavukkaras, Devon Thors,
ASSSTANTNEWS EDITORS: B Bhany Bin, Dylan Cin, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kame,,Jsep .ihtema, VonicaMedi, ElyaaTwigg
Rachel Van Gilder EditorialPage Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:W ilButler,,WilGrunder,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje ManagingSports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, MichaelFlorek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Stephen Nesbitt,LukePasch,ZakPyzik,Amy
;amie;Bck ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Carolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, Jeff Sanford
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:KristynAcho,LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,KaviShekhar
Pande,DaidTao
MaxCollinsand photo@michigandaray.com
Sam Wolson ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: ArielBond,Marissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm,Jed Moch
An Lein-Zlelinskiand design@michigandaily.com
SanaISquire MaooioesesipEtditos
SNIORDESIGNEDITOR:MayaFiedman
TrevCaleo Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Jenna Skoller
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaiycom
AdiWollstein CopyChiefs
BUSINESSSTAFF
Jlianna trim Sles Manager
ALES FORCE MANAGE:Stphanie Bowker
MARKETING MANAGER:Gjon Juncaj
Hillary Szawala classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy WinklernCirculation Manager
Zach Yancer Web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-%7) is published Monday through riday during the fall and
winter terms by studentsat the University of Michigan.Onecopyis availablefreeof chargetoall
readers.Additionalcopiesmay bepickedupatthe Daily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm.
startinginSeptemberviaU.S.mailare$110.Winterterm (JanuarythroughAprilis$115,yearlong
(Septemberthrough Apri)is$195.Universityaffiiatesaresubjecttoareducedsubscriptionrate.
On-campussubscriptions for faIItermare 35Subscriptionsmust be prepaid.The MichiganDaily
isa member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

With expansion, Fulbright
offers interdisciplinary track

Pearl Harbor survivor Quinton Pyle, 88,of Fredericksburg, Texas, covers his heart during the National Anthem at the Pearl Har-
bor Commemoration Ceremony at the National Museum of the Pacific War in Fredericksburg, Texas yesterday.
Pearl Harbor veterans
reunite after 69 years

From Page 1A
tural Affairs.
Swenson attributed the expan-
sion to officials in Congress
and President Barack Obama's
administration who were inter-
ested in expanding opportunities
for students to pursue exchange
programs. She added that the
bureau's emphasis on enhancing
the use of English abroad also
contributed to the expansion of
the ETA program.
"English is basically becoming
the tool by which all exchanges
can take place ... and one (can)
learn more about the United
States ... the English Teaching
Assistantship is a critical com-
ponent of that whole initiative to
increase the teaching of English
worldwide," Swenson said.
Swenson added that the
expansions would mean an
increase in the opportunities
available to students applying for
Fulbright's grant program.
"It should make it easier to
get a grant in theory because the
number of awards is increasing,"
she said. "But what has also been
happening in the past couple of
years is that we have seen a large
growth in the number of applica-
tions."
Swenson went on to say that
9,335 students have applied to
the program this year, up from
8,600 last year.
"It does allow for more oppor-
tunity but, by the same token, we
are seeing more American stu-
dents interested in taking part in
the Fulbright program," she said.
Fulbright applicant and Uni-
versity alum Khadeejah Sani
hopes to pursue sustainable
energy engineering research
in affiliation with the Masdar
Institute of Science and Technol-
ogy in Abu Dhabi. Sani said she
believes the expansions would

have an effect on her proposed
project.
. "Since my project is in direct
alignment with the fundamental
principles of the new direction
of the Fulbright program, I will
have more of a chance to gain
acceptance as a Fulbright schol-
ar," Sani said.
"The expansion happened
right after I applied to the pro-
gram, so ifI am not accepted this
year then I most definitely will
re-apply next year in anticipa-
tion of an increased chance of
gaining acceptance," Sani added.
Fulbright recipient and Uni-
versity alum Anna Clark, a for-
mer writer for The Michigan
Daily, will use her grant to pur-
sue a creative writing project
in Nairobi, Kenya. She said that
she thought the expansion to the
program would lead to increases
in acceptance for more students
from the University.
"Michigan has one of the best
records in the nation for its stu-
dents, alumni and faculty getting
Fulbright fellowships," she said.
"I had an excellent experience
working with the International
Institute on my application, and
I have no doubt that they will
take every opportunity they can
in making it possible for more
Michigan students to experience
the world."
According to the International
Institute website, the University
ranks first in the number of Ful-
bright grantees this year, with 39
students in 24 countries. This is
the fourth time the University
has led in the number of grants
since 2005.
University alum Sharief El-
Gabri, who originally applied for
an ETA grant in Egypt, received
one for Amman, Jordan. He said
that he will participate in a con-
ference in Amman in mid-Janu-
ary aimed at contributing to the

growth of the program. Gabri
said he believes the expansions
will lead to more University stu-
dents attaining fellowships.
"The expansion will most cer-
tainly lead to more Michigan
students pursuing the various
grants," he said. "It's great that
there are even more opportu-
nities to take advantage of the
Fulbright program, which is
committed to promoting under-
standing and bridging differ-
ences."
Ginger Cline, a University
alum who is pursuing an ETA in
France, said the recent expan-
sions wouldn't affect applicants
looking for grants in France as
the number available has not
changed.
"Fulbright operates on a coun-
try-by-country basis, and from
what I saw on the website, noth-
ing about the program in France
has changed," she said.
She said the expansions in the
program would mean that there
are more opportunities for Uni-
versity students, citing the addi-
tion of three new ETAs in Laos.
Benjamin Fox, a University
alum who pursued a Fulbright
Scholarship in eco-city devel-
opment in Taiwan, said that his
own proposal was wait-listed at
first. He said he was accepted to
the program when more funding
was made available. According to
Fox, expansions could result in
more acceptances of University
students.
"Once students make it past
the first cut, they are all worthy
of receiving a grant; the number
of fellowships finally awarded
is largely predicated on how
much funding is available," Fox
said. "U of M will keep produc-
ing qualified candidates; and the
more money available, the more
U of M students that will end up
getting grants."

Mil
dui
afte
PEAR
- Aging
yesterda
sacrifice
and pas
tions as1
69th ann
"Long
the war
will still
and hon
sacrifice
Director
about 12
to Hawa
for the e
Merl
Calif.,
returned
shots at
USS Mai
blood of
during t
"My t
was free
84 degr
awful fr
Yester
Montana

nor disruption above Pearl Harbor in missingman
formation to honor those killed in
ring ceremony the attack, which sunk the USS
Arizona and with it, nearly 1,000
r unknown bag sailors and Marines. In all, about
2,400 service members died.
was found Sailors lined the deck of the
USS Chafee and saluted as the
.L HARBOR, Hawaii (AP) guided missile destroyer passed
Pearl Harbor survivors on between the sunken hull of the
y heard reassurances their USS Arizona and the grassy land-
would be remembered ing where the remembrance cer-
sed on to future genera- emony was held.
they gathered to mark the After the ceremony, the survi-
iversary of the attack. vors, some in wheelchairs, passed
after the last veteran of through a "Walk of Honor" lined
in the Pacific is gone, we by saluting sailors, Marines, air-
be here telling their story men and soldiers to enter a new
oring their dedication and $56 million visitor center that was
National Park Service dedicated at the ceremony.
Jonathan Jarvis told "This facility is the fulfillment
0 survivors who traveled of a promise that we will honor the
ii from around the country past," Jarvis said.
vent. The Park Service built the
Resler, 88, of Newcastle, new center because the old one,
was among those who which was built on reclaimed
a. He remembered firing land in 1980, was sinking into the
Japanese planes from the ground. The old facility was also
ryland and standing in the overwhelmed by its popularity: it
a shipmate hit by shrapnel received about 1.6 million visitors
he attack. each year, about twice as many as
eeth was chattering like I it was designed for.
rzing to death, and it was People often had to squeeze by
ees temperature. It was one another to view the photos
ightful," said Resler. and maps in its small exhibit hall.
rday, fighter jets from the In comparison, the new center has
a Air National Gugd flew two spacious exhibition halls with

room for more people, as well as
large maps and artifacts such as
anti-aircraft guns.
There was a minor disruption on
the center's first day when the dis-
covery of anunidentified baginside
one of the galleries prompted the
Park Service to briefly evacuate the
two exhibit halls and a courtyard.
.But the rest of the visitors center
remained open, and everyone was
allowed back in the galleries after
the object was determined to be a
medical bag carrying oxygen.
U.S. Pacific Fleet commander
Adm. Patrick Walsh said the new
center, which has twice the exhibi-
tion space as the old one, would tell
the story of those who fought and
won the peace.
"This museum gives a view into
their lives, a window into the enor-
mity of their task, an appreciation
of the heaviness of their burden,
the strength of their resolve,"
Walsh said.
Assistant Secretary of the Inte-
rior Thomas Stickland said the
events of Dec. 7,1941, were so trau-
matic and marked by heroism that
they had become ingrained in the
nation's consciousness.
"That day is now fundamental to
who we are as a people. Its stories
must be preserved. They must be
honored and they must be shared,"
Strickland said.

BIG CHILL TOO COLD FOR YOU?
We got you covered. Follow our liveblog of the

game on michigandaily.com

:


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 8, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, December 8, 2D10 - 3A


NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
State's child welfare
system fails to meet
2008 agreement
Michigan's child-welfare system
is failing to meet the conditions of a
sweeping 2008 agreement intended
to improve foster care and protec-
tive services, a court-appointed
watchdog said Tuesday.
Kevin Ryan's latest report traced
the problems to management at the
Department of Human Services
under Gov. Jennifer Granholm. He
said Michigan's new governor will
have an opportunity after Jan. 1 to
"build a high-level leadership team"
and fulfill an agreement to more
quickly move kids out of foster care
and into permanent homes.
"Unless there is a fundamental
 adjustment in their approach to
this undertaking, it is unlikely this
reform will reach most of the chil-
dren and families . in the foresee-
able future," Ryan wrote.
A New York-based group called
Children's Rights, whose law-
suit led to the consent decree, had
planned to ask a judge to appoint
a receiver to take over Michigan's
child-welfare system, but it backed
off Tuesday and said Gov.-elect Rick
Snyder deserves a chance to tackle
the problem.
WASHINGTON
Medicare paid
smillions for stent
implants
A Senate investigation found
that Medicare spent millions of
dollars for stents implanted by a
Maryland doctor accused of put-
ting them in patients who didn't
need them, according to a report
released Monday.
The investigation also found
that the doctor was treated to an
elaborate crab feast and barbecue
by Abbott Labs, the maker of the
stents. The stents are tiny, metal-
mesh tubes used to keep unclogged
arteries open.
The report released by the Senate
Finance Committee said Dr. Mark
Midei's questionable implantations
cost the Medicare program $3.8 mil-
lion between 2007 and 2009. Sen.
Max Baucus, D-Mont., the commit-
tee's chairman, said the case could
be a sign of a larger national trend of
wasteful medical device use.
NEW YORK
Officials bust Ivy
League drug ring
Five Columbia University stu-
dents were charged yesterday with
selling LSD-spiked candy and other
drugs at three fraternity houses and
other residences on the Ivy League
campus, with two allegedly claim-
ing they needed the drug money to
cover tuition.
Police arrested Christopher Coles,
Harrison David, Adam Klein, Jose
Stephen Perez and Michael Wymbs
at dawn on Tuesday at the presti-
gious school in upper Manhattan.
The students - all 20-year-olds
except Perez, who's .22 - were

hauled into a Manhattan court-
room later in the day, shackled
together and wearing Columbia
and fraternity sweat shirts. They
pleaded not guilty to multiple drug
dealing charges alleging they were
supplied by violent traffickers.
JERUSALEM
Israel claims
0 leaked cables are
distracting U.S.
Israel's defense minister claimed
yesterday that the WikiLeaks crisis
was distracting Washington from
efforts to restart Mideast peace
talks. But the U.S. denied those
efforts were on hold and countered
sharply that perhaps Israel was dis-
tracted by fighting a wildfire.
Hours later, however, U.S. offi-
cials said they had abandoned
efforts to reinstate a freeze on new
building in Jewish settlements in
the West Bank, concluding that was
not the best way to restart the talks.
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks,
restarted in September after a long
hiatus but stumbled to a halt three
weeks later after a 10-month Israeli
moratorium on new construction
in West Bank Jewish settlements
expired - as Israel said all along
it would - and the government
refused to renew it.
Palestinians say they won't
resume talks unless Israel halts all
building in the West Bank and east
Jerusalem - lands they want for
part of their future state.
- Compiled from
Dafy wire reports.

ORDINANCE
From Page 1A
marijuana industry. Before the
commission could really do any-
thing, she said, they first had to
find out the logistics of dispen-
saries and what classifies as a
home occupation, among other
things.
After learning more about
how dispensaries operate, the
commission decided these facili-
ties would be most suited for
retail zones, Thacher said.
Dennis Hayes, a co-founder of
the Ann Arbor Medical Marijua-
na Patient Collective and a law-
yer who specializes in drug laws,
said he thinks the ordinance can
be narrow and conservative in
parts, but overall he's happy that
Ann Arbor is handling this issue
intelligently, and that City Coun-
cil is very "accessible and inter-
ested and pretty open-minded"
about the issue. Simply permit-
ting the existence of dispensa-
ries, he said, is a step forward.
The ordinance comes amid
other municipalities' recent bans
on the use of medical marijuana,
despite the Michigan Marijua-
na Act, which allows patients
registered with the state to use
medical marijuana. These areas
including Birmingham, Bloom-
field Hills and Livonia, which
recently passed ordinances that
prohibit actions on medical
marijuana that violate federal
law. Marijuana, classified as a
Schedule I drug under the Drug
Enforcement Act, is still illegal
under federal law.
The state's American Civil
Liberties Union chapter recent-
ly sued these cities on behalf of
Linda Lott, a registered medical
marijuana patient with multiple
sclerosis, and her husband Robert,.
who has glaucoma, saying their
bans violate the marijuana act.
Thacher said there is still
time for public input on the
Ann Arbor ordinance. Thacher
said the commission has mostly
heard from stakeholders in the

medical marijuana community hibited, according to the text of
so far. the ordinance.
Medical marijuana activists The ordinance also forbids
have voiced concerns about one drive-in medical marijuana
provision of the ordinance that dispensaries. The commission
prohibits a dispensary or cul- included this, Thacher said, for
tivation facility - defined as aesthetic and environmental
a facility where more than 72 purposes. The city puts this type
plants are grown - from being of regulation in many districts to
located within 1,000 feet of a avoid idling cars.
primary or secondary school. It isn't clear yet what will hap-
Hayes said he thinks the pen with existing dispensaries
1,000-foot rule is unnecessary. that were grandfathered into
"If you look at the zoning the temporary moratorium after
maps, the proposed 1,000-foot the ordinance is passed, Thacher
setback is altogether too long," said.
he said. "And we think 500 (feet) For home occupations, the
is adequate, and would prefer ordinance requires that the floor
200 (feet)." area devoted to medical mari-
Hayes said the regulation juana not exceed 25 percent of
came out of "alleged and undoc- the total floor area and the out-
umented fears of (marijuan'a) side appearance of the dwell-
being close to neighborhoods ing shouldn't indicate that it's a
and kids being exposed to it." He home occupation. In addition,
added that it's not productive to the owner can't sell any products
start out with "a prior assump- not produced on the premises.
tion" that such strict constraints Also, as in the case of dispensa-
need to be applied to medical ries, there shouldn't be noisy or
marijuana facilities. odorous equipment or processes
Thacher said the planning on the premises.
commission recommended the Hayes said security is a very
1,000-foot requirement because important issue when it comes to
Michigan state law has a 1,000- home occupations because mari-
foot drug-free zone around juana is such a valuable prod-
schools. By putting this regula- uct, adding that the identity of
tion in the ordinance, she added, a home occupation shouldn't be
the planning commission wasn't made public..
making a statement about having Thacher agreed that it is criti-
marijuana facilities near schools cal to ensure the medicine is
but merely following state law. secure within a home occupa-
The ordinance also prohibits tion.
the smoking, inhalation or con- "We're not necessarily going
sumption of medical marijuana to require that people keep
at dispensaries and cultivation everything in a vault, but at the
facilities. Planners included the same time they'll have to dem-
restriction mainly to appease onstrate through the licensing
neighbors' fears of odors coming agreement ... that the plants and
from the premises. the product are secured some-
Further regulations on dis- how on the site," Thacher said.
pensaries and cultivation facili- Hayes also emphasized that
ties include no minors on the there should be a way for police
premises without a parent or to identify home occupations to
guardian. Additionally, patients avoid unlawful raids. Unfortu-
and caregivers must conduct nately, he added, the state law
all activities indoors, and any "doesm't compel the production
equipment or activity that cre- of that information," and setting
ates noticeable "noise, dust, up a registry would disclose the
vibration, glare, fumes, odors or addresses of the dwellings, caus-
electrical interference" is pro- ing security issues.

TRANSPORTATION
From Page 1A
trips between the two campuses
daily. For this reason, Nau said,
the study specifically sought to
identify more reliable and faster
modes of transit between the
campuses.
In a recent interview, Kosteva
said the University is supporting.
the study because of its focus on
improving transit between the
two campuses.
"It's well known that we have
a large movement of passengers
from North Campus to Central
Campus," Kosteva said. "We
want to analyze whether or not
there may be other means of
transit that can make those trips
more efficient."
The current draft of the study
proposes three modes of transit
that Nau called "the most prom-
ising types of mass transit" for
Ann Arbor.
The first is an enhanced busing
system called Bus Rapid Transit,
which would involve the creation
of a separate line of buses that
would be both faster and larger
than existing AATA buses.
These buses would be able
to seat between 55 and 105 peo-
ple, for a total daily ridership of
roughly 10,000, according to a
pamphlet released by the Ann
Arbor Connector Feasibility
Study.
The second option is a light
rail transit system, which would
feature a two- to three-car train
powered by electric overhead
wires, accordingto the pamphlet.
Nau said the light rail transit
system would be speedy and spa-
cious, with the ability to shuttle
large numbers of people between
the campuses in a timely man-
ner. According to the pamphlet,
a light rail transit system could
accommodate up to 40,000 peo-
ple daily.
The final option is a form of
elevated transit, a totally auto-
mated train system that would
feature trains running back and
forth on a fixed headway.
According to Nau, "those sys-
tems would have to be developed
to provide the level of capacity
that's necessary to move people
between the campuses."
The AATA, as well as officials
from the city, the University and
the Downtown Development
Agency, are currently reviewing
the draft of the study. Nau said he
plans to meet with these groups
and hear their feedback before
submitting a final report to the

transportation authority.
A COUNTYWIDE
TRANSIT VISION
The AATA is also working on
a long-term plan to improve its
regular busing service.
The AATA's countywide tran-
sit vision is a 30-year plan to
revamp its busing system, The
Ride, which currently operates in
both Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti.
Officials developed the county-
wide transit vision as a means of
addressing a variety of issues
including a lack of speedy routes
to vital destinations, frequent
congestion, increases in mobility
needs for aging riders and a lack
of connectivity between coun-
ties, according to Michael Ben-
ham, a strategic planner for The
Ride.
The countywide transit vision
is designed to address these
needs by proposing changes to
busing like adding local circula-
tors and door-to-door service,
connecting counties using coach
and express buses and utilizing
a park-and-ride option for those
who own vehicles, according to a
Nov. 18 AATA status report.
Thevision also aimstoincrease
the use of bus lanes and install a
revamped commuter rail. Finally,
the transit vision focuses on mak-
ing transit centers attractive and
appealing for riders.
Eli Cooper, Ann Arbor's trans-
portation program manager, said
he believes the Transit Master
Plan will pave the way for impor-
tant new developments in Washt-
enaw County.
"The AATA ... is reaching out
in a significant way and is getting
excellent input from the advisory
committee as well as the public,"
Cooper said. "They have a com-
prehensive and thorough out-
reach process."
The next step of planning is to
determine whether the transit
plan's objectives are aligned with
the community's needs, Cooper
said. This mainly involves accom-
modating the markets that aren't
exposed to the "high level" of
transit service that is operating
around Ann Arbor and the sur-
rounding area, he said.
The Transit Master Plan pre-
sented by AATA, Cooper said,
will allow Ann Arborcto "continue
to grow and prosper as a regional
job center without strangling
the community's transportation
arteries with individual commut-
ers and cars on our streets look-
ing for parking spaces on valuable
land."


MSA
From Page 1A
in end-of-season win/loss records
between Rodriguez and previous
coaches as cause for his termina-
tion.
"Before (Rodriguez's) arrival,
we fought hard against the tough-
est teams," Hashwi said.
Hamilton echoed Hashwi's
sentiments, emphasizing the
importance of having student
voices heard on this "dynamic"
issue.
"Rich Rodriguez has been a
black stain on this University and
needs to be held accountable," he
said.

Other MSA representatives
brought up the proposal's faults in
front of the assembly.
Public policy junior and repre-
sentative Steven Zuckerman ques-
tioned whether student-athletes'
opinions were considered in the
construction of the resolution.
"I agree that maybe (the issue)
is something to talk about, but I
don't know if it necessarily rep-
resents the concerns of students,"
he said.
MSA Vice President and Busi-
ness senior Jason Raymond also
expressed his concerns about the
proposal saying it "distracts" from
the assembly's more pertinent
business.
"It could potentially ruin rela-

tionships we've built with the
Athletic Department," he said.
MSA President and LSA senior
Chris Armstrong declined to com-
ment on the specifics of the pro-
posal after the meeting, but said
"it had no place on the agenda."
In an interview after the meet-
ing, Hashwi expressed his disap-
pointment that the issue wouldn't
be on the next meeting's agenda.
"We're here to discuss large
issues," he said.
Hamilton agreed, adding that
the proposal will now be put to
rest, as it was time-sensitive.
"It's unfortunate we couldn't
place it on the agenda," Hamilton
said after the meeting. "We want
healthy debate."


everyone agree on the problem
CONFERENCE is probably equally if not more
From Page 1A important. When you have sfs
many people under one roof, it
Climate Change in 1994. really gives context to just how
The goal of the conference is difficult it is to align."
to find ways to mediate climate At the conference, Sossa said
change, with topics including he also witnessed the difference
water, energy, greenhouse gas in students' and diplomats' atti-
emissions, biodiversity and social tudes.
issues, Sossa said. "Students are more positively
- Sossa said that within the last charged," he said. "We want to go
five years, an Erb alum arranged out there and change the world.
for University affiliates to have Diplomats are more reserved.
access to the annual conference They say, 'it's a process, we have
and since then a few University to work through certain things
representatives have attended first.' Listening to both sides
the conference each year. of that equation is something
"It's a lot more than just the you don't get to do everyday in
good weather," Sossa said. "I school."
came back and I didn't get a tan The students and other partic-
because I rarely saw the beach. I ipants are immersed in the seri-
think what drives it for us (par- ousness of the matter from the
ticipating students) is that we're moment they land to the moment
interested in observing how they leave.
international politics work." "As all of this is happening
Sossa said that attending the you're driving back and forth
conference also gives students down highways where there are
the opportunity to bring infor- armored vehicles with rifles and
mation on the state of efforts to machine guns protecting you," he
address climate change back to said. "You realize this is a serious
campus. thing that you are involved in."
Sossa added that he got a live Katie Pethan, MS and Master
look at the inner workings of of Landscape Architecture can-
international governing bodies didate in the School of Natural
through his time at the confer- Resources and Environment, said
ence. He said he watched repre- the conference also gave her a
sentatives from Bangladesh make first-hand look at the logistics of
a plea for help in front of all the international politics.
participating nations to address "It's basically a meeting of the
the recent flooding in their coun- minds," Pethan said. "Going to
try. the conference is an opportunity
"Hearing them and their coun- to geta rush of information."
terparts, like Jamaica and Gua- She said participating in the
temala, saying the same kind of conference brought what she
pulls at your heart-strings," he studies to life with a "human
said. "It's really impressive to quality."
hear that. It's kind of humbling, "If you are sitting in your room
too, when you look at what we and reading, it's easy to have a
have and you come back to Ann physical and clinical approach
Arbor, we have so much." to these problems but when you
From attending the confer- meet the people it's different,"
ence, Sossa said he also realized she said. "There were indigenous
that these sorts of negotiations groups from the Amazon and
are more challenging than he from Africa there, and it puts a
originally thought. very human face to these prob-
"Finding a solution is impor- lems."
tant," ke said. "But having. An added benefit to attending

the conference Pethan said was
that she got the chance to net-
work with leaders in her fields of
interest.
Pethan, like Sossa, said she
enjoyed observing the personal
interactions that occur during
negotiations and discussions,
citing a session on biodiversity
that she attended. Pethan said
that one representative made a
few jokes during the long discus-
sion and after a few minutes a
representative from Brazil stood
up and said that he respects the
man who told the jokes but found
them to be inappropriate.
"He said this in front of maybe
500 people in the middle of this
tedious process," she said. "He
was offended by the jokes. It
changes the tone from a light-
hearted room to one a little
more tense. It was a very human
endeavor."
Pethan added that the topic
of the conference is "the most
important topic of our era," and
said she hopes there will be more
funding for student participation
in the future.
"It's invaluable for me," she
said. "I'm the kind of person who
learns from hands-on experi-
ence. I really absorb things and
they stick with me longer if I have
a hands-on experience."
Andrew Hoffman, SNRE and
Ross School prof. and associate
director of the Erb Institute, left
for the conference yesterday as
an observer.
He said he hopes to learn about
the process of global negotiations
on climate change and to see the
interactions between the nations,
and organizations present at the
conference.
Hoffman said attending and
observing the climate change
conference and similar events is
an invaluable experience for stu-
dents.
"It gives them the opportunity
to learn how this works in real
life," he said. "This is global gov-
erning in action. What a class-
room for studeits to learn."

HAVE MAD SKILLS ON
THE ADOBE SUITE?
LOVE STARING AT
COMPUTERS?
E-mail design@michigandaily.com to join
the Daily's design staff.
APPLICATIONS ALWAYS WELCOME.
Sign up and SAVE!
$100 Off anyHMCAT, LSAT,GMAT,
or GRE course. Now is the perfect
time to prep with one of the nation's
leaders in test preparation.
" -Small Classes
*Expert Instructors
w Free Extra Help
?xnzvcrrmt @'vrr ~ Pwzx Inceton
'$Jft~j*Thq
- " £%1:4. ,x,:tfktzM.. iRty'1c:'!. R o"-
--U


0

4A - Wednesday, December 8, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
:. ,.tothedaily@umich.edu

There's not a single thing that I
that I would do that I have not donE
And if I haven't gotten it done yet, I
- President Barack Obama responding t
press conference yesterday,

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Ditchte fish
Obama should sign bill to halt Asian carp invasion
Fish rarely seem like an aggressive adversary. But Asian
carp, an invasive species of fish, are currently migrating
north toward the Great Lakes and could spell disaster
for the local ecosystem. But last week, the U.S. Congress finally
approved an act banning the interstate transport of the invasive
species to stop further migration of the Asian carp and protect
the Great Lakes region. Now, all that stands between the legis-
lation and enforcement is President Barack Obama's signature.
Given the imminent environmental and economic threat to the
Great Lakes region posed by the spread of Asian carp, Obama
should sign the bill into law immediately.

Don't reject res

E have said
or tried to do.
I'm still trying.'
oliberal criticisms at a White House
as reported by The New York Times.
pect
Committee's posters had to do with
the phrase, "that's retarded." While
I'm sure most of us rarely mean to
implicate the mentally or physically
disabled while talking to our friends
about football, we do so every time
the words leave our lips. Though
harmless to us, this sort of language
makes it much more difficult to chip
away at the stigma and prejudices
associated with people who have
certain social identities. But we don't
even have to narrow our focus to per-
sons or individuals. Our use of lan-
guage has trivialized the meaning
of rape and has turned it into a word
that can be mentioned at the drop of
a hat. But as one poster so succinctly
put it, "I was raped, and it was noth-
ing like your Econ 101 exam."

As I was walking down State
Street the other day, contem-
plating what I was going to
write for my final
column this semes- -
ter, I happened
to stumble across
a phrase I hadn't
seen or heard in
a long time. Post- '
ed in front of the g
Union was a sign
that had "that's so
gay" printed on it. NOEL
When I say a GORDON
"long time," I'm
probably exagger-
ating. I'm sure it's
only been a few months or so - espe-
cially when you take into account the
fact that I live in a residence hall.
Nevertheless, I'm sure many of you
would agree with me when I say that
going even just a few months without
hearing the phrase "that's so gay"
is no small feat. In fact, it was only
after gawking at the poster for sev-
eral minutes that I realized who was
responsible for it. And I should have
seen it coming.
In an effort to promote diversity,
multiculturalism and intercultural
competence, it seems that the Expect
Respect Committee has launched a
campus-wide campaign aimed at dis-
rupting the use of harmful language
here at the University. According
to the committee's official website,
"Expect Respect is a unique part-
nership among students, faculty and
staff hoping to unite our communi-
ty." Members work around the clock
to ensure that there is a welcoming
environment for all University stu-
dents regardless of race, gender, sex-
ual orientation, religious affiliation
or country of origin. Though this list
is by no means exhaustive, it reflects
the committee's dedication to social
justice. To me, the campaign seems

especially fitting given the attention
that has been paid to bias incidents
on campus lately.
I'm sure that much of this sounds
like stuff you've heard time and time
again. I know that since coming to
the University, I haven't gone a day
without hearing about social justice
and progressive politics. And as you
can probably guess from my latest
string of columns, this is an effort
that I support whole-heartedly.
I recognize that there will be stu-
dents (and rather meddlesome alum-
ni) who feel the need to protest the
Expect Respect Committee's new
campaign out of an irrational fear of
communism and excessive political
correctness. Usually, I'm quick to dis-
miss any individual who claims that
asking people to be mindful of their
words is synonymous with encroach-
ing on First Amendment rights. But
this campaign is a perfect example of
when people should be genuinely con-
cerned over the words others use and
when it might be crossing the line.
While discussing the implications
of my now infamous penis-on-a-
whiteboard example (Unintentional-
ly offensive, 11/10/2010), a friend of
mine once wrote to me that "the big-
gest challenge that groups have when
battling for their civil rights is not
overcoming blatant prejudice, but the
subtle biases in our society that even
the most open-minded individual can
perpetuate if he is careless."
I think this provides a helpfulguide
for determining when language cross-
es the line from innocuous to poten-
tially detrimental. Language can be
a powerful weapon in creating, main-
taining and dismantling systems of
oppression and inequality. If you don't
believe me, tryto think of a reason why
people don't say, "that's so straight,"
when insinuating that something is
disappointing or disheartening.
Another one of the Expect Respect

Subtle biases in
language shouldn't
be ignored.

0

Asian carp can weigh as much as 100
pounds and grow up to four feet in length,
according to the Environmental Protection
Agency. They pose a serious environmen-
tal and economic threat to the Great Lakes
region. The carp consume an inequitable
amount of resources, which would disrupt
the Great Lakes ecosystem by starving
local species like trout and salmon. This
would be a heavy blow to the $7-billion
Great Lakes fishing industry. Asian carp
also pose a threat to tourism, including the
$16-billion recreational boating industry.
On Nov. 30, the U.S. House of Representa-
tives approved the Asian Carp Prevention
and Control Act with a unanimous voice
vote. The act would regulate Asian carp
under the Lacey Act, a century-old bill that
prohibits the trading of banned or illegally
acquired fish. In October, the U.S. Senate
passed a companion measure proposed by
Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) and Rep.
Dave Camp (R-Mich.), which directs the
U.S. Army Corp of Engineers to block off sev-
eral key waterways in Illinois to prevent the
spread of Asian carp into the Great Lakes.
An Asian carp was caught in Lake Calu-
met in June, which lies past the electric
barriers currently set up in the Chicago
Area Waterway System meant to contain

the fish. The discovery occurred just six
miles from Lake Michigan, highlighting
the need for the federal government to act
quickly to stop further migration.
It's unacceptable that it took so long for
the federal government to act. Earlier this
year, Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox
and several other Great Lakes region attor-
neys general sought an injunction from
the U.S. Supreme Court to shut down the
Illinois locks. Their request was refused -
twice. Now that Congress has taken a clear
stance on the issue, measures to stop the
carp should be implemented immediately.
Some Illinois officials have criticized
the plan to close some locks in the Chicago
area. But though some adverse economic
effects may result from closing some locks
and re-routing shipping lines, the interests
of the entire Great Lakes region must take
precedence over the concerns of one state.
In the end, the recently-passed legislation
balances the costs and benefits.
By signing the bill into law, Obama has
an opportunity to protect the Great Lakes
economy and environment by finally
responding to the very real threat that the
Asian carp pose. The federal government
shouldn't hesitate any longer - it should
close the Illinois locks immediately.

I'll admitcthatsometimes society can
go too far in tryingto curb intolerance.
For instance, I don't think the Expect
Respect Committee had any busi-
ness going after the phrase "fuck my
life." To me, this phrase doesn't really *
demean anyone, nor does it implicate a
particular social identity or situation.
As far as I know, it expresses exactly
what it is supposed to. The important
thing to remember in all this is that
language is always changing and con-
stantly evolving. Butit's for that reason
that we should remain cognizant of
when it marginalizes a group, even in
the most discreet of ways.
- Noel Gordon can be reached
at noelaug@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Seth Soderborg, Julian Toles, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner
JULIAN TOLES
Abolish letter grading
Our grading system is obsolete. Actu- tion is learning, these fraudulently high marks
ally, obsolete may be the wrong word since it decrease the incentive to improve. For example,
implies that letter grades ever served a mean- if students receive inflated A's on their exams,
ingful purpose. there's no motivation and no room for them to do
Sure, grades help to expedite the work of better. From the student's point of view, inflated
administrators and employers by providing grades encourage complacency at best. At worst,
a quick way of judging performance and skill they encourage minimal effort.
level. But for both students and colleges, the To help solve this problem, we need to imple-
grading system has become a shady game of ment nonspecific classification. This would
who can look the best on paper. Currently, automatically alleviate the subjective nature
most students are concerned more with earn- inherent in our current system. This may make
ing the highest possible grade point average it harder for employers to distinguish between
than with learning. And some institutions of candidates, but students would be more
higher education have played right along with focused on learning as opposed to earning the
this system. We need a process that operates highest letter grades possible.
with more integrity. The British undergraduate degree classifica-
As Daily columnist Will Grundler stated in tion system offers a fine alternative to our cur-
one of his recent columns, "letters don't count rent system. The grading system ranks students
for knowledge" (Examine THIS, 10/07/2010). from first to third class and "ordinary." Studies
And even if grades were a true indicator of have shown that abolishing grades encourages
knowledge, outside of courses like math and more learning. Students become motivated to
science, grades are essentially subjective. For explore their own paths toward understanding.
example, it may be impossible to accurately A transition from the current system is not as
explain why a student deserves a high B for an far-fetched as it may seem. Traditional grading
essay rather than a low A - especially if the A- has already been abolished at some of the nation's
was withheld due to a grudge that the teacher top law schools, including Yale, Stanford, Har-
held. Not that I'm speaking from past experi- vard and the University of California, Berkeley.
ence or anything. According to the same article from The New
Too frequently, schools perpetuate and York Times, some of these schools have imple-
even promote the arbitrary nature of grades mented a pass/fail system in the classroom.
by inflating scales to make certain gradu- Some school administrators may have no
ates appear tobe more qualified candidates to interest in overhauling the grading system for
potential employers. the entire university, since there's no wide-
This summer, The New York Times report- spread demand and it'd be a daunting task. But
ed that law schools around the country are this isn't to say that the grading system couldn't
inflating grades for the same reason, which is change if students actively explored alterna-
an unfortunate trend. Some universities, like tives. In my opinion, most students would be in
Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, aren't only favor of abolishing our current system.
openly bumping up students' grades but also It's up to the students to demand this change.
doing so retroactively. Due to an oversaturated As entrepreneur Chris Guillebeau suggests in
legal market, the article reports that the univer- his book "The Art of Nonconformity," "students
sity was "tacking on .333 to every grade record- could revolt and change universities, shifting
ed in the lastcfew years." This tactic is dishonest the balance of power toward the group that
and inequitable. Unearned advantages, which enables the institution to exist inthe first place...
are given to lucky recipients such as those at grading could be abolished or modified, and
Loyola, challenge the credibility of both the curriculums rewritten to reward trial and error
institutions and the grades themselves. more than rote memorization." That's a plan I
Students who enroll in an institution that would give a passing grade to on any scale.
openly engages in inflation also lose out.
Assuming that the true purpose of educa- Julian Toles is an LSA seior.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing. If you
are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL MICHELLE DEWITT AT DEWITTM@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
HARSHA PANDURANGA |
The (political) evolution of rap

0

i

Gucci Mane is a stereotypical rapper. He raps about
drugs, women and money on synth and bass-heavy beats
while sporting garish "bling bling" on his shirtless torso.
But while Gucci serves as a caricature of the hip-hop cul-
ture that's continually decried, a growing civic clout and
artistic respect are emerging as important characteristics
of the genre. The culture is transforming in a way that
allows its members to be heard in mainstream public dis-
course. As a result, hip-hop has carved itself a political
niche in the 21st century.
Take Kanye West, for example. In a fundraising tele-
thon for Hurricane Katrina victims in September 2005,
Kanye indignantly proclaimed, "George Bush doesn't
care about black people." Was this just another throw-
away example of the brazenness that characterizes hip-
hop? George Bush didn't think so - in fact, in his memoir,
he called it the worst moment of his presidency.
The fact that the president took West so seriously is
astonishing enough. But what's even more striking is
West's somber and tremulous apology for the comment
last month on the Today show, admitting he didn't have
"the grounds" to call Bush a racist. It almost goes without
saying that it's generally unbecoming for a rock star per-
sona to apologize for a five-year-old outburst in response
to the prodding of a talk show host. Yet West's apology
is especially notable because he broke out of the rapper
mold and moved into the realm of traditional citizenship
by holding himself accountable to the public for his unfil-
tered mouth.
Given Kanye's uniquely audacious character, Jay-Z is
perhaps a better example of a messenger of hip-hop on the
political scene, as seen by his relationship with President
Barack Obama. Obama met with Jay-Z for several hours to
get a feel for what the rap community was thinking politi-
cally, the rapper writes in his autobiography "Decoded."
After playing "get out the vote" concerts for Obama, he
had - along with fellow rapper and hip-hop mogul Diddy
- front row seats to the president's inauguration.
Jay-Z symbolizes how hip-hop's ever-growing less-
abrasive side earns it the ear of the president outside of
his iPod - though Obama does jam to Lil' Wayne and Nas,
according to an interview in the Oct. 15 issue of Rolling
Stone. Such relationships between rappers and a presi-
dent would have been inconceivable even 10 years ago.
The formerly maligned community has come far from

the greatly anti-establishment attitude it exuded in late
80's Compton hip-hop group N.W.A's "Fuck Tha Police"
days. It's important to note that Obama's hip-hop associa-
tions aren't solely for the sake of what may be perceived
as good politics: Obama campaign spokesperson Bill Bur-
ton had to condemn rapper Ludacris's distasteful election
rap that insulted both Hillary Clinton and President Bush
during his 2008 run.
So where does this discussion leave Gucci Mane?
Though he might not be politically active, he's still well-
reviewed and his music is respected. According to the
review aggregator site Metacritic, Gucci Mane's body
of work is characterized as having received a "generally
favorable" critical response. In effect, Gucci - whose
highest-charting single is a track called "Wasted" about
using drugs and alcohol - has made it. He's not seen as
just a run-of-the-mill rapper confined to the playlists of
hardcore southern rap genre followers but rather spends
his (not-in-jail) time featuring on Mariah Carey and
Usher songs while enjoying commercial success. Gucci
exemplifies the acknowledgment and acceptance of rap as
valuable music. In essence, the labeling of hip-hop artists
as crude or uncouth no longer automatically stems from
their genre - they have to earn those tags.
As this more widespread political recognition is the
product of both societal acceptance and change within
hip-hop, it won't be limited to the current administra-
tion. Though no hip-hop star has currently reached, for
instance, Bono-level political recognition, the respect for
the art has reached a point where a rapper could conceiv-
ably be such a figure in the future.
Bill O'Reilly can have rapper Cam'ron on The O'Reilly
Factor and chide Eminem for his crude Sarah Palin ref-
erences all he wants. But constant criticism of hip-hop
culture - though it's sometimes, maybe even often, valid
- misses the point. As rap has evolved into a respectable
art form, hip-hop as a whole seems to have mellowed out
and broken out of the periphery into mainstream political
discourse. Perhaps John Stewart said it best in his Jay-Z
interview: "As rap grows up, they go from fuck the police
to, where the fuck are the police?"
The socially active and outspoken Tupac Shakur would
have been proud.
Harsha Panduranga is an assistant editorial page editor.


a

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should
be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University
affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions
become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@ugich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 8, 2010 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - inichigandailycom Wednesday, December 8, 2010 - 5A

From TV to the Pig

TeI.'s great escape

Rapper goes from stints in the joint define No Mercy
as he reflects on his life, from
prison to clubs to rough childhood to house arrest.
Listeners will find a rapper trying
prison again to reinvent himself, and the result
is a raw, intense album that is eas-
By CASSIE BALFOUR ily some of his best work.
Daily Arts Writer No Mercy opens with the epic
"Welcome To The World" fea-
Prison hasn't mellowed Atlanta turing both Kanye West and Kid
rapper T.I., but it has infused his Cudi. This is unequivocally a
long-awaited Yeezy production, with a quick,
album No Mercy paranoid piano and a hard beat.
with new- Cudi adds vocals to this atmo-
found depth. spheric song while TI. pulls back
The album acts the shiny veneer of the hip-hop
almost like a roll No Mercy world with honest rhymes like
call for some of Grand Hustle "I don't need a chain or the fame
the most impor- / Still shine spend time with
tant rappers and the girls of fake smiles / Broken
producers working today, but hearts trying hard in the club
they never overshadow the main looking for her real love / You
attraction. won't find it here."
The album, originally called It wouldn't be a T.I. album
King Uncaged, was renamed without a club track saturated by
(probably not coincidentally) sex. "Strip" features the smooth
after T.I was arrested less than party mainstay Trey Songz sing-
a year after being released from ing predatorily that "Imma take
prison back in February. T.I's your clothes off." T.I.'s verses are

characteristically graphic and
work almost as an instructional
guide on how to have sex. And T.I.
isn't picky: He'll "fuck whoever's
closest." Charming. Young Dro
echoes similar themes and his
gritty, oversexed verses contrast
nicely with Trey Songz's croon-
ing. But this track isn't about bril-
liant wordplay. It's destined to be
a sweaty club banger, something
all the sexy co-eds can grind to
in low-lit basements across the
country.
T.I is no stranger to pop col-
laborations, and the closing
track "Castle Walls" featuring
The Voice (Christina Aguilera)
ranks among the strongest on the
album. The song has a claustro-
phobic feel, which was undoubt-
edly inspired by T.I's time under
house arrest. He waxes poetic
about his hard upbringing, his
arrests and isolation. T.i.'s stron-
gest verses are his most introspec-
tive. Denouncing all the fame and
fortune listeners have heard him
See T.1., Page 6A

By EMMA GASE
Daily Arts Writer
Dual threat alert: Actor and
musician Bryan Greenberg, per-
haps best known
for his recurring Bran
role on "One Tree
Hill," is bring- Greenberg
ing his indie- Wednesday
acoustic sound
to the Blind Pig at 8p.m.
this Wednesday. The Blind Pig
Greenberg's sec- Titkelsfrom $10
ond album, We
Don't Have Forever, is slated for
a January 201i release, and he
currently stars in the HBO series
"How to Make it in America."
Despite his success in TV and
film (he had roles in "Prime"
with Meryl Streep and "The Good
Guy"), Greenberg is no stranger to
the trials and tribulations of show
business. When the Omaha, Neb.
native first moved to L.A. to pur-
sue an acting career, he faced the
typical initial rejection that most
struggling actors meet. When suc-
cess seemed especially far away,
he turned to music for solace.
"I just needed something else
positive to invest my creative
interest in, and music was always
there for me," Greenberg said in
an interview with the Daily. "So
sometimes, whenthe roles weren't
coming and things were hard, I
would just focus on my music. It's
been growing and growing ever
since." .
Although Greenberg finds cre-
ative fulfillment in acting, he
said there are certain aspects of
performing live music that acting
just can't match. When filming on
an isolated set, he said, he can't
experience the proximity of fans
and their reactions to his work in
person.
"(On set) everyone has a bubble
put around them, but as a musi-
cian you can see an immediate
response. I love that," Greenberg
said.
His interest in music began

COURTESYOF BRYAN GREENBERG
Musician Bryan Greenberg also stars in HBO's "Howto Make it in America."
early, as he learned howto playthe indie track," he said. "He's really
guitar at age 12 and was writing pushing the boundaries as far as
songs throughout his undergradu- what genre is."
ate stay at NYU. Greenberg's first When asked about the differ-
musical influence came from the ence between his new record and
classics, his 2007 debut Waiting for Now,
"I learned all the Beatles' Greenberg said his music has
songs," he said. "I had a big Bea- matured.
ties book, and I would go through "We Don't Have Forever is a lot
it and learn all the songs." more focused than the last record.
I really wanted to capture a vibe, a
great essence."
Prompted to reveal his own
Bryan Greenberg "Best of 2010" list, Greenberg was
.ksh n momentarily stumped.
takes his talents m"Aw many... what have I been
to Ann Arbor for listening to? Black Keys is sick. I
like Kanye's new album and Cudi's
acoustic show. toAs a working actor and touring
musician with a new album on the
horizon, balance is key in Green-
Greenberg isn't afraid to take berg's busy career. Luckily for
a little help from his friends. Kid Greenberg, the two trades inher-
Cudi, a co-star in "How to Make ently complement and strengthen
it in America," lends his vocals to each other. With both acting and
one of the tracks from We Don't music in his creative arsenal,
Have Forever. Greenberg was not switching from one vocation to
worried about mixing Cudi's hip- the other is actually ideal.
hop style with his own acoustic- "It great to go on tour for a cou-
based sound. ple weeks, and when I'm burnt out
"He's the kind of artist whose on that, I go film my TV; and then
style is versatile. It's not strange to after that I'll go to the studio," he
hear that Kid Cudi is singing on an said. "Neither one feels like a job."

Jessica Simpson will
bring you Xmas cheer


By ARIELLE SPECINER
DailyArts Writer
There's something about Christ-
mas that makes your heart mer-
rier - maybe just merry enough
to listen to Jes-
sica Simpson's *
holiday album,
Happy Christ- Jesca
mas. S p
This pop star
(turned tabloid Happy
queen, turned Christmas
country crooner) Primary Wave
decided that 2010
would mark her
return to the Christmas catalogue.
And, conveniently, she's becoming
semi-relevant again - coincidence?
As a follow up to 2004's Rejoyce,
Happy Christmas is sure to bring
the holiday cheer.
During the most wonderful time
of the year, we are only so lucky to
have Jessica Simpson carol her way
into our hearts with fan-favorite
holiday hits such as "Here Comes
Santa Claus" and "Jingle Bell Rock."
She also introduces two original
songs, "My Only Wish" and "Kiss
Me For Christmas," to the holiday
playlist.
Album starter "My Only Wish"
is a jingle bell-ringing, piano-
plinking monster of a Christmas
song. Simpson gets listeners into
the Christmas spirit as she sings

about "Everything from snow to
trees and mistletoe." Similar to
Mariah Carey's smash holiday-pop
hit "All I Want For Christmas Is
You," Simpson shows off her unbe-
lievable pipes just enough to make
fans remember why the tabloid star
started singing in the first place.
Simpson also "blows up bushels
of fun" on "Jingle Bell Rock." The
overly cheesy, lovable ditz sounds
splendiferous as she "goes gliding
in a one-horse sleigh." It's all cutesy
and fun-sie and brings smiles to the
holiday.
But there's no doubt that the
girl can belt it. Her vocals are also
impressive on "O Come O Come
Emmanuel" and John Lennon and
Yoko Ono's "Happy Xmas (War
Is Over)." Surprisingly, Simpson
drives "Happy Xmas" with not only
strong vocals but an acoustic guitar.
The last track, "Silent Night,"
provides the mostmomentous point
of the album. Backed up by strings
and triumphant percussion, Simp-
son's voice coalesces beautifully.
However, her voice does get a bit
obnoxious.
If you've ever watched Ms.
Simpson perform, you'll notice
her over-emoting, pursed lips and
unnecessary spastic movement.
As fans listen to the album, they'll
picture just that. The forced runs
and pop-accented "Bay-behs" are
just irksome - but come on, that's

what makes Jessica Simpson "Jes-
sica Simpson." You're just forced
to deal with it. She's that charm-
ing.
And ignoring her beauti-
ful though sometimes overdone
vocals, the album suffers from
some other missteps, like when
she tries to mash up the arrange-
ment of "Here Comes Santa Claus
/ Santa Claus is Coming to Town."
The mixingofthese two standards
works, but the rock-sock-hop ver-
sion of them does not.
This album gets
seven-and-a-half
candy canes and
a full snowflake.
Whether you like it or not, Jes-
sica Simpson has been referred to
as America's sweetheart. She's the
type of artist you either hate to
love or love to hate. With her latest
holiday album, listeners can't help
but fall in love with her adorable
cheeriness and remarkable vocals.
It's not easy to take Simpson seri-
ously, but this holiday album
proves that this southern belle is
seriously talented.

LAST CHANCE
TO GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN!
December 6-h10th
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
The sitting fee is just $15!
This price includes your portraitfeatured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 1247
E-mail ensian.um cpumich.edu

ARTS IN BRIEF

LECTURE PREVIEW
The art of living
Natasha Tsakos at Penny W.
Stamps Lecture
Tomorrow at 5:15 p.m.
Michigan Theater
Free
Natasha Tsakos is getting physi-
cal with her art. On Thursday,
she will take the stage to lecture
through an integration of technol-
ogy and performance art for the
Penny Stamps series.
The Swiss artist has received
particular attention for her perfor-
mance artwork wherein she inter-
acts with live three-dimensional
animation as well as sound. She
aims to create environments that
have the potential to morph into
each metaphor she b ilds. By form-

ing various microcosms onstage,
Tsakos tries to connect each strand
to create meaning.
"The moment of creation, you're
not the creator," Tsakos said in a
recent interview. "You're just the
tool - and you're (just) drawing,
you're writing, you're translating
whatever is happening upstairs.
You become your own audience."
Her most recent performance,
"Up Wake," is a one-person tragi-
comedy taking audiences through a
day of both "dream and wake." The
nearly hour-long piece contains
roughly 341 frames of animation,
making it a true theatrical experi-
ence.
Tsakos's passion for the theater
- she's the president and founder
of theater compkny ZERO LLC in
Florida, where she resides - and
the understanding of change and
evolutionin art has allowed her to

embrace new technology. She refers
to her performance's multimedia
elements as her "partner" on stage.
While she plans to connect tech-
nology to theater for audiences
in her Michigan Theater lecture,
Tsakos made it clear that this is not
a.performance. However, she antic-
ipates performing excerpts from
some of her pieces. Tsakos had no
comment as to the subject matter
of her lecture; she wants it to be a
surprise.
Christina Hamilton, director of
the Penny Stamps Lecture Series, is
thrilled to see Tsakos in Ann Arbor.
Hamilton saw Tsakos perform
about a year ago and was incred-
ibly impressed with her interaction
with technology.
"(Tsakos will be a) great season
closer," Hamilton said. "It will be
'performative' and notjust a talk."
DANIEL CARLIN

wPCA

Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.

Michiganensian
YEARBOOK



0

6A - Wednesday, December 8, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


New History series fails to 'Decode'

Brad Meltzer
doesn't try and
unsurprisingly flops
By LINDSAY HURD
Daily Arts Writer
History's latest attempt at excit-
ing reality TV has led the channel
down the path
to uncover-
ing the hid-
den secrets Brad Meltzer's
of our nation.p
But they never DeCOded
come close to Thursdays
it, and admita
as much the 8p.m.
entire time. History
Popular
author Brad Meltzer takes a page
right out of his ownbooks for "Brad
Meltzer's Decoded," and sets out to

help solve some of the nation's big-
gest mysteries. Or at least he talks a
lot about them. Meltzer does none
of the decoding himself. Instead,
his "crew," consisting of Christine
McKinley, Buddy Levy and Scott
Rolle, searches out the informa-
tion and tries to solve the mystery
while Meltzer just sits in front of
a green screen, yakking away like
he'sreadingastory.Inothisepisode,
Meltzer and crew try to uncover
the truth about the location of the
missing White House cornerstone.
Not exactly a mystery everyone
knows about - or wants to know
about.
Besides the fact that the crew
spends most of its time in a car
pretending they have somewhere
to go, the way they go about solv-
ing these so-called "mysteries" is
so ridiculously simple that any kid
with a library card could get justas
far. When they visit the masonry

headquarters, they make it seem
like it's a big deal to get a tour, but
the guide explains that anyone can
come in and use the library.
"Decoded" is trying to branch
out from History's usual info-
style TV shows in which experts
in the field sit and tell the story,
but the change clearly isn't work-
ing. Cheesy suspense music paired
with less-than-stellar revelations
about the "case" make it hard
to believe anything worthwhile
could come out of the program.
They should have stuck to the
usual format, telling people what
is known and what is still left to be
figured out.
It's a direct rip-off of "National
Treasure," but much more bor-
ing (which is a bit understandable,
given they have to stick to actual
facts). The cornerstone in the
White House is not exactly a grand
mystery, and the team didn't man-

age to even to prove where it is. If
they don't even solve the mystery,
what's the point of watching? Melt-
zer simply endsthe show by saying,
"Because the White House corner-
stone is still, for all intents and pur-
poses, missing, it retains its power
as a symbol." No, Brad, it doesn't.
The only thing that could pull
this show out of the gutter is if

it found some better mysteries
to investigate, mysteries it could
actually solve. Starting offthe pre-
miere episode of your new show
with a story about a lost brick that
ends up still being lost is less than
anti-climactic and is aggravat-
ing as hell. If your show is called
"Decoded" there'd better be some-
thing to decode.

T.I.
From Page 5A
sing so much about, he rhymes,
"The belief is that I'm living
out a millionaire's fantasy with
phantoms and Ferraris in the
driveway / But you see the pain
and the change of the same man's
sanity / Your vision jaded by the
Grammys on the mantelpiece."
The track suggests the rapper
has become disillusioned with
the rap game he used to run.
A couple of vapid throwaway
tracks like the boring, wannabe
club hit "Poppin'Bottles" and the
(ironically) unimpressive track
"Amazing" weigh down the sur-
prisingly layered No Mercy. But
these are small missteps on an
album filled with strong, well
produced tracks. It's a shame
that T.I. won't be able to prop-
erly celebrate the release of this
album since the judicial system
ironically showed him no mercy.
.But if the rapper's latest work
is any indication, TI. will "Get
Back Up" in no time.

0

I

Next on "Decoded": "Where's my goddamn hair?"

AK K PKUOKIE. DISTNC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
WE HOLD THE KEY.....
To Your New Home!
Prime Student Housing
734-761-8000
primesh.com

4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today.l to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown
734-998-4400 www.4elevenloffiscom
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!
2 & 3 bdrms, lots of closet space, flat
screen ts, modern furniture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

the
laaanerrtrMAnua00MEWY
Ia ad O'P
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
i centraliCampus 'Downtown
North Campus s West side
Let Our Faily Take Care of Yours
IIiv Resent shuttle 'r-tem .,a
24fMa itenane st aff HihSlxte mcm
On-Site laundry NIPea nod
.rcise .daciitie c Study 1o s
734.741.9300
www.amnmIbO aparmtmonts.et
4 BEDROOM BI-LEVEL apt in
house. Fits up to 6 people, lots of closet
space, bay windows and 2 covered
parking spots. 741-9300
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, 2 baths, lovingly maintained,
$3000 + utilities, Jim at 734-426-4772.
6, 7, AND 9 BDRM houses available
Fall. Central Campus and Kerrytown.
Call Deinco 734-996-1991 or visit
cappomanagement.com
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
"ImasaCosC!n2
On4-Coo4rati4 0,wtuclO(

HURRY UP AND Sl(.'FN!! I
The-clock's fickiniz! Soon the
locations will be

6 1103Church
5 1020 EastU.
Apartment

$3400 May
$3200 Sept.

2 721 Catherine #1
1 721 Catherine 82
1 721 Catherine #6
E 423 Hamilton #4
E 306 E. Madison #2

$1250
e50
$800
$500
$500

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.

Houses for 2011
Beds Location Rent Lease
Houses

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, December 8, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Lip balm 37 "_ Ben Adhem": 49 Not qualified
1 Rd. traveler's stat ingredient James Leigh 50 Double: Pref.
4 Spinnaker, e.g. 6 Pastoral verse Huntpoem 51 Brief brawl
8 Tending to hang 7 Cut with a 38 Web surfer's 53 Wrath, in a hymn
down surgical beam shornut tide
14 Treasure de la 8 Indian metropolis 38 Paternity suit H4Smidgen
Siera Madre 9 Tool forscouting leers 55 Miltaygmup
15 "M*A*S*H"star pitchers 43 IteCst 56 Castngneed
16 Merited 10 "Are you out _5?' dissettions, tot killer
17 Kung _-chicken 11 Count that may ssto 58 "Arepair?":
18 Members of a diffuse anger 46 Poise "Send in the
small army 12 Part of 1-Across 47Gas up Clowns" lyric
20 Lumbering critter 13 QB's gains ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE.
of Bomeo 19 Birthstone after AV
22 Conger catcher sapphire CORED PLEAT MCL
23 Publicize 21 "When Harry Met A P1OL O OOMPH IR A
24 Delivery experts, Sally..."co-star R H Y M E I V O R Y S N O W
for short 25 Doofus T E A S ONE META L
27 Remnant 261974 CIA spoof A L L P E T A P E L I K E
28 Stuffed 28Fragrant L I T T E R B U G S F E E S
31 "Knock it off!" evergreens K A YAK REAP R D S
32 Poker ploy 29 _-Today
34 Grumpy 30 Red Square N R R E A IS YE R
co-worker? honoree
36 Some Steinways 31 Restaurant host's J E E R C 0 S M I C D U S T
40 WWIIdepth purview I N V I T E S R I C P A
charge targets 33FBIlemployee B OON E T H U G A I T
41 Bungling 34Gush W I L D H O N E Y O U T R E
42 Any daynow 35 Barelybeat ART EASE D T R A IL
43 Bite like a beaver 36 Not takingtcalls, S S S E R A S E B U N N Y
44 Construction perhaps xwordeditorwaol.com 1257/10
beam 1 2 a 58 a a 1 11 12 13
48 Loud laugh
49 Japaneseveggie 14 15 16
51 Take potshots
52 Game often 17 18 1s
invovng a 20 21
windmill
57 Pluto, now a a 24 25 26
59 Former CNN 27231
anchor Dobbs
60 Wreck, as plans 32 as s 3
81 Losing
proposition? s an s s
62 Soul, to Sartre s 41
63 Start liking
64 WWIlNormandy 42 a 444 as a an
battle site
65 OPEC unit a a 50 51
23 54 55 58se
DOWN
1 Swabbed so a9
2 Bedtime ritualtfort0 51 e2
many
3 Provnder of a a s
millions ohits
4 Woodlands deity By 2DanNad d sr ,12MSII
c201'iribuneMdiaServic, In'c. 181

www.copiproperties.com
734-653-5609
7 BDRM HOUSE! Great Location,
Huge Rms, 3 Full Bths, 2 Ktchns, Prkg
& Ldry. Call 734-260-4003 or visit
HillStreetProperties.com
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
ACROSS FROM WEST & SOUTH
QUAD. I & 2 bdrms, modern
furniture, garage parking and
FREE heat & laundry. 741-9300
annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State idry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
FALL 2011
Amazing 4 Bedroom Apartment.
Right on South University Ave.
2 Full Luxury Baths, Huge Living
Space, Heat and Water Included
$3299/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL 2011
Great 2 Bedroom Apartment with
Balcony. Located across from the
CCRB. Modern Kitchen and Bath with
Granite Floors and Bar Top.
Heat and Water Included.
$1499/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL 2011
Large 6 Bedroom House with Huge
Bedrooms! 2 Full Baths. Located near
South Univeristy and South Forest.
3 Floors of living space, and
newly carpeted for coming year!
$3699/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
GREAT 7 BDRM. 7-8 person house
near campus. 2.5 bath. Large rooms,
free prkg., laundry. $3900/mo. Avail.
Sept. 2011. Call 734-761-9210
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
I FALL 2011 HOUSES 1

CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATION!!!
543 Church! Best location in town!
Right across from East Hall. Spacious
4br bi-level apts. Updated kitchens
w/dishwashers, heat & water included,
and all apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ler! 1 bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrss
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agentatty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtlc@yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdr'm.apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!!!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Included*
Even comes Furnished!!
(And HAIL to the Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011*!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.

540 WALNUT, 6 bedrooms, 3 bath,
Just 3 blocks from the CCRB, this
house has a large porch, parking and is
partially furnished. Laundry on site is
included. $4,695.00
Call Pat at Campus Management
734-663-4101
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!CLASSY 6 & 7 Bdrm/3 BA Homes.
great floor plan/location! fireplace/cool
kitch/prkg. $3600/$3950 313-215-8115
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths; fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
3 BDRM FOR Sept., furn., private
deck, excellent security, parking, wash-
er/dryer, non-smoking. 537 Elizabeth
St, $1479, includes heat. 734-996-8506
5 BDRM, 2 bath, laundry, parking,
heat included, May-May, 815 Arch,
call 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com
MY'NEW YEARS Resolutiont...
Exercise...At least until my
spring break trip
Study more for my classes...Maybe
No more drinking...LOL
Find my apartment
for the fall...Definitely
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
PACKARD 5 BDRM
Completely remodeled & very spacious
5 bdrm apt. Two of the bedrooms are
very large and can easily be doubles!
Eat-in kitchen, hardwood firs, & 2 full
baths. Washer & dryer on-site and just
one block from the union!
734-668-1100
SPACIOUS 2 BEDROOM APTS!
911 & 1001 S. Forest
Great location w/heat, water, wi-fi,
& parking included. Fully furnished &
very spacious! Updated kitchens &
bthrms, leather or suede furniture, A/C,
laundry, and intercom entrance.
5 minutes to Central Campus!
www.varsitymagement.com
SPACIOUS 4 BEDROOM APTS!
1039 Baldwin
Two 4 Bdr. Apts. available in a
gorgeous converted house.
High ceilings, bay windows, fireplace,
hardwood floors, & screened in porch!!
Large backyard, heat, water,
& parking included!
734-668-1100
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
!!! HURRY, these are going fast!
Amazing deal! 1100 sqft bi-level fits
up to 5, flat screen tv, HD directv, inter-
net, heat and much more. On-site fit-
ness, recreation and FREE laundry.
741-9300
annarborapartments.net

!!AWESOME 4 bdrm near the rock.
Free prkg. lndry. Avail. Fall '11.
734.223.7777.
-NOW SHOWING
APARTMENTS-
For 2011-12!
18 great locations
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Furnished, Heat & Water Included,
1 Parking Pass & FREE Internet.
Call today tosee your new home!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
*Amenities Vary By Location

734.709.3222
www.scienceworddoctor~com
For your scientific writing needs.
Services include grants, clinical
reports, abstracts and manuscripts.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr (
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
MICHIGAN
STUDENTS
Good Pay, flexible schedules,
Customer sales/service, conditions ap-
ply, all ages 17+ call 734-975-7299
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join.Click on Surveys.

I
I

s

WANTED 1 TICKET Dilbert McClin-
ton. The Ark. Dec. 15th. Leave mes-
sage for Kendall. 734-475-3447
he MichiganDaily

,a

# Beds location
9 606 Catherine
7 510 Catherine

Rent
$4700
$3700

a

7 1129 White St $3950
6 418 N. State $3500
6 605 E. Hoover $3720
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2240
Tenants pay oll utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991

625 Church St. (734) 668-1100
515 Walnut
South U. & Geddes
2br 2 bth bi-level apts w/
rooftop patios perfect for 4
people! Large living rooms,
tons of closet space, and
updated kitchens. Fully
furnished w/ heat, water,
& parking included!
www.varsitymanagement.com

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 8, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, December 8, 2D10 - 7A


Wolverines prepare for
Michigan State, Big Chill

TEST SKATE

berenson grew up games. We can start worrying
about it now. It's a reality."
playing on Berenson, who grew up in
western Canada and played "90
percent of (his) hockey outdoors,"
Saskatchewan reminisced about tying his skates
in the fresh air in Regina, Sas-
katchewan.
 By MARK BURNS "I remember calling my
Daily Sports Editor friends, 'Come on, get over to the
rink. We've got to shovel it off,'

A week before the Cold War -
the first outdoor college hockey
game, held in
Oct. 2001 in NOTEBOOK
Spartan Stadi-
um - Michigan
junior forward Mike Cammal-
leri wasn't slated to play against
Michigan State due to a hip inju-
ry.
But Cammalleri insisted that
he play against the Spartans, and
Michigan coach Red Berenson
finally gave in to his wishes. And
followinghis two-goal, one-assist
performance, Cammalleri earned
MVP honors for the Wolverines.
The meaning, the magnitude and
the stakes of the matchup made
his injury a non-issue.
And with the Big Chill at the
Big House three days away, this
year's Wolverines (8-3-1-0 CCHA,
9-5-4 overall) are not underesti-
mating the gravity of their date
with the Spartans, a game that
was finalized in January.
"We've been waiting for this,
and now we can say it's our next
game," Berenson said during
Monday's press conference. "We
don't have to keep it off in the
distance and worry about current

" Berenson said. "And there'd be
three feet of snow on the rink.
We'd shovel it off and then play
hockey all day until it was dark,
then we'd go home and do it again
the next day on the weekends."
"We'd shovel
(the snow) off
and then play
until dark."
When he was 19 years old,
Berenson dropped out of school
for a semester to join the Cana-
dian National team in the World
Championships in 1959. Beren-
son described playing in Oslo,
Norway in front of 15,000 fans as
truly "magical."
"Then we did the same thing in
Helsinki and Stockholm in these
huge, outdoor stadium rinks,"
Berenson continued. "Now we get
a chance to play in what are the
biggest games of my recent ten-
ure, and once again, it's a game

that's going to be magical."
BROTHERLY LOVE: Senior for-
ward Louie Caporusso doesn't
mess around when it comes to the
Michigan-Michigan State rivalry.
Throughout the first few
months of the season, Caporus-
so and his friend Derek Grant,
a Spartan sophomore forward,
occasionally texted back and
forth just like any friends would
do.
Just recently, though, Capo-
russo joked that he deleted
Grant's BlackBerry Messenger
PIN number from his cell phone,
explaining he just "didn't want
him on there."
With more than 100,000 peo-
ple projected to be in attendance,
fireworks set to go off after every
Michigan goal, and the less-than-
favorable expected weather con-
ditions, the Big Chill isn't your
run-of-the-mill college hockey
game between Michigan and
Michigan State (3-7-1-0, 6-8-3).
Said senior goaltender Shawn
Hunwick: "This game is with our
arch-rival Michigan State. We're
going to break records. I don't
think anyone has ever played a
game of this magnitude, inside or
outside."
NOTES: Berenson was sick on
Tuesday and watched yesterday's
practice from the MGoBlue.com
web cam. ... There has been no
decision from Berenson and the
coaching staff regarding whether
Bryan Hogan or Shawn Hunwick
will start against Michigan State.
... Hogan has a 7-2 record on the
year while Hunwick is 2-3-4.

ARIEL BOND/Daily
(Top) The Michigan club hockey team played Michigan State's club team in a regular season contest Tuesday night at Michi-
gan Stadium. The varsity hockey team will play its Spartan counterpart Saturday in the Big Chill at the Big House. (Bottom)
Club hockey goaltender Bryan Thomas (35) defends the net located at the north end of the Big House.


Post players learning on
the fly for young squad

Quijano makes comeback,
emerges as leader for Blue

By ZAK PYZIK
Daily Sports Writer
All five forwards on the
Michigan men's basketball team
are either freshmen or redshirt
freshmen.
And anyone familiar with
the Wolverines will vouch that
youthfulness is the team's most
significant problem. Those post
players especially have shown
their inexperience.
Redshirt freshman Jordan
Morgan has been Michigan
coach John Beilein's starting
center/forward in every game
this season. Tied for the Big
Ten's leading offensive rebound-
er, averaging four per game,
Morgan is also the second-lead-
ing scorer on Michigan's squad
- notching about 11 points per
game.
Morgan credits his redshirt
season for his growth.
"Playing against players like
DeShawn (Sims) or Zack (Gib-
son) last year and just going
through practice and every-
thing, I'm a little more com-
fortable with what needs to be
fulfilled through the role of the
five-man," Morgan said after
Saturday's game against Har-
vard. "I definitely feel more com-
fortable, especially as the games
go on, just trying to do my job for
the team."
But in Beilein's offensive
scheme, Morgan is normally
accompanied by four guards,
making him the only threat in
the paint. That role has caused
Morgan to play more aggres-
sively at times, and he has been
whistled for a team-high 24 per-
sonal fouls.
"Morgan has good defense,
but doesn't have really good
defense when he's sitting next
to me," Beilein said last Friday.
"The harmless fouls that he
doesn't have to necessarily com-
mit are huge things that we are
working on."
As a result of these fouls, the
Wolverines (6-2) have have been
forced to dig deep into their line-
up to see how the other forwards
would perform. Redshirt fresh-

i

After being benched little cringe in my knee, and from
then on it put me out for about a
earlier this season, month and a half."
Entering the season, Quijano
senior defender was healthy enough to start the
finds niche team's first two games.
But poor play and a strong
push from freshman defender
ByZACH HELFAND Ezekiel Harris relegated Quijano
Daily Sports Writer to an unfamiliar position: the
bench.
Perhaps it's fitting that senior Initially, he wasn't too recep-
defender Jeff Quijano scored the tive to the change. But with time
goal to put the Michigan men's he grew into his new role.
soccer team on the board against "At first, I really didn't
Maryland on Saturday in the embrace Orange Crush - kind
NCAA quarterfinals. The game, of a pride thing," Quijano said,
after all, seemed to parallel Qui- referring to the nickname given
jano's season - a journey from to the reserve players because
disappointment to determina- of the orange vests they wear.
tion to triumph. "But I realized ... the team is
It was a game filled with bigger than I am, so I became a
almost as many ups and downs as big Crush leader, and a die-hard
Quijano experienced this season. Crush."
In his first three seasons with Added Burns: "It takes a lot
the Wolverines (17-4-3), Quijano of character to be able to deal
totaled 31 starts and saw the field with that kind of environment
in nine other games. He expect- and that type of reality that has
ed to play a major role in his final faced. It would have been very
season with the team. easy for him just to have drifted
"(Quijano) came in as a senior off and kind of gotten upset and
(and) thought he was going to be just acquiesced and dropped
a big-time starter for us," Michi- away from the team."
gan coach Steve Burns said after But Quijano didn't. And as
the game on Saturday. he began to accept his new role,
But this summer, while play- Quijano started to think of ways
ing alongside senior goalkeeper to lead the team from the side-
Chris Blais in a player-develop- lines. During the Wolverines'
ment league in Seattle, Quijano nine-game win streak that ulti-
suffered a setback when he sus- mately propelled them into the
tained a freak injury to the ilio- NCAA semifinals, Quijano began
tibial band in his knee, a new team tradition - he starts
"It was the weirdest thing," each match in the middle of the
Quijano said during a press con- team huddle yelling, heightening
ference on Monday. "I was sitting the pre-game hype.
down one day, I stood up, I felt a According to Quijano, his new


role also helped him on the field.
And the coaches took notice.
Before Michigan's game against
Northwestern on Nov. 6, Burns
spoke privately with Quijano,
letting the defender know that
he was getting the start.
Since then, Quijano has been
one of the team's most important
contributors, giving the Wolver-
ines an infusion of energy and
hustle every game. Of course, the
goal against Maryland and the
subsequent National Team of the
Week honors were pretty impor-
tant, too.
Senior midfielder Alex Wood,
who has lived with Quijano for
three years and has even had him
over for Thanksgiving Dinner
multiple times, described what
Quijano means to the team.
"He's an emotional leader, but
he's also led by example through
these nine (straight wins),"
Wood said on Monday. "He's
been out there fighting. If you
watch the game, the right side is
on fire right now, and Jeff's the
main reason for that."
Quijano returns to his home
state of California for the team's
NCAA semifinal matchup
against No. 2 Akron in Santa Bar-
bara on Friday night.
He will need to stay hot if the
team hopes to contend with the
Zips, who handed the Wolver-
ines their last loss on Oct. 19, 7-1.
"It's a new team compared to
then and now and it's a team that
I think is ready to play Akron,"
Quijano said. "We've definitely
come a long ways since playing
them."
So, too, has Quijano.

iAKc FROMM/Daily
Redshirt freshman forward Jordan Morgan has been Michigan's primaryoption in
the paint early on this season.

man Blake McLimans and fresh-
man Colton Christian have been
Morgan's primary replacements.
In Michigan's 65-56 loss to
the University of Texas-El Paso
on Nov. 27, McLimans replaced
Morgan after four fouls.
The Miners didn't cover McLi-
mans outside the paint, giving
him open looks, but he went
0-for-4 from three-point range.
"It was kind of depressing,"
McLimans said of his shooting
drought against UTEP. "I'm a big
man that can shoot, that's kind
of my M.O., so it's something I'm
going to have to work on."
A week later, McLimans had
to cover Harvard's leading scor-
er, forward Keith Wright, when
Morgan was in foul trouble
again. But this time against the
Crimson, McLimans contrib-
uted on the defensive end in his
seven minutes of play by hold-
ing Wright to just two points.

Wright finished the game with a
total of 18 points.
On offense, McLimans scored
four points, collected one
rebound, and swatted a block in
the brief time that he was on the
floor.
But McLimans isn't the only
big man who takes pride in his
shooting.
Freshman Evan Smotrycz has
turned out to be one of Michi-
gan's go-to guys on the perim-
eter.
Smotrycz scored a career-
high 18 points in the Wolverines'
69-61 win against Clemson on
Nov. 30.
But less than a week later
against Harvard, Smotrycz post-
ed zero points.
That type of inconsistency is
exactly what Beilein attributes
to youth, and something that
Michigan is trying to avoid -
especially from its forwards.

'A;.

NEED A STUDY BREAK?
CHECK MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR MICHIGAN SPORTS
UPDATES DURING FINALS WEEK

4

Senior defender effrey Quijano scored his first goal in more thas a year on Saturday against Nth. 3 Maryland.


0

8A - Wednesday, December 8, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com



9 gar k. ; $ n a N 4y, rk?' F

This holiday season,
upgrade your family to the
fast and free Chrome browser.
googlescom/chrome/students


r
a
E 4
J T 3
db
1
I.
4, «
Md1
.n
i
i

i

Go:. [e

02010 Google

mom= IM,
.t w 1 A irt


a

0

S

0

8B TheStatement Wednesday, December
PERSONALSTATEMENT
that world as a set of aesthetic choices. now? Why did they leave these posses-
Interviews became a mental exercise sions?Whydoes arotting trophy main-
in monitoring various technological tain its glow? How long does it take for
devices. Every room turned into a scav- a ceiling fan to wilt?
enge for the mostpragmatic and pleas- No longer was I able to hide behind
W EH W A RD H RO U G H A Aing light, every rotting house a series my craft. For the first time I gazed at
of textures for my miod to manipulate the glowing screen and experienced
BY SAM WOLSON and my camera to mimic. the humanity of the images.
I experienced every person mediat- Back to school. Books, coffee,
ed through an electronic screen. They familiar faces, football, binge drink-
were not real. Their stories of Katrina ing, routine. My first week back I was
T hings only became real in the the French Quarter, a block from the for Make It Right, an organization were only levels to be adjusted for opti- removed, estranged, trying to align my
Lower 9th Ward after we left. infamous Bourbon Street. The apart- that is building affordable, safe, green mal sound quality. Their tears of past summer experiences with a place that
Last summerI worked in New ment was lush and intimate, with homes for residents of the Lower 9th horrors were only pixels resembling had previously been second nature. .
Orleans with a small group of students strategically placed candles dotting Ward. The ambitious project compris- the qualities of water. As the weeks passed this fire to
from various universities through the the apartment, lit as if only to show es just a few blocks of the Lower 9th; The camera became a defense consolidate my past present and
non-profit organization Students of the their authenticity. There were two the rest is still vacant lots, abandoned against the very reality that I was hop- future lulled into a flickering ember.
World. We were tasked with creating a bathrooms and a metal-framed bal- ing to capture. The routine of school, the familiar
video that focused on the rehabilita- cony, complete with wicker chairs thatri When we got faces, the same old same old clouded
tion work being done in the city, spe- looked out onto the constant zoo that is They were not real. Their stories of back to Austin my desire to incorporate that foreign
cifically in the Lower 9th Ward where Bourbon Street. -lwe had gath- land into my everyday, butI still main-
the devastation was the greatest. When we made our way to the Katrina were only leveIs to be adjusted ered more than tained one thing that time can never
The summer started in Austin, Lower 9th for the first time - leav- for optimal sound quality.' 40 hours of raw change.
Texas for training and orientation. We ing the tourist utopia of the French material. In in the same way that a family album
whuld sit around in Dr. Strangelove- Quarter - the scenery changed like order to whittle enables us to embalm time through the
esque conference rooms, the eight of the way a dream can quickly shift from homes or the occasional family hold- this down into a five-minute video, we photograph, no matter what routine
us, listening to descriptions of what one environment to another without ing their ground. MIR homes are dras- had to upload and watch every tape. formulates my everyday privileged
sounded like a foreign country. "These warning. The Mardi Gras beads and tically modern, outshining the barren Removed from their native environ- existence, my images will forever
people are different," we were told. Art Deco banisters gave way to fenced remainders of a past life. ment, the images changed. I no longer remind me ofthe voyeuristic resilience
"They will have a strange dialect. They in convenience stores and abandoned As I filmed the images of destruc- viewed the screen in order to maintain and horror that I witnessed in the
eat different foods. They come from churches. Like walking into a war zone tion, reconstruction, resilience and a visual standard. For the first time I Lower 9th Ward.
different economic backgrounds." fewthings still stood their ground, and hope, the world of the 9th Ward was became an observer.
We drove 500 miles to what would those that did looked ready to give-up. no more real to me than its images dis- The gravity of the images set in. - Sam Wolson is the Daily's
leour home for the next month in We were to make a 5-minute video played on my LCD screen. I viewed Whose house was this? Where are they co-managing photo editor.

ARMSTRONG
From Page 5B
what," Armstrong said.
As Armstrong tried to remain unaf-
fected by the attacks, he said he was
humbled by the student body's out-
rage. Many students and organizations
on campus took it upon themselves to
rally for Armstrong and cry out against
Shirvell.
#Seeing campus rally around bully-
ing and LGBT issues the way that they
did in reaction to the situation really
showed how strongthis campus is and
showed how strong our values are,"
Armstrong said.
Armstrong acknowledges that he
was simply the focal point of a much
larger issue. He says he found the
cgopus's attitude regarding bullying
toward the LGBT community a testa-
ment to the University's commitment
to diversity and acceptance.
"In a lot of ways, despite some of the
issues that became national, I think for
this campus, the pros have outweighed
the cons," Armstrong said.
While the Shirvell incident raised
awareness for LGBT issues on campus,
Armstrong said he doesn't want that
to be the only aspects of campus his
administration improves.

"I wouldn't say promoting LGBT
issues is my main goal. That's my back-
ground," Armstrong said.
Armstrong said that his favorite
part of the job is not furthering his
own issues, but rather being able to
help all types of groups on campus fur-
ther their owngoals.
"This University is so much bigger
than you and the community you asso-
ciate with. There's a Michigan nation
and there are so many different sects
and parts of that," Armstrong said.
"Really the big challenge I've faced,
and really enjoyed, is being able to be
that face for as many of those issues as
possible."
Harper said Armstrong has inten-
tions of making sure his sexual ori-
entation doesn't define himself, his
agenda or his leadership.
"He could lead in such a way that
one would think the only thing that
matters are those things related to
LGBT students but that has not been
his leadership at all," Harper said.
In fact, Armstrong said he hopes he
is not just remembered for his work on
LGBT issues. Armstrong laughed as he
said the most impressive accomplish-
ment that came to mind was the prog-
ress his administration made with the
MSA website. Last March, MSA was
heavily criticized for spending more

than $9,000 on a website that didn't
function properly.
"The fact that we were able to revise
the website after the whole debacle
was such a.motivating experience,"
Armstrong said.
Armstrong has implemented a lot of
changes during his 3-and-a-half years
on campus - many of which have been
overshadowed by the Shirvell incident.
In January 2009, Armstrong was
integral in creating a task force that
oversees organizations on campus and
offers recommendations on how they
can improve.
In February 2010, Armstrong was
also the driving force on the assem-
bly behind getting the University an
offer to host the 2011 Midwest Bisex-
ual Lesbian Gay Transgender and Ally
College Conference, that it had been
denied the previous year.
In October 2009, Armstrong helped
plan a large event on the Diag to kick
off National Coming Out Week. The
event had a makeshift closet on the
steps of Hatcher Graduate Library and
people that attended the event were
able to come out of the closet - liter-
ally and figuratively - and speak about
their personal experiences.
This past March, Armstrong helped
push through a resolution supporting
Saturday night dinner in the dining

halls on campus. He also helped to
plan a trial run in three dining halls
to demonstrate its effectiveness and
spread awareness about the proposal.
But Armstrong and his staff's big-
gest project to date has been working
to get University Housing to adopt
a gender-neutral housing option for
students. The proposal, which was re-
named the Open Housing Initiative,
has made progress in recent months.
The resolution was passed by MSA in
December 2009. The Residence Hall
Association passed a resolution in sup-
port of the option in April 2010.
"I'd say we're right on our timeline.
We set up goals that we would com-
plete the proposal by a certain dead-
line and we met that deadline and now
it's being considered by administra-
tors," Serwer said.
Last week, the Open HousingInitia-
tive submitted a proposal to severalrel-
evant administrators to be reviewed.
According to Serwer's understand-
ing, there are many administrators, in
addition to housing officials, who have
jurisdiction on the issue. The Open
Housing Initiative won't know any
more details until they sit down with
these representatives next week.
"The Open Housing Initiative and
administrators have told us that stu-
dents have done everything that pos-

sibly could have been done to show
that there's support behind this issue
and logically argue for the implemen-
tation of open housing," Serwer said.
"The responsibility fully lies within
the administration to implement this
policy."
" So while it remains unclear if the
option will be ready to implement this
coming fall, Armstrong is working dil-
igently to ensure it is put into effect as
soon as possible.
"I have been devoting a lot of my
time to open housing and it's certainly
been a struggle. And I want people to
recognize that that issue made a lot
of strides this year and emerged from
some small conversations with hous-
ing to a large campus debate," Arm-
strong said.
And Armstrong is working hard to
ensure that these debates are not over-
shadowed by the Shirvell incident.
Armstrong said that he hopes to take
what he has learned from the incident
and apply it to his life and the assem-
bly.
"It's certainly unfortunate that (the
Shirvell incident) is the onlythingthat
will be highlighted in some people's
eyes," Armstrong said. "But I also
think even though it was an unfortu-
nate situation, I don't think the out-
comes were unfortunate."




w U

0

0

a

0

0

0

a

JIM TheStaemnt / Wdnsda, Dcber-.8, 20

Wensdy Deeme 8U01 /heSatmntE

IL Arl x


the
statement
Magazine Editor:
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief:
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor:
Jenna Skoller
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor:
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year

THEJUNKDRAWER
random student interview by will grundler

Welcome to the Random
Student Interview, a
briefQ&Asessionabout
the true path to salvation in an age
of blasphemy and nihilism. Today,
however, with the year drawing to
a close, we will continue the long-
held Daily tradition of polling mul-
tiple students about their favorite
article of the semester.
What was your favorite Daily arti-
cle of the semester?
Excuse me?
There havebeen a lot, so it's under-
standable if you can't pick -
I don't read the Daily.
You know, the Daily called out
Andrew Shirvell before Anderson
Cooper.
Who's that?
What was your favorite Daily arti-
cle of the semester?
Um ... sorry, I don't read it.
But where do you get your news
about campus, or Michigan
sports?
Michigan sports aren't newsworthy

right now, man.
(Shaking head) Yeah, what is these
days, what with the decline of
journalistic integrity.
A lot of stuff .is newsworthy, I just
don't read the Daily when I want
news.
You look like a Yahoo! kind of guy.
Uh, sure.
What was your favorite Daily arti-
cle of the semester?
(On phone) What?
What did you like best about The
Michigan Daily this fall?
(Walks away)
(Aggressively) Oh, OK! What's
more important?
What was your favorite Daily arti-
cle of the semester?
Oh ... let's see ... sports...
That was a good article.
(Laughs) No. Oh!It was the one about
Denard Robinson.
Yes! Finally. That was a good one,
wasn't it?
I loved it.
Do you think he'll make the NBA,
though?
You mean the NFL?
You're talking about Denard Rob-
inson the basketball player, right?
Do you know anything about Michi-
gan sports?
Usually I write opinion articles.
I'm sure they'd let me write for
sports, though.
Yeah ... I don't know about that.

What was your favorite Daily arti-
cle of the semester?
What's the Daily?
The Michigan Daily ... the top pub-
lication on campus ... do you enjoy
being facetious?
What's facetious?
So what Daily article did you like
the best this fall?
Sorry, I don't -
You don't read the Daily?
(Laughs) No.
You don't read anything, do you?
(Stops laughing) No.
Maybe you should.
No, I don't not read anything.
Maybe you shouldn't use double
negatives.
Could you please share your favor-
ite Daily article of the semester?
I don't think I've read the Daily since
freshman year.
Well how do you keep informed
about the University?
I like the Every Three Weekly.
Oh boy, here we go. Just what's
so great about the Every Three
Weekly?
Uh, it's funny.
The Daily is funny!
The Daily is not funny.
Look, if I wanted to read the Every
Three Weekly I'd just read The
Onion.
Well, if I wanted to read the Daily
...actually, I don't think I'd ever want
to read the Daily.
Good one.

Excuse me, you read the Daily,
right?
Sorry.
Jesus.
What was your favorite Daily arti-
cle of the semester?
Oh ... well, I like the crime notes. Or I
do the crossword sometimes.
But what about the hard-hitting
journalism, or the compelling fea-
ture stories?
(Laughs) I kinda skip those.
So you enjoy crime and meaning-
less puzzles. Nice.
Well, the crime notes are funny.
Violence and theft are humorous?
The headlines are.
How repugnant.
Excuse me?
I said "How redundant."
That doesn't make sense.
Since you just get the police
reports e-mailed to you anyway.
Um ...
Hi, can you tell me what you liked
best about The Michigan Daily this
semester? Any favorite articles?
Videos? Special investigations?
Nope.
No? Are you sure?
No.
No you're not sure or no you didn't
like any?
I don't read the Daily. I read The
Michigan Review.
Oh for the love of - OK. It was nice
talking to you. I'm done.

ay AH AH! H MYWE SHALL BE
EHEEEEFINISHED SOON,
</UG./ I MY FRIEND.
' f YES. WE
MUST
FOCUS
I ON-
I GUESS BEATING YOU LAST YEAR JUST WASN'T ENOUGH
HEAR
l I THAT?
jfi i. FROM
ABOVE. ,
' IS
OH, SHIT THAT WAS NEARLY AT A LOSS, ALEX'S DOCTORS
A/EFCE RESORT TO MORE UNORTHODOX METHODS.
STOP DREAMING, DUDE!
YOU SHOULD THERE'S SOMETHING YOU
KNOW, TATE! SHOULD BE WATCHING!
.SO I'M LIKE,
WE SHOULD TAKE SOME
COMFORT IN KNOWING THAT
IT'S INEVITABLY RETURNING
e BUCK YOU! TO A STATE THAT SUCKS.
, AND BUCK QUITE.
a YOU TOO! J
l 0
FUCKEYE! r
fl j1/1///4DMUN
CHECK OUT THE FIRST ISSUE OF
THE ADVENTURES OF SUPERDENARDMAN AND YOUNG TATEWALKER
IN THE STATEMENT SECTION OF MICHIGANDAILY.COM

.' 1
A comedy by William Shakespeare
Directed by John Neville-Andrews
Dept. of Theatre & Drama
Dec. 9at7:30PM # Dec. 10&11at8PM
Dec. 12 at 2 PM * Power Center
Reserved seating $24 & $18 . Students $10 w/lD
League Ticket Office . 734-764-2538 « music.umich.edu

CAN'T MAKE IT TO THE BIG HOUSE
FOR THE BIG CHILL?
We'll be there.
CHECK OUT OUR LIVE BLOG
AT MICHIGAN DAILY.COM


0

9 S S

0

6 Wednesday, December 8, 2010 /IThe Statement
&ISSUE

Wednesday, December 83 2010 // The Statement

news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance
RON

ALEX FIRST FELL ASLEEP WHILE
STUDYING ON A FRIDAY
NIGHT IN OCTOBER. VIC
AFTER A FEW DAYS,
ALEX WAS TAKEN TO
THE HOSPITAL.
NOBODY COULD
WAKE UP
ALEX. BAFFLING
\ 4
4

EMPEROR PATERNOTINE POSSESSED
ANCIENT POWERS WE COULD NOT
FATHOM, SUPERDENARDMAN.
INDEED, YOUNG
TATEWALKER.
i
O
' i

Failed senatorial candidate Tue
Christine O'Donnell announced a Edv
book deal via Twitter on Thurs- Ca
day. She'll be ending her career Vic
with FOX to focus on authorship. wa
The novel is slated for release in six
August 2011. inl

esday morning, Elizabeth
wards, wife of former North
rolina Senator and Democratic
:e President nominee John Ed-
rds, died of breast cancer after a
-year battle. She was diagnosed
November 2004.

South Korea
artillery dril
Monday, m
sions with N
Korea has d
saying its nE
a war."

has implemented The U.S. Supreme Court is
Is along its coast on considering hearing the largest
arking escalating ten- ever class-action lawsuit against
North Korea. North Walmart. The company is being
enounced the drills accused of gender bias for un-
eighbor is set to "ignite derpaying female employees and
denying them promotions.

WikiLE
sange
yester
sex cri
denies
of seXL
withoL

aks founder Julian As-
was arrested in London
day morning for committing
mes in Sweden. Assange
allegations by two women
ual assault, but is being held
it bail.

*NGH*
BUT YOU DID
WELL AFTER-
WARDS. /YOURSELF,
ILLINI, DIDN'T Y U U //'T
YOU USED TO /
- WEAR FEATHERS
AND FACE-PAINT
AND STUFF?
NO WAY, DUDE.
THAT'S JUST A
STEREOTYPE.
-J/./ GOOD SIR.'

F'?T TI 1~ 2, 4 5 67 8 10
quotes of the week on the cheap
"I think I'll serve as secretary of state as my last public posi- holiday gifts on the cheap
tion."
HILLARY CLINTON, U.S. Secretary of State, saying she is not contemplating a
repeat run for president.
"These girls are being lured by these men on Facebook."
RICHARD RIOT, Malaysia's deputy foreign minister, on international drug syndi-
cates that are using Facebook to recruit women to serve as drug mules.
"Today's actions against our editor-in-chief Julian Assange,
won't affect our operations: we will release more cables
tonight as normal"
PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY KATIE EBERTS
WIKILEAKS, via Twitter, in response to the arrest of founder, Julian Assange. t's snowing on a nearly daily basis and winter break is just around the corner, which means
I that so is the holiday season. If you haven't already bought presents for your friends and
family, chances are the money that you will have to spend is adding to your finals-induced
the rules anxiety. So, here are a few tips to make sure you don't have to give too much this holiday
season.
One of the best ways to avoid spending too much on gifts is to be crafty. Grandparents
No. 299: No. 300: No. 301: always enjoy a picture of you in a homemade frame and everyone likes baked goods. Or, bet-
ter yet teach yourself to knit. Your friends and family will love chunky scarves and cozy hats
Don't be the kid If you slept through The Big Chill in the Michigan winter
asking about extra the first half of deserves a Football If you aren't good with a glue gun or knitting needles, consider shopping sales. This time
credit in your class, you might as Saturday-type of year, there are specials all over the place. So, before you go into a store, search online for
sales and sign up for deal websites like Gilt.com and Ruelalacom.
final exam review well sleep through tailgate. We'll see
session. the rest of it. you on State Street. Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know. E-mail onthecheap@umich.edu.
by the numbers COURTESY OF BLOOMBERG
The number of female employees bringing the The number, in millions, of current and The number of companies that urged the U.S.
gender-biased lawsuit against Walmart and Costco past Walmart employees that will be Supreme Court to take the appeal of the lawsuit after
because they were underpaid or denied a promotion. affected by the class-action lawsuit. they were unsatisfied with the lower court ruling.




0 w -w-

U U U

-W

U U U

-W

4B3 1 -he.Staement //Wednesda- Decembr 8,-201

Wednesday, December 8, 2010 // The Statement m

W hen Michigan Student Assembly Pres-
ident Chris Armstrong first applied to
college, he had visions of becoming a
video game engineer. His college essay was about
the artistic merits of his favorite video game, and
he only applied to colleges with excellent video
game design programs.
But when this self-proclaimed nerd eventually
came to the University of Michigan, he decided
to take a different path. Armstrong immediately
joined the University's LGBT commission when
he arrived on campus. He later became chair of
the commission, and then ran for MSA president
last spring.
Armstrong's term as MSA president is half-
way over, but his presidency has already received
more publicity than most who serve in col-
lege student governments. Last fall, Armstrong
gained national attention for the attacks he
received from now former Michigan Assistant
Attorney General Andrew Shirvell. The incident
has been front and center in Armstrong's presi-
dency, but he hopes to change that in the four
months he has left.
Armstrong joined MSA as a freshman and
quickly rose through the assembly ranks asa rep-
resentative on the assembly's LGBT Commission.
"I immediately wanted to get involved with
LGBT groups on campus because I wanted to
meet other gay people," Armstrong said last week
in the offices of The Michigan Daily.
Armstrong made a lot of progress on the
commission. He helped plan a launch event for
National Coming Out Week in fall 2009 and was
integral in helping the University become the
host of the 2011 Midwest Bisexual, Lesbian, Gay,
Transgender, Ally College Conference.
"I started getting involved and it just sort of
spiraled and spiraled," he said.
That same year, Armstrong met Jason Ray-
mond, a fellow MSA representative, and the two
becamegood friends. Two-and-a-halfyears later,
the pair decided to run for office together.
Both were interested in the top position, but
it was ultimately decided that Armstrong would
run for the presidential spot. Raymond explained
that putting Armstrong in that position was
viewed as an excellent opportunity to represent
his issues and break down a lot of barriers within
MSA, since Armstrong would be the first openly
gay MSA president at the University.
"We're very much a team and we didn't really
care about the titles," Raymond said, "but we
decided it would be a great victory for Chris's
community for him to be MSA president."
Freshman year, Armstrong and Raymond also
met Alex Serwer, who helped build their cam-
paign when they decided to run. Once elected,
Armstrong appointed Serwer his chief of staff.
Like Raymond, Serwer said putting Armstrong
in such a distinguished position sent a powerful
message.
"It's a big moment for LGBT individuals."
Serwer said. "Seeing another (LGBT) student in
such a prominent position is a really big deal for
that incoming freshman that doesn't really know
what the LGBT community is like on campus," he

said.
Armstrong and Raymond ran with the orga-
nization MForward - a party that stands on the
platform of representing a diverse group of stu-
dents on the assembly, which they founded.
MForward viewed Armstrong's future legacy
as the firstopenly gay MSA president as an impor-
tant milestone, and the party's platform focused
on LGBT issues. However, the party didn't try to

like a swastika on top of a gay pride flag. On
another picture, he wrote "racist, elitist liar"
across Armstrong's face..
Shirvell first approached Armstrong at a coun-
ter rally to a protest hosted by the West Borough
Baptist church over a production of "The Lara-
mie Project" in May 2010. Armstrong was speak-
ing at the event in defense of the production, and
said he had never once spoken to Shirvell prior

"Knowing the background I had and knowing I wasn't
going to be closeted ... I wasn't surprised (by the blog)
because I was waiting for it."

use Armstrong's personal story to their advan-
tage, and the issue of his sexuality wasn'tbrought
up by either party during the election.
"We always had the same issues that we want-
ed to work on, and that was never something that
we had to make special arrangements for or con-
sider in a different light," Raymond said.
Serwer emphasized that the platform of
the campaign was built around issues, and not
Chris's personal decisions.
"We made sure that whatever we were preach-
ing to the students as they were voting was what
we stood for, rather than Chris's sexual orienta-
tion," Serwer said.
Armstrong grew up in a small town in Con-
necticut with a population of about 25,000.
While he came out to his parents when he was
15 years old, he had only told a couple of close
friends in his hometown, and was not openly gay
until he came to the University. Armstrong said
hiding that secret in high school made him want
to do things differently when he went to college.
"My goal when I came to the University of
Michigan was to live openly, to be out and to
really see how my life could be being myself,"
Armstrong said.
While he was not ashamed of his sexuality, he
said he always knew running as an openly gay
man would create obstacles. He explained that a
lot of insecurities about how he was dressing and
acting surfaced when he assumed the presidency.
"To a certain extent, I've had to try to project
more of a sense of authority just because there's
always that sense people won't take you serious-
ly," Armstrong said. "I think those insecurities
are universal, but when it comes from a minor-
ity or a minority group sometimes it's more aug-
mented."
The obstacles Armstrong predicted were
particularly challenging to overcome last April,
when Shirvell, a University alum, began harass-
ing Armstrong and his friends and family.
Shirvell launched Chris Armstrong Watch - a
blog Shirvell ran in order to monitor Armstrong
and to accuse him of promoting a "radical homo-
sexual agenda" on campus.
Shirvell posted pictures of Armstrong on the
blog and drew offensive symbols over his face,

to the rally.
As news of Shirvell's blog began spreading
across campus and the nation, Armstrong tried
to abstain from reading it and to remain unaf-
fected by it. But he "wasn't surprised" when he
found out about it.
"When I was running for president, knowing
the background I had and knowingI wasn't going
to be closeted - I was going to be out with who
I was - I wasn't surprised because I was waiting
for it," Armstrong said.
Armstrong said the accusations didn't concern
him until Shirvell began attacking his friends
and family.
"It was certainly upsetting the things he was
saying, but it hurt more when he would say things
about the people around me because to a certain
extent I signed up for this. I signed up to be criti-
cized," Armstrong said.
Armstrong remained publicly silent through
most of the Shirvell incident, refusing to dig-
nify the attacks with a response. And even when
Armstrong did finally speak out, it was not a
direct result of Shirvell's actions.
Armstrong spoke out on CNN's "Anderson
Cooper 360" - the first national media outlet to
report the incident - after multiple gay adoles-
cents committed suicide across the nation as a
result of bullying.
"The only reason he went on Anderson Cooper
was purely because during the week the Andrew
Shirvell incident blew up in the media there had
been a number of suicides across the nation with
teens that were criticized by their classmates
because they were gay or had been outed," Ray-
mond said.
Raymond said that no matter how hard
Shirvell pushed him, Armstrong maintained a
grounded perspective of the incident and refused
to allow the blogger to prevent him from doing
his job on the assembly.
"He could have engaged in a fight with this
guy," Raymond said. "He had many opportunities
to do so over national media outlets. But instead
Chris wanted to focus on the issues. He wanted
to focus on his work on the assembly."
Armstrong tried to serve as best he could dur-
ing the controversy, using the position he had
earned to push the improvements to campus he

thought most necessary. But the episode did dis-
-tract him from focusing entirely on MSA issues,
which he says was the most upsetting aspect of
the incident.
"I felt to a certain extent I was letting things
get to me and had trouble refocusing," Arm-
strong said.
Serwer also commented on the effects of the
distraction, noting that many members of the
assembly turned their attention away from the
MSA issues they had wanted to focus on in order
to deal with Shirvell's attacks. But he said the dis-
traction didn't detract from the assembly's over-
all goals.
"There were times when we were more
focused on the incident at hand than we were
with the latest MSA project and making sure
whatever it was got done in the absolute strictest
timeline," Serwer said. "But it didn't detract from
our goals to any insurmountable point."
In fact, many of the people that surround Arm-
strong on the assembly found the incident did the
exact opposite. Raymond said Shirvell's unjusti-
fied comments made the assembly want to pass
more legislation dealing with LGBT issues.
"If anything, (the incident) gave us a little
more fire when it comes to issues like open hous-
ing - issues that Andrew Shirvell targeted as a
part of Chris's 'gay militant homosexual agenda,'
" Raymond said. "I think it really empowered a
lot of people on the assembly and really made us
want to work harder."
In recent months, MSA has been focusing
their efforts on the issue of Open Housing which
would allow students to'choose to room in the
dorms with students of the opposite sex.
Vice President for Student Affairs E. Royster
Harper, who consults with Armstrong about
student issues on a weekly basis, said she was
impressed by his level of commitment to the
assembly in the height of Shirvell's attacks.
"Most of the time when I would meet with
Chris during that period he would say, 'I want
to focus on what we need to get done on MSA,'
" Harper said. "He would be the one that would
make it clear that we needed to have a conver-
sation related to MSA. And really, I'm not sure
many people could have done that."
But the rest of the student body wasn't able to
overlook the situation as easily. Students created
a Facebook group in support of Armstrong and
there were many pleas to the attorney general's
office to fire Shirvell for his actions. As of 8 p.m.
on December 7,19,469 people "like" the group on
Facebook and have posted messages of encour-
agement and support of Armstrong.
Despite Shirvell's bullying, Armstrong said
that, in certain ways, the student body's response
to the situation made it worth enduring.
"It was really difficult to deal with all that,
but I think at the end of it there have been so
many reaffirmations about what this campus is,
how we feel when someone outside our campus
attacks someone inside our campus and that
sense that we will respect each other no matter
See ARMSTRONG, Page 8B


