e may hav ? re easem WHAT MAKES A RIVALRY?
y e They may be 'little brother,' but the Spartans,
Ys sespecially after their third-straight win over
Michigan, is a true rival, writes Ryan Kartje in
the SportsMonday column.
PAGE 7AINSIDE

Ann Arbor, Michigan
SELECTION 2010
In debate,
candidates
spar over
higher ed.
Only debate of gubernatorial
race offered contrast between
candidates' positions
By MIKE MERAR
Daily Staff Reporter
Democratic candidate for governor Virg Bernero
and Republican candidate Rick Snyder took the floor
last night at the only Michigan gubernatorial debate
of the midtermelection season, sparring on issues that
ranged from higher education funding, to affirmative
action, to the state's budget.
Nolan Finley, editorial page editor of The Detroit
News, and Stephen Henderson, editorial page editor
of the Detroit Free Press, moderated the debate, which
was hosted by the Center for Michigan and aired live
from Detroit Public Television's Wixom studio.
Snyder began the debate by stressing his new vision
for the state, which focuses largely on job creation.
"It is time for the era of innovation," he said. "I've
got a 10-point plan that really focuses on jobs."
During Bernero's opening statement he elaborated
on his current position as mayor of Lansing, adding
that if elected, he hopes to recreate the flourishing
Michigan that existed when he was younger.
"I've got a plan to turn Michigan around," Berne-
ro said. "The Michigan I grew up in is a Michigan of
opportunity. That's the Michigan I'm fighting for."
Amid a $1.6 billion state deficit, the two candidates
were asked if they would be willing to forgo their sala-
ry should they become governor. Both said they would
make significant sacrifices. However, Bernero said he
wouldn't be able to completely omit his salary, as he
needs to support his family.
The candidates also discussed tax incentives to
See DEBATE, Page 6A

Monday, October 11,2010

michigandaily.com

SAM WOLSON/Daily
Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson during Michigan's 34-17 loss to Michigan State at Michigan Stadium on Saturday. For more coverage of the game, see SportsMonday, inside.
Robinson shows he's human

t was already bad enough.
There were ill-timed penalties,
missed tackles and even a blocked
field goal for good measure.
Perhaps worst of all for the Wolver-
ines, the one player they had come to
rely on didn't have a tremendous game
against Michigan State. In fact, sopho-
more sensation Denard Robinson was
mediocre by his own standards. The
early Heisman frontrunner looked
human.
We don't need to dwell on Robin-

son's stats from oof quarterback and beg the question:
last week or last Pat White who?
month. We know Robinson's early critics cried out
what we saw - an about his fragility. Could he carry
incredible athlete the ball 20-plus times per outing and
blessed with fast- survive the 12-game regular season?
er-than-everyone- Through a few big hits and five games,
on-the-field speed NICOLE the answer was yes.
and improved AUERBACH The critics changed tactics - they
passing ability. argued that Robinson hadn't faced
He was on pace a good defense yet. Michigan State
to shatter college would be his first test.
football records, re-define the position I'm no professor, but I don't think

I'd give him an A+.
Yes, he accounted for 301 yards
(215 passing, 86 rushing) and ran for a
touchdown. That's a pretty good day
for any quarterback, especially when
you consider he didn't break any big
runs.
But Robinson also threw three
interceptions (after throwing just one
through the first five games), two of
which were in Michigan State's end-
zone. That's 14 points right there, not
See AUERBACH, Page 5A

CAMPAIGNING ON CAMPUS
Campus groups criticize
housing canvassing policy

SALAM RIDA/Daily
LSA senior Andrew Silapaswan rallies on the steps of the Capitol in Lansing Friday to voice support for stronger bullying laws.
Armstrong incident a trigger for
anti-bullying rally in Lansing

Interim policy allows
students to canvass
only in residences in
which they live
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
Daily StaffReporter
With less than one month before
Election Day, campus political
organizations are voicing concern
about an interim University Hous-
ing policy that allows students to
only do political canvassing in the
residence halls in which they live.

Since 2008, only students cam-
paigning for positions in the Michi-
gan Student Assembly and LSA
Student Government and repre-
sentatives of Voice Your Vote - an
MSA commission that encourages
non-partisan voter registration -
have been consistently allowed to
engage in pre-approved canvassing
in University residences, according
to University policy. In the last few
years, University Housing has not
implemented a permanent policy
about student canvassing for politi-
cal causes and elections.
University Housing spokesman
Peter Logan wrote in an e-mail
interview that the current interim

policy allows students to engage in
political discourse without com-
promising their privacy and secu-
rity.
"The residence halls and under-
graduate apartments are not 'open
territory' for non-residents to
engage in political canvassing or
any other form of soliciting resi-
dents," Logan wrote. "University
Housing embraces the fundamen-
tal principle that residence halls
are our student's homes. We strive
to ensure that their environments
remain conducive to studying, rest-
ing, relaxing and socializing."
Political organizations on cam-
See CANVASSING, Page SA

cAMiU A AVIsM
Sinclair praises Ann Arbor's pot laws

LBGTQ supporters
discuss experiences
with cyberbullying
By RACHEL BRUSSTAR
Daily StaffReporter
LANSING - With the issue
* of cyberbullying garnering
increased attention across the
country and on campus, students
and LGBTQ rights activists gath-
ered here on Friday asking policy
makers to do more to stop harass-

ment on the Internet.
Supporters of the LBGTQ
community and the student-run
organization Expect Respect in
Michigan assembled on the steps
of Michigan's state Capitol on Fri-
day to voice support for Michigan
Student Assembly President Chris
Armstrong and to advocate for
stricter anti-bullying legislation.
Ross School of Business gradu-
ate student Adrian Delmont, who
is a member of Expect Respect in
Michigan and who helped orga-
nize the event, said the group
held the rally to expose the trag-

ic repercussions of bullying in
schools and urge supporters of the
LGBTQ community to speak out
against cyberbullying and student
harassment.
About 60 people gathered at the
Capitol to advocate for the cause,
and five speakers gave personal
testimonies of their experiences
with bullying at school and work
because of their sexual orienta-
tion.
Speakers at the event includ-
ed Michelle Brown, a member
of the Board of Directors of the
See RALLY, Page 6A

At co-op, activist also
says Detroit, Flint
hurt by capitalism
By NATHAN RANNS
For the Daily
Marijuana legalization activ-
ist John Sinclair urged students to
ignore material pursuits in favor of
activism during a talk on Saturday.
Sinclair, a poet, activist and self-
proclaimed performer, met with
students at the Luther Coopera-

tive House on Hill Street to speak
about his life, values and issues
facing Detroit. The open question-
and-answer session was coinci-
dentally held on what would be
the seventieth birthday of former
Beatles member John Lennon, who
played a large part in Sinclair's life
- helping to shorten his jail sen-
tence by more than seven years.
In 1969, Sinclair was sen-
tenced to 10 years for handing
two marijuana joints to an under-
cover policeman in Michigan. He
garnered many supporters who
opposed his sentence - includ-

ing Lennon, who performed the
song "John Sinclair" at a rally in
Ann Arbor in December 1971 that
was organized to raise awareness
about Sinclair's sentence. Three
days later, Sinclair was released
after the Michigan Supreme Court
ruled that the state's current laws
regarding marijuana were uncon-
stitutional.
The rally became the basis for
"Hash Bash," a gathering of mari-
juana legalization advocates that
takes place in Ann Arbor every
spring.
See SINCLAIR, Page SA


WEATHER HI: 66 GOTA NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO:45 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

Blogging Blue: Playing by Reagan's rules.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE PODIUM

INDEX NEWS...................
Vol.CXXI, No. 25 SUDOKU...............
2010 The Michigan Daily OPINION..............
michigandoily~com

.2A CLASSIFIED.S...............6A
.3A A RTS ................... .........7A
.4A SPORTSMONDAY.................1B

i

A


2A - Monday, October 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com a

2A - Monday, October 11, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *


TUESDAY:
Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

MURAL BUILDING

Wisconsin students fined $86K for party

Three students at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Madi-
son face police charges and a
fine that could total $86,000
for throwing a house party
that attracted more than 200
people on Sept. 11, according
to an Oct. 5 article in The Bad-
ger Herald.
The Madison Police
Department issued each of
the students 21 counts for
encouraging underage alco-
hol consumption, one count
for alcohol distribution
without a permit and 21 cita-
tions for providing alcohol
to an underage person.
MPD Sgt. Tony Fiore said
in the article that the stu-
dents' fine increased after
they refused to comply with
officers who arrived at the
scene. N
CRIME NOTES

RECORDING ARTIST
WYCLEF JEAN BECOMES
VISITING FELLOW AT
BROWN U
Brown University's Depart-
ment of Africana Studies
recently appointed interna-
tional recording artist Wyclef
Jean as a visiting fellow,
according to an Oct. 5 article
in The Brown Daily Herald.
Jean, a native of Haiti who
attempted to run to be Haiti's
president earlier this year, will
be participating in the Brown
HaitianInitiative- aprogram
intended to advance education
about the country's history,
language and culture.
In the article, Tricia Rose,
Brown Africana Studies
department chair, said the
department is anticipating

that Jean will bring an artistic gr
perspective to the discussions de
and events he will be attend- th
ing as a fellow throughout the
year. w
tu
USC STUDENTS RECEIVE ci
WHITE HOUSE GRANT th
FOR WEIGHT LOSS sp
APPLICATION in
ga
A team of eight University tu
of Southern California stu- ea
dents will receive $20,000 or
from the White House for ha
developing an online appli- lo
cation called Trainer that
promotes weight loss, accord- at
ing to an Oct. 5 article in The La
Daily Trojan. M
"The best way to think aif
about the game is as a combi- ch
nation of both Pokemon and
Wii Fit," Erin Reynolds, a
CAMPUS EVENT

Spartans spray Woman bashed Indie Irish
school spirit on by beer bottle band Bell Xl
Big House wall WHERE: Michigan Stadium performance
WHEN: Saturday at about
WHERE: Michigan Stadium 5:30 p.m. WHAT: A performance1
WHEN: Saturday at about WHAT: A woman was hit indie rock band Bell X1t
12:15 p.m. with abeer bottle at a tailgat- Ireland. Tickets are $15.
WHAT: Graffiti reading "Go ing party, University Police WHO: Michigan
Green, Go White" was discov- reported. The woman was not Union Ticket Office
ered on the north side of the injured, and there are no sus- WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.r
stadium, University Police pects in the case. WHERE: The Ark
reported.

aduate student who helped q
velop the software, said in
e article.
The game pairs players
ith unhealthy cyber crea-
res who are virtually exer-
sed when players re-enact
e movements of a particular
ort. Users can also partake
a dietary portion of the
ame which feeds the crea-
re foods that the user has
ten throughout the day in
der to see how their eating
bits affect weight gain and
>ss.
The application was cre-
ed in conjunction with First
ady Michelle Obama's "Let's
ove!" campaign, which
ims to address issues of
ildhood obesity. he
da
-HALEYGLATTHORN isl
PS & NOTES
Film screening
WHAT: A screening of "A
Passing of the Torch," a doc-
umentary about University
students who helped estab-
lish the Peace Corps. The
film is set to make its nation-
al television debut on the Big
Ten Network this month.
WHO: University's Office
of the Vice President
for Communications
WHEN: Tonight from
7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Hatcher Graduate
Library, Room100
CORRECTIONS
. In a Daily article titled
"Ralph Williams returns
in locally filmed 'Answer
s- This,"' a quote was
n- misattributed to Chris
ag Farah. It was actually
n said by Mike Farah.
:er
* Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

by
of
M.

ANNASCHULTE/Daily
& Desi sophomore Nathan Shapiro
leas visitint artist Chris Sperandia on Fri-
y paint a mural of game board pieces that
going in the Schlosser Gallery.
A Portland student teach-
er was dismissed after
explaining his sexual
orientation to a question-
ing fourth grader, MSNBC.
com reported. The Beaverton
School District explained its
actions are suitable as the stu-
dent teacher's comments were
"inappropriate."
The editorial staff of The
Michigan Daily trumped
their State News counter-
parts 10-9 in a double overtime
thriller on Friday night. The
two newspapers play a touch
football game the night before
the Michigan-Michigan State
game every year.
>FOR MORE,SPORTSMONDAY, PAGE 2B
Four people in Sydney,
Australia won part of a
$2.15 million jackpot,
which had a winning combina-
tion oft1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
on Friday, The Daily Telegraph.
reported.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIEJOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4110 eat. 202 734-418-4115 eat 241
smitonitz@michigasdailycom rmdbusinsa@pnaiteaom
CONTACT INFORMATION
NCe Frm Otfficehours:Sun.-Thurs.1a.m,. -2a.m.
734-418-41"5 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportsSection sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineadso@michigandaily.com
Finance .fnance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
illian Berman ManagingNewsEditor berman@michigandaily.com
SNOR EWrS EDITORS:Ncobe Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph Lichterman, Veronica Menaldi, Elyana Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder EditorialPage Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura
Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL.PAGE EDITORS: Will Butler, WiliGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Tim Rohan, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Chantel Jennings, Stephen Nesbitt, Zak Pyzik, Amy
Scarano,NickSpar
Jamie Block Managing Arts Editor block@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTSEDTORS:CaroynKarecki,AndrewLainJfSanfrda
ASnSSNARTS EIORSo s ynAchn o,eh uri, aron acb,Kai Shkhar
Pandey, David Tao
MaxCollinsand photomihigandaily.com
Sam Wolsn MnagingPhoto Edirss
ASSISTANTPHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm,Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinski and design@michigandaity.com
Sarah Squire ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Maya Friedman
Prevortaem G E TMJgaie nkditor e calero@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydeskomichigandaily.com
AdiWollstein CopyChiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim SalesManager
SALE GOCE aANAGER: G Jphanie Bowker
MARKETINGOMAAGER:GjonJuaj
HillarySzawala Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler CirculationManager
Zach YancerWeb Project coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is publishedMonday through Friday duringthe fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One opy is available free of charge to al
readers.Additional copies maybe pickedup att, teDaily'sofficefor s2.Subscriptionsforfalliterm,
startinginSeptember,viaU.S.malare$110.Winterterm(anuarythroughApril)is$115,yearlong
(September throughApril)is$195.Universityaffiliatesaresubjecitoareducedsubscriptionrate.
On-campus suscriptionsforfall termOres Subscriponsmtieprepaid.TheMichiganDaily
isamero The Asl~soiatedress andThe soiateCollgiePres.

a

i

Smackdown at BMWdriver Transgender
the Stadium crashes wedding
e Stadum soial support
WHERE: Elbel Field soc
WHERE: Michigan Stadium WHEN: Saturday at about 7 group meeting
WHEN: Saturday at 3:45 p.m. p.m.
WHAT: A woman struck a WHAT: An unknown subject WHAT: A meeting for tran
male in the head after she in ablack BMW caused prob- gender, transsexual and gem
refused to leave his seat, lems at an outdoor wedding, derqueer individuals scckiio
University Police reported. University Police reported. social support and safe ope:
The man decided not to press The subject was presumed to discussion with others.
charges. be intoxicated at the time. WHO: The Spectrum Cents
WHEN: Tonight from
MORE ONLINE 8p.m. to 10 p.m.
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire WHERE: The Michi-
gan Union, Room 3222

Police: School shooting
suspect not cooperating

0I

Two girls injured
in San Diego grade
school shooting
CARLSBAD, Calif (AP) - The
suspect in a San Diego-area grade
school shooting that left two
young girls injured was not coop-
erating with investigators, police
said, and the man's neighbors
described strange behavior in the
months before the shooting.
Brendan L. O'Rourke, 41, was
in custody Saturday for investi-
gation of six counts of attempted
murder and numerous weapons
violations.
Carlsbad police Lt. Kelly Cain
said O'Rourke was refusing to
answer questions and police did
not know what he intended to do
or why he opened fire, but they
believe he acted alone.
"He is not cooperating with
the investigation," Cain said Fri-
day night. "He probably has some
mental health issues."
O'Rourke's neighbors told the
San Diego Union-Tribune in a
story posted on its website Sat-
urday that he often screamed
obscenities and racial epithets
alone in his apartment. Neigh-
bors said they frequently called
police.
Vickie Rowe-Mitchell, who
lives in the apartment beneath
O'Rourke, said he would curse and

scream the N-word for hours late
at night, and said his stomping and
banging was so loud her ceiling
fan would shake and parts of her
ceiling would fall.
"I always felt in my head he was
going to do something bad," she
told the newspaper. "It was just a
feeling in my soul."
None of the residents of Canyon
Creek Apartments knew what he
did for a living.
Another neighbor, Ashley John-
son, said she had seen O'Rourke on
Friday morning just a few hours
before the shooting.
"I was opening my door and she
was just leaving," Johnson said.
"He closed his door really fast and
there was this weird chemical
smell. It smelled really weird in his
house."
Police said a propane tank was
found near O'Rourke's car and a
gas canister was found at a play-
ground at the school after the
shooting.
At about noon Friday, police
said O'Rourke parked his car,
jumped a fence and opened fire on
the crowded playground, hitting
a 6-year-old and 7-year-old in the
arms before construction workers
tackled him.
The girls were taken by helicop-
ter to Rady Children's Hospital.
The injuries were not life-threat-
ening and they are expected to
make a full recovery, Cain said.
Second-grader Caden Smith

said he ended up in a classroom
with injured girls.
"One, her arm was covered in
blood and all you could see was
red," Caden told the North County
Times. "The other, there wasn't
that much blood."
Third-grader Tommy Donahue
said he was playing outside when
he heard what sounded like fire-
crackers.
"Once the noise happened,
everybody decided to scream and
run for the classroom," Tommy
told the newspaper as he stood
next to his mother. "I felt safe in
the classroom."
O'Rourke was briefly taken to
Scripps Memorial Hospital then
booked at the Vista Jail.
Sheriff's deputies reached by
phone Saturday said they did not
know if he had hired a lawyer.
Parents, like professional surfer
Scott Chandler who lives across
the street, shudder to think of
what could have happened if the
man had not been stopped.
"He had some kind of mission
he was on and he didn't complete
it," Chandler said.
Chandler was repairing a Jet
Ski in his driveway when he heard
two loud bangs and saw children
running and screaming. He ran
downhill in his flip-flops and took
cover behind some tall Eucalyptus
trees while he called 911. He saw
several men struggling on the side
of the road.

Arturo Zamora, son of trapped miner Victor Zamora, looks at a cake during the celebration of his father's 34th birthdayat the
San Jose mine near Copiapo, Chile yesterday. His father is one of 33 miners trapped hundreds of feet underground.
"
Tense final hours ahead
for trapped Chile-m-iners'

NYC hate crime suspects arraigned

33 miners have
been trapped
underground for
two months
SAN JOSE MINE, Chile (AP) -
A smooth-walled path to daylight
awaited 33 trapped miners yes-
terday as they entered the tense
final hours of a two-month odys-
sey christened in the terror of col-
lapsing rock deep under a Chilean
mountain.
With the eyes of the world on
Chile's no-expense-spared effort
to ensure all the men emerge
unharmed, the miners' physical
and mental health was being fas-
tidiously monitored. Precautions
were taken against all manner of
complications - aspirin to pre-
vent blood clots, a special drink to
settle the stomach, video monitors
to watch for panic attacks.
And officials said the men
were so giddy with confidence
they were squabbling on Satur-
day, the day drills broke through
to them, over who would get to
be the last to- take a twisting,
20-minute ride the half-mile up

to a rock-strewn desert moon-
scape and into the embrace of
those they love.
A tentative but secret list was
drafted of which miners should
come out first when the extraction
begins, probably on Wednesday.
But Health Minister Jaime Mana-
lich said the otherwise coopera-
tive minerswere so sure of the exit
plan that they were arguing about
sequence.
"They were fighting with us
yesterday because everyone want-
ed to be at the end of the line, not
the beginning," he told reporters.
Manalich told The Associated
Press that a few had volunteered
in conversations among them-
selves to go up first. But none had
volunteered publicly, he said.
"I think they're more excited
than scared or nervous," Brandon
Fisher, president of Center Rock
Inc., the Pennsylvania company
that made the hammer-style drill
heads that created the opening
for the rescue, told AP. "That first
guy up might be a little nervous,
though."
The final order will probably
be determined by two paramed-
ics, one from the Navy and one
from the Codelco state mining

company, who will be lowered
into the mine to prepare the men
for their journey in a rescue cap-
sule built by Chilean naval engi-
neers.
Over the past week, all the
miners underwent tests to assess
their health. Manalich said offi-
cials were concerned about acute
hypertension in some of the min-
ers as well as the opposite - sud-
den drops in blood pressure - in
others because of the speed of the
ascent to the surface.
Another concern is blood clot-
ting. To counteract it, the miners
began taking 100 milligrams each
of aspirin yesterday, he said. They
will also put on compression socks
and a special girdle and will beon
a special high-calorie liquid pre-
pared and donated by NASA for
the final six hours before being
removed, Manalich said.
The liquid-only diet is to pre-
vent them from becoming nau-
seated. The rescue capsule is
expected to rotate 350 degrees
some10 to12 timesthroughcurves *
in the 28-inch-diameter escape
hole on its way up, he added.
Officials biggest worry was
panic attacks, the health minister
said.

Eight suspects
charged for torture,
anti-gay attacks
NEW YORK (AP) - Eight
gang suspects arrested in the
torture of two teenage boys
and a man in an anti-gay attack
were arraigned yesterday on
hate crime charges, standing in
a courtroom with their heads
down and their hands cuffed
behind them as their relatives
wept.
At the hearing, Assistant Dis-

trict Attorney Theresa Gottlieb
said that during the Oct. 3 attack
each victim was asked before
being beaten, "Is it true that
you're a fag?"
The charges against the defen-
dants include robbery, assault,
sexual abuse and unlawful
imprisonment as hate crimes.
The defendants didn't enter
pleas, and police were looking
for a ninth suspect, who had
been expected to turn himself in
but didn't show up.
The nine members of the Latin
King Goonies gang had heard
a rumor one of their teenage

recruits was gay and then found
the teen, stripped him, beat him
and sodomized him with a plung-
er handle until he confessed
to having had sex with a man,
police say. The gang members
then found a second teen they
suspected was gay and tortured
him and the man, police say.
The gang members found the
man by inviting him to a house,
telling him they were having
a party, police say. When he
arrived, they burned, beat and
tortured him for hours and sod-
omized him with a miniature
baseball bat, police say.

A



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 11, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, Octoher 11, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Poll: Snyder keeps
big lead in gov. race
Republican Rick Snyder retains
a wide lead over Democrat Virg
Bernero in the Michigan gover-
nor's race, according to a new poll
released yesterday.
Lansing-based EPIC-MRA says
49 percent of 600 likely Michigan
voters back Snyder and 29 per-
cent back Bernero, with 18 percent
undecided. Four percent prefer one
of three minor party candidates in
the race. A September EPIC-MRA
poll had Snyder ahead 53 percent to
29 percent.
The two telephone polls were
commissioned by the Detroit Free
Press and TV stations WXYZ,
WJRT, WOOD and WILX. The
most recent one surveyed 600 like-
ly voters statewide Oct. 3-7 and had
a margin of sampling error of plus
or minus 4 percentage points.
The polls show Bernero's state-
wide name recognition increased
from 81 percent to 89 percent in the
past month. Snyder's name is rec-
ognized by 92 percent.
PHILADELPHIA
Obama urges crowd
to show him the
energy of 08
President Barack Obama tried
to recapture some of the big-stage
excitement of his 2008 campaign
yesterday, imploring voters not to
reward what he called Republican
cynicism and incompetence by sit-
ting out the Nov. 2 elections.
The president delivered one
of his most stinging indictments
yet of the GOP record to several
thousand people under blue skies
in Philadelphia's Germantown
neighborhood.
Obama acknowledged that many
Americans are frustrated, espe-
cially about the economy. He said
Republicans have decided "to ride
that frustration and anger" with-
out providing solutions. And he
said congressional Republicans
deliberately opposed his adminis-
tration and the Democratic major-
ity on almost every issue, in hopes
that stalemate would depress Dem-
ocratic turnout in the midterm
elections.
"If I said there were fish in the
sea, they said 'no,"' the president
said. "Theyfigured 'if Ohama-fails,
then we win."'
BELGRADE, Serbia
0 Serb. police clash
with protesters
Serbian riot police fought run-
ning battles yesterday with thou-
sands of far-right supporters who
hurled Molotov cocktails and
stun grenades to try to disrupt
a gay pride march in downtown
Belgrade. More than 140 people
were hurt and more than 200 were
arrested, officials said.
Thousands of police officers
sealed off the streets in the capi-
tal where the march took place,
repeatedly clashing at several
locations with rioters who tried to
burst through security cordons.

Several parked cars were set on
fire or damaged, shop windows
were broken, garbage contain-
ers were overturned and streets
signs destroyed. Several shops
were looted before police restored
peace late afternoon.
The anti-gay rioters also fired
shots and threw Molotov cocktails
at the headquarters of the ruling
pro-Western Democratic Party,
setting the building's garage on
fire. The state TV building and
the headquarters of other politi-
cal parties were also attacked,
with many windows shattered by
stones.
BEIJING
Wife allowed to
meet imprisoned
Nobel winner
An imprisoned Chinese dis-
sident who won this year's Nobel
Peace Prize was allowed to meet
yesterday with his wife and told
her in tears that he was dedicat-
ing the award to victims of a 1989
military crackdown on pro-democ-
racy protesters, his wife and a close
friend said.
Liu Xia, the wife of democracy
campaigner Liu Xiaobo, said in a
Twitter message that his jailers
had informed him a day earlier of
his prize.
"Brothers, I have returned," Liu
wrote. "Seen Xiaobo, the prison
told him the news about his award
on the night of the 9th."
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION
Distinguished alumni help commemorate the 100th
anniversary of the political science department

By SARAH ALSADEN
For theDaily
The University's Department of
Political Science turned 100 years
old this year and to celebrate, the
department held panel presenta-
tions with renowned alumni - in
a variety of fields - who gradu-
ated with political science degrees
from the University.
In addition to celebrating the
department's 100th anniversary,
the events aimed to show current
political science majors the ver-
satility of their degree, accord-
ing to department officials. The
department also used the event to
celebrate its prestige and success
throughout its history.
Centennial celebrations began
Thursday with a screening at the
Michigan Theater of "Freedom's
Fury" - a documentary written
and directed by Colin Gray, a Uni-
versity alum and political science
major.
Gray was also the keynote
speaker for panel presentations
on Friday morning in the Michi-
gan Union Ballroom. Michigan Lt.
Gov. John Cherry, United Auto-
workers President Bob King and
Michigan Court of Appeals Judge
Kurtis T. Wilder also spoke at the
event.
During his lecture, Gray, who
is an independent filmmaker, dis-
cussed the benefits to his career
from his degree. He said his politi-
cal science degree influenced his
filmmaking and inspired him to
pursue an unconventional career
after he graduated from the Uni-
versity.
"I was starting to see how doc-
umentary filming is one of those
many jobs where there could be a
potentially unusual application of
a polisci degree," Gray said.
He added that political scien-
tists are trained to "seek out mul-
tiple perspectives" and identify
the causes of issues - a technique
Gray said he uses in the filmmak-
ing process.

ANNA SCHULTE/Daily
Political science department officials and other event attendees celebrate the department's1tOOth anniversary on Friday.

"(Filmmakers) seek out mul-
tiple people to interview and then
we weave that information into a
compelling narrative or story," he
said.
Public 'Policy junior Ajooni
Sethi, who attended the event,
said she enjoyed listening to Gray
and learning about issues like
social justice even though she is
not majoring in political science.
"I think it's great that (it was)
all-encompassing," Sethi said.
"What (Gray) was speaking about
wasn't just for political science
majors."
More than100 students, faculty
and alumni gathered to hear the
panelists speak. Stephen Snyder, a
recent graduate who came back to
the University for the celebration,
said he thought it was interesting

that Gray took a "different path"
with his political science degree.
"As a student you hear that if
you want to be successful in a cer-
tain field, you have to do x, y and
z," Snyder said. "You have to fol-
low a blueprint, but (Gray) went
so far outside the box, and he's
making a profound social impact
through his work by doing it in
such an unconventional way."
Planning for the centennial
celebration began last year, and
topics were chosen based on the
careers of the panelists, according
to Jenna Bednar, associate profes-
sor of political science and mem-
ber of the centennial planning
committee.
Bednar said the planning com-
mittee chose a variety of accom-
plished alumni to speak at the

event.
"Our goal was to find speakers
that represent the many different
things that people can do with a
political science degree," Bednar
said. "Many of our students go
into law but not all, and we wanted
people to see the variety of occu-
pations or career paths they could
follow with a political science
degree."
Bednar also said the celebra-
tion is meant to showcase how the
department has maintained its
strong academic standing for the
past 100 years.
"We're unrivalled ... the politi-
cal science department has a his-
tory of being number one, number
two, number three (in rankings)
and again we're right there," Bed-
nar said. "Even though the depart-

ment has changed so much over
the years, we have changed in a
way that has kept us strong."
Charles Shipan, chair of the
political science department,
,said students with political sci-
ence degrees pursue a variety of
careers. Some have become active
in local politics, but others have
pursued careers outside of the
political arena like business and
law, he said.
"I think there are other people
who major in political science and
find it a fascinating topic of study
who are then just going to simply
use the skills they've gotten like
the ability to ask questions, think
deeply about an issue and the abil-
ity to think about evidence and
will take it in a completely differ-
ent direction," he said.

Death row inmate seeks DNA analysis

Convicted murderer
says new tests will
prove innocence
LIVINGSTON, Texas (AP) - An
ex-con sent to Texas' death row for
three murders and spared from
execution earlier this year by the
U.S. Supreme Court is set to take
his case before the high court,
which may decide whether his
attorneys cantest items for DNA he
claims could prove his innocence.
Hank Skinner was convicted
of pummeling his girlfriend with
a pickax handle and stabbing her
two sons on New Year's Eve in 1993
in their Texas Panhandle home.

DNA evidence at his trial showed
blood on his clothing from that
night was his and from at least two
of the victims.
The Supreme Court will hear
arguments Wednesday on whether
prison inmates may use a federal
civil rights law to get DNA test-
ing that was not performed before
their conviction. Prosecutors in
Skinner's case have refused to
make some evidence available for
DNA testing, including knives
from the scene and a jacket next to
one of the bodies.
The arguments come seven
months after the Supreme Court
spared Skinner just an hour before
he was to go to the death chamber.
Justices said then they wanted to

postpone his execution until they
decided whether to review his
case.
"The relief Mr. Skinner seeks
is simple and limited: the oppor-
tunity to obtain access to physical
evidence for the purpose of con-
ducting DNA testing," Rob Owen,
a University of Texas law professor
and Skinner's lead attorney, said in
a brief to the high court.
Gray County District Attorney
Lynn Switzer has refused to sur-
render the items and lower courts
agreed with her, saying Texas law
already gave Skinner "plenty of
opportunity" to show additional
testing could prove his innocence.
Skinner, a former convicted car
thief and parole violator, was try-

ing to "game the system," Switzer
said.
Prosecutors have said there's
no evidence to conclusively prove
Skinner wasn't the killer and that
ample evidence exists to show he is
guilty. They also contend new DNA
testing "would not affirmatively
prove anything."
"They're fixing to kill me for
something I didn't do," Skinner,
48, said last December from a tiny
visiting cage outside death row as
his execution date neared.
To head off the scheduled March
execution, his legal team renewed
its appeals seeking release of evi-
dence for new DNA testing.
Since the Supreme Court jus-
tices agreed to look at the case, the

high court ruled in a DNA-related
case from Alaska that convicts
have no constitutional right to test
genetic evidence to try to show
their innocence. The court said it
would not second-guess states or
force them routinely to look again
at criminal convictions.
Attorneys for Switzer, citing
that case, argued in court briefs
that Skinner's lawyers hoped to
get federal district courts involved
in "second-guessing the decisions
of state courts" under state DNA
statutes. They also noted his trial
lawyer chose not to test items Skin-
ner now wants access to, and that
using the civil rights law was an
improper attempt to circumvent
other appeals already refused.

Fed. govt to try detainee
without its star witness

Coor&Ceign Grep,
208 E. Washington St. Ann Arbor. MI 48104
(734) 997-7030 www~scionxi.com
Featuring Products by
Kg RASTASE
--Uals

U.S. not appealing
NY decision to
ban witness
NEW YORK (AP) - The U.S.
government announced yesterday
it would prosecute the first Guan-
tanamo Bay detainee to face a civil-
ian trial without its star witness
because appealing a judge's ruling
excluding him could cause signifi-
cant delay and inconvenience other
witnesses and victims.
Besides, the government said in
a letter to U.S. District Judge Lewis
A. Kaplan, there was enough evi-
dence without the star witness to
convict Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani
of conspiring in1998 to blow up two
U.S. embassies in Africa, killing 224
people, including a dozen Ameri-
cans.
The decision by the government
not to appeal clears the way for
the trial to resume Tuesday, when
openingstatements are expected to
begin after a jury is chosen from a
pool of about 65 potential jurors in
Manhattan.
Inthe letter,Assistant U.S. Attor-
ney Michael Farbiarz said the gov-
ernment disagreed with the judge's
decision and would have appealed
it under different circumstances.

But he said many trial witnesses
had planned to come to New York
based on the long-scheduled date
of the trial and some might even be
unwilling or unable to return if the
trial faced a significant delay.
He said many victims have
already arrived in New York after a
long wait to see Ghailani face trial
after having traveled significant
distances.
"Anappeal at thisjjuncture would
obviously cause a delay - a delay of
uncertain, and perhaps significant,
length," the letter said. "Weighing
all of the circumstances, the gov-
ernment does not wish to delay the
trial in order to take an appeal."
The judge had handed the gov-
ernment a significant setback days
earlier when he ruled that the star
witness, Hussein Abebe, a former
cab driver from Tanzania, could not
testify that Ghailani bought explo-
sives from him. The judge said the
government learned about Abebe
when Ghailani underwent a coer-
cive interrogation at a secret CIA-
run camp overseas.
"The court has not reached this
conclusion lightly," the judge wrote
in his decision. "It is acutely aware
of the perilous nature of the world
in which we live. But the Consti-
tution is the rock upon which our
nation rests. We must follow it not

when it is convenient, but when fear
and danger beckon in a different
direction."
During that hearing, defense
lawyer Peter Quijano tried to show
that Abebe felt coerced to testify
because he feared law enforcement,
but Abebe insisted that was not so.
Another lawyer for Ghailani,
Steve Zissou, said the government's
decision not to appeal was "a signif-
icant victory for the Constitution."
"As we saw duringlhis testimony,
Mr. Abebe was hardly a credible
witness," Zissou said.
Ghailani has been accusedby the
government of being a bomb maker,
document forger and aide to Osama
bin Laden. He has pleaded not
guilty and has denied knowingthat
TNT and oxygen tanks he delivered
would be used to make a bomb.
There was little controversy
when Ghailani was brought to
New York for trial in 2009, but
the subject of where totry detain-
ees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
became heated after Attorney
General Eric Holder announced
last November that professed
Sept. 11 attacks mastermind Kha-
lid Sheikh Mohammed and four
others would be tried blocks from
where the World Trade Center
stood. Holder later said he was
reconsidering the decision.


4A - Monday, October 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL SIMONAT SIMKAL(@EUMICH.EDU

e Nic ICI~ian 4 atlV
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

SIMON BORST


4

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

I-,

/fis

r
_

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A rebound for Detroit
Chance of new arena should prompt Pistons's move
A s owners of the Red Wings and Tigers, Mike and
Marian Illitch control a 50-percent share of Detroit's
professional sports teams. Now, the Illitch family is
on its way to owning another of Detroit's big-name teams -
the Pistons. Mike Illitch is in negotiations to buy the Pistons.
He has also discussed obtaining tax incentives and funding
for the construction of a new Pistons venue downtown with
Detroit Mayor Dave Bing. Though moving the Pistons back
to Detroit would certainly aid the local economy, the city's
$85-million budget deficit is a considerable obstacle. If the
funding for the transition is handled responsibly, the Pis-
tons should move back to downtown Detroit.


0

Debate to educate

On Tuesday, multiple news outlets report-
ed that current Pistons owner Karen David-
son has decided to exclusively offer Illitch
30 days to make a bid on the team. A pur-
chase by Illitch, in conjunction with the
move back to Detroit, has the potential to
result in the construction of a joint venue
downtown to house the Pistons and the Red
Wings. Illitch has worked with Detroit in
the past to build sporting venues. In 2000,
he was involved in the construction of the
Tiger's Comerica Park, which cost a total
of $300 million to build - $115 million of
which was publicly funded, according to a
2006 Daily article.
A major roadblock in this new project
is whether or not Detroit can afford to
import the team. The city would have to
fund a large portion of any efforts to build
a new stadium, as well as negotiate tax
cuts and incentives at the expense of the
city's budget. With the budget's already
significant deficit in mind, Bing has stated
that the city may not be in the position to
offer Illitch any incentives, accordingto an
Oct. 5 USA Today article.
But the city could certainly use the extra
revenue. Detroit's ailing economy has
become an old story. Bringing the Pistons

back to the center of the city could help to
breathe new life into the struggling metrop-
olis. Building the new venue would also
provide employment for contractors and
construction companies. The Pistons have
led the NBA in attendance five out of the
last nine seasons, accordingto their website.
The new venue would create increased rev-
enue for surrounding businesses and pro-
vide jobs for local residents. Fans attending
games at a downtown arena would patron-
ize area bars, restaurants, gas stations and
hotels, among other businesses.
Should the plan for a new Pistons
venue downtown come to fruition, Illitch
shouldn't let the Palace become an eco-
nomic drain on Auburn Hills. Ideally,
Illitch would be able to unload the venue
to prospective buyers or keep it alive for
concerts and other performances.
Detroit would be a winner if all goes as
planned. Illitch has a proven track record
as a successful businessman and, more
importantly, as a successful Detroit sports
team owner. The remaining question is
whether city's government could afford
the move. But it's clear that the Detroit 'is-
tons should move back to the city that they
are named for.

Y esterday, an epic saga came to could only hurt his lead.
an end. Republican gubernato- Though I recognize that holding a
rial candidate Rick Snyder and debatemaynothavebeenthebestdeci-
Democratic candi- sion from a campaign-management
date Virg Bernero point of view, I'm glad that Snyder and
finally faced off in a Bernero got to face off. Debates can be
debate. boring - especially to college students
Okay, the saga butthey're important.
wasn't that epic. I don't think that debates are
But it was quite a important for the same reason that a
journey to get Sny- lot of people do - I don't think that
der-anAnnArbor they actually help people make up
businessman and their minds. They may occasionally
University alum - RACHEL be the tipping factor for undecided
and Bernero - the voters, but I think that, for the most
mayor of Lansing part, people already know who's
- to the debate going to get their vote when they sit
they participated down to watch the debate on TV.
in last night at a Detroit Public Tele- Instead, the value of these debates
vision studio. is that they inform voters about the
Snyder initially rejected Bernero's nuances of the state's problems and
requests for a debate. Negotiations the candidate's solutions. These can-
stalled after the number and type of didates don'thave the time in al-min-
debates was disputed by Snyder. But ute TV ad to explain their stance on
Bernero was persistent. He resorted the economy. And the chances of
to a bit of name-calling and eventu- voters actually reading through the
ally showed up unannounced at a huge chunks of text on candidates'
town hall meeting Synder was hold- websites to learn about tax breaks are
ing on Sept. 13. Snyder, unable to tell slim to none. But at a debate, viewers
Bernero to buzz off without looking can get a concise description of can-
really bad, invited Bernero on stage didates' plans that are easy to under-
to hold an impromptu debate. Shortly stand and help them learn about the
thereafter, the two finally hammered problems and possible solutions. And
out a deal to hold a formal, televised if candidates manage to strike a chord
debate. In all likelihood, this will be with voters during these debates,
the only public debate the two have. maybe those websites will see a bit
It's no surprise that Bernero pushed more traffic.
so hard for a debate - or that Snyder The problem with these sorts of
seemed reluctant. Bernero has trailed political debates is that they almost
in the polls since he won the primary always turn into a whole lot of mud-
election in August and he needs to get slinging. Candidates shoot poorly-
his face and plan out to more voters. veiled barbs at one another, trying
Meanwhile, Snyder's "Nerd" cam- to convince voters that their oppo-
paign has paid off well. People know nent is either a) a horrible person, b)
his name, and things are looking pret- incompetent or c) corrupt. Instead of
ty good for him - he's still ahead by a frank discussion about how to deal
about 20 points in the polls, according with the state's problems, debates are
to a Sunday Detroit Free Press article. always layered with competitive sub-
He probably figured that any debate text. But I suppose that's unavoidable

in the context of elections. Candi-
dates need to make themselves seem
better than their opponents to garner
votes if they want to win. But that
imperative makes people miss out on
the value of real discussion.
Healthy discourse
is needed to move
society forward.
As editorial page editor of the
Daily, I love informed discussion. I
thrive on it. I believe in an individu-
al's right to express an opinion (let's
all take a moment to appreciate the
First Amendment) and the respon-
sibility to listen to another's point
of view and consider what they have
to say. You don't have to agree with
someone with an opposing point of
view, but a diverse set of thoughts
will help you refine your own opin-
ions. That's one of the reasons that I
- a conservative - can handle work-
ing at a traditionally liberal newspa-
per. It's also why I value responsive
content like viewpoints and letters to
the editor, which encourage thought-
ful debate on campus.
As usual, both candidates implied
negative things about their oppo-
nent at last night's debate - Bernero
wasted no time in stating that Sny-
der was nowhere to be found when
the automotive industry fell. But we
also learned about the candidates and
their plans to fix Michigan. And the
education is what makes that debate
worth the time.
- Rachel Van Gilder can be
reached at rachelvg@umich.edu.

BRITTANY SMITH I
Closing the education gap

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for clarity, length and factual accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

What evolved as a dream for a group of stu-
dents in 1995 has today catapulted into a move-
ment for thousands of others. In the fashion of
great activists, children of the Freedom Move-
ment and students from Sam Brinkley Middle
School in Jackson, Mississippi organized them-
selves to help create a world of which they
would want to bea part.
These budding activists are helping to cre-
ate a society in which students of working class
families receive an exemplary education rather
than merely a "fair" one. Together, Taba and
Omo Moses - Civil Rights leaders and current
Harvard Professor Bob Moses' children - and
Khari Milner partnered with Brinkley Middle
School to create The Young People's Project.
The Young People's Project was crafted
from the belief that math literacy could impact
social change. In the United States, haves and
have-nots are often distinguished by their
quality of education. YPP was founded with
the conviction that the only way to minimize
this country's socio-economic disparity is to
challenge the achievement gap - specifically
in mathematics.
Solving the education conundrum is on the
YPP national agenda. But education problems
are also local, and can be confronted when
students have a shared interest in education
reform. Students from the University's Ann
Arbor and Dearborn campuses co-exist within
YPP's organizational framework, which also
includes Eastern Michigan University movers
and shakers like Morghan Williams. The coali-
tion also includes students like Khalid Sarsour
- former Lincoln High School Math literacy
worker and current student at the University
of Michigan's Dearborn campus - and the Uni-
versity at Ann Arbor student leaders like Natalie
Erb and Jacob Tanner.
Though the Ann Arbor site of YPP is cur-
rently undergoing dramatic financial budget
cuts, this setback hasn't decreased members'
optimism. Instead, it has created greater pos-
sibility for growth.
The cuts that YPP has experienced have
affected such schools as Lincoln High School

in Ypsilanti and Cesar Chavez Academy High
School in Detroit, where YPP sites no longer
exist. But the spirit of YPP is very much alive in
the Ypsilanti community and the lives of Lin-
coln High School students. According to the
Ann Arbor interim program director, Alexandra
Tracy, high school students like Nana Nyarko,
Nikita Miner, Aysha Williams and Amber Cobbs
are emerging activists. They are working inde-
pendently and with YPP's College Math Liter-
acy Workers to increase funding for sites that
have lost sponsorship. Under the guidance of
Sarsour, these students even formed their own
YPP club, meeting without former YPP staff.
By being plugged into the Detroit and Ann
Arbor-Ypsilanti communities, YPP is not only
changing the expectations of math achievement
for high school and middle school students, but
also cultivating power within the neighbor-
hoods and student communities around the
University of Michigan, Eastern Michigan Uni-
versity and Washtenaw Community College.
The idea is to increase the involvement of col-
lege students in the Flint and Detroit areas, like
those attending Wayne State University and the
University of Michigan's Flint campus.
I'm confident that YPP will eventually
receive the financial backing it needs to con-
tinue to foster visible growth in secondary
education because of its ability to build a coali-
tion by tapping into the community power at
the local level.
The only thing interfering with the students
disadvantaged by this country's wide-spread
achievement gap is their quality of learning.
YPP is challenging this problem by making use
of a child's potential at the grassroots level.
The Young People's Project is important to
the social progress of this country. This orga-
nization has created an alternative approach
for the academic inequalities of this country.
Its method is not slanted by the views of the left
or right wing. However, they are motivated by
the effects of social exclusion, which lend to an
unequal public school education.
Brittany Smith is an LSA junior.

The accidental boom?

Feeling drunk, tired, sleepy and
jilted, a young college student
decided to blog about it.
He was imma-
ture and said some
silly things about
the girl who broke
his heart ("All B-U
girls are bitches.").
But from that mad
moment, Mark
Zuckerberg was
well on his way to
founding Facebook, IMRAN
the $25-billion SYED
company that we
can't imagine being
without. (I under-
stand that this story, as told in the film
"The Social Network," is fictionalized
at every turn. But that makes no differ-
ence atthe moment)
When a friend ventured that the
Facebook idea could be worth big
money, Zuckerberg simply shrugged
it off, saying he was content with
building something cool. From Zuck-
erberg's timeless accident, we can
gather that even big, world-changing
things don't always announce their
arrival. Faith is essential on the road
to accomplishment.
Innovation for innovation's sake
isn't only a good idea, but in some
cases, it's also the only way forward.
We won't always see how our efforts
today will pay off in the future, but
we can rest assured that progress
today is better than sitting idly by and
waiting for a miracle.
This is something Michigan's law-
makers seem to have forgotten.
Four years ago, Michigan's three
largest research universities - the
University of Michigan, Michigan
State University and Wayne State Uni-
versity - united to create the Universi-
ty Research Corridor. From the outset,
the URC was more of an idea than any-
thing tangible. The three universities
always have and always will conduct
world-class research on a vast array of

subjects, but this union allowed them
to officially stand together.
The bargaining advantage that
unity brings matters because the three
universities of the URC want more
money from the state. As University
President Mary Sue Coleman told the
state House Appropriations Subcom-
mittee on Higher Education earlier
this year: "If we had more resources,
we could do more and do it faster."
State lawmakers remain skeptical
though, and that's no surprise, given
Michigan's rich heritage of under-
funding its public universities.
To the average state lawmaker,
increasing funding to state universi-
ties in a time of such financial hardship
would take an immense leap of faith.
The URC universities have continued
to provide world-class educations to
thousands of students and conduct cut-
ting-edge research, but can the state
really afford toinvest more?
It's a dilemma not unlike the one
early investors in the Facebook idea
struggled with. The social network-
ing site was taking off and seemed to
have a good following on Ivy-League
campuses, but was it really an Earth-
shattering event waiting to happen?
Could Facebook really go from a
fun distraction for college nerds to
something the world would embrace
as an essential part of personal inter-
action? They simply couldn't have
known. Investors just had to look at
the 20-year-old Harvard dropout
across the table from them and trust
that he was building the next big
thing - a thing their old minds would
never understand.
With political diatribes and misin-
formation swirling in the lead-up to
the November election, there is plenty
of talk about cutting costs. Like always,
certain lawmakers find it easy to score
a point with the base by contending
that universities are wasteful and train
mostly students who bolt from Michi-
gan the momentthey graduate. But this
type of talk is useless.

Clearly something is broken in
Michigan, and years of siphoning
funds away from universities hasn't
exactly turned things around. Michi-
gan lawmakers failed to take the leap
of faith at every turn in recent decades,
and the innovation boom came instead
to places like California and Mas-
sachusetts, while Michigan fell into
ruin. But it's not too late.

01

The URC is an
investment worthy
of our attention. 0
As stated in an economic report
released last week, the URC three
have contributed $14.8 billion to the
state's economy since 2007. At a time
when so many of the state's other,
desperate attempts at revival are fail-
ing, the three research universities
have brought money and activity to
this state and that has begun the turn-
around even while state lawmakers sit
on their hands.
Investing in this fledgling thing
called the URC is almost a no-brainer
at this point, given that we've already
begun to see results. Business people
in the know (California venture capi-
talist Tom Baruch, for example) are
already talking: Michigan is a place
to watch. We don't feel it yet, but S
efforts like the one research universi-
ties have made alone for the past few
decades are about to pay off.
We've built something here and
don't even know it: With any luck,
Michigan could emerge from its hang-
over smarter, stronger and wealthier.
The sooner state lawmakers jump on 0
board, the better.
- Imran Syed can be reached
at galad@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt.
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Laura Veith

i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

One-man offense a huge problem

From Page 1A
to mention a blow to Robinson's
confidence.
"It's frustrating to see him strug-
gle because I know he was trying so
hard," offensive coordinator Calvin
Magee said.
After the game, Michigan coach
Rich Rodriguez reminded the media
of Robinson's youth. Saturday's
game was only his sixth start, and
that explains some of the missed
reads. Robinson said he was too
excited at times, particularly when
he overthrew Darryl Stonum in the
endzone early in the game.
If there was one thing to take
away from the coaching staff and
players in the postgame press
conferences and interviews, it's
this: Nobodyis concerned about
Robinson. His coaches think he'll
learnfromhis missed reads, and his
teammates think he'll grow from his
struggles.
Robinson addressed his team-
mates in the locker room after the
game, according to slot receiver
Kelvin Grady.
"He told the guys he doesn't
like this feeling. He doesn't ever
want to feel this way again," Grady
said. "I really liked that. It showed
a lot about him. I think he's really
growing as a quarterback and as a
person."
Grady refused to call Robin-
son's performance a "letdown"
SINCLAIR
From Page 1A
At the event on Saturday, Sinclair
said that despite his time in jail for
marijuana possession, he remains
an avid user of the drug. He added
that he is pleased with Ann Arbor's
current policy of fining first-time
violators a fee of $25 for marijua-
na possession instead of making
arrests.
"When I come to Ann Arbor I
don't have to worry about getting
arrested ... it's agoodthing," Sinclair
told the audience, many of whom
were using the drug during his talk.
In addition to discussing the
marijuana incident, Sinclair spoke
of his time as a leader of the White
Panther Party - a civil rights orga-

CANVASSING
From Page 1A
pus including the University's
chapter of the American Civil Lib-
erties Union and the University's
chapters of the College Democrats
and College Republicans support
the interim policy, but leaders say
more needs to be done to allow for
increased political engagement in
University Housing.
According to a press release
issued by the University's chap-
ter of the American Civil Liber-
ties Union on Friday, the next
logical step for the University is
to allow students living off cam-
pus to canvass in University resi-
dences.
LSA senior Mallory Jones,
chair of the University's ACLU
chapter and a former news edi-
tor for The Michigan Daily, wrote
in an e-mail interview that since
residence halls are composed
primarily of freshmen, these
students may not be able to get
detailed information from more
experienced political canvassers
- who are often upperclassmen -
under the new policy.
"Upperclassmen who don't
live in the residence halls have
experience in political canvass-
ing and knowledge about the Ann
Arbor area that freshimen are still
gathering," she wrote. "If fresh-
men have questions about voting
or certain candidates and issues,
an upperclassman going door-to-
door is much more likely to be able
to help out than a freshman that
has only been on campus a few
weeks."
She added that door-to-door
canvassing, when done in a
respectful way, can be one of the
most effective methods of spread-
ing political knowledge on cam-

Monday, October 11, 2010 - 5A
pus.
"To have someone come to your
door and ask you if you are regis-
tered to vote will get your atten-
tion, even if seeing a table on the
Diag didn't," she wrote.
LSA junior Brendan Campbell,
chair of the University's chapter
of the College Democrats, said the
group plans to take full advantage
of the canvassing privilege to help
generate interest in politics, but
that the policy is too restrictive.
"We need a permanent solution
that reflects not only the realities
of the First Amendment, but also
the University's purpose of build-
ing an intelligent and informed
citizenry for our state and for our
country," Campbell wrote in the
press release.
LSA senior Charles Bogren,
president of the University's
chapter of the College Repub-
licans, said the College Repub-
licans are pleased to have the
opportunity to canvass in Uni-
versity Housing, but he would
like to see the University reach
out to student groups for input
when developing new policies
related to canvassing.
"We definitely believe that
everyone, whether they live in the
dorms, an apartment or a house,
should be able to be involved in
the political process," Bogren
said. "We try our best to reach out
to voters. For a lot of people on
campus, this is their first chance
to be involved in the (political)
process and be involved in a cam-
paign."
The interim policy will remain
in place until March 2011, and
according to a press release issued
by the College Democrats, the
University has agreed to con-
struct a permanent policy in coop-
eration with the Residence Halls
Association.

Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson ge
and challenged fans who expect
record-breaking numbers from their
quarterback every weekend.
"This doesn't take away from
anything he's done," Grady said.
"He's doinggwell, and lie did fine. He
had a couple of mistakes but it hap-
pens. It's football."
But there's still a problem when
you'vegot an offense that relies
so heavily on one player, particu-
larly with a shaky defense. That one
nization established in 1968 that
was active in Ann Arbor.
"The idea was to build a mass
movement among, basically, young
white people in America to over-
throw the government, to have a
revolution," Sinclair said, sparking
laughter from the audience. "We
thought the idea of building a mass
movement was the only way that
we could make a change."
The party was renamed the
Rainbow People's Party in 1971 to
eliminate violent connotations with
the original name. Sinclair said the
decision to rename the party was
a smart move because it helped
recruit peaceful activists.
In addition to talking about his
life and experiences, Sinclair also
discussed current issues, with top-
ics ranging from the meaning of life

ts tackled by Michigan State's Chris L. Rucker on Saturday at Michigan Sta

player must play great every week
because even good isn't good enough
to carry the team on his shoulders.
When Robinson accounted for 94
percent of the Wolverines' offense
against Notre Dame a month ago, it
was astonishing - almost laughable.
But nobody's laughing now. Michi-
gan learned in an all-too-painful
way that it can't have a one-player
team with no backup plan. Upcom-
ing opponents will watch the tape
to the current state of downtown
Detroit. When audience members
asked about Detroit, Sinclair said
he was saddened by the hopeless-
ness and desperation enveloping
the city.
"Detroit had its future stripped
from it 35 years ago," Sinclair said.
"All the white people moved out
and took the money and jobs with
them. Flint and Detroit are the
monuments to the utter heartless-
ness of the capitalist system."
University students said they
were enlightened by Sinclair's
words.
"I think it's really great that
(Sinclair spoke)," LSA freshman
Katherine Globerson said. "I think
it's a step toward giving people
another perspective, whether they
agree or not. I hope that there are

of Saturday's game, and they will
mimic Michigan State's defensive
strategies.
"I'm not the only weapon on
offense," Robinson said.
There's a difference between a
handgun and a butter knife, though,
and Michigan needs to have some
more weapons in between.
- Auerbach can be reached
at naauer a mrnich.edu.
people here that found this to be
fresh."
LSA freshman Olivia Wallace
said she also enjoyed Sinclair's talk
adding that he is "teaching people
and making them think beyond
what we're sort of conditioned to
think."
At the end of his speech, Sinclair
left audience members with words
of advice. He said. things like the
media and money distract people
from more important pursuits and
it's crucial to band together, share
resources and not sell out.
"Develop a concern for other
people, for humans," Sinclair said.
"It's important to understand more,
and to try and figure out more,
about what it all means. I don't
know myself, but I'm gonna try and
find out."

WANT TO WRITE FOR
THE DAILY'S NEWS
SECTION?
Send an e-mail to
berman@michigandaily.com to
get started.


:,,
: ~
,
e
., _
x
.

I


6A - Monday, October 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Al- Oaida inAlgeria seen as threat to Europe RALLY
~ ~ ..L'~From Page lA

Group seeks millions
by kidnapping
Europeans
ALGIERS, Algeria (AP) -
While Europe's latest terror threat
stems from militants in Pakistan,
a potentially greater menace lies
just across the Mediterranean:
Well-organized and financed
Islamic terrorists from al-Qaida's
North African offshoot.
Over the last month alone, the
group has been accused of seizing
five French nationals and two Afri-
cans from a mining town in Niger,
part of its effort to make millions
by kidnapping Europeans and get-
ting ransoms. It is also blamed for
a truck bombing last Saturday in
Algeria that left five soldiers dead.
DEBATE
From Page 1A
encourage business growth, with
Bernero supporting the tax incen-
tives, while Snyder expressed his
opposition.
"I believe it's a question of
math, not politics," Bernero said.
"If the economic incentives are
working, we're going to use them."
But Snyder said the state needs
a different solution altogether.
"Instead of putting a Band-Aid
on something, let's fix the under-
lying issue," Snyder said. "As we
get our act together, there should
be much fewer needs for incen-
tives in general."
The candidates debated their
plans for improving public edu-
cation in the state, specifically in
regard to providing funding for
higher education.
"We're truly blessed with one
of the best (higher education) sys-
tems in the world," Snyder said.
"But we need to engage them more
in the process."
Both candidates agreed on the
importance of higher education
as a key way to help Michigan
emerge from the recession.
"Education is economic devel-
opment," Bernero said.
Bernero said the state's higher

Al-Qaida in the Islamic
Maghreb effectively rules a wide,
lawless swath of the Sahara and
is trying to overthrow Algeria's
government. It's active online and
media-savvy, and has the globally
recognized al-Qaida brand name.
It has also sparked arrests in Spain
and France.
The question now is how far it
has the will and means to turn its
anger on Europe.
French and U.S. counterintel-
ligence officials suggest AQIM's
logistics and networks aren't yet
mature enough to stage an attack
on a European capital, but say
it's a broad and constant threat.
France's prime minister said Fri-
day that the group is in touch with
fellow fighters in Afghanistan and
Pakistan.
The U.S. military is worried
education focus needs to be on
lowering tuition and keeping
graduates in the state.
"We want to stop the brain
drain," Bernero said.
If elected, Bernero also said
he intends to restore the Michi-
gan Promise Scholarship, which
was cut during the state's budget
negotiations for the 2010 fiscal
year. The scholarship, which the
state funded at a cost of about
$100 million, aided about 96,000
college students in Michigan and
was awarded based on a test taken
in high school. Bernero quickly
pointed out that Snyder opposes
restoring the program, and Syn-
der didn't rebut this statement.
But Snyder did agree that
Michigan's commitment to higher
education is crucial to the state's
success.
"It's one of the great assets of
our state," Snyder said.
The moderators also asked
the candidates about a variety of
social issues like abortion, affir-
mative action and gay marriage
- all of which the two candidates
took opposite stances on.
When asked about affirma-
tive action, Bernero said there's
not much the state can do since
the Michigan Constitution was
amended in 2006 to include an
affirmative action ban. Snyder

enough that it trains African
armies to resist AQIM.
"For years, I've said this - and
we've known - that AQIM has
capabilities to project outwards
outside of Africa. ... It's just that
no one understands the dynamics
from Europe to Africa and back to
Afghanistan," said Rudolph Atal-
lah, retired from his post as Afri-
ca Counterterrorism Director in
the office of the U.S. Secretary of
Defense and who now runs private
security firm White Mountain
Research,
"Can AQIM carry out an attack
in Europe? Yeah, I think so."
For Europe, homegrown ter-
rorists have long been a central
concern. French authorities watch
out for dual nationals who fall
under AQIM's spell, via extremist
websites or preachers in private
said he supports preferences rath-
er than quotas when it comes to
affirmative action.
At the close of the debate, Ber-
nero took the opportunity to high-
light his vision for Michigan's
future, which he says emphasizes
"Main Street" over "Wall Street."
"I believe we can and will make
Michigan work again," Bernero
said.
In his closing remarks, Snyder
said there is a dire need to change
politics in the state in order to get
Michigan up and running again.
"It is time to reinvent Michi-
gan," Snyder said. "The way we're
going to do that is with a clear,
positive vision. We need to move
from being negative to positive."
Brendan Campbell, chair of the
University's chapter of College
Democrats, said he was extreme-
ly happy with Bernero's perfor-
mance during the debate.
"I think the choice is clear for
Michigan students and Michigan-
ders across the country that Virg
Bernero is the candidate that is
most fit to lead the state of Michi-
gan," Campbell said. "He came out
strong tonight."
Campbell said Bernero's
response on public education
really stood out to him. After
watching the debate, Cambell said
Bernero proved he values stu-

prayer meetings in poor suburbs.
Algerian militants who blended
in with Europe's large North Afri-
can immigrant community were
linked to the 2004 Madrid bomb-
ings and killed dozens of people
in the 1990s in attacks in the Paris
Metro.
"If unfortunately a terrorist
operation occurs, it will come from
networks within those European
nations," said Mohand Berkouk,
political scientist at the University
of Algiers who specalizes in Saha-
ra and Sahel geostrategy.
The U.S. government warned
Americans this week of new ter-
ror risks in Europe. Focus fell on
Pakistan, where U.S. drones have
struck suspected al-Qaida targets
and where Pakistani officials say
eight German militants have been
killed.
dents' best interests much more
than his opponent.
"He consistently stresses the
importance that higher educa-
tion plays in Michigan and in the
future of Michigan," Campbell
said.
Charles Bogren, chair of the
University's chapter of College
Republicans, said he was pleased
with Snyder's responses. Berne-
ro's attacks on Snyder were espe-
cially noteworthy, Bogren said.
"I think what stood out the
most was that Virg didn't seem to
really talk about anything other
than how Rick Snyder is apparent-
ly a bad person because he is liv-
ing the American dream," Bogren
said.
Though each candidate con-
veyed their plans for higher edu-
cation well, Bogren said Snyder's
solutions are a better fit for the
state.
"Rick's plan, definitely, espe-
cially when coupled with the rest
of his economic time, is far better
for not only higher education but
for the rest of the state," Bogren
said.
One weakness of Snyder's per-
formance though was his lack of
debate skills, Bogren said.
"He isn't a career politician,"
Bogren said. "He hasn't done mil-
lions of debates in his life."

National Black Justice Coalition,
Adam Taylor, a graduate student
at Grand Valley State University,
Dr. Penny Gardner, president of
Lansing Association for Human
Rights, Cheryl Vandekerkhove, a
member of LAHR, and Veronica
Piechotte, founder of Michigan
Resource Center for Safe Schools.
Cyberbullying has gained
recent attention in Michigan
and the University community
after an assistant attorney gen-
eral for the state of Michigan,
Andrew Shirvell, created a blog
called Chris Armstrong Watch,
which accused the MSA president
of promoting a "radical homo-
sexual agenda" on campus. In
addition, the blog also attacked
Armstrong's friends and family
members.
The issue of cyberbulling has
also gained prevalence across
the nation, as nine students from
across the country committed
suicide in the last few weeks after
they were bullied by peers because
of their sexual orientation.
Each of the speakers empha-
sized that students have always
been subjected to harassment and
bullying, but lawmakers and citi-
zens are finally speaking out in an
effort to stop these behaviors and
call attention to the serious reper-
cussions they can have.
In her speech, Gardner said
respect should be given to every-
one and that the LGBTQ commu-
nity should not have to work to .
earn the respect of others.
Taylor, who gives speeches on
bullying across the country and
has appeared on mtvU during
Suicide Prevention Week, said
parents and schools need to moni-
tor the use of social media sites at
home and in the classroom.

"Students may get online and
harass and bully and say the most
horrendous things you would
never say in person because
there's no one to enforce a reac-
tion to it," Taylor said in an inter-
view before the rally.
At the event, Brown urged gov-
ernment intervention into the
issue of bullying.
"Kids have been killing them-
selves about this for a long time ...
how much longer do we keep say-
ing, 'Well, it gets better.' We have
to reach a point to where we say,
'Let's take the next step. What can
we do?"' Brown said in an inter-
view.
Each of the speakers stressed
the urgency of the issue and
encouraged the public to show
support for safer school environ-
ments and legislation against bul-
lying.
The speakers also offered
ways in which people outside the
LGBTQ community can show sup-
port for the issue and ensure the
rights and respect of members of
the community who face discrim-
ination.
Taylor asked everyone pres-
ent at the rally to enter the phone
number for "The Trevor Project"
in their cell phones, which can be
dialed to report incidents of dis-
crimination or bullying against a
member of the LGBTQ commu-
nity. The Trevor Project is a non-
profit organization that serves as
a suicide prevention hotline for
LGBTQ youth and has answered
more than 100,000 calls since it
began.
David Baum, a Michigan State
University undergraduate stu-
dent who attended the rally, said
he feels the event helped raise
awareness about issues of bully-
ing.
"The speakers were inspira-
tional ... it gives hope for LGBT
youth," he said.

WANT TO READ THE
DAILY ON YOUR
CELL PHONE?
Check out: m.michigandailycom

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
222-9033 jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT,
!heFALL 201san e5to ebdrm.
boasts. Keysmanagement.nset

MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Port $2340,
tenants pay all utilities call Cappo
Deinco 734-996-1991
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Reserve now
for 2011 (Spring or Fall). U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space for 2011 today with no
lease obligation. 2 blocks from Central
Campus and downtown. 1 to 4 bed-
room, private baths avail. Rates from
$660. 734-998-4400 www.-
4elevenlofts.com
AVAILABLE FALL '11 5 bedroom
2 bath houses call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yiahoo.com,
www.joycea2.com

-s

Reservations
Start
October 12th
Spring & Fall
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
SrDio, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMs
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus
for 2011/2012

RELEASE DATE- Monday, October 11, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS 69 Disappr
1 Payroll tan wih vocally
Ion. Sec. and 70 Dampa
Medicare
components DOM
5 Tibet's capital 1 Nine-to-
10 Joe in a cup 2 Mid-mor
14 Show that 3Winece
launched Kelly 4 White w
Clarkson's 5 Hall of F
career, familiary manage
15 Vague 6 Drill ser
emanations "one"
16 ActortWilson 7 Diva'st
17 "Give" or 'take," 8 Potential
e.g. remover
18 Engages in 9 Saint Fr
fanciful home
storytelling 10 "Ode to.
20 Mukluk wearer 11 Watch fi
22 Mineoaccess 12 Zeal
23 TIe Beatles" 13 Authors
Just Seen a Tyler
Face" 19 Bus. let
24 Trap directive
26 Subjects of wills 21 Salsa f
28Benchsquad 25 Jan n'
31 Otly 17 "Middle'
defenseman to 28 Family r
lead the NHL in pee
scoring 19 Gotfs
32 Ballpark 30 Conduc
entrance 34 Came t
33 Watson of Harry (with)
Pottertfilms 1 2 3
37 Middle Corleone
brother 14
39 Band booster
41 Carrier renamed1
in 1997
42 '.. ._ forgive 20
those who 24
trespass ..
43 "iBets" 28 29
45 Seventh-century
date - 3
46 Connecting idea
51 "Yee-haw!" 37
54 Prepare to drive 02
55 K+ or Na+
56 McDonald's
symbol
58 Father tomany? 51 52 53
61 Start acting
independently ns
64 Int. defense gp.
65 Ornery type
66 Seasonal sleigh es
driver
67 Micro or macro 5
68 Egyptian vipers Bista,,

oved
t dawn
WN
nth time
llar tool
hale, e.g.
ame
r Tommy
geant's
mment
alsplinter
ancis's
for
Rice and
ter
ruit
s "this"
period
room
tor's beat
o terms

35 Flaky mineral 50 Unrepairable
36 Like the Mojave 51 Modern witch's
381910s-0atan religion
style 52 Doctor's time in
40 Usual fourth the office
down play 53 Uke much pub ale
41 Wedding party 57 Traffic complaint
member 59 Pack away
44 Blended-family 60 Cereal
parent spokestiger
47 Colorful fish 62 "Veryfunny' TV
48 Most insignificant station
49 Tourist draws 63 U.S. 1, for one
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
B IR ..or .D .Edlto R ....c m 1421
B IR DE RS TE ST A N
I N O R B I T O B V E R S E
S K Y J A C K P R E C A S T
S B A N E I L S ON S I P
TO W NW I T H O U T PIT AY
T E T ON S T N O T E S
H OC C S 1
B O I L U P T A C O M A
G I R L F R O M I P A N
O T C A MA TE UR R H O
R E L A T E D S T I C K O N
G R E N A D A U N A W A R E
E S S E N E S P E L O T A S
xwordeditor@aol.com 10/09/10

~nivrsity
rwe
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MIXCOM
INFO@OU-TOwERS.CoM
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011 HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011*!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
5&6BR Houses
May 2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apcs. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
WefM Diseounts!
4 "@4
" 0* *
WELCOME BACK!!! CHECK us
out on October 12th when we start tak-
ing Reservations. Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus! We have Stu-
dios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom furnished apart-
ments available for Spring/Fall. Call us
at 734-761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit us at:
www.University'Towers-Ml.com
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
6 BEDROOM MAY 2011
701 Catherine (kerrytown)
$3475.,734-777-3687
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
JANUARY 2011 8 month lease 428 S.
Division eff. $750, 929 S. Division eff.
$700 I bed $800,602Cathterine room
only $475, tenants pay electric cull
Cappo 734-996-1991
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
allis prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealty.com
734-665-8825
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
SERVICES

AUGUST SALON AND Day Spa.
1755 Plymouth Rd. Ann Arbor.
(734)662-8578. BRING in
this ad for 15% OFF!
EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back-
ground for a major film production.
Earn up to $200/day. Experience not re-
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
WE ARE SEEKING DYNAMIC
REPCUSTOMER SERVICE ORI-
ENTED INDIVIDUALS WITH
GREAT COMMUNICATIONS AND
TYPING SKILLS NEEDED TO
WORK ON BEHALF OF COMPANY
THIS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
WILL EARN UP TO $2000
MONTHLY ANY JOB EXPERIENCE
NEEDED.EMAIL AT ivan-
bartl0l@hotmail.com IF INTER-
ESTED.
MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY operations, including the super-
vision, training and mentoring of under-
graduate students and lab members. As-
sist in the management of research
project(s) directed at lipid biochem-
istry. Provide expertise in biophysical
chemistry with preferred expertise us-
ing mass spectrometry, chemical syn-
thesis, chromatography and microbiol-
ogy techniques. Bachelor's degree in
biochemistry or related field, plus four
years of related experience in a bio-
chemistry laboratory setting required.
In-depth biochemical experimentation
laboratory knowledge essential. Prefer
(1) Master's degree in biochemistry or
related field; (2) extensive lab manage-
ment skills; (3) experience with mam-
malian cell culture techniques; and (4)
experience using mass spectrometry,
chemical synthesis, chromatography,
and microbiology techniques. View
requisition 100472 at https://employ-
ment.unl.edu for qualifications, details
and to apply. Review of applicants be-
gins Aug 11. UNL is committed to a
pluralistic campus community through
affirmative action, equal opportunity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.
HOUSESITTER NEEDED TO care
for my 2 cats and stay in my home.
Small compensation and lots of food.
Call Janis at 663-5026 or email j-
jaaa322@aim.com.

FEMALE VOCALIST TO sing older
standards & violinist to play older stan-'
dards call Bobby (313) 772-5061
FULL TIME LIVE in companion,
cook, helper for 63 yr. old well edu-
cated man with med. limitations. Resi-
dence is a 3 BR luxury condo i Can-
ton, MI. Compensation is room &
board plus a reasonable salary to be dis-
cussed. Duties include cooking, gro-
cery shopping, errands, driving to Dr
appts, light house keeping, moral sup-
pet & hanging out. Non-smoker. Flexi-
ble time off. Resume & work refer-
ences required. Looking for smart, car-
ing, compassionate, easy-going per-
son. EMAIL jdb0406@hotmail.com
IRVING OIL CORPORATION is
looking to employ a Parttime assistant
whom would work for us from home.
You would be required to do some
bookkeeping. I'll have my mail diverted
to your home as some would need
immediate attention. Its attract good pay
$500/week.EMAILAaron at
cdcross0l2l6 email com

01

ANN ARBOR COUPLE seeks respon-
sible, non-smoking student for driving
and after school child care. Two chil-
dren, 8 year old daughter and 11y ear
old son. Most have own car and excel-
lent driving record. Flexible times, but
specifically Tuesday and Friday after-
noons. $13/hour plus mileage.
Stephanie - hailsteph@aol.com or
248.910.0951

0i

01

4 0 5_6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
15 18
18 19
21 22 23
t 26 26 27
30
32 33 34 35 36
38 3$ 40 41
43 44 46
46 47 48 49 59
t 54
56 57 58 59 eo
62 63 84
66 67
69 70

W. I'

0
0

ne Media Services, Inc.

101/11/10


I

r1


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, O ctober 11, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, October 11, 2010 - 7A

ii Wayne is oniy'Human'
Newest Weezy album should not be hyped&
as jail-born artistry
By Joe Dimuzio I Daily Arts Writer

Music misery
loves company

Three days after releasing
Innervisions, Stevie Wonder got
in a car accident.
While Won-
der was travel-
ing back from a
North Carolina LIJWWI
gig with a friend I Am Not a
at the wheel, a Human Being
trucker slammed Universal Motown
the brakes on a
winding road,
sending Stevie's car straight into
the flatbed's pile of chopped
wood, shooting a stray log
straight through the windshield
and into Stevie's forehead. The
accident left him with bruises,
a brain contusion and a multi-
day coma. He lost his sense of
smell. Gradually recovering, with
his musical talent miraculously
intact, his colleagues alleged that
something had "changed" about
Stevie. With Innervisions, the
American public took the story
and ran with it. Spiritually and
musically, Innervisions was Ste-
vie's defining moment ... but it
was recorded months before the
accident.
Lil Wayne's I Am Not a Human
Being has that Innervisions mys-
tique. Released during his jail
stint for criminal possession of a
firearm, I Am Not a Human Being
can be the magical release Wayne-
heads want. His imprisonment is
the longest period of time Wayne
hasn't spent in the studio, which,
for an artist so prolific, is about as
creatively hampering as a brain
contusion. On his humble "Weezy

Thanx You" website, Wayne has
been responding personally to
fan letters and describing his
daily routine, full of exercise and
bible reading. And now, less than
a month before his release from
Rikers Island, we have our legend
- and an album that betrays it.
Truth is, I Am Not a Human
Being is a collection of old tracks.
Some post-Tha Carter III and
Rebirth and a few whetting, sup-
posed Tha Carter IV cuts. All of
the songs were recorded before
Wayne's lock-up. It's an above-
average mixed bag featuring a bit
more effort than Wayne's mix-
tapes, some highlights, some mid-
dling tracks and a couple duds.
Billed as a return to pure "rap-
ping," Human Being is a moderate
retreat-to-form after February's
already orphaned Rebirth. As a
whole, it's less than cohesive and
lacks the spontaneity of Dedica-
tion 2 and Da Drought 3. Weezy
sounds less than energized here,
and his flow suffers from saggy
wordplay and tired lyrical free-
association. He's got some fine
beats to play with here from a
nice array of varied producers
and collaborators, but on the
whole, Human Being feels a little
pedestrian.
Opener "Gonorrhea" features
Drake (love him or hate him) and
smells like an "A Milli" alternate,
with pipey, staccato keyboards
and a lazy hook. "I Am Not a
Human Being" is a clear Rebirth
leftover, complete with stomping
snares and metal guitar. "What's

Well then, what are you?
Wrong With Them" features
sped-up vocals and somehow
manages to make a track featur-
ing Nicki Minaj dull. These tracks
come and go.
Human Being's best moments
come from unexpected places.
Drake's producer of choice, Noah
"40" Shebib, provides two of the
album's best cuts. "With You" is a
warm slice of soul with a slick Boi-
Ida beat. On "I'm Single," which
bears the mark of another of She-
bib's 2010 highlights (Trey Songz'
druggy "Unfortunate"), Weezy
flows anemic in slow motion, and
when he says "I'm single for the
night," he doesn't sound happy. He
sounds suicidal.
The album series Tha Carter
features Wayne's undeniable shin-

ing moments, and at this point,
the hype for the fourth is astro-
nomical. First single "Right Above
It" (again with Drake) gives us a
taste, building fat, astral trumpets
on a forward-thinking beat and
melody. Here, Wayne doesn't just
feel at ease - he's empowered.
He chuckles, "Life is a beach / I'm
just playing in the sand" while we
listen to the voice of a man behind
bars.
In the end, I Am Not a Human
Being isn't the supernatural, jail-
time Innervisions we need from
pop's best rapper. But if we're one
album away from Wayne's Songs
in the Key of Life - Stevie Won-
der's masterwork after his acci-
dent - then this'll do just fine for
now.

My friend Dave smiles
when I put on Smiley
Smile. He and Itare at
least more-than-casual fans of the
Beach Boys,
and it's one - 1
of their many
albums we ..
enjoy listening
to. I tend toI
skip the first
track "Heroes
and Villains," -
going straight JOE
to "Vegeta- DIMUZIO
bles," because
the second
that songstarts it's impossible to
pay attention to anything else. But
in reality, I could play any number
of Beach Boys songs to entertain
Dave. It could be "Solar System"
from Love You or "Caroline, No"
from Pet Sounds. We get probably
the biggest kick out of "A Day in
the Life of a Tree" and "'TilI Die"
from Surf's Up, two songs writ-
ten by a man in dire artistic and
physical health.
For us, it only makes the music
better.
Behind every one of these songs,
there's a story -usually a miser-
ably sad one - and it has no clear
beginning or end. The Beach Boys
were a beautiful, timeless group
for about ten years. Or at least
that's Iaway I see it. Their early hits
are untouchable, and Pet Sounds is,
well, you should know.
By 1972, the Beach Boys had
gone from America's darlings
to the old uncle at the family
reunion who everyone avoids.
Brian Wilson - the puppy-faced
pop Mozart - had taken enough
acid and coke to ruin his body
and mind, but the Wilson Broth-
ers carried on, with diminishing
returns, both recorded and live:
touting "Brian's Back!" on tours,
dragging him into the studio, ded-
icating an embarrassingly earnest
album sleeve to his "recovery" on
Love You, etc.
Dave and I used to spend
plenty of hours with PetrSounds.
It's easy to love and even easier
to praise. I don't listen to it much
anymore, because I don't need to.
I've moved onto the Boys' records
that are a bit tougher to love. Any
Pitchfork-reading music appre-
ciator can talk miles about Pet
Sounds, butI think the real fun
comes after.
Following one of pop's most
critically acclaimed albums of all
time was, in this case, impossible,
and Brian and the boys failed
beautifully. Locked in what fans
see as his attempt to achieve pop
perfection, Brian plugged away at
his "masterpiece." Smile was to be
the greatest album ever. And after
Pet Sounds, how fucking excited
would you have been?
Instead, we got years of excus-
es, group strife and Brian's emo-
tional and physical downfall, and
some of the most inexplicable and
exciting music the group would
ever release.
Smiley Smile, the afterbirth of
Smile, sounds like an aural acid
casualty. From the batshit mus-

ings of "Vegetables" to the hor-
rifying "Wind Chimes," these
songs stun first, confuse second
and, finally, endear. They were
sparse, strange and empty. There
was room for the story to fill in
the gaps, room for our imagina-
tion to run free. Surf's Up's ending
song cycle features Brian, sound-
ing as though his vocal cords are
seconds from collapse, compar-
ing himself to a tree that wasn't
"meant to live." The Moog-laden,
childlike Love You (my current
favorite Brian production) fea-
tures songs about patting children
on their behind and going roller
skating. One night, my friend Cam
gave the best description I could
conceive for Love You and Brian:
"This is Frankenstein music!"
Brian's story is one of many.
Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Jim
Morrison, Sly Stone, at least two
of the Beatles - the list goes on.
It's the story of pop music, but
even more, pop stardom. It's the
moment you hear a song and won-
der, what does this person look
like or do on a Saturday night? It's
when you start looking past the
music and looking for a story to
hold onto. When journalists start
asking embarrassingly specific
questions about drug use, and my
parents glance at the TV and ask,
"Who gives a shit?"
A lot of people. A lot of people
give a shit about these stars, and
it's the same reason US Weekly
piles up in barber shops and
TMZ has a television show. It's
that unconscious desperation to
belong to something bigger than
ourselves; to be admired, or at
least paid attention to. Pop stars
Appreciating the
beauty of a
falling pop star.
from Bob Dylan to Jack White
have cultivated that mystery to
build the attention, the persona
and their egos, to astral height.
And in the end, we love to lap
it up. It's like a drug. As Prince
(one of pop's most successfully
preserved cults of personality)
said on 1999, "I'm addicted to your
pleasure. I'm addicted to your
pain."
As I finished typing this, Dave
and I caught the back half of
"(500) Days of Summer" on HBO,
the only part of the movie I've
seen, for probably the fourth time.
I don't like it, but I'm not going to
deny I've paid attention to every
frame during the last four times
it's been on. I told Dave, "I wish
I knew what happened in the
beginning of this. Everything is
so miserable." He responded auto-
matically, with a hint of sarcasm.
"Are you kidding? This is the best
part."
Dimuzio also spends hours with
literal pet sounds. If you have a dog,
e-mail him at shonenjo@umich.edu.

UMMA explores
urban sprawl as art

COURTESY OF EA SPORTS
In Soviet Russia, ball kicks you.
'FIFA 11'doesn't
merit its price tag

By TEDDY PAPES
For the Daily
EA recently released the latest
annual installment to its "FIFA"
series, add-
ing to the rep-
ertoire of the
greatest soccer FIFA11
game franchise
ever. How did For PS3,
they do it? They Xbox 360,
simply repack- WII and PC
aged the previ- EA Sports
ous best-ever
soccer game,
"FIFA 10," upgraded the graph-
ics (and according to EA, the AI),
added some minor new features
and slapped a $60 price tag on it.
Many players will be tempted by
the addition of new team infor-
mation and some minor fixes, but
such solutions are hardly worthy
of a full-price release.
The "FIFA" series has always
been a notable and innovative
member of the sports genre.
Online play sets
the soccer
standard, but it's
nothing new.
Previous versions of the game
already nailed Internet gam-
ing with the online "Be a Pro"
mode, and to this day it's still
the best feature "FIFA" has to
offer. In this mode, the user cre-
ates a player and takes him into
online matches with the realism
and intensity that any soccer fan
would recognize. Every action
the player takes is extremely
important; the gamer no longer
haphazardly controls a team of
11, but instead a single man, and
the gravity of each brief interac-
tion with the ball never ebbs. The

intensity is as high as if each ava-
tar were a real player.
The online mode makes "FIFA
11," but it's not even a new fea-
ture. It originated in its 2009
predecessor, but it's still on the
coattails of features like this that
"FIFA 11" tries to ride into gam-
ers' homes. There are simply no
revolutionary additions to be
found in this title. The most tout-
ed new feature, one that seems
to be long overdue, is the option
to be a goalkeeper. And while
it seems like a no-brainer, the
only time being a goalie is enjoy-
able is online, though it's hard to
enjoy even then. Sticking to one
position has the potential to be
See FIFA 11, Page 8A

By ADDIE SHRODES
Daily Arts Writer
Hip-hop artists, skateboarders
and break dancers have changed
the terrain of urban spaces,
Detroit
included. UMMA presents:
In col- Jakob Koling
lages that
explore Through Oct.24
modern IMMA
urban life
in areas like Detroit, Berlin-based
artist Jakob Kolding illustrates
how this emerging lifestyle cre-
ates contradictions in how city
spaces are planned and used.
Though Kolding has received
much attention and acclaim in
Europe since he began show-
ing in the late '90s, his UMMA
exhibit is his first solo display
in a North American museum.
According to UMMA associate
curator of modern and contem-
porary art, Jacob Proctor, that
makes Kolding an ideal artist
for the UMMA Projects series,
which began when the Maxine
and Stuart Frankel and the Fran-
kel Family Wing opened last year
and focuses on emerging artists
on an international level.
Kolding mixes his study of
sociology and art to comment on
urban planning and life through

collages and mixed-media sculp-
tures. His collages contain
diverse material like black-od-
white images, cityscape photos,
patterned paper cut into phrases
and his own drawings.
"Collage allows him to com-
bine different spaces, to insert
something into a space that
wouldn't normally be there,"
Proctor said of Kolding's use of
the medium to challenge the ways
people normally view cities. The
medium also acts as a cultural
sampling similar to what you find
in electronic and hip-hop music,
which are important influences
for Kolding.
Kolding grew up in a suburb of
Copenhagen, which Proctor said
Copenhagen and
Detroit converge
with Kolding.
is also a strong influence in the
artist's views toward urban use.
"Growing up in a hyper-mod-
ernist context like that, people
are still playing soccer in the
streets, skateboarding or making
See KOLDING, Page 8A


schooliof
information
Connect with SI
AN INFORMATION SESSION FOR PROSPECTIVE MASTER'S AND PH.D. STUDENTS
Noon-4 p.m. Saturday, Oct. 23
Great Lakes Room, Palmer Commons
RSVP by Monday, Oct. 18 at si.umich.edulrsvp
A graduate degree from the School of Information
prepares you r an exciting array of Information Age
careers. Our Ph.D. program prepares you for teaching and
research in academia and corporate research labs. ind out.
how our flexible, multidiscplinary program wll benefit you
A Michigan MSI can lead to a career as:
Archivist, Librarian, Research Analyst, Web Marketing Manager Multimedia Consultant, Data Analyst,
Usability Engineer Information Architect, Auction DesignerManage: Computational Linguist,
Natural Language Enginee; Policy Advisor Museum Curator Community &ganizer - and many more!


8A - Monday, October 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

Say yes to Dress Well

By JOE DIMUZIO
Daily Arts Writer
The cover art for Love Remains
features rocks, some patches of
grass and dirt
aside a pavement
lit only by car-
light. There are Howto
a few shadowsD
some weeds. Dess Well
Beyond that, Love Remains
nothing. Pitch Lefse
black. As a pic-
ture, it's unre-
markable. As a preview for the
music inside, it does just fine.
Love Remains, the debut full-
length for How To Dress Well,
is a sparse, dimly lit collection of
layered samples, indecipherable
vocals and the occasional hook
caught in the headlight. It's a
collection of previously released
tracks from over a years' worth
of free EPs all from the bedroom
of Tom Krell, a relative recluse
and avid fan of '90s R&B. Krell's
music isn't so much song-craft as
it is sound-craft, with plenty of
hip signifiers: low fidelity, drum
loops, ounces of reverb. But How
To Dress Well hurdles trend by
achieving a distinct sound, that,
if taken on its own terms, is hyp-
notic.
How To Dress Well has been
tagged "lo-fi R&B," an adequate

if not Ii
doesn't
of '90sa
like th
into th
tracks i
preferr
a textu
Verse,<
nascent
mid-to-
Krell's
times b
echoes
Krell
ing res
non, a.
Emma,J
Remain
vocal q
larity,vw
ing fals
out
But it's
Vernon
voice is
songs f
beats a
up Low
tentativ
and mo

miting label. Krell's music closely as acoustic guitar did to
so much evoke the sound Vernon's.
R&B as much as it sounds Song titles are about as much
heir demo tapes fading as you've got to go off for lyrical
e ether. Love Remains's 14 content here. Shadowy pronouns
forgo standard pop tropes, and mumbled vocalizations fill
ing to inhabit and explore tracks like "Suicide Dream 2," one
ure before fading away. of many songs that sounds like it
chorus and hook are as died a long time ago. From "Can't
t as the lyrics. Rhythms are See My Own Face" to "Escape
slow tempo. Throughout, Before the Rain," the sound of
sometimes buried, some- fading, looped samples and cloudy
laring multi-tracked voice singing embody few, if any, R&B
and conducts. trademarks. There's no sex.
's voice bears a strik- If anything, Love Remains's
emblance to Justin Ver- songs bear the mark of something
k.a. Bon Iver, whose For so devoid of anything resembling
Forever Ago could be Love love. In interviews, Krell says his
s's outdoorsy cousin. Their intent is to express feeling with-
ualities have a clear simi- out vocal clarity, without lyrics.
vith husky low-ends, piers- By his own admittance, in some
etto and warm harmonies. cases, the words are "mostly not
there."
But something remains. From
the cosmic elegy of "Escape
Bon Iver s Before the Rain" to the somber
. hall-of-mirrors on "My Body,"
Love Remains finds its singu-
lar place between coldness and
warmth. With or without words,
s bigger than that. Like How To Dress Well crafts his
's vocals on Emma, Krell's own, very personal, night music.
the glue that keeps these Whether Krell wants to turn on
rom falling to pieces. The the brights and take it out of "lo-
nd sound clips that make fi" is up to him. But there's a big-
e Remains feel loose and ger risk in letting those headlights
'e, and they cling to the life surprise you once in awhile, isn't
ivement of Krell's voice as there?

.

A predictable but
endearing 'Story'

Documentary-style
directors try some
light-hearted fare
By PHILIP CONKLIN
For the Daily
With "It's Kind of a Funny
Story," writing-directing duo Anna
Boden and Ryan
Fleck ("Half Nel-
son", "Sugar")
have departed 's Kind of
from the gritty s a
realism that Funny Story
characterized A
their first movies Atthe State'
in favor of a more Quality16
light-hearted and Rave
tone. This may Focus
seem strange for
a movie that largely takes place in a
mental hospital, but despite its mel-
ancholic setting, the film is gener-
ally pleasant and humorous.
But that's not to sayit's never sad.
Keir Gilchrist (TV's "United States
of Tara") stars as Craig - a suicidal
16-year-old who checks himself
into a mental hospital. Because the
teen ward is undergoing renova-
tions, he finds himself among adult
schizophrenics and drug addicts.
Not surprisingly, he soon realizes
his teenage woes aren't quite as
serious as his fellow patients' prob-
lems. But though Craig realizes this
KOLDING
From Page 7A
graffiti," Proctor said. "They're
acting in that environment in a
way that's not how they're sup-
posed to be."
Proctor said Kolding's use of
language within his collages is
more vague than his earlier work,
but Kolding maintains clear state-
ments about urban spaces with his
imagery and rhetoric. Some of his
collages feature cityscape back-
grounds with natural elements
growing through them like grass
growing through cracks in con-
crete - an intriguing commentary
on the blur between urban decline
and urban renewal.
In the framed collage from
2008, "Don't let the bastards grind
you down," one corner features the
Death Star from the "Star Wars"

early on and the audience prob-
ably anticipated it before the open-
ing credits, the idea is continually
harped on throughout the movie.
And, paradoxically, while "Funny
Story" emphasizes the not-so-seri-
ousness of Craig's problems, it also
over-dramatizes them.
And the film is exceedingly pre-
dictable. In the first ten minutes,
a series of obvious questions is set
up. Will Craig hook up with his fel-
low patient, the cute blonde Noelle,
played by Emma Roberts ("Nancy
Drew")? Will Craig's roommate,
a man who hasn't left his room
in years, finally be coaxed out by
Craig's charms? Will an unlikely
friendship form between Craig
and quirky patient Bobby (Zach
Galifianakis, "The Hangover")? But
while you may know where the film
is going, the characters are suffi-
ciently endearing and the dialogue
is witty enough to make the path
enjoyable along the way.
"Funny Story" benefits from
some well executed performances,
most notably by Gilchrist, whose
bashfulness and everyman (or
every-teenager) demeanor makes
him relatable and genuine, even
through the sometimes-forced dia-
logue. Galifianakis also gives an
impressive performance. Although
he's not given free comedic reign,
which could have made a kind-
of-funny film a very-funny film,
his capacity for dramatic acting
series surrounded by the words
"Power, corruption and lies." And
in the collage titled "When was
the future?," an image of a derelict
East German city is juxtaposed
against a background photo of Los
Angeles peeking through in the
lettering.
"Both cities have a whole dif-
ferent utopian idea about what a
city is and can be and should be -
both of which are outmoded at this
point," Proctor said of the collage.
For Kolding's Ann Arbor exhib-
it, Detroit became the ideal inspi-
ration to create original pieces.
Kolding explored Detroit with a
camera to collect material for the
mixed media sculpture, two origi-
nal collages and two posters he
made for the UMMA exhibit.
"He's so interested in cities
like Detroit both because of the
changes and contradictions that
exist within the urban fabric, but
also because of the cultural pro-

is stronger than one might expect
from a comedic actor.
The film is in staunch contrast
with the realistic, documentary-
style filmmaking of the directors'
first two features. For "Funny
Story," they opt instead for a more
nuanced style, characterized by
more carefully composed images
and brighter, whimsical produc-
tion design to match the lighter
tone of this film. But the movie is
also full of visual gimmicks that
often distract from the narrative.
The audience is shown Craig's fan-
tasies (some of them animated),
which sometimes turn into lengthy
digressions that aren't particularly
amusing or informative. It feels like
the filmmakers are trying too hard
to let the audience know they're
making something different this
time around. These asides are
amusing and visually rapturous,
but ultimately don't add much.
And, though it does its best not
to, "Funny Story" sometimes falls
back on the tired tropes of the teen
movie: Craig's best friend is dating
a girl with whom he's "obsessed,"
Craig realizes his best friend is an
asshole, Craig finds out his prob-
lems aren't really that bad, that his
parents really do love him, etc. But
its scope is larger than the aver-
age teen fare, and though it's a bit
heavy-handed in conveying its
themes, "Funny Story" is poignant
and highly enjoyable.
duction," Proctor said of Kolding.
"Musically, Detroit has been such
an important city for so long."
One of the original collages
he made for the exhibit is titled
"Sound Patterns," and the back-
ground features a photo of a park-
inggarage in downtown Detroit. In
one of two posters, which are plas-
tered on two walls and available in
stacks for free, Kolding shaped a
black-and-white image of Detroit
by overlaying a British DJ and the
bright-white words "Urban plan-
ning and local initiatives."
While Kolding's solo exhibit is
housed at UMMA, he is featured
as an artist in the Museum of Con-
temporary Art Detroit's fall show
about imaginary cities, which
Proctor helped arrange.
"The MOCAD show is like a
little satellite of our show," Proctor
said. "We wanted to have a way to
bridge the divide between Detroit
and Ann Arbor."

"Answer This!" was the first film to be both set and shot at the University of Michigan.
'Answer This!' premieressto A2

By ANDREW LAPIN
Senior Arts Editor
Lines formed around the block
for Friday's special "Ann Arbor pre-
miere" of the feature film "Answer
This!," written and directed by
'U' alum
Chris Farah. First seen on
And with,
all the local -t f
businesses
present, from Arbor Brewing Com-
pany's open bar to Underground
Printing's T-shirts featuring the
likeness of former English profes-
sor Ralph Williams, it felt like a
homecoming for the filmmakers.
Williams, who has a key sup-
porting role in the film, introduced
the movie to a packed house and
brought up Chris and producer
Mike Farah to rapturous applause.
FIFA 11
From Page 7A
immensely fun, but as the posi-
tions get more defense-oriented,
the excitement and action start
to disappear. Playing goajkeeper
affords very little involvement in
the actual game and the thrill of

Demand was so great for the film
that a second screening 'as added
at 10 p.m. Though the movie was
made with an Ann Arbor audience
in mind, the theater was packed
with people from all over the coun-
try and the non-local talent still
felt right at home.
"The speed of this town is exact-
ly our speed. We fit in here really
easily from day one," said Chris
Gorham (TV's "Covert Affairs"),
who stars in the film as Paul Tar-
son, a perpetual University grad
student trying to finish up his
dissertation while winning a bar
trivia competition. Williams plays
his father, Dr. Elliot Tarson. Also
featured were Arielle Kebbel ("The
Grudge 2") as a freshman who
becomes Paul's love interest and
Nelson Franklin ("Scott Pilgrim vs.
the World") as Paul's best friend.
playing quickly diminishes into
boredom.
The other new features are
essentially throwaways. The At
has supposedly been improved, but
computer-controlled characters
still don't seemto come close to the
real thing. Passing players would
often overshoot their receivers and
defenders would continue to guard
their zone rather than approach-

I . I

Congratulations
To our 31E Scholars on the
28th Anniversary
of our Class of 1931
Engineering Scholarships
The class of '31 and its Scholarship Selection Committee
congratulates and welcomes their E vi new scholarship winners
for the 2010-2011 academic vear:
CASEY BOYLE STEVEN PECHT
BENJAMIN BRELJE XIAORAN ZHANG
SARAH CLARK
T1hey- wil be joiningthe'31Er. I IONORsoc.iTY andsour N .iscurrent scholars:

ZI
Z,,
of the Class off '31, which will be
ober 15',* 2010 at 5:30 'm.
piring engineering
e gone on to

The audience responded well
to every recognizable location,
including the Diag and Ashley's
Pub, where a large amount of the
trivia scenes took place. The Farah
brothers are planning the film's
festival premiere for next spring,
and a national rollout will follow
along with a second special Ann
Arbor screening. Each audience
member was handed a question-
naire to fill out, and the results will
play a part in further shaping the
film before its nationwide expo-
sure.
Following the film, many of the
cast, crew and audience mem-
bers trekked to the second floor
of the Michigan League, where an
afterparty catered by University
Catering gave movie personnel the
chance to celebrate their first suc-
cessful screening.
ing the loose ball. "Personality+,"
another new feature, allegedly
gives each athlete a unique play
style, but characteristics were
indistinguishable from computer
to computer.
The Al and Personality+ need
some improvement, but at least
they take nothing away from the
gameplay. The graphics are still
top notch, human-controlled player
responsiveness is extremely sat-
isfactory and the physics seem
real. Players push each other for
possession of the ball and the
360-degree dribbling adds a lot
of strategic variability. These
changes make dodging players
and sliding between defenders full
of nuance. All this makes it a great
stand-alone game, but its presence
as the latest game in the "FIFA"
genealogy demands much more.
The problem with "FIFA 11"
is EA attempting to justify a $60
title with upgrades totallyunwor-
thy of an additional release.
If you enjoy soccer games and
don't own "FIFA 09" or "10,"
this game wouldn't be a horrible
purchase, but older versions are
half the price. Hopefully one day
someone will inform EA (and
all sports-game makers, for that
matter) about the existence of
patches so they can reward their
fan base with bug removal and
updated roster information with-
out charging them the price of an
original game.

0l

Honoring ourpast, inspiring our future.

ALEC COHEN
REBECCA FRANK
SHAYAAN KHANNA
SHANE LARKIN
MARISSA MANTEY

PATRICIA MCCORMICK
DARIN MCLESKEY
KUNAL MEHTA
KAITLYN PEALE
ASHLEY POLLOCK

NEAL RAKESH
BENJAMIN RIZZO
IAN STUART-HOFF
ANTHONY TRICOZ
VERONICA WARD

All of these scholars will be honored this month at the 79" Annual Reunion Dinner
held at the F IiiiPoints Sheraton Inn, Ant Arbor, Michigan on Friday evening, Oct,
Since the establishment of the '31i Scholarship Program in 1982, mo're than 140 asI
students have been helped to experience a University of Michigan education and ha,
rearding careers.
GeorgevI.Anderson
Director of Media Relations
Class of 1931 Engineering

Be part of the next Peace Corps Volunteer Generation.
Special information Event:
Meet Peace Corps Director Aaron Williams
Thursday, October 14 at 6:30 p.m.
Kuenzel Room, Michigan Union
peacecorps.umichedu
Apply this Fall for programs leaving
in 2011 - Peace Corps' 50th Anniversary Year! A
Life is calling. How far will you go?
n00,424.8:0 I poacecorps.gov/application

0

I


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com October11, 2010

The
Michigan State 34 . Michigai

ta te Depresson
e 00

n17

SLJo

i'terback DteiidRobinson ran for a season-low 86 yards en 21 carries includIng one rushing touchdown (Sam Wolson/Daily); The Michigan State defense intercepted three passes, including t wo in the red zone in th
iomore wide receiver Roy Roundtree was one of several wide receivers to drop passes on Saturday (Ariel Bond/Daily) Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez yells during the 34-17 loss (Ariel good/Do py Michigan State rn
rards en seven carries, including a 41-yard touchdown run (Sam Wolson/Daily)

* Robinson, defense struggle in
third straight loss to Spartans

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editor
Three turnovers and a non-
existent defense does not a victory
make.
Michigan State racked up more
than 530 yards of total offense and
picked off sophomore quarterback
Denard Robinson three times on
its way to a dominant 34-17 win
in front of a packed Michigan Sta-
dium.
It was the most hyped match-
up between the in-state rivals in
recent memory, with both teams
unbeaten and ranked in the top
20. Masses of Michigan State fans
made the hour-long drive to Ann
Arbor to make their presence felt
with chants of "Go Green, Go
White," which echoed throughout

Friday night and into Saturday.
But for all the hype, the game
was largely one-sided. Michigan's
first drive of the game lasted nine
plays with Wolverine running
backs picking up big yardage on
the ground, only to end with Rob-
inson throwing an interception in
the end zone.
It was a sign of things to come.
Michigan routinely put together
good drives only to give the ball up
in the red zone.
The Wolverines scored first on
their second drive on a rare field
goal by redshirt freshman Seth
Broekhuizen. It was Michigan's
first field goal attempt since its
win over Massachusetts, when
Broekhuizen missed his only kick.
Michigan ended the first quar-
ter with a 12-yard sack by redshirt

junior defensive end Ryan Van
Bergen and a 3-0 lead.
It didn't last long.
After the two teams exchanged
three-and-outs to start the second
quarter, Michigan State turned
it on offensively with a 61-yard
touchdown run by sophomore
running back Edwin Baker. Baker
had a great game, with 149 yards
and a touchdown.
The Wolverines answered
with a long drive culminating in
a touchdown pass from Robinson
to senior tight end Martell Webb.
The catch was Webb's first of the
season, and itgave Michigan a 10-7
lead.
But Michigan State wasn't
done. The Spartans broke anoth-
er big play for a score, this time a
41-yard run by freshman running

back Le'Veon Bell. After forcing
a Michigan punt, Michigan State
sophomore kicker Dan Conroy
kicked a 38-yard field goal before
the half. And just like that, Michi-
gan State had a 17-10 lead going
into halftime.
The Michigan defense's inabil-
ity to stop the big play was evident
throughout the game. The unit
allowed three plays of more than
40 yards with two going for scores.
"Until I watch the film, I can't
really tell you where the break-
down was on the two long runs,"
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
said after the game. "We didn't
tackle well and sometimes it
looked like we were going afterthe
ball, maybe pressinga little bit and
trying to strip the ball."
See SPARTY, Page 3B

Wolverines doomed b
red zone interceptions
By TIM ROHAN was intercepted by junior Spartan
Daily SportsEditor safety Trenton Robinson.
Had the rest of the game gone
Traces of the first five weeks of differently, the Wolverines Mi.i
the season jumped up on the Wol- not have had to ask, "What
verines' first drive on Saturday. Michigan scored just two to- .
Sophomore quarterback Denard downs in five red zone trips
Robinson picked up chunks of lost 34-17, at the hands of Michi-
yards here and there. Michigan's gan State.
running back tandem of Vincent Michigan State coach Mark
Smith and Mike Shaw darted Dantonio called Robinson's first
through holes. And the Wolver- interception the turning point in
ines moved the ball down the field the game. And Michigan quarter-
with ease. backs coach Rod Smith proabily
Michigan didn't even face a felt the same.
third down until the ninth play of "We don't play the what-if
the drive when the ball was placed game, but obviously if he wouldIve,
on the Michigan State 10-yard if he would've connected early on
line. it's probably a different story,
But then, as Robinson rolled Smith said. "Because (then)w
to his right and looked toward don't have to fight, scratch tnd
the endzone, he threw a pass just crawl from behind the entire
behind redshirt sophomore wide ond half."
receiver Roy Roundtree. The pass See RED ZONE, Page

Berenson notches 700th win at BG special teams practice pay
ASA noff as Blue downs Falcons

Dy %.i r nixJ%
DailySports Writer
BOWLING GREEN - Heading
on the road for the first time this
season, the Michigan hockey team
felt a great sense of urgency. After
a lackluster tie to unranked Mer-
cyhurst to open the season, the
fourth-ranked Wolverines needed
just one win to give coach Red
Berenson 700 in his career - and
to start their 2010 CCHA season
out on the right note.
With a weekend sweep of
Bowling Green, Michigan (2-0-
0 CCHA, 2-0-1 overall) accom-
* plished both feats - but it wasn't
pretty, or easy.
The Wolverines took game

11 t r u y, -, lu gi1C
two on Saturday, 4-2, but Beren-
son wouldn't dwell on his per-
sonal accomplishment. Instead,
he chose to focus on the team's
series sweep and the adjustments
it needs to make heading into the
rest of the conference season.
Penalties remained an area of
concern for Michigan this week-
end. The Wolverines compiled a
total of 62 minutes in penalties
over both games - including two
checking from behind and game
misconduct calls that led to the
ejections of senior left wing Scoot-
er Vaughn and freshman defense-
man Mac Bennett on Saturday.
But Michigan made up for its
See BERENSON, Page 3B

By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
BOWLING GREEN -During its
first full week of practices last week,
the No. 4 Michigan ice hockey team
ran extensive special teams drills in
preparation for its two-game week-
end series against Bowling Green.
And when they took the ice
against the Falcons (0-2-0 CCHA,
0-2-0 overall), the Wolverines' spe-
cial teams practice paid off.
Michigan (2-0-0, 2-0-1) racked
up 62 total penalty minutes in its
two wins at the BGSU Ice Arena,
including two game misconducts
for checking from behind to senior

forward Scooter Vaughan atni
freshman defender Mac Bennett in
Saturday's 4-2 win.
But the penalty kill was tolid,
limiting the Falcons - a team that
had torched them for three gower
play goals in their first matchup at
year - to two power play goals t
of 17 attempts in the two games.
"This is a tough time of the v
for power plays to really get it go
because they're just getting stte
confidence," Michigan coach Red
Berenson said after Friday's gte:
"With the penalty killing, I think
it's easier to be a good PK tam
this time of year."
See SPECIAL TEAMS, Page -

Red Berenson is entering his 27th season as head coach of the Wolverines.


COMEBACK KIDS
On a road trip to Wisconsin, the Michigan
men's soccer team showed that it's capable
of mounting a comeback, rallying from 1-0 to
beat theBadgers, 3-2. Page 2B ,

A TOUCHY RIVALRY
* Daily Sports Editor Ryan Kartje says that
the Michigan-Michigan State rivalry is and will
always be a rivalry, and he was in a touch
football game to prove it. Page 2B


2B - October 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

party is our riva,
so get used to it

0

I was writing the annual
dueling column this past
week in light of the Michi-
gan-Michigan State game, I spent
hour upon hour
thinking of
reasons why
Sparty was
inferior.
There were
the obvious
favorites:
"We'll be your
boss someday"; RYAN
"Can't read, KARTJE
can't write";
and especially
anything assuming the Spartans
were Michigan's "Little Brother."
But as I searched for ways to
flair up chat East Lansing inferi-
ority complex, I came across one
argutament that, on several occa-
sions; rubbed sue the wrongiaway:
that tichigan ts. Michigan State
is not a rivalry.
Now, I appreciate a good Michi-
gan State joke as much as the
next person. And I would defend
Michigan's superiority in every
way, shape or form without any
hesitation.
But it's simply foolish to say this
matchup is not a rivalry.
Yes, Michigan leads the all-
time series by an enormous mar-
gin - 67-31-5, to be exact. Yes, the
Wolverines boast a ridiculously
one-sided comparison in nearly
every category of the record
books. And yes, Michigan State
may never get rid of that complex,
which comes full swing the week
before this game every year.
But the truth is, the Spartans
have clearly outplayed Michigan
in the team's past three meet-
ings, and Michigan State is start-
ing to look pretty damn good on
the gridiron. With no matchup
against Ohio State on its schedule
this year, Sparty could even, dare
I say it, make a run at the Rose
Bowl.
"Maybe someday the little
brother grows up and can at least
compete with the big brother and
makes it a game every week,"
Michigan State coach Mark Dan-
tonio said after the game.
And he's right, to some extent:
This is going to be a game for
years to come.
It's not even what happens on
the field, though, that makes this
the rivalry what it is. Students all
over campus were forced to put
up with "Go Green, Go White!"
chants on Saturday night as they
seethed inwardly. The undeniable
pain of having to deal with a loss

cHRIS RYBA/Daily
Forward Justin Meram controis the ball against Penn State last week. He's scored three goals in the last three games for Michigan.
After trailing 1-0, Blue
shows res1lenCe in win

TOP: Michigan State football team raises the Paul Bunyan Trophy after Saturday's win.
(ARIEL BOND/Daily) BOTTOM: Michigan Daily writers get purped before the annual
Michigan Daily vs. State News football game. (MAR ISSA MCCL A IN/Daly)

like this one proves plain and sim-
ple that Michigan fans care about
this intrastate matchup, whether
they want to admit it or not.
Think about it. For the Wol-
verines' unblemished record to
be tainted by the Spartans hurts
much more than if Michigan
would've lost to, say, Iowa or two
weeks after that to Penn State.
For those at the Daily, we under-
stand this rivalry all too well.
The Daily takes on the State
News in a pretty serious touch
football game every year, which
the Daily had won five years in a
row entering Friday night's game.
After the first half, it looked as
though the tables might be turn-
ing, as Michigan State's student
newspaper had a fairly com-
manding three-touchdown lead.
Despite having won five years in
a rouw, despite the confidence we
had heading into the game, my fel-
low writers and I were in danger
of being the first group to lose in
the matchup in half a decade.
This didn't settle well with any

of us. We had lost games before,
but none of us had lost to the
State News. That loss to that team
would've hurt unlike any other
game we might lose to any other
team (Ohio State's student news-
paper, included).
Needless to say, the Daily came
back and won the game in double
overtime, just minutes before the
lights were turned off on Elbel
Field.
We had earned bragging rights
for the sixth year in a row, and
most of us who played probably
can't tell you a touch football
game that has meant more in our
entire lives.
That's because our brother in
East Lansing, little or not, is our
rival.
And just like any brother, we're
going to be stuck with them for a
very long time, whether we like it
or not.
Kartje predicts a seventh-straight
win over the State News. He can
be reached at rkartienumichedu

By KEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Writer
They say that you learn the most
about a team when it's down. if
that's the
case, the MICHIGAN 3
Michigan WISCONSIN 2
men's
soccer team should be in good
shape after its first come-from-
behind victory of the year.
Yesterday, the Wolverines trav-
eled to Madison to take on Big Ten
foe Wisconsin.
And early on, it looked like
Michigan might be in some trouble
against the lowly Badgers.
Wisconsin (0-1-1 Big Ten, 1-8-2
overall) came out of the gate ready
to play and quickly captured a
1-0 lead, on a 12th minute goal by
junior defenseman Colin Mani.
But the Wolverines (2-1 0, 7-2-
3) refused to point fingers at one
another - instead, they used the
early deficit as fuel to turn the game
around and earn a 3-2 victory.
"The great thing about what
happened after we got down is you
really saw the team's resolve to play
for each other," Michigan coach
Steve Burns said after the game.
"You started to see everybody kind
of think the same and move theiball
effectively, and really just trust one
another. I think we became a much
better team after we went down a
goal."
In the 17th minute of the first
half - just five minutes after
the Badgers scored - Michigan
responded with a goal of its own by
senior forward Justin Meram.
Meram capitalized on a Wiscon-

sin turnover and sliced through the
Badger defense, drilling the ball
into the lower-right corner to even
the score up at one.
"The timing of (Meram's goal)
was very strong because the lon-
ger that you go being down a goal,
the more uptight everyone can get
and you start to press and do things
you wouldn't normally do," Burns
said. "After that goal, you could
see that we kind of shook off their
first goal and said, 'Okay, let's keep
after them and figure out how to
get more.'"
The goal was Meram's fifth of
the season and his third in the
last three games. Meram's recent
surge is a welcome sight for the
Wolverines and can be partially
attributed to his new approach to
the game.
"I'm just staying focused with
the team goal," Meram said.
"Before, I was worrying too much
about not scoring - now it's more
about Michigan winning and my
ability to help Michigan win by get-
ting a couple goals here and there
and setting people up. The less I
was thinking about scoring and
just thinking more about Michigan
is when my chances were coming."
Minutes before the end of the
first half, freshman forward Soony
Saad fired the ball into the back
of the net off of a free kick to give
Michigan momentum and a 2-1
lead heading into halftime.
The Wolverines would carry
that momentum into the second
half, as they came out of the break
controlling the ball and getting
everyone involved.
Just over 12 minutes into the

second half, senior Matt Schmitt
added a goal to give Michigan a
commanding 3-1lead.
With the comfortable two-goal
lead, Burns pulled redshirt junior
goalie Chris Blais in order to give
redshirt sophomore Tim Bergsma
his first action of the season.
But after a defensive breakdown
by the Wolverines, Wisconsin
freshman Chris Prince scored to
cut the lead to one with just under
seven minutes to play.
Minutes later, Wisconsin had a
great chance to tie the game off of
a corner kick but was stopped on a
diving save byBergsma, sealing the
victory for Michigan.
"As a keeper, you've got to have
the shortest memory on the team,"
Bergsma said. "Whether you make
a big save or give up a goal, you just
have to get right back at it."
Burns's confidence in Bergsma
to finish out the game is a great
example of how much trust this
team has built in one another -
from the starters all the way down
to the last player on the bench.
And with the Big Ten Tourna-
ment less than a month away, trust
will be key as the Wolverines look
to make a run at the conference
title.
"Bergs had to make a great save
at 3-2 and he did," Burns said. "The
teamhas gotctrustin him and really
I think we are now truly becoming
a a team. You trust that every guy
that comes onto the field is going
to be able to sustain the work, and
it starts to all synch the same. It's
good to see. Everybody who came
into the game tonight really did a
strong job for us."

0


J' flexes muscles in draw

DELI

By BRIAN MECHANICK
Daily Sports Writer
For years, Michigan's wom-
en's soccer has struggled might-
ily against
Michigani MICH GAN ST. 0
State, as the MICHIGAN 0
Spartans
have simply had more talent.
But on Saturday night the tables
were turned.
This time, the Wolverines clearly
outplayed the Spartans. While the
result was the same as the past
years, as the intrastate rivalry
ended in a 0-0 draw, it was clear the

talent gap has been closed.
"I am so proud of the girls,"
Michigan coach Greg Ryan said
after the game. "For two years
we've had to sit back and defend for
90 minutes, and this year we have
enough talent to go forward and go
after teams."
Even though the Wolverines
(0-1-2 Big Ten, 5-2-4 overall) fin-
ished tied with the Spartans (2-1-1,
7-3-2) in shots on goal with three,
the edge in possession and attack-
ing play clearly belonged to Michi-
gan.
The Wolverines had chances, as
senior Jackie Carron nearly con-

nected on a strike from 40 yards
out and freshman Meghan Toohey
just missed on both a free kick and
one-two pass through the Spartan
backline. Carron's impact didn't
only come offensively, as she made
the play of the day on a desperate
slide tackle to bail the defense out of
a Michigan State breakaway.
The ability to play positive soccer
instead of negative, defensive soc-
cer against their rival was impor-
tant for Ryan.
"I think you're seeing teams fall
to Michigan State, but we took the
game to them," said Ryan. "I feel
very positive about it. This was a
team that for two years hasn't been
able to do this, but now we're able
to go after teams. Now we need
just a bit of better quality when
it comes to creating chances and
putting them away. "
Senior Sarah Stanczyk was one
of the best players on the field, put-
ting in tremendous work in playing
the full 110 minutes of regulation
and overtime. Marking the Spar-
tans' talented forward Laura Hey-
boer, Stanczyk was able to hold the
dangerous striker to no shots.
Still, as much as Stanczyk was

More online
Go to MichiganDaily.com for more
analysis on the Wolverines' tie.
told that Michigan State was just
another game, playing in her final
outing of this rivalry took on a spe-
cial meaning for the Grosse Pointe,
Michigan native.
"It's a very passionate rivalry
for me," Stanczyk said. "I've been *
thinking of this game all week,
waking up every morning excited
to play Michigan State. I know half
the team, Iplayed with thembefore
I came to college, so it runs a little
deeperthan just an in-state rivalry."
The most dynamic player on the
day, however, was Meghan Toohey,
who controlled the offense and
showed poise in the center of mid-
field by dictating tempo in a chaotic
game. Still, Toohey's own good play
didn't mitigate her dissatisfaction
of a lost victory.
"This is just another step in
the beginning of our season that
shows us what we can accomplish,"
Toohey said. "Overall, I am happy
that we played so well, it just sucks
that we didn't get the win."

I r,
I with the pevhae c
Sanly resjrlr Sand ; 1
I1
IihtiscuonIov
1 mw o mm Si It
y Im n a w a m wIw a m o o w w m a
d I

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Senior defender Jackie Carron made a significant impact in Blue's 0-0 draw.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
GAME STATISTICS

October 11, 2010 - 3B

Drops plague Michigan wide receivers

Team Stats
First Downs
Rush/Yds
Passing Yards
Offensive Plays
Total Offens
Kick retuns/Yds
Punt returns/ Yds
Comp/Att/Int
PuntsN/Hg
Fum es/Lost
Penalies/Yards
Time ofPoss
PASSING
Robinson, D
Toal
SRUSHING
Player A
Robinson, D
Shaw
Hopkins
Totals 3
RECEIVING
Player N
S Roundtree
Shaw
Smithy
Odoms
webb
Koger
Tta's
PUNTING
Player N
Hage l
PItyKN
KICKING
Broekhuize 1
Totals
KICKOFF RETURNS
Gallon
Stonum
Totals
*K T
PIT EURN
PlKyTN
TACKLES
Player
Ezeh
Mouton
Martin
Gordon, T:
Rodgers
Banks
Fitzgerald
Sim moms
Hi gwa
Van Bergen
Black
MI
PASSING
Couss
Nichol
Totals
RUSHING
Player A
Caper
Martin
TEAM
RECEIVING
Player N
Cunningham
Del
Nichol
Linthicum
Gantt
Caper
Toas 1
PUNTING
Playar,
Totals
PlyerN F
Conroy 2

KICKOFF RETURNS
Martin
Bell
Totals
TACKLES
Player
Robinson
Adams
Rucker
Worthy
Hammock
Sryhorn
Lewis
Hoover
White
El worth
Jones, J
Bates
Bullough
White
Totals

MICH
34/162
215
63
6/126
1/14
17/29/3
4/47.0
U/U
3/35
24:05

MSU
42/249
.287
68
4/56
1/9
19/26/0
4/45.U
1/U
6/65
35:55

M I C H I G A N
C-A Yds TD
17-29 215 1
17-29 215 2

Att
21
4
2

Yds
29
13
162

Avg
72
6.5
4.8

Lg
21
7
21

TD
1
0
1
TD
0

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily SportsEditor
The Wolverines trailed by
four points in the second quar-
ter as sophomore quarterback
Denard Rob-
inson dropped NOTEBOOK
back and saw
one of his favorite targets, red-
shirt sophomore wideout Roy
Roundtree, open across the
middle of the field. It looked as
though his throw would be a
guaranteed touchdown.
But as the ball reached
Roundtree, it hit the Trotwood,
Ohio native directly in the hands
and fell incomplete.
It wasn't until Roundtree
reached the endzone that he real-
ized he didn't have the ball.
"I just lost focus on it,"
Roundtree said after the game.
"I tried to just catch it go into the
endzone, but I realized I didn't
have the ball and thought of it as
a mistake. Lesson learned."
But Roundtree wasn't the only
BERENSON
From Page 1B
time in the box with offense.
The Wolverines out-shot Bowl-
ing Green 53 to 36 on the week-

receiver who made a few agoniz-
ing mistakes in the Wolverines'
34-17 loss to the Spartans.
In fact, many of the explana-
tions Michigan (1-1 Big Ten, 5-1
overall) players gave after the
loss centered around their own
mistakes on both sides of the ball
- mistakes that made the game
too far out of reach, especially
against a poised team like Michi-
gan State.
"There's nothing on the field
that went wrong that can't be
fixed," redshirt junior slot receiv-
er Kelvin Grady said. "We had a
couple of things that went wrong,
a couple of dropped balls - that
can be fixed."
None of the drives were more
frustrating for the maize and
blue, however, than the Wolver-
ines' drive late in the third quar-
ter when Robinson passed three
balls to three different receivers
- a different wideout on first,
second and third down - all of
which were dropped.
Robinson ended the game with

his worst completion percentage
of the year - 17 completions on
29 attempts - but the mistakes
made by his wideouts definitely
contributed to the Michigan
quarterback's worst performance
of the season.
TROUBLES IN THE GAP: For
much of the game, Michigan's
pass rush seemed to be in top
form.
Michigan State quarterback
Kirk Cousins, a natural pocket
passer, was forced to make quick-
er reads and scramble more than
usual as defensive linemen like
junior nose tackle Mike Martin
spent more time in the backfield
than they had in previous games.
And through the past three
games, the Wolverines have tal-
lied a three-sack effort (against
Bowling Green) and a pair of
two-sack efforts (against Michi-
gan State and Indiana).
"We were getting pressure on
the quarterback all day," fresh-
man defensive end Jibreel Black
said. "We just let up a few big

plays and that's kind of where
they got us."
But the line's play against the
pass wasn't the issue on Saturday.
Coupled with the linebackers,
the defensive line struggled to
fill running lanes, giving Spar-
tan running backs Edwin Baker,
Le'Veon Bell and Larry Caper
ample room to bust big runs.
"We just had miscommuni-
cation on who's got what gap,"
redshirt junior defensive line-
man Ryan Van Bergen said. "It's
simple. Run defense is simple.
Everyone has one gap and you're
accountable for that gap. We
weren't in the right one twice,
same play."
Those two plays resulted in
a 61-yard sprint from Baker and
a 41-yard run from Bell, both
for touchdowns, which gave the
Spartans a great deal of momen-
tum heading into the half.
The touchdowns runs were
the two longest running scores
the Wolverines have given up all
season.

No,
6
2
2
1
1
1
17

Yds Avg Lg
48 8.0 15
42 220 2
17 8.5 10
13 6.5 9
49 49.0 49
12 12.0 12
6 6.0 6
215 12.6 4

No. Yds Avg 
4 188 47. 6

r . ; r rtv, F+
k  . ;.. .. s
}j of .
x .. T
":
" . . _

SPECIAL TEAM
From Page lB

S
u
ft
t(

FG Pc Lg
1-2 50.0 34

XP Pts

No. Yds Avg Lg TD
4 1 22,8 26 0
2 35 175 21 0
6 126 21.0 26 0
No Yds Avg Lg TD

end.
"If you win the first game on
the road you know the second
game is going to be tougher and>
it was," Berenson said after Sat-
urday's game. "We were fortu-
nate to get the lead in the first
period, but Bowling Green bat-
tled back and they were always
in the game. You never felt like ARIEL BOND/Daly
you were safe, even with a two- Senior forward Louie Caporusso showed his prowess on special teams this
goai lead." weekend, getting his first penalty-kill time of his Michigan career


Solo
4
4
2
3

Asst
3
5
4
2
2

9
9

I 1
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
0 1
42 33
4 1 C H I G A N

T A T E
TD
1
0

C-A
18-25
1-1
19-26

Yds
284
3
287

Att
8
1
9

Yds Avg
34 4.2
15 15.0
- - 1.0

Lg
8
15
0

TD
1
1
1
0
0
0
3
TD
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0

No. Yds Avg
5 40 8.0 15
3 3 31.0 44
1 42 42.0 42
1 34 34.0 34
1 7 70 7
1 5 5.0 5
1 23 3 .0 0

No. Yds Avg Lg
4 180 45.0 69
FG Pct. Lg XP Pts
2-2 100.0 38 4 10

On Saturday, junior left wing minutes into the second period. the
David Wohlberg scored his sec- Caporusso's responsibilities ute
and goal of the season and the increased when senior center del
series to put the Wolverines up Matt Rust - a crucial mem- sid
1-0 with just under 10 minutes ber of Michigan's top line and he
remaining in the first period. penalty-kill unit - went down
Freshman defenseman Jon with an undisclosed injury on Ru
Merrill added a power play goal Saturday. "O
three minutes later and junior But the Wolverines didn't we
defenseman Brandon Burlon net- miss a beat. Senior netminder W
ted Michigan's third goal of the Bryan Hogan - the starter in to
night as the Wolverines looked Saturday's contest - came up als
unstoppable in the first period. big for the Wolverines, making siti
"Obviously, taking the crowd 16 saves to get the win. yoi
out of the game I think is impor- His counterpart, senior goal- ph
tant," Berenson said. "We're on ie Shawn Hunwick, got the nod
the road and you don't want in Friday's game and didn't dis- Ly
to play from behind. We were appoint either. Hunwick made jus
fortunate to get the lead, so I 17 saves to grab Michigan's first pe
thought that was a big advan- win of the season against the for
tage. We played the whole game Falcons (0-2-0 CCHA, 0-2-0
pretty much with the lead." overall). Be
While Michigan would never In Friday's matchup, the sm
relinquish its one-goal advan- Wolverines found themselves ing
tage Saturday, 25 penalty min- down 1-0 after eight minutes in pa
utes in the second period alone the first period, when Bowling
put the Wolverinepenaltykill in Green made good on a power Gr
overdrive. Senior center Louie play. But Michigan responded tea
Caporusso found himself called less than two minutes later with ga
to play onthe penalty kill for the a power play goal of its own gat
first time in his Michigan career when Rust scored on the give- thi
this weekend and didn't miss his and-go from senior forward bel
opportunity to impress, as he Carl Hagelin. to,
scored a shorthanded goal five Wohlberg added his name to his
making the right decisions on
RED ZONE who he was targeting on those
From Page 1B interceptions, but that Robin-
son just didn't time the throws
It didn't help that, at one correctly.
point, the Spartans scored 31 Robinson had thrown just
points on five straight posses- one interception all season
sions spanning the second and before Saturday, when he threw
third quarters. But without the three.
turnovers, the Wolverines may And the Wolverines had pre-
have been able to keep up. viously converted touchdowns
Michigan did have a chance in 38 of 42 red zone trips - for a
to cut into Michigan State's 90-percent success rate. Michi-
24-10 lead early in the second gan reached the endzone on two
half. of its five trips against the Spar-
But Robinson threw another tans.
red zone interception and gave "All year, every time we get
the ball back to the Spartans' down there, we've been able
lethal offense. to score," fifth-year senior
Smith said that Robinson was offensive lineman Steve Schil-
inson was starting only his sixth ki
game of his career Saturday g
From Page 1B afternoon.
"He wasn't as sharp as he th
In the second half, the Spar- usually is," Rodriguez said. in
tans could do anything they "You've got to remember he's ig
wanted on offense. Michigan's still a young player and this is his as
defense continued to struggle sixth game. As soon as we watch of
the way it has all year, only get- some film with him and find out th
ting stops when it brought the what he was thinking on some of TI
blitz and put pressure on junior those plays, we'll have a better th
quarterback Kirk Cousins. answer." be
Michigan State scored on its After the interception, the fr
first drive of the second half. Spartans scored on the ensuing
Michigan followed that by turn- drive on an eight-yard run by h
ing it over once again, when Rob- sophomore running back Larry I
inson looked for redshirt junior Caper, putting Michigan State se
wideout Junior Hemingway up 31-10. li
coming across the middle but At the end of the third quar- P
threw another interception in ter, Robinson led an impressive se
the red zone. drive that included a 17-yard Bt
Robinson had by far his fourth-down pass to redshirt to
worst outing of the season. The junior wide receiver Kelvin ye
first-year starter threw three Grady and resulted in a four-
interceptions and just one touch- yard touchdown run by Robin- st
down. son. ne
"I kind of hesitated a lot," The Wolverines appeared w
Robinson said. "Made some bad to have one last chance in the H
reads ... I got too excited." fourth quarter, but a deep throw
Rodriguez urged media after by Robinson was intercepted. aT
the game to remember that Rob- Michigan Stte got the ball and w

e stat sheet just over one min- lin
later when he splitthe Falcon te
fenders and scored blocker- mt
e to put Michigan up 2-1 pe
ading into the second period.
"We started off strong," m
st said after Friday's game. aft
ur first four or five shifts, vic
matched their intensity. to
e knew that they were going we
come out strong and hit. It's alt
ways that way. This rink tran-
ions really, really fast and Pe
u've got to get ready for the we
ysical game." fir
Sophomore right wing Kevin ig
nch added a power play goal
t 52 seconds into the second th
riod to give Hunwick a com- Be
table two-goal lead. of
"Lynch's goal was huge," op
renson said. "(It was a) real Mi
art playby Jon Merrill, shoot- ga:
the puck on the ice, getting it he
st the penalty killer."
As Michigan and Bowling a
een were the only two CCHA Po
ims playing in-conference so
mes this pastweekend, Michi- fr
n's sweep put the team atop 1c
E conference for the time ste
ing - and sent Berenson back as
Ann Arbor with 701 wins for se
career.
ling said. "Obviously having
those turnovers and getting
zero points, not even coming
away with three is tough. If
we had those two touchdowns,
it would've been a different
game."
Michigan's offense wasn't
completely shut down by the
Spartans. Although there were
times of struggle, the Wolver-
ines did finish with 377 yards of
total offense.
The difference in the game
may have been that when
Michigan needed to punch the
ball into the endzone in order
to hang with Michigan State,
the Wolverines left with three
points instead of 21.
cked a field goal to seal the
ame.
The loss is Michigan's first of
e season, but it is a heartbreak-
g one for Michigan fans. Mich-
an State was viewed by many
the Wolverines' first true test
the season. But it wasn't just
e fans who were heartbroken.
he game was a gut punch for
re seniors as well, who haven't
eaten the Spartans since their
eshmen year.
"It's really hard. Having to
ave to say that I lost more than
beat them is tough," fifth-year
nior lineman Stephen Schil-
ng said. "I wanted to get the
aul Bunyan trophy back my
nior year and go out that way.
ut I just told the younger guys
go outthere and getthem next
ear"
After the game, Robinson
ressed the need to move on to
ext week, when the Wolverines
ill welcome Iowa to the Big
louse
"We've got to turn it around
td get ready for Iowa next
eek." Robinson said.

Through three games, the penal- a
kill has continued its dominance e
>m last year, allowing just three
als in 25 opportunities, and pick- b
g up two shorthanded goals of its c
n, the first coming from senior s
ater Matt Rust in the season- a
ener against Mercyhurst, and the
cond from senior forward Louier
porusso on Saturday. u
According to
Ust, regardless
the team's suc-
sses this week- "I'm i
d, the bottom"
e is that the ...We Tr
am is taking too
any ill-advised killing W
nalties.
"I'm guilty many per
yself," Rust said
er Friday's 4-1
tory. "We need
find ways to stay out of the box, b
're justkilling way too many pen- b
ies." r
OLD DOG LEARNS NEW TRICK:I
rhaps the biggest surprise of the 1,
eekend was Caporusso getting his
st penalty-kill action of his Mich- g
an career. C
Caporusso has been a specialist on p
e power play for a few seasons, but a
renson senthim on the ice to stave E
f a Bowling Green man-advantage
portunity on Friday. And when r
ichigan was down a few men in i
me two of the series, Caporusso g
ard his name called again. 1
With just six seconds left in
second-period Bowling GreenI
wer play on Saturday, Caporus- b
capitalized on a centering passt
om senior Carl Hagelin on a 3-on- E
counterattack after a center-ice r
eal, beating the goaltender with
lapshot for his second goal of the y
Cason. i
"I credit the coaches for having
"We preach ball security
every day in practice and every
week," Schilling said. "It's one
of our goals on offense every
week, to not have any turn-
overs. Obviously you see that
when you have turnovers things
don't go your way and you lose
games."
As a team, Michigan threw
one interception and lost four
fumbles in five games before
Saturday. And when Robinson
threw his third interception
of the game early in the fourth
quarter, the Wolverines were
down just 14 points despite the
missed opportunities.
"Everybody gets frustrated
when they lose," Smith said.

TO PUNT OR NOT TO PUNT:
With 5:41 remaining in the
game and Michigan trailing by
17 points, coach Rich Rodriguez
sent freshman punter Will Hag-
erup out to give the ball back to
the Spartans. His decision was
met with resounding boos from
Michigan fans, and the Wolver-
ines never got the ball back.
After the game, Rodriguez
admitted that it may have been
the wrong call.
"It was probably a mistake,"
Rodriguez said. "I thought we'd
get a quick turnaround and
maybe get a minute-and-a-half
or two minutes off the clock
and have it ... If I had do-overs, I
wouldn't punt."
INJURY REPORT: Rodriguez
said after the game that junior
slot receiver Martavious Odoms
may have a broken foot.... Martin
said he would be ready to go for
Iowa ... Senior cornerback James
Rogers's status is unknown, but
Rodriguez said Rogers likely just
dealt with in-game cramps.
rust in me," Caporusso said on Sat-
trday. "If you want to play hockey
or a long time, you're going to have
o learn to play in the defensive end
nd play the PK, so I'm pretty excit-
d about it."
Expect Caporusso to continue to
tring a force on both ends of spe-
-al teams play - in addition to the
horthanded tally, he also has a goal
nd three assists on the power play.
INJURY NOTES: In the opening
ninutes of the second periodon Sat-
irday, Rust was tripped up in front
of the Falcons'
net. After being
helped off the ice,
Rust didn't return
to the game.
just The type of
injury has not
ray too been specifically
disclosed, but it
iaities." is being called a
"lower body inju-
ry."
As a mem-
ser of Michigan's top line, it was a
slow to the team, forcing Hagelin to
nove oyer to center on that line as
Vaughan and freshman Derek DeB-
ois filled in for Rust.
"No matter what you do, you're
oing to miss a guy like Matt Rust -
sur top centerman and arguably top
enalty killer," Berenson said. "He's
I real force on the team to lose that
arly in the game."
After Vaughan and Bennett were
elegated to the locker room follow-
ng game misconducts, the Michi-
an bench had to run just three
lines.
"I looked down the bench at one
point and I was like, 'Is there any-
sody on this bench right now?' "
Caporusso said. "It seemed like
very time you got off thatcyou were
ight back out there.
"Sometimes that's good because
ou get into the swing of things, but
t can kind of grind you down after
a while."
"We just have to get our tim-
ing back and be a little bit more
decisive with our decision-mak-
ing."
The last time Michigan over-
came a turnover differential as
great as it faced on Saturday and
won the game was in the 2008
Capital One bowl against the

Florida Gators. In Lloyd Carr's
last game as Michigan's head
coach, the team won 41-35 even
though Chad Henne threw two
interceptions and Mike Hart
fumbled twice.
"When you come away with
three turnovers on defense and
don't give up any on offense, it's
tough to lose the football game,"
Dantonio said.

No. Yds
3 30
1 26
4 56

Avg Lg TD
18 18 0
16 26 0
14 26 0

Solo
6
5
4
5
2
4
3
2
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
45

4
1
0

6
3
3
2
2
2

: LIKE THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK

0
1
22

WANNA BE A PART OF
NEXT YEAR'S DAILY
WIN OVER THE
STATE NEWS?
* Join the sports section.
EMAIL RKARTJE@UMICH.EDU

Piractice with former interviewers
and eiplyes: of top firi
Consulting McKnsey, BCG, Ban.,
I-Banking Goldman, JP Morgan, UBSK
PE IR, Lain Capital, Carly
Nion-profit UN, Peace Caps, TFAK
Zwwwxevisorsxcom
Evisors -$


a

4B - October 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN

MAIZE GAUGE
SPREAD-O-METER

The Michigan Daily football writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Spread-o-Meter measures the success of quarterbacks, the Rod-o-Meter
judges how emotional (positive or negative) Rich Rodriguez was following the game and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance.
ROD-O-METER HYPE-O-METER

6

/
Denards

Ah, the first non-4/4 given to the Michigan quarter-
backs. Sophomore Denard Robinson came back to
earth, rushing for 86 yards and passing for 215 while
also throwing three interceptions. He led some nice
drives, but his two picks in the MSU endzone were killer.

1/ At the podium on Saturday, Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez was less than demonstrative. Instead of frustrated
Rich Rods or disappointed, Rodriguez appeared to be tired and
somewhat worried. Perhaps we'll see a bit more emo-
tion out of Coach Rod after he watches the game tape.

4 Two undefeated teams, both ranked. A coach coming off of a
heart attack. A Heisman Trophy candidate. Two towns sepa-
rated by an hour's drive. This rivarly game had hype around
Big Houses it, to say the least. Though there were some MSU fans,
Michigan fans were early to the stadium, loud and dedicated.

a


LOOKING GOOD

FEELING BLUE

PLAY OF THE GAME

ARIEL BOND/Daily ARIEL BoND/Daily
PUNTER WILL HAGERUP QUARTERBACK DENARD ROBINSON
The true freshman finally lived up to the hype It's unusual to see Robinson in this spot on the
surrounding him before the season began. He page, but after three interceptions (two in the
launched four booming punts for 188 yards. He had Michigan State endzone, aka a 14-point swing),
two punts of 50 yards or more, and two punts that we had to do it. Robinson struggled against the
landed inside the 20-yard line. Statistically, he out- toughest defense he's faced to date, as the Spartans
kicked the Spartan punter. Besides the blocked field were able to effectively contain his explosive
goal in the second quarter, Michigan's special teams running ability. Michigan State also capitalized on
were a bit of a bright spot in the loss to Michigan Robinson's mistakes through the air while showing
State on Saturday. Redshirt freshman Seth the rest of Michigan's Big Ten opponents that the
Broekhuizen made the first field goal of his career. early Heisman favorite still has a lot to learn.

Sophomore quarterback Denard Robinson took the snap at the
10-yard line and rolled to his right. Redshirt sophomore wide receiver
Roy Roundtree started the play in the slot to Robinson's left and made
his cut across the endzone. As Robinson looked downfield, he threw
the ball behind Roundtree and the Michigan State safety intercepted
the pass. It was the first of two red zone interceptions on the day for
Robinson.

NOTABLE
QUOTABLE
Having to have
o say that I lost
ore than I beat
them is tough.
I wanted to get
the Paul Bunyan
trophy back my
senior year and
go out that way."
- Michigan fifth-year senior lineman
Stephen Schilling, after the game.

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP 10 POLL
Each week, Daily Sports staffers fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10
points, second-place votes receiving nine, and so on. The results are published with
first-place votes in parentheses.

1. OHIO STATE (10):
The Buckeyes held that
supposedlyexplosive '
Indiana offense to 10 points.
2. OREGON (2): LaMichael
James broke the obligatory
big run and Oregon pulled
away late.
3. BOISE STATE: Nolove
for the Broncos as they get
bumped by Oregon, despite
mauling Toledo.
4.TCU: TheHorned
Frogsshowed no mercy
toWyomingbeatingthe
Cowboys 45-0.
5. NEBRASKA: Nebraska k
ended its rivalry with
Kansas State with a bang.

6. AUBURN: The Tigers
squeaked out a close victory
over Kentucky on the
Wildcats' home turf.
7. OKLAHOMA: The
Sooners took advantage of
Texas's down year and won
the Red River Rivalry.
8. SOUTH CAROLINA: The
Gamecocks showed they're
for real with an upset win
over top-ranked Alabama.
9. MICHIGAN DAILY(1):
Six in a row over the State
News was nice. Double OT
was nicer.
10. LSU: Les Miles
continues to shoot himself in
the foot. And win.

AFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their
best to predict what happens Nicole
in the 2010 football season. Auerbach

No.18 Michigan (-5) vs. Michigan State
No. 1 Alabama (-10) at No.19 South Carolina
No. 2 Ohio State (-28) vs. Indiana
No. 3 Oregon (-34) at Washington State
No. 4 Boise State (-36) at Toledo
No. 5 TCU (-33) vs. Wyoming
No.7 Nebraska (-10) at Kansas State
No. 8 Auburn (-6.5) at Kentucky
No. 9 Arizona (-7.5) vs. Oregon State
No.10 Utah (-4) at Iowa State
No.11 Arkansas (-7.5) at Texas A&M
No.12 Louisiana State (+9) at No.14 Florida
No.13 Miami (Fla.) (-7) vs. No. 23 Florda State
No.16 Stanford (-7) vs. USC
No. 20 Wisconsin (-22) vs. Minnesota
No. 21 Nevada (-38) vs. San Jose State
No. 22Oklahoma State (-21) vs. LA-Lafeyette
No. 24 Missouri (-9) vs. Colorado
No. 25 Air Force (-26) vs. Colorado State
Illinois (+11.5) at Penn State
Purdue (+10) at Northwestern
This week
Overall

Michigan State
Alabama
Ohio State
Washington State
Boise State
TCU
Nebraska
Auburn
Arizona
Utah
Arkansas
Florida
Florida State
Stanford
Wisconsin
San Jose State
Oklahoma State
Missouri
Colorado State
Penn State
Northwestern
11-9-1
67-43-3

Ryan
Kartje
Michigan
Alabama
Ohio State
Oregon
Boise State
Wyoming
Nebraska.
Auburn
Arizona
Utah
Arkansas
Florida
Florida State
Stanford
Wisconsin
Nevada
Oklahoma State
Missouri
Air Force
Penn State
Northwestern
6-14-1
58-52-3

Tim
Rohan
Michigan
Alabama
Ohio State
Oregon
Boise State
Wyoming
Nebraska
Auburn
Oregon State
Utah
Arkansas
Louisiana State
Miami (Fla.)
USC
Wisconsin
San Jose State
Oklahoma State
Missouri
Air Force
Penn State
Northwestern
9-11-1
60-50-3

Joe r
Stapleton w
Michigan
Alabama
Ohio State
Oregon
Boise State
Wyoming
Nebraska
Auburn
Arizona
Utah
Arkansas
Florida
Florida State
Stanford
Wisconsin
Nevada
Oklahoma State
Colorado
Air Force
Illinois
Northwestern
6-14-1
62-48-3

Lee Quakenbush
Men's Glee Club
President
Michigan
Alabama
Ohio State
Oregon
Boise State
TCU
Nebraska
Auburn
Arizona
Utah
Arkansas
Florida
Florida State
Stanford
Minnesota
San Jose State
Oklahoma State
Missouri
Air Force
Illinois
Purdue
11-9-1
11-9-1

01



