ALF SLIDE MYSTERY MESS
tern gave Michigan a Sherlock's got plenty of
comeback medicine. abrawn, not enough brains.
E SPORTSMONDAY, PAGEBSEE ARTS, PAGE 5A
7 4cIfte Mii an Ba Ily

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, January 11, 2010

michigandailycom

DRUMMING IN THE NEW YEAR
y
Cti :..w Y1s..
5 _
.mw 3

U :Pay raise
shift not the
result of LEO
grievance

MIA MARINO/Daily
Caren Sole and her father, Brian Sole, play the drums in Raoin Taiko, a traditional Japanese drumming group, during the Mochitsuki Japanese Cultural Fair at the School
of Social Work on Saturday. The fair was hosted by the University's Center for Japanese Studies in honor of the Japanese New Year.
IIN IaN Te RESIn-NCpHAL
Houigcagssg-pplc

Lecturers' union
accused 'U' of using
fuzzy math to avoid
giving pay increases
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
A significant shift in the funds
used to determine faculty raises is
drawing different responses from
University administrators and the
lecturers' union on campus.
Documents obtained by The
Michigan Daily through a Freedom
of Information Act request detailed
dramatic changes to the four funds
used to fund pay raises for faculty,
which directly impact the size of
THE ABC'S OF LSA SALA
60
50
to 40
aro 30
U 20
10

pay raises for lecturers.
The Lecturers Employment
Organization - the union that
represents lecturers on campus -
contends the shift in funds came
as a result of a grievance they filed
with the University in November
2008. But University officials say
the change is simply part of the
University's cost-cutting strategy
given the down economy.
LEO and the University were
at odds last year when the union
accused University adminis-
trators of moving money from
faculty salary funds that would
obligate the University to give
larger pay raises to lecturers into
See LEO, Page 3A
See FOIA documents for this
I story on
RIES
Funds:
A
C+
..

Residents who have
been living in 'U'
Housing the longest
will have priority
By OLIVIA CARRINO
Daily StaffReporter
In an effort to make the Univer-
sity Housing system fairer, Hous-
ing officials are implementing a
new policy initially proposed in
October that eliminates the option
for students to request the same
room or hall that they currently

live in for next year.
Instead, Housingis instituting a
campus-wide pool in which prior-
ity is given to residents who have
lived in the residence halls the
most consecutive terms. As anoth-
er change, the entire process will
now be completed online.
Lastweek, Housing officials sent
an e-mail to students currently liv-
ing in University residence halls
that included links to informative
tutorials on how to sign up.
University Housing spokesman
Peter Logan said the new process
will be more fair for all current
residents who want to live on cam-
pus next year.

"This year we've eliminated the
same room and same hall selec-
tion," Logan said, "and essentially,
we've broadened this, really, to
be more equitable in providing
residential choices to all students
across the board."
In the new policy, students will
be able to request to live in a single,
double, triple or quad. They will"
also still be able to sign up to live
with a particular roommate or
group of friends.
However, there are a few excep-
tions to the new policy because
some residence halls are only
open to first-year or second-year
students or reserved for learning

communities.
Logan said that rooms will first
be set aside to accommodate the
various learning communities, and
then the selection process will be
opened campus wide.
He added that ifa student living
in a learning community this year
is readmitted to the program next
year, they will most likely be in
the same hall, but he doesn't know
if they will be able to request the
same room.
He added that there will be some
adjustments made to the location
of certain learning communities
due to the closing of Couzens Resi-
See HOUSING, Page.7A


2009 2010
SOURCE: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

OBITUARY
'' prof. who used numbers
to fight against war dies

A former Navy
sailor, Singer spent
his life quantifying
the dangers of war
By CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter
M
University Prof. Emeritus J.
David Singer, an internationally
renowned teacher, researcher

and scholar of international poli-
tics, died in Ann Arbor on Dec. 28
at the age of 84.
Singer, who had been hos-
pitalized since last September
when he was involved in a car
accident, is survived by his wife
Diane Macaulay, who currently
resides in Ann Arbor, his daugh-
ters Annie and Katie Singer and
his two grandchildren.
Singer joined the Political Sci-
ence Department at the Univer-
sity in 1958, where he remained

a professor until 2007. As a pro-
fessor and researcher, Singer
focused on finding ways to eradi-
cate war through a scientific
approach.
While at the University, he
founded the Correlates of War
project in 1963, which collects
scientific knowledge about war.
David Gellar, professor and chair
of the political science depart-
ment at Wayne State University,
described the project as "the
See SINGER, Page 7A

New A2-based rail line in the works

MIA MARINO/Daily
Former presidents of the campus chapter of the National Society Of Black Engineers hold a panel discussion on Friday.
At event, former NSBE presidents
. .
emphasize com-mumit outreach

System would Arbor and Detroit could soon
alleviate transportation frustra-
include stops in tions.
Last month, the United States
Ypsilanti, Metro Senate budgeted $331 million for
the state of Michigan, including
Airport and Detroit $3.5 million for a proposed rail
service between Ann Arbor and
By MIKE MERAR Detroit that would include stops
For theDaily in Ypsilanti, Dearborn and the
Detroit Metro Airport.
Traveling to the airport and Carmine Palombo, director
downtown Detroit can be a of Transportation Programs for
nightmare for students with- the Southeast Michigan Council
out access to cars, but a newly of Governments, said the budget
proposed rail line between Ann for the new service is not yet set

in stone. But, he said a number of
aspects of the project would be
completed by October 2010.
From Ann Arbor to Detroit,
the service is expected to take
around 50 to 55 minutes. Palom-
bo said exact prices have yet to
be determined, but the cost for a
round-trip ticket will be competi-
tive with other comparable ser-
vices and will most likely range
between $6 and $7.
While many officials have
voiced support for this new ser-
vice, additional funding for the
See TRANSPORTATION, Page 7A

Panelists stress
mentoring students
from local schools
in the sciences
By MICHELE NAROV
For the Daily
A panel from the National Soci-
ety of Black Engineers spoke to
about 100 Engineering students

on Friday night about the group's
efforts to reach out to elementary,
middle and high school students in
Southeast Michigan.
The meeting - held in the
Industrial & Operations Engi-
neering Building on North Cam-
pus - featured five panelists, four
of whom were past NSBE presi-
dents at the University. The panel-
ists - Damaune Journey, Jolene
Ferguson, Erin Teague, Maurice
Telesford and Deandre Reagins -
addressed the organization's role

at the University and in the com-
munity.
NSBE, the largest student-run
organization in the country, pro-
vides academic and professional
opportunities for African-Amer-
ican engineers at the University
and across the nation. In recent
years, the University's chapter has
put an emphasis on reaching out
to students in the Ypsilanti school
districts.
Teague told the audience that
See PANEL, Page 7A



WEATHER HI:23
TOMORROW LO:19

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Cooking up a sexier version of oatmeal.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE

INDEX NEWS................
Vol. CXX, No. 70 SUDOKU...........
)2010The Michigan Daily OPINION...
michigondailycom """""

...2A ARTS.............5A
...3A CLASSIFIEDS.. ..A...........6A
...4A SPORTSMONDAY............ .1B


2A - Monday, January 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, January 11, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
FRIDAY:

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week
DVD CHECKOUT

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-n558
smitevitz@nichigandaily.com rmdbusiness@gmnait~eom

Deported student gets

A Palestinian student who in Bethlehem.
was deported from Israel.last
October and was not allowed OHIO STATE GETS $80M
to finish her studies at Beth- IN STIMULUS FUNDS
lehem University was award-
ed her degree yesterday, Ohio State University
according to the Chronicle of has received more than $80
Higher Education. million from the American
Berlanty Azzam complet- Recovery and Reinvestment
ed her degree by taking class- Act, according to The Lan-
es through distance learning, tern, OSU's daily newspaper.
the Chronicle reported. The The funds received from
Vatican-run university held a the stimulus package will be
graduation ceremony yester- used to finance many of the
day in Gaza City. 512 proposals submitted by
The President of Bethle- researchers at the school,
hem University and the apos- according to The Lantern.
tolic nuncio to Israel were in Projects that OSU will pur-
attendance at the ceremony sue with the funds include a
and congratulated Azzam. $2 million study on the genet-
A mass was then cel- ics of heart disease, diabetes
ebrated with Azzam and and obesity and a $1.5 million
other students in Gaza who project on use of driverless
are waiting permission from cars.
Israel to leave Gaza and study Though OSU received

more stimulus money than
any other college in Ohio, it
received significantly less than
other Big Ten schools, like the
University of Michigan, which
received $206 million.
NYC MAYOR
ANNOUNCES BUSINESS
CONTEST WINNER
Columbia University wel-
comed New York Mayor
Michael Bloomberg to its
campus Wednesday to
announce the winners of the
NYC Next Idea 2009 Global
Business Competition, The
Columbia Spectator reported.
NYC Next Idea, which
was hosted and adminis-
tered by the Columbia Busi-
ness School, was launched
last February in an effort to
encourage entrepreneurship

degree
among college students, the
Spectator reported.
Teams from ten universi-
ties in six countries submit-
ted business proposals in
hopes ofwinningthe $20,000
cash prize.
The winners of the compe-
tition, from the Indian Insti-
tute of Technology Madras
in Chennai, India, created
an efficient system of distrib-
uting and collecting energy
through remote sites across
the city, the Spectator report-
ed.
Bloomberg said the idea for
the contest stemmed from an
interest in promoting inter-
national enterprise in New
York, the Spectator reported.
"Find the next big idea,
and grow it here in the Big
Apple," the mayor said.
- SCOTT SUH

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
Letterstothe Editor
Phtotgraphy Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

3Ofcehoursu.-Thurs.t11o.m,. -2 ..
news@mihigandaily~com
correcions@icigadaiy.cox
tznhedaity@miusigandaiy.com
photo@michieandaity.czx

sports@mihigandaily.co
display@michigandaily.om
utasoified@michigandaiy.cox
ontineods@michigandaily.com

LSA freshman Alicia Juillet helps a student
at the Askwith Media Library yesterday.

CRIME NOTES
GPS and gift 'U' Hospital
card stolen employee ki
WHERE: 1330 Block of Hill WHERE: University H
WHEN: Friday at around 3:45 Emergency Room
p.m. WHEN: Saturday at 8:5
WHAT: A GPS and a $25 WHAT: Hospital secur
gift card were stolen from an reported that a female
unlocked car, University Police kicked a hospital techn
reported. There are currently the ankle. The femalem
no suspects. was uninjured.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Beat the Cold on Kid Cudi live in
cked the Diag concert tonight

ospital
50 p.m.
rity
patient
ician in
worker

MIP issued on Bags stolen at
University bus track meet

WHERE: Mitchell Field
WHEN: Saturday at around
12:10 a.m.
WHAT: A bus driver called
DPS when an intoxicated male
student tripped upon enter-
ing the bus, University Police
reported. The student was
taken to the emergency room
and given an MIP.

WHERE: Indoor Track Build-
ing
WHEN: Friday at around 8:35
p.m.
WHAT: Gym bags were taken
from four male students at a
track event, University Police
reported. The bags were recov-
ered, but cell phones and cash
were taken.

WHAT: The University
Music Society's various stu-
dent groups will perform.
Complimentary food and hot
drinks will be provided.
WHO: The University Music
Society
WHEN: Today noon to 4 p.m.
WHERE: The Diag
Poetry reading
at UMMA
WHAT: World renowned
poet, Carol Ann Duffy, will
hold a reading of her poetry.
A public reception will follow
the reading.
WHO: MFA program
WHEN: Today5 p.m. to 7
p.m.
WHERE: Helmet Stern Audi-
torium, UMMA

WHAT: Hip-hop phenom
Kid Cudi, who was nominated
for a VMA for best new artist,
will perform live tonight.
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: The Michigan
Theater
Music School
recital
WHAT: Students will per-
form various classical pieces.
The event is free to all attend-
ees.
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Britton Recital
Hall, E.V. Moore Building
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

A behemoth 700-pound
bruin bear, over twice the
weight of the average adult
bear, has been terrorizing resi-
dents in Incline Village, Nevada,
the San Francisco Chronicle
reported. The bear has bro-
ken into more than 40 homes,
shrugged off bullets and bear
traps and is still on the loose.
Michigan's football, ice
hockey and men's bas-
ketball teams have a
combined 23-24 record so far
in their 2009-2010 seasons.
FOR MORE, SEE THE SPORTSMONDAY
COWMNPAGE2B
3Members of the Ameri-
can Dialect Association
have voted "Tweet"
the word of 2009, UPI.com
reported. "Tweet" is defined
as the act of sending a short
message over the social net-
working site, "Twitter."
"Google" was voted the word
of the decade.

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattAaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
JillianBermanManagingNewsEditor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIoRnEWS EDTORS kicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Sanson, Esan rescnaueks o:,ei ,,,eug~~~ssihoo
ASSITN NEW EDTORS:Dylan Cni Darrn Fitzgerald, Joseph Lichterman,
RachelVan Gilder EditorialPage Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SEN OR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, EmilyOrley, Laura
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, AlexSchiff, Matthew Shuter
Ryan Karte MaagingSporsEditoerb karte@micikadaityco
SEIRScumTS EDIORS:Nus ,icoleAebach, Mark Bons,, Gjo Jncaj,ithris
Meszaros. Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Jaie Block Managingrts Editor block@michigandailycom
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,JeffSanford
IST A0SEDITORS:LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,BrigidKilcoin,MikeKuntz,
0,,: Shekhar e,,dey
Max Collins and photo@michigandaiy.com
SamWolson ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDIT OR FOR MULTIMEDIA: Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:AaronAugsburger,JakeFromm,JedMoch
Sarah Squire and design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingDesignEditors
Trevortalero MgToindio or calero@michigandailycom
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Agie White
Melanie Friedand copydesk@michigandailycom
RachelPhillips copychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lozwiak sales Manager
SALESFORCEMANAGER:MollyTwigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Basinoki Classiied Manager
CL AAn o SSISTANTnMAsNoGER: KaylaLaFata
In Entlish ProductionManager
Alison SantacneU LayoutOManager
Vivian LeeFin ayne M anager
Brittany Morales CirculationManager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wintertermsbystudentsattheUniversity of Michigan.Onecopyisavaiablefree of chargetosll
readers .Additional copiesmay bepickedup at the Daly's office for$2. Subscriptionsfor falterm,
starting in September, viaU.S. mal are $10. Winter term (January through April) is $1,;yearlong
SetembsethroughAp)i.onvestystyaiiatesaresubjecttoareducedsubssctionrate.
Oncampssubscriptionofsti termare$35.Subsi tionsmstbprepaid.The MichignDaily

0
6
4

MORE ONLINE
Lave Crime Notes?Get moreonline at michigandaily.com/blogs/tlte wire


E

WANT TO WORK IN THIS
REALLY OLD BUILDING?
Come to one of the Daily's mass meetings.
TONIGHT AT 8 PM
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13TH AT 8 PM
SUNDAY, JANUARY 24TH AT 6 PM

4

4

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, January 11, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, January 11, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Ford unveils 2012
Focus, designed as
its first 'world car'
Ford Motor Co. is unveiling the
2012 Focus, a small sedan that is the
company's first truly global car.
The new Focus, due in European
and North American showrooms
early next year, was designed and
engineered to be sold worldwide
using almost all the same parts,
unlike past versions. It'll be sold in
Asia, the Americas, and Europe.
The aim is to keep costs down
and make money on small cars, a
segment that used to be a loser. The
Focus also shows that gas mileage
is a prime motivator now for more
frugal car buyers, and that small-
car owners still want performance,
quality and a lot of features. Pricing
will be announced closer to the date
it arrives in showrooms.
Ford unveils the new four- and
five-door Focuses on Monday at
the Detroit auto show. The cars
are equipped with a new two-liter
four-cylinder engine and six-speed
automatic transmission. The com-
pany wouldn't reveal gas mileage,
but said it will be significantly bet-
ter than the current North Ameri-
can Focus, which gets up to 35 mpg
on the highway.
EUREKA, Calif.
N. California avoids
major damage in
6.5 magnitude
earthquake
Residents of a Northern Cali-
fornia county gingerly cleaned up
Sunday after the area dodged a
catastrophe, escaping a 6.5 magni-
tude earthquake with little more
than bumps, cuts and broke glass.
Eureka's Bayshore Mall had
entrances blocked off as engineers
surveyed for damage. Area bridges
suffered some bent rails, and local
stores reported messy aisles where
bottles and jars flew from shelves
and shattered, authorities said.
But the Saturday afternoon
temblor - centered in the Pacific
about 22 miles west of Ferndale
- caused no major injuries, only
limited structural damage and
just a few hours where thousands
of residents were without power.
"I think we can attribute some
of this to being prepared," said
Phil Smith-Hanes, Humboldt
County spokesman. "Folks in this
area are used to living in earth-
quake country."
BAGHDAD
Iraqi in Blackwater
case turns down
compensation deal
An Iraqi injured by the U.S. pri-
vate security firm once known as
Blackwater said Sunday he would
not accept a compensation deal
for injuries he suffered after com-
pany employees opened fire in a

crowded Baghdad square because
the amount of money offered is
too low.
Mahdi Abdul-Kadir was speak-
ing about a civil lawsuit that is
separate from the criminal case
brought against the company,
 whose dismissal has become a
lightening rod for Iraqi resent-
nient over the behavior of private
security companies and prompted
Iraqi politicians to denounce the
U.S. justice system.
Abdul-Kadir said Blackwater's
offer of compensation to those
who had been injured or had fam-
ily members killed was too low.
MANILA, Philippines
Philippine police
arrest 18 after gun
ban goes into effect
About 50,000 Philippine
policemen began enforcing a five-
month ban on carrying guns in
public Sunday in hopes of avoid-
ing bloodshed in the buildup to
May elections, arresting 18 vio-
lators at checkpoints across the
country.
The Philippines is a lively
democracy and elections are often
marred by violence and fraud. In
the 2007 local and congressional
elections, 108 people were killed
in election-related violence,
including 15 candidates, national
police spokesman Chief Supt.
Leonardo Espina said Sunday.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Southern Pakistan hit by wave
of politically-charged killings

Violence apparently
an attempt to
destabilize country's
ruling coalition
KARACHI, Pakistan (AP) -
Dozens of people have been killed
in Pakistan's largest city including
four found Sunday - three of them
headless - in a wave of targeted
attacks amongrival political groups
that some sayis aimed at destabiliz-
ingthe country's ruling coalition.
Political violence is common
inKarachi, but the shootings and
decapitations since Jan. 1 have
terrorized parts of this teeming
southern metropolis, prompting
the government to send in para-
military forces to restore order.
The political infighting comes
at a time when the government is
facing a raging Taliban-led insur-
gency that has spread to Karachi
and killed more than 600 people
across the country in the past
three months. The growingunrest
in the financial capital threatens
to spark further instability.
"We have found four bodies of
LEOa
From Page 1A t
faculty salary funds that would s
not. LEO claimed such activi- t
ties constituted a breach of the t
University's agreement with s
the union. t
The University denied r
wrongdoing, though it eventu-
ally settled with LEO and gave a
lecturers a pay raise. Accord- t
ing to a June 12, 2009 settle- a
ment agreement signed by Jeff
Frumkin, senior director of s
academic human resources, L
LEO agreed to withdraw itsd
grievance in exchange for a 1.5
percent increase to the 2007- a
2008 full time salary rate. Aa
settlement signed by Ronald I
Dick, associate director of aca-v
demic human resources, said a
lecturers saw an additional a
two-percent pay raise effective t
Sept. 1, 2009.n
The four funds used to pro- i
vide pay raises to faculty mem-
bers - known as the A, B, C a
and D funds - each have spe- s
cifically designated purposes. t
The A fund is used to provide a
merit increases - the most v
common pay raise - for faculty f
members. The B fund pays for
pay raises that result from fac- t
ulty promotions and retention ,
battles with other institutions. t
The C and D funds are used i
for correcting pay inequity, a
rewarding faculty for special
achievements and other spe- t
cial circumstances, as deter- t
mined by a school's dean.
While the University is
obligated to give proportional
raises to lecturers as given to
faculty through the A and B
fund, language in the Univer-
sity's agreement with LEO
exempts the University from
providing proportional raises
to lecturers that are given to
faculty through the C and D
funds. The D fund is also com-
monly known as the Super C
fund.
According to figures
released to the Daily after a
FOIA request was filed, the

amount of money allocated to
the C and D funds fell dramati-
cally from last year's levels. In
fact, while the D fund saw a
94-percent drop, the C fund
was cut by 100 percent - elim-
inating the fund this year.
Meanwhile, the A and B fund
saw significant increases as a
fraction of the overall money
spent on faculty pay raises,
with the A fund increasing
from 38 percent of the money
spent on faculty raises in fiscal
year 2009 to 67 percent in fis-
cal year 2010. The B fund rose
from 21 percent of the overall
amount committed in fiscal
year 2009 to 30 percent in fis-
cal year 2010.
Adjunct Associate Business
Prof. Joe Walls, who serves as
the press liaison for LEO, said
he believes the shift in funds
occurred in response to the
grievance LEO filed last year.
Walls said the shift falls in
line with the numbers LEO
officials were hoping to see
when they originally filed the
grievance.
"I'd say that sounds more
like what we would expect,"
he said "The B fund is for pro-
motion and retention and the
A fund is the normal quote on
quote raises so we would hope
to see more money in there."
He said the shifts in funds
indicated that the grievances

our partyworkers today," said Fais-
al Sabzwari, a provincial lawmaker
from the Muttahida Qaumi Move-
ment, the strongest political party
in Karachi and one dominated by
the minority Mohajir ethnic group.
"Three of them were headless,
and we found the heads later on,"
Sabzwari told The Associated
Press on Sunday.
Sabzwari blamed members of
the ruling Pakistan People's Party
for fueling the violence, saying
much of it was being carried out by
thugs from Lyari Town, a poor area
of Karachi and a PPP stronghold.
"They are the Lyari gang
members and criminals who
are killing our workers, and
there are some elements within
the ruling party who patronize
them," he said.
QaimAli Shah, the chiefminister
ofSindh province, where Karachi is
the capital,andamemberoftherul-
ing party, seemed to.make similar
allegations against the MQM. He
did not name the group directly but
said "a political party" was behind
the killings of its workers.
"Targeted killings are a con-
spiracy against the provincial
government, and sacrifices of PPP
had some basis, adding that the
organization won their grievance
his summer.
"We did win the grievance and
omeone somewhere believed
hat it was legitimate otherwise
hat wouldn't have happened," he
aid. "It seems they've changed
heir policies based on that
esult."
However University spokes-
man Rick Fitzgerald said the dras-
ic cuts to the C and D fund were
not an admittance of guilt by the
University. Instead, Fitzgerald
aid the shift was evidence of'the
University's fiscal prudence in the
down economy.
"The reason is that there is less
money overall available," Fitzger-
ald said. "We've been aggressively
holding down costs. The pro-
vost, before the budget process,
encouraged the units to keep sal-
ary increases to certain levels and
his is a recognition of doing the
most good with limited resources
n LSA."
Because less money was avail-
able for pay increases, Fitzgerald
aid LSA administrators wanted
to allocate more money to the A
and B funds, since more faculty
would be eligible to receive the
funds.
"It's a commitment to make
:he limited resources available
for salary increases available to
he greatest number of faculty
n LSA," Fitzgerald said. "That's
really the only driving factor."
"What LSA did with the funds
his year really has no bearing on
he LEO increase because of the

workers won'tgo unrewarded," he
told reporters Saturday.
Although both parties are
members of the ruling coalition,
they have a tense relationship
and a history of conflict that dates
back to the arrival of Mohajir
immigrants from India after Paki-
stan gained independence in 1947.
Native Sindhis, who mostly sup-
port the ruling party, resented the
Mohajirs' attempts tosecure well-
paying government jobs.
Pakistan's Interior Ministry said
Sunday that 41 people have died in
targeted killings in Karachi since
the beginning of the year, includ-
ing 10 MQM workers, 10 from a
breakaway faction -called Haqiqi,
and 16 members of a committee set
up by the ruling party in Lyari to
control violence in the area.
The five others were from a
handful of political and religious
groups, said the ministry's Crisis
Management Cell.
Karachi Police Chief Wasim
Ahmed provided different figures
and tried to play down the crisis.
He said 50 people had been killed in
Karachi during the first nine days
of the year, but only 20 deaths were
politically or ethnically motivated.
way they made that change and
how fiscal year '10 was handled
when they settled that grievance
last year," he said.
Fitzgerald explained that by
moving more money to the A and
B funds, more faculty would be
eligible for larger pay increases.
"It's the A Fund that pays for the
faculty pay raises - for the annual
raises available to virtually all the
faculty members of course based
on their annual unit level evalua-
tion process," he said.
He added that the change in
the B fund can vary from year to
year based on the number of pro-
motions and faculty retention
battles.
"The B fund is really promotion
and retention dollars," Fitzgerald
said. "That will vary from year
to year because (administrators)
know who is up for promotion
and to respond to specific reten-
tion situations that they know
about."
Asked whether this yer's shift
of funds to the A and B fund would
set a precedent for future years,
Fitzgerald said he coldn't predict
the future.
"I think that'll be ayear-to-year
decision for the leadership in LSA
as they evaluate just like in any
budgeting process," Fitzgerald
said. "It's a matter of setting pri-
orities and that's an annual pro-
cess that every unit on campus
will have to go through."
- Managing News Editor Jillian
Berman and Editor in Chief Jacob
Smilovitz contributed to this report.

Nigerian terror
suspect pleads
not guilty
FBI says suspect attempted strike against the United
States by an al-Qaida affiliate and.
tried to destroy faults his administration for not.
preventing it despite intelligence
Detroit-bound flight reports
A grand jury this week indicted-
on Christmas Day Abdulmutallab on six charges. The
most serious - attempting to use
DETROIT (AP) - Wearing a a weapon of mass destruction -
T-shirt, khaki-style pants and a could land him in prison for life if
chain at his ankles, a somber-look- convicted.
ing Nigerian man accused of trying He replied "yes" when asked Fri
to blow upa U.S. airliner on Christ- day ifhe understood thecharges and,
mas said he understood the charges said he had taken "some pain pills"
against him, triggering the defense after the judge inquired whether he
of a criminal case that could lead to had used any drugs or alcohol in the,
life in prison. past 24 hors. He is being held at,
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab's federal prison in Milan, Mich., and
arraignment in federal court Fri- had been treated at a hospital for
day took fewer than five minutes burns.
and a not guilty plea was entered U.S. Magistrate Judge Mark,
on his behalf. The 23-year-old said Randon entered a notlguilty plea for
little, telling the judge simply that Abdulmutallab. It's a routine pracT
he understood the six-count indict- tice in federal court for the defen-
ment he faces and the maximum dant to allow the judge to enter a
penalty. plea.
Abdulmutallab's first court The defense team did not chal
appearance came exactly two weeks' lenge the government's request to,
after an Amsterdam-to-Detroit keep Abdulmutallab in pre-trial
flight in which passengers rushed custody. After the hearing, one of
to his seat and put out flames that his attor neys declined to talk about'
could have caused a disaster. The the case.
FBI says Abdulmutallab tried to "It's just too soon in the process
destroy Northwest Airlines Flight to make any comment," Leroy Soles
253, which was carrying nearly 300 said at a nearby coffee shop. The.
people, by injecting chemicals into date of the next hearing was not
a package of explosives concealed in set.
his underwear. A Detroit-area native who sat six
The alleged attack has shaken up rows in front of Abdulmutallab on
airport security worldwide. Presi- the plane watched the arraignment
dent Barack Obama considers it an from the courtroom gallery.
WANT TO JOIN THE DAILY?
Come to our mas;
meeting at 420 Mayniard.
TONIGHT AT 8 PM
PHceton
Review 7
MCAT
10 Point - Avg Score Increase
12 Point -Top Quarter Increase
105 hours live instruction A
5 expert instructors
MCAT COURSES START AS
EARLY AS JAR 17!
8*n s
-oeo .5-iesiy&S.Frs

.

Teach Engalish
in Japan!.
www.englIshlIub-jp.com
*nglishcIubjapan4hotmai.com

I

READER
KNOWS BST
Vote for the Best of Ann Arbor
before January 22 on our web site.
michigandaily.com/best-201 0


4A - Monday, January 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


y Midiigan al
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
' .tothedaily@umich.edu

Let me say, all the madness of the past ends today:'
- Detroit City Council President Charles Pugh, commenting on the change of power ir
Detroit, as reported by The Detroit News on Saturday

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Don't cut the classics
Universities shouldn't eliminate traditional programs
W~Tath out, classics majors across the nation - your depart-
ment may be in danger of being cut. Michigan State Uni-
versity recently cut majors that administrators deemed
less important as part of an effort to trim excess departments, stay
relevant and save money, according an article in The New York
Times last month. And other colleges have followed a similar trend.
But cutting majors damages the value of the variety that a liberal
arts education offers. Coursework should be updated and adjusted
to make majors relevant to the changing world but limiting areas of
study isn't the right way to address funding cuts.

BELLA SHAH

E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU

Are jott sv,4,y7
}mil
-Are- 10'A C,
1.
z.
c",-ups b
"Zz (c z 3Qr 3

n-ewt...

0

Connecting in Detroit

MSU recently eliminated its American
studies and classics majors after these con-
centrations experienced declines in their
enrollments. The. decision to cut the pro-
grams was made in part because of their
limited number of students - only 13 stu-
dents have declared classical studies as
their major in the last four years, accord-
ing to a Dec. 29 article in The New York
Times. The cuts were also a money-saving
measure. MSU isn't the only university to
cut majors. Last spring, the University of
Louisiana voted to eliminate its philoso-
phy major because, as the New York Times
article reported, it "lost some credence
among students."
Universities that have cut majors due to
lack of interest or to cut costs have under-
rated educational diversity. Information of
all types is valuable, and students should
have access to a wide range of educational
opportunities. Part of the value of a liberal
arts education is that students can expand
their perspectives, identify varied interests
and grow a diverse skill set. Career-specific
knowledge changes as industries grow and
are redefined. But a well-rounded education
won't lose its value.
The educational mission of a university
is compromised when an institution choos-
es to cut majors and courses. Even a course
that doesn't teach job-specific skills may be
relevant to producing thoughts, skills and
ideas that can serve students personally
and professionally. Cutting off students

from a branch of knowledge is contrary to
the fundamental purpose of a university -
to expand students' knowledge and meth-
ods of thought.
Universities should be adding new
courses and educational avenues as society
changes. Global and economic states are
always changing, and new courses are nec-
essary to help students navigate the world.
If some majors show a decline in enrollment,
then the coursework should be updated so
that students find the relevant connections
between real-world applications and what
they learn in the classroom.
The University of Michigan hasn't resort-
ed to cutting classes so far. Instead, it has
expanded its number of courses, particularly
in entrepreneurship, according to the article
in The New York Times. And the University
has committed to hire 100 new faculty mem-
bers that specialize in more than one sub-
ject to bridge the gap between departments.
Administrators should hold to what they've
been doing and maintain a breadth of cours-
es that are both diverse and relevant.
Universities are right to re-examine their
curriculums to coincide with the changes
happening around them. But all areas of
study offer valuable lessons and shouldn't
be discarded. Universities trying to balance
their budgets shouldn't look to cuteduca-
tional quality. They should give students
the broadest education possible, and that
means expanding the availability of cours-
es, not reducing it.

As the tense situation unfolded
at Detroit Metropolitan Air-
port, onlookers wondered
exactly how to
handle themselves,
none of them hav-
ing been near such
a newsworthy inci-
dent before.'
According to the
Detroit Free Press,U
Detroiter Sarina
Conrad strained
behind a barrier IMRAN
as she said "What SYED
happens if we run
over there - will -----
we get tackled?"
Horrible though the alleged Christ-
mas Day terrorist attack might have
been, it failed. Northwest Airlines
Flight 253 landed safely at Detroit
Metro, shortly after passengers man-
aged to overpower a man haplessly
attempting to set off an explosive on-
board. Given that nothing awful actu-
ally happened, it's understandable
that Conrad's biggest concern at the
moment was getting close to the action
to see first hand what was happening.
Airport employee Karen Goretski
was also on the scene and, as the Free
Press reported, her concern was about
the man at the center of the spectacle:
"He was so close," Goretski said. "He is
very handsome, very handsome. He'f
very, very cute."
Wait a minute, what the ... ? Surely
that's no way to talk about a man who
just attempted to blow up an airplane?
Livonia native Dan Crosby's reac-
tion was even more odd. The Free Press
reported him saying: "This is awesome.
I love doing this stuff."
Excuse me? Have these people lost
their minds? A mad man nearly blows
up an airplane and all they can think
about is how excitingthe situation is?
Oh wait. Scratch all that. I got con-
fused. All of those quotes are actually
from a Free Press story from last Feb-

ruary, when Detroit Metro Airport
played host to the only other signifi-
cant thing that has happened there in
recent memory. George Clooney's lat-
est film, "Up in the Air," was filmed at
the airport in February, and it opened
nationwide on Wednesday, December
23 - just two days before the drama
aboard Flight 253.
Attempting to find any similarities
between the two incidents would be
a stretch, even for purely rhetorical
purposes, and that's not my intention.
I only relate the two incidents at all
because they each afford the oppor-
tunity to study how the Detroit area
and its people reacted when the elu-
sive national spotlight turned to them
for a purpose other than rebuke. Both
events were our chance to show the
country that we are just like them, and
that the problems this area has are not
so forbiddingly unique after all.
Whether by unleashingthe fanatics
to gawk and scream at an internation-
al star like Clooney or by telling the
world about the dozens of Detroit area
passengers on the flight who helped
overpower the terrorist on board,
Detroit is (to borrow from the tagline
for "Up in the Air") "a city ready to
make a connection."
No press is bad press, the old show-
biz saying goes, but that's an outright
lie in the case of Detroit, which seems
'to get nothing b tb1ad pregs. The city
is never in the spotlight except for
national concern and consternation
over its crumbling infrastructure,
struggling auto companies, spiral-
ing crime and unemployment and,
lately, its God-awful football team. To
the average American, Detroit is not
simply another large city struggling
under modern pressures, but rather
a whole different animal - a disaster
unlike any other, that no one could
hope to understand.
Long gone are the days when
Detroit was heralded as "the arsenal
of democracy" and the birthplace of

the American middle class. Today, the
nation scoffs at the Kwame Kilpatrick
scandal and the corruption and incom-
petence within the City Council, citing
Detroit as Exhibit A in the story of
urban decline.
Detroit needs
good press to
open discussion.

6

What the nation forgets however is
that Detroit once alsoled the wayto the
top, and its recent decline is no more of
an anomaly; rather, it's an indication of
what is to come for every major Ameri-
can city if we continue as a country to
ignore the basic needs of our people.
The story of Detroit's downfall is quite
simple. While the problem had racial
roots, the crime and desolation we find
in the city today stems from one main
source: poverty. No matter how free
our nation may claim to be, as Presi-
dent Franklin Roosevelt often said,
"Necessitous men are not free men."
But to understand Detroit's prob-
lems as no different from what may
soon follow nationally, people from
other pats of the cotfytt need to se
Detroit and its people in situations
they can identify with. And for allow-
ing that forbiddingly difficult task
to be accomplished, I thank George
Clooney and those who stalked him, as
well as those brave metro-Detroiters
who really were aboard Flight 253 and
gave the usual, meaningless everyman
interviews to the national media in the
aftermath of the attempted attack.
Hey America: We're justlike therest
of you.
- Imran Syed can be reached
at galad@umich.edu.

WANT TO BE AN OPINION CARTOONIST?
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
Distribution requirements are the University's way of preventing that.
give well-rounded education ZharyTickner

LAURA VEITH
The grade for pop quizzes

TO THE DAILY:
Everyone at this University has run up
against the distribution requirements at some
time or another, and the experience is often
frustrating. However, Emily Orley's view-
point claiming that they should be abandoned
ignores some of their important benefits (Free-
dom from distribution, 01/07/2010).
Orley states that during undergraduate stud-
ies, it's acceptable to have no idea what you want
to do. I agree completely. Distribution require-
ments are one way to ensure that undergraduate
students are exposed to a variety of fields and
ideas they might enjoy with the added benefit of
producing more well rounded students regard-
less of their eventual career path.
Yes, an English major might not want to take
an introductory science class, just like a math
major might resent having to take English 125.
However, both writing skills and scientific lit-
eracy are important parts of being an educated
citizen and the distribution requirements just
might make that math major realize that he
really wants to do social work instead.
It's not that "because a person is better in
calculus than another they are smarter," but
that an educated person should know a little
bit about race and ethnicity or the humanities
as well as their own pet subject.
I also believe that attendance sheets and lec-
ture quality, more than distribution require-
ments, determine whether students skip a
class. Some of the be classes I've taken have
fulfilled distributi , requirements, and I've
seen students skip wels in their own electives.
The idea that ti , ',requirements can pre-
vent someone from,; aduating is a little far-
fetched. Students have finished double majors
in four years (or three, or five) for decades now,
with their distributions all in a row and no
problems. If someone can't make it out because
of a distribution requirement it's due to poor
planning on his or her part.
The viewpoint claimed that because we are
paying tuition, we should be able to choose
which classes to take. That's fine - but we pay
for classes, not a degree. The reason the Uni-
versity is so expensive is because of the high
standards the diploma implies, one of which is
breadth.
The freedom to ignore all areas of study but
your-own is the freedomto become insular and
arrogant, and the distribution requirements

ArborVitae seeks to offer
safe environment for women
TO THE DAILY:
As the Director of ArborVitae Women's
Center, I'd like to add to Bethany Biron's news
article on ArborVitae and the U of M FemDems
(Campus group pushes for more info at local
pregnancy centers, 01/07/2010).
First, at ArborVitae, we're really open about
our values. We're a private 501c3 charity. We
don't discriminate against anyone for any rea-
son. We are life-affirming, so we don't refer for
or perform abortions, nor do we prescribe or
refer for birth control. We offer free, confidential
medical services including pregnancy testing
and ultrasounds; options consulting including
info on birth control and abortion methods; and
material support and community referrals.
Our intake forms do ask whether our cli-
ent identifies herself with a religion because
religion often plays a key part in a woman's
pregnancy decision-making. How can we offer
sensitive, personalized consultation if we don't
know whether she's Atheist, Wiccan, Mormon,
Baha'i or Catholic?
The FemDems need to educate themselves
about hormonal birth control. Medical studies,
including a 2006 Mayo Clinic meta-analysis,
show that sustained use of hormonal contra-
ception significantly raises the risk of pre-
menopausal breast cancer. It's well known that
synthetic hormones sometimes cause deadly
side effects - just google "Yaz lawsuits."
What's wrong with promoting natural fertil-
ity awareness: a free, environmentally-friendly,
safe, effective way to work with (not against) a
woman's natural cycle? Even if ArborVitae were
pushinga religious agenda and lying, how would
posting a sign reading, "We do not offer abor-
tion or birth control" possibly fix that problem?
ArborVitae might not be where FemDems
will come for pregnancytests. But otherwomen
at the University like us and come to us repeat-
edly for services. We're proud to proclaim that
we are life-affirming. We don't need the city of
Ann Arbor to mandate that we are.
Suzanne Abdalla
The letter-writer is the Executive Director of
ArborVitae, Inc.

Like most University students, I dread the words, "put
away your notes and take out a piece of paper." It usually
means one thing - a pop quiz. If you didn't look over the
assigned material the night before or decided to use the
lecture as a midday nap, you could be in a trouble. If you're
lucky, the pop quiz could become a grade booster at the
end of the semester. But regardless of your preparedness,
the thought of a pop quiz can be nerve-wracking and even
frightening. At the same time, these pop quizzes have the
ability to serve as a potential benefit for students.
In the past two years, many professors and GSIs have
tossed out the traditional paper pop quizzes in favor of
electronic pop quizzes. These electronic pop quizzes are
made possible through the device known as a Qwizdom.
Recently, the Qwizdom has received an increased amount
of attention due to its failure to meet many expectations
of professors and students. While I agree with the Daily's
stance on replacing the Qwizdom due to its technological
inefficiencies and cost, I disagree with the Daily's posi-
tion on its usage (Qwizdomfails, 12/06/2009).
The Daily's editorial argued that using the Qwizdom
as a device to take pop quizzes that count towards a stu-
dents' attendance grade "shouldn't be a classroom poli-
cy." The classroom grading policy the Daily appears to
favor is based on assigned essays and exams. But this pol-
icy, while idealistic, fails to consider the positive impact a
Qwizdom can have in fostering learning.
A pop quiz, given on paper or through a Qwizdom, is an
additional learning tool that encourages students to pay
attention to lectures and assigned reading material. Like
planned exams and tests, pop quizzes can promote great-
er comprehension of the course material. More impor-
tantly, if the pop quiz grading policy is fair and written
into the syllabus, professors and GSIs have every right
to use the Qwizdom as a tool for giving pop quizzes that
count towards an attendance grade.
As students, we struggle to comprehend and complete
every piece of required work in one semester. It can be

extremely difficult to keep up with every requirement in
each course. But in my experience, pop quizzes encour-
aged maintaining a readingschedule and attending lecture,
which in turn increases potential success in the course.
Last semester, 15 percent of my grade in a Political Sci-
ence course was based off of an attendance policy. This
was enforced through frequent pop quizzes. Though it
sounded terrible at first, the thought of an unexpected
quiz pushed me to become more prepared for each class
and read the required material in a timely fashion. The
short pop quizzes, similar to Qwizdom quizzes, were
multiple-choice questions based off assigned reading.
These pop quizzes were productive and helpful in learn-
ing the material. 4
Additionally, the policy the professor set was reason-
able and fair. The requirements were clearly outlined
in the syllabus and students were fully aware that a pop
quiz could occur during any lecture. The professor made
it clear that missing several classes where quizzes were
given would affect their grades. But the policy was flex-
ible enough that all students could do reasonably well if
they made an effort to come to class and read the mate-
rial. Consequently, when it came time for the scheduled
exams, I wasn't knee deep in unread material. I had
established a solid grasp of the material and was able to
begin reviewing without rereading every assignment.
The quizzes saved me from bulk memorization at exam
time, since I had been learning the whole semester. In
this way, the pop quiz policy proved to be a successful
learning tool in the classroom.
The Qwizdom has the potential to operate in the same
effective manner. While the thought of pop quizzes may
keep students like myself on the edge of their seats, it
helped me become a better student. If students can get
past their initial fear of pop quizzes, they may realize that
it can actually enhance their learning experience.
Laura Veith is a senior editorial page editor.


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, January 11, 2010 - 5A

The masterpieces
of unfin ishedfilm

"You weren't supposed to poop out the key HERE!"
An elmnt aryeffort

'Sherlock Holmes' is all
brawn and no brains, save
for Robert Downey, Jr.
By NICK COSTON
Daily Arts Writer
Even the grumpiest English professor
would admit that James
Fenimore Cooper's 1826
novel "The Last of the
Mohicans" is nearly $herlock
unreadable. In 1992,
director Michael Mann HoImeS
twisted Cooper's stuffy At Quality16
old prose into an Oscar- and Showcase
winning masterpiece on
the bigscreen. The source Warner Bros.
material for Guy Ritchie's
("Snatch") new film "Sherlock Holmes" is
similarly prosaic, but Ritchie's vision lacks

the maturity of Mann's adaptation. Despite
the expected charming turn from star
Robert Downey, Jr. ("Tropic Thunder"),
"Holmes" can't rise above the sophomoric
formula of fight scenes, farting dogs and an
earsplitting score as it drags mindlessly for
far too long.
Films are delicate creatures. The small-
est anachronism or incorrect lens filter
can ruin the experience. In the case of
"Holmes," whatever joy might be wrought
by its action onscreen is threatened by
the cacophonous score of the usually reli-
able Hans Zimmer ("The Dark Knight").
Beneath every frame of every scene blares
a grating arrangement of broken pub pia-
nos and misplaced Appalachian fiddles.
While Zimmer's pursuit of a unique sound
is admirable, the result is agonizing. In
Zimmer's defense, the moving images
beneath his mess of a soundtrack aren't
much more engaging.
Brainless action movies are not without

entertainment value. Watching all the dif-
ferent ways a man's arms and legs can be
stylishly broken can be time well spent.
But, more often than not, such films don't
purport to achieve anything more than let-
ting the bodies hit the floor in the course of
their human meat tenderizing. The gaudy
costume and set design and, more impor-
tantly, the self-seriousness of everyone but
Downey, Jr., desperately suggest that more
is at stake here than a simple body count,
and the attempt comes across as insincere
and banal. Perhaps Ritchie understood
that Holmes was still a precious literary
commodity to some and tried to maintain
pockets of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's origi-
nal Victorian vision to appease them. But,
try as he might, Ritchie can't have it both
ways.
While most action comedies serve as
woeful starring vehicles for bricks of meat
like The Rock or Vin Diesel, "Holmes" is
See HOLMES, Page 8A

know you're all sick of reading
about "Avatar," so I promise to use
it only to segue into something
else. Don't leave yet.
Now then. What fascinated me the
most about "Avatar"
didn't have anything
to do with the fin-
ished project. It was
the fact that James
Cameron took 12
years to make theJ
film. (Actually lon-
ger, if you include ANDREW
the original treat- LAPIN
ment he wrote in
1994.) That's longer than it took Peter
Jackson to write, film and edit all three
"Lord of the Rings" movies. This is an
extraordinarily long time to work on
one film, especially in this day and age
when Hollywood often has the release
dates for its blockbusters lined up
before production even starts.
Cameron isn't alone these days in
bringing long-gestating projects to fru-
ition. The Daily's director of the year,
Quentin Tarantino, had been on-and-
off with his "Inglourious Basterds" for
over a decade before its release, though
most of that time was spent refining
the script, and, unlike Cameron, he
made other movies in that period as
well. Together, these two Chinese
Democracies of the modern film world
demonstrate an inherent truth of films
and, perhaps, of all works of art: No
matter how good the finished product,
a movie will never be as fascinating as
it is in an unfinished state.
Unfinished movies take up a strange,
mythical place in the world of film lore,
because they're absolutely brimming
with as much untapped potential as
your imagination allows. The even-
tual release is often a letdown, as the
arrival of the actual, tangible movie
can't match whatever you imagined
the mysterious project could've been
like. What sounds more exciting to you:
"James Cameron's unfinished movie
promises to blow your skull off with
new technology while simultaneously
revolutionizing science-fiction" or
"James Cameron's just-released 'Ava-
tar' is a 3-D film about blue people who
worship a tree"?
And then there's the other nice
thing about unfinished movies: they're
immune to critique. I can't develop
a fully formed opinion about, for
example, Terry Gilliam's "The Man
Who Killed Don Quixote," because
compounding misfortunes forced
him to shut down production midway
through filming. The movie was to fol-
low Johnny Depp as he traveled back in
time and joined the Man of La Mancha
on his many foolhardy quests.
"The Man Who Killed Don Quixote"
could've been Gilliam's masterpiece.
It could've been the definitive movie
made about what has become an
unfilmable subject. or it could've been
an utter and complete flop. There's no
way of knowing, at least not until Gil-
liam picks up the reins on the project
again, which he is rumored to be con-
templating.
There will always be a special place
in my heart for films I'll never get to
see. I'm fascinated by the story of "The
Thief and the Cobbler," the intended
magnum opus by Canadian anima-

tor Richard Williams (the animation.
director for "Who Framed Roger
Rabbit") that was in development
for a record 31 years before it was
wrested from his hands by Miramax
and released as the bastardized "Ara-
bian Knight" in 1995. In the case of
"Cobbler," though there is a finished
project on display, it wasn't completed
as originally intended, and so it, too,
will always remain in the "unfinished
films" canon.
But just why is "Cobbler" so legend-
ary? Because the scope of Williams's
vision for the project was too large for
him to handle, and when his dreams of
meticulously hand-drawing a largely
silent animated movie for adults hit the
brick wall of reality, he could do noth-
ing but throw up his hands in defeat.
Williams's dream was done in by his
own ambition, and yet it was this very
ambition, in all its grandiosity, that has
made "Cobbler" an object of cult affec-
tion among animation historians.
Cameron had a Quixotic ambition
too, but, unlike Williams, he had the
good fortune of coming off directing
the biggest movie of all time. The suc-
cess of "Titanic" meant the guy was
untouchable by anxious studio heads;
he was granted all the time and finan-
cial resources he desired for "Avatar."
If Cameron had told 20th Century
Fox that he needed to actually build
the entire planet of Pandora and send
it into orbit for added realism, they
would have let him. Here we see that
an unstoppable force has met a very
movable object. The Irresistible Force
Paradox of Filmmaking did not apply
to James Cameron as it applied to
Richard Williams.
So now, instead of hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars in tantalizingly unde-
livered promises, we have a 3-D movie
about blue people who worship a tree.
Fair trade-off? Meh.
Why 'Avatar'
should never have
been completed.
For the "Avatar" sequels Cameron
is already planning, maybe he could
incorporate unused footage from
"The Man Who Killed Don Quixote"
and "The Thief and the Cobbler." You
know, just to be fair to the less fortu-
nate. In the meantime, we've got the
release of yet another "unfinished"
film on the horizon: Orson Welles's
"The Other Side of the Wind," which
he filmed back in the 1970s before los-
ing all his funds. The movie was left
unedited upon Welles's death in 1985 -
until now, as its original star and fellow
director Peter Bogdanovich has taken
over the post-production process and is
supposedly almost ready for release.
And yet, as promising as this news
is, I know I won't be satisfied by the
final product. Because there's no way it
will be as exciting as when it was still
unfinished.
Lapin wants to have a really long
conversation with you about "Avatar." To
initiate it, e-mail him at alapin@umich.edu.

'The Road' worth traveling

Ima
est. In
in th
or th
of a r
winds
the
Now
a w;
where
forest
stood.
feeling
bidity
where
exists
fightin
live ti
row.
"The

By HANS YADAV from the haunting novel by Cor-
Daily Arts Writer mac McCarthy.
The film is set in a post-apoc-
agine a pristine, lush for- alyptic time when only a hand-
magine the birds chirping ful of people still survive, andM
ie trees it's left unclear how the world4
e sound **j became the way it is. In the
iver as it midst of such desolation, a boyY
through The Road (relative newcomer Kodi Smit-
thicket. McPhee) and his father (Viggo
imagine Atthe State Mortensen, "Eastern Promis-
'asteland The Weinstein es") travel southward on a long,
that Company empty road. This road is occa-
once sionally frequented by gangs of
If such a contrast evokes bandits, so both father and son COURTESY OF THE WEINSTEIN COMPAN
gs of emptiness and mor- always travel with a wary look What, this knife?O Oh, yeah this is for consuming human flesh.
then imagine a world behind their shoulders. a looming trend. The only thing pistol with two bullets.
almost nothing living More than being robbed of keeping the two going is the While the job of creating
save for a few stragglers, their precious canned goods, ostensible hope of finding more hopelessly bleak, desecrate:
ng each moment just to the two fear the very real possi- "good guys" - survivors like environment is certainly a laud
o get a glimpse of tomor- bility of being eaten themselves. themselves who don't canni- able one, the real eye-opene
Welcome to the world of Yes, with plants and animals balize. And if something goes of "The Road" is the chemistr
Road," the film adapted long gone, cannibalism becomes wrong, well, the father carries a See THE ROAD, Page 8A

a
>d
I-
er
7y
A

USE THE FORCE, YOUNG PADAWANS.
} FOR DAILY ARTS, YOU SHOULD WRITE.
Come to 420 Maynard St. for the
Daily's mass meeting tonight at 8 p.m.
ui U5 -

THE BIGGEST & NEWEST BACK TO SCHOOL
POSTER SALE
0!t
f ,Where
Michigan Union
Ground Floor
When:
Mon. Jan. 11 thru Fri. Jan. 15
Time:
' ~~10 A.M. - 7 P.M.
Sponsor:
Mrm University Union
Arts and Programs
ost ae ny 7 8ad$


6A-Monday, January 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
FALL 2010: 5 bdrm, 2 bth house.
Between Central Campus & Stadium.
833 Brown St: $2400/mo. Beautiful
House. Call Louis at 610-952-5269 or
email louisbresktsany 5ahoo.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllcE@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.cou
!! AVAILABLE FOR PALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
541 S. DIVISION
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
***** MAY LEASES *****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May to August
I hedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernetl
Call today 761-8000!
Prime Student iousing
primsesh.coms
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*2-BEDROOMS*: GREAT 2-bd 2
bath bi-levels for 3-4 people, new
kitchens, baths, and furniture, rooftop
balconies, large bedrooms.
Varsity Management (734)5668-1100

Up to
ONE MONTH
FREE!
Lease anyApartment from now
until 1-11-10 and you'll have a
chance towi up to one month: free,
1/2 monthfree, $500 off, $300 off,
$100 off, Flat Screen TVs, Kindles
andmore!
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for more information.
734-761-2680
infohalu-towers.com
536 South Forest
AnnArbor,M148104
Universitytowers-mi.com
Uniwerity
*2-BEDROOMS*: 2 minute walk to
the Business or Law Schools, unique
layouts in spacious apts, new kitchens
w/ dishwashers, heat, water, under-
ground parking included.
www.varsitymanagement.com
*3-BEDROOMS*: NEAR CCRB and
CC Little, balconies or patio, large liv-
ing rooms w/ new furmiture. Heat, wa-
ter, parking incl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
*543 CHURCH ST.*: Humongous 2-
bds for 3-4 people and a spacious 4-
bd. This is the perfect location, right
across the st. from East Hall! Heat, wa-
ter, furnishings included.
Varsity Management (734)668-1100
IBdrm.. Units
~rowerPlaza Condominium
Quiet OB; sc grisOe dc Kk femnCamnp,
734-663-1530
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.smnileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.

NOW LEASING
FOR 2010!
GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATION
TOUR TODAY!
14 bedroom ps
starting at 699
FREE satellite TV
FREE high speed Internet
All utltes Included
Fully Funished
h n-Unit Washer/Dryer r
A hsk how youcanreceve
$150 gift card and
FREE LUNCH!
5 1' t E N .,e"A 4 , AEm .
1780 Broadway ( 734) 994 - 6007
www.thecvurtyardsannarbor.com
*AVAILABLE MAY*: 1001 S. For-
est; spacious 2-bds new kitchens &
baths, heat, wate, waternet, & parking
incl. 917 Packard; @ East U, large 2-
bds w/ balconies/patios, heat, water,
parkingiincl. September available at
both locations also!
www.varsitynaragement.com
*HUGE 4-BEDROOMS*: hardwood
floors, 10 ft ceilings, & fireplaces in a
beautiful converted mansion in quiet
Burs Park. Heat, water, parking & fur-
nishings included. Call
Varsity Management (734) 668-1 100.
4-6 BDRM house avail Fall 2010. 48
N. State St. 6 bdrms total. 2 bath, 3
prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay al uil.
4 drm-$2500, 5 bdrn-3000, 6
bdrm-$3450. Call 734-996-1991.
LARGE THREE STORY furn. 5
bdrm for 6 people, 3 kitch, 3 full bth,
prkg & Indry. 921 Packard. Avail, fall
Call Emilia 734-272-1320
1 122 S. Forest
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
*UP TO ONE MONTH FREE for a
Limited time only! Call us for more
details. Were Much Better than the
Dorms! Check us out and get a FREE
Bubble Island drink with any new tour!
We have Rooms, Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bed-
room furnished apatments available
for Spring / Fall. Call Lis at 734-761
2680 for an appointment.
UniversityTowers-mi.com
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdr
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-6380
www.benjamirentals.com
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2700
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bedrms total. 3 bath, 4

prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
5 bdrm-$3000, 6 bdnn-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
haths, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5kbdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
2010! 1007 State. Furn. Newly
renovated Ist Floor and Bthrts. Free
Prkng and Indry. Call 734-717-9288.
Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
"' .. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

ed a
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
PetsWelcomet
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primeslu.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
515 E. Lawrence
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
511 E. Hoover
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland .
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
520 Packard
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
610 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
525 Walnut
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/suodemn appliances, full ice
wssr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.

Zte SCid anai
PRESENTS THE

Onliune classied
Rental Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AMAZING SIX BEDROOM
HOUSE in prime location. Two full
baths, private porch, newly renovated
kitchen and living room with hard
wood floors. 6 free parking spots.
$3299/ month. Campus Reality 734-
766-8865 www.campusreality.com
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security uzer Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
POST REALTY PROPERTIES
For more info Call 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
1221 S.State#2
6 BDRM
$2400
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3/4 bedroom,
free pkg/lndry by Yost Arena, $1550,
734-883-8140.
skyharrisllc@comcast.net
AVAILABLE FALL
Beautiful I bdn. apt Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE NOW GREAT
location, I or 2 bdn on S. Forest near
S. University. 734-996-2836
AVAILABLE NOW! GREAT 2
Bdrm apt. in prime location, private bal-
cony, heat/water mel., fully furnished,
free parking, $999/mo. 734-665-8825.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
=$575/Month Includesmeas,
Internet,parking,and utilities!
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icc.coop
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsiteslaundand parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located nest to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW!!! EFFI-
CIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near Ctral
Campus. $500-750. Includes H&W.
Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., Idry.,
bath., internet. Rent from $440,
Call 734-276-0886.

0

6

AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and lndry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our speoials!
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully fern, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
9t0 Packard, 1026 Vausghn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmspropdsbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com

AFFORDABLE STUDENT
CO-OP HOUSING!
Now Signing Contracts for:
Winter 2010 &
Fall/Witter 2010/2011
~,-57/Ma(cFntca IE5CIludeS: ICoul fIll;
All ITLe'ls, internet 35kki , 3 I-66h-4.414
SoCISa CtVi- s tesand utilitieS! WwwiCe. op

# BDRMS Location Price
Fall
6 1122 S. Forest $3000
May
6 541 S. Division $3000
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
*Large one bedroom apartment, 2
blocks east of the business school.
Heat, water and parking included
703 S. Forest .
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/too. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 SA Forest. 6
rootms, 2 showers, tsew kitchen in 08,
farished and parking for 6. $320g/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm
apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furn, disposal,
dwshr, Indry, prkg. Walkout balcony.
$1175 + elec. 734-662-7121 or email
gpmiles@aol.com

I

Los Angeles Times De
Edited by Rich Norris a
ACROSS 3 Standing tall
1 Feds concerned 4 Recent block
with bogus bills arrival
5 Drug bust finds 5 "Citizen -
10 Highest point 6 Former reptilian
14 Like collectible logo brand
coins 7 Sugur cuhe
15 Skycolor 8 in the court!"
16 Wheat, corn or 9 Oozy
rice cereal 10 Aspirin target
17 Several 11 Fruity dessert
18 _plume: pen 12 Bit of cat chitchat
name 13 George Strait's
19 Whacks with an "All My._ Live in
ax Texas"
20 Piece of Peter 21 Feature of a tied
Piper's peck shoelace
23 Backyard 22 Cop's collar
hangout 26 Change, as a law
24 Whiskey grain 27 Totally unhip
25 Fled the scene 29 Frolic
28 Andrea : il- 30 World Golf Hallof
fated ship Fumes Aoki
32 What sps and 31 Periodic table figs.
nips do 33 Cheese go-with
34 +, on a bat. 34 Dads
37 School project 35 Missouri River
medium in large tributary
rolls 36 Informal opinion
40 Italian wine city sampling
42 Minister's 38 Lay eyes on
residence 39 Really stink
43 Heed 41 Addams family
44 Killoyp cousin
47 reyer's partner 2usin ,
in ice cream 1 2 u a
48 Colorful quartz 14
49 Comedian Wanda
51 Stitch 17
52 Illuminated
55 Basil-and-pine- 20 21
nuts sauce
59 Cinema counter 23
fixture
84 -.job: trickery 2
88 Transtusion flid 3005000 7
67 The sound of
music 4 41
68 Handbasket
rider's 44 45
destination?
69 Brainy group 48
70 This, in Tijuana 51 sa
71 Slipperytfish s1 s
72 Collar stiffeners s 6
73 Dick Tracy's love
64 65 1
DOWN
1 'The Sound of 6
Music"family
71name 1
2 Sicilian secret
society By tohnsLttki s
(c2010o'TritbunetMediau Suri

C7

aily Crossword Puzzle
nd Joyce Nichols Lewis
45 Canine cry 58 Creme-filled
46 Result of an auto cookies
loan default, 60 Avian symbols of
briefly wisdom
50 Trio plus four 61 Author Jaffe
53 Missiles in silos, 62 Overly inquisitive
fhoshrt 63 Palmtop
54 "Vacancy" computers: Abbr.
56 Reckon, in the 64 "Steady as-_
boonies goes"
57 Revival 65 Born, in marriage
structures announcements
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
P A R A L E G A L A T A R I
E M I L E Z O L A R A V E D
N A S C A R D A D C R E T E
T R I O A S I A G O R A E
A N NA S E ND O A S 1 F
D A G C E N S O R D E L I
S I F T G O R E T E X
S C R U F F G A L O R E
TOAD I E S L U T E
U R L S C U T I E S G M T
D A L Y T R UE E0B E A H
F L Y E S P R I T L Y R E
A S C O T A N DAl L U S I A
R E A I R S I L K I N E S S
M A P L E S P E E D T R A P
xwordedltor@aol.com 01/10/10

# BDRMS Location Price
0 1221 S. State#2 $2400
5 . 420 S. Division #2 $2700
3 1222 Washtenaw Ct. $1800
3 1123 Church St. $1700
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8.3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and El 2.$5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
APTS AT 1215 Hill and 5th Ave and
Packard. Efficiencies 1,2 & 4 Bed-
rooms. Heat included. 734-260-4003
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
www.varistymanagement.com
SVarsity
Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668 - 1100
Studios - 4 bedroom
All are Central Campus Locations
Heat, water, & furnishings included
Most incl. parking, some inc Internet
New kitchens w/ dishwashers, new
bathroom vanities and nice urn
Great prices and great locations
Call to schedule an appointment

15 6 7 8 1 2 10 11 12 13
18 19
24 25 26 27
29 30 31 32 33
38 39
42 43
46 47
49 50
53 54 55 56 57 58
61 62 63
66 67
69 .70
72 73
rvices, Inc. 01/11/10

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, January 11, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, January 11, 2010 - 7A

HOUSING
From Page 1A
dence Hall dues to construction
and the opening of North Quad
next Fall.
The Michigan Community
Scholars Program will be mov-
ing from Couzens to East Quad
and the Global Scholars Program
will be relocated from East Quad
to North Quad, which Logan said
was always "part of the original
plan."
Logan said the University is
"confident" that all students who
want to remain in a given hall will
be able to. He said one "caveat"
to that policy will be Stockwell
Residence Hall, which houses the
Sophomore Year Experience Pro-
gram.
"That community will be pre-
dominantly, by intention, a soph-
omore year population," he said.
"So not every sophomore now
living in Stockwell will have the
opportunity to return because, of
course, we have to keep it inten-
tionally a sophomore popula-
tion."
Logan said in the "long haul"
PANEL
From Page 1A
NSBE has a responsibility to help
keep African-American students
in Southeast Michigan in school.
She noted that the dropout rate
for African-American students in
Detroit is 70 percent, and those
students who don't graduate are
three times as likely to end up
in prison by the time they are 30
years old.
"The statistics are devastating,
and they are staring us right in
the face," she said. "We all know
what's happening in Detroit. This
is literally a 30-minute drive from
us, and it is a tremendous opportu-
nity to give back."
Currently, NSBE-run programs
like ACT Pro, the Pre-College
Initiative, the Academic Success
Program and NSBE Junior men-
tors students of all ages, from kin-
dergarten to twelfth grade, with
the goal of promoting interests in
becoming an engineer.
Telesford - who is currently
a chemistry teacher at Ferndale
High School in Ferndale, Mich. -
said he was impressed with the
outreach programs that the group
has instituted since his time as
president.

the University feels this process
is simply a more equitable way to
offer room selection choices to all
current residential students.
LSA freshman Jennifer Leung,
who is planning on living in
Stockwell next year to try the
Sophomore Year Experience Pro-
gram, said she is in favor of the
campus-wide pool but believes
students should have the right to
keep their room for the next year.
LSA sophomore Margaret
Moscati said that though she
thinks the policy is "more fair,"
she preferred a system where stu-
dents could request their current
room for the next year.
"It bothers me that I can't pick
my same room and same hall," she
said. "That's what I did last year,
and it was really convenient."
LSA freshman Curtis Austin
said he would also like to be able
to choose a specific room because
they all vary in layout and size,
but he said he is not opposed to
the campus-wide pool.
"A lot of other things are based
on seniority - like registering for
classes - so it makes sense that
housing would also be that way,"
Austin said.
He added that his experience as
a high school teacher has taught
him that it's important for African
American students to have men-
tors in their lives.
"Eighty percent of my students
are African American, and I don't
think they have had many role
models who are doing something
that they can aspire to do," he
said.
While NSBE is looking to reach
out to pre-college students in the
area, the group's ultimate goal is
to increase the number of minority
engineers at the University.
Reagins, an Engineering stu-
dent who sat on the panel, said the
two efforts go hand in hand.
"I think the biggest thing is
making sure we have a sustain-
able future," he said. "Not only
for us as members but for us as
underrepresented technical indi-
viduals."
Engineering senior Lauren
Fladger, who was at the event, said
the comments by the NSBE alumni
reminded her of the importance
of the group has both on and off
campus.
"NSBE needs to step outside of
its role as a support group for cur-
rent engineers and press forward
as an advocate for future engi-
neers," she said.

COURTESY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE
David Singer, a former University professor and expert in the study of war, died at age 84. Singer founded the Correlates of War project in 1963, which collects and
aggregates data about wars.
Singer used the tools of math
fight against the use of war

From Page 1A gic Command 2010 Nuclear Pos-
ture Review to address national
security issues.
most important advance in the While he taught at the Univer-
scientific study of international "sity, Singer received numerous
conflict in the 20th century." grants from the National Science
Gellar added that the project, Foundation, Carnegie Founda-
which has a database of the his- tion and the United States Insti-
tory of wars and conflicts among tute of Peace.
states since 1816, is used today by University alum Shahryar
the U.S. government as a guide Minhas, who took a class with
for the formation of American Singer in 2007 and worked on
foreign policy. research projects with him,
The Wages of War, one of the described Singer as an "amazing
books published during the proj- teacher and an important men-
ect in 1972, became the resource tor."
for the standard definition of Minhas added that Singer
war used by numerous scholars was a "very open" and "excit-
throughout the world, according ing" teacher, who linked politi-
to Gellar. cal theories with stories from his
Singer served as a consultant own life.
to the U.S. departments of State, "He was also an important per-
Defense and Navy. Most recently, son in terms of helping students
Singer served on the U.S. Strate- think through their ideas about

where they'want to go and what
they want to do," Minhas said.
Despite his academic prestige,
Annie Singer said her father was
"just a thoughtful, caring, gener-
ous, attentive guy," adding that
he also had a serious side.
"As we were growing up, what
he always told us was that war
was very destructive and that he
was devoting his work to helping
people find ways to eliminate it,"
she said.
David Singer joined the United
States Navy as a sailor two years
after Pearl Harbor was bombed,
according to Annie Singer who
described him as a "patriotic
kid."
Singer was greatly affected by
the deaths of his fellow service-
men while he was enlisted in the
Navy, Annie Singer said. Despite
his feelings, Singer re-enlisted in
70,000 commuters that come into
Ann Arbor every year (by car),
and that (rail service) should cut
down on that, which obviously
has a positive impact on the over-
all carbon footprint of the region,"
he said.
Whether the city of Ann Arbor
would be willing to foot some of
the -bill for the new rail line is
up for debate. Hohnke said Ann
Arbor's budget is "incredibly
pressed."
However, Hohnke said there
are ways to work around the
tight budget by partnering with
the Ann Arbor Transportation
Authority to generate revenue for

the Navy during the Korean War.
But it wasn't until he began
pursuing his Ph.D. at New York
University and became an officer
at the Officer Candidate School,
that Singer truly began taking
an anti-war stance, according to
Annie Singer.
"He put it all together and
realized that war was bad and
could be prevented if someone
put their mind to it - that you
could prevent war if you were
smart enough about it," Annie
Singer said.
Annie Singer said though her
father was a prominent expert in
the field, she's pleased his legacy
is his relationship with students,
who have dedicated numerous
books to him.
"He's being remembered as a
mentor, and I think that's per-
fect," she said.
the project.
Kinesiology sophomore Brett
Barocas wrote in an e-mail inter-
view that he would consider using
the service.
"Since I do not have a. car and
am a big sports fan, it would come
in handy when I want to get to
Detroit to watch ' a game," he
wrote.
Barcoas added that he thinks
students with limited means of
transportation would take advan-
tage of the new service.
"There are so many students
without cars, and they are always
looking for ways to get around,"
he wrote.

WANT TO JOIN THE NEWS
SECTION?
* COME TO OUR MASS MEETING.
TONIGHT 8 P.M.
AT 420 MAYNARD

TRANSPORTATION
From Page 1A
project has been hard to come by,
Palombo said.
"We are raising money from
various little federal programs,
and eventually we're going to be
going to the private sector and
even some local government,"
Palombo said.
Palombo said the investment
will be worth it, citing the new
rail service's financial benefits for
Michigan residents.
"There could be some poten-
tial significant savings in terms

of cost," Palombo said, noting
the ability to avoid parking fees
at popular events, like Michi-
gan Football games and sporting
events in Detroit.
Ann Arbor Councilman
Carsten Hohnke (D-Ward 5) said
the project would also benefit
the city of Ann Arbor, offering
a reliable and effective way to
"significantly reduce the amount
of commuting traffic that comes
into the city."
Hohnke added that the proj-
ect would have an environmental
impact by cutting down pollu-
tion.
"We have about 60,000 to


ST U0DE14 T " 0 US G . I N C -
Now Showing for
. Fall 2010-2011!!
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Apartments!!
" Central Campus locations
* Fully Furnished
* *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdrm & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greeneapts.com
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768

Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!

TUTOR WANTED: SAT/CALCU-
LUS, $15/hr, 3-4 hrs/wk, flexible, 5
miles to campus. 734-763-5463.
INSIDE SALES CONSULTANT
Parttime (32 hours per week)
Responsibilities include making out-
bound calls to prospective clients to
support and build the business as well
as developing an existing account base.
Must be able to meet goals and objec-
tives.
Requirements include previous sales
ex-
perience and comfort working on the
In-
ternet. Must be highly organized with
exceptional attention to
detail. $15/hour.
Please submit resume to:
barbaramontgomery@annarbor.com
MACKINAC ISLAND OR Macki-
naw City - Mackinac State Historic
Parks has fun full-time summer sea-
sonal positions for Historic Inerpreters
at Fort Mackinac, Fort CM and the
Lighthouse, Naturalist, Adventure Tour
Guides and Historic Interpreters at His-
toric Mill Creek Discovery Park,
Grounds/Maintenance, Guest Services,
Archaeology and more! Housing $96 a
month, $7.73 hour, 40 hours/week,
start early May or June through Labor
Day (or Later). Visit our webpage
www.MackinacParks.com call 231-
436-4100, email fegank@michigan.gov
EOE.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
TUTOR NEEDED FOR high school
sophomore learning Spanish and math.
$20/hr, approx 7 - 9 pm, once or twice
per week. Car needed. Call 663 2799
and leave a message.
YOU MAY ELIGIBLE FOR A
STUDY
Right handed, healthy women, ages 18-
.37 needed for a study on how our body
and brain react to stress. Study in-
volves 2 fMRI scans and I Pet Scan.
Compensation up to $650.00
Call 734-763-3580
HELP WITH BUYING groceries,
other errands. 3-5 hr/wk, largely flexi-
ble. $12/hr, must have own car. 734-
355-3276.

CHILDCARE
EARLY MORNING 2-3 days a week.
Older child, Responsibile references
and Own Transportation. 734-769-1462
TICKETS & TRAVEL
PC BEACH SPRING Break 2010
Gulf-front Condos; 1,2,3 BRs
Walk to Clubs & Concerts
www.whisperingseas.com
Spring Break comes to life..
Live Concerts
Awesome VIP Parties
Beautiful Beaches
Scenic Cliff Jumping
Spectacular Sunsets
Book Your Trip Today! Contact:
1.800.648.4849
www.ststravel.cosm
1.800.426.7710

For Tuesday, Jan. 12, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
You are the artisan of the zodiac.
You're excellent with your hands and
when working with arts and crafts. Don't
be surprised if someone asks you for
your creative input today.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Unexpected offers to travel or to get
further education or training in some
way could fall in your lap today. If so,
act quickly. Say yes!
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Gifts and goodies from others can
come your way today. Whatever hap-
pens, you stattd to benefit from the
wealth and resources of others. Lucky
you!
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
This is an excellent day to relate to
partners and close friends. It's also a
good day to mend broken fences. All's
well that ends well.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
New romance can spring up today.
This is a good day for fun, games, sports,
pleasure and all social outings. Enjoy
playful activities with children.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22).
Something pleasant or unexpected
might occur at home or within your fam-
ily today. This could be anything from
unexpected company to a surprise guest.
(Sounds like fun.)
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is an easy day for teaching, act-
ing, selling, marketing and driving for a
living. Expect to meet new and interest-
ing people today.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)

Sudden opportunities to make money
could arise today. If so, act quickly,
because your window of opportunity
will be brief Similarly, spontaneous pur-
chases also are likely.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
You feel full of playful energy today.
Because of this, you might attract all
kinds of different and unusual people to
you. Your day definitely will not go as
planned. (Expect some fun.)
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
You probably feel restless today. It's
as if there's a quickly moving undercur-
rent to everything. You're almost wait-
ing for something to happen, aren't you?
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Friends will surprise you today.
Alternatively, you might very well meet
somebody entirely new, someone who is
different and a real character. It's an
interesting day.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Bosses, parents, teachers and authority
figures in your life will do something
unexpected today. Let's hope it involves
a raise or some praise for you!
Unexpected flirtations with someone
older or richer also might make your
day.
YOU BORN TODAY You tend to
become totally involved in whatever you
do. You have high standards for yourself
and are willing to be self-sacrificing to
attain your goals. You're friendly, talka-
tive and very down-to-earth. You're also
tenacious. This year, you will study or
learn something that will be valuable for
you, especially for 2011 - a wondprful
year for you!
Birthdate of: Tim Horton, hockey
player/entrepreneur; Kirstie Alley,
actress; Melanie Chisholm, singer.

SIX WK YOGA I, 6-7:30pm & Yoga
It, 6:30-8pm start Tues. Jan. 11 or Yoga
II, 6:30-8pm starts Thurs. Jan 13. Zen
Buddhist Temple, 1214 Packard (734)
761-6520 or annarbor@ZenBuddhist-
Temple.org

20 10 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.


8A - Monday, January 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Vampire Weekend's sophomore slump

The Columbia grads
stumble aimlessly through
angst on latest disc
By SHARON JACOBS
Assistant Arts Editor
In 2007, a certain self-aware, adorably preppy
band of Columbia University graduates burst
onto the scene with cute dit-
ties like "Oxford Comma"
and "Cape Cod Kwassa Kwas- **
sa." They called themselves
Vampire Weekend, and the Vampire
Afro-poppy sound of their Weekend
eponymous debut album pro-
posed a fresh, playful take on Contra
Manhattan high society. XL
The old VW embraced its
prep-school lifestyle, or else
cheerfully poked fun at it. But the new VW, as
revealed on its newest release, Contra, is restless
and rebellious. Somehow, four confident college
kids have retreated to the J.D. Salinger discon-
tent of high school.
So what is it exactly that's been frustrat-
ing lead singer Ezra Koenig? "My revolution
thoughts / Live in lies of desire," he complains
on album closer "I Think Ur A Contra." The title

only adds to the confusion, with the most arbi-
trary use of text-speak in recent memory. "We
onlyworkto live/Until we live to work," Koenig
mourns in "Run." How utterly original. The lyr-
ics throughout Contra are railing against some-
thing, but it's impossible to say what. Phonies,
perhaps?
"Diplomat's Son," a vague upbeat reminis-
cence, samples M.I.A., but to what effect? What's
happened to Bryn and Louis Vuitton and all the
colorful idiosyncrasies decorating VW's debut?
Like much of Contra, the track doesn't have
much of a point, and while the music is enticing
at first, it stays fairly static for six long minutes.
Likewise, "I Think Ur A Contra" fills a blend-
er with sonic layering, rambling vocals and a
latin-tinged piano riff to pour out a four-and-a-
half minute glass of pointless meandering. You'd
think VW's Ivy League professors would have
taught these boys how to be concise.
But the most obvious train wreck on Contra
is "California English." Fast-paced and discon-
nected, it employs jumpy staccato orchestration
and Auto-Tune (really) for a jumpy and discon-
certing overall effect. It's not unlike the sound of
a good song played backwards on a record.
Occasionally, however, Contra's experimen-
tation actually works. Case in point: "Cousins,"
a joyfully wild roller-coaster ride powered by
the grittiest guitars on the Upper West Side.
It's a departure, sure, but the yelping chorus

and churning guitars manage to hold the track
together.
Album opener "Horchata" takesthe opposite
route, forgoing guitars entirely to paint a picture
of a Caribbean winter escape. Nostalgic strings
and a cheerful mess of tropical island percussion
anchor the simple but strong melody. Though
lacking in lyrical innovation, this is easily Con-
tra's catchiest, most hummable track.
Despite a few shining stars, there's nothing
holding together the songs on Contra besides a
vague sense of unease. "White Sky" is a bundle
of teen angst wrapped in a pop song, while "Giv-
ing Up The Gun" pairstired-out lyricswith tight,
bouncy music. Hardly a cohesive whole, Contra
is a collection of songs, each with its own take on
what the new Vampire Weekend should be.
Impressive sophomore albums are notorious-
ly difficult to pull off. To besuccessful, they must
prove the group is more than a one-trick pony
without completely alienating its fanbase. The
overall sound of Contra is still cutely intellectual,
still bouncy, still somewhat worldly - still Vam-
pire Weekend. It's the odd experimentation and
lack of a thematic center that make the album
weak. If VW releases a focused third album with
more directed experimentation, maybe Contra
will be remembered as nothing but aslight soph-
omore slump from the college kids who could.
But it looks like thisband's going to have to work
hard to keep up with its New York indie peers.

HOLMES
From Page 5A
graced with the impish magne-
tism of Robert Downey, Jr. As the
film's titular detective, Downey
quips and barbs his way through
the film without an ounce of over-
acting. The role of the devilish
savant is clearly a comfort zone
for the mercurial Downey, and
the film shines brightest when
Holmes unleashes his wit, rather
than his fists or his electric fight-
ing cane, upon those in his imme-
diate vicinity.
Meanwhile, Jude Law ("Clos-
er") puts away his patented smug
face and performs admirably as
Dr. John Watson, Holmes's best
friend and investigative partner.
The effectiveness of the Watson
character hits its peak whenever
Holmes is pestering him, which
happens to be most of the film.
Unfortunately, it's hard to make
a great film with just two strong
performances, especially when
you have dozens of roles to fill.
"Sherlock Holmes" starring sixty
copies of Robert Downey, Jr.
might have worked, though.
Filling out the cast of impor-
tant players are Rachel McAdams

("State of Play") and Mark Strong
("Body of Lies"). As Irene Adler,
McAdams is meant tobe Holmes's
foil, matching him word for word,*
gibe for gibeclue foreclue. Instead,
she stands around looking pretty,
often distressed, occasionally in
danger, until. Holmes rectifies the
situation. If there were an Oscar
for Most Useless Performance,
McAdams might top the list of
contenders. And Mark Strong,
who plays the villainous Lord
Blackwood, would be hot on her
heels. With only two settings -
menacing hiss and brawny shout
- Strong's performance reeks of
discount Gerard Butler. It's not
Strong's fault that his character is
so hopelessly stupid, but he might
have reined in the ham for hisown
sake.
It's not unreasonable to expect
Ritchie to dilute the verbosity of
the Holmes character or attempt
to enliven the pace of his adven-
tures with some fisticuffs. The
Sherlock Holmes franchise is
fairly dusty and warranted a new
angle. But Ritchie misfires by
placing the perfect Holmes in an
otherwise stupid movie. It's not
simply an unfaithful adaptation;
it's an asinine film, and would
be no matter whose character it
licensed.

4

,4

Oh shit, Sherlock!

THE ROAD
From Page 5A
between Mortensen and Smit-
McPhee. Their relationship goes
beyond father and son into some-
thing more meaningful - some-
thing more sacred. They need
each other to survive. At one point
in the movie, Mortensen says his
son is his god, and that he will do
anything and everything to pro-
tect him. The child knows noth-
ing outside the forsaken world in
which the two live. Mortensen's
character struggles every day
with the options of either trudg-
ing onwards with the slim chance
of a brighter future or ending his
son's life so that he may never
grow up to witness such terrify-
ing times. The dynamic is raw and
gut-wrenchingly beautiful.
But ultimately, "The Road" suf-
fers from the predictable rhythm
into which it settles as the movie
progresses. Any misfortune the
two travelers suffer is followed
immediately by something fortu-
itous, which is then followed by
misfortune, and so on andso forth.
This doesn't necessarily make the

movie overly formulaic, but it does
severely dampen the mystery and
intrigue of the story when view-
ers can mostly accurately predict
that some boon will come out of
a particularly harsh or disturbing
scene.
Putting these issues aside, the
movie doesn't do an adequate job
of portraying some of the hor-
rors of the world. The book viv-
idly describes certain scenes that
highlight the atrocities people can
commit when faced with extreme
survivalist situations. For a movie
intended to reach a mass audience,
it's understandable to exclude
some of those ghastly images, but
if such is the case, the question of
whether "The Road" should have
been adapted into a film in the first
place remains unanswered. The
movietreads alittle too cautiously.14
Really then, "The Road" is great
for those who have not already
read the McCarthy novel. And
for those who have, at least the
outstanding performances by
Mortensen and Smit-McPhee
echo some of the focal points of
the book. The movie isn't a revolu-
tionary journey, but at least while
it lasts, it's a memorable one, well
worth traveling.

I

4

Most intense game of 'Duck Hunt' ever.

CHECK OUT THE DAILY
ARTS BLOG, THE FILTER,
FOR EVEN MORE
THRILLING CONTENT

4

. Video game and album release guides: Daily Arts keeps youin
the know about the games and jams this week has to offer,
. Music videos of 2009: David Riva gives his picks for the best mixes of
the auditory and visual stimuli the past year had to offer.
FIND IT AT:
WWW.MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I January 11, 2010

Junior Manny Harris reaches for a loose ball in the Wolverines' loss to Northwestern yesterday at Crisler Arena. Despite Harris's team-leading 24 points, Michigan blew a 17-point first half lead to fall to the Wildcats.

Internal
struggles
plague M11
No matter who the Michigan has-
ketball team plays, it's the same
thing.
I'mnot talking about turnovers, or
missed shots, or its
inability to get key
defensive stops, all of
which led to perhaps
the most depressing loss
of the season yesterday
against Northwestern.
I'm talking about what
happens after the games.
Want to know what hap- JOE
pens? The media mem-
bers go into the locker STAPLETON
room and ask players
the tough questions that
need to be addressed even though it's obvi-
ous that if the players knew the answers,
they wouldn't be losing so many games.
After that, we go into the Crisler produc-
tion studio, where Michigan coach John
Beilein steps up to the podium and, far too
often this season, attempts to explain why
his team played the way they did. In yester-
day's case, he was trying to tell us why the
Wolverines gave up a 17-point lead at home
See STAPLETON, Page 3B

Wildcat rally dooms Wolverines

After staging a comeback
against Penn State, Blue
suffers opposite fate
By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
The game's final 10 seconds were tick-
tock-ticking away when the Michigan
men's basketball team was given the ball
out of bounds underneath Northwestern's
basket.
Sure, the Wolverines were down a few
too many points, but they weren't defeat-
ed yet. It was still a pray-for-a-miracle
situation.
But no Michigan player went to the
baseline, nobody was ready to throw the
ball in. Eventually freshman guard Darius
Morris tossed it in, got the ball back and
sprinted down the court. As he ran, the
game clock marched toward Northwest-
ern's 68-62 victory, and when Morris
reached the paint, he lost control of the
ball.
It was a painstaking, fitting image
of Michigan's play Sunday afternoon -
though to be fair, the Wolverines lost
control of the game way before the final
moments.
Some may point to the moment mid-
way through the second half when, after
leading by 17 points, Michigan saw its lead
disintegrate into a tied ballgame. Others
could say it was the pair of Northwestern

free throws with 1:14 left in the game, the
points that gave the Wildcats the lead for
good after Morris hit a huge 3-pointer to
give the Wolverines a brief advantage.
The free throws, coupled with Michigan's
three turnovers in the final 1:03, crushed
the Wolverines' final glimmer of hope.
But according to Michigan coach John
Beilein and the stat sheet, the Wolverines
lost their very comfortable grip on the
game toward the end of the first half.
All of the sudden, with four minutes
left before halftime, Northwestern's zone
defense became smothering, and the
Wildcats' offense came alive in the form
of freshman Drew Crawford - who went
on a personal 11-0 run.
And even though Crawford would con-
tinue to pester the Wolverine defense for
25 points on the day, the Wildcat defense
was more troublesome for Michigan.
"Their 1-3-1 defense, what makes it
so successful is the way they can touch
the ball," Beilein said. "When you have
touchers on the ball ... that's really huge.
That certainly took us out of rhythm, and
because that took us out of rhythm, our
defense in the second half was not good."
Northwestern coach Bill Carmody
confirmed how the 1-3-1 zone devastated
the Wolverines, too - his Wildcats were
"really getting their hands on balls and
taking away passing lanes," he said. It's no
coincidence that Michigan's 18 turnovers
more than doubled its season average.
Northwestern's zone worked, and it
certainly confused the Wolverine offense.
See NORTHWESTERN,Page 3B

SAID ALSA LAH/Daily
Freshman Darius Morris led the team with seven assists yesterday.


 Despite sweep, Blue
still an average team.

Offensive explosion
keys weekend wins

The Michigan hockey team
knew it needed to sweep Western
Michigan this past weekend. Lo
and behold,
the Wolver-
ines earned
two wins over
the last-place
Broncos. It was
Michigan's
first confer-
ence weekend
sweep since the MARK
end of October BURNS
against Lake BURNS _
Superior State.
With the
sweep, Michigan propelled itself
into a tie for seventh in the CCHA.
The wins also gave the Wolverines

some momentum for the second
half of the season, with the defin-
ing chunk of their schedule still to
come in the next three weeks.
But at the end of the day, every-
one needs to be reminded that
Michigan did nothing more than
beat a mediocre Western Michigan
squad that has seen better days, a
team the Wolverines should beat
handily nine times out of 10.
So, for anyone claiming Michi-
gan is on its way to finishing in
the top four of the CCHA or mak-
ing it to the NCAA Tournament
for the 20th-straight year needs
to step back and realize this team
has proven it is just, well, average
at this point.
See BURNS, Page 36

- By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Freshman forward Lindsay
Sparks and the Wolverines played
with an urgency in the attacking
zone and
scorched MICHIGAN 4
the nets W. MICHIGAN 3
all week-
end ina sweep in a home-and-
home series against the Western
Michigan
Broncos. W. MICHIGAN 1
Michi- MICHIGAN 6
gan (7-7
CCHA, 12-10-0 overall) 6-1 on Sat-
urday and 4-3 on Friday. It was the
team's' second CCHA sweep of the

season and its first sweep since the
offense exploded for 11 goals in two
games against Lake Superior State
on Halloween weekend.
The scoring came in all different
forms. Defensemen scored from
the point, the Wolverines found
wide open teammates off crisp
passing and Michigan tallied a sea-
son-high four power play goals to
win Friday's game.
But it was fitting that a defen-
seman opened the scoring in both
games. Michigan coach Red Beren-
son expected his blue liners to
contribute offensively before the
season, and they were consistent-
ly in the middle of the scoring all
See WESTERN, Page 3B

MAx cOLLINS/Daly
Sophomore Luke Glendening battles for a loose puck in Michigan's 6-1 victory over
Western Michigan. This weekend's conference sweep was the first since October.


WISCO NO-GO
Women's hoops drops another Big
Ten road game, this time in Madison,
after a second-half collapse Page 4B

CLARY-FIED
Defending national champion swimmer
Tyler Clary, now healthy, leads Blue in a
blowout Page 2B

9


2B - January 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

2B - anuay 11,2010The ichign Daly -mi-hiand-ly-o

Healthy Clary leads Michigan
in dominant victory at home

Seniors are witnessing
history, not the good kind

a

By ANDREW HADDAD
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan junior and defend-
ing National Swimmer of the Year
Tyler Clary doesn't mince words in
describinghisboutwith H1N1- the
swine flu - earlier this season.
"Compared to how I feel now, it's
like night and day," he said.
While hampered by the virus,
Clary had a few disappointing
results relativetohisincrediblyhigh
standards at the beginning of the
year. Now fully healthy, Clary, who
set the American record in the 400-
yard individual medley last month,
won two events at Saturday's dual
meet. His performance helped No.
7 Michigan men's swimming team
dominate the Hoosiers, 158-82.
The Wolverines controlled the
meet from the start, winning the
first six events. It was a continuation
of the strong form they've shown all
season, capturing the USA Short
Course Nationals last month and
the Orange Bowl classic a week ago.
The Wolverines' most impressive
event was the 200-yard individual

medley, where they took the top
four places, led by Clary with a time
of 1:49.06 and junior Neal Kennedy,
who finished just 22 hundredths of a
second behind.
"It's always fun to race Neal,"
Clary said. "He's a great competi-
tor and much faster than me at the
breaststroke and the fly. We've been
neck-and-neck in that race all year."
Clary also wonthe 500-yard free-
style with a time of 4:28.55.
"Tyler swims solid every time,"
Michigan coach Mike Bottom said.
"We expect that from him, and,
truthfully, the world expects that
from him. That's a lot of pressure,
but he handles it well."
Sophomore Dan Madwed joined
Clary as a multiple-event winner,
grabbing the 200-yard freestyle
and the 200-yard butterfly. Michi-
gan dominated several other events
as well, winning both relays while
grabbing the top three spots in
the mile freestyle, among others.
Senior co-captains Andre Schultz
and Chris Brady each won an event.
Schultz took the 200-yard back-
stroke and Brady won the 50-yard

freestyle.
Indiana is often considered a
national powerhouse, so its weak
performance on Saturday was
surprising. Michigan took full
advantage of what Bottom called
a "rebuilding year" for the Hoo-
siers.
"I think they came here under-
standing that we had a much
stronger team," he said. "They red-
shirted a few of their best swim-
mers. They're looking toward
beating us in the future instead."
The Wolverines compete at both
the Southern Methodist Classic
and a meet with Eastern Michigan
next weekend, but their next Big
Ten event, a quad at Ohio State, isn't
until the end of the month. Michi-
gan and Ohio State are the favorites
to win the Big Ten title, so the meet
should be a good indicator of which
team will bring home the crown.
"On paper, with the times that
(Ohio State) has done, they'd beat
us right now," Bottom said. "It's in
their pool also, so we're going there
with the understanding that it's
going to be tough."

Yesterday was an enormous
test on my patience and
optimism. I walked down
to Crisler Arena with my friends
fully expecting the Michigan
men's basketball team to extend
its two-game win streak.
Instead, we saw the Wolverines
blow a huge, early lead and lose
to Northwestern. This seemingly
cemented the team's post-season
invitation to
the College
Basketball
Invitational.
(Honestly,
show me a
scenario in
which Michi-
gan pulls ANDY
it together REID
enough to _ _
finish the
season with
a .500-or-better record, requisite
for even an NIT bid, let alone ,
some way in which the teams
makes NCAAs.)
"When things are going south,
the leadership has to come from
more than just me," Beilein said
after the game. "There has to be
positive stuff from people within
this team."
That doesn't sound like a
coach of a team that has one of
the nation's best players. A team
that was poised to do something
really special at the beginning of
the year.
But it's nothing out of the ordi-
nary, especially not on Michigan's
south campus right now.
Thus continues the most head-
scratching, frustrating academic-
calendar year in Michigan sports
history - which just so happens
to coincide with my senior year.
In the three major sports (foot-
ball, basketball and hockey), the
Wolverines are a combined 23-24.
No bowl trip and - without some
miracle - no chance at an NCAA
Tournament bid in the other two.
All three teams, at some point,
had wild expectations, which
makes this downfall even harder
to figure out. Football started

0

0

Michigan football coach Rich Rodriguez led the Wolverines to a 4-0 start this
year before finishing 5-7, disappointing fans in Ann Arbor.

Blue excels in season's first competition

By ZELL ZOERHOF
For the Daily
For Natalie Beilstein, the praise
cascading down from the 2,662
fans in Crisler Arena, "Ten, ten,
give her ten," was nothing new.
But Beilstein, who won two
national championships in high
school, was not the only fresh-
man to compete at a high level.
Brittnee Martinezfinished strong
in each of her four events, earning
a 38.25 in the all-around competi-
tion.
Freshman orientation went
very well for the Wolverines.
"Our freshman did a great job,"
Michigan coach Beverly Plocki
said. "In an intimidating atmo-
sphere, they did well."
In the first competition of the

season, Michigan defeated Iowa
and Bowling Green on Saturday in
Ann Arbor. They finished with a
score of 194.875.
But despite the victory, Michi-
gan started relatively slow.
"We had a couple silly mis-
takes," Plocki said. "(Senior) Sarah
Curtis's hand slipped on the horse
on her vault, which never happens,
and we had a couple of silly things
like that happen that are easily
corrected."
After a slight fall in vault, Curtis
countered with a stunning 9.85 on
uneven bars with a near-perfect
dismount and landing.
"We have a strong bar lineup,"
junior Kylee Botterman said. "We
are also a team that can pick it up
when we need to."
Three-time All-American Kylee

Botterman picked up where she
left off from last season, finish-
ing first in the uneven bars with
a 9.9 and second in the vault. Bot-
terman scored high enough in all
the events to place first in the all-
around with a score of 39.15. It was
the ninth time in the last 10 compe-
titions that Botterman reached that
coveted plateau.
As thet12th-ranked Wolverines
gun for their 18th ever Big Ten
title, they can take many positives
from Saturday. Botterman has
continued her near-perfect form,
the freshman look very promising
and the team has nine returning
upperclassmen.
"This team has a tremendous
amount of potential," Plocki said.
"We have to stay healthy and fix
the the silly mistakes."

4-0 - a month-long stretch
that seems surreal now, given
the current state of the team -
before falling off the face of the
Big Ten planet. Everyone jumped
on the basketball team's band-
wagon, with a No.13 preseason
ranking. Then the team took a
national flop. And hockey - what
the hell? That one, I can't figure
out.
So, my fellow seniors, you
could take the obvious, "Oh,
God, why me?" route that has
become pretty popular on cam-
pus. It is the easy one, and it defi-
nitely sucks that our last year in
Ann Arbor has to be one of such
athletic misery.
You'vefseen losses and alle-
gations of NCAA violations, a
two-year losing streak to a Little
Brother that seems to be growing
up rather quickly and a slew of
other disappointments too hurt-
ful and depressing to mention
here.
You see, you could let this
recent backslide get you down.
But look on the bright side here.
You're witnessing history.

Not many senior classes can
say that.
Sure, the 1998 graduates had
a football national champion-
ship. The 2004 grads celebrated
their last home football game by
rushing the field after the Wol-
verines beat Ohio State in the
100th iteration of "The Game."
The 1989 class took to the streets
and rioted after Michigan won
the basketball national champi-
onship.
But this is a different kind of
history-in-the-making, one that
- once Michigan athletics is back
on the performance-based top -
could be remembered, in a differ-
ent way, for far longer than any of
that other stuff.
It's rock bottom. The lowest
plateau Michigan sports has been
on, well, maybe ever. And all us
seniors can say we were here for
it. We've seen a steady decline
over four years and now things
have finally bottomed out.
Now, isn't that special?
- Reid can be reached at
andyreid@umich.edu.

Juniors and Seniors thinking about
international Peace Corps service,
NOW is the best time to apply!

4

4
4

Contact University of Michigan Peace Corps Representatives:
Alex Pompe and Mahima Mahadevan
International Opportunities Center, Room 10
603 E. Madison Street
Phone: 734.647.2182
E-mail: Peace.Corps@umich.edu
Attend an Information Session to learn more:
Wed., Jan. 20, Wed., Feb. 17, and Fri., April 9
6:30 p.m., U-M International Center, Room 9
Degree-Specific Information Sessions:
Education: Thurs., Jan. 28 at 7:00 p.m., School of Education
Business: Thurs., Feb. 11 at 6:00 p.m., Ross School of Business
Ag and Environment: Wed., March 10 at 6:30 p.m., SNRE (Dana Building)
Health: Thurs., April 15 at 5:00 p.m., Henry F. Vaughan Building
*Visit www.peacecorps.gov/events for exact locations.
PEACE CORPS NEEDS APPLICANTS WITH DEGREES & SKILLS IN:
Agriculture & Forestry . Environment - Education & English Teaching
Math & Science." Health Education . Public Health
Business & IT. French and Spanish
800.424.8580
www.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will you go?

Stop by the Alumni Association for:
Free coffee
Free bagels .
Free Wi-Fi
Mark your calendars for this semester's dates:
January 13, 20, 27
February 3, 10, 17, 24
March 10, 17
Welcome Wednesdays is open to all U-M students.
The Alumni Center is Located at 200 Fletcher St., at the corner
of Fletcher and Washington, next to the Michigan League.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
www.umalumni.com/students

4
4


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

January 11, 2010 - 3B

M' defense
struggles
in second
half, again
NORTHWESTERN
From page 1B
It's as simple as that.
And Michigan's defense,
which feeds off offensive suc-
cess, struggled in the second
half, too. Northwestern shot
7-for-10 from beyond the arc
and tallied 40 points after half-
time alone. The lack of defen-
sive pressure made it all too
easy for the Wildcats to claw
back into the game.
"We were distracted by our
lack of offense, and that's just
the story of this team," Beilein
said when asked why his team
collapsed. "There was no com-
placency."
Worries of complacency
should have been at the fore-
front of every Wolverine's mind
at halftime Sunday afternoon.
Just three nights earlier, they
had been the stars of an incred-
ible comeback story, storming
back from a 16-point deficit to
defeat Penn State on the road.
Sunday's game felt all too simi-
lar - but from the opposite
point of view.
In the postgame locker room,
reporter after reporter asked
players what exactly happened.
Blank stares and dejected
expressions answered the ques-
tion better than words could
have.
Nobody knew what hap-
pened, nobody could come up
with ideas to fix the team's
problems, and certainly, nobody
felt good after Sunday's loss.
"It's real confusing," sopho-
more guard Stu Douglass said.
"I'm not sure, you know. I think
it starts with leadership at all
positions. We all have to step
up.
"We have to get a lot better
than we were today."
BURNS
From page 1B
And until it defeats any team
of significance, it will continue to
be a mediocre squad which has
underperformed all season.
On paper, Michigan has one of
the best crops of talented play-
ers in the conference, maybe even
in the country. It boasts 11 NHL
draft-picks and a multitude of
other solid, well-rounded play-
ers. While counting the number
of NHL draftees isn't a fool-proof
method for assessing a team's tal-
ent, many Wolverines have been
recognized as players with the
skill-set to potentially have a shot
at the next level.
This team beat now-No. 4 Wis-
consin over Thanksgiving break
- its signature win of the season.
Michigan played one of its best
games of the season, defensively,
winning 3-2 in a "man's game,"

according to coach Red Berenson.
That win, in contrast with the
Wolverines' recent performance
on the ice, further indicates that
the team is playing beneath its

STAPLETON
From page 1B
to a Northwestern team play-
ing without its best player, senior
Kevin Koble.
And after every game, no mat-
ter the opponent, one of the first
things we hear from Beilein is how
good the opposingteam is.
It's one of the things I like about
Beilein. He's a good guy, and he is
very willing to give credit where
credit is due.
But here's the thing-the vast
majority (I might venture to say all)
of Michigan's losses this year can't
be blamed on how great the other
team was. They happened because
of this team's tendency to shoot
itself in the foot.
Come on a ride with me. Let me
take you back to Orlando, during
the Old Spice Classic, when Michi-
gan's season was still young and
full of promise.
Remember the first game,
against Creighton, when junior
Manny Harris had to carry the
Wolverines on his back to barely
eke out a win against the Jays?
"I truthfully believe we just beat
a very good team," Beilein said
after the game. "They've got a lot of
talent, and their fans are going to
enjoy watching them play, because
they're a good team."
What's Creighton's record now?
7-9.
They had me fooled, too. In
Beilein's defense, they did look like
a good team against Michigan. But
that was because the Wolverines
made them look like a good team,
not because they actually were.
Every Michigan loss besides
Kansas was to an inferior oppo-
nent. Take your pick-Marquette?
The Golden Eagles are 1-3 in the
Big East, 10-6 overall. Boston Col-
lege? 1-1 in the ACC, 10-6 overall.
After each of these losses, Beilein
made sure tolet us know just how
good these teams were and how
good they were supposed to be.
And against Northwestern
yesterday, it was the same story.
Michigan was at home. It came into
the game having won two Big Ten
games in a row. It even led by 17 at
one point. The Wolverines should
have won this game, and they lost
it not because Northwestern was
that much better, but because they
gave it away.

"They're a good team," Beilein
said yesterday. "They were nation-
ally ranked last week."
While there is some truth to that
assessment, it still doesn't explain
how a Wildcat team without its
' best player, coming off a 21-point
loss at home to Michigan State,
snatched away a game that looked
like it was 100 percent Michigan's
until the end of the first half.
The Wolverines are not losing
to great teams. They are beating
themselves. And while there are
clearly internal problems within
the team that need to be addressed,
want to know the real problem?
Pretty soon, Michigan is going to
start playing teams that actually
are great.
These first five Big Ten games
on the Wolverines' schedule (at
Indiana, home against Ohio State,
at Penn State, home against North-
western, home against Indiana)
were supposed to be relatively easy,
givingthem time to prepare for the
gauntlet that is the next two weeks.
After they take on Indiana at
Crisler on Thursday, the Wol-
verines have a brutal four-game
stretch, starting with Connecticut
at home on Jan. 17, then Jan 20 at
Wisconsin, Jan. 23 at Purdue, and
at home against Michigan State on
Jan. 26.
Certainly not for the faint of
heart. Michigan has officially
missed its chance to build up its Big
Ten resume by giving away two of
its early conference opportunities.
Now, it faces what is unquestion-
ably its toughest stretch of the sea-
son with a less-than-stellar record.
After losing so many early non-
conference games, the Wolverines'
only chance at an NCAA tourna-
ment berth is to tear through the
Big Ten, beat Connecticut for their
only relevant nonconference win,
and make a run in the Big Ten
Tournament. But unless they can
pinpoint what it is that causes them
to beat themselves, that doesn't
look like it's going to happen.
"We're better than this," Beilein
said yesterday.
It's true.
The Wolverines are better than
the team they played, better than
they themselves are playing, and
they're better than their record.
And when they fix whatever
internal problems are ailing them,
ARIEL BOND/Daily they might just have time to prove
onference. it.

::

Junior Manny Harris has carried the Wolverines' offense in the Big Ten, but Michigan remains 1-;

potential. But if they have the
skills, where is the success?
The Wolverines have been
swept by Miami and Michigan
State, No.1 and No. 2 in the CCHA
respectively, and they split series
with Ohio State and Bowling
Green.
The Wolverines' struggles must
stem from another fault - it could
be the lack of consistent play on
the defensive side of the redline.
Or it couldbe the inefficient power
play that has struggled to get the
puck on net. It could potentially be
any number of things.
"We'll turn it around," Beren-
son said after his team's second
loss to Michigan State in the mid-
dle of November. "It's just a matter
of when. It's like any team, there's
going to be a weak point in your
season."
The entire team is still experi-
encing that weak point, and the
transition from average to a team
in contention, still hasn't hap-
pened.
It'll be decided when the Wol-
verines face off against Alaska,
Ferris State and Michigan State
the next three weekends - three

of the top four teams in the CCHA.
So, in actuality, the sweep of
Western Michigan means nothing,
unless the Wolverines show some-
thing new in the next few weeks
- something that proves it was a
turning point.
Berenson said he breaks down
the season into small, 10-game
segments, where the coaching
staff and players analyze different
aspects of the team's performance
and how they can improve in the
coming weeks.
In the first 20 games, Michigan
finished with a sub-par 10-10 over-
all record.
The next 10 games will define
this team's season and whether
it makes it to the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
But for now, Michigan is noth-
ing exciting, and it must keep this
weekend's results in perspective.
It defeated a pitiful Bronco
team and until it knocks off a con-
ference powerhouse, the Wolver-
ines are and will continue to be
average.
- Burns can be reached
at burnmark@umichedu

WESTERN
From page 1B
weekend.
On Saturday, Junior defense-
man Chad Langlais wasted no
time, scoring 26 seconds into the
first period on a slap shot - the
fastest goal of the season for Mich-
igan and his first this season. Soph-
omore Brandon Burlon got a shot
through from the point that beat
the Broncos' goaltender on Friday.
Burlon and senior defender
Steve Kampfer each had a goal and
two assists on Friday.
Even though the defenders
contributed offensively, West-
ern Michigan (2-11-3-1, 6-12-4)
took advantage of a few uncon-
tested opportunities. The defense
responded with an energetic effort
Saturday that seemed to feed off of
the offense's success.
"I think it gives the defense
more confidence to step up, to play
more aggressive," junior forward
Matt Rust said. "The forwards
play off the 'D,' and the 'D' plays
off the forwards. If the forwards
are struggling then the 'D' feel like

they need to play more cautious propelled Michigan. And along
and their confidence goes down. I with a few of the regulars on the
think their confidence is up when stat sheet, like juniors Carl Hage-
we're scoring goals." lin and Louie Caporusso, Sparks is
Junior goalie Bryan Hogan starting to be a factor on the ice.
bounced back from a soft goal on And the offensive firepower
Friday to make some key saves the may be the key to success for
following night. Michigan for the rest of the sea-
Facing a five-on-three in the son. In the Wolverines losses,
they have scored an average of 1.4
goals per game, but when Michi-
"There's no room gan wins, it tallies 4.5 goals per
game. But the Wolverines haven't
for error at this been able to sustain the success -
or score big against ranked teams.
pOnt. Their longest winning streak of
the season is three games, and it
was matched with this weekend's
sweep.
middle of the second period, the Their inconsistency certainly
defense successfully killed off a has been noticed too. Michigan
five-on-three Western Michigan only sings "The Victors" after
advantage to preserve a 3-1 lead. it sweeps a weekend series, and
"That's a bigboost for our team," Berenson joked that his team had
senior defenseman Chris Summers forgotten the words.
said. "I think that was .a definite "There's no room for error at
turning point in the game saying, this point," Berenson said. "We've
'This is our game, and you can go got to take advantage of this week-
five-on-three or whatever, but end. I think it will give us con-
we're going to shut you down."' fidence. It got some guys on the
Hogan and the defense showed score sheet that haven't been on
up at a crucial time, but the offense the score sheet for a while."

Kelly's effort falls short in loss to Hoosiers

By FELIX CARREON
Daily Sports Writer
Before the start of the 200-yard
butterfly, the Michigan women's
swimming and diving team trailed
72-59 against Indiana in its first
home Big Ten dual meet of the sea-
son on Saturday.
It needed someone to step up.
To the surprise of no one, the
Wolverines' all-star senior swim-
mer Margaret Kelly answered the
call.
Kelly went stroke-for-stroke
with Hoosier Kate Zubcova dur-
ing the first 150 yards. In the final
50 yards, Kelly edged out the five-
time All-American- who domi-
nated in the Wolverines' Oct. 31
loss to Indiana- by 18 hundredths
of a second.
"Anytime you can have a best
time when you're not rested is
great," Kelly said. "I think I had
some extra motivation because
swimming against Indiana, they're
a very strong team and they won
Big Tens last year."
Too strong for the Wolverines,
perhaps. Despite Kelly's strong
performances, No. 16 Michigan
couldn't complete the comeback,
falling to No. 12 Indiana, 130-113.,
The Wolverines recently
endured the most difficult practic-

14 ft;
I

JAKE FROMM/Dail
Senior Margaret Kelly defeated Indiana's five-time All-American Kate Subcova to pace the Wolverines' efforts.

es of the season and started a new
phase of dry-land training. They
were visibly fatigued.
"We're in a demanding part
of our training cycle right now,"
Michigan coach Jim Richardson
said. "Some of our people are han-
dling it well and others you can see
were fatigued."
In the team's previous meeting,
Zubcova edged out Kelly in the
200-yard individual medley. This
time around, Kelly took the lead
and never looked back, finishing

first by nearly four seconds.
Fifth-year senior Emily Brun-
emann cruised to an easy victory
in the 1,650-yard freestyle. Senior
Emily Hanson was a distant second
to touch the wall. In a rare outing,
Brunemann also came in second in
the Soo-yard freestyle..
With the meet still in conten-
tion, Michigan's fatigue and lack of
depth in the breakstroke reared its
ugly head. Indiana claimed the top
two spots in the 200-yard breast-
stroke to cement the victory.

"For the most part, I think we're
better than we were last year at this
time," Richardson said.
Richardson emphasized that his
sights are set on the postseason.
"A month from now, nobody will
remember if we won or lost a dual
meet," Richardson said. "All that
matters is what you do at Big Tens
in February and NCAAs in March.
I sometimes think of dual meets as
'leftovers.' After a week of train-
ing, sometimes leftovers are really
good and other times they are not."


4B-- January 11, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com o

4B - January 11, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Wolverines lack aggressive
defense in loss to Badgers

Freshmen lead 'M' in Virginia

Michigan suffered its
fourth conference loss
despite keeping game
close for first half
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
Wisconsin almost always gives
the Michigan women's basketball
team trouble. Every veteran on the
Michigan team knows that. And it
was again apparent in the Wolver-
ines 68-48 loss at the Kohl Center in
Madison on Sunday.
The Wolverines (2-4 Big Ten,
10-6 overall) tied it up three times
in the first half but never took the
lead, finishing the first 20 minutes
downby four. Michigan knew it had
to come out more aggressive in the
second half to prevent Wisconsin
from pulling further ahead.
But the Wolverines gave the
Badgers just what they wanted -
their second consecutive confer-
encewn.
The Wolverines shot below 40
percent in the first half but Wiscon-
sin struggled as well, shooting only
a little above 40 percent. But when
the Badgers (3-2, 13-4) picked up
the tempo and shot 60 percent in
the second half, Michigan couldn't
keep up.
"We never play a game when we
are going to give up," senior center
Krista Phillips said. "I think that
was part of the problem is that we
took ourselves out of the game. We
came back at the beginning of the
second half and then a couple went
to them and we just couldn't get on
top of it. We are always trying to get
on top of it but we got to do our job
to not get ourselves in that position
in the first place."
It's hard to say what the cause of
the offensive woes were, but poor
shooting coupled with inadequate
defense prevented the Wolverines
from ever finding a rhythm.
"We just didn't get any good
shots," Michigan coach Kevin Bors-
eth said. "We had no rhythm offen-
sively at all. We got mentallybeatup
at the other end of the court."
The Wolverines successfully kept
the Badgers out of the paint in the
first half, holding the Badgers to
26 points. But Wisconsin changed
its scheme in the second half and

By AMY PARLAPIANO
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan wrestling team
showed resilience this weekend as
it staged a comeback and fought its
way to eight place at Virginia Duals.
The Wolverines' finish at the
Hampton Coliseum in Hampton,
Virginia, was highlighted by an
impressive come-from-behind vic-
tory against Bucknell on Friday.
After Michigan dug itself into a
nine-point deficit, redshirt sopho-
more Justin Zeerip did just what
his coach has been preaching all
season -- he stayed aggressive.
Zeerip wrestled through three
overtimes for 13 minutes and came
out victorious, setting the tone for
the rest of the match.
"That was a big win for us,"
Michigan coach Joe McFarland
said. "It was great the way Zeerip
hung in there. I'm sure that was a
confidence booster for him."
It was also a confidence booster

for the team, which beat the Bison
21-15.
On Saturday, the Wolverines
beat Clarion 29-15, before falling
to No. 13 Kent State and No. 23 Vir-
ginia.
Despite the losses, McFarland
saw many positives that came from
the weekend's matches, particu-
larly when it came to the success
of the freshmen. Sean Boyle (125
pounds), went 4-1 this weekend,
and has become a consistent force
on the team.
"He's a real mat rat," McFar-
land said. "When he steps onto the
mat, he gives it 110 percent. I see
him getting better and better. We
haven't had a consistent winning
guy lately, so with him and (soph-
omore captain) Zac Stevens as a
package, it's a great way to get our
day started."
This year, more than half of the
Wolverines are underclassmen,
and a great deal of emphasis has
been put on how young the team is.

Back at thebeginning ofthe season,
many worried the inexperience of
the team would be a hindrance.
But with Boyle wrestling the
way he is now, it's been more like a
blessing.
"The thought of being a fresh-
man is over now," Boyle said. "I've
had somebig wins and I don't think
about it anymore.
"I just go out there and do my
thing. There are a lot less distrac-
tions now."
The Wolverines will have a two
week break before they begin the
second half of their season with
tough matches against Big Ten
opponents Iowa and Minnesota.
"There are some things we can 4
take from this weekend," McFar-
land said. The Big Ten is going to be
a struggle for us.
"We're going to focus on our
individuals to make sure these
guys are making the adjustments
they need. We're just going to
make sure they're getting better."

Blue's young guns run wild in victory

AARON AUGSBURGER/Dail
Sophomore forward Carmen Reynolds scored 10 points in Michigan's 68-48 loss
to Wisconsin on Sunday, as the Wolverines struggled from the field.

weaved its way through Michigan's
man defense to finish the game with
26 points in the paint compared to
Michigan's eight.
But the Wolverines didn't let
the game get away until a couple
minutes into the second half. They
opened the half with two quick
shots from Phillips and sophomore
forward Carmen Reynolds to tie the
score at 26 for the fourth and final
time. Wisconsin then went on a12-0
run to achieve its biggest lead before
poor offense and defense by Michi-
gan allowed the Badgers to gain a
24-point lead with four minutes
remaining.
If they could have found their

rhythm and gone on a run in the
last ten minutes of the game like
they did in last years 58-54 loss to
Wisconsin, things might have been
different.
"There's going to be ups and
downs in games," Borseth said
after Michigan's victory over
Iowa at Crisler Thursday. "There's
momentum switches and that's
kind of how it goes. It's hard to play
40 minutes of basketball and make
every shot, play 40 minutes of bas-
ketball and have them miss every
shot, that just doesn't happen. So
they are going to make runs. The
key to games is that you get more
runs than they get."

By CASANDRA PAGNI
For the Daily
Lacking the stars from last sea-
son, the Michigan women's track
and field team wasted no time in
showcasing its young and deter-
mined squad with a convincing
season-opening win on Friday.
The team kicked off the season at
the Akron Opener in Ohio, com-
peting against Akron and Buffalo.
The Wolverines defeated runner-
up Akron by a 20-point margin.
Michigan finished first in six
events. To seal the victory, the
4x400-meter relay team took first
in the last event of the night, with
a time of 3:54.80.
Michigan coach James Henry
said he was impressed with his
team's showing, in what he called
a "non-pressure meet."
"We have a very solid team," he
said. "We don't have any, as we're
calling it, 'queen bees.' We have
a lot of experience mixed in with
a lot of young kids, and that mix
should make ita good and exciting
year for us."
Noteworthy performances for
the Wolverines included redshirt
senior Shana Vinson, who took
first in her main event, the 400-

meter dash with a time of 55.98.
Long jump and high jump run-
ners-up - sophomore Tofunmi
Akeredolu and redshirt senior
Christina Solomon - also turned
in solid performances.
Despite the strong individual
performances, several Wolverines
passed the spotlight to others and
praised their teammates for such a
solid opening meet.
Vinson, one of the team veter-
ans, said the season opener is a
good measuring stick for the rest
of the season.
"Considering we lost a bunch
of people last year, we had a lot of
freshmen come out and really put
a stamp on the track," Vinson said.
"I was really pleased with how
they competed because we had
team goals to go out there and just
run our best."
One of the impressive fresh-
men, Jillian Smith, won the 800-
meter event, posting a time of
2:10.89. Smith said that the fresh-
men will be impressive this year,
since they're aware of the oppor-
tunities for younger teammates to
step up.
"It's exciting to see 'the little
guys' doing well in some of the
beginning meets," Smith said.

"There is a lot of promise in this
team."
Friday's shot put runner-up,
redshirt sophomore Allison Liske,
also addressed the unique makeup
of the 2010 team.
"We're going to have some new
all-stars on our team that are real-
ly going to shine in the Big Ten as
well as in nationals," Liske said. "I
think that across all of the events,
were going to have girls step up
and some runners and distance
girls come out that I don't think
Michigan has ever seen before."
With the first meet ofthe season
under their belts, the Wolverines
get back to practice on Monday in
preparation for their next event,
the PSU Northeast Challenge on
Jan. 16. With the talent pool at
the Challenge deeper than that at
Akron, the team faces the first true
hurdle of its season on Saturday.
However, the rookies and vet-
erans on this team won't shy away
from competition.
"We have a couple races under
our belt right now, just from this
weekend, so we need to improve
for next week," Smith said.
"They're going to come ready to
compete, so we just have to put our
game faces on."


Looking for the bes art-ime job ever?

Awesome tnings you'l o inciude:
Teamwork & Ropes Courses
Teambuilding
Organizational
Group Facilitation Development
Education Working outside
Outdoor HAVING FUN
Leadership
No Experience Necessary!
* visit www.umchallenge.org
REC for more information
SPORTS email ezollweg@umich.edu
CHALLENGE with questions or ts request an application
PROGR AM

The University of Michigan
Challenge
Program
is taking applications for
Facilitator Positions!
Application Deadline
Monday, February 1, 2010!

Help us study strategies for preventing influenza
The University of Michigan School of Public Health is enrolling students living in
residence halls ina research study to see how well influenza ('flu') vaccines and other
strategies work in reducing the risk of influenza illness in university residence halls.
Participants will be asked tocomplete two surveys, one at enrollment and one in Spring
2010. Participants are also asked to report any flu-like respiratory illness. Ill persons will
be invited to have a throat swab collected for laboratory testing. All participants will be
invited to have a blood sample collected at the end oftthe influenza season to track
pandemic H1N1 infection.
You are eligible it:
. You are at least 16 years old
+ You live in one oftthe following residence halls: Alice Lloyd, Stockwell, Markley,
Mosher-Jordan, or Couzens
Compensation: Participants are entered into a lottery for one of ten $100 cash cards for
each survey they complete. Participants will receive $10 for permitting collection of a
throat swab if they have a flu-like illness, and $20 for permitting collection of a blood
sample
investigators: Arnold S. Moant, MD; Suzanne Ohmit, DrPH; Allison Aello, PhD
IRBMED#:
For more information or if you are interested in participating, please contact our study
staff:
s Phone: (734) 615-8331
Email: ums hchi s urmich.edu
Website: www.umsphchios ore

E
I


:
.
'' . -b _ ,. .
,

f. r, *H4
' " /a
5 z m,7

EXAy , -._h
ooh
CHM

Sn - - Common.

Fresh~ne
Pi~a
%,~e5

GOOD
CHOICE
healthy

4


