Illic1 t aIi 1u

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, December 1, 2010

michigandaily.com

CULTURES DOC

'U -licensed
apparel line
competes on
conscience

ERIN KIRK.AND/Daily
Research fellow Aasia Rehman works at the McAllister-Lucas lab at the Biomedical Research Building yesterday. As part of her post-doctorate fellowship, Rehman works
on a project expanding cells by growing B-Cell lymphomas in culture media.
CAMPUS WATERING HOLES
A 2 t
S1C s: Fifth Quarter
club is a publicnuisance'

Alta Gracia, sold at
Barnes & Noble, pays
workers a living wage
By SARA BOBOLTZ
Daily StaffReporter
Students in the market for a new
Michigan sweatshirt may take sev-
eral factors into consideration: blue
or maize, fitted or loose, hooded or
crewneck. But at least one store on
campus has introduced another
option to think about, urging cus-
tomers to buy ethical University
clothing the same way they might
"buy organic."
New collegiate apparel label
Alta Gracia, named for the Domin-
ican factory where the clothing is
-constructed, is now available at
the Barnes & Noble College Book-
store in the Michigan Union. The
label claims to be the first of its
kind because workers at the Alta
Gracia factory earn a living wage
- the equivalent of $115 per week
- instead of the legally required
minimum wage, which is $34 per
week in the Dominican Republic.
The living wage arrangement is
the result of negotiations between
the factory's management and
its workers' union. Officials at
Knights Apparel, which operates

the factory, say they maintain a
strong relationship with the work-
ers' union to foster a comfortable
and humane environment for
employees.
Knights Apparel operates a
number of other factories, but is
operating Alta Gracia using this
experimental business model in
hopes that the company and other
apparel manufacturers can learn
from the model.
As of now, the Barnes & Noble
College Bookstore is the only store
on campus that sells Alta Gracia
apparel. Karen Discala, spokes-
woman for Barnes & Noble College
Bookstores, said the Alta Gracia
line of apparel received a "tremen-
dous amount of enthusiasm" from
students since the stores began
selling the products in September.
Discala said the stores priced
the apparel in line with other simi-
lar items, so as not to pass on much
of the increased labor costs to con-
sumers.
Rishi Narayan, co-owner of
Underground Printing and Moe
Sport Shops, which has stores in a
variety of locations near campus,
said that because selling Alta Gra-
cia apparel in their stores would
require negotiations with Knights
Apparel, the owners would only
consider sellingthe merchandise if
See APPAREL, Page 3A

Complaint filed with
city attorney's office
alleges fights at bar
spill onto sidewalks
By JENNA SIMARD
Daily StaffReporter
City officials filed a complaint
with the city attorney's .office
last month against Fifth Quarter

nightclub, alleging that the bar
known for its drink specials and
mechanical bull is a public nui-
sance. -
Senior AssistantAttorney Kris-
ten Larcom, who is handling the
case, said the complaint stems
from a variety of issues associated
with the bar.
"(The complaint) is based on
a number of incidents (showing
that the bar has) caused more
problems than other bars," Lar-
com said.

Larcom added that the com-
plaint, which was filed on Nov. 4,
has not progressed further than
the issuing of the complaint itself.
A public nuisance is defined as
anything that "annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health,
comfort or repose of the public;
offends public decency ... or in any
way renders the public insecure in
life or property," according to Ann
Arbor's city code.
The complaint states that
between the dates of Jan. 1 and

Oct. 25, 2010, the Ann Arbor
Police Department received over
89 calls requestingservice at Fifth
Quarter. The police received half
as many calls from the bar in all
of 2009.
"The calls for service to the
Fifth Quarter include, but are
not limited to, many fights, com-
plaints that bouncers and other
Fifth Quarter employees have
assaulted and/or injured patrons,
other assaults that have caused
See FIFTH QUARTER, Page 2A

LIVING IN WASHTENAW COUNTY
As area homelessness spikes,
shelters say resources lacking

County had 4,618
homeless in 2009, up
from 3,940 in 2006
ByJEFF WARANIAK
Daily StaffReporter
As the number of people expe-
riencing homelessness in Washt-
enaw County grows, shelter
officials and homelessness activ-
ists are saying the resources in

place aren't enough to adequately
address the issue.
The number of homeless indi-
viduals registered in the county
grew from 3,940 in 2006 to 4,618.
in 2009, according to the Washt-
enaw County Office of Commu-
nity Development..
Though the reasons for this
increase are specific to each
individual, the escalation may
be attributed to an increase in
the number of homeless people
who are coming to Ann Arbor

from areas outside of Washtenaw
County.
Social service providers like
Ellen Schulmeister, executive
director of the Shelter Associa-
tion of Washtenaw County, are
aware of the incentives that
attract people to the city. Schul-
meister said that for panhandlers,
the University's campus can be a
profitable place.
"The generosity of students
certainly is a factor for pan-
See HOMELESSNESS, Page 2A

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
MSA introduces resolution to help dual

John Corvino, a professor of philosophy at Wayne State University, gives a talk yesterday called "What Makes Gay Life Worth Living?"
LGBT activist to crowd: Your

degree students use Wolverine Access choices make life worth living

At pair of meetings,
MSA also welcomes
new members, says
goodbye to old ones
By RACHEL BRUSSTAR
Daily StaffReporter
At last night's pair of Michigan
StudentAssemblymeetings -one
featuring goodbyes from depart-
ing representatives and one wel-
coming new representatives to
WEATHER HI: 32
TOMORROW LO- 25

the assembly - MSA introduced
a resolution to endorse the imple-
mentation of transcript and audit
system reform for cross-college
dual degree and degree minor
students through Wolverine
Access.
The resolution would aim to
address some of the unique logis-
tical challenges cross-college
dual degree students face when
using Wolverine Access.
Arshabh Sarda, an Engineer-
ing and Business dual degree
student, discussed the resolution
during the community concerns
GOT A NE WS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us

portion of the first meeting.
Sarda said students like him-
self who are pursuing degrees
in two colleges at the University
often struggle because they don't
receive comprehensive advising
that spans the two colleges.
Sarda added that dual degree
students often have trouble
retrieving their academic infor-
mation on Wolverine Access, cit-
ing issues viewing a cumulative
GPA and trouble verifying pro-
gram requirements.
At the meeting, MSA represen-
See MSA, Page 3A

At
Co
may
Speo
and se
the crc
Amphi
lecture
Life W

Rackham, John Corvino, a philosophy professor
at Wayne State University, struck
rvino also talks a balance between humor and
solemnity while discussing the
ay benefits of sex theme semester, "What Makes Life
Worth Living?" through the lens of
By CLAIRE HALL the LGBT community. The lecture
Daily StaffReporter was sponsored by the University's
Spectrum Center, the Institute for
aking frankly about sex Research on Women and Gender
xuality, John Corvino kept and several other campus groups.
owd laughing at Rackham "I'd never done a talk on this
theatre last night during his subject before," Corvino said
called "What Makes Gay during his speech, "and so I did
orth Living?" what any serious philosophical

researcher would do - I put (the
question) on my Facebook status."
But Corvino, who is openly gay,
ultimately found a focus for his
talk, saying in an interview before
the lecture that the aim of it was
to influence the way people think
about the agency they have over
their own lives.
"As a philosophy professor, I
want to challenge people to think
about their fundamental assump-
tions and presuppositions," he
said. "This provides me an oppor-
See CORVINO, Page 3A

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Report: Harbaugh won't be at 'M' football banquet.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEWS......
Vol. CXXI,No.58 OPINION..
02010 The Michigan ay ARTS .......
michigandoily com

..2A CLASSIFIEDS.....
..4A SPORTS ..............
..5A THESTATEMENT.

.......6A
.... .8A
.......B

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, December 1, 2010

MONDAY: TUESDAY: * THURSDAY:

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths Professor Profiles Campus Clubs
Law prof. moonlights as watchdog

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-41a-4115 eat. 1252 734-418-4ils ext. 1241
smilovitz~jmichrigandaily.com rrndbnsinean@annaileom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:sun.-Thurs. 11a.m.-2a.m.
734-418-4115 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artsaraemichigandaily.com

Law School Professor Nina
Mendelson has come a long way
since she dreamed as a teenager of
becoming the first female Supreme
Court justice.
After receiving her law degree
from Yale University and spending
a decade practicing law in both the
public and private sectors, Mendel-
son landed a teaching position at
the University eleven years ago -
an opportunity she said has provid-
ed her "unparalleled opportunities
to keep learning and developing."
"My experience here has been
consistently positive," she said.
"This is clearly the best job I've
ever had."
Mendelson said she was origi-
nally attracted tothe University for
its quality of research and in her
current position she splits her time
between researching the scope of
presidential control and teaching
classes on administrative law.

In addition to her work at the
University, Mendelson also par-
ticipates in the public discourse.
She recently developed a proposal
urging federal agencies to publicly
disclose the content of the orders
they receive from White House
officials.
"It's controversial because even
though presidential administra-
tions claim they want to operate in
a transparent manner ... they really
resist disclosure of this type of
information," she explained.
Mendelson also consults for the
newly reinstated Administrative
Conference of the United States,
an independent federal agency that
acts as a watchdog for hundreds of
federal institutions.
She's joined by a group of 40
attorneys, government officials
and professors from across the
country.
"All of us have a deep interest

in how bureaucracies function,"
she said. "I think this is such an
interesting area (of government)
... I don't think people learn about
it in most high school civics-type
classes."
Mendelson explained that agen-
cies such as the Food and Drug
Administration and the Federal
Communications Commission
have a "tremendous amount of
power that is difficult to oversee."
"People sometimes call bureau-
cracies the headless fourth branch
of government," she said.
While continuing to serve for
the Conference, Mendelson said
she hopes to devote time to provid-
ing pro bono, or free, law service to
clients.
Outside of the courtroom, she
also participates in a very different
type of volunteer work - helping
out at her two children's schools.
- CLAIRE GOSCICKI

Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

opinion@michigandaily.com
sorts'n@michigandaity.com,
display@m~ichigandaily.com
ctassified@mihgandaily.com
ontineads@michigandaiy.corm
financer@m icigandaily.coo

COURTESY OF NINA MENDELSON
Law School Prof. Nina Mendelson recently developed a pro-
posal to encourage federal agencies to make public all orders
they are given f rom the White House.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Tour de Ouch Harpist refuses Emmy winning JJ Grey and
WHERE: 1900 block to stop playing 'And the Band MOFRO
McIntyre
WHEN: Monday at about 6 WHERE: Michigan Union Played on' film WHAT: Jacksonvilleb
a.m. WHEN: Monday at 6:30 p.m. band JJ Grey and MOF
WHAT: A man was riding his WHAT: A man refused to stop WHAT: A screening of bring their tour to Ann
bike westbound on McIntyre playing a harp in the stairwell "And the Band Played Arbor. Tickets start at
near its intersection with Beal of the Union after being asked On" - a film about the WHO: Michigan Unio
when he was hit by a car, Uni- to leave, University Police search for a cure for HIV/ Ticket Office
versity Police reported. The reported. The man left on his AIDS in America. WHEN: Tonight at 8 p
man wasn't injured, but there own accord. WHO: World AIDS Week WHERE: The Ark

ba
FR
$2
>n
p.n

sed
0
2.
n.

was minor damage to the car

WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.


and the bike. WHERE: School of Public
ID stolen from Health, Lane AuditoriumOrgan solo
Pipes plundered backpack in Diag Presentations performance
WEbIackpack:atgtl

Research has proven
that anonymity increases
unethical behavior, The
New York Times reported.
Leaving anonymous comments
online, also known as trolling,
has been the subject of recent
legislative action because of
the bullying that takes place
behind the guise of anonymity,
the Times reported.
The Daily held its second
annual home beer brew-
ing contest. Over 20 stu-
dents entered their homemade
beers into the competition.
"> FOR MORE, SEETHE STATEMENT, INSIDE
Experts say that cash is
the best gift for the holi-
ddays, CNNMoney.com
reported. Etiquette experts
say you should give an extra
tip over the holidays to those
whose services you use regu-
larly year-round.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
lillian Bermn ManagingNes E dinor berman@michigandaily.com
SEIOR NEWS E ITORS: Nicol e Aber Sthanie Seinberany Sanson,Eiha
Thirunavukarasu,Do~n osby
AunnuAsm DTonRSs BethanyBiron, Dylan Cinti, Caitin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph Lichterman,VeronicaMenaldi,Elyana Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:WillButier, WillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes,Stephen Nesbitt, Luke Pasch, Zak PyzikAmy
lamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,JeffSanford
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:KristynAcho,LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,KaviShekhar
Pandey,DavidTao
Moao ollinsand gphoto@mochigandaity.com
SanWolSOn Manag honotdiors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR:Ariel Bond,Marissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna tein-Zielinskiand design@michigandailycom
Sarah Squire ManogiogDesigo Editors
SNOR DES~IGNEDITOR: Mayredman
TrevorCalero Magazine Editor catero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Jenna Skoller
Melanie Friedand copydesk@michigandaily.com
AdiWollstein copychiefs
BUSINESSSTAFF
Julianna CrinSalesManager
MARKETINGMANAGER:Gjon Juncaj
HillarypSzawala classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler CirculationManager
Zach Yancer Web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday duringthe fall and
winter terms bystudentsatthe University of Michigan.Onecopyisavailable freeof chargetoall
naesAddtona copies nay be picked up atthe Daysfficor s2.Subscriptionsforallten,
statinginStembenr, via U.S.naiiar 10 intetermn(anaryhogh pril)ias1, yearlong
(September through Aprl)is$195.Universityaffiiatesaresubjecttoa reducedsubscriptionrate.
Onamps s mbscriptiostofaiteinanlt5.absiiontbepreaid.TheMichiganDaily
is anmembneroh snsocated Pess andTeAoiateCollegate essa.

W HER E: University Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about
10:30 a.m.
WHAT: 30 feet of copper pip-
ing was stolen from the hos-
pital sometime between last
Wednesday and this Monday,
University Police reported.
The piping is valued at approx-
imately $810.

WHERE: The Diag
WHEN: Monday at about 2
p.m.
WHAT: A student had his stu-
dent ID stolen after leaving his
his backpack unattended on a
bench for about five minutes,
University Police reported.
The backpack wasn't stolen.

on summer
experiences
WHAT: Graduate and under-
graduate students will pres-
ent on their summer research
and internship experiences.
WHO: Center for Russian
and Eastern Ruropean
Studies
WHEN: Today at 12 noon
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building

W H AT: A U-miute organ
solo will be performed for
free.
WHO: Brown Bag Organ
Series: Music of the Season
WHEN: Today at 12:15 p.m.
WHERE: School of Public
Health, Community Lounge
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crine Notes? Get more online atmichigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire


Fifth Quarter served with lawsuit after
complaints of staff assaulting patrons

From Page 1A
serious injury, and incidents of
over-serving alcohol," the com-
plaint states.
In June of this year Ann Arbor
Police Chief Barnett Jones and
Deputy Police Chief John Seto met
with defendants Jeffrey Starman
and Andrus McDonald, the opera-
tors of the bar and building, about
a letter the city sent to the bar
informing them they were in dan-
ger of becoming a public nuisance,
according to the complaint.
However, the complaint states
that problems at Fifth Quar-
ter worsened over the summer
including many incidents that
were so serious they required
officers from all parts of the city
to leave their beats and attend to

calls at the bar.
The complaint states that police
were forced to close the bar on
multiple occasions due to fights
and large crowds, which in many
cases spilled on to sidewalks sur-
rounding the bar. The complaint
describes one incident in particu-
lar, where officers were hindered
from assisting a woman, who had
allegedly been assaulted, due to
large crowds and fights in and
around the bar. The complaint also
discusses incidents of bar staff and
bouncers assaulting and injuring
patrons. One incident, in which a
patron was knocked unconscious
by a bouncer, resulted in a civil
lawsuit.
"After the civil lawsuit was
served on the Fifth Quarter in
early February of this year, the

City has received approximately
nine more complaints of bounc-
ers or other employees assaulting
and/or injuring patrons," the com-
plaint asserts.
The complaint states that,
according to city ordinance, being
declared a public nuisance is a
misdemeanor crime.
The officer addressing the case
and the defendants could not be
reached for comment.
According to Larcom no other
information about the case other
than the complaint has yet to be
released.
"I can't really discuss the case,
that's just the basis of the lawsuit,"
Larcom said.
Multiple calls to the Fifth Quar-
ter in the past three days seeking
comment haven't been returned.

HOMELESSNESS
From Page 1A
handlers coming to Ann Arbor,"
Schulmeister said.
Another factor that brings peo-
ple to the city is the sense of secu-
rity that Ann Arbor offers.
Brian Nord, a founding mem-
ber of the tent city for homeless
individuals known as Camp Take
Notice, said that some people feel
more comfortable in Ann Arbor in
comparison to other cities.
"It may be a little safer here
than it is in Detroit, for example,"
Nord said. "Some people at camp
have said that they're happy to be
here because they don't have to
worry about someone stealing a
few dollars from them."
Nord is the president of the
non-profit organization MIS-
SION that helped establish Camp
Take Notice in 2009. The camp,
which is located in the woods at
the intersection of I-94 and Ann
Arbor-Saline Road, is a self-gov-
erning community of people who,
for various reasons, are without
traditional housing.
But as the number of people
without traditional housing
increases, shelters are becoming
overcrowded, Nord said.
To people like Nord, it seems
unwise for those who seek shel-
ter to leave their family and their
community in order to come to
Ann Arbor in this climate.
"It's a long trek just to get here,
and I think people know that ser-
vice centers are over capacity,"
Nord said.
The Delonis Center, which
is the primary shelter center in
downtown Ann Arbor, offers 75
beds as part of their permanent
residential program. The program
is designed to help people obtain
income and find housing within
the local community.
According to Schulmeister, the
program is capable of serving 400
people a year in its permanent

residential 'program. However,
through other shelter services,
the Delonis Center serves 1,200 to
1,500 people a year.
But for Schulmeister, that's not
enough to accommodate all of
those in need.
"We just plain don't have
enough resources," Schulmeister
explained. "We can't move people
through shelter fast enough in
order to have empty beds."
And for the past several years,
the Delonis Center has had to
accommodate more people than
ever. The reasons for the increase,
however, haven't been officially
determined.
"We can substantiate the fact
that there have been more people
becoming homeless since the eco-
nomic downturn," Schulmeister
said. "But the idea that there's a
huge influx of people coming here
who aren't from our community
hasn't been proven."
But whether or not Ann Arbor's
homeless population can be
attributed to an influx of non-
county residents, many students
say they've noticed an increase
of panhandlers in their neighbor-
hoods.
Engineering senior Justin Kahl
said he encountered a panhandler
one night at his fraternity house.
The man approached the house
asking for money and cans, Kahl
explained. And though he turned
the man away, Kahl said the
man returned another night and
entered the house.
"He climbed in through a win-
dow in the front room, and started
collecting cans from the tables,"
Kahl said. "It was pretty unrea-
sonable."
Kahl said he asked him to leave
and the man did not return.
LSA sophomore Kelly Muir said
she has encountered panhandlers
near her house on West Jefferson
Street.
Muir said she's seen people
rummaging through the dump-
ster behind her house. And while

she said she's had conversations
with the peoplebefore, she's never
been bothered or hassled by them.
"I always find them to be polite
and friendly," Muir said. "They've
never inconvenienced me in any
way."
Muir also said the people she'd
seen on her street never came up
to her house - she only interacted
with them in passing.
Unlike Muir, LSA sophomore
Quintin Meek said he had a pan-
handler climb the steps to his
porch on North Division Street
and ask for money and cans.
"He was friendly, but it was
just odd," Meek said. "Usually you
just walk by them. You don't have
them coming up onto your porch."
Meek said that the man wasn't
forceful, and he didn't overstay
his welcome.
"We didn't have any money to
give at the time, but we were more
than happy to give him some com-
pany," Meek said. "We were wel-
coming to him, and he knew when
it was time to move on."
The city has recently been
working to solve the panhandling
problem, creating a panhandling
task force last September. The
organization's goal is to iden-
tify more cost-effective ways to
enforce city ordinances against
panhandling.
But according to Nord, there's
still more to be done to address
the issues surrounding panhan-
dling.
Nord said he believes educating
the public about panhandling and
helping students understand the
problem when they arrive on cam-
pus are two of the most important
elements for any program trying
to resolve panhandling issues.
Nord added that he encourages
people to lend more than their
money to addressing the issue.
"Instead of giving someone
fifty cents a day," he says. "Lend a
few hours of your time. Then you
can really see who the people are
who are in need."


WANT TO WORK IN THIS OLD *
TIMEY BUILDING?
E-mail berman@michigandaily.com to write for Daily News.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 1, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, December 1, 201D - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
'Pure Michigan'
campaign in danger
State tourism officials said yes-
terday they will cancel the Pure
Michigan advertising campaign
scheduled to begin airing in Janu-
ary unless they get a funding boost
approved by the end of the week.
Lawmakers and Democratic
Gov. Jennifer Granholm's admin-
istration did not appear close to
a deal to fund the program as the
Michigan Legislature enters the
late, lame-duck stages of its 2009-
10 session.
Republican Senate Major-
ity Leader Mike Bishop said money
could be taken from the state's 21st
Century Jobs Fund to give the pop-
ular tourism promotion program
a short-term boost. Granholm's
administration contends there's no
legal authority to use those trust
funds for tourism promotion dur-
ing the current budget year, and no
time to get authorization by the end
of the week.
Bishop has said he expects to
adjourn for the year tomorrow.
WASHINGTON
State Dept. cuts
access to files after
WikiLeaks release
The State Department severed
its computer files from the govern-
ment's classified network, officials
said yesterday, as U.S. and world
leaders tried to clean up from the
embarrassing leak that spilled
America's sensitive documents
onto screens around the globe.
By temporarily pulling the plug,
the U.S. significantly reduced the
number of government employees
who can read important diplomat-
ic messages. It was an extraordi-
nary hunkering down, prompted
by the disclosure of hundreds of
thousands of those messages this
week by WikiLeaks, the self-styled
whistleblower organization.
The documents revealed that
the U.S. is still confounded about
North Korea's nuclear military
ambitions, that Iran is believed
to have received advanced mis-
siles capable of targeting Western
Europe and - perhaps most dam-
aging to the U.S. - that the State
Department asked its diplomats
to collect DNA "samples and other
personal information about for-
eign leaders.
WASHINGTON
Republican leaders,
Obama try to bridge
* differences
Heralding a new era of divided
government, President Barack
Obama and congressional Repub-
licans pledged warily to seek
common ground on tax cuts and
reduced spending yesterday in
their first meeting since tumultu-
ous midterm elections.
Obama also made a strongplea to
Senate Republicans to permitratifi-
cation of a new arms control treaty
with Russia by year's end, raising

the issue first in a session in the
White House's Roosevelt Room and
then in a follow-up meeting with-
out aides present, officials said.
No substantive agreements
on essential year-end legislation
* emerged from the session, and none
had been expected. Instead, the
meeting was a classic capital blend
of substance and style, offering a
chance for Obama, House Speaker-
in-waiting John Boehner and Sen-
ate GOP leader Mitch McConnell
to become more comfortable in one
another's presence despite their
obvious policy differences and his-
tory of mutual distrust.
LONDON
Students riot again
over tuition hikes
British police made 153 arrests
during student demonstrations in
London yesterday against proposed
university tuition hikes, officials said.
Police reported the arrests fol-
lowing a day of cat-and-mouse
between demonstrators and riot
officers that culminated in a violent
standoff in the capital's Trafalgar
Square.
Students are furious over the
coalition government's decision
to allow schools to triple the cap
imposed on tuition fees, allowing
the best universities to charge up
to 9,000 pounds ($14,000) per year
in a bid to reduce the burden on
Britain's debt-laden public sector.
British students currently pay up to
3,000 pounds ($4,675).
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

CORVINO
From Page 1A
tunity to do that in a way that
makes a real difference in peo-
ple's lives."
Much of Corvino's speech
focused on responding to the
argument that being gay is
unnatural. Corvino - a fre-
quent speaker on LGBT issues
and columnist for 36gay.com -
explained the New Natural-Law
view to the audience, touted by
prominent academics like Robert
George of Princeton University
and John Finnis of Oxford Uni-
versity. This perspective decries
gay sex for not being a marital or
procreative act.
"The implications of this view
are not just implications about gay
sex," Corvino said.
He explained that this opinion
also includes heterosexual sex that
involves anal or oral intercourse
or the use of contraceptives. In
regard to the argument against
homosexual sex that "the parts
don't fit," Corvino responded sim-
ply by saying: "Yes they do."
The New Natural-Law stance
calls non-heterosexual, non-pro-
creative sex an "illusion based on
gratification," Corvino explained.
He pointed out the false dilemma
set up by the viewpoint that sex
either achieves a biological, mari-
tal good or no good at all.
"This seems wrong," he said. "It
seems to me that sex actually can
achieve a number of important
goods."
Corvino enumerated the ben-
efits of sex that this argument
ignores, including the expression
of affection and mutual intimacy
MSA
From Page 1A
tative Kyle Summers endorsed
the implementation of a transcript
and audit system reform for cross-
college dual degree and degree
minor students through Wolverine
Access.
MSA USHERS IN NEW
REPRESENTATIVES
MSA members also welcomed
new members of the executive
board of officers as well as new
representatives after the final
assembly meeting of the current
representatives last night.
Current MSA executive officers
will still be attendingthe meetings
of the new assembly and will be
available to provide guidance and
input for the newly elected repre-
sentatives.
Representative DeAndree Wat-
son will now serve as the interim
speaker and Representative Sean
Walser will serve as interim vice
speaker of the assembly.
The new legislative branch
positions of interim speaker and
interim vice speaker positions
were internally elected by MSA
on Nov. 16 just before the MSA
elections.
Based on the new compiled code
that was adopted in November,
MSA President Chris Armstrong
will no longer preside over assem-
bly meetings, instead the speaker
and vice speaker will assume the
role. Armstrong will continue to
attend the meetings, however, and
provide a more advisory role to the
assembly.

"I'm excited, of course, and I'm
really excited to have met all of the
representatives,"Watson said in an

betweentwopeople.
"Essentially what (these theo-
rists are) saying here is that either
you buy into this natural-law view
of what sex is supposed toube like
or you might as well be sheep-
fucking," he said.
The last part of Corvino's lec-
ture focused on the concept of
choice. He emphasizedthat while
no one can choose his or her
romantic or sexual interests, one
does have the power to decide
how to live his or her life.
"Beinggyin some sense is more
than just having romantic feelings
or urges," he said. "It's about what
you do with those."
Speaking about the recent spate
of gay suicides across the country,
Corvino highlighted the "It Gets
Better" initiative, a series of You-
Tube videos with the message that
life improves. Corvino said that in
college LGBT students are able to
'avoid some of the prejudice and
bullying that they face on a daily
basis in middle school and high
school because people have more
control over who they spend their
time with.
"The reason itcgets better is that
they getto make it better," he said.
Corvino closed his lecture by
returning to the theme semester
question.
"What makes your life worth
living? The answer is you," he said.
"It's about the choices you make."
LSA freshman MacKenzie
Ramos said she thought Corvino's
lecture provided some valuable
insight.
"I am from a country town
where I have friends that are gay,
and they are basically disowned by
the town," she said. "It needs to be
an issuethat's putcoutthere."
interview after the meeting. "They
all seem like theyhave agood head
on their shoulders and they really
want to do some big stuff for cam-
pus. Really, for me, I just want to
help (the new representatives) any
way I can."
Along with the MSA represen-
tatives that will remainon the new
assembly, current president and
vice president, Christopher Arm-
strong and Jason Raymond, will
remain in their executive positions
on MSA.
In an interview following the
first meeting of the new assembly,
Armstrong said he thinks the new
legislative branch positions on the
assembly will help members have
their voices heard more clearly.
"In terms of the transition with
the new speaker, I think it's a
(really) positive change...in aslot of
ways it will makethe assembly feel
more independent and...encourage
debate," Armstrong said.
He added that previously hav-
ing the executive board at the front
of the MSA meetings might have
had an imposing feeling.
In the farewell meeting of the
current body of executives and
representatives, departing MSA
members had the chance to share
parting words regarding their
experiences on the assembly.
In his remarks to the assem-
bly, Armstrong commended the
departing MSA representatives
for their efforts on the assembly
and challenged the new represen-
tatives, noting they will have big
shoes to fill.
"I think (the new representa-
tives are) all really bright people,"
Armstrong said in an interview

after meeting. "From who I've met
they really have alot of really good
projects that they're really inter-
ested in."

APPAREL
From Page 1A
more students began asking about
the origins of clothing sold in the
store.
"The trend is more towards the
'being environmental' aspect of
clothing and the sustainability,"
Narayan said, adding that ethical
manufacturing "hasn't been the
focus of a lot of questions."
At an event organized by Uni-
versity Students Against Sweat-
shops lastcTuesday atthe Ginsberg
Center, an employee from the Alta
Gracia factory, Yenny Perez, talk-
ed about how her experience with
the factory's new management
compares with the old. The fac-
tory was previously operated by
a Korean-owned company, BJ&B,
and manufactured products for
Nike and Reebok until halting
operations in 2007.
In translated Spanish, Perez
said that conditions at the BJ&J-
owned factory were "very harsh."
"If a higher-up or a manager
ever thoughtwe weren't doing our
work correctly, they would take
all of our work and throw itto the
floor," Perez said.
She explained that verbal
harassment was very common and
workers were seldom given per-
mission for sick leave, or to take
time off to care for a sick child.
And after one attempt to orga-
nize a union, she said managers
became "unreasonably suspicious
of any small crowd of workers just
talking" at the factory.
Since the town's economy
depended on the factory, Perez
said that when BJ&B closed it,
citing competition overseas,
"there was nothing to do." Many
residents relocated in search of
employment, but with the reopen-
ing of the factory under Knights
Apparel, there is hope that the
community will grow, Perez said.
The workers are "very excited"

to be part of "a factory that will
serve as an example for all oth-
ers," Perez said. "Every worker
that is in that factory now is just
another benefit to the whole com-
munity," she added.
Students active in the issue
expressed an interest in the label,
saying they would likely buy
clothing advertised as ethically
made.
LSA junior Michaela Goralski,
a member of SOLE, said that some
"don't think college students will
buy (the Alta Gracia apparel) if it's
a couple dollars more." However,
she thinks the brand's ideals will
speak to student consumers.
"Alta Graciais a way of showing
that students care about this, they
will purchase the apparel and
(the factory) will be sustainable,"
Goralski said.
Third-year law student Sarah
Kanter, who serves on the Presi-
dent's Advisory Committee on
Labor Standards and Human
Rights at the University, echoed
Goralski's sentiments on interest
in ethical apparel.
"The University has such buy-
ing power," Kanter said. "I think
it's really important, that's some-
thing we care about - that we
don't just care about the cost."
Since 1999, the University has
required each of its licensees to
sign a code of conduct, which aims
to ensure that workers producing
apparel and other merchandise
with the University's name or
insignia are treated fairly.
Among its provisions, the code
of conduct states that licensees
must "respect the right of employ-
ees to freedom of association and
collective bargaining," and ensure
that "net compensation is at least
sufficient to meet the worker's
basic needs."
Additionally, the University
requires all of its licensees to be
members of the Fair Labor Asso-
ciation, a monitoring association
that receives funding by the com-

panies it monitors. The Universi-
ty itself is affiliated with the FLA
and also the Worker Rights Con-
sortium, an independent monitor-
ing organization.
When a complaint of a poten-
tial breach of the code of conduct
occurs, these organizations inves-
tigate the situation and issue a
report, which University officials
use in deciding how to proceed.
But even with this system in
place, some believe the University
and others like it are not doing
enough to ensure licensees pro-
duce merchandise ethically. In
February 2009, the University
ended its relationship with Russel
Corp. after multiple allegations
that the apparel manufacturer
closed a Honduras plant in 2007
when workers tried to unionize.
"Because we have so many fac-
tories," Goralski said, "it's impos-
sible to monitor whether each
factory is indeed complying with
our code of conduct - it's just
infeasible to monitor anything."
The WRC is currently advo-
cating for a change in the way all
university apparel is produced.
The organization wishes to set
up a Designated Suppliers Pro-
gram, which would require mem-
ber universities to source apparel
through a set of a few hundred
approved factories in order to
ensure ethical manufacturing.
Public Policy graduate student
Charles Clark, who is a member
of the President's Advisory Com-
mittee on Labor Standards and
Human Rights, said that though
some University licensees pro-
duce clothing in ethical condi-
tions, the Alta Gracia label calls
attention to the greater issue of
ethical manufacturing.
"There could be the implica-
tion," Clark said, "that people who
don't have the (Alta Gracia) label
are not treating the workers as
well. But I feel that it's a good ini-
tiative anyway - particularly on
the wages paid."

HAVE MAD SKILLS ON THE
ADOBE SUITE? LOVE STARING
AT COMPUTERS?
E-mail design@michigandaily.com to join
the Daily's Design.


'Dead Man Walking -
The Journey Continues'
Sister Helen Prejean, CSJ
. death penalty activist and author
of 'Dead Man Walking'and
'Death of Innocents'
Thursday, December 2nd, 7pm
Blau Auditorium, Ross School of Business
Sponsored by LSA Theme Semester, Law School,
St. Mary Student Parish, the Notre Dame Club
of Ann Arbor, and Women's Studies Department

am.4fon.com /student

Amazon Student

f 4


4A - Wednesday, December 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St9
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
i ".,..=:. i 'a~ytothedaily@umich.edu

We are ready to give him
residence in Ecuador, with no
problems and no conditions.'
- Kintto Lucas, Ecuador's deputy foreign minister, speaking about WikiLeaks founder
Julian Assange, as reported yesterday by Time magazine.

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Artsy approriations
City should appropriately utilize public art funds
Ann Arbor is an artsy town. But while it plays host to the Ann
Arbor Art Fairs each summer, there strangely isn't much
public art in the city. Three years ago, Ann Arbor created a
program that allocated city money to purchase public art. But now,
some city politicians argue that funding the initiative is too expen-
sive and that money currently set aside for the program should be
spent to address other concerns in a time of economic downturn.
The city shouldn't simply eliminate funding for public art. Ann
Arbor should maintain funding of the public art program, but it
must also monitor it closely so that money is well-spent.

(AP)pallingly useless

The Ann Arbor Public Art Commission
was founded in 2007 and is the only pro-
gram of its kind in Michigan. According
to a Nov. 23 article in the Daily, the pro-
gram is funded by the Chapter 24 Public
Art Ordinance, which diverts 1 percent of
each capital project estimate to establish-
ing public art. So far, one project has been
completed and one more - a $750,000
water piece to be placed outside the Police
Municipal building - is being constructed
under the program's umbrella. In the past
three years, Ann Arbor has allotted more
than $2 million for public art.
Art helps foster a vibrant, dynamic and
beautiful community. The positive effects
of public works on the city may be as sub-
tle as adding flavor to a walk in the park
to as salient as making Ann Arbor a more
attractive city for visitors and prospective
residents. In essence, art adds depth and
another dimension to a community that
may otherwise be at risk of appearing dull.
AAPAC Chair Margaret Parker argues that
art fulfills a need that typical necessities
of life don't - it "feed(s) your spirit and
your soul."
But it's true that since its inception,
AAPAC hasn't been particularly productive.

The fact that two projects have been taken
up over three years demonstrates a slow rate
of progress. Similar programs in other cit-
ies like Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles
and Portland have existed for 30 years and
have had rewarding results. The problem
isn't the idea of a public art program itself,
but rather that AAPAC specifically doesn't
seem to be functioning as efficiently as pos-
sible. AAPAC should take action to improve
its operations and work diligentlyto provide
more tangible results.
Critics of the program have a point: $2
million dollars is a lot of money that sim-
ply can't be wasted, especially in a time
of economic downturn. To avert wasteful
spending, city council should be allowed to
increase its oversight of AAPAC by moni-
toring the funding and ensuring that it's
being spent on worthwhile projects. More
direct involvement from the city govern-
ment would increase accountability for the
funds spent through the program.
AAPAC must increase its level of activ-
ity to provide the community with tangible
results, and city council should increase its
engagement with the program. Public art
breatheslife intothe mundane and shouldn't
be a casualty of the struggling economy.

Andrei Markovitz, a Golden
Apple professor at the Uni-
versity, asserts that the U.S.
is the most meri-
tocratic coun-
try in the world.
Nowhere else are
one's past achieve-
ments as impor-
tant to one's future
successes as in this
country. He says
that studies show-
a larger percent- JEREMY
age of U.S. citizens
than any other LEVY
citizenry believe
that individuals
live in poverty due
to lack of a strong work ethic. And
no other culture is equally obsessed
with rankings as we are. According
to Markovitz, even the BCS system of
re-ranking college football teams on
a weekly basis has a distinctly Ameri-
can flavor.
Discussing the pros and cons of
our merit-based culture goes beyond
the scope of this column. But I do
want focus on one area in which our
continuous pursuit of achievement
has gotten out of control: college
preparation, particularly the College
Board's Advanced Placement exams.
Today's high schoolers are pres-
sured into thinking that such exams
- which have almost no long-term
significance - are the pinnacle of all
high school achievement.
If you took any AP exams in high
school, take a second to think about
why you made that decision. Maybe
the most logical answer is that suc-
cess on an AP exam leads to college
credit. But I don't think that's the real
reason - as a high school senior, it's
very difficultto gauge how AP credits
might help you fill your eventual col-
lege requirements. I can only speak
for myself, but the reason I took AP

exams is because I lived in a neigh-
borhood where teachers and parents
were neurotic about anything hav-
ing to do with college preparations. I
hardly knew any better.
But let's take a look at what my AP
credits got me. Because of AP cred-
its, the University thinks I'm a senior
even though it's only my third year
here. Upon arriving home for Thanks-
giving last week, I found plenty of
mail reminding me to take my senior
portrait. And when the University
began charging me upper class tuition
last winter, no one in my family was
particularly happy about it. Over the
course of high school, I took eight AP
tests, butconly two ofthem have helped
me fill prerequisites for my major.
The entire. AP system is a scam.
High schoolers invest loads of time
and energy into one test - which they
have to pay to take - under the pre-
sumption that the credits will be use-
ful in college. But students often take
tests over a broad range of subjects,
meaning that few AP credits are actu-
ally useful for a specified major. In the
end, AP credits bump up tuition faster
without necessarily helping students
to graduate.
I'm not saying that AP classes
themselves are useless. Rather, I think
students would learn more if such
classes weren't structured completely
around passing one meaningless test.
Take U.S. history, for example. To
me, the most valuable aspect of tak-
ing AP U.S. history during my junior
year of high school was readingJames
Loewen's book, "The Lies My Teacher
Told Me". The book details how com-
mon renditions of U.S. history - often
repeated in elementary-level text-
books or public discourse - roman-
ticize historical figures by excluding
accounts of their less-than-flattering
actions. Loewen gave a strong argu-
ment that history courses need to
be more analytic because classes in

which students primarily memorize
information often perpetuate false
narratives. Ironically, after read-
ing this book at the beginning of the
year, we proceeded to prepare for the
AP test, which strongly emphasized
memorization over analysis.
The caveat here is that AP exams
for math and science courses are
decent approximations of college level
exams, since one's ability to do math
and science problems is easy to mea-
sure objectively. But for humanities
and social science classes, AP exams
are often far from their college-level
equivalents. Students would likely
learn more if the class emphasized
papers or analytic projects.
Frankly, the
entire AP system
is a scam.
College preparation today is steered
by people who look to the U.S. News
and World Report College Rankings
as their guide. Merit, achievement and
prestige are always emphasized. Just
as many students are convinced that
going to the 15th best university is
better than going to the 16th best, they
are also convinced of the importance
of getting fives on multiple AP exams.
The College Board shouldn't be the
main authority that determines what
high school students are learning. As
a student who's more than halfway
through college, I'd like to show that
AP tests have gotten me little more
than an earlier registration date and
some unnecessary mail.
Jeremy Levy can be reached
at jeremlev@umich.edu.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL MICHELLE DEWITT AT DEWITTM@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
MICHELLE DEWITT
Remember World AIDS Day

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should
be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
Letters are edited for clarity, length and factual accuracy. All submissions become property
of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
ROGER SAUERHAFT k
Too close to the TSA for comfort

9

Today stands as a landmark of commit-
ment to improving public health: It's the 22nd
annual World AIDS Day. Each year, Dec. 1 is
recognized and celebrated as World AIDS Day
by countries all around the world. The purpose
of World AIDS Day is to raise awareness about
the AIDS pandemic, remember those who have
died from the disease and celebrate those who
are receiving treatment and living happy lives.
Though progress in prevention and treat-
ment of the disease has improved in the past
several years, the statistics surrounding it are
still staggering. In 2008, it was estimated that
33.4 million adults around the world were liv-
ing with HIV/AIDS. The goal of World AIDS
Day is to make the entire planet aware of the
statistics and encourage everyone to join in the
fight against HIV/AIDS.
One of today's worldwide celebrations is the
(RED) campaign's goal to "turn the map of the
world (RED)." Thirteen countries will light
up more than 80 national landmarks, turning
them red. This event will begin in Sydney, Aus-
tralia with the Sydney Opera House and travel
west across the globe time zone by time zone,
finally ending at the Los Angeles International
Airport.
The goal of the campaign is to raise aware-
ness about babies born with HIV. Though there
is medicine that can prevent mothers who are
HIV positive from passing the disease onto
their children, roughly half a million babies
were born with the disease last year, accord-
ing to this year's UNAIDS Report on the Global
AIDS Epidemic. (RED)'s goal is to bring this
number to zero by the year 2015 by making
the proper treatment available to all pregnant
women.
Another event is being carried out for World
AIDS Day, by celebrities, in support of a char-
ity co-founded by singer Alicia Keys called
Keep a Child Alive. The goal of the charity is
to raise money for children and families whose
lives have been affected by HIV/AIDS. Celeb-
rities are getting involved through a campaign

called Digital Life Sacrifice. They will log off of
all social networking sites on Dec. 1 and not get
back on until $1 million has been raised for the
charity. Participating celebrities include Alicia
Keys, Serena Williams, Kim Kardashian, Jus-
tin Timberlake, Lady Gaga and others.
These are all large-scale examples of World
AIDS Day in action around the world, but it's
important for this day to be a success on a local
level as well. The University of Michigan's Art
Museum is having a Day With(out) Art event
today that focuses on the effect of HIV/AIDS
on the art community and the need to find a
cure. There is also a discussion today on the
effect of HIV/AIDS on the LGBT community
at the School of Public Health. These are just
a few events going on around campus to raise
awareness about this important issue.
Potentially the biggest thing that each indi-
vidual can do - not only on Dec. 1, but always
- is ensure their personal health. Every Mon-
day during the academic year from 6 to 8 p.m.,
the Spectrum Center offers free and anony-
mous HIV testing. Students should take advan-
tage of this service to be knowledgeable of
their sexual health. Getting tested is important
for those who are sexually active, and preven-
tion is equally important. There are a variety
of University resources available at the Spec-
trum Center and University Health Services.
Students need to use these resources to edu-
cate themselves on prevention techniques and
overall sexual health.
World AIDS Day brings to light the unfor-
tunate realities of AIDS around the world and
reminds us that there is much to be done in the
fight against this disease. But this day is also
something to be celebrated. The fight against
AIDS is finally getting support and the stigma
surrounding the disease is slowly being elimi-
nated. These efforts need to be continued
beyond Dec. 1 to give hope to those suffering
from AIDS that a cure will be found.
Michelle Dewitt is a senior editorial page editor.

There have been many sacrifices that we deal with in
our everyday lives made in the name of American safety
and security since the tragic events of Sept. 11, 2001.
Just before I flew to New York City last week to be
home with my family for my birthday and Thanksgiv-
ing, my mother sent me an e-mail telling me to get to the
airport as early as possible because of the Transportation
Security Administration (more lovingly known as the
TSA) crackdown for the holidays that was sure to slow
everything to a crawl in airports. Not only would I be
subject to head-to-toe groping from someone who prob-
ably dwarfed my six-foot-three frame - a joyous early
birthday present - but I'd also be put through a full-body
scanner so TSA could thoroughly view the precise con-
tours of my beer-belly and my private parts. And if they
liked what they saw, they could store it.
Even though I've never had an affinity for getting that
close to women twice my size, I didn't really mind the
extensive pat-down or the virtual strip search because I
value everyone's safety more than my personal privacy.
But I can see how many would have a problem with these
practices, especially if they aren't all sorely needed to
thwart terrorists.
I read an article about the scanner machines by Jef-
frey Rosen in The New Republic a year ago that quoted
multiple security experts calling the scanners and other
such things "security theater" and claimed the scanners
are completely ineffective at spotting liquids and other
low-density items. The article continued to cite research
showing the scanners really don't do much that a metal
detector wouldn't do aside from spotting wax and giving
graphic images of the human body.
It's also worth nothing from Rosen's article that the
Bush administration could have chosen machines that
would blob certain parts of the body such as the geni-
tals, but they elected to have machines that displayed the
naked body instead. And strangely, when both houses of
Congress voted on whether or not to keep TSA from stor-
ing the images, the Senate was against such restrictions.

I'll try to refrain from making any jokes about Sen. David
Vitter (R-La.) - not that he's alone. Do that on your own.
This leads me to the fear shared by Rosen that if the
images can be stored, then they can leak. Sure, they can be
confidential, they can have any label on them and the assur-
ance from the government and the TSA that no leaking will
occur, but those words only go so far. Given the sensitivity of
what we're reading this week through the latest WikiLeaks
scandal that exposed some of the darkestsecrets of the State
Department, can anyone really trust that nothing will ever
turn up after Scarlett Johansson gets scanned?
As Rosen points out, President Barack Obama's initial
nominee for head of the TSA was forced to step down after
it was discovered that he "conducted two searches of the
confidential criminal records of his estranged wife's boy-
friend, downloaded the records, and passed them on to law
enforcement, possibly in violation of the Privacy Act." This
is someone the administration trusted - and even though
the candidate withdrew his name from consideration, it
raises fears even further about the unnecessary privacy
issues we face.
But while I don't really mind sacrificing some privacy
for collective safety, I am partly worried about the poten-
tially harmful effects of the body scanners. As a frequent
flier and traveler, the dosage of radiation I receive is mul-
tiplied, and a recent CNN article quoted the director of
the Center for Radiological Research at Columbia as say-
ing, "it's very likely that some number of those will devel-
op cancer from the radiation from these scanners."
The old idea of waiting in long lines and being groped
by TSA as a reward for my patience (as well as some added
security) sounds far more appealing to me than the com-
bined risks of WikiLeaks publishing a compromising pic-
ture and getting cancer. Let's go back to the old system
or at least come up with a system that experts can agree
actually works and doesn't pose a health risk to innocent
people.
Roger Sauerhaft is an LSA senior.


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Asa Smith, Julian Toles, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 1, 2010 - 5A

I'll admit it:
I like T-Swift
By EMMA GASE Taylor Swift's songs bring back
Daily Arts Writer memories of another time. One
song, and I'm transported back
Last month, I was finally forced to my mid-teens, when the most
to face a surprising and unchar- important problems (getting my
acteristic truth - a truth that had license, passing algebra) now
" been slowly bubbling to the surface seem trivial in the harsher world
for months. I've tried tofight it, but of college papers and exams. Life
like a pesky cold, it kept coming revolved around AP classes, Fri-
back. I'm done trying to shield the day-night plans and drama with
screen of my iPod when I'm listen- my friends and my high school
ing to her in the library. I'm sick of boyfriend - everything was just
keeping my face impassive when simpler.
I'm driving with friends and one of Taylor Swift sings about what
her singles plays on the radio. This every teen girl wants to hear (boys
stealth fandom is becoming tire- suck, we are better than them, let's
some. When her latest album was move on, girl power!). We can revel
released in October, I could hide it in her pain and anger, because
no longer: I like Taylor Swift. what girl hasn't experienced some
So, why all the secrecy in the form of boy-related anguish?
first place? Besides, listening to Taylor is much
One reason stems from my DNA. less depressing than wallowing,
As the child of two thoroughly elit- post-breakup, to Elliott Smith. But
ist music connoisseurs, the greater T-Swift is not a Negative Nancy
part of my 19 years has been dedi- all the time. No, half of her songs
cated to a rigorous music snob edu- are all the other things girls want
cation. My parents would certainly to hear (we are special, boys are
shudder at the thought of my being great, Itam a princess, life is smiley
a TaylorSwiftfan. Myreluctance is faces and butterflies).
at least in part due to their sure dis- In essence, Taylor Swift is just an
approval and my intensive musical upper-echelon, sequin- and cow-
conditioning. boy boot-wearing, bubble-gum pop
artist. She lives and breathes easy-
to-like sing-alongs with four chords
S gthat center on the follies of love 99
She s legit flOw', percent of the time. Her lyrics are
T esimple, the instrumentation and
~ swear- production could be described as
country-lite. But isn't that the true
purpose of bubble-gum pop?
And then there's Taylor Swift's Speak Now was the last push
overly girly demeanor. Let's just that allowed Swift to fully win
sayI've neverbeen muchofa girly- me over. Her musical prowess is
girl. I'm better versed in football obviously maturing; the tracks are
than what happened on last week's much longer, more atmospheric,
"Gossip Girl." My makeup skills but still manage to be radio-friend-
are less advanced than a seventh ly in a big way. She's a truly likable
grader's; I don't watch chick flicks pop star, and everybody knows it.
and I hate Jodi Piccoultnovels.Sci- Kanye West has been an asshole
entifically, I should not like Taylor since 2004, but it was really only
Swift. She embodies everything I when he slighted Taylor Swift at
used to find irritating about femi- the VMAs that the world united
ninity (melodrama, idyllic naivete, against him. And then she even
narcissism), but lo and behold, Ilam wrote an entire song absolving
defying my own nature. Kanye of any wrongdoing. Is this
Haughty tastes aside, what's girl some kind of saint?
not to love? Jangly Taylor guitars Sure, Taylor Swift can be cheesy.
(no pun intended), cute banjos, She overuses cliches about love,
well placed fiddles and story lyrics it is inexplicably pouring rain in
make for some good, wholesome two-thirds of her songs and her
listening. Her albums tend to reach live voice is shoddy at best. But
quadruple platinum status within indie-worshipping Taylor-haters,
two minutes of their release, no back off. I am sick of being snob-
doubt thanks to millions of teen bish. Taylor has taught me not to
girls waiting at the ready on their get caught up in the image I have
parents' iTunes accounts. I used to of my own taste and myself. It's so
deride my best friends for listening easy to get bogged down by your
to her music, calling it mindless own views of what is high qual-
drivel. ity and what is considered "main-
So what changed? Perhaps by stream," as if that label alone strips
some strange process of osmosis, the music of any value.
my sheer exposure to her music I am a Taylor Swift convert. I'm
has infiltrated my brain, eventually listening to her in the library as I
confusing familiarity with actual write this, and I am not ashamed
fondness. But it's more than that. anymore.

COURTESY OF BIG MACHINE
Gesundheit.
TRADITIONS
FESTIVAL
M11 . 11
December 2 FREE
* Stamps Auditorium HOLIDAY
tAsy:p ,:;'WI\I IA'' DINNER
6:30 PM SHARP
f' A

Last Disney princess?

'Tangled' adds girl
power to traditional
fairytale story
By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
Once upon a time, there was
a movie about a princess named
Snow White and seven dwarfs.
Then there was
another about
Cinderella and
a glass slipper. Tangled
Following that
were "Sleeping At Quality16
Beauty," "The and Rave
Little Mermaid" Disney
and "Beauty and
the Beast." And
perhaps the final installment in
Disney's fairytale canon is the
story of the princess Rapunzel:
"Tangled."

The story starts out tradition-
ally enough - Rapunzel (Mandy
Moore, "A Walk to Remember") is
a beautiful princess is kidnapped
as a little girl by an old hag who
wants to use the princess's magic
hair to restore her youth. She
locks Rapunzel away in a tower
and forbids her to leave. However,
the story diverges from the tra-
ditional princess plotline. Rather
than wait around for a handsome
prince to rescue her, she uses a fry-
ing pan to knock out a handsome
thief named Eugene Fitzherbert,
a.k.a. Flynn Ryder (Zachary Levi,
TV's "Chuck"). The two embark
on an adventure complete with
tough thugs who aspire to be
Broadway stars and many medio-
cre songs, none as catchy as those
in older Disney movies.
Last week, the Los Angeles
Times reported that "Tangled,"
depending on how much money it
brings in, could potentially be the

last Disney fairytale movie ever.
Saddening for those who remem-
ber them fondly, but it has to be
said that the old storylines of mov-
ies like "Cinderella" and "Snow
White" might need a little more
magic than a fairy godmother can
provide if they are to survive in
the modern world.
Perhaps part of the problem is
that, while the old-style Disney
fairytale was geared toward a
female audience, the female char-
acters never provided any action.
It was always the wisecracking
animal sidekicks, the feisty fairy
godmother or the evil sorceress
who drove the plot.
Fortunately, that's not the case
with "Tangled." For once, the
heroine dreams of something that
doesn't involvea handsome prince
stepping in to save the day and,
armed with her trusty frying pan
and longlocks, Rapunzel certainly
isn't helpless. The dashing prince

isn't just someone who rides in
at the last minute with a kiss
that will save the day. But while
Fitzherbert is quite funny, in some
ways, he detracts from Rapunzel's
role. Still, it is a fairy tale - and
it couldn't be without handsome
men and happily-ever-after.
The Pixar-inspired animation
also helps the film's case. In a
world where children are used to
movies in the style of "Cars" and
"Toy Story," it's nice to see that
same charm brought to a storyline
generally restricted to the two-
dimensional animation style of
previous decades.
If this is indeed the last Dis-
ney princess to appear on the
big screen, then it sure seems as
though the magic ingredients of
Disney princess stories haven't
been working. And if little girls
don't want to be princesses any-
more, what exactly do they want
to be?


6A - Wednesday, December 1, 2010
Get restarted in here

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Dreamy Girls EP
By JASMINE ZHU sulates dreams in a succinct six-song EP.
DailyArts Writer Nostalia seeps throughout the EP while

Black Eyed Peas'
latest is 'Beginning'
of the party
By ARIELLE SPECINER
Daily Arts Writer
The Black Eyed Peas sure know how to
throw a great party.
On its sixth studio album, The Begin-
ning, the California crew
is up to its old party- *
hearty antics. As a follow
up to 2009's smash hit, Black Eyed
The E.N.D., The Begin-
ning works hard to live Peas
up to its pop predecessor. The Beginning
Here the Grammy-win- Interscope
ning group showcases
its already recognized
propensity to create a sensational hip-
hop party album that can get any festivity
a-poppin'.
The Beginning consists entirely of cap-
tivating club-ready tunes and pulsating
beats. For the entire 60 minutes, listen-
ers will likely be unable to control them-
selves.
First single "The Time (Dirty Bit)" gets
the party started. As vocalist and produc-
er will.i.am mashes up lyrics like, "I don't
want to take no pictures / I just want to
take some shots" and samples from the
"Dirty Dancing" theme song "(I've Had)
The Time of my Life," a fiesta is fired up.

Auto-tuned vocals and broken-up beats
create an amazing dance groove. The
Black Eyed Peas take hints from elec-
tro-house music sensation Deadmau5,
with laser-like synths and head-bopping
rhythms.
The house nod doesn't stop there.
"Don't Stop The Party" and "Light Up The
Night" feature explosive dance beats and
clever rhymes that would get any member
of the "Jersey Shore" cast's fists pumping,
though they probably wouldn't know - or
care - whether the lyrics were clever.
The Beginning shows the great range the
hip-hop band has to offer. On songs like
"Love You Long Time" and "XOXOXO,"
'80s synth keyboard sounds wipe across
the tracks, creating a space-lounge feel.

On "XOXOXO," futuristic effects mesh
with text-messaging lingo as the band
raps: "I'll be waiting for your text / I miss
your XOXOXO / Girl, you're X-O-X-O-
lent." In a complete detour from the rest
of the album, "Whenever" starts off with
an acoustic guitar. But in the end, Fergie's
soft tone finally meets up with gentle disco
beats, creating an ambiance that matches
the danceability of other tracks on The
Beginning.
The Black Eyed Peas step a bit more off
course with the inclusion of catwalk-crazy
"Fashion Beats" - a track on which fashion
and music collide. The song is reminiscent
of Madonna's "Vogue" mixed with the Ru
Paul hit "Cover Girl."Will.i.am sings, "And
Sce PrEA S.Page7A

Dreams are hazy, ephemeral things -
some are nearly impossible to remember
and others completely impossibleto forget.
San Francisco-based
Girls impressively *'*-*
manages to distill
the wistfully fleeting Girls
quality of dreams in
Broken Dreams Club, Broken
the stunning follow- Dreams Club
up to its 2009 Album True Panther
debut.
By now, avid blog readers and Girls
fans are aware of lead singer Christopher
Owens's background. A former member
of Children of God, a controversial reli-
gious group with roots in the hippie move-
ment, Owens grew up furtively listening
to iconic bands like Queen and Guns N'
Roses. These bands would later influence
the throwback sound of Girls, which has
often been compared to the likes of Elvis
Costello and the Beach Boys.
The songwriting in the EP is painfully
genuine, yet nonspecific enough to be
relatable to listeners. Owens's introspec-
tion hovers around, but never breaches,
sentimentality. Endearing lines contrast
against coarser slang phrases. In "Sub-
stance," Owens sings, "Let go of the wheel
/ Turn your ass over," which would be
comical if not for his regretful tone. The
somber edge gives the song poignancy.
With plenty of tremulous vocals and the
occasional muted trumpet, Girls encap-

Owens slaps on a healthy dose of earnest
despair in lines like "I know you feel likeI
do too / And even though I'm close to you
/ I can't be what you need /Because you're
just as lost as me," on the title track.
The cover art on Broken Dreams Club is
reflective of the dejected tenor and nos-
talgic air Owens takes throughout the EP.
The tetraptych.(previously used on Album
cover art as well) features the composi-
tion of four images suggesting youthful
boredom and loneliness. Among them are
a sepia-toned television screen displaying
two young lovers sharing a cigarette, an
anonymous body clad in dirty jeans with
an outstretched hand holding the remote,
an untidy desk littered in trinkets and
white roses - symbolizing either purity or
death.
Dreams broken?
Join the club.
The EP feels like the death of a long-lost
dream, perhaps. While Owens's sense of
regret seems real, it's also distant enough
from the present to be remembered with
a sad fondness, as Owens reflects on all
the "remember when"s of years before.
Broken Dreams Club is reminiscent of the
ache of an old wound, and listeners are all
welcome to join.

This party is stuck in the Matrix.

PARKING
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
We are working the rates....
Parking available Now at
520 Packard & 511 Hoover!
Also, 2011-12 Parking for Sale
Many "Prime" locations
throughout central campus.
Call 734-761-8000
FOR RENT
3 BDRM FOR Sept., furn., private
deck, excellent security, parking, wash-
er/dryer, non-smoking. 537 Elizabeth
St., $1479, includes heat. 734-996-8506
5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, lovingly maintained, $3250 +
utilities, Jim at Spring Valley
734-426-4772.
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available Spring & Fall.
741-9300
www annarborapartments.net
ce the
C.. B
PROPERTY MANACEMEnT
0Wd and 041
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio -4 Bedrooms
SCentral Campos aDowtntown
r North Camtpus : West Sidle
Le : n ltamily 'Take 'sere of Yours
prjvate Residenc Shuntie C^r;[ pomrzo Fero i r
yl tr N iateratcc saee 3i13Speed hcfet
On sie atmdfy V een ne
734.741.9300
www.a m Dborpartum ts.net

! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATION!!!
543 Church! Best location in town!
Right across from East Hall. Studies, 1
hr,g2br, & 4br, 2 bth, bi-level apts.
w/spiral staircases. Updated kitchens
w/dishwashers and all apts. are fully
furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! I bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com
FALL 2011
Amazing 4 Bedroom Apartment.
Right on South University Ave.
2 Full Luxury Baths, Huge Living
Space, Heat and Water Included
$3299/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL 2011
Great 2 Bedroom Apartment with
Balcony. Located across from the
CCRB. Modern Kitchen and Bath with
Granite Floors and Bar Top.
Heat and Water Included.
$1499/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL2011
Large 6 Bedroom House with Huge
Bedrooms! 2 Full Baths. Located near
South Univeristy and South Forest.
3 Floors of living space, and
newly carpeted for coming year!
$3699/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
Open House 12/4 & 12/5. 2-4pm
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
Open House 12/4 5-7pm & 12/5 11-
1pm
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Cull Phil at 734.662.5270
Open House 12/4 5-7 pm & 12/5 1-
3pm
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, December 1, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Exclaims 38 Bitty start? 54 Swiss Army -
1 Chewsthefat suddenly, with 39 Islamic branch 56 Fo biding, in a
5 "Heresto ..." nutr 'B0tGambler's nay. in the
tribute 4 "Do something favorite woman? puzzle's four
10 Lingerie size about it! I dare 44Svelte longest answers
14 Inuitwrd for yourx 451551, on 58 Ho times in the
"house" 5 Betwitand monumentsa dl
15 Like bighorns between 48 "Uncle Tom's 59 Catty remark
16 Obsessed 6 Egg, to Ovid Cabin" villain 60 Old gold coins of
fictional captain 7 Right-hand man 49 Keenijudgment France
17 Modeler's aid 8 Tiptoe 50 Marked deck 61 Bank (on)
18 More inclined to 9 Succinct users 62 Auto clubservice
butt in 10 Place with bars 53 Movie barbarian 63 Year, in Yucatln
19 Comes together 11W hereto Aind
2ial illiness four knights ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
as iaed with a 12 "Friendlyskiesco. SHAD CLA]W RUB L E
rash 13 "Masterpiece" airerE
2Panbae 21 Hatchet man P O L EEL I C E E N R O L
4Amajoae g. 22Coal Miner's 0 N E L A R I A S T A R K
25 Healthful resort Daughter' D E V I L S A D V O C A T E
28 911 responder, 2 jtot E Y E C U P S E R U M
for short 27 Fonmersetior A S E C S E E T H E
29 Lanchester of 7Forshor ' W I T C H D O C T O R W O W
W~tnessfor the 30 "Rio __": John AW R Y C 0 O M t L E
Pmsecution Waynefilm W I I G H O S T W R I T E R
33tike'Fran 31tWingspread, say A N G OR A 5 0 N S
Drescher'svoice 32 Madison Ave BA L KS N AS DAD
35 Lit thatames figures
from the top 34 Di jon honey G R A V E Y A R D S H I F T
38 Cuba or Mallorca 35 Statistical input A N I M E O T O E A N T I
41 Thumper'stfriend 36 Reed instrument F A T A L T E A R P E E P
42 Agenda listing 37 Red, white or T R E S S O DD S E R R S
43 Possible Blue Nun xwordeditor@aol.com 11130/10
response to
res se owves1 2 s s 7 e 10 11 12 13
4H Like some waves
47 Have to have 1a is 61
48 Fond du_ 171
Wismnurn
51 "School's our 20 21 2
respcnse
52 "Eeeuuwl" 23 24 25 2627
H5 Blmodsucker 2 2s3 132 3
17 Pie mitb atfuffy
topping as as 37
62 Tight
64 Sister's daughter as ta at 41 42
65 Humorist
Bombeck 4s
66 "Going _
going...
67 Onthe wrong 521 s ss 54 55 5s
side lull
68 Track competition 5 as sa 6081
05 Stir-frycokems
70 Fullofucytdbts s2 653
7! Longings s 7s
DOWN s 7 71
1 Embarrassed
reaction, maybe an ydsessa
2 Shining brightly (c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 12/01/10

FALL 2011 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4700
7 510 Catherine $3700
7 1129 White St $4200
6 412 N. Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3500
6 605 E. Hoover $3720
6 1207 Church $3800
5 1024 Packard $2850
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2240
Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991
APARTMENTS GOING FAST.....
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today.1 to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Cenral Campus and downtown
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
2-BEDROOMS ON PACKARD
331 Packard, 526 Packard,
539 Packard, 917 Packard
Premier campus locations near South
Quad! Very spacious apartments with
heat, water, & parking included. All
apartments have dishwashers and A/C.
www.varsitymagement.com
4 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #4, $2200/
month, May lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BEDROOM HOUSE great location,
2 blocks to mudhowl, Linden St., free
laundry & parking, furnished, 2 baths,
fireplace, central A/C, large bedrooms,
new kitchen all ammenities, Fall 2011,
$3600. Ask for Jim 734-426-4772.
6, 7 AND 9 bdrm houses available Fall
central campus and kerrytown call
Deinco 734 996 1991 or visit
cappomanagement.com
www.varsitymanagement.com
Looking for housing for fall 20117
Studios,' , 2.3. 4. & 5 Bedrooms
Now Available!
Fully imished
Heat, water and parking included most
Many newlyrneodeled
Gall to schedule a tour today!
Varsity Management
625 Church St'
(734) 668-1100

!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!!!
Leasing Now..
Utilities Included*
Even comes Furmished!!
(And HAIL to the Victors!)
Prime Student Housming
761-8000 primesh.com
*Vares by location
SPACIOUS 4 BEDROOM APTS!
1039 Baldwin
Two 4 Bdr. Apts. available in a
gorgeous converted house.
High ceilings, bay windows, fireplace,
hardwood floors, & screened in porch!!
Large backyard, heat, water, & parking
included!
734-668-1100"
STUDIO APARTMENT
Great Studio Apartment Available For
Fall 2011.Walk-in Closet.
ALL UTILITIES INCLUDE.
Located on South University Avenue.
$699/month. 735-665-8825.
www.campusrealty.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
centralaair, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperies.com
734-332-6000.
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
1506 GEDDES
Great 3 bdr. apartments perfect for 3-4
people!! The apartments have large liv-
ing rooms, balconies or patios, tons of
closet space, dishwashers, and double
sinks in bathrooms. Near the CCRB &
CC Little!!
734-668-1100
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #1,
$1850/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.77-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskman@yahoo.com.
AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!!
2 & 3 bdrms, lots of closet space, flat
screen tvs, modern furmiture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

0

AMAZING JOBS. WORK during
finals week buying back textbooks.
buyback agent (commission avg 11.62-
/hr). buyback captain ($12/hr).
www.umich.dormbooks.com
734.709.3222
www.scienceworddoctor.com
For your scientific writing needs.
Services include grants, clinical
reports, abstracts and manuscripts.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 onLSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed atorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
actively priced, most include parking,
many are famnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!AWESOME 4 bdrm near the rock.
Free prkg. Indry. Avail. Fall '11.
734.223.7777.
!!AWESOME 6 & 7 br / 3 ba homes.
great floor plan/location! fireplace/cool
kitch/pkg. $3600/ $3950 313-215-8115

01

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to ioin. Click on Surveys.

W1

0i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, December 1, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, December 1, 2D1D - 7A

Please end 'Faster'

"MI Favorite Comic" was held in the League basement on Nov.17.
The 'U'tstands uP

By BEN VERDI violence and progresses into a
DailyArts Writer bloody rampage so over the top
that it almost starts to feel like the
"Faster" sucks. Really bad. Even film's intention is comedy, a sen-
if you see a substantial number of timent not necessarily squashed
movies every year, this is guaran- by what appears to be intentional
teed to be one of the worst you've overacting by The Rock through-
ever watched. out the entire thing. His recent
After watch- * appearances in funnier movies
ing "Faster" may have revealed a comedic side
you'll ask your- Faster to his acting as he's become more
self why you comfortable on the big screen, but
bothered paying At Quality16 in "Faster," he's back portraying a
to see it. And if and Rave character two parts Ronnie from
you somehow CBS Films "Jersey Shore" and one part rhi-'
snuck into the noceros on steroids.
theater without Not surprisingly, the most awk-
a ticket, you'll wonder what else wardly implausible (and thus, the
you could've done with the 98 most entertaining) moment of
minutes you wasted. This movie's this asinine action-orgy happens
plotline ranks just a few notches in a more reflective moment for
below your average porno in terms The Rock's character. Upon learn-
of how impossible, gratuitous and ing that his former wife aborted
ultimately pointless it is. their unborn child while he was
That's actually a pretty good serving his recently completed
10-year jail sentence, he sheds a
real tear. Then, once it's estab-
lished that he's pro-life and totally
Run away as fast full of morals, he stabs a bouncer
a youat a strip club with an ice pick, and
as can. then - because the stabbing didn't
kill him - he goes to the hospital
where the bouncer was taken and

shoots him in the head to finish
the job.
Then he points a gun at his own
mom's head while she's in bed and
threatens to kill her if she doesn't
tell him where his dad is, so that
he can go kill him, too.
This movie thinks it's about
action and revenge but it's actually
about shooting people in the head
and a small Southwestern desert
town where everyone does heroin.
So naturally, Billy Bob Thornton
("Mr. Woodcock") is this dystopi-
an suburb's most tenured cop, all
set to retire and spend time with
his overweight son and drugged-
out wife when The Rock starts
wreaking havoc on members of
the town who - we are shown
very explicitly - were terrible
people anyway.
You won't be invested in ary
aspect of this film, nor will you
be entertained by its violence and
fight scenes, even if you like vio-
lence and fight scenes. Friends
of yours who say they liked this
movie should be shunned from
your inner circle, or treated the
way the flawed characters in
"Faster" are treated: without
mercy.

r Student comedians
find laughs in
Ann Arbor
By STEPHEN OSTROWSKI
Daily Arts Writer
The smell of Taco Bell trailed
each punch line of the Nov. 17 stu-
dent comic competition "MI Favor-
ite Comic," held in the basement of
the Michigan League. Jokes were
rife with sex, drugs and other Bluto
Blutarsky-like tidings. Jerry Sein-
feld at the Bellagio it wasn't.
LSA junior Ron Harlow, who
emceed the event, is just one of a
handful of student comics at the
University. At age 19, Harlow put his
sophomore year on hold and moved
to Chicago to pursue stand-up com-
edy.
"I'm not saying I had a troubled
past by any means," Harlow said
in an interview on Oct. 28. "At the
same time there was a lot going
on in my head and I needed to fig-
ure things out, and I figured that I
would just take a shot at it."
Harlow described his sabbati-
cal as a "full-time" plunge into the
craft - he would write comedy dur-
ing the day and frequent Chicago's
many clubs at night. The Evanston,
Ill. native spoke positively of the
experience.
"(Comedy) takes years - it's a
craft, you know," Harlow said. "You
really have to perfect it over a long
time, and luckily for me I had plenty
of opportunities to get up there and
try it out. The best way to learn is
through experience."
After a year in Chicago, Harlow
returned to Ann Arbor to continue
his sophomore year. Between per-
formances at Detroit-area venues
and the Ann Arbor Comedy Show-
case, he founded LOL ROFL, a
student-run comedy club for which
members meet weekly to exchange
feedback on jokes. LOL ROFL also
hosts occasional shows.
Harlow, who cites the late Mitch
Hedberg among his comedic influ-
ences, admits that the student life
and that of the aspiring comic can
be a difficult juggling act. He com-
mits himself to weekly three-hour
writing sessions to ensure an output
of material.
Also performing that night was
School of Art & Design junior Eli
Yudin, who has been frequenting
open mics at the Showcase since last
February.
As a member of University
improv comedy group ComCo and
a former member of campus club
the Impro-fessionals, Yudin is no
stranger to performance art. Stand
up comedy, Yudin says, presents a
unique challenge.
"(Stand-up is) just such a com-
plete leap of faith," Yudin said.

According to Yudin, the singu-
larity of stand-up comedy can be
intimidating.
"I don't get as nervous about
improv because if you're not funny,
you have a bad day or something,
there's somebody else in the scene
to pick you up," Yudin explained.
"(In stand-up), the other thing is
you can't look like you're having a
bad time; if you look awkward, the
audience immediately senses it, and
they can't laugh."
Yudin has also performed multi-
ple times in his native Washington,
D.C. The Zach Galifianakis-influ-
enced comic highlighted the dif-
ferences between performing to
his hometown crowd and the Ann
Arbor community, saying he per-
forms politically charged humor for
the former.
The open-mindedness of Ann
Arborites caters to Yudin's self-
described brand of "weird" and
"dark" observational humor.
"I think people in Ann Arbor are
pretty open," Yudin said. "It's a very
cool liberal crowd, they're open to a
lot of weird humor; they're open to
a lot of things. They're polite for the
most part. You don't really get a lot
of heckles or anything like that."
Yudin's views on performance
mirror those of LSA senior Paul
Manganello, who, despite having
only performed stand-up comedy
since his sophomore year of college,
cited an enthusiasm for comedy
albums dating back to elementary
school.
"I think for me the appeal of
stand-up is that it allows for good
writing," Manganello said. "So a
good stand-up at his best will be
reading you an essay and expressing
a point of view, and there's a poetry
and a rhythm."
Manganello, who first performed
at one of the "MI Favorite Comic"
competitions, has also done open
mics in Ann Arbor and Royal Oak.
Manganello has compensated for
the limited number of local outlets
- the Showcase being the city's
mainstay - by collaborating with
fellow student comics to produce
their own shows, complemented by
live music.
Manganello fondly recalled the
self-organized shows and the recep-
tiveness of the crowds.
"That's what I like about comedy,
is that it's rallying people around
ideas," Manganello said.
Pursuing a degree in philosophy,
Manganello relishes stand-up com-
edy as an opportunity to articulate
the discipline in a "popular capac-
ity," and cites academic settings as
prime comedic fodder.
This semester, however, Mangan-
ello - whose tentative post-grad-
uation plans include auditioning
for the Piccolo Teatro di Milano's
school in Italy - has seen his com-
edy output drop in preparation for a

one-man show on the revolution-
ary-era Italian Filippo Mazze.
Male students are not the only
arbiters of chuckles: also partici-
pating at Wednesday's "MI Favor-
ite Comic" was LSA senior Jenna
Cortis. The only female performer
(of six) at the competition, Cortis
- co-president of LOL ROFL with
Harlow - believes female stand-up
comics to be "underrepresented."
However, she noted that the chal-
lenge remains uniform for all com-
ics, regardless of gender.
"It's always hard to do; it's always
hard to make people laugh," Cortis
said after her "MI Favorite Comic"
performance. "And I think that's a
challenge for anyone."
Cortis said family life accounts
for much of her routine's content
and referenced storytelling come-
dian Kathy Griffin as an influence
on the narrative quality of her act.
"Traditionally, it's like mostly
males (doing) set up, punchline, set
up, punchline," Cortis said. "And
mine, it's more like I want to take
you on a journey."
Cortis, who began performing
her freshman year, described stand-
up's irresistible allure.
"What Ilike is that it's like a rush,"
she explained. "Everyone's listening
to you; everyone's (focused) on what
you're saying ... I think I'm addicted
to that sound (of laughter) in a way
once I tell a joke, it's like, 'Did they
like or not?"'
Roger Feeny, a co-founder of
the Ann Arbor Comedy Showcase,
observed that stand-up comics -
student or not - are held to the
same standard.
"If they're funny, they're funny,"
Feeny said in an interview at the
Showcase. "If they're not funny, you
know, the audience is going to dis-
cern that ... and they're not going to
laugh. So that (comic) needs to go
back there and re-write their stuff."
Undoubtedly, the student comic
must toe the fine line between being
too collegiate and appealing to the
masses.
"It's not a college crowd, it's a
community crowd," Cortis said of
open mics at the Showcase. "Some
of the things that would go over well
on campus don't go over as well on
an open mic."
Of course, laughs are not always
guaranteed. The prospect of bomb-
ing one's routine lurks - a pet-
rifying experience, according to
Manganello.
"You have to turn it at that point
to a place where you no longer are
feeding off the audience laughter,"
Manganello said. "You're just basi-
cally feeding off some inner fire."
Though each comic's brand of
humor and artistic mission might
differ, Harlow attests to a common-
ality that might give students the
gusto to perform in front of a crowd.
"I think for a lot of kids it might
just be a way to kind of handle
stress," Harlow explained. "I think
that might be the common link -
it's like there's got to be something
inside of you that, you know, makes
you crazy enough to get up in front
of a hundred people and, you know,
make fun of yourself."

way of explaining what it feels like
to watch "Faster": It's like a porno
with people getting shot through
the brain instead of having sex.
On second thought, no, that's not
entirely true. There is also some
sex tossed in there.
Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson
("The Other Guys") literally gets
shot in the head three different
times and doesn't die. Don't worry,
his survival makes less sense each
time. At least there is some kind
of metal plate in his head by the
last gunshot to explain how he
survives that one, because, as we
all know, bullets can't get through
metal.
"Faster" begins with tons of

"What did you say about my movie?"

See-through UMMA

By ADDIE SHRODES
DailyArts Writer
A quick glance around the
UMMA Projects exhibit by Dan-
ish artist Simon Dybbroe Moller
reveals a
maze of UMMA ProjeCts
glass with S.
seemingly
everyday M0IIer
objects T
scattered Through Feb.13
about each UMMA
transparent Free
corner. But
a walk through the maze, titled
"BRAIN II-V," brings to light its
purposeful puzzlement. The artist
visually challenges the notion of
transparent meaning in contrast to
recent trends in modern art.
"You're almost struck by its lack
of communication, or by its sheer
weirdness," said Jacob Proctor, the
University of Michigan Museum of
Art's associate curator of modern
and contemporary art. "In some
ways, it's celebrating those kind of
experiences."
A paint-worn coat and a hand-
written "note to self" juxtapose
against framed sketches in the
exhibit, designed specifically for
a space in the recently built Max-
ine and Stuart Frankel and the
Frankel Family Wing. Sunshine
streams through the building's
glass walls and bounces off the
glass panels within, illuminating
and blinding in turn; each cor-
ner holds latent surprise. A trash
basket filled with crumpled color
photographs, suggesting Maller's
memories, reminds museum-goers
that the exhibit explores his mind.
Proctor became familiar with
Moller in 2007 at a group show in

Hano
to folio
tually
UMMu
"I w
concep
tion, es
restrain
age," P
in his n
Mol
tions tl
modern
ed con
misrec<
of aest
to the t
"The
parenc
time, r
tual ob
can se(
not a tr
emerge
exi
tr
Acco
ernist i
plified1
Pompid
the ide
to show
produc
the col
display
Pompid
can be
individ
"Wh
kind c

er, Germany. He continued parts of the mind or of the artistic
iw the artist's work, even- process," Proctor said.
asking him to present at Like the Pompidou, Maller liter-
A. ally presents every element of the
as impressed by the level of exhibit. The nails orscrews used to
tual and formal sophistica- hang pieces on the glass panels are
pecially the level of formal not hidden; he often tapes notes
nt, unusual in an artist of his and photos directly onto the glass.
roctor said of Maller, who is But there is no guide to traverse
nid-30s. the meaning and connections of
ler complicates and ques- the piece.
he ideal of transparency in Relationships do begin to
n art, presenting "unexpect- emerge within the exhibit, like a
figurations" so that "initial folded paper photogram and its
tognition leads to a moment blown-up reproduction. However,
hetic discovery," according those connections often take the
UMMA website. observer to an object that is com-
ere's a kind of formal trans- pletely obscure.
y, which is, at the same Along with the play on trans-
ubbing up against a concep- parency, "BRAIN II-V" aims to
scurity," Proctor said. "You demolish the hierarchy imposed
e everything, but there is on objects and elements of the cre-
anscendent rationality that ative process. Maller presents his
s." influences (like artistic works by
friends), elements of his artistic
planning process and objects from
.e b . his life equally.
Jew exhibit "So finished objects and just
.ea i i a handwritten note to oneself
p C are hung, essentially, at the same
level," Proctor explained.
ansparency. This exhibit is a full environ-
ment for the viewer, and itexplores
the experience of surroundings in
irding to Proctor, the mod- that way.
deal of transparency, exem- In keeping with the goals for
by the exterior of the Centre artists exhibiting in the UMMA
iou in Paris, hasbeen tied to Projects series, "BRAIN II-V" is
al of rationality. The goal is Moller's first North American
every aspect of the works' solo museum exhibit for an artist
tion and thus meaning, like who has received much attention
or-coded internal systems abroad.
ed on the outside of the "He has had a real meteoric
lou. Moller explores what rise," Proctor said. "This exhibit
known about artistic and brings to Ann Arbor and to the
ual intention. University an artist who is a rising
at it rubs up against is a star of his generation on an inter-
if irrational, unknowable national level."


LOL ROFL, ComCo and the Impro-fessionals provide an outlet for student comics.

PEAS
From Page 6A
it's in fashion to be blastin' those
beats." The song gets a bit strange
when Fergie starts to sing-talk and
spit random fashion jargon a la
Madonna on "Vogue" - the Black
Eyed Peas should leave the trendy
talk to the queen.
Though a spectrum of sounds
are present on The Beginning, each
song carries a similar beat, making

it harder to distinguish one track
from the rest. Unfortunately, each
track loses its unique sound, and
the quality of the album becomes
lost.
But if you're looking for an
album full of party anthems,
you've come to the right place. The
Black Eyed Peas' newest album
proves worthy of a tip-top dance
party album. The entire record
is a huge rave, so grab your glow
sticks and neon sweatbands; this
is only The Beginning of the party
of a lifetime.

Learn more about the Denefits of Peace Corps service.
Information Session
Wednesday, Dec.1st
S ~ 6:30p.m.
International Center, Rm 9
Apply by year-end for added programs leaving
in 2011 -- Peace Corps'50th Anniversary Year!
800.424.85801 peacecorps.gov/application


0

8A - Wednesday, December 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6

Langlais searching for
offense from blue line

Senior's longevity
has been huge boost
for Wolverines in
last three seasons
By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
Just shy of the halfway point
in the regular season, the No. 11
Michigan hockey team has so
far been propelled largely by the
strong offensive outpouring from
its seniors.
Five of the top seven scorers'
on the team are seniors, paced by
forwards Carl Hagelin (16 points)
and Louie Caporusso (14). But
the success of those veterans has
exposed the lack of scoring from
senior defenseman Chad Lan-
glais.
Langlais, who is on the Wol-
verines' top defensive pairing
along with freshman defenseman
Jon Merrill, has managed just
one goal and four assists through
16 games.
Langlais's lone goal was a
can't-miss opportunity against
Notre Dame when every other
player on the ice thought the puck
was caught in freshman Luke
Moffatt's equipment. Langlais
skated in along from the right cir-
cle and deposited the puck behind
a bewildered Fighting Irish goal-
tender.
Such good fortune has been
rare for the defenseman. He
hasn't netted any of his other 24
shots on goal.
"I'm putting the effort in, but
sometimes the puck doesn't want
to go in," Langlais said on Tues-
day.
In the opening week of the sea-
son, Michigan coach Red Beren-

son voiced his desire for Langlais think that's what has gotten me
to assert himself more on offense here," Langlais said. "I like to
to become a scoring threat. take the puck and score. Every-
Despite Langlais scoring just body likes to score, but I really
12 times in his first three seasons, take pride in my passes."
Berenson admits that he has been Berenson suggested that Lan-
"surprised" with his head defen- glais's lack of offensive produc-
seman's inability to score this tion might be a direct result of
year. -Merrill and Langlais facing off
"The puck is just not going against the top scoring lines on
in and it's not going through," the opposing team every time
Berenson said. "That's the dilem- they step onto the ice.
ma with our defensemen, just Going up against some of the
getting pucks through. Teams most dangerous offensive lines
are just doing such a good job of in the nation is a tall order for
the smallest defenseman on the
squad, yet he consistently logs the
most ice time on the team.
"He's got... "He's playing against the top
I'. players that our team sees night
warrior in him after night," Berenson said.
"That's pretty good for a guy
that doesn't show that's 5-foot-whatever.
n t"He's got a little bit of a warrior
up in the stats." in him that doesn't show up in the
stats."
In his three seasons manning
the blue line duties for Michi-
blocking point shots. Chad is one gan (7-2-1 CCHA, 8-4-4 over-
of those players who gets victim- all), Langlais has never missed a
ized by it, but he's also had some game, accumulating 145 straight
good chances. starts. That's only 21 games short
"I think it's just a matter of of matching former skaters Tom
time." Miller and Travis Turnbull for
Though Langlais isn't light- the program's Iron Man title -
ing the lamp regularly, he hasn't the team record for consecutive
been completely absent in the appearances is 166.
offensive zone. He's had plenty Barring an unforeseen injury
of success setting up goals for his or roster scratch, Langlais will
teammates. match the record in the second
It's said that every great goal round of CCHA tournament-
is set up by an even greater pass action in early March.
- and if that's the case, Langlais "It's really special to be able to
has thrived. play that many games," Langlais
With an assist last Friday said.
against Wisconsin, he - moved "That means that we are going
to 20th on Michigan's all-time far every year, deep into the
defenseman assists list, only one playoffs, and that's real special.
helper behind former Wolverine It's something I haven't really
Blake Sloan. thought about (the record), but I
"I take pride in my passes. I hope I can keep going."

ARIEL BOND/Daily

Sophomore point guard Darius Morris tallied 13 points in the Wolverines' 69-6t upset victory at Clemson.
Qick start pr opels
'M' to upset victory

GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
December 6*-10
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
The sitting fee is just $15!
This price includes your portrait featured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu
, Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
Y E A R B O O K

By BEN ESTES early on, as they led by as many as
Daily Sports Writer 20 in the first half and entered the
break with a 16-point lead. Michi-
CLEMSON, S.C. - So much for gan shot 60 percent from the field
an Atlantic City hangover. in the first frame and held the
After droppingboth of its games Tigers to just 27.9-percent shoot-
at the Legends Classic last week- ing.
end, the Michigan men's basket- But Clemson (5-2) came outwith
ball team a renewed intensity in the second
roared MICHIGAN 69 period and quickly cut the lead to
into CLEMSON 61 eight with 11:17 left in the game.
Clemson The Tigers took advantage of a
on Tuesday night and silenced stagnant Wolverine offense that
the Tigers, besting the home team could not find open shots and capi-
69-61. talized on several turnovers to cut
The game was part of the Big the deficit.
Ten/ACC Challenge, an event in With the crowd on their side and
which the Wolverines have not had a young Michigan team appearing
much success recently, dropping to fade with the pressure turned
their matchups in each of the past up, the Tigers were poised to send
four seasons. the Wolverines to another disap-
But Michigan (4-2) drew Clem- pointing loss just four days after
son this year, a team it has beat the Michigan dropped a tough
twice now in three years. game to then-No. 9 Syracuse.
The last memorable victory over It was Clemson, though, that
the Tigers came when the two appeared to be the jittery team for
squads met in the first round of the most of the game.
2009 NCAA Tournament. In that The Tigers failed to capitalize
game, the Wolverines were a No. on their momentum, missing shots
10 seed but defeated the No. 7 seed or turning the ball over right as
Tigers, 62-59. they were on the verge of going on
An underdog yet again, Michi- a tear.
gan battled through a raucous Michigan showed newfound
atmosphere at Littlejohn Coliseum nerves and continued to battle
to prevail once more over Clemson. until finally coming away with the
The Wolverines are now 4-0 all- win.
time against the Tigers. "It's just a testament to this
"It's hard to win on the road," team," junior guard Zack Novak
Michigan coach John Beilein said said. "We've got a whole new
after the game. "Everywhere (a demeanor to us and a whole new
game) is, it's hard to win on the toughness. It showed tonight."
road. It does feel good. That's the With the score at 45-37 in the
mark of the really good teams, the Wolverines' favor with 10:33 left in
ones that can get up to 50 percent the game, redshirt freshman cen-
on the road." ter Jordan Morgan's three baskets
The Wolverines managed to led to an 8-2 Michigan run to rees-
quiet the 7,237 fans in attendance tablish a solid lead.

Novak's back-to-back 3-pointers
then gave the Wolverines a 59-41
lead with 5:07 remaining. But
the Tigers refused to quit, reduc-
ing the deficit to as few as seven
points with just over 15 seconds
left. Michigan, though, hung on by
making enough free throws once
Clemson started fouling.
"It was almost good they got
it down to eight," Beilein said.
"We could realize that we had to
get it back up there and perse-
vere through that. ... (We) got just
enough stops, because they are a
good 3-point shooting team. We
got just enough to keep (the coach-
es) nervous down the stretch."
Freshman forward Evan
Smotrycz headlined Michigan's
first-half surge, scoring 13 points
before the break and ending the
game with 18. He was nearly per-
fect on the night, going 6-for-7
from the field and 2-for-2 from
3-point range.
Sophomore point guard Darius
Morris was also a critical part of
the team's success, as he was all
over the court offensively and
defensively. Morris finished with
13 points, seven rebounds, eight
assists and four steals in 39 min-
utes of play.
But it was the Wolverines'tenac-
ity that helped them come up big in
Littlejohn Coliseum.
"You need every win that you
get, (but) this was a big game for
our confidence," Novak said. "To
win on the road, especially here
(being) a tough place to play. They
got a great crowd. It's just, we
fought.
"For such a young team, com-
ing into this environment, to play
as well as we did, it's encouraging."

01

Smotrycz finds scoring
touch in win over Tigers

Fre:
in fi
in v
CLE
Smotry
quite t
Hist
seum -
Tigers
hostile
visiting
An
men's I
ACC m
on Tue
stando
from
court.
ButS
as ever
undert
tlejohn
his hot
finishe
high 18
pelling
road vi
"I k
team,"
Beilein
"It's an
teamsc

shman tallies 13 Smotrycz never looked intimi-
dated.
rst half, 20 total Two and a half minutes into
the game, sophomore guard
ictory at hostile Darius Morris drove to the bas-
ket and dished out to Smotrycz
road arena on the perimeter as the Clemson
defense collapsed. The freshman
By LUKE PASCH buried his first 3-pointer of the
Daily Sports Writer night, giving Michigan an early
6-3 advantage.
MSON, S.C. - Evan TheWolverines didn'trelinquish
'cz hadn't heard anything that lead for the rest of the contest.
his loud before. But that was the type of
orically, Littlejohn Coli- play the Tigers had to expect.
- home of the Clemson Smotrycz was recruited primar-
- presents one of the most ily for his shooting ability - he
playing environments for doesn't quite have the frame to
g teams. match up underneath, and he
d prior to the Michigan doesn't hustle around the court
basketball team's Big Ten- an awful lot.
natchup with the Tigers Or does he?
sday night, the freshman Later in the first half, Mor-
ut had never played away ris picked up a defensive board,
home on a non-neutral pushed the ball up the court and
found Smotrycz cutting to the
Smotrycz looked as relaxed hoop for an easy lay-in.
, playing more confidently On the next Michigan posses-
the deafening boos of Lit- sion, Smotrycz got the ball in the
than he has in front of paint, and with no better option,
me crowd this season. He pulled up for a 12-footer and
d the night with a game- drained it.
points in 25 minutes, pro- Then, he got a look in the post,
the Wolverines to a 69-61 this time with a big body on him.
ctory. No big deal - he faked to the bas-
now Clemson has a good ket one way, getting the 6-foot-8
Michigan coach John senior Jerai Grant in the air and
said following the game. drawing the foul as he laid it in
environment that a lot of again.
do not come into and win." He converted on the free throw

attempt, and a couple of minutes
later, Smotrycz drove to the hoop
for another easy layup, complet-
ing a 9-2, Smotrycz-Clemson run.
"He's really crafty," redshirt
freshman center Jordan Morgan
said. "That's one of his good skills
- he's able to get people in the air
and finish around people, finish
with contact.
"He definitely asserted him-
self, and he was pretty hyped for
his first ESPN game."
Indeed, Smotrycz showed
the nation what he is capable of.
For the first time, the forward
showed his potential to be a dual-
threat player.
He shot the ball well, finishing
2-for-2 from 3-point range and
6-for-7 from the field, and he fin-
ished drives from both the post
and the paint.
His performance comes as a
relief to a Michigan squad that
will be undersized against most
opponents.
"We played himself as both
a four-man and a five-man
(tonight)," Beilein said. "We're
trying to make him multi-posi-
tioned when we can, and he's still
learning.
'You know, at 6-foot-9, there's
quicker guys here ... but he's get-
ting better at it."
And with Big Ten season less
than a month away, Smotrycz is
getting better at just the right
time for the Wolverines.


~~1~


0 0

0

0

The Stateent/ Weneda ,-be S1O21

THE CULTURE OF HOME BREWING
Continued from Page 5B

ttatement
DECEMBER 1, 2010

Home brewing became legal in
1978 under President Jimmy Carter.
According to federal law, an individual
can brew up to 100 gallons of beer,
while households with or two or more
adults have a 200-gallon limit.
Since its legalization, home brewing
has grown into a culture of enthusi-
asts and connoisseurs of beer. And this
world of brewing is far more expansive
than the average non-brewer would
imagine.
Of course, there are local brewer-
..-ies in Ann Arbor that brew their own
beer - Ann Arbor Brewing Co. and
Grizzly Peak are two examples - but
the culture goes deeper than the local
microbrewery.
Every two years, the Brewers Asso-
ciation hosts a World Beer competi-
tion in which a panel of judges award
gold, silver and bronze medals to the
top beers in 91 categories. This year,
Michigan took home 11 medals, mak-
ing it the fifth-most winning state in
what is known as the "Olympics of
Beer Competition," but at the core
of competition is a group of brew-
enthusiasts who love to share their
creations.
The guild meeting in early Novem-
ber was holiday themed with a beer-
'injected turkey and beer-flavored
cakes. The meeting took place in the
basement of Frey's house, and within

15 minutes, the room was filled with
home-brew enthusiasts, brewers and
drinkers.
While most brewers were down-
stairs feasting and discussing hops
levels, Frey was upstairs attending to
the guild's administrative work.
Dues were paid - $15 for a year's
membership - official lanyards
and nametags were distributed and
registrations were renewed. The
administrative work seemed out of
place considering the guild meeting
revolved around drinking beer, but it
soon became clear that members were
interested in far more than putting a
few back.
The basement itself was full of vari-
ous brewing tools, including kegs, fil-
tration systems and propane tanks.
And though there were more than five
untapped kegs in the hallway, "keg-
ger" would be the worst description
possible for this party. Nobody took
more than two ounces of liquid in
their tiny tumblers at a time. In fact,
this was less of a party and more of a
forum.
Brewers walked around the room
carrying their own brew in jugs or
antique bottles with complicated
cap systems, rather than the simple
"twist-off."
At the AABG meeting, beer was
free flowing and the room was filled

with people who devote a significant
amountoftheirlives tobeer. There can
be misconceptions that brewers are
alcoholics, but Frey said alcoholism is
actually much lower among brewers
than it is among non-brewers - a fact
that Frey attributes to the apprecia-
tion brewers have for their beer. They
understand the beer, therefore they
are "more diligent about monitoring
their own consumption," he said.
Members drank darks,  lights,
lagers, stouts, IPAs and ales. Each
brew was highly refined, with no two
alike. Throughout the meeting the
brewers discussed different brews and
brands, with an almost encyclopedic
understanding of the process.
After Bonjour took his sip of Okto-
berfest, which he meticulously ana-
lyzed with his nose and eyes, he turned
to Michaluk, a 14-year veteran brewer,
and said he could taste how Keith had
removed the malt mixture from the
yeast too early. According to Bonjour,
this is a common mistake among new
brewers.
The members analyzed the beers
in depth - with the more veteran
brewers discussing the temperature
of fermentation and the quality and
quantity of hops,
"I've been doing it for a number of
years and, as a result, you learn what
things tend to cause all types of fla-

vors," said Bonjour, who has become
such an expert he now teaches a
course on the subject of judging beer.
According to Bonjour, the class is
targeted to people interested in pass-
ing the Beer Judge Certification Pro-
gram, which allows you to judge beer
competitions.
"One of the beauties of it is that in
the process of the class, (students) get
to taste many different styles of beer,"
Bonjour said.
Michaluk is one of 35 brewers
enrolled in the class, which holds its
meetings in Frey's living room on Fri-
day evenings.
Many home brewers refer to brew-
ing as just a hobby, but the dedication
that goes into it indicates it is some-
thing more.
"If he could spend all of his money
on it, he would. We're not at that point
yet," said Michaluk's wife, Lydia, of
her husband's hobby.
The process of brewing beer
involves a lot of waiting. After all the
yeast has settled, the propane tank has
been turned off and the thick liquid
has been carbonated and has sat for
two weeks, a brewer is finally able to
take his first sip of his own brew.
Still the question remains: Why
embark on this tedious and expensive
process when it's easier and cheaper
to go to the liquor store and pick up a

six-pack?
The brewers in Ann Arbor offer a
never-ending stream of answers that
central question.
"A lot of it is the camaraderie," said
Dave Olds, a member of the AABG.
Other AABG brewers like Susan
Rankert agree, saying they bond over
their interest in beer.
"That is the one unifying thing.
Politically we are all very different,
and professionally we are all very dif-
ferent. The demographics are quite
far flung, but beer is the common pas-
sion," Rankert said.
Her husband, Jeff Rankert, brews
with her and said the process of brew-
ing is much more rewarding than his
work in the automotive industry.
"I can let the creative juices flow,"
Rankert said. "Planning, purchasing,
all the way through, at the end, I can
taste the product."
Many brewers said they began
brewing because they weren't pleased
with the quality of beer found in stores
or their local bar.
"Getting drunk isn't the end goal,"
Frey said. "Crafting a brew that one
can be proud of (and) utilizing the best
ingredients is."
And though everyone had differ-
ent reasons for why they brew, or why
they'd like to start, Bonjour summed it
up in four words: "I enjoy good beer."

THANKS TO EVERYONE WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE SECOND
ANNUAL MICHIGAN DAILY HOME BREW COMPETITION.
We look forward to tasting your new batches next year.


C, 4e Mtc4ipan daily


v a

i . ....

2$ Th taeen /Wensdy ecmer21

9

0

I I ednsda, Dcembr 1 200. / TheStaemet 71

the
statement
Magazine Editor:
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief:
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor
Jenna Skoller
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year. To contact The
Statement e-mail calero@michi-
gandaily.com

THEBEERISSUE
home b reW IllUSt rat ionS by sarah squire

Want to learn how to
brew your own beer?
Check out our illustrated
instructions on pages 4B-5B.

~

., , iii
= - .
'' "mss _ I- - 1'
i r1 'i f =-=1
L v _-____
i '
, jir- _ 1
i \ I T JIl s j
\\

ii '' ;
_, ;.
'''
I

L 2-------

BRYAN
YEST RE PS KY
THIRD-YEAR MEDICINAL
CHEMISTRY STUDENT
CRIPPLER
CHWINOOK RYE IPA
AMERICAN IPA
INGREDIENTS
maledcrye, Chinak
hops, 'crystal malts

Bryan Yestrepsky garnered
second place in The Michigan
Daily's home brew competition
with his American IPA, which
he calls the Crippler Chinook
Rye IPA.
"With this beer, I knew that
I wanted to do an IPA," he said.
"And generally I start with
commercial examples I like and
what I would like to see differ-
ent with them."
For his inspiration, Yestrep-
sky looked to the Red Rye by
Founder's Brewery, located in
Grand Rapids, Mich.
"I'm a big fan of it and I

JED MOCH/Daily G A B E Third-place winner Gabe over. Tabak said they shared
thought that it might be inter- Tabak gained inspiration a glass of beer and then he
esting if I used a little more TA B A K for his brew, Cascade Fresh- left with a pound of hops. -
West Coast hop flavors in it," he FIRST-YEAR LAW Hop Ale, when he was out This was the first time
said. STUDENT running around Ann Arbor Tabak had used fresh hops
Yestrepsky first started a few weeks after he moved in a batch, so he decided to
brewing his own beer when he CASCADE here. go with "a pretty basic pale
entered graduate school at the FRESH-HOP ALE "I saw some hops grow- ale recipe."
University two years ago, and AMER I CA N PALE ing on a fence and I left a "I haven't brewed any
while this batch may be a win- ALE note on the owners mailbox undrinkable batches yet,"
ner, that hasn't been the case saying I wanted to brew a he said. "This one is great
with everything he's made. batch (of beer) using the and I was glad to have it
"I'm getting better and bet- INGREDIENTS hops," he said. entered in the competition"
ter," he said. "The first couple t altc, a Tabak never expected when I did, trying it as fresh
beers that I brewed were inter- vienne, and white wheat, anything to come of the as possible is really impor-
esting, to say the least. You defi- Calfornia ale yeast, dry note, but a few days later tant to this one, the hops
nitely get a sense for what works cascade pellets, fresh Ann he received a call from the just still had a nice fresh
and what doesn't." homeowner inviting him flavor."

WANT TO
WRITE
FOR DAILY
NEWS?
Good.
EMAIL BERMAN@
MICHIGANDAILY
.COM FOR MORE
INFORMATION

MISSED
OUR
CONTEST?
There's always next
year.
E-MAIL
CKLARECK
@MICHIGANDAILY
.COM
FOR MORE INFO




6 Wednesday, December 2010 // The Statement
HOME BREW
COMPETITION WINNERS
Last Thursday we hosted the second annual Michigan Daily home brew competition at our offices at 420 Maynard. Three certified judges from the Ann Arbor
Brewer's Guild, with more than 60 years of combined judging experience, helped us rate 24 different samples. The judging itself turned out to be just as much an
art as the craft of brewing. They sniffed and swirled and tilted and tasted - all the while jotting down notes about hop levels and head retention. Beers were judged
on five basic criteria: aroma, appearance, flavor, mouthfeel and overall impression. And after more than two hours of smelling, tasting and eliminating, three beers
remained. Here's a look at the three winners.

Wednesday, December 2010 The Statement 3B
news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance

Lo TeineOffer:
FREE181 Vlhe
41 Gold Plated
Bnceek. .rAnkkl-tfor
FREEISKIOM
wwwzelliescollection.ooy
Gift Certricates available for purchase

British novelist Rowan Somerville
won this year's Literary Review Bad
Sex award for a sex scene in his
book "The Shape of Her" involving
insect imagery. The prize is meant
to steer writers away from writing
poorly written sex scenes.

sF-
A Pentagon survey revealed that a The European Commission A 15-year-old gunman held his
clear majority of soldiers wouldn't launched an investigation into class of 24 students and one
mind serving in the military with Google after several compet- teacher hostage at a Wisconsin
openly gay soldiers, and 70 percent ing websites alleged that Google high school for almost five hours,
of soldiers surveyed said repealing abuses its power by manipulating until he shot himself fatally when
"don't ask, don't tell" would have its search results by prioritizing police stormed the classroom. He
"positive, mixed or no results." paid content. didn't hurt anyone else.

WikiLeaks released a quarter-mil-
lion confidential American docu-
ments, revealing diplomatic cables
portraying foreign leaders nega-
tively. The Justice Department
and the Pentagon are investigating
the organization.

AIMEE
RICHARD
FIFTH-YEAR GRADUATE
STUDENT, MICROBIOLOGY
AND IMMUNOLOGY
DOG DAYS OF
SUMMER WIT
WH ITBI ER
INGREDIENTS
turbo malt, flaked
wheat, flaked oats,
coriander and bitter
orange peel

Last year, when Aimee Richard
entered her beer into The Michigan
Daily's home brew competition, she
unknowingly submitted a contami-
nated batch. It's pretty safe to say
that Richard's brew was nowhere
near the top in the judges' rankings.
This year, however, Richard made
quite the turnaround, taking home
top honors for with her Belgian
Whitbier.
This is the first time Richard, who
has been home brewing for about
two years, has attempted this style
of beer.
"At first, I wasn't that thrilled with
this beer," Richard wrote on her blog,
tharshebrews.com, where she chron-
icles her home brewing attempts. "I
thought it was a bit too sweet, and it
wasn't as carbonated as I'd like."

Richard brewed the winning
batch in the end of July, and the lon-
ger the beer sat the better she felt
about it.
"Over time, I liked it more and
more ... the carbonation picked up,
and it started to taste a bit more bal-
anced," she wrote.
Richard is not unaccustomed to
receiving accolades for her brewing.
Only a few months into the craft,
Richard entered a batch into a home
brew competition at the Corner
Brewery in Ypsilanti, winning first
place in her category.
Richard even has distant plans to
take her brewing to the next level.
"I can see myself brewing for a
long time," she said. "It would be
really nice to at some point retire and
open up my own brewery."

0 1214 5 . 67 7j 78T91101
quotes of the week on the cheap
"RIP, Leslie Nielsen. Shirley, he will be missed." drinking good beer on the cheap
RUSSELL BRAND, comedic British actor, via his Twitter account, mourning the
84-year-old Canadian "Airplane!" actor's death.
"This was a gift. We aren't thieves. We didn't do anything'
wrong."
DANIELLE LE GUENNEC, wife of Picasso's retired electrician, who claims to
have been holding onto 271 undocumented works of Pablo Picasso's in a trunk in
his garage after Picasso's second wife supposedly gave them to him as a gift.
"I was thinking, ifhe gets hit, I can't go to work. It's Sunday.
I can't miss out. It's a time-and-a-half day."
CARLOS FLORES, a grocery clerk in New York City, on saving a man who
fainted and fell onto the city subway tracks in an effort to ensure there PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY KATIE EBERTS
wouldn't be subway delays that would make him late for work.'A s college students, we often take for granted that we are going to drink cheap, foul-
tasting beer throughout our time at the University. But push aside your keg of Natty
Light and crush that can of Bud Light, because here are some tips to help you drink good
the rules beer on the cheap.
First, take advantage of happy hours at bars across Ann Arbor. While there are bars
closer to Central Campus that offer drink specials, Main Street in particular has a ton
No. 296: No. 297: No. 298: of happy hour options where you can enjoy good beer at reduced prices. Check out
a2happyhour.com to see a map of Ann Arbor with pins showing where the bars that offer
It's probably time Craft gifts are not It's OK to avoid happy hours are and details like times and specials.
to throw out your OK for Secret Santa. doing laundry until Moreover, there are multiple websites that offer special deals and coupons that will
Thanksgiving We want something you're home on enable you to drink well and cheaply across Ann Arbor. For example. thedealmap.com
Thanksivingallows you to search by category (beer) and city to help find discounted gilt certificates.
leftovers, bought in a store. winter break. And if those tips don't work, you can always try brewing your own.
Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know E-mail onthecheap@umich.edu.
by the numbers COURTESY OF THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
The number of dollars that mustbe raised for Keep The number of fans, in mil- The number of followers, in millions,
a Child Alive before celebrities like Lady Gaga re- lions, that Lady Gaga has that singer Alicia Keys, the charity's co-
activate their Twitter and Facebook accounts. on Facebook. founder, has on Twitter.

FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK


i

sident

0

Ten pounds of pre-malt-
ed grain are poured into a grain
mill. The mill is then cranked by
hand for about 10 minutes.

2 Brewer transfers the
ground up grain into a mash ton.
He uses a water cooler for this.
Hot water is mixed in at 154'F. The
grain sits in the mash for about an
hour. The brewer then lauders the
mash, adding hot water to rinse
the sugars out. This process pro-
duces wort.

3 The brewer then transfers the we
water, to a boiling kettle. He uses a coi
for this process. The wort boils for ab(
This is when the brewer adds 2 to d
hops, depending on the beer's style.
good time to enjoy another brew.)

0

0

0

0

cart
pre:
tim

5Fermentation
takes place in the glass
carboy. This is also
where the brewer adds
the yeast. Fermentation
takes about 10 days.
The fermented beer is
then transferred to a keg
or a bottle where car-
bonation takes place.


