rIie ffidigan 0aij

Ann Arbor, Michigan
UNIVERSITY ADM N SRTO
University in
process to be
reaccredited

Thursday, January 28, 2010

michigandaily.coni

Every ten years
University evaluated
on its educational
experience
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily Staff Reporter
The University is in the midst
of the process of being reaccred-
ited by the Higher Learning Com-
mission - a non-governmental
agency that ensures that colleges
and universities throughout the
Midwest meet certain standards
and are nf the highest quality.
The process of reaccredita-
tion, which takes place every ten
years, consists of two parts: an
internal report by the University
and a campus visit by a thirteen-
person team of experts from the
HLC, which will occur from
March 15-17. Universities must
be accredited in order to receive
financial aid money from the fed-
eral government.
Each institution's self-report
contains five criteria mandated by
the HLC each focused on differ-
ent aspects of the University. The
five areas of analysis are the Uni-
versity's mission, its preparedness

for the future, the in-classroom
experience, out-of-classroom
engagement and application of
knowledge.
In addition, the University also
got the opportunity to pick one
topic for special emphasis study.
For this portion of the assessment,
the University has chosen to focus
on internationalization.
In an interview with the Daily
earlier this week, University Pres-
ident Mary Sue Coleman said she
was looking forward to the HLC's
visit.
"It's a lot of work, but I think
that at the end of the day we'll find
same things that as a result, we
can do better that are. gaad," Gale-
man said. "So I look forward to it.
I think we've got a good story to
tell. I feel really good about it."
While the reaccreditation
occurs only once every ten years,
the University has been preparing
for the past three years. In 2007,
University Provost Teresa Sulli-
van appointed Geology Prof. Ben
van der Pluijm to head the Univer-
sity's self study.
Though there is little doubt that
the University will be reaccred-
ited, Sullivan said in an interview
on Monday that the process needs
to be taken seriously as an oppor-
See ACCREDITATION, Page SA

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
University President Mary Sue Coleman stands with students and other community members ata candlelight vigil to remember the victims of the earthquake in Haiti
'U' officials, students ather to
honor Vic tms o uf qakin Haiti

Ab(
atten
vig
Stude
ing Univ

out 100people Coleman - gathered in the Diag
last night for an intimate candle-
ided candlelight light vigil to sympathize with the
victims and survivors of the earth-
il on the Diag quake in Haiti.
About 100 people took part in
By SCOTT SUH the vigil, which was sponsored by
For theDaily the Michigan Haiti Earthquake
Action Relief Team (M-HEART),
nts and faculty - includ- U-M Haiti Relief, and the Division
ersity President Mary Sue of Student Affairs. The event fea-

tured music, speakers, and infor-
mation about ways for students to
get involved with the relief efforts
in Haiti.
Additionally, counselors from
Counseling and Psychological Ser-
vices were on hand to provide assis-
tance and answer questions from
students about the catastrophic
earthquake. The 7.0-magnitude
earthquake, which struck Haiti

on Jan. 12, has already claimed an
estimated 150,000 lives, according
to the latest reports from the rav-
aged country.
But before the event had even
begun, about 15 people gathered
on the Diag, forming a circle to sing
and offer a prayer for the people
of Haiti and those affected by the
recent disaster.
See VIGIL, Page 5A


Source: Michigan hockey to
play MSU at the Big House

Announcement is
expected to come in
the next couple days
By RYAN KARTJE
Managing.Sports Editor
It has been nine years since the
Michigan hockey team met their
counterparts in East Lansing in the
"Cold War," pinning both teams
outdoors, under the lights of Spar-
tan Stadium.
But the long-awaited "Cold War
II" matchup, this time at Michi-

gan Stadium, is expected to be
officially announced "in the com-
ing days," according to an Athletic
Department official, who wished
to remain anonymous because an
official announcement has yet to be
made.
With the two teams scheduled to
meet next season on Dec.10 and 11,
the outdoor game is widely believed
to take place on Dec.11t.
Athletic Department spokesman
Bruce Madej declined to confirm
the announcement.
"Details still need to be worked
out before any official announce-
ment can be made," Madej said

last night.
When the two teams faced off in
2001, a crowd of 74,554 --the world
record for a hockey game - gath-
ered for the game. Michigan State,
the top-ranked team in the nation
at the time, was trailing with 47
seconds remaining, when Spartan
Jim Slater scored to end the game
in a 3-3 tie.
The initial "Cold War" set off
a chain of outdoor hockey events
throughout college and profession-
al hockey, leading to high demand
for a rematch of the intrastate
rivals, who still hold the attendance
See COLD WAR il, Page 5A

MARISSA MCCLAiN/Daily
School of Music, Theatre & Dance senior Drew Leahy, left, and University alum Jason Bornhorst in an office at TechArb yes-
terday. Both are entrepreneurs who started their own businesses while at the University.
For student entrepreneurs, a balance
between textbooks and bottom lines

Undergraduates
take lessons from
classes and apply
them to real world
By ALEX KIRSHENBAUM
Daily Staff Reporter
Being a full-time student is a
time-consuming commitment for
most. But for some University stu-
dents, one job just isn't enough.
Translating what they've
learned in the classroom to the
business world, several under-
graduate students at the Universi-
ty have already started their own
companies. The process, many of
them found, has presented new

challenges outside academics.
Drew Leahy, a senior in the
School of Music, Theatre & Dance,
first started MyBandStock.com
during his second year at the Uni-
versity and is now overseeing the
site with Business junior Bobby
Matson and Engineering senior
John-Michael Fischer.
The company, Leahy said, pro-
vides fans the opportunity to
"invest in their favorite bands" by
allowing fans to earn shares with
various bands by increasing traffic
to the site. These shares can then
be applied toward perks such as
backstage passes and meetings
with band members.
Describing MyBandStock as an
"online stock exchange," Leahy
said the start-up fizzled out at the
outset, but he hopes that a new

business model will re-energize
the site, which will launch tomor-
row. He added that the failure gave
him a real world lesson in running
a business before he ever gradu-
ated college. "That's just a reality
of starting a business: failing and
understanding what works and
what doesn't work," hesaid.
After making those initial mis-
takes, Leahy said the reward of
establishing a successful company
has been well worth his time and
effort.
But MyBandStock represents
just one of several student busi-
ness ventures that began at the
University.
Jason Bornhorst, a University
alum who was in the College of
Engineering, said one of the big-
See ENTREPRENEUR, Page 5A

For those students looking to
help, Detroit, TFA not an option

Program pulled from
city in 2003 after
only two years
By STEPHANIE BERLIANT
Daily StaffReporter
Last year, Robert Bobb, emer-
gency financial manager for Detroit
Public Schools, declared that the
district faced a "reading emergen-
cy."
At that time, Detroit Public
schools established The Reading

Corp - a program that calls for
volunteers to tutor Detroit pub-
lic school students in reading for
a total of 100,000 hours - after
results of the National Assessment
of Educational Progress math test
revealed students in Detroit Public
Schools had the lowest scores inthe
nation.
Despite these low scores, Detroit
remains without one of the most
visible national organizations
working to improve troubled public
school systems around the country:
Teach for America.
TFA - a program that places

recent college graduates with
schools in low-income areas to
teach for a period of two years -m
first came to Detroit in 2001. And
though the University has consis-
tently been a leader in applicants
to TFA, the program departed from
the nearby city after only two years
there.
TFA spokesperson, Kaitlin Gas-
trock, said the program decided to
remove participants from Detroit
due to district-wide downsizing.
"There weren't enough positions
available for our corps members'
See TFA, Page 5A

WEATHER HI: 21 GOT A NEWS TIP?
LU: 13 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICNI(GA NDALY.COTOI
The art of using the cafeteria's panini grill.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE

INDEX NEWS...........
Vol. CXX, No.82 OPINION.......
0201 The MichiganDaily CLASSIFIEDS.
michigondoily.com

.....2A ARTS .............................. 7A
.4A SPORTS..............................9A
........6A SPRING BREAK ISSUE............1B

T

{


2A - Thursday, January 28, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Habitat for Humanity

While many students
join extracurricular activi-
ties to build their resumes,
those who join Habitat for
Humanity do so to build
something far more impor-
tant.
Habitat for Humanity
has made a name for itself,
building homes for low-
income families nation-
wide. And, locally, the
University's chapter of the
organization sponsors one
house in either Ann Arbor
or Ypsilanti every year.
University alum Jessica
Perszyk, president of Habi-
tat at the University, said
the group works with local
families to build houses
every Saturday.
"Adults in the family (in
need of a home) have to

work 300 sweat equity
hours with our organiza-
tion," Perszyk said. "We
build alongside the family,
so we have a great relation-
ship with them."
When they are finished
building or renovating a
home, Habitat dedicates the
house to the family, accord-
ing to LSA junior Emily
Goyert, community rela-
tions chair of the group.
The ceremony, she said,
begins with welcoming
words from the Family Sup-
port Partner and is followed
by a prayer. Before the rib-
bon is cut, the family who
receives the new home is
also presented with a quilt
from the community along
with "a bible, tool kit and
welcome mat".

"A house dedication is a
gratifying experience where
volunteers, family members,
and friends all join together
to celebrate the completion of
the new home," Goyert said.
In addition to their work
on houses in the area, Habi-
tat works with Food Gath-
ers and the Delonis Center
- events organized by
Goyert in an effort to serve
meals to the homeless. Last
year, Habitat also raised
$10,000 through fundrais-
ing events such as a casino
night and the "Beat OSU
Fun Run".
Perszyk said she applied
for a State Farm Insurance
grant early lastsummer that
would match the amount
they had fundraised. Once
notified of the acceptance

in October, Perszyk inter-
viewed with Habitat Inter-
national to discuss the
University chapter's use of
the money.
Habitat is currentlyusing
the funds to build their
tenth house in Michigan.
LSA sophomore Chanhee
Han, a member of the orga-
nization on campus, said
working with Habitat has
been a rewarding experi-
ence.
"I truly enjoyed working
directly with the people we
help and raising awareness
for numerous good causes,
such as the value ofafamily,
home, and community, on a
campus, both in high school
and college," Han wrote in
an e-mail interview.
- JENNY ZHANG

the University's chapter of Habitat for Humanity spon-
sors the construction of a house for a low-income fam-
iy in Ann Arbor or Ypsilanti every year.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smiloritz@michigandaily.comtmdbusiness@gmailecm
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun.-Thurs. 11 am. -2 an.
News Tips news@mnichrgandaity.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tot ledaily@meichigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@miichigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.eom
Classified Sales classified@michigandailycomn
Online Sales onlineads@michigondaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
lillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
eOR Ea rvE S ole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
ASSrSTANT NEs ErvoRS ariDylan Cinti, Darr n ni ald, Joseph Lichterman,
Veronian,,,,ldi, i Thoms, evon,,rh,,isrsb, yanarwigg
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SEOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeW itt,Alex Schiff, MatthewShutler
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gen Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, JoevStapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIRsRToSEDIORroS:CroyKlre cks~i, Adrew Lpi, JeffSanford
oSSIST ARTSEITORS aurinShae onJas,BrigidKiconMikeKuntz,
Kavi Shekhar Pandey
Max Collins and photo@michigandailycom
SamWolson ManagingPhototEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR FOR MULTIMEDIA: Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Ariel Bond
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Aaron Augsburger,Jake Fromm, JedrMoch
Sarah Squire and design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingesignEditors
SENIORDESIGN EDITOR: Angela Chih
Trevor Calero Ma ieWdion r calero@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
RachelPhillips CopyChiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak salesManager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Molly Twigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANTMANAGER:Kaylai.aFata
Ben English ProductionManager
Allison SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter termsby students at the University ofMichigan.One opy isavaiablefree of charge toall
readersAdditionaicopiesmaybepickedupattheDailysofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,
startinginseptemberr iaU.S.malare $10.Wintertermanuary throughApril) is $115,yearlong
(September through April) iss195.University affiiatesare subject toareducedsubscriptionrate.
Onampussubscriptions frfall tr m are$35. Subs criptionsm ust be prepaid.TheMichigan Daily
isaeber o ssciatdressndTheAscaedColegiatsPres.

0

CRIME NOTES
Car crashes
through gate
WHERE: M-18 Carport
WHEN: Tuesday at about 8:45
p.m.
WHAT:A driver crashed
through the gate for the park-
ing structure after the vehicles
breaks failed at about 8 p.m.,
University Police reported.
There were no injuries.
Laptop stolen
from press box
WHERE: Yost Ice Arena
WHEN: Tuesday at about
12:15 p.m.
WHAT: A Dell laptop com-
puter was stolen from the press
box at Yost Arena, University
Police reported. There are no
suspects.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Permit swiped
during game
WHERE:100 Keech, Lot SC-36
WHEN: Tuesday at about
10:50 p.m.
WHAT: A University park-
ing permit was stolen from
an individual's car while she
attended the basketball game,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.
Kid lost and
found at Crisler
WHERE:Crisler Arena
WHEN:Tuesdayatabout7:45
p.m.
WHAT: An individual was
separated from his father dur-
ing the basketball game, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
two were reunited.

Lecture
about Spain
WHAT: Joan Ramon Resina
from Stanford Universtiy
will be talking about Spain's
transition to a democracy
during postwar times.
WHO: Center for Euro-
pean Studies-European
Union Center
WHEN: Today from 4 p.m. to
5:30 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work, Roomh1636
Cooking and
baking clinic
WHAT: A class teaching
menu planning, food ration-
ing and spice kits. Cooking
will be done on backcountry
stoves. Session will finish
with a potluck.
WHO: Outdoor Adventures
WHEN: Tonight from 6:30
p.m. to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Elbel Building

Sex conference
WHAT: Workshops on sex-
ual health, relationship com-
munication and the cultural
aspects of dating.
WHO: University
Health Service
WHEN: Today from 1 p.m. to
9 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League
Poetry reading
WHAT: Cole Swensen
will be reading some of her
poetry from her most recent
book, "Ours."
WHO: English Language
& Literature-MFA Pro-
gram in Creative Writing
WHEN: Tonight from 5 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art,
Helmut Stern Aditorium
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

The CEO of Apple, Steve
Jobs, annouced the launch
of the iWad, Apple's news-
est technology, yesterday at a
mega-event in San Francisco.
Jobs says it is a revolutionary
device that can be used for
reading e-mail, browsing the
web, viewing photos and vid-
eos and much more. The iPad
will be available in late March.
The Michigan Theatre
will feature the preiere of
"Cyrus" in the Sundance
Festival's inaugural installation
of a new event, Sundance USA.
>>FOR MORE, SEE BSIDE, PAGES1B
The Chicago Tribune
reported that the Iowa
Alcoholic Beverage Com-
mission is considering limit-
ing or even banning the sale
of Everclear, a 151-proof liquor
popular among college stu-
dents.

0
"

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Getlmore online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

0

Check out the programs for students sponsored by the Alumni Association-all designed to
prepare you for life after college and connect you to the U-M alumni family (more than 480,000 strong!).
Unless noted otherwise, all programs are free! For details and registration information, visit
www.umalumni.com/students or www.facebook.com/AAUMstudents.

0

Q Welcome Wednesdays-Stop by the Alumni Center
for free bagels and coffee. Hang out and enjoy the couches,
TVs and Wi-Fi and learn about our student programs. Every
Wednesday through March 17, 8 a.m.'til noon (except
March 3).
L Real Life 101-Four Wednesday evening sessions to help
prepare you for life after college. Registration required.
February 3-Budget!: Are you Kidding? How to Pay Your
Bills and Still Like Your Life
February 10-Investing for Young Investors: Putting
Your Best Foot Forward
February 17-Networking Know-how
February 24-Your Fork Is Not a Shovel: Business
Savvy for the Young Professional ($10 fee includes
business networking reception with mocktails and
hors d'oeuvres)

D 30-Minute Mentors-Get your career questions answered
by friendly and helpful Michigan alumni in a casual setting.
Friday, March 19, at the Alumni Center. Registration required.
D Michigan Apprentice-Win a one-day job shadowing
opportunity with a high-profile U-M alum. Applications are
due Sunday, March 28.
Q Ready to Launch-A month-long online and in-person
program focused on your post-college career. Get advice,
tips and win great prizes. Text "umstudents" to 41411 to get
started. March 17 through April 16.

0

0

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

0

.
e L-


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 28, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 28, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WALLA WALLA, Wash.
Nearly 50 inmates
involved in Wash.
prison fight
A Washington state penitentia-
ry spokeswoman says guards used
pepper spray to break up a fight
involving nearly 50 inmates at the
Walla Walla prison.
Spokeswoman Shari Hall said
yesterday that an initial fight
between two inmates broke out
Tuesday evening in a commons
area of one of the prison's close-
custody living units. She says
guards resolved that fight but a
second fight involving multiple
inmates broke out within min-
utes.
The Walla Walla Union-Bulle-
tin reports that several prisoners
were injured but none required
transport to a hospital. Hall says
no significant staff injuries were
reported.
Nearly 50 inmates have been
placed in segregation. Hall says
units in one complex also are on
lockdown as staffers investigate
the fight.
MONROVA, Calif.
Suspect in Calif.
bank bomb threat
arrested by police
Monrovia police say a man
who barricaded himself in a bank
entrance and claimed to have a
bomb has surrendered in the Los
Angeles foothill suburb.
.City spokesman Dick Singer
says the man walked out and gave
himself up yesterday afternoon.
WNo bomb was found.
Officials say hundreds of peo-
ple were evacuated from Citi-
zens Business Bank and nearby
buildings after the man shoved
a note under the closed door at
around 10 a.m. claiming he had
a bomb.
SEOUL South Korea
North Korea
detains American
a ~hMa border
North Korea said today that it
has detained an American man
for trespassing on its border with
China, the second arrest of a U.S.
citizen reported by the commu-
nist regime in the past several
weeks.
The man was detained Mon-
day and is now under investiga-
tion, the North's official Korean
Central News Agency said in a
brief dispatch. He was not identi-
fied by name and the report pro-
vided no further details.
The U.S. Embassy in Beijing
said Thursday that it did not
know of the case.
North Korea said late last
month that it was holding anoth-
er U.S. citizen for "illegally enter-
ing" the country through the
North Korea-China border.
The North did not identify
the man detained in Decem-
ber but is widely believed to

be Robert Park, an American
missionary who South Korean
activists say crossed into the
country over a frozen river sev-
eral days earlier to raise the issue
of human rights in the North.
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.
Deadly fish virus
 found in Lakes
Superior, Michigan
A fatal fish virus has been
detected in Lake Superior for the
first time, meaning it has spread
to all the Great Lakes, researchers
said yesterday.
Cornell University scientists
said they recently detected viral
hemorrhagic septicemia, or VHS,
while testing fish in the largest of
the Great Lakes.
VHS has been identified in 28
freshwater fish species within
the Great Lakes watershed since
2005, including popular sport and
commercial varieties such as wall-
eye, muskellunge and whitefish.
Although not dangerous for
humans, the virus has caused
large fish kills in Lakes Ontario,
Erie and Huron. It also has turned
up in Lake Michigan.
Even so, officials in Michigan
and Wisconsin said yesterday
there was no evidence of a wide-
spread outbreak in Lake Superior.
They said the Cornell findings
would not lead to any immedi-
ate changes in boating or fishing
regulations.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

PRES. OBAMA: 'I DON'T QUIT'

In State of the
Union, Obama vows
to seize the reins of
his presidency
WASHINGTON (AP) - Declar-
ing "I don't quit,"' President Barack
Obama fought to recharge his
embattled presidency with a State
of the Union vow to get jobless mil-
lions back to work and to stand
on the side of Americans angry at
Wall Street greed and Washington
bickering. Defiant despite stinging
setbacks, he said he would fight on
for ambitious overhauls of health-
care, energy and education.
"Change has not come fast
enough," Obama acknowledged
yesterday night before a politician-
packed House chamber and a TV
audience of millions. "As hard as it
maybe, as uncomfortable and con-
tentious as the debates may be, it's
time to get serious about fixing the
problems that are hampering our
growth."
Obamalookedto changethe con-
versation from how his presidency
is stalling - over the messy health
care debate, a limping economy
and the missteps that led to Christ-
mas Day's barely averted terrorist
disaster - to how he is seizing the
reins. He spoke to a nation gloomy
over double-digit unemployment
and federal deficits soaring to a
record $1.4 trillion, and to fellow
Democrats dispirited about the
fallen standing of a president they

hoped would carry them through
this fall's midterm elections.
With State of the Union messag-
es traditionally delivered at the end
of January, Obama had one of the
presidency's biggest platforms just
a week after Republicans scored an
upset takeover of a Senate seat in
Massachusetts, prompting hand-
wringing over his leadership. With
the turnover erasing Democrats' S
enate supermajority needed to
pass most legislation, it also put a
cloud over health care and the rest
of Obama's agenda.
A chief demand was for law-
makers to press forward with his
prized health care overhaul, which
is in severe danger in Congress.
"Do not walk away from reform,"
he implored. "Not now. Not when
we are so close."
Republicans applauded the pres-
ident when he entered the cham-
ber, and even craned their necks
and welcomed Michelle Obama
when she took her seat. But the
warm feelings of bipartisanship
disappeared early.
Democrats jumped to their feet
and roared when Obama said he.
wanted to impose anew fee on banks,
while Republicans sat stone-faced.
Democrats stood and applauded
when Obama mentioned the eco-
nomic stimulus package passed last
February. Republicans just stared.
On national security, Obama
proclaimed some success, saying
that "far more" al-Qaida terror-
ists were killed under his watch
last year in the U.S.-led global fight
than in 2008.

President Barack Obama delivers his State of the Union address in the House chambers at the U.S. Capitol Building last night.
Speaking about the current state of the economy, Obama said "the worst oftthe storm has passed."

Hoping to salve growing disap-
pointment in .a key constituency,
Obama said he would work with
Congress "this year" to repeal the
ban on gays and lesbians serving
openly in the military. But in a con-.
cession to concern about the move
among Republicans and on his own
party's right flank, Obama neither
made a commitment to suspend the
practice in the interim nor issued a
firm deadline for action.
The president devoted about

two-thirds of his speech to the
economic worries foremost on
Americans' minds as reces-
sion persists. "The devastation
remains," he said.
Obama emphasized his ideas,
some new but mostly old and
explained anew, for restoring job
growth, taming budget deficits
and changing a Washington so
polarized that "every day is Elec-
tion Day." These concerns are at
the roots of voter emotions that

once drove supporters to Obama
but now are turning on him as he
governs.
Declaring that "I know the anx-
ieties" of Americans' struggling
to pay the bills while big banks
get bailouts and bonuses, Obama
prodded Congress to enact a sec-
ond stimulus package "without
delay," specifying it should con-
tain a range of measures to help
small businesses and funding for
infrastructure projects.

Defense lawyers
rest case in trial
for gay marriage

John, Elizabeth Edwards file for
divorce after 30-year marriage

Judge may reach
final decision in
March or April
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - The
first federal case to decide if the
U.S. Constitution prevents states
from stopping same-sex weddings
came to an anti-climatic break
yesterday after a judge heard
nearly 12 days of -wide-ranging
testimony on the meaning of mar-
riage, the nature of sexual orien-
tation, and the role of religion in
shaping attitudes about both.
Attorneys for sponsors of Cali-
fornia's Proposition 8 tentatively
rested their case after introducing
materials from the 2008 election
campaign.
They called just two expert
witnesses, including David Blan-
kenhorn, president of the New
York-based Institute for Ameri-
can Values, who capped the his-
toric proceedings by saying the
rights of same-sex couples should
come second to preserving the
cherished social institution of
marriage.
Chief U.S. District Judge

Vaughn R. Walker heard the
case without a jury and said he
will take time to review the evi-
dence before allowing closing
arguments, probably in March
orApril He has-no deadlinefor
reaching a decision.
After testimony ended, Walk-
er came down from the bench
and shook hands with both legal
teams.
"I just want to take a moment to
congratulate you (on) what a good
job you've both done," he said,
calling ita fascinating case.
His eventual verdict is likely to
be appealed to the U.S. Supreme
Court.
Throughout the trial, lawyers
for the two gay couples who filed
the lawsuit seeking to overturn
the ballot measure tried to show
the U.S. Supreme Court has rec-
ognized marriage as a funda-
mental right and that there is no
lawful reason to deny it to gays.
They also argued that Proposi-
tion 8, which passed with 52 per-
cent of the vote, was a product of
anti-gay prejudice rooted in reli-
gion and psychological theories
about homosexuality that have
long since been discredited.

Former presidential
candidate fathered
child during affair
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) - Eliza-
beth Edwards has separated from
husband John Edwards, the for-
mer presidential candidate who
lied about cheating on his cancer-
stricken wife and the child he
,fathered during his affair.
The disclosure yesterday came
as a longtime aide to the two-time
candidate promotes a tell-all book
that provides an unflattering por-
trait of the couple and the tumul-
tuous relationship they tried to
maintain after he first acknowl-
edged the liaison.
Elizabeth Edwards, 60,
declined to comment through a

friend, Andrea Purse, who con-
firmed the separation. However,
Elizabeth's sister told The Asso-
ciated Press that she remains
strong.
"She's doing as well as you could
expect," Nancy Anania said. "I'm
really proud of her that, somehow,
she's got strength that you rarely
see in a person."
A week earlier, John Edwards
finally confirmed that he fathered
a child, now alm s 2 years-old,
with his mistress, Rielle Hunter.
He issued a brief statement yester-
day, expressing care for his wife of
more than three decades and the
mother of four of his children.
"It is an extraordinarily sad
moment, but I love my children
more than anything and still care
deeply about Elizabeth," he said.
Purse did not reveal how long

the couple has been apart. North
Carolina law typically requires
couples to be separated for a year
before divorcing.
. It's another wrenching twist
for a couple that had previously
weathered the death of a 16-year-
old son and Elizabeth's ongoing
battle with incurable cancer.
They were law school sweet-
hearts who got married just days
after they took the bar exam
together-in the summer of 1977.
Though John Edwards, 56, later
went on to make millions as a trial
lawyer, the couple had humble.
beginnings: He had to borrows
money from her parents for a one-
night honeymoon. She always,
wore her $11 wedding ring. For,
years they spent their anniversa-
ries going to Wendy's, just as they
did on their first one.


Pre- llter s
PCICTt( 7

Fellowship Opportunities
The Center for Ethics in Public Life is pleased to announce its Fellowship Programs
for the 2010-11 academic year. Fellowships are available for University of Michigan
Doctoral candidates, Pre-candidates, and Undergraduates.
The Dissertation Fellowship Program provides summer support for doctoral students who
have achieved candidacy and who are writing dissertations that engage ethics in public life.
The Pre-Candidate Fellowship Program provides summer support for pre-candidate
doctoral students who plan to incorporate ethics in their dissertations.
The Undergraduate Fellowship Program provides support for undergraduates to develop,
explore, and pursue research or activities related to ethics in public life for the
UM community.
Fellows will receive a stipend of $4,000. Applications are due February 22, 2010.
For further details and application materials, please visit www.ethics.umich.edu.
Barga*ins?*Weinventedem!
Thanks for Your Support Voted #1, BEST THRIFT STORE in Ann Arbor Since 2007
t
THRIFT STORE &
Donation Center


01

4A - Thursday, January 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I

lItI ~ -q ~ ~ i

How do you feel about
Tim' Tebow?
O
$0 +gl

Jir

e migit have had a chane
lathe NFL ifhe quit
chr cising F ilipinos and
earned how to play
qtarserback in a pro-style
o 1fe s

if:

Kindaharsh man
Oh, nd lhat

t.At1,.,.:- , , . :,

l - ---.-

II

0
o5
b

I

0
0

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Educating educators
Focus on fieldwork will prepare School of Ed students
Students in the University's School of Education may have an
opportunity to have more exposure to their future work-
places sooner than they expected. Changes to the program
will replace the current curriculum of the School of Education
with one that would emphasize more hands-on training within the
classroom. Considering the importance of education in Michigan's
changing economy, it's vital that Michigan teachers are receiving
a comprehensive education. And that while increased fieldwork
is important, students should continue to receive the theoretical
components of the curriculum. The School of Education should
strive to combine increased experience with theoretical learning
to produce teachers that will prepare a highly-skilled workforce
for a Michigan economy dependent upon education.

The proposed program, which is sched-
uled to go into effect at the start of the fall
semester, is called the Teacher Education
Initiative. Deborah Ball, dean of the School
of Education and organizer of the initiative,
claims that the new curriculum would be
modeled after current medical and nursing
curricula, which place a greater emphasis
on hands-on training. The intention of the
program is to make teacher candidates more
familiar with the realities of a classroom
before they enter the profession. Though
there is time before the program officially
begins, Ball is hoping that the faculty of the
School of Education will begin experiment-
ing with initiating the program into their
curriculum this semester.
The School of Education's efforts to better
the teachers it produces are admirable, espe-
cially during the current economic climate.
Improved education at all levels is critical to
ensure the success of an economy that will
depend upon highly-skilled science and tech-
nology businesses in the future. And while
institutions of higher education may play a
more visible role in the increasing need for
education, improvement is necessary across
the spectrum of education.
Successful nursing and medical schools
have shown that practical application
allows students the chance to prepare for

the professional world in a learning envi-
ronment. Similarly, the increased focus on
fieldwork that the School of Education's
revamped curriculum will encourage will
provide education students with an invalu-
able experience. Teaching relies heavily on
effective interaction with students, and ear-
lier introductions to the environment will
help to prepare future teachers for the real-
ity of the classroom.
But the shift of focus to fieldwork
shouldn't make the School of Education for-
get about the importance of the theoretical
knowledge that students are exposed to in
classes at the University. This theoretical
knowledge of teaching methods and the
challenges facing public education will help
new teachers to challenge the status quo
and push for education reform. The School
of Education needs to make sure that with
all of the excitement about the new curricu-
lum, students will still receive the vital class
instruction that will improve their knowl-
edge on the craft of teaching.
The state. needs good teachers and
improved education to pull itself out of
its current economic turmoil. The Uni-
versity must combine classroom learning
and firsthand experience to produce the
most effective teachers that Michigan
will depend upon.

When online, safety first
T oday is Data Privacy Day, is it a hassle. We got a call recently Some may question the value of
which raises a very important from a security expert or someone (I Data Privacy Day, and notjustbecause
question among us college stu- mean, who can tell over the phone?) it's called Data Privacy Day. I have
dents: Who cares? informing us that she had all of our to admit that before learning about
What if I told social security numbers on file. The it I didn't really need a day to remind
you that the federal culprit? What we had foolishly least me about the dangers of the Internet,
government cares, expected: porn. No, I mean Limewire. because IShave a mom.
smarty-pants? You That's right, using Limewire and file
would probably be sharing had unleashed a boatload of
surprised, espe- PII from the family computer, includ- Celebrae at
cially since you lng our social security numbers from te Data
didn't think that tax returns.
the federal govern- So I don't want this to happen to Privacy Day with
ment cared about WILL you. The good news is that many
anything, or even GRUNDLER of us stopped using Limewire after stl an sa
that Data Privacy record companies threatened to
Day existed. (It hunt us down and break our knee-
does, as oflastyear, caps. The bad news is that many of
when the House of Representatives us are unknowingly sharing our PII Mom (on the phone): "So your sister
passed a bill or something) The point up the wazoo through Facebook. It's got an 'A' on her math test, and... Are
is: millions of Americans, including not information that can get us into you listening to me?"
your little sister, are sharing lots of financial trouble - unlessyou consider Me: "Hold on."
private things on the Internet, some- future job prospects. But it is infor- Mom (louder): "Hello? Hello? Are
times by accident. The time has come mation that you might not want "out you on MyBook? You're on MyBook,
to raise our awareness. there," such as what you look like after aren't you? I can tell. Why do you do
To raise your awareness, do the fol- eleven beers. Yes, if you missed or that thing? Honey, he's on MyBook
lowing: log onto privacyisfun!.com. ignored Facebook's change in privacy again."
Then, click the box that says, "Donate policy in December, your pictures and Me: "It's Facebook."
To Privacyisfun!.com." (This is the other info could be visible to friends of Mom: "And...people can see your...
only thing displayed on privacyisfun!. friends, or even everyone, and in some face? I mean, your pictures?"
com.) You will get a prompt asking for cases columnists doing "research." Me: "well, my friends can."
your social security number, credit By my count, which is ongoing, I Mom: "Oh. Well, I guess it's nice
card number and favorite color. Fill estimate that over half - and perhaps that you have some these days. But
this out. As you are filling this out even three-quarters - of the people don't you worry about stalkers? I was
STOP WHAT YOU ARE DOING! You in the "University of Michigan" net- just reading this article about..."
have been scammed into givingoutPII work have completely open or par- Me: (Click.)
(personally identifiable information)! tially open profiles. And out of this But if you don't have a nagging
Third parties of questionable morality number, I would estimate that about mother, the federal government is
(such as the Green Party) can use your twelve percent of the females are a good alternative when it comes to
PII to impersonate you, exploit your worth dat- ...I mean, out of this num- reminding you to keep your private
bank account and update your Face- ber, I wonder how many know that information safe. Hey, isn't that ironic
book. This happens to grandmothers thousands of people can stalk them. after they passed the Patriot - Well,
across the country everyday - don't There are, of course, people who who cares?
let it happen to you. This is what Data want all their information out there.
Privacy Day is all about. (These are people you should prob- - Will Grundler can be
It happened to my family and boy, ably avoid dating.) reached at wgru@umich.edu.
MIKE RORRO W
A new constitution for MSA
The University's student government is a broken system. authorities with checks and balances and clear lines of
Ask any student and they'll most likely say the Michi- accountability.
gan Student Assembly's role in campus life is unclear. Its S4PG also proposes to make government more demo-
structures are unfamiliar to students and convoluted. cratic by including the college, housing and organization
Nobody seems to know what it does, what it's supposed to governments that are a vital voice in campus conversa-
do or what it can't do. tion. Students will be able to solve local problems locally
Students will say that MSA is unfair. Graduate and pro- and gain greater access to shared resources.
fessional students are underrepresented. Students believe Finally, we are proposing new ways to engage students.
they have little recourse if an MSA policy or fee is not in We want to make meetings, records, elections and judicial
their interest. MSA seems like a club - people in the know opinions more available to students. We are committed to
get what they want and everyone else is on their own. ensuring students know their rights and responsibilities
Most significantly, students may say student govern- and can act upon both.
ment is not invested in them and that it doesn't affect The structural and functional changes we have
their lives. That's why students don't invest in student designed will make student government more efficient
government - just one in nine of us voted in the last MSA and effective. But no government is an end in itself.
presidential election. Instead, government is about movement. Movement
As the Vice President of MSA, I have tried to address from insularity to collaboration, from diffusion to,con-
these issues and improve the efficiency of students by centration, from a disparate collection of our diverse
working within the system. While we have been able to interests and abilities to one community.
improve the accountability and transparency of the inner These are heady ideals. I bet many students will claim
workings of government, the system inherently limits the we are overreaching, and that student government -
ability of elected officials to enact change on campus. however constituted - can't reach their day-to-day lives.
Students face a decentralized and complicated student This reaction is rooted in hard experience: student gov-
government structure that is nearly impossible to navigate. ernment is too far removed from its constituents. And
Coordinating campus-wide initiatives is extremely difficult students are too far removed from each other.
- limiting the ability for students to effectively organize. We want to change this, but we cannot accomplish our
A campus organization, Students for Progressive Gov- goals without you. We need your ideas, your vision and
ernance, has begun confronting these challenges. I serve your passion. Please visit our website, www.S4PG.info,
as chair of S4PG because I believe student government and let us know you want to get involved. Or better yet,
must be rebuilt from the ground up. That's why S4PG has come meet with us today at 7:00 p.m. in room 2105A in the
begun drafting a new student constitution that will be Michigan Union.
clearer, fairer and more invested in students. It's a chance tontake charge of your own education and
The new constitution composed by S4PG proposes to help move Michigan toward genuine community.
divide the basic powers of student government among
the executive, legislative and judicial branches. These Mike Rorro is the Vice President of the Michigan Student
branches will replace MSA's overlapping duties and Assembly and chair of Students for Progressive Governance.

CHRISTINA SUH E-MAIL CHRISTINA AT CHSUH@UMICH.EDU
STWDJ LW
py A (NSo MN
Y *
N I
'r -

0

0

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty,
Jeremy LevyErika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
MATTHEW SHUTLER I
Help stop human trafficking

The girls wear red dresses while watching
cartoons on flickering televisions. They stare
with dead eyes, their hope broken, and wait.
Their names are replaced with numbers - wiping
away the last of their identity and dignity.
Behind windows, gazing at these girls with
disturbingscrutiny, men stand shoulderto shoul-
der and choose which they will buy. By selecting
from the numbers available, they condemn the
unnamed girls to a life of abuse and rape.
This is one of many examples of child exploi-
tation. This is the story told by Love146, a char-
ity devoted to the prevention and abolition of
human trafficking.
Human trafficking, rape and oppression are
realities for millions of children. An estimated
1.2 million children are sold into this shell of a
life each year. And an estimated market of $32
billion exists because of these sales. Every min-
ute, approximately 2 children are bought. That
means that each time you listen to your favorite
song, about 7 children's lives are forfeited. And
during one of your lectures, about 180 children
are procured as sex commodities or soldiers, for
labor or another callous reason.
These children, stolen with lies, coercion
or force, will probably never see their families
again. Impoverished families are tricked with
false pretenses of employment into sacrific-
ing their children to this life. Ignorance blinds
them to the fate that inevitably lies ahead for
those closest to them. Homes and communities
are destroyed by someone's sick acquisition of
another human being.
Boys and girls, some as young as five years
old, are sold to brothels. South Asia holds the
most prominent and numerous of these intern-
ments. Their customers come most commonly
from Japan and the United States. Ancient cities,
famed for their exotic beauty and exquisite tem-
ples, are stained with blood, as this crime against
humanity exists behind closed doors. These are
places you could never imagine, where predators
travel thousands of miles to reach, places where
their prey is plentiful and on display.
Intertwining criminal networks and ill-
informed, unequipped law enforcement com-
bined with various other reasons, trafficking is
exceedingly difficult to combat and abolish. In
fact, child trafficking is increasing. Some 27 mil-
lion are currently enslaved around the world,
and 10 million are enslaved in the Trans-Atlantic
division of the slave trade alone.
But people exist who work tirelessly to stop
these atrocities from occurring. The aforemen-
tioned charity, Love146, is lne of these orga-

nizations. Created solely to work for greater
prevention and aftercare, this charity was
founded in 2002 after months of deep inves-
tigation into one of the darkest facets of our
world. Lovet46 trains aftercare workers, cre-
ates safe homes for those affected, develops
educational programs in high-risk areas and,
most importantly, offers a voice to the victims
of this modern-day slavery. They offer hope to
people who may otherwise remain unaware.
Completely nonprofit, abolition is their ulti-
mate and commanding goal.
Love146 was named after a girl viewed in a
brothel by members from the charity who were
gathering evidence by impersonating customers.
Co-founder Rob Morris saw amid the sea of bro-
ken souls, to his amazement, one girl with fight in
her eyes. She stared, not at the television screens,
but through the glass at the men. Her name will
never be known, but her number - her brand -
will live forever. "146" - which was her cell num-
ber - now creates hope and new life.
Living in Ann Arbor, college students are
sheltered more than we know. While we hear
about the failing economy (many of us actually
feel it firsthand at home) and other hardships,
here in our little bubble, the world seems to be
passing by carelessly. But the world is in tur-
moil and it's our responsibility as the future
workforce and leaders of tomorrow to fight for
what we believe is right.
If you want to fight atrocities like child traf-
ficking, there are numerous charities, like
Love146, that you can be a part of. To be a part of
the fight, go to lovel46.org. Here you can donate
to the charity and find ways to spread the mes-
sage of child trafficking. You can learn to host an
event, book a speaker, or even start a task force
on campus or in your town. Any aid can help save
another child from this barbaric life.
Whether this information comes as a shock to
your small slice of college perfection or it's sim-
ply one of those things that "just exists" on the
other side of the world, it's our duty to inform
ourselves of the cruelties permeating on our
watch. Will you return to feigning ignorance, or
will you stand and fight?
These children are the same age as your
younger sisters and daughters. What would you
do if a member of your family lived like this? Each
time you look into your loved one's eyes and see
hope and life, think of those who stare with eyes
glazed over in pain and darkness.
Matthew Shutler is an assistant
editorial page editor.

0

6

0

40


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 28, 2010 - 5A

Announcement
expected about
UM-MSUgame
at the Big House

From Page 1A
record. Less than a month ago, the
Philadelphia Flyers and Boston
Bruins played outdoors at Fen-
way Park in the 2010 NHL Winter
Classic.
But with more than 100,000
seats available at Michigan Sta-
dium, the attendance record from
the first installment of the out-
door rivalry could be broken next
December.
ENTREPRENEURS
From Page IA
gesnt challenges ofhaving a business
in college was balancing his life
as a student and running his own
business. Bornhorst is a program-
mer for Mobiata.com - a company
that develops travel applications
for smart phones.
"I was a part-time student in my
last semester, and I was working
full-time at that point," Bornhorst
said. "It was hard to balance, but it
was really enriching."
Bornhorst said though complet-
ing his coursework and attending
to his company was difficult, the
technical skills he gained in his
engineering and entrepreneurship
courses helped himto run his busi-
ness.
Business senior Josh Lin is a co-
founder of the Nexecon Consult-
ing Group - a student-consulting
group that advises local businesses
and University departments on
their marketing strategies. Nex-
econ works with a wide range of
clients which include Sava's Cafe
and No Thai!.
He said one of the reasons he

Next weekend, Michigan will
take on No. 3 Wisconsin in its
first outdoor game since the
"Cold War" in the Camp Ran-
dall Classic on Feb. 6. But as of
Jan. 22, the long-awaited game
in Madison had only sold 42,000
of the estimated 80,000 tickets
available.
Check back with michigan-
daily.com this week for more
updates and details on the "Cold
War II."
was able to start his own business
while still attending the Univer-
sity is because there were many
resources in the area to help him
financially or otherwise.
Lin said help from Ann Arbor
SPARK- a local economic devel-
opment agency that helps young
entrepreneurs start companies of
their own.- was the "cornerstone"
of Nexecon's early development.
Leahy said Ann Arbor SPARK
also recently provided MyBand-
Stock with a $10,000 grant.
Linsaid though it's difficultto be
a student and a business owner at
the same time, his business school
courses helped him both in advis-
ing clients and in making Nexecon
a more efficient business.
But he said he learned one of the
most important lessons outside of
the classroom.
"At the end of the day, if you
don't recruit the right team, you're
going to be one of the only people
staying up until four o'clock in
the morning trying to get things
done," Lin said. "If you're going
to recruit people with passion and
with strengths in different areas, it
can become a cohesive group that
can drive things forward."

VIGIL
From Page1A
As more people gathered, candles
were passed out while music contin-
ued to play in thehbackground. Then,
the vigil began with a brief Power-
Point presentation recapping the
events and aftermath of the earth-
quake.
Followingthepresentation,which
included resources on how students
could get involved with the Haiti
relief efforts on campus, President
Mary Sue Coleman addressed the
crowd that had come to pay respects
to those affected by the devastating
earthquake.
Coleman told those at the vigil
that though the current aid efforts
are vital, it is important for them to
remember that aid will be needed in
the longterm, too.
"Our challenge in the future is
going to be not to forget when Haiti
is no longer on the front page of the
newspaper, and we don't see it on the
news every night, that we are still
willing to give money because it is
going to take a long time to rebuild,"
Coleman said.
Following Coleman's speech,
Associate Prof. Emeritus Ruth Bar-
nard from the School of Nursing
and Armando Matiz, a researcher
and lecturer from the School of
Public Health, spoke to the crowd -
addressing the importance of find-
ingwaysto assist with the rebuilding
efforts.
And while those gathered fought
to keep their candles lit in last
night's windy weather, Kinesiology
ACCREDITATION
From Page 1A
tunity for self-improvement.
"I'm really not worried about
us being reaccredited, but it is
important to me for us to use this
opportunity and not just treat it
as one more thing we've got to
do, but really take advantage of
it," Sullivan said. "Ben van der
Pluijm has done a really good job
of digging in deeply and we were
way ahead of ourselves in getting
this report ready."
Van der Pluijm said the biggest
section of the report is the assess-
ment of the learning environment
at the University. He said as part of
this, the committee came up with
learning outcomes tailored to every
school and college, which outline
what is expected of students grad-
uating from the University.
"We came up with a list of learn-
ing outcomes," van der Pluijm said.
"It's a working document. It doesn't

TOREHAN SHARM
University President Mary Sue Coleman speaks ata vigil last night to show support for victims of the Haiti earthquake,

senior Walter Lacy closed the gath-
eringwith a passionate spoken word
response to the tragedyin Haiti.
Once Lacy had finished, the crowd
stood silent, observing a moment of
silence for those killed in the tragedy.
And despite the uncooperative
weather that made it difficult to hear
the speakers at the event, partici-
pants at the vigil voiced their desire
to help the devastated country.
"I wanted to go to Haiti until I
realized that it wouldn't be the most
effective way to contribute, but that
helping any way I can through the
vigil and through other ways on
campus would be much appreci-
ated," said Nursing freshman Emily
lock us into anything, but it starts
to identify what it means to be a
student at the University of Michi-
gan. Whatyouexpectfor (students)
to be when they leave here."
Van der Pluijm said as part of the
study, the committee also came up
with a vision statement for the Uni-
versity.
"(The vision statement) is from
Mary Sue Coleman and executive
officers and it received input from a
lot of other people on campus to try
to describe how the University of
Michigan is today," he continued.
"It's an extension of our mission
statement, but much more practi-
cal for our current activities and
our current interests; it's a living
document."
Van der Pluijm added the com-
mittee dedicated a portion of the
report to explaining the Univer-
sity's budgetary process.
"We put consicleraleeffortlnto
explaining why and how we do the
budget," he said, "and how we are
in relatively good shape compared
receiving their certification. TFA
eventually decided to terminate
the partnership, sending them to
continue their education at Wayne
State University instead.
It was in Nov. 2001 when Ryan
Gall, then a Teach for America
teacher stationed in Detroit, found
out he'd be transferring to a differ-
ent public school across town. Gall
said when he was forced to move
to another school he felt as though
he was "losing his kids."
"I was teaching an astronomy
unit, and I had just glued stars
and planets all over she walls," he
said. "The whole room was trans-
formed to a solar system for the
next day. That night I found out I'd
be transferring to a new school in
the middle of that year, and I was
devastated."
Upon entering his new school,

ihe wire
FOLLOW THE

DAILY'NTFA P
'S NESFrom Page1A

* michigandaily.com/blogs
/the wire

positions," she said. "It came as a
result of a shrinking student popu-
lation and budget challenges the
district faced."
At the end of the first year in
Detroit, it remained uncertain
whether TFA teachers would be
guaranteed placements the next
year. It was then that TFA made
the decision not to send any more
participants to the city. The teach-
ers already there were given the
choice to finish . their two-year
commitments to Detroit or move
elsewhere.
Adding to the problems was a
fracture in TFA's partnership with
Marygrove College, the school
from which TFA teachers were

Diepenhorst.
The Office of Multi-Ethnic Stu-
dent Affairs formed M-HEART,
which led the coordination efforts
for the planning of the vigil, days
after the earthquake struck in order
to unify the entire campus' effortsoto
assist with the devastation. MESA
formed the coalition after multiple
student organizations reached out
demonstrating their interest in
offering aid to the country.
"M-HEART is a student-led orga-
nization determined to make an
impact in any way possible to the
relief efforts," MESA Intercultural
Development Program Director
Linh Nguyen said. "Starting with
to some of our peers and give an
explanation of that"
Because of the University's
exemplary reputation, the HLC
has allowed the University to select
one topic for a special emphasis
study. The HLC only allows insti-
tutions they feel will be adequate
in each of the aforementioned cat-
egories, like the University, to pro-
duce such reports.
In 2000, the University focused
the self-emphasis study on inter-
disciplinary cooperation. This time
around, the study will concentrate
on internationalization.
With over 4,000 international
undergraduate students and an
ever-increasing sense among the
student body that the University is
part of a global community, van der
Pluijm said internationalization
was a logical choice.
With more students traveling
abroadl:8ullivan, sai the ,Jniver-
sity chose this theme to advance
the study abroad program. "We're
thinking about different models,"
Westside Multicultural Academy,
Gall said he experienced his fair
share of challenges. The fifth-
grade class he taught was com-
prised of kids taken from two other
classes in the middle of the year.
"I said,'OhmyLord, it's Novem-
ber and I'm startingethe first day of
school," he said.
Gall said his students literally
kicked and screamed on the floor
and received a number of suspen-
sions when he first started. But by
the end of the year, his students
had made a year and a half's worth
of progress.
Classroom challenges like these
are to be expected for many TFA
teachers across the country. But
Gall said being transferred was
rarely experienced outside of
Detroit. Most teachers in the city
were transferred at least once and
some weren't placed until well
after the first day of school, he
said.
At the end of his first year, Gall
heard TFA would be ending its
partnership with Detroit Pub-
lic Schools after his second year,
making his the only class of TFA
teachers to work in Detroit.
According to Gall, the major-
ity of TFA teachers in Detroit,
including himself, decided to stay
in the city. But despite choosing to
remain in Detroit, only a handful
were offered teaching positions
after their second year.
"Myself and my roommates all
finished out the end of the second
year and they pretty much told all
of us they had no place for us to
stay," Gall said. "A lot of us scat-

tered to the winds, and only about
S or 6 teachers got job offers."
According to a February 20,
2009 Detroit News article, it was
widely believed the Detroit Fed-
eration of Teachers - the Detroit
Public Schools teachers union -
pressured the district into getting
rid of the TFA teachers.
Gall agreed with this assess-
ment, saying the teachers' union
played a key role in TFA's depar-
ture.
"The whole state of Michigan
is extremely unionized," he said.
"Teachers' unions run whatever
alternative teaching placements
there are. If the union doesn't sup-
port something, it doesn't have
much of a chance. And the unions
were not in love with TFA."
Detroit Public School adminis-

the vigil, we also hope to initiate a
donation drive and form long-term
rebuilding efforts with a focus on
education in Haiti."
LSA junior Ghita Vagher, one of
the students who reached out to
MESA, has already begun formulat-
ing future plans to continue provid-
ing support for the country in the
future.
Vagher said that one of
M-HEART's goals is to reach out to
as many student organizations as
possible that wish to help with the
cause. Additionally, Vagher said she
hopes to host a concert and a fund-
raising dinner in the near future to
raise money.
she said. "I think the old model of
spending one semester of my junior
year in Florence isn't what people
want to do for study abroad any-
more."
"I think that they've got differ-
ent ideas in mind. Maybe it would
be three weeks in Beijing and three
weeks in Nairobi and comparing
and contrasting what you saw in
terms of water treatment systems
in those two places," she continued.
"There's a lot more ways to make it
relevant to your program and more
than tourism."
Sullivan said though many
questions remain about what
changes may need to be made
to the University's study abroad
office, the University may consid-
er consolidating the study abroad
offices.
"Other Big Ten schools have
a single study abroad office, we
;dpn't," Slliran said, "We tendIn
have each school or college develop
its own. That would be a logical
thingto look at."
trators and the Detroit Federation
of Teachers did not return phone
calls or e-mails from The Michi-
gan Daily.
TFA officials are currently
exploring the option of return-
ing to Detroit within the next few
years.
In an e-mail interview, Ify
Offor, vice president of new site
development for TFA, wrote there
has been "a lot of local support for
bringing Teach For America to
Detroit."
According to Offor, TFA has
been talking with city leaders
including Mike Tenbusch of the
United Way and officials in Gov.
Jennifer Granholm's office.
Though University graduates
interested in TFA don't have the
option of being placed in Detroit,
many undergraduates participate
in various programs in the Detroit
metro area, with student organi-
zations working at Detroit Public
Schools.
LSA senior Hannah Lieberman
is a member of The Detroit Part-
nership, a student group that does
volunteer work in Detroit. After
being involved with the organiza-
tion for three and a half years and
now the director of the group's
School Program Team, Lieberman
said Detroit's need for qualified
teachers is apparent.
Lieberman said Detroit's non-
compliance with TFA is surprising
given the school district's lack of
resources.
"It's a huge hole in their ideol-
ogy," she said. "In an area of such
need and especially in a school
system that's really struggling

with changing administrations,
not meeting 'Adequate Yearly
Progress' as determined by No
Child Left Behind, Detroit Pub-
lic Schools could use really great
teachers."
Today, Gall is the principal of
Indianapolis Lighthouse College
Preparatory Academy, but his
affection for Detroit hasn't waned.
"If someone were to call me
tomorrow, I think I'd jump at
the opportunity (to return to
Detroit)," Gall said. "Not that
I don't love it here, but I've told
wife many times I would've
taught there until retirement.
I love the kids; I love the city.
Detroit's a punchline all over our
media these days, but something
about Detroit grows on you."

Think you know where to
find the Best Dessert?
Do you have the Best Pick-up Line?
Is your landlord the Best?
Cast your vote in the Michigan Daily's
Annual Readership Survey Poll!
Vtefer the
Best of
Ann Arbor
Voting extended to January 29th!
Go to: http://wwwmichigandailycom/best-2010
to Cast your vote today.


6A- Thursday, January 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

0


PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

NOW LEASING
FOR 2010!
GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATION
TOUR TODAY!
As 4 bedroom apts
starting at $699
FREE satellte TV
FREE high speed intemet
All utilities included
Fully Furnished
n-Unit Washer/Dryer
Ask how you can receive

XBOX 360 REPAIR $35
Call 734-829-8969

! AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free $150 gift card and
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777. FREE LUNCH!
!2 BEDROOM, completely remod-
eled, large kitchen with modern appli-
ances. Full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. Pet friendly. Call Laura for
your private tour at Church StreetT
Apartments LLC. 734-994-0644. COURTYARDS *
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select f
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start. 1780 Broadway (734) 994 - 6007
Single bedrooms through 5-person, 3 www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
bath. Rates from $655. Per-person con-
tracts, all utilities included at flat rate.
New building, 2 blocks from campus.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com ! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
. . .prkg incl Call 'Michigan Realty, 734-
420 S. Division #2 662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
5 BDRM ! AWESOME LOCATION 9 Bed-
room, 3 bathrooms, fully fin, 2 large
$2500 fridges, full size washer & dryer, on
site parking. For more information call
SEPT 2010 Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609 TStudio & 1
dI r rn. Units
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces Tower Plaza Condominium
left for 2010, single bedrooms through uic. Hi'sv vOOtx mCamv
5 people. Open house event Thur-Sat Ca Ban sicO
Jan. 28-30, 12-7p, free catered food, ap- 734-663-1530
plication fee waived. $50 iTunes cert.
on signing. Beautiful new building,
per-person contracts, 2 blocks from !NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
campus. 734-998-4400 Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.4etevenlofts.com www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
! 6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large ! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
wshr/dryr included and on site parking. Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
On Church St. between Hill & Oak- washer, laundry, alcony, free parking.
land. Cull Laura at Churchs Street Apart- Call 734-944-2405.
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
! 8 BDRM House. Walk to Campus. bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
Frnshd. Prkg & Ldry-Rdcd to $3800. tvs, modern furniture & much more!
umcampushousing.com. 810-231-0229. 741-9300 annarborapartments.net
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy'? WWW.800FULLER.COM
Check out all of the available proper- (734) 769-7520
ties for sale in the urea. 1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768 5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
&ANHLES
HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURESAREACCEPTED
Ann Arbor. (888) 883-7083 - www.sciofarms.com
Ypsilanti - (888) 310-6850 . www.4lakeview.com

1 the e
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Sta
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!!AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm.
furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
!!!MAY STUDIO and I edroom aps
on PM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!$ SAVE $, Sign before Jan. 31,
2010, get a generous signing bonus!
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments.
Fall 2010, Across from East Quad.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., lndry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtltc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!AVAILABLE NOW 2 bedroom apart-
ment in historical house near EMU.
$800/mo includes heat. 734-878-1463.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
541 S. DIVISION
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734 663-5609
***** MAY LEASES *****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May to August
I bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Call today 761-8000!
Prime Stuident Housing
primesh.co
**1 & 2 Bedrooms** near CCRB and
CC Little Choose your new living
room furniture! new kitchens w/ dish-
washers, fully furnished, heat, water,
parking inc.
www.varsitymanagement.com
**2 & 4 Bdrms** Perfect for Grad Stu-
dents! Huge apts w/ 10Oft ceilings, hard-
wood floors, fireplaces in peaceful
Burns Park.
Varsity Mgmt. (734)668-1100
uu2 BDRM -2 Bath Bilevelsau Huge
camps opts perfect for 4, large rooftop
balconies, spacious kitchens w/ dish-
washers, fully furnished, heat, water,
parking inc.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
*2BEDROOMS - Fau** 911 and
1001 . Forest new kitchens & aths,
wireless Internet incl along w/ heat, wa-
ter, furnishings, and parking!
www.varsitymanagement.com
**3-BEDROOMS** NEAR CCRB
and CC Little, balconies or patio, large

living rooms w/ new furniture. Heat,
water, parking scl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
*OCHURCH @S. University**
ONLY I LEFT! Large 2-bdrm for 4,
heat, water, furnishings incl.
Varsity Mgmt (734) 668-1100
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com
ZIe t1Ina gai
PRESENTS THE
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

# BDRMS Location Price
6 1221 S. State #2 $2400
5 420 S. Division #2 $2500
3 1123 Church St. $1700
2 721 Catherine #1 $1200
1 721 Catherine #4 $900
eff. 1117 Church #2 $550
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
**331CATHERINE**FOR THE so-
phisticate! 3-bdrms w/ in-unit wash-
er/dryers, hardwood firs, new carpet,
stainless steel appliances, remodeled
kitchens, and brilliant colors; all w/
parking incl. Go to
www.varsiymanagement.com
for virtual tours!
**DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story**.
Wshr/dyr in unit. Half a mile to UM
Medical Center. $880/mo, including
water. Call 734-395-5288 or 248-855-
3143.
*LARGE 3 STORY furn. 5 bdrm for 6
people, 3 kitch, 3 bath, prkg, Indry. 921
Packard. Avail '10. Call 734-272-1320.
1221 5. State #2
6 BDRM
$2400
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
*6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
2010! 1007 State. Furn. Newly
renovated Ist Floor and Bthrms. Free
Prkng and Indry. Call 734-717-9288.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two edrooms apart-
ments on Central und North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
321 E. Liberty
6 BDRM APT.
$2800
SEPT. I, 2010
2 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS,
2 BLOCKS TO DOWNTOWN
4 PARKING SPACES
WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.smileypoperties.com
(734) 761-4469
4-7 ROOM hse. Kingsley & State. re-
modeled, $500/rm. 248-910-2286.
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-6380
www.benjaminrentals.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.

5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, tndry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
j "jUnIVCrity

Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
3260E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
APTS AT 1215 Hill and 5th Ave and
Packard. Efficiencies 1,2 & 4 Bed-
rooms. Heat included. 734-260-4003
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
a$575/Manth inctadesmeals,
Internet, parlng, and utilitiest
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 wwwicccoop
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail, on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.nnrorpartmens.net

AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and ldry. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.W
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
tPost Realty
pro ete
Rent with the Best!
SFall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing

Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

0 *

AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and Indry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the studiutm. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about oar specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus~ urnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
lApartrraents Available]

1
1
1
1
1
1
2
2
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
3
4
4
4
A

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Like "The Day 39 Bold Ruler, to 50 More artful
1 Trip with much the Earth Stood Secretariat 52 Henry Blake's
hardship Stilt," in 2008 40 Versailles eye titleo
5 Ampule 3 Alchemist's 41 Schedules of "MA*S*H"
9 Bikini blast, creation problems to be 53 Good place to
briefly 4 Hawk family bird dealt with get?
14 Prefix with port 5 High-tech invader 42 More than 55 "Give it !"
15 FAQ responses, 6 Of one mind plump 58 Surrounding glow
e.g. 7 Aptly named 46 Jenna of 59 Uninhibited party
16 Belittle shaving lotion "Dharma & Greg" 60 The law,
17 Send out 8 Became unhinged 48 Musical based on according to Mr.
18 "Goshdamit 9 Capital on the an 1862 novel, Bumble
19 Languagelthat Red Riser fr short 81 Lobbying gp.
gives us "floe" 10 Govt. security 49 Safe toput away 62 Org. for GPs
0 Music lessons for 11 Otologist's
Bill Clinton? concern ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Oscar-winning 12 Org. dodged by
role for Forest draft dodgers J E F F D A M S Z E S T A
4 PC backup key 13 Driver's starting I K E A R H E A A R E A S
5 Corrosion- point F E R N Y E A R N N E X U S
resistant metal 21 Take down G E D V I N E W I N E
28 Lettertflourish 22 Did a laundry
3 rSg2dSnorkel' d uchore G R A S S G A S E G E S T S
pooch 26'"_ a KickOutof P E C M E R M A R M S S
3 An A will usually You": Cole Porter S I L O A G A T E S
raise it: Abbr. 27 "_-daisy!"
4 Science 28 Welcome spot NURSERYRHYMES
pening? 30 "WhatYouaNeed" O N R A M P U P O N
3Most congenial 32band G ES O R T L A A E A U
39 0ocumentary 32SCarryalls O N ET W O NER B ER B
about Chicago's 35 Lacki capacity
relationship with 372002 movie with T R E E F R E E G A O
itsteam? Mannythe F A N T A S H R U B C L U B
2 Event with a Mammoth A G I R L TAY E A O K I
pinata 38Newspaper R E N A L A D E S B A E Z
13 S using tut f concern, esp.
14 "Euodus" hero lately xwordeditorala.om 01t27/0

" 1155 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Doily
C B741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

www.Bartonbrook.com, 734-665-5620|
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKlNG!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near
Ctral Campus. $500-750. Includes
H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in 08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.

45 he top of the 1 2
47 Roman _: 14
thinly disguised
fiction 17
51 Often scandalous
book genre 20
54 Dawdle behind
56 Old name of 23
Tokyo
57 Moreequitable of a
two civil case
uries?
60 With alacrity
63 Ruminate y 9
64 Prefix with
dextrous 42
65 Its capital is Apia 4
66 Performing -
67 Despicable 51
68 Almost boil
69 Political
cartoonist
Thomas 50g6
70 Israeli satesman
Weizman m
DOWN 6s
1 One of Luther's
95 tB yDon
(c)2010

3 4 5 6 7 8 8 10 11 12 13
15 16
18 19
21 22
24 25 26 27 28
30 31 32 33
34 35 36 37 38
9 40 41
43
45 46 47 48 49 50
52 53 54 55 56
5T 58 59
1 62 63 64
66 67
69 70
ona S. Levin 01/28110
) Tribune Media Services, inc.

01

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 28, 2010 - 7A

Michigan Theater soaks up the Sun

Sundance USA brings
renowned indie film
festival to Ann Arbor
By JENNIFER XU
Daily Arts Writer
Once .a year, snowy Park City, Utah plays host
to one of the largest film festivals in the world:
the Sundance Film Festival. Over a 10-day
stretch, 200 independent films make their
debuts to an audience of over 40,000 filmmak-
ers, critics and pilgrimaging cinephiles. About
half of these films find major distributors, with
a few going on to receive Oscar gold.
Tonight, Ann Arborites will get a chance
to experience Sundance close to home, as the
Michigan Theater features the premiere of
"Cyrus" in the Festival's inaugural installation
of a new event, Sundance USA.
"For more than 40 years, the Sundance Film
Festival has been this place where films pre-
miere - ideas getting tossed around, all this
dialogue happening, and emotions - and it all
happens in this one little town," said David Cou-
rier, Sundance Film Festival senior programmer.
"Unlike other festivals, we're not really affili-
ated with the city we're in - we're not the Park
City Film Festival - we're very much a festival
for the nation and, we'd like to think, the world,"
he said.
"That makes us the perfect ones to spread our
tentacles across the United States."
This past summer, the Sundance Film Com-
mittee made the decision to expand its films to
audiences all around the nation, bringing eight
direct-from-festival films to eight different
venues, including the Michigan Theater. These
films are being screened for audiences nation-
wide who'may not be able to make the Utah trek,

in addition to the other screenings in Park City.
"We've been fostering these voices of inde-
pendent artists for so many years, and we want-
ed to transport these artists in the extent of their
voices and ideas beyond the mountains of Utah
and into these different communities," Courier
said. "They're all communities that have shown
a passion for alternative cinema and that's why
they were chosen."
Most of the eight theaters selected, includ-
ing the Michigan Theater, are part of Sundance
Institute's Art House Project, a collective of
mostly smaller cinemas that foster an apprecia-
tion of independent film in their local communi-
ties.
"It was very important for us to have audi-
ences that are interested in talking about film,"
Courier explained.
Directors Jay and Mark Duplass ("Baghead")
and star Jonah-Hill ("Superbad") will be pres-
ent at the Ann Arbor screening of "Cyrus." The
directors will lead a Q&A session afterward,
where audience members will get a chance to
ask the filmmakers about their work.
"One of the reasons we wanted to do this is
that we wanted to bring the experience of being
at Sundance Film Festival to each one of these
cities," Courier said.
"What that means is that you're not justgoing
to the movie theater, buying some popcorn and
watching the movie," he said. "You're seeing a
film that's being introduced by the people that
made the film, and you're staying afterwards
and talking to them."
"And we're going to have a video ahead of
time, a little message from Robert Redford, a
taste of Sundance that way as well. We're trying
to replicate the experience of being at the festi-
val as much as we possibly can."
Meanwhile, the Michigan Theater stays
perched on East Liberty, a lingering remnant of
Ann Arbor's rich and lustrous history and the

golden age of Hollywood itself. To the Michigan
Theater, at least, time stands still. Inside, gold
leaf moldings ornament the expansive halls,
double stairways swirl down from the chande-
lier-bathed balcony and an assortment of illus-
trious Ann Arbor founders loom prodigiously
above. The year could very well be 1929. Only
the ever-changing marquees signal the evolving
landscape outside - the capitalized film titles no
longer read "The General" or "Modern Times"
but rather "The Maid" and "Crazy Heart."
Largest out of all the independent theaters
participating in the project, the Michigan hous-
es a whopping 1,700 velvet-lined seats in its
Historic Theater, where "Cyrus" will be shown
this Thursday. For the past few weeks, the the-
ater has done its own share of preparation for
the event, as festive lamppost banners line the
streets and a massive billboard emerges from
I-94.
For five years, the theater has enjoyed a spe-
cial relationship with Sundance and its Art
House Project, which supports independentcin-
ema through special screenings and talks.
"It's really the special relationship with Sun-
dance that we're trying to promote," said Lee
Berry, marketing director of the Michigan The-
ater. "It's the hype behind it; people absolutely
get excited about special events."
Tickets for the event have already sold out,
and half were sold before audiences even knew
which film was being screened.
"Because of all the hoopla that comes with
it, it's an event - it's more than just a movie,"
Berry said. "It enables us to put more behind
it in terms of marketing, get a whole lot more
excitement."
Already, Sundance USA is looking to expand
in future years.
"It hasn't happened yet, but with all the
excitement and energy about it, I can only think
we have to do it again," Courier said.

MAX COLLINS aiy
"Cyrus" is the featured film playing at the Michigan as part of Sundance USA.



COURTESY OF ATLANTIC/F-STOP
Ben Gibbard and Jay Farrar are among the many musicians who will be performing at the 33rd Annual Ann Arbor Folk Festival
Folking around at Hill

By MIKE KUNTZ
Daily Music Editor
Jay Farrar is no stranger to the folk tradition. A
songwriter nearly all his adult life, Farrar's music
with seminal bands Uncle Tupelo and Son Volt is
a prime example of the genre's
breadth, bridging aspects of punk 33rd A
rock and traditional country
through ragged guitars and his own Ann Arbor
narrative lyrics. Folk Festival
But his appearance at the 33rd
Annual Ann Arbor Folk Festi- Friday and
val tomorrow night highlights Saturday,
another aspect of American folk 6:30 p.m.
- namely, the literary tradition Hill Auditorium
of the Beats. Along with Ben Gib-
bard (lead singer and songwriter
for indie rockers Death Cab for Cutie), Farrar will
be performing songs from 2009's One Fast Move Or
I'm Gone, a collaborative project between the two
songwriters based on prose from Jack Kerouac's
1962 novel "Big Sur." The record also doubled as an
extended soundtrack for Jim Sampas's documenta-
ry of the same name.
"There was probably an element of a kid being
unleashed in a candy store," said Farrar of the project
in an interview with the Daily. "I was so familiar with
Jack's work and I was just inspired to be able to, in a
weird way, work with Kerouac, or at least his words
and his concepts."
The lyrics throughout the record borrow heav-
ily from Kerouac's actual prose, with Farrar adding
some of his own Midwestern experience in between.
"I started with the poem at the end of the book,"
Farrar said, explaining the writing process behind
One Fast Move tracks "Breathe Our Iodine" and "Low
Life Kingdom." "With those songs in particular I had
to do a little more filling in with some of my own
words to make it a little more cohesive."
As a lifelong fan of Kerouac's work, writing and
recording the album had a uniquely personal effect."
'Big Sur' resonated in a way because I was at a sim-
ilar age as Jack was when he was writing about the
experiences in the book," he explained.
Gibbard and Farrar met while shooting the Sam-
pas documentary, in which both artists provided
their own personal commentary on Kerouac's
prose. Farrar had previously worked with Sampas
on a tribute to Bruce Springsteen's iconic Nebraska
record.
"Jim must've had me in his Rolodex file or some-
thing," Farrar joked.
Gibbard shares songwriting credit and sings
throughout the album, giving Farrar's earnest, achier
vocals a lighter, more boyish foil. The pair have been
touring through the late fall, showcasing tracks from
OneFast Move throughout the country and garnering
much favorable press along the way.
But Farrar is convinced the project's success
comes from the chemistry between the two song-
writers.

"That's probably what gives the project strength,"
Farrar said. "We have a shared sensibility and pretty
much speak the same musical language."
Folk music tends to breed the kind of sensibility
Farrar describes - an environment where artistic
collaboration and impromptu, organic performance
reign supreme. Ask any of the performers at this
year's Ann Arbor Folk Festival and they'd probably
agree.
Hosted by historic folk venue The Ark, the annual
festival - all proceeds from which benefit continued
operations and programming at The Ark - has been
bringing top names in contemporary and traditional
folk music for over 30 years. Now in its 33rd year, the
event brings yet another fantastic lineup to Hill Audi-
torium this weekend.
Beginning Friday evening, dream-folker Iron &
Wine will headline alongside Gibbard and Farrar,
with additional support from Philadelphia bluegrass/
Americana outfit Hoots & Hellmouth, Jer Coons
and Po' Girl. Saturday night features Rosanne Cash,
Richie Havens and the incomparable Doc Watson as
headliners, with Raul Malo, Hot Club of Cowtown
and Enter the Haggis supporting. Singer-songwriter
Grant-Lee Phillips (the mastermind behind '90s rock-
ers Grant Lee Buffalo) performs both nights, with
Patty Larkin emceeing.
In keeping with the trend of recent years, Friday's
lineup aims to represent more of the contemporary,
Jay Farrar and Ben
Gibbard turn into Beat
poets at the Folk Festival.
younger talents within folk music, while Saturday
showcases roots-ier acts and shifts the focus toward
more veteran performers. Last year even featured a
brief appearance by the legendary Pete Seeger.
Appearances like Seeger's play a central role in
keeping the folk tradition alive at events like the Folk
Festival - while many of the younger faces in last
year's crowd may have been unfamiliar with all but a
few of Seeger's songs, all could recognize his warmth
and undeniable influence on the artists and devotion
to the craft.
Folk music, like the emotional urgency of punk
rock or Beat poetry, survives precisely because of
the kind of stewardship between older and younger
artists, dead writers and contemporary muses. It's
exactly the kind of community that makes writing
songs from a Kerouac-like stream-of-consciousness
an inherently folk endeavor.
"There's an immediacy to it that can't be denied,"
Farrar said. "Acoustic music is important because it's
nobile, you can take it anywhere."
The 33rd Annual Ann Arbor Folk Festival begins at
6:30 p.m. tomorrow night at Hill Auditorium.

DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm
apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furn, disposal,
dwshr, lndry, prkg. Walkout balcony.
$1175 + elec. 734-662-7121 or email
gpmiles@aol.com
FALL 2010 HUGE luxury 6 bedrooms
plus study bi-level apt. 2 full luxury
marble baths. Prime Location.
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandailycom/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff, Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MoroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
8l5louthState~anagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
, 2, 3 Bdrm. aps.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdrm & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greeneapts.com
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-773
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude Victoria's S type lingerie
photography. Flexible hrs, great pay.
Must be 18. For interview call:
734-678-4111.
NEED HELP WITH application? Ann
Arbor Medical Marijuana Clinic. Email
patient@annarbormedicalmarijuana-
clinic.com.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Hake lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

Scoop up
the students
before other

IV

Summer
.Employment
Page
By advertsing en this year's Sununer
Employment Page you can reach over
40,000+ highly qualifird Wolverines!
This is a great oppurtunity for
internships or summer positions to
reach the eyes ofmanyeligible students.
Presented by Thre Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Feb.18 ats1:30 am
Published Feb.z
dailyclassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557

Spring Break comes to life...
Live Concerts
Awesome VIP Parties
Beautiful Beaches
Scenic Cliff Jumping
Spectacular Sunsets
Book Your Trip Today! Contact:
SE VICM
1.800.648.4849
vwwststravet.cona
mauEs1laht~ralm1
1.800.426.7710
Everything seems to be bigger than life!
(It's just today's Full Moon energy.
Rela.)
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Some aspect of your private life defi-
nitely will be made public today. People
wilt notice you, especially bosses, par-
ents, teachers and VPs. Just be awae of
this.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
This is an accident-prone day, espe-
cially related to travel. Take extra pre-
cautions. Similarly, avoid heated discus-
sions about race, politics and religion.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
Yeamight have to fight for your share
of something today. Issues about inheri-
tances, shared property, taxes and insur-
ance matters could come toea head now.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Today's Full Moon is directly opposite
your sign, and this creates stress between
you and partners or close friends. Your
only alternative isto display grace under
pressure. Mellow out.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
Don't be overly aggressive with co-
workers on the job today. And don't be
aggressive with other people if it's
related to small pets, your own health
issues or some kind of hygiene factor.
It's just today's Full Moon madness.
YOU BORN TODAY You're social
and fun-loving. You enjoy the company
of others. You have a strong sense of
social justice and fair play; invariably,
you fight for the underdog. You are tol-
erant, broad-minded and interested in
many things. However, you are some-
times just eel sre what yea want. Your
year ahead will be wonderfully social
and beneficial for partnerships.
Birthdate of: Adam Lambert, singer;
Oprah Winfrey, TV host; Tom Selleck,

For Friday, Jan. 29, 2010
ARIES
(March21 to April 19)
The Full Moon tension today can
cause difficulty with friends and groups.
This makes dealing with children and
romantic partners challenging! Stay
frosty.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
You'll need extra patience today to
deal with the challenges of home and
family versus career and your public rep-
utation. You just can't keep everyone
happy.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
The Full Moon today can create
accident-prone conditions for you.
Therefore, be careful, slow down and
allow extra time for everything. Be cau-
tious when driving, walking and jog-
ging.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Today's Full Moon can create finan-
cial tension for you. This tension could
be about disputes related to money mat-
ters or about possessions. It's your inter-
ests versus the interests of others.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Who are you going to put first today
- your wants and needs, or the wants
and needs of others? This is the kind of
dichotomy that every Full Moon can cre-
ate.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
The tension from today's Full Moon
could create problems for you at work or
even with your health. You feel you have
to make a choice. Perhaps you do.
Choose wisely.
LI BRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is a rocky day for romance,
sports, social occasions, the entertain-
ment world and the hospitality industry.


0

8A - Thursday, January 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


0

Basement gets deep

"Lookin good.
A hedbbig 'Dem

Haunting melodies
wash ashore on Beach
House's new album
By JOSHUA BAYER
Daily Arts Writer
It's official: Beach House is here to stay.
When a band flat out nails its aesthetic
only two albums into the game, it's only
natural to worry that all
the band's consecutive
albums will be increas-
ingly lukewarm per- Beach
mutations of the same
sweet formula. With House
2008's Devotion, Beach Teen Dream
House seemed to have Sub Pop
its sound figured out u
to a tee. The Baltimore
duo had struck a spectrally aching bal-
ance among noir-y, reverb-drenched gui-
tars and retro-kitsch organs and drum
machines, all wrapped up in the ominous
blanket of Victoria Legrand's snake-
charming alto. And the end result was an
inimitably haunting mutation of bedroom
pop that seemed almost too perfect to
tamper with.
While Teen Dream largely retains the
tone of syrupy dreaminess that made
Devotion such an emotionally engaging
listen, it proves Beach House is not con-
tent to rest on its laurels. Where Devotion
was brittle and sparse, slinking along

with an icy seductiveness, Teen Dream
is sweeping and warm, with powerhouse
melodies towering like wedding cakes.
From the lushly cherubic vocal layering.
on "Take Care" to the white-noise cli-
max of splashing cymbals, gurgly moans
and quivering synths on the aptly titled
"10 Mile Stereo," Teen Dream's wall-of-
sound grandiosity pulls out the big guns
without compromising the band's hyp-
notic appeal.
A huge component of the album's
larger-than-life feel is its almost alarm-
ing pop sensibility. While Devotion was
anything but short on melody, its thrills
hinged mostly on down-tempo eeriness
rather than bona fide hooks. And though
nothing from Teen Dream will ever make
as much as a peep on FM radio, the
record finds the band stepping out of the
shadows and channeling its introspec-
tive wistfulness into friendlier, heavier-
hitting compositions.
The instant the chorus of opener
"Zebra" starts up, with Legrand's vel-
vety lilt snuggling against a carousel of
lit-up guitar and synthesizer, the album
smothers the listener in its thawing
embrace. "Norway" is especially impres-
sive, taking this newfound pop charisma
and hovering it over a melting wasteland
of heroin-addled guitars and wavery
synths, attesting to the fact that the
band's recent clarity hasn't whitewashed
its aura of mystery.
Perhaps the biggest surprise on Teen
Dream is that you can actually bob your

head along to a couple of the songs. "Sil-
ver Soul," with its fuzzy-monster guitar
throb and crunchy snare-tambourine
hits, sounds like something Zeus would
bop along to in his bathrobe. And "Walk
In The Park" coasts along on an insistent
shaker and pulsating drum machine, illus-
trating how the words "shoegaze" and
"dancy" aren't mutually exclusive.
Still, to say Teen Dream's electrified
vibe is a wholesale improvement on the
"old" Beach House would be stretching
it. While the band has certainly opened
its sound up in terms of warmth, layer-
ing and sheer massiveness, the individ-
ual songs occasionally feel a little bit too
grounded, incessantly building without
ever truly evolving, or overstretching the
same idea without much wiggle-room.
"Zebra" gradually piles on the shakers,
backing vocals and crash cymbals in
traditional slow-burn fashion, but rides
squarely on a verse-chorus-verse-chorus
cycle. And "Walk In The Park" follows
this same rigid structure without much
variation at all, save for its shimmery
outro.
But, ultimately, the album's moderate
lack of movement doesn't really clash
with its chi. Teen Dream's mesmerizing
ocean of noise is meant to be surfed on
dreamily anyway, and the single-mind-
edness of each song almost adds to the
record's overall trance. So snuggle up in
your bed, light some incense and blast
this album at full volume - you won't be
disappointed.

By EMMA JESZKE
Daily Arts Writer
Basement Arts is kicking off its winter
season with a nontraditional style of the-
atrical production. Rather than producing
a single play with one
set of characters and ,Art'and'A
one plot, the first free
student performance to iglt Ade'
grace Studio One thisT
semester consists of two Tonightthrough
separate one-acts, cho- Saturday at 7
sen independently by p.m.,tomorrow
two student directors. at11 p.m.
The evening of one- Walgreen
acts will include "Art" Drama Center
by Yasmina Reza,
directed by School of Music, Theatre &
Dance sophomore Porscha Kazmierc-
zak and "A Slight Ache" by Harold Pinter,
directed by School of MT&D freshman
Doron Bloomfield.
The two shows were lumped together
for purely logistical purposes by the Base-
ment Board. But "Art" and "A Slight Ache"
overcome their drastically different plot-
lines: "Art" tells the story of three feud-
ing middle-aged best friends and "A Slight
Ache" glimpses into a peculiar afternoon
of an elderly couple in a dead marriage.
The two shows have a number of running
parallels thematically and stylistically,
creating a surprisingly cohesive are of the-
atrical experience for their audience.
"Both shows have three people in them,
and both require minimal design elements,"
Bloomfield said. "It seems superficial, but
it's actually not. The idea of three people in
a context of basically an empty space and
seeing how they interact, I think that raises
a lot of questions with the audience."
The connecting thematic elements stem
from the two one-acts' mutual concentra-
tion on human relationships.
A pair of student-
directed plays about
troubled people.
"I think (both plays) speak to people's
inabilities to communicate and connect,"
said Bloomfield. "In 'A Slight Ache' (the
characters) have this match seller that
they are focusing on because they can't
focus on each other, and in 'Art' they are
looking at this painting and are trying
to find meaning in it rather than trying

to find meaning in the relationships they
have."
The characters in each show are at dif-
ferent points in their lives and therefore
demonstrate different takes on human
relationships. "A Slight Ache" has a heavi-
er tone and explores roles in relationships
as they relate to death and dying. "Art," on
the other hand, attacks the idea of rela-
tionships in a more immediate way, con-
fronting what the meaning of friendship
is, what binds people together and why
people hold onto friendships as they dete-
riorate.
Kazmierczak feels that because the two
one-acts explore similar thematic subject
manner in different ways, they will work
well in preparing audiences for the emo-
tional arc of the production.
"Laughter is the best way to open up
people for sadness," Kazmierczak said. "So
I think that it'll be a good experience if my
show ends up going first. If ('Art') appeals
to people's sense of humor, then they will
be ripe and ready to start crying for ('A
Slight Ache')."
"Art" isn't purely comical with its
weighty themes, but the witty dialogue
and eclectic characters arguing with one
another are sure to get audiences laugh-
ing. According to Kazmierczak, one of the
reasons "Art" is funny is that it mirrors our
own experiences with friends.
"The second I read it, I recognized every
tactic that I ever used in an argumentwith
my friend when trying to get what I want,"
Kazmierczak said. "I thought it was really
incredible that someone could capture that
in these characters."
This production will also feature some
fresh names and faces for Basement Arts,
as many students involved with this pro-
duction are newbies.
LSA senior Emily Heider is participating
in her first Basement Arts show as Flora in
"A Slight Ache."
"I definitely think that having both the
leads (in 'A Slight Ache') as (non-perfor-
mance majors) will give a fresh perspec-
tive," Heider said. "Because people who
typicallygo to BasementArts showswould
have never seen me before, maybe it will
give them a different outlook on the char-
acter or even just a different approach to
acting."
Branching out from the nuclear cast and
traditional production style, "Art" and "A
Slight Ache" have much to give to potential
audiences.
"There is never not a reason to see the-
ater," Kazmierczak said. "It's never a waste
of time, it's never harmful, it will always
add something-to your life."

p U

The Alumni Association of the University of Michigan
presents the sixth annual
Wednesday, February 3, 2010
"Budget! Are You Kidding?": How to Pay Your Bills
and Still Like Your Life
Wednesday, February 10, 2010
Investing for Young Investors: Putting Your Best Foot Forward
Wednesday, February 17, 2010
Networking Knowhow
Wednesday, February 24, 2010
"Your Fork is Not a Shovel": Business Savvy
for the Young Professional
Each session begins at 6 p.m. at the Alumni Center
(200 Fletcher Street). For details and to register,
visit www.umalumni.com/students.
All events are FREE except the February 24 session,
which has a $10 fee.
Visit us online to learn about our other student programs-Welcome Wednesdays,
30 Minute Mentors, Ready to Launch, Michigan Apprentice and more.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
aT UI"A

ANN ARBOR ARTHRITIS WALK
SATURDAY, APRIL 24, 2010
9:00 AM START TIME
The walk begins and ends at Huron High School. Enjoy a scenic one or
three mile walk through beautiful Gallup Park.
 Coffee & Healthy Snacks before the walk
" Music and free massages, face painting, moonwalk, raffle and a
mini health fair after the walk
" Kick-off Event on Saturday, January 30th in Ann Arbor. Contact Laurie
at 800-968-3030 ext. 230 or e-mail: Irupp@arthritis.org for details

Build your team today!
Visit letsmovetogther.org or call 800-968-3030.

ARTHRTIS
SFOUNDATION
take'Control. WeCanHelp

Arthritis Walk National Sponsors
by National Sponsor National Spo nsor N ational5 N MedaSponsor
Ff~1E .3 I.F g.'LE xr Er Athi tlsla


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 28, 2010 - 9A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 28, 2010 - 9A

Hagelin's play and Swedish heritage
make him a fan favorite at Yost Arena

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
Giant flags from Scandinavian
countries don't often have a natural
place at Michigan sporting events.
But a 120-square-foot Swedish
national flag has blended into the
game-day atmosphere perfectly at
Yost Ice Arena lately.
Maybe it's the blue and yellow
color scheme. Or maybe it's junior
forward Carl Hagelin. The Soder-
talje, Sweden native leads the Wol-
verines in goals and points this
season.
After struggling to register
points as an underclassman, Hage-
lin is just four points away from his
career-high season total with elev-
en games remaining on the sched-
ule. Despite his scoring touch, it's
the group Hagelin spearheads, the
penalty kill, tlat has generated
some of the loudest cheers this sea-
son.
Against Ferris State, while kill-
ing a two-minute five-on-three,
the Wolverines gave up just one

shot. Hagelin played a major part
in the kill as he picked up the puck
in the neutral zone, skated a giant
circle around the zone and fired it
away, killing off about 20 seconds
of penalty time by himself. By the
time the penalties were over, the
only people sitting down in Yost
Ice Arena were those on the bench.
Those kind of plays, along with the
goals, and, according to Hagelin,
his nationality, have put him in the
spotlight all season.
"(Fans) like PKplayers," Hagelin
said. "Killing off penalties is prob-
ably a huge part of it. And then the
fact that I'm not from here, that
helps a lot too. Something that's
different is usually something fun,
that's probably a big part of it."
But the support was growing
long before this season. In some
ways, it started before he even
stepped on the ice.
The Michigan hockey team had
to run the stairs of Michigan sta-
dium in the weeks leading up to
Hagelin's freshman year. There,
he displayed the extraordinary

work ethic that has built rapport
with fans and earned him the title
of alternate captain. He didn't just
beat everybody; he blew everybody
away, according to Michigan coach
Red Berenson.
"He has worked his bag off from
the first day I met him," Berenson
said. "Never being told, never being
pushed, never challenged. I haven't
seen a kid with a better work ethic
from scratch than Carl Hagelin."
The crowd noticed Hagelin
shortly after that, and the Swedish
flag started popping up last year. It
was notably smaller than the cur-
rent flag, and near the top rows of
the student section. It moved down
a couple rows this season, and was
accompanied by a Texas flag and
a Canadian flag when Hagelin
played on a line with Texan fresh-
man Chris Brown and Canadian
sophomore Louie Caporusso.
But after the line was broken up,
the flags disappeared completely.
That is until Engineeringsopho-
more Rob Eckert, after conferring
with his friends, decided to make

the behemoth that has become a
mainstay just to the right of the
opponents' bench - by hand.
"I asked my mom around Christ-
mas time when I saw her if I could
borrow her sewing machine," Eck-
ert said. "She was like 'What are
you making?' I (told) her I was
making a Swedish flag, a big one.
And my Mom made it for me for my
Christmas present."
The flag, which looks like it was
stolen directly from the United
Nationsbuilding, was unveiled two
weeks ago for Michigan's game
against Alaska.
"It's pretty hard not to recog-
nize the big flag," Hagelin said.
"It's obviously an honor, so keep it
coming."
While Eckert, who is not of
Swedish descent, has no current
plans to add to his giant flag col-
lection, he did mention there were
discussions of a Texas flagto honor
Brown. But one issue makes its
success questionable: The color
scheme is off.

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Freshman Darius Morris has been a part of the Wolverines' solid defense in the past
few games. Michigan forced 18 tunovers agains Michigan State on Tuesdayt
6 9
Newfound 'D'
an advantage
f ig
for Mc ia 1

'M' looks for second-straight Big Ten win

Soph
took a
a sigh
Jennyl
on the
and c
her ha
excitem
after th
And

By ZAK PYZIK gling to climb all season - they
Daily Sports Writer got their first conference win over
ateam other than last-place Iowa.
omore Carmen Reynolds Butbeyond thathill lies a moun-
deep breath and let out tain that Michigan will attempt to
of relief, while freshman ascend tomorrow when it travels
Ryan screamed "Enough" to Champaign to battle Illinois.
court The Fighting Illini (3-6, 11-8)
lapped are on a four-game losing streak,
nds in Michigan with their most recent loss com-
sent at Illnois ing against Penn State last Sun-
e win. day.
Matchup: day.
he ihen15 Junior guard Veronica Hicks

ByCHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Editor
Coming into this season, the
Michigan basketball team rested
its laurels on its 3-point shooting.
As the 3-ball went, so did the Wol-
vermnes.'
So as the season begins to wind
down, it's clear
that Michigan NOTEBOOK
has been consis-
tent of late in just one area - its
defense.
While Michigan continues to
have shooting woes from behind
the are, its defense is becoming
more and more of a strength. Tues-
day night, Michigan held the Spar-
tans to just 57 points while forcing
18 turnovers, converting those
into 25 points. In last week's game
against Wisconsin, the Wolverines
held the Badgers to just 34 percent
shooting and Michigan's defense
helped them pull off the upset win
over then-No. 15 Connecticut.
While some of those turnovers
were simply a result of careless-
ness by the Spartans - passing the
ball out of bounds or lobbing cross-
court passes that sailed wide - the
Wolverines did get their hands in
the passing lanes and picked off
the ball several times.
"That was a big thing just being
solid on defense, not taking the
gamble," freshman guard Darius
Morris said. "But when you see the
opportunity to pressure up on your
guy or deflect the pass, that was
really stressed in practice and I
think we really did that today."
Junior Manny Harris had five
steals on the night, including one
that flew out of the hands of a Spar-
tan guard and into the backcourt,
where Harris easily picked it up
and laid it in for two points.
The Wolverines took a two-
point lead into halftime largely
because of their defense.
"Our defense is really getting
up to par," Morris said. "Big Ten
defense, we're rebounding we're
holding opponents to 20 points in
the half, which is really big strides
for us."
While the defense continued to
play hard and force turnovers in
the second half, it was clear that
Michigan State's athleticism down
low gave them a key advantage.
What was troubling for the
Wolverines was the ease with
which Michigan State was able to
get some of its baskets. While the
Spartans rarely had open looks
from outside, Michigan State for-
ward Raymar Morgan killed the
Wolverines down low, scoring a
game-high 20 points on 8-for-9
shooting including a seemingly
preventable layup in the final min-
utsthat pulled Michigan State
And while the defense made
many stops and forced turnovers,
it failed when it was needed most.
Spartan Kalin Lucas found an
opening in Michigan's 1-3-1 zone
and buried the game-winner.
"Our defense is our defense,"
Beilein said. "It's good sometimes
or sometimes we're just either
outmanned or they're stronger or
their guy just makes a shot and we
miss one. It's that simple."
MANNY BENCHED: After

Beilein announced that Harris rest of the Illinois 11-8 and the Wolverines will have
was to return to the court against Michigan their hands full against an Illinois
Michigan State, everyone expect- women's bas- When: Tonight squad that forces 18 turnovers per
ed him to be a contributor. What ketball team at 8 p.m. game. And turnovers can certain-
they didn't expect was that he walked out of Where: Assem- ly paralyze Michigan coach Kevin
would come off the bench in favor Crisler Arena, bly Hall Borseth's aggressive offense.
of redshirt junior Anthony Wright. sharing their Live Blog: Since Michyigan's offensive
Harris scored 56 points against sentiment michigandaily.com scheme is often disrupted by large
the Spartans, nine of which cam after a 70-56 and assertive defenses, second
in the second half, and picked off
-the Spartansfive times. win, over Indiana last Sunday chances and offeasive put-backs
"It wasn't further penalty, it with a huge burden lifted off their will be key components in captur-
wasn't anything," Beilein said of shoulders. ing the victory over the Illini.
Harris coming off the bench. "In The Wolverines (3-6 Big Ten, And that means Ryan will have
the Purdue game when we start- 11-8 overall) finally climbed the to give the Wolverines the spark
ed out strong, Wright went to the hill that they have been strug- they need under the net.
bench and then boom we went
down. But it was not a penalty. It
was just, 'All right, let's get him
coming off the bench and just go in
and be Manny in there.'"
THROWINGaELBOWS: In the With more playing tim
sophomore Laval Lucas-Perry
was elbowed by Lucas. The play me in practice because I felt like
was similar to the one that led to By AMY SCARANO coach finally trusts me," Jordan
Harris's flagrant foul and ejection Daily Sports Writer said after playing the Buckeyes. "I
last season against Purdue when am just happy to be playing. Even
the then-sophomore elbowed the Freshman Nya Jordan had though it sucks to lose, it's just a
Boilermaker's Chris Kramer in the spent most of her first season as blessing to play."
nose. Wolverine on the bench. But on Before the loss to Indiana
While Lucas wasn't called for a Jan. 14, that all changed. nearly two weeks ago, Jordan had
flagrant, Beilein agreed with the Michigan coach Kevin Bors- played an average of seven min-
call. He simply disagreed with how eth played the Detroit native 18 utes per game, on par with the
the situation played out last year. minutes in Bloomington against rest of the freshman class, with
"It was the exact same thing Indiana after playing her for just the exception of Jenny Ryan and
that happened last year to Manny four in the previous game. She Dayeesha Hollins, the only two
at Purdue," Beilein said. "They contributed six points, a career freshmen in the starting lineup.
should not be thrown out for that. record, and notched a 3-pointer Five minutes into the second
That's an offensive foul. That's the to put the Wolverines back into half of last week's 58-56 loss to
way the call should be made. When the game when they faced a nine- Ohio State, Jordan was hand-
you're making a basketball move point deficit. ed the ball and dribbled right
and the guy's face is right there it's In the following game, at home through the Buckeyes defense for
an offensive foul." against No. 5 Ohio State, Borseth a layup. The shot sent the crowd
Later in the game, on Michi- again trusted Jordan's playmak- into a frenzy, and it started the
gan State's final possession, Lucas ing ability. He played her for 20 Wolverines on an 11-4 run.
was kicked in the face when Har- minutes, another career record, in Jordan became a go-to girl
ris tried to force a turnover before a game that went narrowly to the after offensive rebounds, and she
Lucas hit the game winning shot. Buckeyes, 58-56. never failed to take the ball down
Michigan State coach Tom Izzo And last weekend, she played the court against the Buckeyes.
wanted to make sure his star was for 14 minutes at home against "Nya is getting more com-
still available and wouldn't have to Indiana. fortable, we are getting more
be taken out of the game. "It's a lot of inspiration for comfortable with Nya," Borseth
"It was scary with Kalin because said. "She just makes a lot of
I knew we couldn't win the game
without him," Michigan State
coach Tom Izzo said. S U D O ( U

:

Ryan leads the team with 129
rebounds, including 44 offensive
boards. Freshman guard Dayee-
sha Hollins is second on the team
with just 29. Ryan's second effort
gives Michigan the second chanc-
es it needs to stay in games with
top contenders.
"Rebounding-wise, it's impor-
tant," Borseth said. "It comes
along with our strategy. We just
move the ball, we cant rely too
much on new things."
In all but one of the Wolver-
ines' eight losses, they were out-
rebounded by their opponents.
And in all of those games Michi-
gan had fewer offensive rebounds
than its foes.
But to capitalize on those
rebounds, the Wolverines will be
forced to get into a rhythm early,
and they should continue to take
their perimeter shots even if their
shooting starts off slow.
"We needed to get stops," Hicks
said before the season. "We have
to come back, finish the play, and

take it right back. That's really a
big part of winning."
Michigan has to be flex-
ible enough that any missed shots
early in the matchup will not limit
the shots they take later in the
game. Because, as they've shown
all season, the Wolverines are a
second-half team.
Michigan is averaging37 points
a game in the second half this
season, but just 31 points in the
first. Illinois will have to compete
against a team that has proven,
time and time again, it has the
stamina to fight consistently for
an entire 40 minutes.
Tonight's game may be more
important than any other this sea-
son for the Wolverines, a win will
make them a possible contender in
the Big Ten, but a loss may haunt
them like their 68-48 loss tqWis-
consin on Jan.10, which triggered
a three-game losing streak.
For Michigan, Jenny Ryan said
it best.
Enough is enough.

e, Jordan proves herself

i

things happen she had a very posi-
tive productiontonight. She had a
couple assists and a steal, scored
four points, had four rebounds -
that's pretty positive."
Borseth put Jordan up to the
challenge again in last weekend's
victory over the Hoosiers when
she was the first sub he called in
off the bench just six minutes into
the game.
And while her game hasn't
been flawless - in last Sunday's
game she allowed two turnovers
and went up for a block that the
Hoosiers easily got around - but
for an athlete with only 70 min-
utes of total playing time, she has
been a much-needed spark off of
the bench.
"I just keep working hard
because I know coach doesn't
want to see us quit," Jordan said
after the 58-56 loss to the Buck-
eyes at home. "As long as I keep
working hard I think I am gaining

his trust."
Sophomore guard Courtney
Boylan has been Borseth's main
go-to player off the bench all year
and continues to provide energy
the team needs, playing an aver-
age of 15 minutes per game. But
the Wolverines (3-6 Big Ten, 11-8
overall) can benefit from another
dependable bench player - espe-
cially in games like last weekend's
against Indiana, for which three
starters were out for much of the
first half with multiple personal
fouls.
"She makes a lot of things
happen, it's just a matter of get-
ting more time and maturing
with age," Borseth said. "I knew
it when I recruited her that she
would be that kind of player. She
learns as she goes like the rest of
the young kids. She shows a great
effort. She's my kind of player.
She really sells the farm on every
play."

T H g og ii OR NA L
512 E. William (734) 663-3379
LIMITED TIME OFFER
For Our Friends at The U
CUSTOMER APPRECIATION
Lunch Buffet
M-F l1-2pm
$2 OFF our Lunch Buffet
With Beverage Included
Just Present Your U of M I.D.
Offer Expires: 2/26/10

t4


10A - Thursday, January 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *

Jalen Rose a hit in return to Ann Arbor

Former Fab-Fiver
brings color and
his "Rose Garden"
to Crisler Arena
By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
Jalen Rose sure knows how to
steal the spotlight.
It's been nearly two decades
since his knee-length shorts, black
socks and trash-talking attitude
were front and center at Crisler
Arena, but the former Fab Five
point guard is still hard to miss,
even in the middle of a Michigan-
Michigan State basketball game.
He wasn't exactly sitting front
and center - "We gotta play for
the Pistons to get front-row seats!"
Rose said with a laugh - courtside
at Crisler Arena Tuesday night,
but in a bright red velour suit and
an ear-to-ear smile, Rose-certainly
stood out.
The ESPN cameras loved him,
cutting to shots of his jubilation
and dismay throughout the
game, and the Crisler crowd
gave him a standing ovation
when he was honored for his acts
of philanthropy, including his
foundation's Rose Garden and
scholarship endowment at the
University.
Rose, who said that he's

watched nearly all of the Michigan
basketball team's games this year,
knows how badly the Wolverines
needed to win on Tuesday. Playing
the optimist, Rose still holds hope
that Michigan can not only make
the tournament, but also get past
the first or second round.
"You want to have progress," he
said. "We got to the tournament
last year, but we lost to Oklahoma.
Hopefully, we can go a step
further."
It's no accident the word "we"
kept slipping out of Rose's mouth
when he talked about the Michigan
basketball program. Rose, who left
Michigan for the NBA after his
junior season in 1994, has played
basketball all over the nation in the
16 years since he's been gone. But
he still says that Ann Arbor feels
like home.
It's also not far from his actual
hometown, Detroit.
These days, the star-studded
combination of junior Manny
Harris and senior DeShawn
Sims, both Detroit natives, draws
comparisons to Rose and Chris
Webber, the Fab Five's dominant
duo from Detroit. Harris and Sims
are the Wolverines' first Detroit-
based wrecking crew since Rose
and Webber.
"Absolutely, I'm happy to
see Manny, I'm happy to see
DeShawn," said Rose, who last
visited Ann Arbor when Harris
was a freshman. "They're both

playing well, doing their thing."
In his three-year career at
Michigan, Rose tallied 1788
points, 478 rebounds, 401 assists
and 119 steals. He went on to play
for six different NBA teams, and
currently works as a basketball
analyst for ESPN.
At halftime of Tuesday's game
against Michigan State, Rose's
in-game analysis was spot-on. And
actually, it was a pretty accurate
description of the Wolverines' play
all season.
"They're playing hard, they're
playing hard," Rose said when
Michigan led 27-25 at the half.
"Gotta knock down a couple of
threes, but other than that, I think
we're in good shape."
The Wolverines ended up
suffering a one-point loss to the
Spartans. Of all people, Rose
understands the Michigan-
Michigan State rivalry - and how
painful a loss to the Spartans can
be.
When asked about his favorite
rivalrymomentfromthethree years
he played in it, he didn't hesitate. It
was a 73-69 victory in East Lansing,
and Rose made sure the Spartan
crowd wouldn't forget it.
"When we won at Michigan
State, and I got a chance to sit on
the 'S' at half court," Rose said
with a laugh.
It makes sense that he'd love
that, too. Once more, he's Jalen
Rose, front and center.


BOSE: ROSE
GARDEN CARDEN
SAlD ALAALAH/Daiy
Former Wolverine Jalen Rose acknowledges the crowd at halftime during Michigan's 57-56 loss to Michigan Slate on Tuesday
night. Rose, who was a member of the Fab Five teams, came to Ann Arbor for his foundation's Rose Garden program.

S

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
SUSTAINABILITY

0

0

Campus Sustainability Integrated Assessment
TOWN HALL MEETING
Thursday, January 28, 201 0'
Michigan League Ballroom
4,- 5:30 pm
Register online at www.graham.umich.edu

0

Hosted by the Graham Environmental Sustainability Institute and the
Office of Campus Sustainability, with opening remarks from U-M Leaders

*



0

0? 0 0 0

Th MihgnDiy hrdy anay2,21
Daily Arts Presents: Spring Break Media Guide
ON THE PLANE IRSD I SLOPPY 1 WAKE UP ON AN] INVOLUNTARY1 MEXICAN ON THE PLANE
RIDE OUT FISDRN HOOKUP J ODD BEACH] STREAKING PRISON j RIDE BACK

"1 GOTTA FEELING"
byTeBak ydPa

z
0

"SHOTS"
by LMFAO
Shots! Shots! Shots!
Shots! Shots!
EVERYBODY!

"I KISSED A GIRL"
by KayPer
Well, I kissed
some ... thing.

"WHERE IS MY
MIND"
by the Pixies
More importantly,
where are my clothes?

"CHARIOTS OF
FIRE"
Slow motion..
not your friend.

"SHOTS"
by LMAO
Shots! Shots! Shots!
Shots! Shots!
EVERYBODY DEAD!

"LEAVING ON A
JET PLANE"

You're excited to
go on springhbreak.
Mazel Toy!

Get it?
Because you are.

"AIRPLANE!" "SUPERBAD" "EYES WIDE SHUT" "CAST AWAY" "CASABLANCA" "THE SHAWSHANK "HOMEWARD
REDEMPTION" BOUND"
Your fake Hawai'i ID. O thehbright side, at Who knew spooning a Morgan Freeman's Every dog has his day.
This one's pretty won'twork, even in least you didn'twake up volleyhall could he so Everyone's lookin' at voice makes anything None of the past six
self-explanatory. Hawaii. next to Tom Cruise. comfortable? you, kid. sound classy, were yours.
HARRY POTTER 1 HARRY POTTER 2 HARRY POTTER 3 HARRY POTTER 4 WAR AND PEACE HARRY POTTER 6 HARRY POTTER 7
Yo'esari g n r sy ug t du k o Y uahi n dedtoth Ho ddkev n ndup ou Wf tr ses}h ul'etmu gedi Y u y e nr oug
on'adetreutieopenAsyour chahrun, of acYtator ar t noteHw indhisveiwieadupgranuyualwas Solesomuelei d'eatheandhk.ha
hIl HarryFotter secrets to strangers. resemhles a hippogriff. Tournament? meant to read it. You know how. shitty plot device.
Spring Break 2010 Panama Citg BechFlorlda!
New Intel$ 999l
mileto the Beach 54" iIIT$29P..99 OW1.5 Miles to h ec
" oteSuper Clubs 130F" Projection Screen people"Dluenlnna
+ CelxaCofienalBreoiK- uesday4 L ( 1.110
fajst XWednesday-I RLEIZZA_ P1114sCete
+Outdoor PoolI 5udeCK TIhursday-FREESO.F 111NKB ..FtesCne
F ins etrriday & Sato rda m . as D6B~uttilyoppOlnted
" Woalng distnce to LIVE tBA'D PR'- PAR I! Poom$Veflove
entertalnmnent distrlctl fog ~mt P AwTr r T -
" h ers and nmany other
1"89"BOOK 1111 JIRD S1VnE IC' -30-i"B313




The Michigan Daly Thursday, January 28,t2010
Spring break through the ages

Velociraptor
Around March, a bachelor
velociraptor discovered a
watering hole full of attrac-
tive female velociraptors.
A year later, he went back
with his buddies. Spring
break was born.

Moses
What started as a para-
dise getaway resulted in
a 40-year trek through
the desert. Record set for
biggest spring break flop.

Dante Aligheri
Dante set the record
for longest spring break
trip as he went through
all the circles of hell,
climbed through purga-
tory and ascended the
heavenly spheres. And
boy were his arms tired.

Copernicus
Revolutionized spring
break tanning when he
discovered that it was
the Earth that revolved
around the sun, not the
other way around.

Benjamin Franklin
Drinking inside with
his friends on a stormy
spring break night, Frank-
lin is dared to fly a kite
out the window with a
key attached to it. Record
holder for worst burns
acquired over spring
break.

Beethoven
Beethooen goes deaf at
sweet noon party from
standing too close to
speakers. Spends entire
rest of career trying to
recreate that one sweet
jam he was rockin' to.
Mistakenly continues to
compose fine classical
music,

pring reak
in a bottle
. grinder we never could've fully
WASHED ASHORE prepared for. OK, so the park rang-
From Page 5B ers were quite apprehensive to
sign off on our particularly ambi-
He spent the next ten minutes tious itinerary (which we ended up
laughing in bursts of bubbles from deviating from anyway). But how
his regulator as we slowly but sure- were we supposed to know the
ly figured outthatthe white chunks temperatures in the Texas desert
of ceramic we were examining would reach 110 degrees at mid-
were in fact the remnants of toilets. day? Or that we'd get stalked by
Asshole. a mountain lion? Or that I would
I don't know how long it took step inches from a coiled rattle-
us, but when it was clear we finally snake while hiking at night?
understood, he floated over and And, yes, the park rangers
took a seat. In a particularly light warned us there was only one
year for tourists, our diving guide flowing source of stater on the way
had to get his laughs in somehow. to our ultimate destination: the Rio
So he watched as seven ridicu- Grande, a mercury-contaminated
lous Americans, decked out in full glorified gutter. It was a puddle,
diving gear, closely analyzed the mislabeled as a spring. And what a
scum-covered porcelain artifacts. savior that puddle was - until out
Classiest break ever. water filters clogged and broke,
-ANT MITCHELL Finally, though, we arrived at

-
0
't

Thursday, January 28,2010- The Michigan Daily
a b
2010 7:30 PM
JIO STUDENTID
STICKETS LjS/$4E ND CA gpus DD IFFICE,
A AL EN J10E LOUIS ARENA E
AL T AS R $ TICKETS R 3 I ORONLINE AT E E ) E!
IgC ES: $32, N YC ALUING 3 13.396.77, I AKFR T HE COLEEHCE A AE
ATONICACETKREATI AtOiJ~~1
TICKAVECELABLE BY CAL LrNE0.352.0
SPECIA L fEt RATES AR E 11 p 3
000 e 0000a
E ~ t_,GaguA o A O
'r Bay'.

Noah
doab thinks he is seeng
douhle on the Ark. Tells wine
and children. First recorded
instance of someone acting
drunk on spring break when
actually not. Definitely not
the last.

Emperor Nero
As Rome burned to th
ground, emperor Neri
played his fiddle in the
streets. He still holdst
record for most laid
approach to spring hoe
Runner up for worst
burns acquired over
spring break.

Columbus Shakespeare
Columbus sails the ocean Shakespeare voyages
blue on Queen Isabella's to the beach for spring
dime. First recorded Moctezuma I hreak'hoping to pick
spring breab booze up the ladies. He soon
cruise. A so cheapest While his pyramids were discovers that Shownme
originally believed to be your pounds of flesh" is
temples, archaeologists an ineffective pickup line .
now beleon they were Worst spring break sex-
aborate marketing ploys ploits ever Napolean

e
the
ack
eab.

designed toices
tourism during spring
breaks 400 years later.


Bonaparte
Napoleon set the record
for most depressing
spring break when he
went to Disney World
with his buddies but was F
too short to ride all the
rides. Then he whined
about it, even though it
was his idea. What a dick.
WANT TO
JOIN THE
DAILY'S
DESIGN
STAFF?
YES? THAT'S
GREAT.
E-mail
design@michigandaily.com
for information
on applying.

If you're looking to flirt with
fatality this spring break, keep in
mind you've got options other than
alcohol poisoning. You could ven-
ture into one of the world's most
unforgiving environments, going
toe-to-toe with the oppressive
forces of nature.
That's what my roommates and
I did last February when we struck
out for Big Bend National Park in
extreme southwest Texas.
Despite the experience many
members of our crew possessed,
our five-day backcountry trek
across barren Big Bend was a meat

the Rio Grande,n here we cel-
ebrated b rationing water and
clamoring for shade at the ruins
of a 16th-century stone Span-
ish house. That night, we hiked
15 miles to a developed campsite,
where we rediscovered the glory of
plumbing and undercooked pasta.
We made it back to Ann Arbor
alive after another overnight drive,
and the ensuing shower was in my
lifetime's top 5. if the excitement
of the life-threatening desert trek
wasn't enough, the 105-mile-per-
hour driving on the rural Texas
highway strips will stay with me to
this day.


L R

..... ---A ------

-DAVID WA'.

WANT TO WORK ON
NEXT YEAR'S SPRING
BREAK ISSUE?
Join the Daily and get started today!

I NICK




L KITEBALONIES RENTALS
PATEALC1NG ~EATED POOL


0

0 0Daily

I. . . go

Cheapening spring break
How to have a kick-ass break without breaking your wallet
By Allie White I Deputy Magazine Editor

Don't waste your money on bot-
tied water.*Sure, your parents told
you never to touch anything that
has come out of a faucet south of
the Mason Dixon line, but come
on now. You've been drinking alco-
hol and eating Backroom Pizza for
a while now - your stomach and
intestines should have toughened
up at this point. You can handle
whatever surprises the tap water
has to offer.
Buy your alcohol at the duty-
free store in the airport when you
land. You'll probably pay around
the same in Mexico for Patr6n as
you would for El Toro in Michigan.
Sadly, the higher-end liquor doesn't
come with an adorable plastic som-
brero like the cheap stuff does, but
you can probably look past it for a
smoother finish.
Save the fancy restaurants for
when your parents are footing the

bill - embrace the authenticity and
cheapness of beach-hut food. Who
cares if you don't know how to ask,
"Is this mysterious lump on a stick
chicken?" in Spanish. Think of it as
cultural immersion and go with the
flow, man - you're on spring break!
"Excursion" is really another
way for a hotel to say "We're going
to put you on a smelly bus, drive
nine hours into the jungle to look
at a stone that may or may not be
really old, serve you a stale roll
instead of the four-course lunch
we promised and charge you a lot
of money for it because we can." If
you really want to venture outside
of the comfortable all-inclusive
bubble you're staying in, try to
find cheaper alternatives to hotel-
sponsored trips. Don't be afraid to
ask the staff or guests for other, less
expensive ways to explore the area.
Just please remember tobe safe and

have decent judgment. And even if exchange for cash?
it's free, never.accept a tour run by If sitting on the beach isn't
a guy with a hook for a hand and enough for you and the water sports
what appears to be dried blood on enjoyed by those with money to
his clothes. burn look too good to pass up, go
the homemade route rather than
paying someone to do it for you.
po-it-yourself Step: Find a long rope, several
it-y u durable trash bags, a hot glue gun
and the closest hospital. Step 2:
" Fashion a harness and a parasail
out of the aforementioned materi-
als. Step 3: Strap in. Step 4: recruit
Is "Girls Gone Wild" paying per a few friends who are even drunker
appearance yet? If yes, get on that! than you to pull the other end of the
The probability that your parents rope as the run up the beach. Step
will see the video is slim to none, 5: If you do manage to get off the
so you really have nothing to worry ground, try not to die. Step 6: Rinse
about. Or better yet, enter as many and repeat.
hotel-hosted pool deck competi- Souvenirs were precious when
tions as you can: bingo, wet t-shirt you were younger. But you're in
contest, limbo, lap dance - they your twenties now - you don't need
all offer some sort of prize to the your hair braided on the beach or
winner. What's a little dignity in a shot glass that says "Acapulco."

Save your pesos and spring for sun-
screen instead. You won't be able
to enjoy the trip you've spent.your
money on if you're bed-ridden with
third degree burns, wallowing in
self-pity and aloe.
Completely avoid hotel costs by
simply pitching a tent or unrolling a
sleeping bag on the beach and com-
muning with nature. Beds, showers
and ceilings are overrated. You'll
get to wake up to the sun rising over
the ocean, fresh air in your face and
stray dogs peeing on your suitcases.
Another plus of the sleeping-on-
the-sand strategy is that you'll be
guaranteed a prime location for
lounging in the sun even if you're
not down to wake up at the crack
of dawn to compete with everyone
else for beach chairs. And most
importantly, there's no tipping the
chair boy when you need neither
the boy nor the chair.

Charles Darwin
Most intellectually frail
ful spring break ever.

Alexander
Graham Bell
Installed first phone is
Mexican prison. Also first
person to say "I want my
phone call" ina Mexican
prison.

John F. Kennedy Marilyn Monroe Jane Goodall Cyborg X4500
Spent spring break relax- See John F. Kennedy Spring break with the Spring break is inef-
ing in Cape Cod, basking chimps. Even under the ficient. Inefficiency must
iv the sun and soabint in '5 crcumstances record he deleted. Allhail your
the rays. Had a sony nice still not set for most feces robot overlords.
time. Surprisingly, there is thrown at spring break.
no documentation of this
trip ever occurring.

GOING TO THE WANT A FRE
The Custom Transit Spring Break Giveaway:
To enter, go to Custom Transit's Facebook Page and RSVP to the Spring
Break Giveaway Roadtrip. The Winner will be posted February 15th.

Elvis
Holds record for least
conversation over spring,
break. Also most action.

Neil Armstrong
First spring break cel-
ebrated on the moon.
One small step for man,
one giant leap for "Dude,
check out how far I can
jump! Woooooooo!"

{T HRIFTSHOP
N EANING' A2PTOThritftShop.org
CLUBI N E i EMBERShIe2280 S. ouusti al I Ii
A ON un 6 6AATI'A Bis Line

EXPERIENCE THE
CUSTOM TRANSIT
DIFFERENCE
" Affordable: Half the price of a taxi
" Convenient: Door-to-door service.
" Fast: To the airport in one hour, guaranteed!
" Reliable: We track your return flight, so
we're there when you need us.

TO MAKE A
CUSTOM TRANSIT'
RESERVATION
" On-line: www.customtransit.com
" Call: (734) 971-5555
" Needed Information: Travel times, return
flight, and cell phone number.
. Limited Availability: Book early to secure
preferred travel times.

Hours
Mon - Fri 9am - 7pm
Sat 9am - pim
SLtn llam -Spn
Donations Accepted
Mon - Fri tOam - 6pmt
Sat lOam - 5pas
FREE furniture
pick-up



ppP 1,
co c n o D0P
000"0. 00 Irk
Y cte , 0,,r o + rot3
0" 0 r 0o gas
0y - 0

*I

(D 0.
r 0 (D + Q 0
0.Dor+50 O rn
0 CL0 r+~ 00
(DC.0"4<C 000 0 'O 0
(D 0"
= O(ODfD(rDO . p ( m 0 0
M Sv-s0.I0"0
a 000"wc

1 0

S0 o 0 0 *000
00o " 00 .0 Q " 000~"
.
0.n 9" AI" L2 "11 o 0 v
"0 000 yy o o 0,o y co
000.M 00
CL 11) 0L 00000"
0" 0 a~
A) "Oo 0 t co C0,. 0
0 05 o" 0 0 y0
~~~Q 00 ,7o ~ 0
' ~ 0 . 0
,00 L.50ID 0 C" 0" D
'0 0 " o. A,-
00.

(n
0"

0 o c ''a o co o r 0 o" r
~ 0 w.0..G 0 r" s
O N 6 ' o n co 0 , "
0i00 o et a ~ ~oO o0 'o' '
-s"00o" 0"0 o 00NO5 O "" n y4 C-0 (
o 0.0r00 00 " 0
00" r 0.O0O5
9V 0O o 5O 5. o~
0 Nc p0'0"
0.0 00000
9i -

0

6
6

S'0
Oo O0"0"0 ~" Z? Co 64 0 . 0
.000 01 OoD !; h 0ti
A 31 ) L - 8 ebC rb p
13, 70000 f00,
-0 0--, 00Soo4
A) A,0007 5000
f oO'0 "Gs o o Q r-0,0,y p0)
o A)00 Oo"
4" 0Y Q P"0o C4"000
119 i . o ern 0
0 b 0 S 0 -.
.5o"00" :050.0 470 Ss
0 0-o A)
.0 ,

O
a
y y
O
y

6
6
in
CL
0"
a


