C

I~e c40a a1 I

Ann Arbor, Michigan
0 HEALTH CARE REFORM
Dingell says
health care
bill will help
students

Tuesday, March 23, 2010

Legislation allows
students to stay on
parents' health plan
until they're 26
By BETHANY BIRON
and MIKE MERAR
Daily StaffReporters
The long-debated national
health care legislation, passed by
the U.S. House of Representatives
late Sunday evening, will intro-
duce sweeping changes to Amer-
ica's health care system, some of
which could spell big benefits for
students, the bill's supporters say.
The new system requires
employers to offer affordable
health insurance to their employ-
ees or face fines until they do so.
Moreover, insurance carriers will
no longer be able to deny poten-
tial customers coverage because
of a pre-existing condition. In
addition, it will allow students to
remain on their parents' health
insurance plans until they turn 26.
Along with health care legisla-
tion, the House approved a bill
Sunday night that will remove pri-

vate banks as intermediaries in the
federal student loan process. Rath-
er than going to banks to obtain a
federal student loan, families will
now go to the financial aid office
of their school. The money saved
from the elimination of fees paid to
banks will be used toward increas-
ing the Pell grant, which gives
money directly to students.
U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-
Mich.), said in an interview yes-
terday that the passage of the bill
was the culmination of more than
55 years of work he's done on the
health care issue.
"We've carried out an impor-
tant responsibility to the Ameri-
can people," he said. "We've seen
to it that the American people
can now be comfortable that their
insurance for health care purposes
means something."
Dingell added the legisla-
tion will greatly benefit students
because it will allow them to stay
on their parents health insurance
plans for longer than was the case
before.
"Students are going to come out
very well," Dingell said in the inter-
view. "First of all, they're going to
be able to remain on their parents'
See HEALTH CARE, Page 3

Sabib Singh (far left) mederates a debate between MSA presidential candidates (from left) Kate Stenvig of DAAP, Ian Margolis of MVP and Cbris Armstrong of MForward.
MSA candidates debate
advocacy, role of assembly

President and VP
candidates discuss
tuition, student
group funding
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
The presidential and vice presi-
dential candidates for the Michi-
gan Student Assembly squared off
in a debate last night in anticipa-

tion of MSA elections on Wednes-
day and Thursday.
Sahib Singh, chair of MSA's
Budget Priorities committee,
moderated the debate, which took
place in Angell Hall Auditorium
D. He asked the candidates ques-
tions that students had submitted
online.
The presidential candidates -
Chris Armstrong of MForward,
Ian Margolis of the Michigan
Vision Party and Kate Stenvig of
the Defend Affirmative Action
Party - debated issues like tuition

hikes, advocacy for student orga-
nizations and the future funding
process for MSA. The presidential
candidates were asked six ques-
tions, with each candidate given
the opportunity to answer each
one.
The vice presidential candi-
dates include Jason Raymond of
MForward, Tom Stuckey of the
Michigan Vision Party and Sofia
Bolanos of the Defend Affirma-
tive Action Party. After a three-
minute opening statement, Singh
asked each candidate three ques-

tions.
The debate started off with an
opening statement from the first
vice presidential candidate, Jason
Raymond of MForward. Ray-
mond's past experience includes
serving on the MSA Academic
Affairs Committee, Budget Pri-
orities Committee, Community
Service Committee and Rules and
Elections Committee. He is cur-
rently the chair of the External
Affairs Committee.
"We have become frustrated
See DEBATE, Page 3

SENATE ASSEMBLY
Faculty governing body
elects three members

Two Engineering
profs., one School of
Medicine prof.
to join SACUA
By ANNIE GORDON THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
At a meeting of the Senate
Assembly yesterday, three faculty
members were elected to fill posi-
tions that will become vacant this
spring on the leading faculty gov-
erning committee.
Seven candidates competed for
the three seats on the Senate Advi-
sory Committee on University

Affairs, which meets weekly and is
widely considered the most direct
voice the faculty body has in cam-
pus and University affairs.
At the meeting, each candidate
spoke about their qualifications
for the position and offered their
opinions on the responsibilities of
a SACUA member.
Forty-six people cast ballots to
elect the new SACUA members.
School of Engineering Prof. Rachel
Goldman netted 31 votes and was
elected to the committee along
with Engineering Prof. Kimber-
lee Jane Kearfott, who netted 23
votes. School of Medicine Prof.
Kate Barald was also elected to
SACUA with 21 votes.
Goldman, a University alum,

has served on the Senate Assembly
from 2001 to 2005 and is currently
the graduate chair in the Depart-
ment of Materials Science and
Engineering.
"I feel like I have seen the side of
the people and I've seen the side of
the administration," Goldman told
Senate Assembly members.
Goldman has an office on both
North Campus and Central Cam-
pus along with her lab space. She
said that as a member of the aca-
demic community on both ends of
campus she felt that she could aid
in the communication between
smaller academic entities within
the University - like departments
and units - and the University's
See SACUA, Page 3

SAM WOLSON/Daily
Steven Benson and Carly Goldberg are running in an uncontested election to become president and vice president, respec-
tively, of LSA-SG.
Benson, Goldberg lookto
make LSA-SG more active

Candidates for
president and vice
president running
uncontested
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
LSA Student Government pres-
idential candidate Steven Benson
and vice presidential candidate
Carly Goldberg say they are run-
ning to head up LSA-SG to make
the body representing students
WEATHER HI 59
TOMORROW L 34

in the largest academic school on
campus more active.
Benson is a junior from West
Bloomfield, Mich., and Goldberg
is a sophomore from Northville,
Mich. As part of their campaign
promises, the two uncontested
candidates plan to utilize LSA-
SG's budget, work with repre-
sentatives to follow through on
passed resolutions and increase
contact with their constituents.
LSA-SG differs from the Mich-
igan Student Assembly in that it
focuses on academic issues and
student life within the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.

Each year, LSA receives a budget
of $13,000 to $16,000 to allocate
to studenttgroups for funding,
according to Benson and Gold-
berg.
The current LSA-SG executive
board is lobbying for a 50-cent
increase in the money each LSA
student pays to LSA-SG as part
of their tuition, which according
to Benson and Goldberg would
provide LSA-SG with about $7,000
more to disperse to student groups.
LSA students currently pay a $1.50
fee to LSA-SG each semester.
Benson, the current treasurer of
See LSA-SG, Page 3

DANGEROUS DRIVING
Bus driver arrested for drug possession
while students from ZBT sit on board

Driver swerved on
highway during trip
to Toronto for formal
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
A Friday trip to Toronto went
from a fun night out to a nightmare
for 34 University students when

their bus driver became unrespon-
sive and began to swerve across
the three-lane divided highway.
Michigan Charter Service bus
driver Gerald Blazey, 47, was
arrested Friday night by Canadian
police for driving under the influ-
ence of drugs, which caused him
to swerve erratically across the
highway.
Members of the Zeta Beta
Tau fraternity were en route to

Toronto for a formal when Blazey
started driving perilously driving
on Queen Elizabeth Way in Can-
ada, about 20 minutes outside of
Toronto.
Michigan Charter Service dis-
patcher Kevin Rose said though
the company has not yet spoken
to Blazey concerning the situation
he will no longer be driving for the
company.
See BUS, Page 3



GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Obama science advisor talks Earth Day on campus.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS ......................
Vol. CXX, No.114 SUDOKU..................
02 0 The MichiganDaily OPINION..................
micbigondaily.com

.2 ARTS.. . . ...........5
. 3 CLA SSIFIEDS......................6
. 4 SPO RT S .... .........................7



2 - Tuesday, March 23, 2010

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Professor Profiles Before You Were Here
A forum for dialogue

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

Afroamerican and African
Studies lecturer Scott Ells-
worth said he started teach-
ing at the University three
years ago as a way to thank
the University of Michigan
Health System for detecting
and curing his prostate can-
cer.
"I teach here because of
cancer," Ellsworth said. "The
University of Michigan Hos-
pital saved my life."
Ellsworth's courses range
in topic from Southern lit-
erature to African-American
history to crime and justice
in the United States, and he
said he tries to promote lively
discussion in the classroom.
He is currently working on a
novel about race and basket-
ball, set in the 1940s.
"I try to -get a cross-racial
dialogue going because in

America we tend to talk
about race with people who
look like us," Ellsworth said.
"I try to have honest con-
versation in a diverse class-
room."
Originally from Tulsa,
Okla., Ellsworth said watch-
ing the civil rights movement
unfold sparked his interest in
race relations.
"In American society,
race is both the source of
our greatest failings but also
of some of our greatest art,"
Ellsworth said.
And though Ellsworth
said he has seen much of the
civil rights movement first-
hand, he said he likes to keep
his classroom environment
informal so that he can learn
as much from his students as
they learn from him.
"I'm really still a rookie

teacher," Ellsworth said.
"The students and I are
exploring a lot of this stuff
together."
He added that he hopes to
keep teaching at the Univer-
sity so that he can continue
to work with engaged stu-
dents and colleagues.
"The students here are
all so sophisticated," Ells-
worth said. "I am so deeply
impressed with them."
While Ellsworth enjoys
his time teaching, when he's
not in the classroom, he can
usually be found cooking for
his wife Betsy and his twin
sons. Ellsworth - who was
a stay-at-home dad - said he
estimates he changed about
"10 million diapers" during
his five years at home with
his sons.
- LIZZYALFS

ANNA SCHULTE/Daily
Lecturer Scott Ellsworth says that overcoming prostate cancer, being a stay-at-
home dad to twin boys and meeting his wife Betsy have all made him the man
and professor he is today.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smiltzec@ihigandaity em nmdbusinessfgraiteeom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours:sun.-Thurs.11at.-2a.me.
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
orrnections crrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaiy@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.eom
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
lillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR snNEWS ,EDIORNicoleAbe,,Maillory vanes, SehieSinb~rg', Kl
Swas,,, nar'Thnvkaavv,
VeronicaMenainnrn s eeT noma iD se EniTlh, Jeph Lihermn
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial PagetEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
vS STANTEDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt,Alex Schiff, Matthew Shutler
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyzik, Tim Rohan, Amy Scarano
Jamie Block Managing Arts Editor block@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,JeffSanford
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Leah Burgin, Sha ron Jacobs, Emma Jeszke, Mike Kuntz,
Max Collins and photo@michigandaily.com
SamWlson ManagingPhotoEditors
SNORPHOTO EDITOR FOR MULTIMEDIA:ChanelVonHabsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:Aaron Augsburger, Jake Fromm, Marissa McClain,
Jed Moch
Sarah Squire and dsin@michigdndailyvcm
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Gh ama n
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips copychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lozwiak sales Manager
MARETIRNE MANAGERMicalSchotenboer
Ryan Businski ClassifiedsManager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Allison Santacreu LaystManager
Vivian Lee FinanceManager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Saily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wintertermsbystudentsattheUniversityofMichigan.Onecopyisavaliablefreeochargetoail
readers.Additionalcopiesmaybepickedupat the Dailysofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfaliterm,
startinginSeptember viaU.S. malare$110. Winter term(January through April) is $115yearlong
(September through Aprl)is $195. Universty affliates areisubect toareducedsubscriptionrate
n-campussubscriptionsforfa lltermare$35 Subscriptns mub e repaid.aThe Michigan Daily
isaa mer o sl sciteid PresadTeAsoiataed Clleite Press

CRIME NOTES
Stolen gym bag Wallet and

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Social skills 8-ball billiards
building tournament

WHERE: Central Campus
Recreation Building
WHEN:Sundayatabout6p.m.
WHAT: A man reported that
his green gym bag and its con-
tents were stolen from the main
gym, University police report-
ed. The bag was left unattended
for between 6 and 6:10 p.m.
There are no suspects.
Repeat trespass
WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN: Saturday at about 1
p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
a man who had trespassed in
the Union before was in the
building again, on the 4th floor
couches, University Police
reported. The 50-year-old male
was escorted from the building.

laptop stolen
WHERE: Hatcher Graduate
Library
WHEN:Saturday at about 4 p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported her
wallet and laptop were sto-
len from a study carrel in the
Grad. library, University Police
reported. She had left her item
unattended between 3:50 p.m.
and 3:52 p.m.

workshop
WHAT: Workshop sessions
aimed at helping students
establish stronger
relationships.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today 1:15 p.m.
WHERE: Room
3100, CAPS office

Canoe graffiti Discussion

WHAT: A billiards 8-ball
tournament, featurimg
teams with six students
each. Registration is free.
WHO: Michigan Union
Billiards
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Billiards
Room, Michigan Union
Talk on same
sex marriage
WHAT: A discussion on
the role of religion in-the
same-sex marriage debate.
WHO: UM Center foir
Ethics in Public Life
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

According to msnbc.com,
researchers are able to
understand the personality
of an octopus by display-
ing images of other animals on
an HDTV screen and observe
its reaction. Scientists say this
is the first successful attempt
to imitate real animals with
an octopus because with other
images the animals knew the
picture was not real.
The Michigan Economic
Development Corpora-
tion awarded $9.1 million
in tax breaks to a convict-
ed felon.
>> FOR MORE, SEEOPINION, PAGE 4
According to ABC News,
a North Carolina woman
won $9 million in damages
from her husband's mistress for
breaking up her 33-year mar-
riage. The women sued under
old case law for "alienation of
affection" because the women
knew he was married.

WHERE: Elbel Field
WHEN: Friday at about 2 p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
canoes were damaged with red
paint on the night of March
17, University Police reported.
The words "Lou Lou" were
written on the canoes.

on working
with youth
WHAT: A talk geared
toward teaching students
the skills necessary to work
with "at-risk" youth.
WHO: The Ginsberg Center
WHEN: Tonight from
6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Room 4448, East
Hall

MORE ONLINE
LoveCrime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire


FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK

GOP makes final
stand on health care

hoosing the right career requires equal parts
knowledge, insight, and planning.
If you are weighing your career options, consider
this: US. News & World Report places pharmacy on
its 2009 short list of Best Careers
--and ranks the University of
Michigan College of Pharmacy
.1 J one of the best in the nation.

(AP) - In a defiant last stand
against a newly passed health care
overhaul, opponents are trying
everything they can to stop it from
becoming the law of the land.
Republicans in the Senate are
planning parliamentary maneu-
vers to keep a companion bill from
reaching the president's desk. And
lawmakers in at least 30 states are
working to prevent what they say is
an unconstitutional mandate forcing
Americans tohave health insurance.
Experts say none of it is likely
to work, but it will keep the issue,
and the outrage, alive until Election

Day.
"I am surprised by the mobiliza-
tionofthe states. It does strike me as
a kind of civil disobedience, a dec-
laration that we're not going to fol-
-low the law of the land," said Mark
Hall, a professor of law and public
health at Wake Forest University.
"It doesn't make sense. The federal
Constitution couldn't be any clear-
er that federal law is supreme," Hall
added.
The House passed the plan late
Sunday, sparking a variety of pro-
tests and threats less than a day
later.

yuU U lear ntrea ouuut ate taty excttng car eer
opportunities pharmacy can offer you. .
Join us at:
Career Options for Michigan PharmD Graduates:
Wednesday, March 24, 2010; 6-8 p.m.; Room 1544,
C.C. Little Building.

"PROMINENCE TO PRISON:
WHY SMART PEOPLE DO
DUMB THINGS"
Guest Speaker: Patrick Kuhse
Patrick will share his journey from prominence as
a successful stock broker to his involvement in a
financial fraud scheme, life as an international
fugitive, and his subsequent incarcerations.
Tuesday, March 23, 2010
4:30 p.m.
Blau Auditorium
Ross School of Business
FREE
Sponsored by the Ross Community Values Committee,
Ross BBA Council and The Office of Student Life
MICHIGA NM
ROSS SCHOOL OF BUSINESS

4

4

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 23, 2010 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, March 23, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Clinton: Israel
undermining U.S.
peacekeeping efforts
Secretary of State Hillary Rod-
ham Clinton accused Israel of
undermining U.S. credibility as a
Mideast peacemaker yesterday on
the eve of critical talks between
President Barack Obama and Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
Israel recently announced new
housing plans for east Jerusa-
lem, an expansion that the Obama
administration has strongly criti-
cized. Clinton renewed that disap-
proval, telling a pro-Israel audience
that provocative Israeli land poli-
cies in areas claimed by the Pales-
tinians are not in Israel's long-term
interests.
Nonetheless, Netanyahu planned
to take a firm stand regarding Jeru-
salem, stressing in a speech last
night that the city is Israel's capi-
tal, "not a settlement," government
spokesman Mark Regev said.
CHICAGO
Court overturns
injunction request
for Asian Carp
The U.S. Supreme Court yes-
terday refused to order the emer-
gency closure of Chicago-area
shipping locks to prevent vora-
cious Asian carp from slipping
into the Great Lakes, leaving dis-
appointed environmentalists and
state officials vowing to continue
their fight.
In a one-line ruling, the nation's
highest court for the second time
rejected a request by Michigan and
several other Great Lakes states
to issue a preliminary injunction
shutting the locks in the increas-
ingly desperate battle against the
invasive fish, which have migrated
up the Mississippi and Illinois riv-
ers toward the lakes after escap-
ing from fish farms in the South
decades ago.
Asian carp often leap high
out of the water when boats are
near. They can weigh 100 pounds
and consume up to 40 percent of
their body weight daily in plank-
ton, the base of the food chain for
Great Lakes fish. Many fear that
if they reach the lakes, the invad-
ers could lay waste to a $7 billion
fishing industry by starving out
competitors such as salmon and
walleye.
LANSING
Granholm praises
state employees for
concession contract
Gov. Jennifer Granholm has
praised a union representing 17,000
Michigan employees for ratifying
a concessionary contract designed
to save the state $15.9 million this
year.
United Auto Workers Local 6000
says the agreement extends the
current contract to the end of 2011.
Under the deal, workers hired
starting April 1 will have higher

deductibles and copays for their
health insurance.
The union says the contract also
replaces previously announced
furlough days with a banked leave
program. It says employees will
lose one hour's pay a week for six
months, with the time going into a
leave bank for future use.
Granholm says Local 6000
members came up with their share
of the $50 million in concessions
she needs to help balance the bud-
get.
PARIS
Civil servants begin
strike in France
A strike today in France is
expected to disrupt trains, trans-
port, postal services and schools
as unions aim a new blow at Presi-
dent Nicolas Sarkozy following
his party's drubbing in regional
elections.
Train workers launched their
action yesterday evening. The
strike was expected to cancel about
a third of France's TGV fast trains,
the SNCF rail network said. Euro-
star trains to Britain and Thalys
trains to Belgium and the Nether-
lands would not be affected, the rail
network said.
Unions say Sarkozy's conser-
vative government hasn't offered
satisfactory plans on jobs, salaries,
purchasing power and working
conditions - and they hope to ham-
mer home that message in the wake
of Sunday's runoff elections.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

dents and accomplish the goals that
DEBATE MSA needs to do," he said. "MSA
From Page 1 and student organizations need to
collaborate."
over the past three years of MSA," Presidential candidates came
Raymond told the audience. "My next, starting with Chris Arm-
goal is to make MSA the center of strong, current LSA junior and
student advocacy." chair of MSA's LGBT Committee.
Raymond said MSA's attempts Armstrong said MSA currently
to solve issues like tuition hikes, "lacks a sense of leadership and
dorm life and the drop in minor- responsibility." MForward, he said,
ity enrollment has "lacked a sense wants to "make sure that there is a
of advocacy," adding that increas- community that is represented, that
ing advocacy is the main focus of is connected to student issues on
MForward, a party founded by Ray- campus."
mond and Armstrong. Ian Margolis, the presidential
Raymond said that currently, the candidate from MVP, countered
funding process confuses student Armstrong by saying that MSA
organizations. If elected, Raymond needs more than advocacy to
said he and Armstrong want to improve efficacy.
implement workshopsto help facili- "We need to provide tangible
tate the fundingprocess. things for students," he said. "We
During the debate, Raymond shouldn't limit ourselves to student
called the current funding process advocacy."
"broken." MVP vice presidential Margolis said that there's a lack
candidate Tom Stuckey retorted of communication between MSA
that the funding process is not bro- and the rest of the student body.
ken, but just needs to be revised. He said he wants students to know
Stuckey used his rebuttal time to what the $7.19 they give to MSA is
mention the universal funding being spent on, and that students
application that will be accessible to can see the results.
student organizations if he is elect- "The student body is going to fol-
ed as vice president. low us along, but they don't know
This universal funding applica- who we are or what we do," he said.
tion, he said, will allow students to In regards to Margolis'comment,
only apply once for the school year, Armstrong said it is an "inherent
whereas now student organizations contradiction" to attempt to pro-
must apply each semester. Stuckey vide students with tangible results,
said after a student organization but not stress advocacy.
applies for funding, the application "To say that pushing for student
would be forwarded to the funding issues isn't enough is like saying we
bodies of all student governments don't care," he said.
on campus. Right now, organiza- Stenvig agreed, saying that advo-
tions must apply for money from cacy projects are a "question of stu-
each body separately. dent power."
Stuckey is a sophomore and cur- Stenvig centered her debate on
rent MSA Business School repre- defending student accessibility to
sentative. He is the vice chair of the public education and making the
Campus Governance Committee. University an "open forum" for dis-
Sofia Bolanos, the DAAP vice cussion among students.
presidential candidate said her The newly proposed Students for
main concern, if elected, would be Progressive Governance Constitu-
ensuring the rights of minority stu- tion was a much-discussed topic.
dents. This all-campus constitution will
"I want to improve campus cli- take affect if approvedby a majority
mate here at this school because of voters in this week's election.
it affects everyone," she said. "We Stenvig was the only candidate
have the most power to make big that voiced opposition to the pro-
changes here." posed student constitution, describ-
When Singh asked whether MSA ing it as "elite" and "bureaucratic."
should support the University's "The new constitution gives the
Dearborn campus student govern- president a right to veto actions of
ment resolution to divest funds MSA," Stenvig said. "The new con-
from Israel, all of the candidates stitution will institutionalize the
agreed that MSA should work on kind of anti-democratic measures
campus life before they grapple that we have seen in MSA over the
with broader, international issues. pastyear."
In response, Raymond discussed Margolis disagreed, saying that
his support for the Good Samaritan under the newly proposed constitu-
Law, which he said would improve tion, the president will be held even
student life. The law, which is still more accountable.
awaiting a vote from the state Sen- "Under my presidency, the
ate, would mean that no student separation of power will allow for
could get a Minor In Possession a more effective student govern-
charge after calling an ambulance ment," Margolis said. "The power
for an intoxicated friend. of veto will allow for the power of
"We need to lead MSA to listen to impeachment."
the students, to provide to the stu- According to Margolis, the chief
nal matters - we can have a better
LSA-SG external government as well," he
From Page 1 said.
Benson said one area he hopes
LSA-SG, said LSA-SG's small budget to work on is keeping support for
forces the student government to be resolutions alive once they have
efficient in spending money, but that been proposed or passed at meet-
representatives could improve their ings, noting that once a resolution
budget allocation. passes, representatives often "hit a
"We just need to be a little bit brick wall."
more resourceful on how we give "We show our support, and then
out money and what we do on gov- they fizzle out a little bit," he said.
ernment," Benson said. To combat this and increase
Benson added that student gov- accountability, Benson said he and
ernment could do more to help stu- Goldberg plan to meet with the rep-
dents trust their representatives resentatives who draft resolutions

more. after the resolutions are passed so
"We throw these buzzwords out they can formulate concrete time-
in student government, like trans- lines to carry out propositions.
parency, accountability and con- "If you have someone to be there
stituency," Benson said. "But let's be to give you some sort of support and
real, I don't think we really do that tell you whattto do and help you out,
to the best of our ability." then there's a higher chance that
But Benson said there are "easy" there will be consistency and every-
ways for LSA-SG to improve on thing is goingto carry over," Benson
these issues, and he plans to imple- said.
ment those solutions. Goldberg, the current chair of the
"If we have a better internal gov- LSA-SG appointments committee,
ernment - if we improve our inter- said the quality of LSA-SG's projects
Blazey first began swerving a little
BUS bit in the right lane, he and Brockner
From Page 1 repeatedly asked Blazey to pull over
the bus.
"They came home safely," Rose Stark said Blazey eventually
said. "All isgood now." pulled over and steppedoff the bus
LSA sophomore Lucas Brockner, to check the tire pressure. When he
president of ZBT, said Blazey acted steppedback onthe bus, he stumbled
strangely throughout the bus ride, a couple oftimes and had trouble get-
though his driving did not become ting up the stairs.
scary until after crossing the border Brockner said that shortly before
into Canada. becoming unresponsive, Blazey told
"He was doing a lot of kooky stuff," him there was a problem, making it
Brockner said. "When someone difficult to switch the gears on the
called him'sir' he said, 'Sir is my dad's bus. However, at that point, Brockner
name.I'm Gerry, Ilike to party."' said he pointed out that the bus was
Brockner, who said he sat at the automatic.
front of the bus, said he observed Blazey then began swerving
more strange behavior from Blazey across the highway, Stark said,
throughout the ride, like when drifting to the left, then to the right.
the driver requested that passen- Blazey then went from the rightlane
gers turn off the lights because he all the way across to the highway
couldn't see despite the fact that no before coming back to the right lane,
lights were on. Stark said.
Brockner alsosaid whenthegroup Brockner said Blazey hit the
stopped to get food before crossing guardrail to the left of the highway a
the border into Canada, Blazey drove couple of times as he swerved.
away for about 20 minutes without "In the last five minutes, it was
telling anyone where he was going, the scariest," Brockner said. "I was
leaving all passengers at the stop.. directing him for a little bit because
Business sophomore Chad Stark, he said he couldn't see."
social chair for ZBT, said when Stark said that other drivers on

programming officer of MSA - a
position that will be instated with
the adoption of the proposed con-
stitution - will work to allow stu-
dent organizations to collaborate
with MSA and other student groups
to build programmingcohesion.
Armstrong said that the pro-
posed constitution will "build a
sense of connectedness." He said
that the proposed constitution
would help create a more diverse
student assembly.
The recent $9,000 expenditure
on a thrown-away MSA website
was another central topic for the
MSA candidates. They all agreed
that if elected, they would rely on
student skills to create an efficient
website that does not require such
an exorbitantbill.
"We need to make a website
that's more open and available to
students," Stenvig said. "We need
to do more to make sure student
groups know that they know how to
obtain those resources."
Margolis suggested a more con-
crete budget for all MSA actions in
the future.
"I was appalled about what hap-
pened to that website," Margolis
said. "We should have a set budget
for every action that MSA pays for."
In agreement with Margo-
lis, Armstrong said, "Although the
president was able to spear the ini-
tiative, there was no accountabil-
ity."
"MSA needs to make sure that
whatever initiative is going on,
that every body of the assembly is
aware," he said.
The candidates ended by
responding to a question that asked
them to tell the auditorium why
they are really running for presi-
dent of the central student govern-
ment - without using government
terms like accountability, commu-
nication, transparency, efficiency,
democracy, advocacy, or website.
Margolis said that he thinks that
students' apathy regarding student
government motivates him to run
for president.
"Students are fed up and they
don't know where their money is
going," Margolis said. "I am con-
fident that my party understands
what students want. That's why we
are in this: to take students vision
and make it a collective vision."
Stenvig said that her reason for
running is her hope that the assem-
bly could be a prominent influence
on the University as a whole.
"We can achieve great things,"
she said. "We can play a leading role
in defending public education."
Armstrong said that his involve-
ment in the LGBT community has
inspired his desire to run.
"I am running for president
because the University of Michi-
gan is the greatest place I have ever
been," he said. "I love the people at
this University."
should emphasized over quantity.
"We do have a good amount of
projects, but oftentimes it's the same
people taking then on," Goldberg
said. "We think it would be more
effective to spread out the leader-
ship and take advantage of everyone
who is there."
But Benson said the team's main
goal is to make University students
more involved in student govern-
ment, adding that detached LSA-
SG representatives are part of the
reason why students are apathetic
towards student government.
"We are a perfect match to bring

government to the next level,"
Benson said. "(LSA-SG) doesn't
reach out to (our constituents) well
enough."
In order to reach their constitu-
ents, Benson said he and Goldberg
will rely on the University's Direct
Constituency e-mails, which are
mass e-mails sent to students.
LSA-SG is awarded six DC
e-mails per year, but according
to Goldberg, the current LSA-SG
board only uses a few of them.
the highway honked and tried to get
Blazey's attention for him to pull over.
"Everyone on the bus was kind of
freaked out because we were swerv-
ing; cars were honking at us," Stark
said. "We tried to get him to pull
over, but he wasn't responding."
Stark said that after a few minutes
of swerving through all three lanes,
Blazey pulled the bus to a halt.
"Eventually, he stopped the bus,"
Stark said. "He didn't even pull over;
he juststopped on the highway."
Police were at the scene shortly
after the bus stopped. When police
asked Blazey questions, he would not
respond, Starksaid.
Canadian police reported that
Blazey had vicodin in his system at
the time he was arrested, according
to an article in the Toronto Star yes-
terday.
After Blazey was taken into cus-
tody, police called a city bus to take
the 34 passengers the rest of the way
to Toronto, Brockner said.
Rose, the dispatcher, said the
company sent another bus driver to
Toronto to bring the students back to
Ann Arbor on Saturday, adding that
as far as he knows Blazey is still in
custody.

HEALTH CARE
From Page 1
health insurance policies until
they reach their 26th birthday."
Dingell said the reform will
reduce costs for students, among
other benefits.
Dingell said many provisions
of the bill, which he described as
"enormously complex," will hope-
fully take effect by 2014.
General Surgery Prof. John
Birkmeyer wrote in an e-mail
interview that despite the com-
plexity of the bill, he felt "relief" at
the announcement that it passed.
"The Senate bill (approved by
the House Sunday night) has plen-
ty of warts, but the status quo - SO
million uninsured and unsustain-
able growth in health care costs -
is much worse," Birkmeyer wrote.
Brendan Campbell, chair of the
University's chapter of College
Democrats, echoed Birkmeyer's
sentiments, saying he was "ecstat-
ic" that the bill passed.
"I'm proud to say that we've
accomplished some of the best and
most aggressive legislation in the
past three years for a great soci-
ety and we've improved the lives
of billions and billions of Ameri-
cans," Campbell said.
Campbell added that the bill
will benefit students in other ways
besides offering them increased
coverage.
"The best part of this bill is not
the cost savings that will go into
student aid, but.rather that these
savings will be reinvested into
students through Pell Grants," he
said.
Charles Bogren, chairman of
the University's chapter of College
Republicans, wrote in an e-mail
interview that he was displeased
the legislation passed and that he
staunchly opposes it.
"My immediate reaction to the
SACUA
From Page 1
central administration.
Like Goldman, the second
newly elected member to SACUA,
Kearfott, is also from the School
of Engineering. Kearfott cited her
interest in academic freedom and
faculty governance as reasons she
would make a good SACUA mem-
ber. She recalled watching her
grandfather lose tenure for teach-
ing evolution in a religion class
and said the experience was one
of the reasons she wanted to join
the committee.
Kearfott said she has served on
many committees and believes
that she will be effective in nego-
tiating strategies on SACUA. She
added that she believes the job
of SACUA is to listen and repre-
sent faculty effectively, but also
to balance contemporary needs
with the tradition of the organi-
zation.
"I view the SACUA job as one
of addressing those modern con-
cerns while continuing to stick
with the principals of my grand-
father," Kearfott told Senate Ass-
sembly members.
The final new member to join
SACUA this spring will be Barald
who has been with the University
for 28 years. She has experience
with faculty governance, hav-
ing served on the committee that
helped to ensure written rules

were in place at all University
departments and schools for ten-
ure in 1995.
Barald also cited her experi-
ence with mentoring students
from ranging in experience the
undergraduate level all the way
through to post-doctoral fellows,
saying she was "very dedicated"
to mentoring. In her speech,
Barald also said she believed that
SACUA's role was to fairly repre-
sent the concerns of all faculty
members.
"I think the voice of SACUA is
essentially the voice of all the fac-
ulty, not any one school college or
group," Barald said.
SLOTTOW DISCUSSES
BUSINESS OF HIS OFFICE
After the voting finished at
yesterday's meeting, Tim Slot-
tow, the University's executive
vice president and chief financial
officer, presented information to
Senate Assembly members about
his office.
Slottow said that the Univer-
sity of Michigan is one of three
Universities, including Univer-

passing of the Senate bill was that
it was shameful and disgraceful,"
Bogren wrote. "This bill will do
far more harm than good; it will
drive premiums up, decrease con-
sumer choices in their medical
professionals as well as treatment
options, and place yet another
millstone around the neck of the
American taxpayer."
Bogren wrote that he doesn't
think the bill will help students
because it will create debt that
they will have to deal with in the
future.
"Conservative estimates are
that this will run up the deficit by
another half a trillion dollars" he
wrote. "Our generation should not
be forced to pay for the sins of our
fathers."
"Itwillbe manyyears before we
see any increased coverage for the
average American, but in the next
fiscal year increased tax rates will
be immediate," Bogren added.
Other students expressed sup-
port for the legislation.
School of Art & Design senior
Amariah Stepter said that though
she is unsure of how other stu-
dents are reacting to the legisla-
tion, she is in support of it.
"I thought it was a good move
and think it will be a positive move
for our country," she said.
LSA senior Coertney Vander-
hill said she's also in support of
the bill.
"I think we're the only indus-
trialized country that doesn't have
(national health care) yet, and for
me that doesn't make sense that
we don't," she said.
LSA junior Kunal Varna said
though the bill could have nega-
tive consequences he is in support
of it overall.
"Initially I think it's going to
be hard to adjust," he said. "There
might be some negative implica-
tions, but in the long run it should
help the nation as a whole."
sity of Texas and the University of
Virginia, that have a AAA credit
rating. He also told the Senate
Assembly that the total net assets
of the University are valued at
about $8.7 billion.
"That's one of the reasons that
even in the difficult financial
economy we find ourselves in,
we are still in a relatively strong
position, because so many of our
assets and our net assets and our
liabilities are relatively small,"
Slottow said at the meeting.
Slottow also discussed the 40
to 50 groups that work under the
office of Business and Finance to
provide services to faculty and
students across campus. Some of
these entities that are well known
around campus include Plant
Operations, Planet Blue and Uni-
versity of Michigan Parking and
Transportation Services, Slottow
said.
However, Slottow also stressed
the importance of other, less well-
known groups, including the
University's Upholstery Shop and
Furniture Repair and the Univer-
sity of Michigan Interior Design
Service.
Slottow discussed at length
the operating measures of these
smaller entities under his depart-
ment and the Business and Finan-
cial Office's commitment to
customer service, saying the bi-
annual survey given to faculty and
students is one of the most effec-
tive ways of measuring the quality

of service.
Slottow also briefly discussed
the condition of University Rec-
reational Sports facilities, say-
ing they are in the worst shape
in terms of facilities compared to
that of other recreational sports
facilities at schools around the
country.
In addition to discussing the
University's recreational facili-
ties, Slottow also talked about
the North Campus Research
Complex. He said a transporta-
tion technology forum was held
to allow companies to highlight
their ideas for new transportation
to and from the NCRC.
Slottow said that while no deci-
sions have been made, some sug-
gestions at the forum included
aerial gondolas, buses that look
and feel like light rail and smaller,
three to four person transporta-
tion methods.
He said the decision willbe made
as a part of the University's "inte-
grated master planning" and will
involve reconsidering how North
Campus will look in the future in
terms of housing and other compo-
nents of North Campus.

WANT TO JOIN THE
DAILY'S NEWS SECTION?
SEND AN E-MAIL TO
BERMAN@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
TO GET STARTED.


4 - Tuesday, March 23, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

clI e AtIC41,6,gan 4:latlv


0

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

"I know this wasn't an easy vote for a lot of
people, but it was the right vote:'
-.President Barack Obama, commenting on the recent health care bill passed by
the U.S. House of Representatives, as reported yesterday by CNN.
Tax breaks for felons

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Land bank oes bankrupt
County must restart project to revitalize blighted property
T he FDIC won't be involved in the failure of one Washt-
enaw County bank. This bank didn't deal in cash - it dealt
in acres. In July of 2009, facing a wave of foreclosures that
started in 2007, the Washtenaw County commissioners created the
Washtenaw County Land Bank. The county-run land bank could
have helped to eliminate urban blight and put vacant property to
good use for the community. Unfortunately, Washtenaw County
abandoned this promising program before its benefits could be
realized, citing insufficient funding and differences between offi-
cials in charge. But county officials shouldn't have given up so eas-
ily - they should renew their efforts to find funding for the land

Since 2000, Michigan has lost
more jobs than any other state.
Accordingly, residents of the
Great Lakes State should be fairly
skeptical of any
government plans -
for economic
recovery and job
creation. But last
week, the folks"
over at the Michi-
gan Economic
Development Cor- '
poration almost -
set into motionR
the most glaringly ROBERT
stupid job creation SOAVE
plan in history._
The MEDC is
a state agency that heaps tax credits
onto select individuals, businesses
and industries - whomever it thinks
is going to rescue the state econo-
my. According to a Mar. 18 report in
The Detroit Free Press, a supposed
businessman named Richard Short
appeared with Gov. Jennifer Gran-
holm on Mar. 16 to commemorate the
$9.1 million in tax breaks he was set
to receive from the MEDC. Short had
pledged to start a renewable ener-
gy business and hire 765 people in
exchange for the money.
By the next day, authorities had
learned that Short was a convicted
felon who has served six years in
prison for embezzlement and loan
fraud. In fact, he still owes $96,000.
It turns out that this information was
available ina news article that readily
appeared on a simple Google search
of the man's name. This means that
the MEDC doesn't run even the sim-
plest of background checks before it
hands out generous tax credits at the
expense of small businesses. By way
of apology, MEDC President Greg
Main promised that the agency would
definitely do background checks from
now on. Yeah, thanks, groan the tax-
payers who fund Main's salary.
Only a government agency could
be incompetent enough to neglect

bank and restart this valuable prc
The recently-dissolved Washtenaw Coun-
ty Land Bank authority was modeled after
the nationally-lauded land bank in Genesee
County. The Wastenaw County Land Bank
was intended to acquire properties, deter-
mine the best use of each property and then
sell the property to a private owner. The
establishment of the bank occurred just in
time to qualify it for $300,000 in federal
stimulus funds, which were meant to serve
as start-up capital for the project. The land
bank was intended to become self-sustaining.
On Mar. 17, the Washtenaw County Board of
Commissioners voted to dissolve the land
bank. According to a Mar. 18 AnnArbor.com
report, commissioners said that the author-
ity's failure to presenta clear strategy, as well
as a lack of funding, led to their decision.
It's unfortunate that the land bank was
dissolved before it could make any real
progress. The land bank could have given
Washtenaw County the face-lift it needs to
restart the floundering real estate market
here and to increase the prosperity of the
county. Rundown homes decrease the value
of surrounding properties. Sprucing up
deteriorating properties would have helped
increase community property values.
And the foreclosed land available to the
land bank could have been used for a num-
ber of important projects. The properties

background checks. As anyone who
has applied for a real job or intern-
ship knows, most competently run
businesses conduct them. I spent
two summers working for Com-
cast, and I underwent a background
check and drug test both times. As
college students, we expect prospec-
tive employers to be looking for us
on the Internet. That's why underage
students who post pictures of them-
selves drinking on Facebook have
to change their privacy settings. It's
completely unacceptable that the
MEDC wouldn't spend 30 seconds
investigating the potential recipients
of tax breaks.
But there actually may be a surprise
winner in this debacle - the car rental
businesses. As the Short scandal hit,
the state legislature was cooking up
a $13 million tax on car rentals at air-
ports. The tax was intended to fund an
expansionofPure Michigan, an MEDC
money-wasting project that runs
advertisements in other states in hopes
of attracting tourists here. But with
the MEDC's actions under increased
scrutiny, the state legislature will have
more trouble justifying funneling tax
money to it.
While this scandal will hopefully
lead to improvements in the MEDC's
operating procedures, what won't be
on the table - but definitely should be
- is shuttingit down entirely. Agencies
like the MEDC only move money and
jobs around, dooming at least one job or
business for each one they create.
The Pure Michigan ads are a good
example of this. Sure, maybe someone
in the country will see the ads and
decide to vacation in Michigan. That
person will come here and consume,
creating the jobs and businesses nec-
essary to facilitate this increased
consumption. Indeed, if the state had
a magic money box that never ran out
of cash, it could keep pumping money
into the ads and endlessly improve
the economy.
Unfortunately, that magic money
box is funded by Michigan taxpayers
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:

and small businesses. In this case, the
rental car industry, which essentially
pays for the ads, would take a hit pro-
portional to the amount that the Pure
Michigan ads were helping. The car
rental industry would have to respond
to new taxes by increasing rates, firing
employees, closing locations, etc. The
tourist would return to his state and
tell his friends that, you know, Michi-
gan is nice and everything, but next
time, he's picking a place where the
rental cars are less expensive or more
easily available. So for every dollar that
was spent helping the tourism indus-
try, the industries that paid for the ads
suffered, less consuming occurred,
jobs were lost and businesses shrunk.
Saving small
businesses iskeyto
saving Michigan.
But it gets even worse. Since the
government doesn't have to worry
about running out of money - it could
alwaysgenerate more funding through
taxes - it can't spend as wisely as
private entities. The MEDC is more
likely than the taxpayers toput money
toward frivolous endeavors, waste it,
give it away to convicted felons, etc.
Every dollar that the MEDC spends
would have been put to better use if
left in the hands of the business from
which it was taken.
No state agency can fix Michigan's
economy by handicapping certain
industries in order to help others. The
government should replace selective
tax credits with an across-the-board
tax cut for small businesses, which
would give more power to the people
who actually know what they're doing.
- Robert Soave was the Daily's
editorial page editor in 2009. He can
be reached at rsoave@umich.edu.

would have been sold specifically to benefit
the community as a whole, like low-income
housing, environmentally-friendly offices
and other beneficial projects. Without the
land bank, there is no way to ensure that
developments will benefitthe city as a whole
- if they happen at all.
Admittedly, the authority didn't receive
a $5 million Neighborhood Stabilization
grant from the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development - that's a legiti-
mate stumbling block. But it's upsetting
that county officials simply gave up after
encountering this obstacle. They should
have redoubled their efforts to find alterna-
tive funding for the project.
And it's even more upsetting that county
officials couldn't work together to create
a solid plan for the bank. With an effec-
tive example like the Genesee County Land
Bank to follow, it's unacceptable that county
officials are unable to come to an agreement
about the details of the bank. They dropped
the ball. And now Washtenaw County resi-
dents will pay the price.
The land bank could have been a valu-
able resource for the county, and it shouldn't
have been abandoned so quickly. County
officials should work together to find a mid-
dle ground and the funding needed to resur-
rect the land bank.

Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave,
Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith

0

CAMPUS DEBATES
MSA ELECTIONS 2010

MICHIGAN VISION PARTY I
Your Michigan
You pay $7.19 a semester for University-wide
student government. The Michigan Vision Party
believes that your student government should listen
to your ideas and your vision and deliver for you. MVP
believes that MSA should deliver real, tangible results
rather than lofty, unrealistic rhetoric. That's why
we have worked to make MSA a body where student
visions are realized.
After beingelected into office last year, MVP repre-
sentatives delivered on many of the visions we heard
from you. MVP representatives led Go Blue, Beat
OSU Week, the "Block M" at Michigan Stadium, MSA
Mondays (with free bagels and coffee), this month's
all-campus concert (featuring Wale, Big Sean and the
Clipse) and the Campus Leadership Colloquium for
student organization leaders. We increased student
organization funding by 17 percent, helped to draft
the new all-campus constitution (which will make
student government more effective and efficient),
encouraged professors to post course syllabi early in
registration and reformed MSA meetings to ensure
that only student issues are addressed. We know how
to move MSA forward. We're proud of our record and
the progress we've made in MSA.
While we've made progress, there have been set-
backs. The website fiasco clearly stands out as a major
failure. Though setbacks occur when we try to make
progress, they present new opportunities to improve.
We see this as an opportunity to make MSA more
transparent and accountable through reevaluating
how money is disbursed from the executive board.
But we're not here to dwell on the past. Rather than
looking backwards, we're ready to present a vision to
move MSA forward.
We want MSA to continue to put on events for
the student body. Students have told us that they
want more pep rallies and concerts. Our vision is to
have pep rallies before major football games, before
December's Big Chill at the Big House, and even to
have pep rallies for smaller sports that don't usually
get much attention. Building off what we've learned
in planning this month's MSA and Big Ticket Produc-
tions Concert, we'd like MSA to continue collaborat-
ing with other student organizations to put on big
events. We'd love to try to bring in a big name artist
who appeals to a wide range of the campus commu-
nity. We also want to continue to provide the popular
Airbus airport service, which is currently at risk due
to staffing changes.
We want to increase communication between MSA
and students. Very few people know what MSA does,
and students deserve to know what their government
is doing and where their money is beingspent. By tak-
ing action like installing bulletin boards in residence

Vision for MSA
halls and academic buildings, we can bridge the gap
between students and MSA. We'd also like to make
executives and representatives more accessible.
Building off the success of MSA Mondays, we
want to bring better Office Hours to students. We'd
also like to create an MSA Live Online Help Desk, an'
instant messaging/Gchat account managed by execs
and reps to answer questions from students. We have
a large, decentralized campus that presents problems
to students trying to find resources. MSA should be
the medium that connects students with each other
and the resources they need on campus.
We want to continue to assist student organiza-
tions. Student organi-
zations enhance the
student experience
here at Michigan, and
it's important that they
have agovernment that
supports and assists On Wednesd
them. Going along with
our effort to improve students have th(
MSA communication, leadership
we'd like to increase new
communication with face off here
student organizations
by requiring executives
and representatives
to provide updates at
student organization
meetings.
One of MSA's main functions is to serve as a fund-
ingbody. We plan to cut the waste in MSA's budget to
ensure that there is even more money available to stu-
dent organizations than there is now. We'd also like to
streamline the funding process by creating a common
application that can be used by all University funding
bodies. This will create uniform standards and make
the funding process much easierffor student organiza-
tions.We also want to increase collaboration between
MSA and student organizations. This month's concert
is a great example of MSA and a student organization
coming together to plan a major event. MSA can and
should do more collaborative events to enhance the
Michigan experience.
We didn't just reach into different communities
to get our ideas, we've gone around campus ask-
ing, "What's your vision?" We've shaped our vision
around your vision for MSA. This isn't justour party's
vision, this is the Michigan Vision.
Ian Margolis and Tom Stuckey are the MVP
presidential and vice presidential candidates for
MSA. John Lin is the MVP Message Chairman,

MFORWARD I
Forwarding MSA advocacy

ay ai
e opp
n M
to ea

Students at the University have come here from
across the country - and the world - to excel in
every realm of study from science and engineering
to athletics and student activism. University stu-
dents choose this school because they know they
will be challenged. They know they will be pushed
to perform their best. Given the atmosphere of
excellence on this campus, students deserve a stu-
dent government that will advocate for them in a
way that lives up to the high standards that the Uni-
versity embodies.
Currently, the Michigan Student Assembly falls
far short of this standard.
We know that MSA
is capable of return-
ing to a point at which
it can advocate on
behalf of students and
effectively push stu-
nid Thursday, dent issues forward.
In fact, MSA has a rich
)ortunity to elect history of advocating
.pfor students and their
SA. Two parties issues. MSA has been
rn your vote. credited with institut-
ing fall break, pushing
academic minors and
establishing an afford-
able system to bus stu-
dents to the airport for
holidays.
Students on this campus are advocates for a wide
variety of issues and perspectives. They deserve a
student government that serves as an accessible,
engaged resource for them. That is why we are run-
ning for MSA president and vice president: to bring
our student government back to innovative ideas
and active engagement on campus.
We started MForward because we know that
MSA has the potential to fight for students, and
we want you to help us make MSA relevant to the
student body again. We are looking to immediately
address issues like Saturday night dining, gender-
neutral housing, MIP Medical Amnesty and rising
tuition costs. These issues, along with the dozens of
ideas we have collected during our 37 student orga-
nization listening tour stops, drive us to fight for a
better student assembly.
We will work tirelessly to advocate for you in
front of the administration, city council and state
legislature. Concerts and events, while exciting in
the short run, won't lower tuition costs or increase
the diversity of our campus. We are convinced that
students will not see results at the University unless

they finally have student leaders on MSA who are
willing to stand up for their issues and bring their
ideas to the table.
We also understand that MSA can't achieve
these goals without a connected and aware student
body. As a student government, we must encour-
age a stronger sense of community on campus.
MForward's candidates are active members of
diverse student organizations and campus com-
munities. They are passionate about the organiza-
tions they are a part of, and they are committed to
bringing that passion to MSA. The Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly must facilitate communication and
build a strong network of student leaders who will
be able to accomplish goals on behalf of students.
For too long, MSA has been disconnected from the
students who make up this university. MForward is
committed to making MSA a body that is account-
able to the students that it represents, and it has
already begun to do so.
Ideas, action and community: this is what we
have built our campaign on. Over the past three
weeks, the candidates and individuals in MFor-
ward have built relationships with student orga-
nizations and diverse communities across campus.
We have spoken to students in the Diag, in class-
es, in the Union and even on the sidewalk outside
Stockwell Hall to hear the issues that you all want
to see your student government tackle.
We have heard your frustrations with the student
organization funding process, your concerns with ris-
ing tuition costs and your worries about the decline
in minority enrollment. We have heard these issues
and with the vital relationships we are building, we
are ready and excited to take action if elected.
Not only will we continue to talk to students up
to the election date, but we also will ensure that
students are being heard throughout the year.
These relationships are only the beginning and we
look forward to maintaining and building these
bonds in the future.
This week, MForward will continue to be out on
the Diag, in classrooms and residence halls and in
meetings with student organizations. If you haven't
spoken to one of us about what we are hoping to do
for the assembly, don't hesitate to approach anyone
in an MForward T-shirt or check out our website
(mforward.org) to get started. We are here to talk,
we are happy to listen and we're ready to move
MSA forward.
Chris Armstrong and Jason Raymond
are the MForward presidential and vice
presidential candidates for MSA.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 23, 2010 -- 5

Justice is served on FX

Televised voyeurism

New series 'Justified' is
everything a modern
western should be
By ANT MITCHELL
Daily Arts Writer
"Justified" offers a glimpse into what
a modern day western should look like
in a way "Walking
Tall" never even came
close to accomplish-
ing. J~jicj
After a contro-
versial shooting, Sundays at
Miami-based Deputy 10 P.M.
U.S. Marshall Ray-
lan Givens (Timothy
Olyphant, "Damages") is transferred
to his hometown in eastern Kentucky,
where he's faced not only with anti-
Semitic terrorist cells run by his old
coal-mining buddy, but also - Gasp! -
his past.
All joking aside, the return home of a
long-gone son of a small southern town
is a perfect set-up for unpacking a shit-
load of fantastic storylines, character
histories and so on. Not only that, but
perhaps the best feature by far of "Jus-
tified" is the twangy, rough but beauti-
ful setting. With the "Jesus Saves" sign
on a country barn, the shady church
next to the liquor store and the over-
grown trees (that get blown up by the

"Don't look, but Will Smith and a giant metal spider are right behind you."

anti-Semitic mullet gator poacher),
those in charge of location and filming
deserve a major pat on the back in the
same way that the unrelated, but simi-
larly lush "True Blood" merit praise.
Gray area just melts away in the
western set-up of each standoff
between Raylan and his nemesis. Lit-
erally twice in one episode he sits at a
table with a gun and has a quick draw
confrontation. Yet standoffs such as
this, which overtly mirror a hypotheti-
cal scene out of "The Good, the Bad and

"I swear, if you touch my beans on a stick one more time!"

Ann Arbor Fili
"going internati4

By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
Nearly 50 years ago, according to
tNearly 50 years ago, according to the
Ann Arbor Film
Festival's website, Ann Arbor
"a casual group of
fascinated students, Film Festival
filmmakers and film .
enthusiasts crowded Tonight through
into the smoke-filled Sunday
Lorch Hall auditori- Michigan Theater
um" for the first Ann
Arbor Film Festival. Now, people come
from around the country to the Michi-
gan Theater to see films from all over
the world.
This year, at the 48th festival, the
focus is on fully international films -
films from other countries or about
other countries. Rather than a starkly
divided collection of film based on the
boundaries of nationality, the movies on
display at the AAFF promote dialogue
and work together.
"A lot of time goes into crafting the
lineup," said the festival's executive
director Donald Harrison. "It's like a
gallery curator selecting pieces for a
gallery. We put the films together so that
they speak in a bigger conversation."
But the cohesive-theme of the festival
does not limit the films.
"We don't really set out with a focus.
We look at what's coming in and we see
themes emerge - every year there are
adventures and surprises," Harrison
said.
This year alone, filmmakers from 67
countries submitted 2,500 films. From
these, 170 films from 20 countries will
be shown.
"It's an extensive process to narrow it
down," Harrison said. "It's hard to say
what criteria we're looking for. For the
most part, we look for filmmakers who
approach their work as an artist - we
look at craft, intention, purpose and
always for new voices, ideas, stories and
techniques. We look for exceptions."
Since its founding in the '60s, the fes-
tival has been dedicated to providing a
forum for daring and novel films of all
varieties and genres. This year's festival
promises to continue that tradition.
The opening night will feature a

broad collection pfshort films that
exemplify independent filmmsaking,
followed by a catered reception with
a DJ and an open bar. Following open-
ing night, the festival will also present,
among other programs, "This Animated
Life," a collection of animated films,
"The Kids are Alright," a showcase of
short films for children; and live perfor-
mances. As part of the series, an anima-
tor will be narrating his film's plot while
he does the film's animation in real-time
in the theater.
"It's an experience that will only hap-
pen once," Harrison said.
The festival fuses older cinematic
achievements with new voices and
ideas. The fresh and the old-fashioned
will be fused as audio-visual and hip-
hop artist Flying Lotus performs the
world premiere of a live score to Harry
Smith's 1962 animated film, "Heaven &
Earth Magic."
This year will also be remarkable
because the festival received a grant
from the Academy of Motion Pictures
This year's festival
will show 170 films
from 20 countries.
Arts and Sciences to bring world-
renowned experimental filmmaker
Kenneth Anger to Ann Arbor for a
screening of a selection of his restored
films, followed by a conversation
between Anger and film critic Dennis
Lim.
This year, the film festival's organiz-
ers are trying to make it a more inter-
active experience, promoting more
conversations to connect people.
-"The more we create interactions
and dialogue, the more (the festival)
becomes something you don't want to
miss," Harrison said. "It's important to
engage the audience in the art of film, to
have them connect with the artists and
celebrate the art's form and challenge
conceptions.
"It's been a lot of work," he added,
"but it's rewarding and we have a great


the Ugly," are surprisingly likable to
the point where it's impossible to imag-
ine the writers doing it any other way.
It's even possible that a contin-
ued, even repetitious, use of standard
western gun fight scenes in episodes
to come (a seemingly likely choice on
the writer's part), will manage to go by
without becoming stale or obnoxious.
The character of Raylan himself is
at times a bit exasperating, especially
because the dialogue (though suitably
so) tends toward well worn one-liners
about getting "out of town before time
is up." He may in fact be the worst-
developed, least-fascinating character
in the pilot episode, with daddy issues
so blatant they didn't even need to be
mentioned (two or three times). Yet
Olyphant is suitable for the role as his
somewhat slimy, yet gentlemanly way
became more bearable, and then final-
ly likable, as the episode progressed.
Especially after seeing his character
deal with the damsel in distress of the
episode, who was, refreshingly, a sexy,
blonde, cigarette-smoking housewife
who shot her abusive husband over
his dinner. It's nice when the good guy
doesn't have a quick five-minute sex
scene slipped in for the masses who
insist on that sort of thing.
All in all, "Justified" is without ques-
tion worth a watch. Put on some cow-
boy boots and a hat, grab some canned
beans and a stick and prepare for some-
thing between moderate and great
enjoyment to ensue.
n Fest
onal
community. There re lots of individu-
als, local and regional, who want to see
this grow. Afterwards, people have told
me how it affected, inspired or motivat-
ed them. It's rewardingto know that the
festival has that strong value of art - to
inspire people to create."
Other than providing a place to view
cutting-edge films, the festival will also
create an "electric atmosphere," Har-
rison said. With filmmakers like Matt
McCormick coming from his premiere
at South by Southwest to show his film
"Some Days are Better than Others,"
featuring James Mercer of The Shins
and Carrie Brownstein of Sleater-
Kinney, many of the showings will be
packed.
"In one of the most beautiful theaters
in the country you can expand your
palate and your ability to see culture,"
Harrison said. "Just being packed in the
theater is something you don't forget.
It's like goingto see your first concert or
your favorite band play live."
With 170 films showing, the festival
offers something for everyone this year.
This year, the films range from a 16mm
film that explores the structure of the
haiku through a portrait of a farm to a
documentary about Jerusalem's only
gay bar.
"It's just as much an opportunity for
scientists as it is for artists," Harrison
said. "I hear people talking after the
films, and it's really about meeting art-
ists, challenging each other and sharing
in the experience."
The AAFF also gives the University
an outlet for expression. Zeynep Grsel
("Coffee Futures"), Chris McNamara
("The Use of Movement") and Alexis
Bravos ("A Deep Well") are all faculty
members who are presenting films in

the festival.
"This year we have a lot more films
from members of the University com-
munity," Harrison said. "There are a
lot of talented people there and it just
worked out well that so many of them
had films ready to submit this year."
The 48th Ann Arbor Film Festival
continues to dedicate itself to finding
distinctive and challenging films to
unite all members of the community.
The festival will run from March 23 to
28 at the Michigan Theater.

There's something strange happen-
ing in the land of television. It's
phenomenon that has been preva-
lent overseas for a while, and has slowly and
covertly crept its way
into American program-
ming. But the winds are
picking up and a storm is
a'brewing. It's the wind of
TV voyeurism and a storm
of live online streaming,
and together they just
make me pretty ill at ease. "
When I say "TV voyeur- CAROLYN
ism," I don't mean any KLARECKI
of the typical reality TV
shows. There's nothing
wrong with watching ordinary people doing
extraordinary or unusual things. To me, it
isn't creepy watching people compete for
love, money or fame by enduring bizarre chal-
lenges because these aren't experiences we're
likely to have ourselves. I know the closest I'll
get to outwitting, outplaying and outlasting
castaways on a deserted island is on TV, and
so I'm perfectly content to tune in to "Survi-
vor" for that experience.
What is a tad unsettling are shows like
"Real World" and "Jersey Shore." The casts of
these shows don't do anything other than live
their lives, but with all of America watching.
Don't get me wrong, I'm among those millions
of viewers, but part of me always wonders
why, exactly, I tune in. Why am I watching
people do what I could be doing if I weren't
glued to the TV? TV in this vein makes me a
little uneasy; the advent of live online stream-
ing and Hulu's latest project "IfI Can Dream"
make me outright uncomfortable.
Here's the premise: Five'20-somethings
with aspirations of fame move into a house
in Hollywood with half-hour episodes airing
on Hulu each week. And here's the innova-
tion: The "Dream House" (cute, right?) is
equipped with 56 cameras that stream live
footage online 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. Anytime you want, you can log on and
see what Amanda, Ben, Giglianne, Justin and
Kara are up to. They may be lounging by the
pool, cooking in the kitchen or even (as Ben
is doing as I write this) sleeping. And let's be
honest - this is hella-creepy!
These kids aren't doing anything other
than attending the occasional acting lesson
and yet, people want to watch them do their
laundry, make meals and other completely
ordinary things they could be doing them-
selves. The gimmick of wannabe stars isn't
enough to save the show from its disturbing
atmosphere. If you really want to observe
some aspiring artists, hop on a bus to North
Campus and befriend some Music, Theatre &
Dance students.
What's even stranger to me is that televi-
sion abroad has been doing this for years.
One of the most extreme cases of TV voy-
eurism took place on one of Japan's many
insane game shows. A Japanese comedian

Nasubi was stripped naked and locked in an
apartment with absolutely nothing but large
stacks of magazines, envelopes and stamps.
He would be released after winning V1 mil-
lion (about $10,000) from mail-in sweep-
stakes. If he wanted clothes, he had to win
them; if he wanted food that wasn't rice, he
had to win it. He was unaware that the foot-
age from the cameras was beingstreamed live
online and that a team of editors were always
on call to keep a cartoon eggplant over his
man-bits.
And crazy enough, it was a hit sensation.
People all over Japan logged on to watch Nasu-
bi. It was so successful thatonce he reached
his goal, the producers took him to South
Korea, threw him into another room and made
him win enough money to make it back home.
It sounds incredibly cruel, but people loved it.
The diaries he kept from his 15-month journey
became best-sellers. Hebecame a national
celebrity and had no idea. And most of the
time, he did nothing but fill out sweepstakes
forms. Still, the gimmick was pretty insane: At
least he was doing something extraordinary
instead of just going to class.
Maybe I'm justbehind the times or resis-
tant to change and should justget used to the
way things are goingto be. After all, foreign
versions of "Big Brother" have live feeds into
the house. The United Kingdom and Ger-
man versions even broadcast sex between
the housemates on national TV, so pretty
much everything goes in Europe. Maybe
TV voyeurism is
quickly paddling
across the pond.
this phenomenon is an inevitable result of
cultural differences and the ongoing cultural
globalization. We took "Monty Python's Fly-
ing Circus" and "The Office" from the United
Kingdom, so it was only a matter of time
before one of the online streaming shows fell
into the mix. Maybe in 10 years we'll all be
carefree and uninhibited like the Europeans.
Is it really creepy to be a voyeur if you're
watching an exhibitionist? At least on "If
I Can Dream," everyone is aware they're
being watched online atall times unlike poor
Nasubi. It's not something I understand - you
certainly won't find live footage online of
me anytime soon, nor will I be signing on to
watch others. But who am I to deny you the
pleasure of watching people in their everyday
lives? I'd rather you watch the cast of "If I Can
Dream" as they sleep than stand outside my
window at night.
Klarecki has been staring suspiciously
out her window for days: To soothe
her, e-mail cklarecki@umich.edu

From Russia with love;
Chekov's 'Uncle Vanya'

By EMMA JESZKE
Daily TV/New Media Editor
Anton Chekhov is among the most per-
formed playwright in the entire world - right
up there with William Shake-
speare himself. Luckily for
University students, a rare Unde Vanya
opportunity to experience Tomorrow
a bona fide production of a through
landmark work in Russian Saturday at 8
theater is here. The Maly p.m.,Sunday
Drama Theater of St. Peters-a
burg, a world-renowned at2 p.m.
theater, is bringing its rendi- Power Center
tion of "Uncle Vanya" to Ann Ticketsfrom $18
Arbor in honor of the 150th
anniversary of Chekhov's birth.
Dina Dodina, assistant director and dra-
maturg for "Uncle Vanya" and vice artistic
director and international tour manager of the
Maly Drama Theater, said director Lev Dodin
has wanted to share his theater's version of
"Uncle Vanya" with American audiences for
quite some time. She explained that Chekhov
wouldn't be so popular if he hadn't been a uni-
versal genius and a master of capturing the
essence of "the human condition."
"The main concept of 'Uncle Vanya' is at
some point al-l of us, as humans, realize that
we've been living life not the way that we
wanted to live it," Dodina said. "What's hap-
pening tous now is not what we dreamt about
when we were young, not what we aimed for.
But, normally when you realize your life is not
the life you wanted for yourself, it's usually
way too late to try and change it.
"And this is the crux of being human, this is
what the human condition is - usually when
you know you're living wrong it's too late to
start living right," she said.
"This is why 'Uncle Vanya' might be the
most universal play that Chekov ever wrote,"
she added. "Dissatisfaction with life, if I'm
not mistaken, is pretty international. It's not
something only Russians encounter."
The Maly Drama Theater production will
be performed in Russian with English sur-
titles. Dodina said the scenic and costume
choices have been internationally hailed as a
work of art and are "imbricative of Chekhov's
era, but not necessarily rooted in it."
"For a production of a classic, our produc-
tion is surprisingly alive and surprisingly

sexy," she said.
The Center for Russian, Eastern European
and Eurasian Studies, in partnership with the
University Musical Society, has planned events
around Maly Drama Theater's visit in order to
enhance the cultural experience for the Uni-
versity and greater Ann Arbor community.
Today from 3 to 5 p.m., there will be a Rus-
sian Language Tea in the Power Center's
green room for the Maly Drama Theater and
the local Russian-speaking community, host-
ed by the Department for Slavic Languages
and Literature. There will be an interview
with Dodin at 6:30 p.m. before Friday's per-
formance in the Founders Room of the Alumni
Center. Both events are free and open to the
public.
Tomorrow night at 8 p.m., there will be a
special performance planned exclusively for
students with reduced ticket prices - $15 for
center seats and $10 for the sides.
UMS, as a part of its lobby event, will also be
holding "roundtable discussions" for students
to participate in after each performance. After
the special Wednesday student performance,
smalligroups willgo as a part of this lobby event
to Silvio's. Tickets are free and can be obtained
The Maly Drama
Theater presents a
Russian classic.
after the performances from any UMS repre-
sentative wearing a green shirt.
"The whole idea (with the roundtable dis-
cussions) is to just kind of connect people to
the performance after it's done, to keep people
talking about it and to draw interest. Make it
a place for conversation," said Rachel Lum, an
LSA sophomore and UMS marketingintern.
"I think it's a real cultural experience and I
think it's something we need to take advantage
of," she added. "UMS brings a lot of really cool
things, but the Maly Drama Theater is one of
the greatest in the world. And they are doing
somethingthat is very much reminiscent of the
original production.
"And I mean, Lev Dodin? Come on! That's
just something that is once in a lifetime."


6 - Tuesday, March 23, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

4 BDRM. CONDO ! !
Aug 2010. North campus. Free utils.,
A/C, ldry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV, DSL. $695/person/mo.
Call 313-838-2629.
. AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartmenats located
on U/M Campus. Heat, mater, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
!FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2010-
11. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great sviews, elevators, HDTV,
ta-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.corn
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
aROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.
1221 S. State #2
8 MO. LEASE
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!! NEW LISTING Avail Fall 2010!!
721 Church- Unfurnished 1 bedroom
apartment. Quiet atmosphere. Great lo-
cation, I block from South University,
near B-School & Education School,
hardwood floors, free heat, free water,
free parking. Laundry.
Call Ann 320-1244 or visit our web-
site www.churchstreetrentals.com
!!!!!!!CENTRAL CAMPUS!!!!!!!!
APTS. AT UNBELIEVEABLE
SAVINGS
Discounted rates plus lots of extras
for free.
734-761-8000
primesh.com

PRESENTS THE
- /
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient mat!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
!!!MAY STUDIO and I bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus. Heat, water, park-
ing incl, fully furnished, perfect sum-
mer locations! Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100
**2-BEDROOMS** TWO Central
Campus locations on S. Forest, Free
WiFi, new kitchens and baths, heat, wa-
ter, furnishings, and parking mcl. Var-
sity Management (734) 668-1100
**3-BEDROOM** ACROSS St. from
CCRB, close to Arboretum, great bal-
cony, large living room, heat, water,
furtishings, parkitg mc. Varsity Man-
agement (734) 668-1100
**4-BEDROOMS** BEAUTIFUL
Burns Park mansion - converted into
enormous apartments with room for 5
or 6! Heat, water, furnishings, and
parking incl. Dishwashers, on-site laun-
dry, screened porch and a large yard!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
**AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E. Lib-
erty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. f. 5 min
walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
**BUSINESS & LAW SCHOOL**
Huge 2-bdrms one block south, cov-
ered parking, new kitchens and baths,
heat, water, furnishings, and parking
inc. Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartments.net

DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorms),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
Uruversity
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
'FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1 /2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by March
31st. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
. udio & 1
Sedrs.!Units
Tower Plaza C odoinm i
734-663-1530
I OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapatments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at niversitytowers-
icost - THNK OUITSIDE THE
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS.
2BDRM CONDO, QUIET second
8oor corner; balcony,a/claundry, prkg,
gym, heated pool, racket ball, sauna,
avail 6/1 or 5/1. $975. 734-761-9210.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 dms total. 3
but, 6 prkg spaces, ltdry, tetants pay
all utl 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
ADVERT;SE
WITH
MICHIGAN DAILY
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm wills 1100 sqIS & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD direct
with DVR fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartmens.net

AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?
Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
section on
Advertise in this section
by Contacting:
(734) 764-0557

lewdview Apartments
cis 1 bedroom apartment
Spais2-edrooms with master bath
Shuttle around campus
-Large private balcoiesc
withwmodd views
-Models Open Daily
r ' 741-9300
L 14 i (EXTENDED HOURS)
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely C.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite latn
dry. Parkisg included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL2010:t
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing. dental and medicl
shools, easy access totcentral catpus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1028 Fuller- Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Fsurished, onsite lautdry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedroots - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
hea, vater and parking included. Call
Catuss Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
934 S. STATE #2-6 Bed 2 Bath avail.
Sept 1, 2010 $3750 + elec, mcl heat,
parking, coin laundry. 734-668-6686
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt n 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2.3 bdrms apts. Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.jmsprop.com
420 S. Division #2
8 MO. LEASE
5 BDRM
$2200
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AVAILABLE NOW TO AUGUST
'10!!! Rooms / EFFICIENCY/ 1 Bed
avail. now. $450-$500 + elec. Near CtrI
Campus. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBAILL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515S. StateSt., offof
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FALL 2010 ! 1 bedroom apt. available
in prime loction. Heat & Wuter in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
FALL 2010 7 Bedroom 3 bath house.
Free parking. $3200 per month. 1207
Prospect. Call Brian 734-260-6836.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm-
(suitable for 3) apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave.
Furn, disposal, dwshr, lndry, prkg.
Walkout balcony. $1100 + elec. 734-
662-7 I 21 or email gpmiles//aol.com

GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts. ,
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815 SouthStateManagersl(umnich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270

Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
;$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking,and utilitiest
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icc.coop
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
HOUSE FOR FALL small company
offers 7 bedroom at South U. and
Washetenaw $4000 and 6 bedroom at
1115 South Forest $2700. Eight month
leases possible. 734-260-4003.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MAY TO MAY Leases
3 Bedrooms "Park Plaza"
1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates
734-761-8000
primesh.com
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic casmpus, Law &
Business schools.e roops or individual.
SINGLE RM LEASES. $580/bdrm &
up. SIX-BD RM UNITS $3,480.00 and
up 734-418-2050
www.828greeneapts.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapatlments.net
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our officea-610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in tbe area.
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for healthy women
between the ages of 21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensated
$3000 for their involvement
its our program
If interested please call
734-434-4766.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
SEEKING PART TIME summrler sit-
ter with very flexible hours for 10 and
7 year old. Must
like adventures with kids, have own
car/able to drive kids, and not smoke.
Please email emilygtm@umich.edu
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, fonat. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

0

LOCAL BEER DISTRIBUTOR paid
summer internship. Sales, special
events, marketing. Business student,
21, w/ car. Flex. hrs. O & W, Inc. 734-
480-4012 or email info@onwbeer.com
THE 2010 CANCER RESEARCH
SUMMER INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
As part of its Cancer Biology Training
Program, the University of Michigan
Comprehensive Cancer Center, in part
with funding from the National Insti-
tutes of Health (NIH) is providing expo-
sure to cancer research for highly moti-
vated and talented college undergradu-
ates. This program will provide the suc-
cessful applicants an opportunity to ex-
plore potential careers in the field of
cancer research. In keeping with the
terms of the NIH grant, we especially
encourage applications from individu-
als from populations that are currently
underrepresented in biomedical and be-
havioral research. The program is
aimed at students who are completing
their sophomore or junior undergradu-
ate year this spring.
The program will run for ten weeks,
June 7th - August 13th, 40 hrs/ week.
Students selected who do not currently
have U-M mentors will be matched
with an appropriate U-M faculty. Only
U.S. citizens or permanent resident
aliens are eligible toapply. Interns will
he paid $4,500 for the tO week period.
Your application must be uploaded by
March 31 at the following site:
www.mcancer.org/carsip
Questions? Contact Car Nosel at
,cnosel@umich.edu
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

AFFORDABLE STUDENT
CO-OP HOUSING!
Now Signing Contracts for:
Winter 2010 &
Fall/Winter 2010/2011
-$575/Month Includes: Comynil (CC)It
All meals, iternet, parking, 31Efi44i6
SOCial aCtivities and utilitieS= . WoEcc.coop

0

1
r
c
r
L
r
L
r
t
i
L
L
L
L

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 69 Show reverence, 33 t arobins ...": 53 Granule
1 Thne Kid": inna way Kilmer ingredient
early TV Western 35 Capital east of 54 Word afterlflight
6 Suit parts DOWN the Elbe River or floor
11 "-the 1 Limits 37 Substantial 55 Ancient Peruvian
season..." 2 Hip bones 38 Elation 57 Contributed
14 Choir members 3 Ollie's partner 40 Base melody 58 Awayfrom the
15 Even if, for short 4 Zaire, today 43 Boring wind
16 Cal. neighbor 5 Disney toon 44 Like a - bricks 59 Farmer's place,
17 *Sam in panda, "Special 47 Obama attorney in song
"Casablanca," Agent l' general Eric 62 "Wheel of
e~g. 6 Travel bag 50 Tyke's blocks Fortune" buy
19 Spinner 7 Airline to Tel Aviv 52 Arc lamp gas 63 Printer need
20 Squealed, so to 8 Farm home
speak 9 "Spider-Man 3" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Be under the actress Russell
weather 10 More ticked off M I C R O AFAR P L O W
22 Formallyunsay 11 *Hank Aaron's A D H O C R A R E H E A R
24 Cutlass or 88 6,856 is the C L E A T P I C S I N K Y
26 She playsJulia in career record H E A D O V E R H E E L S
"Julie & Julia" 12 Heavy metal O R T PEG E N G C U B
27 Tack on 13 Back-to-school
30Standardsof mo. F I N G E R T O N O S E
excellence 18 Rice source C O A L A I M S A V E S
32 CEO's degree 23 One of a drum O N C E L O E W S V E R O
*4 Dirty setpair T I R E S N I P E R S T
56 *Fast-paced 28 Scales of the
39 "Wake Up With zodiac
Al" weatherman 26 Swiss miss, A N S U N O F I N P B S
40 China's Mao - maybe: Abbr. T O N G U E I N C H E E K
tung 27Soil-relatedprefix S P I N O G LIE H E A V E
41 Studio stand 28 Fails to grasp P A C T R A I L E M C E E
42 *Collapsible 298*1962Gene A L S O A T A D S P E L T
headgear Chandler hit
44' HonorThy 31 Helpers: Abbr xwordeditor@aol.com 03/22/10

!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus and Downtown.
Heat, water, parking incl., fully fur-
nished, perfect summir subleae! Var-
sity Managemnt (734) 668-1100
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations so choose from. Call for a com-
plinte lis 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

RESPONSIBLE, ACTIVE, CAR-
ING, and creative care giver required
for 8 yr old boy & tO yr. old girl this
summer. Req/details: female student -
jr, sr, or grad at UofM pref; own cr
required between June 14-Aug 27;
8am- 6pm daily; $10/hr. West side of
Ann Arbor, Call Lisa @ 734-997-9676.

BUSINESS CHINESE: LEARN Busi-
ness Chinese or Chinese in Chinese
Business Law Summer Program in
Beijing. www.studyabroad-china.org

'the aaig2n i

Call above numbers or email for AKI Et'4tNDINs sane /ay poten-
showings or please stop by! tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
New Lower Rates! AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
LARGE I BDRMS Perfect for two. U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa- campus locution! Students apply @
ter incl. 1215 hill St. 734-260-4003 www.telefund.umich.ed uor 763-8773.

i1

Fathef' author
Gay
45 Sun, to Esteban
46 Outcome
48 Canonized
26-Down
49 Festival
showings,
perhaps
51 Quartzvariety
53 Began the betting
55 UN anti-child-
labor agcy.
56 Old oath
60 Menu phrase
61 Big finish, and
what the first
words of the
answers to
starred cluescan
be
64 Roofing material
65 Part of a pound
66 Best-seller list
entry
67 NBCfixturefor
nearly 35 yrs.
68 Dirty campaign
tactic

3 4 6 7 8 9 10 11
15 -16
24 25 26
3s 36 37
40 41
43 44
4$ 4T 48
149 50 51 52
s5 56 57
61 B2 63
6,5 ,6

0

By Merleauaker
(c)2010 Tribune MediaServies, Inc.

03/23/10



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 23, 2010 -- 7

CCHA run reminds Berenson of '68 Blues

Berensonuses St. Louis
experience to spark
Michigan team's
underdog mentality
By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Forty-two years ago, when Red
Berenson played center for the St.
Louis Blues, he found himself skat-
ing onto the ice during the Stanley
Cup playoffs, realizing that he had
lived most of his life on the ice.
Back then, the playoffs weren't
as spread out and teams regularly
had to play four games in five days,
in two different cities. So Berenson
was on the ice, all the time, come
playoff time.
During the 1967-68 season, the
Blues finished third in the Western
Conference and qualified for the
playoffs even though they finished
with a recordbelow.500. Backthen,
there were only 12 teams in the
NHL.
It was the inaugural year for
the St. Louis expansion team and
Berenson was acquired by the Blues
early into then sasn. Berenson led

game," Berenson said.
"You'vegottodomore
than be in it - you've
got to win it. Because
that's the only way
we're going to get in
the tournament."
Michigan went
on to beat North-
ern Michigan by a
narrow 2-1 margin,
with two power-play
goals coming from
junior forward Louie
Caporusso, who has
caught fire lately,
scoring 21 points in
his last 17 games.
Berenson said he
has never coached a
team that has over-

"We knew, even in the Miami
game, they probably had more
good chances to score before we
scored that first goal. Even though
we ended up scoring five goals, had
they scored on one or two of those
chances, it could've been a whole
different weekend."
Since March, and six wins later
over the conference's first-ranked,
second-ranked and fourth-ranked
teams, the Wolverines now find
themselves in the NCAA Tourna-
ment. The first round matchup
against Bemidji State this Saturday
has Michigan pitted against a team
that made the Frozen Four last sea-
son.
But the Wolverines have been
to hell and back. After starting the
season 10-10, Michigan scratched

and clawed its way into the NCAA
tournament.
The Wolverines' last six wins
have displayed a new team that has
seemingly reached the potential
that Berenson said he and his staff
have expected all along. But Michi-
gan has thrived throughout the
CCHA playoffs masquerading as the
underdog.
"I think it's a good role," Beren-
son said. "I've always liked to be the
underdog, as a player and a coach.
I think our team wear that mantle
well when we're in that role. I think
playing good teams brings wthe
best out of our team. Especially once
we get out team playing. And I think
they're playing now. They're play-
ing hard, they're playing together,
they're playing the rightway."

-I le
ARELdOB FDily
Michigan coach Red Berenson was a part of the'68 St. Louis Blues who lost in the Stanley Cup Finals.

come more adverst

"We wanted Miami," Berenson
said. "I'llbe honest,Iwanted Miami.
I think our team wanted Miami. Not
because we were over-confident.
We didn't want to be relieved that
Miami wasn't there and now we get
to play a lesser team. We were ready
for Miami and you saw it on the ice.
Our team played with a level of des-
peration, but I thought we elevated

our overall game, offensively, defen-
sively."
The Wolverines defeated the
RedHawks 5-2 on Friday night.
Berenson, then gathered his team
Saturday morning to talk about the
NCAA tournament for the first time
all year. And his message was short
and simple.
"We came here to be in this

than this year's team.
And he knows what these kind of
situations feel like; he has been in
desperate situations before.
"I remember the attitude,"
Berenson said. "I think the team
talk is important. How our team
talks about our game and the other
team and so on. The focus is impor-
tant. You've got to be resilient. The
game is not goingto be perfect.

V a
Tuesdas Are South Of The Border
oronaSol/NodellalPaciflco Specials All Night
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25%Off Mexican Fare Al1 With NO COVER
310 Maynard St. - To Go Orders 734.995.0100 -Next to the Maynard Parkin Structure
H,-,,m

early into the season. Berenson led
the team in goals (22) and points (51)
that season, even though he only
played in 55 of St. Louis's 74 games.
In the playoffs, the Blues came
alive, and thrived - especially in
clutch situations. St. Louis defeated
the No. 1 seeded Philadelphia Fly-
ers in seven games, winning the
seventh game in Philadelphia 3-1.
Berenson scored the empty-net goal
that sealed the game.
In the second round, the Blues
won the series in another game
seven against the Minnesota North
Stars. The No. 1 seed in the East,
the Montreal Canadiens, eventually
swept St. Louis in the Stanley Cup
finals.
The Michigan hockey team's
run in the CCHA tournament over
the past three weeks has its coach
thinking of that playoff run Beren-
son's Blues made in '68.
"That's a long time ago," Beren-
son said with a laugh. "But it's the
same. I've been through it as a
player. I know what our players are
going through. And I think they're
in sync with it, fine with it. We're
not walking around with the weight
of the world on our shoulders.
"But we know when we step on
the ice, 'Hey, this is big time.''I think
it takes less at this time of year to
get ready to play, because you know.
You've been through it, and now
here you are."
The Wolverines entered the
CCHA tournament as the No. 7
seed, and though they hosted a first-
round series against Lake Superior
State, Michigan had to do most of
its heavy lifting on the road. And
winning the conference tourna-
ment was the team's only path to
the NCAA Tournament for a record
20th consecutive time.
And to do so, the Wolverines
embraced the role of underdog,
which seemed bizarre for a team
that has been in the tournament
for 19 straight years. They're a team
that is used to answering questions
in February about the Frozen Four,
rather than whether they can make
a run to close out the season.
On Feb. 25, junior goaltender
Bryan Hogan got hurt during a
game with a groin injury, then a
week later, senior captain defense-
man Chris Summers went down
with a lower body injury and Michi-
gan was left to fight for its season
and pick up the pieces - just like
how Berenson and St. Louis fought
its way through the playoffs in 1968
winning two game sevens on its way
to the championship series.
The road wins over Michigan
State in East Lansing sent Michigan
to Joe Louis Arena for the CCHA
Championship weekend, starting
with a semifinal date with Miami
(Ohio). And Berenson's competitive
drive wouldn't have had it any other
way.
WISH YOU WERE
IN FORT WAYNE,
IND. FOR HOCKEY
THIS WEEKEND?
MAYBE YOU
SHOULD WRITE FOR
DAILY SPORTS.

E-MAIL RYAN KARTJE AT
RKARTJE@UMICH.EDU


Pace University offers more than oo courses
this summer to help you get ahead and finish
your degree faster.
Choose from courses on both our New York
City and Westchester campuses i such
areas as:
Accounting Anatomy Art
Biology Chemistry Economics
Finance Literature Management
Physics Psychotogy

* Summer Session I
begins
Tuesday, June'i, 2010
ummer Session II
begins
WednesdayJuly 14,2010

Today's Career Tip:
Get noticed at work! Volunteer for projects
and committees, instead of waiting to be asked.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
umalumni.com/r2l

I


:su
0iY

GET INVOLVED
Sstanb I li ty
Teach-In

* LEARN from faculty experts
- GIVE VOICE to your concerns
TOPICS
Climate and Energy
Water and the Great Lakes
Food and Health
Sustainable Accessibility
umich.edu/earthday

9:30 am to noon
9 am - refreshments
Micohigan league
911 North University
Ann Abor
Fre' ando pen
to the public
Conuiannro, Colagof tl/sosxr
Sceor nd oihoi/rts , O idor
ScuhouolfPic'olic niyi/iar hrPbic
Heno/i, /,ioi/omi/ niusi/intinnOlu
tl'Officeo apusson/~ninty, P/onet
B/ue

i


8 - Tuesday, March 23, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Tuesday, March 23, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom I

STAFF PICKS
The Daily softball beat makes
its predictions for the season
Casandra Luke Alex
Pagni Pasch Hermann
Michigan overall record 42-10 43-9 43-9
Michigan Big Ten record 14-5 15-4 16-3
Michigan MVP Nemitz Taylor Taylor
.9 &Mchiansupiseplaye Bashe Bashe Kikatick
Big Ten Regular Season Charpion Michigan illinois Michigan
Big Ten Regular Season Runner-Up llinois Michigan Ohio State
Big Ten Tournaent Champion Michigan Michigan Michigan
Big Ten MVP Taylor Taylor Taylor
Big Ten surprise team enn State Illinois Ohio State
Dominant pitching duo
is key to Blue's success
ByLUKE PASCH in Ann Arbor three years ago - recently decided to strict
Daily Sports Writer "one-pitch softball." enforce the "crow-hop rule,
"It provides the basics for which says that the pitcher'

6
I
I

I

ly
s

Expectations sky
high forMcia

With Big Ten season
approaching, 'M' hopes
to avenge WCWS
disappointment
By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writer
As the most recent Michigan
sports team to have won an NCAA
national championship - now
almost five years ago - the Michi-
gan softball team knows all about
high expectations.
In 2005, an extra-innings home
run blast gave the Wolverines their
first-ever softball championship,
catapulting the program onto the
national scene as the first team
east of the Mississippi River to win
the Women's College World Series.
Since then, Michigan has fielded
three Big Ten championship teams
and advanced to at least the NCAA
Super Regionals every year. Last
season, the Wolverines made their
first trip back to Oklahoma City
since their NCAA championship,
but ultimately couldn't repeat their
miraculous performance from four
years before.
With essentially the entire ros-
ter back from ayear ago and anum-
ber of experienced players, this
may be the program's best chance
to return to glory.
And nobody has made that
expectation clearer than the Mich-
igan players themselves.
"Our team is on a mission,"

sophomore outfielder Bree Evans
said. "We want to win it this year
and we know that we're capable of
winning it. We're going to do any-
thing we can to win the national
championship this year."
It's a team that has all the tools.
With veteran leadership, a certain
amount of experience and arguably
the best pitching duo in the nation,
the fourth-ranked Wolverines are
expected to do damage this year,
in the conference and in the nation.
Already, Michigan has shown its
talnet level on the national stage.
Heading into Wednesday's home
opener against Bowling Green, the
Wolverines (22-5) have won 13 of
their last 14 games including wins
against some of the top teams in
the nation.
Currently, Michigan's top five
players in the lineup are all bat-
ting above .300, and all nine play-
ers were regulars in the lineup a
year ago, including four first team
All-Big Ten hitters and one second
teamer.
"We obviously have big goals
in mind," senior pitcher Nikki
Nemitz said. "We just want to fight
and battle every game. We have
a lot of senior experience, and I
think that's going to help us."
With six seniors and 12 upper-
classmen total, the Wolverines'
veteran leadership has already
manifested itself in positive ways.
Michigan has already found
itself in four extra-innings games
this year. The Wolverines have
managed to win three of those
games, including against No. 2

Arizona last weekend and against
then-No. 8 UCLA more than a
month ago. Against the Wildcats,
senior centerfielder Molly Bausher
drove in the team's lone run in the
eight inning to propel the team to
victory.
But as many teams before them
have abruptly discovered, expec-
tations, past accolades and even
senior leadership don't necessar-
ily translate to victories in early
June.
Michigan has had difficulties
at the plate in the early season
against some of the better teams
they've played. In their five losses,
the Wolverines have averaged less
than three runs per game. Clearly,
Michigan's pitching won't always
be able to carry the team to victo-
ry, and at crucial points down the
stretch the team's bats will have
to be ready to step up.
For now, in order to keep their
eyes on the ultimate prize, the
Wolverines simply have to focus on
themselves.
"We're not focused on the other
team, we don't care about the
other team," Michigan coach Carol
Hutchins said. "We're all about
playing Michigan softball."
And though the Michigan soft-
ball program may still be defined
by what happened five years ago,
when Samantha Findlay blasted a
home run over the leftfield fence
to secure the program's first
national championship, the cur-
rent team now looks to expand on
that legacy - complete with its
own chapter.

For as long as there have been
baseball and softball diamonds,
pitchers have ruled.
It's a concept that's lived on
through the timeless phrase,
"Pitching wins championships."
But average spectators may not
enjoy sitting through low-scoring
games. It's for this reason that the
most glamorous jobs in baseball
and softball tend to be associ-
ated with the big-bopping corner
infielders and outfielders (with
some exceptions - see Jennie
Finch).
Then again, those same fans
who love scoring would be just as
thrilled to see their team play in
the Women's College World Series
in Oklahoma City this June.
Michigan coach Carol
Hutchins knows a thing or two
about grooming a pitching staff
for the WCWS. In 2005, she
imparted her "orie-pitch softball"
philosophy on then-Wolverine
starter Jennie Ritter en route to
the program's first NCAA cham-
pionship. Sports Illustrated later
named Ritter the ninth-best
Michigan athlete of all-time for
her integral role in the team's suc-
cess.
But that was then. Here's an in-
depth look at the Wolverines' set
of dominant pitchers in 2010:
NIKKI NEMITZ, SENIOR, LHP
College softball coaches natu-
rally look for their players to
progress each spring and off-
season. But this lefty will have a
tough time eclipsing the numbers
she put up in her 2009 campaign.
Nemitz finished with career
highs in most major pitching cat-
egories - wins (28), strikeouts
(306) and opponents' batting
average (.150). Surprisingly, her
formidable 1.07 ERA was a three-
point downgrade from her sopho-
more season.
She attributes those results to
the pitching mantra that's gov-
erned her play since she arrived

everything that we try to do,"
Nemitz said. "If you're thinking
about a pitch that abatter crushed
in the last at-bat, then the results
will never show up. You have to
focus on the moment - on what
you can control."
And Nemitz shouldn't have to
focus on too much else - she has
just four pitches in her repertoire:
curveball, screwball, changeup
and rise ball. Instead of over-
whelming hitters with a variety
of pitches, as many of the best
pitchers do, she relies on superb
command and an excellent veloc-
ity drop-off on her changeup.
That formula has been notice-
ably effective, since an offense
that only needs to cross the plate
a couple of times in seven innings
is a happy offense.
JORDAN TAYLOR, JUNIOR,
RHP
Taylor possesses one of the
nation's filthiest curveballs. And
she isn't particularly modest
about it either.
"The curveball was working
really well today, which is pretty
normal," she said after a com-
plete-game shutout over Mary-
land last month. "My curveball is
usually very effective."
Then again, a pitcher who can
toss a one-hit shutout against No.
2 Arizona's lineup, which show-
cases three .420-plus hitters,
doesn't really need to be modest.
Taylor has surpassed expecta-
tions thus far in her junior cam-
paign. And should she keep up
her current pace, her end-of-
May numbers when the WCWS
approaches will rival those of Rit-
ter's 2005 record-breaking statis-
tics - 280-plus innings pitched,
35-or-more wins and 450 strike-
outs.
But there is one issue that can
prevent Taylor from reaching
those lofty goals.
It seems superficially incon-
sequential, but the NCAA has

back foot must stay on the
ground dragging during the
pitching motion. Pitchers are
barred from lifting their foot
and replanting it back on the
ground to push off of.
Unfortunately for Taylor, the
rule isn't particularly conducive
to her style of pitching, and the
rest of her season's success may
rely on a combination of leni-
ency from the umps and a slight
revamp of her pitching motion.
Last weekend alone she threw
12 illegal pitches, the penalty for
which is a free base for all base
runners, and she was handed her
second loss of the season.
"I've been pitching like this
since I was 16 years old," Taylor
said. "It's not quick mid-week fix,
let alone a mid-season fix."
Regardless, Taylor will con-
tinue to keep hitters on their
toes, as the rule change doesn't
detract from her six-pitch arse-
nal. She throws a curveball, chan-
geup, back-door curve, rise ball,
drop ball and screwball, all of
which hold their own against the
nation's best.
THE BALANCE
Michigan's pitching duo is
uniquely dynamic. Not only are
Nemitz and Taylor premiere
pitchers in the Big Ten and
NCAA, but they also complement
each other in an unprecedented,
even eerie, manner.
That can be the difference-
maker between the Wolverines
and other elite pitching staffs.
They pitch from different sides
of the mound. They have differ-
ent release styles and heights.
one relies on control pitching,
and the other on breaking move-
ment.
They have different looks for
different opposing offenses.
"There's no number one pitch-
er. We have two All-American
pitchers," Hutchins said. "And
that's our greatest strength."


Tana' 2 CSlT tV0&
15 vt
2 dtma F
7 qqr y
j N Nern l p
TEAM LEADERS
Batting Average
Evans ................355
Viefhaus .............333

Shaw's leadership, i

ower valuable for Wolverines

By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
Teams have toyed with various
methods to slow down the power
of junior slugger Dorian Shaw.
They've pitched around her.
They've pitched her inside.
They've pitched aggressively.
Either way, Shaw finds a way to
touch the bases.
Twenty-seven games into the
season, Shaw has already ham-
mered out 10 home runs. Boast-
ing the team's highest slugging
percentage at .784 and leading the
team in walks (16), the first base-
man is certainly a Wolverine to
watch out for this season.
An immediate contributor to
the team, Shaw has started at
first base since she arrived in Ann
Arbor and now has 131 games
under her belt.
From the early-season five-
game tournaments to the difficult
conference schedule ahead, the
physical game can wear on any-
one. But over the past three years,
Shaw has learned the importance
of the mental game, regardless of
what happens on the diamond.
"My freshman year, I was mak-
ing so much out of 'I'm supposed
to be doing this' and 'I'm sup-
posed to be doing that,' " Shaw
said. "I was doing more thinking
than playing. One thing that I've
learned is controlling my emo-
tions and controlling my mind
while I'm on the field. That's
something that I had never been
taught before, until I got here.
"When you get here, everybody
on the team is good, everybody
can play and everybody can do

the physical things.
It's the mental game
thattputs you above,
because you have
to have the mental-
toughness and abil-
ity to bounce back
because there is so
much failure."
Now anupperclass-
man, the slugger has
proven herself to her
team and coaches. As
a natural leader, Shaw
embraces the fact
that her teammates
turn to her when they
need advice, encour-
agement or a differ-
ent perspective. On a
team with six seniors,
Shaw feels comfort-
able relating to both
the younger and older
Wolverines.
"At this level,
sometimes you might
just need a little reas-
surance when you're
not having a great
day," Shaw said. "I
can go to a freshman
and be like 'Hey, you Jno o~
belong here, you ca Junior Dori
play with us. You're
just as good as anybody else out
here.' More than anything, the
experience of going through the
ups and downs of the game is
what is going to help us. We all
know what it feels like to have a
crappy day or a really good day but
(we don't) get too high or low on
ourselves."
Though the most consistent
Michigan unit this season has

4

4

RBI
Findla .....
Shaw .. . ... . ... . ..

28
27

ARIEL BOND/Daily
an Shaw has 10 home rats through 27 tames thus tar this season. Last your, she had 14 through the entire season. 4

ERA
Taylor ............... 1.22
Nemitz ... . .. ... 1.91
Strikeouts
Taylor. . .... ..... . 156
Nemitz .............. 86

been the pitchers, throughout her
years at Michigan, Shaw has pro-
vided a consistent presence from
the middle of the lineup.
Last season, Shaw's bat heated
up in the postseason, as five of
her 14 total home runs came dur-
ing NCAA Tournament play. Only
four home runs shy of last year's
season total, Shaw looks to keep
her foot on the gas pedal this sea-

Using the team's run into the
Women's College World Series
last season as motivation, the
junior is hoping that her mental
game can give her the extra edge
in the batter's box and in the field.
"You can't just be happy to be
(in the postseason)," Shaw said.
"You can't just make it to the
dance, you have to want to win
and always be competing because
the team that's going to win is the

team that literally wants it the
most.
Any team can has the capabil-
ity, the talent, the players. Hutch
always tells us 'Other teams give
scholarships, too.' They have good
players. It really comes down to
who actually has the desire. If
your not going to grind to get it,
then everything you have done for
the past year seems like it was all
for naught."


