AN IN-STATE PI IT

,k

* I 10vBMsa - Why Austin indie-rock underdogs
After dropping n in East Lansing Friday, Spoon might just be the best band
'M' came back to stun State at the Joc. of the last decade.
i PAGE1B ) PAGE 8A

k

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, February 1,2010

UPWARDb OVER AT HTLLT

michigandaily com
U IVERSITY L AW SCHOOL
In Lawyers
Club, access
to recycling
bins limited

Mi A MARNO/Daily More photos from the show
Iron and Wine performs at the 33rd annual Ann Arbor Folk Festival at Hill Auditorium on Friday. The festival, which ran through Saturday, °ii oo rmteso
featured performances by Doc Watson and Richie Havens, among others. The Folk Festival is a benefit for local performance venue The Ark. at
2010 CENUS
Expert: College towns hurt
by students' census confus-ion

Res
ci
Lam
LawyE
withir
foul o
ing vo
in the
Unl
camps
bins
or rat
Instea
walk t
to rec
studer
recycl
in the
Sec
Mao,N
yers C
recycl
dence
"Th
bins i
Mao

-idence hall only walk to a lounge that's separate
from the residential building."
has recycling Mao said residents were more
likely to throw their recyclables
receptacles 111 in the trash, given the close prox-
.a imity of trashcans in their rooms
elltral location1 and halls. He added that he
thinks if bins were added around
By MIKE MERAR the building, students and staff
DailyStaffReporter would.certainly recycle more
often.
w students living in the The Lawyers Club building is
ers Club, a residence hall divided into blocks, with each
n the Law Quad, are crying consisting of four to five rooms.
ver what they call a surpris- Though none have any recycling
id of recycling receptacles bins, those living within the Law-
storied building's hallways. yers Club can recycle by taking
like other residence halls on materials to a central location in
us, there are no recycling the building.
available within the halls Diane Nafranowicz, director of
oms in the Lawyers Club. the Lawyers Club, said the reason
d, residents there have to there are no recycling bins in resi-
o a central location in order dential areas is that they cause a
ycle o a hassle that some safety hazard if students need to
nts say is forcing would-be leave in an emergency. .
ers to simply throw things "Fightnow, in any of the physi-
trash. cal buildings, there isn't a plastic
ond-year Law student Eric or paper recycling in the hallway
who used to live in the Law- because of the physical layout of
lub, said it was difficult to the building," Nafranowicz said.
e while living in the resi- "With one means of egress, the
hall. fire marshal doesn't allow any-
ere weren't any recycling thing in those stairwells."
n our actual dorm area," Besides student housing, the
said. "We would have to See RECYCLING, Page 3A

'U' launching video
campaign today to
encourage students
to fill out forms
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
For the Daily
The University launched a video
advertisement contest today meant
to increase student participation in

the 2010 national census.
During the last census in 2000,
students living in college towns like
Ann Arbor had the lowest response
rates of any demographic. Lisa
Neidert, director of data services at
the University's Population Studies
Center said students often choose
not to fill out the census because
they are confused about how the
survey works -or because they are
concerned about the amount of
time it takes.
In an effort to clear up the con-

fusion and encourage students to
fill out the survey, Neidert is work-
ing with the Institute for Social
Research and the Office of the Pro-
vost on a campaign aimed at raising
low census participation by Univer-
sity students.
Any registered student may sub-
mit avideo encouraging students to
fill out the census. Students, faculty
and staff will be able to vote on sub-
missions on YouTube and the Uni-
versity's website and only the first
250 entries will be available for

judging. The top two vote getters
will get a $1,000 cash prize. The
deadline for submissions is March
8.
Every 10 years, the United States
government is required by the U.S.
Constitution to survey the popula-
tion in order to gauge how many
people are living in the country at
the time. The 2010 census forms
will be mailed in March and will be
due on April 1.
According to thecensuspro-
See CENSUS, Page 3A

SWINE FLU UPDATE I
Officials: Students should
still get H1Ni vaccination

UHS, CDC warn
of possible new
wave of virus in
Feb. or March
By DEBJANI MUKHERJEE
DailyStaffReporter
While fears about swine flu are
dying down, University health

officials are still concerned about
the virus and are encouraging
students to get vaccinated.
Despite the increased number
of vaccinations available at the
University Health Service, the
number of students and faculty
being vaccinated at the University
has decreased since HIN virus
vaccinations became available in
November, according to UHS offi-
cials.
According to a recent study

by the American College Health
Association, during the month of
January, only 4.2 percent of the
vaccinations available to Michi-
gan residents have been used as
of Jan. 22.
From Sept. 1, 2009 to Jan. 18,
2010, UHS saw 810 cases of influ-
enza-like illnesses, according to
RobertWinfield, chief health offi-
cer of the University and director
of UHS. But Winfield said there
See H1N1, Page 3A

LOCAL BUSINESS
New wax salon opens on South U.

Irl Duling, director of Terhertz Business Development at Picometrix (left), scans Jeff White, a research scientist for the com-
pany, with an industrialized prototype of a scanner technology which may be used in airport security.
A2 company develops new
security tech. for airports

The Wax Loft offers
waxing, facials and
skin care services
By LAUREN SLUTSKY
For theDaily
While students sip on mocha
lattes and cappuccinos at
Espresso Royale, others are
enduring pain for the sake of
beauty, just a few floors above.
The Wax Loft - a salon offer-
ing waxing and skin treatments
located above Espresso Royale
on South University - officially

opened its door to customers in
December. The space was pre-
viously occupied by a custom
denim store called Party in Our
Pants.
Rebecca Tober, 26, and Stacy
Wood, 25 - both licensed esthe-
ticians who own The Wax Loft
- met a few years ago while
working at an Ann Arbor salon
and recently decided it was time
to pursue their own business
venture.
Tober said the two wanted
to offer a place where students
could "come feeling comfort-
able straight out of bed in their
pajamas."

The two women run the salon
by themselves, with no outside
help.
Tober specializes in full body
waxing and advanced skin care
treatments like chemical peals
and enzyme treatments, while
Wood is acertified massage
therapist and also specializes in
full body waxing.
Tober and Wood said they
strive to make the salon a warm,
nurturing environment by
offering customers tea or straw-
berry water upon arrival.
In addition, Wood said they
always walk customers through
See SALON, Page 7A

Terahertz scan said
to be less invasive
but still as effective
as other processes
By A. BRAD SCHWARTZ
Daily StaffReporter
The failed Christmas Day plot to
blow up an airliner flying into the

Detroit Metro Airport has height-
ened the debate over security in
America's airports, leading to
concerns about how invasive secu-
rity screening should be. An Ann
Arbor-based company is develop-
ing new technology that might
answer that question.
Rob Risser, chief financial offi-
cer of Advanced Photonix, Inc.,
said the firm has been experiment-
ing for years to harness electro-
magnetic waves called terahertz.

The technology has already been
applied in aerospace and pharma-
ceutical applications, among oth-
ers. The company believes it could
now be used to help airport secu-
rity efforts.
"We're using pulsed terahertz
technology," Risser said. "That
frequency interacts with organic
materials that allows us to deter-
mine threats that would be con-
cealed threats -under clothing, in
See TECHNOLOGY, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 29
TOMORROW L: 26

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsldmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
A tale of two very different types of cupcakes.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE

INDEX NEWS.................. 2A ARTS.,............................SA
Vol. CXX,No.84 SUDOKU..... .............. 3A CLASSIFIEDS ED ............6A
©2tltThe ichiganDaily OPINION..............4A SPORTSMONDAY.................1B

41

t f

1


2A - Monday, February 1, 2010

0
The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

NIGHT AT THE MOVIES
iam

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilvvitz@michigandaitycom tmdbusiness@gmaiteeom

Smoking w
allowed within
any New York
building entrar
new ban goes
next fall, accor
University's da
per, Washingt
News.
Currently, s
in university1
prohibited. W;
that the smoki
proposed to sti
e-mail from A
NYU senior vi
for operations, l
and about 84 pe
dents polled by
istration approv
However, sti
recently voiced
al, WSN report(
"Unless son
me I'm botherir
asks me to go

NYU initiates smoking ban
ill not be else, i'm not moving," NYU best for Michigan State soon be able to join mem-
n 15 feet of freshman Stephen Cahill University," Izzo said in the bers of the surrounding
University said in the article. article. community for dinners in
nce when a Public safety officers wThe new logo, a varia- their homes, as reported by
into effect may remind smokers to tion of the Spartan helmet, AU's daily newspaper, the
ding to the stand at least 15 feet away has faced heavy opposition Eagle.
ily newspa- from building entrances, from many students and Sponsoredbytheschool's
ton Square but the ban will primar- fans. It is part of an effort Community and Local Gov-
ily be enforced by students by MSU's athletics program ernment Relations office,
nokingwith- and members of the com- to rebrand itself, but other the new initiative aims to
buildings is munity. details will not be revealed foster a positive relation-
SN reported until April. ship between students and
ng ban was IZZO SHOWS SUPPORT The State News reported local residents.
udents in an FOR NEW MSU LOGO that current logos used by According to the Eagle,
lison Leary, the university's various many of these residents are
ce president According to the State athletic teams are not con- graduates of AU.
last October, News, Michigan State Uni- sistent - with some teams "We thought a nice way
rcent of stu- versity's men's basketball using the block "S" and oth- (for people to meet) would
the admin- coach Tom Izzo spoke out ers using a Spartan helmet. be for students and neigh-
ved of it. in support of the school's bors to get together over
udents have new logo during his press AU STUDENTS GET a meal," Penny Pagano,
I disapprov- conference last Monday. HOMECOOKED MEALS community and local gov-
ed. "For all of you out there ernment relations director,
neone tells that are complaining, American University said in the article.

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom o
News Tips
Corrections
Letterstothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

ffice hours: Sun.-Thurs,11ia.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
news@michigandaily.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
photo@michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandaily.com
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaity.com

ng them and
somewhere

shame on you, because...
we are trying to do what's

students tired of less-than-
stellar cafeteria fare will

MIA MARINO/Daily
Michigan Theater volunteers Joyce and Steve Gerber
take tickets for a showing of "Bilal's Stand" yesterday.

- SARA BOBOLTZ

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Tree falls on car MIPs given to Free game day
WHERE: Lot NC-51 2600 group in Bursley
Glazer for ladies

WHEN: Thursday at about
8:40 a.m.
WHAT: A University staff
member reported that a tree
fell on her car, according to
University Police. The owner of
the car was not injured.
Bikes stolen,
then recovered

WHERE: Bursley Hall
WHEN: Friday at about 11:50
p.m.
WHAT: Five males were
arrested for Minor in Posses-
sion of alcohol, University Police
reported. Four were released
and the fifth, a 16-year old, was
taken to the emergency room.
Male student
assaulted
WHERE: 216 Thayer
WHEN: Friday at about 2:50
WHAT: A male University
student was assaulted by five to
six college-aged males around
Washington Street and Thayer
Street, University Police
reported.

WHERE: Ross Academic Cen-
ter
WHEN: Sunday at about 4:30
a.m
WHAT: University Police
reported that two bikes were
stolen. The thieves were
stopped, and the bikes were
returned. There are no sus-
pects athis time.


WHAT: Women can play
pool, foosball, X-box and the
Wii for free.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
liards
WHEN: Today from 11:30
a.m. to 11:30 p.m.
WHERE: Billiards Room
Faith film
screening
WHAT: A 30-minute film
with interviews from young
Arab-American women who
talk aboutthe stereotypes
amd racism they face while
living in Chicago.
WHEN: Today at noon
WHO: Center for Middle
Eastern & North African
Studies
WHERE: School of Social
Work, Room 1636

Drug lecture
WHAT: Public Health Prof.
Paul Willison will give a lec-
ture on financingthe develop-
ment of drugs and vaccines.
WHO: International Policy
Center
WHEN: Tonight from 4 p.m.
to 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall, Room
1110
Table tennis
WHAT: Open practice for
members and nonmembers of
the University's table tennis
team.
WHEN: Tonight from 7 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHO: Michigan Union Bil-
liards
WHERE: Coliseum
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

The first Bloomingdale's
department store out-
side of the United States
opened in Dubai, The Huffing-
ton Post reported. Located in
the Dubai Mall, the store has
a 146,000-square-foot cloth-
ing and accessories area and a
54,000-square-foot home fur-
nishings section.
With a late goal Saturday,
the Michigan hockey
team beat Michigan State
University to avoid being swept
by the Spartans for the first
time since the 1997-1998 season.
>>FOR MORE, SEE THE SPORTSMONDAY
COLUMN, PAGE1B
The New York Times
reported China sur-
passed the United States,
Denmark, Germany and Spain
as the world's largest manu-
facturer of wind turbines and
solar panels in 2009.

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattAaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIORn NsEW SDTOn kicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Swanson, Eswar Tiunvkkrasu
ASITN sEWS EDITORS: Dlanani,narrn zead,oehLichteaon,
VeronicaMenaiAnnie Thomas,DevonThsbylyannig s
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
ASSI STAN TE DITORI A LPAGE EDITORS: Miche Ile DeW itt, Alex Schi ff, Matthew Shutler
Ryan Kartje ManagingSportsEditor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros,JoeStapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyzik,TimRohan,AmyScarano '
.anie Block ManagingArtsEditor block@miehigandaily.com
SENIORARTSaEIOS:arln lareki AndreLain, Jf an fornd
G N T ARTSDTOSo:nLeahnBuginShandJacos,BridKcon,MikeKuntz,
aviShekharPandey
MaxCollins and photo@michigandaily.com
SamWolson ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIORPHOTOEDITORFORMULTIMEDIA:ChanelVon Habsburg-Lothringen
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Ariel Bond
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Aaron Augsburger, Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Sarah Squireand design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Angela Chih
Trevortalero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips Copychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KatieJoZwiak Sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER:MollyTwigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER:KaylaLaFata
Ben English Production Manager
AllisonnSantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wintertermsbystudensattheUniversityorfMichigan.Onecopyisiavalablefreeof chargetoal
readers,.Additionacopiesmaybepickedupat theDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,
startinginSeptember,viaU.S.malare$110.Winetermrmanuary throughApril)is$115,yearlong
(september through Apriliis$195.Universitylaffiliatesaresubetttoa reducedsubscriptionrate.
Oncampussubscriptconskforaitermare$35subsriptionsmuteepaid.TheMichiganDaily
in eer of ThAointerd Prss andThs ocniated Ctllrgiate Pens.

0

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

Haiti detains Americans taking kids across border

Baptists arrested for
taking kids out of
Haiti without permit
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP)
- Ten U.S. Baptists detained try-
ing to take 33 children out of,
earthquake-shattered Haiti with-
out government permission say

they were just trying to do the
right thing, applying Christian
principles to save Haitian chil-
dren.
But their "Orphan Rescue Mis-
sion" is striking nerves in a coun-
try that has long suffered from
child trafficking and foreign inter-
ventions, and where much of the
aid is delivered in ways that chal-
lenge Haiti's own rich religious

traditions.
Prime Minister Max Bellerive
yesterday told The Associated
Press that the group was arrested
and is under judicial investigation
"because it is illegal trafficking
of children and we won't accept
that."
The Americans are the first
people to be arrested since the Jan
12 quake on such suspicions.

The government and estab-
lished child welfare agencies are
trying to slow Haitian adoptions
amid fears that parentless or lost
children are more vulnerable
than ever to being seized and sold.
Without proper documents and
concerted efforts to track down
their parents, they could be forev-
er separated from family members
able and willing to care for them.

Bellerive's personal authorization
is now required for the departure
of any child.
The orphanage where the chil-
dren were later taken said some of
the kids have living parents, who
were apparently told the children
were going on a holiday from the
post-quake misery.
The church group's own mis-
sion statement said it planned to
spend only hours in the devas-
tated capital, quickly identifying
children without immediate fam-
ilies and busing them to a rented
hotel in the Dominican Republic
without bothering to get permis-
sion from the Haitian govern-

ment.
Whatever their intentions,
other child welfare organizations
in Haiti said the plan was foolish
at best.
"The instinct to swoop in and
rescue children may be a natural
impulse but it cannot be the solu-
tion for the tens of thousands of
children left vulnerable by the
Haiti earthquake," said Deb Barry,
a protection expert at Save the
Children, which wants a morato-
rium on new adoptions. "The pos-
sibility of a child being scooped up
and mistakenly labeled an orphan
in the chaotic aftermath of the
disaster is incredibly high."

I

I

aH&R BLOCK

I

CONGRAT!1
January 17 --March 27th TIP: Instead of using
a paper cup for
U-M placed Sth in the coffee, use a mug!
Gorilla Prize competition!
But only 90th for recycling percentage!
$O COME ON, MICHIGAN!
INCREA$E YOUR RECYCLING!
University of Michigan Waste Management Services
www.recycle.umich.edu
Help us study strategies for preventing influenza
The University of Michigan School of Public Health is enrolling students living in
esidence halls in a research study to see how well influenza (1) vaccines and other
strategies work in reducing the risk of influenza illness in university residence halls.
Participants will be asked to complete two surveys, one at enrolment and one in Spring
2010. Participants are also asked to report any fiu-like respiratory illness. Ill persons will
ae invited to have a throat swab collected for laboratory testing. All participants will be
nvited to have a blood sample collected at the end of the influenza season to track
aandemic HiN1 infection.
You are eligible if:
* You are at least 18 years old
" You live in one of the following residence halls: Alice Lloyd, Stockwell, Markley,
Mosher-Jordan, or Couzens
Compensation: Participants are entered into n lottery for one of ten $100 cash cards for
each survey they complete. Participants will receive $10 for permitting collection of a
throat swab if they have a flu-like illness, and $20 for permitting collection of a blood
sample
Investigators: Arnold S. Monto, MD; Suzanne Ohmit, DrPH; Allison A tello, PhD
IRSBMED#: HUM00035609
For more information or if you are interested in participating, please contact our study
staff:
Phone: (734) 647-0092
Email: umsphchi s umich.edu
Website: www.umshchips.orn

6

0

0

0

I


a The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 1, 2010 - 3A

mw

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, February 1, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
* Granholm: Obama
stimulus plan gave
Michigan 42K jobs
President Barack Obama's eco-
nomic stimulus plan has created
42,000 jobs in Michigan in the
past six months and deserves a
chance to succeed, Gov. Jennifer
Granholm said.
Granholm, who appeared yes-
terday on political talk shows on
CBS and CNN, said Obama's ini-
tiatives to create jobs and reward
new U.S. manufacturing jobs
with tax credits is creating hope
among Michigan and other man-
ufacturing-dependent states that
have been hit hard by job losses.
"Now we see over 3 million jobs
being created by the stimulus,"
she said on CBS' "Face the Nation.
"And just quickly, one of the
things that is unique to Michigan
* and maybe to some other states
who have our problem with the
loss of manufacturing jobs, what
he has done is given us hope to
transform and diversify."
Granholm, speaking on CNN's
"State of the Union," noted Michi-
gan is "the poster child of the glob-
al shift in manufacturing jobs."
WASHINGTON
Pentagon to begin
ending gay military
service ban
The Defense Department starts
the clock next week on what is
expected to be a several-year pro-
cess in lifting its ban on gays from
serving openly in the military.
A special investigation into how
the ban can be repealed without
hurting the morale or readiness
of the troops was expected to be
announced Tuesday by Defense
Secretary Robert Gates and Adm.
Mike Mullen, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff.
While the review is likely to
take the better part of this year
to complete, and even more
time to implement, its initiation
will advance President Barack
Obama's goal of repealing the ban
and bring a divisive issue for the
military back to the fore.
At the White House, officials
continued reviewing options to
repeal theClinton-era poliqy that
the president vowed to repeal. The
administration still believes that
any repeal should start in Con-
gress and have the backing of top
military leaders.
MEXICO CITY
13 students killed at
* party along violent
Mexico border
Armed men stormed a party in
a violent Mexican border city, kill-
ing 13 high school and college stu-
dents in what witnesses thought
was an attack prompted by false
information.
The deaths in Ciudad Juarez
were part of a total of 24 people
killed across Mexico since Satur-

day in violence caused by ongo-
ing turf battles between powerful
drug cartels.
About two dozen teens and
young adults were hospitalized
following the late Saturday assault
in Ciudad Juarez, one of the dead-
d liest cities in the world located
across the border from El Paso,
Texas.

RECYCLING
From Page 1A
Lawyers Club contains an area of
office space called Block P. The
Law School is temporarily rent-
ing the space from the Lawyers
Club for use while its facilities
are being expanded and renovat-
ed over the next two years.
Though the office spaces in
Block P produce a lot of paper
waste just like any other office
would, there currently aren't any
means to recycle there either.
Officials from the Law School
and Lawyers Club disagree on
who is in charge of overseeing
recycling in Block P.
Law School officials claim
the responsibility for recycling
in Block P falls on the Lawyers
Club. But Lawyers Club officials
said because the offices are a
part of the Law School, it's the
school's responsibility to moni-
tor the recycling program.
Nafranowicz said there are
currently plans in the works to
install recycling bins in Block
P, though she couldn't specify a
timeline.
Aliza Cohen, a second-year
Law student and president of
the Law School Student Senate,
said that recycling has "been a
concern of the student body for
a while." But, she added that the
Senate has only been minimally
involved in the recycling issue.
"Student Senate has largely
been aware of the issue, but
we've been also aware that the
Environmental Law Society has
CENSUS
From Page 1A
ject.org, each uncounted citizen
causes his or her community to
lose around $1,200 a year in fed-
eral funding.
Neidert said in the past, stu-
dents have typically had low
response rates to the census.
"The main reason I think is
that there is a misunderstanding
about the census residence rules,"
Neidert said.
She explained that most stu-
dents do not realize they need
to fill out a census form based on
where they're living at the time.
"Let's say you're from New
Jersey, you would be counted in
Ann Arbor, and you would not be
counted on your parents' census
form," she said. "You are counted
where you are living and eating
most of the time."
The census is meant to count
people who are living in a spe-
cific location on April 1. Neidert
said this might be a problem if
students think they should fill
out the form based onowhere they
will be living after the semester is
over.
Neidert added that interna-
tional students often experience
some confusion with regard to
the census, because they think
they are exempt from filling it out
since they aren't U.S. citizens.
"Our census is one where
everyone is counted, so you don't
have to be a citizen," she said.
The University's census cam-
paign aims to clear up these mis-
understandings. The hope is to

been working on it as a part of
their initiatives, so we haven't
been really doing much," Cohen
said.
Edward Schexnayder, a sec-
ond-year Law student and an
officer in the Environmental
Law Society, wasn't willing to
disclose any details, but he said
the group is working with the
Lawyers Club to improve the
recycling situation.
"We are hoping to work with
(administrators) in coming up
with a way for students in the
Lawyers Club to have more
immediate recycling access,"
Schexnayder said.
Schexnayder has never lived
in the Lawyers Club, but agreed
recycling in the building is a
problem.
"In order to recycle, you have
to take all of your stuff out of the
quad and walk it all the way over
(to the central recycling loca-
tion), which can be a significant
hurdle," Schexnayder said.
Carl Margrabe, second-year
Law student and former Law-
yers Club resident, shared simi-
lar sentiments.
He said students tend to
throw away materials as a mat-
ter of convenience, rather than
traveling across the Law Quad to
recycle.
If bins were around the area,
Margrabe added, then people
would use them.
"I'm sure most people want
to recycle," he said. "It's just
not something you're going to
go completely out of your way
to do."
improve the low response rates
from University students in the
last census.
While the national response
rate was 67 percent and Ann
Arbor's response rate was 76 per-
cent for the 2000 census, one Ann
Arbor neighborhood - made up
of predominantly student-based
housing - had an approximately
38-percent response rate.
The U.S. Census Bureau sends
out follow-up investigators -
called census takers - to low
response areas in late April after
the census forms are due, but
since students tend to move out of
housing around that same time,
many of these efforts are ineffec-
tive in college towns.
While students will be study-
ing for finals and making gradu-
ation plans around the time the
census is due, Neidert said stu-
dents shouldn't be concerned
about the amount of time needed
to fill out the form.
She estimated that students
living in residence halls on
campus can expect to answer
only five or six questions, while
students living in off-campus
apartments or houses will only
have to answer a few more than
six.
Neidert said it's important
for students to fill out the forms
because answering about 10
questions for roughly 10 minutes
can give the Ann Arbor commu-
nity about $10,000 per person
in federal funds over the next
decade.
- Daily News Editor Stephanie
Steinberg contributed to this report.

Obamas $3.8 trillion budget
heading to Congress today

Proposed budget
would see increased
taxes on the wealthy,
spending freeze
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama's proposed
budget predicts the national defi-
cit will crest at a record-breaking
almost $1.6 trillion in the current
fiscal year, then start to recede in
2011 to just below $1.3 trillion.
Still, the administration's new
budget to be released today says
deficits over the next decade will
average 4.5 percent of the size of
the economy, a level that econo-
mists say is dangerously high if not
addressed.
A congressional official provided
the information, which comes from

a White House summary document
circulating freely on Capitol Hill
and among Washington's lobbyists.
The official spoke on condition of
anonymity because the spending
proposal was not supposed to be
made public until today..
Details of the administra-
tion's budget headed for Congress
include an additional $100 billion
to attack painfully high unem-
ployment. The proposed $3.8 tril-
lion budget would provide billions
more to pull the country out of the
Great Recession while increasing
taxes on the wealthy and imposing
a spending freeze on many govern-
ment programs.
Administration projections
show the deficit never dropping
below $700 billion, even under
assumptions that war costs will
drop precipitously to just $50 bil-
lion in some years instead of more

than three times that this year and
next.
White House spokesman Rob-
ert Gibbs said the administra-
tion believed "somewhere in the
$100 billion range" would be the
appropriate amount for a new jobs
measure made up of a business
tax credit to encourage hiring,
increased infrastructure spend-
ing and money from the govern-
ment's bailout fund to get banks to
increase loans to struggling small
businesses.
That price tag would be below
a $174 billion bill passed by the
House in December but far higher
than a measure that could come to
the Senate floor this week.
Gibbs said it was important for
Democrats and Republicans to put
asidetheir differences to pass abill
that addresses jobs, the country's
No. 1 concern.


H1N1
From Page 1A
were more cases documented
because not all ill students visited
the health service for treatment.
"We were only seeing the tip of
the iceberg at the health service,"
Winfield said.
Winfield said the number of
H1N1 cases seen at UHS has
reduced significantly since its peak
in the second week of September,
when up to 52 cases were seen each
day. Five months later, during the
first two weeks of January, there
were aboutoneto two casesperday.
However, there was an increase
last week, when UHS saw around
seven cases each day.
Winfield said the CDC recom-
mends that people do not see a
doctor unless they're actually sick
and said that UHS encouraged stu-
dents to follow that policy so that
the health service could accommo-
date those who were sick.
"We were trying very hard not
to overwhelm ourselves," Winfield
said.
Despite the decrease in the
number of cases since September,
Winfield advised students to con-
tinue to get vaccinated, adding that
they shouldn't grow complacent.
He said UHS anticipates a third
wave of the H1Nlvirus in February
or March of this year.
According to Winfield, approxi-
mately 8,000 H1N1 vaccines have
been administered on campus
since November. Students receive
the vaccine for free, while faculty
and staff have to pay an adminis-

tration fee set by the government.
UHS will continue to give out
vaccines for students and Univer-
sity employees who stilliwant to get
vaccinated.
While much of the hype around
the virus has appeared to die
down on campus, Winfield said he
doesn't think the University over-
reacted in preparing for it. Unless
students were sick, Winfield said
they weren't directly affected by
policies related to the virus.
He added that the University
could have suspended classes, but
it didn't, and flu prevention efforts
went as planned.
"We had prepared for some-
thing more severe, but we certainly
don't think (we) inconvenienced
campus," Winfield said. "I'm
pretty pleased with the way things
worked out."
Like Winfield, national public
health officials remain cautious,
as they do not want to repeat mis-
takes made duringthe 1957 flu pan-
demic, which killed 70,000 people
in the United States.
Kathleen Sebelius, secretary
of the U.S. Department of Health
& Human Services, said in a
press conference last week that
the spread of the flu dropped in
December and January during
the 1957 outbreak. She said health
officials at the time thought the
worst of the pandemic was over
and stopped encouraging people
to getvaccinated. As a result, there
was an unexpected increase in the
number of hospitalizations and
deaths due to the flu in March 1958.
"Flu is unpredictable," Sebelius
said in the press conference.

Dr. Stephen Redd, director of
the Influenza Coordination Unit
at the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, said in
the press conference that health
officials know that flu pandemics
come in waves, and cited spring
and winter waves that occurred in
the 1918 and 1957 flu outbreaks.
But this time, officials say they
are prepared.
Sebelius said in the press con-
ference that there is a lot of the
HIN vaccine still available, and it
is imperative for peopleto continue
to protect themselves and get vac-
cinated against the HIN virus if
they haven't already.
As of Jan. 28, more than
118,000,000 have been shipped
to hospitals, clinics and health
departments in the country.
Even if people get a mild case
of the virus, Sebelius said they
can pass it on to more susceptible
people like pregnant women and
children with asthma.
The H1N1 virus was first detect-
ed last April. It continued to be
transmitted through the summer,
during the time of year when flu
is not normally spread. Redd said
in the press conference that there
was an increase in the virus in late
August, around the time when col-
lege students went back to school.
Redd added that the virus is still
circulating around the country.
Among children and college stu-
dents, an estimated one fourth of
the population has been infected
with the virus, he said. This figure
is much higher than what is usu-
ally seen in the normal period of
seasonal flu.

Fellowship Opportunities
The Center for Ethics in Public Life is pleased to announce its Fellowship Programs
for the 2010-11 academic year. Fellowships are available for University of Michigan
Doctoral candidates, Pre-candidates, and Undergraduates.
The Dissertation Fellowship Program provides summer support for doctoral students who
have achieved candidacy and who are writing dissertations that engage ethics in public life.
The Pre-Candidate Fellowship Program provides summer support for pre-candidate
doctoral students who plan to incorporate ethics in their dissertations.
The Undergraduate Fellowship Program provides support for undergraduates to develop,
explore, and pursue research or activities related to ethics in public life for the
UM community.
Fellows will receive a stipend of $4,000. Applications are due February 22, 2010.
For further details and application materials, please visit www.ethics.umich.edu.

FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK

AMMAN, Jordan MCAT COURSES START
AS SOON AS FEB 7! M
sOq-2tewisw Prinset Revtawvcom
Jordan authorities C. . niei.. Fo.e"
arrest militants
linked to attack 5
A Jordanian security official
says authorities have arrested
dozens of Muslim militants in
connection with a failed bomb
attack on Israeli diplomats. 8 7 5 4 1
The official said yesterday
that dozens have been detained
in a police crackdown mostly on
Salafists - militants who seek to
revive strict Muslim doctrine dat- 6 9 5 4 1 2
ing back to the era of the 6th Cen-
tury Prophet Muhammad.
He said the crackdown was
continuing across Jordan.
The official declined to pro-7
vide other details and insisted on
anonymity because he was not 8 6 3
allowed to speak to the media.
No one was killed or injured in T
the Jan. 14 attack on a convoy of
Israeli diplomats heading home T
for the weekend. It was the first 1 6 4 5
roadside bombing in Jordan and
exposed a security gap for Israeli 8
diplomats.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports



4A - Monday, February 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL SIMON AT SIMKAL@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
" ,tothedaily@umich.edu

SIMON BORST

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Funding the wrong track
Federal stimulus funds should be routed to Mich. railroads
While Michigan is leading the way in research develop-
ments, it is falling far behind the pack when it comes
to combating unemployment. That position seems
unlikely to change after the state was snubbed in the latest round
of stimulus funding distribution. Last week, the Obama adminis-
tration announced plans to develop a high-speed rail across the
country. Michigan will receive only $40 million of an $8 billion
federal stimulus program to improve rail systems. And this allot-
ment pales in comparison to the billions that Florida and Califor-
nia will receive. Though any amount helps, Michigan deserves
a much bigger allotment of the stimulus money to help get on
board a development project that would create jobs and revamp
transportation in the state.

QutTE, fEQURlEt
T - eT oT HE.H AL-TCARE iS
&OsjF NMeENIT'sQtI'.ESS t-IE
SBusttESs To
E U es WHAT 
WE(<ANADt'0 HEy NMAN,
tANo BT uY. TLL JUST l'E .
TAKE A
t K
I--
wA SIIVON '10
The search for one senator

The $8 billion federal stimulus pro-
gram to develop high-speed rail lines was
announced by President Barack Obama last
week. According to a report on Thursday by
the Detroit Free Press, California received
$2.34 billion from the stimulus fund, and
Florida was allocated $1.25 billion. Michi-
gan's allotted portion of the program was
$40 million. The state originally applied for
$800 million in federal funds to build a high-
speed rail line between Chicago, Detroit and
Pontiac. The program was awarded $244
million, with $204 million going toward
development in Indiana and Illinois and $40
million granted to Michigan. The amount of
money received means that the state would
build or renovate existing passenger stations
in Battle Creek, Troy and Dearborn. The
other $204 million awarded to Illinois and
Indiana would be spent on the high-speed
rail line to Chicago.
New or improved rail service is a positive
improvement that could give the economy
a much-need boost and help the environ-
ment. A most expansive system of high-
speed trains would decrease the need for
car travel and decrease carbon emissions.
Trains will also greatly aid the mobility
of those without access to cars, like low-
income workers and students. And the
increased travel that would stimulate the
economy by making trips to metropolitan

areas more viable.
But though this development is important
for the country as a whole, the economical-
ly-ravaged state of Michigan won't get the
opportunity to cash in on the benefits of the
construction. The full amount of federal
fundingthat the state originally asked for to
build the rail line between Detroit and Chi-
cago would have created hundreds of jobs
that Michigan desperately needs. It would
have also opened a route to Detroit that
could have increased tourism and business
in the struggling city.
The federal government ignored Michi-
gan's need when it allocated significantly
larger portions of the $8 billion fund to
Indiana, Illinois, California and Florida.
Though these states have also been high
hard by the recession, Michigan's needs
haven't been proportionally addressed. The
federal government should have allocated
more money to Michigan. With the high-
est unemployment rate in the country and
more companies and residents leaving the
state every day, Michigan needs all the fed-
eral assistance it can get.
Improved infrastructure should be locat-
ed in places like Michigan, where there the
largest number of individuals could benefit.
In the future, government spending should
be concentrated in areas like Michigan that
need it the most.

bout 15 years ago, I ran across a
particularly memorable politi-
cal cartoon
in Cleveland's Plain
Dealer that ran
after Mark Hatfield
(R-Oregon) had _
bucked his leader-
ship and cast the
decisive vote on a
controversial issue
in the Senate. In the
cartoon, the artist PATRICK
depicted the SenateO
in three panels as 'MAHEN
"52 Republicans, 47
Democrats and one
Senator."
Right now, I'm looking for one
senator.
Before Republican Scott Brown
narrowly defeated Democrat Martha
Coakley in a Massachusetts special
election to fill the late Ted Kennedy's
Senate seat, health care reform was
steadily moving through Congress.
Both the House and Senate had passed
bills that would drastically expand
insurance coverage and cut the fed-
eral budget deficit. Negotiations
between the two chambers had made
good progress toward hashing out a
compromise bill, but Brown's election
short-circuited the process.
So Senators, there are now 41 of
you who are blocking more than 30
million Americans from getting reli-
able health insurance. For the love of
God and country, won't just one of you
come back from the dark side?
A brief review shows the two bills
share the same basic components and
will drastically improve health cover-
age in America.
First, they both ban insurance com-
panies from refusing to insure individ-
uals, regardless of prior health history.
Second, they create either state-level
or national insurance exchanges. Fed-
eral regulations mandate that the plans
competing in these exchanges will
have to meet certain basic criteria in
their coverage, making the plans more
transparent for individuals.
Third, not allowing healthy peo-

ple to opt out of buying insurance
spreads risk among a greater pool
and lowers premiums for everyone.
Therefore both bills include a man-
date that individuals must buy some
sort of health insurance.
Since it isn't fair to make poor and
working-class people buy insurance
coverage they can't afford, both the
House and Senate plans provide sub-
sidies for individuals and families who
make up to 400 percent of the federal
poverty level.
A nice provision for current college
students is that both proposals man-
date that family insurance plans pro-
vide care for children up to 26 years of
age. I have students with autoimmune
diseases and heart defects. Without
this reform, they risk losing the care
they need.the second they graduate
from college.
Both bills pay for reforms in part
by streamlining the Medicare Advan-
tage program, a part of Medicare that
currently over-subsidizes private
insurers. To pay for the rest, nego-
tiators had nearly reached agreement
on a modified excise tax on generous
health plans.
Finally, the Congressional Budget
Office has estimated that the two plans
will cut more than $100 billion from
the federal budget deficit over the next
decade. These estimates are probably
conservative, because the two bills
contain a host of experimental provi-
sions designed to cut costs, which the
CBO does not credit as saving much
money. Asa Dec. 14 article in The New
Yorker pointed out, however, dozens
of small-scale experimental programs
drastically improved the efficiency of
the American agricultural sector in the
first half of the 20th century. There's
no reason they won't do so for health
care over the long haul.
To sum up, the bills expand cover-
age to more than 30 million people,
eradicate the worst abuses of the
insurance companies, pay for them-
selves and may drastically slow the
growth of health care spending.
Republican senators, how could you
vote against that? Is there any one of

you who can find the courage to vote
for this bill, which does almost every
single thing you have said you want in
health reform?
This reform does almost nothing
to undermine the basic place of pri-
vate insurers in the American health
care system that many of you seem
to think is so sacrosanct. There is no
government takeover of health care
- only the House bill contains a weak
public option that wouldn't have sur-
vivednegotiations anyway. Infact, the
reform provides private insurers with
millions ofnew customers and billions
of dollars in subsidies.
Republicans
shouldn't block

01

health care. *!
What about you, Olympia Snowe
(R-Maine)? You voted for the Sen-
ate Finance Committee's version of
health care reform. Why did you bail
out on something you know is right?
. What about you, George Voinovich
(R-Ohio)? Show us that something
good can come from the state of Ohio.
You've alwaysbeen a real deficithawk.
Why can't you vote for a program that
cuts the budget deficit and expands
insurance coverage? Besides, you're
retiring and won't have to face the
wrath of a primary challenge funded
by the Club for Growth.Why not enjoy
your retirement as the public states-
man who helped drastically improve
the American health care system?
Finally, what about you, Scott
Brown? You voted for almost this
exact same reform in Massachusetts
as a state senator several years ago.
Why not vote for it again?
All America needs is a single sena-
tor.Will one of you step up tothe plate?
- Patrick O'Mahen can be
reached at pomahen@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty,
Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

College Democrats ignored
Obama's shortcomings
TO THE DAILY:
The College Democrats' recent viewpoint (A
look back at Obama's first year, 01/20/2010) is
an example of the Democratic Party's widening
disconnect that has cost them thousands of inde-
pendent voters in Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Virginia, and across the country. Here are a few
forgotten truths.
The stimulus plan was supposed to keep unem-
ployment below 8 percent. Today, aftergwarding
nearly $170 billion in grants and entitlements, the
national rate is a flat 10 percent. Thanks to this
so-called renewed investment, Michigan, with a
14-percent unemployment rate, is getting far less
money than Texas, which has a rate of 8 percent.
Despite the rapid repayment of Troubled
Assets Relief Program funds, President Barack
Obama wants to tax the financial industry as
punishment for their highly leveraged activities.
This comes as his party tries to raise the national
debt limit another $L9 trillion in order to avoid
its own default.
The health care bill, which has dragged on
past several artificial deadlines despite a Sen-
ate supermajority, is now opposed by 56 percent
of the public and 60 percent of independents,
according to a recent Rasmussen poll. The presi-
dent is now trying to scale back expectations, and
the wide-scale reform he once envisioned grows
less likely each day.
Like it or not, Obama's foreign policy piggy-
backs on basic President George W. Bush prin-
ciples - but with dangerous deviations. The
Status of Forces Agreement that the College
Democrats credit Obama for continuing was
negotiated and ratified entirely under former
President Bush (which led to the infamous shoe-
throwing incident).
Obama delayed his Afghan strategy for
months, Guantanamo is still open and the civil-
ian terrorist trials in New York take place under
a "must-convict" mentality - a hardly renewed
respect for the Constitution. The near-cata-
strophic Christmas Day attempted terrorist
attack on Flight 253 should remind us that "revi-
talizing international respect" doesn't keep ter-
rorists from entering the United States.
To more and more American voters, these
"remarkable strides" sound like the political dis-
appointments we have endured for too long.
Alexander Franz
Business junior

Campus sustainability will
spread to other universities
TO THE DAILY:
Although Thursday's Campus Sustainability
Integrated Assessment town hall meeting went
on mostly unnoticed to the majority of the stu-
dents, faculty and staff at the University, I am
confident that its effects will not share the same
fate (At town hall, 'U'officials talkcampus sustain-
ability,1/29/2010).
The Integrated Assessment program, to
be completed in early 2011, consists of analy-
sis teams that produce comprehensive reports
detailing environmental sustainability efforts,
concerns and recommendations in various cate-
gories, including culture, energy, food and trans-
portation. The Integrated Assessment teams are
led by faculty, staffed by students and consider
input from across the disciplines and from mul-
tiple stakeholders.
After attending the town hall meeting, it is
clear that the involvement of dedicated students
and staff, the vision of world-class faculty and the
support provided by our sustainability-minded
University will provide the impetus to make the
program successful, not only in its implementa-
tion but also from a leadership standpoint.
The high level of involvement from both mem-
bers of higher education and stakeholders ofvari-
ous backgrounds, coupled with the program's
multidisciplinary nature, gives the University a
unique opportunity to serve as a leader to other
institutions of higher education. For me, this is
where the true value of the program lies.
The effects that the Integrated Assessment
program will have on our campus will without
a doubt be beneficial, but even more exciting is
the potential for this program to spread to other
campuses. The results of the Integrated Assess-
ment, reproduced manifold, have the potential
to promote buy-in to a culture of sustainability
on a large scale - resulting in more responsible
energy and resource usage across campuses. As a
Michigan student, I am excited that this particu-
lar University program has such potential and
such vision, and I encourage readers to share in
that feeling as fellow Wolverines.
Jeff Prygoski
Program in the Environment junior
See more letters about the Campus
RSustainability Integrated Assessmenttown
hall meeting at MsChiganD1lyom.

SEAN WALSE R |
MSA spending needs student input

As a newly-elected Representative for the College of
Engineering to the Michigan Student Assembly, I have
had the privilege of not only getting a firsthand look at
how our central student government operates, but influ-
encing it as well.
The current MSA budget for the winter 2010 semester
(as presented at last Tuesday's General Body Meeting)
totals $330,291.91. Of that, over $31,000 is allocated to
MSA's various committees and commissions, $200,000 is
set aside for allocation to student organizations on campus
and much of the remainder goes toward things like admin-
istrative costs, discretionary funds, a reserve fund, etc.
Students might wonder how MSA receives more than
$330,000. The answer: the students themselves. If stu-
dents take a look at their winter semester bill from the
University, they will notice a $7.19 charge titled "Michi-
gan Student Assembly." Students don't have the chance
to opt out of this charge. They can only hope that their
money is being spent effectively unless they take an
active role in student government.
As a representative, I would say that MSA does many
great things. The funding provided to various student
organizations on campus allows for everyone to get
involved. However, I am not sure that all of the money is
allocated in such a way that it has the greatest potential
for impacting the student body.
I make this statement in response to a resolution set to
be voted on by the assembly on Tuesday titled "A Reso-
lution to Disburse $300 From Committee Discretionary
for the Michigan Student Assembly Winter 2010 Retreat."
The Retreat took place on Jan. 30. "We'll all be driving
down to joyous Okemos, Mich. to spend some time with
the Mahantis, chillin, playing ping pong, eating, and talk-
ing about MSA" said MSA President Abhishek Mahanti
in an e-mail to the Assembly. The event was exclusive to
MSA representatives, executives, committee and com-
mission chairs and Central Student Judiciary justices.
Students at large were not invited.
According to the resolution, the $300 will act as a reim-
bursement for the funds spent on food as well as trans-

portation to and from Okemos. One could definitely argue
that some expense for a retreat could benefit the assembly
as a whole because it would facilitate discussions regard-
ing MSA which could lead to a positive influence.
Whether or not the spending is justifiable, there is
a clear issue with the way in which the funding of this
event was approached. An estimate of a $300 expense
was made without any idea as to how many people would W
participate. Given that 14 students participated, that
would mean that $21 was necessary for each participant
for a 24-hour event. This is a bit extreme, and seems high-
er than what should have been spent, proving that this
approach to funding isn't very effective.
Instead, I believe that those planning the event should
have had a clear indication of the funding that would be
necessary before writing such a proposal. Guesstimat-
ing and later correcting the error doesn't seem logical
or responsible. There was an assumption that this fund-
ing would be provided when the resolution was written.
Money has already been spent, which puts pressure on
the assembly to vote in favor of the resolution instead of
exploring the underlying issue as to whether or not this
funding is acceptable. There was no clear indication as to
what benefit would come from the event, which causes
me to question whether or not the associated costs are
justifiable.
MSA does many important things, and I am happy to
be a representative. But it is time for the students to take
a more active role in their student government. I encour-
age you to visit the MSA website and locate the e-mail list
for your college, and request that the assembly address
problems in a more logical manner to ensure the benefit
to the student body. And don't stop with this issue: Stay
involved. Attend a General Body meeting or view a broad-
cast on WOLV-TV. When over $330,000 is being allocated
and dozens of events are being held, it is important that
every voice is heard. And as a representative, I want to
hear your voice.
Sean Walser is an Engineering freshman.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300 words
and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for style, length, clarity
and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 1; 2010 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, February 1, 2010 - 5A

The Magnetic
Fields craft a
Renaissance fair

"Nixon is getting away!"
United' is damn good

Michael Sheen echoes
RichRod in a grueling story
of dueling soccer coaches
By ANDREW LAPIN
Senior Arts Editor
Sports movies have been following such
a tried-and-true formula for so long that
when one comes around
that actually makes a sin-
cere effort to be different,'
we notice. Britain's "The The Damned
Damned United," which
follows the late-'60s/mid- ed
'70s rivalry between soccer At the Michigan
coaches Brian Clough and Sony
Don Revie, is just such a
sports movie. Like its pro-
tagonist Clough, "United" exudes flashiness
and showmanship, because the people who
made this movie know it's one of the best of its
genre in a long time.
It's okay if you haven't heard of Clough and
Revie. Chances are, most Americans haven't.
But they're legends in England, and their his-
tory together is one that will be familiar to
fans of American sports. Driven by the desire
to destroy what he sees as a team of "no-good
cheaters," Clough builds up the prominence
of his Derby County squad until they're on an

equal playing field with and eventually beat
Revie's perpetual league champions Leeds
United. But when Clough starts shooting his
mouth off too much, he loses his coaching
job, and, through a twist of circumstance, is
offered Leeds after Revie steps down. Tak-
ing the reigns of his former rivals, Clough
intends to best every accomplishment Revie
had with the team, but instead runs them into
the ground with their worst start in 20 years.
Maybe there's a bit of RichRod in Brian
Clough? Between all the misunderstandings
(Clough's hatred of Revie begins when Revie
doesn't shake his hand at the first match-up of
their opposing teams), shady dealings (Clough
goes behind the back of the team owner to sign
big-time players) and the fact that a personal
feud starts taking priority over the traditions
and fanbases of their respective teams, the
comparison certain doesn't seem far from the
truth. But let's try not to point fingers here.
The film is carried by Michael Sheen
("Frost/Nixon") as Clough, and Sheen once
again demonstrates that he's one of the most
talented and underrated actors working today.
It's not so much that Sheen reveals depth and
complexity to Clough's character. On the con-
trary, the genius of his performance is that
he makes Clough so aggressively driven, so
single-minded in his quest to overthrow Revie
(Colm Meaney, "Law Abiding Citizen"), that
our only two options are to root for him or slap
him across the face.

As the movie jumps back and forth in time
between Clough's rise to prominence at Derby
County and his brief but painful tenure at
Leeds, we watch his demeanor progress from
cheeky to cocky to all-out despicable. When
Sheen draws out his line deliveries to the break-
ing point of self-awareness, he'd be so easy to
hate if he weren't so much damn fun to watch.
Providing the perfect counterbalance to
Clough is his loyal assistant manager, played
with the cozy warmth of an afternoon tea
by Timothy Spall (Peter Pettigrew from the
"Harry Potter" movies). In a film almost
entirely sans women, the relationship between
these two men is the closest thing to an emo-
tional center.
Director Tom Hooper (HBO's "John
Adams") and screenwriter Peter Morgan treat
the events of "The Damned United" with the
same gravity as the stories of Queen Elizabeth
and Richard Nixon, which Morgan previously
scripted as "The Queen" and "Frost/Nixon"
(both also starring Sheen). You need that kind
of seriousness and dedication on the part of
the filmmakers in order to tell this tale prop-
erly; the audience needs to believe, as the two
managers;do, that sports is a matter of life and
death. Brian Clough has too much ambition
and likes to bite off more than he can chew.
But when he boisterously declares he wants to
take every accomplishment Revie's ever had
and beat it, we're united with him, RichRod
comparisons be damned.

By DAVID WATNICK
DailyArts Writer
For years, Stephin Merritt
has been nudging The Magnetic
Fields further
and further
into baroque
territory. This T agec
effort has been FRlds
so natural
and seamless Realism
it's becoming Nonesuch
impossible to
conceive of the
band as the mod '90s synth outfit
that contributed songs to "Pete
and Pete" episodes. And consid-
ering Merritt's ability to string
his songwriting faculty across
eras and genres, it should appall
nobody that ole' Mr. Ornery
turned the clocks back even fur-
ther with Realism, presenting a
sound so quaint and antiquated it
makes baroque sound as modern
as a Moog synthesizer.
Realism is a Renaissance fair
of an album, beaming with lutes,
flutes, harps, tambourines and an
aww-shucks-I've-got-bubonic-
plague innocence that is sure to
awaken the chain-mail smith in
all of us. Like any music to which
one should slay a dragon, court a
maiden or enter a jousting tour-
nament, Realism is far too cloy-
ing and structurally simple for
the jaded 21st-Century palate.
It's polite and endearing, but it's
a snoozer.
Over the course of the album,
Merritt deftly plays all the usual
suspects: He's the balladeer on
"Walk A Lonely Road"; the jester
on "I Don't Know What To Say";
and the snake-oil salesmen hawk-
ing a bill of goods and services on
"We Are Having A Hootenanny"
(he and his assistants implore
audiences to "come and take our
personality quiz"). But some-
where in the creative process his
method acting went too far, and
even his inner tunesmith began
conforming to the aesthetic of the
songs' arrangements.
Whereas Merritt once orna-
mented his expected pop sensi-
bilities with instruments native to
an orchestra hall, he now seems
to be writing songs specifically
suited to his 14th-Century trou-
badour instrumental palette. The
result is a collection largely full of
melodies so sweet even Merritt's
bass growl can't deflate them. And

when he's accompanied by sirens
Claudia Gonson and Shirley
Simms, the affair reaches helium
heights.
The Renaissance mold is bro-
ken on occasion, mostly to allow
for Merritt to pay homage to his
disparate influences. His affin-
ity for show tunes surfaces on
"Everything Is One Big Christ-
mas Tree," which sounds so much
like a Rogers & Hammerstein
number it's easy to imagine Maria
teaching it to the von Trapp chil-
dren (and it even has a verse in
German). Meanwhile, "We Are
Having A Hootenanny" reeks of
Appalachian folk, heavily bor-
rowing the structure and rhyth-
mic cadence of "She'll Be Coming
'Round the Mountain."
Only ppener "You Must Be Out
Of Your Mind" comes across as a
"serious" writing effort, bringing
Merritt's vintage triumphant-
yet-melancholic sense of song
together with his frank, fatalis-
tic humor ("I want you crawling
back to me / down on your knees,
yeah / Like an appendectomy /
sans anesthesia"). Elsewhere,
tracks like "Always Already
Gone" and "From a Sinking Boat"
offer no depth or sophistication
and fail to deliver the simple
'Realism' mixes
show tunes
love with some
baroque beats.
memorability Merritt intended of
them. (After all, he calls this his
"folk" album.)
With 10 tracks in the two-min-
ute range and the remaining three
in the three-minute range, Realism
ismerelyarecordofslight,pleasant
ditties. It's not an outright failure,
but its lack of melodic achievement
certainly makes it an orphan in
The Magnetic Fields' catalog. Sup-
posedly, Merritt wanted to use the
titles "True" and "False" for Real-
ism and 2008's Distortion, respec-
tively, but was unable to decide
which was which. Though Realism
dutifully eschews amplification,
its artificial sweetness makes it a
poor candidate to represent any
sort of musical truth.

'American Pickers' rips off old people

By CHRISTINA ANGER
DailyArts Writer
One man's junk is another man's
treasure, but with History's new
series "Ameri-
can Pickers," one
man's treasure
is another man's Amerian
source of income.
If the winter sea- cerS
son puts a damp- Mondays at
er on rummage 10 p.m.
sale connois-
seurs, "American History
Pickers" is the
next best thing to a junk-laden
garage. Mike Wolfe and Frank
Fritz are two business partners
out of Iowa's Antique Archeology
who search out, scrounge through
and even beg for old-time items to
recycle and sell anew.
The premiere episode follows
Wolfe and Fritz to the houses of a
few elderly men who. aren't even
having garage sales. The duo's
"business" entails finding out
about people who own antiques,

showing up unannounced on their
doorstep with smooth-talking
tongues and an intimidating cam-
era crew and asking for good deals
on their items. It sounds a little bit
like an antique auction, but - be
warned - if respect for the elderly
is a virtue, Wolfe and Fritz hold the
value of a dollar just a bit higher
than virtuousness.
Sure, the quirky duo salvages
antiques like a bigger-than-life
burger boy, which sits outside an
unused barn in the rain. Upon
ogling the statue, they knock on
the door of the unsuspecting old
man who owns it, asking the going

70
V
CO :TtmY OF OtNESUCH
Which do yoa see: woman, or lamp-shade cyborg beet on human destraction?

Two trashy men are nobody's treasure.

price.
the sel
Get
they a
dred bi

(Business tip: "Always let three!") While this might make
ler name the first price. If capitalistic sense, screwing over
old people on national television
seems a little harsh.
In another visit to the elderly,
Wolfe and Fritz weasel an old
saddle for $75 which appraises for
over $2,000. The two spend hours
rummaging through an old garage,
asking for stories and memories
re only looking for a hun- that accompany a heap of antiques.
ucks, we don't want to offer It is hard to determine if they are

genuinely interested or trying
to figure out the dollar price on
the old guy's sentimental value.
Almost every item Wolfe and Fritz
try to buy, the old man refuses to
sell. They express their frustration
to the camera in "Real World"-
esque off-site interviews.
Antiques usually bring to mind
pawn shops, legit garage sales and

See PICKERS, Page 8A I H W 5,A E

No boredom on 'Romance'

By KRISTYN ACHO
Daily Arts Writer
There's really no better way
for a band to shed its delectably
twee persona
than by enlist-
ing the gro-
tesque image of
a bleeding leg
as album art- Campesinos!
work. For Los Romance
Campesinos!, is Boring
an indie-pop
band that once Arts& Crafts
boasted cutesy
claims like "You! Me! Dancing!,"
the artwork is a symbol of the
relinquishment of a once adorably
awkward image. On their third
album, Romance is Boring, the

members are out to prove they've
got more up their sleeves than just
sugar-induced kiddie pop.
Romance is Boring isn't any-
thing new. It's exactly what one
would expect from a band com-
posed of hormonal, soul-search-
ing youths. The record plays like
a melodrama that "Twilight" and
Twitter-obsessed tweens will
surely swoon over. Topics span
a laundry list of quintessential
teenage dilemmas, from anorexia
and suicide attempts to trips to
the E.R. and sexual frustration.
Our parents were right; teenagers
are exhausting - and miserable,
apparently.
But even listeners who have
grown out of those pinnacle teen-
age years are sure to find the

album a nostalgic treat. The record
brings back memories of the self-
absorbed anguish-pop indie fans
listened to in high school when
Campesinos!
sheds the pep for
some melodrama
and schmaltz.
they were first acquiring their
alternative musical tastes. If ever
an album defined the teenage
angst genre, this is it. So lock your
See CAMPESINOS!, Page 8A


6A- Monday, February 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'Jr

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

XBOX 360 REPAIR $35
Call 734-829-8969

! AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, Indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
! 2 BEDROOM, completely remod-
eled, large kitchen with modern appli-
ances. Full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. Pet friendly. Call Laura for
your private tour at Church Street
Apartments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start.
Single hedrooms through 5-person, 3
bath. Rates from $655. Per-person con-
acts,ball utilities includedat flat rate.
New building, 2 blocks from campus.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call La oat Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
1221 S. State #2
6 BDRM
$2300
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
1 BDRM House, Walk to Campus.
Frnshd. Prkg & Ldry. Rdcd to $3800.
umcampushousing.com. 810-231-0229.
I AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg mcl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
.for more info.
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near
.Ctral Campus. $500-750. Includes
H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.

NOW LEAS
FOR 201
GREAT
NORTH CAMI
LOCATION
TOUR TOD
1-4 bedroom apts.
starting at $699
FREE satellite TV
FREE high speed intern
All utilities included
Fully Furnished
In-Unit Washer/Dryer
Ask how you can re
$150 VISA gift car
Every Lease wins a
limited time only
*new leases only
g THE g
1780 Broadway (734) 9
www.thecourtyardsanna
! AWESOME LOCATIOI
room, 3 bathrooms, fully fu
fridges, full size washer &
site parking. For more infor
Laura at Church Street A
LLC. 734-994-0644.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL
Spacious unfurnished two
Close to U/M campus.A
washer, laundry, balcony, fre
Call 734-944-2405.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APT!
bdrms lots of closet space,
tvs, modern furniture & much
741-9300 annarborapartment
!!!AVAIL FALL 2010 1 &
fain. apts. 402 Hill St. & 131
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-90
!!!MAY STUDIO and I be
on UM Campus: 734-761-82
www.postrealtyproperties.co
!!$ SAVE $, Sign before
2010, get a generous signing
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm ap
Pull 2910, Across from East
Beautiful, expansive spaces,,
lore, fumished/unfurnished.,
prkg, free heat & water. Call
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yaho
www.churchstreetrentals.cor
!AVAILABLE NOW 2 bedr
ment in historical house n
$800/mo includes heat. 734-8
*2BDRMAPTS. AVAIL. FE
www.smileyproperties
(734) 761-4469

ING
0!
PUS
4 **"d ad 09
AY! 20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
et -
Voted one of the
r Best Landlords 2009
ceive Private Resident Shuttle
d and 24 hr Maintenance Staff
prize, On-Site laundry
y* Exercise Facilities
V* Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
*s Study Rooms
"4-6007 734.741.9300
94-6007 '"**
rborcom www.annarborapartments.net
N 9 Bed- ***** MAY LEASES *****
rn, 2 large 1 Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
dryer, on 1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320S. University
mation call Need short term?? May to August
partmens, 1 bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
!! Call today 761-8000!
bedroom. Prime Student Housing
A/C, dish- primesh.com
e parking.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
S !!! 2 & 3 Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
flat screen washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
more! www.annarborapartments.net
s.net
2 Bdrm.
3SS sState. 321 E. Liberty
4-6735.
droom apts 6 BDRM APT.
20 or visit
S$2800
Jan. 31, SEPT. I, 2010
bonus! 2 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS,
artments. 2 BLOCKS TO DOWNTOWN
closets ga- 4 PARKING SPACES
Indry, free
[Ann 734- WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
°m (734) 649-5549
oom apart-
ear EMU. **DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story**.
78-1463. Wshr/dyr in unit. Half a mile to UM
Medical Center. $880/mo, including
A.LL 2010 water. Call 734-395-5288 or 248-855-
.com 3143.
*3.BEDROOMS-CAMPUS*
1506 Geddes
Great location
Great price
Heat, water, parking,
& friue incl.
T-
*4.BEDROOMS*
0. Hardwood floors
0. 10' ceilings
1 0Heat, waer, parking,
1 u: furnished
(734) 668-1100
*6 BDRM HOUSE fr lease, Fall
n 2010! 1007 State. Pamn. Newly
renovated 1st Floor and Bthrms. Free
p Prkng and lndry. Call 734-717-9288.
*AVAILABLE MAY 2010*
1001 S. Forest
2.Bedrooms
Nice, new kitchens
uzzle &furniture
(734) 668-1100
greeting *BUSINESS OR LAW Students*
ing's- 1&2 Bedrooms
848 Tappan
cker cord New kitchens, balconies
nes Heat, water, furnished
y inept Covered parking
tnds, in a www.varsitymanagement.com

syrup base
I/ood"
destiny Student Co-Op Housing!
UZZLE:
R E N
o N 0 Now Signing Contracts for
Y' M ow Fall/Winter 2010/11
E D P G
S A H L ;$575/Month Includes meals,
T O O Internet, parking,and utilitiesl
W E BB
U E E Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
g 734-662-4414 www.lcc.coop
S T E P
1 Z E
U D I T
L A N E *FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
E L E R Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
0131/10 Prime Location, Easily fits4.
a $1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
12 13
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
4-7 ROOM hse. Kingsley & State. re-
modeled, $500/rm. 248-910-2286.
sa 415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
s Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-6380
www.benjaminrentals.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 hdrms total. 3 hath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
bdrm-$3000, 6 hdrm-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
02/01/10 APTS AT 1215 Hill and 5th Ave and
Packard. Efficiencies 1,2 & 4 Bed-
rooms. Heat included. 734-260-4003

The Choice is Yors!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ 1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Townhome
+ WIFI Ready
. AATA Bus Line
+ 24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible Lease Terms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
+ Pool & Sauna
+ Pets Welcome
+ Continental Breakfast every Wed.
+ Concierge Resident Service
+ Business Center
+ Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
+ Roommate Leases Available
+ Hospitality Apartment
+ Includes All Utilities
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
industrial & StadiumDr.
734-663 7633
v *Amenities Vary by Property
www.Wood buryGardens.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.

514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and lndry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 5. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely C.- 3hbd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dr. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
Aanrtment. AvRaiIhl/b

tions available at michiganrentalcom
or call (734) 260-7215.
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk tu
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdrm & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greeneapts.com
Studio & 1
I 1Bdrm. Units
Tower P/aza Condominium
C.1 a ..'.^,i
734-663-1530
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and ldry. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about oar specials!
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.


0
0

www.Bartonbrookcom, 734-665-5620
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.


HOMES FOR REN
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/m(
Pay NO rent* until Mar 20
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURESARE ACCEPTED
Ann Arbor." (888)883-7083 www.scifarms.com
P13 Ypsilanti - (888) 310-6850. -www.4lakeView.com


2
1!
1
2
2
21
2
2
3
3
3
3
4
4
4
4

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Pi
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Romeo or Juliet, 40 Wire diameter 52 Military
1 Cribbage pieces marriagewise measure 56 Wyomi
5 Shaving gel 3 Swiss city on the 41 NBC weekend Range
alternative Rhone hit, briefly 57 Firecra
9 More than disliked 4 First part oflan act 44 One doing a 58 Hip bo
4 Powerco. product 5 Plant with fronds pirouette, e.g. 59 Socially
5"Tickle me" doll 6 Designer Cassini 46 Brokerage cust. type
6 Texas mission to 7 Ugandan dictator 48 It's nothing 60 Thousa
remember 8 Seles of tennis 49 Thingamajig heist
7 Volcano feature 9 Discuss 50 Security devices 61 Maple
8 Equestrian's thoroughly 51 Start again, as 62 'True B
control 10 Often after a computer networ
9 Organizes 11 La Brea stuff system crash 63 Acornm's
alphabetically, say 12 CPR giver, often
0 Broadway 13 Hair styles ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P
premiere 21 MIT, for one: BALGGT H E A D
3 -card stud Abbr.
4 Corp. honcho 22 Berlin's land: G O T R I P
5 Natural/spring Abbr. 0 E L U X E M O D E L
8 Making lots of 25 Porous organ B B B T H E N H A
noise 26 Brownish purple S C A i E R S R A T /
Q Genealogist's 27 Inquires S T Y M O R T
chart 29 Tax-auditing org. JAVA READ E
4 No-treat 30 Keep after taxes
nns quence? 31 Davis who played
impediment 32 _-Magnon L A V A L A K E N I!
9 Arisesl(from) 35 Bonkers TREMOR S B O X
2 Till bills 36 Words before E R N A N I A B E T
3 Like draft beer instant or R A E E N E R G Y At
851492 Atlantic emergency M I T R E S C U E P
crosser 37 WWII invasion
7 artoa cityS 1dbd x Od TOON EE
wide-area plice 3 odo bad xwordeditor@aol.com

C, &I Manageent,,
LLC
www.ChurchStreetRentals~com Rental Information
734.320.1244
NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2010!1
t
Febuar 14h, 01
Ge GnrusSg igBous

0

I

radio alert 1 2 43 a
53 Artist Yoko
54 By way oft T10
55 Athletic ftoe's
turflgrabber 17
57 Seating for extra
guests, maybe o
61 Yell 00
84 _ club: singing
group as
65 Decisive victory
66 Lower in esteem
87 Name on many
Irish coinsm 3 3 8 37 3E
68 Far Eastem 43
detective played
by Lorre 47
69 Texas Hold 'em,
e.g., and a hint to 53
this puzzle's
theme
70 Boys 61 60 56
71 Briish weaponof! 6
DOWN 56
1 _ Bill: legendary
cowboy By David W. Cror
(c)2010 Tribune N

4 5 8 7 $ 9 10 11
15 1$
18 19
21 22
24 25
Z9 30 31 32
33 34
38 39 40 41 42
44 45 4$
48 49 50 51
54 55
57 58 59 $0
64 $5
87 Be
70 71
Omer
Media Services, Inc.

0
0
0


I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February.1, 2010 - 7A


TECHNOLOGY
From Page 1A
boxes, that nature."
In 1992, Risser co-founded
Picometrix - a supplier of opti-
cal receivers and terahertz - with
Steven Williamson, who was a
researcher at the University's Cen-
ter for Ultrafast Optical Science.
Now a subsidiary of Advanced Pho-
tonix, Picometrix developed the
terahertz semiconductor.
With a wavelength between that
of visible light and microwaves,
terahertz waves either pass through
or ricochet off objects and can be
picked up by a sensor that would
vibrate "like a tuning fork," Risser
said. The frequency of the vibration,
he added, would identify the kind of
material hit by the waves.
Risser - who received his MBA
from the University in 1978 - said
he believes that the terahertz tech-
nology could be used in airports in
lieu of current scanning methods.
Recently, the Transporta-
tion Security Administration has
started using full-body scanners,
which allow airport officials to
see through clothing to find con-
cealed weapons, explosives or other
restricted materials.
According to a TSA statement
released in Jan. 3, there will be new

security measures for all United resulting from the new technology
States and international aircrafts because the waves are at a low fre-
flying to the U.S. quency, according to Risser.
"TSA directed the increase use "Terahertz is safe," he said. "It's
of enhanced screening technolo- unlike X-rays that do damage to
gies and mandates threat-based DNA... You get more terahertz out
and random screening for major- of light bulbs than you get from our
ity passengers on U.S. bound terahertz generator."
international flights," the state- But Risser said, despite the tech-
ment said. nology's laboratory success, it could
Risser said he thinks the tera- be one to two years before terahertz
hertz technology will help put con- scanners find their way into airports.
cerns about privacy to rest - while TSA., he said, has agreed to fund pre-
still maintaining a secure environ- liminary work but has not yet agreed
ment for air travel. to fund an airport prototype.
"(Terahertz) allows us to do that "(TSA) would have to decide that
(scanning) without the imaging they would want to deploy some-
concerns, the strip search," Risser thing like this," Risser said. "Right
said. "You can just point it and click now, they just tend to throw more
it, and if any material is picked up people at the problems, rather than
a red light comes on, and then you an advanced sensor."
send in the guy who tackles people." Douglas Laird, president of the
Risser said terahertz technology Nevada-based airline security
is superior to other devices cur- consulting firm Laird & Associ-
rently being employed by the TSA ates, Inc., said Umar Farouk Abdul
because of its ability to detect a Mutallab's failed attempt to blow
variety of dangerous materials. up a Northwest Airlines flight from
"Metal detectors will tell you if Amsterdam to Detroit showed that
you've got metal, and you need to more needs to be done to protect
have a fair amount of it," he said, airline travelers.
adding that they still would not be Laird said though he does not
able to pick up the metal in a belt know the specifics of the terahertz
buckle. "So those aren't very effec- technology, TSA has to implement
tive for plastic explosives or ceram- the full-body scanners that it has
it weapons." at its disposal until terahertz has
In addition, travelers won't have been put through the necessary
to worry about health problems field tests.

DPS officer on unpaid leave

Officer arrested for
cocaine possession,
news outlet reports
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
A University Department of
Public Safety officer has been
placed on unpaid leave after being
arrested in Ypsilanti for cocaine
possession, according to AnnAr-

bor.com. Lieutenant Monica Yesh, who
DPS spokeswoman Diane heads the Livingston and Washt-
Brown confirmed in an inter- enaw Narcotics Enforcement
view yesterday that an officer was Team, told AnnArbor.com that the
placed on unpaid administrative arrest was made by both Ypsilanti
leave on Jan.14, 2010, pending fur- police as well as LAWNET offi-
ther investigation. cers.
Brown could not comment Brown said if any University
further on the specific case due officer is convicted of a crime, he
to the ongoing investigation, but or she is typicallyterminated.
said DPS policy typically places Yesh told AnnArbor.com no
University officers on leave when charges have been filed yet, but
faced with possible criminal an investigation is still under
charges. way.


SALON
From Page 1A
the waxing process so they know
what to expect.
"Even if you are just waxing
your eyebrows it can be painful,
so we try to be as fast as possible
and make it as fun as we can,"
Wood said.
-At The Wax Loft, Tober and
Wood use all organic products
made locally in Kalamazoo,
Mich. Tober added that they try
to make the salon "as green as
possible."

One product they use is Nufree "I would definitely go to
- a soy-based, antimicrobial, The Loft before spring break,"
non-wax hair-removal system Schwartz said. "It's in a great
that causes less pain, redness and location, and I've heard good
swelling than wax-based treat- reviews so far."
ments. Finipil - an antimicrobial In addition to waxing and
and antibacterial lotion - is used facial services, Tober said they
after Nufree is applied to slow are looking to hire a manicurist
hair growth. in hopes of becoming the go-to
New students, along with loyal beauty haven for students.
customers from their previous "Ultimately, we want The Wax
location, have filled the appoint- Loft to become sort of a home
ment book, Tober and Wood said. away from home for our guests,"
LSA sophomore Samantha Wood said. "We have heard
Schwartz has not yet been to The countless stories of waxings gone
Wax Loft but said she plans to wrong and hope to be a place our
check it out. clients come to know and trust."

GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
SlsSouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
TOUGH ECONOMY DISCOUNT!!!
7 large bdrm 3 bath house $4500/month
2 blocks to Diag. 734-260-4003
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300

Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
U nvcersity
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mibcom - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com
P RSENSET SHE
dne VIMSW d#
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

Grait inmr5ove
ExeiecteDifferece
dishwasliet disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close ts CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
 Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
C tB 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm-
(suitable for 3) apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave.
Furn, disposal, dwshr, Indry, prkg.
Walkout balcony. $1175 + elec. 734-
662-7121 or email gpmiles@aol.com
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2400
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today tosee your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 5. Forest
344S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)

625 Church St. (734) 66118t-1100
1039 Bakdwin
Studio,2 Bedrooms, 4bed o t.
'nbet'ervably spacious aritwreorts
:Hid'ioofftoors, highi eiings, bay
windows, andfirepiaes in a
Ceui frfo re na con.
nfaie bacikyard- in a.quier
neighbo~rhoodia.tlot, water,
!o'oeisrn',&prkinginc'idea&
Cafffor yourpersotcalized tour!
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.tSelA2.com 734-476-9768
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
Pt ' >t
properties
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

Srummer
Employment
Page
By advertising on this year's Sumner
EmploymentPage you can reach over
40,000+highlyqualifiedWolverines!
This is agreat oppartunity for
intenships or summer positions to
reach the eyes of many eligible students.
Presentedhy ThreMichiganDailyClassifieds.
Deadline Feb.18 at u:30 am
Published Feb. zs
dailyclassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557

Spring Break comes to life..
Live Concerts
Awesome VIP Parties
Beautiful Beaches
Scenic Cliff Jumping
Spectacular Sunsets
Book Your Trip Today! Contact:
1.800.648.4849
www.ststraveLgtom
1.800.426.7710

SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS -Children's
sleep-away camp, Northeast Pennsylva-
nia 6/19-8/S. If you love children and
want a caring, fun environment we
need Counselors, Instructors and other TICKETS & TR AV EL
staff for our summer camp. On cam-
pus Interviews February 25th. Select PC BEACH SPRING Break 2010
The Camp That Selects The Best Staff! Gulf-front Condos; 1,2,3 BRs
Call 1.215.944.3069 or apply on-line Walk to Clubs & Concerts
at www campwaynegirls.com www.whisperingseas.com
Scoop up
the students -
before other M
coznpaz0s do! Aeg 4

# BDRMS Location Price
6 1221 S. State #2 $2300
5 420 S. Division #2 $2400
3 1123 Church St. $1600
1 721 Catherine #4 $900
1 721 Catherine #5 $750
ef. 1117 Church #2 $550
Copi Properties
734.663.5690

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude Victoria's S type lingerie
photography. Flexible hrs, great pay.
Must be 18. For interview call:
734-678-4181.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

For Tuesday, Feb. 2, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
Tread carefully when dealing with
partners and close friends today. Don't
react to criticism or negative comments
from others. Possibly, you might be the
one who is critical! (Oops.)
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
An authority figure or someone who is
older or more experienced than you
wants to introduce reforms and make a
clean sweep of things at work. You're
not impressed.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Children might be burdensome today.
Romance is just as bleak and disappoint-
ing. Avoid power struggles that will only
make things worse. Run away! Run
away!
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Avoid difficult discussions with par-
ents and 'older relatives today. People
will be critical and unforgiving. (You
need this like a fish needs a bicycle.)
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Avoid negative thinking today. The
truth is, things look worse today than
they really are. Your glass is not only
half-empty, it's cracked!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Financial matters look a bit gloomy.
Salaries might disappoint. Expenditures
might be too high. It's hard to make ends
meet. (Things are not as bad as they
seem.)
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Differences and heated debates with
others make you cut yourself off. The
result is that you might feel lonely and
unloved. Of course, this isn't true! You
just feel this way today.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
It's hard to maintain a positive attitude
today. Don't worry -join the club; we
number in the millions. This is just a
passing dark cloud on your horizon.
Have courage!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Someone older, perhaps a friend or an
acquaintance, might rain on your parade
today. Don't take this seriously. What
does this person really know about your
life?
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Authority figures are difficult to deal
with today; therefore, give them a wide
berth! Do not wake the sleeping giant.
Don't ask for permission for anything.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Travel plans might be disappointing.
Authority figures in medicine, the law
and higher education might discourage
you. Don't take this seriously. It's atem-
porary situation.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
You might be disappointed in your
share of something. Perhaps you think
others are stingy or unfair? (You could
be right.) Wait until another day to
defend yourturf, because today, you lack
the self-confidence and righteous indig-
nation to do a good job.
YOU BORN TODAY You're an inde-
pendent thinker who has ambitious
goals. (You're success-oriented!) People
love your friendly nature because they
know you have a kind, humanitarian
impulse. You're imaginative. You love
novelty and innovation. You know how
to work cooperatively with others. Make
sure you make time this year to study or
learn something valuable. Your rewards
soon will follow!
Birthdate of: Ina Garten, chef; James
Joyce, author; Farah Fawcett, actress.

ss 5 57 su WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
6s 64 summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
6 6Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff; Sales
00 7Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

2010King Features Syndicate Inc.


8A - Monday, February 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

BA - Monday, February 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Dentistry museum sparkles
The Sindecuse Museum of Dentistryis an
exhibit you can sink your teeth into
By Anu ArumugamI Daily Arts Writer^

I want to spoon -
with Spoon

The University hosts one of the
few museums in the world specifi-
cally dedicated
to honoring the Sindecuse
discipline of -
believe it or not Museum of
- dentistry.
The Sinde-
cuse Museum Mondays
of Dentistry through
is scattered Fridays,8 a.m.
throughout the to6 p.m.
School of Den- W.K. Kellogg Institute
tistry and the
W.K. Kellogg
Institute Building. Named after
Dr. Gordon Sindecuse, a Universi-
ty alum, the museum was created
in 1992 to preserve dental para-
phernalia and recognize the fusion
of art and dentistry. The museum
contains over 12,000 objects, but
only 15 percent of these artifacts
are put on display due to lack of
space. Most of the items are kept
in drawers, portfolios and rolling
racks under carefully monitored
temperatures to battle decay.
Amber Ostaszewski, an LSA
sophomore on staff at the museum,
described Sindecuse as a "dental
cabinet of curiosity."
"At the lobby, we have a repre-
sentation of a mid-20th-century
dental office and a progression of
early x-ray equipment," Ostasze-
wski wrote in an e-mail interview.
"Upstairs are two cabinets that deal
with the groundbreaking scientific
research by one of our very own
alumi, Dr. Willoughby D. Miller,
a pioneer of dentistry in the early
1900's.
"In the Atrium, one can find
archaic dental units, featuring ivo-
ry-handled dental instruments and
Victorian, velvet-upholstered dental
chairs, complete with chandelier
lights," she continued.
"The remaining part of the
museum is located down a hallway,
and features cases of vintage dental

products,-as well as dentures, artic-
ulators and other miscellaneous
items."
Essentially, the Sindecuse Muse-
um is a place for students at the
University to learn about the his-
tory of dentistry, particularly the
events that took place here at Michi-
gan. The Sindecuse Museum is also
home to diverse expressions of den-
tal art.
Visitors can see parts of a beau-
tiful, multi-hued mural portraying
the "Legend of Paul Bunyan," cre-
ated by painter Francis E. Danov-
ich. Extraordinarily imaginative
sculptures, including a face made
purely out of orthodontic instru-
ments and created by dentist and
sculptor Dr. Eugene Buatti, are also
on display.
According to Curator and Muse-
um Director Shannon O'Dell, the
museum, though officially 18 years
old, had been in utero for several
decades.
"The collection actually was
started even before Dr. Sindecuse
gave the funds to begin a museum,"
she wrote in an email interview.
"For several decades before the
start of the museum in 1992, there
were dental faculty, like Dr. Charles
Kelsey and Professor Al Richards
and our dental librarian, Sue Segar,
who took responsibility for preserv-
ing and storing historical equipment
or photos and documents that speak
to the history of the profession and
to the school itself.
"So, in essence, the museum
began because of an appreciation
and admiration for the history of
dentistry."
Regardless of whether one is
interested in dentistry, Sindecuse
contains intriguing pieces that
reveal an artistic side to the field, as
evident by the experience of Emma
Wolman, the museum's Web con-
tent editor.
"I didn't really know anything

about the dental profession when I
started working here last fall," Wol-
man wrote in an e-mail interview.
"It turns out there's a long and
interesting history worth consider-
ing. The way dental practices have
evolved with technological and sci-
entific advances is pretty interest-
ing."
"I never thought about what it
might be like to get a cavity filled

before modern anesthetics were
introduced, or in the days before
electricity," she wrote. "Now
I've thought about it. I bet it was
unpleasant."
No matter how much the medi-
eval-looking torture devices make
you squirm or how boring dental
history may seem, a visit to this lit-
tle-known showcase is truly a jaw-
dropping experience.

For those of you who fol-
low the ratings game,
the votes are in, and the
best band
of the last
decade was
officially -
gasp - Spoon.
At least
according to
Metacritic,
the Inter-
net's leading JOSHUA
aggregator of BAYER
art reviews.
So what does
this mean exactly? It means
that, out of all the bands who
have had three or more albums
reviewed on this particular web-
site, Spoon's average album score
was the highest (clocking in at
an 85.3 out of 100, scooting just
in front of Sigur R6s with 83.5
and Super Furry Animals with
82.5).
I know what you're thinking:
So the fuck what? These are
just numbers. These averages
don't even remotely represent a
band's staying power or innova-
tive scope, nor do they represent
people's individual opinions.
Just because Spoon had the
highest average album score
of the decade doesn't mean
any individual human actually
thinks they were the best band
of the decade - or even that
they're anyone's favorite band,
period.
But let's stop for a second and
actually talk about the band
itself. Spoon. What a perfect
name for such a deceptively
simple group. Hailing from
Austin, Texas, these perpetual
indie-rock underdogs - at least
until their 2007 single "The
Underdog" ironically flirted
with mainstream radio appeal
- aren't out to the change the
world. Like any layman's spoon,
Spoon (the band) is bright
without being flashy. As my kid
brother once said, "My issue
with Spoon is that I feel like I
could play all of their songs."
And I don't doubt him.
The band's riff-heavy formula
of drums, bass, guitar and keys,
without much technical virtuos-
ity or formal innovation, sounds
pretty vanilla on paper. And it
can be argued that frontman
Britt Daniel essentially doesn't
know how to play the guitar. His
parts usually consist of an angu-
lar back-and-forth between a
few simple chords, and his solos
rarely elevate above the ground
of electrified scribbling. But, like
any great band, Spoon knows
how to write a great song. And
even if you think you could play
all of their songs while wiping
your ass, the truth is you didn't
write them. And you probably
couldn't either.
The component parts of
Spoon's music are anything but
special - wiry drums, ghostly
keys, sharp-toothed guitars and
tire-thick basslines. But the way
Spoon's songs play out is nothing
less than spellbinding. Spoon's
aesthetic may sound simple on
the surface, but if you actually
PICKERS
From Page 5A
even the less common estate
sale. Antique Archeology's type

of antiquing is just a bit shady.
However, Wolfe and Fritz do have
a passion for the last two of the
three R's (reduce, reuse, recycle),
and admittedly know quite a bit
about history.
It's just difficult to see how
any pleasure could be mixed into
this business. Sure, the partners
restore and sell artifacts, bringing
antiques into the present day. But

perk your ear up for more than
30 seconds, you'll quickly notice
that the band is the epitome of
OCD-caliber perfection.
All of Spoon's composi-
tions are fussed over to the nth
degree, with every last handclap
and shaker burst stabbing into
the mix at exactly the right
moment. While Spoon's practi-
cally minimalistic sound feels
almost frustratingly unadorned
and empty at times, Spoon is
undeniably a studio band. The
gaping void felt between the
monomaniacal drum machine
pulse and the spare keyboard jit-
ters on songs like "Small Stakes"
is purely intentional - when the
tambourine kicks in halfway
through the track, it feels like a
revelation rather than a flourish.
Moreover, the band has eas-
ily written some of the catchi-
est songs of the past decade.
Britt Daniel is a hook machine.
Every cocksure "whoo-hoo" and
clipped syllable that half-fires
half-tumbles out of his mouth is
chewy enough to build an entire
song around. "The Way We Get
By" even managed to sneak its
way onto the soundtrack for
"The O.C."
But where Spoon truly shines
is its rhythm section - which
is, essentially, the entire band.
While Britt Daniel's guitar skills
have never really graduated
beyond garage band status, he is
a master when it comes to writ-
ing a hook and shredding it up
rhythmically over the course of
a song. He may be playing the
same note over and over again,
but he throws enough cork-
screws in there to keep you on
the edge of your seat. And as far
as basslines go, Spoon trumps
all - I don't know what they put
in their sound waves to get such
fat, rubbery bass throbs, but I do
Spoon may not
be band of the
decade, but it's
still damn good.
know that Spoon is going to be at
least one-third of the reason I go
deaf before 50.
So is Spoon the band of the
decade? Probably not. While
they've continuously twisted
their formula enough to juice
four stellar albums out of little
more than an ungodly penchant
for airtight production and
spring-loaded timing, they're
just not massive enough in scale
to ever match up against a behe-
moth like Radiohead. But they
just might have been the most
consistent band of the decade.
And if this month's unsurpris-
ingly stellar Transference is any
indication, they just might keep
trucking along into the '10s.
Bayer is looking for more cutlery
bands to follow. To inform him,
e-mail jrbayer@umich.edu.
the people they buy them from
don't seem too well off. If the sale
were a bit more fair-trade, "Amer-
ican Pickers" would be easier
to watch without that annoying

pang of guilt - the kind that hits
upon entering a nursing home.
History is often a reputable
source for shows like "American
Pickers." If Wolfe and Fritz just
tone down the predatory coer-
sion, the basis of the series could
shine through. Learning about
antiques isn't always fascinating,
but it becomes even less so when
it means cheating the people who
have preserved them thus far.

0
0

Showtime is off in 'La La Land'

By ROBERT SOAVE
Daily Arts Writer
There's an early moment in the premiere
episode of Showtime's "La La Land," when
British comedian Marc Woot-
ton ("Confetti") - portray-
ing an aspiring actor named
Gary Garner - insists he has L8 La Land
what it takes to make it in
Hollywood. As he recites this Mondays
mantra, obscure actress Ruta at11p.m.
Lee repeatedly tells him that Showtime
he isn't talented. She might
as well be talking to Wootton
himself, who is as amateurish as the characters
he portrays in "La La Land."
The premise is strikingly similar to Sacha
Baron Cohen's comedy-reality hybrid "Da Ali
G Show." Wootton pretends to be three differ-
ent characters who attempt to launch careers
in the entertainment world by interacting
with various pseudo-celebrities. Though each
of Wootton's characters has a distinct (and
cringe-worthy) appearance, it's hard to distin-
guish their personalities from each other since
they're all so clueless and annoying. Gary may
be the most annoying, though documentary
filmmaker Brendan Allen is definitely the most
boring. As for effeminate, celebrity-channeling
psychic Shirley Ghostman, he's impossible to
even comprehend.
The main problem for Wootton is that
Cohen already exists - and thanks to the rela-
tive theatrical success of "Borat" and "Bruno,"
everybody is pretty familiar with his work.
Because "La La Land" shares so many obvious
similarities with "Da Ali G Show," it's impos-
sible not to compare the two. Unfortunately,
Wootton doesn't weather such a comparison
very well.
Cohen was successful because he exposed
racism, homophobia and stupidity in the peo-
ple he interviewed - from regular Americans
to U.S. politicians. Wootton seemingly does

just the opposite. The arrogant, empty-headed
Hollywood regulars he interacts with are obvi-
ously idiots, but Wootton ends up making them
seem smart and sympathetic when compared
with the unbearably irritating Gary, Shirley
and Brendan.
Yes, there are some laughs now and then.
Ghostman probably succeeds most often at
generating funny moments, and it's clear that
this character (who had his own short-lived
TV show in the U.K.) is the one Wootton is
most comfortable playing. But why does Shir-
ley have a woman's name and hairstyle when
the character is supposed to be a man? Is this
part of the joke? It's unanswerable questions
like this one that make all three of them seem
pretty random.
Absent the political and social satire that
made "Da Ali G Show" so memorable, "La
La Land" leaves its viewers wondering, "So

what?" After all, no one needs to watch a show
about Hollywood to know that the people who
live there aren't very personable. What, then,
is Wootton preaching? That the British have
Like Al G, but played
by an actual moron.
a weird sense of humor? That the people at
Showtime who greenlit "La La Land" made a
serious mistake?
Ali G, Borat and Bruno may be retired, but if
what the world needs is another Sacha Baron
Cohen, somebody other than Marc Wootton
needs to step up. It's clear that his sense of
humor is, well, off inla la land.

0

"Blue's Clues" gone horribly wrong.

CAMPESINOS!
From Page 5A
bedroom door, ignore your mom's
bogus pleas to "turn it down" and give
into your tormented teenage soul.
The saga unfolds with "In Medias
Res," a track that's so schmaltzy it's
almost too much to swallow. Through
a backdrop of twinkling keys, listeners
are taken through a world of carefree
adolescence where teens steal vodka
out of their parent's cupboards and
ponder the significance of life on soul-
searching joy rides. Ah, to be young!
Still, the standouts are the songs in
which frontman Gareth Campesinos
shamelessly unravels the depths of his
besieged twentysomething soul. His
achy, moody vocals were made for self-
pity. Tracks "The Sea is a Good Place to

Think of the Future" and "Coda: A Burn
Scar in the Shape of the Sooner State"
mark the band's venture into the sol-
emn, atmospheric unknown. While it
may seem juvenile for Los Campesinos!
to use suchemotionallydrainingthemes
in the track titles, these outfits prove to
be anything but amateur.
In these epic ballads, the band dis-
plays tremendous musical growth. On
"Future" a slow buildup of delicate
violins plays over Gareth's fittingly
whispered vocals until the fragile still-
ness is broken by crashing cymbals and
coarse shouts. The track's subject mat-
ter leaves listeners feeling like power-
less, sympathetic bystanders. Gareth
describes a girl coping with an eating
disorder and who is ultimately lost in
the confusion of transcending from
adolescence to adulthood.
The ballad's chorus ("all you can
hear is the sound of your own heart")

sets a vulnerably raw tone. Through
tumultuous waves of sound, Gareth's
realization that there isn't always "a
light at the end of the tunnel" is ach-
ingly heartbreaking. With tracks like
"Future," Los Campesinos!'s geeky
indie-pop guise is forgone by the way
of beautifully composed ballads.
According to the band, Romance is
Boring is "about death and decay of
the human body, sex, lost love, mental
breakdown and football." It's only natu-
ral for a band composed of a bunch of
hormonal youths going through those
awkward growing pains to let their
music be a source of catharsis. With
Romance is Boring, Los Campesinos!
prove that they are capable of more than
Converse-kickin' beats and the cookie-
cutter pop persona. Here's hoping Los
Campesinos! will continue to experi-
ment with moodier themes and instru-
mental backdrops.

0
0

"Look happier. We have to earn that damn exclamation point!"



7"'-

The Michigan Daily I michigandailycom February 1, 2010
IN
MICHIGAN 2, MSU 3 D
MICHIGAN 5. MSU 4

TRASTATE

AARON AUGSBURGER/Dail
Junior goaltender Bryan Hogan squares up for a shot in the Wolverines' come-from-behind 5-4 victory on Saturday against the Spartans. The Wolverines got out to a 3-0 start through the first period before giving up the lead on four unanswered goals.

Summers steps up to lead
Wolverines past Spartans

Botched call stripped
'M' of potential sweep

By MICHAEL FLOREK
DailySports Writer
DETROIT - In a season
full of questions for the Michi-
gan hockey team, senior cap-
tain Chris Summers has always
held the answers - it just
hasn't translated onto the ice.
Summers is often the first
player to come out and be bar-
raged by questions after his
team's devastating losses.
The often " unanswerable
questions are typically
met with a simple,
steady response, "It
starts in practice."
A ARON AUGSBERG ER/Daily
. Boards help Michigan
rebound from losing skid

No. 20 Michigan's 3-2 loss to
No. 12 Michigan State on Friday
at Munn Ice Arena saw freshman
Chris Brown's tying goal negated
by a quick whistle when the ref
lost sight of the puck as it slid into
the net. After the game, Summers
came out of the locker room to
address the media.
He knew what they needed
to do to avoid being swept by the
Spartans for the first time since
the 1997-98 season.
"Implementing our style of
hockey, playing Michigan hockey
for a full sixty minutes," Summers
said after Friday night's game.
"Speed, quick on the transitions,
solid defense, that's what won us
games in the past and what's won
Michigan games for years."
See SPARTANS, Page 3B

t felt a bit like ddja vu.
With the puck out in front
of the net
and just over
two minutes
remaining
in Saturday
night's game,
time seemed
to stand still
as the puck,
floated along
the crease in RYAN
front of Michi- KARTJE
gan State goalie -
Drew Palmi-
sano. Everyone
on the ice knew that this was it.
Chaos ensued. Sticks flew. Bod-
ies crashed.

But it was Chris Brown who got
his stick on the puck, continuing
to slam it at Palmisano, hoping to
finally get past him.
And as his efforts came to a
crescendo, the puck slid past the
Spartan goalie and into the net to
give the Wolverines a 5-4 lead, one
that looked unlikely after Michi-
gan State scored four unanswered
goals.
The Wolverines saved them-
selves from a season sweep by
their archrivals, probably saving
their season in the meantime.
It was a fitting ending, a heroic
ending, one that should've been fit
for, say, Friday's game, too - when
the exact same thing should have
happened.

As much as I hate to side with
the rabid fans who can't accept
their own team's shortcomings,
Michigan lost Friday night's game
to referee Matt Shegos, not the
Michigan State Spartans.
After one of the Wolverines'
more valiant comeback efforts
of the year - trailing by three
goals in the final half of the third
period - Brown deflected the puck
through Palmisano's legs and into
the goal. Lights flashed. Spartan
fans reared their heads in disgust.
But Shegos, who many CCHA
fans have complained leans toward
Michigan (since he is a Michigan
alum), jumped the gun like I have
never seen before. He blew the
See KARTJE, Page 3B

Blue defense shines
in victory over Iowa

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan men's basketball coach
John Beilein walked briskly into
Saturday's postgame press confer-
ence like he always does, ready to
answer questions.
AfterhisteamhandilybeatIowa,
60-46, something was slightly out
of the ordinary. Beilein hadn't got-
ten a chance to look at the stat sheet
before talking to the media.
He joked about finally finding
his glasses, and glanced down.
"Nineteen offensive rebounds?
Wow, wow," Beilein said softly.
He paused, letting that sink in.
It's a staggering number, especially
for a team whose tallest starter is
listed at 6-foot-8. (That would be
senior forward DeShawn Sims,
who pulled down eight offensive
boards alone)
V "It wasn't a great offensive
showing, but that's what you have
to be able to do," Beilein said.
He was likely referring to the

Wolverines' rebounding effort as a
whole (42), which certainly set the
tone in the dominating defensive
victory.
"They set a tone from the get-go,
and we couldn't match it," Hawk-
eyes forward Aaron Fuller told
Iowa reporters after the game.
"They took advantage of that, and
they got second-chance points.
Adding it all up that's a lot of points,
and that's really why they won.
"We were soft really. They just
punked us down there. They got
every rebound that they wanted."
Beilein made a point of it, and
it remains true - the Iowa roster
doesn't have nearly as much height
as other teams Michigan has faced
and struggled against. But the Wol-
verines still look at those overall
stats and their effort on the boards
and see a positive sign.
"It's been a big emphasis, espe-
cially (after) last year," sophomore
guard Stu Douglass said. "We were
basically embarrassed last year
See Page 3B

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editor
It was probably after the Michi-
gan men's basketball team took a
13-0 lead in the first six and a half
minutes of its 60-46 victory over
Iowa
thatit IOWA 46
became MICHIGAN 60
official:
The Wol-
verines had definitely put the soul-
crushing loss to Michigan State on
Jan. 26 behind them.
"It's been a long three days,"
sophomore Stu Douglass said after
the win on Saturday. "There was a
sour taste in our mouths a little bit.
We just tried to come out and leave
everything behind."
After the loss to the Spartans,
Michigan coach John Beilein told
his team to forget about the sea-
son's previous 20 games and focus
solely on the 10 games in front of
them. He urged the Wolverines

(4-5 Big Ten, 11-10 overall) to look
at the remaining games as a season
in and of itself.
"It's just a whole new season,"
Beilein said. "We put our sea-
son out there and use the etch-a-
sketch. A new etch-a-sketch."
Aggressive, in-your-face defense
was the key to Michigan's early
13-0 run against Iowa, consistent
with the kind of defense the team
has been playing of late, especially
against Wisconsin and Michigan
State, both of which had real trou-
ble scoring against the Wolverines.
The difference in this game was
that Iowa (2-7,8-14) had neither the
moxie nor the personnel to recip-
rocate, which allowed the Wolver-
ines to take advantage of scoring
opportunities that weren't there in
their previous three games.
At the end of the first half, all
five of Michigan's starters scored,
and senior DeShawn Sims led the
team with 11. Junior Manny Harris
See PageWW3B

Redshirt sophomore Laval Lucas-Perry attempts a shot during Michigan's 60-46
victory over Iowa.


RIVALRY RENEWED
A swimmer-turned-diver encounters
some hostility in the land of the
Scarlet and Gray. Page 2B

NITTANY CRYIN'
Wolverines win third straight game
against a Big Ten opponent for the first
time under coach Kevin Borseth. Page 4B


2B -- February 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

Pro Bowl doesn't
deserve fans'respect

Forgive me if you're a happy
Jacksonville fan, but David Gar-
rard probably doesn't deserve to
be on any NFL roster - especially
the Pro Bowl
one.
This sea-
son, the annual
event wasn't so
much a game as
it was a joke.
I was sur-
prised they ANDY
even got anyone REID
to show up at
the game. Did
they give all those tickets away?
I was pretty skeptical when I
heard that the league was plan-
ning to move the game to the week
before the Super Bowl.
For starters, that eliminates
anyone from the two best teams in
the league. So how could they real-
ly call it a combination of the best
players when the league's MVP,
Peyton Manning, couldn't play?
Or when the Super Bowl coaches
can't accept an invitation to coach?
Atleast the teams were still com-
petitive about it - the announcers

said NFC coach Wade Phillips was
spying on the AFC team's practice.
But I guess it didn't help,.as Phil-
lips's team lost 41-34.
The NFL's second mistake was
taking it away from Hawaii - one
of the things that used to make
the thing fun to watch. (And that
point is probably debatable. I
used to like watching, but I know
plenty of people that have hated
it forever. Really, how great can
football be when there's a "no
blitzing" rule?)
I don't know about you, but
there was something pretty cool
about the Hawaiian shirts and leis,
the beach sports and wishing I
was enjoying the warm Hawaiian
weather in February.
It's not all the NFL's fault. When
players start dropping out and
deciding not to play, there's really
nothing the league can do about it.
If the players aren't going to
respect the Pro Bowl, maybe they
don't deserve to have it at all.
Here's the thing: what used to
be a greatgauge of a player's career
- "four-time Pro Bowl selection"
for example - is never going to

be the same after the AFC team
had to stoop to Matt Schaub as its
starter when Manning couldn't
play because of next week's Super
Bowl, and Brady and Phillip Rivers
passed. Honestly, Schaub wouldn't
have even made the roster if those
three guys played.
If this trend continues, the Pro
Bowl is going to be pointless. Well,
even more pointless than it used
to be.
I know they made the changes
to boost ratings and attendance,
but is it really going to help?
If they really want to pump
some life into the Pro Bowl, they
should try something really cre-
ative and off-the-wall. Maybe an
all-star game between the best
of the NFL and college football ...
with blitzing.
That would probably never
work or be agreed to by anyone.
But no one would argue that a
stale, irrelevant game a week
before the Super Bowl seems to be
a worse idea.
- Reid can be reached at
andyreid@umich.edu.

*I

Wolverines grab important
rivalry win over Buckeyes

Freshman Natalie Beilstein competed in the beam roster for her first time. Beilstein scored a 9.825 in her collegiate debut
Solid effort on beam
boosts Blue in victory *

Even with a new diver,
Wolverines dominate
in Columbus
By RYAN A. PODGES
Daily Sports Writer
COLUMBUS- Freshman Sam
Hoekstra got his first taste of the
Michigan-Ohio State rivalry in
Columbus last weekend.
And it was bitter.
Hoekstra, who normally com-
petes in swimming events, dove for
the Wolverines as they -competed
against the Buckeyes, Northwest-
ern and Penn State in the Big Ten
Quad Meet so that Michigan could
earn points in the diving events. To
automatically score points in div-
ing, a team must have two compet-
itors and the Wolverines only had
one, sophomore Chris Morrison.
The former high school diver
was rusty, but Hoekstra scored
over 100 points on the one- and
three-meter diving events. No
thanks to Ohio State's divingcoach
Vince Panzano, who was upset
Michigan entered a swimmer in its
diving events.
"I don't think he gave Sam a
score higher than one out of ten,
even on dives when other judges
gave him four and a halves," Mich-
igan coach Mike Bottom said. "He
referred to our athlete in a deroga-
tory way and (his scoring) was a
statement he decided to make and
that upset me."
After Michigan's dual meet vic-
tories against all three schools,
Hoekstra was showered with pats
on the back and praise from Bot-
tom. Teammates joked he was the
"diver of the meet."

But:
And do
either.
"Mi
us abou
as swi
and I ti
to shov
team,"
got her
compla
at first,
it as so
help m
The
two riv
swimm
"I
t
absi
t
gan's 1
State, t
greates
season,
relays i
Buckey
nearlyE
"I'm
guys st
got kno
quickly
and rac
I than]
mers fo
Thre
vidual
Chris B
terflya

don't call Hoekstra a diver. Junior Tyler Clary won the 200-
on't call him a swimmer, yard backstroke and individual
medley, and sophomore Dan Mad-
ke preaches and preaches to wed won the 200-yard freestyle
ut not thinking of ourselves and butterfly events.
mmers but being athletes, Overall, Michigan had two of
hought this would be a way the top three places in seven of the
w how athletic we are as a 12 individual events, including the
Hoekstra said. "When we top three finishes in the 500-yard
e yesterday their coach was freestyle.
ining a lot and it got to me Winning this weekend's meet
but then I just approached will help make the Wolverines feel
mething fun and a way to more comfortable in an environ-
y team score." ment they will need to get used to.
competition between the This was just the first of four trips
als was no less fierce in the Michigan will make to Columbus
:ing pool. Despite Michi- in eight weeks. This season's Big
Ten and NCAA Championships are
also being held there.
n t a Bottom said his goal was for
'l not af'aid Michigan to think about being
the better team instead of worry-
:o say that I .ing about beating Ohio State. He
encouraged his team to focus on
olutely despise being excellent in every detail of
hat school." their swims. Brady agreed, say-
ing a victory would surely follow
as long as the Wolverines stayed
focused on their own business.
"There were plenty of momen-
97.5-135.5 win over Ohio tum swings in this meet," Brady
he Wolverines faced their said. "When Ohio State wins an
t adversity as a team this event, they like to get really loud
dropping two of the four but I just looked at it as a chance to
n the two-day meet to the take our team a step closer to win-
es and facing tight races in ning the Big Ten title."
every event. The emotion of the rivalry was
very proud that lot of our more motivation than distraction
epped up and some of them for some swimmers like Clary,
icked down and then got up a two-time national champion
," Bottom said. "The rivalry and reigning NCAA Swimmer of
ing gives us a purpose, and the Year. The California native
ked the Ohio State swim- admits he doesn't fully understand
r the good races." the depths of the rivalry, but has
e Wolverines won two indi- already rendered a decision about
events. Senior co-captain the Buckeyes.
rady won the 100-yard but- "I'm not afraid to say that I abso-
and the SO-yard freestyle. lutely despise that school," he said.
"I've seen the way they act at foot-
ball games and swim meets and
the petty things they do just gets
me fired up. And typically when
I'm angry or pissed off at some-
thing, I move through the water a
2010 little faster."

By STEPHEN NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
It took another solid balance
beam performance from a home-
town girl, senior captain Kelsey
Knutson, to right the ship for the
No. 17 Michigan women's gymnas-
tics team after recent road woes.
The Wolverines rebounded from
last weekend's defeat by Nebraska
with a dominant tri-meet victory
against No. 14 Iowa State (2-3) and
BYU (0-5) on Friday, posting a sea-
son-high 196.000 score in the win.
In her return to Ames, Iowa -
where she won three Iowa Gym-
nast of the Year titles in high school
- Knutson took first place on the
balance beam for the second con-
secutive meet with a 9.850 score.
While the meet was, at face
value, no more than a good win, the
whole experience was a trip down
memory lane for the decorated
gymnast.
"Words can't really even
describe my feelings," Knutson
said. "I grew up watching colle-
giate gymnasts here at the Hilton
Coliseum since I was five years old,
so to finally compete in that envi-
ronment, it was very surreal."
As a leader of the team, Knut-
son knew she needed to display

some consistency to get her team
on track.
"For her to have developed the
kind of confidence that she has now
on beam is wonderful, because last
year she didn't have that kind of
confidence," Michigan coach Bev
Plocki said. "To be able to come
home in front of a lot of her home-
town people and to be able to do
that was really important."
From a team standpoint, the
Wolverines (2-0 Big Ten, 5-1 over-
all) showed their diversity by tak-
ing each of the four event titles, as
well as the all-around award.
Michigan benefited tremen-
dously from their all-around per-
formers, junior Kylee Botterman
and senior Sarah Curtis, who took
top all-around honors with scores
of 39.300 and 39.250, respectively.
Botterman won both the vault and
uneven bars routines, and took first
place in the all-around for the sec-
ond consecutive meet.
Pacing the Wolverines again was
freshman Natalie Beilstein, who
took first-place on the floor routine
with her season-high 9.900 score
just a week after earning her sec-
ond Big Ten Freshman of the Week
honors.
Senior captain Jordan Sexton
also gave the Wolverines a boost

by tying Knutson as the meet's
highest-scoring competitor on the
beam.
For a team looking so desperate-
ly for an answertotheirundeniable 0
struggles on the beam, their scores
were a sigh of relief. In each of the
previous two meets, Michigan suf-
fered three falls out of six perform-
ers on the beam, but luckily only
five routines count for each event.
"It was huge for us to go out and
hit 6-for-6 on beam," Knutson said.
"We have very talented balance
beam athletes, and we were able
to showcase that talent, and we've
been performing well in practice
but couldn't seem to replicate that
in the meet setting."
With an away meet next Fri-
day against West Virginia, Iowa
State, and William and Mary in Las
Vegas, Michigan hopes to build on
its recent achievements and main-
tain the balanced scoring for the
remainder of the season.
"Obviously (this meet) is what
a team performance is all about,
for everyone to contribute some-
where," Plocki said. "We finally
put together all four events and
came out with a score that I think
is more representative of the qual-
ity of team that we are."team that
we are."

Seniors ift 'M' over Spartans

By FELIX CARREON
Daily Sports Writer
When Michigan senior co-cap-
tains Margaret Kelly and Leigh
Cole completed their last swim
meet for Ann Arbor Pioneer, both
of their fathers jumped into the
pool along with their daughters
to celebrate two illustrious high
school career.
The duo helped Pioneer to four

IaRI N A L
512 E. William (7341) 663-3379
LIMITED TIME OFFER
For Our Friends at The U
CUSTOMER APPRECIATION
Lunch Buffet
M-F 1-2pm
$956$
$2 OFF our Lunch Buffet
With Beverage Included
Just Present Your U of M I.D.
Offer Expires: 2/26/10

state championships and three
national championships.
After dominating rival Michigan
State 127-87 within the friendly
confines of Canham Natotorium
this weekend against arch rival
Michigan State, the two, along
with 11 other seniors jumped into
the pool to celebrate the win.
This time, Kelly's and Cole's dads
decided to rejoice from the stands.
"It didn't hit me until we met in
the team room before the meet,"
Kelly said. "(Michigan coach Jim
Richardson) said he would miss all
of us and that's when we all lost it.
To look back here, the four years
we all had and to know this is the
last time we'll be here for a dual
meet is tough."
After seeing its streak of 16
straight dual meet wins against
Ohio State snapped last week-
end, No. 16 Michigan extended its
winning streak against Michigan
State. The Wolverines have not
lost a dual meet to the Spartans
since 1985.
The team would have won all
of the meet's events but decided to
swim exhibition in the final three
events. The meet served as an
extension of its weekly prepara-
tion in that regard.
"We stuck to our training,"
Richardson said. "I was actually
surprised as to how well we actu-
ally performed. We aren't compro-
mising anything to win dual meets.
We are sticking to the plan."
Since Michigan took an early
lead over the Spartans, it gave
many swimmers an opportunity
to swim events that they wouldn't
usually participate in.
One such event was the exhibi-
tion of the 100-yard breaststroke
which included distance special-

ists seniors Emily Brunemann and
Emily Hanson and sprinter sopho-
more Natasha Moodie in the field.
"Jim asked us before the meet
what event. we would like to
swim," Brunemann said. "I want-
ed to swim something different
than what I always swim. I actu-
ally like breaststroke a lot. It's one
of my stronger parts of my 400
(individual medley)."
Kelly and Cole competed in
their normal events, dominating
the competition. Kelly touched
the wall first in the 100-yard but-
terfly and was part of the winning
200-yard medley relay team. Cole
earned an event victory in the
100-yard freestyle and finished
runner-up in the SO-yard freestyle
behind Moodie.
While the Michigan seniors had
strong performances across the
board, it was the younger mem-
bersmwho impressed Richardson
the mostL
Freshman Julia Andracki prac-
ticed through fatigue during the
week, but showed a lot of guts in
the 100-yard breaststroke, taking
first place. And sophomore Megan
Craig earned lifetime bests in the
200 and 500-yard freestyle.
These young members of the
team hope to have the impact of
this year's 13 member senior class
that has shown a bond that very
few teams have, as Richardson
explained.
"When you look around major
college athletic teams, you'll find
very few who have a 13-member
senior class," Richardson said.
"There's no attrition. Our seniors
all come from diverse back-
grounds, but they are not diverse
when it comes to Michigan. That's
an important thing for us."


3B - February 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

3B - February 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

* Strong individual
performances
highlight weekend

B
Who
ingly s
compli
Whe
of his t
this p
McCra
Ky., co
quite f
the Mi
"We
to ans
of mee
got 30
a bunc
guys a
their t
so on.
cc(
fC
in term
ation."
So
of the
many
and ev
exactly
Wolver
But
loaded
petition
No. 1
Kentuc
clear th
potenti
"Our
the tou
said. "I
tough c
Long
Fellow
with a
_ run, cr
a career

.y KEVIN RAFTERY no exception.
Daily Sports Writer "Brandon Fellows winning the
mile was the best performance
o knew that such a seem- for our program this weekend,"
imple question could be so LaPlante said.
cated. Although Fellows was the only
en asked what he thought Michigan competitor to win an
eam's overall performance event, there were others who
ast weekend at the Rod experienced success as well.
vy Memorial in Lexington, Junior co-captain Carl Bucha-
ach Fred LaPlante couldn't non, who has primarily been a
ind the words to describe hurdler, finished third in the 60
chigan men's track team. meter hurdles with a time of 8.12.
l1, that's a tough question He also tallied a surprising fifth-
wer as far as these types place finish inthe 400-meter dash
ts," LaPlante said. "We've - an event that Buchanon had
guys competing, obviously never run until this past weekend.
h of different events, some There were also some encour-
ire at different points in aging performances from the
raining, and so forth and underclassmen, something that
It's kind of hard to say it will prove to be important for
Michigan if they hope to compete
in the Big Ten.
After a 2009 team that was
Our guys in loaded with seniors, 30 of the 54
eneral don't athletes listed on the Wolverines'
current roster are redshirt sopho-
ar thetough mores or younger. Needless to say,
Michigan will have to rely on its
)m petition." underclassmen for much of the
season.
On Saturday, freshman Dal-
las Bowden finished fifth in
ns of sort of a team evalu- what LaPlante called Bowden's
"first serious mile" with a time of
goes the first few weeks 4:08.83.
indoor season. With so Redshirt freshman Bobby
individual competitors Aprill also finished fifth in the
ents, it is hard to pinpoint 3,000 meter run with a career-
where the 38th-ranked best time of 8:15.66.
ines stand. Amidst all the uncertainty of
after competing in a field the early weeks of the season, it is
with high-quality com- clear that the future looks bright
n from schools such as for the Wolverines. But it is going
Florida State, Cincinnati, to take a lot of work to get this
ky and Georgia Tech, it is team where it needs to be.
sat the Wolverines have the "If they're going to perform
al for success. well, it takes more than just train-
r guys in general don't fear ing hard," LaPlante said. "You
igh competition," LaPlante really have to have a passion to
think they really like the compete. Sometimes it happens
ompetition." that you find out your passion
g distance runner Brian when you kind of get your teeth
s, who led the Wolverines knocked in a couple times. Hope-
first place finish in the mile fully some of those guys will find
ossing the finish line with the passion, and that will be a
r-best time of 4:06.37, was good thing."

wz
TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
Junior Manny Harris helped force Hawkeye turnovers with smothering defense and anticipation of Iowa passes. The Wovlerines forced seven turnovers in11 minutes Saturday.
Turnovers key too Woverines' win

By GJON JUNCAJ And with three days off to pre-
Daily SportsEditor pare for a talented and potentially
dangerous three-point shooting
Positives. team (Iowa leads the conference
It's something the Michigan with 545 triples attempted), the
men's basketball team has been Wolverines knew exactly what was
searching for throughout this dis- in store for them.
appointing season. Oftentimes, "We knew their sets (and) knew
those attempts at optimism have what was going to happen," soph-
seemed difficult to muster. omore guard Stu Douglass said.
The Wolverines reached the two- "(Iowa) has good players, but we
thirds mark of the really just gave it our all."
year with a .500 NOTEBOOK Michigan has forced more than
record, and a lit- 17 turnovers in three of its past six
any of on-court issues still haven't games. Iowa finished Saturday with
been resolved since November. just 10, but the game was blown
Yet Saturday's 60-46 victory over open right from tipoff.
an overwhelmed Iowa team showed "We were just communicating
that the Wolverines are getting tan- really well," sophomore forward
gibly better as the season wears on Zack Novak said. "We got pressure
- with the ultimate risk-reward on them and really didn't give them
aspect of the game. anything easy. Force them to make
Michigan forced seven turnovers plays, and you'll have some turn-
in the first 11 minutes of Saturday's overs."
game, leading to eight points in SON, DON'T SHINE: The Maize
what opened up a 19-5 run to start Rage directed all its vitriol and
the contest. Active hands and quick sarcasm on Saturday toward Iowa
defensive rotations frazzled the point guard John Lickliter, son of
Hawkeyes, knocking them into a Hawkeye coach Todd Lickliter. At
hole too deep to climb out of 5-foot-11, 170-pounds, the younger

Despite sloppy finish,
Blue beats Iowa easily

From
followe
in b
and the
half th
"I t
t
01
B
commo:
their l
at time
seemin
glorifie
But

Page 1B to just 13 with 14:44 remaining,
Michigan got its act together.
ed him with seven points. Sims got whatever he wanted
oth the end of the first half inside, including nine offensive
e beginning of the second rebounds and 20 points for the
.e Wolverines fell into the game. Harris also turned it on,
scoring 13 of his own 20 points in
the second half.
The lead in the second half was
as much as 24, but the Wolverines
egot again seemed to lose their focus at
he game g t the end, when they let Iowa pull to
ut of hand," within 16 with three minutes left.
Though Beilein was happy
3eilein said. with the big win, he would have
preferred to avoid the sloppy play
that plagued his team throughout
the game.
"I think they felt the game was
in trap of playing down to out of hand," Beilein said. "And
evel of competition. Play that's natural when you're up
s was sloppy, with players that much. I would have liked to
g to treat the matchup as a get everybody off the bench, but
d pickup game. 14-point, 16-point lead with three
after seeing the lead fall minutes to go is not safe."

SPARTANS
From Page lB
Those words translated into
action Saturday night at Joe Louis
Arena. The Wolverines won 5-4 in
a game that had more momentum
changes than a tetherball match.
The Wolverines fell behind 3-0
and never recovered Friday. On
Saturday, Summers made sure that
didn't happen again.
Taking his postgame comments
and converting them to the ice, he
got the offense started early. Mid-
way through the first period, in a
4-on-4, Summers picked up the
puck behind his own net, skated
around one Spartan in the neutral

zone, and then split through the
defensemen putting a backhand on
Michigan State's Drew Palmisano.
Summers' initial shot was stopped,
but the rebound came to freshman
A.J. Treais who put the puck into
the wide open net.
Just seven minutes later, Sum-
mers received a pass and let go
of a slap shot that bounced off a
Michigan State defensemen and
squeaked past Palmisano. By the
end of the first period, the captain
had sparked a 3-0 lead.
"Coach (Red Berenson) talked
about maybe being a better leader,"
Summers said Saturday. "He kind
of called everybody out last night,
me in particular. He knew that I
needed to step my game up and I

Lickliter looked out of place, trying
to take Stu Douglass off the dribble
and attempting a wild 3-point shot
over senior forward DeShawn Sims
in the first half.
The redshirt freshman walk-on
played 24 minutes Saturday under
tight defensive pressure and a slew
of jeers from the student section
throughout that span of time.
Lickliter was treated with the
customary "BUM!" chorus with
every touch of the ball. Each of his
six missed shots and one turnover
was complemented with new, cre-
ative insults.
At least one person not on Iowa's
sideline took offense to it - Michi-
gan coach John Beilein. His son
Patrick (currently a graduate stu-
dent manager with the Wolverines)
played for him at West Virginia
from 2002-2006, and received more
than a fair share of grief for the
family connection on the Moun-
taineers' bench.
"It started to get me mad at a
few fans yelling at the coach's son,"
Beilein said with a slight smirk.
"I've heard that many times. One
tried to do that today but it's a team
effort. 'm not going to get those
assists or goals without anybody
else."
Michigan's 3-0 lead turned into a
4-3 deficit in just over a period. But
after a shorthanded goal to tie the
game, Brown took the superhero
cape from Summers. Stationed in
front, he took two shots and picked
up the puck on the side of the net
and stuffed it between the post and
Palmisano's skate. This time, the
referee held the whistle as Brown
jammed it home.
"We came to the rink ready to
play," Berenson said. "We had a
big edge in the game on the score-
board and then we lost it, so there
was no use crying about it. We just
KARTJE
From Page 1B
whistle too early and single-
handedly knocked the wind out
of every single Michigan fan.
The Big Ten Network knew it
was a goal. The majority of the
media at Munn Ice Arena knew
it was a goal. And for God's sake,
when people named "Spartan
Dan" comment on Michigan
message boards apologizing for
the call to angry Wolverine fans,
that's when you know it indeed
was a goal.
Yes, it was just one loss. And
yes, Michigan was outplayed for
much of the game. But with a
tie game and the momentum of
a three-goal comeback on their
shoulders, my gut says nothing is
stopping the Wolverines' in that
hypothetical overtime period.
But with one blow of the whis-
tle, Shegos took away the Wol-
verines' only chance at rivalry
heroism this season.
Michigan had been embar-
rassed by the Spartans in their
first series of the year, getting
swept after winning all five
games against its rivals the year

of the funniest was at Notre Dame
when they called Patrick, 'Daddy's
girl.' That really upset me. I'm used
to that. But (Lickliter) goes out and
plays hard, and you know he's play-
ing every day for his dad, just like
my son did."
NOTES: Beyond the mediocre
overall records, Saturday's game
pitted the two youngest teams in
the Big Ten against each other.
Michigan features 11 players on
the roster that are redshirt sopho-
mores or younger. Iowa has such
nine players of its own.... The Wol-
verines' win over the Hawkeyes on
Saturday marked the program's
700th Big Ten victory. ... Michi-
gan is the fifth conference team to
reach the plateau. ... Harris pulled
down his 500th career rebound
in Saturday's first half, making
him the 39th player in school his-
tory. He finished Saturday with six
boards. ... Sims reached his own
milestone early in the contest, hit-
ting the game's first basket to reach
1,400 career points, becoming just
the 23rd player in program history
to do so.
had to move ontand start again, and
win the rest of the game, and that's
what it came down to"
In the wildest game of Michi-
gan's season, it beat an archrival
and was one whistle away from
gaining at least four points against
the CCHA's second-ranked team.
And who was it but Chris Summers
to walk out of the locker room to
talk about the game. With a team
that has been supremely incon-
sistent, sweeping just two confer-
ence series keeping the momentum
going will be key for the Wolver-
ines.
"It starts in practice," Summers
said with a smile this time. "I'll say
it every time I talk to you guys. It
starts in practice."
before. A win in Friday's game
would've equalized the two
teams on the season.
Additionally, Spartan forward
Corey Tropp - whose cheap
shot on Michigan's Steve Kamp-
fer got him suspended for the
season last year - scored two of
the three game-winners against
Michigan this season, rubbing
salt in the already open wounds
of the Wolverines' underachiev-
ing season.
And with one whistle-less
play, Michigan could have put on
the hero's cape for one night of a
winter season filled with disap-
pointment inside and out of Yost
Ice Arena.
But Tropp's goal Friday was
still the game-winner. The
Spartans still lead Michigan in
the conference standings. And
for the first time since 2000-01,
Michigan State will finish the
season having won the intrastate
battle outright.
And because of Shegos' blown
call, this split, a decent result
in the long run, hurts twice as
much.
- Kartje can be reached
at rkartje@umich.edu.

M' offensive rebounds
* make difference in win

From Page 1B
about giving up offensive
rebounds. ... I don't know where
we are in the Big Ten, but we're
definitely a lot improved from
last year. It's just a mindset."
The Wolverines were the Big
Ten's second-worst rebound-
ing team last season in terms of
rebounding margin (-2.8). This
season, they're outrebounding
their Big Ten foes by almost a full
rebound each game. Michigan
still ranks last in the conference
in defensive rebounds, but it has
moved up to seventh in the Big
Ten in offensive boards, averag-
ing10.67 rebounds per game after
this weekend's performance.
Considering how badly the
Wolverines were outrebounded
during the first two months of
the season and how tough the
Big Ten traditionally is on the
boards, that's quite a statistic.
Along with an improved defense,
the increased rebounding could
be a good sign heading into the
final stretch of the regular sea-
son. 4

Saturday's game shed light on
many positive aspects of Sims's
game, in particular. He posted his
sixth double-double of the season
with 12 total rebounds and 20
points. Usually, 6-foot-5 sopho-
more Zack Novak is the Wolver-
ine known for leaping over taller
opponents to snatch rebounds
out of the air. But against the
Hawkeyes, Sims got in on the act,
too, pulling in rebounds from all
over the court.
"It goes to show the heart of
(Sims) and Zack," Douglass said.
"They're battling inside. They're
quote-unquote undersized, but it
doesn't really matter."
It may not matter much in the
upcoming games, either, as the
Wolverines prepare to take on
teams with taller, more physical
players. If Sims's performance
against a small Iowa squad is any
indication, he does well when
he's comfortable in a game.
When he has a preference?
"I like playing against bigger
guys," Sims said.
The big men of the Big Ten
might need totake note.

Late success isn't
enough for Michigan
By BRAD STONE in Michigan's comeback bid. Early
For the Daily in the meet, the Wolverines relied
mostly on escape points, allowing
Despite a late rally that led to the Spartans (6-3-1 overall) to take
four straight victories, the Michi- more shots and earn most of the
gan wrestling team fell to in-state takedown points.
rival Michigan State 17-15 on The momentum shifted after
Friday night in Ann Arbor. The a big win at 184 pounds by fresh-
defeat was the fifth straight for man Hunter Collins over Michi-
the Wolverines, who were coming gan State's Nick Palmieri. Collins
off tough losses to Big Ten power- knew how important his win was
houses Iowa and Minnesota. as Michigan went on to win the
The Spartans jumped out to final three matches, but did not
an early lead after a couple major want to take all the credit for the
decisions, including the opening ensuing rally.
match, which ended in a 9-1 vic- "I'm here to win matches," Col-
tory for defending NCAA cham- lins said. "And I'm always going to
pion at 133 pounds, top-ranked do as much for my team as I can.
Franklin Gomez. The Spartans If it started a little snowball, that's
went on to win five of the first six great. My goal is just to win every
matches with Michigan's lone win match regardless of what's going
in come-from-behind fashion by on around me."
sophomore David Johnson at 157 All three freshmen in Michi-
pounds. gan's lineup earned victories
Michigan coach Joe McFarland against the Spartans, showing
knew how vital Johnson's victory signs of a bright future for the
was if the Wolverines (0-3 Big Ten, Wolverines. The last of those
4-10 overall) had any chance of a wins came in the final match at
comeback in front of a large crowd 125 pounds by Sean Boyle, who
at Cliff Keen Arena. was able to put a tough weekend
"Dave won a big match for us," behind him to earn an important
McFarland said. "He found him- win.
self behind, but he did a great job "I'm still trying to prove myself,
in the third period, got a couple and we're still trying to get ready
turns. That was a great win. We for Big Tens and NCAA's," Boyle
just need to get him a little more said. "So I put those matches
aggressive on his feet." behind me, and I'm happy about a
Aggressiveness was a key factor good win today."

DON'T LIE.
YOU KNOW YOU WANT TO
JOIN DAILY SPORTS.
EMAIL RKARTJE @UMICH.EDU


4B - February 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaiiy.com

4B - February 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

bM' senior class
bids farewell

Group of 13 lead
Michigan past
Michigan State in
last home meet
By FELIX CARREON
Daily Sports Writer
When Michigan senior co-cap-
tains Margaret Kelly and Leigh
Cole completed their last swim
meet for Ann Arbor Pioneer, both
of their fathers jumped into the
pool along with their daughters
to celebrate an illustrious high
school career.
The duo helped Pioneer to four
state championships and three
national championships.
After the completion of their
last meet inside the friendly
confines of Canham Natotorium
this weekend against arch rival
Michigan State, the two, along
with 11 other seniors jumped into
the pool to celebrate the win. But
missing in the pool were Kelly
and Cole's dads who decided to
celebrate their daughters accom-
plishments from the stands on
Senior Day.
"It didn't hit me until we met in
the team room before the meet,"
Kelly said. "(Michigan coach Jim
Richardson) said he would miss
all of us and that's when we all
lost it. To look back here, the four
years we all had and to know this
is the last time we'll be here for a
dual meet is tough."
The Wolverines dominated
from start to finish, winning the
first eight events en route to a 127-
87 victory over the Spartans.
After seeing its 16-straight dual
meet win streak against Ohio
State snapped last weekend, No.
16 Michigan extended its winning
streak against Michigan State.
The Wolverines have not lost a
dual meet to the Spartans since
1985.
The team would have won all
of the meet's events but decided
to swim exhibition in the final
three events. The meet served as
an extension of its weekly prepa-
ration in that regard.
"We stuck to our training,"
Richardson said. "I was actu-

ally surprised as to how well we
actually performed. We aren't
compromising anything to win
dual meets. We are sticking to the
plan."
Since Michigan took an early
lead over the Spartans, it gave
many swimmers an opportunity
to swim events that they wouldn't
usually participate in.
One such event was the exhibi-
tion of the 100-yard breaststroke
which included distance special-
ists seniors Emily Brunemann
and Emily Hanson and sprinter
sophomore Natasha Moodie in
the field.
"Jim asked us before the meet
what event we would like to
swim," Brunemann said. "I want-
ed to swim something different
than what I always swim. I actu-
ally like breaststroke alot. It's one
of my stronger parts of my 400
(individual medley)."
Kelly and Cole competed in
their normal events, dominating
the competition. Kelly touched
the wall first in the 100-yard but-
terfly and was part of the winning
200-yard medley relay team. Cole
earned an event victory in the
100-yard freestyle and finished
runner-up in the 50-yard free-
style behind Moodie.
While the Michigan seniors
had strong performances across
the board, it was the younger
members who impressed Rich-
ardson the most.
Freshman Julia Andracki prac-
ticed through fatigue during the
week, but showed a lot of guts in
the 100-yard breaststroke taking
first place even though it was an
exhibition race. And sophomore
Megan Craig career lifetime bests
in the 200 and 500-yard freestyle.
These young members of the
team hope to have the impact of
this year's 13 member senior class
that has shown a bond that very
few teams have as Richardson
explained.
"When you look around major
college athletic teams, you'll find
very few who have a 13-member
senior class," Richardson said.
"There's no attrition. Our seniors
all come from diverse back-
grounds, but they are not diverse
when it comes to Michigan. That's
an important thing for us."

0

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Sophomore Carmen Reynolds passed the ball to senior Krista Phillips with 13 seconds left in yesterday's game. Phillips's three sealed Michigan's win over Penn State.
Michigan uses a clu t and
second-halfspr to beat PS

By ZAK PYZIK basketball team in program histo-
Daily Sports Writer ry went absolutely wild when the
Wolverines biggest player sank the
Senior center Krista Phillips teams biggest shot of the game.
sometimes struggles to make key Michigan (5-6 Big Ten, 13-8
shots. But not last night. overall) started off slow in the
In fact, last night Phillips first half after letting the Nittany
drained a 3-pointer with just 13 Lions (7-4, 15-6) go on an 11-2 run
seconds remaining to the Wol- early in the contest. And the Wol-
verines' 66-62 victory over No. 23 verines went into halftime trail-
Penn State at Crisler Arena. ing 34-26.
"I knew when they were pres- Michigan struggled early. The
suring me I was not going to get Wolverines' perimeter shooters,
this shot out," sophomore forward freshman guard Jenny Ryan, junior
Carmen Reynolds said. "I saw KP guard Veronica Hicks, and fresh-
in the corner of my eyes, soI passed man Dayeesha Hollins, shot 1-for-
it to her and when she made it, I 12 going into halftime.
was so happy. Coach likes us to be "(Michigan coach Kevin Bors-
versatile, and it was good that KP eth) wrote on the board the totals
could do that. It really helped us for me, Jenny, and'Dayeesha com-
out." bined," Hicks said. "We were just
After Reynolds dished the ball like, wow, we can shoot way better
to Phillips at the top of the arc at than this."
Crisler Arena, a record-breaking Michigan shot 33 percent in
crowd of 5,926 attendees closed the first stanza compared to Penn
their eyes and crossed their fingers. State's 52-percent showing. It was
And then, it went in. And on a a combination of Michigan's offen-
night where the "Biggest Losers" sive woes and Penn State's impec-
were the halftime entertainment, cable defense.
the biggest showing for a women's "We just never really had any

rhythm in the first half," Bors-
eth said. "I will tell you that they
are probably, in my mind, the best
defensive team in the conference. If
you look at their statistics they hold
teams to 34 percent shooting from
the floors. That's off the charts,
that's Connecticut-type stuff."
It may have been due to a high-
charged Borseth locker room talk
or a loud record-breaking crowd
because it was "Pack the House"
night at Crisler, but something trig-
gered sparked the Wolverines to a
15-2 run to start the second half.
"I know as a basketball player
you can never be defeated if there
is still time on the clock," junior
guard Veronica Hicks said. "I'd
rather play good late than start
early and then simmer down."
The Wolverines can credit a lot
of their win to Phillips and Reyn-
olds, well, at least more than what
the stat sheet showed.
The duo set numerous screens
that generated open looks from
Hicks and Hollins.
"We all want to do whatever you
have to do," Hicks said. "We do a

lot of things that only if you're bas-
ketball savvy you will be able to see
because they don't show up on the
stat sheet. Those are really making
this team successful."
Besides screens, drawing fouls
proved to be a strength of the Wol-
verine offense. Reynolds got to the
line twice in the first five minutes
and made all four free throws. But
the overall execution was not as
much much of a strength.
The Wolverines went just 48
percent from the free throw line,
missing seven down the second
stretch of the game.
It was an eight year old boy that
described this game best at the
beginning of the second half. He
was a young Michigan fan sitting
with his family, all of whom seemed
to be lamenting the 15-point lead
that Penn State possessed at the
time.
But after Hollins stole the ball,
tossed a long pass off of a fast break
to Hicks who finished with a layup,
the mood changed.
"I smell a comeback baby," the
boy said.


Blue shows improvement in
non-conference track meet

0

Junior Thomas Kelley scored an 85.900, which was enough to win the all-around competition this weekend '
Wolverines hope weekend
leads to a new No. 1 ranking

Seven top-five
finishes highlight
invitational
By CASANDRA PAGNI
For the Daily
With strong talent wacross the
board and motivation never in
short supply, the Michigan wom-
en's track and field team is quickly
making its case to be a top con-
tender at the Big Ten Indoor com-
petition at the end of the month.
After postingseventop-five per-
formances and setting several per-
sonal records at the Rod McCravy
Invitational this past weekend in
Kentucky, the Wolverines proved
they can step up and perform well
in high pressure meets.
"Everyone is really on par to
compete and get faster," senior
captain Shana Vinson said "We
want to give the impression when
we do go to Big Tens that we're on
top of our game."
Michigan faced competition
from 13 non-conference foes in its
largest meet of the year, includ-
ing No. 5 Florida State, No. 8 Ten-
nessee and No. 14 Louisville. This
meet gave the team a glimpse of
other levels of competition outside
the Big Ten.
"It's nice to see different ath-
letes from different schools,"
Michigan coach James Henry said.
"That can be positive, and help
motivate the kids as well."

Vinson - who took third place
and posted personal bests in both
the 200-meter dash and 400-meter
dash - clearly wasn't phasedby the
other competitors this weekend.
She was experienced success this
year and is quickly becoming a
threat in the Big Ten.
"(Vinson) is starting to run like
she is capable of running," Henry
said. "She's being consistent as
well as improving. I think she is
one of the better sprinters -in the
Big Ten and I hope she can prove
that now."
Other noteworthy performers
from the weekend included red-
shirt junior Abbey Breidenstein,
who took third place in the pole
vault and sophomore Jillian Pur-
vis, who took fifth in the 60-meter
hurdles. Purvis said that facing so
many different teams this week-
end helped her evaluate where she
stands at this point in the season.
"The team is pretty focused and
'all in,'" Purvis said. "I know I still
have some time still and I know
that it will all come together once
Big Ten Indoors come around."
Even the weight throwers, who
collectively struggled at the invi-
tational - taking 15th, 16th, and
20th place - know that with three
meets remaining before the con-
ference contest, there is more than
enough time to rebound from this
weekend's performances.
"You go back to basics," Pend-
leton said. "You just think about
how you can improve on your men-
tal game, how you can improve on

your physical game, look to the
week that's coming and work on
the things that weren't your strong
points at the meet."
With a meet every weekend
until the Big Ten champion-
ships begin, Michigan has plenty
of opportunities to elevate its
game. Consistency will be the key
ingredient in developing a strong
team before facing in-conference.
competition, and the Wolverine
captains are using their ranks to
ensure that the team trains hard
throughout the week.
"I'm always around asking
people how the practices were,"
junior co-captain Emily Pendle-
ton said. "Trying to get everyone
involved in everyone else's' event
groups, I think it's a really good
way to keep people motivated
and keep people focused."
The Wolverines will use the
week in practice to prepare
for the upcoming split meets,
as some members travel South
Bend, Ind. and some to New York
to compete this weekend. Fac-
ing varied competition like they
did at Kentucky will help Michi-
gan in the long run, as the team
knows that to be the best, you
must beat the best.
"We haven't really had the
opportunity other than at Penn
State to race against a lot of other
fast teams," Vinson said. "I think
everyone kind of took advantage
of that and put on their game face
and ran a little bit harder because
of the competition we had."

0
0

Michigan cruises
to 12-point victory
over ninth-ranked
Hawkeyes in Iowa
By MICHAEL LAURILA
Daily Sports Writer
With a strong performance
over No. 9 Iowa, the men's gym-
nastics team could potentially
become the top team in the nation
when the newest poll comes out
later today.
Illinois is currently the No. 1
team in the country and with the
second-ranked Wolverines' score
on Saturday in Iowa City, a move
up in the rankings is possible.
Michigan's score of 352.50 points
was 12 points higher than Iowa in
the meet.
"I think we closed the meet out
strong enough to move up to num-
ber one," senior Kent Caldwell
said. "Looking at scores from
around the country it seems like
we put up good enough scores to
move up."
Leading the way for Michigan,
along with Caldwell who won the
vault, was junior Thomas-Kelley

and redshirt sophomore Devan
Cote. Kelley was the all-around
winner of the competition. Cote
won his first event title of the sea-
son with a career-best parallel bar
performance.
The one that stands out the
most - he added a new dismount
and that's a difficult thing to do -
is Devan Cote," Michigan coach
Kurt Golder said. "I was handling
a high bar enquiry while he was
doing his routine and all I saw was
his dismount. Reports were that
everybody said he did a great rou-
tine, so I would say that's the per-
formance of the day."
Other notable performances
were by junior Ian Makowske,
who tied for second in the floor
exercise, and senior David Chan
who placed second in the pommel
horse.
Even though the Wolverines
were victorious, they were not
without error. With miscues in
the floor exercise from some of his
teammates, junior Chris Cameron
was able to rise to step up and win
the event.
"I think we did pretty well,"
Golder said. "Sometimes it's tough
to travel and then have a good
competition. This was a long bus

ride and the kids did pretty darn
well."
Facing two teams ranked in the
top 10, Penn State and Iowa, six
days apart has proven Michigan as
a contender..
"I think we have a pretty tough
meet schedule," Caldwell said.
"It's good to go against really
strong opponents because it really
pushes you to do as well as you can
each meet and keep setting the
standard high."
Some members of the Michigan
team will be traveling to Las Vegas
on Feb. 4 for the 2010 Winter Cup
Challenge, a prestigious nation-
wide event. With non-conference
meets against Oklahoma and Stan-
ford also coming next month, the
Wolverines will need to rise up to
the occasion- and to their pos-
sible No. 1 billing.
"We have to get so we're just
as good on the road as we are at
home, and we were pretty close to
that tonight," Golder said. "When
you're Michigan, in every sport,
when you walk in the arena, you
have a target on your back. The
higher you get ranked the big-
ger the target gets. I think we're
going to see everyone gunning for
us."

JOIN DAILY SPORTS AND
CHANGE YOUR LIFE
E-mail rkartje@umich.edu for
information on applying.

0

0


