E Illic4i1 Yt 4,3atig

michigandailycom
ACLU slams
DPS over
Shirvell's ban
from campus

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Artist Ruth Green's exhibit in the Residential College Art Gallery called "49 lines in 21 days" is displayed yesterday. The installation is a combination of foreign postcards,
plastic produce cartons, wilted leaves, human hair, wire and 1950s-esque cookbook cards. The exhibit is open Wednesdays through Sundays until Nov. 24.
ST U D E NT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
Student governments unite to
try and increase voter turnout

In letter to Coleman,
Magee, ACLU-UM
asks for review of
trespass policy
By HILLARY BOK
Daily StaffReporter
The University's undergradu-
ate chapter of the American Civil
Liberties Union condemned the
Department of Public Safety for
its trespass order against Andrew
Shirvell the former Michigan
assistant attorney general notori-
ous for his blog attacking Michigan
Student Assembly President Chris
Armstrong.
The trespass order was put in
place after Shirvell started show-
ingup atcampus events Armstrong
was attending.
In addition to its condemnation,
ACLU-UM alho called for a review
of DPS's trespass policy in a letter
sent to University President Mary
Sue Coleman and DPS director Ken
Magee last week.
In a press release issued yester-
day, ACLU-UM officials stated that
they believe DPS's current trespass
policy allows the director "wide
discretion in issuing trespass
bans." The release also calls the
trespass policy unconstitutional.
Mallory Jones, chair of the Uni-
versity's undergraduate chapter of

the ACLU, said in an interview that
she believes the trespass warning
placed on Shirvell demonstrates
a fundamental problem with the
policy.
Once a trespass order is issued
it can only be lifted or modified
through a meeting between the
person it is issued against and the
DPS director.
"We feel it is an example of
where power is being abused,"
Jones, a formernews editor for The
Michigan Daily said. "We feel that
way because there are no charges
pending against (Shirvell) and
Chris Armstrong has withdrawn
his request for a restraining order.
We don't think it's necessary for
the University to still have restric-
tions placed against him."
DPS originally issued a trespass
warningbarring Shirvell from set-
ting foot on the University's Ann
Arbor campus on Sept. 14. The
order was modified on Nov. 5 to
allow Shirvell on campus, exefpt
for at events where it is reason-
ably assumed that Armstrong will
be present. In addition, if Shirvell
sees Armstrong at an event where
he is present, he must leave.
The letter sent to Coleman and
Magee criticizes the trespass order
against Shirvell stating that "the
First Amendment intentionally
and necessarily defends Shirvell's
offensive and appalling speech.
Our Constitution gives a citizen
See SHIRVELL, Page 7A

Elections started at
midnight last night,
will end at 11:59
p.m. tomorrow
By ROBIN VEECK
Daily StaffReporter
This fall the Michigan Student'
Assembly, University of Michigan
Engineering Council, and LSA
Student Government have been
working together to improve tra-
ditionally low turnouts for the fall

student government elections tak-
ing place today and tomorrow. *
Voter turnout is typically higher
for winter elections, when presi-
dential and vice-presidential can-
didates for MSA and LSA-SG are
up for election in March. Due to
the adoption of a new compiled
code, starting next year MSA will
no longer hold November elections
and will instead hold elections for
all assembly and executive board
seats once each winter.
Last November, only about 9
percent of the eligible student
body voted in student government
elections.

This week, 32 MSA repre-
sentative seats are up for elec-
tion, as well as seats on LSA-SG
and UMEC. The LSA ballot also
includes a list of questions about
potential changes to the LSA
Course Guide, off-campus dining
and a proposal to cancel classes on
election days.
MSA Election Director Sagar
Desphande said some students
might not vote in student govern-
ment elections because they aren't
awareof the role MSA plays in stu-
dent life.
. "The average student doesn't
realize the full value and potential

of MSA," Desphande said. "A lot
of students have complaints about
the University. They complain
that tuition is too high, obviously.
They complain that they don't like
things about how the campus, the
way it's run. But very few of them
realize there's a way to bring these
concerns to the administration,
and it's called MSA."
UMEC President Dara Fisher
said that UMEC faces a similar
problem within the College of
Engineering because many Engi-
neering students know little about
the school's student government.
See ELECTIONS, Page 7A


MKI(AIION STUDENT A SSEMBLY
MSA president willno longer
preside over weekly meetings

CRACKING THE CASE

Assembly voted
to implement new
compiled code at
last night's meeting
By ROBIN VEECK
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Student Assem-
bly voted last nightrto adopt a new
compiled code that fundamen-

tally alters the structure of the
assembly - strengthening the
divide between MSA's executive
and legislative branches.
Under the compiled code
approved last night, MSA execu-
tives will no longer have a vote on
the assembly or preside over MSA
meetings. Instead, the legislative
assembly will elect its own offi-
cers, the speaker and vice speaker
of the assembly.
MSA will begin operating
under the new code beginning

at the MSA meeting on Nov. 30.
In this transitional period, MSA
President Chris Armstrong will
no longer lead assembly meet-
ings. Instead, the speaker and
vice speaker will preside over the
meetings.
At last night's meeting, the
assembly elected LSA Rep. DeAn-
dree Watson and Engineering
Rep. Sean Walser interim speaker
of the assembly and interim vice
speaker of the assembly, respec-
See MSA, Page 7A

B!GFOOT'S NEXT
Urban legend or real life monster? 'U'
biologist discovers chupacabra in wild

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Kinesiology junior Doug Fischer (left) and Business junior Jordan Eckstein work on a case study as part of a case competition
event during Global Entrepreneurship Week.
Veterans talk transition to college

Mythical animal
actually a coyote
with mange
By DAVID BUCCILLI
Daily StaffReporter
The wolf-like, bat-like, snake-
like, bear-like, gargoyle-Gollum
creature from Hell that sucks the
blood out of chickens and goats
WEATHER HI: 47
TOMORROW LO 28

has been identified. Turns out,
it's a coyote with scabies, accord-
ing to a University biologist, who
studied the animal.
Biology Prof. Barry O'Connor
said in an interview that the chu-
pacabra is most likely a coyote
infested with Sarcoptic mange.
The legend of the chupacabra
started from avariation of reports
in 1995 in Puerto Rico, where
balding, bipedal creatures with
spikes on their backs were cited

killing livestock by sucking their
blood dry.
"Any legend probably has some
basis in fact," O'Connor said, add-
ing that the original source of the
legend in Puerto Rico was prob-
ably a feral monkey infected with
mange.
When the legend moved from
Puerto Rico to mainland Latin
America, the identity of the chu-
pacabra changed with location,
See CHUPACABRA, Page 2A

E
Co
we

vent organizer: vices highlighted the difficulties
student veterans often face when
llege is an 'alien assimilating to a college atmo-
sphere after spending time on
rld' after active active duty at a student-veteran
affairs symposium yesterday.
duty service According to Philip Larson, the
mediator of the event and the coor-
KAITLIN WILLIAMS dinator of the University's Student
JORDAN ROCHELSON Veterans Assistance Program, the
DailyStaffReporters goal of the symposium was to help
faculty and students understand
dent veterans and other for- the everyday struggles of student
aembers of the armed ser- veterans.

Larson said transitioning from
being a member of the armed ser-
vices to becoming a University stu-
dent can be a trying experience for
students used to military life.
"It's an alien world," Larson
said.
The keynote speaker at the sym-
posium was John Schwarz, a navy
veteran and former member of the
CIA who did tours in Vietnam,
Indonesia and Laos. Schwarz, a
Republican from Battle Creek,
See VETERANS, Page 7A

By
and
Stu
mer m


GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@rmichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX N EWS ......
Carlton Brundidge signs early with the Wolverines. Vol. CXXI, No. 50 OPINION.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME c 00The Michigan Daily A RTS........
michigondoily.com

................. 2A CLASSIFIE D.. . .A...........6A
................. 4 A SPO RT S .............................. 8 A
. 5A THE STATEMENT..................11


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.co

2A - Wednesday, November 17, 2010

2A - Wednesday, November17, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycor


MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths Professor Profiles Campus Clubs

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

A prof.'s protesting past

The political climate on car
today is quite temperate compar
that of the 1960s, when Greg Ma
a University professor of politica
ence, was a college student.
"I'm one of those sixties a
types," Markus, who is also a rest
professor at the Institute of S,
Research, said in an interview
week.
Markus's work has been dir
influenced by his own activism di
his college years, he said.
"I was active in student po
... mostly around the Vietnam'
but also about environmental n
ments and race and politics and <
things," he said.
Markus's research uses voter
ticipation and public opinion
to analyze political activism at
"everyday people," with a partic
interest in marginalized popula
and how their race, ethnicity
social class impact their activism.
CRIME NOTES
Unattended
MacBook taken
WHERE: Hatcher Graduate
Libnray
WHEN: Monday at about 9:45
p.m.
WHAT: An unattended Apple
MacBook was stolen from the
5th floor, University Police
reported. There are no sus-
pects.
Valet driver
misses mark
WHERE: East Medical Center
WHEN: Monday at about 12
p.m.
WHAT: A valet driver acci-
dentally crashed a customer's
car into a pole, University
Police reported. Estimated
cost of damage is unknown.

In addition to teaching at the Uni-
versity, Markus said he stays involved
in what he calls "real world politics"
by serving as a community organizer
in Detroit. In 2007, he founded The
Detroit Action Commonwealth, an
organization of roughly 2,400 people
who volunteer at the Capuchin Soup
Kitchen on the east side of Detroit.
Markus said he often uses his expe-
rience with the organization in his
work at the University.
"We meet every week and work
on issues that affect indigent Detroi-
ters -- some really basic issues - and
I enjoy that a lot and I learn a lot from
that," he said. "it informs my teaching
and it informs my research."
Some of Markus's other work
includes studying a decline in politi-
cal involvement of young people since
the 1960s. An annual ISR survey of
incoming University students, con-
ducted since the 1960s, illustrates this
drop, he said.

Young people turned out at a much
lower rate for this year's midterm
elections than in the 2008 presi-
dential election, Markus said. He
explained that this apparent apathy is
one of the main reasons he chose to go
into teaching.
"There's a reason young people
aren't active and much of that reason
is because there are political interests
that like it that way, (they don't) want
young people not to be engaged in
politics," Markus said. "And so I try to
be a small little counter voice in that."
Though Markus spends much of
his time teaching or volunteering in
Detroit, Markus also takes time out of
his busy schedule to train for sporting
events like the Iron Man triathlon.
"I like endurance sports - I use it
as kind of a break from the other work
that I do," he said. "I've competed in15 COURTESY OF Otto MARKUS
Iron Man triathlons and will continue Prof. Greg Markus, who found his polititol roots aS
to do that." student activist in the 1960s, now studies the decrease
-SABIRA KHAN in political involvement among young people.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.nmichigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIEJOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Hanager
734-48-41i5 ext. 1202 734-48-41ia eat. 1241
smitenine@mietdgandailyeaom rrndbusineso@maiteeom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom OfficenhoUrs:sun.-Thurs. ia.m.- 2a.m.
734-418-411sopt.3!
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaiy.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michiandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaiy.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales . onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattlAaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIORkNEWS EDT'ORS Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cint Caitlin Huston,Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph Lichterman,Veronica Menaldi, Elyana Twiggs
Rachel VanGilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITOR IAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSIS'ANTEDITORIALPAGEEDIORS:WillButler,WillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje ManagingSports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Stephen Nesbitt, Luke Pasch, Zak Pyzik, Amy
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SEIOARTSooEITlORS: CarolKaeki, Andrew apin, Jff Sanfor
ASEIN AR TS DTOR:ristynAho Leah BrginSharon Jacob, Kavi Shekbar
Pa ndey, David Tito
MaxCollinsand photo@michigandaily.com
Sam Wolson ManagingPhoto Editors
SFsIOsPOanOITsO: rilBo,uMaissa clain
ASSTT OTOEDTORS: ake FrommJed ch
Anna Lein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaiy.com
Sarah Squire Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Maya Friedman
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUrY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Jenna Skoller
MelanieFried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
AdiWollstein copychiefs
BUSINESSSTAFF
Julianna CremsalesoManager
SALES FORCE MANAGER:Stephanie Bowker
MARKETING MANAGER: Gjon Juncaj
Hillary Szawala classified Manager
CLASSIFIEDAssisTrANT MANAGER:Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler Circulation Manager
Zach Yancer web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Mondayfthrough Friday during the fall and
win termsby studentsat theUniversityofMichiganOnecopy isavailable free of chargetoall
readers.Additionalcopies may beickedupat theOaily'sofficefor$2, Subscriptionsfor fallterm,
sttig in aSeptembe, via U0..nails,,e 0110 Wintrerm (anary through April) is $115,yesang
Septmber throthpiril>is$101. Uiestf y anfiliawtesae jsujur ttoareduced subscriorate
On-campussubscriptionsfor fallterm are$35.Subscriptionsmust be prepaid.The Michigan Daily
isa member of The Associated Press and The Associated CollegiatePress.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Chair loses leg MI Favorite Orientation
WHERE: Mosher-Jordan Comic event leader meeting
Hall
WHEN: Monday at about WHAT: Monthly open WHAT: Mass meeting
11:20 p.m. mic standup comedy night beirgstuentsterested
WHAT: The leg of a chair was for students, with the eing orientation lead-
broken in the dorm lobby, Uni- chance to win prizes. ers f fir summer 2011.
versity Police reported. There WHO: University Unions WHO: Office of New
are no suspects. Arts & Programs Student Programs
WHE:Tonight at 8 p.nm. WH EN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHEN:Toightgat WHERE: Kalamazoo Room,
WHERE: Michigan TeMcia ege
Backpack with League Underground The Michigan League
wallet swiped Keisler conducts Tanoriia
, , WH AT: Informational
WHERE: Hatcher Graduate U'S ho activity about health bar-
Library S hriers for the transgender
WHEN: Monday at about 2:30 Orchestra community today. Prizes

The long-anticipated offi-
cial autobiography of Mark
Twain was released yester-
day, according to National Pub-
lic Radio. While he was alive,
the famous satirist dictated
that he wanted his memoirs to
be released 100 years after his
death.
The University of Califor-
nia at San Diego recently
published a survey of the
hottest careers for recent col-
lege grads. We preview the top
10 for you.
as FOR MORE,SEE THE STATEMENT,INSIDE
The Department of Agri-
culture reported that
14.7 percent of Ameri-
can households were "food
insecure" in 2009, CNN.com
reported. With 6.8 million
homes having trouble putting
food on the table, the United
States is at its highest hunger
rate in 15 years.

p.m.
WHAT: An unattended back-
pack was stolen from the 3rd
floor, University Police report-
ed. The backpack contained
textbooks and a wallet con-
taining $60 and credit cards.
There are no suspects.

WHAT: Keneth Keisler
will conduct the symphony
orchestra comprisedmof facul-
ty members from the School
of Music, Theater & Dance in
a performance that includes
Beethoven's Fifth Symphony.
WHO: University Symphony
Orchestra
WHEN: Today at 8p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium

given include gift cards.
WHO: Spectrum Center
and OUTbreak
WHEN: Today at 10 a.m.
WHERE: School of
Public Health
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes?Get more online at michiandaily.com/blogs/The Wire

Defense asks judge to acquit
Do ou know Brian Mitchell in Smart case

Attorneys for
suspect say
prosecution failed
to make their case
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -
Defense attorneys asked a federal
judge yesterday to acquit the man
charged in the 2002 abduction of
Elizabeth Smart, saying prosecu-
tors failed to make their case.
Brian David Mitchell faces
federal charges of kidnapping
and unlawful transportation of a
minor across state lines for sexual
activity. If convicted, Mitchell
could spend the rest of his life in
federal prison.
Prosecutors rested their case
yesterday. Defense attorneys con-
tend prosecutors failed, in partic-
ular, to prove the count relating to
sexual activity.
In court papers, Mitchell's
attorneys said that sex was inci-
dental to the trip made to Califor-
nia during Smart's nine months of
captivity. Smart was 14 at the time
of the abduction.
"To put it bluntly, Mr. Mitchell

had no need of traveling outside of
Utah for the purpose of engaging
in sexual activity with Ms. Smart,"
the defense wrote.
In a response, the government
said it only has to prove sex was a
motivating purpose for the trip.
It's unclear when U.S. District
Judge Dale Kimball will rule on
the acquittal motion.
Smart has said she was forced to
marry Mitchell in a religious cer-
emony and act as his wife, includ-
ing having sex. She testified that
she was raped after arriving in
California in October 2002.
But she also said Mitchell felt
"inspired" to got to California,
believing that he needed to "find a
new city for a new wife." She said
Mitchell recounted having a rev-
elation that "seven different wives
would come from seven different
cities."
Defense attorneys also noted
that an FBI agent said Mitchell
told him that he had chose to go
the San Diego area because the
winter climate would be warmer
than Utah.
Prosecutors argue that Mitchell
was clearly motivated by sex.
"The evidence is clear that the

defendant intended to treat Miss
Smart as his 'wife' in California,
which treatment including raping
and otherwise sexually abusing
her," federal prosecutors wrote.
"The evidence is clear that the
defendant traveled to California
with the intention of obtaining a
new 'wife' in California, and part
of Miss Smart's responsibilities as
his 'wife' was to demonstrate sex
for the new'wife.'"
The filing came hours after
Mitchell's defense attorneys began
building their case, painting a pic-
ture of a deeply religious man who
became increasingly inflexible
and lost in his own beliefs.
Witnesses told jurors that Brian
David Mitchell thought the world
was descending toward the final
days and followed "revelations"
from God to change jobs, follow
an alternative medicine and travel
around the country homeless to
test how others would treat the
poor.
"He felt that he had some kind
of divine mission," said Karl West,
whose parents allowed Mitchell to
intermittently live in their Orem,
Utah, home between 1999 and
2001.

Learn from U-M medical experts about this health issue
that affects 12 million Americans.
Food Allergies Quick Study Lecture
Thursday, November 18, 7 p.m.
Kellogg Eye Center Auditorium, Ann Arbor
Don't Want to get out of your sweats to attend this event?
Join in via live stream from the convenience of your computer.
Same date, same time, your dorm.
This event is free for U-M students and Alumni Association
members; and $20 for nonmembers.
8 .8.4
To register, visit umalumni.com/food-allergies 6
or call 800.847.4764.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
www.umatumni.com


CHUPACABRA
From Page 1A
O'Connor said.
"The characteristics and
description in Mexico at times live
up with characteristics of dogs
described with having mange," he
said.
The legend people in most of
Mexico and South America are
familiar with describes the chupa-
cabra as four-legged, scaly, rancid
smelling, and fanged - much like
the description of a coyote with
mange.
"Mange is a skin disease caused
by a mite," O'Connor said. "When
the mite burrows in the skin, the
skin thickens. Hair falls out."
The infected coyote's scabbing
body develops "a bacterial infec-
tion that makes the animal smell
bad," and "their face skin swells,
pulls back," making their teeth
appear more prominent, according
to O'Conner.
O'Connor also noted that chu-

pacabra translates to "goat sucker"
in Spanish, which probably comes
from an exaggeration of the notion
that chupacabras mainly prey on
livestock. It's likelythatthe severe-
ly infected coyote subsists mainly
on livestock because the disease is
"quite debilitating," making it dif-
ficult for them to hunt down their
prey, O'Connor said.
Wild animals typically catch the
mange-causing mite from dogs,
O'Connor said, though humans
aren't at much of a risk.
"In terms of being able to trans-
mit mite bacteria to humans, there
is a possibility of that," he said.
"It's not common."
He added that experiments
show it's not easy to transmit the
mite from a dog toa human.
Though the mite can also cause
human scabies, O'Connor said
humans don't develop symptoms
as severe as those experienced by
coyotes or dogs because humans
have had millions of years to co-
evolve with the parasite.
"When a parasite moves on to a

new host and is able to survive, it's
often very damagingto thatorgan-
ism," he said.
Through domestication, dogs
have had thousands of years to co-
evolve with Sarcoptic mange, so
they're not at as high of a risk as
wild animals of becoming severely
infected. But now, new species
like the feral monkeys and coyotes
are being exposed to the parasite,
O'Connor said.
With the spread of mites
between species, places like Aus-
tralia could soon have their own
version of the chupacabra. 4
"There's a mite problem in
wombats that they caught from
dingoes," O'Connor said.
But will the legendary creature
make its may to Ann Arbor?
"Right now in Ann Arbor we're
seeing a lot of cases of Sarcop-
tic mange in red foxes. It's often
fatal, as we see in coyotes," he
said.
"We found a dead, mangy fox
here on North Campus," O'Connor
added.


I

he Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 17, 2010 - 3A

EWS BRIEFS
TROIT
irst amendment
iolationleads to
eacher's suspension
Howell High School econom-
es teacher Jay McDowell says he
idn't like where the discussion
as going after a student told his
-lassmates he didn't "accept gays,"
o McDowell kicked the boy out of
lass for a day.
In return, the teacher was kicked
ut of his Michigan school for a
ay - suspended without pay for
iolating the student's free speech
ights.
The incident has sparked intense
ebate in Howell, about 45 miles
orthwest of Detroit, over defend-
ing civil rights without trampling
on the First Amendment. It's
ained far wider attention since the
ivingston County Press & Argus
eleased video of a 14-year-old gay
student from another city defend-
ing McDowell at a Howell school
board meeting.
On Oct. 20, McDowell told a stu-
dent in his classroom to remove a
Confederate Flag belt buckle. She
complied, but it prompted a ques-
tion from a boy about how the flag
'differs from the rainbow flag, a
symbol of pride for the gay com-
Imunity.
COLUMBUS, Ohio
Bomb threats lead
to canceled class on
Ohio State campus
Ohio State University has
reopened two laboratory build-
ings that were closed due to a bomb
scare.
No devices were found in the
labs, and all activities and classes in
the buildings were back on sched-
ule yesterday evening. Univer-
sity officials said another lab and
the main library, which were also
closed, were scheduled to reopen
later yesterday.
A bomb threat targeting the
library and the three labs was
e-mailed to the FBI yesterday
morning, prompting the school to
evacuate all four buildings.
An FBI spokesman says the
bureau is investigatingseveral leads.
Ohio State is one of the nation's
largest universities, with more than
56,000 students at its main Colum-
bus campus.
BOGOTA, Colombia
Colombia refuses
to extradite alleged
drug kingpin to U.S.
Colombian President Juan Man-
uel Santos spurned a U.S. request to
extradite an alleged cocaine king-
pin from Venezuela, saying yester-
day that the suspect will be sent
back to face charges in his home
country.
Walid Makied, 41, has claimed
close ties .with Venezuela's social-
lot government and the U.S. State

Department last year called him
that country's "largest drug traf-
ficker."
The announcement drew fierce
criticism from U.S. Rep. Connie
Mack. The Florida Republican
accused the obama administration
of"a complete dropping of the ball"
in a case that would have "shined
the light on a lot of bad behavior by
Hugo Chavez and his government."
OAKLAND, Calif.
First transgender
trial judge in the
nation appointed
A 49-year-old California pat-
ent lawyer has been elected as the
nation's first openly transgender
trial judge.
Alameda County elections offi-
cials say Victoria Kolakowski beat
prosecutor John Creighton 51 to 48
percent - a margin of nearly10,000
votes - in the Nov. 2 election to fill
the vacancy in California's Superior
Court.
Kolakowski had been leading
since election night, but outstand-
ing absentee and provisional ballots
made the race too close to call until
Monday.
The Gay and Lesbian Victory
Fund has said she is the first openly
transgender trial court judge in the
country.
Kolakowski spent the past
three years as an administrative
law judge settling energy contract
and environmental compliance
disputes for the California Public
Utilities Commission. She under-
went gender reassignment surgery
in 1991.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

COURTESY OF IMAGINECHINA/AP
Relatives burn the belongings of their relatives who were killed in the Monday fire on an apartment building in Shanghai.
Building di sasters hit
China, Inia 119 kile

Officials say high
death count due to
-poor infrastructure
BEIJING (AP) - Two of Asia's
most dynamic and fast-growing
cities were struck within hours by
disasters that devastated a pair of
apartment blocks and underscored
the challenges faced by both China
and India as they try to enforce
safety and building codes amid tor-
rid &conomic growth.
in Shanghai, welders appar-
ently ignited a blaze that engulfed
a high-rise, while in New Delhi it
might have been monsoon rains or
an illegal new floor that caused the
building's collapse Monday. The
two tragedies, thousands of miles
(kilometers) apart, killed at least
119 people.
Indian and Chinese cities have
expanded at breakneck speed
over the last few decades, buoyed
by growth that has swelled the
middle class and brought waves
of rural migrants seeking better
opportunities. The pace and scale
of the building boom has been
head-spinning, and is not expected
to slow soon.
Investigators looking into Mon-
day's blaze in Shanghai say unli-
censed welders misused their
equipment, accidentally start-
ing the fire that quickly engulfed
the 28-story apartment building.
Police detained eight people Tues-
day as they investigated the blaze
that killed 53 and sent 70 to hospi-
tals.
In New Delhi, the five-story
building pancaked, killing 66 peo-
ple and injuring scores. Neighbor-
hood residents said the landlord
was adding an unauthorized floor

to the 15-year-old building to pack
in more migrant workers and their
families. An official said monsoon
rains may have weakened the
structure.
Maria Chen, China represen-
tative for ICF International - a
management and technology con-
sulting company based in Fairfax,
Virginia, that helps companies
in China become more energy
efficient - said the rapid pace of
construction inevitably leads to
disasters such as the fire in Shang-
hai.
"Part of the problem is just the
scale of magnitude," said Chen.
"Every year China is putting up 2
billion square meters (2.4 billion
sq. yards) of new building space
... That's 50 times Manhattan's
office stock. So China is putting
that many buildings on the groumd,
quickly, and with minimal (safety)
enforcement. That's really one of
the overarching problems - and
also developers desire to make
quick money."
India and China have produced
high growth in sharply different
ways. China's more government-
directed capitalism excels at top-
down 'directives and mammoth
infrastructure projects. India's
urbanization has been more cha-
otic with greater scope for pri-
vate entrepreneurship. But they
are both running up against basic
problems in their race to mod-
ernize: shoddy construction, lax
enforcement of building codes, and
rampant corruption.
In India, the result has been
glass and steel high-rises and thick-
ets of crowded low-rise buildings
and shanty towns. Callous build-
ing contractors flout existing laws
while unscrupulous government
officials ignore illegal construc-

tions of poor quality that meet the
soaring demand for cheap housing.
With land prices spiraling out
of control in New Delhi, builders
stack additional floors onto their
buildings without getting the
required clearances or by paying
bribes to get officials to turn a blind
eye - which residents alleged is
what happened in Monday eve-
ning's disaster.
The building, housing hundreds
of people, was located in the city's
congested Lalita Park area. Emer-
gency efforts were hampered
because vehicles had difficulty
navigating the neighborhood's nar-
row alleyways.
officials ordered the evacuation
of at least one other nearby build-
ing with a flooded basement that
they feared could collapse.
In China too, real estate prices
in mega-cities such as Beijing and
Shanghai have spiraled, yet resi-
dents often worry about the integ-
rity of new gleaming buildings that
are built fast and with little appar-
ent attention to quality.
Last year, a nearly finished
13-story apartment building in
Shanghai collapsed. Excavations
for an underground parking garage
may have undermined the struc-
ture, causing it to topple.
Ambitious government plans
to renovate old. buildings to make
them more energy efficient - and
reduce China's greenhouse gas
emissions, the world's largest -
are also adding to the construction
frenzy.
Shanghai's fire chief told report-
ers during Monday's fire the flames
raced along a scaffolding of bam-
boo and flammable nylon nets -
erected to retrofit the 1990s-era
building with more energy-effi-
cient insulation.

Cheney reflects on Bush years
after grand opening of center

Former President ruary 2013. Its policy institute is
already working and will focus
Bush opens a policy on education reform, global
health, human freedom and eco-
institute focusing on nomic growth.
Bush also was joined by the
policy and reform former first lady Laura Bush and
former Secretary of State Con-
DALLAS (AP) - Former Vice doleezza Rice as shovels were
President Dick Cheney, looking pressed into the earth to com-
noticeably thinner after heart memorate the groundbreaking
surgery over the summer, told for the George W. Bush Presiden-
former President George W. Bush tial Center under a giant white
he believes time is shedding new tent at Dallas' Southern Method-
light on the decisions Bush made ist University, the alma mater of
while in office. the former first lady.
"Two years after your tour in "It is hard to believe there
the White House ended, judg- is this much excitement about
ments are a little more measured shoveling dirt," quipped Bush,
than they were," said Cheney, who who then turned serious as he
introduced his former boss dur- talked about the center.
ing a groundbreaking for Bush's "Today's groundbreaking
presidential center in Dallas. marks the beginning of a jour-
"When the times have been tough ney," he said. "We take the first
and critics have been loud, you've step toward the construction of
always said you've had faith in the presidential center, which
history's judgment. And history is will be a dynamic hub of ideas
beginning to come around." and actions, based upon timeless
Cheney, who suffers from con- principles."
gestive heart failure, used a cane Former Colombian President
to walk but went to the podium Alvaro Uribe also attended the
without it. Spokesman Peter. groundbreaking, as did Bush
Long said later that the former administration officials includ-
vice president lost weight dur- ing former White House Press
ing his long hospital stay - about Secretary Ari Fleisher, former
a month - and is hoping to keep Chief of Staff Josh Bolten and
it off for his health. The cane was former Commerce Secretary Don
for a bad knee from playing high Evans.
school football that acts up occa- Acknowledging a group of
sionally, Long said. soldiers from Fort Hood in the
Cheney was one of more than crowd, Bush told them: "I really
3,000 friends, supporters and don't miss Washington, but I do
former administration officials miss being your commander in
attending the groundbreaking. chief."
outside, about 100 protesters Jake Torres, SMU's student
were joined by a handful of coun- body president, told the crowd
ter-protesters. . that Bush had occasionally visit-
The center, which will house ed to classes during the past two
both a library and a policy insti- years and said "it was a great day
tute, is expected to open in Feb- for SMU when we were chosen."

After Bush took the podium,
he told Torres: "Mr. President, a
word of advice: It's not too early
to start thinking about your
memoirs."
Bush - largely out of the pub-
lic eye since leaving office and
returning to Texas - has been
back in the spotlight with the
release of his book, "Decision
Points," last week.
His memoirs will be reflected
in part of the library's perma-
nent exhibit, a "decision theater,"
where visitors can hear a set of
facts, then try to decide what
they would have done. The per-
manent exhibit also focus on
themes of freedom, opportunity,
compassion and responsibility.
An exhibit running through
Feb. 6 at the university's Mead-
ow's Museum gives the public its
first glimpse into Bush's archives,
including the bullhorn he used
when he visited ground zero days
after the Sept.11 terrorist attacks.
In his speech yesterday,
Cheney referred to the signifi-
cance of the bullhorn, which
Bush used to tell those gathered
at ground zero: "I can hear you.
The rest of the world hears you.
And the people who knocked
these buildings down will hear
all of us soon."
"Far in the future, visitors
here will see the bullhorn and
when they do, I hope they'll pic-
ture the wowrld as it was that
day and realize how it was trans-
formed in the months and years
ahead. America went from being
on the defense against terrorists
to going on the offense against
them," Cheney said.
"Because you were determined
to throw back the enemy, we did
not suffer another 9/11 or some-
thing worse," he continued.



4A - Wednesday, November17, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.con

e 1*iiigan 0aUhj
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

STEVEN BENSON, CAROLINE CANNING AND CARLY GOLDBERG I
Vote to expand Blue Bucks

11

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
E- collaboration
Technology overhaul must facilitate learning
ampus is about to get an upgrade. Early this fall, the Uni-
versity's IT Steering Committee announced it would over-
haul the campus communication system. Last week, the
LSA Student Government passed a resolution to endorse Google
over Microsoft for the University's new Information Technology
collaborative service. The resolution was passed after a thought-
ful and informed discussion among student representatives who
attended presentations given by both bidders. The University's pro-
cess to choose a collaborate partner should result in a technology
service that meets the needs of students by providing them with the

The Blue Bucks system is a University program that
allows students to add money to their student account for
use at off-campus dining venues. Systems similar to this
can be found at universities across the country. The only
difference between the University of Michigan and peer
institutions is the significantly fewer options that our stu-
dents have when using Blue Bucks. Recently, LSA Student
Government members traveled to three schools in Ohio to
tour their unions and recreation centers. All three of the
schools had a system similar to Blue Bucks, but unlike the
University, each school had multiple off-campus venues
that accepted the Blue Bucks equivalent. One school even
had a local grocery store that accepted the currency.
Expanding Blue Bucks has been a project that LSA Stu-
dent Government has worked on for many semesters. As
LSA-SG representatives, it's our duty to fight for student
rights. Since dining halls are closed on Saturday nights,
students must eat at off-campus venues. But they have
limited options when picking a place to eat. It would be
nice if these students did not have to go to the Michigan
Union, Pierpont Commons or the Michigan League week
after week to eat dinner.
And expanding Blue Bucks to more off-campus dining
venues would benefit students by providing them with
healthy alternatives to dining at University unions. Many
of the dining options in the unions aren't very healthy.
Expanding Blue Bucks to more off-campus dining venues
will not only provide more options to students overall, but
healthier options as well.
Restaurants and other venues across campus have been
resistant to the idea because they fear a loss in profit. Ifa

restaurant accepts Blue Bucks, they have to give part o
their profit back to the University. This concern, althoug
valid, is unproven.
Now, LSA-SG is taking a new approach. We are poll
ing the LSA student body through our student gov
ernment ballot questions to determine the projected
increase in off-campus dining by students if Blue Buck,
were accepted at more venues. The question is two-fold
The first part asks how many times students currentl3
eat at off-campus venues per week. The second par
asks how many more times students would eat at off
campus venues per week if Blue Bucks were accepte
more widely. This will allow us to see if there would
be an actual increase in off-campus eating. If the datd
shows an increase, we can take the results to local res-
taurants and prove to them that accepting Blue Bucks is
a smart business decision.
We recognize that there are other factors that musl
be considered before actively pursuing this project, such
as the loss of revenue for University Unions and dining
halls. But we cannot make any headway on this project
without the student voice. Please vote for your studen
government representatives, but also vote on the Blue
Bucks ballot question. Your responses can help LSA-SG
make progress in getting this changed. Let's catch up to
other schools in the country by expanding our Blue Bucks
to many more off-campus dining venues.
Steven Benson is the LSA-SG president, Caroline
Canning is the LSA-SG Student Life Committee chair
and Carly Goldberg is the LSA-SG vice president.



.l
i
{

LSA-SG ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COMMITTEE I
Vote to improve LSA Course Guide

best available educational tools.
Since September, the IT Steering Com-
mittee has been planning a new collabora-
tive technology program. It decided it was
going to revamp campus's communication
system to improve the system's cohesion
and address problems in calendaring and
e-mail services. After a survey of the cam-
pus community by the IT Steering Com-
mittee, the choices for the company to
execute this overhaul were narrowed down
to Microsoft and Google. On Nov. 10, LSA-
SG passed a resolution endorsing Google as
the University's new collaborative technol-
ogy partner. Eleven members voted for the
resolution. Seven members abstained. inan
interview last week with the Daily, Univer-
sity spokesman Rick Fitzgerald said a deci-
sion on which company will be chosen is
likely to be made before the end of 2010.
The best news is that no matter who
loses, students will win. A redesign and
streamlining of the system, regardless of
whether it's done by Google or Microsoft,
will facilitate collaboration and studying
for students. Microsoft's Windows Life@
EDU service combines social networking,
e-mail and university resources into one
web application. This could help students
be more productive by simultaneously
granting access to many different study
resources. On the other hand, Google offers
Google Product Suite, a program similar to
Google Documents that may make working
in groups less of a burden by allowing stu-
dents to share information securely.

It's encouraging that the IT Steering
Committee took the opinions of students
and faculty members into consideration
when narrowing down the bidders for its
new partner. Often, University decisions
are made without consulting students and
faculty, which makes the University seem
aloof and disconnected. The Steering Com-
mittee's actions give the campus commu-
nity input on a choosing a services provider
that everyone will have to use.
LSA-SG's contribution to the system
change had a thoughtful decision-making
process behind its endorsement. Student
representatives took multiple points of
view into account and considered the pros
and cons of both Microsoft and Google
with one goal in mind: helping students.
This reflects a investment in representing
students' needs to the University admin-
istration, which should be the function of
a student government. LSA-SG has set an
example for other student governments
that will hopefully lead to progress in
efforts like the Open Housing Initiative
and more productive interactions with the
Ann Arbor City Council.
Better information technology collabora-
tion services will lead to better learning for
students and easier teaching and research
cooperation for professors. The steering
committee has facilitated an open decision-
making process and should continue to be
receptive to the campus community's input
until the final decision is made.

In the Student Government elections being held today
and tomorrow, the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts Student Government (LSA-SG) hopes you will take a
few minutes of your time to vote for the candidates run-
ning to be your student representatives for the next 12
months. In addition to voting on candidates, we hope you,
as LSA students, will also vote on several ballot questions
regarding potential changes to the LSA Course Guide and
a new exam policy.
LSA-SG knows how much students rely on the LSA
Course Guide to determine which courses to take. Keep-
ing this in mind, we feel it may be beneficial for students
to know more details about the course in addition to the
information currently provided. By voting on this ballot
question, LSA-SG will have tangible data to present to the
Dean and Executive Committee of LSA, and allow us to
lobby for improvements to the LSA Course Guide. LSA-
SG has received numerous complaints that there are no
syllabi available to students selecting courses. Adding
a draft or example syllabus would allow students to see
specific course expectations, and really know what topics
will be covered in that class.
Another improvement to the LSA Course Guide could
be utilizing keyword tags (i.e. searchable keywords/
phrases) to search for classes. While the LSA Course
Guide can already be searched by department, require-
ments, and other aspects, it would be even more beneficial
to search for a course that covers topics such as "sustain-
ability," "journalism," or "business" (just to name a few
potential keywords).
outside of increasing the information describing each
course, LSA-SG hopes to include final examination infor-
mation (date and time) in the course guide. Presenting
final exam information when browsing potential classes
could help students better plan their finals schedules,
allow students to stack and spread their exams as they so
choose, and give students an opportunity to arrange ear-
lier vacation and travel times if they wish. Of course, you
may feel that having this information - or other potential
additions to the LSA Course Guide- might not be useful
to you in selecting your courses, in which case please vote
in amanner that demonstrates this to LSA SG.
Also, on the ballot you will find a question regarding

a policy that concerns holding exams on national elec-
tion days. This question will allow you to vote to discour-
age instructors from giving in-class exams on national
election days. During national election days, polls are
typically open from 7:00 AM to 8:00 PM, which should
allow time for students to vote. However, because of class
scheduling, long lines at one's designated pollingstation,
and the inability for first-time voters to obtain an absen-
tee ballot, national election days may fall at a time that is
disadvantageous for some, due to an exam held the same
day. While a student could speak with his orher instruc-
tor in advance tobe excused from a lecture or discussion
to go vote, a student, even with advance notice, would
likely be unable to miss or arrive late to a class with a
planned in-class exam. Also, by not having an exam on
a national election day, students may feel more inclined
to educate themselves of the candidates' platforms and
any state or local proposals on the ballot. LSA SG feels
that one's academic development and civic engagement
are important aspects of being a University of Michigan
student, and hopes you will support a policy which will
dissuade instructors from holding exams on national
election days.
Online, you will find these and other ballot questions
that may provide students with valuable information
about different courses. LSA SG would like to under-
stand which pieces of information would be most use-
ful to students in choosing their courses, and will take
action in accordance with the results to advocate for
these enhancements to the LSA Course Guide. By voting
on these questions, you have the opportunity to influence
the interface that you and your fellow students use, and
therefore directly improve the LSA Course Guide.
The ballot questions can be found on the Fall 2010 LSA
Student Government Election ballot at vote.umich.edu.
Again, LSA students will be able to answer these ballot
questions as well as vote for their LSA SG Representatives
from now until tomorrow, Thursday, November 18 at 11:59
PM. Thanks for voting and Go Blue!
This viewpoint was written by Christopher Luoma,
Stephen Ratkovich and Jeffrey Wojcik on behalf of
the LSA-SG Academic Affairs Committee.

I

i
f,
i

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Asa Smith, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner


IMP~

CAMPUS DEBATES
MSA ELECTIONS FALL 2010


MICHIGAN VISION PARTY I
MVP has record of results

MFORWARD|
MForward will affect change

There are student government elections happen-
ing this week - but has anyone noticed? The relative
quiet of the Michigan Student Assembly this year is
extremely disconcerting. Under the leadership of
MForward, MSA has, well, not gone forward. It is
time for change once again, and the Michigan Vision
Party has proven itself to be an agent of change on
this campus.
Last year by this time, the MVP administration
had overseen the beginnings of a new all-campus
constitution, a hugely successful Campus Leader-
ship Colloquium featuring prominent Michigan
alums and student leaders, a plan for Go Blue Beat
OSU Week and a reform to MSA rules so that the
body would focus on student issues. For the first
time in a long time, students could often read some-
thing interesting about MSA in the Daily and saw
things happening around campus.
Looking at MFoward's list of accomplishments, it
just doesn't compare to MVP's work.
MForward's viewpoint in the Daily last week fea-
tured a few of these "achievements" (Keep electing
Myorward, 11/08/2010). They have met with the Ann
Arbor Police Department to inquire about noise and
trash citations. Unfortunately, they failed to produce
any tangible results for students. They delayed the
Ann Arbor City Council vote on the porch couch
ban. Unfortunately, they failed to influence the ulti-
mate outcome of that issue as well. An open housing
initiative? That is a good project, we agree. It's doing
a lot of good for both the University's reputation and
its practices. But it is one single project for an assem-
bly that is supposed to be full of change-makers and
people who were elected for a specific purpose.

Meanwhile, MVP comes intothe fall electionswith
a renewed focus. Unlike previous parties that have fal-
tered when faced with difficulty or even defeat, MVP
has stayed true to its original purpose, which was to
raise voter turnout, increase awareness of campus
issues, focus on helping students and reform MSA to
make it more effective. In every single election since
MVP was created, voter turnout has increased. This
year, even with a lim-
ited presence on MSA,
MVP has continued to
work hard on campus-
wide issues including
Saturday night dining The polls to ele
(one of MForward's
campaign promises), Assembly repre
student group fund- midnight. MVP
ing, communication,
sportsmanship and the two major pa
human block 'M' in
Michigan Stadium at why they d
football games.
Looking at MSA,
students deserve more
than what they are
getting now. The potential is there, but turning that
potential into action has yet to fully occur. Small
things are being done here and there, but MSA needs
a jolt and a reminder that students aren't satisfied
with a complacentbody. That jolt should be the mem-
bers of MVP who are guaranteed to re-energize MSA.
This viewpoint was written by Tom Stuckey
on behalf of the Michigan Vision Party.

ct Mi
senta
'and
rties,
eserv

Today marks the beginning of fall elections for
the Michigan Student Assembly. You, the students,
have an important opportunity to elect individuals
to represent your needs and interests.
Throughout the campaign, MForward has been
working diligently to reach students in every cor-
ner of campus to talk about student government
and our plans to improve the quality of life for every
student at this univer-
sity. We understand
the role of student
government and its
unique purpose on this
chigan Student campus. We under-
stand that the current
Ltives opened at level of production
MForward, the from the assembly is
unacceptable and has
square off on been in the past. This
is why MForward has
e your vote. been tirelessly striving
to make improvements
since you elected us
last spring.
The central theme
of MForward is ideas, action and community.
We believe that these are the three fundamental
principles on which MSA was founded. MSA is
designed to provide the resources that are essen-
tial to students' academic and social success. It
should be the hub for innovation that directly
impacts students on this campus. In addition, MSA
is charged with the responsibility of advocating on
behalf of the students while protecting their rights
and privileges. It should prevent any acts that may
adversely affect them. Lastly, MSA was created to
serve as a central location to preserve the unique
and culturally rich university community that sets
Michigan apart from other academic institutions.
This is why MForward is leading the initiative to

implement open housing, a policy reform that will
give all students the freedom to choose the dynam-
ics of their living conditions. As financially contribut-
ing members of the University community, students
deserve to have the opportunity to choose who we
live with. MForward is working to make that happen.
We are committed to resolving the problems
that directly affect the lives of students, which
is what motivated other MForward members to
begin working with the Ann Arbor City Council to
pass a resolution that will prevent the widespread
and unchecked use of surveillance cameras and
encourage police to carefully gauge the need for
surveillance in high-crime areas.
In addition, cuts to the Ginsberg Center's budget
has forced the center to get rid of its Transporta-
tion Coordinator. The center no longer has the
administrative capacity to provide transportation
services for several student organizations that
provide invaluable service to the surrounding met-
ropolitan community, making transportation for
community service organizations more difficult.
MForward members have identified this asa major
issue and are currently working with Parking and
Transportation Services to restore this service for
student organizations.
These are the types of issues that MForward is
striving to resolve. If you want a student govern-
ment that is serious about serving you, I encourage
you to vote MForward. If you are fed up with the
lack of substantive results from MSA, I encour-
age you to vote MForward. And if you're ready for
a student government that will move this campus
forward with real ideas, successful action and deep
regard and engagement with the studentbody con-
sistently throughout the school year, you need to
vote MForward.
This viewpoint was written by DeAndree
Watson on behalf of MForward.


WANT THE DAILY ON THE GO?
Now you can access your favorite Daily opinion content on your phone. Follow your favorite
columnists and join in the debate. Check out the Daily's mobile website at m.michigandaily.com.




[he Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 17, 2010 - 5A

he Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November17, 2010 - 5A

Rihanna gets 'Loud'

Unidentified flying crap
By KAVI SHEKHAR PANDEY
Daily Film Editor

Monster hits and 1
massive duds fill
pop star's latest
By JOE DIMUZIO
Daily Arts Writer
Rihanna is such a tease. From
'Pon De Replay" to "Disturbia," her
ingles pop. She
ommands her
ameos, how-
ever brief. The Rihanna
abloids never
et her go. Pre- Loud
iew snippets for Def Jam
ated R had mes-
age boards convinced she would
become the queen of dubstep. She's
made Jay-Z look silly, twice.
Your perfect pop diva, Rihanna
is sexy and malleable. But when you
step down from the highs of songs
like "Umbrella" and "Rude Boy,"
there's not much footing for a long-
term relationship. it's just too tough
to figure out what she really wants.
Loud is her fifth frustrating
release, built on towering singles,
promising misfires and a couple
duds. Following Rated R, an album
hyped more by her Chris Brown
backstory than the music itself,
Loud finds her comfortably upbeat
again, with variety, pomp and red
hair. Because it's loud, get it?
This sort of cheap role play pre-
vents Rihanna from owning some
of the tunes here. on ballads like
"Fading" and the Taylor Swiftian
"California King Bed," she steers
hard into middle-of-the-road ter-
ritory. opener and third single
"S&M" is a slick, efficient pal-
ette swap of David Guetta's "Sexy
Chick," with a 4/4 Euro stomp and
HI-NRG backing vocals. But it aims
for sexy and comes across as Hot
Topic. With "Sex in the air / I don't
care / I love the smell of it / sticks
and stones may break my bones /
but whips and chains excite me,"
she sounds like she's faking it.

:OURTESY OF DEF JAM

Maybe she's born with it. Maybe it's plastic surgery.

Rihanna's best moments are her
most natural, and when it comes to
massive singles and the occasional
embrace of her Caribbean side,
she nails it. Second single "What's
My Name?" features Drake, serv-
ing the same purpose Jay-Z did
on "Umbrella," turning in a limp
intro and unintentionally lending
Rihanna's entrance heavenly pro-
portions. It's a slick StarGate pro-
duction built on tense snare and a
chorus whose parts sum up beauti-
fully. "Only Girl (In the World)" is
Max Martin-huge, with a stop-and-
start chorus that takes three whole
turns of the ignition to drop the
beat, at once torturous and indel-
ible. Here, "Want you to make me
feel / Like I'm the only girl in the
world / Like I'm the only one that
you've ever loved" is a declaration,
not a request.
Then there are furious moments
of promise. "Raining Men" has a
schizo-speed freak verse from Nicki
Minaj, sub-bass, lightning hi-hats

and a Beyonca-light vocal turn by
Rihanna, with nowhere else to go.
"Man Down," the most distinct
but undercooked cut on the album,
offers a Reggaeton murder ballad
evoking Grace Jones drama and fall-
ing short. On "Love the Way You Lie
(Part II)" Rihanna tries admirably
to recapture the song for herself
and misfires, leaving Eminem, still
refusing to work with a beat, clum-
sily talkin-loud-and-saying-nothing,
sounding absolutely terrible.
In a BBC interview, Rihanna
propped up Loud; "I wanted songs
that were all Rihanna songs, that
nobody else could do. ... I wanted a
song, or songs ... that had that little
West Indian vibe to it, had that cer-
tain tone, a certain sass and a cer-
tain energy." That "certain energy"
is exactly what can take Rihanna
higher: the fleeting moments when
she marries her character with
shiny, defiant pop gloss. But her
promise is still just promise, and for
now the engagement is indefinite.

Low-budget alien invasion mov-
ies shot with handheld cameras
have been all
the rage over
the past few
years. In fact, Skyline
their path can be
compared to the At Quality16
life of a phoenix. and Rave
Since it's "Harry Universal
Potter" week,
let's use Fawkes,
Dumbledore's little firebird. In
2008, "Cloverfield" was the begin-
ning of the life cycle - Fawkes as
a baby - a wonderful idea that set "Fuck my life."
the stage for the future but was too
infantile to be great. Fawkes soon characters hiding out in a high-rise
matured and at his peak was a mag- condominium, watching aliens and
nificent, highly cognizant speci- UFOs from a distance. They sit and
men, suddenly appearing to save debate whether to stay or escape,
Harry's tuchas against the Basilisk. decide to run for it, fail, return to
This is analogous to last year's out- the condo and wait around until
rageously good "District 9," which the aliens arrive to suck everyone's
came out of nowhere to earn an brains out. This is the furthest thing
Oscar nomination for Best Picture possible from epic - "Skyline" is
and essentially perfect the genre. just the cinematic equivalent of a
But after old age, Fawkes burst bottle episode.
into flames and fell into a pile The single location could have
of ashes - the tragic, charred been used to the film's advantage,
remains of something that was creating a stifling, claustrophobic
once glorious. This is "Skyline." environment with aliens breathing
"Skyline" isn't just stupendous- down the necks of our heroes. But
ly awful - though it definitely it just becomes pathetic;it's obvious
ranks among the Seven Wonders that the filmmakers were trying
of Terrible Filmmaking - it's a to minimize production costs and
despicable case of studios manip- didn't have enough money to stage
ulating audiences to make a quick a sequence outside of the condo.
profit on a knowingly terrible There's a handful of impressive
product. The budget for the movie effects, like a brief battle between
was supposedly only $10 mil- military fighter jets and UFOs, but
lion, but it's clear that the studio it's laughable to say they justify
stuffed a Z-list cast into a rancid watching even a second of the rest
plot, spending most of that bud- of the film, especially with its horri-
get on visual effects. They then ble cast spouting horrible dialogue.
used the better-looking effects It's not as if the actors in "Clo-
to string together a pretty cool verfield" were especially talented,
teaser trailer and some TV spots, but their relative anonymity great-
selling audiences on an epic alien ly assisted the film's attempts at
invasion extravaganza. realism. The same doesn't hold for
Man, thatshitis effingridiculous the distracting cast of "Skyline,"
- it's absolutely deplorable market- a mishmash of random television
ing, as most of the film consists of actors including the guy from

"24" with the gross facial hair
(Eric Balfour), Angel Batista from
"Dexter" (David Zayas), Turk
from "Scrubs" (Donald Faison)
and . Mac's transsexual ex-girl-
friend from "It's Always Sunny in
Philadelphia" (Brittany Daniel).
And they are all terrible.
"Skyline" is a supreme embar-
rassment. of course, not every
movie has to be "District 9," but
"Skyline" wouldn't even fly as a
SyFy original movie. The Univer-
Worse than
'District 69.'
sal executives are probably patting
themselves on the back for already
making a return on their invest-
ment (thanks to a $12 million open-
ing Weekend), but they deserve
to be smacked for selling such a
defective product to the world.
The phoenix always rises from
the ashes, and the low-budget alien
invasion movie should reclaim its
splendor next year with "Battle:
Los Angeles" (which has a fantas-
tic trailer) and the J.J. Abrams-
directed "Super 8." One can only
hope.

1


I

UMS welcomes Stew
and The Negro Problem

I


r

By STEPHEN OSTROWSKI
DailyArts Writer
Ann Arborites will receive a
playful dose of wit and irrever-
ence when indie-rock musician
Stew and his band The Negro
Problem come
to town for Stewand
Thursday, Fri-
day and Sat- The Negro
urday evening Problem
sets, presented T
by the Universi- Tomorrowand
ty Musical Soci- Friday at 8
ety. p.m., Saturday
The Negro at 7:30 and
Problem is 10:30 p.m.
anchored by 523S. Main Street
the guitars and $45
vocals of char-
ismatic front man Stew (Mark
Stewart) and the bass and vocals
of collaborator Heidi Rode-
wald. Though his discography
dates back to The Negro Prob-
lem's 1997 effort Post Minstrel
Syndrome, Stew - who has also
released albums just as "Stew"
- may be best recognized as the
creative force behind the 2008
Tony award-winning "Passing
Strange," a musical profiling a
young man's search for the "real."
Director Spike Lee ("Do the
Right Thing") adapted the show's
closing performances into a well
received 2009 Sundance film of
the same name, which the Uni-
versity of Michigan Museum Of
Art screened this past Sunday.
Paul Farber, a Ph.D. candidate in
the University's American Cul-
ture department who will mod-
erate a "public conversation"
with Stew on Thursday evening,
praised Stew's theatrical efforts.
"I've taught 'Passing Strange'
in two courses at the University
of Michigan, and I see how in
each class the musical gave stu-
dents the creative license to push
their own limits and knowledge,"
Farber wrote in an e-mail inter-
view with the Daily.
Despite the musical's positive
press, Stew insisted in a recent
interview with the Daily his com-
mitment to music, saying "I don't
feel like a playwright." Stew also
expressed enthusiasm for the
band's Ann Arbor stop.
"It's one of those oases, you
know?" Stew said. "Sort of the
classic kind of American, you

know, college town that feels
somehow different than the rest
of America that surrounds it."
Ann Arbor - just one of a
handful of stops on the group's
first national tour in six years -
may prove the optimal audience
to field Stew's clever lyricism.
Songs range from drug-bender
ballads to poignant character
sketches of Don Quixote-like
mysticism.
Take the ode "Giselle" on
2002's solo effort The Naked
Dutch Painter ... and Other Songs,
in which Stew croons: "Her rab-
bit won't pose for Hef /She wears
leather, whatever the weather."
Stew defines The Negro Prob-
lem as "more busy baroque"
music than his individual work
with Rodewald.
Stew's prowess as a wordsmith
doesn't go unnoticed.
"Stew is one of the most inno-
vative musicians and storytell-
ers in the culture today," Farber
wrote.
Though his lyrical trove is
expansive, Stew acknowledges a
common thread to his music and
mission as an artist.
"I think the constant guiding
me is I've always wanted to sort of
subvert this idea of whatever the
expected is," Stew said. "(What)
you've expected of me as a man,
you've expected of me as a black
man, you know, they expected of
us as a band."
Stew added, "The actual topics
aren't as interesting to me as the
perspective on the topics."
According to Stew, the seed of

"subversion" planted itself when
he was a child in the 1960s, a
decade host to an eclectic, hardly
homogenous music scene.
While a selection from a song
like "Giselle" might highlight
Stew's more comical musings, it's
obvious that his music scrapes
mature, important issues. For
instance, the public conversa-
Tne search for
the 'real' gets
subversive.
tion between Stew and Farber,
as detailed on the University's
Alumni Association website, will
include "ideas about race and
identity."
"Stew is the kind of performer
who helps us confront together,
and not shy away from separately,
the most pressing issues facing
our society, including race," Far-
ber wrote.
This goal comes to light in
the band's potentially polarizing
name. Stew explained that The
Negro Problem, while an "old
political phrase," alludes to the
joint vision shared by himself and
Rodewald - to have fun creating
music.
"I think laughter is actually
the most subversive thing you
can do," Stew said. "It's just hav-
ing fun. It's just music, you know
- it's not politics."

Ae
GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
November 10-12 and 15-19
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
North Campus November 18-19
in Valley room of Pierpont
The sittingfee is just $15!
This price includes your portraitfeatured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.uma)umich.edu

wPCA

Bring in this ad and receive $2 offthe sitting fee.

Michiganensian
Y E A R B O O K

cOURTESY OF MARK STEWART
Stew and Heidi Rodewald worked together on the Tony-winning "Passing Strange."
He defines his style of music with The Negro Problem as "busy baroque."



6A - Wednesday, November 17, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cc

Zingerman's founder tells a tale of success and anarchy

Nand ich ogu shae S The guide, intended for aspiring entrepre-
neurs, focuses on some of the "secrets" that
18 secrets to starting a have led Zingerman's to success.
While structuring his advice around
'Great Business' what he jokingly refers to as 18 "secrets,"

By LEAH BURGIN
Daily FineArts Editor
HoweverharditistoimagineAnnArbor
without the beloved Zingerman's Delica-
tessen, there are at least two 'U' alumni
who remember
the now-quint- Zingerman's
essential eat- Guide to Great
ery's conception G
28 years ago: Leading, Part 1: A
Paul Saginaw Lapsed Anarchist's
and Ari Weinz- A c
weig, co-found- Approach to Building
ers and partners a Great Business
of Zingerman's
Community of AriWeinzweig
Businesses. Zingerman's Press
Weinzweig's
latest book - following, among others,
his "Guide to Better Bacon" and "Guide to
Good Eating" - is "Zingerman's Guide to
Great Leading, Part 1: A Lapsed Anarchist's
Approach to Building a Great Business."

Weinzweig ironically explains that one of
Zingerman's most important secrets is its
transparency. As he writes in the preface,
"We actually teach everything we know
about business, leadership, finance, ser-
vice and food to everyone who works here,
regardless of how old they are, how long
they've been on staff, or where they are on
the org chart."
And now Weinzweig has decided to
share this philosophy with a wider pub-
lie. Concise and casually toned, this first
installment mirrors Weinzweig's ambi-
tions. The 18 secrets make for 18 mini
essays that are sandwiched between
some Zingerman's history and stomach-
rumbling recipes for "classics" like potato
latkes, barbecue sauce and magic brownies
(no, not that kind of magic). These book-
ends turn "Buildinga Great Business" into
a guide that non-business-oriented folk
can still enjoy and learn from.
"I like that there are recipes in a busi-
ness book," Weinzweig said in an inter-
view with the Daily. "I picked one recipe

for each Zingerman's business. I tried to little different than what it would be like if
do stuff that wasn't really complex. I like it were put out by a mainstream publisher:
simple food anyway and, stereotypically, It's on tOO-percent recycled paper, it's got
people who buy business books may be less some parts in it that would probably be
inclined to try more difficult recipes than edited out by big publishers."
those who would buy our The book makes many
food books." references to Weinz-
Located at the head . weig's ties to the Joseph
of each chapter, scratch- A. Labadie Collection, an
board illustrations depict obscure collection in the
"daily life" in the Zing- Hatcher Graduate Library
erman's Community of writings from 19th- and
of Businesses, includ- 20th-century anarchists.
ing bread-baking, cof- As a history major at the
fee bean roasting and University, Weinzweig
the Deli's famous olive explored this collection,
oil shelf. Though they and has since developed a
are in black and white, complex relationship with
these illustrations, com- the ideals presented in
bined with other charts its pamphlets and letters.
littered throughout the These ideals crop up fre-
book, evoke the splashy quently in the book.
hand-drawn Zingerman's "While the 19th-cen-
brand. For longtime cus- COURTESY OF ZINGERMAN'S PRESS tury anarchists whose
tomers and fans, this style work I read in my student
will be instantly recognizable and will tie years certainly stayed with me in spirit, I
the book to the food and atmosphere they gradually let go of some of the specific con-
love so much. tent of their beliefs," Weinzweig wrote in
"I guess I feel like the book is congruous the guide's introduction. "Over the years I
with what we do," Weinzweig said. "It's a started thinking ofmyselfmore as a'lapsed


anarchist.'"
For Weinzweig, "lapsed anarchist
can be explained as someone who stil
believes in the ideals of the philosoph:
(liberty, voluntary association, etc.), bu
has dropped some of the particulars of th
movement - mainly, the anti-governmen
agenda. This philosophical shift seem
logical considering Weinzweig is a leade
of a coalition of eight always-expandin'
businesses that, according to a pres
release, collectively gross more than $3'
million annually.
"I never even knew you could go int<
business," he explained. "Plus I'm as
anarchist, so the last thing I would hav
thought was to be in charge of anything."
Though "Building a Great Business
is chock-full of business advice, rangin
from discussion of the "Twelve Natura
Laws" of business-building to the impor
tance of mission statements to why "finish
ing third" is best, Weinzweig said that he
hopes readers appreciate a larger message
as well.
"Believe in yourself and go after great
things and have fun while you're doing it,'
he said. "And don't get caught up in doing
what everyone else wants you to do. That's
my anarchist voice."

s-i

4

PARKING

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

FOR RENT
! 3 BDRM APT: Furnished, Heat,
Water Incl., Parking. Close to Campus!
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
4 BDRM house. May '11. Mary Ct.
IM bldg. Prkg. $2290. 845-399-9904.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today.1 to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdn.!
Incl. Heas/Waser/Purking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
WWW.800FULLEI.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modem, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
515 WALNUT
Studio, 1, & 2 br. Apts. Available!!
Just a few blocks from the CCRB and
Central Campus. A variety of floor
plans here. 2 br., 2 bth bi-levels w/
rooftop patios and new kitchens.
Perfect for 4 people!!
734-668-1100
5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
521 WALNUT
1, 2, & 3 br Aps. Available! Great
campus neighborhood!! A quiet tree
lined st. off South U. near the CCRB &
CC Little. New kitchen w/ dishwasher,
A/C, fully furmished, free parking, laun-
dry on-site, and intercom entry.
www.varsitymanagement.com
FALL 2011
Huge house in prime locations!
6 Bdrms, 3 studies, 3 1/2 baths
$4699/month
7346658825
www.campusrealty.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1007 S. State. Furnished,
free laundry, fret parking.
$4300/mondh. Call 734-678-0122
6 BEDROOM HOUSE great location,
2 blocks to mudbowl, Linden St., free
laundry & parking, fumished, 2 baths,
fireplace, central A/C, large bedrooms,
new kitchen all ammenities, Fall 2011,
$3600, Ask for Jim 734-426-4772.
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3800 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
625 Church St. (734) 668 1100
1001 S.Fres
sunny 2Bapts o luivng room
huge bedroons, Great for 2-4 people!
Updated kitch0ns and bathrooms, A/C,
laundry, & FREE wirelessi!

FALL 2011 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4700
7 510 Catherine $3700
7 1129 White St $4200
6 412 N. Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3500
6 605 E. Hoover $3720
6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
6 1207 Church $3800
5 1024 Packard $2850
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2240
4 1117 S. Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer Ct $2000
3 932 Mary $1800
Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991

ARBOR,
PROPERTIES
(734) 994-3157
www arborprops.corn
Distinctive
Award-Winning
Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old
West Side, Burns
Park

RELEASE DATE--Wednesday, November 17, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Bird that migrates 40 One may be 56 Blown away
1 Baron Cohen's fromthe Arctic to thrown at a 57 Heavyweights'
Kazakhjourmalist Antarctica pothole ring contest
6 Dickens alias 6 H.S. experiment 41 Drop abrick, so to 58 "Topaz' author
9 National Guard site speak 59 Moon goddess
challenges 7 New pedometer 43 It's often two, in 61 Shiites, e.g.
14 Publicist's reading mini golf 62 French pop
concem 8 Pilot's alphabet 46 Hotfoot it 63 NASA "walks"
15 Bettor's note ender 49 Give grief to 64 Euro fraction
16 Art film, often 9 Reduced to bits 51 Burroughs swinger 65 Long basket, in
17 Lennon had one 10 Likebill 52 Have a hunch basketball lingo
20 Undying payments? 54 Softened, in a 67 Pathto
21 Bring to light 11 Wroclaw's river way enlightenment
22 Handleclumsily 12 Sunroof feature
24 Wallet items, 13 Adam'sthird ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
briefty 18 Bearded Smurf GASPS FO L GELS
25Gofrompillarto 19"Peer GyntSuite" GA CP AFAWVGELN
post dancer LIAC ASVIA AVON
31 Rodgers's partner 23 Romance FOLLY MATZO B A L L
35 Part of a TV feed 25 Barbecue fare T H I S T L E T Y R 0
36 Nasty boss 26 Sip SAC HERA DA N G E R
38igmapreceder 27Praisefulp t OPEN UPON O N E
39lEggyhbun 28eGpin a 1905 IN 0 5A 3 GEIG0 0
42V raphone labormerger DI NIC A RE G E
virtuoso Lionel 29 "How'm I Doing?" INCL MO IDLE
44CIAforerunner mayor/author N T H E S P R E 5 B A R
45 Chuck 30 "This isawful!" A R I N A S A T t N Y
47'All in the Family" 32 PianistRubinstei H P P E R S A I 0 E B
apntIf 3da Murensemn's IRA N E K R
48 One oAlcott's da Barter 's LRAN B E A KI E
women 34 Office machine C K C LA TE R
50 Josephine Tey supply
titleorphan 37"BoneDance"sci- AR S EONS MASTS
53 Old Gremlin fi author Bull xwordeditor@aol.com 11/16/10
maker wr? 1 2 3 4 6 7 10 11 12 1a
H5 Fannie flHwr
56 Not surprisingly 14 is 16
60 Esteem
66 Basedon the 17 13 13
starts of 17-, 25- 21
and 50-Across,'
whatthis 22 23 241
crossword might
be? 2 26 27 2 29 30 3132 33 34
68 "South Pacific"
69 Museum-funding 39 404 42
org.
70 Origamibird 447
71 Gave a shot, say
72"Howo alkta 4 u a50 51 s
Liberal (It You
Must)" author 5a354
Coulter
73 Ready to snap s s s 60 61 62 33 Si 5
DOWN 6
1 111 temper 68 69 70
2 Jump over
3 All-night bash 71 072 73
4 Stress, so they
say By0riedPi,,/,,e

AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.mikhcomrealty.com
FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State St./Athletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., I
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
FURNISHED, 6 BEDROOM, ground
floor in duplex, free unobstructed park-
ing 5 cars, Fall lease, 1011 East U and
Greenwood, $3295. (734) 426-9437.

!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!!
2 & 3 bdrms, lots of closet space, flat
screen tys, modem furniture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
NOW LEASING FOR 2011 ut
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
NEWER 6 BD RMS FURNISHED
Apts AVAILABLE, walk to CEN-
TRAL CAMPUS rates start at
$615/room. For VIRTUAL TOUR and
INFO call 734-418-2050 or log on
www.828greeneapts.com
NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealty.coma
734-665-8825
WE HOLD THE KEY.....
To Your New Home!
Prime Student Housing.
734-761-8000
primesh.com
526 PACKARD
New Construction & Amazing Loca-
tion!! Large 3 br. apts w/ hardwood
floors, updated kitchens, huge bal-
conies, & tons of closet space!! Sunny
apts w/ new windows and large sliding
glass door. FREE Wireless!!
734-668-1100
ST UoD ENT EHSU S iu . I N Csid
18 Locations to choose from
many on Central Campus
Leather Furniture FR EINUTRNET
BI-level/Tri-levels Heat & Water Included
Eff, 1, 2 & 3 bdrns Parking InClUded
Updated Kitchens Completely F~urnished
Electroi Entries On Site Laundry
Bloies & Patios Ar Conditionsins
Trash Removal Dishwashers
FREE HJ(G H SPEE D
INTERNET CO)NNECTION
Diret.TVow Available
Visit us on the web at
WWW.primeSh.COm
Stop by our office at 610 Church St.
or call us today at
(734) 761-8000
to arrange viewings.
**Amenities vary by location**

BRIGHT 5 BEDROOM, 2 Bath, No-
Fee Laundry & Parking, $2800/month
(neg). 333 John St. Call 734-277-0668.
3 BDRM APT 1004 s. forest #B3,
$1450/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #1,
$1850/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
4 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #4, $2200
month, May lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! I bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtllc yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetretitals.com
-NOW SHOWING
APARTMENTS-
For 2011-12!
18 great locations
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Furnished, Heat & Water Included,
1 Parking Pass & FREE Internet.
Call today to see your new home!
734-761-8000
priasesb.com
*Amnenities Vary By Location
\g,ce the i
PROPERTY MANACEME"T
OIV-led and9
19iLocations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Let Our Famil~ylTake Care of'Yours
24 (r3 SLOY he"'pee a d S le m etS
734.741..9300
www 1a1wopar 11nt 1ne

Show TEAM EnterIpdses what you've got!
Ourgoalis to bring energy and
excitement to everyeventsand leave a
positive impression on the consumer.
We are currently looking for the _
BEST and BRIGHTEST top promotional
models in Ann Arbor!
Requirements:
Mstrbe 21 years of age oreolder
SMust be able to work evenings
and/orweekends
.Musthave reliableotransportation
and avalid driver'slicense
. Models will be reliable, self-motivated,
and have a professional demeanor
. Outgoing personality
Please email a non-professional
headshorand abriefparagraph about
yourselfto: mheah(ilteament.com
Uniforms will be provided to all
contracted models and compensation
is paid out on an hourly/project basis.
We lookforward to heringfrom you!
!! SWEET 6-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3600 (313) 215-8115.
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
1506 GEDDES
Great 3 br. aptsperfect for 3-4 people!!
Large living rooms, balconies or patios,
tons of closet space, dishwashers, and
double sinks in bathrooms. Near the
CCRB & CC Little bus stop!!
www.varsitymanagement.com
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Court $2340,
tenants pay all utilities call Cappo
Deinco 734-996-1991
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartmets.net
!3 BEDROOM HOUSE! Just one
block from S. University, near B-
school and Ed. School. 2 bathrooms! 2
Kitchens! Large bdrms, 2 parking
spaces, full basement for storage, laun-
dry facilities, unfurnished New up-
grades planned for Fall 2011! $2,175 +
utilities. Please contact our leasing
agent Patty White: 734-320-1245 or
email pattycimgtlc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modem
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at1734-276-3876.
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com.
1039 BALDWIN
Spacious 4 br. apts. ina gorgeous con-
verted home! High ceilings, bay win-
dows, fireplace, hardwood firs, &
screened in porch. Large backyard w/
parking included!!
www.varsitymanagement.com
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available Spring & Fall.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAIL Sept.'l l1&2 Bdrm. fur.
aps.402 Hill S.&1313 S.Sate ldry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskman@yahoo.com.

COLLEGE STATS ONLINE tutor
needed.dec- jan.for grad student over-
seas.contact dan andrews 734-426-1613
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
r.

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
LOOKING FOR NEW people, part
or full time to help with Mobile Media
Expansion in Ann Arbor. Great market-
ing/advertising experience. Paid posi-
tion. Go to iZiggl.com for more info or
EMAIL todd@crunchfrugal.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

I

AD
VER
TISE
WITH
ECLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

1

()2u10ribuneMediaServices, Inc.

n my

1




3
S
}
b
t
J
1

l
l


he Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 17, 2010 - 7A

w Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November17, 2010 - 7A

IRVELL
Som PagelIA
e right to be a bigot and to freely
press his bigotry."
Jones said in the interview that
he believes that the wording of
PS Policy and Procedural Order
n Trespass is too vague and that
iis ambiguity allows for an abuse
f power to take place.
She also expressed concern
bout the way the appeals process
structured.
"Right now, if you've been
anned from campus and you want
appeal that decision, you appeal
at straight back to the director of
he Department of Public Safety -
'ho is the person who issued you
he ban," she said.
The goal of the letter, according
o ACLU-UM officials, is to start
dialogue and begin revising the
respass policy with DPS and the
Jniversity.
DPS spokeswoman Diane Brown

said "the Department's official
statement is that we have received
the letter and we will be reviewing
it."
Shirvell started a blog in April
called Chris Armstrong Watch
that criticized the MSA president
and accused him of promoting
a "radical homosexual agenda."
In addition, Shirvell appeared at
multiple events where Armstrong
was present including an MSA
meeting, where Shirvell called for
Amrstrong's resignation.
Shirvell's criticism of Armstrong
gained national attention in Sep-
tember, and Michigan Attorney
General Mike Cox fired Shirvell
last week for what he said was
"conduct unbecoming of a state
employee."
Armstrong and his lawyer
have also filed complaints with
the Michigan Attorney Griev-
ance Commission against Shirvell
alleging that he violated the state's
professional conduct code for
attorneys.

Student government elections now live

From Page 1A
"The issue with UMEC is that
we really have been working on our
visibility withinthe CollegeofEngi-
neering but we still have a long way
to go," Fisher said. "Being the Col-
lege of Engineering student govern-
ment is a tough job, and we've tried
to do student outreach. But a lot of
people still don't really know what
UMEC is. We're trying to improve
that and improve UMEC as a result."
Student government leaders and
election directors have been coor-
dinating their efforts to advertise
elections with flyers and events,
according to LSA-SG President Ste-
ven Benson.
"Everyone working together for
the student body to get together and
vote is something that has never
really been done before," Benson
said. "It's usually individual govern-
ments campaigning for their indi-
vidual elections."
Zac Berlin, LSA-SG election
director, said that student govern-
ment leaders hope that increased
communication between various
student governments and pooled
funding will be more effective in
attracting students to vote in fall

elections.
Benson added that the wide range
of advertisements around the cam-
pus community are geared toward
promoting the act of voting in stu-
dent government elections itself.
"If you've noticed, all the cam-
paign efforts, like, as little as the
Facebook advertising to as big as
the flyers we're making, don't nec-
essarily say 'Vote LSA Student Gov-
ernment Elections,' 'Vote UMEC
Elections,' "Benson said. "They say
'Vote in the Student Government
Elections in General'."
Desphande said that another
major strategy for improving voter
turnout was recruiting candidates
that would campaign competitively.
"What we focused on this year
was actually getting as many candi-
dates as possible to run for elections
because we can advertise the elec-
tions as much as we want, but there
is a significant proportion of the
student body who just doesn't pay
attention," Desphande said.
He added that advertising is not
only key in getting students to vote
but it also provides a forum for can-
didates to promote themselves over
their opponents.
"In hotly contested elections,

when all these candidates are run-
ning, they have lots of competition,
advertising, they're trying to get as
many people as possible to vote for
them. That really drives up voter
turnout," Desphande said.
Additionally, Desphande has
sent out two campus-wide e-mails
reminding students about elections
and he said he plans to send one
more out tomorrow.
UMEC Vice President and Elec-
tions Chairperson Aristo Chang said
that UMEC had 15.7-percent eligible
voter turnout for elections last fall,
higher than both LSA-SG or MSA.
He added that he hopes to build on
that level ofvoter turnout for today's
election.
"It was a pretty huge increase,
and alot of that is two things: there
was a stronger push from the exec-
utive board in terms of advertising
the actual elections, and another
side was the competition within
the actual elections, the people
running and actually campaign-
ing and promoting the elections,"
Chang said.
UMEC is hosting a grilled cheese
lunch today in the Duderstadt Con-
nector from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
to advertise elections. UMEC mem-

bers will be making free sandwiches
for students, and candidate posters
will be displayed.
While Desphande hopes voter
turnout for MSA elections will
increase to 15 percent this year and
Fisher says that UMEC is aiming for
20 percent, Berlin said he has a more
ambitious goal.
"Obviously, everyone should be
voting so 100-percent voter turnout
would be awesome," Berlin said. "I
don't know how realistic that is."
In an e-mail interview, MSA
President Chris Armstrong, echoed
Berlin's sentiment, writing that the
"elections are about maintaining the
strength of and amplifying the stu-
dent voice."
"It is only so often that students
have the chance to voice their opin-
ions in the affairs of the University,"
Armstrong wrote. "These elections
are the chance for students to pick
those voices. Through their votes
for MSA representation, students
will impact the decisions that are
made at the administrative level."
Students can vote in student gov-
ernment elections online at vote.
umich.edu. Polls opened at mid-
night and will close at 11:59 p.m.
tomorrow.

f


MSA
I1rom Page 1A
ively.
Though MSA's new constitution,
which dictates the ideals behind
the compiled code, doesn't techni-
cally take effect until March, by
implementing the compiled code
last night the changes dictated by
the constitution were essentially
put into practice.
At last night's meeting, Watson
said that he hopes to streamline the
assembly and make it more respon-
sive to students' needs.
"A lot of people (on the assem-
bly) aren't communicating. I think
the role of the speaker is to really
get those people to work together,"
.Watson said, "to basically create a
system where the students can get
more from the assembly by people
working collectively and also to
lead the assembly through this
transition period."
Watson said that his primary
goals would be to engage Universi-
ty students who feel alienated from
MSA and hold assembly members
accountable for attendance and
voting records by posting them on
MSA's website.

"The first thing I want to do
is hold these town hall meetings
every month so the students can
know what the assembly is doing,
so the students can be updated
on what their representatives are
doing," Watson said in an interview
after the meeting. "Another thing I
want to do is to post the attendance
recordswith excuses that represen-
tatives give on the website, so the
students can know who's attending
the meetings, and who's not attend-
ing the meetings."
While MSA executives will no
longer have a vote in the assembly,
the MSA president will have power
over new legislation and will serve
an advisory role at MSA meetings.
Committees will operate within
the legislative branch of the assem-
bly and commissions as part of the
executive branch.
The new code also redistributed
the MSA budget, directing more
money to discretionary spending.
Additionally, under the new con-
stitution elections for MSA mem-
bers will no longer be staggered.
Instead, MSA will hold elections
once in March for all positions.
- Julie Halsey contributed
to this report.


VETERANS
From Page 1A_
Mich., is also a former United
States Congressman who served
on the House Armed Services
Committee.
Schwarz said the goal of his
speech was to shed light on the
problems associated with return-
ing veterans and the challenges
they face when assimilating into
society.
Schwarz told the story of a vet-
eran, who he called "James," as an
example of veterans who have a
difficult time assimilating.
He said James probably suf-
fers from a little-known con-
dition called traumatic brain
injury. Unlike the more common-
ly-known psychological disorder
post-traumatic stress disorder,
TBI changes the chemical and
physiological make-up of the
brain.
"James is the poster-child for
former Army, Marine, Air Force,

Navy and National Guard men and
women who have PTSD or TBI,"
said Schwarz. "We identify TBI
as what we think is a signature
wound of the Iraq and Afghani-
stan campaigns."
Schwarz encouraged the audi-
ence and specifically the veterans
in the room to "never lose sight"
of the problems associated with
returning veterans, emphasizing
that these issues would exist for
the rest of their lives.
After Schwarz spoke, a panel
of University student-veterans
and members of Student Veterans
of America held a question-and-
answer session.
Derek Blumke, co-founder of
Student Veterans of America and
a University alum, responded to a
question about the future of pro-
grams for student veterans. He
said the University sets the stan-
dard for how he'd like to see other
universities accommodate student
veterans.
AnthonyArnold, a Navyveteran
and an LSA senior, said he wishes

he would've gotten involved in
student-veteran support systems
earlier.
Arnold said he took 18 credits to
try and capitalize on the benefits
offered by the Post-9/11 GI bill
that offers full tuition to veter-
ans for 36 months after returning
from duty.
"One of the reasons I didn't
(get involved) was the workload,"
Arnold said.
Now Arnold belongs to SVA and
is also a member of both a social
and professional fraternity.
Ryan Pavel, a Marifle veteran
and LSA junior, said he wishes
there was a stronger community
of student veterans on campus. He
added that a lot of returning vet-
erans prefer to keep their student
lives and their experiences as vet-
erans separate.
"It really is a matter of reaching
out to individual people," Pavel
said.
Two student veterans on the
panel shared Pavel's sentiment
about the difficulty offinding a place

among student-veteran groups.
Sarah LeMire, an Army vet-
eran and a graduate student in
the School of Information, said
she has not found her niche as a
female veteran, a mother and an
older student at the University.
"The biggest problem is finding
where you fit," LeMire said.
Michael Bohl, a Marine veteran
and a University medical student,
said he would reconsider his lack
of participation in student-veteran
groups after listening to the testi-
monials on the symposium panel.
Jeremy Glasstetter, a senior at
the University of Michigan-Flint
and an Army veteran, said that his
experience alongside internation-
al soldiers has encouraged him to
try to not only create a stronger
community of American student
veterans, but to also create a col-
laboration among student veter-
ans around the world.
Glasstetter added that the SVA
has intentions to partner with
existing student-veteran organi-
zations in other countries.

i
i
I

a

@MICHIGANDAILY


Discover
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
A research university unlike any other.

Discover bold, collaborative research initiatives in science, engineering and technology with state-of-the-art facilities,
globally renowned faculty and students from over 60 countries. KAUST is a merit-based university dedicated to signifi-
cant high-impact research. Embark on a new era of scientific achievement for Saudi Arabia, the region, and the world.
Scholarships for Science and Engineering students
Complete a Master's or Ph.D. program with full tuition support, free housing, living stipend, medical insurance and
relocation support.
Applied Mathematics and Computational Sciences, Bioscience, Chemical Sciences, Chemical and Biological Engineering,
Computer Science, Earth Science and Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Environmental Science and Engineering,
Marine Science, Material Science and Engineering, Mechanical Engineering.

Visit the KAUST website for information on Program Specializations www.kaustedu.sa

For more information about applying to KAUST please visit our web site at
www.kaust.edu.sa


8A - Wednesday, November 17, 2010

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.c+

Th e rigtrles for
401 Morris and Douglass

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Sophomore quarterback Tate Forcier spelled fellow sophomore signal caller Denard Robinson in last week's win over Purdue.
Rotati ng QBs?
it could work

ast weekend after the Michi-
gan football team's win at
Purdue, both Michigan
coach Rich
Rodriguez and
quarterbacks
coach Rod
Smith said
something
interesting
when they
were ques-
tioned about JOE
pullingsopho- STAPLETON
more quarter-
back Denard
Robinson in favor of backup sopho-
more quarterback Tate Forcier.
They told reporters not to think of
taking Robinson out as "benching"
him. They simply needed a spark,
and theythoughtForcier could pro-
vide it.
Robinson and Forcier alternated
drives for the remainder of the
game.
"If you run a running back in or
out or a wide receiver in or out or
a lineman or a linebacker, you just
say,'Oh, you're giving him a break,'
" Rodriguez said after the game in
West Lafayette. "If youtake a quar-
terback out, you say you're benching
him. We're just giving him a break
and lethim see what's going on out
there."
It kind of makes sense. Quarter-
back is really the only position in
football, besides maybe punter/kick-
er, that's expected to take every snap
of every game barring an extreme
blowout.
Butthe move to Forcier when
Robinson was struggling raises a
few questions.
First, if we're not going to call
Robinson's substitution out of the
game "benching," then can we call
Forcier a "backup?" Rodriguez
has been adamant all year, despite
how much Forcier has played,
that Robinson is the starter. But
if he gets pulled, if he's not mov-
ing the offense, doesn't that make
Forcier more of an "option" than a

"backup?"
This hasn't happened yet, but the
quarterback situation is slowly mov-
ing toward what it was last year, just
in reverse. Last year, it was Robin-
son providing a change of pace when
the Forcier-led offense stalled. This
year, it's the other way around.
But Iguess Forcier's position on
the depth chartis less than pressing.
The second, and more important,
question: Does this work? Actually,
it mightbe: Can it work?
For me, it's complicated. In the-
ory, it should work, right? The two
quarterbacks have such varied skill
sets. Robinson is an average passer,
but he's faster than a cheetah on ste-
roids. Forcier is so accurate itseems
like his eyes are affixed with a per-
manent scope, but he's an average
runner. Coaches have said as much
after games in whichForcier played.
In reality though, it's much hard-
er than itseems, and the reasons for
that are more cerebral. The quar-
terback is supposed to be a player
who commands respectcthrough not
only his play buthis leadership. It's
essential that the quarterback be the
leader of the offense, and it's tough
to lead when you're only in the game
every other drive.
Rotating quarterbacks is uncom-
mon because of something I like to
call the "Eighth-Grade AAU Bas-
ketball Conundrum." This refers to
the common (and somewhat, ahem,
personal) problem of pulling players
when they are performing poorly.
of course, this needs to be done
sometimes, but it shouldn't be over-
done. If it gets to the point where
the player thinks he's getting pulled
every time he makes a mistake,
it makes him playtimidly. And it
becomes impossible for me, err, the
player to play well.
Do I think Robinson and Forcier
have stronger mental fortitudes than
I did as an eighth-grader?of course.
But I think it's still a factor. If Robin-
son thinks he's getting pulled every
time he throws a pick, it won't make
him throw less picks - it will make

him playtimidly. And that's not
good for anyone.
There are some Michigan-
specific positives thatcsuggest this
could work here. First, Rodriguez
deserves praise for making sure the
quarterbacks take near-equal first-
team snaps in practice. This allows
each to develop some timing with all
the wideouts so everyone is familiar
with everyone come game time.
Second, praise needs to go to each
of the quarterbacks for having awe-
some attitudes about splitting time.
Robinson was happy in his role last
year and is happy in his role this
year. But really, he would probably
be happy if all his material posses-
sions consisted of a paper clip and a
few breath mints - that'sjust who
he is.
The real pleasant surprise is how
Forcier has responded to his role
post-Connecticut. You can tell he
wants nothing more than to play, but
he has done an amazingjob of keep-
ing a great attitude the whole season
and being happy with his playing
time. He is willingto do whatever is
best for the team, which
is an admirable 180 from
week one.
These two mentalities
combine to make a largely
ego-free quarterback-
ing duo that can kill you
with the run and the
pass. And this team has
enough senior leadership
on the offense (redshirt
junior David Molk, senior
Stephen Schilling) to
not worry about which
quarterbackto look to as
a leader. Taking all of this
into account, it's tough to
see rotating quarterbacks
not working.
It'd better. My editor
alreadytold me he's taking
me off the page if I'm mak-
ing a mistake here.
Stapleton can be reached
at jstaple@umich.edu

or an athlete, starting for
any sports team normally
reflects
a coach's con-
fidence in that ZAK
athlete rela- PYZIK
tive to other On Men's
players. But Bosketboll
starting for
the Michigan
men's basketball team - not so
much. The first five on the floor
aren't always the best five, espe-
cially with Michigan coach John
Beilein's unconventional approach
to using his roster.
For the Wolverines, the most
important question revolves
around who should get the most
minutes, not who should start.
Sophomore Darius Morris has
started at pointguard. However,
Beilein has occasionally swapped
Morris in and out with junior Stu
Douglass, who Beilein says runs
the floor for the'Maize team' -
another way of sayingthe 'B' team.
At other times, Douglass is on the
floor with Morris at the two guard
spot, instead of the one. I prefer
this second option.
Morris is arguably better than
and at least as capable as Doug-
lass at runningthe pointguard
position. But if Morris plays point
guard instead of Douglass, Doug-
lass can be the Wolverines' main
shooting guard. This means Mich-
igan's two bestball handlers are on
the court at the same time. Both
can push the floor, which is what
Beilein wants his offense to do. As
a result, Douglass can focus more
on his shot, relieved of having to
worry aboutpoint-guard duties.
"Stu seems more likea natural
two (guard)," redshirt freshman
forward Jordan Morgan said after
Michigan's win over South Caro-
lina Upstate last Saturday. "And
Darius may be better at pushing
the ball. So with Darius in the
game Stu will be more comfortable
shooting the ball."
In thatgame, Douglass played
both positions. But he scored all

eight of his points when Morris
was playing the pointbecause
he had more time to concentrate
on getting in the best position to
score.
"Darius is really good atpenetra-
tion," Douglass said on Saturday.
"Darius is really good atrunning
the break and finding the open
man. I benefit a lotcoff of that."
There is a drawback to Morris
and Douglass being on the floor at
the same time. It limits the oppor-
tunities for junior Zack Novak and
freshman Tim Hardaway Jr. to
play at the same time. But this isn't
the end of the world.
When Beilein wants to run a
four-guard offense - which he
did often last year - Hardaway
Jr. and Novak can play at the
same time, no questions asked.
But when there needs to be a big
man presence, Hardaway Jr. and
Novak can be swapped. In that
first game, Hardaway Jr. was more
of an offensive threat than Novak.
He tallied a game-high 19 points
against South Carolina Upstate,
while Novak had justseven.
On the other hand, Novak
creates more of a burden for
opposing teams on the defensive
end. Beilein has said that Novak
struggles as a forward in the four

JI1CHIGAff
4

Sophomore guard Darius Morris has split time at the point with Stu Douglass.

position because he is undersized.
Likewise, Beilein says that he is
at a slight disadvantage at the
two-guard because many guards
are quicker than him. His natural
spot, then, is the three guard. It's
a haven where he can just tower
over his counterparts and rebound
like he's playing against his young-
er brother.
"For so long (last year), I
was under there battling with
the big guys," Novak said after
collecting a team-high eight
rebounds against the Spartans.
"I know how it is, so I was just
going in there and trying to help
them out. Those little rebounds,
they're just right there. They can
barely get me. If I can just come
and get them uncontested, I'm
going to do that and try and make
their job easier."
Ultimately, with Morris run-
ning the point, Douglass's shot
benefits. Since he doesn't have to
worry about running the floor, the
Wolverines benefit from the dual
threat of Morris and Douglass both
pushing the ball and taking shots.
And then Novak and Hardaway Jr.
step in when their specific skills
are most suitable for the position
Michigan is in.
In the end, everyone wins.

Ii

7

Berenson impressed with his
defense's offensive production

/

By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
For the No. 10 Michigan hock-
ey team, the bestoffense has been
a good defense - or more spe-
cifically, an offensively minded
defense.
Through 12 games last season,
the six-man defensive unit mus-
tered just two goals. The snake-
bitten Wolverines suffered a
five-game losing streak while
stumblingto a 5-7-0 record.
Hoping to avoid the early-sea-
son woes of last year, Michigan
coach Red Berenson encouraged
his defensemen to take a more
aggressive mindset in the offen-
sive zone.
With Michigan (5-2-1 CCHA,
6-3-3 overall) just a point away
from first place in the conference
at the 12-game mark this season,
the defense seems to have taken
Berenson's advice to heart. The
backliners have pelted opposing
goaltenders with 92 shots, com-
biningto score seven goals.
"Whenever the defense can
chip in offensively, it's a plus,
especially when the offense
isn't scoring or it's a low-scoring
game," junior defenseman Bran-
don Burlon said on Tuesday. "It's
always important to have the
defense contributing on both
ends ... because offense comes

from good defense." "You have to be readycto recov-
With aboutthe three-quarters er and get back. It's a little bit of
of the season remaining, Bur- a catch-22 for a defenseman.
Ion leads the defense with three If you're an offensive-minded
goals, a number that matches his defenseman like Burlon, you've
total from lastyear. got to make smart decisions,
According to Berenson, the when he stays up and when he
increase inoffensiveoutputfrom stays back."
the defense has been spurred by To illustrate the risk of attack-
the ability of players like Bur- ing too aggressively in the offen-
Ion, who have the quickness and sive zone, Berenson pointed to
puck-handling skills to create the third period of last Friday's
scoring chances. game against Notre Dame when
"We're encouraging our 'D,' sophomore defenseman Lee
like everybody, to join the rush," Moffie stepped up to challenge a
Berenson said. "We're encourag- Fighting Irish forward. Moffie's
ing our forwards to get the puck check took him out of the play
back to the 'D' (so) they can get and Notre Dame took a two-on-
shots through. ... We need scor- one rush into the Michigan zone
ing from our 'D.' to score the game-winning goal.
"I think every team values "Moffie got trapped and
defensive scoring." pinched in," Berenson said.
Berenson acknowledges that "That's a bad decision. But if
the danger of a counterattack you're jumping up with the puck,
is magnified when defensemen at least you're not trapped unless
play a larger role in the offensive you make a bad play with the
zone. If a forward doesn't pick puck. So I think it's very impor-
up his defensive assignment, an tant that you pick your spots
offensive turnover can lead to whenyoujump up."
a quality scoring chance on the For Burlon, the offensive pro-
other end of the ice. duction is nice, but it won't come
"I don't mind our defense at the expense of sound defense.
jumping up on the rush, but "Ithinkit's just pridein defense
I don't want them trapped," and taking care of the small detail
Berenson said. "For example, that will lead to offense," Burlon
one of our 'D' got trapped when said. "We watch enough video,
they scored thattwo-on-one goal we work hard in practice, it's just
on Friday night. a matter of executing."

Want professional experience in...
Advertising Sales
Account Management
Finance
Accounting
Communications
And MORE?
Then apply for
The Michigan Daily
Business Department!
Currently seeking hard-working, detail
oriented, charismatic students to fill
Account Executive positions for Winter 2011

4


s -qr



8B The Statement Wednesday, November 17, 2010
PERSONALSTATEMENT

Ntatement
NOVEMBER 17, 2010

T HE Y E AR A F TER JU NIOR Y E AR
BY A LLIE W HIT E

When my roommates and I
returned to Ann Arbor in August
of 2009, we made one thing incred-
ibly clear from the .start: the words
"senior" and "year" would not be
mentioned in the same sentence.
Ever. We insisted on referring to the
upcoming semesters as "the year after
junior year," conciseness be damned.
Our rather transparent avoidance
tactic worked well - perhaps too well
- and I found myself living my year-
after-junior-year just like I had the
"previous three: no looming deadlines,
no uncertainty about the future, no
thoughts of what I would do out in the
"real world."
Grown up, post-grad life was not
something i wanted to think about,
especially while in the midst of my
pre-grad life. I was having too much
fun as a student to worry about what
came next.
Then sometime in mid-March, I
realized that everyone around me had
a plan. Despite our tequila-induced
Welcome Week pact to avoid thoughts
of life after college, my friends had
cheated and were making moves.
Grad school applications went out,
GREs were taken, interviews con-

ducted, apartments in faraway cities
scouted, savings counted.
Unfortunately, no one was offering
me a job like they were the B-school
kids, I would have rather walked
barefoot through a winter in Ann
Arbor than gone to law school like
the rest of the English majors and the
D.C. humidity the Political Science
students would be dealing with didn't
really work for my hair.
After several blissful - albeit igno-
rant - months of unbothered living, I
quite abruptly found myself fighting
to breath under the flood of terrible,
future-less thoughts pouring in.
For a mung time, I'd been concoct-
ing a lovely image of what I wanted
my life to be like after I "made it" and
was wildly successful, respected and
adored. Now, I was faced with defin-
ing how I was going to get there and
the picture was quickly changing
from a charmed life in great shoes to
a murky grey existence wearing Crocs
in the suburbs of New Jersey under
my parents' roof.
For my entire life I had knownowhat
was coming next: kindergarten to ele-
mentary to middle to high school to
college. Simply put, there was always

a plan. After 2i years of hyper-sched-
uled living, I was being tasked with
creating my own "next" and it scared
the shit out of me.
Sure, I was a fairly smart kid with
good grades from a great school, I
had a solid background in Hellenistic
archaeology, 20th century American
"After 21 years of hyper-
Sivi ng, I w as be ing ta ske
Creating my own 'next'

Econ 101 as I wiped my self-pity tears
with the scratchy toilet paper in an
Angell Hall bathroom.
An intense blanket of regret - a
lead Snuggle, if you will - weighed on
my shoulders as I thought about the
things I should have done to improve
my chances of not only finding a job,
but finding a path. I knew what I liked
to do to, but I was at a loss when it
came to making these things tangible.
Sadly, employment search engines
don't offer "hanging out" and "not
thinking about the future" as options
on their drop-down menus.
On top of this internal tear-filled
blue period, I was also terribly aware
of the dark period the economy was
going through. To quote a May 2010
editorial on
-scheuled unernpioyment
d w ith York Times,
"For the class
~nd 1 t S-ared of 2010 these

diploma sat, useless, in a corner of my
childhood bedroom while my mom
drove me to and from work.
I had gone out of my way to avoid
thinking about post-graduation life
so long that all of my fears and uncer-
tainties about the big, bad future were
manifesting themselves in a giant,
stale-coffee-scented nightmare.
Graduation was bittersweet, as was
the summer that followed. I was still
unemployed, but I had found a way
to justify my dependency status by
enrolling in a pseudo-graduate pro-
gram in the industry I found most
intriguing. Currently, I am employed
in said intriguing industry in a job I'm
learning to enjoy.
Is this a position I can see turning
into a lifelong career? Maybe. Do I
still harbor secret dreams of becom-
ing a psychic detective? Absolutely.
Were my delusions of unemployment
and a directionless life unfounded?
Not exactly. Alittle crazy? Yes.
My situation isn't ideal, but it's
absolutely manageable and realis-
tic. Dealing with uncertainty and a
total lack of direction was terrifying,
especially when it felt like everyone
around me knew exactly what was
coming next in life. But those crying-
in-a-public-bathroom moments and
latte-infused indecision nightmares
are critical. They wake us up, dump-
ing a cold bucket of reality over our
heads. Without them, we might all
face a lifetime of Crocs.
- Allie While is a Universitly alurm
and was Ihe depaly editor ofiThe
Slatement daring winter 2010.

THIS



i


I

S

THE

ai

t he sh it o ut of m e"-
literature and the French Impression-
ist movement, but what exactly was I
supposed to do with that?
Prior to my "senior year?!" - yeah, I
said it - realization, I really felt I had
embraced what college was supposed
to be about by opting for interesting
classes rather than practical ones.
Crossword puzzles and "Jeopardy"
clues came easily as a result of my lib-
eral arts education, but not everyone
can make a living as a game show con-
testant and I mentally kicked myself
for taking History of Witchcraft over

are grim
times." Grim
times indeed,
and on so many levels.
I felt like Alice falling down the
rabbit hole, except Alice was a col-
lege graduate, the rabbit hole was our
tanking economy, Wonderland was a
cashier's job at Starbucks - if I was
lucky - and I'd never wake up from
the dream because it would turn out
to be my actual life.
Such were the morbid visions that
plagued my last months as a college
student: not only was I wearing Crocs
in New Jersey, but now they were
accessorized with a green apron as my

LAST CALL FOR HOME BREWS DROP YOUR SUBMISSION OFF AT 420 MAYNARD TOMORROW BY 4 PM.
YOUR
- BEER
HERE





I Wedesday Novmber 7, 200.//The Satemet El

statement
Magazine Editor:
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief:
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor:
Jenna Skoller
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor.
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

THECAREERISSU E
superhero career illustrations by simon borst

engineers, videographers and game/app devel-
opers, according to a study by the University
of California at San Diego. These professionals
will be called upon to design new applications
and features for even more advanced smart-
phones in the future.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics, graphic designers with experience in
website design and animation will be espe-
cially desirable in the coming years as com-
panies become more involved in interactive
media. The Bureau also states that computer
software engineer employment opportuni-
ties will increase by 32 percent from the years
2008 to 2018.
According to the Bureau, graphic design-
ers should have a bachelor's degree in graph-
ic design and be knowledgeable of computer
graphics and design software. Similarly, soft-
ware engineers need at least a bachelor's
degree in computer science, software engi-
neering or mathematics - though graduate
degrees may be preferred.
Today, the most popular smartphones
in the market are Apple's iPhone, Google's
Android and Research in Motion's Black-
berry. As companies are looking to grab hold.
of a larger market share, they will need fresh
minds to create innovative applications for
their smartphones. Who better to take on
the job than eager college graduates, ready to
tackle the new age of mobile media?

chemical from the factory or design a way
to contain the chemical from further human
contact.
Other work-related injuries or fatalities
are often caused by traffic accidents and
homicide, where bystanders like taxi drivers,
gas station employees and 24-hour conve-
nience store attendents are indirectly caught
in criminal crossfire. Construction, fishing
and mining are other occupational industries
that have high numbers of on-site accidents,
Keyserling said.
OHS specialists are important in the work-
place not only for their efforts to ensure
hazard-free work environments, but also to
minimize the costs associated with high-
risk workplaces. Keyserling explained that
when a person is injured, sick or killed on a
job, the employer is responsible for covering
that person's medical costs and loss of earned
wages through workers' compensation plans.
If OHS specialists can decrease a workplace's
risks, these potential costs to employers will
go down.
J. Paul Leigh, a professor of Public Health
Sciences at the University of California at
Davis, estimated that in 2005, the total cost
for job-related injuries and illnesses in the
United States was about $163 billion.
People who work in OHS generally come
from a background in engineering. While
the University does not have its own OHS
undergraduate major, it does have an OHS
graduate program. Keyserling said the Uni-
versity's graduate program prefers students
with backgrounds in electrical, chemical or
mechanical engineering. He added that lib-
eral arts students with a focus in math and
science are common.
Keyserling said auto companies, pharma-
ceutical companies and consulting companies
that specialize in OHS often hire graduates
from the University's OHS program.
He added that as technology develops, so
does the amount of added risks in the work-
place. OHS specialists are needed to combat
the risks associated with novel technologies.
SPANISH/ENGLISH
By the year 2020, the Hispanic population in
the United States is projected to reach 59.7
million, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
That number is expected to climb further to
102.6 million in 2050.
The U.S. Hispanic population is nowAmer-

ica's largest racial minority group and the
second largest Hispanic population outside of
Mexico. As the proportion of Spanish-speak-
ing people living in the United States increas-
es, the need for Spanish/English translators
and interpreters will become more pertinent,
especially in states with large Hispanic com-
munities like California, Texas, Florida, New
York and Illinois.
Opportunities for Spanish translation
jobs are expected to increase in the next few
decades, especially in healthcare and law,
according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics.
The Bureau also noted the many fields that
translators and interpreters can expect to
work in, including jobs in educational insti-
tutions, healthcare and social assistance,
government, interpreting and translating
agencies, publishing companies, telephone
companies and airline companies.
Trusted Translations, Inc. reports that
the U.S. Hispanic population has become a
tremendous force both in terms of consumer
trends and national, state and local politics.
Thus, translators and interpreters can also
expect to find employment opportunities in
commercial companies, advertising agencies
and in politics.
Students interested in pursuing a career
in this field must be fluent and well-read in
at least two different languages. Students
are encouraged to spend time abroad and to
talk directly to people native in the languages
in which they are fluent. Many companies,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
prefer people with experience and a degree
in translation studies.
While a job as a translator and an interpret-
er go hand in hand, they are inherently differ-
ent jobs. Traditionally, translators specialize
in transferring written words to a different
language. On the other hand, interpreters
work with spoken words and often converse
back-and-forth between their two languages
of expertise. Both professions however, are
not only responsible for translating between
different languages, but also for conveying
meaning, ideas and concepts.

jumped on board the sustainable bandwagon
too, seeing increases in both profitability
and community relations.
In fact, the popularity of "going green"
is so widespread that, according to a study
by the University of California at San Diego,
"by the mid-21st century, all jobs will be
green jobs."
Allison Shapiro, a student in the Univer--
sity's Erb Institute MBA/MS Program, said
publicly-traded companies especially are
adopting sustainable practices in an effort
to maximize profits and to retain investor
interests.
The greening of business is expected to
impact nearly every sector, which means
that those with a background in environ-
mental studies will have a leg up in the job
market.
Shapiro said people today are more self-
motivated to protect the environment than
they were in the past and that businesses go
green by examining their company from a
holistic perspective. Not only do actions like
recycling paper, turning off computer moni-
tors and installing energy efficient light-
bulbs matter, but a company also needs to
"engage their employees and customers and"
suppliers" to go green as well, she said.
Large and small companies in nearly
every industry are concerned with green
initiatives. Walmart, for example, is push-
ing its suppliers to reduce 20 million metric
tons of greenhouse gas emissions by 2015,
according to The Associated Press.
Since the company is such a powerhouse,
Shapiro said Walmart has been able to have a
huge impact on changing the way the private
sector considers the environment "by forc-
ing companies to meet their standards when
selling goods."
The federal government has also pledged
to become more eco-friendly, Shapiro said,
by providing energy-efficient vehicles for
government employees and implementing a
paper-saving program.
Even Facebook has launched a green cam-
paign that involves using energy efficient
data centers, providing employee shuttle
buses to and from work, practicing water
connervation and implementing recycling
and compost programs, according to green-
biz.com.
Since companies of all types of sectors
are going green, students in all fields will
undoubtedly come face-to-face with envi-
ronmentally-friendly initiatives at their
place of work. Thus, students of all disci-
plines should be familiar with basicdsu-
tainable business practices and eco-friendly
practices.
For students who know that they will
pursue a job specifically relating to environ-
mental studies, Shapiro recommends taking
environmental science classes and environ-
mental policy classes.

Global Policy Perspectives Symposium:
International Migrations and Development

Friday, November 19th, 2010
4:00-5:30 p.m.
Ford School of Public Policy
Annenberg Auditorium
1120 Weill Hall
For info, call Zana at (734) 674-3429
Sponsored by:

David McKenzie, Panelist
Senior Economist, World Bank
Dean Yang, Panelist
Associate Professor, University of Michigan
Paolo Abarcar, Moderator
PhD Candidate, University of Michigan

WANT TO
WRITE
FOR DAILY
NEWS?
Good.
EMAIL BERMAN@
MICHIGANDAILY.
COM FOR MORE
INFORMATION

8. O HS SP EC IA LIST
Individuals in the field of occupational health
and safety are concerned with making work-
places free from injury, illness and fatality.
OHS specialists are responsible for under-
standing the risks associated with working
in different industries, as well as the ways to
prevent accidents.
Monroe Keyserling, associate director
of the University's Center for Occupational
Health and Safety Engineering, explained
that specialists in the field "try to eliminate
those exposures in the workplace that are
known to be associated with disease and
injury."
Eeynerling pointed to an excesaive rate of
cancer among factory employees an an exam-
ple of a typical problem that OHS specialists
might analyze. In this scenario, different
types of OHS specialists - epidemiologists,
toxologists and chemists - would combine
their efforts to locate the chemical linked to
the cancer, determine the rate of the chemi-
cal's exposure and either eliminate the

10. SUSTAINABLE
BUSINESS PRACTICES
Just as students at the University are
embracing the green trend by printing dou-
ble-sided, purchasing reusable water bot-
tles and actively recycling, businesses have

inernationalPoh Center

International Policy
Student.Association

LOREM IPSUM DOLOR SIT AMET. JOIN DAILY DESIGN.
For more information, e-mail design@michigandaily.com.





IM Wensdy ovme.1,200/ TeSatmn

Wednesday, November 17, 2010 The Statement 3B
news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance

.CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5B

3 DAIA MINEK

A survey conducted by the International
Data Corporation said the amount of digi-
tal data in the world will reach 1.2 zetta-
bytes by the end of 2010. A zettabyte is
1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 bytes - that's
21 zeroes worth of bytes!
With such an immense amount of available
information, there is a growing need for ana-
lysts who can sort through this data and trans-
form it into readable information - which can
then be used to analyze consumer behaviors
and other trends.
Dragomir Radev, a professor in the School
of Information, defined the job in an e-mail,
explaining that "Data Mining is a statistical
methodology for identifying patterns in data."
Data mining can be used in many occupa-
'tions. Radev wrote: "(Data mining) can be used
to find correlations between particular symp-
toms and particular diseases, between the sales
of different products, or between the prices of
different stocks."
Datamining analysts predict future situations
and behavior patterns by building models from
historical patterns and past trends. Models can
help businesses create better marketing strate-
gies, reduce costs and become more efficient.
According to Radev, data mining analysts
might examine the sales transactions in a
supermarket to find out how to increase sales.
He explained that data algorithms might dis-
cover that 75 percent of customers who buy
breakfast cereal also buy milk. To account for
this pattern, the supermarket would place their
milk next to the cereal aisle to make shopping
more convenient for customers and encourage
them to buy both cereal and milk.
Students interested in pursuing a career as
a data mining analyst should be well-versed in
algorithms, statistics and computer software.
According to a University of California at San
"Diego report, jobs in data mining are available
in advertising, fraud detection, surveillance,
web mining,probabilistic trading, riskmanage-
ment, business intelligence, scientific research
and law enforcement.

systems or "computers in'other things," said
Robert Dick, associate professor of Electri-
cal Engineering and Computer Science. Dick
explained that embedded systems "are the
specialized computers in smartphones, in
cars, in medical devices, in your kitchen and in
your child's toys."
As the amount of complex technology
increases, so does the need for embedded sys-
tem engineers. "The market size is bigger (for
embedded systems) than for general-purpose
computers and is growing faster," Dick said.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics, an increase of 295,200 software engi-
neer jobs can be expected from 2008 to 2018.
To answer this demand, companies are
looking to hire students who demonstrate a
wide expanse of knowledge in software engi-
neering and computer science. Dick said "an
engineer who understands hardware, soft-
ware, applications and people" is best suited
for this job.
He explained that a bachelor's degree in
computer engineering or computer science is
sufficient to be hired as an embedded systems
engineer and that the student must also under-
stand the social contexts and environments in
which a particular embedded system is used.
"Embedded system designers work to build
compact, complex, high-performance, inex-
pensive, low-power, real-time, reliable, secure,
wireless embedded devices quicker or better
than their competitors at other embedded sys-
tems companies," he explained.
For students interested in creating embed-
ded systems, Dick recommends that students
complete both theoretical and hands-on
coursework involving hardware and soft-
ware design. He said students specializing in
this field can expect to be hired by cell phone
companies, companies like Google and Intel
or even companies that manufacture medical
devices.

utes in 2009.
"These are exciting times for news jour-
nalism reported on the web," the study stat-
ed. "The new medium allows for much more
interactivity, as readers respond via comments
or blogs. Web/online journalists have the
opportunity to shape the future."
Online journalism allows for quick and
timely coverage. Web writers are able to keep
track of groundbreaking stories as they devel-
op. Videos, blogs and reader polls are just some
of the ways in which online journalism allows
for more creativity and interactivity than
print publications.
As online publications become the domi-
nant source for news, writers and editors with
multimedia experience are becoming more
and more valuable. Online journalists should
be familiar with interactive technologies that
combine text, graphics and sound, according
to the Bureau for Labor Statistics.
Superior candidates for feature writing for
the web should have strong writing skills typi-
cally gained through a degree in communica-
tions, journalism or English. The Bureau of
Labor Statistics recommends that applicants
be creative, curious, self-motivated, have a
strong sense of ethics and be able to perform
well under a deadline.

now in the population and not enough geri-
atric nurse practitioners, geriatric physicians
and geriatric psychiatrists," she said. "In med-
icine and in nursing, it's a big field with a lot
of need."
Struble explained that some of the main
problems the elderly face are dementia, car-
diovascular disease and cancer. She said that
40 to 50 percent of people over the age of 85
have dementia.
However, Struble said that as health care
continues to improve, people are expected to
remain healthier at much older ages.
"It's predicted that older people are going
to be healthier because of all the research and
health promotion. They will be healthier and
live longer and just have a short illness at the
end," she said.
Hospitals are becoming more focused on
the growing need for geriatric health care,
Struble said. In order to gain more knowledge
of geriatrics, she said the amount of geriat-
ric material tested by the nursing boards has
increased. She also mentioned the work of the
Hartford Foundation, an organization trying
to increase the number of social workers, doc-
tors, nurses and other related professionals
trained in geriatric health care.
Struble mentioned that the University's
Program for Positive Aging works with the
U-M Depression Center, Department of Psy-
chiatry and the U-M Geriatric Center to
advance the importance of studying geriatric
mental health. According to the program's
website, the initiative strives "to bridge the
gap between existing knowledge and practice,
and to utilize promising research findings to
educate new clinical and research profession-
als, improve care, and disseminate knowledge
regarding aging and mental health locally,
statewide and nationally."

After TechCrunch wrote about a
self-published e-book "The Pedo-
phile's Guide to Love and Pleasure,"
the text shot up to Amazon's 65th
best-selling e-book before Ama-
zon took it down, leading critics to
question the site's filtering system.

A fire in the engine room caused Iceland's government is the newest The Obama administration plans
the Carnival cruise ship Splendor to country to open an inquiry into ille- to present a four-year strategy to
lose power, and 4,500 people were gal espionage by the U.S. embassy, end the U.S. combat mission in
stranded onboard for three days with though U.S. embassy officials deny Afghanistan by 2014 at a NATO
only Spam, canned crab meat and the claims. Norway, Denmark, Swe- summit this week. The plan is to
Pop-Tarts to eat until the ship was den and Finland are investigating transfer power from American
docked in the San Diego harbor. similar claims. troops to Afghan security forces.
----- --------------------- ------

In exchange for fighter jets worth
$3 billion, Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu agreed, in
talks with Secretary of State Hill-
ary Clinton, to temporarily pause
construction projects on the
West Bank.
- - - -~

5. WEB FEATURE
WRITER

6. GERIATRIC HEALTH
PROFESSIONAL
According to the Department of Health and
Human Service's Administration on Aging, in
2009 there were 39.6 million people aged 65
years and older in the United States. This num-
ber will increase to about 72.1 million people
by the year 2030. By that time, the percentage
of people aged 65 and older will be equivalent
to 19 percent the U.S. population.
The expected growth of the older popula-
tion is largely due to the aging of the baby
boomers and the higher life expectancies
made possible with improved health care.
Between the years 1946 and 1964, 77 million
babies were born during the post-World War
II boom years.
A report published by the Harvard School
of Public Health said that in 2011, the oldest of
the baby boom generation will turn 65-years
old. The report also mentioned that as the baby
boom generation grows more elderly, they can
expect to live well into their 90s.
As a greater proportion of the American
population ages, more nurses and doctors will
be necessary to care for the growing number
of elderly patients. And according to Dr. Laura
Struble, an assistant clinical professor in the
School of Nursing, there currently aren't
enough clinicians who specialize in geriatrics,
or the study of health care for those 65 and
older.
"We have a huge number of older adults

According to The Digital Future Report, 22
percent of people who still read newspapers
say that if the print edition of their newspaper
were to be terminated, they would be indif-
ferent. But although America's growing reli-
ance on the Internet has clearly had a negative
effect on newspaper publications, that hasn't
necessarily translated into a negative impact
on the journalism industry per se.
But people are still searching for quality
journalism, it's just that they're looking for it
online.
The University of Southern California's
Annenberg Center found in 2009 that Internet
users are consuming online news on average
12 minutes more a week than the year before,
up from 41 minutes a week in 2008 to 53 min-

0 111211 5 1 4 5 64P 7 w81 9 10
quotes of the week on the cheap
"Ifyou touch my junk, I'll have you arrested." job hunt on the cheap
JOHN TYNER, a passenger at Sat Diego's airport, to a TSA agent after learn-T,~~-'
ing that there wo lpbe a "groin check" during the pat-down he opted for 'arn-
rather than submitting to a full-body scan.
"We'd been told we were going to be released in 10 days
almost every 10 days for nine months.""I
PAUL CHANDLER, after being released by Somalian pirates who captured him P
and his wife, Rachel Chandler, and kept them captive for 13 months.
"Our political and religious leaders tell LGBT youth that
they have no future."
CINDY MCCAIN, wife of Sen. John McCain, in an ad made by gay rights
campaign NOH8 promoting the repeal of the "don't ask, don't tell" policy. PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY KATIE EBERTS
Her husband supports keeping the policy in place.-lA I ith Winter Break fast approaching, students of all years are expected to begin
ooking for summer internships and jobs. But interviewing can be an expensive and
stressful process, between buying suits and perfecting rdsumes, cover letters and inter-
the rules view etiquette. So, here is some advice to stop yourself from spending too much cash
before you even get the job.
One of the most expensive aspects of acquiring a job is interview attire. But there is
No. 293: No. 294: No. 295: no need to shell out too much money to suit up. Stores like H&M have suits and shirts
that look expensive but aren't, and chains like Banana Republic have so many sales and
It's too early for French fries are Going to a midnight coupons that you can get a suit that looks expensive (and is) without paying near the
Christmas music. always a communal screening of the retail price.
food - always. Harry Potter movie? As for perfecting your resume and cover letters and learning proper interview eti-
quette, there is no need to pay for a private tutor. Take advantage of the University's free
Fine. Dressing up for resources, like the Career Center and Sweetland Writing Center to make sure you secure
it? Not OK. the job of your dreams.
Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know. E-mail onthecheop@umich.edu.
by the numbers cOURTESY cONGRESSIoNAL RESEARcH SERvicE; 2009 NATIONAL SURVEY ON DRUG USE AND HEALTH
Number of legal marijuana users in Number of states with legal mari- Number in millions of illegal users who used
states with established programs. juana programs. marijuana at least one month before a 2009
survey.

7. MOBILE DEVELOPER
According to Nielsen, a global marketing
research company, 21 percent of American
wireless subscribers use a smartphone. And
they only expect that number to grow, project-
ing that by the end of 2011 smartphone sales
will outsell all other phones in the U.S. market.
Not only are more users purchasing smart-
phones, but they're consuming more data on
them as well.
The Internet and American Life Project
found that 40 percent of adults access the
Internet, e-mail or instant messaging on a
mobile phone, and 76 percent of cell phone
users now take pictures with their phones, as
opposed to the 66 percent who did in 2009.
Similarly, 38 percent of cell phone users access
the Internet on their phones, as compared to
the 25 percent who did in 2009.
The growing consumer desire for smart-
phones will result in increased employment
opportunities for graphic designers, software

4. EMBEDDED
ENGINEER
The field of embedded engineering is expand-
ing as our environment transforms into a more
advanced technological world.
Embedded engineers create embedded


46 -hp - Ndedy Noeme 17 2010 - 0 -

Wednesday, November 5g


OTCNI

FOR COLLEGE GRADS
A recent study published by the University of California at San Diego examined the top careers
for recent college grads. We profile the top 10 here.
STORY BY MALLORY BEBERMAN I ILLUSTRATIONS BY SIMON BORST I DESIGN BY HERMES RISIEN

1. HEALTH INFO TECH
This past July, President Barack Obama signed new leg-
islation that will reward hospitals that optimize their use
of electronic health records, creating a greater a need for
health information technicians.
The Department of Health and Human Services could
grant doctors and hospitals up to $27 billion over the
next 10 years to turn all of their paper medical records
into electronic ones. Furthermore, with this legislation,
doctors and hospitals that do not use electronic medi-
cal records by 2015 could face financial infractions from
Medicare.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that employ-
ment of medical records and health information techni-
cians will grow 20 percent faster than the average rate of
all other occupations through 2018.
Professionals in this field generally have an associate
degree and have strong computer software and technol-
ogy skills, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Information technicians should also be familiar with
medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, clinical
classification and coding systems.
"Health information technology makes it possible
for health care providers to better manage patient care
through secure use and sharing of health information,"
the office of the National Coordinator for Health Infor-
mation Technology's website states.
The website also says health information technology
allows hospitals to provide their patients with improved
care since electronic medical records enable doctors to
diagnose health issues faster, decrease the frequency of
medical errors and better coordinate the care they give.
Specifically, health information technicians compile
reports that detail patients' medical history, symptoms,
examination results, diagnostic tests, treatment methods
and all other relevant information. As electronic health
records are more frequently used, technicians must
understand the EHR software programs, how to main-
tain a high-level of EHR security and how to analyze the
eletronic data.

2. DATA MANAGER
Before a cancer drug can be put on the market, it must be
proven effective and beneficial to those who take it. That's
where drug testers come in.
The tiring process that is drug testing - from the time
the drug is discovered to the time it is put on the market
- usually takes 12 years, said Marleen Meyers, M.D. and
assistant professor of medicine at the New York University
Clinical Cancer Center.
Meyers explained that oncology drugs, or cancer drugs,
are developed differently than they were 30 years ago.
"Going back 30 years, they would have been drugs that
would have hit many cancers atonce," she said.
But now, she explained, the focus is on smart drugs.
"Smart drugs try to hit on particular DNA pathways in the
cell so they are formulated on individual types of cancer,"
she said.
When a drug is first discovered it is tested on lab animals,
usually rats. Meyers said that a rat is injected with cancer
and then with the new drug. A rat's liver metabolizes a drug
in a much different way than a human, she said, but none-
theless if the drug proves effective to the rats human trials
ensue.
In Phase I of human trials, Meyers said a small number
of patients - who have already tried multiple other cancer
treatments in the past - are enrolled in the study.
"The goal is not to see whether (the drug) works or not,
but rather the goal is to see the maximum tolerated dose at
which more people do well than have severe side effects,"
she said.
Phase Itrials willusuallynot directly benefitthe patients,
but might benefit others in the future, she added.
If people are found to tolerate the drug, Phase II trials
begin. According to Meyers, Phase II is concerned with
discovering if the drug works, and involves a larger subject
pool of people who have not undergone as manyothertreat-
ments. Phase III of the process involves comparing the new
drug to drugs already on the market, and explores whether
the new drug will be cost effective and improve someone's
life span more than drugs already available.

Data managers, who conduct clinical trial designs for the
testing of oncology drugs, are responsible for supervising
the trials. Meyers said their job usually includes working
with statisticians to analyze results, communicating with
patients about the studies, keeping the data organized,
making sure people get their lab tests and CAT scans done
on time and making sure to follow up on patients' progress.
"If we have a data manager who is collecting data in a
sloppy way and we are being funded by a grant from a pri-
vate corporation, they will take the grant away," she said.
"We rely really heavilyon the data managers and the people
who are working with the clinical trial design not only to
make sure that (the study) will say something real but also
to be excessively precise with what's happening with the
data."
The need for more data managers andother professionals
involved in clinical trials is important for a number of rea-
sons. Meyers said that because it takes so long for a drug to
be released to the market, the public is "clamoring for ways
that we can move this process along." one possible solution
is to change the emphasis of drug trials from a crude obser-
vation of how long people can live after they take the drug,
to a more sensitive method of looking at the changes of a
person's individual tumor as it is being treated. This indi-
viduated and more specific approach requires more person-
nel than the current studies do, she said.
A second reason for the increased need for data manag-
ers in clinical trial design is because of the policy changes
in health care and funding. Meyers said that, as insurance
changes, drug companies will need to provide insurance
companies with proof that these drugs are worth the extra
money to test them.
For students interested in pursuing a career in clinical
trials design and management for oncology, Meyers recom-
mends taking classes in biology, genetics, chemistry and
statistics. She also said that students should be comfortable
talkingto sick people because this job entails a lot of direct-
patient contact.
Continued on Page 6B

w


7. HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNICIAN 2. DATA MANAGER 3. DATA MINER 4. EMBEDDED ENGINEER 5. WEB FEATURE WRITER
. GERIATRIC HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL 7. MOBILE MEDIA DEVELOPER 8. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY SPECIALIST
9. SPANISH/ENGLISH TRANSLATOR 10. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES


