From the Daily: By stuffing our Thanksgiving break,
the 'U' squashes students' time at home. ) PAGE 4

uueing co
Joe Staplet
takes on TI
Lantern's
Meisel. )'

Sarah Palin's Alaska would be better
without Sarah Palin. PAGE 5

I

be 13id~i~a3an 0ai1j

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, November 24, 2010

michigandaily.com

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASEMBILY
Official says
open housing
unlikely to be
option for fall
Open housing group sign up, we have a marketing peri-
od where we let people know what
submitted proposal to expect, what we're offering.
And prior to that we have to get the
yesterday asking computer set, so that the rooms are
all typed."
for fall launch Newman said she had not seen
the open housing proposal -
By ROBIN VEECK which has been in the works for
Daily StaffReporter months - though MSA represen-
tative and Open Housing Initia-
A University official told mem- tive member Allison Horky said
bers of the Open Housing Ini- the report was sent out yesterday
tiative at last night's Michigan before the meeting.
Student Assembly meeting that it's "I haven't seen it. I haven't
unlikely an open housing option received it," Newman said of the
will be offered to University Hous- proposal at last night's meet-
ing residents next fall. ing. "It's really hard for me to
Members of the Open Housing tell you what the process will be
Initiative submitted a proposal to when I don't know what it is. It's
University Housing yesterday, ret- really hard to develop a response
ommending that gender-neutral when you don't know what you're
housing be offered in residence responding to."
halls beginning next fall. Despite Horky said she was confused
enthusiasm from various MSA by the meeting's developments
members and others in the campus because she thought Newman was
community, Director of Univer- in the loop throughout the propos-
sity Housing Linda Newman, who al process.
answered questions about resi- "Essentially, we've given the
dence hall policies at last night's proposal to the administrators to
meeting, was less than optimistic look through, and then we'll kind
about the proposed timeframe. of sit down and talk. about all the
"Well, typically we always do ideas and hopefully the students
the room sign-up for returning will continue to be in the driver's
students in late January," New- seat," Horky said. "The adminis-
man said in an interview after last trators are really receptive to our
night's meeting. "Before people See HOUSING, Page 3

;
:
! U II II ,.

MAX COLLINS/Daily
The first completed public art installation funded by the Public Art Ordinance yesterday. The program takes one percent from capital projects and sets the lunds aside
for public art. This sculpture is located at West Park on the corner of Seventh Street and Miller Road and will be recognized at the park's opening this spring.
"
ItCThe costof culture:Ct brass
at odds. over public art policy

Ordinance requires
one percent of cost
of capital projects to
be set aside for art
By ELYANA TWIGGS
DailyStaffReporter
Following in the model of cit-
ies like Seattle and Portland, Ann
Arbor established a program to
use city funds to promote pub-
lic art three years ago. But with

only one project completed and a
controversial installation in the
works, some city officials are say-
ing the program may not be a wor-
thy use of public money.
The Ann Arbor Public Art Com-
mission, started in 2007, is funded
through the Chapter 24 Public
Art Ordinance, which allocates
one percent of every capital proj-
ect estimate to the installation of a
public art piece. Ann Arbor is the
only city to have a program of this
kind in the state.
Margaret Parker, chair of
AAPAC, said despite criticisms,

the program is something the
community needs.
"You don't just stay alive by just
by having a job," Parker said. "You
need the things that feed your
spirit and your soul."
Public art, she says, is some-
thing available to the community
24 hours a day, seven days a week
to every person who visits Ann
Arbor.
"It is important for kids to see
that their community values art,"
Parker said. "To have art in your
community all the time really
says that arts and culture and the

spiritual end of communication is
just as important as buildings and
commerce and education."
According to Parker, Seattle,
San Francisco, Los Angeles, Port-
land and the states of Maine and
Ohio all have seen rewarding
results from their Percent for Art
programs. She said that these cit-
ies have been implementing the
art programs for the last 30 years.
The first completed public art
piece funded through the pro-
gram in Ann Arbor is located at
West Park on the corner of Sev-
See ART, Page 3


FRIENDS AND - FINALLY - FOOD

UNIVERSITY HEALTH SYSTEM
New clinic aims to provide
consistent care for students

Clinic for Crohn's,
colitis patients
is open every
other Friday
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
Daily StaffReporter
University doctors Ellen Zim-
mermann and Michael Rice, phy-
sicians of internal medicine for
the University Health System,
have teamed up to offer medi-
cal care to students with Crohn's

disease and ulcerative colitis in
a new clinic located inside the
Taubman Health Care Center.
Often diagnosed in young
adults, Crohn's disease and ulcer-
ative colitis are two inflammatory
bowel diseases that affect the
gastrointestinal tract and colon,"'
respectively. While there is no
cure for either condition, botl
can be treated with medication,
surgery or changes in diet accord-
ing to the UHS website.'
The clinic, which is open in the
morning on the second and fourth
Friday of each month, offers
various treatment and therapy

options exclusively to University
stud _nts. The gastroenterology
department of the University hos-
pital also maintains general, mul-
tidisciplinary and pediatric IBD
clinics that are open throughout
the week.
Rice; who is a gastroenterolo-
gist and IBD specialist, said the
clinic provides consistent care for
patients who are going through a
time of large-scale change.
"(College) is an unusual time
of transition ... you no longer have
the direct support of your parents
or your gastroenterologist," he
See CLINIC, Page 3

Students participate in the Muslim Students' Association's Fast-a-thon in West Quad yesterday. Participants fasted from sunrise to
sunset and came together for dinner following the fast. All proceeds from the event went toward relief for Pakistan flood victims.
CAMPUS SERVICES
Online, Sweetland Center tries
to keep that in-person feeling

A GREENER UNIVERSITY
Filling up without the tilt: New water
stations offer quick pour, less hassle

With SyncOWL,
tutors comment on-
papers in real time
By SABIRA KHAN
Daily StaffReporter
Most students wouldn't imagine
getting help on a paper from the .
Sweetland Writing Center in their

pajamas. But thanks to a new pro-
gram from the tutoring hub, stu-
dents can now get interactive help
straight from their bedrooms.
In an effort to become more
accessible to students, the Sweet-
land Writing Center introduced
SyncOWL at the start of the fall
semester. SyncOWL, an offshoot
of the Online Writing Lab, allows
students to "get the benefits of a
face to face tutoring session with-

outleaving (their) room (and) meet
with a Peer Tutor online to get
help with (their) writing," accord-
ing to the program's website.
SyncOWL allows students to
have web conferences with Sweet-
land Center's peer tutors and have
their papers edited in real time.
SyncOWL sessions use Google
Docs, an online word-processing
program that allows for both
See SWEETLAND, Page 3

Bottle filling spots
in Angell Hall,
Union part of 'U'
green effort
By JORDAN ROCHELSON
Daily StaffReporter
Don't call it a water fountain.
In many buildings across campus

the spots where students cangrab
a quick drink have been trans-
formed into water refill stations.
The refill stations, which are in
the Michigan Union and Angell
Hall among other locations, were
created in an attempt to curb
the campus community's use of
single-usage water bottles and
the effect this has on the environ-
ment and are partof a larger cam-
pus sustainability effort. Planet
Blue, a University program that

works to make the campus more
environmentally friendly, is the
organization behind the water
refill stations.
Andrew Berki, manager of the
University's Office of Campus
Sustainability, said the water
refill stations have been very suc-
cessful since they were installed
earlier this fall.
"We've had terrific response
from the community on these
See WATER; Page 3



WEATHER HI: 45
TOMORROW Lo 24

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Henning clarifies comments on Rodriguez firing.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEWS ..................................2 ARTS.. . . . ........ 5
Vol. CXXI, No. 55 AP NEW S .............................3 CLASSIFIED S......................... 6
2010 TheMichigan Daly OPINION.............. .4 SPORT .....7
michigandoily.cvn,

I


0

2 - Wednesday, November 24, 2010

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths
Wisdom throng
Chemistry and Macromolecular Now in its second y
Science and Engineering Assistant said she's continually
Professor Anne McNeil is taking her improve the project and
teaching talents beyond University for students. The next st
lecture halls. With her Wikipedia is to get undergraduates
revision project, she's trying to help "Instead of having (
teach the world. an entire site, they'll id
The project, which is currently thing they can add," she,
available to two of her graduate Though McNeil's
classes, gives teams of students the focused on Wikipedia,l
opportunity to develop Wikipedia field of interest is scienc
web pages that effectively commu- began studying at a you
nicate a topic of interest to an audi- said she enjoyed reading
ence. McNeil said that the challenges science and performingE
include selecting appropriate infor- at home as her fascir
mation to share and following Wiki- chemistry grew.
pedia's style guidelines. "(Chemistry) appeal
"I thought, 'we don't teach grad because I could under
students how to communicate some- thing at the molecular
thing they're learning with their said.
parents or friends,"' she said. "This Her desire to teach
project's goal is to get people to fig- arose once she enter
ure out how to take an advanced McNeil said a series o
concept ... and explain it in layman's fessors at the College o
terms." Mary, where she got her
CRIME NOTES
Masturbator Lock can't stop
strokes again textbook thief

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

hWikip e dia
ear, McNeil uate degree, inspired her to follow in
working to their footsteps.
make it fun "I felt drawn to teaching," she
tep, she said, said. "Even when I doubted it, it
involved. would always pull me back."
them) revise Today, McNeil teaches under-
entify some- graduates and graduates in and out
explained. of the classroom. In her research lab
project is in the Chemistry Building, she leads
her primary 11 students on projects involving
e, a topic she the creation of organic materials. In
ung age. She years to come, these materials may
books about be useful in the fields of medicine
experiments and renewable energy, she said.
nation with Lookingto the future, she said she
hopes to involve more undergradu-
led to me ates in her research, inspiring in
stand every- them her own love for science.
level," she "I'm always on the lookout for
talented students," she said. "I
the subject find students develop more, and
red college. more passion comes out, when they
f good pro- start (researching) earlier in their
f William & careers."
r undergrad- - CLAIRE GOSCICKI

ARIOND05/Day
Engineering Assistant Prof. Anne McNeil oversees a project
in which graduate students develop Wikipedia web pages to
cover and conwunicate an issue of interest.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun.-Thurs.11a.m.-2a.m.
734-418-4115 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportsSection sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman ManagingNews Editor Berman@michigandaily.com
SNONEWS EDIORS Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Krm,,osph 5.iht,,rn,VeroicaMnldi,Elyarn Twggs
Rachel Van Gilder ditorial ag Edto r vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANTE DITOR IAL PAGE EDITORS:WillButler, WillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANTSPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes,Stephen Nesbitt,LukePasch,ZakPyzik,Amy
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIvOuATS EITOS:Crlnlreki,Andrre ai, JefflSardf
SSSTANRTSREr S:rsyAr h uLeah Burgine Saron Jacobs,savirShekhar
PandeyDavid Tao
Max Collins and photo@michigandaily.com
Sam Wolson ManagingPbototEditors
SNOPH"T EDITOAv lon,,oEMarissaMcClain
ASSIS'TANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaily.com
Sarah Squire ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Maya Friedman
Tror taltro M EgazieETditnn calero@xichigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
AdiWollstein copychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Sales Manager
S CNEv MANAGER:GSepanieBowker
Hillary Szawala classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian ProductionManager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler circulation Manager
Zach Yancer WebProject Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wintrerms bystudentsat the University of Michigan.Onecopyis availablefree of charge to all
readers.Additionalcopies may bepickedupat the Daily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsfor fall term,
starting in September, viaU S.mail are $110. Winter term(anuary through April) is $115, yearlong
(September through Apri)is$195.University affiliatesaresubject toareducedsubscriptionrate.
On-campussubscriptionsforfall termare$35.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.TheMichiganDaily
sa memberof TheAssociatedPressand TheAssociated CollegiatePress.

40

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Oxford Housing
WHEN: Tuesday at about
12:30 a.m.
WHAT: A man was witnessed
peering into a study room win-
dow while masturbating, Uni-
versity Police reported. This
is the second time the suspect
has been seen outside a study
room masturbating.

WHERE: Hutchins Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 8
p.m.
WHAT: A female student's
textbooks were stolen from a
closed locker, University Police
reported. The lock was not
damaged.

LGBT Saturday
WHAT: Members of the
LGBT community are
invited to come hang out,
cook, eat and play games.
All who are interested are
welcome. Activities vary.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Saturday evening
WHERE: Canterbury House

Cell phone taken Fence top razed Art of Simon
f b k kWH ERE: Towsley Center for
from backpack Children Dybbroe Moller
rroiTN d bisrrAyaaooos'rrao

Anxiety
management
WHAT: Sessions geared
toward helping students
sufferingfrom anxiety
caused by school, relation-
ships or any other issue.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today at 4:15 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Room 3100
CORRECTIONS
" A Nov.23 article in The
Michigan Daily ("Some-
bodyneeds to stop Ke$ha
now") attributed lyrics
to the wrong song by
pop artist Ke$ha. The
lyrics "Ijust can't date
a dude with a vag" are
from "Grow a Pear."
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

The Chicago Commission
on Animal Care and Con-
trol has released a coyote
in the downtown area to moni-
tor rodent populations in the
city, Chicago Breaking News
reported. The coyote is fitted
with a GPS tracking system.
The Michigan football
team hasn't defeated Ohio
State since 2003, when
quarterback John Navarre led
the Wolverines to a 35-21 vic-
tory. It was the tOOth meeting
in the storied rivalry.
>>FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE8
3Scientists at Oxford Uni-
versity have determined
that dogs have been able
to develop larger brains than
cats because of their more
social behavior, The Telegraph
reported. Cats were believed
previously to be more intel-
ligent, because they required
less owner attention.

WHERE: Duderstadt Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about 2:15
WHAT: A male student
reported his cell phone was
stolen from his backpack when
he left it unattended, Univer-
sity Police reported.

wH EN: monaay at anout 4:30
p.m.
WHAT: The top of a fence was
broken and pulled apart from
its sides, with an estimated
damage of $200, University
Police reported. The incident is
under investigation, there are
no suspects.

WHAT: As the Danish
artist's first solo exhibit
in North America, Moller
explores the modernist para-
digm of transparency in a
series of sculptures accom-
panied by a wall painting.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art
WHEN: Today at 10 a.m.
WHERE: University of
Michigan Museum of Art

MORE ONLINE
LoveCrimeNotes?Getmoreonlineatmichigandaily.com/blogs/TheWire

Snyder's cabinet
prepares for big

social media push
Mich. governor looks cratic opponent Virg Bernero. this is a way for the public to see
t h iIn turning to social media for what I'm doing," said Calley, who
to reach constituents his official duties, Snyder is follow- recently posted a photo of his
through Facebook ing a handful of other governors young daughter and the results of
already active on the Internet. her heart surgery. He says he uses
and Twitter Massachusetts Gov. Deval Facebook "as a tool toform a closer
Patrick tweets, has a Facebook relationship with my constituents,
page and puts videos on YouTube showing I'm just a regular person
LANSING, Mich. (AP) - Rick and photos on Flickr to tell citi- with a real life."
Snyder says he won't be giving up zens what's happening. So does The 33-year-old lawmaker said
the mantle of "one tough nerd" Nebraska Gov. Dave Heineman of he also gets a sense of what con-
when he becomes Michigan gov- Nebraska, whose Facebook page stituents are thinking from the
ernor next year. shows him and his wife recently comments and e-mails they send
The "techie" and former presi- announcing their inauguration to his Facebook page. He expects
dent of computer maker Gateway plans. Delaware Gov. Jack Markell that will be a major help for the
Inc. transformed himself from a posts his weekly addresses on new Snyder administration as it
relatively unknown Ann Arbor iTunes. Utah Gov. Gary Herbert tries to restructure not only the
venture capitalist to governor- tweeted Friday he was "chatting budget and state government but
elect during his first run for public with President George W. Bush as Michigan's entire economy.
office largely through the use of he signs copies of'Decision Points' "It can be a way to connect peo-
social media and a savvy television in Sandy." ple to information that they other-
ad campaign. That's different from the way wise wouldn't just naturally come
Now, the Republican wants to state government traditionally has across," Calley said. "It's not like
use those tools to reach Michigan used the Internet to let citizens people tool around (the official
citizens as he tries to reinvent the renew their vehicle registrations Michigan website). for fun. People
economically troubled state in online, reserve a state park camp- do tool around Facebook for fun."
a far more interactive way than site or check whether a building Tom Shields of Lansing-based
Democratic Gov. Jennifer Gra- contractor's license has been sus- Marketing Resources Group sees
nholm, who tweets but doesn't pended, said Nicco Mele, a social social media as a crucial part of
interact with citizens through media expert at the Shorenstein any public relations campaign but
Facebook. Center in Harvard University's says it has its limits.
Snyder promises citizens will be Kennedy School of Government. Even with more than 37,000
able to find out how much the state He expects social media will fans on Snyder's Facebook page,
is spending on everything from transform the way citizens inter- there are still 9.5 million Michi-
public education to prisons and flu act with government. gan residents he'll have to reach in
vaccines through an easily under- "Using the Internet in ways to some other fashion.
standable budget spreadsheet really engage people online, to "You can't forgo the usual media
posted online. He already is wel- get their increased involvement, ways of reaching people, or you'll
coming job applicants and ideas to create value in different ways, miss 80 percent," Shields said.
on how state government can run to shape how you think about and Still, he sees a lot of advantages
better on his transition website. approach issues, that is really the in using social media for the new
And he hired a communications new piece of this, the piece that's governor and his administration,
director who has a record of using just starting to emerge," Mele especially if Snyder feels his mes-
Facebook and Twitter to make said. "This is like when Gutenberg sage is getting bogged down in the
government more accessible. handed the first printed Bible to Legislature and wants citizens to
It's a page right out of the one of the clergy." call lawmakers and complain.
campaign. With the help of New Michigan Lt. Gov.-elect Brian "The whole idea of social media
Hampshire-based social media Calley already uses his personal is you don't go through the filters
consultant Chris Stewart, Snyder Facebook page to talk about what of legislators or the traditional
put up a dynamic campaign web- he's doing in his job as a state media," Shields said.
site and tweeted as "onetough- representative, such as meeting Stewart at b-fresh consulting
nerd." More than 37,000 people with Iraq's investment minister, a expects Snyder will check citi-
have clicked "like" on his cam- Michigan State University gradu- zens' comments often once he gets
paign Facebook page - exceed- ate who wants Michigan compa- his official Facebook and Twitter
ing the combined total for his four nies to invest in his country. sites running as governor, just as
GOP primary rivals and Demo- "I work for the public, and he did while a candidate.

0

A TSA officer searches a passenger at a security check-point at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport on Nov. 19. There are new
requirements at some U.S. airports that air passengers must pass through full-body scanners that produce a virtually naked images.
Don't touch m jun TS
workers face opposition

Amid debate over
privacy invasion,
TSA officials stress
importance of safety
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) - They've
been called molesters, threatened
with violence and ordered not
to touch "my junk." One woman
headbutted a TSA officer who
was searching her laptop. Other
screeners report being punched,
kicked and shoved during pat-
downs. Security officers know the
new searches are more invasive
but want Thanksgiving travelers
tokeep in mind they arejust doing
their jobs to keep people safe.
"We just want the public to
understand that we're not per-
verts," said screener Ricky D.
McCoy, who heads a local TSA
union for Illinois and Wisconsin.
TSA chief John Pistole has
heard the complaints and seemed
more open to trying to balance
safety with invading people's pri-
vacy with the pat-downs.
"We are exploring again ways
that they might be less invasive
and yet with the same outcomes

in terms of detection, but that
is really the challenge that we
have and that dynamic tension
between security and privacy and
reasonable people can disagree as
to exactly where that blend is as it
relates to you as a passenger," Pis-
tole told reporters Tuesday.
To be sure, most passengers
are docile when going through
an airport's security checkpoint,
though McCoy said the atmo-
sphere has changed in the past
two weeks.
Last week, for instance, McCoy
explained the search to a passen-
ger.
"The guy looked me straight in
the face and said, 'I don't know
what I might do to you if you
touch me,"' said McCoy.
McCoy stared the man down
and told the passenger that touch-
ing an officer would be the worst
mistake he's ever made because
authorities would be called. The
search went smoothly.
"About 10 minutes later his wife
came back and apologized for
what he said," McCoy said.
The new pat-downs began
about a month ago, and early on,
an officer was assaulted. Since
the story made headlines, McCoy

said officers atleast six times have
been punched, pushed or shoved
after they explained what would
be happening.
He blamed TSA for the uproar,
saying the agency didn't reach out
to passengers enough.
"We have major problems
because basically TSA never
educated the public on what was
going on," McCoy said. "Our agen-
cy pretty much just threw the new
search techniques out there."
The collective unease of some
Americans over possible inva-
sions of privacy, intimate touch-
ing and general discomfort have
led to a near-instant backlash.
News stories and videos of dis-
abled passengers and children
being screened aggressively
haven't helped, either.
The nation has also paused to
laugh. After all, this is the news
story that spawned the phrase:
"Don't touch my junk."
Those words were made
famous a week ago by a Southern
California man who uttered them
to a TSA officer while captur-
ing the verbal showdown on his
iPhone. A Google search of the
phrase on Tuesday registered 4.2
million hits.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 24, 2010 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November 24, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
EAST LANSING, Mich.
Magic Johnson to
give Michigan State
commencement
Michigan State University says
former basketball star Earvin
"Magic" Johnson will be one of
three speakers for the school's
December commencement ceremo-
nies.
The ceremonies are to be held
Dec. 10-11 at the Breslin Center.
The East Lansing school said
yesterday Johnson will speak at
the 10 a.m. ceremony on Dec.11 and
also receive an honorary doctor of
business degree.
Also at that ceremony, Detroit
Symphony Orchestra music direc-
tor Leonard Slatkin will receive an
honorary doctorate of fine arts.
The other two commencement
speakers are General Electric Co.
Chairman Jeff Immelt and Indiana
University political science profes-
sor Elinor Ostrom.
LITTLE ROCK, Arkansas
Arkansas man sues
TSA for invasive
full-body scans
An Arkansas man has filed a
federal lawsuit against the Trans-
portation Security Administration,
claiming that the agency's new
screening rules are detrimental to
his "emotional, psychological and
mental well-being."
Robert Dean filed the lawsuit
Monday in federal court in Little
Rock, even though the Little Rock
National Airport does not yet have
the full-body scanners that have
drawn criticism throughout the
' country. Dean's lawsuit asks a fed-
eral judge to issue an injunction
stopping the TSA from conducting
full-body pat-down searches and
using the full-body imaging scan-
ners.
The lawsuit claims that the
new practices violate Dean's civil
rights and his Fourth Amendment
right protecting against unlawful
searches and seizures.
TSA says it does not comment on
pendinglitigation.
SAN ANTONIO, Texas
Former priest
accused of hiring
hitman
In a murder-for-hire case wor-
thy of a Dan Brown novel, a Roman
Catholic priest has been arrested
on charges that he solicited a hit
man to kill a teenager who had
accused him of sexual abuse.
Authorities said John Fiala first
offered the job to a neighbor, who
blew the whistle and helped police
arrange a sting. They said Fiala got
as far as negotiating a $5,000 price
for the slaying before investigators
moved in.
The 52-year-old clergyman
was arrested Nov. 18 at his sub-
urban Dallas home and jailed on
$700,000 bond. In April, he was
named in a lawsuit filed by the
boy's family, who accused Fiala

of molesting the youth, including
twice forcing him to have sex at
gunpoint.
The abuse allegedly took place
in 2007 and 2008, when Fiala
was a priest at the Sacred Heart
of Mary Parish in the West Texas
community of Rocksprings, a rural
enclave known for sheep and goat.
herding.
The family's lawsuit also named
the Archdiocese of San Antonio
and Archbishop Jose Gomez, alleg-
ing that church leadership should
have known Fiala was abusive.
GREYMOUTH, New Zealand
Rescuers begin to
dig for abandoned
minors after blast
Rescuers have drilled through
to the main tunnel at the New Zea-
land coal mine where 29 miners
were caught in a methane-fueled
explosion last week. They have not
been heard from since.
The drill hole, reaching 530 feet
(162-meters), into the mine has
broken through, causing "hot air
and gases to rush up," Pike River
Coal Ltd. chairman John Dow said
today.
Rescuers began immediately
sampling gas rising from the hole,
located near where some miners
were working when the blast hap-
pened on Friday. Rescuers plan to
put a video camera down the hole
to look for signs of the missing
miners.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

HOUSING
From Page 1
ideas and what we have to say."
The submitted proposal recom-
mended that returning students
be given the option to select a
roommate of the opposite gender
or unidentified gender for Fall
2011.
The proposal also included
results from a campus survey that
indicated that the majority of resi-
dence hall residents support open
housing, as well as student anec-
dotes supporting the initiative
and information on other insti-
tutions that offer gender-neutral
housing.
MSA passed a resolution in
December 2009 urging the Uni-
versity to support a gender-neu-
tral housing option. In April, the
Residence Halls Association also
voted to support the initiative.
At last night's meeting, New-
man also fielded questions about
the possibility of re-introducing
Saturday night meals in the din-
ing halls - one of the main cam-
paign platforms of the MForward
party and of MSA President Chris
Armstrong during last winter's
election cycle.
CLINIC
From Page 1
said. "Your physician may not be
as readily available."
By communicating with a
patient's primary physician, Rice
said clinic officials can arrange
for care for the patients over the
course of the school year and into
the summer. In addition, the clinic
could also arrange for care after
graduation.
Rice added that University
specialists encourage students to
educate themselves and take own-
ership of their disease so that they
can remain in control of their IBD
and ensure their success in col-
lege.
Members of the Crohn's & Coli-
tis Student Initiative, a support
group made up of undergraduate
and graduate students, have pro-
moted the clinic within the group
as a valuable resource for manag-
ing inflammatory bowel condi-
tions.
LSA senior Elan Green, the
club's president, said in an inter-
view with The Michigan Daily last
month that students with Crohn's
or ulcerative colitis may not be
aware of the resources available
for them on campus. Green said

"I think it's very clear that
there's a sizeable portion of stu-
dents who are here on the week-
end who really would like to see
Saturday night dining," Newman
said in an interview after the
meeting. "And so we want to work
with the students to figure out
how we can do that."
Newman and Trevor Grieb,
president of the Residential Hall
Association, said MSA members
and other interested students cur-
rently have limited options for
working on the Saturday night
dining initiative. Grieb said the
proposed changes to the budget
would have to come from an RHA
committee, requiring "unprec-
edented" action from University
housing residents.
Currently, only current resi-
dents in University housing can
attend RHA meetings, so this pro-
cedure would exclude the major-
ity of MSA members - many of
whom live off campus.
Newman noted that $35,000
would have to be re-allocated for
Saturday night dining to be suc-
cessfully implemented.
"We can provide Saturday
night dining, we just need to make
choices," she said.
he hopes to raise awareness about
these resources.
"We've been able to help pro-
vide support for each other ... and
also provide information," he said.
A student - who wished to
remain anonymous to protect the
details of the illness - has vis-
ited the clinic once for a check-
up. Despite a considerable wait
prior to beingseen by a doctor, the
student is grateful for the clinic's
presence on campus.
"Being away from home, it's
nice to have a place to go (for
treatment) on campus," the stu-
dent said.
The student added that she
plans to visit the clinic again soon.
Rice said the clinic has poten-
tial to grow in the months to come
and may be able to expand its
hours of operations and its num-
ber of staff. Currently, he said the
clinic sees about eight patients per
morning.
"Our goal is to include a nutri-
tionist to address specific needs
related to IBD and nutrition," he
said.
Rice, who added that he would
like to see a behavioral psycholo-
gist available, said he envisions
the clinic as a "one-stop shop" for
affected people in the University
community.

Obama pledges to defend
S. Korea from N. Korea

Obama: U.S. will
stand 'shoulder to
shoulder' with ally
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama yesterday
pledged the United States would
stand "shoulder to shoulder" with
South Korea after what the White
House branded a provocative, out-
rageous attack by North Korea on
its neighbor. Its options limited,
the U.S. sought a diplomatic rath-
er a military response to one of the
most ominous clashes between
the Koreas in decades.
"South Korea is our ally. It
has been since the Korean war,"
Obama said in his first comments
about the North Korean shelling
of a South Korean island early yes-
terday. "And we strongly affirm
our commitment to defend South
Korea as partof that alliance."
Working to head off any esca-
lation, the U.S. did not reposi-
tion any of its 29,000 troops in
the South or make other military
moves after North Korea fired sal-
vos of shells into the island, set-
ting off an artillery duel between

the two sides.
The president, speaking to ABC
News, would not speculate when
asked about military options.
Obama called South Korean
President Lee Myung-bak later
Tuesday night, saying the U.S.
would work with the interna-
tional community to strongly con-
demn the attack that killed the
two South Koreans and injured
many more, the White House said.
The White House said the two
presidents agreedtoholdcombined
military exercises and enhanced
training in the days ahead to con-
tinue the closensecurity cooperation
between the two countries.
Obama assured Lee that "the
United States stands shoulder to
shoulder with ourclose friend and
ally, the Republic of Korea," the
White House statement said.
"President Obama said that
North Korea must stop its pro-
vocative actions, which will only
lead to further isolation, and fully
abide by the terms of the armi-
stice agreement and its obliga-
tions under international law," the
statement said.
The U.S. has relatively few
options when dealing with the

Pyongyang government. Military
action is particularly unappeal-
ing, since the unpredictable North
possesses crude nuclear weapons
as well as a huge standing army.
North Korea exists largely outside
the system of international finan-
cial and diplomatic institutions
that the U.S. has used as lever-
age in dealing with other hostile
countries, including Iran.
North Korea has also resist-
ed pressure from its major ally,
China, which appears to be ner-
vous about the signs of instability
in its neighbor.
"We strongly condemn the
attack and we are rallying the
international community to put
pressure on North Korea," Obama
said in the ABC interview, specifi-
cally citing the need for China's
help. Obama said every nation in
the region must know "this is a
serious and ongoing threat."
An administration official said
yesterday evening that U.S. offi-
cials in Washington and in Beijing
were appealing strongly to China
to condemn the attack by arguing
that it was an act that threatened
the stability of the entire region,
not just the Korean peninsula.


ART
From Page 1
enth Street and Miller Road, and
will be recognized at the park's
reopening in the spring.
City Council member Sabra Bri-
ere (D-Ward 1) said that when she
voted on the Chapter 24 Public Art
Ordinance to implement the Per-
cent for Art program in 2007, she
did not anticipate what the pro-
gram would cost.
She added that the first project
has been "expensive" and "contro-
versial."
"Certainly I didn't know that in
three years there would be more
than $2 million put aside for art,"
she said.
Briere said there are concerns
with the program beyond expense,
adding that with so many tastes to
satisfy in the city someiay ques-
tion where their money is going.
"Expensive is perhaps the most
important part here; art is con-
troversial, and it's not always a
matter of taste - but what you do
with the money is important," she
added.
Briere said she's also not in favor
of the program's latest proposed
project, a water piece designed by
German artist Herbert Dreiseitl
which is to be placed outside the
Police Municipal building. The
project has been given a budget of
$750,000 pooled from funds set
aside from capital improvement
projects since 2005.
Briere argued against the art,
saying that a piece like the planned

Dreiseitl water art structure
wouldn't benefit the city.
"To me, that's not worth hav-
ing in place for twenty or thirty or
forty years. I would not go out of
my way to see this," she said.
Briere added that though she
would never go against the con-
cept of public art, the community
should be gaining something that
is "consistently demonstrable"
from the projects. Briere added
that the $2 million that has been
pooled for art projects so far has
the potential to go further as fund-
ing for construction projects.
"I firmly believe in public art
but I think how this has been
structured is a mistake, it's struc-
tured to take money out of funds
that I'm not really certain can go
to public art," she said.
But, Sue McCormick, Ann
Arbor public service administra-
tor, said that the Dreiseitl instal-.
lation, which features a "green"
roof that collects storm water that
the Police building accumulates,
would be worth the money.
"This particular piece of art is
going to be a landmark piece of
art," she said.
"Given the nature of the art
installation and the worldwide
renown of this artist, I think that
this range of cost is commiserate
with the type of art installation
that it is," she added.
McCormick said that the
money being allocated to this
project has many different fea-
tures, from the artist fee to
the reservoir for the rainwater
underneath the building.

"This isn't just a bronze sculp-
ture," she said.
Council member Stephen Kun-
selman, (D-Ward 3) said that
the funding recommendations to
develop the Dreiseitl public art
project were given to city staff by
the city attorney, but were kept
from other council members. Kun-
selman added the funding for the
Dreiseitl public art project is com-
prised of revenue from utility bills,
and that therefore city residents
deserve to see tangible results.
"I think that public art is good
for our community, but I don't
believe that we should fund it in
such a way that is illegal," he said.
"And until the city attorney pro-
vides a public opinion, I have to
assume that it's illegal."
Kunselman said that his senti-
ment is shared by few others on
council. He said that especially in
times of fiscal distress, it is hard
for him to hear that the city coun-
cil doesn't have enough money
when a large sum is going toward
public art.
He said he thinks that the
money could be allocated to more
pressing issues facing the city, like
homelessness.
Parker said she understands the
council members' concerns, but
she hopes they'll give the program
time to make an impact.
"Since we haven't really fin-
ished one project - we started
with a pretty big one - I don't
blame them for thinking this isn't
working," Parker said. "But I say
that we should finish the one proj-
ect anid see what they think."


SWEETLAND
From Page 1
tutors and students to view the
document at the same time in
addition to communicate via text,
video or audio.
According to Anne Gere, direc-
tor of the Sweetland Writing Cen-
ter, developing SyncOWL was a
"collaborative idea" that utilized
the resources of the entire cen-
ter. She added that it was part of
a series of efforts to incorporate
media into writing.
"We offer courses in blogging
and lots of different approaches to
using media in writing, we intro-
duced an electronic system for
making our appointments, so this
is sort of the next logical thing,"
she said.
The SyncOWL is a revision of
the original OWL program, which
allows students to submit papers
online and receive corrections and
an explanatory letter in 72 hours.
Peer tutor and LSA junior
Joshua Brady said with the OWL,
there's a "barrier" between the
writer and tutor because they
don't get the opportunity to inter-
act with each other during the edit.
"When you're actually doing
an OWL session, it's really hard
because you don't know how the
person is going to react to what
you're saying," he said. "So you
can offer comments but you don't
know if they're going to under-
stand what you're saying or maybe
you're not reading it the way they
meant to say it".
According to Brady, the Syn-
cOWL makes up for the OWL's
shortcomings because it offers the
convenience of the OWL with-
out compromising interaction
between the tutor and writer.
"There are back-and-forth con-
versations, so it's basically like a
normal tutoring session, but it's
just online," Brady said.
"The SyncOWL is more con-
venient for (the writer) because
they don't have to come into the
tutoring center, but they still get
the human interaction over the
computer, where it's easier (for
the tutors) to ask them things like
'What did you really mean here?"'
he continued.
According to Gere, Sweetland
has been able to "reach many stu-
dents" via the SyncOWL so far.
"Certainly we are getting a very
positive response," she said

Both the OWL and SyncOWL
make the Writing Center more
accessible to students because
they don't have to physically visit
the center to get help. However,
these online resources don't offer
any more flexibility for the tutors,
because they still have to work
from the center during their shifts,
Brady explained.
LSA sophomore Sarah Awad
said she's used Sweetland's walk-
in appointments for help with
many of her papers. She says that
they are a great resource for Uni-
versity students and admires the
fact that they have taken such a
proactive step to accommodate
student preferences.
"I think there is a small draw-
back, because it gets complicated
when you reference things in your
paper and it will probably be more
formal than when you are sitting
and talking to a tutor in person,"
she said. "But it is a step up from
the OWL."
However, she said one draw-
back might be that students
become entirely dependent on the
online resource.
"The only issue it might cause
is that students might get lazy and
assume that it is always available,
like put off writing papers until
later knowing that they won't have
to go to the office to get it edited,
and so Sweetland has to be really
clear about its online times," she
said.
LSA sophomore Sadie Besl
said despite the convenience, she
doesn't plan on using SyncOWL.
"I've only ever used the walk-
in appointments and they worked
well for me," Besl said.
Both Brady and Gere said they
agree that the SyncOWL would
never be able to replace the per-
sonal peer tutoring that students
can receive at the Sweetland Writ-
ing Center.
"We would always have face-
to-face as an option - justbecause
you send e-mails to your friends
doesn't mean you don't see them in
person," Gere said.
"I know you can talk over the
SyncOWL, but there's just some-
thing unparalleled about coming
into the center and interacting
with people in person - you can
put the paper in between you and
both (tutor and student can) write
on it and stuff," Brady added. "I
don't think it can ever go online
completely because a lot of people
do like coming in."


WATER
From Page1
systems," Berki said. "We've got-
ten lots of inquiries from students
wanting to put more of these on
campus.
Berki said the stations, which
allow users to set their water bot-
tles under a spout and not have to
tilt the bottle to refill, makes using
a re-usable bottle less of a hassle
for students.
"They like having the abil-
ity to fill up their containers and
not have to attempt to fill it up
at a water fountain," Berki said.
"It also tastes a little cleaner to
them."
The water, which comes from
Ann Arbor, used in the refilling
stations is municipal water that is
tested 5,000 times annually by the
city, according to a plaque next to
the refill station in Angell Hall.
The plaque lists some numbers
detailing the effects that using
bottled water has on the environ-
ment. Bottling water produces
levels of carbon dioxide similar to
the energy usage of 193,000 sin-
gle-family homes, according to the
sign. This amount of energy con-
sumption is also equal to carbon
dioxide emissions from 433,000
cars.
The plaque also notes the eco-
nomic repercussions of single-use

water bottles. The production
of single-use water bottles for
domestic consumption in one
year is equivalent to the energy of
17 million barrels of oil, the sign
states.
The refill stations are part of
a larger University goal to make
campus greener, Berki said. In
conjunction with the University's
Graham Institute, the Office of
Campus Sustainability has been
working on an initiative called
Integrated Assessment.
"It's a project to set long-term
sustainability goals for the cam-
pus," Berki said.
The program consists of profes-
sors and graduate students who
work in seven teams, each with
a different area of focus - build-
ings, transportation, purchasing
and recycling, land and water,
energy, culture and food
John Callewaert, director
of the Integrated Assessment
program, emphasized that the
program is making significant
strides when it comes to student
involvement.
According to Callewaert,
there have been "over 160 appli-
cations from students interested
in participating in the program."
LSA senior Elise McGowan
said she much prefers the new
water refill station in Angell Hall
than the regular water fountains.
"It's fun, it's fast, you can walk

by, fill it up, and go," McGowan
said. "There should be more of
them."
McGowan said she enjoys see-
ing the number of bottles being
saved every time she uses the refill
station. McGowan added that she
finds the stations easier to use
than typical water fountains.
"You don't need to worry about
tilting your bottle and only getting
it half full," she said.
The Office of Campus Sustain-
ability has plans to install more
refill stations around campus,
Berki said, specifically in places
where buildings tend to be more
reliant on bottled water.
Serving
Ann Arbor
fi since 1980
PJgs
RECORDS &
USED CDS
617 Packard
Upstairs from
Subway
Paying $4 to $6
for top CD's in
top condition.
Also buying
premium LP's
and cassettes.
Open 7 days
663-3441
The selection is
ENDLESS

44 . FREE 18K Whife
GoldPladed
Bweet/AnkI-t 6r
, 1 1FREE18K1OM
a Cleckout,
Style mayry.r
'arls
www.elliesoollection.com $16
CaCertificates avaiable for pulwea e


4 - Wednesday, November 24, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

Ste Iidig an4 aJ
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ROSE JAFFE

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

~Nis: C
rA r0
-y
G t a \, ( o o

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Extend our turkey time
'U' should schedule a longer Thanksgiving break
T hanksgiving is generally associated with eating too much
turkey and pumpkin pie and spending time with family.
But for students at the University, it's also associated with
either skipping class or being a part of the overwhelming rush to
leave campus the night before the holiday. Holding class on the
Wednesday before Thanksgiving isn't productive for students or
professors. Wednesday classes make enjoying the holiday more
difficult for the many members of the University community who
leave Ann Arbor for the long weekend. In the future, the University
should schedule Thanksgiving break to start before Wednesday
evening to allow students more time to travel home.

Suffering in silence

This year, and in years past, the Uni-
versity's Thanksgiving break begins on
Wednesday at 5 p.m. Many other peer insti-
tutions start their break earlier. The Uni-
versity of Notre Dame doesn't have class
on Wednesday this year. Neither does Pur-
due University. The University of Illinois
at Urbana-Champaign and Pennsylvania
State University get the entire week off. It's
notable that none of these schools have as
large a percentage of out-of-state students
as the University of Michigan does. ,
The fact that about a third of University
students reside out-of-state accentuates the
need for extending break. Thanksgiving
Eve and Day are usually the busiest travel
days of the year. Expecting roughly 8,000
undergraduates to start the trip back home
on the day before Thanksgiving is - at the
very least - impractical, especially since
Detroit Metro Airport is bound to be packed
and traffic on the roads will be heavy.
But this problem doesn't only affect out-
of-state students - many in-state residents
who live across Michigan face lengthy
drives home on the afternoon or night
before Thanksgiving. Cancelling class on
the Wednesday before Thanksgiving would
allow students to circumvent holiday travel
problems. Additionally, it would encourage
students to do their driving while it's still

light out, removing inexperienced drivers
from the road at night during heavy traffic.
But not all students brave classes on the
Wednesday before Thanksgiving. Many
students decide to skip class in order to allo-
cate adequate time for travel. As a result,
both students and professors lose - stu-
dents may miss important instruction and
professors aren't able to make full use of
the class days they need to teach material.
This is an unnecessary waste of resources
for all parties involved. Extending break
would eliminate these costs and increase
the efficiency of instruction at the Univer-
sity. Students wouldn't have to sacrifice a
day's tuition for a lower flight fare.
Plenty of other schools have found a way
to extend Thanksgiving break without tak-
ing away the school days required for ade-
quate instruction - the University can, too.
The day of class could be replaced at many
different places in the academic calendar.
The University could cuta day from the fall
study break or extend the semester by a day
in December.
Holding classes on the Wednesdaybefore
Thanksgiving is unnecessary and inconve-
nient. The University should explore alter-
natives to this travel hassle. Both students
and faculty would benefit from a change
that wouldn't be difficult to implement.

Raymond Chase was an aspir-
ing culinary artist. Tyler Cle-
menti was an accomplished
violinist. Asher
Brown was a
straight-A student.
Seth Walsh loved
everything about
the performing
arts. Billy Lucas
had a smile that
could light up an
entire room.
Even though NOEL
these five young GORDON
men grew up in
completely differ-_
ent parts of the
country, they each had a similar story
to tell - one that involved relent-
less bullying, endless torment and
ultimately suicide. Given the tragic
circumstances that surrounded each
of their deaths, it's not unreasonable
to think that in the final moments
of their lives, each boy could have
thought the same thing: What makes
gay life worth living?
On Tuesday, Nov. 30, Dr. John
Corvino will tackle that question. A
distinguished writer, speaker and phi-
losopher from Wayne State University,
Corvino will engage the campus com-
munity in a much-needed discussion of
what, if anything, makes gay life worth
living. He has been invited by the Cen-
ter for Ethics in Public Life to talk
about the recent spate of teen suicides
in the LGBTQ community and the
implications of this trend for everyone.
Corvino has written extensively on a
number of topics including same-sex
marriage, the philosophy of love and
the philosophy of religion. As president
of one of the organizations co-sponsor-
ing this event, Ihave no doubts that his
lecture in Rackham Auditorium will
be insightful, thought-provoking and

incredibly powerful.
Of course, all of this raises another
important question: So what? Why
should anyone attend a lecture about
a group of people who some say
make up less than five percent of the
world's population?
Consider, if you will, that Tyler
Clementi was someone's son. Asher
Brown was someone's best friend
and Billy Lucas was someone's neigh-
bor. They were no different from you
and me in the sense that they all had
dreams, hopes and aspirations. But
unfortunately, none ofthese boys will
ever have the opportunity to realize
them. Seth Walsh will never cel-
ebrate his fourteenth birthday much
in the same way that Raymond Chase
will never enjoy another summer
vacation. That should concern each
and everyone one of us.
It should concern us that these boys
took their own lives not because they
were physically or emotionally weak,
but because they were physically and
emotionally tired. They were tired of
being bullied, beaten and harassed.
They were tired of feeling helpless,
hopeless and alone. simply because
they dared to be different. Drowning
in a sea of desperation, with seemingly
no one reaching out to save them, these
young men saw suicide as the only way
out. Unfortunately, they are not alone.
Boys and girls across the country,
and indeed around the world, are suf-
fering in silence. It is estimated that
for every one suicide completed by a
young person, there are at least 100 to
200 attempts. And according to a 2006
Massachusetts Youth Risk Survey, les-
bian, gay, bisexual, transgender and
questioning (LGBTQ) youth are up
to four times more likely to attempt
suicide than their heterosexual coun-
terparts. I know the reality of these
statistics all too well. Growing up in a

predominantly white, predominantly
heterosexual suburb of Las Vegas,
Nevada, I know exactly what it's like
to feel as though you're an outsider
constantlylooking in.
Gay teens' struggle
for acceptance
must be noticed.
What makes gay life worth living?
The same thing that makes all life
worth living: the opportunity to have
a happy and meaningful existence. Of
course, what constitutes such a life
will vary from person to person. But
as University of Chicago Professor
Martha Nussbaum notes in her book
"From Disgust to Humanity," "people
have to be able to imagine what gays
and lesbians are pursuing, and see it as
relevantly similar to their own search
for personal and sexual integrity and
expression." It's only when we realize
that though you and I may differ in
our choice of sexual or marital part-
ners, at the end of the day, we are both
pursuing the same intrinsically valu-
able thing: companionship.
Like Corvino, I believe that hav-
ing open and honest discussions about
our differences will bring us one step
closer to.realizing that you and S are
nowhere near worlds apart. His lecture
will be a genuine exercise in mutual
respect and understanding. Hopefully,
by coming together in solidarity, it will
become resoundingly clear thatgay life
is indeed worth living.
- Noel Gordon can be reached
at noelaug@umich.edu.

TEDDY PAPES ,

Skip the turkey

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University
affiliation. Letters are edited for clarity, length and factual accuracy.
All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous
letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

Thanksgiving is the holiday that embod-
ies all the pastimes of the U.S. We overeat,
we drink, we watch football and we eat tur-
key. Fortunately the holiday has already been
drained of all of its religious affiliations. The
overeating is fine, football is okay if we get rid
of head injuries and alcohol only hurts the con-
sumer - but we need to give up the turkey.
If all goes according to plan, President
Barack Obama will pardon a turkey around
Thanksgiving. But this practice shouldn't be
reserved for the White House. About 45 mil-
lion turkeys are killed every year for Thanks-
giving Day alone (billions of animals are killed
in the U.S. each year for human consumption).
These are statistics that are shocking and each
person can reduce them by abstaining from
eating meat.
For the majority, humans are speciest: that
is, they value a certain species (human) more
than other species for no legitimate reason. It's
a morally deficientbelief that's just as unfound-
ed as valuing men more than women or whites
more than blacks. Genetic differentiation isn't
a basis for different treatment.
Higher intelligence is often cited as a reason
that people value humans more than other ani-
mals. But this is only calculated when humans
compare ourselves to other species. It's there-
fore speciest. Intelligence gaps have no dis-
tinction among different humans. Mentally
disabled people have the same rights as those
with extreme intelligence - and this is surely
the moral way to conduct our society. So why
do we make exceptions for animals?
Another argument could be that animals' cog-
nitive function is so low that they don't deserve
our consideration. Yet, our society extends rights
to those without much cognition. Babies deserve
equal rights and protection just as much as
adults. Totally mentally deficient in every capac-
ity imaginable, a baby of six months receives pro-
tection equal to a full grown adult. Certain apes
have been able to learn sign language, yet their
protections are insignificant compared to the
protections of a human baby.
To argue that animals are somehow below
our consideration and without rights is to deny
instinctual responses humans have to the vio-
lations of these rights. The football world and
the public in general decried Michael Vick for
his dog fighting ring because it clearly vio-
lated the rights that humans believe animals
to have. Though the word "rights" may not be
transferrable to animals because the definition

has taken on such an intrinsic association with
humans, desire is something humans can rec-
ognize and acknowledge within animals.
These desires are ones like the desire to
live or be free from pain. To what extent is it
acceptable to violate these desires? If you kick
a human or an animal, they will react in much
the same way. Is physical pain worse for an
intelligent animal (humans) or is it equal to
that of turkeys?
The factory farm is a terrible place. Even
if animals are killed quickly (which they are
often not), their lives are miserable. Animals
are confined to extremely small spaces, don't
get to reproduce and aren't reared by their
mothers. They are then sent off to be slaugh-
tered. These "lives," in some sick sense of char-
ity, are also very brief. Turkeys have a natural
lifespan of up to 10 years but they are typically
slaughtered when they are five months old.
The suffering of animals is lamentable -
but there are some instances in which it can
be condoned. Scientific research may cause
harm and injury to animals, but there may be
great payoffs for the result. Eating animals, on
the other hand, provides such an insignificant
benefit to humanity. Especially to citizens of
first-world nations, eating animals provides no
other function other than supplying a specific
taste for our palates. The American Dietetic
Association says that "appropriately planned
vegetarian diets are healthful, nutritionally
adequate, and provide health benefits in the
prevention and treatment of certain diseases."
In early 2009, Scientific American reported
on a study from The United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organization and said the "report
found that current production levels of meat
contribute between 14 and 22 percent of the
36 billion tons of 'CO2-equivalent' greenhouse
gases the world produces every year." 14 to 22
percent of greenhouse gases come from the
meat industry.
If anything, eating animals has consider-
able drawbacks, Yet, humans consume them
to achieve a minor palatal satisfaction. Is this
passing pleasure worth the immense pain and
suffering of animals, environmental damage
and damage to our health?
This Thanksgiving, drink beer, watch the
mediocre concerts on TV and even overeat, but
please skip the turkey. And make sure you tell
everyone why.
Teddy Papes is an LSA junior.

Pro-choice on child support

n 1973, the well-known U.S.
Supreme Court case Roe v. Wade
case established a woman's right
to choose to have
an abortion. In
1990, my father
wanted to have
another child. In X
1991, my mother '
chose not to termi-
nate her pregnancy
and I popped out.
But let's travel
to a fantasy world ERIC
for just a minute SZKARLAT
in which my par-
ents were unwed,
my father walked
out on my mother when he learned
she was pregnant and she carried
the pregnancy to term and raised
the child. We've seen this scenario
a million times, both in movies and
in real life. We've even got a conve-
nient, alliterative phrase for those
men: deadbeat dads. To be one is to
be looked upon with a special kind
of disapproval - which is a bit of a
double standard when you consider
how many women who are unready
for parenthood abort.
Women are often encouraged to
make their own choices about ter-
minating pregnancies based on their
readiness. If a woman isn'tfinancially,
emotionally or mentally ready to have
and care for a child, she may abort.
These aren't the only reasons that
women choose abortion, certainly,
but they are enormous factors. War-
ren Farrell - a former director of the
National Organization for Women, but
later a critic of feminism - says that
terminating a pregnancy is "female
choice as female destiny."
What about keeping a child? Far-
rell calls this "female choice as male
destiny." What he means by this is
that ifa woman chooses not to termi-
nate, the man is both legally obligated
and socially expected to provide for

the child. Though this may not always
happen, it's expected that men carry
their weight in support.
Both of these definitions lack key
components, but they're a starting
point. Certainly both female choices
affect the destinies of the poten-
tial parents and the child-to-be. But
ultimately, we are still putting in the
hands of women the power to decide
the fates of 3 individuals. I don't
think that's quite fair at all.
Instead, I'd support male abortion,
advocated first by South Carolina
attorney Melanie McCulley. This is
an imperfect solution, but it's the best
we can do to ensure full social and
legal equality where we have already
accepted the validity of the abortive
option for women. This way, men
have just as much freedom to ensure
their own destiny as women. And yes,
to those "pro-choicers" retching in
the corner at this point, it's indeed
about equality.
How would it work? Women would
still choose whether or not to carry
the child to term. Men would merely
choose whether or not to provide for
the child. They would not exercise
any control over the woman's body.
Importantly, men would be required
to surrender parental rights in addi-
tion to financial responsibilities.
Essentially, it is the same as with
female abortion: In the eyes of soci-
ety, a male who has aborted would not
be a parent at all. He would be given
an equal window duringthe pregnan-
cy to that during which women may
decide to terminate. If he misses that
three-month window, he would be
legally obligated to provide support
for the child during pregnancy and
subsequently after birth.
But let me be clear: I said this is
imperfect because it is. In my perfect
world, everyone would take respon-
sibility, especially for their mistakes.
People should know before having
intercourse that there could be life-

altering consequences. No person
should ever abandon or abort a child
because having one would be incon-
venient for them. I don't think the
child, or child-to-be, should have to
pay for the mistakes of their parents.
And of course, two parents are almost
always better than one.

Men should
have abortion
rights, too.

0

I'm of the opinion that a fetus is still
human and still deserving of the same
rights with which all other humans
are endowed - among them, the
right to live. 5Il let you pick whether
life begins at conception or birth or
somewhere in between, because that's
irrelevant. I believe the metaphysical,
overarching right to live comes upon
humans at conception, because it is at
that moment that they are distinctly,
genetically human.
There's a big qualifier, eh? The
alternative to the male/female abor-
tion model would be to wipe abor-
tion out altogether, with exception
to endangerment of the physical *
health of either mother or child and
cases of rape. But for now, since we
are post-1973 and pre-any-other-
decision-regarding-abortion, we can
do our best to ensure legal equality
of the sexes. Biology may not always
provide you with all the options that
you want to have, but society - as a
human construct - certainly should.
We can't have true equality without
the equal opportunity ensured to
men by an abortive option.
- Eric Szkarlat can be reached
at eszkarla@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Asa Smith, Julian Toles, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 24, 2010 - 5

Aside dish album

Palin can't win the
cable television vote

Minaj shines in guest
spots, but doesn't
work her magic on
'Pink Friday'
By SHARON JACOBS
AssistantArtsEditor
While every successful Thanks-
giving requires a turkey, it's the
side dishes that
complete our bel-
ly-busting holi- *J1
day - mouthfuls
of smooth and Nidd Minaj
bready stuffing, or Pink Friday
a dollop of tangy Universal Moin
cranberry sauce.
But fill your whole
plate with stuffing, and you'll just
get sick; it's simply too rich and not
at all a balanced meal.
On her debut album, Pink Fri-
day, bombastic rapper Nicki Minaj
proves herself to be the stuffing
of popular music. She's spiced up
the singles of many an artist lately,
helping to raise Jay Sean's "2012"
from mediocrity and Kanye West's
"Monster" to perfection. But when
Minaj is the only thing on the plate,
it turns out she's all buttery style
and no nutritional substance.
Album opener "I'm The Best"
has a flavorful start, as Minaj
details her road to fame in that
strong New York accent that makes
her sound like she's talking with
her mouth full. Hyperactive synths
and a hopping electronic beat push
the track forward.
For about the first minute of the
song, the intriguing echo effect
on Minaj's voice distracts her lyr-
ics - a string of boring boasts and
random references. But it soon
becomes clear that the only cre-
ative or fresh lines of hers are the
borderline offensive ones: "Tell
'em bitches get a stick / I'm done
leading the blind," she spits, as we
cringe and take note.
Cue "Roman's Revenge," a
frighteningly intense collabora-
tion of alter-egos. Minaj, as the
ultra-violent Roman Zolanski,

N AJ

Man, these 'Toy Story' movies used to be fo
dominates by earnestly roaring
about other things she is (Aladdin,
a bad bitch and a movie, to name a
few - don't ask why). Restored to
all his disgusting glory, Eminem as
Slim Shady peppers the song with
lines about S&M and pee. Granted,
Minaj can't always take on the sug-
ary Harajuku Barbie persona from
softer songs and on Pink Friday's
cover, but the overdone bitterness
of "Roman's" doesn't sit right.
Ah, but Minaj is more than just a
"bad bitch" - on "Right Thru Me,"
she finally reveals her sensitive
side. For the most part, the lyrics
give an effective look into a rela-
tionship in which Minaj is always
a step behind, and her singing
voice, while hoarse, holds the right
amount of tired bewilderment.
But wedged among the all-too-
purposefully bad-ass morsels that
make up Pink Friday, it's the rela-
tive emotional blandness of "Right
Thru Me" that's most noticeable.
Changing up the four-note back-
ground synth pattern could've
made a difference, too.
Artistic innovation, though,
is not Minaj's thing. Check out

F R D A.Y
cOURTESY OF UNIVERSAL MOTOWN
r kids.
"Check It Out," which desperately
clings to the introductory "oh-oh"
wails of "Video Killed the Radio
Star" for some shred of musical
legitimacy; her well-duh proclama-
tion that "haters, you can kill your-
self" isn't helping.
Or taste-test the mock-reflective
"Here I Am," in which she chants,
"I am woman, hear me roar" as if
we've never heard of a female rap-
per before. Sure, we're still a long
way from total gender equality, and
not just in the realm of hip hop, but
Minaj doesn't seem to understand
we've reached a point where the
mere fact that she is a woman rap-
per isn't special enough to make
her a good one.
Though Minaj made history last
month by hitting the Billboard Top
100 chart with seven simultaneous
singles, it's worth noting that six
of them were guest spots; only the
vaguely Eastern-accented fantasy
chillout "Your Love" was actually
hers. She's stated in interviews that
Pink Friday would show a different
side of her - more well rounded or
filling, perhaps - but the album is
nothing but empty calories.

By LINDSAY HURD
DailyArts Writer
In case you didn't get enough
of her cheesy catchphrases
about Joe the
Plumber and
huge prom
hair dur- Sarah Pali's
ing the 2008
presidential AlaSka
elections,
don't worry Sundaysat
- Sarah 9P.M.
Palin is back TLC
and ready to
win the hearts of every Ameri-
can with her new reality show,
"Sarah Palin's Alaska."
In what Palin likely hopes
will aid her political comeback,
the former governor takes us
inside her family home in Wasil-
la, Alaska as well as on trips
across the state, doing every-
thing from fishing to mountain
clirbing.
Palin claims the goal of this
series is to display the beauty of
Alaska to the rest of the coun-
try. But clearly, she's trying to
show the likeability of her fam-
ily. After an unsuccessful run
for the vice presidency, endless
mockery of her speeches and
intelligence, as well as daugh-

ters caught up.in scandal after
scandal, she obviously feels
the need to improve her public
image.
On the program, Palin overt-
ly disciplines her children for
things conservative Middle
America would deem unbecom-
ing of their youth.
In a possible attempt to com-
pensate for the Bristol issues,
Palin punishes her other daugh-
ter, Willow, for sneaking a boy
into her room. She also tries
to play the victim by bashing
Joe McGinniss, the author who
rented the house next door
while he works on an unauthor-
ized Palin biography.
As an executive producer on
the show, Palin tries to depict
herself as a "fun" mom. She
bakes with her kids and goes on
hiking and fishing adventures,
all while balancing a "rising"
political career. In her mind,
she's the mom of the year, capa-
ble of anything.
But it's hard to not make fun
of the stupid crap that comes
out of her mouth. In explaining
about McGinnis, she had her
husband build a 20-foot high
fence - asserting, "This is a
good example of what we need
to do to secure our nation's bor-

ders!" These intelligent phrases
are exactly what you want to
hear from a person with prob-
able aspirations of running the
nation. In the ultimate Palin
moment, she explains that her
favorite thing to do in Alaska is
to "sit on her cement slab." Not
exactly something you want to
be describing when you're try-
ing to promote the beauty of a
state.
The only interesting moment
comes during a fishing trip
when the program suddenly
becomes an Animal Planet show,
Two grizzly bears get in an epic
brawl over their cubs and for a
moment of bliss, Palin stops yap-
ping.
The rest of the time, you're
watching her get stuck on a
mountain for 30 minutes, yak
on about how pretty her state is
and listen to her kids talk about
her addiction to her BlackBerry,
as you wonder how in the world
she became a politician.
Palin is lucky that Alaska is
so beautiful because without it,
she wouldn't have anything left
for a show. Let this be a warn-
ing to any politicians looking to
enhance their public image - a
TV show is just not the way to
do it.

Next on Discovery Channel: 'Deadliest Bitch.'

Now on iTunes, the
Beatles prove eternal
By ELLIOT ALPERN rated," which is itself a testament year brings a new meaning to the
For theDaily to their success. For a decade, the song, a different yesterday to miss
Beatles ruled the airwaves, and and daydream about. The Beatles
On Nov. 16, Apple finally their reign has still not completely age like fine scotch and accumulate
announced what many had been diminished. respect like bank interest. Citing
anticipating for a long time: the While most bands fade as time the Beatles as an influence is a cop-
Beatles had arrived at the iTunes goes by, the Beatles seem to sur- out now. It's understood that they
music store. This was apparently vive on an entirely different plane. changed music entirely.
big news. It spawned commercials As the years go by, the music gets Perhaps the greatest thing about
and news articles that all seemed deeper, more meaningful and more the Fab Four is their range, both
to lead to the same reaction: Who evocative of the times. The songs emotionally and musically. The

A finished 'Body' of work

By CHLOE STACHOWIAK
For the Daily
With the release of her third
and final album of 2010, Swed-
ish artist Robyn is back with
the same beats
and energy that ***
have already
carried her to Robyn
the top of Scan-B
dinavian pop BodyTalk
charts this year. Konichiwa
The musical
spawn of a fresh-voiced Madon-
na and a house-music DJ, Body
Talk blends moods, sounds and,
yes, even songs from the other
two parts of the series.
In fact, only one-third of Body
Talk is actually new to the music
world. The other 10 songs have
been plucked from the older
phases of the Body Talk series in
order to, in her own words, "cre-
ate a turbo version of the Body

Talk album."
For an album seething with
rapid pop ballads, techno beats
and robot references, "turbo"
is an accurate descriptor. This
could be a fast-paced soundtrack
to both a dance club and an Aber-
crombie & Fitch store. In all 15
songs, the artist's energy never
dies down. The work mixes up
the sound with both sugary pop
and heavier techno elements,
resulting in a catchy and diverse
album.
The opening song "Fembot"
perhaps best exemplifies this
musical blend. While the first
lines of the track are almost irri-
tatingly pop-infused, bordering
on the sound of a playground
clapping game, the song takes
a dynamic turn almost instant-
ly. The light, overly melodic
vocals continue throughout the
song and are matched with a
low, quick bass line, creating a

pleasant balance between the
two extremes. The robot-relat-
ed sexual innuendos juxtapose
with the fluffy sound of the
vocals. It's hard to ignore the
"automatic booty application"
Robyn rounds
out her 2010
robotic, musical
love-fest.
references and persistent moan-
ing that drones in the back-
ground.
The mood of the second song
takes a direct turn away from
the first. "Don't Fucking Tell
Me What to Do" lacks the over-
See ROBYN, Page 6

actually cares? The Beatles have
been around since the '60s. Why
does it matter that a single band
is added to the otherwise bottom-
less pit of music that is the iTunes
store in a world with so many other
avenues for acquiring music?
Well, it does matter. In fact, it
matters a lot. Any expansive music
collection without the Beatles is
incomplete, a farce. It's akin to
the Louvre minus the Mona Lisa
- a travesty of art. The Beatles
are among the best-known bands
in history; this is almost indisput-
able. But, unlike the other well
known bands in history (and any
other band for that matter), they
are almost universally liked, or at
least tolerated. Think about it: The
biggest piece of criticism directed
at the Beatles is that they are "over-

weren't made to stay put in the '60s
A collection
without the
Beatles is no
collection at all.
- they transcend decades and eras.
"Revolution" may have been a Viet-
namWar protest song at one point,
but it still applies for the wars of
today and will likely continue to be
relevant unless its lyrics come to
fruition. "Yesterday" is an instru-
ment for melancholy on the same
scale as family photo albums. Each

early Beatles (of the "She Loves
You" era) are happy and optimis-
tic. The songs are undaunted by the
complications of love, but maintain
that innocent, youthful enthusiasm
that catches many the unwary lis-
tener in their snares. As they pro-
gressed, so did their variety. "A
Day in the Life" does a little bit of
everything - at times it's eerie and
haunting, and the buildups provide
tension like a runaway train. How-
ever, when Paul sings, it feels like
everything's going to be just fine.
The chorus of "Hey Jude" can dou-
ble as an anthem to sing at the top
of your lungs, the verses of "Let It
Be" can substitute as a eulogy. Find
an important, defining moment
in life - there's a Beatles song for
it. Paul put the idea of love at first
See BEATLES, Page 6

'Akonic' won't be iconic

By ARIELLE SPECINER
DailyArts Writer
Akon, the Konvict turned
Akonic singer, is back.
on his latest album, Akon
brings a new
dance-house
feel to his typi-
cally tropical
ways. Techno Akon
beats and R&B Akonic
sounds spice Islatd
up his fourth
effort, which
encompasses all the sounds he
could possibly produce. The pop
singer supreme drops top-40
hits with soulful R&B vocals,
club-shaking beats and poppy
hooks like it's his job - well, it
is his job.
It's been a few years since
the pop-master last put out an
album. Between collaborations
with Lady Gagaand Lil Wayne
and producing records with his
self-run record company, he
clearly just hasn't had the time.
N9w, the "Smack That" singer

emerges with the dance tracks
(and probably the dance moves)
to pull him out of his hiatus.
"Angel," the first single off
Akonic, has a quintessential
Akon sound. It starts with a
whiny, call-out entrance as the
beat flows in. Reminiscent of
the Black Eyed Peas' "I've Got
a Feeling," this track is a party
starter - dance pop at it's fin-
est. Still, while the hook grabs
attention, the song itself just
doesn't. Sure, it's a top-40 gem,
but musically, it doesn't do any-
thing exciting enough to earn
any credibility. And Akon's
semi-irritating voice does not
help Akonic's cause. It is dif-
ficult to sit through an Akon
album without developing a
headache.
While the album as a whole can
be somewhat annoying, the beats
and rhythms hold it together. The
reggae grooving "Dirty Situation"
sees Akon collaborating with
Mohombi to create a Jamaican-
infused track that lays down the
right rhythms but not the rhymesy

Akon sings, "Danger in the disco
/ She drop it low / Back it up /
Mami's on the floor / Shakin' that
booty / Oh yeah." Clearly, Akonic
was not meant to be the most
poetic album, but it will definitely
get some heads bobbing.
Akonic is a good' example of
a techno-tropics dance album,
yet it's missing some substance.
Top-40 gems,
nothing new.
Though the album includes guest
appearances by some big-hitters
in the hip-hop world, the album
is forgettable. Impressive dance
beats drive Akonic, but it isn't
enough for the Senegalese rapper
to pull through. Don't fret Akon
fans, you will hear his tunes top-
ping the charts soon enough,
because he does what he's good
at - making pop hits that make
your hips swing.

The Beatles wilnever be as good as they werewhen Stuart Sutcliffe was in th* band.


a

6 - Wednesday, November 24, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


BEATLES
From Page 5
sight into words, and John captured nos-
talgia in a song. There's a reason that no
band has had more number one albums in
the United Kingdom or sold more albums
in the United States than the Beatles. They
are always applicable.
Nobody claimed that their earliest
music was technically masterful (in fact,
the drums of "She Loves You" are close to
novice and the bass is lifted directly from a
Chuck Berry song), but that was never the
point until the later years. They had qual-
ity music, so they didn't need to show off
with complex pieces. It's amazingly fortu-
nate that a single band could be composed
of four veritable musical geniuses. John,

Paul and George were inducted again as
solo artists into the Rock and Roll Hall of
Fame after being included as a band in 1988
(sorry Ringo, surely you'll get your just des-
serts eventually). Each filled a role vital to
the band with a different musical person-
ality, culminating in one of the greatest
bands, if not the greatest, of all time.
The Beatles didn't just alter our culture,
in a way they were the culture. They were
the British Invasion with "moptop" hair-
cuts. They were Beatlemania. They were
the Yellow Submarine, and Sgt. Pepper's
Lonely Hearts Club Band, and the Magical
Mystery Tour. Even now, they perpetuate
current art (like Cirque De Soleil's "Love"
or "Across the Universe"). So yes, the
iTunes addition is a big deal, and not for the
added profits Apple will reap. It's a big deal
simply because it's the Beatles. There could
be no greater reason than that.

Playing the blame
'Game' with Plame


ROBYN
From Page 5
whelming melody heard in "Fembot." On
the track, she speaks the lyrics rhythmi-
cally over a thumping bass. The result is
an edgier, more dancehall-inspired sound,
but one that doesn't feel at all out of place
with the other songs.
The rest of the album continues to
bounce between radio-pop and techno
DJ. Tracks like "Hang with Me" ache with
predictably poppy themes, with lyrics
about infatuation and heartbreak cooing
in the choruses.
But heavier sounds soon offset these
standard pop themes. In "Love Kills" and
"Indestructible," the vocals take a back-
seat to the powerful beats and electronic
effects pulsing through the songs. Snoop
Dogg even makes a startling appearance
in "U Should Know Better," adding yet
another edge to the pop artist's work.

Even with the interplay between dif-
ferent extremes of pop and techno-based
songs, Body Talk still carries an air of
tediousness. Though the songs vary
enough in bass and vocals, this "turbo ver-
sion" of the series lacks the slower, more
vulnerable tracks of the first two edi-
tions. In fact, there isn't one slow song on
the entire album. This drains some of the
dynamism heard in Body Talk parts I and
II, which offer the listener a few softer
acoustic tracks to cleanse the eardrums
between dance beats.
If Robyn's goal for the final part of
her Body Talk series was to create a
"turbo version" of her music from 2010,
she has succeeded. Though a heart-rac-
ing album may not be a good choice for
someone suffering from high blood pres-
sure, Body Talk offers enough addictive
beats and sticky-sweet pop melodies to
satisfy Robyn devotees and newcomers
alike. And even if Robyn's latest fails to
impress, at least Snoop is there for a min-
ute or two.

The based-on-a-true-
story trend continues,
but without creativity
By IMRAN SYED
DailyArts Writer
"Fair Game," the star-powered drama-
tization of a sorry low point for American
democracy, is a decent
film, but it's also the
latest in a somewhat
alarming trend: one- Fair Game
sided accounts of true
stories sold on film as At the State
the authoritative truth Summit
without the slightest bit
of cinematic inquiry.
Based on the memoirs of Valerie Plame
and her husband, "Fair Game" tells the
story of Plame's fall and the deluded politi-
cal games that continue to drive our coun-
try today. Plame (Naomi Watts, "King
Kong") was a covert CIA operative, tasked
with finding links between Saddam Hus-
sein and nuclear weapons in the lead-up
to the Iraq War. The only player to walk
away without fault from the ensuing mess,
Plame was essentially apolitical, interested
only in doing her job well.
As she worked her contacts across the
globe, the CIA sent her husband, retired

diplomat Joe Wilson (Sean Penn, "Milk"),
to Africa to investigate claims that Hussein
was buying nuclear materials from Niger.
The claims were entirely false, and Wilson
said so in his report to the CIA. But that
wasn't the answer the White House want-
ed, and President Bush chose to ignore the
CIA's findings when he uttered the infa-
mous "16 words" tying Hussein to nuclear
weapons in his 2003 State of the Union
address.
The fallout was spectacular and it con-
tinues today. Tens of thousands of people
have died in a war that everyone now
agrees was initiated under false premises.
Wilson refused to let the lie go unchecked,
exposingit in a2003 op-ed in The New York
Times. Administration officials (including,
by some accounts, Vice President Cheney
himself) fired back, leaking Plame's secret
identity as a CIA agent, thereby destroying
her career and life.
The film runs through its motions at a
frantic pace, carefully documenting each
part of the Bush Administration's great-
est lie. But even those who agree with the
film's politics should admit that this pro-
duction is almost entirely devoid of mean-
ingful reflection or introspection - little
more than a Keith Olbermann "Special
Comment," circa 2007. (And no, that's not
a compliment.)
The point is that we all get it: Bush lied,
and what happened to Plame and Wilson

was inexcusable. But to tell a story with
such blanket political tone-deafness really
detracts from the overall presentation. The
film contributes nothing new to the con-
versation, but instead is an oversimplified
creation that will be loved by Democrats
and hated by Republicans.
Yes, there's a fascinating true story here.
But, as in other recent productions, ("Con-
viction" and "The Social Network," for
example), there's no hint of a filmmaker's
vision or creativity, just a straight regur-
gitation of source material penned by a
biased player in the original story. Film has
always been a popular medium for propa-
ganda, but the fact that independent films
suddenly lack independent thought is trou-
bling - not least because it detracts from
the quality and value of the productions
themselves.
The fact that most critics have lavished
high praise on this film (it currently has a
rating of 81 on the review aggregator Rot-
ten Tomatoes, which is far above average)
is even more troubling. The greatest les-
son from the Plame affair and from the lies
that led to the Iraq War was for the media:
an independent and free press is one that
always questions the official narrative and
never blindly accepts what it's told. How
fitting that the media has forgotten that
fact yet again as it heaps praise on a feeble,
superficial depiction of great people and
events.

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 3 BDRM APT: Furnished, Heat,
Water Incl., Parking. Close to Campus!
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
. 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today.l to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

APARTMENTS GOING FAST.....
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location.~
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furs.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State Idry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealtycom
734-685-1125
SPACIOUS 4 BEDROOM APTS!
1039 Baldwin
Two 4 Bdr. Apts. available in a
gorgeous converted house.
High ceilings, bay windows, fireplace,
hardwood floors, & screened in porch!!
Large backyard, heat, water, & parking
included!
734-668-1100
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
We are workingthe rates....
Parking available Now at
520 Packard & 511 Hoover!
Also, 2011-12 Parking for Sale
Many "Prime" locations
throughout central campus.
Call 734-761-8000

th e *
. e
Owed and
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Centra Campus Downtown
! North Campus PWest Side
Let uraOilyTake are of Your
Ptorie Redentshus/ecabemrru Fur e u
24h Nbntme att High spe ! aene.
drs/p larg FR eRs weN o
t1nrcm aciltes Stuy oil
WWWAmmwboarun11ewsxet
?! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!!
2 & 3 bdrms, lots of closet space, flat
screen tvs, modern furniture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!AWESOME 6 & 7 br / 3 ba homes.
great floor plan/location! fireplace/cool
kitch/pkg. $3600/ $3950 313 215- 8115
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home availableSpring & Fall.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, November 24, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Be overtysweet 35 Metricweight, for 48 Synonym for the
1 Lots of plots 3Golfer's need, at short ends of 17-, 25-,
6 Blue times 36 Grazing field 41- and 55-Across
10OMemo abbr. 4 Poeticpreposiion 37 Jazzusesuions 49.._.and sow
14 Lewispartner 5 xecuteasigh 39Anst'sex s "The Good Earth"
15 "Mona __ Smile": jump? 40 likethe Cheshire hemine
2003 film 6"Lethal Weapon" Cat 51 Shortly following
16 Actress Pertman costar 42 Remove from its 52 Suffix with slug
17 Song involving 7 Valley girl word box 53 Breakfast tip
body parts 8 Microsoft 43 Chicken _ components,
19 One of several on customer 44 Helpto perpetrate usually
some wedding 9 Kentucky Derby 47 "Show Boat" 55 Brit's pea-souper
cakes time author Ferber 56"Lenore" poet
20 View 10Maestro
21 English Channel Toscanini ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
part 11 "Nowl" a A C T E I V E Y Y A R N S
22 Particular 12 Pro shop bagful Y
2Staffaition 13.._.a soul M RS R DAS B E T
24 Businessn 1 mallopening UNIQUETEC H N QUE
25 Driveshaft 22 island country LOTUS O N H A N D
compoe 2sicew970 E L O I S E T H I E V E S
31 Mc~ueentor 23BSwarm'skhome T N S
Martin 24Standard
32"The Bridge on 25 Functional ICICLE OSAGE
the River 26 Avoiding off-topic A N T I Q U E C L I Q U E
1957 Best Picture posting, say F R I E D M A R I L U
33 "Rathernotr 27 Path to ruin, with t C K P U N I T A L
34 Quote "the" THEFEDS GOSOLO
35-ight:- 21 Dazzle T ES D O R ELW
moviemaker's 29 Low pint
tool 30 Youi a classic O B L IQ U E C R I T IQ U E
37 Hardy's "obscure" E.B. Browning P R E N U P T I A L N U T S
stonemason poem T AsTE S I L K G E S T
38 Husband of 31 Sing like Satchmo xwordeditor~aol.com 11/1 0
Fatima

FALL 2011 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4700
7 510 Catherine $3700
7 1129 White St $4200
6 412 N. Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3500
6 605 E. Hoover $3720
6 1207 Church $3800
5 1024 Packard $2850
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2240
Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
2-BEDROOMS ON PACKARD
331 Packard, 526 Packard,
539 Packard, 917 Packard
Premier campus locations near South
Quad! Very spacious apartments with
heat, water, & parking included. All
apartments have dishwashers and A/C.
www.varsitymagement.com
3 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #1,
$1850/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM APT, furn., private deck, ex-
cellent security, parking, washer/dryer,
non-smoking. 537 Elizabeth Street,
$1479, includes heat. 734-996-8506
4 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #4, $2200/
month, May lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
MAY 2011 HOUSE 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 6 bed. tenants pay all utilities
call Cappo Deinco 734-996-1991
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! 1 bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com
www.varsitymanagement.com
Looking for housing for fall 20111?
Studios,1, 2, 3, 4, & 5 Bedroomss
NowAvailable!
Fullyfuished
Heat. water, and parking included most
locations
Many newly remodeled
Call to schedule a tour today!
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100

3 BDRM APT 1004 s. forest #B3,
$1450/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State StAthletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., 1
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!!!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Included*
Even comes Furnished!!
(And HAIL to the Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
NEWER 6 BD RMS FURNISHED
Apts AVAILABLE, walk to CEN-
TRAL CAMPUS rates start at
$615/room. For VIRTUAL TOUR and
INFO call 734-418-2050 or log on
www.828greeneapts.com
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATION!!!
543 Church! Best location in town!
Right across from East Hall. Studios, I
br, 2br, & 4br, 2 bth, bi-level apts.
w/spiral staircases. Updated kitchens
w/dishwashers and all apts. are fully
furnished!
www.varsiymanagement.com
!3 BEDROOM HOUSE! Just one
block from S. University, near B-
school and Ed. School. 2 bathrooms! 2
Kitchens! Large bdrms, 2 parking
spaces, full basement for storage, laun-
dry facilities, unfurnished. New up-
grades planned for Fall 2011! $2,175 +
utilities. Please contact our leasing
agent Patty White: 734-320-1245 or
email pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
1506 GEDDES
Great 3 bdr. apartments perfect for 3-4
people!! The apartments have large liv-
ing rooms, balconies or patios, tons of
closet space, dishwashers, and double
sinks in bathrooms. Near the CCRB &
CC Little!!
734-668-1100
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Gall 610-952-5269 or Emal
louisbreskmanyahoo.com.
AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

734-.70.322
www.scienceworddoctor.com
For your scientific writing needs.
Services include grants, clinical
reports, abstracts and manuscripts.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

0

FROM THE EDIT
STAFF AT THE
MICHIGAN
DAILY: WE WISH
YOU A HAPPY
THANKSGIVING.
GOBBLE GOBBLE
GOBBLE GOBBLE
GOBBLE.

39 Mottled
40 "Gymnop6dies"
composer
41 Gulped-down
Mexican cocktail
45 "For us a child
is bom"
46 Spoonbill'skin
47 Leave the cockpit
suddenly
48 FawlyTowers,
for one
51 Tabloid craft,
briefly
54 Sports page info,
e.g.
55 Maker
57 Quibbles
5 Lkesome
hygiene
59 Lassofeature
60 Sheltered, on a
ship
61 Hereditary unit
62 Ladies' men
DOWN
1 Dull pain

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 1s 16
17 is
20 2 16
1 22
23 2a
t 25 26 27 28 29 30
31 32 33
34 35 36 37
38 39 40
42 43 44
46 48
47 4$ 49 60 51 S2 63
54 55 66
67 58 59
s0 61 62
By Gareth Rain 11/24/10
(c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 24, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November 24, 2010 - 7

:
~

DUELING
COLUMNS

In the week leading up to the Michigan-Ohio State football game
each year, football writers from the Daily and the student news-
paper at Ohio State exchange columns. As both teams prepare for
The Game on Saturday, here's this year's installment:

The Michigan Daily's Joe Stapleton:

The Ohio State Lantern's Zack Meisel:

Columbus smells like piss.
And I don't mean it smells
like some of its honorable
residents decided to relieve them-
selves one too many times behind

a secluded pine
tree or in an
abandoned alley.
I'm saying that
upon entering
Columbus you
are immediately
hit with such a
strong stench
of piss that it's
best described

JOE
STAPLETON

as an aura, hang-
ing over the city like the dark, grey
clouds that give it its depressing,
hopeless charm. The stink is so
strong it seems possible that those
clouds, when let loose, release not
rainwater but that foul, acid-yellow
expulsion; God's very own personal
urinal.
Unfortunately, the intense,
almost attacking smell that hits you
at the city limits is not enough to
base a column on. Still more unfor-
tunate is the fact that the Buckeyes
have beaten the Wolverines in "The
Game" for six straight seasons,
leaving little on-field inspiration to
draw upon for material.
But in an extremely lucky twist
of fate, I have fell into the posses-
sion of something that couldn't be
4 more timely or essential: a series
of entries from Ohio State quar-
terback Terrelle Pryor's personal
diary. Without further ado, the
inspired writings of Mr. Pryor:
Jan. 25th, 2009
Dear Diary,
WTF, Diary? Just lost the Fiesta
Bowl against Texas. It was the third

straight loss for us ina bowl game!
Why can't we win when it counts???
Nov. 2nd, 2009:
Dear Diary,
I saw on the news today everyone
hating on Mike Vick just for killinga
few dogs. WTF is everyone making
such a big deal out of it? Don't they
know everyone murders?
Nov. 21st, 2010:
Dear Diary,
There are so many haters out
there! I'm gonna go get some food-
gotta find 10 pairs of socks in order
tofit into my own shoes.
Man I was watching College
Gameday today and saw Kirk Herb-
streit talking shit. He a fake Buckeye.
Wait, that's too good not to tweet.
Alas, that's all I have. Well, it's
all I could make out - the rest was
a jumbled mix of poorly-drawn pic-
tures of his house labeled "home-
work" and simple algebra written
in crayon. ButI think what we
have, though meager, still gives us
a glimpse into the amazing mind of
Ohio State's starting quarterback.
The piercing scent of urine that
seeps into clothing and pores so
you can't get the smell out for a
week after leaving that depressing
troth of a city? That aura of human
waste that hangs over the center
of Ohio like an atmosphere? It's
merely a physical manifestation of
the attitude of Columbus. The city's
citizens, and indeed Ohio State's
students most of all, wallow in this
hopeless mediocrity which is made
all the more saddening by their lack
of understanding of it. They exist
in a sort of bliss, willfully ignorant
of the futility of their attempts at
being "better" than Michigan. Yes,

the Ohio State football team has
dominated Michigan's for six years.
But to compare the University of
Michigan to Ohio State University
is to compare a filet mignon to a
steaming pile of human feces.
The sad part? They still try.
But when you are so steeped in
a tradition that demands willful
ignorance, medieval values and
sub-par results, how can you expect
to compete with a school that con-
sistently churns out the leaders
and best? Even Terrelle Pryor, who
by most measures has been a very
good quarterback, seems unable to
fit into his own shoes - Buckeyes
just aren't used to exceedingly high
expectations.
One of the most applicable
quotes I could find on the existence
of Ohio State students comes from
Bill Watterson, an Ohio native who
understand the plight of Ohio State
University better than anyone and
the author of the timeless comic
strip Calvin and Hobbes. In one
comic, Calvin explains what he
believes to be the existence of girls
by comparing them to insects. In
my paraphrasing, I'm replacing
"girls" with "Ohio State students":
I imagine bugs and Ohio State
students have a dim perception that
nature played a cruel trick on them,
but they lack the intelligence to really
comprehend the magnitude of it.
So Michigan fans, hate Ohio
State all you want, just remember
how sad and pitiful the "institu-
tion's" existence really is.
And for all the students attend-
ing this poor excuse for a Univer-
sity, don't hate them - feel sorry
for them. They just don't know any
better.

M aybe we would have
been better off if the
"Game of the Cen-
tury" never took place.
There couldn't have been a
bigger stage
for the 2006
meeting
between
Ohio State
and Michi-
gan: No.1I vs.
No. 2, fight-
ing for the ZACK
right to the MEISEL
BCS Champi-
onship Game.
Bo Schembechler's death the
night before even provided an
emotional undertone.
Then, the game exceeded
expectations, as the Buckeyes
escaped with a 42-39 victory in
a contest marked by big plays,
costly penalties and an uneasy
audience.
Four years later, we still
clutch onto memories of that
epic affair. It spoiled us.
OSU takes pride in beating
Michigan, and vice versa. But
the Buckeyes' recent dominance
in the series - OSU has won six
in a row and eight of nine against
its nemesis - has tamed the
rivalry a bit.
The more at stake, the big-
ger the reward. When OSU and
Michigan are the cream of the
Big Ten crop, the game has more
meaning.
In 2006, the Buckeyes
knocked the Wolverines out
of contention for a trip to the
national title game: On Satur-
day, an OSU win could redirect

r4_
. ' '
'
. , :'

An Ohio State fan holds up a sign at last year's Michigan-Ohio State game.

Michigan from the TicketCity
Bowl to the Little Caesars Pizza
Bowl. I'm not sure how much
motivation that provides.
Of course, players and coaches
will say the right things and
play up the significance of the
matchup. It still means a lot
- there would be no sweeter
culmination to an up-and-down
Michigan season than an upset
at the Horseshoe.
However, the rivalry is at its
best when both teams are at
their best.
The Boston Celtics and Los
Angeles Lakers maintain a

rivalry because of their history
of games with NBA title implica-
tions on the line, not because of
a few April meetings in which
they jostled for draft position-
ing.
"The Game" will probably
never reach the pinnacle of
importance it hit in 2006.
But it serves the rivalry and
its fans better when there's more
on the line. Until both teams
return to their typical perch atop
the Big Ten, we'll keep reminisc-
ing about the game that epito-
mizes what Ohio State-Michigan
is all about.

Legends Classic Preview
By Zak Pyzik |1 Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan men's basketball team will spend its Thanksgiving break in Atlantic City, NJ for
the Legends Classic tournament.
The Wolverines (3-0), who have so far breezed through opponents, take on Syracuse on Fri-
day night. Michigan has looked good in its wins over South Carolina Upstate, Bowling Green and
Gardner-Webb - beating each by at least 19 points.
If Michigan beats Syracuse it will advance to play the winner of the Georgia Tech and UTEP
game in the final round. If the Wolverines lose, they play the loser of that game in a third-place
contest.
Here's a look at Michigan's potential opponents in Atlantic City.

Michigan coach Red Berenson will coach in his final College Hockey Showcase this weekend.
Mich an to face off in 18th and
final College Hockey Showcase

By MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Editor
For the last 17 years, the
Michigan hockey team has
squared off against Minnesota
and Wisconsin - both premiere
Division I programs - in the
College Hockey Showcase over
Thanksgiving weekend.
Michigan coach Red Beren-
son described the event after
Tuesday's practice as a "big test
for our team every year, and it's
a test for their teams as well."
Among the three schools,
there have been five national
championships in those two
decades along with a slew of
famous alumni, like Brendan
Morrison (Mich., 97), Jordan
Leopold (Minn., 02), and Dany
Heatley (Wisc., 01), who have
cemented themselves as solid
NHL players.
But following the 18th install-
ment of the College Hockey
Showcase this weekend, the tra-
dition will cease.
Both the Wolverines and
Michigan State - the fourth
team included in the showcase
- will head on the road this
weekend to face the Badgers
(6-6-2) and 15th-ranked Golden
Gophers (7-4-1).
"I think all of the programs

involved have a strong tradition
and history of being - you could
say elite level or borderline elite
level programs," Berenson said.
"They're not just building or
emerging schools. The fact that
they're Big Ten schools gives
them some added credibility
and just seems to add something
extra.
"I know our fans love to see
a Big Ten matchup, and I think
our players do too."
Berenson said that there's "no
specific agreement" to face both
Wisconsin and Minnesota in the
future, but that "there's a sen-
timent among three of the four
coaches that we should continue
playing."
According to Berenson, Wis-
consin is indifferent to continu-
ing the tradition.
As these are the Wolverines'
only contests against Western
College Hockey Association
teams, Michigan hopes to grab
two wins to improve its position
in the Pairwise Rankings - a
formula used to determine the
field of 16 in the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
For the eighth-ranked Wol-
verines (7-2-1-0 CCHA, 8-3-3
overall), Berenson sees these
games as early benchmark con-
tests.

Berenson also cited a prefer-
ence for being on the road for
these Thanksgiving-weekend
matchups, saying his team is
generally "more focused" away
from Ann Arbor.
"Sometimes when we're
home, we're kind of half full of
turkey and half ready to play,"
Berenson joked.
Michigan's nine seniors hold
a 3-0 record against the Golden
Gophers and 2-1 mark against
the Badgers in the showcase.
The Wolverines grabbed a
home-series sweep in the show-
case last year in what Berenson
called "the team's best weekend
in the first half" of the season.
And regardless of where the
team currently stands in the
CCHA - the Wolverines sit in
second place, one point behind
Notre Dame - senior forward
Matt Rust knows that two games
against two "powerhouses"
could springboard a team that is
trying to secure its first national
title since 1998.
"It was definitely big for us
last year with the way the sea-
son was going and everything,"
Rust said. "This year, it still car-
ries the same importance. It's
big at the end of the year, and it's
big to keep our winning streak
going."

Syracuse
The ninth-ranked orange have
an unblemished record in 2010
and are expected to do great
things this season. But the sto-
ried team may not be as good as its
hype suggests.
In fact, Syracuse coach Jim
Boeheim said this year's squad is
the most overrated Syracuse team
he has coached in his 34 years
with the orange.
The team struggled against
a William and Mary team that
hasn't won any of its three games
this season. The Orange snuck
out of that game by making free
throws at the end after shooting a
miserable 22 percent from three-
point range and 37 percent from
the field.
The Orange (4-0) beat Detroit
Mercy 66-55, but the Titans kept
it within two points until the final
minutes of the game.
Against Detroit, Syracuse shot
23 percent from three-point range
and 36 percent from the field.
Distance shooting is clearly not
Syracuse's forte. In the post, how-
ever, 275-pound, seven-foot fresh-
man center Fab Melo is expected
to have a big impact this season,
though he has averaged just two
points per game.
Michigan coach John Beilein
has a 0-8 record against Boe-
heim. But considering Syracuse's
struggles, the Wolverines might
be able to pull off an upset. This
season, the orange's shots simply
aren't falling and their games have
been too close for Boeheim to con-
fidently say that he has a national
championship-caliber team.

Georgia Tech
Georgia Tech obliterated the
Wolverines 99-68 the last time
they met in the 2004 ACC/Big Ten
Challenge. The Yellow Jackets
(3-1) hold a 4-3 all-time edge over
Michigan.
Junior guard Imam Shumpert,
the Yellow Jackets' top scorer,
averages 15 points per game this
year.
The 6-foot-5 guard plays big-
ger than his size and resembles
Michigan sophomore guard Dari-
us Morris in the way that he takes
advantage of smaller guards who
defend him. In Georgia Tech's
four games this year, Shumpert
has had 10 steals, good for second
in the ACC.
Daniel Miller complements
Shumpert in the post. Michigan
may have trouble matching up
with the 6-foot-11 redshirt fresh-
man, who had a season-high 10
points in the Yellow Jackets' 78-51
win over Albany in the regional
round of the Legends Classic last
weekend.
Georgia Tech's lone loss came
courtesy of Kennesaw State when
the Yellow Jackets shot just 35
percent from the field and allowed
the owls to spread the ball very
effectively - five players tallied
double digits in that contest.
If Michigan redshirt freshman
forward Jordan Morgan has as big
a presence in the post as he did in
the Wolverines' first three games,
Georgia Tech may struggle to
defend him.
That would open things up
around the perimeter for Michi-
gan.

UTEP
If Michigan plays the Miners
(4-1) in the second round, there
may be some conflict in the Hard-
away family.
Freshman guard Tim Hardaway
Jr.'s father and ex-NBA pro Tim
Hardaway Sr. will have to choose
between his son's school and his
own alma mater.
"He's going be rooting for me,"
HardawayJr. said. "No question. I'm
going to be excited if we play them.
"That's one of the reasons my
dad is coming out there, to see his
old college play."
UTEP's one loss came against
Pacific, 66-61, after the Tigers col-
lected 11 offensive rebounds lead-
ing to a lot of second-chance points.
Senior guard Randy Culpepper
- 2009-10 Conference USA MVP
- has scored more than 13 points
in every game this season. The
Miners floor general has a nose for
the open man.
UTEP's starting lineup can
score from almost anywhere on
the court.
At least four players have scored
in double digits in three of the
Miners' five games this year.
The keys to winning this
game for the Wolverines will
be to play aggressive defense
and prevent UTEP from
spreadingthe ball with Culpepper.
LOG ON TO
MICHIGANDAILY.COM
For live, interactive coverage
of the Wolverines' games in
Atlantic City this weekend.


8 - Wednesday, November 24, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

THE GAME PHOTOS

TONY DING/Daily FILE PHOTO/Daily MAX COLLINS/Daily
Ohio State coach Jim Tressel has just one loss in the Michi- The Michigan football team lines up across from the Ohio State offensive line in the Wolverines' 2006 matchup with the Buck- Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez has yet to beat the Buckeyes in
gan-Ohio State rivalry. eyes. The matchup pinned the No. 1 and No. 2 teams in the nation against each other. his three years as Michigan's coach.

..-.um- vywoccmooo. oey a ooor..,2-. , aetr.eh':< iaTONY DING/Daily
FILE PHOTO/Daily Michigan wideout Braylon Edwards runs with the football in the Wolverines close loss to
Ohio State quarterbackJoe Germaine is tackled by a host of Wolverine defenders in Michigan s 2003 win over the Buckeyes at the Big House the Buckeyes in 2006
umm

FILE PHOTO/Dai y
Michigan wideout Braylon Edwards is tackled by an Ohio State defender in the 2006 rivalry game.
Michigan lost by a close margin.

FILE PHOTO/Daily
Ohio State running back Chris Wells runs away from Michigan defend-
ers in the 2001 matchup

Wolverine cornerback Charles Woodson returns a kick in Michigan's victory
over the Buckeyes in 1997. Michigan won the national championship that year.

*I

Michigan running back Tom Harmon is one of three Heisman Trophy winners to come out of Ann Arbor. Here, he runs the bal against the Buckeyes in the 1940 rivalry matchup.

BORED ON YOUR PARENTS' COUCH AND WATCHING THE OHIO STATE GAME?
Interactive gameday coverage and analysis.

Mich~igan4ailm.Com


