0 DAILY-SPORTS POWER RANKINGS DETROIT 1-8-7
In the Daily's first edition of weekly power
rankings, Daily Sports Editor Nick Spar ranks
Michigan's top 10 individual athletes.
PAGE 8
b £ilia &i

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, September 28, 2010

michigandaily.com

FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
Affordability
of college key
to economy,
Obama says
In conference call "If we're serious about building
a stronger economy and making
with college papers, sure we succeed in the 21st centu-
ry, then the single most important
president stresses step we can take is to make sure
that every young person gets the
fixing education best education possible, because
countries that out-educate us
By BETHANY BIRON today are going to out-compete us
Daily StaffReporter tomorrow," Obama said.
Obama said it is crucial that
President Barack Obama said college becomes more affordable
in a conference call with students for students. He said this can be
yesterday that he wants to ease achieved through increasing fund-
financial burdens for college stu- ing for need-based Pell Grants,
dents and increase the quality of simplifying the financial aid appli-
higher education across the coun- cation process and allowing fed-
try. eral loan subsidies to go directly
Obama said that though the to students rather than through
nation has slipped in college grad- major banks.
uation rates internationally - from "The key here is, is that we want
first to 12th in a generation - he to open the doors of our colleges
wantstoreclaim thehighestgradu- and universities to more people
ation rate by 2020 through offering so they can learn, they can gradu-
stronger financial aid programs so ate and they can succeed in life,"
more students have the opportu- Obama said.
nity to earn a degree. He said this He also said his administration
would ultimately strengthen the has emphasized higher educa-
ailing national economy by creat- tion initiatives through stressing
ing a work force that is competitive programs like the G.I. Bill, which
with that of other nations. See OBAMA, Page 5

Kevin Reinsmith works on the construction site at 311 State St. that will become a Five Guys Burgers and Fries. Once construction is complete the restaurant will join a
number of new burger joints in Ann Arbor.
 FACULTY A SSEMLY
Provost Han on tal s tuition,
cost-cuttingtcisa
'U' provost also sity Affairs yesterday, University of reinvestments in need-based The University has been able
Provost Phil Hanlon addressed financial aid programs, the actual to effectively strike a balance
discusses rankings faculty concerns about tuition increase has been about 2.8 per- between adding programs and
and budget changes, the integra- cent annually. faculty and not straining the bud-
to be released today tion of out-of-classroom student Hanlon added that with the get, especially compared to other
experiences and University rank- tuition increases, need-based institutions around the country,
By CAITLIN HUSTON ings. financial aid has also grown over Hanlon said.
Daily StaffReporter Hanlon said though the Uni- the last six years. Looking toward the 2013-2017
versity's tuition rate has appeared "We absolutely want to keep budget, Hanlon said the Universi-
In a meeting with the Senate to increase 5.1 percent annually (the University) as affordable as ty is already considering cost-cut-
Advisory Committee for Univer- over the last five years, because possible," Hanlon said. See SACUA, Page 5

THE CHANGING FACE O STATE STREE FIGHTING FOR A DREAM
Officials: CVS slated to open
near campus earl next year

Nearby businesses
say construction has
hindered foot traffic
By K.C. WASSMAN
For the Daily
Historic Ann Arbor will soon
see the much anticipated - and
much debated - opening of a major
chain pharmacy in the heart of its
downtown. In the midst of both

excitement and disagreement with
the placement of the nationally
owned store, CVS prepares to open
its doors.
Construction began this sum-
mer on a new CVS pharmacy - to
be located on the 200 block of South
State Street next to Buffalo Wild
Wings. The new location is slated
to open early next year, according
to Mike DeAngelis, director of pub-
lic relations at CVS.
DeAngelis said the pharmacy
will be "full service" with a special

emphasis towards catering to stu-
dents' needs.
Currently, the closest CVS to
campus is located by Michigan Sta-
dium on South Industrial Highway.
According to an Ann Arbor Plan-
ning and Development Services
Staff Report, the new CVS will be
located in the city's historic dis-
trict, and the building itself dates
back to 1899.
CVS got permission from the
Historic District Commission in
See CVS, Page 5

UNIV E RS l- LI H Y ?A
* 'U' clinic allows patients at risk of

SAM WOLSuN/uaily
Desire Semana (right) demonstrates at the Michigan Union yesterday in support of the DREAM Act, a bill that would help
undocumented students attend college. Semana, an undocumented student, said students like him are "just waiting for the right
to be able to chase the American dream".

losing fertility to opt for freezing 'U' looks to highlight dangers of drinking

Cryogenic
freezing an option
for sperm, egg,
testicular tissue
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
DailyStaffReporter
For cancer patients already fac-
ing an overwhelming number of

decisions upon receiving a trou-
bling diagnosis, one medical team
at the University Health System's
Center for Reproductive Medicine
hopes to make having children a
possibility - and a priority.
Senait Fisseha, clinical assis-
tant professor in the University's
department of obstetrics and gyne-
cology, leads a team off campus at
the Briarwood medical complex to
help patients with fertility-threat-
ening conditions.

Fisseha said a study conducted
by the American Society of Clinical
Oncology - a professional organi-
zation of cancer-treating physi-
cians - revealed that while nearly
70 percent of oncologists surveyed
said they had discussed the issue of
fertility with their cancer patients,
only 25 percent referred a patient
to a fertility preservation special-
ist for counseling and preservation
services. e
See FREEZING, Page 5

Program gives
incoming students
virtual lessons
about alcohol
By OLIVIA CARRINO
Daily StaffReporter
Drinking has become ingrained
in the weekend culture of many

college campuses. to an effort
to help students make educated
choices when they choose to
drink, the University is offering an
online education tool to incoming
students.
The University started Com-
munity Matters, a program in
the form of an online multime-
dia course that incorporates two
modules, AlcoholEdu and Sexual-
AssaultEdu, last fall. The course is
administered to all new Universi-

ty students - including incoming
freshmen as well as undergradu-
ate transfer students - through
an e-mail that students receive
before the semester begins.
Though the program was brand
new last year, students have been
responsive to it. According to
aggregate data, 96 percent of stu-
dents participated in the course
last year, said Mary Jo Desprez,
the University's administrator for
See ALCOHOL, Page 5

WEATH ER HlI:68 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW L L: 52 news@michigandaily.comand letus know

NEW(ON MICHIGA NOAILY.COM INDEX NEWS...................................2 ARTS ..............
The virtues of naturally ground peanut butter. Vol. CXXI, No.16 A P EWS .............................. 3 CLASS IF IEDS.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE 2 0 The MichiganDaily OPINION. .....................4 SPORTS..........
michigondoily.com

.................6
..................8

and you're in the know
Text EY Edge to 58592 for insights into who we are, what we do and how you can get In on the fun. IERNST&YOUNG
Up to 2 msgs/mo. Message and Data Rates May Apply. Text HELP for questions or STOP to quit. Visit mms.us/ey for fullt em. Qualityn Everything WeDo N 8
Ernst & Young refers to a global organization of member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young LLP is a client-serving member firm located in the US.


2 - Tuesday, September 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *

MONDAY: * WEDNESDAY:

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Professor Profiles
ccena enefits?

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

For many students on campus,
scrambling to get to class while
rocking out to their iPods and furi-
ously texting their roommates
about the strange smell in the
refrigerator, being oblivious to the
outside world and oncoming traffic,
is a way of life.
But students won't get rewarded
for distractedly walking into traf-
fic. Contrary to campus lore, getting
hit by a University bus isn't going to
result in a free meal ticket or free
tuition at the University.
Asked about the campus legend
that if a University bus hits a stu-
dent, the University will pay the
student's tuition, University spokes-
woman Kelly Cunningham said it's
not at all true.
"It is absolutely, positively not
true!" Cunningham wrote in an
e-mail interview with The Michigan
Daily.
And while Cunningham said she's

positive the legend isn't true, she
said she's not sure where the myth
ever began.
"I don't know how this one got
started," Cunningham wrote.
Though it's hard to trace the ori-
gins of the long-standing legend, it's
certainly not unique to the Univer-
sity.
Similar legends exist at other
schools across the country, includ-
ing at Ohio State University, Indiana
University and University of Idaho.
At Texas A&M University, the
myth is so popular that a Facebook
group exists called "I wanna get hit
by a bus." The Facebook page says
the group is for students "that want
free tuition!" and it encourages its
members to get hit by university
vehicles saying: "Let's all go jump in
front of those bigrigs."
The group, which was founded in
2007, currently has 34 members.
- KYLE SWANSON

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 252 734-418-4115 ext. 241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmailcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun.-Thurs.11a.m.-2a.,m.
734-418-4115 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com

.

Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales

sportsoichigandaily.coo
display@michigandaily.com
claaified@michigandaily.vom
onlineads@michigandaily.com

LSA freshman tuhee Lee walks through the Engineering Arch to get home from the library at 1:10 a.m.
last night. Lee said that she is usually nervous walking home late, but has to get home. The University
offers several services, like Night Ride and S.A.FE. Walk, so students don't have to walk home alone.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Pot possession in Male aggressively North Campus Grad. program
the Big House asks for money career fair info session

WHERE: Stadium Gate
WHEN: Saturday at 8 a.m.
WHAT: A male subject trying
to enter the stadium to attend
the game was discovered to
be in possession of marijuana,
University Police reported. He
was not reported to be high at
the time of the arrest.
Patient attacks
WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Saturday at 6:40 a.m.
WHAT: A nurse was assault-
ed by an elderly male hospital
patient, University Police
reported. The patient was
being treated for a closed
head wound and attacked the
nurse with a closed fist punch.
The case is still under inves-
tigation.

WHERE: 1114 State Street
WHEN: Saturday at 6 a.m.
WHAT: A male subject was
read trespass after aggressive-
ly asking passersby for money,
University Police reported. He
was reported to be panhan-
dling and DPS intervened. No
arrest was made.
7 dollars stolen
WHERE: Duderstadt Building
WHEN: Saturday at 12 p.m.
WHAT: $7 were stolen from
a female subject's purse while
she was next to it studying in
a third floor lab of the library,
University Police reported.
The female student noticed the
money missing when she got
ready to leave the library. No
suspects have been identified.

WHAT: A career fair will be
held on North Campus, fea-
turing over 230 companies
looking to hire.
WHO: Society of Women's
Engineering and Tau Beta Pi
WHEN: Today from
10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
WHERE: Pierpont
Commons, the Duder-
stadt, the CSE Building
and EECS Building.

WHAT: Information about
the Science, Technology
and Public Policy graduate
certificate's effect on public
policy will be discussed,
accompanied by pizza.
WHO: Science, Technol-
ogy, and Public Policy
WHEN: Today at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Taubman
Alfred Medical Library

The canned pumpkin short-
age - prompted last year by
heavy rains and an increase
in pumpkin popularity - is offi-
cially over, USA Today reported.
Favorable pumpkin harvesting
conditions and extra planting
efforts by Nestle helped to end
the shortage.
Several campus groups
came together to change
the name of the proposed
gender-neutral housing option
to "open housing" last week. If
approved, the housing choice
will go into effect Fall 2011.
>FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
Women apologize more
frequently than men,
The Scientific American
reported. The gender difference
is not a result of a female predis-
position. Findings showed that
women, on a daily basis, found
more things offensive than men
did.

Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaity.com
JillianBerman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EWSEIOR :NioAber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thiunakkrasuevwonvhorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Liidsay
Kramer, JosephLichterman,VeronicaMenaldi, ElyanaTwiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura
Veith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:WillButler,WillGrundier,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, MichaelFlorek, Tim Rohan, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Alex Hermann, Chantel Jennings,Stephen Nesbitt, Zak
Pyzik,AmyScarano, Nick Spar
Jamie Block ManagingArts Editor block@michigandailycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,Andrew Lapin, JeffSanford
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: KristynAcho, Leah Burgin, Sharon Jacobs, Kavi Shekhar
Pandey
Max Collinsand photo@michigandailycom
SanWolson Maoagiogl'heto Editore
mEIO POTOE TR a A iel ond, Marissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Maoch
Anna Lein-Zieinskiand design@michigandailycom
Sarah Squire ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Maya Friedman,
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Jenna Skoller
MelanieF a edyandcopydeska michigandailycom
AdiWollstein Copythtehs
BUSINESS STAFF
JuliannaCrim Sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Stephanie Bowker
MARKETING MANAGER: Gjon Juncaj
Hillary Szawala Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler CirculationManager
Zach YancerWebProject Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 074s-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by studentsat the universityofMichigan.One copyisavailablefreeof chargetoall
readers.Additionalcopiesmaybepickedupat theOailysofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,
starting in September, viaU.S.mail are t$110.winterterm(January through April)is$115,yearlong
(September throughAprilis$s195.Universityaffiliatesare subject toareuedsubscription rate.
campus subscptionsforfalltermare$3sSubsriptionsmostbeprepaid.Theichiganoaily
is eereof The AssociatedPess and Te Assciatedl legiate Pes.

Qantuma Museum
presentation

WHAT: A lecture by Dan
Lanthrope of the University
of Maryland will be held
about quantum physics and
other related phenomena,
including superconductiv-
ity and superfluidity.
WHO: Center for the Study
of Complex Systems
WHEN: Today at 12:15 a.m.
WHERE: West Hall,
Room 340

WHAT: A lecture pre-
sented by Nina Simon
about museum exhibits
that encourage visitor par-
ticipation will be held.
WHO: Museum Stud-
ies Program
WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: University of
Michigan Museum of Art in
the Helmut Stern Auditorum

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online atmichigandaily.com/blogs/the wire




int numUMichCsStudents = 400;
int numBVEmployeesFromUMich = 0;
float chanceBVEmployeeFromUMich =
numUMichCsStudents/ (float) numBVEmployeesFromUMich;
Bazaarvoice
If you can figure out what's wrong with the code,
come talk to us at the Engineering Career Fair,
Tuesday, September 28th.
www.bazaarvoice.com/campus


Mahmood Karzai,
a U.S. citizen, says
he will fix the tax
issue in question
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) -
The eldest brother of Afghan Pres-
ident Hamid Karzai said he is not
aware of a criminal investigation
into his activities, an inquiry he
claims is more about political dif-
ferences with the U.S. than wrong-
doing on his part.
"I'm hurt, because instead of
being praised for what I've done,
I'm being attacked all the time
for political reasons," Mahmood
Karzai, a U.S. citizen who now
lives in Dubai and has businesses
in Afghanistan, told The Associ-
ated Press in a recent interview
that touched on corruption claims
made against him.
A federal criminal investigation
under way in the Southern District
of New York is now focusing on
possible corruption involving Kar-
zai, a U.S. law enforcement official
said Monday. The official spoke on
condition of anonymity because
the ongoing investigation is in its
early stages.
The Wall Street Journal first
reported the investigation Mon-
day, noting that prosecutors are
trying to determine if they have
enough evidence to bring charges
of tax evasion, racketeering or
extortion against Karzai.
Karzai said he is traveling to
New York this week to amend his
earnings on his U.S. tax returns to
show profits from business deals
not previously reported and says
he will freely discuss his financial
deals with American prosecutors.
"Why should they charge me?
I've already volunteered to cor-
rect the problem. If they want to
audit my taxes, they're welcome
to do that," Karzai told the AP
in the telephone interview last
week.
"I'm not involved in anything
with the U.S. contracts. I'm not
involved with any contract with
the government. I'm not working
for the government. So my activi-
ties are completely private with
private individuals," Karzai said.

"So my picture is very clear. You'll
never find anybody in the whole
country who will say that I gave
$10 to Mahmood Karzai for this
or that favor. I do my projects here
for developing. My whole life is
open."
Karzai said he has not met with
investigators or prosecutors in
the United States. He said inves-
tigators in Afghanistan provid-
ed a letter to his lawyer several
months ago, saying that he was
not the subject of any investiga-
tion.
Karzai said he's been unfairly
targeted by U.S. officials because
of disagreements the Afghan pres-
ident has with the U.S. govern-
ment over policy issues.
"What I don't like about inter-
national politics is that our family
is treated like some kind of mon-
archy," he said. "In other words,
if there's some dispute on policy
matters with my brother, they will
attack me or Ahmad Wali (another
of the president's brothers and a
power broker in southern Afghan-
istan) to make him weak. This is to
me so un-American.
"To crucify my rights for the
sake of getting to my brother -
this is an outrageous way of doing
things."
Karzai said he was prepar-
ing to amend his tax returns to
reflect rental income from his
home in Maryland and to show a
capital gains on the sale of prop-
erty in Dubai in the United Arab
Emirates, which he held for eight
months before making a profit.
"There's nothing else in my
life that will make me part of an
investigation," said Karzai, who
spends time in Afghanistan, Dubai
and the United States. "If some-
body else reported something on
me and they want to investigate,
I'm open to that. It is no problem.
There are so many enemies of our
family."
Earlier this month, Karzai said
he made at least $800,000 by
buying and then quickly resell-
ing a high-end Dubai villa using a
loan provided by the chairman of
troubled Kabul Bank. Karzai is a
7 percent shareholder of the bank,
which is now being overseen by
Afghanistan's central bank.
Karzai, who has not been

accused of any wrongdoing, said
the villa sale and the loan to cover
for it were organized by Sherkhan
Farnood - who has since resigned
as Kabul Bank chairman - though
it was listed in Karzai's name. He
said he was uncertain about the
terms of the loan - or even if bank
funds were involved.
Just months after he bought the
property for $1.9 million, Karzai
said he sold it for about $2.7 mil-
lion. Again, he said, Farnood han-
dled the deal.
Karzai said that he has focused
on development in Afghanistan,
including $4 million he and five
others invested in a residential
project in Kandahar where 11,000
lots have been sold. They also have
used proceeds from the sale of the
lots to pay for roads, sidewalks,
electricity service, a sewage sys-
tem and water.
He said the project, which could
take a decade to complete, is gen-
erating revenue for the Afghani-
stan government - $2 million in
fees and taxes already and the
expectation of a total of $30 mil-
lion in payments by the time the
project is completed.
Karzai said he was living on
income he earned in the United
States, including that from a res-
taurant in Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts. He said he recently sold
some of his businesses, includ-
ing another restaurant in Balti-
more, Maryland, to employees.
He said he also has sold a car busi-
ness that he opened several years
ago in Afghanistan, but remains
part owner of a cement producer,
which employees 1,500 people.
Thirty-four investors, including
Karzai, took a risk by investing in
the cement business, which he said
has lost between $900,000 and $1
million in each of the past three
years.
"I'm really looking forward to
the day when my activities will
be supported because I'm doing
exactly what the United States
intends to do in this country," Kar-
zai said. "And I was encouraged in
the beginning when my brother
had a good relationship with the
government, in the good old days.
I was encouraged to do more and
more. All of this has turned around
now to the negative."

U.S. investigating brother of
Afghan pres. for corruption *



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 28, 2010 - 3

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September 28, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
FERNDALE, Mich.
* Homeless shelter
backs out of move
to nearby church.
A homeless shelter is backing
out of an agreement to relocate to
a Ferndale church and is seeking a
move to a different part of the Oak-
land County city.
The Daily Tribune in Royal Oak
reports Monday that the South
Oakland Shelter wants to move into
a commercial building.
The shelter defeated a lawsuit by
a group of residents who wanted to
keep it out of Ferndale First Baptist
Church, just north of Detroit.
Shelter administrative offices
were planned for a church wing,
but only 30 homeless persons could
have been served there and only
during the day.
Officials said the shelter would
not have those constraints in a
commercial building.
Executive director Ryan Hertz
told the newspaper the shelter
needs "the ability to serve up to
100 to 200 people on some days."
WASHINGTON
U.S. urges Israelis
and Palestinians to
continue peace talks
One of President Barack
Obama's chief advisers says the
White House is urging the Pales-
tinians and Israelis to keep talk-
ing despite the impending end of
freeze on Israeli settlement con-
*
David Axelrod tells ABC's "This
Week" that there's a "rare" and
"unparalleled opportunity" for the
two sides to reach an agreement.
Axelrod says the parties must
remain at the negotiating table.
He says "they're having serious
discussions, they ought to keep on
having those discussions, and we
are very eager to see that happen."
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says a curb on new set-
tlement construction in the West
Bank won't be extended.
The Palestinians have threat-
ened to walk out of the talks if
Netanyahu doesn't extend the mor-
atorium that expires at midnight.
LOS ANGELES
Heat wave breaks
record, L.A. temp.
* reaches 113 degrees
California's blistering fall heat
wave sent temperatures to an all-
time record high of 113 degrees in
downtown Los Angeles yesterday,
and many sought refuge at the
* beach.
Downtown hit 113 degrees for
a few minutes at about 12:15 p.m.,
breaking the old all-time record of
112 degrees set on June 26, 1990,
said Stuart Seto, a weather spe-
cialist at the National Weather
Service office in Oxnard. Temper-
ature records for downtown date
to 1877.
Electrical demand was much
higher than normal for this time of

year but no problems or shortages
were expected on the state grid,
said Gregg Fishman, spokesman for
the California Independent System
Operator, which controls about 80
percent of the grid.
KINGSTON, Jamaica
Hundreds of health
workers strike in
call for higher pay
O Hundreds of medical techni-
cians, nurse's aides and other sup-
port staff at Jamaica's major public
hospitals went on strike yesterday
to demand pay raises and allow-
ances they say haven't been paid
by the government.
The walkout left public hospi-
tals and clinics across the Carib-
bean island short-handed for such
duties as taking X-rays and admin-
istering blood tests. Some union-
ized ambulance drivers also took
part.
Clifton Brown, president of the
Jamaica Workers' Union, said the
strike was for one-day and came
after "months of frustration,
anger, and promises not kept" by
Prime Minister Bruce Golding's
* administration.
"The government is dragging its
feet. This 24-hour strike is send-
ing a signal that we need attention
now," Brown said.
Some strikers contradicted
Brown's 24-hour timetable, telling
* reporters they would not return
to work until the government pro-
vided a precise date for payment.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

Obama: Money won't fix public schools

Obama appears on
NBC to call for more
school reforms
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama started the
school week with a call for a longer
school year, and said the worst-
performing teachers have "got to
go" if they don't improve quickly.
Bemoaning America's decreas-
ingglobaleducationalcompetitive-
ness, Obama sought in a nationally
broadcast interview to reinvigo-
rate his education agenda. At the
same time, the president acknowl-
edgedthatmanypoorschools don't
have the money they need and he
defended federal aid for them. But
Obama also said that money alone
won't fix the problems in public
schools, saying higher standards
must be set and achieved by stu-
dents and teachers alike.
Asked in an interview if he sup-
ported a year-round school year,
Obama said: "The idea of a longer
school year, I think, makes sense."
He did not specify how long that
school year should be but said U.S.
students attend classes, on average,
about amonthless than children in
most other advanced countries.
On other topics in a live half-
hour television interview, Obama
said that White House chief of

staff Rabn Emanuel has not told
him whether he will resign to run
for mayor of Chicago, as is widely
expected. Obama said he knows
Emanuel must decide quickly to
mount a serious campaign.
The president also sought anew
to show that he understands the
frustration of millions of people
coping with a slow economy -
and high joblessness - some 20
months into his term. He said that
even if people know he is working
hard to fix their problems, what
they expect from him is "some-
thing concrete" to help them get a
job and paytheir bills.
Obama appeared on NBC's
"Today" show in a live interview
that focused on education.
Education is primarily the
domain of state and local govern-
ments. But the federal government
has leverage and uses it, for exam-
ple, through the strings it attaches
to poverty aid that thousands of
schools depend upon to support
their programming.
The president admitted that his
own daughters, Malia and Sasha,
couldn't get the same quality edu-
cation at a Washington, D.C. public
school that they currently get at
their private school. The Obama
girls attend Sidwell Friends School,
an elite private school inthe Wash-
ington area.
"The DC public schools sys-

President Barack Obama was interviewed yesterday on NBC's "Today" about the state of education in the United States.

tems are struggling," Obama said,
though he added that the school
district has, "made some impor-
tant strides over the last several
years to move in the direction of
reform." Public schools in Wash-
ington have long faced criticism
for their low test scores and high
dropout rates.

Separately yesterday, Obama
announced a goal of recruit-
ing 10,000 teachers who work in
the fields of science, technology,
engineering and math - over the
next two years. In a statement,
Obama said such education is vital
to allowing students to compete
against their peers in today's econ-

omy.
In the interview, the president
said he wants to work with teach-
ers unions, and he embraced the
role they play in defending their
members. But he said that unions
cannot and should not defend a
status quo in which one-third of
children are dropping out.

Pipeline in western Michigan Cancer survivor
opened after summer oil spill starts business

Federal regulations
keeping tabs on the
newly repaired pipe
LANSING, Mich. (AP) - After
a two-month shutdown, oil flowed
Monday through a pipeline that
leaked more than 800,000 gallons
of oil in southern Michigan this
summer, with some of it polluting
a major river.
Enbridge Inc. confirmed the
gradual restart of the pipeline
running between Griffith, Ind.,
and Sarnia, Ontario, was under
way in a short statement released
Monday evening. The pipeline had
been shut down since the compa-
ny reported a massive oil leak July
26. An estimated 820,000 to 1 mil-
lion gallons spilled near Marshall
and some reached the Kalamazoo
River.
Enbridge said the restart is a
"staged process" run in accor-
dance with a restart plan approved
by the federal Pipeline and Haz-
ardous Materials Safety Adminis-
tration. Monday was the earliest a
gradual return to service was per-
mitted by federal regulators.
The pipeline will restart at
lower pressure. An independent
third party that reports to federal
regulators will help monitor the

restart.
The Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration
issued a statement saying it also
was keeping tabs on Enbridge dur-
ing the restart and had staff locat-
ed throughout the pipeline system
to oversee it.
Enbridge will have to make
multiple repairs on the pipeline
within 180 days, and it will have
one year to replace a section of
dented pipe running under the St.
Clair River in southeast Michigan.
In August, Enbridge estimated
cleanup and other costs from the
spill could be $300 million to
$400 million. The charges include
the emergency response, cleanup,
repairs, claims by third parties,
lost revenue and other items. It
excludes possible fines and penal-
ties.
Insurance is expected to cover
most of the cost.
About 2,000 workers were
involved in the cleanup and
related activities at their peak.
The company expects more than
500 workers to remain on the job
through October.
Enbridge had bought eight
homes near the spill site as of last
week. The company is in the final
stages of buying another 14 homes,
chief executive officer Patrick
Daniel said last week.

More than 1,500 oil-damaged
birds and animals have been res-
cued from the spill site. More
than 1,300 turtles, more than 100
Canada geese and several musk-
rats, swans, herons, snakes and
frogs have been rehabilitated and
released into new homes.
The restart of the pipeline
might not have much influence on
oil or gas prices. The line approved
for a restart Monday has a capac-
ity of roughly 283,000 barrels
per day and had moved closer to
190,000 barrels per day - much
less than the 670,000 barrel per
day Enbridge pipeline between
Superior, Wis., and Griffith, Ind.,
that was shut down from Sept. 9 to
17 because of a spill in Romeoville,
Ill.
The Illinois spill caused a brief
spike in Midwest gas prices.
"That was a major feeder to
some of the larger refineries in
the Midwest," said Phil Flynn, an
analyst at PFGBest in Chicago. By
comparison, Flynn said, the pipe-
line that leaked in Michigan didn't
have as big an impact on the mar-
ket.
Most analysts expect retail
gasoline prices to stay steady in
October and November, as sup-
plies remain plentiful and demand
is listless compared with a peak
summer driving season.

Mich. woman gains
entrepreuneurial
spirit after cancer
HOWELL, Mich. (AP) - It might
sound odd, but Judy Hayward
believes cancer made her stronger
and more willing to take risks.
Prior to learning she had breast
cancer last year, the 51-year-old
Green Oak Township woman felt
secure with her life. She was mar-
ried and healthy, and had a good
job as a chiropractic assistant at
Livingston Chiropractic Clinic in
Brighton Township. Often, she
dreamed about opening her own
consignment shop. She'd think
about it for a minute and then shelve
it.
Everything changed in January
2009 after she received the results
from what was supposed to be a
routine mammogram.
Doctors found numerous small
dots in her left breast, and more
tests revealed it was breast cancer.
Within a year, Hayward went
through two more mammograms,
had her left breast removed and
underwent several surgeries to
reconstruct her breast. In addition,
her hair fell out when she started
chemotherapy, which made her
vomit and drained all her energy.
"Life is too short to sit back," she
said.
A year later, Hayward begin
thinking about what she wanted to
do next as she regained her health.
She could go back to her old job or
do something new.
She said surviving cancer turned
her into a different person. Her
long, straight blond hair has been
replaced by curly, brown hair that

grew in.
In an ironic way, she said, can-
eer brought her to where she finds
herself today: proud owner of her
own business, Treasure Corner
Consignment Boutique. The shop is
at 5841 Whitmore Lake Road, Suite
A, just south of the intersection of
Grand River Avenue and Whitmore
Lake Road.
"It just makes you realize life is
too short not to do the things you
want to do," she said.
With the help of her husband,
Christopher, and her former boss,
chiropractor Guilio Cogo, she
opened her consignment shop two
months ago. She said the shop is
doing well, and she loves being her
own boss. It's alot ofwork but she's
enjoying it.
"When you have a near-death
experience, you think, 'What could
I have done (in my life)?"' she said.
Hayward said she's always taken
care ofherself She always exercised
and hasn't had any serious illnesses.
Although both her parents died of
cancer, she said no one in her family
has had breast cancer.
The results from her annual
mammogram revealed tiny dots,
and doctors told her those were
probably calcium deposits. A few
days later, they called her and told
her they wanted to do another,
mammogram. After the second
mammogram, they told her she
needed to go to Saint Joseph Mercy
Hospital just outside Ann Arbor for
a third mammogram.
Hayward was upset. She felt it
was "ridiculous" and didn't under-
stand why she had to keep going
back for more mammograms. She
said it's not a pleasant test, explain-
ing "they press (the breast) down
like a pancake."

Iraq-Iran border fortified as United
States troops prepare exit country

Iraqi guards set up
along border to fend
off possible invasion
QUTAIBA BORDER FORT,
Iraq (AP) - On any map, this cas-
tle-like fort is located in Iran. But
war, time and drifting desert sands
have blurred the border, and for
now, Iraqi guards stoutly defend
Qutaiba as theirs.
The guards are part of a beefed-
up presence onboth sides of a long,
porous and ill-defined border. Iraq
is building four new border forts in
its eastern Wasit province alone,
which abuts Iran for 116 miles
(186 kilometers). Iran also is add-
ing forts, evidenced by half-built
structures surrounded byscaffold-
ingthat can be seen fromIraq.
The increased tension is a result
of an Iraqi government in limbo as
American troops prepare to leave
the country after more than eight
years of war. Underscoring the
insecure time, Iraqi wariness of
Iranian aggression is on the rise,
especially after two major Iranian
incursions in less than a year.
"The region here is like a jungle:
the strong eat the weak," said Iraqi
Brig. Gen. Sami Wahab, who over-
sees the nearby Zurbatiyah port
of entry, the largest official pedes-
trian land crossing between Iraq
and Iran.
"If the Iraqi government keeps
going backward and reaches the
level where you can say it's a weak
country,thenthere's agood chance
of Iran coming in," Sami said. "But
we don't have cannons to respond;
we don't have jets to bomb. That's

why the Iraqi people are scared."
On Sunday, Iranian Gen. Abdol-
rasoul Mahmoudabadi said the
Revolutionary Guards had pushed
into Iraq over the weekend and
killed at least 30 members of an
armed group involved in an attack
last week that Iran had blamed on
Kurdish rebels.
It was a rare example of Iran
openly admitting toa cross-border
incursion into Iraq.
Iran and Iraq are formerly war-
ring neighbors that have settled
over the last several years into an
uneasy relationship. Few experts
expect a full-scale invasion remi-
niscent of the eight-year Iran-Iraq
war that began in 1980, as both
nations have their hands full with
domestic turmoil.
Shiite-run governments in both
Baghdad and Tehran have paved
the way toward normalized rela-
tions since the 2003 ouster of Sad-
dam Hussein, a Sunni, and Iraq
has since given greater freedom to
Iranian pilgrims to visit holy Shiite
shrines in Karbala and Najaf.
But even if they are not the pre-
cursor to a full-scale invasion, the
incursions are a way for Iran to
show its dominance in the region
and remind Iraq that while the
U.S. military is leaving soon, Iran is
here to stay.
The U.S. for its part calls Iran a
serious threat - one that is boost-
ing efforts to fund, train, supply
and shelter insurgents as the U.S.-
led war that began in 2003 winds
down. A senior intelligence official
in Washington, who spoke anony-
mously because he was not autho-
rized to talk about the sensitive
issue, expressed concern that Iran

will supply anyone, terror group
or common criminal, with bomb-
making parts or other weapons to
create the image of instability in
Iraq.
A political analyst at Tehran's
Azad University said that under
Saddam Hussein, Iraq portrayed
itself as leader of the Arab world,
leading to tension with Iran. But if
Iraq's government remains weak,
Iran will not go on the offensive,
he said.
"Iran already has a big amount
of influence in Iraq," analyst
Ahmad Bakhshayesh said in an
interview. "So it does not need any
offensive measures in theborders."
However, Iraqis fiercely protec-
tive of its sovereignty, and many
officials believe Iran is trying to
take advantage of its weakened
neighbor. Asked why, Maj. Raad
Awad scoffed.
"Iran likes to occupy land. They
want to keep expanding their
country into the Mideast," said
Awad at the Saad border fort in
northern Wasit.
The two Iranian incursions -
especially an oil well takeover in
Iraq's southern Maysan province
- spurred Iraqis to seek U.S. train-
ing on how to fend off an invasion
or prevent one from occurring in
the firstplace.
In that first incursion last
December, Iranian forces held oil
well No. 4 in the al-Fakkah field
for days before pulling back with-
out much opposition by Iraqi offi-
cials. The oil field, located about
200 miles (about 320 kilometers)
southeast of Baghdad, is one of
Iraq's largest but part of it lies on
land claimed by each country.


r Se' 0tI,':
Sle.adingvxecu' 'ves n s.es ,;re..' n .:.c i
tisE#t. wi)hour <eam on as to ar rn-ore ab u
vour compr :.J .EmngL .:..r '.R a his . nd why jociningk CIE
me ans "yt.'re ",Fin cgreat opn
Information Session
Michiga n Lteague, Ka lamazoo
7 October 2010 I 7:00 p.m.
Application Deadline
25 OctOber 2010
Interview Dates
16-1I Nove'mbe.r 2010
ClrLer C ,ne t ' ndte EWeb>site
a . www.. . ..eocarees co



4 - Tuesday, September 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

4C iict igan f atiJ
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ELAINE MORTON

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

iia
17\0 s

01

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Opening up options
University needs to provide more housing choices
T he University housing website boasts "varied" housing
options. But in reality, the actual residential hall housing
choices contradict those claims as they lack an accessible
gender-neutral housing option for students. Gender-neutral hous-
ing, proposed in 2009, would allow students to choose roommates
without the consideration of sex. organizations pushing for the
implementation of a gender-neutral option have recently opted to
use the term "open housing." But the quality of the idea and support
from the student body remains the same. Almost a year has passed
since the proposal was introduced, but there has been little prog-
ress. The University should uphold its responsibility to the student
body and implement open housing.

*I

Take a look at Detroit

Members of student organizations in sup-
port of the gender-neutral housing policy
came together earlier this month to consid-
er the future of the initiative, according to a
Daily article last week. In an effort to make
the idea sound more accessible, the groups
voted to change the name of the option to
"open housing." Representatives from the
participating student groups described the
name change as an opportunity to restore
and educate students on what this policy
means on campus. The groups are also
planning on presenting a report regarding
gender-neutral housing in November. If
approved, the option would take effect for
the fall of 2011.
Open housing would provide more
options for students who seek alternative
rooming assignments. Open housing would
allow students the ability to choose what
kind of living arrangement would best suit
their needs. And if an individual would like
to live with someone of the same sex, they
have the right to do so. Implementing an
open-housing option wouldn't impose on
anyone - it would be an opt-in policy - or
harm students. The University has an obli-
gation to provide students with alternatives
to traditional housing to help them be as
comfortable as possible.
Implementing this housing option would
also break down boundaries and elimi-
nate strict traditional gender definitions.
Students shouldn't be forced into a living

situation that they aren't comfortable with
because of the implementation of these
boundaries. Currently, many students in
the LGBT community don't have an appro-
priate housing option. For many of these
students, living with someone of the oppo-
site sex or with someone who doesn't sub-
scribe to traditional gender roles would be
the best arrangement. For these students,
open housing is an inclusive, more accept-
ing option.
The move to change the name of this ini-
tiative from "gender-neutral housing" to
"open housing" took place at a meeting of
the many organizations that support more
housing options. These groups range from
the Michigan Student Assembly to the Uni-
versity's Chapter of the College Democrats
and the Residence Halls Association. The
coalition of this diverse set of groups is a
testament to the campus support for the
initiative. And last year, the student body
proved that a majority of them agreed with
implementing the option - with 67 percent
of students voting in support of gender-neu-
tral housing in a survey from the Gender
Neutral Housing Coalition.
Open housing would create a comfort-
able living environment for all students.
Students have shown that they support it
by uniting to encourage its realization. The
University should recognize the strength
behind this initiative and implement open
housing in its residence halls.

t seems that one primary pur-
pose of our undergraduate
educations - or at least the
humanities dis-
tribution require-
ment within it
- is to reveal to
us that we're not
the centers of our
own universes (an
insight I should
attribute to David
Foster Wallace's'
commencement LIBBY.
speech at Kenyon
College). ASHTON
In looking back
on my last two
years at the University, I realized that
I haven't done the best job fulfilling
that purpose in a hands-on way. This
year, for the first time, I've been able
to see Ann Arbor from a perspective
that's not entirely my own, through
the eyes of the children I babysit and
the children I tutor at a local elemen-
tary school with the Ginsberg Center's
Project Community.
While the lenses I've been able to
borrow these last few weeks belong
to non-University students, they
don't belong to anyone whose experi-
ence of life - at least as far as I can
tell - is radically different from my
own. Rather than making me feel as
though my horizon has broadened,
these small tastes of non-collegiate
life in Michigan have shown me how
disengaged I've been from the world
outside my classroom walls, despite
the countless books read and papers
written about that world.
As students at this university, we
have an unparalleled resource avail-
able to us to integrate academia with
the reality upon which it's based. We
live 30 miles from a city and kind
of life that many of us study (and
many of us don't) but, for all practi-

cal purposes, know nothing about.
I've done myself a disservice by fail-
ing to explore Detroit: our next-door
neighbor with a wealth of history and
culture.
For any number of reasons, most
students create a path for themselves
that never leads them to Detroit. Oth-
ers couldn't imagine a University
experience without Detroit. I don't
believe the latter group is, as a whole,
inherently more outward-looking or of
a higher ethical order than the former.
Perhaps a combination of pre-existing
interests and inspiring professors who
made ita priority to educate their stu-
dents on the very real and proximal
presence of Detroit motivated those
students to incorporate the city into
their University lives.
Until this semester, Detroit was
never prominent on my radar - nei-
ther socially or academically. I'm
inclined to feel ashamed of myself to
admit that, especially because I con-.
sider myself to be particularly con-
scious of my duty to make my world
larger than myself. But I should feel
less shame than gratitude that my
friend's invitation to see the "Big
Bambu" exhibit at the Detroit Insti-
tute of Art and that my sociology class
has engaged me in a dialogue about
Detroit's public education system
came while I still have time to learn.
But what if the invitation had
never come or if I had chosen to take a
painting class instead of get involved
in Project Community? I could have
been swept up into another semes-
ter and allowed it to pass by without
awareness of my failure to do my job
as a student. Here's where my call to
action comes in: if you are someone
for whom imagining your life at the
University without Detroit is impos-
sible, do what you can to put Detroit
on the radars of your friends. If you
are a professor for whom Detroit is in

any way relevant to your curriculum,
talk about it in class. Some people
may jump at an opportunity to go to
the city at first mention. Others may
need to hear about it several times
before a desire to see for themselves
develops.
Students must
experience the 'U'
with Detroit.
It can be easy to pass through the
undergraduate vestibule with our
eyes still shut and our inborn self-
centeredness intact. But because
we're students who chose to attend
what is essentially the largest liberal
arts school (that looks deceivingly
like a research institution) in the
country, it shouldn't be so easy for
us. But a community of curious and
broadly thinking peers can only carry
the rest of us so far. Ultimately, the
responsibility to take our educational
duty to expand our minds seriously
lies with the individual.
We're afforded these four years
to open our eyes, look past our noses
and take a comprehensive look at
the world we're about to enter. We
are especially lucky, relative to the
majority of college students, that
we can so easily include a city like
Detroit in our gaze. To spend our
four lucky years here oblivious to
that real world is - as students and as
the generation that will befaced with
the job of fixing our society's broken
infrastructure - irresponsible and
inexcusable.
- Libby Ashton can be reached
at eashton@umich.edu.

*I

-Ihe
podium

At the Daily's opinion blog, you can get involved in the news.
Rachel Van Gilder wants to know what you would pitch
for MPowered's 1000 Pitches entrepreneurial competition.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Podium.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
All submissions become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
The unique economic brew

JORDAN BIRNHOLTZ
State smoking ban alternative

Questions of the government's right to inter-
fere with the affairs of private businesses are
typically contentious. Michigan's smoking
ban, the Dr. Ron Davis Smoke-Free Air Law,
is no exception to this rule. This ban, which
prohibits smoking indoors in all public places
and eateries, with an exemption for casinos
and specialty smoke-shops, went into effect on
May 1 of this year.
Those opposed to the ban either consider it
an infringement on the rights of business own-
ers or think that it generates a negative economic
effect. Those in favor of the ban argue that it
yields a net positive effect on the economy or that
the effects of second-hand smoke are sufficiently
harmful as to justify the ban.
Neither side makes a particularly compelling
case, relative our other option, which is to sell
smoking licenses. Allowing businesses to buy
smoking licenses, under certain restrictions,
would both generate much needed revenue for
the state and curb second-hand smoke. The sale
of smoking permits represents an ideological and
economic compromise.
Those who make a case either for or against
the ban citing supposed economic outcomes do
so without strong quantitative or anecdotal evi-
dence. Which is to say that it's not obvious what
the ban is really doing for businesses, for better
or worse. There's virtually no data that support
any macroeconomic conclusions about the ban.
Even anecdotes about its supposed effects go
both ways.
A Detroit Free Press article from Aug. 19 cites
the case of the Perfect Pitcher Sports Pub. The
article says that the seven-waitress workforce
has diminished to one or two. The owner, Nata-
lie Samu, claims that business "'is down by over
50%."' On the other side of the argument, Steve
Seng, a restaurant owner quoted by The Muske-
gon Chronicle, says business is, on the whole, up,

despite a diminished nighttime patronage. But
neither of these stories, as thought provoking as
they might be, allows anyone to draw any mean-
ingful conclusions. Infact, thenameofthe article
that cites Seng is called, "Snuffing out business?
One month into smoking ban, Muskegon-area
bar and restaurant owners report mixed results."
I don't agree with a wholly libertarian con-
ception of government, but I'm also uncom-
fortable with a certain degree of government
social controls. Of all the products for personal
consumption one might ban, cigarettes are a
fairly sensible option. Smoking yields a ton of
negative effects, and on an admittedly visceral
level, sticking it to the cigarette companies,
which engage in many ethically questionable
practices, seems particularly appealing. But
emotion is a bad basis for good public policy,
and this degree of restriction is a level of
government reach that I can't in good faith
endorse, especially when we can negate some
of the effects and improve the state's financial
health by pursuing a different solution.
The consequences of second-hand smoke are
extremely serious and I don't take them light-
ly. Permits should be of appropriate expense.
There's room here for flexible policy. Permits
might be issued only to businesses that properly
designate and isolate their smoking sections. Or
perhaps the permits would be issued in a way
that limits smoking to late night, or only in bars
that allow for smoking in the entire place.
There's plenty of room for discussion of this
matter. We can even arrive, rigorously, at the
appropriate price to set for these permits.We can
determine whether or not to add time-restric-
tions to them. We have better choices than a ban,
speaking both ideologically and economically,
and we ought to pursue them.
Jordan Birnholtz is a LSA sophomore.

n March 11, 2009, the Michi-
gan House of Representa-
tives voted 61-42 on HB 4565,
an anti-consumer
bill that requires,
"retailers to attach
an identification
tag signed by the
buyer to kegs of
beer when they
are sold, and not
return the keg
deposit unless the -
tag is still on the ALEX
keg, subject to a
$500 fine for fail- BILES
ing to do either. A
non-retailer pos-
sessing a keg with-
out the tag would be subject to a $500
fine and 93 days in jail." The bill is
currently on the state Senate calen-
dar under general orders.
Other than making common peo-
ple criminals, the rationale behind
this bill is to deter underage drink-
ing by imposing liability on whoever
purchases the keg. It's bills like this,
which raise costs for everybody, dis-
couraging competition and providing
consumers and retailers with reduced
choices that threaten the creative
energies that fuel our economy.
Let me provide an example. Consid-
er all the people you know who drink
Natty Light, Keystone or some other
type of beer. You'd think at least one
person in the city would know how
to make beer. But they don't. In fact,
nobody in the world knows every skill
necessary to make beer.
To be able to make beer, one would
have to know how to grow barley and
hops. Not to mention make the fertil-
izer, sprinklers and tractors involved
with that process. To build these
tractors, this person would require
knowledge of steel refining and auto-
motive engineering. The sprinkling
system would involve the construc-
tion of an intricate irrigation system
of pipes and canals. This person would

have to know how to make glass and
paper for the bottles from sand and
timber, respectively. To manufacture
the metal caps or cans, some type of
ore would have to be mined. And some
method to transport the beer's ingre-
dients from place to place would be
necessary. This person would have to
know how to produce a truck or freight
train for all intents and purposes.
In short, the process involved with
manufacturing beer is so complex
that no one person could do it. If you
dared to attempt to acquire all of the
skills required to produce a bottle of
Bell's Two Hearted Ale, you would be
foolish. Not only would you die before
attaining a marked level of progress,
but it would also be incredibly ineffi-
cient to dedicate your time to the task
when there are so many other groups
of individuals who specialize in spe-
cific aspects and can make beer better
and faster than you.
I did not conceive this scenario. I
found the prompt for the complex-
ity of beer creation on Division of
Labour, an economics blog. Based on
"I, Pencil," a timeless essay written by
economist Leonard Read, it serves to
illustrate the concepts of spontaneous
order, specialization and division of
labor. These ideas were first pioneered
by economist Adam Smith and later
refinedby the mindsof individuals like
Nobel Laureate FriedrichHayek. They
are a reflection of the incomprehensi-
ble complexity of the human behavior
that defines our modern economy.
The millions of individuals involved
in making beer today come from all
corners of the world. Under most cir-
cumstances, they'd never interact.
Yet, these millions of people manage
to engage their human energies and
spontaneously cooperate in response
to a human desire for booze without
the presence of any governmental
body or mastermind.
This lesson reiterates the fact that
in this world, knowledge is dispersed.
Our brains possess a mere fraction of

the knowledge ofthe collective human
mind. And the freedom to pursue one's
self-interest unleashes levels of coop-
eration unmatched by any attempt at
central planning by the government.
While some government restric-
tions may provide us with more sani-
tary and humane work environments,
as well as protect our forests and
rivers, every regulation that is put
into place is at the expense of some
release of human creativity and a
waste of potential. In the vein of Kurt
Vonnegut's short story "Harrison
Bergeron," it's a weight on the prover-
bial head of humanity by the handi-
capper general.
No one in the
world knows how
to make beer.
Many times, regulations like HB
4565 that may seem beneficial produce
government-enforced monopolies that
hurt consumers and stifle progress
that could have been achieved other-
wise by allowing private individuals to
work with market incentives.
Legislation like HB 4565 is as like-
ly to curb underage drinking as me
penning a column urging my fellow
underage Wolverines to stay sober.
With heavy government regulation,
unleashing humanity's true creative
potential is severely compromised.
And that's something we should seri-
ously consider in an age during which
we are constantly enacting foolish,
freedom-killing laws. We often take
for granted the spontaneous order
that brings us goods in life as unique
and precious as beer. So drink up,
everybody.
- Alex Biles can be reached
at jabiles@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Laura Veith


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 28, 2010 - 5

Pres. to students:
'You're not going
to a university
to join '

From Page 1
allows funding for veterans to
attend college after service.
* Obama added that the Affordable
Care Act, which extends the age
that dependents can be covered
by a family health insurance plan
from 18 to 26 years old, will also
make higher education a more
viable option for people.
Obama also said colleges need
to be cautious of how they allocate
funding, and they must ensure
money is being used for increas-
ing the quality of learning, rather
than on things like facilities and
renovations. He said that while
faculty research should remain a
funding priority, universities and
professors should not let research
overshadow student needs.
"Part of what I think we've got
to examine is are we designing our
universities in a way that focuses
on the primary thing, which is
education," Obama said. "You're
not going to a university to join
a spa; you're going there to learn
so that you can have a fulfilling
career. And if all the amenities of
a public university start jacking
up the cost of tuition significantly,
that's a problem."
Obama said he hopes to work
closely with university officials
across the nation to grapple with
financial issues and find ways to
allocate more money to directly
improving the educational quality
of universities.
Despite lingering fear among
college students faced with loan
debt that they may not find a job
in a difficult job market, Obama
said he thinks that this genera-
tion of college students will be
FREEZING
From Page 1
In 2006, ASCO developed
a guideline requiring fertility
preservation counseling prior to
gonadotoxic treatment - that is,
treatment which has a harmful
effect on the ovaries or testes - a
new standard of care for cancer
patients of reproductive age.
But according to Fisseha, "a
large number of patients who
still need counseling are not get-
ting the opportunity."
At the Center for Reproduc-
tive Medicine, fertility preserva-
tion services include sperm, egg,
ovarian and testicular tissue and
embryo freezing coupled with
one-on-one counseling.
Fisseha said the process
involves a combination of evalu-
ation, counseling and outpatient
procedure. The freezing of eggs,
which is offered to women with-
out current sexual partners,
involves stimulation of the ova-
ries prior to the eggs being frozen
and harvested. When the eggs are
eventually thawed, they are fer-
tilized with a partner's sperm.
"When fertility is under
threat, and single women don't
have partners, this is a great
strategy to improve fertility," she
said.
While the center primarily
serves cancer patients, services
are available to any patient with
a fertility-threatening condition,
she added.
Fisseha, who is a reproductive
endocrinology and infertility
specialist, said a number of treat-

ments for diseases can endanger
future chances of fertility. Che-
motherapy drugs and multi-drug
therapies may severely damage
reproductive organs, and for
cancers of the ovaries or uterus,
these organs may need to be
removed entirely, she said.
Every patient reacts differ-
ently to drug treatments, and

"just fine," and that plenty of job
opportunities in various fields are
awaiting graduates.
"We've gone through the worst
financial crisis since the Great
Depression, and so things are
real tough for young people right
now," Obama said. "But having
said that, if you are getting a col-
lege degree, if you've got skills in
math and science or good, sound
communication skills, there are
still jobs out there even in a tough
environment. And nine out of 10
people who are looking for work
can still find work."
Obama said that it is crucial for
students to vote in the midterm
elections this November, encour-
aging students to educate them-
selves about candidates and their
policies so that they can elect
people who will make important
changes.
Obama said students got
involved in his campaign for
president because they saw it
as "a vehicle to get engaged and
involved in shaping the direction
of this country," adding that stu-
dents should view the midterm
elections similarly.
"What I want to do is just to
go speak to young people directly
and remind them of what I said
during the campaign, which was
change is always hard in this
country," Obama said. "It doesn't
happen overnight. You take two
steps forward, you take one step
back."
"I just want to remind young
people, they've got to get re-
engaged in this process," Obama
added. "And they're going to
have to vote in these midterm
elections."
chemotherapy may not always
cause infertility, according to
the University Health System's
Comprehensive Cancer Center
website. The sterilizing effects
of radiation treatment depend on
dose, delivery schedule and the
patient's age at the time of treat-
ment, the website reports.
But for patients who opt for
cryogenic preservation before
undergoing treatment, reproduc-
tion can become an option once
the patient's health allows him
or her to begin the process of
starting a family.
Because the lifetime of a cryo-
genically preserved egg is indefi-
nite, Fisseha said adolescents
and teenagers facing cancer can
also elect to have their eggs pre-
served prior to child-bearing
age.
"We're making a lot of advanc-
es in adolescent and adult can-
cers. We have greatly increased
life expectancy in young women
and men that have cancer,"
Fisseha said. "For very young
patients, they don't know when
they will want to have children,
but they want a means to pre-
serve their fertility."
Greater life expectancies
in cancer patients, as well as
advances in research, have
increased the popularity of cryo-
genic preservation in recent
years.
Fisseha said the center, which
has been offering fertility pres-
ervation counseling and services
since 2003, sees patients from
all across Michigan and neigh-
boring states. She said she hopes
to see the number of patients

grow as fertility education and
counseling become more readily
available to patients before they
undergo chemotherapy or other
gonadotoxic treatments.
"The greatest progress that
we need to make is making
our patients aware that (fertil-
ity preservation) is an option,"
Fisseha said.

SACUA
From Page 1
ting measures to meet the possible
loss in state appropriations to the
University.
These measures may include
eliminating unnecessary services
provided by the Information and
Technology Services across cam-
pus and the possible restructuring
of administration positions.
As the University looks toward
the future, Hanlon said he feels it
should also continue to work on its
strengths and emphasize out-of-
classroom learning.
Hanlon said students are enrich-
ing their education outside the
classroom with the research, ser-
vice and creative opportunities on
campus.
But Hanlon noted that these
campus assets are not currently
integrated into the student learning
experience and that research tools
ought to be developed to assess
their impact on student education.
"We need to become more rigor-
ous and disciplined about defining
learning outcomes and having tools
to assess them," he said.
These assessment tools would
also increase the University's pres-
tige over that of private schools,
which have smaller student-to-
teacher ratios, Hanlon said.
"When we let education get

AKE FROMM/C

SACUA members meet in the Regents Room at the Fleming Administration Building yesterday afternoon.

defined by classroom teaching, we
get creamed," he said.
Hanlon added that he would
like to see the University's stu-
dent-to-faculty ratio decrease to
10-to-1 from its current ratio of
approximately 14.3-to-1. The ratio
was initially about 15.1-to-1 prior
to the planned addition of 150
new faculty members from 2007
through this year.
Addressing the National
Research Council of the National

Academy's rankings of Ph.D. pro-
grams - set to be released Tues-
day - Hanlon said he is interested
to see the reaction to the numbers,
adding that he is concerned that
the public will misinterpret the
numbers because they are based
on interval scales rather than a set
number ranking.
SACUA Chair and Prof. of Statis-
tics Ed Rothman said as a statisti-
cian, he feels the interval rankings
are unclear and measure what was

done in the past rather than cur-
rent educational strategies.
Hanlon also said he feels the
quantification of University's out-
of-classroom experience would
increase its ranking. Though he
said the University is not con-
cerned with its ranking, Hanlon
added that the data will be a useful
tool for the future.
- Katelyn Hummer
contributed to this report.


CVs
From Page 1
June 2009 to demolish the exist-
ing building except for the front
wall and construct a new building
behind that original facade. Pho-
tos of the site show that the fagade
dates back to the 1930s. The build-
ing used to be a two-story single-
family home and carriage house
that, with several additions over the
years, became a boarding house.
DeAngelis said CVS bought the
property in April 2010 because of
its convenient location near campus
and the number of students who
walk by the area. The new phar-
macy is being built next to Corner
House Apartments, home to many
University students.
The construction has caused
some problems for nearby business-
es. Employees at Mr. Greeks Coney
Island say the restaurant has lost
business because of it.
"It's hard for people to park out
front(because ofthe construction),"
Mr. Greeks worker Nazik Anton.
"We can feel vibrations (from the
construction) in the store."
And while construction may
cause headaches for students and
business owners in the area, CVS
officials are hoping students and
residents embrace the store once it
opens.
Art & Design sophomore Jessica
Fass said she plans to stay with her
current pharmacy - The Village
ALCOHOL
From Page 1
alcohol and other drugs policy and
prevention.
According to the University's
Division of Student Affairs web-
site, "in the first ten weeks of Fall
Term 2008, 70 UM students were
transported to the hospital for
alcohol-related issues." The aim of
the program is to lower that num-
ber and educate students about two
importantissues, alcohol consump-
tion and sexual assault before they
actually get to campus in order
to avoid dangerous situations,
Desprez said.
The first part of the course takes
about 2.5 hours to complete and
finishes with a quiz that students
must pass with at least a score of 85
percent. Then, 30 to 40 days later,
those who completed the course
are asked to take a 15-minute fol-
low-up survey, which Desprez said
is intended to gauge students' hab-
its while school is in session.
Outside The Classroom, a com-

The site of the new CVS on South State Street last week. Matthew Basal works on continuing the construction process.

Apothecary on South University
Avenue - because of the personal
touch they provide.
"I like the people (at The Village
Apothecary)," Fass said. "I'm close
with them, and they rarely make
mistakes with my prescriptions."
Despite the threat the new CVS
may pose to other local businesses
and pharmacies, David Palan, who
works at The Village Apothecary,
believes that the national brand
can't match the local feel.
"We're a personal home-town
pharmacy," Palan said.
pany that creates educational mate-
rials devised the dual-modular
program. According to the orga-
nization's website, the program is
used in over 500 colleges and uni-
versities in all 50 states, including
Harvard University, Stanford Uni-
veristy and the University of Cali-
fornia at Los Angeles.
The Division of Student Affairs
website states that the University
requires all incoming students to
complete the online course in order
to better prepare them to man-
age the transition to college life.
But while the program is highly
encouraged, it is not mandatory.
"One of the things all of us, stu-
dents, staff, all of us, wanted to
do was...encourage people to take
(Community Matters) and remove
barriers people were having from
taking it and not turn it into a pun-
ishment," said Desprez.
Students who completed the
program before the semester began
were awarded donated prizes
including season tickets to men's
basketball, a gift certificate from
the Cupcake Station, free Wendy's

But LSA freshman Michael
Pereira said he thinks CVS will get
a lot of business, adding that he's
excited for the store to open.
"It's an all-purpose store,"
Pereira said. "I've been looking for
a place like that."
Kinesiology freshman Chloe
Kipnis echoed Pereira's sentiments,
saying that she can't wait for CVS
to open because she's had issues
finding the products she needs at a
pharmacy in Ann Arbor.
"(CVS) has everything a col-
lege student needs and it has more
breakfast sandwiches and a free
day pass to MRock.
For the second part of the pro-
gram, students who finish the
follow-up survey in a timely man-
ner will be entered to win an Apple
iPad, among other prizes.
Some students who took the sur-
vey prior to this semester said they
thought the online course was use-
ful, even though it required some-
what of a time commitment.
LSA freshman Erica Seifert said
that though she thought Commu-
nity Matters was "kind of a waste
of time," she did learn from the
program.
"I learned a lot of things about
the (blood alcohol content) I kind of
knew, but I had never been taught
before," she said. "It was way better
than it could have been; it was kind
of a cool program."
LSA freshman Fiona Clowney,
who also completed the course,
said she's not sure how much she
got out of the course.
"I don't know that it actually
helped me in my life because I'm
not actually following any of the

than just the little mom and pop
stores around campus ... things are
a little pricier there," Kipnis said.
"With CVS, everything's going to
be affordable and you can get a
lot."
Nursing freshman Lizzie Levine
said she's also looking forward to
the convenience of having a com-
mercial pharmacy nearby.
"I'm really excited because I can
fill my prescriptions without hav-
ing to look further for a pharmacy,"
Levine said. "If I get sick, they are
right there for whatever I need."
things I did, but just thinking
about it in a serious way instead of
just rushing into the college life,"
Clowney said.
Clowney also said she thinks
the program could be altered to be
more student-friendly.
"I think people should take it,
but it can definitely be improved
upon," she said. "I can't really fig-
ure out how because it's hard to
relate to students in a way that they
won't think it's you trying to talk
down to them. But I think it should
keep going."
Though Desprez said the goal of
the program is to educate students
about serious issues and help them
ease into life away from home, she
knows Community Matters is not a
fix-all solution.
"There's none of us who think
that this course is the magic bullet,
but what it does is create a com-
mon language for a whole incoming
class that you can sort of meet them
there and then really get into some
reallyimportantand more in-depth
dialogue, knowing everyone has a
baseline of information," she said.

WANT TO JOIN THE
MICHIGAN DAILY?
Come to our LAST mass meeting at
420 Maynard Street:
THURSDAY SEPT. 30 @ 7 P.M.


6 - Tuesday, September 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Nostalgia is subjective

"Yes sir. He hasn't moved in over three hours.

I'm scared."

'Detroit' 1-8-sucks

MO
by
The
shows
came
those
after.:
police
could
with
tic
and s
smootl
solutio
packag
episod
examp
pletely
couldo
In tl
shows
dards,
meet t
most t
Police
defunc
bungle
causin
tions.
The
show,

The D's big TV filmed in Detroit, that doesn't
scream convention - tired,
ment gets ruined defeated convention. Michael
Imperioli ("The Sopranos") plays
terrible writing Louis Fitch, a jaded veteran
homicide detective. Embodying a
By IMRAN SYED predictable persona seen in ahun-
DailyArts Writer dred other shows before, Fitch is
- ---a rude, demanding, quirky loner
re are two kinds of cop who bristles at the thought of
in the world - those that working with a young, inexperi-
before "The Wire" and enced partner.
that came Alongside Fitch are a handful of
Before, TV * other detectives, racially diverse,
dramas and all quite capable of spout-
get away Detroit 1-8-7 ing off tidbits of lame, over-baked
simplis- native "wisdom" that would make
characters Tuesdays real Detroiters cringe ("Fight 'em
tories and at10 p.m. here so we don't have to fight'em in
h, easy ABC Ferndale;" "This is why you don't
ins neatly go looking for bullets in Detroit;"
ged into each self-contained "We may be the last assembly line
e (any CBS drama is a good left in Detroit"). Together they
le). But "The Wire" com- fight crime and close cases - with
redefined what the genre the same mind-numbing, super-
and should be. ficial, hackneyed commotion you
his new world, even network might find in any number of reruns
are held to higher stan- on USA, FX or TBS.
and "Detroit 1-8-7" fails to The pilot episode sets the for-
:hose standards - just like mat of the show: Each episode
hings in the real-life Detroit will feature two separate crimes,
Department, whose now- being investigated by two separate
t crime lab, for example, detective teams. While there was
d evidence testing for years, once supposed to be a documenta-
g countless false convic- ry format to the show (a dramatic
twist on the technique employed
re's very little about the in "The Office," I imagine), that
which is set and will be had to be abandoned. What was

left behind in the pilot was a rather
boring story feverishly told, with
an overbearing soundtrack that
would make Michael Bay proud
(not a good thing).
There is, I suppose, enough
here to create a good show,
should the writers and produc-
ers decide they want to present a
complete, thorough drama that
looks at characters as players in a
grand conception (which need not
always open and close with each
episode). Such was the majesty of
"The Wire:" Characters were built
up to the point where simple plot
points no longer drove the show.
Admittedly judging only from the
first episode, it seems that "Detroit
1-8-7" has no interest in being that
type of show.
All this said, it would be wrong
to overlook the show's ambitious
undertaking, even if the first epi-
sode is hardly worth watching.
Setting and filming a cop show in
Detroit may be thematically per-
fect, but it's also a monumental
impracticality that ABC must be
commended for backing. The pilot
episode was shot in Atlanta (with
limited re-shoots in Detroit), but
the producers plan do all future
filming in Detroit.
Perhaps with the authentic set-
ting will also come a deeper, rich-
er, more creative show in future
episodes.

usic used to be better.
I hate hearing that.
Not only because it
sounds hopelessly geriatric, but
because it's wrong.
When it
comes to -
American
music of
the last 40
years, noth-h
ing prohibits
criticism,
appreciation J
and enjoyment JOE
of pop more DIMUZIO
than gener-
alization. It
not only prevents us from under-
standing and enjoyingimusic,
but locks us out of engaging with
popular culture at large. Opinion
is a classic American pastime,
but when we commit to a quick
judgment without actually giving
music our time, ears and effort,
it's easy to embrace a hardened
sense of self-righteous damna-
tion.
It's easy to point at Boomers
for this sort of entitlement, and
even easier when they grew up
in an era with a wide array of
talented singers, songwriters and
performers who were popular.
The mid-'60s and early'70s are
frequently reminisced upon and
painted as an untouchable, golden
pinnacle of pop music - apin-
nacle that no period beyond it has
surpassed.
But comparing the pop music
scene of the '60s and early '70s
to the pop music of today is like
comparing a 12-pack of crayons
to a thousand-piece art set. It's
irrelevant.
Consider the market structure
of your standard American town
50 years ago. How would your
parents consume music? Radio
and television were expand-
ing and record stores were the
only place you could buy music.
Assuming you lived in one town
for a good period of time, the
record store, radio and TV were
about as far as you could go.
Since the corporate expansion
of the music industry, the compli-

cations
explodi
clan's g
one's. A
blind -
only mr
with th
commu
quality
today, I
beyond
and '70
types, r
one rec
hip wet
summa
Does
musicn
don't gi
the ma:
the tale
music i
hasn't i
tality ti
ever be
simple
ferent.
The
mental
the acc
that dic
is. Wha
ir
"rocks.
I've tal
compla
enough
"musici
"write
engagir
mental
have m
structu
opment
But
entirely
music,c
on its o
a video
You cat
ties it d

and variety of music have When the "rock lens" becomes
ed. What was once a musi- scripture, it condemns the quali-
ame has become every- ties of music that offer different
kdvertising, dancers, the things to different listeners.
- the market expanded not Then there's the snob. The
usically, but exponentially person whose taste is set in stone,
e trajectory of modern whose arbitrary decisions on
nications. The range and what is "real music" prevents
of recorded popular music them from admitting or even
however objectified, varies tryingto enjoy songs that are
any standard of the'60s popular.
s. There's more of it, more I love Katy Perry's "Teenage
more styles and more than Dream" without irony. It's not
ord store, radio station or the most "melodic" pop song.
bsite could ever hope to It doesn't scare me or provoke
rize. much thought. It's predict-
the capitalization of able. And yet I love how cold it
mean that talented artists sounds. I love the bombast of its
et their due? Sure. Does production. I think the video is
rket take the pretty over sexy. The chorus has no regard
anted? Of course. Is good for subtlety. It sounds great
gnored? Certainly. But blasted on the radio. I can accept
t always been? The men- its faults, and understand why
hat music is worse than someone could hate it, but that
fore seems to ignore the doesn't stand in the way of the
fact that it is vastly dif- sugar rush it provides.
And as much as I enjoy pop
"rock lens" is a sort of radio, in any time, I strongly
ity that ruins pop. It's believe that to be a true pop
eptance of a set of values music fan, aside from casting
state what a"good song" aside generalization, you have
t "good music" is. What to work hard. If you truly enjoy
the pleasures that pop music
provides, you have to spend some
time exploring. We have the abil-
The music ity to access just about any kind
of music we want now, and to find
what truly turns you on takes a
exploded,little bit of effort. You have to find
songs that make you uncomfort-
able. That challenge you. Spend
some time with the songs that
" Plenty of white people you hate at first, or the songs that
ked to about hip hop break down your idea of what
in that it isn't "melodic music can be.
." There isn't enough Of course, this doesn't even
ianship." They don't consider the world of music at
songs." Problem is, they're large. Opera. Classical. William
ng the music with the Basinski. Songs you sing while
ity of rock. Songs should washing the dishes. In the end,
elodies. They should have the most condemning failure of
res, or singing or "devel- all is to forget that music is sim-
t." They should "rock." ply complex. Pop music is a tiny
hip hop is hip hop. It's an facet of that, and in the end itis as
y different genre of pop subjective as any other art form.
one that has to be taken Whether we'd like it to be or not.

wn terms. It's like asking
game to read likea book.
n't knock a genre for quali-
.oesn't inherently possess.

Dimuzio was way better in
the early '70s. To see him now,
e-mail shonenjo@umich.edu.

FOR SALE
RECENTLY REMODELED DOU-
BLE ROOM sharing loft as a common
area with other tenants. 2 full baths,
kitchen, air, downtown location. Phone
days: 662-7888, evenings: 995-2433.

PARKING
PARKING (@?, 930 S. Forest and 408
Hill. 734-222-9033. JMSprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, September 28, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 62 Sci-fi writer 33 Building repair 44 Really enjoys
1 Jane Austen Scott Card platforms 45 Director Spielberg
classic 63 Snow coaster 34 World of 46 Motionless
5 Lose it 64 "Winning espionage 48 Museum
9 Marathoner's everything" 35 Waits on hand Folkwang city
pants? and foot 49 "Sesame Street"
14 Campus area DOWN 36 Dashboard regular
15 Sport with 1 Put "=" between gauge 53 Saw or plane
mallets 2 Scream bloody 37 Saviors 54 City east of
16 Like Andean 38 Detail to tie up Santa Barbara
pyramids 3 Voodoo and 42 Matterhorn or 56 Political
17 More than wizardry Monte Leone beginning?
suggest 4 Yemeni port
18 Loud laugh 5 Wine-and-soda ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Swordsman of drink E N R O L P ESC i H O F
lore 6Nary a soul L A U R A E T H A N O X O
20 Promo after 7 Jai B i G S P E N D E R S P E G
promo after 8 Actor's job A L S O R A N S E y I N G
promo? 9 Thingamajig N O T E E S A
23 Ike's WWII arena 10 "Wheel of S A P B A D E X A M P L E S
24 Gumshoe Fortune" T R A D E R E N P I T T
25 Chowed down purchase
26 Old Olds 11 Twist-offltop A NE A A I C R E L H C
creation 12 Word with board W SLF WHABC RLE I C
27 Bon mot expert or physics Wmo L F W't tS T LIE I C K
8ArOti xpcial 13 More stuck-up E I N S R 0 0 M
30Putinto words 21Darth,to Luke 0 U I N T T 5 E 1RA R I A
33 Foughcentury 22 One-eighty U N D H U F F A N D P U F F
start 29 High points I D O I N E R T E L M S T
32 Well-endowed, 30 Long-legged bird P O L N E W S Y R E P O S
so to speak 31 Banking giant xwordeditor@aolcom 09/27/10

FOR RENT
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HornathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7311.
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3850 (313) 215-8115.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
** AVAILABLE FALL 2011 **
945 GREENWOOD 5 bdrm/2 new
bath, new kitchen, 5 prkg, Indry,
hardwd floors, 734-834-4010.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apis. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
UofM Disounts!
'e s 4

Reservations
Start
October 12th
Spring&Fall
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
SEroo, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROoMS
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus
for 2011/2012
Unverity
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNIVESsTvrwO LCS-MIXOM
tNoaus-TOWtERSXOM
2-9 BR Renovated Houses/Apts for
May '11. New furmiture! 248-804-
0774 www.ChurchStreetApts.com
AVAILABLE FALL '11 5 bedroom
2 bath houses call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com,
www.joycea2.com
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2011
Copi Properties
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

WELCOME BACK!!! CHECK us
out on October 12th when we start tak-
ing Reservations. Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus! We have Stu-
dios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom furnished apart-
ments available for Spring/Fall. Call us
at 734-761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit us at:
www.UniversitvTowers-MI.com

EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
'7'34/996-0566r^riennnise-rv net

MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY operations, including the super-
vision, training and mentoring of under-
graduate students and lab members. As-
sist in the management of research
project(s) directed at lipid biochem-
istry. Provide expertise in biophysical
chemistry with preferred expertise us-
ing mass spectrometry, chemical syn-
thesis, chromatography and microbiol-
ogy techniques. Bachelor's degree in
biochemistry or related field, plus four
years of related experience in a bio-
chemistry laboratory setting required.
In-depth biochemical experimentation
laboratory knowledge essential. Prefer
(1) Master's degree in biochemistry or
related field; (2) extensive lab manage-
ment skills; (3) experience with mam-
malian cell culture techniques; and (4)
experience using mass spectrometry,
chemical synthesis, chromatography,
and microbiology techniques. View
requisition 100472 at https://employ-
ment.unl.edu for qualifications, details
and to apply. Review of applicants be-
gins Aug 11. UNL is committed to a
pluralistic campus community through
affirmative action, equal opportunity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
WE ARE SEEKING DYNAMIC
REP CUSTOMER SERVICE ORI-
ENTED INDIVIDUALS WITH
GREAT COMMUNICATIONS AND
TYPING SKILLS NEEDED TO
WORK ON BEHALF OF COMPANY
THIS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
WILL EARN UP TO $2000
MONTHLY ANY JOB EXPERIENCE
NEEDED.EMAIL AT ivan-
bartl0l@hotmail.com IF INTER-
ESTED.

34 Oil-yielding rock
35 Thesis on
promos? 14
39 "Doe,__...":
ang lyric 1
40 Metallic mixtures 20
41 andturn
42 Astem i2
43 Black Sea port 28
47 Printers' widths
48 Keebler
cokiemaker
49 ".Beso": Paul 3 3
Ankaohit 3
50 Part of D.A.:
Abbr. at
51 Portuguese king
52 One who takes a a
promo off the air? 31-
55 Forest bucks
57 _ Star State ss
58 "By __I" 5
59 ULttle laugh
60 Knock off 2
61 Aggressive
Greek god y Mu,
(i)201

2 3 1 21 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
15 16
18 19
22 23
25 26 27
29 30 31
32 33 34
36 37 38
40
42 43 44 45 46
48 49 50
c sa

I'.n u o muuFN vDIN 0G0S iUay poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
2 AFTER SCHOOL nanny positions
open. Must have supervised childcare
experience. Reliable car. Non-smoker.
Ok w/ animals. Contact Sandra Tracey
at Nanny-On-The-Go! (734)417-1167
or email Nannyonthegoannarbor@ya-
hoo.com
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
CARSON'S AMERICAN BISTRO is
now hiring experienced servers. Must
have lunch availability. Please apply
daily after 2:00pm at 2000 Common-
wealth Blvd.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
EARN SUBSTANTIAL MONEY, set
your own hours, be your own
boss, all while working around your
busy class schedule. No telemarketing.
Nixle was recently featured in Inc.
Magazine as one of the fastest growing
companies in the U.S. - Employment
Reqs: Full/PT niudent, 18+, motivated,
no experience necessary. Loamn more or
apply at nixlesales.com or text NIXLE-
SALES to888777
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back-
ground for a major film production.
Earn up to $200/day. Experience not re-
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
NEED SOMEONE TO pick up daugh-
ter at Tappan & take to home near
school in Burns Park. M-F at 3 & tutor
until 6. Available to take to various ac-
tivities. Please contact Jill Hunsberger
(734) 478-0628 for more information.

ANN ARBOR COUPLE seeks respon-
sible, non-smoking student for driving
and after school child care. Two chil-
dren, 8 year old daughter and 11 year
old son. Must have own car and excel-
lent driving record. Flexible times, but
specifically Tuesday and Friday after-
noons. $13/hour plus mileage.
Stephanie9- hailsteph@aol.com or
248.910.0951
ADOPT: A LOVING & financially
stable couple longs to provide your
baby w/ unconditional love & security.
Expenses pd. Tom/ Marie 1-888-473-
8836. www.adopt4tomandmarie.com
NANNY NEEDED M,W and F for 9
month old girl. Non-smoker, reliable
transportation and references required.
Must be fun, caring, creative and mature,
grad student preferred. Contact zim-
mere@saline.k12.mi.us

1 m®2 ii1r531i 1 541i

I I

I

ii

--1--T -- --1 I -- :--a 1 1 1

1- 1 Mo e I I

I I

R~t -i

I 1 1 601 1 1 B11 1

I I

1 a 1 -- ' ' a-- . -i F I

S 4 E

I I


ri Bickham
10ribune Meda aServices, Inc.

09/28/10



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 28, 2010 - 7

Chanel and Stravinsky
unsuccessfully linked

Deerhunter combines 'Horton Hears a Who' with 'Hop on Pop.' Elephant not amused.
*Deerhunter 's trophy

'Halcyon Digest'
establishes Bradford
Cox's music mastery
By JOSHUA BAYER
Daily Arts Writer
The votes are in and the jury has
spoken: Deerhunter knows how to
make fucking jangle pop!
After the raw
crystalline sludge
of 2007's Crypto-
grams, the band
cleaned up its Dwhunter
sound for 2008's Halcyon Digest
sublimely hooky 4AD
but still suffi-
ciently dreamy
Microcastle. With Halcyon Digest,
Deerhunter finally pulls out the big
guns, delivering an album of buoy-
antly extroverted, instantly likable
ear candy.
While lead singer and guitarist
Bradford Cox has always demon-
strated an almost Zen knack for
crafting humbly infectious melo-
dies, Digest marks his true debut
as a charisma-spouting frontman.
Stepping out from behind the stu-
dio murk of previous records, Cox's
crystal-clear voice refreshes like an
ice-cold glass of orange juice, spar-
kling with the offhand cockiness of
a genuine indie wunderkind.
Throughout, Cox doles out
incredibly frisky inflections that
hit you in the gut without tapping
you on the shoulder: the way he
drags out the word "out" on "Don't
Cry," culminating in a wet, gushy
"t," or the way he turns "could you"
into a sneezy "k-chew!" on "Reviv-
al." Moments like these are con-

stant reminders that this guy has
been around the block and knows
what the hell he's doing.
The opening half of "Desire
Lines" shows how Deerhunter's
newfound breeziness can occa-
sionally translate to idleness, with
Cox crooning vapidly optimistic
lyrics like "Walking free, whoa-oh
/ Come with me, whoa-oh / Far
away, whoa-oh." But the track's
outro is further evidence that the
band has song structure down to
a T; Cox takes what should be a
10-bar guitar solo and stretches it
over the course of three minutes,
looping each chord progression
into a hypnotic mantra before slyly
giving wayto the next reveal.
While Digest's no-holds-barred
pop style largely sacrifices the
head-washy atmospherics of Deer-
hunter's previous work, the album
- at its best - is anything but
sparse.
Lead single "Revival," a two-
minute exercise in heart-fluttery
concision, could be the straight-up
catchiest song the band has ever
written - but the arrangement
itself couldn't be fuller. Under-
neath the rubber-gummy bass
groove and nimble acoustic strum-
ming at the track's center lies a
shifty ensemble of fuzzy synth
blasts, syncopated shaker, snare-
roll triplets and guiro scrapes that
sound as if they were recorded
underwater. The song is a perfect
example of Digest's deft melding
of to-fi and hi-fi, a commendable
balancing act that makes for some
incredibly tactile music.
The washed-out harmonica
on "Memory Boy," the frictiony
sax blasts on "Coronado" and the
stringy banjo licks on "Revival" are

further testaments to the record's
textural vibrancy and eclectic
instrumentation.
Digest's bookends hint that Deer-
hunter hasn't shaken the experi-
mentation bug quite yet. Opener
"Earthquake" is a memento of the
band's uncanny ability to craft sur-
really enveloping soundscapes out
of just a few well plotted noises
(in this case, an eerie assembly of
reverb-drenched mouth sputters,
crunchy to-fi drum machine hits
that sift intermittently into reverse
and a spiraling guitar melody). And
closer "He Would Have Laughed"
morphs from narcotic afro-pop to
homesick acoustic balladry over
the course of seven minutes.
Unfortunately, Digest suffers
from a momentum-killing three-
song lull toward the end of the
album. "Helicopter" pushes the
envelope with a dazed medley of
sickly sweet harpsichord chimes,
druggy water splashes and shim-
mery clinking noises. But, without
a pop-out central melody, the song
feels like contrived navel-gazing
amid the record's wealth of power-
house hooks.
"Basement Scene" and "Foun-
tain Stairs" both trade in bona
fide choruses for lazily circular
strum-alongs, the former padding
its sleepy-eyed verses with vaguely
soothing "ooh-ing" and "ahh-ing"
and the latter inserting a brassy
bridge where there should be an
ejaculatory refrain.
While Digest is probably Deer-
hunter's least cohesive album to
date, it's also the band's most con-
fident. Though purists may be
turned off by the record's conven-
tionality, naysayers will likely find
themselves converted.

By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
Coco Chanel's and Igor Stravin-
sky's accomplishments don't
have much in
common. The y
name of Chanel
is synonymous COChane
with tailored,
classically chic and Igor
clothing, while StraVinsky
Stravinsky's
music was any- At the
thing but clas- Michigan
sic and tailored Eurowide
- rather, as evi-
denced by "The
Rite of Spring," it had the power
to incite riots. At one point in time,
however, the artistic spirit fuel-
ing the timelessly elegant Chanel
and the chaotically innovative
Stravinsky were one and the same
- at least, that's how director Jan
Kounen ("a") sees it.
Apparently, Chanel (Anna
Mouglalis, "I Always Wanted to
Be a Gangster") saw Stravinsky's
(Mads Mikkelsen, "Clash of the
Titans") ballet "Rite of Spring"
performed in Paris and was deeply
moved by it. She felt an inexplicable
attraction toward Stravinsky and
his work, and invited the struggling
artist and his family to stay with
her. As a result, Chanel and Stravin-
sky had an affair that supposedly
led to an exchange of ideas between
the fashion and music worlds.
"Coco Chanel & Igor Stravin-
sky" is a movie about ideas, yet
abstract concepts like the forma-
tion of style and music don't trans-
late well onto the screen. It's just
boring. The basic premise behind

the film
a histor
make fo
Foro
nel and
perspec
inably
cially ii
advents
just sta
Virgini
to publi
was in
Show.I
cut off
Coco C
as the'
ion wi
Stravin
who w
majorit
plishmi
individt
there is
hi
which t
world c
It's h
moviec
first. T
on thei:
so, beg
of the c
but onli
people.
In o
Chanel

would work as a thesis or their relationship is about to fall
'y paper but doesn't exactly apart, Stravinsky says that Cha-
ir a captivating movie. nel's work is insignificant in com-
ne thing, the world of Cha- parison to his own. She works in
Stravinsky is never put into a shop; he writes symphonies. To
tive. The 1920s were imag- the audience, this suggestion is
a pretty wild time, espe- ridiculous. Chanel's work gives
n artistic circles. It was the the movie its structured setting.
of modernism: Picasso had His music works in tandem with
rted painting as a cubist, Chanel's lifestyle and designs.
a Woolf was just starting His bold, rhythmic compositions
ish her work and New York translate visually to Chanel's style
an uproar of the Armory and the mixing of Chanel No. 5.
Yet the world of the film is Still, the film does not articu-
from any sense of context. late what is really shared between
hanel hardly comes across the two. Mougalis and Mikkelson
woman who changed fash- both possess incredible talent but
th her little black dress. their characters seem to be hiding
sky just seems like a man many emotions - whether this is
'rote music for the vast the result of an excellent portrayal
y of the movie. The accom- of artistic temperament or sim-
ents of such revolutionary ply a poor portrayal of the inner
uals are minimizedbecause hearts of these characters is hard
s no sense of the world in to discern. When Stravinsky's wife
(Yelena Morozova, "Hysterical Psy-
cho") asks Chanel if she feels at all
guilty for sleeping with a married
M aking a man, Chanel simply replies "No."
. But the camera focuses on her for a
istory thesis long time afterward, during which
her frustratingly vague expression
Ito a movie. seems to be saying any number of
things.
Of course, this is a consistent
:hey occurred and how that problem throughout the film: Ques-
hanged asa result. tions are raised about motives and
ard to understand why the meaning, but are never answered in
carries any significance at a creative and satisfying way. And
he film tightens its focus raising open-ended questions has
r relationship and, in doing never really been particularly inno-
ins to address the question vative, especially in comparison to
reation and meaning of art the artists portrayed. "Coco Chanel
y as it relates to these two & Igor Stravinsky" simply remains
a compare-and-contrast paper
ne tense scene between about how making a perfume is like
and Stravinsky, just as creating a symphony.

'Running' to stand still

COURTESY OF WARF
!!! likes shorts! They're comfy and easy to wear!
Pig gets pumped with !!!

By SHARON JACOBS
Assistant Arts Editor
Created by Mitchell Hurwitz
and starring Will Arnett, along
with David Cross in a recur-
ring role as an
"eco-terrorist,"
Fox's "Running
Wilde" is a veri- Running
table "Arrested
Development"
orgy and had Tuesdays at
* all the requi- 9:30 p.m.
site excitement FOX
surrounding
it. So maybe
the premise was a little weak -
Arnett's fathoms-rich Steve Wilde
is reunited with his childhood
sweetheart, do-gooder Emmy
Kadubic (Keri Russell, "Felicity"),
the two end up living together
and romantic comedy ensues.
But surely, with Hurwitz and
Arnett in control, the show would
pull through with the wacky dry
humor, clever wordplay and self-
obsessed yet somehow loveable
characters "Arrested" fans would
expect, right? Nope - turns out
the "Running Wilde" team has
made a huge mistake.
For starters, all the gravelly
faux porn-star voice and over-
grown naivete in Arnett's reper-
toire can't save a badly written
character. Wilde has all the play-
boy stylings of Gob from "Arrest-
ed," along with a good dose of his
accidental charm: "That's the last
nice thing I'm doing for anyone!"
he shouts in one uncharacteristi-
cally funny scene, then buys his
driver a drink. But unlike Gob,
Wilde doesn't have magician
ambitions or any other quirky
O detail. He's blatant and black-
and-white, nothing but an Adam
Sandler-style manchild with
limitless funds. There's nothing
behind his youthful blundering
for viewers to latch on to.
Russell's Kadubic has a soppy

faith in Wilde's ability to become
a better person. At multiple times,
Wilde lets her down in predictable
ways, and Kadubic reacts with
the kind of surprised disappoint-
ment that even the most idealistic
of world-savers would be hard-
pressed to muster. Russell allows
the character to rest in one dimen-
sion, never really twisting the
lines to make Kadubic anything
more than a hardworking opti-
mist. "You do good for nothing -
and I guess that's what you still
are," she snaps at one point, and
then makes a face, presumably at
the dumbness of her line.
It's impossible to see Kadubic

as any I
tant ign
she's a
self-rigf
but the
Wilde
build a'
But i
uninter
dl
ge
an unre
they're
that the
wants 1
wants t
with hi
random
affectio
Pudd
Lovely
tunatel
ter, doe
Having
Amazon
develop
so stron
for six

kind of foil to Wilde's bla- want to live in the jungle!" It's
orance. Compared to him, unclear where this burning desire
saint. Sure, she's a little came from, or how not talking will
hteous and unperceptive, help her. Puddle acts like a spoiled
se are flaws that she and brat, but with a mother as unper-
share. That's nothing to ceptive and unobservant as Kadu-
TV relationship on. bic, how did she get that way?
f Kadubic and Wilde are Puddle is also in charge of the
esting protagonists with voice-over narration, for rea-
sons that will go unexplained,
because - well, why is voice-
over narration even necessary for
i Arnett's such a simple premise? It doesn't
explain anything, it never pro-
vides witty commentary on the
s arrested. actiton and Puddle's omniscience
ts arr sted- when it comes to other characters'
thoughts and personalities is kind
of awkward.
ralistic attraction, at least That said, the show isn't
written simply enough unwatchable. Supporting actors
eir motives are clear: He Peter Serafinowicz ("Couples
to get with her, and she Therapy") and Mel Rodriguez
o save him. And also get ("FlashForward") provide some
im, sometimes, in a few laughs as Wilde's competitive
ly placed outbursts of neighbor and his caring driver,
n. respectively. But the show's
le (Stefania Owen, "The premise is boring and its main
Bones"), Kadubic's unfor- characters fall flat. Ultimately,
y hippie-named daugh- "Running Wilde" is nothing but a
sn't even have that much. drab story of a wealthy bachelor
spent her young life in the who had everything and the one
n, Puddle has somehow woman who had no choice but
ed a streak of materialism to keep them both together. And
g that she stopped talking that kind of thing is bound for
months because "I don't cancellation.

By KRISTYN ACHO
Daily Music Editor
With so many of today's punk
bands beingthrownintothe dance-
funk genre, it would be easy to toss
the talented band
!!! (pronounced !!!
"chk chk chk")
into the pile of Tonight at
Talking Heads 9 p.m.
impersonators. Bling Pig
But when $15
rowdy !!! rolls
into town for a show at the Blind
Pig tonight, concertgoers will see
firsthand why this would be a sore
mistake.
Unlike so many of their buzz-
craving peers, these Brooklynites
have been making their own brand
of funk-heavy, punk influenced
sound for the last decade - and
these aren't the sort of guys will-
ing to change their image in order
to coincide with what's trendy in
today's music scene.
Unfortunately, !!! has undergone
some difficult changes in the last
few years. First, vocalist and drum-
mer John Pugh left the band in the
summer of2007 to focus on his new
project Free Blood. Then in late
2009, the band received the tragic
news that drummer and original
member Jerry Fuchs had died in
an elevator accident. These events
had quite an impact on their latest
album Strange Weather, Isn't It,
full of fittingly dark tracks.
Deep in the midst of a grocery
shopping excursion, !!! frontman
Nic Offer enthusiastically talked
with the Daily by phone about
album names, the pros and cons of
writingmusicwitheightpeopleand
his most ridiculous, drug-induced,
vomit-producing onstage moment.
So where did !!! come up with the
title of its latest record?
"I was watching a movie called
'In the Mood for Love' by Kai War
Wong and the point where the main
couple runs into each other on the

street an
need to s
don't eve
how to ai
all rainy
her is, 'St
just kind
summed
Althou
for that u
Weather1
and elus
heavy al
being 20
"Now
stepped 1
was alm
want to t
so dark a
erence to
tive subje
While
juxtaposi
tones br
ing recei
of the b:
disco bea
record !!!
"Myth
App
jus,
breakthr
startedv
I think1
write, bu
album ar
done - b
est and b
depth an
original,'
But th
walk in;
the diffic
with a s
members
"It ma

id there's so much they ple's flaws because you know them
say to each other but they well, but it also makes you more irri-
n know where to begin or table with their flaws, you know? So
ddress it. So the streets are it kind of works both ways. Every
and first thing he says to record is a sort of struggle to get
range weather, isn't it?'... It along and agree, but there has to
of made sense to me and be some sort of struggle to make a
up the record," Offer said. record - at least for us there does,"
igh !!! is always searching Offer said.
indeniable groove, Strange After slaving away in the studio
proves to be more peculiar for months, Offer couldn't be more
ive than previous hook- ecstatic to hit the road.
[bums, the most notable "I'm really excited. I love getting
07's Myth Takes. out on the road. It's a blast. When
that we've finished it and we started there were so many of
back to take a look at it, it us in a tiny van. A lot has changed,"
ost like you didn't even Offer said.
alk about it because it was While Offer has more than a
nd bitter," Offer said in ref- few memories of rowdy absurdi-
the latest album's evoca- ties onstage - it took him a couple
rct matter. of minutes to cite just one, claiming
the album may be a bizarre "all kinds of crazy shit happens" -
ition of the dark under- he definitely delivered, sharing a
-ought about by shock- story any rock star could be proud
nt events and the display of.
and's affinity for raucous "The first time we played Bar-
ts, it's also Offer's favorite celona, we played at like 2 or 3
has ever produced. in the morning. We just killed
Takes was sort of like a it. The crowd went crazy ... and
Tyler (!!!'s guitarist) gave me half
an ecstasy ... And then I went up
to the DJ and he gives me another
)arently, fans hit of ecstasy. So we go out there
tlove to get ... and then all of the sudden we're
t Oalmost at the end of the song and
i'nited on. I'm like 'Oh my God I'm totally
gonna fucking puke.'
"And there's this rule that James
Brown has that you can do any-
ough for us because we thing as long as you hit the one. So
writing better songs than I just hit the one and puked - just
people thought we could straight into the audience and then
it to me the songs on this I puked again and then just kept
'e the catchiest we've ever singing and then puked one more
ut they're also the strang- time. And I mean it was like, it was
save the most thought-out justlegendary.Andnoonewasmad.
d texture. It's really us and I couldn't do that at every show. But
'Offer said. the crowd was just going crazy and
2e creative process isn't a they loved it. I like to think that's
the park. Offer describes like the ultimate in dance-punk,"
ulties of creating a record Offer said, laughing.
slew of opinionated band Basically, be ready for some
involved. ridiculousness to ensue at tonight's
skes it so you accept peo- show.


8 - Tuesday, September 28, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Rodriguez says Robinson is undisputed
starter, will start in Saturday's matchup

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Writer
A bruised knee shouldn't prevent
sophomore quarterback Denard Robin-
son from starting Saturday against Indi-
ana, Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez said
Monday.
Rodriguez said Robinson is his undis-
puted No. 1 starter - even
after suffering a minor NOTEBOOK
injury last weekend
against Bowling Green. Sophomore Tate
Forcier and true freshman Devin Gardner
are both considered second-string.
"Other guys can run the offense, (but)
Denard is special," Rodriguez said at his
weekly news conference. "He's got the
ability to break every play himself. He's so
explosive as a runner."
Forcier went 12-for-
12 passing on Saturday,
and he and Gardner
each threw for a touch- "Other
down. Gardner also ran
for another. Though run the
offensive players and
the coaching staff (but) I
have maintained that
the game plan doesn't is spe
change depending on
who's under center,
Rodriguez said there
are differences between the three.
"We run the same plays with all of our
quarterbackst" Rodriguez said. "We may
emphasize something a little bit differ-
ently with Devin or Tate, but we would
expect those guys to be just as efficient
as far as moving the offense. They're
not going to be as explosive as Denard
because he is different, but they should
still be efficient."
Rodriguez said Robinson's bruised
knee would keep him out of Monday's
practice, but he hoped the sophomore
would be able to fully practice Tuesday.
Rodriguez added that Forcier and Gard-
ner will get equal snaps in practice this
week, and how they perform will deter-

mine which quarterback enters the game
in certain situations.
BEEN HERE BEFORE: After the Wol-
verines finished off their non-conference
season with a sparkling 4-0 record, the
inevitable comparisons began.
Last year's 4-0 start, the thrilling win
over Notre Dame and Heisman hype
around the starting quarterback all
seemed quite familiar.
But Rodriguez said it's not even compa-
rable.
"Every year is different," Rodriguez
said. "I'm not goingto sit here and tell you
we're completely where we want to be.
We're not close to where we're going to be
eventually.
"But at the same time, I think this
year's team is executing pretty well, play-
ing pretty good at times. I know we have
to play better."
One key difference
from last year is the
guys can depth Michigan has at
some key positions, like
offense, quarterback. The Wol-
verines also relied on six
)enard different running backs
i." last weekend with four
Cdal." of them rushing for at
least 56 yards.
Michigan's defense
remains a concern,
though the unit responded well after a
disappointing performance against Mas-
sachusetts two weeks ago. Rodriguez said
in-game adjustments and basic skills like
tackling need to improve.
Regardless of the team's strengths and
weaknesses, one thing is clear: A 4-0 start
doesn't guarantee conference success. It
doesn't even guarantee a bowl game, as
the Wolverines learned last year.
In two years under Rodriguez, Michi-
gan has gone 3-13 in Big Ten play. Only one
of those wins has come on the road.
"You can ask anybody on our team,"
Rodriguez said. "They'll tell you how
important the Big Ten schedule is, how
much better we're going to have to play

AItL OND/Daily
Sophomore quarterback Denard Robinson sustained a knee inury atainst Bowling Green an Saturday, but he is expected to start atainst Indiana.

coming up."
RUNNING BACK ROTATION: Michi-
gan's six running backs combined for
282 yards on the ground against Bowling
Green, by far the team's most balanced
rushing attawck of the season.
Rodriguez scoffed at the idea that his
running backs struggled through the first
two games of the year and then suddenly
performed better the past two weeks.
He said the game plan included more
designed runs for Robinson in the early
games.

"It wasn't like last week or two weeks
ago we gave them magic pills and they
became running backs," Rodriguez said.
"You know, they were running great dur-
ing camp, running hard. It's just the way
teams have been defending us, sometimes
they take that away a little bit.
"They all have some explosive ability.
Nobody's as explosive as Denard. When
you compare who has the most explosive
ability, it is No. 16."
Rodriguez said he expects to use three
or four running backs regularly heading

into Big Ten season.
INJURY NOTES: Forcier suffered a
minor quad injury, but is fine. Fresh-
man tailback Fitzgerald Toussaint hurt
his shoulder in Saturday's game, and the
team will know more about his status in
the next couple of days. Junior running
back Mike Shaw (sprained knee) is day-to-
day. Linebacker Brandon Herron (ankle)
and safety Carvin Johnson (knee) could
return Saturday. Safety Mike Williams
has had multiple concussions, which con-
cerns the coaching staff.

. ''' .tea. ,;k
+ ='
-
.
,;

Daily Sports
Power Rankings

Daily Sports Editor Nick Spar brings
you his first edition of Power
Rankings, sorting the best
individual athletes on campus.

*I

Denard Robinson, Quarterback (Football)
No surprise here. And at this rate, Denard has the No. 1 spot locked until the end of 2010. Entering Saturday's game against Bowling Green, he had outgained 10
teams ranked in the top-25 by himself while completing 70 percent of his passes. And after garnering almost 200 more yards against the Falcons in the game's
first nine minutes, he's a sure bet for the top spot on a lot of lists. With the more physical Big Ten season looming, the only concern is that Shoelace seems to take
at least one big hit per game that makes Michigan fans cringe.
Lexi Zimmerman, Setter (Women's Volleyball)
Michigan coach Mark Rosen says Zimmerman is the best volleyball player to ever wear a Michigan uniform, and that alone could earn her a spot in the rankings.
But she also broke the Wolverines' all-time assists record on Friday against Iowa. The record was previously set by Linnea Mendoza, who had held the program
record of 5,072 assists for the past 13 years. Zimmerman has also led No.19 Michigan to a 13-1 start and she could surpass the Big Ten assists mark later this season.
' Lion Kim (Men's Golf)
Not only does he have one of the best names of any Michigan student-athlete ever, but in July Kim also earned a trip to Augusta. No, he doesn't have tickets to
witness a full round at Amen Corner (which would be pretty cool, anyway). He qualified to play at the 2011 Masters - something that hasn't been done by a Wol-
verine in 71 years. Kim is truly one of Michigan's unsung stars. In 2009, he led the team to its first NCAA Final Four appearance since 1968. Oh, and by the way.
Soony Saad, Forward (Men's Soccer)
Soony -the younger brother of teammate Hamoody -is on fire to start his freshman year. At one point last week, he led the entire nation with seven goals in his
first eight games, highlighted by a hat trick in a thrilling 3-2 overtime win against Kentucky last week. But while the newly formed Ultras may be making some
Denard comparisons, Soony's impressive start is not nearly as impressive as Denard's. Because as far as I know, Soony's shoes were tied for all seven goals.
Michigan Offensive Line
Here are Michigan's team rushing totals from the win against Bowling Green: 56 carries, 467 yards and seven touchdowns. I have a hunch that the offensive
5line had something to do with those mind-boggling numbers, so the entire unit earns a spot on this list. They made anyone who touched the ball look like Walter
Payton. And, yes, maybe Bowling Green's defense also helped make every runner look like Walter Payton. But the offense is averaging 4L.3 points per game, and
so the offensive line deserves credit for the passing and rushing attacks clicking on all cylinders. Denard often talks about how crucial the linemen our to the
" offense's success, and it's tough not to agree.
Nkem Ezurike, Forward (Women's Soccer)
Ezurike had two goals and one assist in Michigan's Dedication game on Sept. 18 in front of a record crowd. She also provided an equalizing goal in a 2-2 draw to
help Michigan avoid a loss to Toledo a week earlier. The football team sure could have used her help in the kicking game against the Rockets two seasons ago. On
second thought, the football team could use her help in the kicking game this weekend at Indiana.
Jordan Kovacs, Safety (Football)
Kovacs has been a pleasant surprise in an otherwise disappointing Wolverine secondary. He has already registered 35 tackles, an interception, a forced fumble
and a fumble recovery. Granted, while some of the tackles have occurred 20 or 30 yards past the line of scrimmage, the former walk-on seems to be more a part
of the solution than part of the problem for defensive coordinator Greg Robinson and the struggling Michigan defense.
Jason Jung (Men's Tennis)
Jung - th6 25th-ranked player in the nation - earned Most Outstanding Player honors at the Cliffs' NCAA Tennis Classic after going 4-0 in singles play. Watch
out for the Wolverines tennis team this year. Jung and sophomore Evan King, last season's Big Ten Freshman of the Year, are both competing in the ITA All-
American Championships on Thursday. And the team had three freshmen earn their first singles wins of their collegiate careers this past weekend.
9H aley Jones, Goalkeeper (Field Hockey)
Jones was named Big Ten Defensive Player of the Week after leading the Wolverines to two victories over the weekend. One of the wins was a 2-0 upset over No.
14 Penn State, which was her third shutout in the team's first 10 games. She currently ranks sixth in the nation in goals-against-average, allowing less than a goal
0 per game.
Tate Forcier, Quarterback (Football}
(FROM TOP) Senior setter Lexi Zimmerman (Jed The first edition of the Daily Sports Power Rankings starts with a quarterback and ends with a quarterback. Forcier has come a long way in the last three weeks. He
Moch/Daily), freshman forward Soony Saad was perfect throwing the ball on Saturday, going l2-for-12 and adding in a goal-line touchdown toss. And in the postgame press conference, he even went as far to say,
(Torehan Sharman/Daily) and redshirt sopho- "I love Michigan. I love everything about it." That sounds a bit different than the tune he was singing after the win over UConn. If all goes well for Denard against
more safety Jordan Kovacs (Sam Wolson/Daily). the Hoosier this weekend, chances are that Forcier will drop off the list. But who would have even expected him to ever be on it after he didn't get the starting nod?


