NEWS
'U' student proposes
novel retail idea
Finalist in entrepreneur con-
test designs online site for
rental baby clothing.
SEE PAGE 2
OPINION
Council's couch ban
proposition won't sit
The city shouldn't have con-
trol over upholstered porch
furniture.
SEE PAGE 4
ARTS
Grant Park's
ever-growing gala
Lollapalooza ropes in big acts
and newer names alike for a
three day urban escape.
SEE PAGE 8
SPORTS
Potential King of Big
Ten lies with 'M'
Michigan men's tennis
sophomore Evan King is the
future for the Wolverines.
SEE PAGE 11

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Dail
Former Wolverine Mike Cammalleri waits for the under-35 alumni game to begin during the 2010 Summer Hockey Showcase in Yost
Ice Arena. Cammalleri lost in the NHL final this past season against the Philadelphia Flyers.
CITY COUNCIL
ity puts moratorium
on pot dispensaries

ENVIRONMENT
Oilleaks
into local
waterway
'U' profs weigh in on
pipeline oil spilled into
Kalamazoo River
By CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter
As the attempt to clean up the oil
spill in the Gulf Coast continues, simi-
lar efforts are currently underway to
resolve a spill in the tributaries near
the Kalamazoo River, and Univer-
sity professors are still examining
the issues the local spill has left in its
wake.
In apress release issued the morn-
ing of Jul. 26, Enbridge Energy Part-
ners reported a leak in their pipeline
near Marshall, Michigan in the Kal-
amazon River tributaries. It iuestimat-
ed that though the leak in the pipeline
- which runs through the United
States to Canada - was stopped the
following day, it has poured around I
million gallons of oil into the river.
Allen Burton, a professor in the
School of Natural Resources and the
Environment, said though some oil-
coated wildlife has already been cap-
tured and cleaned up, he is concerned
about the numerous aquatic organ-
isms that have not been helped.
Burton said state monitoring is
essential to determine the long-term
effects on invertebrates like mussels,
as well as fish and other organisms
that feed on the affected inverte-
brates. Oil that remains in the stream,
he added, is most likely deposited in
the sediments and collected in areas
like pools and lakes.
Because the river was in a flood
See OIL SPILL, Page 7

INDEX
VoCXX,sNo.147 2010 TheMichiganDaily
michigandaily.com
N EW S ............................... 2
OPINION .....................4
CLASSIFIEDS............... . 6
CROSSWORD .......... .....6
SU D O KU ................................N....8
A RT S .....................................8
SPO RT S ................................ 11

Four-month freeze
placed on new medical
marijuana dispensaries
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporter
In their bi-weekly meeting last
Thursday, Ann Arbor City Council
passed a 120-day moratorium on
new medical marijuana dispensaries
in the city as a last-minute addition
to the meeting's agenda.
The Michigan Medical Mari-

juana Act passed in 2008 does
not mention dispensaries, leaving
municipalities across the state to
grapple with zoning and regulation
issues. Ann Arbor is one of several
cities, including Holland and Ypsi-
lanti, to place a moratorium on new
dispensaries in order to give the
council time to fill the gap in the
state law.
City Attorney Stephen Postema
opened the council's discussion by
explaining why the resolution was
put forth.
"The dispensary issue that has
come up is nowhere contemplated in
the state law," he said. "It's a problem

for municipalities. That's what they
have to deal with. Whether it came
as a moratorium or as a directive of
the council, it's entirely proper for
the public health, safety and welfare
for the council to consider the issue.
"One of the concerns that ... the
council will deal with is really the
aggregation and the consolidation
of many, many shops or dispensa-
ries together," he added. "This really
caused a big problem in California."
Postema directed his comments
at the meeting attendees, who were
visibly frustrated by the timing
of the resolution, which had been
See MARIJUANA, Page 3


21

Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

U' student ranks
among top five in
business contest

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.coin

ANDREW LAPIN
Editor in Chief

BRAD WILEY
Business Manager
734-764-0558

Upholstered furniture caught fire on the porch of the rental house at 928 South State St.
on the morning of Apr. 3.
Vote looms on
A 2 couch ban

Engineering senior
proposes online retail
site for baby clothes
By BRIENNE PRUSAK
Daily StaffReporter
Parents burdened by the cost of
baby clothes may soon have an inex-
pensive option after one University
student's efforts to design an online
retail service.
Engineering senior Allen Kim has
become the first student from the
University to be selected as one of
the top five finalists in Entrepreneur
Magazine's College Entrepreneur of
the Year competition for his compa-
ny, Bebaroo, which he described as
"Netflix for baby clothes."
Bebaroo.com offers a service
where parents can dress their young
children - between the ages of zero
and two - "more affordably, more
conveniently and more stylishly,"
Kim said.
Kim said the inspiration for the
company came from his own expe-
rience with a family member who
complained about the cost of baby
clothes, notably those for special
occasions.
The website, he said, allows par-
ents to order clothes available on
the website and send them back for
free once their child either no longer
needs them or has outgrown them.
Bebaroo currently ships clothes to
locations nationwide.
Kim added that by using Bebaroo,
parents rent clothes for a fraction
of the retail prices because they pay
a fixed monthly subscription price
instead of buying individual clothes.
However, parents have the option of
also purchasing the clothes at dis-
counted prices.
Bebaroo offers different monthly
pricing plans, depending on how
many clothes or brands parents
would like to rent, according to Kim.
Kim said be and Luis Calderon
- the co-creator of Bebaroo - start-
ed working on the business after
attending the University's Bay Area
Entrepreneur Experience trip to
San Francisco in March, which was
sponsored by the Center for Entre-
preneurship and the Zell Lurie

Institute.
While on that trip, the pair was
able to surveyover a hundred parents
by visiting shopping malls, day care
centers and online forums, Kim said.
He added that they received positive
feedback from parents, which gave
them confidence that the venture
could succeed with the demand for
affordable baby clothing.
Kim also said the Bay Area Trip
helped them recognize the feasibility
of Bebaroo after gaining the atten-
tion of several venture capitalists in
Silicon Valley. He said he and Calde-
ron plan to work on the business full-
time after graduation.
After creating this concept, Kim
said he applied to Entrepreneur
Magazine's College Entrepreneur of
the Year competition by submitting
a business concept, target customer
profile and proposed company mis-
sion statement.
Kim said he believes that Bebaroo
was selected as one of the five final-
ist companies, because there are no
other baby clothes rental services in
the country and that the novelty of
the idea may change the way parents
clothe their kids in the future,
"I want to think that being recog-
nized as a finalist for this competi-
tion means there is that much need
for this kind of service available for
parents," he said.
Entrepreneur Magazine will
announce the winner of their Col-
lege Entrepreneur of the Year com-
petition by Sept. 15. The winner will
be profiled in Entrepreneur Maga-
zine's January issue as well as in a
follow-up article in the December
2011 issue.
The winner of the competition
will alsoreceive $5,000 to start their
business, a $500 gift certificate for
The UPS Store, a selection of Entre-
preneur Press books and a year's
subscription to Entrepreneur Maga-
zine.
Kim added that winning the com-
petition would also showcase Michi-
gan's entrepreneurial community as
having many networking opportuni-
ties with investors, alumni and busi-
ness mentors.
"For the first time a Michigan stu-
dent has been selected as a finalist of
this contest, and I want to bring the
trophy back home," Kim said.

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections correcr
LetterstotheEditor torhed
PhotolDepartment p
ArtsSection arts,
Editorial Page oe
SportsSection -,
Sales
ClassifiedSales a,
Finance

Office hours:
i.-Thurs. 11 a.m. - 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
?urs@rn i ch igand a i(y. corn
ins @rn iclzigarndailyxorn
ail y@m ichigandaily.conn

City Council reads
ordinance prohibiting
upholstered furniture
on porches
By DYLAN CINTI
Daily StaffReporter
AtitsmeetingThursdaynight, the
Ann Arbor City Council approved a
first reading of an ordinance that
would prohibit upholstered furni-
ture on porches citywide, according
to councilmember Mike Anglin (D-
Ward 5) in an interview on Friday.
The ordinance comes four
months after a deadly on-campus
blaze that authorities suspect start-
ed with an outdoor couch catching
fire, according to an April 5 article
in The Michigan Daily.
The Apr. 2 fire gutted a rental
house at 928 South State St., killing
one tenant and injuring two others,
the Daily article reported.
Since then, councilmember
Christopher Taylor (D-Ward 3)

0

backed the current ordinance.
As Anglin pointed out, this is not
the first time council has discussed
a ban on upholstered furniture on
porches.
In July 2004, the council con-
sidered a similar ordinance that
sought to ban upholstered furni-
ture on porches and impose a $100
fine for violators, the Daily article
reported.
The 2004 ordinance stated that
"placing upholstered furniture on
front porches can create fire con-
ditions near the primary entrance/
exit that can impede the occupants'
abilities to escape from a fire."
Ann Arbor city council indefi-
nitely proposed that ordinance in
August 2004.
The current ordinance is set for a
second reading in late September, at
which point council will vote on it,
Anglin said.
According to Anglin, council-
members will use the interim to
gather feedback from their constit-
uents and listen to speakers slated
to address council on the issue.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Ryn Karte ManagingEditor
Eshwar Thirunavukkarasu ManagingNews Editor
e~hiOfc~d
S RcEWSiEDITOR:iDevonThorsby
ASSIST'ANTI'NEWS EDITORS: Caitlin
HustonSuzanneacos
Alexschiff EditorialPageEditor
aschifa~mich.edu
SENIOREDITORIALPAGEEDITOR:JoeStapleton
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR: Nick Clift
Mark urns ManagingSportsEditor
turnmark e Onmi c nied,
ASSISTANTSPORTSDITOR:RyanPodges
Sharon Jacobs and
Emma Jeszke ManagingArtsEditors
shae ***"mich.eduPaIes IISSke0 c niched u
JakeyFromm ManagingPhotoEditor
jsfromm (Aumich.edu
KatherineAxelsen ManagingDesignEditor
5ddct al cyes a epikdsa teSiy
SEpEhGNaEDITOR:CorcenDeFever
Torehansharman ManagingMutimediaEditor
Isaraneumtirch.e c t
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim SalesManager
HillarycSzawala Classif edManager
Meghan Rooney r ayoutManager
Jason Mahakian ProductionManager
The Michigan Daily(ISSN0745-967)is pubished
Monday through Friday during the fall and winter
terms by students at the University of Michigan.
One copy is available free of charge to all readers.
Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's
ofer $2. Subscriptions fr fllterm, starting
term (January through April) is $115, yearlong
(September through April) is $195. University
ate On-campus subscriptionsforfasubseriptare
$35. Subscriptions must be prepaid. The Michigan
Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The
Associated Collegiate Press.

E


Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MARIJUANA
From Page 1
added to the agenda at 5 p.m. the pre-
vious night, leaving little time for the
public to review the item.
Dennis Hayes, a local lawyer who
now deals almost exclusively with
medical marijuana issues, was the first
of ten citizens to address the council in
opposition to the resolution. He also
made clear his suspicion of a hidden
agenda.
"You all should know better than to
do this stuff in secret," he said.
Some members of the council,
including Sabra Briere (D-Ward 1),
Margie Teall (D-Ward 3) and Carsten
Hohnke (D-Ward 5), said they were
surprised by the last minute addition.
"Bringing this forward tonight,
well actually last night, was a sur-
prise to many of us because by rights
we should've seen it last Friday. Our
council rules say that as council mem-
bers we should try very hard to bring
forward our resolutions by Friday of
the week before the council meeting
occurs," Briere said.
Hohnke said he suggested the
council postpone the resolution until
the following week. Briere supported
his proposal, arguing that the public
deserved time to look it over.
After some discussion, the council

decided that it would be best to pro-
ceed with the resolution since it had
already been brought to the table and
delaying it would only push the mora-
torium further down the road.
In an interview with The Michigan
Daily, Council Member Mike Anglin
(D-Ward 5) said the discussion on
the issue lasted for about an hour and
a half, because it was the first time
the council had addressed medical
marijuana policy in a public meeting.
Throughout the discussion, the coun-
cil made a number of amendments to
the resolution.
Council Member Christopher Tay-
lor (D-Ward 3) was the first to intro-
duce several amendments to make
sure individual patients and caregivers
would still be allowed to grow and use
marijuana as allowed by the state law
duringthe four-month moratorium.
"The proposal," he said, "does not
seek to keep sick patients or their
caregiver from the medicine that they
require and is their right per state law."
With the original resolution calling
for a six-month moratorium, Coun-
cil Member Sandi Smith (D-Ward 1)
proposed that the council shorten the
moratorium to 90 days, calling 180
days "punitive" and unnecessary with
the availability of models of regulation
proposed by citizens or already estab-
lished in places like Traverse City.
The council compromised with 120

days at the suggestion of City Adminis-
trator Roger Fraser.
One decision that the council debat-
ed at length was whether the resolu-
tion should grandfather in pre-existing
dispensaries, which would allow them
to remain open until the end of the four
months, at which point they too would
be subject to the zoning regulations
decided on during the moratorium.
Charles Ream, a prominent advo-
cate in the medical marijuana commu-
nity who is involved in the planning of
a dispensary on Packard Road, urged
the council at the beginning of the
meeting to vote against the resolution,
but at the very least allow current dis-
pensaries to keep their doors open.
Briere argued in favor of the grand-
father clause for the sake of patients
in the community who already rely on
dispensaries for their medicine.
Council Member Stephen Rapunda-
lo (D-Ward 2) was the sole voice in
opposition to the grandfather clause,
saying all dispensaries should close
unless they can convince the council
in a public hearing that staying open
would avoid economic harm to the city.
The council ultimately voted in
favor of an amendment introduced by
Taylor, specifying that the resolution
apply only to "the initiation or expan-
sion of" dispensaries on city property.
After the resolution passed, Ann
Arbor Mayor John Hieftje expressed

his feelings on the resolution to the
citizens in the room, saying he thought
a moratorium was appropriate and rea-
sonable.
"It does seem to me given what
we've heard from our neighborhoods,
it would not be a bad idea to step back,
take a little time," he said. "Don't
change a thing from the way it is now,
but take a little time to decide how we
will go forward."
WRITE FOR
THE DAILY.
E-mail alapin@umich.edu
for details.
CORRECTIONS
. An August 2 article in The
Michigan Daily ("'U' student
canvasses for county office
seat") inaccurately reported
that LSA senior Yousef Rabhi
is 21 years old. He is 22.
. Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

Coming soon to
MichiganDaily.com
Regents reelection:
The University Board
of Regents prepares for
August primaries.
Late-summer reviews
of "The Other Guys," "The
Expendables," "Eat Pray
Love" and "Scott Pilgrim."
Volleyball and soccer:
Check the Daily's coverage
of all three teams in the
next few weeks.
This is the last issue of
the summer Daily. Our
print edition will resume
on Sept. 7. Until then, keep
checking onlinefor break-
ing news, arts, sports and
opinion content.


Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Thi mtChtIganT 4aily

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ANDREW LAPIN
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RYAN KARTJE
MANAGING EDITOR

ALEX SCHIFF
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Let them ounge
Council's proposed couch ban won't promote fire safety
t didn't take much time for this year's newly re-elected City Coun-
cil candidates to forget their promises of working more closely with
students. While students are out of the city for summer recess, the
Council is considering an ordinance that will ban upholstered furniture
on porches. Though the ban is meant to decrease the risk of fires, it both
ignores the real problem - student houses often aren't up to existing fire
code - and fights it with an extremely ineffective and roundabout solu-
tion. If City Council's aim is fire safety, it should replace this proposal with
greater enforcement and education of the fire code already on the books.

SERENA HINZI
Support first-gen students
The University of Michigan is a mid- form of assistance. The University
dle-class university; most of the stu- does have such academic programs for
dents and faculty hail from the middle at-risk students, but most of the par-
class or higher. Students who are the ticipants in this study were not invited
first generation in their families to go to join them, even if it is clear that they
to college and come from -working- would have benefited from them. One
class backgrounds are a minority first-gen in my study explained that
at this institution. As a result of my there is not enough awareness at the
research for my senior honors the- University about the experiences of
sis, "First-Generation Working Class similar students, saying, "I think that
Undergraduates at the University of we're such an underrepresented popu-
Michigan," I found that these students lation that they almost ignore us. They
face financial, academic and cultural try to help students who fall more into
disadvantages here at the University. a racial minority category, and maybe
Not only are first-gens more likely they hit some first-gen students or low-
to struggle to get by financially once income students, but some students
they arrive, they are also more likely fall through the cracks."
to have attended high schools that First-generation applicants could
did not adequately prepare them for also be matched with experienced
the University's academic rigor. This first-gen mentors. Or they could be
sets up a social situation that is made invited to participate in seminars
even worse by the clash between stu- designed just for them. Such semi-
dents' working-class culture and the nars could be used to help give stu-
middle-class culture of the majority of dents that cultural capital, and also
their peers, making it difficult to fit in make them aware of the cultural
and transition to college life. In addi- transitions ahead and how they might
tion, first-gens often lack certain traits affect their family relationships. In
- called cultural capital - of middle- addition, first-gen students should be
and upper-middle-class students that encouraged to consider extracurricu-
help foster academic success, includ- lar activities in which they are under-
ing study skills and information about represented, such as study abroad, in
the higher education system. One par- order to help them integrate into the
ticipant of my study recalled that, as higher social classes. These targeted
a freshman, "I didn't know the differ- initiatives will help foster a smooth-
ence between a Ph.D. and a bachelor's. er integration for first-gens into the
I used to think, 'What's the difference larger student community.
between a graduate student and an Faculty, staff and students should
undergraduate student?"' also be made aware of first-yen expe-
To combat these glaring issues, the riences to better prepare them for the
University should take several steps to issues these students may raise. A few
better serve its first-generation, work- academic advisers could be trained to
ing-class students. First, it should offer deal with first-gen issues in order to
them more financial aid in the form of provide better services to this demo-
scholarships and grants. Several of the graphic. Professors would be more
participants in the study I conducted accommodating to such students if
felt that the University should put they did not assume, as some do, that
aside scholarships just for these first- all of their students have middle-class
generation college students. This iea- academic and cultural backgrounds.
sure would help the first-gens focus on The University should stay true
academics and allow them to partici- to its commitment to diversity, but it
pate in more extracurricular activi- should also remember that diversity
ties that help them make the cultural encompasses more than race or ethnic-
transition and narrow the study skills ity. By giving first-gen students more
and information edge more affluent opportunities and aid, the transitions
students enjoy. and challenges they face can be miti-
It would also be helpful to identify gated, and they can focus on what they
all students who lack adequate aca- came here for: academics.
demic preparation during the admis-
sions process and offer them some Serena Hinz is an LSA alum.

!!

The ban was first proposed to
City Council in 2003 by the Ann
Arbor Fire Department, when
they argued that porch furni-
ture is a fire hazard. Since then,
the proposal has been tabled
and reintroduced several times
but has never gathered enough
momentum to make it to a City
Council vote. Most recently,
April's rash of suspicious fires -
one of which was suspected to
have started with a porch couch
and led to the death of a Universi-
ty student - caused an Ann Arbor
resident to encourage City Coun-
cil to reconsider the ban.
In theory, the intentions of the
initial proposal may seem honor-
able. But in practice, the ban real-
ly isn't about fire safety. For many
city residents, it's about aesthet-
ics. According to Daily coverage
from2004 and 2005, the proposal
garnered the support of city resi-
dents because many thought that
porch furniture is an eyesore. Yet
this proposal bears almost entire-

ly on students -not residents -
so students should be the guiding
voice in this discussion.
But that can't happen when
City Council attempts to push
through a decision while most of
them are not around to offer dis-
sent and alternative proposals.
And while a second reading and
vote are scheduled for the tail end
of September, a mere month fol-
lowing the hectic beginnings of
the school year is an inadequate
amount of time for students to
advocate for this cause. Hold-
ing the discussion now ensures
that the debate will be lopsided
toward residents, as the majority
of Ann Arbor's student popula-
tion isn't around to make their
voice heard - a voice which
should hold just as much weight
as non-student residents.
And while promoting fire
safety is a necessary goal, this
ban is an ill-conceived way to
achieve it. The principal threat is
the fact that many of the houses

inhabited by students don't com-
ply with existing fire code, and
this far exceeds any posed by
couches. Hazards like old wir-
ing and unsafe - or even nonex-
istent - fire escapes are much
more dangerous. Landlords have
a legal and moral responsibil-
ity to ensure that their properties
- and, by extension, their ten-
ants - are safe. That means that
they must make sure that houses
are up to code. Additionally, City
Council should work with land-
lords to educate students about
fire safety.
City Council shouldn't be dis-
cussing such a student-focused
issue while students aren't in Ann
Arbor to speak up for themselves.
The timing of this measure is
inconsiderate at best, disingenu-
ous at worst. This proposal not
only fails to attack the real cause
of fire hazards - poor compli-
ance with fire code - it ignores
the input of the very people it will
principally affect.

THUMBS UP
Getting carried away by your
natural surroundings on a
relaxing trip north with your
wife.
LIKE WHAT YOU SEE HERE?

THUMBS DOWN
Your wife literally being carried
away by a wild deer, as cap-
tured in YouTube video "A Deer
Steals Man's Wife.

w

Want to see more? Check out more from Daily columnists, additional view-
points from students and more cartoons posted online throughout the week.
Go to michigandaily.com and click on 'Opinion.'
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nicholas Clift, Emma Jeszke, Rachel Van Gilder, Joe Stapleton


A 'real' writer
W hy don't you get off seventeen pages. You've heard it
your soapbox every before, but beginning your work
once in a while?" my in the morning and writing at
uncle said, ref- least five pages is the only way to
erencing my col- get anything done. Then there was
umns. I respect that glorious day when I wrapped,
his opinion - he's to put it in film-speak. Soon after,
a former assis- however, came the crash where
tant cameraman, there was nothing left to do but
after all, and he slowly ponder ideas for a sequel.
taught me every- A writers' conference came at just
thing I need ANNA the right moment, as did securing
to know about PAONE a slot for a pitch session.
gate-crashing
the entertainment industry. And
pointstI'm not interested in b ng I have a long way
angry all the time. So I'm going t I almost
to slow it dow n this w eek, w ith a i O , but g h e r e .
little meditation on my novel. * >
By the time you're reading this didn't get here.
editorial, I will have officially
pitched my first complete rough
draft to a small publishing house. I'm still not sure what I hope
And even though I am often reluc- to gain by publishing. Everyone
tant to admit that I'm one more always says, "Don't expect to
young person punching out an make money as an author," and
almost-roman a clef, it's an occa- I never did until I started run-
sion for reflection. ning up debt going to the Univer-
I still have a long way to go, but sity and thought about how nice
I almost didn't get here in the first it would be to garner a little cash
place. In ninth grade, I embarked via my labor of love. And I do plan
on a special out-of-school writ- on aggressively pursuing produc-
ing class, and found my precocity ers to option a movie adaptation,
challenged by a jovial teacher who which would be even more of a
equated daring vulgarity with art- dream come true than publication,
istry. At the time, my problem with if that's possible. I'd love to see my
this was not so moral as it was ideas colorized and gilded in cellu-
that I didn't have anything to say loid and projected to more people
that required profanity or sexual than would ever buy the book,
themes. Of course, I believe whole- And while I've gotten better at
heartedly that when the story calls handling criticism since starting
for such content, and that it can this column, I'm still not interest-
be done in a way that honors the ed in The New York Times Book
human spirit, one cannot shrink Review casting its learned eye
from adding such themes. But his over my little tale. Nevertheless,
teaching led me to toss gratuitous this book has to go somewhere.
curse words into my dialogue and I gave it to God every morning at
write about affairs to make my those Masses and the characters
ethos-lacking stories more accept- began to walk and talk on their
able. When I couldn't do this, I felt own, as they are wont to do, as
stunted, believing lwould never be I scrambled to build a satisfac-
a "real writer." Over the past year, tory structure, like Ariadne con-
I hammered the last nail into the structing dreams in Inception.
coffin of my old pedagogue's phi- It's something I want book-crazy
losophy and started to write what teenagers to drink in - one more
I wanted to write. quality libation in the ever-grow-
Since then, I've finished my first ing pile of YA works.
substantial, serious rough draft. That makes my intentions sound
For the first few months of this a lot nobler than they are. But it's
break, I would go to eight o'clock normal after having written some-
Mass and, on a good day, start thing to want it published. So I'll
writing around 9:45.I would work put it out there, hoping for a kind
straight through until I watched review, hoping for a movie ver-
sports highlights at noon. On a sion and hoping I inspire someone
wonderful day, I would punch out in some intangible way. Someday,
a few more pages in the afternoon perhaps, I might be able to hope for
before I hunkered down for "The a check for my troubles.
Bachelorette" in the evening. (I'm
a sucker for trashy reality shows.) - Anna Paone can be reached
The best I ever did in a day was at apaone@umich.edu.

Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

5

SIMON BORST

E-MAIL SIMONAT SIMKAL@UMICH.EDU.

c


Nourishing Detroit

xpressing my enthusiasm
for the city of Detroit gets
me into different kinds of

conversations,
depending on
whom I'm talking
to. Many people,
especially those
who have been liv-
ing in this area for
a long time, don't
understand my
positivity. They
react with disin-
terest or dispar-

CAROLYN
LUSCH

aging comments, and I nearly always
end up defensive. This wasn't the
case, though, during a recent conver-
sation with an out-of-stater passion-
ate about ecology and food systems.
"Detroit! There are really exciting
things happening there," he asserted.
And he's right.
Because of the role the University
has had in several projects, many
students already know that those
exciting things largely concern food
production and distribution in the
city. Detroit has long been consid-
ered a food desert, meaning that res-
idents don't have adequate access to
reasonably-priced fresh food. In the
last few years, several creative peo-
ple have envisioned ways to address
this problem.
Two University alums, Noam
Kimelman and Zachary Markin,
have received a lot of attention
recently for the organization - Get
Fresh Detroit - that they started as
a result of a class in 2010. Aware of
the prevalence of small convenience
and liquor stores around Detroit,
they provide fresh fruits and vege-
tables to these distributors. I spoke
with Mr. Kimelman recently about
the strategy and vision of Get Fresh.
It's a unique system in that the
organization attempts to provide
food in a manner that is both sus-
tainable and profitable for the store
owners, meaning that no store will
jump in out of short-lived good will,

but rather to be part of a "systemic
change."
Making produce profitable for a
convenience store means making it
similar to its other products: pack-
aged, easy and convenient with a
longer shelf life. It also involves a
concept that may seem startling:
aggressively marketing vegetables.
Mr. Kimelman explained that just
as potato chips wouldn't sell with-
out widespread advertising by the
manufacturers, simply "sticking a
yellow squash on the shelf" is not
enough. A large part of the organiza-
tion's mission is reaching out to the
community and spreading the word
about their products. Future plans
for Get Fresh Detroit include work-
ing toward 100-percent local sourc-
ing and building local partnerships.
This fits well with the larger
movement to both improve food
access to Detroiters and improve
awareness of what exactly con-
stitutes sound nutrition. Another
branch of this effort, which has been
growingin Detroit for decades, is the
creation of neighborhood and com-
munity gardens. Detroit has a par-
ticularly unique position for urban
agriculture given the large amounts
of vacant land. The Greening of
Detroit provides resources and sup-
port for communities and individu-
als who want to start gardens.
Another critical part of their mis-
sion, though, is environmental educa-
tion. Just like sticking a squash on a
shelf, sticking a few seeds in a vacant
lot doesn't make a difference unless
it comes along with outreach to the
community. When I worked for The
Greening of Detroit last summer, I
helped children plant trees and flow-
ers in their school lots and taught
them basic elements of environmen-
tal knowledge, like how ecosystems
and food chains function. Through
that experience, they began to under-
stand their relationship with the out-
side world we know as nature.
Many community gardens give

children and adults the profound
opportunity to see a vegetable travel
through its entire life cycle, from a
seed in their hand to a meal on their
plate. When you plant a squash and
tend to it every day, you understand
the effort necessary to produce such
aseeminglysimple object. You see the
fruit form, at first no bigger than your
finger, then over weeks miraculously
nearing the size of your forearm. It's
impossible, following the life of this
food, to not understand that the pro-
duction of such a squash took work
- that it required energy. You can
then visualize the transfer of energy
into your body when you eat it. You
understand the link between your
daily activities and the sun, rain and
soil. You realize your dependence on
a balanced energy system and, hope-
fully, feel a need to protect that deli-
cate arrangement.
Until recently,
Detroit was a
fresh food desert.
Let me reiterate, Ann Arbor and
the University are not isolated from
these exciting developments. Aside
from Universityties with Detroit and
the work of entrepreneurial alumni,
Project Grow maintains organic
community gardens throughout the
Ann Arbor area, and students both
garden at home and participate in
Community Supported Agriculture
Programs. With so many different
ideas and methods of improving
fresh food access, southeast Michi-
gan can take a leading role in the
development of a new, more just and
sustainable system of producing and
distributing food.
-Carolyn Lusch can be reached
at Icarolyn@umich.edu.


PARKING
CENTRAL CAMPUS PARKING
Several locations to choose. Varsity
Management. (734) 668-1100.
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT

! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS - U-M's best
housing, 2 blocks from Central Cam-
pus and downtown. Just a few bed-
rooms left for 2010-11. 734-998-4400.
www.4elevenlofts.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!!ROOMS HILL & State. May or Fall.
Male. Prkg. $510/mo 845-399-9904.
AVAIL. AUG. 1. Mother-in-law
detached apt. on8 acres in NE Ann
Arbor, $675/mo., 734-478-5188.

RELEASE DATE- Monday, August 9, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 41 Dunked morning 54 Witch
1 Sound near an 1 Sherry container snack 55 Farr or Foxx
ineffective 2 Choir part 42 Film lioness 59 London's _
scarecrow 3 Homeless child 45 Sister Britain art
4 Electrical pioneer 4 Cross shape 47 "Sister__: gallery
Nikola 5 Bent pipe shape Whoopi Goldberg 61 Rascals
9 Scandinavian inlet 6 One with a film 62 Three-piece
14 Chef's phrase grumpy scowl 50 List of choices attire, maybe
15 Healing plants 7" we forget" 51 Runs out of 63 Glimpse
16 Apple pie 8 Appearance 52 Score before 15, 65 WWII
maker's device 9 TV monitoring in tennis transport
17 Economy-boosting gp. 53 Actor Douglas 66 Dr. of rap
government 10 Wisecrack maker and baseballer 67 Drk's
program 1t Dive a speech Gibson co-workers
20 Ac-UN chiet 12 Fitfrsa king ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
Annan 13 Word wth sun or

21 GPS suggestions
22 Greek vowels
23 Apt name fora
herding dog
26 Wedgelike tools
28 Foam with
derivatives and
integrals
32 2.Miss
33 Game originally
named 'The
Conquest oflthe
World"
34 Gold or silver, e.g.
38 Baldwin of "30
Rock"
40 Line spoken to
the audience
43 Actor's
assignment
44 Big name in
chicken
46 She gets what
she wants
48 Wall Street index,
wth'the"
49 Puffy sky nature
53 Hall af Fame
Celtic whose
initials are his
given name
56 Spanish cat
57 Pakistan neighbor
58 Benelux country:
Abbr.
60 Strong-jawed
device
64 Rome's twin
founders,
traditionally
68 Makes a scarf,
say
69 Dne-eighty
70 Dot on a die
71 Dost laygone's
eyes on
72 "For _ sake!"
73 Messy place

evening v
18 Catchall abbr.
19 Tennis legend
Arthur
24 "Ben- "
25 "East of Eden"
director Kazan
27 Belief: Suff.
28 ofarms
29 Comrade in arms
30 Wranglers
alternative
31 Proficiency
35 Knucklehead
36 Baseball's Felipe
or Moises
37 Ribald
39 Hard-shelled
palm fruits

7780 Broadway
734.994.6007
www thecoturtyardsannarbor com
LOOK & LEASE!
LOCATIONS
START -N
AT
$995
"ACADEMIC LEASES!
&FREE WiFi!
-PAID utilities!
FREE HDTV!
-FULLY furnished!
and much more
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!'
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
ON ARBORETUM. RUSTIC setting.
Front-most efficiency apt. in private
house. Semi-private entrance. Private
shower. Shared 3-season bale. Internet;
cable. $580. 734 662 7924.
ONE HOUSEMATE NEEDED, nice
house on 904 packard. Please call 636
577 8043 or 269 329 9867.
TWO BEDROOM ON Dewey Av-
enue. $800/month plus gas and electric.
call 734-323-5021.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSelA2.com 734-476-9768.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min, walk. Free Wi-Fi.
**9 MONTH LEASES! 4-6 Person
Apartments/Houses on Church St, 1
Block South of the B-School. $600-700
per person. Newly remodeled, new
leather furniture, Free Cable, Free Inter-
net, Free parking. Visit www.Church-
StreetApts.com or call Jeff 248-804-
0774.

**AVAILABLE FOR FALL: 514
Lawrence- 6 bdrm house. Rooms start-
ing at $375/month plus $50.00 for utili-
ties. 2 bath, free high speed internet,
easy access to central campus, nursing,
medical and dental schools. D/W and
laundry. Parking available. Call Cam-
pus Mgt. 734-663-4101.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm.furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. StateLdry, prkg, heat, & waler incl.
734-904-6735. hsi.property~gmail.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., ldry.,
bath., internet. summer from $300, fall
from $440. Call 734-276-0886.
EFF,1&2BdrmsFall'10-'ll
Rents Range $675 to $950.
Most include Heat & Water.
Limited Parking Avail. www.cappo-
management.com 734-996-1991.
SERVICES
ASTROLOGICAL & LIFE COACH-
ING CONSULTATIONS. Need guid-
ance? Jilliankerry@gmail.com, 734-
395-4999, www.jilliankerry.com
BOOKS, SPECIES, ARTICLES, re-
sumes. Writing, editing, and layout.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
BABYSITTER/DRIVER NEEDED:
Part time (6-8 hrs/wk) driver needed to
drive kids to pre/after school activities,
and similar family transportation.
Clean driving record and baby sitting
experience needed. Please respond to
scroley@umich.edu
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
DOMINICK'S NOW HIRING all po-
sitions for fall F/PT. Call 734-323-5021.
PARTICIPATE IN PSYCH study
$9/hr for 1-2 lirs; involves reading sce-
narios & answering questions @ East
Hall. 18 or older only. IRB-
HUM00028548. Golalex@umich.edu,
subject line: study 28548.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
ATTRACTIVE GIRLS FOR semi-
nude, Victoria's S type lingerie photog-
raphy. Flex hrs, great pay. Must be 18.
For interview call: 734-678-4181 or
email photo to: georgedl@provide.net

LONG-TERM, PART-time nanny
needed. U-M faculty couple (Ann Ar-
bor Hills) is looking for a dedicated,
loving nanny for two girls, 14 and 10.
$12/hour, 15 - 25 hrs/week. Fall:
school days 3 - 6 pm (sometimes later)
and most Saturday evenings; August
hours fewer, more flexible. Looking for
a new member of the family, really -
someone kind, playful, and helpful
with homework; experienced in child-
care, firm limit-setting, and sibling con-
flict resolution. No housework. Must
have a reliable car and a good sense of
humor. Please respond with a brief let-
ter, resume, and contact information
(phone and e-mail) for 2-3 references.
We look forward to hearing from you!
tareid@umich.edu
MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY operations, including the super-
vision, training and mentoring of under-
graduate students and lab members. As-
sist in the management of research
project(s) directed at lipid biochem-
istry. Provide expertise in biophysical
chemistry with preferred expertise us-
ing mass spectrometry, chemical syn-
thesis, chromatography and microbiol-
ogy techniques. Bachelor's degree in
biochemistry or related field, plus four
years of related experience in a bio-
chemistry laboratory setting required.
In-depth biochemical experimentation
laboratory knowledge essential. Prefer
(1) Master's degree in biochemistry or
related field; (2) extensive lab manage-
ment skills; (3) experience with mam-
malian cell culture techniques; and (4)
experience using mass spectrometry,
chemical synthesis, chromatography,
and microbiology techniques. View
requisition 100472 at https://employ-
ment.unl.edu for qualifications, details
and to apply. Review of applicants be-
gins Aug 11. UNL is committed to a
pluralistic campus community through
affirmative action, equal opportunity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.
PART-TIME (8-10 hr/ wk) babysitter
with good driving record needed to
take care of 4 and 8 year olds school
going kids for pre and post school activ-
ities. Please e-mail Sonali at sjvdvr@g-
mail.com
STOCK ACCOUNTANT/ SURVEY
Research Analyst to start from general
accounting function to include, but not
limited to entry & bookkeeping, mainte-
nance of books & ledger.Financial re-
port & analyst. Send resume to:ivan-
bartt0l@hotmai.com
STORE KEEPER AND CASHIER
NEEDED URGENTLY. FOR MORE
INFORMATION CONTACT
OKADATAKESH@GMAIL.COM
it's suny!
walk around.
and grab a daily while you're out.

0

ito

08/08/1 d

I

1 2 3 4 s 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
14 15 16
17 18 19
20 21 2
23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
32 33 34 35 36
38 39 40 41 42 43
44 45 46 47 48
49 s0 51 52
53 s4 55s56
s7 s8 59 60 61 62
64 65 66 67
68 69 70
T1 T2 T3

By Jeff Chen
(c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

08/09/10



Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

7

OIL SPILL
From Page 1
stage when the spill occurred, oil likely
deposited along the shoreline when
waterlevels returned to normal, affect-
ingwildlife in the area, Burton said.
Though a large amount of oil leaked
out of the pipeline, Burton said he does
not think the leak will affect Lake Mich-
igan, astheoilwilllikelybe deposited in
smaller lakes first. Some of the oil will
also be diluted as it goes downstream
due to the warmer water temperatures.
Burton added that he does not
believe any of the fishing industries
will see any long term effects, because
there are other unaffected tributar-
ies flowing into the Kalamazoo River.
Monitoring the area, however, will still
be necessary to determine the level of
toxicity, he said.
"I would like to think that in a peri-
od of months, any direct toxicity that
happened would be over with and we
would have new organisms moving
in that wouldn't be impacted," Bur-
ton said. "But if it's settling into the

sediments, that's goingto be where the
concern is because organisms in the
streams will continue to be exposed."
Peter Adriaens, a University envi-
ronmental engineering professor who
has worked on the Exxon Valdez and
Gulf War oil spills, said because the
pipeline is around 30 years old, he
believes the leak was due to corrosion
of the steel.
Adriaens said though there are sen-
sors along the length of the pipe to
measure changes in pressure, which
would indicate a leak, temperature
fluctuations and the differences in
pressure that arise at pumpingstations
routinely make it difficult for inspec-
tors to identify a problem. Inspectors
must also be able to hear a signal above
the noise of the oil being pumped at the
stations, Adriaens said.
With the Kalamazoo River oil spill,
Adriaens said inspectors probably did
see a pressure drop butwere not able to
immediately discern its cause.
But because the spill occurred
around a populated area, local resi-
dents reported the smell of oil and
officials were able to address the leak

within three days of its occurrence,
Adriaens said.
Adriaens said after locating the site
of the leak, officials tried to limit the
extent of contamination by skimming
oil off of the surface water and laying
down booms - floating containment
units used to enclose the oil. He added
that the last step - determining how
much oil is in the sediments - will
take longer and could have a long-term
effect on the region, proportional to
the amount of residual oil.
Though this oil spill is the worst in
the history of the Midwest, Adriaens
said monitoring has increased over the
past decade, and the number ofleaks per
1,000 miles of pipeline has decreased by
almost 60 percent with the amount of
oil per leak also on the decline.
As the lasting effects on area wild-
life are examined, the people whose
homes have been affected by the spill
are also assessing their possible com-
pensation.
The affected area includes a mobile
home park and 61 homes, which are in
avoluntary evacuation zone, according
to the Detroit Free Press.

t
w
N

PAUL SANCYA/AP

A worker monitors water in Talmadge Creek near the Kalamazoo River.

David Uhlmann, director of the
Environmental Law and Policy Pro-
gram at the Law School, said Enbridge
Energy Partners will compensate
homeowners for their losses, but there
still may be the possibility of lawsuits
if homeowners believe the damage is
too great.
Uhlmann also said he is concerned
about the company's response to the
spill, as there have been reports that
Enbridge Energy Partners may have
delayed providing notice to the appro-

priate authorities, and it is unclear
whether the response efforts were suf-
ficient in limiting the magnitude of the
leak.
Both actions could result in at least
civil penalties, if not civil prosecution,
Uhlmann said.
According to the Detroit Free Press,
the U.S. House Committee on Trans-
portation and infrastructure will hold
a hearing on Sep. 15 in Washington
D.C. to analyze the oil spill and the
company's response.

Snyder, Bernero win Mich. gubernatorial primary elections

Party candidates look
to replace outgoing
Dem. Gov. Granholm
By ESHWAR
THIRUNAVUKKARASU
ManagingNewsEditor
Republican gubernatorial candidate
Rick Snyder and Democratic candidate
Virgil Bernero won Tuesday's primary

election and will look to succeed out-
going Democratic Gov. Jennifer Gran-
holm in the general election on Nov. 2.
Seven men in
total contested First seen on
the election,
consisting of
five Republicans
- Mike Bouchard, Mike Cox, Tom
George, Pete Hoekstra and Snyder -
and Democratic candidates Bernero
and Andy Dillon.
With votes counted from the 143

precincts of Washtenaw County,
Snyder led the Republican field with
12,824 votes over nearest competitor
Pete Hoekstra at 5,117 votes, according
to the county clerk's office. Dillon, who
conceded the race to Bernero, trailed
with 9,249 votes to Bernero's 17,741
votes.
"For people that believe our govern-
ment works well and that the political
system works well, they should vote
for the other candidate," Snyder said
before his supporters, according to

the Associated Press. "For people who
believe our government is broken, our
political system is broken, it's time
for catalysts. I want to represent you,
someone from the real world."
Bernero addressed his supporters at
a Detroit hotel, saying "the Michigan
we grew up in, the Michigan that was
at the top, is the Michigan that we're
ready to fight for today."
D For the rest of this story, see
R MichiganDaily.com/blogs

For more information, please contact
Stephanie Bowker or Julianna Crim
at dailydisplay@gmail.com


81

Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Going gaga for Lolla

Chicago celebrates the
geeks and the greats
at Lollapalooza
By MIKE KUNTZ
Daily Music Editor
With each year, the giant outdoor
music festival held in Chicago's scenic
Grant Park has continually outdone
itself, bringing together the Gagas and
the Green Days of yesterday and today.
Complete with two headlining stages
at the northernmost and southernmost
ends of the park, the festival also has
four lesser stages, aseparate kids' stage
and the perennial Perry's tent, where
DJs spin from the moment the festival
opens until the end of the night.

Surrounded on all sides by Chicago's
looming, picturesque skyline, T-shirt
vendors and religious crazies (whose
"Rock and roll will damn your soul"
placard almost made the weekend all
on its own), the festival boasts three
days of music from hundreds of per-
formers, local food vendors, non-profit
and political advocacy groups, quirky
sponsors and plenty of free water and
accessible restroom facilities through-
out the park.
It seems like the stages and the sto-
ries get bigger and better every year -
if the first two days of Lollapalooza are
any indication for the future of grand-
scale outdoor music festivals, I like
where we're headed.
Friday afternoons at Lolla are typi-
cally worse attended than the rest

" F0 Mention This AD
S /And Receives n biOff. Now is the
perfect time to prep with one of the
A notions leaders in et spreparation.
AT SmallClasses
 Expert Instructors
SR-Free Extra Help
The
AT (Princeton
-Review

of the weekend, no thanks to the
demands of the working week and
the Man's efforts to keep us all down.
Unfortunate, then, that hip-hop heat-
seeker B.o.B. was doomed to one of the
earliest slots in the day - a brutal 11:30
a.m. post at one of the festival's larger
stages.
An early highlight was Mavis
Staples, the legendary soul singer of
Staples Singers fame who recently
teamed up with Jeff Tweedy (from
"The Wilco Band!" as Staples intro-
duced him) to write and record a new
album of gospel-tinged soul. Tweedy
appeared onstage twice, softly strum-
ming an acoustic guitar stage right as
the 71-year-old Mavis let loose on clas-
sics ranging from "I'll Take You There"
to The Band's "The Weight."
On the other side of the festival, The
Walkmen had just finished a set of raw,
garage-rocking Britpop led by Hamil-
ton Leithauser's signature throat-tear-
ing drawl. New tracks from the band's
upcoming album, Lisbon, were well
received, and older tracks like "In The
New Year" sounded almost like mod-
ern classics.
At Perry's, Stones Throw Records
founder and artist Peanut Butter Wolf
(aka Chris Manak) was spinning a
set of hip-hop classics, ranging from
Snoop and the Beastie Boys to Wu-
Tang and MF Doom. Deftly scratching
and mashing the records and accom-
panying video simultaneously, Manak
brought some ntasteful old-school fla-
vor to the rave-ready crowd.
Then there was Devo. Emerging in
silver space-age costumes, the band
played tracks from its new album
before breaking into the New Wave
classics and donning those signature
Energy Domes, now in turquoise.
Frontman Mark Mothersbaugh was as
undeniable as ever, his nerdy charisma
unflappable.
Back on the northern side of the fes-
tival, Dirty Projectors was creating its
own brand of musical geekery, rooted
instead in complex polyrhythms,
melodies, arrangements and lyrics
about Gatorade. One of the strongest
and most hypnotic performances of
the weekend, the Brooklyn six-piece
played a pitch-perfect set, with lead
singers Dave Longstreth and Amber
Coffman stretching their ranges with
shiver-inducing results.
Headliner Lady Gaga, who spared
no expense in creating the "Monster
Ball" of her current tour, emerged to
tens of thousands of screaming teenag-
ers and 20-somethings on a stage that
looked more like a Broadway produc-
See LOLLA, Page 10

Any1
urbs ca
about:L
class h
boring
white fi
to-dayc
school,
simple
a count
a drive
and en
Fire res
escape,,
more on
for thos
Butler's
entrapr
slow bi
the cou
know.
The I
The Su

So indie it burns.
Suburbs' on fire

By MIKE KUNTZ Like The National, Arcade Fire has a
Daily Music Editor knack for catharsis and is able to cre-
ate complete moods within its songs.
kid who grew up in the sub- Whether triumphant or terrifying,
in tell you what they're all emotions dictate the entire album.
upper-middle- "The Suburbs" is a slow-burner
omes, usually * ** driven by a piano and some dizzy-
with a pale ing strings, opening the album with
ence; the day- Arcade Fire a bounce but hinting at the darkness
cycle of sleep, ahead. Segueing into the radio-ready
The Suburbs
repeat; the stomp "Ready to Start," it's immedi-
pleasures of Merge ately clear that the band is back in full
try club and force, with dense textures, blacklit
-in movie. All the darkness guitar lines and lucid synth textures.
inui associated with Arcade "City With No Children" is asteady
ides there - the longing for chime of ringing guitars and hand
the holding out for something claps that recalls the better tracks
ice you finally leave. And even of Funeral, recapturing the freedom
e who grew up in a city, Win of "Wake Up" and the possibility of
earnest take on suburban "Neighborhood #1 (Tunnels)" with
aent, fleeting youth and the ease. "Sprawl II (Mountains Beyond
it steady Walmartization of Mountains)" is just as revelatory but
intryside tells all there is to with even more New Wave flair, pro-
pelled by a four-on-the-floor back-
band describes its new album, beat and Rdgine Chassagne's best
burbs, as a mix between Debbie Harry.

Depeche Mode and Neil Young, and
it's dead on: Taking cues evenhand-
edly from new-wave electronica and
classic folk troubador-ism, Butler and
company find a rare, agreeable middle
ground between a synthesizer and an
acoustic guitar. It's something other
acts could never pull off as tastefully
and inventively. Equal parts epic and
reflective, The Suburbs's 16 tracks
never falter or lose momentum, and
by the time the title track gets its
reprise at the album's close, it feels
like finishing a really satisfying book
or film - loose ends tied, characters
reunited and conflicts resolved.
As dark as this album gets, it never
loses its sunny feel - its melodic
ease and chiming guitars could com-
pete with Best Coast's sun-drenched
debut. The band uses its production to
full effect, but always with an expert
ear to let melody and feeling reign.

Arcade Fire's
sprawling success.
Even with its use of older tricks
and aesthetics, Arcade Fire never
sounds like a total throwback - it's as
2010 as it is 1981, and probably more.
The Suburbs is the sermon Neon Bible
tried to be, only never as preachy, and
it's all the more affecting for it. No
one can write songs about "the kids"
that sound as all-encompassing and
urgent as Win Butler and company
- their directness hits home regard-
less of your age or where you grew
up. Urban sprawl aside, if the suburbs
sound anything like this, here's your
reason to get out of the city.


Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

19

Actors talk 'Pilgrim'

Guggenheim is
the art in Glass'

* Routh and Winstead
go graphic in 'Scott
Pilgrim vs. the World'
By ANKUR SOHONI
Daily Arts Writer
Comic books, now a prolific source
for film adaptations, have inspired
some of the most successful movies
of the past decade. Expanding on the
phenomenon, graphic novel adapta-
tions like "Sin City, "Watchmen" and
"300" differentiate themselves by
maintaining their source medium's
distinct visual styles in their transla-
tions to film.
"Scott Pilgrim vs. the World," in
theaters Aug. 13, intends to further
this trend. Adapted from the "Scott
Pilgrim"graphic novel series byBryan
Lee O'Malley, the story finds Toronto
youth Scott Pilgrim (Michael Cera,
"Superbad") pining for the girl of
his dreams, Ramona Flowers (Mary
Elizabeth Winstead, "Live Free or
Die Hard"). In wooing her, Scott dis-
covers one huge obstacle - or rather
seven of them. Ramona's "seven evil
exes" - her boyfriends from child-
hood on - stand in Scott's way, and he
must defeat each of them on the way to
claiming his girl.
One of Ramona's evil exes is Todd
Ingram, a super-powered vegan bass
player played by Brandon Routh
("Superman Returns"). In a round-
table interview, Routh and Winstead
spoke about the film and the trip from
novel to the screen.
"I met with (director) Edgar
(Wright) like three years ago and he
gave me the first three books," Win-
stead said. "I read the books and com-
pletely loved them and completely

loved the characters and was really
excited to see what he was going to do
with it."
"I'm just amazed at the range in the
comic book world," Routh added.
After turns as the title characters in
comic book films like 2006's "Super-
man Returns" and the upcoming
"Dylan Dog: Dead of Night," the actor
is no stranger to such adaptations.
"I read more (comic books) than
I did before, being a part of - now -
three different comic book films," he
said. "I had never read anything like
'Scott Pilgrim' before. I don't think
a lot of people know that comics like
this exist. It's kind of a breath of fresh
air in that respect ... It doesn't feel
like your normal, typical comic book
movie."
Infusing pop culture references
and video-game imitation into its nar-
rative backbone, the film is heavily
entrenched in O'Malley's source novel.
"As far as the spirit of the books and
the spirit of the characters, I think
we all focused a lot on making that
really true to the books," Winstead
said. "That was really important to
me - just to try and be really faithful
to what I envisioned Ramona to be in
the books."
"I loved the little asides and the
power-ups," Routh said, recalling the
video-game narrative style of the book.
"There was just another layer of awe-
someness and nostalgia ... It made it
very unique."
In addition to the full set of influ-
ences from which the film chooses to
draw, music plays a vital role in the
story. The title character is the bassist
for his band "Sex Bob-Omb," and the
band battles with others along Scott's
journey.
The production worked hard to

make the band performances believ-
able, and many of the actors learned to
play new instruments specifically for
their roles.
"That was a big part of the comic,"
said Routh, who learned to play bass
for his role. "(Wright) made a big
effort to make sure that it was really
in the movie and a really driving force
that moves the movie forward and
propels the characters too."
Beyond the allusions and pop cul-
ture showcase of the film, "Scott Pil-
grim" is an oddball romantic comedy.
In his directing career, Wright has
shown a clever handle of the comedi-
cally off-kilter in his films "Shaun of
the Dead" and "Hot Fuzz," and con-
tinues with "Scott Pilgrim."
And, with actors like Michael Cera,
Kieran Culkin ("Paper Man"), Anna
Kendrick ("Up In the Air") and Ali-
son Pill ("Milk") filling out the cast,
Wright has an impressive young
ensemble to work with.
Routh commented on how such a
cast affected the atmosphere on set.
"It was very lighthearted ... Every-
body really believed in the movie,
and that came straight down from
(Wright), who we could all see was
very passionate and excited and ready
to go," he said.
"It was great having so many funny,
charming, smart people around all
the time," Winstead said. "There was
never a dull moment. But at the same
time, it was also really hard work and
really challenging and really long
hours ... So it wasn't all fun and games."
"Scott Pilgrim" promises in its tag-
line to be "an epic of epic epicness,"
and its background certainly seems
to fit the bill - mixing film, comics,
video games and music into a single
distinctive work.

By JOE CADAGIN
Daily Arts Writer
The name Peggy Guggenheim
instantly evokes modern art. A
member of a wealthy Jewish-Ameri-
can family, Gug-
genheim is best Woman Before
known for her a Glass
world-class col-
lection of works Every Thursday
by Picasso, Dali, through Sunday
Mir6, Chagall until Sept. 5;
and others. times vary
Starting this At Performance
month, Perfor- Network Theatre
mance Network Ticketsfrom$25
Theatre will
present "Woman Before a Glass,"
a one-woman play starring Naz
Edwards that explores the inner
workings of Guggenheim's life.
Guggenheim, notorious for her
outrageous behavior and foul mouth,
was the quintessential socialite of
the early 20th century. At her Pala-
zzo in Venice she mingled with the
likes of Igor Stravinsky, Truman
Capote, Paul Newman and play-
wright Samuel Beckett. In fact, it
was Beckett who first suggested that
Guggenheim begin amassing her
legendary art collection.
Not only was Guggenheim inter-
ested in the work of modern artists,
but she also had a passion for the
artists themselves. In addition to
her two failed marriages to artists
Laurence Vail and Max Ernst, Gug-
genheim claimed to have engaged in
affairs with numerous other paint-
ers and sculptors.
Yet "Glass" reveals the woman

behind the affairs and the signature
bat wing-shaped sunglasses.
"She was a very public character
in the way she put herself about,"
said Malcolm Tulip, a School of
Music, Theatre & Dance clinical
assistant professor and director of
"Glass." "ButI think in more ways,
she was deeply private and that she
protected herself by being so outra-
geous."
The play takes place at the Pala-
zzo Venier dei Leoni, Guggenheim's
home in Venice, which now serves
as a museum for her collection. As
the 60-something Guggenheim,
Naz Edwards addresses the audi-
ence in an extended monologue.
Peggy collected
art and artists.
Through Guggenheim's speech-
es, we learn about her relationships
with her ex-husbands as well as her
children, particularly her daugh-
ter Pegeen, who was also an art-
ist. Guggenheim also relays events
from her past, including her escape
- with her collection - from Nazi-
controlled Paris.
A driving force in the play is Gug-
genheim's struggle to decide the
fate of her treasure trove.
"One of her obsessions is what's
going to happen to her collection
after she dies," Tulip said. "In fact,
See GLASS, Page 10

I I

FREE Bageland
t I
Cream Cheese
ANY FLAVOR CREAM CHEESE MADE FROM SCRATCH DAILY.
No Purchase Necessary
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
Not valid with any other offers. Valid at the Ann Arbor Location ONLY
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping Center
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48103p,
-- (734) 662-2435 www.barrybagels.cor-Expires- August 23, 2010

ULRICHS BOOKSTORE
El MORE 449 East Universi1t4ve
AO LE GE il C2 PL
F RYOUR 37SuhS 80
Ann Arbor, MI 4
(734) 665-4990
F OR yOU ANNBOOK&1SUPPL


101

Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

LOLLA
From Page 8
tionof "Rent" than apop music perfor-
mance. But Gaga will be Gaga, and by
the time she had overdramatized her
way through bouts of musical theater
and motivational speaking, it was clear
that, apart from the dance-crazed die-
hards, many left disappointed and con-
fused.
Those who did leave Gaga early (or
were wise enough to not go at all) were
treated to a historical performance
by newly reunited NYC heroes The
Strokes. Aided by an incredible light
show, the band was dead-on, play-
ing now-classic tracks from its first
three albums perfectly and with roof-
igniting energy and ease. For a band
that's admittedly back together for
the money, it sure sounded like their
members still love to play together -
one could nearly forget that frontman
Julian Casablancas is almost as big of a
diva nowadays as Lady Gaga.
After Friday night, the rest of the
weekend promised to be pretty incred-
ible - and Saturday didn't disappoint.
With early sets by The Soft Pack and
The MorningBenders, whosebreakout
albums launched them from indie dar-
lings to 2010 festival mainstays, those
who wanted a little more guitar with
their Lolla were satisfied early on.

The feel-good pop-rockers of Blues
Traveler emerged with chromatic
harmonica blazing, playing the band's
own '90s hits along with a Sublime
cover, and bookending their fittingly
sunny set with songs from the "Team
America: World Police" soundtrack.
Back in the shaded Sony bloggie
stage toward the center of the festival,
psych-rock group Warpaint played a
sleepy, meditative set that entranced
the midday crowd - most of whom
seemed to have showed up to give
their ears a rest from the more aurally
demanding artists on the other stages.
Grizzly Bear emerged on the Bud-
weiser mainstage as Lolla veterans,
though its crowd this year easily out-
sized 2008's performance on a tinier
side stage. Frontman Edward Droste
apologized for the Brooklyn quartet
not being much of a festival band - but
you wouldn't know it by its passionate
reception as the crowd sang along in
earnest to Droste and Daniel Rossen's
songs from last year's Veckatinmest.
Another clear highlight, Grizzly Bear
may have finally freed itself from its
reputation as a sleepy live band - and
it's about time.
Next up was Spoon, who played
tracks from last winter's eclectic
Transference and dug deep with a track
from A Series of Sneaks. Along with
Grizzly Bear, the band also played
"Modern World," a Wolf Parade cover

with all the signature minimalism and
disjointed percussion that Spoon seems
to write in its sleep.
Sandwiched between Grizzly Bear's
and Spoon's sets was Social Distortion,
whose influential '80s punk blared
from the main stage on the southern
end of the festival. Younger members
of the audience not familiar with the
pop-punk pioneers might mistake
them for ripping off more modern acts
like Green Day, and it's a shame they
played prior to Billy Joe and the gang
instead of after.
Back on the Budweiser stage,
French indie rockers Phoenix played
an incredible set, complete with yet

another sublime, seizure-inducing
light show and spirited performances
of "1901" and "Lisztomania." The band
stretched tracks like "Love Like a Sun-
set" from 2009's stunning Wolfgang
Amadeus Phoenix to well beyond the
10-minute mark, giving the blissed-out
and transfixed crowd the best show of
the day.
Performances like those of The
Strokes and Phoenix gave Sunday's art-
istssomebigshoestofill.Butwithamaz-
ing shows and happenings all around,
each one furthering the momentum the
Lollapalooza machine has created, even
a little Sunday rain could never prevent
another amazing day in Grant Park.

GLASS
From Page 9
she seems more concerned about
her collection than her children.
So when she refers to 'my chil-
dren,' she's usually talking about
her art ... She just doesn't want it to
go to her uncle's museum, the Gug-
genheim in New York."
Edwards, who portrays the
eccentric and promiscuous Gug-
genheim, is a Broadway actress and
singer. She was last heard at the
Performance Network as the man-
eating plant Audrey II in "Little
Shop of Horrors." Children of the
'90s might remember Edwards for
her voice role as Queen Beryl on
the hit anime series "Sailor Moon."
Tulip, who has collaborated
with Edwards at the Performance
Network in "Man of La Mancha,"
had high praise for the veteran
actress.
"She's a good actress and works
extremely hard," Tulip said. "The
interesting thing is when directing
one actor, you are as much a con-
fidant, a psychiatrist, a confessor,
as well as a traditional director
because it's more of a conversa-
tion. It's more of a temporary artis-
tic marriage than just leading a
troop."

Music fans watch Green Day's performance at Lollapalooza in Grant Park on Saturday.


rqL
,

. .
, ,  _:
.


t


..
.
_
;
,,
a
z
t

The Ypsilanti Community Band
is now the
Washtenaw Community Concert Band
'Welcoming musicians looking for a true concert band experience


In partnership with Washtenaw Community College,
earn 2 credits by enrolling in MUS 112
Find out more about the class by visiting
www.wccnet.edu
For more information on the band call
734-252-9221
or e-mailatypsicommband@gmail.com

*1

Washtenaw Community College

-II


Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Blue hopes King will be conference royalty

Chicago native Evan
King is the future of
the Michigan men's
tennis team
By ANDREW HADDAD
Daily Sports Writer
There have been a handful of great
Michigan men's tennis players over
the last thirty seasons, with the likes
of MaliVai Washington, Dan Brakus
and Matko Maravic having donned
the maize and blue.
In the late 1980s, Washington was
the No. 1 ranked player in the coun-
try his sophomore season, eventually
going on to become a top-15 player on
the pro tour. Brakus was an All-Amer-
ican in 1994, and Maravic was All-Big
Ten from 2005 to 2008.
And now, Michigan has a player
with the potential to be as good, if not
better than, the legendary trio.
His name is Evan King.
King, an 18-year-old sophomore
from Chicago, is Michigan's first
Big Ten Freshman of the Year since
Brakus in 1991.
He was also the No. 1 Under-18
player in the country during high
school and, in the opinion of Michigan
coach Bruce Berque, the most hyped
recruit in school history.
In particular, King shares more
with Washington than just a school
and extraordinary talent - neither
are particularly powerful hitters, but
both are quick and have balanced all-
around games, although King is a lefty
and Washington is a righty.
Both also started playing casu-
ally with their parents with no future
aspirations before realizing their

Michigan men's tennis sophomore Evan King was 21-13 in singles play last seasc

potential and beginning to take pri-
vate lessons.
"I started playing tennis when I
was about three," King says. "My par-
ents both played casually. They would
bring me on the court with them and
have me randomly hit balls, and I
guess I just picked it up. When I got
to be ranked in the top 5 nationally
for 12-and-unders, I started to real-
ize, 'Hey, I'm pretty good at this,' but
even at that point, I didn't really think
about a future in tennis. I was just
enjoying myself"
King attended Walter Payton Col-
lege Prep in Chicago for two years
before moving to Boca Raton, Florida
and training with the USTA High
Performance program, where he blos-
somed into the No. 1 Under-18 player
in the country. He has appeared on
the covers of Rise and USTA Maga-
zine. And while King never consid-
ered it, most teenagers of his caliber
skip college and try to join the pro
tour as soon as possible.
"Ever since I was good enough to

even have tennis come into my mind,
I wanted to play college tennis," King
said. "When I was 14, I got to see a big
college tournament, and I was just
struck by how exciting it was, espe-
cially the team aspect, since in juniors
you're playing for yourself all the time.
"In college, you have six other guys
on the court at the same time. I'd much
rather be a part of that than traveling
around to a bunch of random, little
countries, barely making anything."
King's college decision came down
to Michigan, Ohio State and Illinois.
Even though the latter two have
dominated the Big Ten for years, King
chose Michigan in order to become
the piece de resistance of a recent run
of strong recruiting classes for the
Wolverines.
"I liked all three schools when I
visited," he said. "My dad's a Michigan
alum, so that was a small factor. But it
came down to the fact that Michigan
is the better school academically and
also, I really like our coaching staff.
On top of that, it's nice to join a pro-

gram that's on the rise and not one
that's already been there, done that."
King skipped kindergarten, so he
only turned 18 this March near the
end of the season. But playing oppo-
nents three or four years older didn't
seem to bother him; he alternated
between No. 1 and No. 2 singles with
Jason Jung and had an impressive
21-13 record.
However, there were some setbacks
along the way. The most notable one
was his loss to Pepperdine in Feb. In
his first match at No. 1 singles, King
dropped the first set before rallying
to take a 5-4, 40-15 lead in the second.
On set point, King hit an apparent ace,
but his opponent made a questionable
call. After an argument and accusa-
tions of cheating from the crowd,
King lost his cool and dropped the set
in a tiebreaker.
"That was definitely my biggest
regret of the year," King says now. "I
should still have won that game. An
important part of college tennis is
experience.
"I wasn't ready for that at the time,
so I blew up and lost my cool, but I've
come to realize that that sort of thing
shouldn't surprise you when it hap-
pens. If it happens again I'll react dif-
ferently, more calm and mellow like I
usually am."
Another disappointment was the
team's inability to get past Big Ten
kingpins Ohio State and Illinois.
Michigan has gone from winning 16
consecutive Big Ten titles in the '70s
and '80s to not winning one since
1996, and the Buckeyes and Fighting
Illini have dominated the conference
for years.
It was no different last year, as
Michigan went 0-4 against the two
teams, getting knocked out from the
Big Ten Tournament by Illinois and

from the NCAA Tournament by Ohio
State.
But things are looking up for the
Wolverines. They return five letter-
winners, including the All-Big Ten
Jung, and a 2010 recruiting class that
was ranked No. 1 nationally. If King
continues to fulfill his massive poten-
tial, Michigan has a very good chance
to topple the Big Ten power structure
"I plan on
sticking it out
all four years at
Michigan."
and reclaim its place at the top of the
conference.
"Our number one goal is absolute-
ly to win the Big Ten," King says. "I
think we can definitely do it. We gave
OSU and Illinois a run for their money
last year, so if a few things went our
way we could've been Big Ten cham-
pions last year."
Washington left Michigan to join
the pro tour after his sophomore
year. Had he stayed all four years, he
could've become one of the greatest
college players of all-time. King insists
that there won't be any such 'what-if'
questions about his college career.
"I plan on sticking it out all four
years at Michigan," King says. "If
I was to become ridiculously good
and be guaranteed to do something
on the pro tour, then that would be
hard to pass up, but that's a long way
away, and I still have a ton of room for
improvement here in Ann Arbor."


AFFORDABLE STUDENT HOUSING
NORTH CAMPUS!
Charges cover:
Sign now for best Utilities
Availability Furnished Room
F/W 2010-11 All Food
Internet
Social Activities
Small & Dinner made by a
Inter-Cooperative Council .
LARGE ww~c~oP Professional Chef
LARGE wwwicc.coop
Singles 734.662.4414 Fitness Room
Available! TV
& Much More!

Here's to the summer's survivors!
Thanks for all your
hard work selling ads!
Andrea
Alyssa
Molly


Monday, August 9, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Michigan Defensive Line Linebackers Defensive Backs Special Teams
Football
Offensive Line Receivers Et RunningBacks Quarterback
Season Preview Tight Ends
Forcier, Robinson locked in close battle

By RYAN KARTJE
ManagingEditor
Through four weeks last season,
the Wolverines' so-called quarter-
back battle had thoroughly dimin-
ished to leave one candidate named
savior of the Michigan football pro-
gram.
Tate Forcier amassed almost 700
yards and seven touchdowns - a solid
stat line when you consider that he
barely threw against Eastern Michi-
gan and led one of the best drives in
the past decade to defeat Notre Dame
at the last second.
And, oh yeah, he was 4-0.
But the undefeated days quickly
diminished after the now-soph-
omore's late interception against
Michigan State.
And soon after that, the wheels fell
off the jam-packed Forcier bandwag-
on and the Wolverines were ineligible
for the postseason yet again.
That's when talks of Forcier's sec-
ond half shoulder injury picked up.
But that's also when fellow sopho-
more signal caller Denard Robinson
started making his move.
While some were praising Forcier's
moxie, others couldn't deny the X-fac-

tor that Robinson could be on offense.
Everyone saw his first play in a
Michigan uniform: fumbled snap
leads to 43-yard sensational touch-
down, and everyone has since seen
his 2010 Spring Game performance: a
staggering performance highlighted
by a 97-yard zinger across the deep
middle to Roy Roundtree.
But even Robinson, who's been the
"Denard has
been out there
through thick
and thin."
flavor-of-the-week candidate to start
in the fall since that April matchup,
has his flaws, like the fact that he's
never proven himself against Big
Ten pass defenses, throwing twice as
many interceptions a' touchdowns
and completing just 45 percent of his
passes.
To some, however, Robinson seems

the third and most important quar-
terback battle of his tenure in Ann
Arbor?
The right answer to that question
will do a great deal to make or break
the West Virginian's career.
Along with Robinson's showcase
of his newly fine-tuned passing in
the Spring Game, he also came out
and made an impression at summer
workouts with his teammates that his
counterpart under center apparently
didn't.
"Denard has been out there
through the thick and thin and been
out there all the time regardless if
he's hurting," senior cornerback Troy
Woolfolk said at Big Ten Media Day.
"And Tate, he tries to come out, but
he's not as consistent as Denard is.
"And that's allowed Denard to
jump a little bit ahead of Tate and I
think that Tate's going to have to do a
lot of work to catch back up to Denard
in camp this year."
It also doesn't help that questions
of Forcier's maturity have surfaced
and resurfaced without much change
in Rodriguez's response that he still
needs to improve.
In the case of quarterback battles,
however, it's best not to completely
read into things like this and to err
on the side of incumbency before fall
practice.

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Da
Photo illustration of Michigan sophomores Tate Forcier, left, and Denard Robinson.

That's not to say the coaches won't
notice Forcier's absence in summer
workouts, whether they were there
or not.
But it's fair to say that Forcier's
moxie may have just needed a quick
reboot, one that the coaches will fully
see come the start of fall practice on
Monday.
One can't ignore that Robinson's
teammates have been glowing about
him for a while now, though. He's
becoming "a leader," according to
most players, and Rodriguez has been
clear that he'll be on the field no mat-

like a changed man this season.
So what's the right decision for
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez in
H AV E
H EARD
THE
NEWS? /
LOCATIONS uid
STARTING AT
$599
The Courtyards is
Pre-leasing for Fall 2010!
NO service fees!
ACADEMIC LEASES!
-PAID utilities!
...and much more...
TE,
* COURTYARDS.
1780 Broadway
734.994.6007
w.t hecoortyardsannarbor.com

ter what.
With Forcier, Rodriguez has a
proven winner (sort of) that is prone
to some lapses in judgment and a
heightened amount of happy feet.
With Robinson, he has an electric
athlete who could make a lot of mis-
takes. Again, it's far from a clear-cut
decision.
And then there's Devin Gardner,
mega recruit extraordinaire, who
looks like the future at the position
(don't they all?), butI wouldn't expect
him to do anything but redshirt when
there are two qualified candidates at
the position.
If the coaches truly believe that
Forcier's injury affected his perfor-
mance for the latter half of the season
last year, then I can't help but believe
that he has the upper hand coming
into the year.
Game experience is one of the most
underrated and underappreciated
assets in a college quarterback, and
that's an area where Robinson won't
be able to outdo Forcier. Not by the
first game, at least.
Time will tell with Robinson's new
arm and Forcier's reoccurring matu-
rity issues, but if Forcier fails to shock
Ann Arbor yet again through his first
four games, he'll be holding the clip-
board come Big Ten season, no doubt
about it.
PROJECTED STARTER: Tate
Forcier
SURPRISE PLAYER: Devin Gardner
GRADE: B-

Si


