Noel Gordon writes that most bias incidents occur in subtle rather than overt ways. )) PAGE4A

GREEN I
, ISU 1

" How one professor's off-the-grid
house should be a model for future
construction efforts.

r.T first-person story
of on student who Ii
with waste.

P Illic i1 H1Z Hi l

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, November10, 2010

BURNING BUSHES

michigandaily.com
HE ALT H CoE VIO ATIGNE PA R T1 0F 2
Restaurants
make fixes to
address code
violations

Social Work student Sam Mast participates in a prescribed burn in the Arb coordinated by Natural Areas Manager Jeff Plakke yesterday. These burns take place every
spring, summer and fall in order to control exotic plants and promote native plant regeneration. For a photo slideshow of the burn, visit michigandaily.com.
M ENTAL HEALTH ON CAMPUS
'U' Ipands resources to address
ike in mntal health diagnoses

Several local
eateries cited for
'Critical violations'
earlier this year
By CAITLIN HUSTON
DailyStaffReporter
Would you like fruit flies with
that?
over the past six months, popu-
lar Ann Arbor restaurants and bars
have received health code viola-
tions for dirty cutlery, food cooked
at improper temperatures and the
presence of fruit flies.
But in interviews over the sum-
mer with The Michigan Daily,
local restaurant managers-and
owners of establishments with
violations said that these problems
have been corrected and their res-
taurants comply with all health
codes. A few owners permitted the
Daily to tour their cooking areas in
an effort to prove that changes had
been implemented.
Every restaurant in Ann Arbor
that is open year-round has unan-
nounced inspections twice a
year by the Washtenaw County
Environmental Health Division.
Inspection results are a matter of

public record on the Washtenaw
County Environmental Health
Department's website and are
divided into critical and non-crit-
ical categories according to the
Michigan Food Law.
There are eight sanitarians
who inspect restaurants, as well
as d4y care centers and swimming
pools across Washtenaw Coun-
ty. From Jan. 1 to June 30 there
were 1,304 critical violations and
4,473 non-critical violations in
the county, according to Kristen
Schweighoefer, an environmental
health supervisor for Washtenaw
County.
This summer, the Daily looked
into how some student hot spots
like Sava's State Street CafM, New
York Pizza Depot, Raja Rani and
Bar Louie held up to Washtenaw
County health inspection reports.
SAVA'S KITCHEN TEMP
HOTTERTHANUSUAL
In an exclusive tour given to the
Daily, Sava Lelcaj, owner of Sava's,
addressed her restaurant's previ-
ous critical violations. The res-
taurant received several counts of
food maintained at improper tem-
peratures, unclean food contact
surfaces and improper labeling of
See HEALTH CODE, Page 7A

Cause for increase
in depression,
anxiety diagnoses
still unclear
By ANNA ROZENBERG
Daily StaffReporter
In an effort to respond to a
spike in the number of students
diagnosed with depression on

campus and at colleges across
the country, University officials
are working to better accommo-
date the greater need and desire
for psychological services and
counseling.
According to the National
College Health Assessment
from Spring 2010, more than 11
percent of the 37,657 college stu-
dents from 65 post-secondary
institutions nationwide that
filled out the survey said they
suffered from depression. The

assessment reported that 18.A
percent of students reported
having anxiety, 20 percent had
trouble sleeping and 27.4 per-
cent of students surveyed said
they felt stressed.
Dr. Robert Winfield, direc-
tor of University Health Ser-
vices and chief health officer,
said data like this is pushing
University officials to work to
offer more resources to students
suffering from mental health
issues.

"I think that we in col-
lege health have all noticed an
increase in mental health issues,
and I want to be specific, I'm not
just talking about depression,
mental health issues," Winfield
said.
Winfield said he has noticed
an increase in anxiety, relation-
ship issues and attention deficit
disorders in recent years.
"We don't know if we're see-
ing more of something because
See MENTAL HEALTH, Page 7A


A GLOBAL UNIVERSIT Y
To track students abroad,
'U' launches new registry

SPEAKING OUT
-,

Website, which goes
live today, to aid in
contacting parents
in case of disaster
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
When an earthquake struck
Chile last February, a group of
University students was study-
ing abroad in the South American
country. But because the Uni-

versity had access to all of the
students' information and a satel-
lite phone, officials were able to
assure the students' parents that
they were safe.
The students' information was
available through the University's
current travel registry. But not all
students and faculty studying or
traveling abroad are registered
- something the University aims
to change with the launch of a
new online travel registry for stu-
dents, faculty and staff who travel
around the globe.
The registry, which went live

today, is located on Wolverine
Access and is accessible from
the University's Global Michi-
gan website. The new registry is
designed to centralize travelers'
data, make it easier for students
to register and for the University
to keep track of students and fac-
ulty abroad.
The University will also use
the website to more effectively
communicate travel advisories
and warnings, like the earth-
quake in Chile, to the University
community.
See REGISTRY, Page 7A

ARIEL BOND/Daily
A speaker at the SAPAC Speak Out event receives a flower and a hug after sharing her personal story at the Michigan League
last night. The event aims to give survivors of sexual violence a safe space to share their stories.


THE DOWNSIDE OF DEVELOPMENT
CVS construction forces
partial closure of State St.

Some restaurants
say roadwork is
hurting business
By SARAH THOMAS
For theDaily
For more than a week, State
Street has been blocked off with
a "Road Closed" sign between
East Washington and Liberty
Streets due to construction on a

new CVS pharmacy in the area.
Though the CVS under con-,
struction is not in the exact area
where the sign has been put in
place, the street has been sec-
tioned off to accommodate the
equipment necessary to complete
the construction.
Ralph Welton, chief develop-
ment official for the city of Ann
Arbor, said the closure is in part
due to complicated construction
necessary to preserve the front
See CONSTRUCTION, Page 7A

MSA decries use of live animals in flight course
W ith resolution, Health System's Survival Flight afterward is illegal. In addition, Varilone said the University should
Course. PETA representatives said human use simulators in the Survival
Assembly joins The Survival Flight Course has simulators are more effective Flight Course.
come under criticism lately for its training tools than animals. "The University has currently
PETA in publicly use of live animals in the training Within the University, the defended the practice and they
process for flight nurses. The most student organization Michigan haven't really addressed the objec-
condemning practice contentious aspect of the training Animals Rights Society has also tions such as why the American
course involves the use cats and protested the Survival Flight Heart Association and other ...
By RACHEL BRUSSTAR pigs for practicing medical proce- Course, advocating for the rights associations don't support the use
Daily StaffReporter - dures, including intubating. of the animals used in the class. of animals," Varilone said.
In September, People for the Public Policy junior Joseph In an October statement from
Members of the Michigan Stu- Ethical Treatment of Animals filed Varilone, a member of MARS, the Office of the Vice President
dent Assembly passed a resolution a complaint with the U.S. Depart- addressed the members of MSA for Research, University officials
nearly unanimously at their meet- ment of Agriculture against the last night about the assembly's stated that the point of using live
ing last night urging officials to Health System claiming that using need to urge the University to animals in the course isto prepare
replace live animals with simula- live animals for this type of train- change current policies that allow nurses for treating future patients.
tors in the University of Michigan ing and then euthanizing them for the use of live animals. Instead, See MSA, Page 7A


WEATHER
TOMORROW

HI: 64 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS .................................2A CLASSIFIEDS......................6A
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Adventures abroad: Classes and food in China. Vol. CXXI, No. 45 OPINION.. . . .4A SPOTS............... . .............8A
LO: 39 news@michigandaily.com and letus know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE ©@200The MihigantDaily ARTS..................................5A THE STATEMENT................1B
michigandailp.com

4


2A - Wednesday, November 10, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, November10, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailyconn


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers M
According to Linguistics and Near
Eastern Studies Prof.Jeffrey Heath, being.
a linguist can get a bit scary.
Recalling his experiences while
researching in Israel years ago, Heath
explained how he was forced to stay on
his toes during his frequent encounters
with a subject's "nasty" Great Dane.
"You have to be ready for anything," he
said jokingly.
While pursuing his Ph.D.at the Univer-
sity of Chicago, Heath moved to Australia
to study aboriginal languages in the field.
Lookingback, he said that while develop-
ing his research skills, he was required to
look beyond what he had studied during
college.
"Ilearned very quickly thatyou havecto
go out there and find out things for your-
self," he said.
Heath's interest in language began
early in life. A memorable trip with his
family to Spain sparked his interest in
studying diverse dialects. Today, Heath
could easily be labeled a researchveteran,

TUESDAY:
ichigan Myths

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Linking languages

with years of projects under his belt and a
passion for discovery.
Heath said he is grateful to have the
opportunity to relocate to the African
nation of Mali starting next semester to
continue one of his research projects on
the Dogon languages.
The project - which Heath calls "excit-
ing" - involves documenting and sharing
the approximately 20 Dogon languages in
an online encyclopedia format.
Heath said he hopes thatan online ency-
clopedia can provide more opportunities
than a print reference book for a variety of
groups - including native speakers, biolo-
gists, and linguists - to interact with the
languages inunique ways.
"We're especially interested in what
people are talking about and how they
phrase things," he explained. "The Inter-
net gives us opportunities to disseminate
information in ways that aren'tpossible in
print."
Documenting the languages takes a
great deal of time, he said, and though

Professor Jeffrey Heath examines scorpion specimens in his office, a hobby of his.

he acknowledged there are few "eureka"
moments in his research, workingtoward
the end resultkeeps him motivated.
"You get something done everyday," he
said with pride. "There are no dead ends."
Looking to the future, Heath said he's
going to stay focused on the challenge of
completing the Dogon languages project.

According to his team's research website,
they hope to have documentation and
analysis of the languages completed by
2015.
"(The project) is really quite revolu-
tionary,"he said. "We're slowly beginning
to realize what itspossibilities are."
- CLAIRE GOSCICKI

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext.1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:sun.-Thurs. 11a.m.-2a.m.
734-418-4115 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
LetterstothetEditor torhedaily@michigandaily.com
PhotographyDepartment photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinber, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Rathel Vanlider EditoialPageEditr vanifder@mihigandaily.com
SENIOREDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MicheleDeWitt,Emily Orley,LauraVeith
ASSISTANTEDITORALPAGEEDITORS:WOIlButer,WilGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Karte ManagingSports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS:Mark Burns, MichaelFlorek, Chantel Jennimngs Tim Ro.an,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes,Stephen Nesbitt,Luke Paasch,Zak Pyzik,Amy
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaoy.com
ASSSAN TS EDITORS KritynAhoM ah5rgn,Shanao Kavi Shekhar
Pandey ,David Tao
Max Collins and photo@michigandaily.com
Sam Wals a sagl'bototEditors
SENIOPOTOEDInTOs i ond, Marissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaily.com
Sarah Squire Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Maya Friedman
Trevortale MToJekEditon k caero@michigandaiy.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigndaily.com
AiWollstein copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
JuliannaCrimsales Manager
SALESFORCEMANAGER: StephanieBowker
MARKETING MANAGER:GjonJuncaj
Hillary Szawala Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian ProductionManager
MeghanRooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler Circulation Manager
Zach YancerwebProject Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the Universityof Michigan.One copy is availablefree of chargetoalI
readers.AdditionallcopiesmaybepickedpattheDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,
startinginseptember,viaU.S.mailare$110.Winter term(anuarythroughApril) is$11,yearlong
(September through Aprl)is$95.Universityaffiatesaresubjecttoareducedsubscriptionrate.
On-campssubscriptionsforfaltermate53.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.The MichiganDaly
isa memberofTheAssociated PressandTheAssociatedCollegiate Press.

n

CRIME NOTES
Children's center Backpackhat
fence damaged and gloves swiped
WHERE: Townsley Center WHERE: Duderstat Building
for Children WHEN: Monday at 5:15 p.m.
WHEN: Monday at 9 a.m. WHAT: A backpack was stolen
WHAT: An 8-foot-by-6-foot from a male student, Univer-
section of fence was pulled out sity Police reported. He left
of the ground from the south- his backpack unattended for
west corner of the center, Uni- approximately 45 minutes. A
versity Police reported. There textbook and a hat and gloves
are no suspects. were in the backpack. Cur-
rently, there are no suspects.
TP dispenser Vehicles suffer
covered in slurs minor damage

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
'Gabfest' comes LGBT mixer

to Ann Arbor
WHAT: A panel featur-
ing Emily Bazelon, John
Dickerson and David Plotz
of Slate Magazine will
discuss midterm election
results and more asa part
of their "Political Gabfest."
WHO: Slate Magazine
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Hutchins Hall,
Room 100
Law workshop
WHAT: Judge Bruno
Simma of the International
Court of Justice and Law
School Prof. William W.
Cook will talk about cur-
rent issues in international
and comparative law.
WHO: Center for Interna-
tional & Comparative Law
WHEN: Today from 4 p.m.
to 5:15 p.m.
WHERE: Hutchins Hall,
Room 138

WHAT: A social recep-
tion for LGBT graduate
students, faculty and staff
to meet members of the
Faculty Pride Pages.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Gradu-
ate School Conference Room
Cello concert
WHAT: Cellist Martin
Torch-Ishii will perform
his first dissertation
recital as a free event.
WHO: Martin Torch-Ishii
WHEN: Tonight at 8p.m.
WHERE: The E. Moore
Building, Britton Recital Hall
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Dailyto
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

A recent study from Case
Western Reserve Univer-
sity School of Medicine has
found a connection between
teenagers who text frequently
and their greater use of drugs
and alcohol, the Associated
Press reported.
School of Art & Design
Prof. Joe Trumpey is
building a house out of
straw bale hay in an effort to
reduce his impact on the envi-
ronment.
FOR MORESEE THE STATEMENT, INSIDE
A British man and woman
are seeking to be recog-
nized through a civil part-
nership instead of a marriage,
The Associated Press report-
ed. In Britain, only same-sex
couples, not heterosexual cou-
ples, can be legally recognized
throughacivil partnership.

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Monday at 3 p.m.
WHAT: According to Uni-
versity Police, a toilet paper
dispenser was defaced. The
dispenser inside the stall was
carved with ethnic slurs,
police reported.

WHERE: Huron Street
WHEN: Monday at 12 p.m.
WHAT: Two vehicles suffered
minor damage on the roadway,
University Police reported.
One car was rear-ended, Uni-
versity Police report. There
were no injuries reported.


In Indonesia, Obama discusses
U.S. standing with Islamic world

I

Got 30 Minutes.
Get a Michigan Mentor.
76 5
This could be the most important 30 minutes you spend on campus. Talk
one-on-one with successful Michigan alumni in a variety of career fields.
Friday, November 12

In first visit in 40
years, President
Obama returns to
childhood home
JAKARTA, Indonesia (AP) -
In the Muslim nation that was his
boyhood home, President Barack
Obama acknowledged today that
U.S. relations are still frayed with
the Islamic world despite his best
efforts at repair. He urged all
sides to look beyond "suspicion
and mistrust" to forge common
ground against terrorism.
Forcefully returning to a theme
he sounded last year in visits to
Turkey and Egypt, Obama said: "I
have made it clear thatAmerica is
not and never will be at war with
Islam. ... Those who want to build
must not cede ground to terror-
ists who seek to destroy."
Beaming with pride, Obama
delivered perhaps the most
intensely personal speech of his
presidency, speaking phrases in
Indonesian to a cheering crowd.
of more than 6,000 mostly young
people who claimed him as their
own. It felt oddly like one of the
campaign speeches Obama had
been giving in the U.S., with
music blaring over speakers
inside the auditorium.
For Obama's standing abroad,
the speech was closely watched
and consequential, an update on
America's "new beginning" with
Muslims that he promised last
year in Cairo.
"Let me begin with a simple
statement: Indonesia is part of
me," he said in Indonesian at the
University of Indonesia.
He praised the world's most
populous Muslim nation for
standing its ground against "vio-
lent extremism" and said: "All of
us must defeat al-Qaida and its
affiliates, who have no claim to be
leaders of any religion. ... This is
not a task for America alone."
Seeking to cement relations
with fast-growing Asian trading
partners, Obama also paid tribute
to the economic dynamism of the
region at a time of global financial
stress.
"America has a stake in an
Indonesia that is growing, with

prosperity that is broadly shared
among the Indonesian people
- because a rising middle class
here means new markets for our
goods, just as America is a market
for yours," he said.
The speech came ahead of a
meeting of the Group of 20 major
economic powers that begins this
evening in Seoul, South Korea,
expected to be marked by trade
tensions between the U.S. and
major exporting nations such as
China and Germany.
Earlier Wednesday, Obamavis-
ited the Istiqlal Mosque, the larg-
est in Southeast Asia. He noted
that it was under construction
when he lived in Indonesia as a
boy from 1967 to 1971.
"Because Indonesia is made
up of thousands of islands, hun-
dreds of languages, and people
from scores of regions and ethnic
groups, my times here helped me
appreciate the humanity of all
people," Obama said.
The president's brief but nos-
talgic visit lent an unusually
personal tone to the speech, a
portion of which was he devoted
to his childhood here. Obama
reminisced about living ina small
house with a mango tree out front,
and learning to love his adopted
home while flying kites, running
along paddy fields, catching drag-
onflies and buying such delicacies
as satay and bakso from street
vendors. He also spoke of running
in fields with water buffalo and
goats, and of the birth of his sis-
ter, Maya, who is half Indonesian.
Obama, a Christian who was
born in Hawaii, moved to Indone-
sia as a 6-year-old and lived with
his mother, Stanley Ann Dunham,
and Indonesian stepfather, Lolo
Soetoro. He attended public and
Catholic schools while in Indone-
sia and returned to Hawaii when
he was 10 to live with his grand-
parents. Obama said in the speech
that he is a Christian; back home
in the U.S., he is fighting errone-
ous perceptions that he is Mus-
lim.
The president's homecoming
had been twice-delayed - first
because of the health care legis-
lative battle and then because of
the BP oil spill. "We had a couple
of false starts," he noted. This trip
was to be cut short, too, so Air

Force One could depart ahead of
a big ash cloud from the erupt-
ing Indonesian volcano Mount
Merapi.
After the speech, Obama shook
hands with some in the audience,
including several former class-
mates seated in the front row.
others screamed as if Obama
were a pop star.
Reaching out to the Islamic
world, Obama said efforts to
build trust and peace are show-
ing promise but are still clearly
incomplete.
"Relations between the United
States and Muslim nations have
been frayed over many years. As
president, I have made it a prior-
ity to begin to repair these rela-
tions," Obama said.
He said both sides have a
choice: either "be defined by our
differences and give in to a future
of suspicion and mistrust" or "do
the hard work of forging common
ground and commit ourselves to
the steady pursuit of progress."
. Obama praised Indonesia for
having "made progress in rooting
out terrorists and combating vio- 4
lent extremism."
Noting that the path from colo-
nial rule to democracy had been
a rocky one, Obama said democ-
racy "is messy." And, a week after
seeing his own Democratic Party
suffer bruising midterm elec-
tion defeats in the U.S. Congress,
Obama added: "Not everyone
likes the results of every election.
You go through ups and downs.
But the journey is worthwhile."
On the Middle East, Obama
noted the "false starts and set-
backs" in getting the peace pro-
cess between Israel and the
Palestinians back on course. But
he said the U.S. will "spare no
effort in working for the outcome
that is just and that is in the inter-
est of all the parties involved: two
states, Israel and Palestine, living
side by side in peace and security."
A reminder of that difficult
road awaited Obama when he
landed in Indonesia yesterday.
Israel's decision to build more 4
apartments in east Jerusalem, a
disputed territory claimed by Pal-
estinians, had already earned a
rebuke from American diplomats
before a tired, traveling president
weighed in.


11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Pick the time that fits your schedule.
Register at umalumni.Com/students.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

;,


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 10, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November 10, 2010- 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
KALAMAZOO, Mich.
50 river sites are
now free of oil
The U.S. Environmental Pro-
tection Agency says crews have
finished cleanup at So sites in the
Kalamazoo River system where a
pipeline break spilled more than
800,000 gallons of oil.
officials from the U.S. Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency
briefed hundreds of people at a
meeting Monday night in Battle
Creek.
WWMT-TV says EPA official
Mark Durno reports 17 sites are
still being cleaned, while 24 other
sites are being monitored.
The spill from an Enbridge Inc.
pipeline happened in July near
Marshall. Much of the cleanup
has been finished, but the EPA
says some operation and mainte-
nance will continue.
The pipeline runs from
Griffith, Ind., to Sarnia, Ontario.
DALLAS
Bush kicks off book
tour close to home
Former President George W.
Bush has started his book tour
with a signing stop at a store near
his Dallas home.
Bush arrived at the Borders
store shortly after 8 a.m. yester-
day to greet hundreds of people,
including some who said they had
been waiting outside since the
night before.
In his book, "Decision Points,"
the two-term president discuss-
es the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
his decisions to send troops to
Afghanistan and Iraq, and the
response to Hurricane Katrina.
Bush, wearing a coat and tie and
accompanied by security person-
nel, sat at a table to sign copies of
his books and chat with those who
gathered to meet him.
NEW YORK
Engineers begin
testing waterfalls at
9/11 memorial site
New York City engineers have
begun testing the waterfalls for the
Sept.11 memorial at ground zero.
The cascades are the largest
manmade waterfalls in North
America. They empty into massive
reflecting pools that mark spots
where the World Trade Center tow-
ers once stood.
Testing of the waterfalls for the
north pool began yesterday morn-
ing. The testing included switching
on the eight pumps to see how the
water will flow into the basin.
More than 350,000 gallons of
water streamed into the pool. It cir-
culated at 52,000 gallons per min-
ute.
Testing of the south pool water-
fall will begin next spring.
The 176-foot-perimeter pools are
the centerpiece of Michael Arad's
"ReflectingAbsence" memorial.
LONDON
Thinning ozone

could be leaving
whales sunburned
The thinning ozone layer could
be leaving the world's whales
scarred from severe sunburn,
experts said Wednesday.
A study of whales in the Gulf of
California over the past few years
shows that the sea-going mam-
mals carry blisters and other dam-
age typically associated with the
skin damage that humans suffer
from exposure to the ultraviolet
radiation. That makes it yet anoth-
er threat for the already endan-
gered animals to worry about.
Whales would be particu-
larly vulnerable to sunburn in
part because they need to spend
extended periods of time on the
ocean's surface to breathe, social-
ize, and feed their young. Since
they don't have fur or feathers,
that effectively means they sun-
bathe naked.
As Laura Martinez-Levasseur,
the study's lead author, put it:
"Humans can put on clothes or
sunglasses - whales can't."
Martinez-Levasseur, who
works at Zoological Society of
London, spent three years study-
ing whales in the Gulf of Califor-
nia, the teeming body of water
which separates Baja California
from the Mexican mainland.
Photographs were taken of the
whales to chart any visible dam-
age, and small samples - taken
with a crossbow-fired dart - were
collected to examine the state of
their skin cells.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

A STDN ORAIAIO' UD T0:
EFFECTIV
CAMPU

A Yemeni policeman stands alert outside the state security court in San'a, Yemen, on Tuesday, where the U.S.-born radical
cleric Anwar al-Awlaki is being tried in absentia for inciting killing of foreigners.
Yemen wants U.S. to
ai in terroism fight

M
Yei

SAN'
wants f
the U.S.
against
lions of
ington h
And
have lit:
cant We
poured
country
In fa
that cL
the faile
from Y
more en
Yemen's
more t1
ingly re
lion in t
control,
to Al-QE
sula.
Since
the two
are pres
faster cc
sharing
to trai
ism tea:
country
governn
areas ou
U.S.
ert Gat,
that the
help tra
bat terr
The As
that mi
doublet
undersc

lilitary aid to tionofthe threat al-Qaida posesto
the fragile state.
men to double President Barack Obama called
President Ali Abdullah Saleh
next year last week to say the aid is part of
a broader, more comprehensive
A, Yemen (AP) - Yemen strategy to promote security as
ar more military aid than well as economic and political
has promised in the fight development.
escalating terrorism - bil- But Hesham Sharaf, a Yemeni
dollars more than Wash- deputy minister, said the proposed
as in mind. U.S. assistance is "nothing" com-
yet Yemeni authorities pared to what Yemen needs. Gov-
tle to show for the signifi- ernment officials are talking about
stern aid that has already a two-year program to develop
into the impoverished the armed forces that would cost
around $6 billion, he said.
ct, the al-Qaida offshoot Yemen says it needs to develop
aimed responsibility for its coast guard and acquire more
'd plot to send mail bombs than a dozen combat helicopters,
emen to the U.S. appears satellites and equipment such as
nboldened than ever. And night-vision goggles and spyware.
government seems to feel "Technology like satellites
hreatened by an increas- should be in Yemen's hands, not
rstless secessionist rebel- images handed down to us,"
he south, where it has little Sharaf said. "We must have spe-
than by militants linked cial Yemeni forces trained to use
aida in the Arabian Penin- combat helicopters, not Ameri-
cans. If they (Americans) go on
the Oct. 28 discovery of the ground, people will criticize
mail bombs, U.S. officials us and say we are weak."
sing Yemen for more and As part of its aid, the U.S. pro-
ooperation on intelligence- vides equipment and training
and more opportunities to Yemeni forces. But there are
n Yemeni counterterror- ongoing U.S. concerns that Yemen
ms. Yemen is the poorest could usethe equipment and those
in the Arab world and the forces against Shiite rebels who
sent's authority is weak in have fought government forces
itside the capital of San'a. intermittently for years in the
Defense Secretary Rob- north or a separate front against
es said over the weekend secessionists in the south.
e U.S. could do more to Many critics inside Yemen say
in Yemeni forces to com- the aid is going to fight govern-
orists. U.S. officials told ment opponents, particularly the
sociated Press last week southern secessionists, and that
litary aid to Yemen would Yemen is simply milking the West
to $250 million in 2011 - for money to carry out an agenda
oring the growing realiza- that doesn't necessarily make

fighting al-Qaidaits top priority
Soon after the mail bombs were
detected, other government offi-
cials echoed Sharaf's call for more
equipment and assistance to fight
al-Qaida.
The failed attacks exposed
the government's lack of success
against al-Qaida and its growing
threat to the regime and showed
that the group was using Yemen as
a base to plot international attacks.
Yemen is clearly expected to
show how it is using the aid it has
been given. In addition to asking
for more intelligence cooperation,
a U.S. official said Washington
also wants to have access to pris-
oners allegedly from al-Qaida.
Much Western aid has poured
into Yemen's security and mili-
tary agencies in the 10 years
since al-Qaida bombers steered
an explosives-laden boat into the
Navy destroyer USS Cole that was
refueling at a Yemeni port, killing
17 U.S. sailors.
In the past five years, U.S.
military assistance to Yemen has
totaled about $250 million. That
covered programs to train and
equip Yemeni forces to combat
al-Qaida, as well as buy boats and
other equipment for the airport
and seaports. It also paid for train-
ing senior officers here and in the
U.S.
About 50 elite U.S. military
experts are in the country training
Yemeni counterterrorism forces -
a number that has doubled in the
past year.
At least four new security
branches to combat terrorism
as well as a new anti-terrorism
administration in the air force
were created, with much Western
financing and technical support.

Prosecutor: No charges will be
filed in CIA video tapes probe

Three-year
investigation
comes to a close
WASHINGTON (AP) - A spe-
cial prosecutor cleared the CIA's
former top clandestine officer and
others yesterday of any charges
for destroying agency videotapes
showing waterboarding of ter-
ror suspects, but he continued
to investigate whether the harsh
questioning went beyond legal
boundaries.
The decision not to prosecute
anyone in the videotape destruc-
tion came five years to the day
after the CIA destroyed its cache'
of 92 videos of two al-Qaida
operatives, Abu Zubaydah and
Abd al-Nashiri, being subjected
to waterboarding, which evokes
the sensation of drowning. The
deadline for prosecuting someone
under most federal laws is five
years.
The part of the nearly 3-year-
old criminal investigation that
examines whether U.S. inter-
rogators went beyond the legal
guidance given them on the
rough treatment of suspects will
continue, a Justice Department
official said. The official spoke on
condition of anonymity because
that part of the probe is still under
way.
CIA Director Leon Panetta
said the agency welcomes the
decision and that "we will con-
tinue, of course, to cooperate with
the Department of Justice on any
other aspects of the former pro-
gram that it reviews."
Jose Rodriguez, who was the
CIA's top clandestine officer
when the tapes were destroyed,
worried that the videos would be

devastating to the agency if they
ever surfaced and approved their
destruction. Rodriguez's order
was at odds with years of direc-
tives from CIA lawyers and the
White House.
Rodriguez'lawyer, Robert Ben-
nett, said the department made
"the right decision because of the
facts and the law" and called his
client "a true patriot who only
wanted to protect his people and
his country."
In January 2008, President
George W. Bush's last attor-
ney general, Michael Mukasey,
appointed Assistant U.S. Attorney
John Durham as a special pros-
ecutor to investigate the video-
tape destruction. Later, President
Barack Obama's attorney general,
Eric Holder, added the inquiry
into the conduct of the harsh
questioning. .
A team of prosecutors and FBI
agents led by Durham has con-
ducted an exhaustive investiga-
tion into the matter, said Matthew
Miller, chief Justice Department
spokesman.
"As a result of that investiga-
tion, Mr. Durham has concluded
that he will not pursue criminal
charges for the destruction of the
interrogation videotapes," Miller
said.
The department's carefully
phrased announcement did not
rule out the possibility of charg-
ing someone with lying to inves-
tigators looking into the tape
destruction.
Separately, the Justice Depart-
ment advised the House and Sen-
ate judiciary committees that
it had reviewed newly found
e-mails sent by Bush administra-
tion lawyer John Yoo and stands
by a conclusion that Yoo did not
commit professional misconduct

in authorizing CIA interrogators
to use waterboarding and other
harsh tactics. The department's
letter tothe committees, obtained
yesterday by The Associated
Press, stood by the earlier find-
ing that Yoo had merely exhibited
poor judgment.
CIA officers began the video-
taping to show that Zubaydah was
brought to a secret CIA prison in
Thailand already wounded from
a firefight and to prove that inter-
rogators followed broad rules
Washington had laid out.
Almost as soon as taping began,
top officials at agency headquar-
ters in Langley, Va., began dis-
cussing whether to destroy the
tapes, according to current and
former U.S. officials and others
close to the investigation.
Dozens of CIA officers and
contractors cycled in and out of
Thailand to help with the ques-
tioning. If those videos ever sur-
faced, officials feared, nearly all
those people could be identified.
During the investigation,
agency lawyers were forced to
turn over long lists of documents,
including classified cables from
around the world. Former CIA
Director Porter Goss was sum-
moned before a grand jury, as
were the agency's former top law-
yer, John Rizzo, and its current
station chief in London.
Despite standing orders from
the Bush White House not to
destroy the tapes without check-
ing with administration officials,
momentum for their destruction
grew in late 2005 as the CIA Thai-
land station chief, Mike Winograd,,
prepared to retire, the current and
former U.S. officials have said.
Winograd had the tapes in his
safe and believed they should be
destroyed, officials said.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, November 10, 2010
C 4U *aC I an :aly
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tathedaily@umich.edu

If you look at American TV ... you would think
that we all went around wrestling and wearing bikinis.'
- Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, commenting on reality television to an Australian
radio station, as reported by Time magazine yesterday.

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflectthe official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Bleed blue
Give blood to beat OSU in annual donation drive
hough Michigan hasn't beaten Ohio State on the foot-
ball field in any of the schools' last six meetings, it has
beaten the Buckeyes in the past two Blood Battles. Blood
Battle is a competition between the two rival schools to see
which school can collect the most pints of donated blood. This
year, Michigan supporters must take the time to give blood and
save lives - with the added bonus of beating our school's fierc-
est rival. Members of the University community who are capable
of giving blood should make a donation to beat OSU and, more
importantly, save lives.

ROSE JAFFE

E-MAILtROSEsAT ROSEJAFF@ UMICH.EDU

Unintentionally offensive

Nov. 4 marked the beginning of this
year's annual Blood Battle. The event,
now in its 29th year, spans just over three
weeks and ends on Nov. 24, three days
before the Nov. 27 Michigan-Ohio State
football game. The event is sponsored by
the American Red Cross and Blood Drives
United, which is backed by the service
organization Alpha Phi Omega. Ohio State
won five consecutive Blood Battle victo-
ries between 2003 and 2007. Michigan has
made a comeback in the past two years,
winning by more than a hundred pints last
year. Michigan leads Ohio State in Blood
Battle victories with 16 wins overall -
Ohio State has 11 wins and the schools tied
once in 2000. Blood donations can be made
by students, faculty and community mem-
bers at organized locations across campus.
There is no synthesized substance that
can serve as an adequate substitute for
human blood, so donations are the only way
to replace lost or unhealthy blood. Accord-
ing to America's Blood Centers' website,
one pint of blood can save up to three lives.
The site also mentions sobering statistics
regarding how often blood is needed (about
once every two seconds), and how many
transfusions are needed in America each
year (more than 4.5 million). And though
37 percent of the adult population in the
U.S. is eligible to give blood, only 10 percent

donate regularly. There is always a need
for more blood, and University community
members should step up to help.
The competitive aspect of the event
drives many people to participate - and
that's fine, especially considering the
intensity of the rivalry. Everyone eligible
should donate and keep the Blood Battle
bragging rights in Ann Arbor for the third
consecutive year.
But more important than bragging
rights or numbers on the scoreboard is the
number of lives that supporters from both
schools can save by taking a short time
out of their day to donate blood if they are
able. Typically, donation takes less than
an hour and donation sites have been set
up in easily-accessible locations all over
campus. Participating in Blood Battle is
an easy, quick way to help people in a very
profound way. If the University commu-
nity can muster up close to the average 37
percent during this Blood Battle, it could
have an' impressive impact. Individuals-
interested in donating can go to bloodbat-
tle.org to find a donation site.
As much as the mentality of competition
is fun, the reality is that there is no loser of
the Blood Battle. Members of the University
community who are eligible to give blood
should make their way to a donation site and
take part in this life-saving initiative.

his is my second year liv-
ing in South Quad. And aside
from locking myself out of my
room every now
and then, it hasn't
been all that bad.
I've made some
new friends, found
some new places
to study and even
embarked on some
new adventures.
But take one look
around and you'll NOEL
notice some big
changes in South GORDON
Quad. For one, all
of the building's
lounge areas have
been converted into quads. And the
entire building finally has Wi-Fi
capability. But perhaps the biggest
difference is noticeable right as you
walk through the doors of South
Quad because hanging above the East
Side Community Center is a huge,
yellow banner. Instead of welcoming
you to the building, the banner lets
you know just how many days it has
been-since someone last reported a
bias incident.
From what I've gathered, resi-
dence halls across campus have expe-
rienced a significant increase in the
number of reported bias incidents -
especially incidents that target mem-
bers of the LGBTQ community. This
is especially disheartening to hear
given last month's string of teen sui-
cides that occurred seemingly within
a few days of one another. And let's
not forget that much of the campus
community is still reeling from the
controversy surrounding the first

openly gay Michigan Student Assem-
bly president. But after talking to
people about some of these issues, I
realized that many students on cam-
pus have a rather vague idea of what
actually constitutes a bias incident.
According to the Bias Incident
Hotline Project, "bias incidents are
motivated by prejudice against race,
religion, national origin, sexual ori-
entation, ethnicity, social economic
status, gender expression, mental
ability, physical ability, immigration
status, age, size and shape. Although
not all bias incidents are hate crimes,
they can cause mental, emotional,
spiritual, and physical harm not only
to those who experience the inci-
dent but to members of the targeted
group." There's a lot to unpack in this
definition, beginning most impor-
tantly with the idea that bias can take
many different forms.
I think there's a misconception,
especially among college students,
that bias incidents have to be out-
right, deliberate attacks on a person's
identity. But nothing could be further
from the truth. In fact, I would argue
that off-hand comments are perhaps
even more sinister than straight-
forward insults because they often
rest upon an assumption that humor
somehow makes any underlying
prejudice acceptable, or at the very
least, less bigoted. Take the dry-erase
boards that students hang on their
dorm room doors, for example.
Many people (guys in particular)
don't see the problem in drawing a
penis on another guy's door. After
all, it's funny. But why is it funny?
Is it because there's supposed to be
something comical about a man being

sexually attracted other men? For, if
that wasn't the case, why don't we see
more vaginas drawn on people's white
boards? Could it be because there's
something not as funny about a man
being sexually attracted to women?
Simply put, the phallic image sug-
gests that homosexuality and same-
sex attraction makes for the perfect
punch line. I think that is how most
bias incidents occur. They're not done
out of malice or blatant disregard, but
rather, out of ignorance and lack of
understanding. This isn't to say that
I haven't been called a "faggot" or a
"nigger" to my face. Rest assured that
I have, right here in the great city of
Ann Arbor.
Students should
keep an eye out for
bias incidents.
The way to combat these attacks
isn't with violence, retribution or
further intolerance. If anything, we
should educate ourselves and oth-
ers about the importance of mutual
respect and acceptance. I realize
that not everyone will develop a pas-
sion for justice or become an ally in
the fight for universal human equal-
ity. But you can do your part to help
stop bias incidents from happening in
your community.
-Noel Gordon can be reached
at noelaug@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters
are edited for clarity, length and factual accuracy. All submissions become property of
the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
PHOENIX VOORHIES|
The living Constitution


A drab dictionary

During his recent speech at the University of
California at Hastings, Supreme Court Justice
Antonin Scalia shared with students his belief
that "you don't need the Constitution to reflect
the views of current society," and stated that
he interprets the Constitution "the way it was
understood by society at the time." In so doing,
Scalia, a clear originalist, gives his opinion to the
big question: Should the Constitution be inter-
preted with the original intent of its creators?
Interpreting the Constitution in a manner
consistent with the document's original intent
poses a distinct advantage. It deters judges
from unfettered discretion to inject their per-
sonal values into the interpretive process and
protects against arbitrary changes in constitu-
tional laws. President Thomas Jefferson stated
that if the Constitution, by way of interpreta-
tion, can be changed by the simple decree of a
judge, the document will be "a mere thing of
wax in the hands of the judiciary which they
may twist and shape into any form they please."
I'm of the opinion that interpreting the Con-
stitution to reflect our Founding Fathers' origi-
nal intent holds theoretical advantages. But I
also believe that absolute adherence to the lit-
eral words of the document would thwart our
ability to apply the wisdom of the Constitution
to matters relevant to today's society.
At the same time, if one views "interpreta-
tion" as the inferred meaning of words memo-
rialized at a particular period in time, the
questions would then become: is the act of
"reading into" those words essential? If so, to
whom do we owe the benefit of such interpre-
tation? In other words, do we seek to derive
the meaning of the written words as viewed
by the average person in today's society, or by
the average person at the time the laws were

passed (or the collective intent of the voters
who passed them)?
By entrusting the original framers with the
authority to draft the Constitution, it's likely
that past members of society anticipated that
the intent of the drafters would remain rel-
evant. Assuming that's the case, I believe that
we're required to interpret the document
in a way which best preserves the Founding
Fathers' literal words, but only to the extent
that wouldn't result in wholly absurd results
when applied to today's society. But is this
realistic ifa more modern interpretation would
best benefit the people?
Scalia, almost as though he was respond-
ing to my unasked questions, said in a speech
given at the University of Vermont that "It's
not always easy to figure out what the provi-
sion meant when it was adopted ... I don't say
(interpreting by original intent) is perfect. I
just say it's better than anything else."
It should be noted that members of today's
society can change the Constitution through
a formal amendment process. By following
this procedure, the propriety of any proposed
amendment is put to the test and concerns
about arbitrary interpretation decreases.
But this doesn't entirely resolve the basic
question of whether a challenged constitution-
al provision should be interpreted through the
eyes of the original drafters. With deep respect
for history and our Founding Fathers, I answer
that question in the negative. I believe that the
Constitution was created to survive time. But
to truly do so, the document must be flexible
enough to endure evolutionary changes and
responsive enough to remain relevant.
Phoenix Voorhies is an LSA sophomore.

hen I graduate, I'll proba-
bly be busing tables - if I'm
lucky. In fact, I think that's
my goal right now.
I could be opti-
mistic and look at
graduate schools,
but after my per-
formances on my
recent exams, I
somehow doubt
that will happen.
But I don't know
what else to do ERIC
with a degree in
English. SZKARLAT
I suppose I
still have time to
change my major to something more
marketable - the trouble is that I don't
want to. There is something about the
English language that I have fallen in
love with. It's just the way words sound
and feel and the natural rhythms they
form that are just exquisite.
But ignore my nerdgasm.
Then again, don't ignore it yet. You
see, English is compiled of words just
like that one: "nerdgasm." Old Eng-
lish, a Germanic language, would take
two words and combine them natural-
ly - words like "werewolf" are good
examples. Modern English does the
same - "nerdgasm" takes two words
and combines their effects to estab-
lish a new meaning. It is a function-
ing word of the English language, and
operates under principles similar to
those of our parent language.
But where is the dictionary entry
for "nerdgasm," or a million other
words like it? Too many language
purists would criticize its entry into a
dictionary. But it's a word, and it has
a definition. A dictionary - if noth-
ing else - should serve as a reference
point for the most current uses of lan-
guage. Slang or not, words should be

recognized. Language needs to be rec-
ognized for all it can do.
I never really understood why my
teachers said, "'Ain't' ain't a word,
because it ain't in the dictionary."
To begin, the statement is itself a
paradox. My teachers always empha-
sized "ain't" when they parroted that
phrase, but in turn, they emphasized
the meaning of the "ain't." Aren't
words merely units of sounds or let-
ters that carry meaning?
With all that said, I looked it up.
"Ain't" is in some dictionaries.
For some reason though, we deride
its use as improper. But if language
was always used properly, how did
Latin and Germanic languages
become so different? Language, by its
very nature, adapts and changes with
time. It must. Our first grade teach-
ers had their causality backwards.
The dictionary doesn't make words,
people do. All you need to be ableto do
is express yourself and communicate
effectively with others.
We blanket "ain't" and "nerdgasm"
under the same title. We call them
slang, and somehow that makes them
inferior words. You shouldn't use
them in a paper, certainly. But why
not? What makes words inferior to
other words? If I said to you, "I ain't
tired," would you understand that
any differently than if I said, "I'm not
tired?" Denotatively, they're precise-
ly the same.
There are widespread words that
have known definitions that aren't
recognized as having entered the Eng-
lish language. Even the Oxford Eng-
lish Dictionary falls short on "ain't,"
giving it no formal definition, in spite
of the fact that it has been used since
at least the 18th century.
That's not to say that this can be
applied to all words used by anyone.
If I decided that a hijjippo was a flying

circus clown with a nose shaped like a
grape who only wore teal jumpsuits, I
don't think I could use that in any set-
tingandbeunderstood,unless Iinitial-
ly defined it for the intended audience.
Nor do I think hijjippoo (the plural of
hijjippo, naturally) are particularly sig-
nificant to any sort of discourse.

Don't restrict
your language to
proper vocabulary.

4

So I dedicate this column to the
English language purists: Don't
diminish the breadth of our lan-
guage's capability. From creative use
of prepositions to the split infinitive,
these are things that our language can
do that very few others can. If I want
"to boldly go," why should my profes-
sor demand that I say instead "to go
boldly," or "boldly to go?" The rhythm
of the infamous Star Trek split infini-
tive is vastly more fun than the techni-
cally "proper" alternatives.
If you can communicate effectively,
then you can communicate how you
please. I don't need the Grammar
Police - the Big Brother of English -
telling me how to say what I want. If
I have to say it one way over another
then the value of what I'm saying -
the significance that I am saying it and
no one else - is lost. I won't have my
words taken from me. Like the poet,
I will fight with the pen, for the pen,
and for the right to use the pen as I see
fit - even if I'm only a busboy.
- Eric Szkarlat can be reached
at eszkarla@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Roger Sauerhaft, Asa Smith, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaiiy.com

Wednesday, November 10, 2010 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November 10, 2010 - 5A

Cee Lo's'Lady' kills

Surprisingly, the guy
behind'Fuck You'
seems pretty happy
By CASSIE BALFOUR
DailyArts Writer
Attention ladies: The lovesick
Cee Lo Green is no longer prowl-'
ing fluorescent-
lit streets in
search of a lover.
If his latest silky- Cee O
smooth album
The Lady Killer Green
is any indica- The Lady Killer
tion, the soul- Elekta
ful crooner is
in Love with a
capital "L." His album is filled
with creamy ballads and cinematic
bombast that mark a departure
from his previous status as a hip-
hop wildcard.
But almost completely absent
from this decadent album is
Green's infamous weirdness. The
rough edges that marked his pre-
vious solo work and made him an
underground mainstay (see Cee
Lo Green And His Perfect Imper-
fections) have been smoothed
over with radio-ready production.
Psychedelic hip hop is traded in
for pop-friendly R&B. His latest
is a throwback to the days when
albums had a storyline and had
to be listened to sequentially. The
Lady Killer almost sounds like a
retro tribute to classic Motown,
where love could send crooners to
dizzying heights and, just as quick-
ly, soul-crushing lows.
The Lady Killer was crafted to
sound like a noir film. Green's rich
vocals and liberal use of strings are
topped off with themes of betrayal,
love and loss. Some of his idiosyn-
cratic strangeness can be found
at the bookends of the album in
songs "The Lady Killer Theme
(Intro)" and "The Lady Killer
Theme (outro)." The intro features
Green speaking in low and seduc-
tive tones claiming that "When it
comes to ladies, I have a license to
kill.
After the slow spoken intro,
"Bright Lights Bigger City" kicks
off Green's dramatic album with
a swaggering but reverent hom-
age to Saturday nights. The track
is a classic funky pop song infused

with some fresh-sounding synths
as Green grandly proclaims that
the city "belongs to us tonight." it's
apparent by the end of track that
Green gets the girl, and he dedi-
cates the rest of the album to sing-
ing about this intoxicating woman.
The album is peppered with
soulful love songs, and "Please"
is no exception. The track fea-
tures periodic gunshots and Bel-
gian singer Selah Sue doing her
best Bond-girl impression. Green
answers her agonizing pleas for
love with slow, sexy vocals singing,
"I want you dead or alive / if you
promise to surrender I'll love you
tender." Here, Green plays with
themes of pleasure and pain with
deliciously campy results.
If the movies have taught us
anything, it's that love is every-
thing but perfect, and when Green
experiences heartbreak, he comes
ont swinging. "Fuck You," the
album's first single, gave Green
another taste of mainstream suc-
cess as radio stations rushed to
play the more Kidz Bop-friendly

"Forget You." However, listen-
ers should definitely check out
the original, as shouting "Forget
You" at the top of your lungs to
the lover who just scorned you
doesn't provide the same satisfac-
tion. Despite Green's obvious bit-
terness, the song is probably the
most fun on the album. With wily
lyrics ("I guess he's an Xbox / and
I'm more Atari") and background
vocals warning Green "she's a gold
digger," this is a worthy anthem for
the heartbroken and pissed-off.
one of the most surprisingly
successful efforts off of The Lady
Killer is Green's cover of the Band
of Horses track "No One's Gonna
Love You." Green updates the
song with his neo-soul vocal styl-
ings and use of orchestral strings.
So when Green sincerely belts out
that "No one is ever gonna love you
more than I do," he makes the lis-
tener believe his love is the most
important thing in the world. This
track delivers the perfect Holly-
wood ending to a truly cinematic
album.

You know what they say about guys with mega minds ... mega shoes.
Another ani-mated anti-hero

By BEN VERDI ally come from the same place as
DailyArts Writer heroes, since both he and Metro
Man Were (like Superman) sent to
"Megamind" walks the line Earth from faraway planets that
between being an easy-to-absorb were on the brink of destruction.
movie for kids The trouble is that once Metro
and a skillfully j Man and Megamind showed up
crafted critique of on Earth, the similarities between
the "superhero" Meanind their lives ended.
film itself. Megamind, a self-proclaimed
Much like At Quality16 villain, grew up an outcast. He had
this summer's and Rave no friends in school. He got picked
"Despicable Me," DreamWorks last at recess. He was the only kid
"Megamind" Animation with blue skin. He was bullied, inci-
(directed by Tom dentally, by Metro Man, and was
McGrath, who co-directed "MadA- made to feel inferior. So he decided
gascar") introduces a protago- to become evil because it seemed
nist who claims to be - and takes like the only thing he'd ever been
pride in being - a villain. Granted, good at.
Megamind (voiced by Will Ferrell, While this might feel like a child-
"The Other Guys") is not that suc- ish way to get an audience rooting
cessful at being a villain, at least for Megamind, it is also a valuable
not as successful as Metro City's observationofoursociety.Yes,some
main superhero, Metro Man (Brad people we consider "bad" seem too
Pitt, "Inglourious Basterds"). But crazy for our sympathy, but alot of
Megamind never stops scheming the time people who resort to being
evil plans to bring him the glory "bad" are desperate for the love and
and power that have eluded him all recognition they never received but
his life. always knew they deserved.
This somewhat unoriginal While this first question
premise produces more than a intrigues us, it does little more than
sympathetic antihero-with-heart. create an aura of sympathy around
The movie provides two philo- Megamind's character. Even if we
sophical questions that it explores feel sorry for him, his actions still
and tries to answer during its 96 resemble those of a pure villain.
minutes on screen. But the second, much more dif-
First, where do villains come ficult, question does provide that
from? intrigue: Where do real heroes
As far as Megamind's life come from?
informs us, villains can liter- While this film doesn't initially

define what a hero has to look like
or be able to do to warrant that title,
we're explicitly shown what a real
hero is not.
A hero is not someone with
superhuman strength, speed or
physical abilities. A hero is not
someone pursuing selfish ends
through their powers. And a hero
definitely doesn't threaten the life
of a lady like Roxanne Ritchi (Tina
Fey, "Date Night").
Megamind tries to answer this
hero question directly, but his plans
(again) blow up in his face. By try-
Valiantly
vilifying villainy.
ing to create a "hero" he merely
empowers an average person with
more power and responsibility than
they can handle. It is only when
Megamind realizes that there are
no pre-determined, inescapable
circumstances that make someone
inherently "good" or "bad" that he
can become the hero we all want
him to be.
Megamind's transformation pro-
vides us our most inspiring axiom
about heroes, because it allows any
one of us to become a hero in our
own way: Real heroes are defined
by the good they do, not the bad
they come from.

I

The Big Pink makes
tape unworthy of you

ByELLIOT ALPERN
For the Daily
Some may remember the Big
Pink of 2009, a band with prom-
ising riffs and a
certain attrac- -r*-
tive edginess
that hinted at The Big Pink
a strong future
for the London K7Tapes:
natives. How- Mixed by
ever, in the lat- Big Pink
est installment !K7
of mixtapes
produced under independent
German label !K7, The Big Pink
of yesteryear is lost in a mix of
electronic experimentation. The
result is a relatively confused
mess of remixed songs that, either
by design or failure, have next to
no common unity and even less
appeal.
In a promotionalwebsite forthe
album, Milo Cordell (the lead sing-
er and primary influence on the
album's mixing) provides insight
into the inspiration for his meth-
odology. He describes his genre as
"witch house" or "haunted house,"
a new, unsettling mix of electronic
house music coupled with a cer-
tain surreal ambience. As Cordell
describes it, his contribution is
a basic yet personal approach to
mixing, much like the D.I.Y.nature
brought on by the Internet. "Peo-
ple are making music six feet from
their beds," Cordell said on his
website. "That's always appealed
to me and my label, Merok."
The Big Pink's Tapes starts off
at a low standard and unsuccess-
fully attempts to dig itself out by
the end of its 19 tracks. More than
a couple of the songs are victims
of overly experimental sampling.
"Slow Dancing," the first song, is
a fusion of random interjections of
what seems to be agremlin singing
underwater and a jarring drum-
beat. Just when things appear to
be improving with the soothing
"Move On The Rain," the track
ends at just over a minute. Listen-

ers are then subjected to about
six minutes of traditional oriental
music laid over an inappropriately
random drum machine beat in
"Ego War."
That's not to say the entire
album is a loss. Take "Snake
Eater." Though it directly follows
the one-two punch of strangeness
at the beginning of the album, it's
free of the surrounding founda-
tion of mediocrity and shows real
promise. orchestral breaks create
asense oftension and buildup that,
when interrupted with samples of
vocals, come together to form a
palatable and actually enjoyable
piece of music.
At the album's end, the remixes
become less about beats or ran-
dom samplings and more about
establishing an atmosphere. In
some instances, it works: "Mum-
bai" is rather eerie, despite
suffering from the same over-
experimentation that plagues
the entire album. However, the
alluring promise of a remixed

"Fantas
is disap
abrupt,
remixin
last tr
Wine,"
The son
and in(
rough a
On
bar
Tapes
potentia
down. T
largely
are diff
barelyj
remixes
firstpla
more th

COURTESY OF ELEKTRA
o could look this awesome.
I mix
r heart
y," originally by the xx,
pointing. It is brief and
and the evidence of any
ig is skimpy at best. The
ack, entitled "Tetanus
is a fitting end to Tapes.
g, with its blend of synths
dustrial drums, is loud,
nd ultimately unpleasant.
ce-promising
id drowns in
remixes.
s, though brimming with
al, ends up a solid let-
rhe filler tracks, composed
of synth and basic drums,
icult to wade through and
make the few promising
worth listening to in the
ce. Tapes is worth avoiding
.an anythingelse.
COURTESYOF !K7
I


GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
November 10-12 and 15-19
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
North Campus November 18-19
in Valley room of Pierpont
The sittingfee is just $15!
This price includes your portraitfeatured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.umaumich.edu
Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
YEARBOOK


Most hipster game of Mahjong ever.


g


6A - Wednesday, November 10, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Smart tells jurors she was too scared to speak up

In second day of
testimony, Smart
says she told police
she was someone else
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) - Eliz-
abeth Smart was so terrified of her
abductor that on the day police
found her, she told them she was
someone else.
She took the stand at her alleged
kidnapper's trial for a second day
yesterday, telling jurors she was
also too scared to speak up when
a detective tried to question her in
a public library months before she
was finally freed.
Smart spent nearly six hours
testifying in a steady voice before
a rapt audience in U.S. District
Court.
She told jurors Brian David
Mitchell raped her almost daily
and forced her to drink, use drugs
and view pornography. once she
tried to flee, and Mitchell and his
wife caught her and told her an
angel would cut her down with a
sword if she ever tried it again.
Mitchell, who knew Smart
because her mother had hired
him to fix the family's leaky roof,
is accused of kidnapping her from
her bed in June 2002, when she
was 14.
His attorneys say the homeless
street preacher known as Imman-
uel was influenced by a worsening
mental illness and religious beliefs
that made him think he was doing
what God wanted.

Smart testified Tuesday that
when police finally found her in
March 2003, wearing a wig and
sunglasses and walking along a
suburban Salt Lake City street
with Mitchell and his wife, she
told them she was Augustine Mar-
shall, the daughter of traveling
preachers.
Smart, now 23, said that was
the story Mitchell had instructed
her to tell if ever the three were
approached.
Police separated them and pep-
pered Smart with questions. They
were tipped off by drivers who
reported seeing the girl.
"I was very scared. I knew the
threats that I had been told for
nine months," said Smart, who
was handcuffed and placed in the
back of a police car. "I thought
maybe at the same time that this is
it. This is it, this is over."
Smart also told jurors about a
missed chance to tell police what
had happened when a detective
approached her at the Salt Lake
City library in the early fall, a few
months after she was kidnapped.
She was wearing a robe and a
veil that covered her face, and the
detective asked if he could look
under it.
"He said he was looking for
Elizabeth Smart," Smart said.
Under the table, Mitchell's
now-estranged wife, Wanda
Eileen Barzee, squeezed her leg,
a sign that Smart should remain
quiet. Mitchell refused to let the
detective talk to her, saying it was
not allowed in their religion and
only her husband would ever see

JIM URQUHART/AP
Brian David Mitchell, the man accused of kidnapping Elizabeth Smart, is escorted into the Frank E. Moss Federal Courthouse in Salt Lake City Monday.

her face.
The detective pressed.
"He asked if he could be a part
of our religion for a day, just so he
could see my face, just so he could
go back (to the police station)
and say, 'No it wasn't Elizabeth
Smart'," she said.
Mitchell calmly refused, and
the detective gave up and left.
"I was mad at myself, that I
didn't say anything," she said.
"I felt terrible that the detective
hadn't pushed harder and had just
walked away."
Afterward, Mitchell sped up

plans to move the trio away from
Utah, so Smart would not be dis-
covered, she told jurors. They
spent the summer in California
before hitchhiking back to Utah
the day before she was found.
The three pitched a tent in
an Orem campground called
Camelot, about 30 miles south of
Salt Lake City, after getting a ride
from a truck driver.
"The tent was set up and I was
raped for the last time," Smart
said.
The Associated Press does not
typically name victims of sexual

assault, but the details of Smart's
case have become public.
She also told jurors that soon
after she was kidnapped, Mitch-
ell tried to abduct her cousin from
another part of Salt Lake City.
"He decided it was time to go
and kidnap another girl to be
another wife," she said.
The attempt was thwarted
when Mitchell tried to get through
a window but pushed over some
knickknacks and awakened the
sleeping household.
The following day, Mitchell
forced Smart to metaphorically

sever any remaining ties with her
family by burning the red pajamas
she had been wearing the night
she was taken.
Smart said she dropped the
pajamas into a campfire and
watched them burn. Afterward,
she found in the ashes a safety
pin that she had used to keep the
neck of the pajamas closed. She
fastened it to a small piece of rub-
ber from her tennis shoes - which
Mitchell had thrown out - and
hid it.
"I didn't want to let go of my
family, of my life," she said.

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2011 - rates from $660. U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today. I to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
I EXCRLLENT 6-BR, 2 Bath colonial
on Central campus(l143 S.Forest Ave).
5 mins walk to college with 2 Refriger-
ators/Microwave/Toaster/Sink/Free
laundry/Private deck/Free parking.
(MAY 2011) Call 734 578 4625
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdnn.
Incl Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!" CORNER HOUSE APTS 1!
2 & 3 bdrms, lots of closet space, flat
screen tIs, modem furniture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
NEWER 6 BD RMS FURNISHED
Apts AVAILABLE, walk to CEN-
TRAL CAMPUS rates start at
$615/room. For VIRTUAL TOUR and
INFO call 734-418-2050 or log on
www.828greeneapts.com
NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealty.com
"!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com


i
s
r
r
r
r
t
i
4
4
4
c
f
f
E
f
E
E
E
E
7
7



RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, November 10, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norri and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Toyota _4: SUV 34 "My Country" 52 Exciting
1 "60 Minutes' model author 53 Adriet 01
correspndent 6 Pemian volano 36 Seek damages cosmetin
6 _ Helens, El - 37 Buffet heater 54 Colorful quartz
Wash. 7 Namely 40 Suffixwith 55 Shroud city
10 Setup punch 8 Ticketing place: meteor 56 Lets up
13 Pump option Abbr. 41 Finish line 57 Name on a
15 Tad 9 Danced like indicator razor
16 LA.-based oil Boangles 42 Play break 8 Fat measure
giant, familiarly Robinson 47 Watermelon bit 59_ Luck
17 Get there 10 Stereotypical 48Magnitude 63 Understood
18 Flea market diner name H0p... 'What_ boy 65 Heany
cousin 11 Foreslchoppems am 11' drinker
20 Soccer VIPs? 12 Unit of computer
21 Source of low- memory ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
alcohol wines 14lSlangy ussents
23 Nolonger 19portseaster S C R A IG R A 8 B I P J S
newsworthy Albert PR IMA AL ARM RAP
24 Mickey Mantle or 22Knife holder F 0 5 0 U R Y F L 0 P E V E
Mark Teixeira, 25 Budgetary C E L L 0 A L L 0 5 A B
notably concemE
27 Diet successfully 26 Britishart I A S
28 Counsel institution T 0REEPOINTTURN
32"__Gold":Peter 29Apple MIA ORTS EERIE
Fonda film touchscreen M A L L E I T 7 f E I G N
35Helper: Abbr. computer MRFOX TOCT0
38 Lobbying gp. 30AnatoXmical M A C E NZ E8 R
39 Fill in at school pouches
43 Modem 31Return from a RI C0 SAME
44 Friend'spronoun cave? S K A U V E A S P I E L
45 "Then..." 32 Finds a purpose PEZ TEXASHOLDEM
46 Karate instructor for AR E E NERO SEGAR
49 Glued to the 33 Dangle aLIrroL R I D S A S E S E D E N S
tube, say in front of, so to
t1 Currency speak xwerdediter~aal.cem 11/09/10
differential 1 2 3 a s 6 8 . 10 1112
57 Shoelace
protector 13 14 16 ie
6o Smack back?
1 Is wetin 10 1 16
Oanaca 203
32 Commercial
imbalance a4 21
'4"The Sound at
Music"quintet 271 29
16 "Awesome!"
7 B o ta n ic a l 32 0 3 4 4 35 40 37 38 3
junction
68 Golf 39 40 41 42
commentator4
Pepper
txoe snLo-ell oe 4r a 4 ae so
70 Teoters sig-off


the
L n
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
wied and
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
LetOur Fand, Tak'Car of Yours
l'i em eSbwk C-11"
734.741.9300
WWw.aImmborapart ms.et
WE HOLD THE KEY.....
To Your New Home!
Prime Student Housing
734-761-8000
primesh.com
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3800 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
ICLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
1* NOW LEASING FOR 2011*!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
515 WALNUT
Studio, 1, & 2 br. Apts. Available!!
Just a few blocks from the CCRB and
Central Campus. Avariety of floor
plans here. 2 br., 2 bth bi-levels w/
rooftop patios and new kitchens.
Perfect for 4 people!!
734-668-1100
521 WALNUT
1, 2, & 3 br. Apts. Available! Great
campus neighborhood!! A quiet tree
lined s. off South U. near the CCRB &
CC Little. New kitchen w/ dishwasher,
A/C, fully farnished, free parking, laun-
dry on-site, and intercom entry.
www.varsitymanagement.com
526 PACKARD
New Construction & Amazing Loca-
tion!! Large 3 br. apts w/ hardwood
floors, updated kitchens, huge bal-
conies, & tons of closet space!! Sunny
apts w/ new windows and large sliding
glass door. FREE Wireless!!
734-668-1100
921 PACKARD FALL '11 3 story 5
bdrm house for 6 furnished 3 full baths
3 kitchens laundry parking 7342721320
FALL 2011 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4700
7 510 Catherine $3700
7 1129 White St $4200
6 412 N. Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3500
6 605 Catherine $3720
6 605 E. Hoover $3720
6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
6 1207 Church $3800
5 1024 Packard $2850
4 509 Sauer Ct $2000
4 809 Sybil $2240
4 812 E. Kingsley $2300
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2240
4 1117 S. Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer Ct $2000
3 932 Mary $1800
Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991

S T U DE N I hO0U S INGN C
18 Locations to choose from
many on Central Campus
Leather Furmiture FREE INJERNET
Bi-leve lri-levels leat & Water Included
Eff., , 2 & 3 bdrms Parkingtrcluded
Updated Kithens Ceirrleely Furnished
llctu nrie OrSie Iandy
Balconies & Patios Air Conditioning
On AAA bus lines Garbage Disyposals
Trash Removal Iishwashers
FREE hiGh SPEED
INTERNET CONNECTION
DirceTVxow Available
Visit as Or the web at
www.primeSh.com
Stop by our office at 6110 Church St.
or call us today at
(734) 761-8000
to arrange viewings.
e*Anitrries vary by location*
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished $3500 248-7984755
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1007 S. State. Furnished,
free laundry, free parking.
$4300/month. Call 734-678-0122
FALL 2011. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
1506 GEDDES
Great 3 br. aps perfect for 3-4 people!!
Large living rooms, balconies or patios,
tons of closet space, dishwashers, and
double sinks in bathrooms. Near the
CCRB & CC Little bus stop!!
www.varsitymanagement.com
4 BDRM (4-5 person) HOUSE.
2 bthrms, prkg, Idry, ctrl. air. Central
Campus near IM. Call 734-395-6823.
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/mdnth. Avail
Fall 2011. dklemptner@comcast.net
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD direcrv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available Spring & Fall.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'I1 1 &2 tdn. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 Stute ldry
prkg,heat,&120 incl. 734-904-6735
FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State St./Athletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., 1
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
FALL 2011
Huge house in prime locations!
6 Bdrms, 3 studies, 3 1/2 baths
$4899/month
734 665 8825
www.campusrealty.com
LARGE 6 BEDROOM, 3 Bath, No-
Fee Laundry & Parking, $3600/month,
425 Cross. Call 734-277-0668.
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Court $2340,
tenants pay all utilities call Cappo
Deinco 734-996-1991
I

WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
~NOW SHOWING
APARTMENTS-
For 2011-12!
18 great locations
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Furnished, Heat & Water Included,
I Parking Pass & FREE Internet.
Call today to see your new home!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
*Amenities Vary By Location
BRIGHT 5 BEDROOM, 2 Bath, No-
Fee Laundry & Parking, $2900/month.
333 John St. Call 734-277-0668.
!3 BEDROOM HOUSE! Just one
block from S. University, near B-
school and Ed. School. 2 bathrooms! 2
Kitchens! Large bdrms, 2 parking
spaces, full basement for storage, laun-
dry facilities, unfurnished. New up-
grades planned for Fall 2011! $2,175 +
utilities. Please contact our leasing
agent Patty White: 734-320-1245 or
email pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
1039 BALDWIN
Spacious 4 br. apts. in a gorgeous con-
verted home! High ceilings, bay win-
dows, fireplace, hardwood firs, &
screened in porch. Large backyard w/
parking included!!
www.varsitymanagement.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskman@yahoo.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE. Furnished, 2
baths, free laundry, large porch, free
parking w/garage, great location. 702
Arch St. May 2011. $3250. 734-426-
4772, Jim at Spring Valley Farm.
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! 1 bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtllc@yahoe.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
15 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS for 2-3
month temporary work for persons
bilingual in Spanish and English for
customer service call center. $10/hr.
Send resume to jeanw@mastersonper-
sonnel.com
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, fl6xi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
LOOKING FOR RETAIL sales peo-
ple for a new high end sporting goods
store located in Ann Arbor. Applicants-
must have knowledge of multiple
sports and be customer oriented. Flexi-
ble hours including weekends. To
apply e-mail your resume to
Scott@catchtheadvantage.com
PART TIME MATH tutor in
Brighton; Must be able to teach
through beginning calc. Only consider-
ing someone with a degree or in last
semester. Tuesdays & Thursdays 3-
8pm.10 hrs weekly, hourly salary.
Must be available for the school year
ending June 2011. 810-423-3792 (Sue)
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & PUB now hiring individuals
for our kitchen staff and office staff.
Apply in person at 310 Maynard, Aun
Arbor. 734-995-0100.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to om. Click on Surveys.

4

PAOTIIME NANNY POSIION.
M-F 2:45-5:30. Own transportation re-
quired. Duties include assistance w/ hw
and light housekeeping. 734-669-6182.
AD,
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS

I

71 Many Miley
Cyrusufans
DOWN
1 Sends unwanted
e-mail
2 Road sgn
symbol
3 Nuclear pioneer
Enricoe
4 Bible letters

I

- - a .M

11001 0 1rta -aE5i IaI

s 4
61
64 65
66
n1

11/10/10

PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMIES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing,CBook Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Wednesday, November 10, 2010 - 7A

After citations, NYPD, Raja
Rani alter food preparation

Winfield: 'U' to
begin regular
mental health
evaluations

From Page1A
some ready-to-eat foods during a
June 9 inspection.
Lelcaj said the temperature of
the food in the preparatory areas
was higher than usual because
the inspection took place on a
90-degree day during lunch hour,
when heat from outside comes
in through open doors. The food
bins containing the ingredients
need to stay open during the
lunch period due to the increased
number of customers, Lelcaj said.
Schweighoefer wrote in an
e-mail interview that the weather
should not affect standard food
temperatures.
"The outside temperature
should not have any bearing on
a restaurant's ability to keep its
facility clean or to follow the
requirements of the food code,"
Schweighoefer wrote.
During the June inspection,
Sava's received a non-critical
violation for fruit flies that were
present in the upstairs bar and
around the soiled linen area
downstairs, where tablecloths are
kept before being sent out to be
laundered.
Lelcaj said the flies are natu-
rally attracted to the fresh fruit
used in the juicing area and the
liquor in the bottles of alcohol.
Though the fruit is replenished
throughout the day and cylindri-
cal cups are placed over the alco-
hol at night to keep away insects,
the flies are still present during
the summer, Lelcaj said.
Since the inspection, used alco-
hol bottles are also now washed
out before they are placed in the
basement to be recycled, Lelcaj
said.
In the health inspection report,
the health inspector instructed
the restaurant to keep its side and
front doors closed to prevent the
entry of potential pests. However,
the side doors were open at the
time of the Daily's tour.
Lecaj said after the June
inspection, the restaurant tried
to keep the doors closed, but it
became hazardous for servers
walking to the patio while hold-
ing trays of food. Therefore, Lel-
caj said she chose to keep the
doors open until a better solution
can be implemented.
Though Lelcaj said she recog-
nizes health inspectors have an
important role, she said their sug-
gestions are often hard to follow,
like in the case of the doors.
"They are living and doing
their job out of a manual, while
we are following that manual, but
it has to be put into practical use,"
Lelcaj said.
In a follow-up inspection one
week after the initial report in
June, all critical violations had
been corrected. Follow-up inspec-
tions take place shortly after ini-
tial inspections so that health
inspectors can see if critical vio-
lations have been corrected.
NYPD EMPLOYEES NOW
USE GLOVES
New York Pizza Depot on East
William Street received a critical
violation in March for an employ-
ee handling ready-to-eat food
with his or her bare hands.
NYPD owner Anna Grillo said
workers wear gloves or use a

Bar Louie Kitchen Manager It. Hernandez wears gloves as he prepares a special shrimp dish on Friday.

spatula while handling meats and
serving pizza. However, she said
the chefs do not wear gloves while
preparing pizza dough.
In an e-mail to the Daily, Sch-
weighoefer confirmed that it is
acceptable to use bare hands with
foods that are going to be fully
cooked later.
The pizza parlor also received
a non-critical violation for debris
found on shelves in its downstairs
walk-in cooler, but the restau-
rant now has a cleaning system
in place in which the shelves are
cleaned once a month.
Schweighoefer wrote that
monthly cleaning is sometimes
acceptable for restaurants,
though cleaning should occur as
often as needed to ensure that the
shelves remain free of debris.
"In some places, monthly might
be acceptable, in others, they
must be cleaned weekly or even
more often to prevent (shelves)
from being dirty to sight and
touch," she wrote.
During a tour, the owner was
unable to find a thermometer in
the restaurant's stand-up refrig-
erator - a violation that was cited
at the time of the inspection -
after opening and searching the
fridge..However, Grillo said the
refrigerator does contain a ther-
mometer.
INDIAN RESTAURANT
CHANGES KNIFE-CLEANING
PROCEDURES
Raja Rani, a restaurant on
South Division Street that serves
Indian cuisine, had six critical
violations at the time of its Febru-
ary 2010 inspection.
Jafvar Fingh, assistant manag-
er of Raja Rani, said the inspector
found unclean knives in the kitch-
en, but the problem has since been
corrected. The assistant chef reg-
ularly checks the sanitation of the
knives while working, according
to Fingh.
During the inspection, the
inspector spotted an employee
handling food with his or her bare
hands when he or she should have
been wearing gloves. Fingh said
this was a misunderstanding on
the part of the employee, and all
food that is about to be served is

handled with gloves.
As a result of the inspection,
the preparation of Raja Rani's
Tandoori Chicken - an Indian
dish consisting of chicken, yogurt
and various spices - has also been
changed' Fingh said the chicken
is cooked twice before it is served
and cooking temperatures are
monitored closely. At the time of
inspection, prepared chicken for
the lunch buffet was found at 30
degrees below its proper temper-
ature.
In a follow-up inspection about
one week later, the health inspec-
tor reported that all critical viola-
tions had been corrected, Fingh
said.
FRUIT FLIES HAVE FLOWN
AWAY FROM BAR LOUIE
In a July 2010 inspection, Bar
Louie on East Liberty Street had
critical violations for the pres-
ence of flies in the dishwashing
and bar areas as well as improp-
er temperatures for hazardous
foods.
Brandon Herriott, general
manager of Bar Louie, said the
establishment has since re-grout-
ed the tiles, which has reduced
the number of flies. The com-
pressor for the reach-in cooler
- which caused the previously
elevated temperatures - has also
been replaced and is now func-
tioning normally, Herriott said.
Along with Ann Arbor locals,
University students remain the
main clientele for restaurants
located on Central Campus.
While these restaurants cater to
college students, Andy Deloney,
spokesman for the Michigan Res-
taurant Association, said viola-
tions at college eateries do not
differ from those at restaurants in
other towns.
"I've not noticed that there's
been any sort of increase in viola-
tions at establishments on college
campuses as opposed to any-
where else," Deloney said.
with 45 local health depart-
ments in the state, Deloney said
violations of hand washing,
temperature control and cross
contamination control pose the
largest health risks.
He added that inspections are

not meant to punish restaurants
but rather to inform them of the
areas they need to improve.
To help restaurants meet
required food regulations, a state-
wide law requires every establish-
ment to have a manager certified
in an approved food safety and
sanitation course, Deloney said.
Because the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration made
changes to the food code in 2000,
there are now more categories for
violations, Schweighoefer said.
As a result, there have been more
violations in the past decade, she
said.
Schweighoefer also said it can
be hard to compare violations
from one year to the next because
the U.S. Food and Drug Adminis-
tration's Food Code - the stan-
dard governmental model that
establishes regulations for retail
and service establishments -
changes every couple of years.
Despite the spike in violations,
Schweighoefer said she thinks
restaurants are doing more to
prevent violations and fix those
they receive.
"Even though the violations
may look like there are more, I
think the knowledge of food safe-
ty of the restaurants has greatly
increased over the last 10 years,"
Schweighoefer said.
At the time of its July 12
inspection, BTB Cantina on South
University Avenue had no criti-
cal or non-critical health code
violations, which manager Brent
Hegwood said was due to his
knowledge of the federal food
code that he gained during a food
safety and sanitation course he
took two years ago.
With this knowledge, Heg-
wood said he was able to effec-
tively communicate food code
standards to his employees.
"At the end of the day it comes
down to the staff being well-
trained and knowing what to do,"
Hegwood said.
STADIUM HEALTH
CODE VIOLATIONS
Part two of the series
looks at violations in
campus stadiums.

From Page 1A
there is all this stress in life or
because there's less stigma and
shame about it," he said. "There
are a lot of factors that go into
this."
To help reduce the number of
disorders that go undiagnosed,
Winfield said UHS is currently
working to implement regular
mental evaluations of students,
scheduled to begin this winter.
Winfield said that as of now,
UHS will likely use two differ-
ent questionnaires. The Patient
Health Questionnaire 9 screens
for risk of depression. The other
questionnaire UHS is considering
the Audit and would test for alco-
hol-related problems, which can
be linked to depression.
Winfield also noted that more
students are comingto the Univer-
sity already diagnosed with men-
tal health issues and are already
taking medications to treat them.
"My suspicion is resources
allow people to attend a college
successfully despite their particu-
lar problems," Winfield said.
Tim Davis, associate director
of the University's Counseling
and Psychological Services and
director of Clinical Services, said
the increase in the number of stu-
dents seeking counseling is very
apparent to staffers working in the
CAPS office.
"There's a perception that
across the board ... we're seeing
more student need for services,"
Davis said. "We're bursting at the
seams, and we didn'tused to burst
at the seams."
Davis said there are a few com-
mon theories floating around
about the cause of the increase of
mental disorders on college cam-
puses.
"I want to believe that the stig-
ma is going down that's associated
with seeking counseling services,"
he said.
Davis explained that medical

advancements might have also
pushed the increase in diagno-
ses. While new medicines allow
those with more serious mental
disorders to attend college, they
also bring to campus people who
previously might not have had the
resources available to them to be
successful in a college environ-
ment. Davis said that just 20 years
ago, going to college with bipolar
disorder was very uncommon.
He added that many people
believe that stress in the lives of
college students has increased in
recent years.
"There are some people out
there who say, 'Hey, you know
what, this time of life is getting
more stressful,"' he said.
Davis said that while the the-
ory is not proven, it's likely this
"emotional crunch" makes people
more susceptible to depression
and other conditions. CAPS offi-
cials are working to help students
address these issues, he said.
"We are thankfully making it
more possible for students who in
the past may not have been able to
copewithcollegelifecometocam-
pus andbe successful," he said.
A student in need can go to
CAPS and set up a first appoint-
ment after about 10 minutes of
filling out electronic forms, Davis
said. CAPS also offers different
options for students seeking help.
Common concern groups run
Monday through Thursday every
week. Topics range from how to
move past depression to how to
stop procrastinating.
Davis said CAPS has many new
plans to try to help more students
faster, which include increas-
ing the office's staff and working
closely with UHS to refer students
to the service that will best fit the
student's situation.
"One of the things that we're all
teaming up on over here at CAPS
is to try to make more types of ser-
vices immediately available to stu-
dents," Davis said.


CONSTRUCTION
From Page 1A
of the building, which could not be
demolished, according to the plan
agreement.
"Part of the plan agreement for
bringing that store into that spot
was that they had to maintain the
fatade ... so they demolished the
entire building except the face, and
now they have to lift in the pre-cast
concrete walls over the top of the
faeade," Welton said.
Welton added that in order to
properly lift the walls over the top

of the building and maintain their
structural integrity, the construc-
tion workers need to use a boom-
crane. The crane, he said, will sit
out on State Street, and the closure
of the area is in the interest of pub-
lic safety.
Ben Storey, manager at Buffalo
Wild Wings, said the construction
in the area has been a burden for
the restaurant, which is next to the
blocked-off street.
"It sucks," Storey said, explain-
ing that the street closure may dis-
courage potential customers.
Storey said the construction,
which spans the entire front side of

the restaurant, makes it difficult for
passersby to enter through the side-
walk that is closed from Monday
through Friday. But, Storey said, for
game days and wing connoisseurs,
the construction will not likely be a
problem.
"People with a taste for Buffalo
Wild Wings are going to brave any
type of weather or obstacle to get
to their wings, their beer and their
sports," he said.
Cyndi Bertsos, one of the own-
ers of Sava's restaurant, said being
located about 50 feet from the con-
struction has had little effect on the
restaurant.

"Customers are still great. I
mean it hasn't really affected us-at
all," Bertsos said.
The closure of the State Street
area could pose a potential prob-
lem for students living in the North
Quadrangle Residence Hall who cut
through the street to get to class.
However, LSA sophomore Jana
Savagian, who is a resident of
North Quad, said she hasn't been
bothered that much by the con-
struction.
"I and pretty much everyone
I know don't use that entrance,
unless we're going to Chipotle,"
Savagian said.

cials know where the individuals
REGISTRY are and how to assist them.
From Page 1A The registry is being intro-
duced in three phases over the
A.T. Miller, director of the next few months. Today, indi-
University's Global Intercultural viduals, groups and administra-
Experience for Undergraduates tors will be able to register. The
program, said that last Febru- University's Department of Pub-
ary's earthquake in Chile was an lic Safety and other emergency
example of a situation in which responders can also now access
the University would make use of the registry.
the travel registry. The second phase of the trav-
"We had 12 students (in Chile)," el registry will be released in
Miller said. "Because they were in April 2011 and will enable more
the registry, and on our program, enhanced search features and an
we had a satellite phone connec- iPhone application to access trip
tion." itineraries. In June 2011, the third
Using the registry, Miller said and final stage,which will expand
he was able to inform their par- the technological features on the
ents or emergency contacts that site, will be implemented.
the students were okay after the The registry will also act as
earthquake. But with the new a planning tool for students, by
registry, coupled with HTH travel providing links to websites with
insurance, Miller said communi- information about advisories and
cation will be more streamlined. warnings so students can look up
officials hope the comprehensive everything from what immuniza-
process will make students and tions they need before they travel,
their families more comfortable to the cholera outbreak in Haiti,
with the idea of study abroad. Miller said.
"We're trying to make it so that "We also provide advice,"
the students and the families can Miller said. "One of the things the
be confident that yes, you can be travel registry also lets you know
a global player, and with a sort of is that the place you're going has
safety net or support that makes a State Department warning
you confident that this is worth against certain things and that
doing or makes sense," Miller said. way you can be well informed.
The registry is also part of Uni- There are also connections to the
versity President Mary Sue Cole- Center for Disease Control."
man's goal of having at least half If any new travel warnings
of the student body experience or advisories are issued, details
international travel during their about the warning will be posted
time at the University. immediately to the new Global
Any student, staff or faculty Michigan website.
member who is traveling outside Members of the University
the United States on a University- community should register no
sanctioned trip, in a group or as an matter where they're going, even
individual, is required to register. if it's to Canada, Miller said.
The registry will also be open to He cited the SARS outbreak in
members of the University com- Toronto a few years ago as some-
munity who are going on personal thing that can occur even in a
trips. country relatively close to the
Anyone who purchases the United States.
University's HTH travel health "Even though you might think,
insurance plan will have to regis- 'Why would I register a trip to
ter his or her travel logbefore pur- this nearby place?' (It is so) we
chasing the insurance package. can support people," Miller said.
Travelers' itineraries will also be "We had some people put in quar-
on the registry, so that in the case antine. When that happens it's
of an emergency, University offi- pretty scary."
BREW YOUR OWN BEER?
E-mail calero@michigandaily.com to enter the Daily's
second annual home brew contest.


MSA
From Page 1A
"Survival Flight nurses respond
to accident and injury scenes and
travel to other hospitals to resus-
citate critically ill and injured peo-
ple," the statement reads. "They
must be able to perform life-saving
procedures promptly and skill-
fully."
According to the statement,
the nurses trained in the survival
course perform the same proce-
dures as practicing doctors and

veterinarians.
"The procedures used on the
animals during training are the
same as ones that are performed
on human patients, such as insert-
ing a breathing tube or accessing
blood vessels and body cavities for
life support and other therapeutic
purposes," the statement reads.
The USDA came to the Univer-
sity early last month to investi-
gate the use of live animals in the
course, but according to the state-
ment, they found no citations.
Felix Lopez and John Oltean,
two LSA representatives on MSA,

authored the resolution passed at
last night's meeting.
"I felt like if there's an alterna-
tive to (using live animals) that it
should be taken," Lopez said in an
interview following last night's
meeting.
Lopez said that as a leading
institution, the University should
change its policy regarding the
use of live animals in the Survival
Flight Course, and should instead
use simulation technology.
" ... There have already been
classes similar to Survival Flight
Course where they are using simu-

lators," Lopez said.
Lopez said it is important that
the general student body become
more active in supporting the
cause to move away fromusing live
animals in the class to encourage
the University to make changes.
Though MSA voted to sup-
port the resolution, some rep-
resentatives like LSA senior
Gabriel Surprise, MSA's former
student general counsel, said the
use of animals in the course is
justified because students need to
train on a subject that's anatomi-
cally similar to a person.

I

I


8A - Wednesday, November 10, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Dismal shooting all
around against SVSU

By CHANTEL JENNINGS
Daily Sports Editor
During the first three-and-a-
half minutes of 2010-2011 Michi-
gan men's basketball, junior guard
Zack Novak knocked down a mid-
range jumpshot, the Wolverines
were 5-for-5 from the free throw
line and freshmen Tim Hardaway
Jr. and Evan Smotrycz had both hit
3-pointers from the wing.
They were perfect. They hadn't
missed a single shot.
But then a drought hit and Mich-
igan didn't make a 3-point field goal
for more than 26 minutes. In fact,
the Wolverines would only hit one
more 3-pointer the entire game on
the way to finishing 3-for-21 from
behind the arc - a pitiful 14.3-per-
cent - in the 68-59 exhibition win
over Saginaw Valley State Univer-
sity on Saturday.
"It's a mental thing," Smotrycz
said after the game. "If you're mak-
ing shots, then the game's going
really well, if you're not, then it's
more of a struggle."
Smotrycz, one of two players for
the Wolverines to reach double-
digit scoring, resisted attributing
his poor shooting to being a fresh-
man or first-game jitters.
"Everyone's been saying, 'Are
you nervous for the first game?'
But I feel like we've already played
a bunch of first games in Europe,"
Smotrycz said of Michigan's four
exhibition games played in Bel-
gium this past Aug. "Definitely
the crowd was different and play-
ing here against people who aren't
wearing Michigan (practice) jer-
seys."
Michigan coach John Beilein
admitted he anticipated jitters
under the lights from his young

ARIEL BONi
Junior guard Stu Douglass struggled shooting in Michigan's exhibition win.

ARitL BOND/Daily
Redshirt sophomore middle linebacker Kenny Demens got his first start against Iowa.
Changes on defense
lg 1i
l everaR eatheticism1

players but said Smotrycz and
Hardaway Jr. - who shot a com-
bined 4-for-18 from the floor -
have been shooting consistently in
practice.
But it wasn't just the fresh-
men who struggledto make shots.
Juniors Novak and Stu Douglass
along with sophomore Darius Mor-
ris - the most experienced players
on the team - shot 7-for-20 from
the field.
The troublesome shooting
became even more evident in the
second half when the Wolverines
shot 25-percent from the floor and
only managed to outscore the Car-
dinals 36-35.
It's still not clear whether Mich-
igan will have a clutch player that
can score on command. Morris
scored 18 points, 12 coming from
the freethrow line, but if he is to
remain at point guard, it'll be dif-

ficult to lead the team in both scor-
ing and assists.
With the poor shooting, it's hard
to overlook the startling statistics
from Saturday's game, consider-
ing that Michigan State opened its
season last week with an 88-44 win
over SVSU.
But Michigan isn't looking that
far into the future quite yet. Next
on the schedule is the season-open-
er against South Carolina Upstate
this Saturday at Crisler Arena.
"It's the first game, we're com-
ing in with no expectations for this
season - just playing loose, were
not gonna beat ourselves up about
an exhibition game," Douglass
said. "There's a lot of stuff we have
to work on but it's early and we're a
young team and we played well in
the scrimmage ... We know what
we're capable of and I'm not wor-
ried about that."

Wi
line
mi
S

Mich
Rodrigu
gling de
stronge
For t
transiti
middleI
and so
Craig R
been thi
"He(
flip, not
junior
Bergen
day. "It
easily."
The
backerh
Michiga
ing seni
role aga
had mat
of three
"He's
gen said
you don
his size.
why he'
runner(
could b
stop the
he's so e
velocity
Since

th Roh back on starting role, according to Van
a D e Bergen, his relationship with
and Demensat Ezeh has not changed. The two
middle linebackers still talk on
ddle, 'D takes the sidelines in between plays.
lens forward Now it's Ezeh rotating in for
Demens, who recorded eight
tackles against the Hawkeyes, 12
ByTIM ROHAN against Penn State and 10 against
Daily Sports Editor the Fighting Illini.
"(Demens) understands the
igan football coach Rich game real well," Van Bergen said.
tez says he wants his strug- "The game sorts out for him real
rfense to get bigger, faster, fast in his head and he makes deci-
r and more athletic. sions quickly. When he tackles, he
wo defensive players in role tackles with bad intentions. It's
ons - redshirt sophomore something you look for in a middle
linebacker Kenny Demens linebacker."
tphomore defensive end Rodriguez has criticized the
oh - such athleticism has defense's tackling and identified
e difference-maker. it as one of the basics that Michi-
can do a really high back gan needed to work on, but noted
t just a back flip," redshirt that Demens has been consistent
defensive end Ryan Van in that department so far - par-
said of Demens on Mon- ticularly in the Wolverines' 67-65
hink he can clear five feet, overtime win against Illinois on
Saturday.
6-foot-1, 250-pound line- Demens's unique blend of size
tas injected energyinto the and speed allows him to both
tn defense since supplant- fill holes quickly and track down
or Obi Ezeh in the starting opposing ball carriers from side-
inst Iowa on Oct. 16. Ezeh line to sideline - then make them
nned the position for most feel the hit when he gets there,
years. With Demens making an impact
just explosive," Van Ber- at linebacker, Roh moved to defen-
d. "His quick movements, sive end opposite Van Bergen. The
'I see that with somebody move was such a success on Sat-
. And the way he does it is urday that Rodriguez said it will
s good at linebacker.... The probably remain that way for the
could be full speed and he rest of the season.
e standing still and he can In 2009, Roh had 7.5 tackles for
runner cold. Just because loss and two sacks as a true fresh-
rxplosive he can meet your man at outside linebacker and was
so quickly." considered one of the best candi-
Demens took over the dates to replace Brandon Graham's

production as a pass rusher this
season.
But so far this season he has
just 3.5 tackles for loss and half
a sack, with most of that produc-
tion coming early on. For Roh,
the position change removes the
other responsibilities required
of linebackers like dropping into
pass coverage and allows Roh to
just do what he does best - rush
the passer.
Van Bergen approved the move
of Roh to the defensive line. He
sees Roh's speed as a nice comple-
ment to his own power.
"I just felt there was a lot more
pressure coming off the edges,"
Van Bergen said of the defense. "I
thought the quarterback was very
uncomfortable. He had happy feet
back there. We didn't register a
bunch of sacks but he was running
for the sideline pretty quickly and
unable to find receivers."
After the game, Roh said he felt
more comfortable at defensive
end.
Michigan has struggled getting
pressure on the opposing quarter-
backs consistently all season - the
Wolverines' 1.33 sacks per game
ranks 98th in Division-I FBS foot-
ball. Moving Roh could jumpstart
the pass rush.
"We were justtalking about
maximizing our guys' potential,"
Demens said. "Craig Roh is a rush-
er. He does well on the line. He's
not too bad at linebacker, but he
maximizes his stuff on the line."
For a unit that has allowed 34
points per game, it couldn't hurt
to let it rip - and watch Roh and
Demens fly to the ball.


SALAM RIDA/Daily
Seniorforward Matt Rust admitted at practice that Michigan has had trouble finding a groove on Friday nights.
Wolverines look to stop
rendof frst-game losses

FIELD H OCKEY
Blue draws Monarchs for tourney

By NICK SPAR to a conference championship,
Daily SportsEditor Michigan coach Marcia Pankratz
knows Old Dominion will be a
On Tuesday, the Wolverines tough first-round test on Satur-
were one of 16 teams selected to day.
play in the NCAA Tournament "They are a perennially strong
after upsetting No. 8 Penn State NCAA Tournament team," Pan-
and No. 5 Ohio State on its way kratz said. "They are always going
to securing the Big Ten title last to be disciplined. We have our
weekend. work cut out for us, that's for sure."
The eighth-ranked Michigan The key to the Wolverines'
field hockey team drew No. 12 offensive success could be fresh-
Old Dominion in Saturday's first- man sensation Rachael Mack.
round match in Chapel Hill, NC. After scoring the game-winning
The Monarchs (12-10) are making goals against both the Nittany
their 28th tournament appear- Lions and Buckeyes and being
ance, while Michigan (5-1 Big Ten, named the Tournament MVP, she
15-6 overall) is making its ninth will be sure to garner the attention
and first since 2007. The winner of the Monarch defenders.
will play the winner of Stanford- That could create time and
North Carolina on Sunday. space for seniors Alicia Mayer and
Despite taking down two of Zara Saydjari, who have also been
the nation's top 10 teams en route forces on the offensive end lately

and might adapt more readily to
an unfamiliar environment on the
road.
While Michigan, has to travel
about 500 more miles than old
Dominion does to reach Chapel
Hill, Pankratz thinks being away
from Ann Arbor could ultimately
help them.
"It's hard on the players," Pan-
kratz said. "It's an awful lot of
time commitment. We have to
leave and they have to rearrange a
lot of things they have to do aca-
demically, which isn't easy. On the
flip side, it's nice to be able to be
sequestered in the hotel and away
from a lot of distractions.
"I think it could work to our
advantage to be on the road and in
the hotel. We're going to look at it
that way and get excited about the
weekend."

By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
After splitting three straight
weekend series to either ranked
opponents, conference foes, or
both, the No. 9 Michigan hockey
team is understandably frustrated.
The Wolverines (4-1-1-0 CCHA,
5-2-3 overall) have dropped three
straight Friday night contests
before rebounding to put their
opponents away in the series finale.
Michigan boasts a 4-0-2 record
on Saturday nights, but isn't finding
its groove on Fridays.
"I think we have the right mind-
set going into Friday," senior alter-
nate captain Matt Rust said after
Monday's practice. "But our inten-
sityon the ice, the little things were
doing, being smart with the puck,
playing more physical ... were just
not doing those things on Friday
night."
While Michigan coach Red
Berenson won't complain about
the team's scoring - especially in
its recent Saturday night victories
- he is concerned about the team
getting better both collectively and
individually.
"There's probably not a player
in the locker room that is satisfied
with what he's done in the first 10
games," Berenson said. "They're
not satisfied with what the team

has done, they're not satisfied
with what they've done and so on.
There's a point of realism where
you have to look in the mirror and
say 'What am I doing?"'
After taking stock of past games
this season, one of the methods the
Wolverines will use to improve,
their Friday night performance
is to focus on incorporating more
enthusiasm into practice and
games.
From exaggerated celebrations
after scoring a goal in practice to
cracking jokes in the stretching
circle, Michigan knows a lighter
mood can help increase the tempo
and help the team get focused.
"We're trying to loosen up the
atmosphere," Rust said. "Some
guys, myself especially, are grip-
ping the stick a little too tight."
Finding a balance between hav-
ing fun and remaining competitive
is an idea that came straight from
the top, as Berenson said he was
worried about the team "getting
too tight" after the recent weekend
splits.
Berenson stressed that the Wol-
verines need to incorporate some
emotion into their practices and
looks to Rust and the other cap-
tains to help set the example.
"Coach brought up (having
fun) today in practice," Rust said.
"There's a lot of stress, and you can

kind of feel it whether you're on the
ice or in the locker room. It kind of
helps things out when you bring
a little bit of fun into it, whether
it's in practice or a game or in the
weight room. Just bringingmore of
a fun aspect to it just hlps us get
the work ethic up, the confidence
up, and everything starts falling
into place."
With Michigan currently in
second place in the CCHA stand-
ings - just one point behind 4
conference-leading Notre Dame -
this weekend's matchup with the
11th-ranked Fighting Irish takes
on extra importance. The Wolver-
ines will debut their maize jerseys
for the first time this season on
Friday.
With a 5-2-1 record in their
maize jerseys last season, sopho-
more right wing Chris Brown
thinks the new jerseys could be
the icing on the cake for a Michi-
gan squad that looks to take its
new, energized attitude into Fri-
day night and grab game one ofthe
series.
"We don't lose in maize," Brown
said. "That's our motto. It makes it
special. When you get to put that
jersey on, no other team has that
and no other team has that tradi-
tion that we have. Especially when
you play Notre Dame, it's even
more special."

e ON TWITTER: @MICHDAILYSPORTS

I I


w w- w

--


8B The Statement Wednesday, Noveber 10, 2010
PERSONALSTATEMENT

WHY TRASH?
H DARAN E MA
BY DA RSH AN KA RWAT

7 i

bon dioxide is emitted elsewhere. How
many of us can visualize such an invis-
ible threat?
What does 385 parts per million
of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere
mean? That means that out of a million,
there are 999,615 parts of other gases.
Greenhouse gases suffer from a lack of
perception. But that doesn't mean trash
and greenhouse gases aren't related.
The social, economic and philo-
sophical structures in place that cause
the formation of trash and greenhouse
gases are the same. Trash is just a
different manifestation of the same
problem - consumption without lim-
its, carelessness about the future and
disrespect for the ecosystems of the
present. Trash stems from the choices
we make about what to buy and how
to live. Trash

ook around you - on the street
corner, in the Fishbowl, in your
kitchen. Waste is all around
ug. It can be viewed. as involuntary
and unconscious, as Adrianna Bojrab
described in her article "Commit to
reducing waste" in the Oct. 21 edition
of The Michigan Daily. But at the same
time, I would also argue that waste is
entirely voluntary. The mere existence
of waste and trash points to a choice
that we as a society are making. Since
it's easy to buy into the status quo, we
trick ourselves into thinking there is
no choice.
Since March 29, 2010, I have been
trying to live a trash-free life. I con-
sider everything except toilet paper
and food scraps as trash - that means
recyclables are trash, too. I use bags
and containers that I owned on March
29 as my only transporting and packag-
iig materials. If I do "need" something,
I only buy it from a second-hand store.
I refuse before reducing, reusing or
recycling.
I realized quickly that most of our
trash on a dailybasis comes from food
packaging, and that buying groceries,
flour, fruit and beans in bulk will save
much trash from ending up in landfills.
I shop at the Farmer's Market and the
People's Food Co-op almost exclusive-
ly. I carry around a set of silverware
and ask the server at BTB not to wrap
my burritos in foil. Since March 29, I
have accumulated around 3 pounds of
trash, mostly receipts, the tops of reus-
able milk jars and stickers off of fruit.
There are, however, other things

that I failed to anticipate, such as a
broken Pyrex pie dish, and a sparkler
from my friend's graduation party.
Each piece of trash I now have has a
story for me. Each piece embodies an
experience and many lives. Not only
mine, but also those of the human and
natural resources that went into mak-
ingthem.
I grew up in Mumbai, India, a bus-
tling, multicultural, multilingual city
of close to 20 million people. Just like
any megacity, the grime there is vis-
ible, tangible and never more than a
few feet away from you. Yet, I grew
up there during a time in which over-
consumption hadn't really made its
way into the mainstream Indian cul-
ture. I am proud to say my parents
afforded my sister and me a simple but
incredibly happy life, without the truly
unnecessary trinkets and gadgets that
seem to clutter homes and trash cans
nowadays.
After moving to Ann Arbor in 2003
to start an undergraduate degree,
nothing much changed for me in the
way I chose to live. Living within
means and constraints - personal,
financial, social and environmental
- is something I value. I believe this
is the responsible way to live. My first
laptop from 2003 is still the same one
I use today; it gets the job done. The
clothes I wear, as old as they may be,
keep me covered, warm and comfort-
able. New things always come with
their tags, bubble wrap and fancy bags
- things we will "trash" within days.
When I go to a second-hand store, I

choose not to see "old" forks, "reused"
t-shirts and "outdated" furniture.
Instead, I choose to see all the material,
energy, water, time and other resourc-
es we have invested in perfectly func-
tional and working objects, objects of
our humanity. I don't mean to say that
there isn't merit in novelty and fash-
ion. What Iam saying is that we should

is about green-
"I like to think of trash as water: It house gas emis-
sions, toxins
flows like streams and rivers along in water and
heavy metals
the path of least resistance." and dioxins
released from
incinerators.
make full use of what we have already, We have structured our societies and
beforegoing out and purchasing some- interactions around trash and waste,
thing new, untouched and virgin. and have accepted their existence.
Trash is visceral - we feel trash, No one wants to be around trash,
we smell it, touch it and hear it. When and that's why places in Canada and
we go out to dinner, we use napkins to the entire city of Toronto ship their
wipe our hands. When we crack open a trash and waste, more than 400 truck-
bottle of wine, we rip off the wrapping, loads per day, to Michigan for dump-
hiding the cork and throwing it out. On ing. I like to think of trash as water: It
game day, the yard of a college frater- flows like streams and rivers along the
nity house is littered with plastic cups. path of least resistance (those willing
We hear the early trash collectors with to deal with it for the least amount of
their huge trucks at the crack of dawn, money) and ends up in puddles, lakes
crushing pounds of trash. A trash bin and oceans (landfills). New York City
filled to the brim releases a putrid smell ships most of its waste to New Jersey,
that just makes us want to walk away. Virginia, South Carolina and Ohio
Indeed, trash makes its presence felt - far away places. Many of the semi
far more than do our other foes, like trucks you see on the highway are
greenhouse gases. Take carbon diox- actually just full of trash.
ide, for example: When we flip on the Trash is big business, upwards of a
light switch, the room is illuminated $50 billion per year industry, and peo-
here, but the odorless, colorless car- ple have a vested interest in the gen-

eration of trash. Yes, in some ways, my
project to stop making trash "negative-
ly" affects someone's family and some-
one's job, in these "tough economic
times." But inherently, any activism
or choice changes the fabric of what is
acceptable and what isn't, which inher-
ently affects our communities and
economies.
Many people have asked me about
my social life: am I able to go out and
be with friends? Where do I go to eat?
Am I just a sore thumb when I am
with a group of people? In the end, it's
about sacrifice. My friend told me the
other day that the act of sacrificing is
to make something sacred. What have
I sacrificed? Not much, to me at least
- fast food, packaged pasta and a new
iPhone. But what have I made sacred? I
have made my Earth, my surroundings
and people that deal with the conse-
quences of our behavior more sacred
to me.
What does a world without trash
look like, and how do our interactions
need to change to move toward that
vision? Is trash a natural outcome of
"modernization?" What would happen
if we had to carry around the trash we
produced rather than throw it "away?"
Ann Arbor, as many of your friends
and family have probably noted to you,
is a unique environment that is set up
for each one of us to live experimen-
tally and experientially. We have all
of the social resources set up in a way
that we can choosea project and live it.
I would encourage you to think about
those things you take for granted,
those things that are unconscious to
you, raise them into consciousness and
act on them. Maybe you can try living
trash-free for a week, or maybe even a
day. I am waiting to hear your story.
- Darshan Karwat is a Ph.D.
candidate. He can be reached at
dippind@umich.edu. You can read more
about his year without trash on his blog
at minimizingentropy.blogspot.com.

THE GREEN ISSUE

STRIDES TOWARD SUSTAINABILITY


SUSTAINABILITY
From Page 6B
wants to focus on making a change in
the students who are already here.,
Students who attended fresh-
men orientation this past summer
received a 21-page guide called "How
to be a Green Wolverine." The packet,
which can be found on the Graham
Institute's Website and in residence
halls, provided incoming students'
with information about buying local
produce, conservation and instruc-
tions for throwing sustainable par-
ties, among other environmental tips.

For co-chair of the Environmental
Law Society Augustus Winkes, it was
the idea of shared responsibility that
prompted him to get involved with
sustainability initiatives in the first
place.
"Too often, I think, students are
so focused on their chosen areas of
study that they can forget about their
relationship to the bigger institution
they are part of," said Winkes, a Law
student and masters candidate. "SSI
reinforces the notion that we all have
a stake in how the University address-
es sustainability issues ... Moreover,
sustainability will not be achievable
unless we to work together."

OFF THE GRID
From Page 5B
try to eat locally grown food as much
as possible, with eggs and meat com-
ing from their own farm.
"Footprint is something we're con-
scientious of and the best way to start
to think about your footprint I think
is to pay attention. The farm forces
us to pay attention to food, so we pay
attention to meat in ways that other
people don't pay attention to meat,
because we grow our own meat," he
said.
With this practice in place,

Trumpey said he had gone 12 years
without buying meat and eggs from
the grocery store, until the construc-
tion of the home, which has caused
him to make the occasional purchase.
As the house is completed, Trumpey
said he and his wife have a goal to
grow 50 percent of their own food.
Trumpey added that the house and
its dependence on solar energy is also
a reminder of the family's environ-
mental impact.
"The house connects us to site
as well and we pay attention to our
electrical use in ways we never did
before, because we're off the grid,"
he said.

As the house construction nears an
end, Trumpey said he's very pleased
with the outcome of his design, but
added that there are more projects
in the future, namely a barn for the
livestock.
Though the family has been liv-
ing in the house for the past year-
and-a-half, official residence will
be declared before Thanksgiving.
Trumpey and his family will be
authorized residents of the only
straw-bale house in Jackson County.
But as Trumpey reminds us, this way
of life isn't out-of-the ordinary.
"It's a pretty normal American
lifestyle," he said.






IM TheSttemnt// edesdyNovmbr 1,701

I f Wednesday, November 10, 2010 // The Statement

statement
Magazine Editor:
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief.
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor-
Jenna Skoller
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor:
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.

THEGREENISSUE
random student interview by will grundler

elcome to the Random
Student Interview
Green Edition! We're
in the Samuel "Treehugger" Dana
Building, an environmentally
friendly place that used absolutely
NO paper during its construction.
What's your name?
Laura.
Do you think that the theory of
global warming should be taught in
public schools?
Yeah, for sure.
Please prove global warming in 10
words or less.
Um, ice melt, homeless polarbears -
There have to be verbs in there.
No coat necessary in November.
Some say the green movement was
started by hipsters. Your rebuttal?
I'd say it was started by science dorks.
But it's pretty cool to be green.
I think it's cool that it's trendy.

How do you think the concept of
sustainability goes against the spir-
itofAmerica?
Amierica's always about growth, and
bigger is better -
So it's threatening our way oflife.
I mean...threatening capitalism...peo-
ple don't take alot ofrisks into account.
I don't think Americans in the past
ordered immigrants to build this
nation of ours with the message,
"Oh, don't cut down those trees!
Hey, don't pollute those rivers!"
Do you think that nowadays we're
going against that?
Well, I thinkthat realistically you can't
just keep going at an unbridled pace.
You're going to run out of space. You're
going to run out of resources.
How wasteful do you try to be every
day?
Do I try to be? Minimally.
I see one, two, three, four, five plas-

tic things from here -
(Laughs.) I've got Wendy's in the Dana
Building. But I don't drive a car and I
recycle and -
I've heard they just throw recycla-
bles away.
I've heard that, too. But you've got to
try to think a little positively. What
about when we run out of space?
We have plenty of - I mean, Amer-
ica's the biggest country in the
world. I think. We have Alaska to
put extra people in, and Death Val-
ley. But next question: Last time I
checked, there's no animal or plant
heaven, so why should we care
about destroying other species?
I think that everything is intercon-
nected, so if you lose too many spe-
cies...
Moving on: Scientists tell us that
the level of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere is nearly 400 parts per

million. Just how did they find 400
little molecules out of the other mil-
lions of molecules out there?
They spent a lot of time looking for
them.
Thought experiment: If we saved
all the forests and all the lakes and
all the animals and all the plants -
essentially, if we saved everything
in nature, which is the mission of
the green movement - how would
we value nature?
I think if you got to see it all the time
that you would be a happier person
and your quality of life would go up.
Well, I will say this: "Ferngully" is
one awesome movie.
I agree.
Up until the end, of course, which
is kind of a downer. You shouldn't
stop progress.

DANA BUILDING
LEED GOLD
BUDGET: $17.7 million
SQUAREFEET: 104,000 gross sq.ft.
SCHEDULE: Completed Winter 2003
SOLAR POWER: The Dana Building
employs both an active and passive
solar system. On the roof of the building, 30kW photovoltaic pan-
els provide enough energy to power the entire building. The 4,000
square-foot atrium skylight was also designed to provide natural
lighting for the interior of the building.
WATER CONSERVATION: All water faucets in the building are sen-
sor-activated and the urinals in the men's restrooms are waterless.
There are also three composting toilets, which decompose human
waste so it can be used as plant fertilizer.
RENEWABLE MATERIALS: Much of the material used in the con-
struction of the Dana Building is renewable. The countertops in the
mailroom were made from wheat straw, sunflower seed hulls, soy
flour and waste newspaper. The cork flooring in the 2nd floor con-
ference room was made from the bark of cork oak trees. And the
bamboo flooring on the 4th floor and plywood columns in the com-
mon room were made from grass.
DATA COURTESY OF THE UNIVERSITY

GREENING THE 'U'
A BRIEF LOOK AT THE GREENEST BUILDINGS ON CAMPUS AND
THE FEATURES THAT MAKE THEM SUSTAINABLE

f4

- Laura is an LSA junior.



The University of Michigan
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
PRESENTs a public lecture and reception
Pamela A. Raymond
Stephen S. Easter Collegiate Professor of
Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology

WRITING+SLC+NYC!
SERIOUSLY
INTERESTED INW
SERIOUSLY
INTO NEW YORK

With 8 million stories at your
doorstep ond 44 wooded ocres
at your feet, you'll have plenty
of material to work with.

Achieve your full potential as a writer
by enrolling in Sarah Lawrence College's
Spring Writing Semester in New York!
* Work one-on-one with SLC's distinguished
writing faculty
* Attend organized readings and literary
events on-campus and in NYC
* Receive 15 transferable academic credits
* Reside on SLC's suburban campus 30
minutes from Manhattan and interact
with SLC students and a supportive
community of successful writers

LAW SCHOOL ADDITION
BUDGET $102 million
SQUARE FEET: 116,000 gross
sq.ft
SCHEDULE: Completion
scheduled for Spring 2012
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
MEASURES: The Law School
addition has been designed
to surpass energy efficiency requirements by 30
percent. The design features to meet this goal
include: the use of infrared scans during con-
struction to check for missing insulation, gaps
in the enclosure and other deficiencies; low-flow
water fixtures; energy-efficient windows and the
use of occupancy sensors to reduce lighting levels
throughout the building.
OTHER SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES: The site is
situated near public and University bus routes and
there is no parking available on site to encourage
the use of public transportation. The landscaping
around the building uses only native plants and no
lawns, which eliminates the need for mowing.
DATA COURTESY OF THE UNIVERSITY-

41
t
t
r
/

HOSPITAL ADDITION
L E E D RT I FAIE D
BUDGET: $754 million
SQUARE FEET: 1,100,000 gross sq. ft
SCHEDULE: Completion scheduled for
Spring 2012
GREEN ROOF: The C.S. Mott Children's
Hospital's and Von Voigtlander Women's Hospital's eco-friendly roof
is covered with sedum, a drought-resistant perennial groundcover,
which helps to reduce energy loss and insulate the building. The roof
is expected to lower heating and cooling costs by 50 percent over its
lifetime, which is three times longer than conventional roofs.
RECYCLED MATERIALS: More than 200 tons of concrete and asphalt
were collected from the site and used in the construction of the hos-
pital. In all, 93percent of the material gathered from the construction
site was used in the construction.
HOSPITAL FLOORS: Unlike in traditional hospitals, the floors are
special no-wax, no-buff floors that require less maintenance and thus
fewer chemicals to clean.
DATA COURTESY OF THEUNIVERSITY
THE BUSINESS SCHOOL
BUDGET: $145 million
SQUARE FEET 270,000 gross sq. ft.
SCHEDULE: Completed Fall2008
WATER EFFICIENCY: The irrigation systems
around Ross reduce potable water consumption by 55 percent. And the energy-
efficient features inside - automatic faucets, low-flush toilets, waterless uri-
nals - reduce potable water use by 42 percent.
ENERGY CONSERVATION: The building utilizes high-efficiency lighting and
daylight-dimming systems that reduce power requirements. Large skylights
allow natural lighting in offices and classrooms, and sensors in offices auto-
matically lower the heat when the rooms are unoccupied.
GREEN ROOF: Ross employs a similar green roof to that of the Children's and
Women's Hospital. Three separate roofs help filter rainfall and improve the air
quality of the building by trapping airborne dust and dirt. And, like the hospi-
tal, the roofs are planted with sedum to insulate the building and reduce heat-
ing and cooling costs.
DATA COURTESY OF THE UNIVERSITY

14
14

LESSONS FROM
FISH EYES
Thursday, November 11, 2010
4:10 pm # Rackham Amphitheater
Si For More Information Call (734) 615-6449


w w

--


IM Wednsday Novembes,200//Thtaemn

Wednesday, November 10, 2010 // The Statement
news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance

AN EFFORT IN SUSTAINABILITY

he environment has long been a
concern to faculty and admin-
istrators at the University. it
can be seen in efforts to encourage
recycling in the residence halls or
in policies that require eco-friendly
construction of buildings. But amid
growingnational support for sustain-
ability, President Mary Sue Coleman
has recently vocalized her desire to
increase the amount of effort and
attention the University community
places on the environment.
"With the pressing challenge of
climate change, we are elevating
our emphasis on sustainability at
Michigan," Coleman said in a 2009
press release. "From teaching and
research, to hands-on engagement,
we are going to leverage our many
strengths so we can make significant
contributions to solving a genuinely
complicated problem."
To accomplish these goals, the
University is taking a three-pronged
approach that explores a balance
between daily activities and lifestyles
and Earth's resources and processes,
focusing specifically on education,
research and campus operations. The
ultimate goal is to manage the devel-
opment of both the University and
the world at large in a way that will
promote the health and wellbeing of
the planet.
CAMPUS SUSTAINABILITY
INTEGRATED ASSESSMENT
To ensure this goal is a University-
wide commitment and not simply a
student-activist effort, Coleman cre-
ated the office of Sustainability last
year and established a new position,
Special Counsel to the President for
Sustainability. Engineering professor
Don Scavia, who also serves as direc-
tor of the Graham Environmental
Sustainability Institute, was the first
to be chosen for the role.
Scavia has been using resources
provided by the Graham Institute -
ail interdisciplinary partnership that
manages and coordinates the Univer-
sity's sustainability initiative - and
working with the Office of Campus
Sustainability to evaluate the cam-
pus's current carbon footprint. This
work comprises the Campus Sus-
tainability Integrated Assessment,
through the Environmental Sustain-
ability Executive Council Coleman
created in October of last year.
"The long-term goal is to support
the kind of research that can help

tackle some of those complicated sus- move the Universit
tainability problems in the globe and ward in our cam
to have a more sustainable campus so efforts." Recently
that we're actually walking the talk the project into Ph
as we go forward," Scavia said in a with the initiative'
phone interview. In Phase Two
To accomplish these goals, Scavia is looking to devi
is working alongside faculty, staff and eral areas based o
students on the Campus Sustainabili- synthesized from
ty Integrated Assessment to research possible goal is
and make recommendations in seven sustainable buildir
core areas: buildings, energy sources, plans on projects t
transportation, land and water, food, $10 million, decrea
purchasing and recycling and cul- bicides and pestici
ture, according to the Graham Insti- locally grown food
tute's website. A final report will be
printed and shared once the assess- EDUCATION A
ment is completed. The University
Despite the chaotic schedule that several hundred c(
accompanies his multiple roles at the graduate and un
University, Scavia is passionate about that focus on sust
the environment and his ability to ing to the Offic
help it. He has been interested in the ity's website, and t
subject since he was an undergradu- Environment is t
ate, and had worked for the federal LSA major.
government on environmental policy But Scavia wan
for 30 years before comingto the Uni- education about
versity as a professor. initiative doesn't e
"One of the things that I came to students who majo
learn through all that process was that do this, he puttoget
focusing on the environmentby itself is inar about sustain
not going to get us very far in terms of along with the Ce
overall sustainability," he said. "Butyou on Learning and7
really need to bring together perspec- wants to bring mo
tives from the environment, from the directly into the ci
economy and from the social structures
and policy making to really move for- 'FOCUSING
ward in sustainability."
In order to bring together these ITSELF IS N(
different perspectives, Coleman's
sustainability initiative is just as VERY FAR"
dependent on student minds as it is
on distinguished faculty. About 45
students hired by the Graham insti- Scavia and the E
tute were divided into seven faculty- tee are working w
led teams to discuss solutions to these the University to d
various issues. Their ideas were then es in sustainability
divided into five main categories: Natural Resources
climate, human health, ecosystem ment taking the le
health, materials footprint and com- and education fron
munity awareness. These students "The instructio
work with University Operations covers a much lar
staff to examine what is being done campus sustainab
on campus now and what can be done is essentially globa
in the future. and its ambition,"
"(Their job is to) put together .a al, a professor and
set of recommendations for Presi- dean in the SNRE.
dent Coleman on establishing a set of The SNRE has
sustainability goals for the campus," in recent years cr
Scavia said. a larger staff and
Scavia said in a University press courses to meet its
release that the first phase of the unique obstacle to
project was about "generating well- evolving issues
informed ideas that could potentially faces. offered clas

ty of Michigan for-
pus sustainability
Scavia has moved
hase Two, satisfied
s progress.
, the University
elop plans in sev-
n the information
Phase One. One
developing more
ng and renovation

with new information and issues,
Argawal said.
Agrawal further explained that
SNRE will expand in newly devel-
oping areas of research, like climate
change and ecosystem services, to
bring the University to "the fore-
front of research of the most impor-
tant environmental challenges that
emerge."

that cost less thanO OPERATIONS AND
sing its use of her- CO-CURRICULAR EDUCATION
ides and buy more To meet the demands of Coleman's
for the University. initiative, Scavia has been working
with the Office of Campus Sustain-
ND RESEARCH ability to study campus behavior and
currently offers discuss possible initiatives in town
ourses at both the hall meetings.
dergraduate level in Phase One of the assessment,
ainability, accord- the analysis teams received about 200
e of Sustainabil- students ideas, comments and sug-
he Program in the gestions through these meetings and
he fastest-growing online, accordingto a University press
release. In order to gather and imple-
its to ensure that ment more ideas and information, the
the environment University also hosted an eventin July
nd with only those to examine similar initiatives at other
r in the subject. To universities and organizations.
ther a provostsem- While these town hall meetings
ability last spring are open to the entire University
nter for Research community, many of the participants
Teaching. He also are members of the Student Sus-
re green education tainability Initiative - an entirely
assroom. student-based project made up of
students across
ON TH EENV RO M NT colleges and
ON THE ENVIRONMENT disciplines to
)T GOING TO GET US spread environ-
mental aware-

tory for implementing sustainabil-
ity improvements on campus, kind of
like starting close to home," she said.
"And if we can be successful here,
then people can gobe successful else-
where."
THE GREEN WOLVERINE
Within the masses of the sustain-
ability initiative as well as the indi-
viduals in the SNRE, there seems to
be a consensus that in order for any-
thing to actually happen, a cultural
and social change is necessary.
"There's only so much you can do
with tweaking the technologies, alot
of what we need to do is get people
more aware of turning off the water,
turning off the light, just changing
their behaviors to become more sus-
tainable," Scavia said.
To this end, there is a team of
people doing research on incentives
that can be implemented to promote
conservation as a way of thinking.
Researchers are also workingto over-
come the challenge of measuring the
obscure and elusive factor that is the
culture of sustainability.
Agrawal said what the campus
needs is to promote awareness of
environmental sustainability and
sustainability issues, coupled with
activities that encourage student par-
ticipation.
"So I think by participating in
work that is environmentally con-
scious and environmentally positive,
we can create a culture among our
students that makes sustainability a
more important value for everyone,"
he said. "Consciousness alone doesn't
do it, you have to encourage things to
happen."
The University has promoted
environmental awareness and social
change through its annual Energy
Fest, where students can learn about
"energy conservation, energy effi-
ciency and alternative energy tech-
nologies," according to the Utilities
and Plant Operations website. The
University also took part in Earth
Fest, an event to promote sustainabil-
ity through various fun educational
activities.
Scavia said one of his additional
goals is to make the University more
appealing for potential students
interested in learning about environ-
mental issues to build a foundation
for future careers or simply to imple-
ment into day-to-day life. But he also
See SUSTAINABILITY, Page 8B

Queen Elizabeth II, the 84-year-
old British monarch, joined
Facebook, updating the people
who frequent her page on her
daily goings-on as of Monday.
The Queen will appear in videos,
photos and news items.

Australia's national carrier Qantas Minnesota, Tennessee and Ohio
grounded six double-decker A380 officials arrested 29 members of a
planes - the world's newest and Somali sex-trafficking ring accused
largest airliner - after an engine of forcing girls as young as 13 into
burst shortly into a flight. The com- prostitution for money and drugs.
pany has discovered engine leaks The ring is believed to have been
in three Rolls-Royce engines. recruiting girls since 2000.
r ------ ------ ------ ----

Hundreds of people in Haiti have
died over the last few weeks from
a cholera outbreak, for which
U.N. peacekeepers might be
responsible. Under this suspicion,
hundreds of Haitians protested
the peacekeepers last week.

The incoming GOP majority plans
to take action to block as much of
President Obama's health care bill
as it can, including taking steps to
make sure the IRS can't enforce
the provision that makes buying
health insurance mandatory.

0
imlof 1 1111117 11 [111 1 17.1 1 1111 111 1 12111 3 7 5 6 7 8 7 7 T .. 10

quotes of the week
"One day you're world champions, and the next day, no toys
for you."
DANIEL CONWAY, spokesman for the California Restaurant Association,on
his reaction to San Francisco's decision to ban restaurants from giving away
toys with meals that don't meet certain nutrition restrictions.
"Tomorrow, I'll be back where I truly belong - indoors,
under artificial light."
CONAN O'BRIEN, talk show host, writing on his Twitter the same day his new
show debuted on TBS.
"No placards, no flags, no shouting and no slogans. Only
kissing allowed."
A FACEBOOK PAGE FOR SPANISH GAYS AND LESBIANS, organizing a
homosexual kiss-in when Pope Benedict XVI visits Spain this weekend, call-
ing it a "queer kissing flashmob."
the rules
No. 287: No. 288: No. 289:
Yes! It's finally Ugg V.v.V makes a It's been a really
season, lobster in Gchat, long time. By now
Seriously, though, you should know
check it out. how to Dougie.

on the cheap

going green on the cheap

Executive Commit-
'ith schools across
develop new cours-
'with the School of
and the Environ-
ad on the research
it.
n of sustainability
ger stage (than the
ility initiative). It
al in its orientation
said Arun Agraw-
research associate
expanded greatly
eating the need for
a wider variety of
students' needs. A
SNRE is the ever-
the environment
sses must keep up

ness and to
promote change
on campus. SSI
also helps organize numerous sus-
tainability projects thatvarious cam-
pus organizations undertake.
Lisa Pappas, marketing commu-
nications specialist for the Graham
Environmental Sustainability Insti-
tute, said the overall campus sus-
tainability initiative, as proposed
by President Coleman and directed
by Scavia, is about taking action to
become a more sustainable soci-
ety so that it can lead by example in
green initiatives occuring across the
country. The Integrated Assessment
project among others at the Univer-
sity can research and define ways the
University can be used as a potential
test run and showcase of ideas to help
the environment on a larger scale.
"It's just a very good opportunity
to use the campus as a living labora-

T he University has gone to great lengths to promote environmental awareness. But even
though many students want to become "Green Wolverines," organic food and clothing
can often come with a large price tag. But there are a lot of ways to stay green without break-
ing your budget.
First, buying organic food is good not only for the environment, but for your body as well.
Some healthfood stores can be expensive, but try Trader Joe's organic food, or the People's
Food Co-Op for less expensive organic options. Also, make sure to bring your own bags to
the grocery store. Or, if those stores are too expensive for you, you could always try growing
your own vegetables.
In terms of non-perishable items, like clothes and furniture, staying green on the cheap is
extremely easy: reuse as much as possible. Consider going to second-hand stores to buy new
things, or simply reuse what you already own. Don't worry, the stains add character.
There are also some day-to-day ways to stay green that don't cost anything: Turn off lights
and appliances when you leave the room and carpool, walk or bike whenever possible.
Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know E-mail onthecheap@umich.edu.

byCOURTESY OF BBC.COM
The number of cholera patients who The number of people whose lives have The number of suspected cholera cases in the
are currently in a hospital in Haiti, as been claimed by the recent cholera out- Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince, as of Monday
of Monday night. break in Haiti, as of Monday night. night.


Te Sttmn // Wensay oeme 0,21

Wednesday, November 10, 2010 // The Statement5B

:
r;
< z:'
,' }, ..
;'
< . ,
,1
f,
, .k>
<n f
\;
C
. 1
'C'.'
,t',
_' "';i

A STRAW HOUSE, A SOLAR PANEL AND
A QUEST FOR ENERGY INDEPENDENCE

-i ,
'1

RASS LAKE, MICH. - Joe Trumpey, a pro-
fessor in the School of Art & Design and the
School of Natural Resources and the Envi-
ronment, stands in front of his two-story adobe
house on a crisp fall afternoon, the wind whipping
across 40 acres of forests and pastures hiding cat-
tle, a flock of sheep and a 25-foot solar panel.
Trumpey and his family live in this home com-
pletely off the grid. They use the solar panel to
gather energy from the sun, which is then stored
in 35 golf cart batteries located in the roof of a util-
ity shack on the property. When full, the batteries
could-power his home for four full days without
needingto be recharged. -
What's more, Trumpey built the home with his
own two hands. Using straw bales as the base and
a homemade adobe mixture as an outer coating,
Trumpey has been constructing the 3,000 square
foot residence for the past two-and-a-half years
with help from his wife, two daughters and the
occasional volunteer group from the University.
"This isn't normal?" Trumpey jokes, surveying
his property.
It's a home of striking appearance, a stark com-
bination of functional beauty and spartan rugged-
ness. Seeing the home for the first time, it's hard to
believe that the basic building material is hay.
Trumpey gestures to the adobe coating on the
outside of the home. He says the adobe acts as atype
of paste, strengthening the structure and protect-
ing it fromthe elements at the same time. The adobe
also allows the straw bales - taken from a straw
harvest across the street - to breath. in addition to
the adobe, the straw is protected and elevated off of
the ground by a stone base, made up of stones taken
from Trumpey's property. He and his wife collect-
ed the stones and built the base by themselves, and
his wife's artistic touches can be seen underneath
some of the windowsills, where she has the kids'
names spelled out along with other designs.
With big sweeping windows facing the southern
exposure, the house also acts as its own air con-

ditioner and heating system. After all, in an eco-
friendly house completely off the power grid and
dependent on solar power, central air-conditioning
would greatly detract from the goal of energy con-
servation.
Instead, Trumpey and his wife intentionally
placed heavy stone and woodwork in the house,
which retain heat for long periods of time. They
also installed a system of pipes thatrun beneath the
floor, allowing it to be cooled or heated. Combined
with the proper opening and closing of windows,
Trumpey said the temperature in his home is nor-
mally quite comfortable.
"Most days you could stand by an open door and
it felt like air-conditioning was blowing out of the
door," he said of the summer months.
Trumpey added that the ceiling also has a high
insulation level with its coating of bio-based soy
foam, recycled newspaper and cellulose insulation,
helping further regulate the home's climate.
With walls constructed entirely from local straw
bales, lumber milled from an invasive species of
wood and stones taken from the area, along with
a sustainable energy system, some may consider
Trumpey's home to be an eco-friendly experiment
- a sortof giant, livable test tube. But for the profes-
sor and his wife and two young daughters this place
is their home.
Walking through the front door, the foyer opens
up into a fully-functional kitchen, complete with
a stove, refrigerator and other modern appliances.
Toward the back of the first floor there's even a
flat-screen television mounted on a turntable in the
wall, allowing the TV to swivel between two sepa-
rate rooms.
Trumpey turns toward the front of the house and
points to what he calls a "truth window," a small
opening on the wall revealing its bare structure,
which Trumpey says all straw-bale houses have to

prove that the walls are in fact made of straw.
A further look around the inside of the house
reveals a mixture of home and the outdoors. His
children's artwork fills the adobe walls, cork floor-
ing covers portions of the floor and twigs line the
staircase railing.
The other reminder of the surrounding environ-
ment is more obvious, as his wife calls out that one
of the cows has escaped and Trumpey has to run
outside to usher it back inside the fenced-in pasture.

animals," he said in a recent interview at his office
in the School of Art & Design.
Trumpey said he and his wife were also con-
cerned about their home and its effect on the envi-
ronment.
"That was one of the main efforts, tryingto mini-
mize the energy and be really conscious about what
the materials are and where we got them from," he
said
Thus began seven years of extensive research,

I was expecting 'OK, this is probably going to be small and
shoddy looking,' but no it looks modern, really well put together.
I mena It's a beautiful house.'"t

Why did Trumpey decide to move from a small,
conventional farmhouse to a self-sufficient adobe
home?.
The reason dates back to his time in the Boy
Scouts and evolved throughout his college years, a
time in which Trumpey admitted he didn't live on a
farm or in an eco-friendly house.
As a boy scout, Trumpey said he learned to
appreciate the outdoors and developed a respect
for the environment. Then as he reached college,
he said he carried the same sentiments with him
as he studied abroad in Scotland, which proved to
be a turning point in his life. Trumpey met his wife
there and they both developed an interest in live-
stock and farming techniques.
Fueled by their interest, Trumpey and his wife
created a farm of their own in North Carolina
before transporting all of the animals to a small
farm in Michigan. But their innovation didn't end
there.
"The designer parts of us started to think about a
well-designed homestead that brought together all
of our interests, meshing indoor and outdoor space,
meshing efficiency and an ethical way to keep the

leading to the acquisition of 40 acres of land and,
after two-and-a-half more years of construction, a
home.
When she first went out to work on Trumpey's
home, as part of a volunteer group from the Uni-
versity, Kinsey Brock, a 5th-year senior in LSA and
the School of Art & Design, said she was surprised
by its appearance.
"I was expecting 'OK, this is probably going to
be small and shoddy looking,' but no, it looks mod-
ern, really well put together," Brock said. "I mean
it's a beautiful house."
Working for Trumpey as a student volunteer
two-and-a-half years ago, and again last summer,
Brock said she completed many tasks, including
stacking up straw bales and mixing and apply-
ing coats of adobe to add finishing touches to the
house as it neared completion.
While Brock saw the volunteer opportunity
offered to students in Trumpey's "Technology
and the Environment" class as a way to further

her interest in sustainable design, she said she was
also struck by Trumpey's commitment to the prin-
ciples he taught.
"It was really nice to see a professor who was
practicing what he preached," she said.
Stephanie Starch, an alum of the School of Art &
Design, said she also appreciated Trumpey's com-
mitment to the project, adding that she admired
the amount of time he took out of his day to work
on the house.
"I couldn't believe when I first saw it, that he was
starting this massive project and he's already such a
busyguy," Starch said.
Starch also said she felt many students were
eager to help work on the project.
"That was something that was almost always at
Trumpey's house, somebodyto help," she said.
Through her work on the house, mixing adobe
and cutting boards, Starch said she developed a
passion for sustainable construction.
"I think it's really important to have an environ-
mentally friendly house," she said. "Because we
waste so much energy in traditional housing, that
in a building like this, everything from the materi-
als to the way it functions is easier on the environ-
ment."
While the environmental effect of conventional-
ly built housing varies depending on the structure,
Larissa Larsen, associate professor of urban plan-
ning and of landscape architecture, said structures
that are not eco-friendly definitely create a strain
on the environment.
Quoting an estimate from the U.S. Green Build-
ing Council, Larsen said conventional structures
like homes, offices and schools consume 72 percent
of all electricity and 14 percent of portable water
used in the United States, while creating 38 percent
of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions and 30 percent of
waste output.

FROM LEFT: A view from the Trumpey's back-
yard of the family's clothes air drying (MARISSA
MCCLAIN/Daily); an interior wall constructed
out of straw bail hay and plastered ina home- -
made adobe mixture (JED MOCH/Daily); Prof.
Joe Trumpey, who has been building his home
out of straw bail hay for the past two-and-a-half
years (ARIEL BOND/Daily); a row of golf cart
batteries that Trumpey uses to store the energy
collected from the 25-foot solar panel located on
his property (JED MOCH/Daily).
But even with this large toll on the environment
there is still hope, as Larsen explains that she has
seen many buildings and homes opt for LEED cer-
tification, a certificate developed by the U.S. Green
Building Council that measures green-building
practices and energy conservation.
"The number of certifications in the housing
dimension, either in new construction or in renova-
tion, has really been going up significantly," Larsen
said.
This trend is also true on campus, as the Univr-
sity announced in Augustcthat it will require allnew
construction to meet LEED silver certification,.the
third highest in the LEED rating system.
Larsen said this announcement, as well as the
current search committees studying sustainabil-
ity practices on campus, demonstrate the Univer-
sity's commitment to reduce its carbon footprint.
"I think that we're lucky to be in this commu-
nity. There's a real enthusiasm, a general level of
enthusiasm," she said.
She added that as the number of people choos-
ing to build sustainable housing is increasing,
Ann Arbor is also in a position to easily improve
its eco-friendliness through business and supplier
practices.
"I think more and morethis is goingto be a com-
mon practice, not an unusual practice," she said.
As Trumpey's tour is interrupted by a runaway
cow, a survey of his property also reveals a farm
stocked with sheep and other various livestock
and a house complete with dogs, chinchillas, birds,
cats, snakes and lizards.
While some of the animals are in residence for
his wife's third grade class or for sale to an area pet
store, others, like the cows and sheep, are a con-
tinuation of Trumpey's sustainable practices.
Self-titled locavores, Trumpey and his family
See OFF THE GRID, Page 88

d
'
¢ ,.
"qn
; n
'..

I

: -,
;

(

/I

v
'
t .F
¢: .,


r
:F .
_ ,




