With his grandmother in the stands for the first time,
WR Darryl Stonum's maturation paid off. PAGE 8A
Jeremy Levy on why Jon Stewart's'Rally to Restore
Sanity' is just what this country needs. PAGE 4A
S lie 1Ikliyan 0aij

Wednesday, September 22, 2010

michigandaily.com

* MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
Assembly vows
to strengthen
relationship
with A2 Council

MSA officials say
students weren't
consulted enough on
porch couch ban
By RACHEL BRUSSTAR
Daily StaffReporter
At its weekly meeting last night,
the Michigan Student Assembly
discussed strengthening relations
with the Ann Arbor City Council,
following the council's decision
Monday night to pass a ban on
upholstered furniture on porches.
Though City Council unani-
mously passed the resolution at
its meeting Monday, MSA offi-
cials said at last night's meeting
that they believe the student body
wasn't consulted in the process.
MSA representatives added that
they are determined to fortify a
stronger relationship with the
council by creating more open dia-
logue with council members.
City Council's ban was proposed
in light of a State Street house fire
last April that killed Eastern Mich-
igan student Renden LeMasters.
Authorities believe an upholstered
couch that was on the house's
porch fueled the fire.
After last night's meeting, MSA
Vice President Jason Raymond

described the assembly's relation-
ship with City Council as being
off-and-on in the past, but said
that it was also filled with obvi-
ous successes, like a city-assembly
partnership to address tailgates on
State Street on Football Saturdays.
"When it came to noise and
trash violations we worked with
the city handily on that," Raymond
said in an interview lastnight. "But
(the relationship) ebbs and flows."
"Although the couch ban was in
some ways a disappointment, we're
hoping that we can still find some
degree of consensus on a number
of issues in the future," Raymond
added.
Campus Safety Chair and Exter-
nal Relations Vice Chair Josh Buoy
has been especially active in estab-
lishing a more open relationship
with City Council following the
porch couch ban.
"It would have been so beneficial
to be notified.and to collaborate
with (City Council) to come to a
consensus of what is best to pro-
mote fire safety," Buoy said in an
interview last night. "Especially if
this is for the students, the students
should be involved."
Much of the work on the ordi-
nance was done over the summer,
Raymond said, which meant that
the student body and MSA weren't
given enough time to have an ade-
See MSA, Page 6A

MAX COLLINS/Daily
Construction near the proposed Monroe Street pedestrian mall last night. The project - which is a walkway meant to connect the current law school facilities
with the forthcoming South Hall (above) - is currently stalled while University officials respond to concerns raised by the city's planning commission.
Monroe St. walkwayhits
roadblock amid question s
City commission a pedestrian mall on Monroe campus include the pedestrian students and staff members going
Street - between the current Law mall along the east side of the back and forth between the facili-
wants answers Quadrangle and the new building Diag and tnga-MalI, both of ties," he said.
- remains stalled before the Ann which used to be city streets. The project, according to
before Law School Arbor Planning Commission. Tn an interview, Jim Koste- Kosteva, is budgeted at $3 million.
a If approved, control of the va, the University's director of Nevertheless, city officials
pedestrian mall, originally pro- community relations, said the need to be assured of a few
posed in December 2008, would pedestrian mall would provide a things before the proposal can be
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN be transferred to the University physical and programmatic con- approved, Kosteva said.
Daily StaffReporter as a public right-of-way, mean- nection between the existing Law "The city has identified a num-
ing the general public would have Quadrangle and South Hall. ber of items...that they want to
Despite the fact that con- the right to access and travel in "They've designed and thought make sure we complete before
struction on the Law School's the space under the University's through their uses of South Hall they would give unconditional
new South Hall continues, the jurisdiction. and it's going to have a lot of title, before they would formally
University's proposal to create Other public rights-of-way on extensive, daily traffic of faculty, See MONROE STREET, Page SA

CAMPUS COMMUNITIES BIG TEN NATION
'U' makes push to connect
students to North Campus

Extended bus hours,
more classes are
part of the effort
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
It's no secret students living on
Central Campus often avoid ven-
turing to North Campus, except

when necessary. In a new effort
to alter that mindset, Univer-
sity officials are using a variety of
programs to connect students to
North Campus.
Extended bus service hours,
the addition of LSA classes in
North Campus buildings and the
formation of a self-dubbed North
Campus "vibrancy" committee -
which brainstorms how to build
a communal infrastructure for

North Campus - are a few of the
new ways the University is trying
to attract students to the campus.
Though LSA classes like math
and German have been held on
North Campus for more than a
decade, this is the first year an
expansive course list has been
offered.
Three sections of English 125,
two sections of Math 115, one sec-
See NORTH CAMPUS, Page SA

* GREEK LIFE
Jumping banned from rush
activities to protect houses

Colleen Ciccone zip ties a banner to set up for the ESPN SportsNation live show to be filmed today in front of the Modern Lan-
guages Building. The stop in Ann Arbor is part of the show's road trip through the Big Ten college towns.

Another rule change
permits mixing of
prepackaged foods
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Traditionally, when students
are greeted by sorority members
at the organizations' houses dur-
ing recruitment, they're not only
welcomed with smiles and saluta-
tions, but also with enthusiastic
jumping and banging on the walls.
But a recently-implemented policy

may be putting a damper on the
excitement by prohibiting soror-
ity women from carrying through
with the latter actions.
The new policy - decided
by the sororities' active alumni
groups and local housing direc-
tors - forbids sorority women
from jumping up and down or
banging on walls during recruit-
ment events in order to prevent
wrecking the houses.
LSA senior Kimberly McCraw,
judicial vice president of the Pan-
hellenic Association, the student-
run umbrella organization for 16
sororities on campus, said for the

past few years a lot of damage has
been done to the sorority houses
during recruitment.
"Sororities are really big and
old historic buildings and all the
banging and jumping in the past
broke windows, cracked window
frames, chipped the paint off the
walls and caused issues with the
basements by ruining the ceil-
ings," McCraw said.
Nursing senior Stephanie
Conn, Panhel's vice president of
public relations, said the sorori-
ties' House Corps - organizations
composed of local chapters' alum-
See RUSH, Page SA

With eye on stimulating Mich.economy,
URC partners with business organization
Accelerate Michigan Michigan announced a new part- universities and the business com
nership yesterday called Accel- munity to work together where
aims to make Mich. a erate Michigan, which aims to university innovation and business
stimulate economic growth in the needs intersect in a way that will
top state in growth state. spur economic development."
"It's no longer about publish or According to the press release,
By PATRICIA SNIDER and perish, it's about partner or per- the URC and BLM have part-
KAITLIN WILLIAMS ish," University President Mary nered to help make Michigan
For the Daily and Daily StaffReporter Sue Coleman wrote in a press a "top 10" state for economic
release distributed yesterday. growth. The URC is a research
The University Research Cor- "Accelerate Michigan is a new kind coalition made up of the Univer-
ridor and Business Leaders for of industry-university model for See ACCELERATE, Page 5A



WEATHER HI:74
TOMORROW LO: 61

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail How to navigate GQ's 'Guide to Topical Humor.'
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE PODIUM

INDEX NEWS.. . . . . 2A ARTS.. . . ..........7A
Vol. CXXI, No.12 OPINION................ ....... 4A SPORTS.. . . .A.......A
@ 010TheMichigan Daily CLASSIFIEDS ...................... 6A THE STATEMENT.................t
michigandaily.com1B

p


2A - Wednesday, September 22, 2010

2A -Wedesda, Spteber 2, 010The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Michigan Myths

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

Anew twist on science

Each year during the winter semes-
ter, Atmospheric Sciences Prof. Perry
Samson takes a few select students
up to North Campus, places them in
a wind tunnel and exposes them to
hurricane-force winds.
Samson said the experience is a
way to give his extretne weather etu-
dents a real-life lesson on the sobject
matter.
"Give them a taste of their own
medicine," Samson said with a laogh.
Bot despite more than 30 years
teaching in a natural sciences field,
Samson, a professor and associate
chair of the Department of Atmo-
spheric, Ocean and Space Sciences,
says that he never intended to study
science, let alone teach.
"I really wanted to be a perform-
er," Samson said. "I started in music
school, but realized they actually
expect yo to have some talent."
Samson earned both his bachelor's
and master's degrees in atmospheric

sciences from the State University of
New York at Albany, and later got his
Ph.D. from the University of Wiscon-
Though Samson said he never
planned to teach, be came to the Uni-
versity in 1979 and ended up enjoying
the job.
"It's very stimulating when you get
a large group of students who bounce
ideas off each other and our job as fac-
ulty is to throw out these half-baked
ideas and just run with them," he said.
Teaching the University's intro-
ductory class in extreme weather, a
class largely filled with non-science
concentrators, Samonosaid he tries to
make science useful and interesting
for all students.
"Science is a contact sport," Sam-
son said. "Science is opt the kind of
thing you're necessarily goingto learn
best by reading a book. You actually
have to goout and experience ic."
And in Samson's line of work,

sometimes that contact can geta little ~
too close ftor comfort. Two years ago wiecnutgrsachnte
field, Samson said a tornado passed
right over the car he was in, picked it
up and bounced it off the highway.
Samson has also taken atmospher--
it science concentrators on storm
chases during each spring semester,
for the past four years as a part of
VORTEX2, a team of researchers
fronm around the world working to
better understand the structure and
formation of tornadoes.
In May, Samson received the
Michigan Distinguished Professor
of the Year Award by the President's
Council of State Universities in May
for his research accomplishments and
work to improve teaching strategies
in the classroom.
"If you do thisejob long enough, cer-
tainly you'll eventually get it right," ARIELtONDsoaily
Samson said. Professor Perry Samson shows off the weather eqlipment an
- DEVON THORSBY She roof of the Space tesearch hoildine or North Campus.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
wwwmichigandaily.comn
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZW1IAK
Editor in Chief Easiness Manager
734-418-4110 eet. 202 P34-418-4110 eat. 241
smilovitz@miefigasdaity~cem smdbaainessftynsaitcem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Offieehors: u.-Thurs.11 a.x. - 2a.ms.
News Tips seee@michigandaifp.eaa,
torrectiors corrections@rihhigandailp.eem"
Letters to the tditor rttedaily@michigandailypcom
PhntographypDepartment phooemicrhsigandaily.com
Arts Sectionarsspaga@mihigadaiy.oes
Editnrial Pate opinioneihigandaiy.eee
SpantsSection sportsemrhigandaily.aom
Display Sales displayhmhchigandaiyeee,
Classified Sales elasiied@mihhigaedaily.eam
Onine Sales eonieeudsyrrichigandaily.cax
iance fieanerhmichigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MatAaronson ManagingeEditoe aaronson@michigandaily.coa
lillian eman Manaiewes Editor berman@michigandaily.cors
ScaIRESE IORS:ioo ,leoAber, Stephanie Steinebr ,e ason, Ewa
Thirnavukkrasu, Devon Thrsby
ASSISANT0NWS0EITORS BethnyeBron , lnont, Caitlin euso,Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph Licliterman,, VeronicaMend, EtlyanaTis
Rachel VarSlider Editorial Page Editor eoegirder@mhchigasdaily.ean,
SENIO EDIORIA PAG EDI ORS ichee er, it~,,Emrily Oley, Lausa
Ryan Kartje Manaoging SprtrsEditor kanje@mihigaedaily.coax.
rrSEOReOTS rETOS:Mark Bures, Michel lrrek TiRohanr, JoSaplseo
ASSrSTSORT E 'T'ORS: Alexr-Hsrman, Chae enningrs, Stepenesbit,ak
Pyzik, Ayarenos,,.Nirck Srar
Jamiellock ManaginrtsrrEdritor bleoc@mhigandaily.earr
SENOARSIOSCaroseorO rc~ lyn Krek, And~ereai,efSanored
ASITATARSEDTRS risy , eah urgei, ShroneJacos, RvSehrh
panrdey
Maxstollins and photordehiandaily.eeo
SamWolsonManagingPhotoEeditors
SrrEOOO rEDR:AriseeBod,sMarissia Mc~lain
ArSrSSANePIoo ErrDITORJk romme, Jedoch
SarahtSquire and deigneichigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zelinski Manaeging DesigneEditors
TrevortCalero MagoziesEeditor calero@mrichigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copdskomichigandaitycom
AdiWnllstein topytiih
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna trim Sates Manager
SLES FaOR OMNAGER:StehaieBowke
HillarytSzawala ClassifiedManagee
Jasor Mahakian PeoductioManager
Methan Rooney Lapout Manager
Nick Meshkir Finance Manager
Chrissy Winker CrculationManasger
Zach Yanter Weh Projecoordinator
The Mihitan Daily (ISS 0745-967)0 isulisd Mondaytrohxgri0day durigrtell anld
winr trsesrms snsrattheUirsityeroichigan.Oecoyis aaiablfree of hrge tall
readers. Additional copies raye spicked up atrthetaily's ofelfor $ 2. Subscriptiosfr faltmue,
starting in Sepeber via U.S.meel are $1170. Wirrer tere (January troughrApril) is$115, esarlong
(SeteerrthrroughoAril) is $195. Univrsity afflesaresuecttareuedr susriptrate
On-caepusrrubscripios r ferare,$35.5Subscipinsmsrbeprepai.TheMichigan Dail
is a memerssf Tie Associated fres and The Associated Collegiate Prees.

0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Shattered glass Drop Box pried Career Law Day PROFS lecture
WHERE: Substance Abuse oe WHAT: Law school rep- WHAT: Professors Reach-
open hC.~tr eeaee isres hs no ra - igOu o Suetswl


WHEN: Monday at 9 am.
WHAT: Accordingnto Univer-
sity police, a glass door at the
front of the building was shat-
tered by an unknown object.
The case is still under investi-
gation.~

WHERE: Green Road
WHEN: Monday at 2:30p.m.
WHAT: Drophbox on abuilding
was vandalized according to Uni-
versity policeThe box hadhbeen
pried open, but no property was
stolen authorities reported.

tion sessions that can help
build networks, improve
resumes and obtain finan-
cial aid information. More
than 100 law schools are
expected to participate.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today at 12- 3 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union, Second Floor

host a lecture by Professor
Arthur Verhoogt's "Books
and Libraries in Antiquity,'
focusing on ancient practices
behind book productio.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: UClub in the
Michigan Union

Chemical spill Hubcaps stolen
sounds alarm i parking lot

Tools for stress LGBT Social

U.S researchers from
*Washington University in
1St. Lsouis claim to have iden-
tified a significant gene that is
linked to Alzheimer's disease,
The Associated Press reported.
This gene could determine how
long it will take the disease to
take over in those suffering.
2In 2001, Michigan was
one of four states that
spent more on corrections
than higher education. The
University's Prisoner Creative
Arts Program seeks to improve
those prisoners' lives.
Fc OR MORE, THE STATEMENT,.PAGE 1B
3 Heavy flooding brought
on by Hurricane Karl
caused at least 210 croco-
diles to escape from a Mexican
refuge near the Gulf of Mexico
yesterday, accordingcto Reuters.
Nearby residents have been told
not to cry and capture them.

WHERE: Electrical Engineering
Building
WHEN: Monday at 9p.m.
WHAT: Equipment in the
building overheated from
a chemical spill causing an
alarm to sound. No one was
injured in the incident, Uni-
versity police said.

WHERE: South Observatory
Road
WHEN: Tuesday at 2 am.
WHAT: Three hubcaps that
were valued at around $45
were stolen from a public trans-
port vehicle in a parking lot
behind Alice Lloyd Residence
Hall, University police report-
ed. There are no suspects.

management
WHAT: A look into the
sources of stress and
learn the various ways
to introduce practices to
keep a positive attitude.
WHO: UMHS Car-
diovascular Medicine
at Domino's Farms
WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: UMHS Car-
diovascular Medicine
at Domino's Farms

WHAT: Mixer with new
and returning students from
the LGBT community at the
University with a welcome
by the Rackham Graduate
School and the Spectrum
Center. Information about
LGBT in U-H and Ann Arbor
resources will be provided.
WHO: The Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight at
5:30 - 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Gradu-
ate School, 4th Floor

MORE ONLINEL
Looe Crme Notes Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/fhe wire


0I

DT:Sept. 22nd, 8-1OPM
L flI ab's underground Lounge
W1v 1.T:g Premiere screening with free food & drink specials comcast,
IV L, SAT I FIRTC E5FRTSEUVE.

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Wednesday, September 22, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 22, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Michigan tax
amnesty proposal
passes state House
People who owe back state taxes
could be let off the hook under an
amnesty proposal that advanced
yesterday in the Michigan Legisla-
ture, part of a plan aimed at balanc-
ing the state budget.
The Democtatic-led House
passed a bill that would set up a
window - May 15 through June 30
- for delinquent taxpayers to pay
off their debts without criminal or
civil penalty from the state trea-
surer. The program would apply to
taxes due before the end of 2009.
The bill passed 58-49 mostly
along party lines. It now returns to
the Republican-led Senate, which
passed a version of a tax amnesty
plan in 2009.
The two chambers will have
to resolve differences between
their versions for tax amnesty to
become part of the state's overall
budget solution. The tax amnesty
plan could raise about $60 million
to help offset a projected deficit
of $484 million in the budget year
starting Oct. 1.
WASHINGTON
First lady enters
midterm politics
Michelle Obama is jumping into
the midterm political fray in a big.
way: She'll headline at least nine
fundraisers in six states next month
for endangered Democrats.
That's a fairly big commitment
for a first lady who's always said
she's not a political animal, but the
White House insists Mrs. Obama is
eager to get out there.
' And it's no surprise that the
Democrats are anxious to use the
first lady's star power: Polls show
she's more popular than her hus-
band, President Barack Obama.
Among those Mrs. Obama will
campaign for is Wisconsin Sen.
Russ Feingold, who passed up a
chance to appear with the president
on Labor Day in Milwaukee. Fein-
gold, in a tough re-election fight
and slightly behind his opponent in
spending, instead opted to attend a
parade in his hometown about 60
miles away. He's also not expected
attend the president's rally in
Madison next week because the
Senate will be in session.
* NEW YORK
Clinton unveils
nutrition, pollution
programs
Secretary of State Hillary Rod-
ham Clinton is unveiling programs
to combat child hunger and reduce
pollution from indoor stoves that
causes diseases, especially in poor-
er countries.
In New York yesterday, Clinton
helped launch a program to address
chronic malnutrition blamed for 3.5
million maternal and child deaths a
year. The program is co-sponsored
by the Irish government and focus-

es on the first 1,000 days of a child's
life, during which nutrition is criti-
cal to mental and physical develop-
ment.
Later yesterday, Clinton is to
announce a U.S. contribution to
the Global Alliance for Clean Cook-
stoves that promotes the use of
leaner and more efficient cooking
materials. Exposure to pollution
from traditional indoor stoves and
fires causes diseases that kill nearly
2 million in the developing world
annually, mostly children and
young women.
PARIS
Al-Qaida claims
kidnapping of five
AI-Qaida's North Africa branch
has claimed responsibility for kid-
papping five French nationals near
4uranium mine deep in the desert
of the African nation of Niger, an
audio message broadcast yesterday
said.
In the recording broadcast by the
Arabic news channel al-Jazeera,
a voice claiming to represent al-
Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb said
the group would issue its demands
to the French government shortly.
"It was not a real surprise to
learn that al-Qaida was at the ori-
gin" of the kidnapping, French
Foreign Minister Bernard Kouch-
ner told journalists at the United
Nations in New York. "Now that
it's certain, we will continue - the
French, their allies, Israel - to put
every effort into obtaining their
freedom."
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

'Don't ask, don't tell' repeal fails in Senate

Harry Reid says the
ban will be tackled
again during lame-
duck session
WASHINGTON (AP) - Senate
Republicans on Tuesday blocked
an effort by Democrats and the
White House to lift the ban on gays
from serving openly in the mili-
tary, voting unanimously against
advancing a major defense policy
bill that included the provision.
The mostly partisan vote dealt
a major blow to gay rights groups
who saw the legislation as their
best hope, at least in the short
term, for repeal of the 17-year-old
law known as "don't ask, don't tell."
If Democrats lose seats in the
upcoming congressional elections
this fall, as many expect, repeal-
ing the ban could prove even more
difficult - if not impossible - next
year. With that scenario looming,
Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid said that a lame-duck session
was being planned and that lifting
the ban would be taken up then.
The episode upset advocates
who believe that neither President
Barack Obama nor Reid did enough
to see the measure through.
"The whole thing is a political
train wreck," said Richard Socari-
des, a White House adviser on gay
rights during the Clinton adminis-
tration.
Democrats included the repeal
provision in a $726 billion defense
policy bill, which authorizes a pay
raise for the troops among other
popular programs. In a deal bro-
kered with the White House, the
measure would have overturned
the 1993 law banning openly gay
service only after a Pentagon
review and certification from
the president that lifting the ban
wouldn't hurt troop morale.

But with little time left for
debate before the November ballot,
the bill languished on the Senate
calendar until gay rights groups,
backed by pop star Lady Gaga,
began an aggressive push to turn it
into an election issue.
Earlier this month a federal
judge in Los Angeles declared the
ban an unconstitutional violation
of the due process and free speech
rights of gays and lesbians. The
decision was thethird federal court
ruling since July to assert that stat-
utory limits on the rights of gays
and lesbians were unconstitutional.
Reid agreed to force a vote on
the bill this week and limit debate,
despite Republican objections. A
Nevada Democrat in a tight race of
his own this fall, he also pledged
to use the defense bill as a vehicle
for an immigration proposal that
would enable young people to
qualify for U.S. citizenship if they
joined the military.
Republicans alleged that Reid
was using the defense bill to score
political points with the Demo-
cratic base.
"This is not a serious exercise.
It's a show," said Senate GOP leader
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.
Democrats countered that the
bill merely reflects public opinion.
Recent polls suggest that a major-
ity of Americans think the ban on
gays in the military should be over-
turned.
"We're going to fight for this,"
said Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich.,
chairman of the Armed Services
Committee.
But at least for now, the ques-
tion of how and when to change
the policy returns to the Penta-
gon, which had set a December
deadline to complete a study of the
effects of lifting the ban. Defense
Secretary Robert Gates has said
that he supports Obama's goal of
repeal, but Gates made it clear he
thought the process should move

PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAI
Military service men and women stand together after they handcuffed themselves tothe fence outside the White House in
Washington during a protest for gay rights in April 2010.

gradually.
It is not clear how quickly the
Pentagon might make its own rec-
ommendations. Pentagon press
secretary Geoff Morrell declined
to comment Tuesday on what he
called "an internal procedural
matter for the Senate."
Initially, advocates had thought
that Democrats might win the 60
votes needed to overcome GOP
objections and advance the bill.
Sen. Susan Collins, a moderate
Maine Republican, was seen as a
crucial vote because she supports
overturning the ban.
But Collins ultimately sided
with her GOP colleagues in argu-
ing that the bill shouldn't advance
because Republicans weren't given
sufficient chance to offer amend-
ments to the wide-ranging policy

bill.
Democrats also failed to keep
all of their party members in line.
Democratic Sens. Blanche Lincoln
and Mark Pryor, both of Arkansas,
voted with Republicans to scuttle
the bill. The vote was 56-43, four
short of the 60 required to advance
under Senate rules.
Lincoln said she objected to
the limits on debate and wanted a
chance to offer amendments that
would benefit her state. In a state-
ment, Pryor said the bill deserved
more serious debate than was
being allowed.
"There needs to be a genuine
and honest effort to craft a defense
bill that senators from both par-
ties can support, because support-
ing our troops should not ever be a
partisan issue," he said.

When itbecame clear that Dem-
ocrats would lose, Reid cast his
own vote in opposition as a proce-
dural tactic. Under Senate rules,
doing so enabled him to revive the
bill.
Conservative groups hailed the
vote as a victory for the troops. "At
least for now they will not be used
to advance aradical social agenda,"
said Tony Perkins, president of the
Family Research Council.
An estimated 13,000 people
have been discharged under the
law since its inception in 1993.
Although most dismissals have
resulted from gay service mem-
bers outing themselves, gay rights'
groups say it has been used by vin-
dictive co-workers to drum out
troops who never made their sexu-
ality an issue.

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad speaks at United Nations headquarters on Tuesday, Sept. 21 2010.
Ah-m adinejadblames
capitalism for poverty

At U.N. summit,
German chancellor
defends markets
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -
Iran's president yesterday pre-
dicted the defeat of capitalism
and blamed global big business
for the suffering of millions, but
Germany's chancellor said mar-
ket economies were key to lifting
the world's least developed coun-
tries out of poverty.
The clash of visions at the U.N.
anti-poverty summit drew a line
under the stark differences on
easing the misery of the one bil-
lion people living on less than
$1.25 a day.
More than 140 presidents,
prime ministers and kings are
attending the three-day summit
which started Monday to assess
and spur on achievement of U.N.
targets set by world leaders in
2000. The plan called for an
intensive global campaign to ease
poverty, disease and inequalities
between rich and poor by 2015.
Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad, however, never
mentioned the Millennium
Development Goals in his speech
to the 192-member General
Assembly.
Instead, he took aim at capital-
ism and called for the overhaul
of "undemocratic and unjust"
global decision-making bod-
ies, which are dominated by the
United States and other West-
ern powers. While Ahmadinejad
didn't single out any country, he
said world leaders, thinkers and
global reformers should "spare

no effort" to make practical plans
for a new world order - reform
of international economic and
political institutions.
"It is my firm belief that in
the new millennium, we need to
revert to the divine mindset...
based on the justice-seeking
nature of mankind, and on the
monotheistic world view...," the
Iranian leader said in a brief
speech intertwining philoso-
phy and religion with the cur-
rent state of the world. "Now
that the discriminatory order of
capitalism and the hegemonic
approaches are facing defeat."
Ahmadinejad proposed that
the United Nations name the
coming 10 years "the decade for
the joint global governance."
Soon afterward, German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, the
world's fourth-largest economic
power, took an opposite tack,
likely speaking for the rest of the
capitalist world.
Stressing that "the primary
responsibility for development
lies with the governments of the
developing countries," she said
the key to economic prosperity
was good governance and a flour-
ishing capitalist economy.
"The countries themselves
must promote the development of
a market economy...for without
self-sustaining economic growth
developing countries will find the
road out of poverty and hunger
too steep to travel," Merkel said.
The German leader said inter-
national assistance can't sub-
stitute for domestic resources,
warned that "development aid
cannot continue indefinitely"
and declared that "support for

good governance is as important
as aid itself."
Oxfam, one of the world's
most respect aid organizations,
slammed Merkel's address.
Spokeswoman Emma Seery said
more had been expected from the
Germans, who "failed to explain
how they will meet their prom-
ises of aid to poor countries, and
sidestepped their responsibility
to make aid work by laying this
at the door of the poorest coun-
tries."
Seery also chided the German
leader for not joining with France
and Spain in calling for a sMall
tax on financial transactions
that would go to meet develop-
ment needs of poor countries.
"Whether Germany can still
claim to be a development leader
is now questionable," she said in
an unusually blunt assessment of
a government leader's address.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban
Ki-moon has said the world is "on
track" to cut extreme poverty by
half, the No. 1 goal, though some
critics say it's mainly because
of the big strides in China and
India. Many recent reports show
that the world's poorest coun-
tries, especially in sub-Saharan
Africa, have made little progress
in eradicating poverty.
And in Africa, Asia and Latin
America there also has been a
lack of progress in meeting other
key goals: reducing mother and
child deaths, increasing the num-
ber of people with access to basic
sanitation, and promoting wom-
en's equality. Ban is expected to
launch a new initiative Wednes-
day to spur action on improving
the lot of women and children.

Pittsburgh police
sued by ACLU over
post-G-20 conduct
ACLU: police used onto the lawns of the University of
Pittsburgh'sCathedral of Learn-
unlawful protocol ing," the lawsuit said. Police then
surrounded about 100 people,
during protest made them lie down, handcuffed
them and "falsely charged them
PITTSBURGH (AP) - City with failure to disperse and disor-
police wrongly arrested 25 peo- derly conduct," the lawsuit said.
ple - and used unnecessary force The suit targetsthe city, Harper,
against some - to "punish" them Donaldson and 15 officers iden-
for participating in or being near tified as those who arrested the
an anti-police brutality protest plaintiffs, all of whom were heldby
after the Group of 20 summit police for six to 20 hours, the law-
ended in the city last year, the suit contends.
American Civil Liberties Union The lawsuit asks a federal judge
said in alawsuit. to declare that the plaintiffs' con-
The ACLU filed a 42-page fed- stitutional rightsawere violated and
eral lawsuit yesterday alleging to award damages for false arrest
police created most of the problems and emotional distress.
themselves by surrounding about It also asks the judge to declare
100 people with officers in riot gear Pennsylvania's "failure to disperse"
and then ordering them to disperse. statute unconstitutional. The law
Many who tried to leave couldn't allows officers to declare an assem-
and were instead pingponged bly unlawful if police see at least
between groups of advancing police, three people engaged in "disorderly
the ACLU said. Five people not even conduct," Walczak said.
at the protest were arrested blocks The Pittsburgh summit brought
away, the ACLU contends. thousands of protesters to Pitts-
"It appears that these police burgh, including anarchists who
were simply looking for anybody responded to calls to disperse by
who was young and maybe looked rolling trash bins, throwing rocks
like a demonstrator and then and breaking windows. Many
rounded them up," Witold "Vic" protesters condemned the harsh
Walezak, the ACLU's legal direc- law enforcement response that
tor in Pennsylvania, said at a news followed, which included pep-
conference yesterday. per spray canisters, rubber bul-
The ACLU announced the law- lets, flash-bang grenades and huge
suit at a plaza near the University of speakers emitting earsplittingly
Pittsburgh campus where the pro- loud sirens.
test was staged on Sept. 25, 2009. One of the plaintiffs, Jason Mun-
"When people see video of ley, 31, of Pittsburgh, said he wasn't
peaceful demonstrations in places part of the Pitt protest but stopped
like Russia and Iran where the to give police "the middle finger"
police all of a sudden declare the on his way to a friend's house.
assembly to be unlawful and then Munley said he did that because he
come in and arrest everybody ... we disagreed with police tactics at the
recoil in horror and say, 'It's just G-20, and was shot with pepper
free speech, it's just peaceful dem- spray pellets and arrested.
onstrations. Thank goodness that Ben Tabas, 20, was aPittstudent
can't and doesn't happen in this who was recording the protest on
country,"' Walczak said. video. He said he tried to disperse
"Well, I'm sorry to advise you but was hemmed in by police and
that in fact it does happen in this arrested. He told officers he was
country and it did happen in the a diabetic, but wasn't allowed to
city of Pittsburgh." access his medication and in jail
Pittsburgh police spokeswoman was given a type of insulin not pre-
Diane Richard relayed a copy of scribed byhis doctor.
the lawsuit to the city's law depart- Casey Brander, a 21-year-old
ment, which did not immediately student at nearby Carnegie Mel-
comment on it. An attorney for the lon University, walked over with a
Fraternal Order of Police, which friend to check out the protest and
typically represents individual a concert before it. Brander said
officers in such lawsuits, did not she tried to leave but kept being
immediately comment on the suit. turned back by police in riot gear.
The lawsuit says police Chief "The police didn't say anything,
NateHarper andDeputyChiefPaul they just marched and beat their
Donaldson sent police to declare shields and had this very intimi-
the gathering illegal after seeing a dating presence," Brander said.
protest advertisement that dispar- One officer called her his "girl-
aged police with an expletive. friend" and other officers told
"Instead of providing a way for some women being arrested that
people to comply with the disper- they were "hot" said Brander, who
sal order, police funneled everyone was held for 19 hours.


4A - Wednesday, September 22, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ROSE AT ROSEJAFF@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ROSE JAFFE

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

';5 weird why {hoa you Haw ee w s-,prs
c-c~' -e s iPsals 0 ' ee
Finally a reasonable rally

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Curing the law
State must clarify medical marijuana regulations
Medical marijuana may be legal in Michigan, but when
the law comes under scrutiny, more questions than
answers are found. Michigan voters called for the
legalization of medical marijuana in 2008. But the resulting law's
ambiguity has caused problems for patients trying to obtain the
drug for treatment. Last week, Michigan Court of Appeals Judge
Peter O'Connell called for a revision of the current law, which he
argues has been too "open for interpretation." Michigan lawmak-
ers should clarify the existing legislation so that patients who are
prescribed marijuana can get it without fear of violating the law.

0

Last Wednesday, Judge O'Connell
released a 30-page opinion on an Oakland
County case in which two Madison Heights
residents were charged with marijuana pos-
session. In the opinion, he argues that state
legislators should refine the medical mari-
juana law since it contradicts current Public
Health Codes that make the possession and
manufacture of marijuana illegal, accord-
ing to a Sept. 16 article in The Detroit News.
O'Connell goes on to say that even users
"who proceed with due caution" could "lose
both their property and liberty" because of
these inconsistencies.
Michigan's economy wins if legislators
can create a viable way of obtaining legal
medical marijuana. If Michigan created a
system like California's - where individu-
als who hold a prescription for medical
marijuana have access to regulated and
taxed dispensaries - the state could gain
millions of dollars in revenue annually.
The marijuana industry also could con-
tribute to the diversification of Michigan's
economy. Instead, the ambiguities in the
law prevent the state from capitalizing on
this potential source of income.
Cardholders deserve a clear way to
obtain marijuana. The drug can be a useful
treatment for various health issues. Among
other things, marijuana helps stimulate
hunger in people undergoing chemothera-
py, relieves pain, is used to treat glaucoma

and helps control nausea. Despite the fact
that Michigan's law is among the most
liberal in the country, it fails to establish
a clear, easily accessible and legal way for
cardholders to obtain marijuana. There's
no reason to deny medical marijuana card-
holders access to the treatment they need
and have been legally prescribed.
Michigan's law - which can be broadly
interpreted - is the crux of the problem.
Though medical marijuana users may
think they are operating within their legal
rights by possessing the drug, prosecutors
sometimes take legal action against users
under other state guidelines. This ambi-
guity exists despite the fact that nearly
63 percent of voters sent a clear message
to the state by voting in favor of legalizing
medical marijuana in 2008. Lawmakers
need to respond to the public mandate by
creating a unified legal structure in which
both citizens and law enforcement officials
can operate appropriately. O'Connell's
suggestion is sensible - he calls for the
Michigan Supreme Court to examine legal
routes which will combine ample drug
regulation with allowing dispensaries to
remain open.
Those prescribed the drug deserve a way
to get treatment without fear of prosecution.
The Michigan legislature must take swift
action to resolve the ambiguities and cor-
rect the contradictions in the existing law.

disagree with you, but I'm pretty
sure you're not Hitler."
This could be the citizens' ral-
lying cry in Wash-
ington D.C. this
October, when
Daily Show host
Jon Stewart will
host the "Rally 1
to Restore San-
ity," an event he
announced this
past Thursday
on his show. The JEREMY
rally's goal is to LEVY
bring togetherL
what Stewart con-_
siders to be the
normal Americans - not defined by
liberalness or conservativeness - but
instead by a tendency to be more mod-
erate than the most extreme left and
right. Given the recession and recent
frequency of unruly protest, this rally
could be exactly what America needs.
To explain why, I have to begin
with a discussion about political
polarization.
Two summers ago
when I had an intern-
ship with a local
Democratic Party
organization in the ,
suburbs of Chicago,
one piece of merchan-
dise that we sold to
constituents was a
children's book called
"Why Daddy is a
Democrat" by Jeremy
Zilber. I don't remem-
ber what the book saidS
word for word, but
the text read some-
thing along the lines
of, "Daddy is a Demo-
crat because he values
sharing, treating peo-
ple kindly and mak-
ing the world fair for
everyone." This book's
message has clear
implications - Republicans don't
value sharing and have no interest in
treating people kindly or fairly.
It's easy to see howa child can read
this book and gather that Republicans
are bad people. But this book is only
one example of the type of messages
people receive about individuals on
the opposite end of the ideological
spectrum.
Adults are also susceptible to such
messages about the opposing party.

I have a friend who frequently jokes
that this country should have let the
South go when it had the chance -
implying that the entire population
of the South consists of conservative
hicks.
This sort of thinking about the
opposing party is absurd. Not all con-
servatives are as inflammatory as the
pundits at Fox News. Not all liberals
are impractical hippies. But why do
so many people think the opposite is
true? The answer is complicated. In
the past decade, politicians in the two
major political parties have become
more polarized, and academics argue
whether the same can be said about
the parties' constituencies. There are
many causes of polarization, but this
column will focus on one: the media.
Media frequently reports on the
most extreme constituents in both
parties, adding to the perception that
constituents of the two parties are
very, very different. This is primarily
because media outlets have an incen-
tive to create conflict in order to make
- e Z
more money. For example, in his book
"Culture War? The Myth of Polarized
America," Stanford Prof. Morris Fio-
rina cites a Newsweek article about
gun control in which the reporter
selectively interviews citizens with
the most extreme positions in order
to exaggerate the theme of polariza-
tion - ultimately skewing readers
perception of the opposing parties'
supporters. And this is a mild example
in comparison to other media outlets,

most notably cable news shows.
Surprising as it may be, I think
"The Daily Show" may be one of the
most visible outlets that regularly
acts to circumvent media's polarizing
abilities.
If you aren't a frequent "Daily
Show" viewer, you may be under the
impression that Stewart is merely a
comedian and fake pundit. But within
his comedy, Stewart makes real argu-
ments about politics, and perhaps his
most concentrated attack has been on
an alarmist media. In 2004, he went
on the debate show "Crossfire" and
told the hosts that they were doing
America a disservice by engaging
in "political theater" instead of real
debate. Similar themes can be found
constantly on his show.
If successful, Stewart's D.C. rally
could take his initiative against media
alarmism to new levels. The goal of
the event is to show that the media's
portrayal of a deeply divided America
is unrepresentative of the true popu-
lation. To do this, Stewart hopes to
bring out more mod-
erate citizens who are
less likely to be found
at typical rallies - or
at least people who
aren't crazy enough to
make the news when
they attend said ral-
lies. While it is pretty
clear that Stewart is
responding to conser-
vative political com-
o mentator Glenn Beck's
rally in August, Tea
Z Partiers are not being
$_ exclusively targeted.
Stewart wvas sure to
criticize the extreme
-D Left in his announce-
2 ment of the event as
well.
When we assumue
the worst about citi-
zens with different
political leanings than
us, we have to ask ourselves where our
perceptions come from. The media
often plays a strong role in crafting
those views. Stewart's rally - while
partially a comedic media stunt -
could invoke a serious message with
enough support. I think a rally against
irrationality is something we can all
get behind - Republican or Democrat.

ALEX KING I
College rankings don't matter

-J

Jeremy Levy can be reached
at jeremlev@umich.edu.


To base one's college decision - either entirely
or largely in part - upon college rankings, as
Ashley Griesshammer encouraged in her view-
point last week, is folly (College rankings matter,
09/16/2010). These rankings might be useful in
telling the public about broad differences in gen-
eral quality among universities, but to rely upon
them for more specific distinctions is a mistake.
In fact, to call them useful in making broad dis-
tinctions is generous. Who needs U.S. News &
World Report to tell them that Princeton - #2
on the 2011 list - is, in general terms, a better
institution than, say, Hofstra (#139)? On the
other hand, what's the use in knowing that the
same magazine considers Georgetown (#21) bet-
ter than the University of Californina at Berkeley
(#22)? No one ever needs to say, "Georgetown is
better than Berkeley - if it's printed here, it must
be true!"
Of course, it isn't fair to only pick on U.S.
News and World Report, even if they are the
progenitors and perpetuators of this tired
trend. The cover of Forbes' Aug. 30 issue
claims to reveal the "250 Best Colleges for Your
Money," which reasonable readers might think
would favor public institutions and their lower
tuitions. The list starts off typically enough,
with Williams at #1, followed by Princeton and
Amherst. But the concerned Wolverine will
spend a few seconds looking for his beloved
school's name, which fails to appear in the top
50 listed on the first page of the story.
Rather, the University has somehow plum-
meted all the way to - are you sitting down?
- 92nd place, just below Furman University of
South Carolina and Drew University of New
Jersey. Readers in East Lansing will have to
turn to Forbes' website to discover that their
university has dropped out of the top 250 print-
ed in the issue altogether and fallen to 282nd
place. I'd like to remind the reader that these
rankings come from a magazine purporting to
rank "the schools that offer the best return on
your educational investment."
There are so many methodologies, numbers,
surveys and half-baked ideas that go into each

of these rankings, it's hardly any wonder that
they each produce wildly different results. In my
casual analysis of some recent rankings of the
University, I found that we rank 29th, 92nd, 7th,
1,283, 874th and 2nd - Okay, I made those last
two up. But with such disparate numbers, how
could anyone ever make a serious decision about
where to apply to or attend college based on the
difference of a single spot or two in the rankings,
as Griesshammer suggests she did?
Not only do these rankings differ from pub-
lication to publication, but they can also vary
sharply from year to year. Is the University
truly two spots worse than it was last year, and
five spots worse than in 2006, as U.S. News
suggests? I realize that the football team has
suffered since 2006 and the campus's squir-
rel population has reached a critical point, but
what of our new business school and residence
hall? I strongly doubt that any "true" indicator
of the University's rank (if such a thing could
even exist) would find that it has declined in
quality or has been surpassed by other schools
to the tune of five spots in as many years.
But the college ranking's greatest sin is in
implying that universities can actually be com-
pared by inputting a handful of numbers into a
formula, and then printing the results in order.
This implication is especially dangerous for
potential applicants. Statistics like the alumni
giving rate, student selectivity or graduation
rate at a particular school and their relative
weights in a particular ranking should not be
of major importance to high school seniors.
Rather, the student should ask, what's campus
life like? Do I want to attend a Big Ten school
or a small liberal arts college? How will I make
my mark there? College counselors have their
trite sayings, but they're not wrong in telling
applicants that college is a match to be made,
and not a prize to be won. College rankings
rankle me because they intrude upon appli-
cants' process of legitimate discovery about
which school is best for them.
Alex King a Business sophomore.

-he
podium

Talk amongst yourselves. Rachel Van Gilder wonders if the new permanent
stadium lights enhance the Big House's atmosphere or are wrong for
Michigan tradition. Go to michigandaily.com and click on 'Blogs'.

COLLEGE DEMOCRATS
Debate for democracy

Everyone likes to compare options before making a
decision. When you're shopping, you'll try on a few pairs
of jeans before deciding which ones to buy. When choos-
ing your classes, you read multiple course descriptions or
syllabi before registering. You can sample different fla-
vors of ice cream before you commit to buying a cone. So
why is it that when Michiganders make arguably the most
important decision of this election cycle - who will be
the next governor of our state - we are denied a side-by-
side comparison of the two candidates?
The short answer is that the Republican candidate for
governor, Rick Snyder, has apparently decided that hav-
ing a debate with his Democratic opponent, Virg Bernero,
is not in his self-interest and has all but quashed the pos-
sibility of an open, honest debate.
About a week ago, the two candidates had almost set-
tled their plans for a series of three debates, but Snyder
decided to drop out of the agreement at the last minute.
He offered only the excuse that he disliked Bernero's
terms, which, according to the Detroit Free Press, includ-
ed airing the debate during the evening for increased
viewership and negotiating moderators for the exchang-
es. Despite public pressure over the past week, Snyder
still refuses to participate in a televised match-up.
If one word can describe Snyder's behavior in this mat-
ter, it's "evasive." Even though a whole seven weeks has
passed since the primary election, Snyder continues to
construct roadblocks toward reaching an agreement on
this issue. By dragging out the process long enough, he
might effectively pass the time frame in which debates
are feasible. Unlike Bernero, who has publicly stated that
he would like at least eight opportunities for moderated
policy discussions, Snyder keeps stringing the process
along in a manner that wastes time and frees him from
the necessity of saying "no" to debates outright.
Even during the Republican primary, Snyder stuck to
town hall meetings and other forums in which he was the

only candidate available for the audience to question. Per-
haps the former Gateway executive believes that appear-
ing in public alongside a competitor would detract from
the expensive ad campaign in which he has invested mil-
lions of dollars from his personal savings. Bernero, on the
other hand, whose career lies in the less lucrative field of
public service, favors providing voters with a forum that
is less costly and that encourages them to form their oWn
opinions of the two candidates at hand.
There is no reason that an honest candidate should
seek to avoid the opportunity to present his or her posi-
tions to the public in such a waythat they may be weighed
against the positions of another. Dodging such a critical
aspect of the democratic process seems to be little more
than a means of avoiding discussion of the issues in an
unscripted manner. Unfortunately, as demonstrated by
his recent actions, this seems to be the route Snyder has
chosen.
Regardless of party affiliation, every citizen deserves
the access to information about candidates for public
office that debates provide. By preventing debates in an
apparent attempt to suppress the voice of his opponent,
Snyder has failed to look outside of the realm of his own
campaign strategy and consider the consequences such
a stance will have on the quality of democratic decision-
making.
The people of Michigan have a monumental decision
before them. Over the course of the next month and a half
they must determine collectively who they would like to
govern their state. At the very least, they deserve a series
of public, televised debates to help them come to the right
conclusion. It is unfortunate for everyone that Snyder
does not seem to agree.
This viewpoint was written by Devin Parsons
and Robert Bowen on behalf of the University's
chapter of College Democrats.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler,
Eghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy,
Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 22, 2010 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 22, 2010 - 5A

Military postpones two key
decisions on Guam buildup

But 8,000 marines
are already approved
to head to territory
HONOLULU (AP) - The U.S.
military has postponed two key
decisions related to its buildup of
forces on the Guam to ensure it's
complying with environmental
and historic preservation laws.
But it gave final approval to the
single biggest part of the buildup:
a proposal to move 8,000 Marines
and their dependents from Oki-
nawa, Japan to the U.S. territory
in the Pacific. The decision was
posted online yesterday.
The Navy put off deciding
where to build a live fire range

for the Marines while it consults
with preservation authorities on
how the training area would affect
the ancient village of Pagat. Stone
bowls, fishing gear, spear points
and other artifacts dating back
more than a millennium have been
found at the village, which is listed
on the National Register of His-
toric Places.
The military acknowledged in
a document called a "Record of
Decision" that a significant new
influx of population would affect
the island's indigenous Chamorro
population, and vowed to be sensi-
tive to this issue.
At its peak, the buildup is expect-
ed to boost Guam's population by
79,000 people, or 45 percent, over
its current 180,000 residents.

The Department of Defense "is
cognizant of the concerns regard-
ing the degradation of Chamorro
culture and respects Chamorro
social and cultural traditions and
will continue to strive to be good
neighbors," the document said.
The Navy also delayed decid-
ing where in Apra Harbor it will
place a new aircraft carrier berth
so it can study how construction of
the dock would affect the harbor's
coral reef.
The Environmental Protec-
tion Agency in February said the
military, in a draft environmental
impact statement, had underesti-
mated the effect the berth would
have on corals that provide essen-
tial habitats for fish and endan-
gered sea turtles.

NORTH CAMPUS
From Page 1A
tion of Math 454 and two discussion
sections of Psychology 111 are held
on North Campus this semester.
In determining which classes to
offer, LSA Associate Dean James
Penner-Hahn said LSA worked
closely with the Registrar's Office to
select large classes taken mainly by
freshmen. The classes are held early
in the morning or late in the evening
when North Campus residents are
likely to be close to home.
"We wanted to try and make it as
convenient as possible for students,"
Penner-Hahn said in an interview.
He added that the new North
Campus courses are available on a
trial basis. If student surveys report
negative reactions, the classes will
be discontinued.
"If it were to turn out that the
only people taking these classes
were there unwillingly, and that
they would have preferred to have
been on Central, then that would
affect whether or not we continue
this," he said.
LSA freshman Ethan Cohen, a
resident of Baits House I, said none
of his LSA classes are on North
Campus this semester, and he would
be interested in having classes clos-
er to his residence hall.
"Commuting is a challenge for me
because I have to calculate for bus
time," he said. "I get less sleep, and
if I have large gaps in myschedule I
really can't go back to my room."
The University is attempting to
ease the commute for Cohen and
other students by extending bus ser-

vice for the Northwood Express and
Diag-to-Diag Express.
The Northwood Express now
begins service at 7:20 a.m. and the
Diag-to-Diag Express bus has been
extended until 10 p.m. in order to
reduce crowding on the Bursley-
Baits bus.
This year, 300 more students
than last year enrolled in the
University. Because the major-
ity of these students were placed on
North Campus, the North Campus
"vibrancy" committee is attempt-
ing to familiarize students with the
campus.
The committee, which meets
bi-weekly, is comprised of repre-
sentatives from University Hous-
ing, Recreational Sports, University
Unions, Taubman College of Archi-
tecture and Urban Planning, the
School of Music, Theatre & Dance
and the Duderstadt Center.
Michael Swanigan, vibrancy
committee chair and Pierpont Com-
mons director, said the committee's
mission is to improve North Cam-
pus's social, cultural and academic
atmosphere.
"Basically we want to make North
Campus theplacetobe," hesaid.
The committee has extended
the hours of Pierpont Commons
until 2 a.m. and kept food ven-
ues open an additional hour. The
committee has also improved the
North Campus website, which
committee members believe will
be instrumental for informing stu-
dents about North Campus events.
The website, developed several
years ago, was temporarily discon-
tinued due to a lack of support but
was revitalized this year.

David Siegle, co-chair of the
vibrancy committee and the facility
manager of the North Campus Rec-
reation Building, said organizers
work to overcome obstacles like the
lack of traffic flow.
"On Central Campus students are
likely to walk through the Diag even
if they don't have class, and that's
not as likely on North," he said.
To combat the challenges of a
sparse population, the committee
strives to create events on North
Campus that have wide appeal.
Nicholas Smith, assistant direc-
tor of University Unions Art Pro-
grams and a vibrancy committee
member, said a North Campus tail-
gate held during the Notre Dame
football game received an encour-
aging response.
"We had about 500 students show
up, and we went through two food
buffets," Smith said. "The audito-
rium was full, and we had two over-
flow room spaces thatwere filled.'
In the next month, North Cam-
pus residents can expect to see
similar efforts by the committee
through events like UMix, sur-
vival bingo and nights with food
and music sponsored by the Uni-
versity.
Whiletheseeventswilltakeplace
solely on North Campus, Smith said
they are organized to entice the
entire student population to come to
North Campus.
"It's aboutcwhat's going to be that
North Campus draw for students,"
he said. "Not only those students
who live on North Campus, but
when you live on Central Campus,
what's going to make you want to go
to North."

I

MONROE STREET
-From Page 1A
vacate the road," Kosteva said.
"They primarily have to do with
the utilities in the area."
Most notably, city officials have
identified issues with the water
main currently underneath Mon-
roe Street. Sue McCormick, Ann
Arbor public services administra-
tor, said interview the water sys-
tem would need to be upgraded.
"We had identified a need to
upsize some water main in the
area and to provide some looping
of water main in the area," she
said. "So, the University has been
advised that that's one of the
things that would need to occur
for the change in use."
Presently, the water line ser-
vicing the properties surround-
ng Monroe Street is six inches
in diameter. If the road is vacat-
ed, however, those surrounding
properties will be cut off from
the water system. To avoid this,
the city is requiring that the Uni-
versity install a new water main
to circumvent the pedestrian
mall.

The University has agreed to
install a new, 12-inch water main
that would be placed beneath
Oakland Avenue, perpendicular
to Monroe Sreet, and provide
better service and water pressure
to the surrounding residents.
Kosteva said the cost for per-
forming this utility upgrade is
included in the project's $3 mil-
lion budget.
Another concern for city offi-
cials, Kosteva said, is the neces-
sity for emergency vehicles to
be able to access the pedestrian
mall. He said the space would
need to be free of barriers that
would prevent police cars or fire
trucks from passing through in
case of an emergency.
McCormick also added that
city vehicles would need to be
able to access the various utilities
to perform maintenance.
"In addition to making sure
that if we're creating a pedes-
trian mall area here, the city still
has an adequate way to access
and provide future maintenance
and service to the water mains
that are there," she said.
Other issues currently being
hashed out, Kosteva said, include

the relocation of several park-
ing spaces on Monroe Street and
potential traffic issues that could
arise.
Still, Kosteva said these
requirements were not deterring
the University from completing
the pedestrian mall.
"They're not posing a sig-
nificant obstacle," he said of
the issues with the city. "There
hasn't been any condition out-
lined that seems insurmountable.
We're evaluating the costs asso-
ciated with doing a number of
these things and then beginning
to look at the legal language."
The University hopes to pres-
ent the finalized plan to the Ann
Arbor Planning Commission by
the end of this year. If approved
by the planning commission, the
proposal would then be brought
before the Ann Arbor City Coun-
cil for a final vote on approval.
Kosteva said that ideally, the
University would like to have the
pedestrian mall completed by the
time the new South Hall is com-
pleted in 2012.
- Alex Lane contributed
to this report.


RUSH
From Page 1A
ni - and housing directors met
during the summer and decided
they no longer wanted the women
in the sororities to jump or bang
on the walls during recruitment
events.
All of the chapters in Panhel
agreed to follow the new guideline,.
which Panhel supports but doesn't
directly enforce, Conn said. If the
chapters like the new policy by
the end of recruitment, they may
vote to add it to Panhel's policies,
McCraw said.
Recruitment seems to be going

well, McCraw said, with no reports
of violations of the policy. McCraw
said she speculates this maybe due
to the sororities' emulating each
other's behavior.
"For example, if one house isn't
(jumping or banging) then the
house next door won't be either and
so on," McCraw said.
To compensate for the lack of
physical displays of excitement,
the women have instead been using
noisemakers, cowbells, whistles
and cans filled with dice. McCraw
said the purpose of those activi-
ties is to get the sorority members
"pumped" to meet the new women
and to get the potential members
excited for each house.

"It's basically a morale thing,"
McCraw said.
In addition to this new policy, a
new rule has been implemented to
improve the variety of snacks and
themed decorations by allowing
the sorority members to mix pre-
packaged foods.
McCraw said even though the
rule sounds silly, it allows themed
recruitment events to have a
greater range of detail and deco-
rations.
"If there were an under-the-
water themed party, they could
put Goldfish and blue M&Ms inthe
same bowl," she said. "They can
create trail mix basically and they
couldn't do that before."


I . I I

ACCELERATE
From Page 1A
,ity of Michigan, Michigan State
University and Wayne State Uni-
versity. Work done by BLM stems
from the Michigan Turnaround
Plan, a strategy aimed at guid-
ing Michigan back to economic
stability.
"Michigan ranks high for both
:industry and university-based
research," Gerry Anderson, chair
of BLM's Innovation Committee
and president and COO of DTE
Energy, said in the press release.
"This partnership will help focus
the efforts of both BLM and the
URC to better connect those
assets to stimulate economic
growth, encourage entrepre-
neurial activity across the state
and put an international spot-
light on Michigan as a hub for
innovation."
One of the ways the partnership
aims to increase business opportu-
nities in the state is by sponsoring
the Accelerate Michigan Innova-
tion Competition, a national leader
in business plan competitions,
according to the press release.
University spokesman Joe
Serwach said the competition is
geared toward getting Michigan
back on the map in terms of busi-
ness.
"The big focus is on what the
next Michigan will look like," said
Serwach, who is also a spokes-
man for the Accelerate Michigan
Innovation Competition.
' The student portion of the
contest, which undergraduate
and graduate state of Michigan
college students are eligible to
apply for, allows for an inter-
collegiate student competition
separate from the company por-
tion, open to any early-stage
Michigan business, according
to the website.
Serwach said he believes the
students have a lot of great, out-
of-the-box ideas to contribute to
the state's economy.
"The Dell computer started out
of a dorm room," he said.
Serwach added that the com-
petition is similar to the 1,000
Pitches campaign organized by
MPowered Entrepreneurship, a
University student group, which
he said helped to get more ideas
from University students out into
the working world.
With a $25,000 grand prize for
the winning team at stake, a judg-
ing panel of investors, Michigan
business veterans and Michigan
entrepreneurs will be scrutiniz-
ing the possibilities for a wide
range of business pitches, accord-
ing to the website.
There are three stages to the

student competition, with student
submissions eliminated after each
round. The initial application,
which includes the business idea,
is due Oct. 22, the second round
includes a three-minute video
submission and the final round
includes a 15-minute presentation
to the judges, according to a press
release issued on Sept. 16 by Accel-
erate Michigan Innovation Com-
petition.
Serwach noted that the iPod
and Google were developed by
University graduates. He said the
competition is looking for similar
business ideas that will take off
and help shape the future of busi-
ness in Michigan.
"While there are many great
lifestyle businesses (for example:
boutiques, cafes, consulting firms),
we're looking for ideas that can
scale and be valuable job creators,"
the website said.
In addition to the competition,
Accelerate Michigan also has
future plans to set up an "exchange
service" that will match the needs
of businesses and universities so
as to enable more partnerships on
research projects, according to the
press release.

"Accelerate Michigan recogniz-
es the strategic alliance between
Michigan's largest businesses and
research universities that began
with the inclusion of the research
pniversity presidents on the BLM
board last year," Anderson said in
the release.
BLM set up the Renaissance
Venture Capital Fund to iden-
tify ways to help finance innova-
tive Michigan-based companies,
according to the press release. The
RVCF recently concluded its first
closing of almost $50 million. A
second fund will be launched in
2012.
According to the press release,
Accelerate Michigan is research-
ing ways to best align university
and business research and devel-
opment. The organization will
create a Science and Innovation
Council to further this work in the
future.
"Business and universities are
both part of the solution toour eco-
nomic challenges," Wayne State
President Allan Gilmour said in
the press release. "But it's the com-
bined power that can really make a
difference. That's what Accelerate
Michigan is all about."

GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
Monday 9/20 - Friday 9/24
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union

The sittingfee is just $10!
This price includes your portrait featured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu
*S I Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
YEARBOOK


6A - Wednesday, September 22, 2010

0

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Calif. deputy
AG asks judge
to authorize
lethal injections

COMMUNITY CULTIVATION

Execution of Albert
Brown would be
first California
execution in 4 years
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) - Wheth-
er California's first execution in
more than four years will occur
next week remained an open ques-
tion yesterday, as a judge grappled
with a demand from the state attor-
neygeneral'sofficetoresumelethal
injections.
A hearing was held on the issue
after a Riverside County judge last
monthset an execution date ofSept.
29 for Albert Greenwood Brown,
who was convicted of abducting,
raping and killinga15-year-old girl
on her way home from school in
1900.
The action surprised many
because a federal judge halted exe-
cutions in 2006 and ordered prison
officials to overhaul lethal injection
procedures. The state adopted new
regulations on Aug. 29 but had not
sought the judge's permission to
MSA
From Page 1A
quate say on the ban.
A vote on the ban was scheduled
for Sept. 8, but the council decided
to postpone the vote until Monday
night to give students a chance to
voice their concerns.
"This could have been done
much more easily," Raymond said.
"It's really a shame that we weren't
able to come to a consensus on an
issue as uncontroversial as fire
safety."
While MSA and City Council
were not able to have a stronger
dialogue about the issue of the ban,
collaboration regarding fire safety
and prevention at the University
"should be a great start for collabo-
ration between City Council and
MSA," Buoy said.
"We hope to carry out from here
and have that be the case, but it's
disappointing that that's yet to be
proven," he said.
To build this relationship, MSA
will hold a Campus Neighbors

restart executions.
Yesterday, California deputy
attorney general Michael Quinn
told U.S. District Court Judge Jer-
emy Fogel the new regulations
authorize the state to execute
Brown next week.
Brown's attorney John Grele
countered that the judge needed to
review the new regulations and the
state's contention it had improved
its lethal injection procedure
before executions can commence.
Fogel, who imposed the tem-
porary moratorium in 2006, said
he was concerned that he was left
with so little time to decide such an
important issue.
"There is no way any court can
conduct an orderly review of con-
stitutional claims in eight days," he
said.
Nonetheless, the judge said he
would rulebyFriday.
Quinn left the court without
commenting to reporters. Grele
refused to speculate why prosecu-
tors and the state attorney general's
office are suddenly setting execu-
tions dates and pushing hard for
the resumption of lethal injection.
Meeting open forum in October to
provide information to students,
and will include students, land-
lords, tenants, City Council mem-
bers and people from the Ann Arbor
Fire and Police Departments and
the Department of Public Safety.
The specific date of the forum is
yet to be determined by MSA.
"Between all of these differ-
ent bodies...we're going to work
together to come up with the best
way to really enact widespread fire
safety awareness on the off-cam-
pus level," Buoy said. "This section
of the student body is really being
neglected because they aren't on
campus."
Raymond said that MSA is also
in the process of establishing the
City Council Relations Commit-
tee, which will consist of repre-
sentatives from the City Council
and representatives of MSA, who
hopefully can meet at least once
a month to discuss new ideas and
ongoing issues like the couch ban.
"We are more prepared to take
a proactive role in reaching out to
City Council," Buoy said.

0

LSA junior Sara Vander Zanden picks a tomato during the Cultivation Club's weekly gathering. The garden is located on the southwest corner of Hill St. and East University.
Obama says latest sanctions against
Iran nuclear programare working
Experts question national Studies. The number of policy. interestin engagement.
companies that recently have cur- The policies of Iranian Supreme So the administration turned
whether sanctions tailed or eliminated their ties to LeaderAyatollah Ali Khamenei and to what it calls the "pressure
Sran is in the dozens, he added, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad track," and in June the U.N. Secu-
will get Iran to stop including Toyota and oil giant Royal "are largely unaffected by mount- rity Council passed a new sanctions
Dutch Shell. ing financial penalties imposed by resolution. On July 1 Obama signed
nuclear program Secretary of State Hillary Rod- the West," Takeyh wrote Sunday in unilateral U.S. sanctions legislation
ham Clinton has said the sanctions an opinion piece in The Washington that he called the toughest Con-
WASHINGTON (AP) - The are "biting" Iran's economy. Post. gress has ever imposed on Iran.
Obama administration says the at- On Tuesday, U.S. officials in "Washington and its allies still Sharing the U.S. concern about
est round of sanctions appears to Vienna urged Iran to return to fail to realize that they are not deal- Iran potentially gaining nuclear
have succeeded in bringing addi- negotiations, which reached a stale- ing with a conventional nation-state weapons, the European Union,
tional pressure against Iran's nucle- mate months ago after Iran tried making subtle estimates of national Australia, Canada, Japan and South
ar program. But private experts to re-negotiate an agreement for it interests," Takeyh wrote. Khame- Korea have imposed their own
question whether the penalties will to ship out most of its low enriched nei sees reconciliation with the U.S. sanctions against Iran.
achieve their goal of compelling uranium tobe turned into fuel for a as subversion that could undermine The sanctions have limited Iran's
Tehran to give up any nuclear ambi- research reactor. the pillars of the Islamic state, he ability to attractforeign investment,
tions. At a conference heldby theInter- added. pinched its ability to import gaso-
In a speech Monday, the Trea- national Atomic Energy Agency, Inan Associated Press interview line, created a drag on its shipping
sury Department's point man on U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu in New York on Sunday, Ahmadine- business and hurt Iranian banking
Iran sanctions, Stuart Levey, said said Washington is "always inter- jad said sanctions are futile. relationships worldwide.
U.S. and international sanctions are ested in re-engaging Iran" on the "If they were to be effective, But it's not clear that these prob-
"dramatically isolating Iran finan- fuel swap but wants to make sure I should not be sitting here right lems willtranslatetoashiftinIran's
cially and commercially." Tehran is sincere. now," he told the AP. nuclear stance.
And he asserted that this "can Analysts generally agree sanc- Ahmadinejad also repeated Even some Obama administra-
and will create leverage for our tions are taking a toll on Iran. But Iran's assertion that it has no inten- tion officials have conceded that
diplomacy" with Iran's leaders. will they stop Iran from getting the tion of building a nuclear weapon. sanctions may fall short of their
"Almost daily we receive reports bomb? President Barack Obama entered goal, which is to convince Iran's
of major firms around the world Probably not, says Ray Takeyh, the White House committed to leaders that the political costs of
deciding to pull out of business a Mideast expert at the Council offering Tehran a chance to negoti- their continuing defiance on nucle-
dealings with Iran," Levey said at on Foreign Relations and a former ate over its nuclear program, but by ar issues have reached an unaccept-
the Center for Strategic and Inter- State Department adviser on Iran late 2009 it was clear Iran had no able level.

i

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, September 22, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 6 Raccoon __, 38 Container 47 Furry Endor
1 Cabo locale 'The allowance inhabitants
5 Fall, as home Honeymooners" 39 Keyboardist 48 Hawaii's
prices fraternal group launders who Pineapple Island
10 Havana howdy 7 Like some collaborated with 49 Pickles
14 Distant start? echelons Jerry Garcia 50 Speak formally
15 Insured patient's 8 Printemps month 43 Range rovers? 54 War, to Sherman
med cost 9 Joe-__weed: 44 Loc. with billions 55 Hardly a big
16 Mideast nation herbal remedy in bullion ticket-seller
17 *Coconut dessert 10 Like smat 45 "__girl!" 57 Sewing circle
19 State bordering phones, e.g. 46 Island where 58T or F, on tests
eight others: Abbr. 11 Vacuum shown Robert Louis 59 Karachi's
20 Krazy ofcomics lifting a bowling Stevenson died country: Abbr.
21 Backsliding event? ball in TV ads
2Tourist antraction 12 Tiltin pole ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23'Fa iousname 131997-2006UN C 0 A L . Z E R O T  
for afund-raising leader
circuitentree 18 Goya's "Duchess A N D 0 O1 MA N B S L E
27Somecampus of H E A D H O N C H O N A I R
sisters 22Prefix with scope N AM ISEE I C I N G
29 Big repairhbill 24 Sch. near the Rio H O U S E O F C A R D S
reaction Grande O S H A M I E N
30 "Hee Haw" prop 25 Bops T H E L M A B E E S D l D
31 Kuwati carrency 26'50s Red Scare B A L L O F C O N F t S I O N
33 Fairy tale Iegume gp.
36 Where it's 27 Kitchen meas. S Y D S TAY S P A R T A
laughabletosee 28 Saintly circle S E R A P E A S
the answers to 31 One going down P A R T Y A N I M A L S
starred clues 32 Assureovictory in, A L I A S MA C E D A S
40 Old curseword slangily W I S P P E A C H F R O N T
41 Overhangs 33 Gut it out
42 Canal that Sal 34 Cut out, say
worked on, in 35 Bridge assents T I R E DUES YEAS T
song 37 Take by force xwordeditor@aol.com 09/21/10

FOR SALE
RECENTLY REMODELED DOU-
BLE ROOM sharing loft as a common
area with other tenants. 2 full baths,
kitchen, air, downtown location. Phone
days: 662-7888, evenings: 995-2433.
PARKING
PARKING @ 930 S. Forest and 408
Hill. 734-222-9033. JMSprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furmi-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, hand 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3850 (313) 215-8115.
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
oa AVAILABLE FALL 2011 **
945 GREENWOOD 5 bdrm/2 new
bath, new kitchen, 5 prkg, Indry,
hardwd floors, 734-834-4010.
2-9 BR Renovated Houses/Apts for
May '11. New furniture! 248-804-
0774 www.ChurchStreetApts.com

' y
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
UoEM Diseounts?
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail, at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 &2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Pree Wi-Fi.
SERVICES
EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
FOR FUN YOGA and meditation
classes call 734 665 7801 or go to
www.YogaAndMeditation.com

2 AFTER SCHOOL nanny positions
open. Must have supervised childcare
experience. Reliable car. Non-smoker.
Ok w/ animals. Contact Sandra Tracey
at Nanny-On-The-Got (734)417-1167
or email Nannyonthegoannarbor@ya-
hoo.com
ARGIEROS RESTAURANT.
SERVERS. Flexible Hours. Good Pay.
300 Detriot Street. Apply In Person.
ATTRACTIVE GIRLS FOR semi-
nude, Victoria's S type lingerie photog-
raphy. Flex hrs, great pay starting at
$40/hr + outfits. Must be 18. For inter-
view call: 734-678-4181 or email photo
to: georgedt@provide.net
BARTENDERS NEEDED EARN
$250/day no experience required will
train full time/part time call now? 877-
405-1078 ex. 999
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAlSER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
NEED SOMEONE TO pick up daugh-
ter at Tappan & take to home near
school in Bums bPark. M-F at 3 & tutor
until 6. Available to take to various ac-
tivities. Please contact Jill Hunsberger
(734) 478-0628 for more information.
MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY operations, including the super-
vision, training and mentoring of under-
graduate students and lab members. As-
sist in the management of research
project(s) directed at lipid biochem-
istry. Provide expertise in biophysical
chemistry with preferred expertise us-
ing mass spectrometry, chemical syn-
thesis, chromatography and microbiol-
ogy techniques. Bachelor's degree in
biochemistry or related field, plus four
years of related experience in a bio-
chemistry laboratory setting required.
In-depth biochemical experimentation
laboratory knowledge essential. Prefer
(1) Master's degree in biochemistry or
related field; (2) extensive lab manage-
ment skills; (3) experience with mam-
malian cell culture techniques; and (4)
experience using mass spectrometry,
chemical synthesis, chromatography,
and microbiology techniques. View
requisition 100472 at https://employ-
ment.unl.edu for qualifications, details
and to apply. Review of applicants be-
gins Aug 11. UNL is committed to a
pluralistic campus community through
affirmative action, equal opportunity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.

EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back-
ground for a major film production.
Eam up to $200/day. Experience not re-
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
PART TIME HORSE barn help.
Strong fix-it type and horse experierne
preferred. 734-995-0092.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
WE ARE SEEKING DYNAMIC
REP CUSTOMER SERVICE ORI
ENTED INDIVIDUALS WITH
GREAT COMMUNICATIONS AND
TYPING SKILLS NEEDED TO
WORK ON BEHALF OF COMPANY
THIS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
WILL EARN UP TO $2000
MONTHLY ANY JOB EXPERIENCE
NEEDED.EMAIL AT ivan-
baurt01@hotmail.com IF INTER-
ESTED.

43 Stud farm stud
44 Groundbreakers
46*Mixer holder
51 Mindful
52 Rankles
3 TV channels2to
13
56 Lisa's title
57 *Yellow slipper?
60 "Agreed!"
61 Put an __: stop
62 Janis's comics
mate
63 Salecution
64 County nrtheast
of London
65 Oceanictflora
DOWN
1 Eponymous
German brewer
Heinrich
2 Caribbean color
3 "Don't worry
about it!"
4 River isle
5 Surgical
coverage?

1 2 3 4 5 6 17- 7- 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16
17 18 18
20 21 22
23 24 25 28
27 28 29
30 31 32 3S 34 35
36 37 38 39
40 41 142
43 44 47 48 48 50
51 52 63 56 57 56 9
60 61 62
63 84 85 -d 1 By James Sajduk 09/22110
(c)2010 Cribane Media Services, Inc.

ADOPT: A LOVING & financially
stable couple longs to provide your
baby w/ unconditional love & security.
Expenses pd. Tom/ Marie 1-888-473-
8836. www.adopt4tomandmarie.com
ANN ARBOR COUPLE seeks respon
sible, non-smoking stadent for driving
and after school child care. Two chil-
dren, 8 year old daughter and 11 year
old son. Must have own car and excel-
lent driving record. Flexible times, but
specifically Tuesday and Friday after-
noons. $13/hour plus mileage.
Stephanie - hailsteph@aol.com or
248.910.0951
CHILD CARE HELP for Teenage
Girl- Driving aftr school; lmtd house-
hold help. Must have car and ref
NEast AA. 5-10 hrs/wk. 734-418-4260.
IDVERTIS
tMICHIGAN DAILY

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 22, 2010 - 7A

Delectable 'Desserts'

Bravo's 'Top Chef'
spin-off is sweet ask
the day is long

By BRIANNE JOHNSON
For the Daily
Bravo's "Top Chef: Just Des-
serts" embraces the mantra that
the best is often saved for last. In
its seventh season, the hit show
has whipped up
a little some-
thing special
for late-night Top Chef.
cravings. "Des-
serts," a spin- Just Des
off of the "Top Wednesdays
Chef" phenom- at10 p.m.
enon, serves
decadent deli- Bravo
cibusness with
personalities to match.
Hosted by food critic Gail Sim-
mons, "Desserts" follows (maybe
a little predictably) in the flour-
marked footsteps of its prede-
cessors. Like a fraternal twin,
"Desserts" almost exactly mirrors
the organized chaos and enter-
tainment from past seasons, but
distinguishes itself by replacing
the food pyramid with a heaping
mound of pure sugar. The first
episode dives straight into the
fillings of sweet tooths, but the
chef's mouths aren't watering
over the sickly sweet aroma of the
workroom. They're focused on
the immunity. Obtained through
a series of Quick-Fire Challenges,
the pastry chefs stir, whip and
bake their signature desserts into
* the form of a cupcake.
But there's a reason past chefs
avoided desserts - the required
memory involved in preparation is

But who would let any of these
treats - hummus or otherwise
- go to waste? With everything
from genoise and ganache to
whoopie pie and edible "disco
dust," "Desserts" serves to be the
closest thing to scrumptious luxu-
ry one can afford in a dorm room.
A pinch of sugar and a dose of true
artistry, the sweet treats concoct-
ed are a visual pleasure in their
own right. Drizzled in chocolate
and fluffed with frosting, the plat-
ed beauties fulfill any desire for
eye candy in the hour-long show.
While the desserts are exqui-
site, the chefs' charm is the real
treat. As usual, Bravo's stock of
varied personalities does not
disappoint. The contestants
themselves are guaranteed
entertainment, a far cry from the
assembled bores on the Cook-
ing Channel. The contenders are
as colorful as the cupcakes they
create, from Seth, the slightly
arrogant and self-proclaimed
genetic spawn of Marky Mark
(Wahlberg) and Dexter (Michael
C. Hall), to the playfully flam-
boyant and competitive Zac, who
proclaims, "I will cut you - with
my flavor!"
But as Zac says, "being a pas-
try chef is not all fine, dine and
frosting." As homegrown bakers
compete with classically trained
pastry chefs, the drama turns
from sweet to sour and will only
mount as the season progresses.
The age-old rule is to abandon
the fridge (and that stock of cook-
ies hidden beneath the bed) once
the clock strikes seven. But "Top
Chef: Just Desserts" proves that
some rules are meant to be bro-
ken. "Desserts" inspires a gnaw-
ing hunger, but still leaves viewers
feeling completely satisfied.

Bam!
a challenge in itself. Precise mea-
surements and strict techniques
prove to be the real competition
this season. But the contestants
flaunt their talent in the elimina-
tion challenge: a dare to create the
"most luxurious chocolate dessert
imaginable." Master pastry chef
Jacques "Mr. Chocolate" Torres,
editor of New York-based e-mail

newsletter DailyCandy Danielle
Kyrillos and head judge Johnny
Iuzzini dissect each bite as the
chefs quake in their batter-soaked
boots. After around 50 minutes
of tongues fused to the television
screen, the verdict is announced
and contestant Tania Peterson's
"hummus-like" chocolate mousse
is tossed into the trash.

Kartoon Kings' 'Conflict'

Off-camera left: a giant bag of Werther's Originals.
Legend enlists
Tweedy's help
By MIKE KUNTZ Jeff Turmes (bass) and Stephen
Daily Arts Writer Hodges (drums). Also contribut-
ing to the album are alt-country
Chicago is making a comeback. all-stars Kelly Hogan and Pat
Between Obama's presidency, an Sansone (Wilco), providing vocals
annual music and extra instrumentation to the
festival in its sce- carefully laid, sparse mix. Each of
nic Grant Park these players, along with the Ray
and a wealth of Charles-esque howl ofbackground
iconic musicians, vocalist Donny Gerrard, lay the
the Windy City Stes perfect soulful foundation for Sta-
(failed Olympic You Are ples to do her thing. And boy, does
bids aside) has Not Alone she do it - at 71, no less.
become one of Anti- "Creep Along Moses," a tradi-
the country's tional gospel song that her father,
nerve centers for Pops Staples, would play for her
bothmusic and progressive politics. with a bunch of other old 78s, has
So who better to combine the all the bluesy guitar and restraint of
two than Mavis Staples, the young- her best material. Tweedy's tracks,
est and arguably most storied of "You Are Not Alone" and "Only the
the Staples Singers who has been Lord Knows," feature the songwrit-
putting her progressive-minded er athis soulful best, recalling many
gospel growl to tape for more than of his trademark melodic turns that
50 years. Famous for her collabora- here seem perfectly tailored to Sta-
tions with Bob Dylan and The Band ples's classically American sound.
as well as her close involvement With a careful injection of spiritual
with the civil rights movement, Sta- themes and lyrics, Tweedy gives
ples has often been called the voice
of her generation. And while she
reached moderate fame on the back
of singles like "I'll Take You There" M avis Staples
in the '60s, she's never been given -
the venerated status and recogni- agesbea u
tion enjoyed by other elder acts.
Maybe You Are Not Alone is an
attempt to finally cement Staples as each song enough skyward longing
one of the all-time greats - though to match Staples's religious charge.
it seems like everyone who knows "Wrote a Song for Everyone," a
her well has given her that status Fogerty-penned ballad, has a cho-
long ago. Produced by Jeff Tweedy, ral refrain with enough warmth
the principal songwriter behind and fervor to bring the rapture to
Wilco, Staples's new record might any Sunday congregation. Likewise
finally give her the attention and with "In Christ There Is No East
Grammy nods she's long deserved. or West," in which Staples's vocals
Tweedy was so impressed with outshine everything else.
the legendary gospel singer while And it's Staples who deserves
attending the performances that most attention: While Tweedy
would comprise 2008's Hope at The skillfully highlights the singer's
Hideout live record, he figured he'd most valuable asset (her voice), his
be lucky just to meet her. Within production is mostly too careful
months, what started as a friendly and unadventurous. Those looking
conversation between music fans for a Mermaid Avenue-caliber proj-
turned into a symbiotic working ect (Wilco's experimental take on
relationship that produced 13 new unreleased Woody Guthrie songs)
tracks recorded in Tweedy's Wilco mightbe disappointed with the safe
Loft studio. choices on this record - but the
A mix of old spiritual stan- album, after all, is about Staples,
dards, some well chosen covers not Tweedy.
(including tracks by Allen Tous- For as much as this record may
saint, John Fogerty and Randy be glossed over for its lack of inno-
Newman) and a few originals by vation or exploration, it serves as an
Tweedy and Staples, You Are Not important document in the history
Alone captures a group of musi- of Mavis Staples's storied career
cians who just bleed soul. Tweedy and features an inspired collabora-
was keen to keep Staples's touring tion. And if you're amazed at how
band for the record, namely the powerful she stillsounds,you're not
trio of Rick Holmstrom (guitar), alone.

ByADDIE SHRODES
Daily Arts Writer
Christopher Sperandio and Simon Gren-
nan, the artistic duo nicknamed the "Kartoon
Kings," bring a blend of high and low art to
the University with "Con-
flict Theory," an interactive
installation to be construct-
ed with the help of student Sperandi0
interns in North Campus's Tomorrow at
Slusser Gallery. 5:10 p.m.
The pair proposed the
"Conflict Theory" installa- Michigan Theater
tion to the University earlier
this year after hearing good things about Ann
Arbor. Although they didn't know exactly how
it would look, the idea was based on two influ-
ences.
Their inspiration came from the group of
sociological theories asserting that conflict
drives human interactions. They also learned
of a game that H.G. Wells, author of "The
War of The Worlds" and noted pacifist, cre-
ated for his children to play. It was a battle
game with tin soldiers and dollhouses that
Wells thought would curb the need to fight
actual war, according to Sperandio, and the
duo wanted to construct a piece around the
activity.
Sperandio plans to construct a version
of the same game on a large, low table with
40-inch high replicas of Ann Arbor build-
ings for the houses and 5-inch models based
on Ann Arborites as the soldiers. On the
surrounding walls, he envisions a "mural of
destruction," for which the plan isn't final-
ized.
"I imagine it's going to be kind of cartoony

brick walls that are blowing up," Sperandio
said of the mural. "We want a balance between
the thing being fun and taking ideas about war
seriously."
The installation should be completed by the
third week in October. This week, Sperandio
and a team of about a dozen student interns
from various disciplines will pool their imagi-
nations to begin the design, organization and
creation of the installation. He encourages
students from any background to get involved
- even if they miss the Sept. 24 internship
deadline.
"I would sort of liken it to a movie produc-
tion," Sperandio said. "I'm the director, but
movies aren't just made by the director ... It's
a big undertaking and everyone who partici-
pates is going to have a role."
Sperandio and Grennan have worked
together for 20 years, making non-traditional
Comic artists bring
H.G. Wells war game
to A2 gallery.
artwork throughout the U.S. and Europe. The
two have done extensive work in comic-book
form, thus the nickname "Kartoon Kings," and
their artwork is often interactive.
"We make things that are strange and don't
fit the traditional boundaries," Sperandio
explained, adding that their work doesn't nor-
mally appear in galleries or museums.
On previous projects, they have worked

with groups of people ranging from factory
workers to retirees, and they always find a
balance of imparting knowledge and learn-
ing along the way. One of their latest projects,
titled "Invisible City," featured comic render-
ings of night workers in Berlin's public transit
rail on 10 commercial billboards throughout
Berlin.
The mural in "Conflict Theory" may draw
from Sperandio's comic-drawing expertise,
but the team will cast plastic army figures
based on Ann Arborites - a sculptural pro-
cess Sperandio has never undertaken in his
life.
"I'm going to be right there learning beside
them," Sperandio said.
Sperandio is in Ann Arbor this semester for
"Conflict Theory" while Grennan is in Britain
working on a separate project, but the two are
used to long-distance collaboration.
"We kind of have an idea about something
and then we just jump in," Sperandio said.
"We're not very cautious."
The game is open to the general public, and
Sperandio hopes to involve the Ann Arbor
community with a Facebook group for "Con-
flict Theory."
Sperandio will also give a lecture as part
of the Penny W. Stamps speaker series put on
by the School of Art & Design at the Michigan
Theater this Thursday. He will speak abouthis
and Grennan's previous work and how "Con-
flict Theory" compares. He added that he and
Grennan tend to do extremely diverse projects:
animated films, comic books and even a reality
TV show about arts on Gallery HD, "Artstar."
"This is like all of our other work in that's
its uniquely unlike anything else we've done,"
Sperandio said.

'Devil' ends M. Night Shyamalan's long losing streak

By BEN VERDI parody of who he used to be.
Daily Arts Writer So if you were one of the people
who booed and hissed when you
There is a dominant opinion saw Shyamalan's name pop up after
toward M. Night Shyamalan that the trailer for "Devil," you weren't
many film lovers wrong for being cynical. You had
hold. They say, "I the right to assume that "Devil"
loved him at first would be just another "Lady in the
when his movies Dvil Water." One more cookie-cutter
were entertain- attempt at "blowing your mind"
ing and intrigu- At Quality16 courtesy of Mr. Shyamalan, the
ing, but he's lost and Rave Notre Dame (all name, no sub-
his touch." Some Universal stance) of directors.
critics think Shy- r However, after seeing "Devil," it
amalan has been becomes clear that no one under-
making the same movie - with a stands the criticisms of M. Night
big twist at the end - for his whole Shyamalan's approach to filmmak-
career. And he doesn't help matters ing better than the man himself.
by arrogantly inserting himself into "Devil" is the best movie con-
his own movies a la Alfred Hitch- ceived by M. Night Shyamalan since
* cock. "The Sixth Sense." And the take-
Time, and a few admittedly bad away lessonof the storyis that Shya-
movies, have allowed this senti- malan is finally learning himself.
ment to seep into the psyche of the The story throws red herrings
general public to the point where it and false clues at us as we try to fig-
seems like Shyamalan has become a ure out which one of the five "bad"

people in a broken elevator is the Erick Dowdle, "Quarantine")
Devil responsible for killing the manages to elegantly contain the
others. But who the Devil is ends up bulk of the story in one broken
not being that important, because elevator while successfully fight-
we see that every character has the ing the urge to cast Shyamalan as
ability to do terrible things. a minor character - two decisions
While this may dash the hopes that limit our distractions and help
of viewers who don't believe people us focus on the story itself and not
are all that bad, it should serve as on its creators.
a hopeful reminder that even the While the film is based on
Shyamalan's idea, someone else
directed it, something we can't say
A e l- o about most films with Shyamalan's
name on them. Brian Nelson ("30
- i Days of Night") is credited as the
"a - screenwriter, which means that
Shyamalan also delegated that cre-
ative influence over his original
worst of us has the potential to take idea to someone else, a multi-lat-
responsibility for our past failures eral approach to filmmaking that,
and overcome our lingering demons. until now, Shyamalan hadn't fully
The film brings the best out of embraced.
its makers because it presents to The idea for "Devil" is like the
them a series of challenges, all of child that a once overbearing Shya-
which are overcome in about 80 malan finally allowed to goout on its
minutes. First, the director (John own (as long as it's home at a reason-

As the evidence clearly shows, she smelt it, therefore she dealt it.
able hour). And because he stopped dle and Brian Nelson wrought this
strangling his ideas to death on his new little jewel: a story about huge
own, hoping for another classic, he's battles happening in very tiny spac-
finally helped make another movie es, and sometimes within a single
that can breathe. person.
It is through honest, humble sac- In that way, the M. Night critic
rifice (of credit and power) that M. might claim, this movie still ended
Night Shyamalan, John Erick Dow- up being all about him.


8A - Wednesday, September 22, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Stonum grows up fast
for 'M'in third season

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily SportsEditor
Last Saturday was a big day for
Darryl Stonum.
After all, his 87-year-old
grandmother, Nettie, boarded a
plane for the first time in her life
from Houston, Texas to see her
grandson play as a Wolverine.
"A lot of people in the stands
were trying to calm her down
because they didn't know if she'd
have a heart attack or what;" Sto-
num joked on Monday. "But from
what I heard, she was screaming
and jumping out of her wheel-
chair in the stands."
Nettie sure picked the right
game to watch her grandson. Sto-
num exploded for 121 yards on
just three receptions, including
a perfectly executed screen pass
that he took 66 yards to the house.
Soon after, he found himself
in the endzone again on a nine-
yard pass to take the lead over the
Minutemen heading into the half.
For his first time at Michigan,
Stonum, a former four-star wide-
out, looked like the deep threat
the Wolverines had recruited him
to be.
"I was always the big-play guy
in high school," Stonum said. "I
was always the deep-threat guy.
And I always wanted that to tran-
sition over to Michigan. And I
think I showed a lot of people that
I can be that deep-threat, big-play
guy."
But in Stonum's first two years
in Ann Arbor, things weren't
always going in that direction.
On April 8, 2009, Stonum
stood in front of a judge at Ann
Arbor's 15th district court house
and pleaded guilty to operating a
vehicle while visibly impaired.
He had been driving 60 miles
per hour the previous September
when his car almost collided with
another at the intersection of
State Street and Hill Street.
He was pulled over and blew a
blood alcohol content of .10, .02
above the Michigan legal limit.
Stonum served his penalties,
which included fines and sub-
stance abuse education, but he
still had a long way to go to make
up with his coaches after having
fallen out of their good graces.
So he set out to do just that.
And after surpassing his yard-
age and touchdown total from
last year in the Wolverines'

SARAH SQUIRE/[
Sophomore Hamoody Saad dribbles the ball in front of the student section in Michigan's game against Notre Dame on Friday
The formation of the men's soccer
student section and how it intends to live on

0

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Junior wide receiver Darryl Stonum had a career day in Michigan's 42-37 victory over
Massachusetts on Saturday, catching three balls for121 yards and two touchdowns.

third week of the season, Rodri-
guez said he's definitely made up
ground.
"When a guy messes up and
everyone wants to throw him out
to the wolves...it's pleasing to fans
and certainly for coaches when
you see a guy grow and mature
and he gets it," Rodriguez said.
"You see that maturity kind of
kick in. Sometimes they grow up
and they just get it. "
Stonum has used his past mis-
takes as motivation to get better,
and without any senior leaders at
wideout, he feels he's on his way
to filling that void.
After the Wolverines' loss to
Ohio State in the final week of last
season, then-senior receiver Greg
Mathews approached Stonum and
fellow wideout Junior Heming-
way and ceremoniously handed
the pair his gloves and his helmet.

"It's on you guys now," he told
the two wideouts.
"Greg (Mathews) left, LaTer-
ryal (Savoy) left," Stonum said.
"A bunch of senior receivers left,
so it was like, 'Who's next? Who's
going to step up tobe that guy?'
"We all learn from our mis-
takes in the past. Coach Rod
stayed with me, he gave me a
chance to prove that I matured,
grew up and learned from my
mistakes"
And as Nettie watched her
grandson score a career-high two
touchdowns last Saturday, she
was able to watch him transform
in front of her eyes and Rodri-
guez's.
"With Darryl's history, he had
to show and do the right things
off the field as well," Rodriguez
said.
"I've been proud of him."

By ZAK PYZIK
Daily Sports Writer
International soccer is known to
have some of the most diehard fans
of any sport known to the world, so
it was just a matter of time before a
fan base established its roots in Ann
Arbor.
And in the Wolverines' 0-0 tie
against Notre Dame last weekend,
300 Michigan Ultras stood unified
in the stands by shirts and scarves.
It took the hand and guidance of one
motivated fan to get the ball rolling.
Fifth-year senior Matthew Peven
started scheming for a student fan
club in the spring of 2010, knowing
that for the coming fall, the new $6
million soccer complex would be
ready to go.
"The student section bleachers
are practically on top of the field,"
Ultra's event chair Joe Rubino said
in an interview Tuesday night.
"Especially when there are plays on
our side of the field, you can tell the
opponents get, well, psyched out."
Peven started his efforts by sit-
ting down with Michigan men's
soccer coach Steve Burns and the
Wolverines' marketing department.
Together, the team, the school
and Peven combined efforts and
resources to ignite a student-fan
uprising.
So far, anyone who has come
to the game as an Ultra and sat in
the student section received free
T-shirts and for the last game,
scarves. (At European and interna-
tional soccer matches, fans typically
hold scarves of their team's colors
over their heads to symbolize who
they're cheering for, similar to "The
Terrible Towel" used in Pittsburgh
for the Steelers.)
Game by game, Peven started
seeing more new faces join the
stands in support of the Wolver-
ines. It seems as if the Ultras have
the support from the entire athletic
department as well.
"The football team had that pep
rally recently and we had Rich Rod
say something about the game to the
students," Peven said. "We had 300
students at that game. It had a quick
uptake this season. Three-thou-
sand-five-hundred people came out
to that game specifically. That's an
absolute 180 from last year."
BLUEPRINT FOR ENDURANCE
Even Peven knows that it will be

difficult for the Ultras to stay alive.
A long-lasting fan club can only be
solidified if it creates tradition, if the
team does well and if there are peo-
ple to succeed the previous leaders.
"We have some big things
planned outside of just match day,"
Rubino said. "We want this to be
more than just a student section,
we want it to be a club where soccer
fans in general can appreciate the
sport."
Peven graduates this year, but the
man has a plan.
"We have a core of young stu-
dents that are interested," Peven
said. "Most of our fans are actu-
ally freshmen. I've been approached
by everyone who has come to the
game. Everyone says that they can't
wait to come back. One of our vice
presidents is a freshman. Most are
sophomores, so there is potential
that this can be longterm."
The Ultras are establishing an
executive board with positions that
will be distributed to a lot of young-
er members. Their hope is that the
club willbeinstituted enough thatit
will never go away.
CHANTING THEIR
WAY TO HISTORY
"I want the student section tobe
like every other student section on
campus," Rubino said. "I want the
games to be like Yost but without
the ice."
While the Ultras may not turn
the soccer stadium into Yost or
Crisler overnight, some things are
getting pretty close. Specifically -
the chants.
"We have our own 'bum of the
game' chant like Maize Raige,"
Peven said. "And that's been very
effective, like one of the 'bums'
moved his position and shifted to
the other side of the field in the mid-
dle of the game."
They also have adopted several of
Yost's more controversial plays on
words, specifically targeting players
by name.
Chants are not the only traditions
that the Ultras are attempting to
sketch into the game-time experi-
ence.
"We have yet to really figure
out what is going to truly be the
Ultras tradition," Peven said. "As
the seasons and years go, a tradi-
tion and theme of the Ultras will
come out. There has been a lot of
talk of creating a song that we sing

at the beginning and ending of the
game. Possibly the 'Yellow and Blue'
just like Liverpool fans sing 'You'll
Never Walk Alone."'
THE TWELFTH MAN
The Wolverines may have gotten
lucky with the Ultras. Not only is it
a fan club, but it's a whole new com-
ponent on game day.
The Ultras have and will influ-
ence the team in more ways than
simply making the opposing team
feel uncomfortable if there's a name
on the roster that rhymes with a
funny word.
First, a big student section and
a brand new stadium could be a
recruit's paradise.
"I think that this generates *
excitement on gameday for recruits
coming to watch," captain Alex
Wood said in an interview Tuesday
evening. "This also gets more ath-
letes in the area to come to watch
the game. Anyone that goes to the
game sees the love and that reflects
Ann Arbor."
Second, the Ultras argue their
existence brings momentum to
Wolverine soccer that has not ever
been seen before.
"The players have acknowledged
it. After goals they come over to
us," Peven said. "I've got a friendly
relationship with a lot of the play-
ers. They will come up to me, and
they'll say, 'thank you so much.
I'm so happy that you guys have *!
been cheering us on.' Every time
that I've talked to them they ask
if there's anything they can do to
help. Right now I just say, 'bring us
results.'"
The motivation and sensation
that the players feel is obvious.
Especially going from regularly
having close to an empty house to
being over capacity.
And so far they've seen results.
Michigan has only lost one of five
home games this year and the Wol-
verines played in front of a record
breaking crowd last week against
the Fighting Irish. More than 3,500
people showed up - topping the old
record by nearly 500 people.
"We used to have just parents
and maybe our girlfriends and a few
students come to the games," Wood
said. "Its awesome to walkoutofthe
tunnel at the beginning of the game
and people are screaming for you.
And they'regoingnuts for the entire
game - all 90 minutes."


MEN'S SOCCER
Alashe makes impact on soccer
field, despite an empty stat sheet *

By MICHAEL WELCH
Daily Sports Writer
In soccer, the best player on the
field isn't always the one who fills
up the stat sheet.
Last Friday night against Notre
Dame, Michigan sophomore mid-
fielder Latif Alashe illustrated this
with a solid performance in a score-
less draw despite finishing with
zeroes in the box score.
Alashe worked tirelessly on and
off the ball to make Michigan men's
soccer's offense work. He played
with composure and distributed
the ball well to the offensive trio
of senior forward Justin Meram
and brothers Soony and Hamoody
Saad.
Against a well organized and
tough Fighting Irish defense,
Alashe's ability to make passes
that set up his attacking options in
scoring positions became crucial.
After the game, Michigan coach
Steve Burns said he only wished
that Alashe had been able to break
through in the first overtime.
"Where he needs to continue to

go is his finishing. He had a good
look out here in the first overtime,"
Burns said. "But (Alashe) is a player
on both sides of the ball that we're
countingon."
In a close match, the midfield
battle becomes the key to gaining
the advantage when scoring chanc-
es are scarce. Because of Alashe's
work, the Wolverines (3-1-5) con-
trolled the pace of the game and
patiently worked to create their
own offensive opportunities.
On the defensive end, Michigan
had to deal with a potent forward
in Notre Dame's Steven Perry. In
the midfield, Alashe broke up play
well and kept Perry from control-
ling the game. Alashe was strong
both in the air and on the ground,
winning headers and tracking back
to make crucial tackles.
"You check his pedometer today,
and he probably ran eight and a half
or nine miles," Burns said. "It's an
end line-to-end line game for him
and he's very capable of that and we
just want to keep him at that level."
After a freshman season in which
he played in every game, Alashe

has been given more responsibility
in the team's gameplan. With cre-
ative players in abundance for the
Wolverines, Burns noted that the
formation is more fluid this year. As
a result, Alashe is playing all over
the midfield, being asked to link up
with attackers, defend on the flanks
and track back to aid the defense.
"Last year I was just kind of the
freshman kid trying not to mess
it up for everyone," Alashe said.
"Now I'm actually going out trying
to win the game for my team."
Even though he couldn't do that,
his play in the midfield helped keep
the Wolverines in control of a tight
game. Going up against a formida- 0
ble opponent in front of the biggest
crowd in Michigan men's soc-
cer history, Alashe shined. Burns
summed up exactly the contribu-
tion he received from his midfielder
on Friday.
"In this game here, we needed *
our big players to play big and that
would take the pressure off the
guys without experience," Burns
said. "I thought (Alashe) played big
tonight."


0

0

0

8 The Statement // Wednesday, September 22, 2010 -
PERSONALSTATEMENT

FOUR DAYS WITH CANCER
BY STEPHANIE STEINBERG

'm sorry, we found cancer."
Those were the first words
I heard while waking up
from a five-hour anesthesia-induced
coma. For all you medical students,
please make sure your patient is in a
coherent state of mind before telling
her that life as she knows it is over.
At least, that's what I thought.
In August, I was diagnosed with a
brain tumor. The only reason doctors
caught it was because I woke up one
morning in May without a voice. For
almost two weeks I couldn't utter a
sound. This conveniently occurred at
the beginning of my summer intern-
ship at USA Today, so I spent my first
two weeks in Washington D.C. run-
ning from doctor to doctor trying to
figure out why I couldn't talk.
Eventually my voice came back,
but barely. I could only speak slightly
above a whisper. The D.C. doctors
diagnosed me with vocal cord pare-
sis - a condition where the vocal
cord stops vibrating, making it next to
impossible to talk. The doctors assured
me these things just happen, that my
voice would come back in a few weeks,
worst-case scenario a couple months.
It was difficult, but I continued
my internship and tried to make the
CREATIVE ARTS
From Page 5
- including weekly discussion, small
group meetings and journals - the
outcome differs based on the students
within the class.
"We were there to be laying out our
ideas and our opinions and our ques-
tions and we couldn't look to Buzz for
all of the answers and we had to look to
tach other. And that's what I think life
is like, you don't have someone stand-
ing in front of you all the time telling
you, 'This is what it is and here is the
answer.'You have to learn to utilize the
people that are sharing experiences
that you have. And I think that's what
he taught us was to work together, to
try and answer some of our questions
and to continue to converse with each
other even after the class had ended,"
Friedman said of Buzz's facilitative
teachingstyle.

best out of the situation. Interviewing
sources over the phone was a night-
mare, as half the time the interviewee
couldn't hear my questions, and my
opportunity to hold an in-person inter-
view with Sally Ride - the first Ameri-
can woman in space - was dampened
by the fact that I had to abstain from
small talk in order to conserve my voice
for questions. There went my chance to
find out how astronauts pee in space.
While it's difficult for anyone deal-
ing with losing his or her voice - it's
impossible to do simple things typi-
cally taken for granted, like order food
in a loud restaurant or chat with people
at parties - not being able to speak is
particularly difficult for a journalist.
One USA Today reporter told me that if
he ever got around to writing a parody
of the newsroom, the voiceless intern
(me) would certainly be included.
Fast-forward to the end of sum-
mer: I'm at the University of Michigan
Hospital sliding through CT scans and
MRIs. After coming home to Michi-
gan, I saw a University doctor who
specializes in voice disorders. The plan
was to get vocal cord injections to help
me recover my voice before classes
started. But prior to the procedure, the
doctor ordered a CT scan because he
Buzz is nearly ten years past retire-
ment age. He knows that he'll eventual-
ly need tostep down and give the PCAP
reigns to someone else. But right now
he's not distracted with talk of that, he
has too much to do - between the three
classes he teaches, weekly meetings
with PCAP members and executives,
organizing the annual prisoners' art
show and promoting his recently pub-
lished memoir, "Is William Martinez
Not Our Brother? Twenty Years of the
Prison Creative Arts Project."
There will come a day when Buzz
will no longer be teaching English
classes every week, when he won't
meet with students and prisoners on
a weekly basis, when he will be able to
enjoy the benefits of retirement.
"Maybe that day will come," Buzz
jokes. "Maybe."
But he hasn't reached that point yet.
He continually reshapes the definition

heard my dad say this was the worst
time in his life.
If this was hard on my family, no one
besides cancer patients themselves can
imagine what went through my mind
- both physically and mentally.
For the biopsy, the surgeon cut
behind my left ear, which caused
temporary hearing loss followed by
a magnified sense of sound in that
had a hunch I had more than a para- ear. Clunking pots and pans, drawers
lyzed vocal cord. banging shut and clinking silverware
His hunch was correct. As it turns sounded like bombs dropping in my
out, I have a tumor pressing down on ears. Even the sound of tearing tin
the nerve that connects to the vocal foil made me cringe. Now, add my two
cords. Doctors couldn't tell if it was barking dogs and my squawking parrot
benign or malignant based on the to the mix, and it was almost too much
scans, so I had a biopsy done to find to bear.
Although the
o exeruciating noise
"I was too stunned to know how was difficult to
to react. Yesterday I had cancer. handle, the men-
tal agony was far
Today I didn't." worse. As I lay in
bed recovering
from the biopsy I
out. The results sent an unpleasant thought of all the things I haven't done
ripple through my family and friends. and places I've never gone. Would I
It was cancer. ever get to go skydiving? What about
I found out that until something becoming a famous journalist? Would
tragic happens, you don't truly know I even live long enough to get married
how many people care about you. Once or have children?
word got around that I had cancer, Four days after being diagnosed
cards, texts and Facebook messages with cancer and mulling over my past,
flooded me with support, prayers and present and future, my dad received a
love. call from my surgeon, who immedi-
The pain and misery my family ately asked to be put on speakerphone.
experienced can't be described with "Remember I told you after the sur-
words. No parent wants to hear his gery that there is a small ray of hope?"
or her child has cancer and may have he asked in a strangely positive voice.
to undergo chemotherapy, radiation "Well, Ijust got the official report, and
or brain surgery. At one point, I over- it's not cancer."

The response: My mom burst out in
tears, my dad was all smiles and I was
too stunned to know how to react. Yes-
terday I had cancer. TodayI didn't.
I'm not angry with my doctors for
the misdiagnosis and all the grief they.
caused, putting my family and friends
on a roller coaster of emotions. In real-
ity, I'm just thankful they were wrong.
Two weeks ago I was planning to
drop out of school, resign from my edi-
tor position at The Michigan Daily and
fly around the country to seek treat-
ment at cancer centers. Tonight, I'm
writing this from my bedroom over-
looking State Street, listening to cars
and ambulances whiz by and my four
roommates yell at the characters on
Degrassi late night reruns.
Even though life is now back to
"normal," I still don't know what's in
store for me down the road.
Doctors injected me with collagen
shots to bring my voice back, but their
effects wear off after only three to six
months, and I dread the day when I
will again wake up without a voice.
Aside from this, I still have many deci-
sions to make about potential proce-
dures to have, one of which could leave
me unable to hear and swallow prop-
erly. When it comes down to it, I have
two choices: let this thing keep grow-
ing inside my head -or go under the
knife and prayI can still swallow when
I wake up.
And to think, I once thought choos-
ing which classes to take was difficult.
- Stephanie Steinberg is an
LSA junior and a senior news
editor at The Michigan Daily.

of what it means to risk further and by
doing so has engaged the University
in one of the most compassionate and
reflective opportunities available to
students.
For Delezica, PCAP provided a cre-
ative space that allowed him to retrieve
himself. It instilled in him the impor-
tance of contribution to others and
within 10days ofhis releasefromprison
he was doing just that in his community.
Recently, he has connected a local
organization with Sherwin Williams
paint. The outreach project refurbish-
es homes for the homeless and with
Delezica's help, it's able to paint every
single one of those new houses.
"It makes places look better, it
makes people feel better about where
they live and it helps to raise their
whole entire consciousness," Delezica
says.
"You'd be amazed what paint on a
house can do for people."
And for others, paint on a canvas.

Prof. William
Buzz Alexander,
director of the
Prison Creative
Arts Project.
Buzz came to
the University
in 1971 to teach.
Nineteen years
later he started
PCAP. (Jed
Moch/Daily)




0

0

0

0

0

0

2B The Statement // Wednesday, September 22, 2010

Wednesday, September 22, 2010 // The Statement 7B

the
statement
Magazine Editor-
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief.
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor:
Jenna Skoller
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor:
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
Cover photo courtesy of ... Bryan Pickens,
a prisoner involved in the Universityof '
Michigan's Prison Creative Arts Proiject. The
painting istitied "Confiscated Goods."
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year. To contact The
Statement e-mail calero@michi-
gandaily.com
~ V
WANT TO
JOIN THE
MICHIGAN
DAILY?
Come to our LAST
mass meeting at 420
Maynard Street
7 P.M.
THURSDAY, SEP-
TEMBER 30

THEJUNKDRAWER
random student interview by will grundler

Hi, this is The Michigan Daily.
I'm introducing a feature
called Random Student
Interview.Would youlike to partici-
pate?
I would love to.
I've been asked to ask about current
events. So, my first question is, who
doyou thinkreallykilledKennedy?
Who do I think really killed Kennedy?
It's still very much up in the air. Do
youthink it was the Russians?
Um, I would say that it was probably
Lee Harvey Oswald, but if it wasn't
him, I would blame it on a vast right-
wing conspiracy before I would blame
it on the Russians.
So, blame the Republicans is what
you're saying?
Yeah.
So, I take it you're not a political sci-
ence major?
No.
What's your major?
I'm a philosophy major.
Alright, on that note, do you think
the Michigan Student Assembly
should be dissolved or banned from
campus or both?
I would saythat with all the moneythat
the University gets, the least they can
do is let us spend some of it.
Moving on, how many of the 18,000
Dailys printed each day do youthink
are not used primarily to clean

spills?
I bet most of them get used to clean up
spills after two or three people have
read them.
So what college do you think we
could just do away with? Like the
residential college, or maybe Engi-
neering?
You have a vendetta against engineer-
ing, I see.
An Engineering major killed my
father.Whatlanguage did youtake?
French.
Ah, moi aussi. I got like a C in it.
Je deteste dtudier le frangais.
Does that mean youlike giraffes?
Yes.
So, I'm noticing that you're smok-
ing. What do you think about this
upcoming smoking ban, and what do
you intend to do about it?
I think it's funny. The sooner they start
banningsmokingon campus, the soon-
er all smokers will start pitching their
cigarette butts all over campus and
making it disgusting.
Do you think physical aggression
and actually taking a cigarette out
of a person's mouth and burning it
on their skin would work better?
I think that over the course of the
last several millennia, smokers have
proved tobe a pretty resilient bunch.
Like cockroaches. So, you know
when you're walking down the Diag

and you spot one of those annoying
people handing out fliers, and then
when they try to give you their flier,
you snatch it from their hand, crum-
pleitupandthrowitintheirface.
I think that handing out fliers for a stu-
dent group is a pretty discouraging task
since nobody seems very interested and
out of nobody, even fewer people seem
like they'll read it.
So, would you say as a philosophy
major you get a bunch of girls all
over you?
I would say as a philosophy major, the
response is evenly divided between
three categories: people who don't care,
people who think they already know
what you're learning and people who
find whatyou do repulsive becausethey
assume you think you're smarter than
everyone else.
Hm, elitists.
WhichI hardlydisagree with.
'-.g

Uh huh. What philosopher do you
follow?Doyoufollow Jesus,ormore
like Niche?
Neither. I try to keep philosophy out of
my everyday life because I've noticed
the people who try to actually apply it
to everyday situations find themselves,
you know, somewhere between Jesus
and Niche. Crazy orcrucified.
Do you think we exist in any real
sense? Or no?
I think we definitely exist, like at least
one of us.
You?
Well, I mean I'm more certain of that
than Iam of anything else.
Anything you'd like to add? Any
philosophicalwordsyou'dlike tosay
to the none philosophy majors? Like,
just a motto?
Yes, absolutely.

"(Camp Take
Notice) cen-
tralizes this
group of peo-
pie that want
to have a lit-
tle bit better
environment
to live in."
Mikey, left, leads a weekly camp
meeting. Caleb Poirier, center, is
sitting with a bag at urine tests.
Prompted by the recent discovery at
a used needle at Camp Take Notice,
Poirier proposed that everyone
anonymously single out suspected
drug users among the campers. The
residents vouted in favor of Poirier's
plan, and two residents had to pro-
vide urine samples. Both came out
clean. The camp has a strict no drug
policy.

living in a tent community instead of a
permanent shelter - lack of bathroom
facilities, no electricity, no easy access
to food or water and exposure to the
elements, to name a few - there are
other aspects of the camp that provide
a certain amount of freedom to its resi-
dents. A freedom that, to some, is diffi-
cult to attain at a shelter.
Many campers say that merely hav-
ing a space of their own, small as it may
be, is a major source of liberation. It
allows them to store their belongings
somewhere they can access anytime
they need to - a privilege lost to those
staying in a shelter, who must choose
between carrying their possessions
around all day or puttingthemin a stor-
age space at the shelterthat is only open
for a short window of time each day.
Danielle, a MISSION board member
and a resident of the camp since April,
emphasized the importance of easy-
access storage when it comes to daily
obligations like job interviews. She
said that people staying at the Delonis
Center who have job interviews have to
carrytheir nice setof clothes with them
all day, which makes them wrinkled
and unprofessional-looking.
"It's just much simpler here because
you can ... come in just before your
interview, get ready for it, go out, do
your interview, come back, put your
clothes away, change, and then go back
out and finish your day," she said.
Joseph - at 58 years old, one of the

oldest residents at the camp - spent
the maximum permitted stay of three
months at the people at the Delonis
Center prior to moving to CTN in
June. Though he said the Delonis cen-
ter helped him as much as they could,
the campsite has attributes the shelter
simply couldn't match, despite the dif-
ficulty of everyday life at the camp.
It's been two years since Joseph lost
his job. Originally from Brooklyn, New
York, he attended the University for
part of his undergraduate education
and later received a Master's Degree
in English composition from Eastern
Michigan University. He said he fell in
love with Ann Arbor during his school-
ing and decided to settle down and
raise a family here. He taught for six
years then had a long, successful career
as a technical writer.
What remains of Joseph's savings is
in a 401(K) that he can't access until he's
59.5 years old, so like many at the camp,
he's actively looking for work but hav-
ing no luck.
Joseph praised the camp for its
open-door policy and strict but reason-
able set of rules. He also emphasized
the level of camaraderie and respect
among the individuals at camp that he
feels is missing at the shelter.
Mikey also praised the camarade-
rie and respect found at CTN, call-
ing the camp members the "warmest,
most welcoming group of people" he
has ever met.

"I didn't have a tent when I first came
out here; they helped me find atent," he
said. "If somebody comes out here with
nothing but the clothes on their back,
they'll at least put them up for the night
in a tent and try to help them out."
Schulmeister said that homeless
individuals have always been at a dis-
advantage when applying for jobs, and
now thanks to the recession, that dis-
advantage is even greater because there
are more applications for every job
opening.
"You've got students and people
with degrees and better work histories
ahead of them now competing for low-
er-paying jobs and lower-skilled jobs
just because they are desperate to find
a job," she said.
Joseph said he thinks his age and
experience are the biggest obstacles he
faces on the job hunt.
"The subtext when I look for jobs
around here is basically either too old
or too overqualified," he said. "And I
understand the first part. They can't
say that to you legally, but I can see it
on their faces. It's a very young town
demographically, it just makes sense.
I get it."
At the end of August, Joseph moved
into an apartment. He was planning to
move to Portland, Oregon if his housing
situation hadn't improved before the
winter. Now, he said, he'll be able to stay
close to his daughters.
Like Joseph, Danielle plans to leave

the camp before the cold hits. A learn-
ing disability makes it difficult for hey
to find work, buthavingspent one term
in the Marine Corps, she qualifies for
Section 8 housing through the Veter-
an's Association.
Mikey will move to an apartment at
the beginning of October. In September
he began working toward an associate's
degree in social work and human ser-
vices at Washtenaw Community Col-
lege. He plans to use financial aid ant'
unemployment checks, which eventu-
allycamethrough after agruelingcourt
process, to pay rent on the apartment.
However, not everyone at the camp
has a foreseeable departure from
CTN. Joseph estimated that about 50
percent of the residents, discouraged
by the economy and/or various medi-
cal conditions, have come to accept
that they won't be "typical citizens
working a job."
As for the future of CTN as a whole,
the camp will not be settled until it
finds a piece of sanctioned land where it
will be safe from the constant threat of
eviction. This has been the camp's goal
since the beginning, but it has proved
to be no easy task. Until they do find a
stable place to pitch their tents, the resi
dents of CTN will have to live with the
knowledge that the slightest provoca-
tion, like a complaint from a neighbor,
could force the authorities to invoke
trespassing laws, and the camp would
have to pick up and relocate yet again.

10
wi
Lu



40


9

0

0

0 0

6B Wednesday, September 22, 2010 // The Statement

Three miles from
town is a make-
shift homeless
shelter called
Camp Take
Notice. With
weekly meetings,
an executive
board and strict
rules on drug
use, the camp is
more forthese
30 or so individu-
als than just a
place to live -
it's a community.
BY SUZANNE JACOBS
PHOTOS BY JAKE FROMM
TOP: Chairs for the weekly camp
meeting set up in front of the camp's
communal tent. Residents of Camp
Take Notice use the tent as a stor-
age space, a makeshift kitchen and a
place to gather and socialize.

little more than three miles
west of the University is a small,
unassuming patch of woods wedged
between Wagner Road and I-94. To
any passersby, the unkempt piece of
land is nothing more than a blur on
their periphery,but tosome, theunder-
belly of that thick canopy of leaves is
home - at least for now.
Camp Take Notice is an adult-only,
self-governing, drug and alcohol-free
community of individuals who, for
reasons specific to each person, can't
afford traditional housing. So, inhab-
itants resort to living in tents, a basic
form of shelter they can provide for
themselves.
Looking around at the 20 to 30 resi-
dents of CTN, it might not take long to
see a familiar face, maybe even a few.
That's because during the day, the
campers venture into town to go to
work or look for work if they are unem-
ployed, to stop by the public library,
to visit friends and family or to do any
number of other activities any typical
Ann Arbor resident might do.
During his stay at the camp this
summer, CTN resident Mikey, for
example, usually got up between 5:30
and 6 a.m. for the free breakfast offered
at St. Andrew's Episcopal Church on
North Division. After breakfast, he
headed to the libraryto check his email
and then looked around town for work
as a day laborer. For Mikey, distinctions
between him and the rest of the com-
munity lay only in where he lives.
"Once I get into town, I'm just, you
know, another person walking down
the sidewalk," he said with a casual
shrug and flick of his cigarette. "That's
really the only difference between me
and the guy next to me walking down
the sidewalk, is at the end of the day
he goes home to his house, I go home

to my tent."
Mikey, 31, drove a shuttle bus at the
Detroit Metro Airport for four years
until he was laid off at the beginning of
this summer. He was one of many air-
port employees, he said, who lost their
jobs to the recession and were denied
unemployment benefits.
After about two and a half months
without any sort of income, Mikey
eventually found himself at the Delonis
Center - a homeless shelter on Huron
Avenue. After being asked to leave the
shelter for using the elevator without
permission from a staff member, he
sought refuge at CTN. Mikey said he
knew about the camp because he had
visited it as a volunteer when living at
the shelter.
Like Mikey, everyone at the camp
has their own story to tell, but onething
they all have in common is the part
where they pitch a tent at CTN.
Ann Arbor native Caleb Poirier
founded CTN in 2009. His story began
a few years prior, when a medical con-
dition led to him losing his job as a
paramedic at the University hospital.
Not wanting his friends and family to
see him in a situation where he could
not provide for himself, Poirier moved
to Seattle, Washington. Without any
income, he soon became homeless and
took shelter at a local 100-person tent
city run by the non-profit organization
Seattle Housing and Resource Effort.
By the end of his two years in Seattle,
Poirier had become a community orga-
nizer for the camp.
The possibility of starting a tent
city in Ann Arbor started to creep into
Poirier's mind after a family emergency
brought him back from the west coast
in August 2008. Upon his return, he

began to realize that the shelter system
in Washtenaw County could not ade-
quately accommodate the local home-
less population.
According to Ellen Schulmeister,
executive director of the Shelter Asso-
ciation of Washtenaw County, the
limited capacity of the shelter system
leaves about 200 to 300 people out on
the streets on any given night.
"There isn't a community that I
know of that has enough shelter beds,"
she said. "It's very hard to have a shelter
bed for everybody who needs one."
The Washtenaw County Office of
Community Development reported
that the number of homeless individu-
als in the county grew from 3,940 in
2006 to 4,618 in 2009, and Schulmeis-
ter said she expects the recession to
push that number even higher. She
noted that any individual who make
less than 15 dollars an hour would have
trouble finding affordable housing in
Ann Arbor.
In the face of this harsh reality, Poiri-
er began to conceptualize CTN. He said
he started out by simply forming friend-
ships within the homeless community
and having "thousands of one-on-one
conversations with people" about the
idea of a tent city. The camp began to
materialize when Poirier started shar-
ing his camping supplies with other
people who, in turn, shared their sup-
plies with additional people.
Poirier said that homelessness, like
death and taxes, will always exist, but
he hopes that CTN can serve as a tem-
porary solution while people get back
on their feet.
"I'm not attempting (to) create a uto-
pia," he said. "What I am shooting for
is having an intermediate step, a lowest
rung on the ladder for people to climb
out of poverty."
In June of last year while the camp
was still in its infancy, Poirier met
Brian Nord, a doctoral student in the
physics department at the University.
The two got to talking about the pros-
pect of a tent community, and inspired
by Poirier's vision, Nord decided to get
involved.
Nord said that far too often he saw
people walk by panhandlers on the
street and glance down at them with
reproachful looks on their faces, as if
to say "Just get a job, man." He felt that
the disconnect between the homeless
community and the rest of Ann Arbor
came largely from ignorance and
stigma and that telling someone to
"just get a job" was an unrealistically
simple solution for a complicated and
nuanced problem.
In CTN, Nord said, he saw the pos-
sibility to create a positive environment
for the homeless and a medium through
which to educate the rest of the com-
munity about the homeless population.
"(The camp) centralizes this group
of people that want to have a little bit
better environment to live in, which

means that if people want to change
their habits and their lifestyle, then the
rest of the community is more efficient-
ly able to help them," he said. "I think
that's a really big positive."
Nord is now the president of the
board of directors of the non-profit
group Michigan Itinerant Shelter Sys-
tem: interdependent Out of Necessity
(MISSION), which Nord said serves as
CTN's "buffer to the outside world."
As trespassing laws have forced the
camp to move several times - it start-
ed behind the Toys R' Us at Arborland
then relocated to an area of public land
near I-94 off of Ann Arbor-Saline Road
and in May arrived at its current loca-
tion off of Wagner Road - MISSION
has served as the camp's conduit to law-
yers and law enforcement officers.
While MISSION facilitates interac-
tions between the camp and the com-
munity at large, business within CTN
is dealt with entirely by those staying
at the camp through democratic self-
governance.
Every Thursday night, the residents
congregate in a big circle and hold a
formal, mandatory camp meeting. The
meeting always begins with nomina-
tions for a chair and a minute taker,
followed by introductions around the
circle and a review of the minutes from
the previous meeting.
Typical topicson the meeting's agen-
da include sanitation and safety con-
cerns, but occasionally, the camp has
more serious issues to address.
On a balmy Thursday night in mid_
August, for example, two recent events
at the camp - a drug overdose and a
one-night stay by a minor - threatened
the integrity of the camp and chal-
lenged its residents to come up with
better ways to avoid such incidents in
the future.
Always wary of goings on at CTN
attracting too much attention from
local authorities, the residents held
nothing back when discussing the
serious issues before them. At times
tempers flared and accusations flew,
but no one left the circle until a con-
sensus was made on how to better
enforce camp policies.
By the end of the meeting, the camp
voted that those elected to the security
committee would enforce a strict zero-
tolerance policy when dealing with
drugs and alcohol in the camp, and
would remove anyone who violates that
policy on the first strike. The residents
also voted that anyone who wishes to
stay at the camp must be able to prove
through some form of identification
that he or she is overthe age of 18.
The unwavering determination of
the residents at that meeting to main-
tain the respectability and legitimacy
of the camp was a clear testament to
how much they value the community
that has formed in that small patch of
woods.
While obvious difficulties come with

A bathroom attendant caught
Bruno Mars using cocaine in the
Las Vegas Hard Rock Hotel's casino
bathroom early Sunday morning.
Mars, whose real name is Peter
Hernandez, is set to have his debut
album released in two weeks.

Former Brighton, Mich. defense at-
torney Ronald James Plunkett was
sentenced to three years of proba-
tion Monday for providing cocaine
to a 22-year-old Ypsilanti woman
who died of a drug overdose in his
Ann Arbor apartment.

Pope Benedi
visit to Grea
years Thursc
controversy
abuse allega
protest in Ed
victims of pm

01 2 4 5 6 7 89 10
quotes of the week on the cheap
"Now is not the time to take it down a notch. Now is the getting home on a budget
time for all good men to freak out for freedom."
STEPHEN COLBERT, Comedy Central host, announcing he will host a rally called
"March to Keep Fear Alive" in an effort to compete against colleague Jon Stewart's
"Rally to Restore Sanity" at the same time and place.
"It's a terrific performance. It's the performance of his
career."
CASEY AFFLECK, director of "I'm Still Here," speaking of Joaquin Phoenix's act-
ing both on- and off-stage as a drug-addicted aspiring rapper, pausing his acting
career for two years to make the documentary.
"While it may be an act of God, it doesn't make it any easier
for us."
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG, mayor of New York City, on the brief but powerful ILLUSTRATON BYKATlE EBETS
storm, including two tornadoes, that affected New York City and its sur-
rounding area Thursday, killing at least one person and injuring others. rom time to time, it's nice to escape the University chaos and get back to the quiet safety
lof our childhood homes. Unfortunately, however, weekend getaways don't come without a
price tag. So, if you need a weekend away, here's how to get home on the cheap.
the rules For those who live too far to drive home, it can seem unreasonable to leave campus for a
_ _ _r_ _ _ _ _ _weekend. But there are ways to get around the sky-high flight prices. When booking a flight,
make sure you choose a popular destination and time to leave. Airlines often overbook and
No. 266: No. 267: No. 268: need volunteers to be "bumped" to a later flight, typically with a thank you in the form of a
Facebook Don't ever e-mail a Hamburgers are the $300 travel voucher. If that doesn't work, just complain. After you land, just write a letter to
Don't Fthe airline complaining about anything - a rude flight attendant, lost luggage, plane delays,
friend someone when professor on your new burritos. you name it - and ask for them to compensate you. Chances are they will.
they're in the same middle school hotmail If you're lucky enough to live within driving distance of the University and don't have a car,
just mooch off friends. Whether you live in Chicago or West Bloomfield, chances are you can
room as you. account. find a friend who lives there too. Or, if all else fails, there is always hitchhiking.
Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know E-mail onthecheap@umich.edu.
by the num bersCOURTESY OF THE NEW YORK TIMES
The number of gay and lesbian individu- The number of people kicked out The number of votes the Democrats needed
als estimated to be currently serving in the of the service underthe "don't ask, to pass a bill that would allow the repeal of
military. don't tell" policy. "don't ask, don'ttell." The vote was 56 to 43.

Wednesday, September 2 2010 // The Statement 36
- 0 - -3
news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance

ct XVI marked his first In a surprise outcome of the Dela-
t Britain in almost 30 ware Republican Senate primary, Tea
day, amid a storm of Party candidate Christine O'Donnell
surrounding child sexual beat GOP Rep. Mike Castle, despite
tions - there was a complaints that O'Donnell illegally
lingburgh, Scotland of spent $20,000 of campaign money
edophilic priests. in 2009 and 2010.
---------------------, -------,

A
Democratic efforts to have the
"don't ask, don't tell" law repealed
suffered a major setback Tuesday,
when the party failed to win the 60
votes needed to advance a defense
bill with a provision to conditionally
repeal the law.


4B The Statem-ent W/vednesday, September 22. 2010

Wednesday, September 22, 2010 // The Statement 5

THE UNIVERSITY'S PRISON CREATIVE ARTS PROJECT BRINGS ART WORK
AND JUVENILE FACILITIES, PROVIDING A SOURCE OF IDENTITY AND INS
BY CHANTEL JENNINGS

N PRISONS
/OLVED.

It would have been one thing tenIrview a criminal in
prison. To walk in confident he or she had been patted
down, knowing guards were within shouting distance
and that cameras- wvere recording our every move. But to
interview a man who had spent 12 years behind bars while
sitting in his living room alone, knowing my feeble sense of
security was only within myself, that was another thing.

The feeling didn't strike until the
morning of the interview, and when
I got out of bed I considered allow-
ing the fear in my stomach to disguise
itself as an illness. I considered not
doing the interview at all.
But I hated myself for that - that I
was more nervous about sitting with
an ex-prisoner in his home, rather
than sitting with a current prisoner
in a cellblock. After all, I wasn't going
to meet an ex-prisoner. I was going to
meet an artist. It was this realization
that pushed me out the door and into
the car that would take me 70 miles to
the home of Fernando Delezica.
By the time I reached Delezica's home
my fear had more or less subsided.
His small apartment was carved
into the lower level of a cookie-cutter
home built in the 1960s. A small stair-
case led from the driveway down to
his apartment. When I pulled up, the
door opened almost immediately and a
small man came rushing up the steps.
"I'm so sorry it was difficult for you
to find my place," he said over and over
again before introducing himself.
He was shorter than me. His white
sneakers produced a striking con-
trast to the dark blue of his jeans. He
wore a cotton polo and his hair was
a bit disheveled, as if he too had felt
unsettled about how to prepare for the
interview.
Last fall I facilitated a poetry work-
shop in a Detroit juvenile facility
through the Prison Creative Arts Proj-
ect (PCAP), a University organization
that pairs up students with prisons,
juvenile facilities and select Detroit
high schools. PCAP members work
side-by-side with inmates to collabo-
rate on original works of art, writing,
music and theatre.
After my semester with PCAP, the
words 'compassion' and 'understand-
ing' seemed to take on another defi-
nition for me. Prisoners and juvenile
delinquents that were once only a
thing I heard of on the evening news
now had faces and names that held
a solid part of my heart. People like

Delezica were no longer inmates, but
artists.
"I'm about to get to my point," Delezi-
ca promised after 45 minutes of talking
about his experience with PCAP - the
organization that, as he describes it,
changed his life.
"But I need to stop before I get too
emotional," he quivered. After look-
ing around the room, Delezica got up
and grabbed some of his acrylic paint-
ings, pointing out the different paint
strokes and colors. One wasn't finished
completely, the tree in the background
was more or less finished but the wind-
mill still needed a bit of work. It was
the groundwork for what Delezica said
would be a painting of the "memory of a
place he'd never been."
He wanted me to know that he had
talent, that these pieces meant some-
thing to him, because for 12 years
Delezica was told by the state that he
had nothing. And talent? Convicts don't
have talent. They have time. Time spent
in a 7' x 10' foot box. They have time to
sit and think in an iron casket that soci-
ety calls a cell.
When Delezica talks about his first
eight years in prison his eyes glaze a bit.
They were hard, he admits. He was dis-
couraged, and finding it difficult to be
anything other than that while in prison.
But in the eighth year, he says, begin-
ning to speak more quickly, a friend of
his inside convinced him to go to this art
class run by some organization called
PCAP that was happening every week at
the prison.
And what was at first, for Delezica,
just some class taught by a woman from
Ann Arbor quickly became a space
that allowed him to find himself again
through art, to find his voice amid the
inaudible mess that prison was.
"This is what we're told by staff when
we come through what they call the
'bubble' there at quarantine: 'You've
pretty much been rejected by society,
you're nothin' but a piece of garbage
and good luck to ya. We don't care what
happens to you,"' Delezica says. "But
here comes a whole team of people

that say: 'We have an avenue for you to
express what's in your heart, what's in
your mind, what's really troubling you.
And we're willing to accept it and we're
willing to accept you with your struggle.
What you did is not what you are."'
And in the first brief moment of
silence more than an hour into our con-
versation I ask my first and only ques-
tion of the interview.
I point to a snapshot on the far wall
that depicts a small boat's silhouette on
calm water. "Where did you take that
photograph?"
"That's not a photo," he says with a
satisfied smile. "I made that."
I stare at the drawing for a moment,
stand up and walk over to the wall. It's
not until I'm standing inches away that
I finally see the pencil lines precisely
drawn and shaded.
I look over to Delezica who is visibly
enjoying witnessing my amazement,
enjoying seeing my guard come down
as I allow him to continue on with his
story. He was a convict. He is an artist
- an artist who used his tools to shatter
his iron casket.
PCAP doesn't always look like that,
and founder and University of Michigan
English Prof. William Buzz Alexander
will be the first one to agree. But it'sthese
types of stories that keep Buzz pushing
forward. It's people like Delezica that
inspire the PCAP organization, enough
to not only continue but to keep adding
workshops at prisons and low-income
high schools throughout the state.
"It's all too much. This whole thing is
too much," Buzz says, a painfully honest
statement. "It runs us ragged. We work
very hard. The need is incredible in all
the fields that we work in ... It's alot like
a lot of things that are too much - you
have to do it, because of what it's about."
Today, PCAP workshops exist in
more than 30 prisons and juvenile cen-
ters and seven Detroit high schools. But
just 20 years ago, it all sortof began with
a request from Liz Boner, a student of
Buzz's at the time.
She was traveling to Florence Crane
Women's Facility in Coldwater, Mich.
once a week to bring University course
materials to two women sentenced
to life in prison. Boner was in Buzz's
guerilla theater course, a class that
performed original theater pieces in
public places for groups of people who
unknowingly became audiences.
The two lifers she was meeting
with at the time were interested in the
course, and Buzz and one other stu-
dent agreed to make the trek to Cold-
water every week to meet with them.
For nearly a month and a half the five
held thoughtful discussions and played

theater games, soon realizing that this
expression of creative energy could ben-
efit the inmates at large.
Twenty years later, Buzz continues
to work with this group, a theater group
now known as the Sisters Within The-
ater Troupe. The women have put on
more than 29 original plays.
"When you're creating your own
original work and you're creating a
character, that character gets based
on what you know and who you are.
And often you're working off your own
issues... and it's on the stage," Buzz says
of his work with The Sisters Within.
"When you're there watching that play,
you don't know all the backgrounds but
you're feeling it among the actors and
in the theme of the play. And it's got a
power that you're not going to have. A
professional actor playing somebody
else in a powerful story based on a real
story is still not that person and you can
tell the difference even though it's bril-
liantly acted."
From a five-person workshop, PGAP
has grown to an organization that now
involves every form of creative expres-
sion and has included several thousand
University students, community mem-
bers and incarcerated youth and adults.
Much has changed since Buzz came
to the University in 1971. That year,
there were three prisons in Michigan
housing approximately 3,500 inmates.
In 2006, Michigan had 51,000 prison-
ers. And the United States continues
to be the most incarcerating nation -
its prisons account for more than one
fourth of the convicted in the world. As
of 2008, Michigan was one of four states
that spent more on corrections than
higher education.
More shockingly, America is the only
nation that incarcerates youth for life
without parole. More than 3,000 adoles-
cents sit behind bars today and will stay
there for the rest of their lives.
When Buzz introduces himself, rath-
er than explaining that he holds a Ph.D
from Harvard or that he's a tenured
English professor at the University of
Michigan, he simply tells people that he
works in prisons.
At a high school reunion years ago,
one member of his class asked if he ever
wore armor while working in the pris-
ons. What sounds like a naive question
only expresses the nature of most peo-
ple's thoughts of prisoners.
LSA junior Carly Friedman worked
last fall in a poetry workshop in a juve-
nile facility in Detroit. For her parents, it
was a far cry from the comfortable Chi-
cago suburbs they were accustomed to.
"They didn't understand it," Fried-
man says of her parents' reaction. "I

explained that it was a program that
essentially brings in the creative arts to
people who are not given the opportu-
nity to sit down and write or have athe-
atre workshop and learn what it's like to
stand in front of a group of people and
perform. And they heard that part but
what they really heard was that I was
working in a prison."
Friedman was enrolled in English
310, a course that largely works as a
feeder class into the PCAP organiza-
tion along with Buzz's English 319 and
326. The class begins with a day spent
together playing theatre games and dis-
cussing why students have decided to
work in prisons. The students pick part-
ners based on where they want to work
and in which medium of art.
Throughout the course of the semes-
ter students are challenged with read-
ings that discuss educational policy,
segregation-and social justice. Most stu-
dents enrolled in the University know
little about Detroit and see it as irrel-
evant despite its proximity. But the class
offers a vastly different perspective that
is drawn from the collective experienc-
es of the group.
Buzz relies on the students' honesty
and the dialogue in class to work as the
catalyst behind how the class develops
and what they learn.
"In our educational experience we're
taught to trust those who are above us,
in a sense, who maybe know more than
us and take that as the truth, rather than
sitting in a lecture and thinking to your-
self, 'Maybe he's wrong, maybe she's
wrong, maybe this isn't right, this isn't
how I should be doing it.' But it's struc-
tured so that we often don't go beyond
someone else's opinion to formulate our
own," Friedman said, "Everyone is pret-
ty quick to say, 'That's all there is to it.'
"It's much easier to do that than to
constantly sit there and think, 'But wait,
what if this isn't right,"' she continued.
"And it's exhausting to do that. It's
exhausting to constantly form your own
opinions. And I think a lot of people just
don't have the energy to do so and they
choose to be ignorant. It's easier to be
ignorant and sometimes you're happier
when you're ignorant. But that doesn't
mean it's the right way to live your life."
While the course material stays large-
ly the same from semester to semester
See CREATIVE ARTS, Page 8B
CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT:
Alan Norberg, Count Time; Duane Montney,
Persona Non Grata; Nancy Jean King, The
Feeling of Freedom 1; Fernando Delezica,
The Last Winter; Rod Streleau, 5000 Days
and Still Counting; Daniel Mullins, North by
Northwest.


