* Joe Stapleton:
It's time for Greg
Robinson, Michi-
gan's defensive
r coordinator, to
face the media.
))PAGE 8A
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Alan Guskin, a key
player in the Peace
Corps's formation,
on the organization's
creation and legacy.
3 PAGE 4A

1111c i Hn 4:3atim

Thursday, October 14, 2010

michigandaily.com

MICHIGAN FOOTBALL
Area bars
0
attempt to
cash in on
'Shoelace'
Despite NCAA rules, Cottage
Inn, others selling Denard
Robinson-themed drinks
By ANNA ROZENBERG
For the Daily
Though Denard Robinson's performance wasn't as
impressive as usual last week, that hasn't stopped area
bars and eateries from seeking ways to profit from the
craze surrounding the Michigan quarterback.
Several local establishments have recently named
food and drink items after the football player. But
these specialties come soon after the University Ath-
letic Department warned local vendors that selling
merchandise referencing current University student-
athletes is against NCAA rules.
Athletic Department spokesman Bruce Madej con-
firmed that any food or drink items used to profit from
student-athletes also interferes with the NCAA ban.
Despite this warning, Cottage Inn Pizza created a
new alcoholic drink last month called "The Shoelace,"
named in honor of Robinson. The drink contains
vodka, Red Bull, sour and orange juice, topped with a
blue fruit-flavored "shoelace" candy.
Lorenzo Viera-Patron, manager of Cottage Inn
Pizza, said last month that the drink has been popu-
lar among customers and even sold out when the res-
taurant ran out of the candy used for the "shoelaces."
After running out of the ingredient, Cottage Inn dis-
continued the special, but only temporarily.
When asked about plans to name other food items
after Robinson, Viera-Patron said he wasn't sure
whether they will.
"We haven't thought about that yet," Viera-Patron
said.
Cottage Inn isn't the only establishment on cam-
pus following the Robinson-naming trend. Banfield's
See ROBINSON, Page 6A

SAM WOLSON/Daily
LEFT: Alan Guskin, a student leader in the formingof the Peace Corps, speaks at the Peace Corps 50th anniversary celebration last night as a "Thank you Kennedy" banner hangs overhead. RIGHT: The
Educational Theatre Company celebrates Kennedy's impact on students at the University. BOTTOM: About1,500 people attended the event last night. For a full storyon the event, visit michigandaily.com.
A LU MN I IN T HE N EW S
Alums fight to free Chinese prisoner
Liu Xiaobo received And though the controversy surround- Prize for "his long and non-violent published, Liu was detained by the
ing Liu's release is half a world away, struggle for fundamental human Chinese government on Dec. 8, 2008.
Nobel Peace Prize the effort to get Liu out of prison has rights in China." While in detention, he was held in
ties to Ann Arbor. "He took part in the Tiananmen pro- solitary confinement and was denied
from Chinese jail Freedom Now a non-profit, non- tests in 1989; he was a leading author access to his lawyers:
governmental organization based in behind Charter 08, the manifesto of Freedom Now works to "free indi-
By SABIRA KHAN Washington, D.C. and founded by Uni- such rights in China which was (going vidual prisoners of conscience through
Daily StaffReporter versity Law School alum Jared Genser to be) published on the 60th anniver- focused legal, political, and public rela-
- is currently campaigning for Liu's sary of the United Nations' Universal tions advocacy efforts," according to
Chinese scholar and democracy release from prison in northeast China. Declaration of Human Rights, the 10th its website.
activist Liu Xiaobo was recently According to an Oct. 8 Norwegian of December 2008," the press release In a presentation at the Oslo Free-
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize - Nobel Committee press release, Liu states. dom Forum 2010, a conference about
while imprisoned in his home country. was awarded the 2010 Nobel Peace But before the manifesto could be See PRISONER, Page 6A

THE CALCULUS OF CRAMMING MEDICAL MARIJUANA SERIES, PART THREE OF FOUR
With rules in flux, obtaining
medical pothard for patients

Though easiest
option for patients,
medical pot shops
difficult to regulate
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporter
Medical patients in Michigan
who have approval from the state
to treat their conditions with mari-
juana can possess up to 2.5 ounces
of usable marijuana as well as any

incidental amount of seeds, stalks
and unusable roots from the plant.
But the process of getting the drug
can often be difficult to navigate,
especially with city and state regu-
lations on dispensaries - the most
viable means of getting the drug for
many patients - constantly chang-
ing.
The Michigan Medical Mari-
juana Act states that a patient can
grow up to 12 marijuana plants in
an enclosed, locked facility, or if
patients choose not to grow their
own medicine, they can designate a
"primary caregiver" to grow it for

them. Caregivers can grow plants
for up to five patients as well as
themselves if they are also patients.
The law does not mention medical
marijuana dispensaries - mak-
ing the legality of marijuana shops
unclear.
Mike Meno, the director of com-
munications for the Marijuana
Policy Project - the organization
responsible for drafting Michigan's
medical marijuana law - said the
state didn't address dispensaries
in the law out of fear that state-
licensed dispensaries would be in
See MARIJUANA, Page 5A

SALAM RIDA/Daily
With five hours to go, LSA honors freshman Devin Rocco studies for his Calc 2 exam in the basement of the Union yesterday.
ELECTION 2010
The pitch from Dems running for
regent? Tuition, tuition, tuition

Councils team up, teach about hazing's perils

Two open seats this
cycle are currently
. held by Republicans
ByJOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
With less than a month before
the November elections, two

Democratic challengers are step-
ping up their campaigns to unseat
the two incumbent Republicans
on the University's Board of
Regents.
Paul Brown (D-Ann Arbor)
and Greg Stephens (D-Saline)
were both nominated to run
for the University's governing
board at the party's state conven-
tion in August. Regents Andrea

Fischer Newman (R-Ann Arbor)
and Andrew Richner (R-Grosse
Pointe Park) - the board's only
Republican members - are both
seeking re-election.
In separate interviews with the
Daily, Brown and Stephens out-
lined their reasons for running for
the board and what they hope to
accomplish if elected to the eight-
See ELECTION, Page 6A

With speakers and
round tables, Greek
organizations mark
anti-hazing week
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Fraternities and sororities on
campuses across the country often

get a bad reputation for hazingnew
members. So, in an effort to reverse
that stigma and raise awareness
of the issue, Greek Life groups on
campus have organized a variety of
events this week as part of Hazing
Prevention Week.
All four Greek councils on cam-
pus - the Interfraternity Council,
the Panhellenic Association, the
National Pan-Hellenic Council and
the Multicultural Greek Council
- planned events for the week sur-

rounding anti-hazing education.
These events are specifically tar-
geted at new Greek Life members,
according to Business junior Steph-
anie Clark, chair of the Panhellenic
Hazing Prevention Task Force.
Each Greek council on campus
has a strict no-hazing policy. The
executive boards of each coun-
cil said it is important to educate
Greek Life members on the dangers
of hazing in order to reiterate this
See HAZING, Page SA

WEATHER HI: 61
TOMORROW [0:38

GOT A NE WS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
The Daily basketball beat works out with Beilein.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEWS ...............
Vol. CXXI, No. 28 OPINION..........
K200TheMhigan Daily CLASS IF IEDS..
michigoodoilypcom

... 2A CROSSWORD........
. 4A SPORTS .................
6A THE B-SIDE...........

.... 6A
7A

t



2A -- Thursday, October 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, October14, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

newVIEW on service

Aspiring to change the commu-
nity, Volunteers Involved Every
Week - a student service-learning
program offered through the Uni-
versity's Ginsberg Center - focuses
on improving community issues
like poverty, the environment and
education.
As a part of its goal to perform
community service, VIEW sends
students to five partner sites in
Washtenaw County, including the
HIV/AIDS Resource Center, Recy-
cle Ann Arbor, Community Action
Network, Food Gatherers and the
Boys and Girls Clubs of Southeast-
ern Michigan.
LSA senior Charlynn Bowers, a
VIEW leader, said the group's mis-
sion is to teach students to become
leaders in the local community.
The 21 students in the program
meet every other week to reflect
on their service experiences and
brainstorm new ways to address

issues they may encounter at the
partner sites.
During the first service reflec-
tion meeting last week, students
discussed how to tackle problems
in the greater Ann Arbor and Ypsi-
lanti areas. Bowers said VIEW's
commitment to a particular site and
the manner in which it educates its
members set the organization apart
from other campus groups.
Last week, two students went to
the Boys and Girls Clubs of South-
eastern Michigan to tutor elemen-
tary school students.
Frank Rigger, club director of
Boys and Girls Clubs of Southeast-
ern Michigan, said he looks for-
ward to having VIEW help educate
BGC students.
"It is always great to have help.
I am looking forward to VIEW's
partnership with our organiza-
tion," Rigger said. "They will be a
huge help in our students' educa-

tion."
Started in 1993, VIEW was dis-
continued last year to give its lead-
ers the opportunity to revamp the
program.
In its time off, VIEW sought
to create new partnerships in an
effort to evaluate and meet the
goals of the community.
"The hope is to bring out the
best in the community and evaluate
and meet their goals, notjust ours,"
Bowers said.
LSA sophomore Jessica Zachy,
another member of VIEW, said she
enjoys the opportunities the group
presents.
"With VIEW, we are able serve
the community once a week," she
said. "I amlooking forwardto going
into the community to get a deeper
understandingofthe issues that are
in it, issues that are outside of our
campus."
- PATRICIA SNIDER

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours:sun.-Thurs. a.m.-2 a.m.
734-418-4115 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to thetEditor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman ManagingNewsEditor Berman@michigandaily.com
SENIonkWSasORS :Nile Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thiunavukkarasu, Denorby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
KramerJJoseh ihterman, Vernica Mnai, 1yn Twigs
Rachel Van ider tditorialPageEdit r vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANT EDITORIALPAGE EDITORS:WillButler,WillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Karte Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIORSPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, TimRohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes,Stephen Nesbitt,Luke Pasch, ZakPyzik,Amy
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlareckiAndrewLapin, JeffSanford
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS: KristynAcho,LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs, Kavi Shekhar
Pandey,David Tao
Max Collins and photo@michigandaily.com
Sam Walsnn ManugingePhototEditors
SEIO HOOMDT:Ariel ondMarissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinski and design@michigandaily.com
Sarah SquireM anagingDesinditors
Trevartalern EMgo re nkditor r calerocmichigandaily.com
MelanieFried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
AdiWollstein Copychies
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Sales Manager
S^LEFORCEMANAERGSeJphanieowker
Hillary Szawala classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler Circulation Manager
Zach Yancer web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan.Onecopy is avalable free of charge toai
readers Additionalcopiesmaybepickedupat theDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,
startingin SeptemberviaU.S.malare$110.Wintter erm(anuary through April)is$ss,yearong
(September through April)is$195.University affiliatesaresubject toareducedsubscription rate.
n-campus subscriptinsfor fa termare$35. bscriptonsmut be repaid. The MichigannDaly
isnsame ne f TheOnAscated PressnndThessoitnd Clit Press,,.

01

*I

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Laptop gone in Trick-and-treat: Peace Corps Campus A report issued last week
sixty seconds Candy lifted at ceremony sustainability by the Congressional Bud-
get Office said spending
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher 'U' Hospital WHAT: A special ceremony WHAT: A town hall meeting for the previous fiscal year was
Graduate Library commemorating President discussing the University's $3.45 trillion, a Wall Street
WHEN: Tuesday at about 5:45 WHERE: University Hospital John F. Kennedy's historic sustainability mission. Journal article reported. The
p.m. r WHEN: Tuesday at 2:15 p.m. speech on the steps of the WHO: Graham Environmen- 2010 deficit was $1.29 trillion,
WHAT: A student's MacBook WHAT: A pumpkin candy Michigan Union, which tal Sustainability Institute down from $1.42 trillion.
Pro, valued at $2,000 and left jar with $10 worth of candy laid the foundation for the WHEN: Today at 4:00 p.m.
unattended for 1 minute, was was stolen, University Police Peace Corps. WHERE: Rackham Gradu-
stolen in the stacks, University reported. There are no sus- WHO: Peace Corps ate School Amphitheatre Tonight marks opening
Police reported. There are no ports. WHEN: Today at 11:00 a.mn. n lisefrtenn ris

suspects.
Wheels won't
Mcard snatched
keep on turning
with $10 bag
WMV1 V- oaisna nn Nymu itna

WHERE: 1900 Block Fuller St.
WHEN: Tuesday at about
11:45 a.m.
WHAT: A bag containing only
an Mcard was stolen by an
unknown suspect, University
Police reported. The bag was
valued at $10.

wrHxR: University Hospitai
WHEN: Tuesday at about 7:00
a.m.
WHAT: Wheels from a trash
compactor were ripped off,
University police reported.
There are no suspects and no
damage estimate has been
issued.

WHERE: Michigan Union
Activism
lecture
WHAT: Tom Hayden, a for-
mer editor-in-chief of The
Michigan Daily and 1960s
activist, will discuss the
importance of community
organizing in addition to
comparing student activ-
ism in the 1960s to today.
WHO: Peace Corps
WHEN: Today at 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library, Room 100

Academic skills
workshop
WHAT: A seminar designed
to teach students how to
study effectively in college.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today at 4:15 p.m
WHERE: Michigan
Union, Room 3100
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Musical Theatre Depart-
ment's production of "Into the
Woods." The story follows fai-
rytale characters as they uncov-
er their wishes in the forest.
>> FOR MORE, SEETHE B-SIDE, PAGE3B
Travelers flying out of the
Denver International Air-
port have reported a surge
of car problems after leaving
their car in the airport's park-
ing lots while traveling - the
result of rabbits that have been
eating car wiring, an NBC affil-
iate reported.

01

MORE ONLINE
Love Cime NotesGetmoreonline at michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire

Suspect in school shooting
in Calif. pleads not guilty

Man denies shooting,
wounding two girls in
elementary school
VISTA, Calif. (AP) - An elec-
tronics technician accused of
wounding two young girls after
opening fire at a Southern Cali-
fornia elementary school pleaded
not guilty yesterday to attempted
murder and assault.
Brendan O'Rourke, 41, showed
little emotion and stood with
his head down during his initial
court appearance on seven counts
of attempted murder and seven
accounts of assault with a firearm.
Calling O'Rourke "an extreme
danger," Superior Court Judge
Marshall Hockett set bail at $10
million.
Prosecutor Summer Stephan
said the gunman fired at two girls,

ages 6 and 7, who "miraculously"
escaped with minor wounds, then
walked to another playground,
where he shot at three second-
grade boys and hit a post.
When a school aide asked what
he was doing, O'Rourke tried but
failed to reload when a bullet got
stuck in the gun, Stephan said.
The suspect was captured
when one construction worker
hit him with a truck and others
wrestled away the gun, the pros-
ecutor said.
Stephan told the judge that
O'Rourke had parked his car and
jumped a fence onto campus, car-
rying a gun, a gas tank and match-
es. A propane tank was left at the
car.
"A lot of good things happened
in this case," the prosecutor told
reporters after the brief hearing.
"Thankfully, the damage is seri-
ous but minimal. No lives were

lost."
Stephan said the attack at Kelly
Elementary School in Carlsbad,
north of San Diego, was well-
planned, but she offered no pos-
sible motives.
"All I can say is that I can't
think of a good reason one would
shoot at children," she said.
If convicted, O'Rourke could
face a maximum sentence of
life in prison for each count of
attempted murder and 10 years
for each count of assault.
O'Rourke had a brush with the
law in 2002 in Illinois when he
pleaded guilty to misdemeanor
telephone harassment, the San
Diego Union-Tribune reported.
Bonnie Ramirez told the news-
paper O'Rourke was rooming
with her son in Springfield, Ill.,
in 2002, when O'Rourke was fired
from an insurance company and
fell into a deep depression.

01

ig tootbaii oroomoaii
tober 20,7:00 pm @ IMSB
To get started, visit
sitemaker.umich.edu/imofficials/home REC
Click "Become an Official." SPORTS
SINTRAMURALS

Mentally handicapped man
sues for false deportation

U.S. citizen coerced
by officials to sign
document of exile
ATLANTA (AP) - A mentally
disabled U.S. citizen who spoke no
Spanish was deported to Mexico
with little but a prison jumpsuit
after immigration agents manipu-
lated him into signing documents
allowing his removal, a law-
suit filed yesterday alleges. His
lawyers say the agents ignored
records showing his Social Secu-
rity number, while prison officials
wouldn't tell concerned relatives
what happened.
The lawsuit filed in federal
court in Atlanta by the American
Civil Liberties Union seeks dam-
ages from the federal government
and people ranging from Obama
administration officials to immi-
gration agents. It also asks for a
jury trial.
Mark Lyttle was serving pris-
ontime in North Carolina for a

misdemeanor offense in 2008
when prison officials say he gave
Mexico as his place of birth,
drawing the attention of immigra-
tion agents. His lawyers acknowl-
edge he eventually signed papers
allowing his deportation, but
argue he was too mentally dis-
abled to understand what he was
doing. He spent four months in
Central America before his family
helped him return.
"The government failed to pro-
tect Mr. Lyttle, and individuals
who lacked the proper training
and oversight violated Mr. Lyttle's
constitutional rights," the lawsuit
said. The government does not
have the right to deport U.S. citi-
zens.
The lawsuit also alleges dis-
crimination because Lyttle is of
Puerto Rican descent and looks
Hispanic.
A spokesperson for the U.S.
Department of Justice said the
department would review the
complaint once the government is
served and will respond in court.

Spokespeople for the U.S. Immi-
gration and Customs Enforcement
and the Department of Homeland
Security did not have immediate
comment on the lawsuit.
The ordeal began after Lyttle,
now 33, was charged with inap-
propriately touching a female
orderly at a psychiatric hospital.
In August 2008, he was sentenced
to 100 days in prison.
When Lyttle entered custody,
"he reported his place of birth as
Mexico City, Mexico," said Keith
Acree, spokesman for the North
Carolina Department of Correc-
tion.
A parallel federal lawsuit is
being filed in North Carolina
against immigration and prison
officials there.
Lyttle's lawyers wouldn't make
him available for an interview, but
relatives have trouble believing
he'd say he was from Mexico.
"I couldn't believe that, honest-
ly," his 31-year-old brother David
said. "That doesn't even make
sense."

0

lk i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 14, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
SIDNEY CENTER, N.Y.
NY town drops
plans to disrupt
Muslim graves
The lawyer for a Muslim com-
munity in upstate New York says
the local government is dropping
plans to take legal action to force
the Muslims to shut their tiny
graveyard.
Tom Schimmerling, lawyer for
the 30-member Sufi community,
said yesterday that he had just
received a letter from a Sidney
town attorney saying the town had
decided not to act.
Hans Hass, a spokesman for
the Sufi Muslim community, says
its members want an apology and
a statement that the cemetery is
legal.
Hass has said anti-Islamic big-
otry motivated a town board vote to
try to shut down the cemetery. He
said he has a zoning board docu-
ment saying the cemetery is legal.
Town Supervisor Bob McCarthy
didn't immediately return a call
Wednesday. He has previously said
that the graveyard was illegal and
bigotry had nothing to do with it.
QUITO, Ecuador
Ecuadorean police
face sanctions after
deadly revolt
Ecuadorean police have opened
internal disciplinary proceedings
against 13 of their own officers who
could be fired for their purported
roles in a deadly revolt.
Four colonels, seven captains,
a lieutenant and a second lieuten-
ant were placed on administrative
leave as the first step in a process
under which they could be dis-
missed after 60 days, depending on
the outcome of the investigation, a
police statement said yesterday.
One of the colonels is head of
the congressional guard, some of
whom are accused of assaulting
lawmakers and blocking them from
entering the capitol.
About a dozen people died and
270 were wounded in the Sept. 30
uprising by police angry over a new
law that would strip them of pro-
motion bonuses.
WASHINGTON.
Feds clear FBI
agents in shooting
of Michigan imam
FBI agents who raided a Michi-
gan warehouse last year didn't
violate federal civil rights laws
when they fatally wounded and
restrained a Muslim cleric, the Jus-
tice Department announced yester-
day.
After completing its own investi-
gation, the department's civil rights
division said no further criminal
investigation of the four FBI agents
who shot Imam Luqman Ameen
Abdullah or of the other agents in
the raid is warranted.
Four agents shot Abdullah 20
times as they tried to arrest him
during a raid at a Dearborn, Mich.,

warehouse on Oct. 28, 2009.
Abdullah, who led a Detroit
mosque, was being sought as part
of an ongoing stolen-goods sting
operation.
Federal authorities have
 described Abdullah as the leader
of a radical Sunni group that aims
to create an Islamic state within
the U.S. Authorities say Abdullah
preached hate for the government
and encouraged followers to com-
mit violence, especially against
police and federal agents.
MAIDUGURI, Nigeria
Nigerian military
heads to the north
Soldiers armed with machine
guns on Wednesday began secur-
ing a northern Nigeria city, a day
after a radical Islamic sect set
a police station ablaze in what
appeared to be an attempt to
spark more violence in the trou-
bled region.
Police also said that the feared
Boko Haram sect had planted unex-
ploded bombs at a police station and
a traffic roundabout the same time
another burned down the police
station. Tuesday's attack struck the
same police station in Gamboru that
was targeted last year, when rioting
and a government crackdown left
700 dead.
Meanwhile, authorities in
Bauchi, the same city where the
sect recently broke into a federal
prison, worry that an attack on a
police officer can be linked to the
sect.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

II

Miner Pablo Rojas gestures as workers remove his rescue equipment after being pulled out of the collapsed San Jose gold
and copper mine where he had been trapped with 32 other miners for over two months near Copiapo, Chile.
All 33 workers saved
from Chilean mineIL

Last worker lifted
after 69 days
underground
SAN JOSE MINE, Chile (AP) -
The last of the Chilean miners, the
foreman who held them together
when they were feared lost, was
raised from the depths of the
earth last night - a joyous end-
ing to a 69-day ordeal that riveted
the world. No one has ever been
trapped so long and survived.
Luis Urzua ascended smooth-
ly through 2,000 feet of rock,
completing a 221/-hour rescue
operation that unfolded with
remarkable speed and flawless
execution. Before a crowd of
about 2,000 people, he became
the 33rd miner tobe rescued.
The rescue workers who talked
the men through the final hours
still had to behoisted to the surface.
When Urzua stepped out of the
capsule, he hugged Chilean Presi-
dent Sebastian Pinera and shook
hands with him and said they had
prevailed over difficult circum-
stances. With the last miner by his
side, the president led the crowd
in singing the national anthem.
One by one throughout the day,
the men had emerged to the cheers
of exuberant Chileans and before
the eyes of a transfixed globe. The
operation picked up speed as the
day went on, but each miner was
greeted with the same boisterous
applause from rescuers.
"Welcome to life," Pinera told
Victor Segvia, the 15th miner out.
On a day of superlatives, it seemed
no overstatement.
They rejoined a world intensely
curious about their ordeal, and

certain to offer fame and jobs.
Previously unimaginable riches
awaited men who had risked their
lives going into the unstable gold
and copper mine for about $1,600
a month.
The miners made the smooth
ascent inside a capsule called
Phoenix - 13 feet tall, barely
wider than their shoulders and
painted in the white, blue and red
of the Chilean flag. It had a door
that stuck occasionally, and some
wheels had to be replaced, but it
worked exactly as planned.
Beginning at midnight Tuesday,
and sometimes as quickly as every
25 minutes, the pod was lowered
the nearly half-mile to where
700,000 tons of rock collapsed
Aug. 5 and entombed the men.
Then, after a quick pep talk
from rescue workers who had
descended into the mine, a miner
would strap himself in, make the
journey upward and emerge from
a manhole into the blinding sun.
The rescue was planned with
extreme care. The miners were
monitored by video on the way
up for any sign of panic. They had
oxygen masks, dark glasses to
protect their eyes from the unfa-
miliar sunlight and sweaters for
the jarring transition from sub-
terranean swelter to chilly desert
air.
As they neared the surface, a
camera attached to the top of the
capsule showed a brilliant white
piercing the darkness not unlike
what accident survivors describe
when they have near-death expe-
riences.
The miners emerged looking
healthier than many had expect-
ed and even clean-shaven. Sev-
eral thrust their fists upwards like

prizefighters, and Mario Sepul-
veda, the second to taste freedom,
bounded out and led his rescu-
ers in a rousing cheer. Franklin
Lobos, who played for the Chilean
national soccer team in the 1980s,
briefly bounced a soccer ball on
his foot and knee.
"We have prayed to San Loren-
zo, the patron saint of miners,
and to many other saints so that
my brothers Florencio and Renan
would come out of the mine all
right. It is as if they had been born
again," said Priscila Avalos. One
of her brothers was the first miner
rescued, and the other was due
out later in the evening.
Health Minister Jaime Mana-
lich said some of the miners
probably will be able to leave
the hospital today - earlier than
projected - but many had been
unable to sleep, wanted to talk
with families and were anxious.
One was treated for pneumonia,
and two needed dental work.
"They are not ready to have
a moment's rest until the last of
their colleagues is out," he said.
As it traveled down and up,
down and up, the rescue capsule
was not rotating as much inside
the 2,041-foot escape shaft as offi-
cials expected, allowing for faster
trips.
The first man out was Floren-
cio Avalos, who emerged from the
missile-like chamber and hugged
his sobbing 7-year-old son, his
wife and the Chilean president.
No one in recorded history has
survived as long trapped under-
ground. For the first 17 days, no
one even knew whether they were
alive. In the weeks that followed,
the world was captivated by their
endurance and unity.

Ahmadinejad lauds Iran's
strength in Lebanon talk

Iranian president
says U.S. and Israeli
presence in ME will
soon diminish
BEIRUT (AP) - Iran's presi-
dent made a bold show of
strength in Lebanon, vowing
before thousands of Hezbollah
supporters that U.S. and Israeli
power in the Middle East will
soon be eclipsed.
The visit by Mahmoud Ahma-
dinejad, welcomed by crowds of
cheering Shiites, underscored
the eroding position of pro-
Western factions in Lebanon.
More broadly, it suggested that
the competition over influence in
Lebanon may be tipping toward
Iran and its ally Syria, away from
the United States and it Arab
allies Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
"We seek a unified, modern
Lebanon," said Ahmadinejad,
whose country is the main patron
of the Shiite Hezbollah militant
group, the most powerful mili-
tary force in Lebanon. "We will
stand with the people and gov-
ernment of Lebanon - and with
all elements in the Lebanese
nation - until they achieve all
their goals."
Ahmadinejad sought to depict
his country as an ally of the
entire nation, not just Hezbol-
lah. Iran, whose ties to the group
date back nearly 30 years, funds

Hezbollah to the tune of millions
of dollars a year and is believed
to supply much of its arsenal.
Hezbollah boasts widespread
support among Shiites and virtu-
ally runs a state-within-a-state in
Shiite areas
But Ahmadinejad's dramatic
arrival only exacerbated fears
among many Lebanese - particu-
larly Sunnis and Christians - that
Iran and Hezbollah are seeking to
impose their will on the country
and possibly pull Lebanon into a
conflict with Israel.
The United States and Israel
criticized the visit, with White
House spokesman Robert Gibbs
saying Ahmadinejad is continu-
ing his "provocative ways."
"We reject any efforts to desta-
bilize or inflame tensions within
Lebanon," U.S. Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton said.
After meeting Lebanese Presi-
dent Michel Suleiman and sign-
ing a series of economic and
commercial cooperation agree-
ments, Ahmadinejad went to
Hezbollah's stronghold in the
Shiite district of south Beirut.
Before a crowd of Hezbollah
supporters, he gave a passionate
speech denouncing the United
States and Israel.
He blamed Washington for the
heated sectarian divisions in Leba-
non and elsewhere in the Mideast,
saying the United States sought to
create strife "between people from
different religions who coexisted
for hundreds of years." He warned

that the only way for Washington
to keep its position in the region
was to "end the domination of the
Zionist regime."
"The Zionist regime is sliding
towards collapse, and no power is
capable of saving it," he said.
Allies of Lebanon's Western-
backed, mainly Sunni coalition,
which is led by Prime Minister
Saad Hariri, showed their worry
over Ahmadinejad's visit.
A group of 250 politicians,
lawyers and activists wrote an
open letter to Ahmadinejad, crit-
icizing his support of Hezbollah.
"Your talk of 'changing the
face of the region starting with
Lebanon' and 'wiping Israel off
the map through the force of the
Islamic Resistance in Lebanon'
... makes it seem like your visit is
that of a high commander to his
front line," the letter said.
In Tripoli, a mainly Sunni city
in the north, posters have gone
up in recent days showing Ahma-
dinejad's face crossed out, above
the words: "No welcome to the
rule of clerics."
Thousands of Hezbollah sup-
porters lined the highway from
the airport into Beirut, waving
Lebanese and Iranian flags for
Ahmadinejad's arrival. Trailed
by heavily armed security in
bulletproof vests, Ahmadine-
jad smiled and waved from the
sunroof of his black SUV as he
passed, and the crowd threw
flowers and sweets at his motor-
cade.


4A - Thursday, October 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C NI iigan Bal'hj
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
A.420 Maynard St.
yAnn Arbor, MI 48009
tothedaily@umich.edu


I come here tonight to go to bed! But I also
come here tonight to ask you to join in the effort:'
- President John F. Kennedy on the steps of the Michigan Union at about 2 a.m.
on Oct. 14,1960 in the speech that was the inspiration for the Peace Corps.

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Rlde on in
After grant to build, AATA must expand service
The Ride is getting an upgrade. Recently, an increasing num-
ber of riders have frequented the Ann Arbor Transporta-
tion Authority buses. In response, it has decided to improve
its main bus stop facility. At an Oct.10 press conference, Ann Arbor
city officials discussed renovation plans for the Blake Transit Cen-
ter, one of the main hubs of the AATA in downtown Ann Arbor.
Rebuilding the Blake Transit Center will benefit the city by encour-
aging the use of public transportation. AATA shouldn't lose momen-
tum here - the city should follow this improvement with further
expansion of the public transportation system of Ann Arbor.

Always expect respect'

mhis year's Coming Out Week
couldn't have been more aptly
timed. As the wound of Rut-
gers University
freshman Tyler
Clementi's tragic
suicide still burns
in our collective
consciousness
- and the abhor-
rent attacks on.
Michigan Student
Assembly Presi-
dent Chris Arm- MATTHEW
strong continue GREEN
to affect our own
campus - the gay
community cer-
tainly deserved an affirmation of sup-
port. And I've got to say that during
this week of increased tolerance and
awareness, an unusual feeling of pride
has come over me.
I'll admit, when it comes to displays
of gay pride, I'm not always the loud-
est in the crowd. Sure, I write columns
from time to time expressing support
for gay causes. I'm more than com-
fortable with my sexual identity. But
I've never worn a rainbow pin, nor
have I adorned a bedroom wall with a
pride flag. I don't take advantage of the
opportunities provided by the Spec-
trum Center and I've only peripherally
been involved with organized gay life.
I guess I've just never felt the need.
In high school, I was blessed with an
unusually large gay community. My
family, friends and teachers were all
supportive. My life as a gay man at the
University has been a continuation of
my complacent high school experience.
But walking around campus these
days and seeing the words "Expect
Respect" emblazoned on bulletin
boards and backpacks, has roused me
from complacency and filled me with
pride - for my fellow Wolverines.
In the past few weeks, this campus
has come alive with support for the
LGBTQ community. Viewpoints in
the Daily, Monday's vigil in the Diag
to commemorate several recent sui-

cides of gay teens and statements by
University President Mary Sue Cole-
man have all championed tolerance
and equality.
Such support has played into a
national discussion on homophobia
currently underway among politi-
cians and the media. 'As gay rights
leaders take the spotlight on the
national news and concerned colum-
nists pen their opinions in influential
newspapers, more Americans are
starting to understand the imminent
danger of homophobia. Revealing the
viciousness of intolerance will surely
result in increased acceptance of
gays and lesbians. And with a string
of recent legislative and judicial vic-
tories for gay rights, members and
allies of the LGBTQ community have
reason tobe optimistic.
On Tuesday, Federal District Court
Judge Virginia Philips ruled that the
ban on gays serving openly in the mili-
tary is unconstitutional. This ruling is
the latest in a promising sequence of
milestones for gay rights advocates.
In the past six years alone, gay mar-
riage has been legalized in five states
and the District of Columbia, and
fair employment and anti-hate crime
measures continue to be introduced
in state legislatures across the coun-
try. It's increasingly likely that within
most of our lifetimes, institutional
discrimination against the American
LGBTQ community will become a
thing of the past. Society is certainly
moving in the right direction.
But, of course, even amidst impres-
sive political victories, homopho-
bia still takes its toll. And in spite
of all the publicity, I'm skeptical of
homophobia's staying power in pub-
lic discourse. I sadly suspect that the
fascination with gay identity is just
the media's pet topic this month. In
the coming weeks or months, after
the news has shifted to other things,
will Americans continue to focus on
important questions of sexuality in
society? Probably not.
That's why it's imperative that as

citizens and community leaders, we
don't take for granted the progress
we've made. We can't rest on our
forward-thinking laurels and assume
that the rest of the country is just
like Ann Arbor. Once all the contro-
versy surrounding Michigan assistant
attorney general Andrew Shirvell's
blog dies down - and hopefully, that'll
be soon - we must not forget the les-
sons it has taught us. For even in the 0
best of times, there are always thorns
in the side of progress.
The push for gay
rights should be
more than a fad.
On Oct. 7, the pro-life student group,
"Students for Life," invited Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr.'s niece, Dr. Alveda
King, to speak at the University. Billed
as a civil rights leader continuing "the
dream" of her inspirational uncle,
King used her time to rail against
abortion and suggest that gay people
are friends of Satan. Far from an advo-
cate of progress or civil rights, King
used her invitation to the University
to further a radical religious agenda
and spew intolerance. While King's
views may seem more extreme than
the norm, she represents the views
of a significant fraction of Americans
still opposed to gay rights.
As educated citizens, it's our
responsibility to counteract such
narrow-mindedness. The past few
weeks have proven that as members
of a community, we're capable of join-
ing together to promote tolerance
and respect. And during this week of
pride, that fact gives all of us at the
University something to be proud of.
- Matthew Green can be reached
at greenmat@umich.edu.

According to a Daily article on Tues-
day, Congressman John Dingell (D-Mich.)
helped secure a $1-million federal grant --
the State of Good Repair Grant - for the
construction of a larger, $4-million, 2-sto-
rey Blake Transit Center. CEO of AATA
Michael Ford stated in an interview with
the Daily after Sunday's press confer-
ence that the remaining $3 million for the
project will be funded through different
sources, including state dollars and district
grants. Charles Griffith, secretary of the
AATA board of directors, also said at the
press conference that about 5,000 people
use the Blake Transit Center on a daily basis
and the demand for public transportation in
Ann Arbor is growing at a rate faster than
the statewide growth.
Public transportation is an often-over-
looked part of the city, but it has a large
impact on the environment and economy.
Besides providing affordable, convenient
travel options, increased public transport
will help to reduce road traffic and the
amount of air pollution caused by cars. And
public transportation is vital for Ann Arbor
and Ypsilanti residents who can't afford
their own transportation.
An increase in the size of the Blake Tran-
sit Center should also create a few new jobs

in Ann Arbor. Building the new transit cen-
ter will create business for contractors and
construction companies. A larger building
will require more employees like janitors
and office staff. And since the rebuilding
of the Blake Transit Center is being funded
by government grants and not solely from
municipal funds, the construction won't
drain Ann Arbor's bank account.
But the AATA bus system could be bet-
ter. Thousands of Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti
residents depend upon AATA to get to and
from work. And for many University stu-
dents, AATA is the only way to venture
outside the boundaries of campus. While
expansion in the form of this renova-
tion is welcome, the AATA should look to
increase the number of routes that it offers
and destinations available. Increasing the
frequency of buses would also be benefi-
cial. And AATA should also bring back the
full Link bus service that was eliminated
in 2009 due to a lack of funds.
The new Blake Transit Center's facilities
will make using public transportation more
pleasant for area residents, which should
entice them to increase their use of AATA
buses. AATA should continue to improve
its facilities and service to aid the economy
and the environment.


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Laura Veith

ALAN GUSKIN, PH.D. I

Reflections on the Peace Corps, 50 years later

The Peace Corps began in the midst of a light driz-
zle at 2 a.m. on Oct. 14, 1960, near the end of a tumul-
tuous presidential campaign. John F. Kennedy won
the election a few weeks later, the hopes of a new gen-
eration began to unfold and the Peace Corps became
a reality on Mar. 1, 1961.
The idea that would lead to the creation of the Peace
Corps came from an impromptu speech that challenged
10,000 University students to aid developing countries.
The birth of the Peace Corps owes much to the context
of the times: the spirit of social justice embodied in the
Civil Rights Movement, students' stirrings for change
on campuses throughout the nation, the emergence of
young leaders in newly independent nations of Asia and
Africa and the incredible optimism of a new decade
sparked by the presidential campaign of John Kennedy.
I was present on that rainy night 50 years ago. Along
with a few others, I helped to form a group that showed
that students would respond to Kennedy's challenge,
which asked if we were prepared to serve in developing
nations. It's said by Peace Corps chroniclers that Ken-
nedy was moved by the University student response. A
short time after his speech on the steps of the Michigan
Union, on Nov.-2 --just six days before the election -he
gave a major campaign address committing himself to
the creation of the Peace Corps and mentioned the reac-
tion of the students at the University of Michigan. He
met privately with a small group of University students
- including me - on the following day.
Robert Sargent Shriver, the first director of the Peace
Corps, wrote in his memoirs: "It might still be just an
idea but for the affirmative response of those Michigan
students and faculty... Possibly Kennedy would have
tried it once more on some other occasion, but without
a strong popular response he would have concluded
the idea was impractical or premature. That probably
would have ended it then and there. Instead, it was
almost a case of spontaneous combustion."
Eleven months after the meeting with Kennedy, I
entered the Peace Corps, spent three months in train-
ing at the University and then served two and a half
years in the first group to Thailand.
The Peace Corps reflected the spirit of Kennedy. In
fact, in many countries, volunteers were called Ken-
nedy's children. Kennedy was not radical, nor revolu-
tionary. Neither was, or is, the Peace Corps. Kennedy
represented a new spirit and style domestically and
internationally; so did the Peace Corps.
THE EXPERIENCE OF THE
PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEER
The real success of the Peace Corps, I believe, was
and is the people-to-people, non-political nature of its
programs and its specific assignments. For the volun-
teers, the Peace Corps was a noble and humble under-
taking. Returned volunteers will tell everyone who will
listen that we gained much more than we gave. Peace
Corps volunteers didn't create broad-scale changes;
they impacted individual people's lives.
The Peace Corps today is doing what it always did well
- creating programs in which host country individuals

and organizations are served well and Peace Corps vol-
unteers are deeply affected by their service. The results
reflect the best of what early leaders like Sargent Shriv-
er, Bill Moyers and Harris Wofford - and some of us
who were younger, but just as idealistic - hoped would
happen to the volunteers and those they served.
I have had the good fortune of knowing many volun-
teers over the last five decades, some of whom weren't
born when I served as a volunteer from1961 to 1964. But
somehow, the experience in one of the last five decades
in vastly different countries created a bond that unites
those of us who served and differentiates us from those
who haven't. It's as if the experience overseas seared
itself deeply into the volunteers' consciousness and
became a formative part of their identity.
For most of us who have served, the Peace Corps
represents the single most significant risk of our lives.
At a young age, we left the comforts of school and
society to enter a world of uncertainty in which our
coping and survival skills were brought into question,
underwent change and then re-stabilized. The cues
that enable us to understand other people and how
we should act had to be altered. Concerns for physi-
cal safety and illness became significant for people of
an age group that often considers itself invulnerable.
These are profound adjustments, and the more suc-
cessful the volunteer was overseas, the more likely it
was that these psychological changes were significant.
The impact of re-entering the United States on
the volunteers was enormous and unexpected. The
assumption throughout the Peace Corps was that a
successful volunteer was defined by the strength of
personality and character. The reality was that while
these were important traits, the defining character-
istic of success was much more determined by the
volunteers' ability to integrate themselves into the
customs, norms and lifestyles of the individuals with
whom they worked in host countries. Returning to
the United States required an abrupt return from this
cultural integration. Ironically, success overseas often
bred difficulty in reintegration into U.S. society.
It's hard for many who haven't served as a volunteer
to fully appreciate the depth of the experiences of the
volunteers and the feelings generated by those experi-
ences. The overwhelming majority of the early groups
of volunteers were recent college graduates for whom
the Peace Corps was their first meaningful job. And it
was no ordinary job. We were very special people given
responsibilities far beyond our peers.
Being a Peace Corps volunteer meant heeding a call
to make a real difference in the world. You're pioneers,
the early volunteers weretold, in a bold venture the goal
of which was to change the world, even if we knew that
goal seemed much too ambitious.
We were doingthings rarely done before by Ameri-
cans. Not only did we speak the language and live like
host country peers, we actively wanted to become
part of our new culture. We came to work and live
with the people. The more we integrated ourselves
into the culture, the more special we were to our
neighbors and new friends. It seemed as.if our pres-
ence in a classroom or village enhanced the sense of

pride of those whom we served.
The people in the U.S. loved the volunteers. The press
was uniformly positive. The president met with many
of the groups. In 1986, on the celebration of the 25th
anniversary of the Peace Corps, the late Ted Kennedy
summed up the words we heard over and over again in
the early 1960s: "You have reminded us anew - as you
did with your example 25 years ago - of what is best in
ourselves, and what is best in our country."
Volunteers were living our ideals. We were serv-
ing others and asking for nothing tangible in return.
To have acted in a concrete way on one's beliefs was
a heady experience. To have done so in concert with
hundreds and thousands of others and to be told by
importantpeople that this was a model for others had
an important psychological impact, even if we were
embarrassed by the adulation. Our sense of being
important, while being sincerely humble about our
work, was a profound transcending experience that
doesn't often occur in a lifetime.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF
CULTURAL HUMILITY
Whatever the problems that the Peace Corps expe-
rienced as successive presidents supported, rejected
or neglected it, the experience of the individual vol-
unteers in the field continued to be powerful and, in
many cases, life transforming. Individuals served
others in people-to-people programs in developing
nations. And individuals continued to put themselves
at physical risk in small villages and large cities. They
continued to act on their idealism.
While many more volunteers in recent years have
been much older than in the early 1960's, and in some
cases more skilled, the overwhelming majority of vol-
unteers of all ages still acquire the most potent and
basic lesson to be learned during the Peace Corps expe-
rience: the development of a sense of cultural humility.
Volunteers develop this sense of cultural humility
as a result of the psychological changes that occur
as they integrate themselves into another culture.
Volunteers identify with friends and colleagues who
don't share American ways of expressing personal
emotions, norms regarding appropriate behavior,
or meaning of individual and group pride. Volun-
teers learn and internalize the fact that people from
other societies view their own culture as valid as
we do ours and must be respected for doing so. And
volunteers realize that effective human interaction
requires people to appreciate and respect the simi-
larities and differences in cultural perspectives.
Developing a sense of cultural humility may well
be one of the necessary requirements for peace
between people and among nations. It is, I believe,
the lasting contribution of the Peace Corps to Ameri-
can society, as embodied in the growing number of
influential volunteers.
THE LEGACY OF THE PEACE CORPS
In the 1986 celebration of the 25th anniversary of the

l\
1~
Illustrtion by Rose Jaffe
Peace Corps, Bill Moyers - its first deputy director and
now one of America's foremost social commentators -
summed up the Peace Corps experience in this way:
"We are struggling today with the imperative of a
new understanding of patriotism and citizenship. The
Peace Corps has been showing us the way...To be a
patriot in this sense means to live out of a recognition
that one is a member of a particular culture and soci-
ety, but so are all other human beings, and their kinship
and bonds - their sacred places - are as important to
them as ours are to us. Love of country, yes. Loyalty to
country,yes,butwe carrytwo passports - onestamped
American, the other human being...
"We knew from the beginning that the Peace Corps
was not an agency, program or mission. Now we know
- from those who lived and died for it - that it is a way
of being in the world. It is a very conservative notion,
because it holds dear the ground of one's own being -
the culture and customs that give meaning to life - but
it is revolutionary for respecting the ground revered by
others. This is the new politics and the new patriotism
that may yet save this fragmented and dispirited age,
and it is the gift (the volunteers) gave us."

0I

Dr. Alan Guskin is a University alum. He was
a Peace Corps volunteer in Thailand from 1961 to
1964. He served as chancellor of the University of
Wisconsin-Parkside from 1975 to 1985 and president
and chancellor of Antioch University from 1985 to 1997.
He is presently destinguished university professor in
Antioch's Ph.D. Program in Leadership and Change.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 14, 2010 - 5A

A2 council approved Policy experts at event: War on

ordinance last week
to regulate medical
pot dispensaries

Drugs unduly hurts minorities

From Page 1A
violation of federal law.
Until President Barack Obama
took office, Meno said "the fed-
eral government was openly hos-
tile to state marijuana laws" and
"there was always a hesitancy by
state governments to become too
involved in medical marijuana
laws."
The next logical step for Michi-
gan would be to pass statewide
regulations that make it "very
clear" what the law would allow
for dispensaries, Meno said.
In the meantime, local munici-
palities around the state have had
to individually decide what to do
about dispensaries. Some have
outright prohibited them. Others,
like Traverse City, have passed
ordinances to regulate dispensa-
ries, and some city councils have
put temporary moratoriums on
them while city officials decide
how to proceed.
In August, the Ann Arbor City
Council voted in favor of a 120-
day moratorium on new dispensa-
ries. Businesses that had already
opened - including MedMar Com-
passionate Healthcare on Packard
Road, the Liberty Clinic on Main
Street, the Ann Arbor Health Col-
lective on Stadium Boulevard and
Green Planet Patient Collective on
the corner of Tappan Avenue and
Monroe Street - were permitted
to remain open.
In defending the moratorium,
City Attorney Stephen Postema
said the city council needed time
to figure out zoning and regulation
issues for dispensaries. He warned
of the proliferation of too many
unregulated businesses, which
caused problems in some cities in
California.
The Los Angeles Times report-
ed in May that city prosecutors
were in the process of notifying
 439 dispensaries in Los Angeles
that they would need to shut down
before June 7 - when the city's
new ordinance to regulate dispen-
saries would go into effect. In 2007,
after 187 dispensaries had already
opened in Los Angeles, the city
put a moratorium on new dispen-
saries. The city failed to enforce
the ban, and Los Angeles became
the "epicenter of the state's dis-
pensary boom," according to the
L.A. Times. Last month, the L.A.
city clerk announced that only
one quarter of the 169 dispensa-
ries that were allowed to stay open
during the moratorium followed
the proper procedures, meaning
that the rest of the dispensaries
will have to be shut down.
Last week, Ann Arbor's City
Planning Commission unani-
mously voted in favor of a new
ordinance to regulate medical
marijuana dispensaries, AnnAr-
bor.com reported. Some of the
rules detailed in the four-page
document include no dispensa-
ries located within 1,000 feet of
schools, no drive-in dispensaries,
no smoking, inhalation or con-
sumption of medical marijuana on
premises and no minors allowed
on premises without a parent or
guardian.
The ordinance also sets rules
for caregivers who cultivate in
their own homes. "Home occupa-
tions" cannot conduct more than
10 business-related vehicle trips
- five roundtrips - per day, and
no medicine transfers are permit-
ted in home occupations except to
residents of the dwelling.

The ordinance, which the Plan-
ning Commission has been work-
ing on for the past two months,
will now go before City Council.
Mike McLeod, one of the
founders of the Ann Arbor Medi-
cal Marijuana Patient Collec-
tive (A2M2PC) - which acts as a
source of information about medi-

cal marijuana - said the "logi-
cal choice" is for patients to grow
plants for themselves, but for the
majority of people that simply
won't work. Growing marijuana is
difficult, he said, because it takes
space, money and patience. He
added that marijuana's illegality
under federal law and the stigma
associated with growing the drug
also serve as major deterrents for
some patients.
Having a caregiver is not always
a successful alternative either,
McLeod said.
"(The caregiver system) is a
good concept, but in reality, there
are a lot of problems with it. The
reason being people are people,"
he said. "Many of them I'm sure
are well-intended ... but most of
them aren't that successful at it."
Growing the plants takes a min-
imum of three months, according
to McLeod. Sometimes the crop
dies, and sometimes the care-
giver distributes the marijuana
too quickly - leaving the patient
without medicine until the next
crop is ready. McLeod said some
patients even have trouble just
getting in touch with their care-
givers because they don't respond
to calls.
Dennis Hayes, another founder
of the A2M2PC and a lawyer who
specializes in medical marijuana
legislation, said ifa large group of
patients - like cancer patients -
started widely using marijuana, it
would place too large of a burden
on the current patient-caregiver
system. A significant increase in
the number of patients would cre-
ate a need for some kind of mass
production of marijuana, he said.
That need was already appar-
ent at the July meeting of the
A2M2PC, which does not allow
the transfer of medicine at its
meetings. The question on every-
one's mind at the meeting was
whether there are dispensaries in
town.
McLeod said the businesses
that have opened in Ann Arbor are
better described as "collectives"
rather than "dispensaries." He
explained that people are mem-
bers of collectives, and they are
places where patients and care-
givers can go to share resources.
These collectives are a product
of the "natural market" that has
developed because of patients
wanting to sample different
strains of marijuana - something
that is difficult to do with a single
caregiver, McLeod said.
Several Ann Arbor collec-
tives have a waiting area for the
patients where they check in and
verify that they are registered
patients and members of the col-
lective. When it's their turn, they
are taken to a separate room to
purchase their medicine from
the "bud tender" - the person in
charge of selling the various prod-
ucts offered at each collective.
McLeod estimated that 24 col-
lectives currently exist in Ann
Arbor, but most ofthem are private
and invitation-only. Those that
function in secret, he said, choose
to do so because of the question-
able legality of their existence.
When city council members
voted on thesmoratorium in
August, they asked Ann Arbor
Police Chief Barnett Jones if there
had been any issues with existing
collectives. At the time, Jones said
the police had received no com-
plaints.

Since then, there has been one
reported robbery at a local col-
lective. On Sept. 30, at least three
people carrying guns stole money
and marijuana from the Liberty
Clinic on Main Street after bind-
ing the employees with duct tape,
according AnnArbor.com. Three
men were charged in the robbery
earlier this month.

Oneprof. saysin9
African American
males are arrested for
drug-related crimes
By ALEXA BREEDVELD
Daily StaffReporter
Students for Sensible Drug Pol-
icy hosted a panel last night in an
effort to call attention to dispro-
portionate effects of the United
States's War on Drugs on minor-
ity groups.
The panel last night featured
several drug policy and law
enforcement experts who talked
about current United States drug
policies and possible solutions for
the violence surrounding drug-
related crimes. About 50 students
attended the panel called "Minor-
ity Oppression Aggravated by the
War on Drugs" that was held in
the Hussey Room of the Michigan
League.
Jenali Jefferson, a visiting pro-
fessor from the University of Kan-
sas School of Law, discussed how
African Americans and Hispanics
are unfairly hurt by the War on
Drugs.
"Blacks are only 24 percent
of the defenders in drug-related
cases, but they are 35 percent of
those convicted under mandatory
minimum sentences," Jefferson
said.
Jefferson added that in their
lifetime, I5in 9 African American
males are arrested for drug-relat-
ed crimes.
University Law Prof. Sam
Gross explained that the reason
for this imbalance in racial rep-
resentation in prisons due to drug
crimes is because of how police
HAZING
From Page 1A
rule, and to make students aware
of what to look for in case it is vio-
lated.
The events include a lecture by
Travis Apgar, who speaks nation-
ally about his negative experience
with hazing when he was in col-
lege. Other events throughout the
week include round-table discrs-
sions and booths on the Diag.
The round tables provide an
opportunity for executive board
members of the four councils to
talk to their respective new mem-
bers, answer any questions and
explain what to expect during
their first semester in a Greek-let-
ter organization, Clark said. Each
set of round tables is specifically
tailored to address issues seen in
each council, she said.
"What we try to do is make all
the material specific to the mem-
bers," Clark said. "In the past
we've had great information but it
wasn't tailored to each individual
council."
Many have told horror stories
of physical and emotional abuse
- many times involving alcohol
consumption - and these stories
have become a stigma for those
considering joining the Greek
community, Clark said. Being able

Panelists discuss the War on Drugs at the Students for Sensible Drug Policy event yesterday.

are trained to look for drug crimi-
nals.
"When someone is driving by
on the highway, what can you
identify about them? The make
of their car, ... a license plate,
and ... maybe the driver's race,"
Gross said. "And that's how police
choose who to search."
Matt Lassiter, an associate pro-
fessor of history and urban and
regional planning at the Univer-
sity, said some scholars and policy
makers argue that the War on
Drugs is less of a reaction to con-
cern over drug-related crime and
more of a continuation of racist
policies.
"There actually is a debate on
whether or not the War on Drugs
should be considered a 'frontlash'
to address and answer questions
about these issues is essential for
new members, she said.
For sororities, hazing tends to
be more focused on emotional
abuse, whereas fraternity hazing
typically involves physical abuse
or forced binge drinking, she
added.
Business senior Blake Toll,
executive vice president of the
IFC, said the idea behind the
week is to educate new members
on what to expect after they're
extended bids to join the fraterni-
ties and what shouldn't be toler-
ated.
IFC's official recruitment
ended last week, and the timing
of Hazing Prevention Week is
specifically designed to help new
members deal with their pledge
periods, which vary depending on
the organization and council, Toll
said.
"We give (the new members) a
lay of the land, let them know what
they can expect, how they can
voice their opinions and concerns
and let them discuss any topics
they are curious about," he said.
Toll added that the round tables
are beneficial to new members
since they allow them to speak
with upperclassmen who are vet-
erans of the system and get some
insider knowledge on what might
take place during the upcoming

instead of a backlash as the last
remnant of segregation and the
era of Jim Crow," Lassiter said.
The panelists agreed that the
War on Drugs has not only been
unfair and especially harsh on
minorities, but that it also is
extremely expensive and a large
pressure on federal and state bud-
gets.
Lassiter talked about how pros-
ecuting and jailing perpetrators
of drug crimes takes up a signifi-
cant portion of government bud-
gets.
"The state of California spends
more on incarceration than high-
er education." Lassiter said. "And
(the United States) has more peo-
ple in prisons for drug-related
crimes than the European Union
weeks.
The talk Apgar gave Monday
night was about his experiences
with hazing, including manda-
tory excessive drinking and other
physical abuses and the effects
he suffered as a result. According
to CampusSpeak.com, Apgar, the
associate dean of students at Itha-
ca College, had such an upsetting
experience with hazing during his
first semester in college that he
dropped out of school.
"We can say what we want
about what happens across the
country in regards to hazing, but
since it hasn't happened at U of M,
it's hard to believe its true," Clark
said. "That's why we thought
bringing someone to talk about it
is so important. It's beneficial to
see a person who has gone through
this to make people understand
that this does happen."
Business senior Sanjiv Rao,
president of the MGC, said the
main reason for the council's
involvement in the events is to
bring awareness not just to stu-
dents but to the Ann Arbor com-
munity as well.
"We want to show them that we
are aware and the next step is to
educate people, and from there we
enforce it," Rao said.
He added that this week serves
as a reminder for MGC organiza-
tions that the council enforces a

does as a whole, and they have 100
million more people than we do."
Cliff Thornton, an expert on
drug policy and a leader of the
Green Party, added that the way
law enforcement approaches
drug crimes is also damaging to
those arrested for drug-related
crimes.
"In 2005, the criminal justice
system changed the way they were
reporting these crimes. In some
cases, almost 80 percent of the
people there were there for drug-
related crimes," Thornton said.
"So you have the prostitute who is
selling herself for drugs, and you
have the cop who is there for the
prostitution, and the cop who is
there for the drugs, and they'll be
fighting over her. It's insane."
no-hazing policy, Rao said.
Engineering freshman Kevin
Michaud, a new member of Sigma
Phi Epsilon, said Apgar's speech
was motivational and changed his
views on hazing. He said it showed
him how various forms of hazing
can have dire consequences.
"I didn't realize that hazing
was so many different things,"
Michaud said. "I just kinda
thought it was physical things but
it's emotional things as well."
LSA sophomore Jenna
Kaufman-Ross, who joined Pi
Beta Phi last year, said this week's
events are important because they
provide a lot of useful information
to new members of the Greek-let-
ter community.
"The dangers of hazing aren't
always expressed," Kaufman-Ross
said. "There are certain images
and stereotypes of Greek Life that
new members might have going
into college. They might not know
what to do if they are put into a
hazing situation or what measures
they should take."
Kaufman-Ross went to the anti-
hazing education events last year
and said they helped her under-
stand the consequences of hazing *
and the precautions that should
be taken. She said the events are
"completely necessary and rele-
vant" to the students who partici-
pate in Greek Life.


Free residential u r
furniture coili
Friday, Oct. 22 through Sunday AN
Oct. 24. Daily Noon - 5 ap.m. p
the
intersection

Monstrous savings
Tickets just $24.99 on Fridays
with Student ID.
Hallo eekends
Friday evenings (6 PM - Midnight),
Saturdays and Sundays naw thru Oct. 31.
Go to hallweekends.com
for more killer deals.

East University
and Oakland
streets.

r
taa

For Ann Arbor
residents and
property
managers
only.

4
0,

P
if

HILL ST.
0 f
A k ST

P_

WANT TO WRITE
NEWS STORIES IN
" THIS OLD TIMEY
BUILDING?
E-mail berman@michigandaily.com

"hose leaving any other materials, depositing firnitire from
non-ASn Arbor properties, or using the ste dur ng off-hours are
subject to illegal dumping fines. The site is rt1nitored 24-hours


6A - Thursday, October 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Packard Pub manager: Robinson shot
'most popular shot we've ever had'

From Page 1A
Bar & Grill, located at 3140 Packard
St., started calling one of its tequila
shots a "shoelace."
Will Banfield, owner of Banfield's
Bar & Grill, said he chose this spe-
cific shot to carry the Robinson con-
notation sinceitis180Oprooftequila.
"It doesn't take long to get a buzz
off that, and it doesn't take long for
Denard to get over the goal line,"
ELECTION
From Page 1A
year term.
Both said their main goal
would be to lower current tuition
rates to make the University more
affordable for students.
Stephens, who unsuccessfully
ran for regent against Newman
and Richner in 2002, said New-
man reneged on her promise not
to vote to raise University tuition
when she ran eight years ago.
"One of my opponents at the
time made a vow that she would
never vote for a tuition increase
and at the very first opportunity
she did," Stephens said. "I went
on record saying I can't say I
would not (raise tuition). I would
not paint myself into acorner. She
took the other approach and she
broke that promise the very first
opportunity she had."
Stephens, the business man-
ager of the International Brother-
hood of Electrical Workers Local
252, said he would bring the per-
spective of middle-class voters to
the board.
"Middle-class families aren't
all Democratic and aren't all
Republican," Stephens said. "But
I believe that they all deserve a
fair shake as residents of the state
of Michigan. Those people are not
represented on that board."
Stephens continued by saying
that if elected, he could use his
professional experiences to help
the University reduce its con-
struction costs.
"Because I am a leader in the
construction industry, I know
that the University of Michi-
gan does a tremendous amount

Banfield said with a chuckle.
Every time Robinson scores a
touchdown during the game, the
bar puts a discounted price on the
shot, Banfield said.
Packard Pub has been featuring
its own "Denard Robinson" shot
since the Michigan football team
played its first game against the
University of Connecticut.
According to Manager Carl
Bommarito, ingredients like blue
of construction," Stephens said.
"Sn fact, they're the first larg-
est single customer in the state
of Michigan, second only to the
state itself, as far spending con-
struction dollars."
Stephens continued: "I know
that with my experience I can
create some savings just in that
area that can be used in other
areas."
Meanwhile, Brown, vice presi-
dent and head of the Michigan
Economic Development Corpo-
ration's Capital Markets group,
said he believes the regents need
to use funds from the University's
endowment to support decreases
in tuition and increases in finan-
cial aid disbursements.
Brown, who is also a University
alum, criticized the regents for
voting last July to decrease the
endowment's payout from 5 per-
cent to 4.5 percent.
"That's the exact wrong deci-
sion at the exact wrong time,"
Brown said. "The endowment has
many purposes, but one of them
is a rainy day fund. It's raining in
Michigan for families of students
and students."
Brown continued, "Now would
be the time to actually go deeper
into the principle and shift that
money to help students and their
tuition, not decrease it."
Brown also said consolidating
the number of University admin-
istrators could cut costs and make
lower tuition a reality.
"The liberal university admin-
istrators that put out the studies
condemning the ratio of CEO pay
to the average worker and how
that gap has increased in the U.S.
over time, as well as the compari-
son to Europe, well they need to

caracao, pineapple juice, vodka and
a secret ingredient are mixed to
form a maize and blue shot.
"(It's) probably the most popular
shot we've ever had here," Bom-
marito said.
The Denard Robinson shot is
sold at Packard Pub for $3 every
Saturday, and Bommarito said he
intends to continue the special
year-round.
David Root, general manager of
look in the mirror because the
exact same thing has happened in
academia," Brown said.
"Administrator pay has expo-
nentially increased and the
number of administrators has
exponentially increased," Brown
continued. "We need to puta stop
to it."
Brown and Stephens each said
they would work to ensure the
University is part of the economic
revitalization of the state.
"The University of Michigan
could be a leader in turning this
economy around," Stephens said.
"I believe the University can
partner with other organizations
across the state, leveraging the
vast knowledge and skill the Uni-
versity has to offer. They can lead
these organizations through this
difficult time and develop smart
partnerships."
Both candidates also empha-
sized their commitment to engag-
ing students.
"I graduated undergrad in '96,"
Brown said. "I would definitely
be the youngest member of the
Board of Regents. I received my
MBA just a couple of years ago, so
I understand the student perspec-
tive.
"I'm still paying off my student
loans. So, I think my proximity to
their experience will play a big
role in my understanding," he
added.
Stephens and Brown will
appear along side eight other
candidates - including Newman
and Richner - on the statewide
ballot Nov. 2. The two candidates
who garner the most votes will
assume their roles on the Board
of Regents in January.
In an interview with the Daily

the Brown Jug, said the Jug has no
immediate plans to name any food or
drink items after Robinson, though it
has named meals after past football
players once they graduated.
Currently, the Jug has sand-
wiches named after Michigan foot-
ball greats including John Navarre
and Chris Perry. If Robinson con-
tinues to be as popular as he is now,
Root said he too has a good shot at
Brown Jug food-fame.
last August, Newman, the senior
vice president of government
affairs at Delta Airlines and a
University alum, said she has a
number of goals she'd like to pur-
sue if re-elected to her third term
as a regent.
Specifically, Newman said
she'd seek to make major capital
improvements to the University's
Medical Campus, improve the
University's standing in national
and international rankings and
continue to pursue renovations
to various residence halls across
campus.
"We need to continue to update
and move the institution forward
to stay at the top of the pack,"
Newman said at the time. "I think
I can be helpful there because I've
seen us do it, and I know what it
takes to maintain excellence and
grow."
Richner, a third-generation
graduate of the University, told
the Daily in August that he would
seek a second term to continue
the work he has done throughout
the past eight years.
"These efforts include reduc-
ing the University's health care
and insurance costs, being more
deliberate in using and allocat-
ing space across the campus, pro-
moting energy efficiency, seeking
more disciplined budgeting from
the University's schools, colleges
and other business units and sell-
ing non-productive assets," Rich-
ner wrote in an e-mail interview
at the time. "We also helped lead
the most successful private fund-
raising campaign in the Univer-
sity's history."
- Daily News Editor Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.

PRISONER
From Page 1A
human rights, Genser said the
organization exists in order to
help individuals who put their
lives at risk for the sake of world-
wide freedom, democracy and
human rights.
"The core of our mission is to
support you when your activities
put you in harm's way," Genser
said at the forum.
On Dec. 23, 2009, one year
after his detention, Liu was tried
for inciting subversion to state
power. One of the charges against
him involves his signing of the
Charter 08.
According to Freedom Now's
website, Liu's trial was in viola-
tion of international standards
for due process of law, as neither
his wife nor foreign diplomats or
correspondents were allowed to
observe the trial.
Liu was sentenced to 11 years
in prison and two years depriva-
tion of political rights for engag-
ing "in agitation activities, such as
spreading of rumors and defam-
ing of the government, aimed at
subversion of the state and over-
throwing the socialism system in
recent years," according to Free-
dom Now press releases from Oct.
10 and 13.
Beth Schwanke, University
Law School alum and legislative
counsel for Freedom Now, said
Liu is serving this 11-year sen-
tence for inciting state subver-
sion mainly for his role in drafting
the charter. Charter 08 called
for increased rule of law, greater
respect for human rights and an
end to one-party rule in China.
"He has quite literally been
imprisoned for exercising his
freedom of expression," Schwan-
ke said in a phone interview.
Freedom Now is focusing on
drawing as much international
attention to the issue as possible
and trying to motivate world
leaders to call for Liu's release,

according to Schwanke.
"Well, in this instance, China is
breaching its own domestic laws
as well as international laws, so I
think that world leaders need to
call on (Chinese) President Hu to
immediately release Liu Xiaobo
from his unjust imprisonment ...,"
Schwanke said. "We'll also be fil-
ing a case before the U.N. Work-
ing Group on Arbitrary Detention
shortly."
As soon as the prize announce-
ment was made, Liu Xiaobo's
wife, Liu Xia, and many of the
couple's friends and supporters
were placed under de facto house
arrest, according to an Oct. 13
Freedom Now press release. Liu
Xia was escorted to the prison to
inform Liu Xiaobo that he won
the Nobel Peace Prize and was
immediately escorted back to
their Beijing apartment.
Liu Xia still remains detained
today and her communication
with the outside world has been
minimal. Chinese government
security agents are in and sur-
rounding the apartment.
According to an Oct. 8 New
York Times article, Liu is one of
three people to have received the
award while imprisoned by one's
own government.
A Chinese official had threat-
ened the Norwegian Committee
that relations between the two
countries would be strained as
a result of its awarding Liu the
Nobel Peace Prize and its mem-
bers' chastisement of the Chinese
government when presenting the
award, according to the article.
Liu's receiving the Nobel Peace
Prize has been both productive
and counterproductive to Free-
dom Now's efforts, Schwanke
said.
"Obviously (winning the award
is)prettygood publicity," Schwan-
ke said. "(But given) the Chinese
government's initial reaction, you
know this is an extremely delicate
issue within China and so it's pos-
sible thatitwill make securinghis
release even more difficult."

"
"

01

WANT TO WRITE FOR
THE DAILY'S NEWS
SECTION?
E-mail Berman@michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
222-9033 jmsprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

FOR RENT
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskman@yahoo.com.

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, October 14, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 37 TV princess 50 Like a biting
1 *Hip-hopper who 1 Kids' author 39 Terrif remark, in British
married Beyonce Blume 40 Former sketch slang
(German) 2Succulent plant comedythat 51 Bum slightly
s turdylwabic 3 Dieters may fight used Don Martin 52 Novelist Murdoch
10 Delhwrap them caons 53 Pitcher Hideo
14 Movie apiarist 4 Keeblercracker 42 Hailed rtide 54 Chew
15 Like sandalwood 5 Pushover ' is e m aaed
leaves 6 See 48-Across 4
16 Green Zone site 7 Org. with rovers otherwise 56 Flightless bird
17 Gets into 8_-by 45 Airline to 29- 57 Trees used to
18 Brewers' kilns S Handel bars? Down make longbows
19Thinyou a 10 '20s White House 46 Slap the cuffs on 58 Abbas's gp.
20 wsories t nickname ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
25Elsies 11 ... ducks in -
23 "Paris,je t' l 2 ovety, in A B B Rs M E E T M E T V A
20"is, -j - metaphor W I L E A S T R O S W A S
24 Charged particle 13 Brightnessnos. L O A D E D Q U E S T I O N S
25 Nashville awards 21 Downmsurce N E R E S I E S N C A A
9p. 22 "Kidding T O B AGO E C A R D
28 *Inferred cosmic 25Includedinthe W E L L O F F T H E M A R K
substance e-mail chain NAT U R A N U S
(Russian) 26 Video game INAT URANUS
3sMytologicalride plumber N O H S N O R T Y E S
3 Oerisivcryd 27Pianist Claudio S E A G O D D A T A
36 Pivotal part 29 Honshucity M A N A G I N G E D I T O R
38 Bugperhaps 30Top limit B O N E R L I V I N G
39 Hottie 31ActressDurance I O T A A S I SEE I T
40 Easternmost state who plays Lois B R O K E W I T H C U S T O M
41 "Don't touch that on "Smallville" L
_" 32 Bad sentence
42 Body art,in slang 34 Former Kremlin E D Y S Y N O D S R E D O
43 High-speed policymaker xwordedltor@aol.com 10/13/10

.
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
UfM Diseounts!
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Reserve now
for 2011 (Spring or Fall). U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space for 2011 today with no
lease obligation. 2 blocks from Central
Campus and downtown. I to 4 bed-
room, private baths avail. Rates from
$660. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *1
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
!**FALL2011**! 5 to 9 bdrm.
houses. Keysmanagement.net
!NOW RESERVINGFOR FALL
2011! 1 & 2 bedroom apartments.
3 bedroom house on Church.
C & I Management, LLC.
Call Patty 734-320-1245
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Inc. Heat/Water/Parking.
wws.HRI'AA.com 995-4992.
5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2011
www.CopipropertieS.COm
734-663-5609

The CCoeisYors!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ 1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Townhome
+ Free WIFI
+ AATA Bus Line
* 24 Hr Health Club
* Covered Parking
* Flexible Lease Terms
* Apartments &Town Homes
* Pool &Sauna
* Pets Welcome
* Continental Breakfast every Wed.
* Concierge Resident Service
* Business Center
* Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
* Hospitality Apartment
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr
r 734-663-7633
*Amenities Vary by Property
www.WoodburyGardens.com
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
HOUSE WANTED FOR graduation 4
bdrms, 3 baths, clean, close to campus
847-651-6206 Breed368@gmail.com
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
JANUARY 2011 8 month lease 428 S.
Division eff. $750, 929 S. Division eff.
$700 1 bed $800, 602 Catherine room
only $475, tenants pay electric call
Cappo 734-996-1991
FALL 2011 EXCELLENT 6 bedroom
house. 517 S0. Fourth Ave., furmished,
dishwasher, disposal, parkinglaundry,
central A/C, high speed intemet, large
bedrooms, rec room 3 baths. Heat and
water included $3450/mo. 734-662-
7121 or gpmiles@aol.com
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Court $2340,
tenants pay all utilities call Cappo
Deinco 734-996-1991

FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State St./Athletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., I
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
CAMPUS 6 BEDROOM HOUSE.
Furnished, Fireplace & Parking with
Garage. Very Nice. Private Owner - No
Management Company. 702 Arch St.
May 2011. $3250. 734-426-4772.
Ask for Jim at Spring Valley Farm.
6 BEDROOM MAY 2011
701 Catherine (kerrytown)
$3475,734-777-3687
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and houses. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
attractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and some in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealty.com
734-665-8825
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735

AUGUST SALON AND Day Spa.
1755 Plymouth Rd. Ann Arbor.
(734)662-8578. BRING in this ad for
15% OFF!

!!BARTENDING!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
A BARTENDER NEEDED earn
$350/day no experience required will
train full time/part time call now! 877-
405-1078 ex. 999
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
FEMALE VOCALIST TO sing older
standards & violinist to play older stan-
dards call Bobby (313) 772-5061
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
FULL TIME COMPANION, cook,
helper for 63 yr. old well educated man
with med. limitations. Residence is a 3
BR luxury condo in Canton, MI. Com-
pensation is meals plus a reasonable
salary to be discussed. Duties include
cooking, grocery shopping, errands,
driving to Dr. appts, light house keep-
ing, moral support & hanging out. Non-
smoker. Flexible hours 40-60 per
week. Resume & work references re-
quired. Looking for smart, articulate,
caring, compassionate, easy-going per-
son. EMAIL jdb0406@hotmail.com
HAIR STYLISTS - MARK NINE
HAIR SALON - Seeking stylists to
rent booths or work commission call
734.761.8930 or email nesa@marknine-
hair.com. WWW.MARKNINEHAIR.-
COM.
MAKE A WORLD of DIFFERENCE
Volunteering at Ten Thousand Villages
303 S Main St, Ann Arbor
Fair Trade store seeks volunteers to
work in fairtrade nonprofit retail store.
Orientation 10/18, 6-8
Details: 734-332-1270
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back-
ground for a major film production.
Earn up to $200/day. Experience not re-
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
WRITE FOR DAILY NEWS
E-mail berman@michigandaily.com

.0*

raptor
44 *Stance device
(French)
47 Former World
No. 1 tennis
player Ivanovic
48 With 6-Down,
one in fear of an
audit
49 "Dagnabit!"
51 'Fatal problem in
Genesis
(Spanish)
58 Colombia
neighbor
59 Funnel-shaped
60 Architect Mies
van der _
61 Animal shelter
62 Gather
e3 Intued
64 About
65 Greet respectfully
66 Parliamentary
votes, or what
appears atthe
starts oflthe
answers to
starred clues

1-1-1.1 ..,,.._.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16
Y7 18 19
20 21 122
23 24
25 2fi 27 28 29 30 1 31 32
33 34 35 38 37
38 39 40
4i 42 43
44 45 46 47
48 49 50
51 52 63 54 56 56 57
58 59 60
61 62 63
64 65 66
fly Matt Matera 1 Q~ 4/10
(c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

COLLEGE STUDENT STEALS -
SAVE BIG! Get the campus daily deal
sent directly to your cell phone! Just
TEXT WOLVERINES to 69302 for
college area exclusive special offers
and discounts!
EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
MARK NINE HAIR SALON - 320
Miller, STE 175, Ann Arbor. Down-
town AA. Servicing all types of hair.
Bring in this ad & receive 25% off.
734.761.8930 or visit WWW.-
MARKNINEHAIR.COM

0l



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 14, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, October 14, 2010 - 7A

M' snaps out of rough
first half, secures win

By BRIAN MECHANICK
Daily Sports Writer
At halftime of Wednesday's
match against Valparaiso, Michi-
gan men's
soccer VALPARAISO 2
coach MICHIGAN 4
Steve
Burns thought he had seen the
worst half of soccer out of his team
all season.
Looking for what to say on a cold,
wet night against a non-conference
opponent sandwiched between key
" weekend conference games,
Burns turned to the history of
the sport.
"I told the guys at the half, the
game of soccer hasn't changed in
120 years," Burns said. "The team
that passes best is the team that's
going to win, so we need just to
connect."
The Wolverines passed and con-
nected well in the second half, as
the team exploded offensively in a
4-2 win over visiting Valparaiso.
After playing narrowly in the
first half with a 4-4-2 formation,
a switch to a 4-3-3 formation gave
the Wolverines the width to attack
the gaps in the Crusader defense.
The Wolverines (2-1-0 Big Ten,
8-2-3 overall) started off the scor-

ing in the 58th minute. with a
Valparaiso own-goal generously
credited to redshirt senior Matt
Schmitt, who now has a three-
game scoring streak. Schmitt had
no qualms about the goal's credit-
ing.
"I count it," Schmitt said. "For-
wards are always going to count
that as their goal. Defenders want
it to be an own-goal, goalies want
it to be an own-goal, and forwards
count it as a goal. I'm counting it as
a goal."
The main threat for the Crusad-
ers on the night was redshirt junior
Stefan Antonijevic. The tower-
ing 6-foot-6 forward stood four
inches above the tallest Wolverine
defender.
He certainly punished Michi-
gan.
Frustrated by an earlier yellow
card that saw him subbed out of
the first half, Antonijevic answered
back with a scoring header in the
72nd minute on a cross from Adri-
an Ortiz.
Antonijevic's goal proved to
be the spark plug for an offensive
explosion, as three goals followed
in the next six minutes. Michigan
freshman forward Soony Saad was
next to score, unleashing a low
strike into the left corner to help

Michigan regain the lead.
Senior forward Justin Meram
then followed with the play of the
game, as he dribbled in from the
left wing through three Vaparaiso
defenders before laying off the ball
to a waiting Schmitt, giving the
senior two goals on the night and
four goals in three games.
"Justin is an ankle-breaker,"
Burns said. "He's a guy who can
turn you inside-out and just cork-
screw players."
The dissatisfaction of a tough
first half off his back, Meram
pulled out his dancing shoes to cel-
ebrate his sweet play.
"That's my style," he said.
The satisfaction of an insurance
goal was short-lived, though, as the
Crusaders responded two minutes
later with another goal. Senior Jake
Freisinger slotted a ball through
the legs of the Wolverines' redshirt
junior goalkeeper Chris Blais.
But Soony Saad would not be
stopped, as the dynamic freshman
scored a brace of his own, hitting a
shot from outside the box into the
low right corner to secure the win.
The Wolverines now eye a week-
end trip to Bloomington to face a
talented Indiana team, with Big
Ten pride and a four-game win-
ning streak on the line.

Senior setter Lexi Zimmerman registered a triple double in the Wolverines' upset of Illinois last week before registering
another one again tonight. Zimmerman also surpassed the Michigan program record in career assists this season.
Zimmer-mgan explodes
for another triple double
in win over Michigan St.

Schmitt continues hot
streak from bench in in

By CAITLIN SMITH
Daily Sports Writer
The Saad brothers have carried
the scoring load for the Michigan
men's soccer team for much of the
season, but after the Wolverines'
4-2 win over Valparaiso Wednes-
day night, it might be time to adopt
a new member into their goal-hap-
py family.
Redshirt senior Matt Schmitt
tallied his first goal of the season
just a week ago against Cincinnati.
But after getting a taste of success
against the Bearcats, he was hun-
gry for more. Schmitt went on to
score the game-winning goal in
Sunday's Big Ten matchup against
Wisconsin.
Then, the Muskegon, Michigan
native hammered in two goals
. and added an assist in the Wol-
verines' midweek contest against
Valparaiso. After a scoreless first
half, Schmitt got the ball rolling
hy playing a dangerous hail into
the hox, which deflected off a Cru-
sader defender and into the net,
creating a three-game consecutive
scoring streak for the backup for-
ward.
During Schmitt's first two years
of eligibility, he saw action in 40
games and had 33 starts. But as
younger recruits joined the team,
Schmitt was relegated to the back
burner. Still, he is a modest player
who has grown to embrace his
position on the team.
Unlike some competitors who
strive for the limelight, Schmitt,
who went on to score again
against Valparaiso, said he won't
be looking for additional playing
time after his outstanding perfor-
mance, unless of course the team
needs him.
"I think that I've proven, not
* just this year but in years past,
that when I come in, I can change
the game," Schmitt said. "So it's
whenever the coaches need me to
play and help the team, I'm there."
WAN NA
WRITE
FOR
DAILY
" SPORTS?
Join the club.
* NO SERIOUSLY,
EMAIL
RKARTJE@UMICH.EDU

By ROYA ZAND accuracy.
For thADily The first two sets, though, were
dominated by junior outside hit-
"I think you can sum up our ter Alex Hunt, who recorded 11
record into two words, and that is total kills, eight digs and two ser-
'Lexi Zimmerman,' "said Michi- vices aces. Zimmerman also made
gan volleyball coach Mark Rosen a major contribution, providing
after Wednesday night's match six kills and 18 assists.
against Michigan State. "She is The Wolverines fell to the
carrying us like a quarterback Spartans in the third set 27-25.
for a football team, a shooting During the intermission, Rosen
point guard for a basketball team, echoed a sense of calm urgency.
a pitcher for a softball team. She "The biggest thing you have to
can change the game." do is stay calm," Rosen said after
But unlike Michigan football's the game. "You have to stay the
star quarterback Denard Robin- course and be a little urgent ear-
son against the Spartans this past lier. In game three, we weren't as
weekend, Zimmerman found a urgent earlier in the game."
way to lead her team past the in- Entering the fourth set, the
state rivals in Ann Arbor, 3-1. Wolverines were not in control
Zimmerman, a senior setter, of the game, playing more defen-
recorded her third career triple- sively than they had all night.
double, tallying 38 assists, 11 kills When Michigan fell behind 18-14,
and 10 digs in the four-set win. the team began "second-guessing
She led her team the way she has themselves," according to Rosen.
all season, taking command of But the Wolverines turned on
the court and taking advantage their offense and rallied to tie
of open balls with precision and the game 21-21. Pivotal kills by

Hunt and freshman outside hit-
ter Molly Toon took the game to
match point, when Zimmerman
promptly served an ace to secure
the win.
Hunt entered the Michigan
record books during the game,
recording her 1,000th career kill
and becoming only the 12th Wol-
verine in history to eclipse the
mark.
"I didn't know I was going to
break it, but you can't really think
of stats during the game," Hunt
said. "I definitely like getting
more hits and doing anything to
really help the team."
She had a total of 11 kills and
was just two digs shy of her first
career double-double.
"Alex is going to get termina-
tor points," Rosen said. "This year
is certainly more on her because
we don't have the depth around
because we have a lot of young
players. She's a great competitor
in a silent, adaptive kind of way.
We couldn't do it without her."

SALAM RIDA/Daily
Redshirt senior Matt Schmitt has been on an offensive tear as of late, scoring four
goals since last week's matchup with Cincinnati.

But the Wolverines (2-1-0 Big
Ten, 8-2-3 overall) have prov-
en that they do need him. In
last week's contest against the
Bearcats, both the Saad brothers
were on the bench and Schmitt
stepped up. And later, it was
Schmitt's goal that proved to be
the deciding factor againstthe
Badgers. Schmitt may have had a
slaw start to the season, but he has
found his rhythm.
"It's a great story," Michigan
coach Steve Burns said. "He's a
fifth-year senior that's taking a
part-time load because he wanted

to finish his Michigan career as
strong as possible, with as strong
of team and as strong of personal
performance. He comes off the
bench and adds that immedi-
ate impact to our team. He really
raised the level of this game here."
Although Schmitt remained
modest about his five-point game,
he was not afraid to hoast on one
account.
When asked if he was going to
continue his scoringstreak against
Indiana this upcoming weekend,
he had one word.
"Absolutely."

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@MICH DAILYSPORTS
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
Earn Your MPA in Environmental
Science and Policy
I'he IMastcr of Pub l'c Adinristration Prognlrain
Environnental Scielnce and Policy is a telve-month
prograin that combines Columrbia Utniversity's
hands-ion approach to teaching public policy and
administration with pioneering thinking about
the environnment, educating today's environmental
fenders frinore mcsnsctainnabfle tonrrowrcs.
Fcr nirccrc mnfc~rmticn crc troRSVP~,
e-mail msk2156@coluubia.edu or call
212-8f4-3.142. ...w
For information on other SIPA programnns,
please visit the website at wwwvc.sipa.colunmbia.edu.
Application deadline for early decision: November 1
You Are Invited Idealist Fair
Wednesday, October 20, 2010
to Learn About Location: University of Michigan, Michigan Union Building, Ballroom,
Our Program 2nd Floor, 530 S. State Street, Ann Arbor
Time: 5:30-8:00 p.m.


Special Information Event:
Meet Peace Corps Director Aaron Williams
Thursday, October14 at 6:30 p.m.
Kuenzel Room, Michigan Union
http://peacecorps.umich.edu/events.htmi
Apply this Fall for programs leaving
in 2011 --Peace Corps'50th Anniversary Year!
Life is calling. How far will you go?
800.424.85801 peacecorps.gov/application


8A - Thursday, October 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
T HE
By Ben Estes I Daily Sports Writer{

MAXCLL LINS/Uaily
Michigan defensive coordinator Greg Robinson has refused to speak with media this season.
Coach Robinson,
it',s time to start talking

As the defensive coordinator
of the Michigan Wolverines, you
should be willing to answer ques-
tions about
your unit -
even when
you give up 45
points and the
questions will
undoubtedly be
negative. Rob-
inson should
feel compelled JOE
to at leastgive STAPLETON
an update about
the defense
every once in a while, even ifit's
for nothing else than the 100,000
people packing the stadium every
Saturday, for one of the most loyal
fanbases in college sports.
That was written by former
Daily Sports Editor Andy Reid
almost one year ago. It was the
end to a column asking Michigan
defensive coordinator Greg Rob-
inson to answer to the media fol-
lowing several games in which the
defense played extremely poorly.
That column was written during
one of the worst statistical stretch-
es in Michigan history. And a year
later, the same thing is happening
all over again.
The Wolverine defense is cur-
rently ranked 112th out of 120
Football Bowl Subdivision teams,
allowing more than 450 yards
per game. Only one team, Tulsa,
is worse against the pass. The
Michigan unit allows more than
26 points per game, and the only
outlier performance against Con-
necticut in the first game of the
season keeps that average out of
the 30s.
And Greg Robinson still isn't
talking.

After every game, win or lose,
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
goes in front of the media and
answers questions. Then, there
are a select few players who speak.
After that, it's a free-for-all in the
Crisler Arena parking lot to get
other players and coaches. Nearly
every coach, win or lose, will stop
and talk for at least a few minutes
to reporters.
But not Robinson.
It kind of makes sense, in a
twisted way. Why would Robinson
want to talk after all these games
in which his defense plays so poor-
ly? No one wants that job.
Certainly not redshirt junior
defensive end Ryan Van Bergen.
After one of the most disappoint-
ing losses in recent memory to
Michigan State last Saturday, I'm
sure that Van Bergen, along with
many of his teammates, wanted
to crawl into a hole for a while
and not talk to anyone. I certainly
would have.
But there he was at the podium.
The game had clearly taken its toll
on him, physically and emotion-
ally.
His voice was hoarse and soft.
His eyes were red and puffy and
disbelieving and vacant. It was
painfully obvious that right there
at that podium was the one place
in the world he didn't want to be at
that moment. Despite all of this, he
stood there and he took questions
about the defense, which gave up
more than 520 yards to the Spar-
tans.
"Run defense is simple. Every-
body has one gap," Van Bergen
said. "You're accountable for that
gap, and we weren't in the right
one twice. Same play. We have to
figure it out, we will figure it out
and we'll bounce back from this."

I know it's hard, Coach. But if a
21-year-old can do it, so can you.
I don't know enough about
football to tell you exactly what's
wrong with the defense. ButI
know enough about sports to know
that good coaches make their
teams overachieve. And right now,
this defense is underachieving on a
massive scale.
Sure, this defense is playing a lot
of freshmen in the secondary and a
coach can't force his players to get
off blocks. I get it. But they should
be playing better than they are.
The coaches and players both
contribute to what happens on Sat-
urdays, and Robinson is contribut-
ing far too much to how poorly his
defense is playing to not occasion-
ally step in front of the media and
be held accountable.
Even making Rodriguez answer
for the defense every week seems
a bit unfair to the coach, who has
admitted to being mostly con-
cerned with the offensive side of
the ball.
I'm not asking for a pound of
flesh. Just a simple quote. The
point is that it's Robinson's obliga-
tion to speak with the media. Does
Rodriguez feel like talking to the
media after a loss like that? What
about offensive coordinator Calvin
Magee? What about sophomore
quarterback Denard Robinson
(especially after throwing three
picks)?
No, no and no. But they do.
Instead of leaving his defensive
players and his head coach totake
responsibility for what are undeni-
ably at least partly his shortcom-
ings, Robinson needs to be held
accountable. It's the professional
thing to do, and more important,
it's the right thing to do.
So do it.

I t was 1901, and the sun was
still nowhere close to setting
on the British Empire.
And it was Great Britain, the
political and social monstrosity of
early modernity, diffusing its home-
grown games across the planet.
So at the turn of the 20th cen-
tury Miss Constance Applebee - a
member of the British School of
Physical Education - came to the
United States, stick and ball in tow,
and showed off her country's cre-
ation at a Harvard Summer School.
Field hockey had arrived in
America.
And 109 years after Applebee,
freshman forward Rachael Mack
traced Constance's path to the
States, though she detoured about
830 miles west and landed in Ann
Arbor.
Just over a month into her
Michigan career, Mack has already
become a standout. Only in the
U.S. since the summer, the Brit has
stampeded past any concerns of a
cultural adjustment to help lead the
Michigan field hockey team to its
best start in several years.
Howshegot to Michigan, though,
is a somewhat serendipitous story.
Mack didn't begin playing the
sport until she entered middle
school at the age of11-relatively late
in English terms, though still early
compared to most Americans.
But even before she ever picked
up a stick, the Bromsgrove, England
native had dreamt about crossing
the Atlantic.
"I actually wanted to come to uni-
versity in America since I was about
five years old, just purely because
I'm a big sports person and sport
here is, like, huge," Mack said after
a recent September practice. "So I
always wanted to come and play. I
wanted to experience a new country
and play with different people."
When it came time to seriously
considere her college field hockey
options, Mack, who had experience
playing for her school (Bromsgrove),
Olton, a club team in England's
Women's Premier Division, and
the English U-18 women's national
team, first started to gather infor-
mation via U.S. College Prospects, a
recruiting company.
For Michigan, it's not a rare
occurrence to go international to
recruit for field hockey - the sport
is larger in countries in Europe and
even South America. Various mem-
bers of the Wolverines' staff have
recruited in places like Argentina
and Uruguay in years past.
In this instance, assistant coach
Ryan Langford received a tip from
an old coaching friend, Michael
Boal. Boal had several players in
England who he knew were poten-
tially interested (and skilled enough)
to play field hockey in the States.
Boal was one of Mack's coaches at
Olton. He had seen enough of her to
know that it was worth Michigan's
time to get a closer look at the for-
ward.
Heeding his advice, head coach
Marcia Pankratz sent Langford over
to watch Mack in April 2009, as she
was playing in a tournament with
the U-18 national team.
Langford said that Mack played
"outstanding" and Michigan was
determined to recruit her, but
because of NCAA contact rules,
he could only communicate with
the forward via email. Eventually,
though, the coaches were able to get
a visit lined up for her.
"She and her mother came to Ann
Arbor during Art Fair and we got to

show them around," Langford said.
"(It was) beautiful while they were
here, and I think they fell in love
with it."
Contact continued between both
parties until last fall. While Michi-
gan was on a road trip to Louis-
ville during the season, Langford
received a call from the young Brit
making it official - Mack would be
a Wolverine.
From the beginning, if it was
going to be America, it was going to
be Michigan for Mack.
She could have stayed home in
England and played collegiately
there, or possibly. elsewhere in
Europe. But as Pankratz said, "peo-
ple know Michigan all over the
world."
The same combination of athletic
success and academic excellence
that draws students and athletes
from all over the country managed
to have the same effect on a girl
halfway across the world.
"I looked at various other places,
but I really like it here because aca-
demically it was really good," Mack
said. "And I knew I'd be pushed
physically and mentally if I came
here playing hockey, so it just really
appealed to me. The coaching staff
and the girls I met when I was here
were all really nice, so that kind of
inspired me to come here as well."

In some cases of international
players coming over to play colle-
giate field hockey in the States, ath-
letes may only stay for a year or two
before going back home and con-
tinuing their careers there.
But Mack says she loves it here
too much to do anything but stay all
four years and get her degree. For
a Wolverine team that already
relies on the freshman heav-
ily, that's a good thing to
hear.
"(We) got luckyk
you might say,
because she's
working out
outstanding for us," Langford said.
Mack made her presence known
early on in the season. In just the
team's fifth game, she scored twice
and assisted on the game-winning
goal as the Wolverines defeated
then-No. 14 James Madison 4-3 in
overtime.
She went on to score once more
in the team's 4-0 win over Central
Michigan two days later and was
rewarded by being named the Big
Ten Offensive Player and Co-Fresh-
man of the Week.
But Mack wasn't done yet. After
strong performances against then-
No. 19 Albany and Quinnipiac, she
was named Big Ten Freshman ofthe
Week for the second straight time,
and collected the award once again
for her play last weekend against
Miami (OH) and Iowa.
"I was really chuffed with (the
awards)," Mack said. "I didn't even
know they were awards ... I was
really, really happy with that. I
think I've been playing well, so I'm
just chuffed that it's come out like
that"
Her languagereveals that Mack is
a fish outof water of sorts ("chuffed"
is British slang for "excited"). So one
wouldn't necessarily expect her to
be able to have the early impact that
she has had.
Mack scored in five straight
games from Sept. 10 to Sept. 24 and
currently leads the team in goals
with nine, good for fourth in the Big
Ton. She has been key in the Wol-
verines' recent run of nine wins in
ten games, defeating four ranked
opponents in the process and nearly
toppling then-No. 1 Maryland on
Oct. 3.
Part of it is her experience play-
ing against top European competi-
tion, but it is more a reflection of her
skill and personality. She's supreme-
ly talented, and also mature enough
to jump right in to collegiate action.
Pankratz said that the coaches
hoped for an early impact from
Mack, which is a key reason they
recruited her in the first place.
"She's a very polished, skilled
player," Pankratz said. "We knew
that she's a dangerous striker and
that's why we recruited her and
(her) certainly coming in and hit-
ting the ground running, we're
not surprised. We're certainly
happy that she's been able to do
that."
Ask Rachael Mack what's been
the most difficult adjustment about
life in America and she doesn't hesi-
tate to give you an answer: the food.
"(It's) having to eatreally healthy
and not (being able) to eat the stuff
that's in the dorms ... I do like it.
There's just loads more of it," Mack
said, laughing.
Her parents, though, were very
receptive to allowing Mack to
come to America. The family lived
in Texas for a year when she was
a child because of her father's job.

And because her parents knew it
was their daughter's dream to play
in the U.S., they were happy to let
her go.
They moved her in like any other
freshman, but they can't hop a
trans-Atlantic flight every weekend
to see their daughter play. Mack
communicates with them on Skype
whenever she can, and they are
planning to visit in the next month.
But that's not alot of contact when
you consider just how significant
Mack's move was.
Still, the freshman seems to be
handling it all remarkably well. She
says that she hasn't been nearly as
homesick as she thought she'd be,
and a big reason is the open arms
with which she's been received.
"Sometimes, if you have bad
games, it's hard when your parents
aren't there but it's been good so
far," Mack said. "(Coach Langford's)
been great ... and all the freshmen.
The three captains have been really
helpful just explaining stuff I don't
understand or stuff like that."
Added Langford: "I think
Rachael's a very self-aware per-
son. She's not someone who has to
be taken by the hand and dragged
through. She can take careofherself
for sure."
The United States women's field

ey
national
teamhasn't
qualifiedfor
the Olym-
pics since
1996, and even
then, America -
only made the
field because it was
the host.
Yet in Britain, the sport's birth-
place, field hockey has enormous
influence.
So why would Mack - a player
with past national experience and
future Olympic aspirations - take
a competitive step down for her col-
lege years? The answer lies in the
fact that the quality of play in the
U.S. is often understated, she said.
"I think it's kind of a miscon-
strued idea that (the sport) is not
as popular here because I think it's
definitely up-and-coming," Mack
said. "I did a lot of research into it @
before I came.
"I'd say (U.S. and English field
hockey) are actually pretty similar.
I think actually fitness here is prob-
ably better. Skill may be better in
England, but on the whole, people
work really, really hard both places"
That difference in emphasis is
commonly noted. Because Europe-
ans start playing the sport so much
earlier, they tend tobe more skilled,
whereas Americans place a greater
importance on fitness and endur-
ance.
Mack struggled early on in
meeting the more rigorous train-
ing demands at Michigan than she
was used to, but is in much better
shape now. Adding that element to
her game only makes her more well
rounded, and puts her one step clos-
er to being a complete player - one
that can dominate in any country.
"Her knowledge of the game is
outstanding, whether she's on the
ball, whether she's off the ball, she's 0
always moving into good spots,"
Langford said. "And if she refines
herself, makes fitness a goal, she's
going to have a great chance to rep-
resent England in the Olympics or
the World Cup."
That's after Mack completes her
goal of helping Michigan win the
Big Ten for the first time since 2007,
of course.
Despite her breakout perfor-
mance, the Sept. 10 win over James
Madison was significant for Mack
for a different reason.
Everything - her English life,
her new American one, her field
hockey career - came full circle for
the forward.
Standing on the opposing side-
line with a front-row seat for Mack's
goals and game-winning overtime
assist was Boal.
Her former club coach had start-
ed applying for jobs soon after Mack
had committed to Michigan and
eventually landed an assistant posi-
tion with the Dukes.
There was Mack: the first home
game of her career, playing a nation-
ally ranked team, staring down a
3-0 deficit, and seeing the coach of
her childhood pacing the sidelines
just a few yards away.
Mack promptly scored twice in
the first five minutes in the sec-
ond half - the first two goals of
her career - to begin what would
become the Wolverines' signature
win in 2010.
"The interesting thing about
that is ... if (Boal) had gotten
that job earlier, Rachel probably
would've gone there, just (to) fol-

low her coach," Langford said.
"Who knows?"
Luckily for Michigan, she didn't.
So began a partnership: England
and America, Mack and Michigan,
one that Pankratz called a "win-win
for everybody."
Back in June, England and the
United States were set to square off
in each team's opening match of the 0
World Cup, the single biggest sport-
ing event on the planet.
Mack was less than a month
from starting her new life in her
new country, and here was the first
clash between old and New - with
thoughts of America looming on her *
mind, would she be tempted to root
for her soon-to-be adopted home-
land?
"I was thinking 'Come on Eng-
land,' obviously," Mack said. "I'm
still a Brit"

IC HOCtK EY
Caporusso finds scoring stride
in season's first few matchups

By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Writer
Entering the Michigan hockey
team's fifth game last season, Wol-
verine forward
Louie Caporusso NOTEBOOK
was still searching
for his first point after being a Hobey
Baker finalist during his sophomore
season.
But when it came to postseason
hockey, Caporusso was ready to
play. He notched five goals and eight
assists in an eight-game run during
the CCHA Tournament and NCAA
regional play.
And Caporusso has carried his
torrid scoring pace into his senior
season, wasting no time in finding
his way into the box score.
Just fifteen minutes into Wolver-
ines' season opener against Mercy-
hurst, Caporusso took a pass from
senior defenseman Chad Langlais
and buried the puck in the back of
the net to give Michigan a 1-0 lead.
And he hasn't slowed down yet.
Through three games this year,
Caporusso has a team-high six points
- a number he didn't reach the 12th
game in 2009.
Caporusso acknowledges that his
early-season success has taken a load
off his shoulders.
"I put a lot of pressure on myself
coming into (last year)," Caporusso
said. "I expected a lotof myself, peo-
ple expected a lot out of me, and I got
down on myself too much and didn't
get a chance to play well because I
was so hard on myself."

A key turn-around for Caporusso
last season was Michigan coach
Red Berenson's decision to pair the
center with then-sophomores Luke
Glendening and David Wohlberg.
That line proved tobe the Wolver-
ines' strongest throughout the post-
season, and Berenson has kept them
together in the early-goings this fall.
"They have a lot of camaraderie
and chemistry on that line rightnow,
and Louie isn't the only one playing
well, they're all playing well," Beren-
son said.
Caporusso is the first to credit
his linemates for bolstering his per-
formance thus far. Wohlberg is tied
with Caporusso and senior forward
Matt Rust with a team-leading two
goals apiece.
"When you've got the same
guys on your line it helps so much,"
Caporusso said. "You know what to
expect, you know what you're going
to get every day. You start to get a
feel for each other, and right now I
just feel so in tune and in synch with
Luke and Wally."
DUELING GOALTENDERS: After
junior netminder Bryan Hogan went
down with a groin injury during the
final weekend of the regular season
last year, Berenson and the Wolver-
ines were forced to live or die by the
goaltending of backup Shawn Hun-
wick.
Fortunately, they lived, riding
Hunwick's 5-foot-7 frame all the way
to the NCAA regional finals in Fort
Wayne, Indiana.
When the team reconvened this
fall, both goalies were back for their

senior years, and the starting job has
been up in the air.
Through three games and two
exhibition matches, Berenson has
alternated goaltenders in every
game. But he switched up the order
this week, playing Hogan in a 4-0
shutout of the U.S. National Team
Development Program Under-18
team on Tuesday. That decision
has given Hunwick an opportunity
between the pipes against No. 9 New
Hampshire this upcoming Saturday.
Berenson has not discussed any
plans to select a starter as of yet -
he may continue flip-flopping the
two goalies all season if they both
continue to perform up to expecta-
tions.
"We think they're both going
to play well, and it gives us a one-
two punch in goal," Berenson said.
"It was a good game for Hogan (on
Tuesday), Hunwick's got a tough
game going into New Hampshire.
They don't lose much at home, so this
will be a good challenge for him."
INJURY REPORT: Rust participat-
ed in practice yesterday after sitting
out earlier this week due to a lower
body injury sustained against Bowl-
ing Green last Saturday. ... Glenden-
ing took a puck to the hand before
the U.S. NTDP game and sat out
for the game, but he also was back
in practice yesterday. ... After ding-
ing his shoulder during the second
period on Tuesday, sophomore for-
ward Kevin Lynch did not practice
the following day. But according to
Berenson, Lynch will practice on
Thursday.


theb

- sid

The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I Thursday, October 14, 2010

weekend
essentials
Oct. 14 to Oct. 17
ON STAGE
Tomorrow, at the
Walgreen Drama Cen-
ter, University alum
Esther K. Chae will be
performing her new
espionage thriller "So
the Arrow Flies." Chae,
who will be playing all
four of the play's char-
acters, will also receive
the Alumni Emerging
Artist Award from the
School of Music, The-
atre & Dance tomorrow
evening. After the per-
formance, there will be
a "talk-back" with Chae.
Admission is free.
AT THE MIC
This Saturday, in col-
laboration with the
School of Music, The-
atre & Dance, UMMA
will present "Jazz
Age Paris." Based on
themes of expatriation;
the concert will feature
early African American
jazz, as heard in Paris in
the 1920s. Music The-
ory Professor Emeritus
James Dapogny will
present a pre-concert
talk at 7:30 p.m.; con-
cert starts at 8. Free in
the Apse at UMMA.
FILM
Fall-study-break lovin',
had me a blast. Liven
up your long weekend
with "Grease Sing-a-
Long," playing tonight
at 7:30 p.m. and Sun-
day at 5 p.m. at the
Michigan Theater. In
this version, the lyr-
ics are printed on the
screen, karaoke-style.
The theater is also
holding a costume
contest at each of the
screenings, with the

winners receiving a
"glamour prize pack."

 fn this stuffy little room on the fifth floor
of Burton Memorial Tower with a half-
completed hangman scrawled jauntily
on the blackboard, the Compulsive Lyres are
making music.
It's only their second time singing their
newest song, "Sweet Caroline," and it begins
tentatively. The two beatboxers weave in
and out of the melody like professionals,
but something's missing. Maybe it's because
the chords are slightly out of sync, or that a
section of the harmony sometimes seems to
fade out, as if the singers aren't quite sure of
themselves.
Then, about a minute in, the chorus hits.
As the chord progression swells up, the sing-
ers smile broadly at each other - this time,
they know they've got it right. The sound that
emerges this time is tonally and texturally
lush, enveloping the group with its warmth.
1 From here, the energy bounces around
the room like a ping-pong ball. By the sec-
ond chorus, they are already into the groove
of the song, snapping their fingers, joining
hands and tapping their feet. "So good, so
good, so good!" a singer cries out, using Neil
Diamond's words to authenticate the group's
xuberant performance.
W Welcome to the crazy, doo-wopy, harmo-

ny-steeped world of a cappella.
From the hallowed history of Renais-
sance polyphony to contemporary barber-
shop quartets, a cappella, Italian for "in the
manner of the church," is a type of singing
entirely unaccompanied by instruments and
usually includes separate parts for each per-
son. '
But thoughitinitiallybegan asa style of reli-
gious music, a cappella is considerably more
modern at the University - groups have been
known to perform diverse selections from
the likes of Michael Jackson to Lady Gaga
to Hanson. Also innovative is some groups'
distinctive approaches to performance. Last
year, the G-Men began sing-assaulting people
on the Diag, in the Fishbowl and in the bath-
room to publicize an upcomingconcert -even
performing a rousing rendition of "The Lion
King" soundtrack on a University bus, roaring
wildebeests and all.
The a cappella community at the'Universi-
ty has fun, but don't be fooled - these groups
are prestigious. Last February, the G-Men,
Dicks & Janes and Amazin' Blue competed
against colleges across the Midwest in the
International Championship of Collegiate
A Cappella, an internationally recognized
competition that attracts hundreds of col-

lege groups every year. All three ascended to
the region's semifinals, making Michigan the
only school in the country to have that many
groups at that level.
The process of choosing new singers
begins at A Cappella Rush, an event put on
by the Michigan A Cappella Council during
the first week of the semester. Housed in the
second floor Union Ballroom, rush typically
consists of a small concert with one song per-
formed by each of the 16 groups followed by
a Q&A session. In a Festifall-style arrange-
ment, different tables for each group are
lined up around the perimeter of the stage,
- where curious students can roam around, ask
questions and sign up for auditions.
"It's a good way to get the flavor of all of
them," said Kat Weber, a second-year gradu-
ate student in the School of Public Health
and member of the Compulsive Lyres.
"I didn't really have a set idea about who
I was going to audition for going in," Maia
Gleason an LSA freshman said. She tried out
for four groups during September auditions:
Amazin' Blue, 58 Greene, Gimble and the all-
girl Harmonettes, earning callbacks to three
of them. She ultimately joined Gimble.
"For me, Gimble and 58 Greene really gave
off that feel of fun - you know, it's not always

about the music," she said. "It's also about the
passion, having fun with it and growing from
the music you're singing."
Auditions run almost immediately after
rush, over the course of three days. This year,
the number of auditioners reached a record
high, with as many as 150 students showing
up per group.
Auditions typically take 10 to 15 minutes
and involve testing the vocal range, pitch and
sight-reading ability of each singer. Toward
the end, auditioners are given the opportu-
nity to sing a short solo. About a dozen people
receive callbacks and a chance to test how
well they fit in with the group.
"We sort of conduct a rehearsal with them
and see how quickly they can learn the music
and how well they can blend," Weber said.
"Because blending is really, really important
- in a cappella more so than other types (of)
singing, because if you have a lot of vibrato
it's not going to blend well."
"It was almost like the auditions were
your musical test and your callbacks were
how well you fit in kvith the group," Gleason
said. "You got to know the people and they
got to see if you would fit in with their group,
because each group has a different feel and
See A CAPPELLA, Page 4B

CONCERT
In the mood for
some electro-jazz
house party beats?
Head to the Blind Pig
on Friday night to
hear The New Deal
play live. With rave
scenesters and musi-
cians alike as fans,
the band has created
quite a following for
itself over the years.
Famous for their
mostly improvised
shows, it's hard to say
exactly what to expect
at this weekend's
show. But one things
for sure, it's going
to be a wild time.
Tickets from $23.

PHOTO BY SALAM RIDA, DESIGN BY MARISSA MCCLAIN


2B - Thursday, October 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Judging A Book
By Its Cover
Why read a single page when the cover
tells the whole story?

TRAILER REVIEW

Sept. 27 was the 20th anniver-
sary of the NC-17 rating (other-
wise known in
the film industry
as the "kiss of ***
death"), and the
Motion Picture Blue
Association of Valentine
America couldn't The Weinstein
let the occasion Company
pass without
damning at least one movie to box-
office hell. Enter "Blue Valentine,"
this year's breakout indie darling,
showered with praise at Sundance
and Cannes and poised to rack up
considerable awards. Too bad it
contains a sex scene apparently
among the filthiest ever committed
to celluloid.
Sorry, perverts, but you won't

find any hints of the scene-or sug-
gestions of the film's rating - in the
latest trailer. Instead, Ryan Gosling
serenades Michelle Williams with
a guitar and warbly voice as a mon-
tage of peaceful images featuring
the two flashes across the screen.
It's pleasant to hear and look at,
but there's only the slightest hint of
conflict between them considering
the emotional meltdown of their
marriage is the crux of the film.
Gosling and Williams are two of
the finest actors out there, so let's
hope this latest domesticity-in-cri-
sis drama doesn't just turn into this
year's "Revolutionary Road." The
promising buzz says otherwise,
though the MPAA seems to have
scared the trailer out of any edge.
-ANDREWLAPIN

SINGLE REVIEW

As a chill sweeps over campus,
the self-proclaimed psychedelic
pop band Real
Estate's latest
single "Out of ***
Tune" invokes
hazy summer Real Estate
days of floating "Out of Tune"
aimlessly on a
man-made lake. ' True Panther
The New Jersey-
based quartet,
known for its own particular brand
of mellow, beachy pop, sticks to
what it knows for this track: grow-
ing up in suburban sprawl.
The track has a fuzzy, sepia-tint-
ed sound that may cause some lis-
teners to write it off as just another

chill-out, to-fi standard. But there
isn't anything at all carefree about
the uneasy lyrics, which dwell on
"the cars on the 95" and "having
the wrong attitude." The rever-
berating, overlapping guitar parts
and frontman Martin Courtney's
melancholy lyrics evoke themes of
suburban youth discontent, which
makes for a rich track with tex-
ture and depth. Courtney sings
lines like, "You play along to songs
written for you / but you're all out
of tune, you're all out of tune" as
late-summer synths conjure imag-
es of restless young adults, limbs
splayed out, dreaming of anywhere
but here.
-CASSIE BALFOUR

The inimitable Patricia Briggs
is at it again with the harrow-
ing "Masques," a story of love,
rabies and redemption. An "Old
Yeller" for the iPhone generation,
"Masques" will not only pull on
your heart strings, it will yank that
still-beating bastard right out of
your chest.
What would you do if your only
friend in the whole world - a
wild-eyed wolfdog named Chom-
pie - was diagnosed with zombie
rabies? If you're 24-year-old Rachel
Koufax, you get yourself a golden
sword and start taking a whole lot
of vengeance on the people you sus-
pect infected your dog. Rachel races
to sniff out the source of the scien-
tifically engineered super-strain of
rabies as Chompie gets more and
more foamy-mouthed. The trail
takes her to Old Man Rickman's
Castle, and what she finds inside is
somethingshe'll never forget.
With every new plot twist,
Briggs proves that her mastery of

tension rivals only Hitchcock's.
Still, despite all the suspense, she
doesn't lose sight of what really
matters: the tender girl-dog rela-
tionship at the story's core. Rachel
and Chompie will go down as one
of the most memorable human-
animal tag-teams in recent history,
right up there with "Marley and
Me" and Ross from "Friends" and
that stupid monkey. No punches
arepulled as Rachel mustdeal with
the reality of a beloved pet that is
days away from viciously turning
on her. The climax is heartbreak-
ing. Rachel, sensing the end is
near, takes a muzzled and shackled
Chompie out back. She draws back
her sword. Chompie's yellow eyes
betray a tear. Rachel stifles a sob,
and, bringing the sword down on
Old Chompie's head, (spoiler alert!)
kills her best friend. The-moral is
clear: Love is the most powerful
thing in the world, but you don't
fuck with zombie rabies.
-JEFF SANFORD

EPISODE REVIEW

For those who aren't familiar
with "Fringe," which is sadly a great
many people, it's
officially time * *
to catch up -
except you can Fringe
skip the first sea- sean the
son. Fringe has
recently centered "The Plateau"
around the idea of FOX
parallel universes
- mostly like our
reality, butwith some key, dangerous
differences.
The third season's third episode,
"The Plateau," continues this sea-
son's innovative trend of alternat-
ing between universes each episode.
It benefits from taking place in the
alternate world. The stories from
"over there" have the opportunity to

explore all new kinds of impossible,
and "The Plateau" embraced that
with a plot centering on medical sci-
ence yetfor this world.
Detractors may argue that
"Fringe" is milking the alternate
universe for more than it's worth,
but that's far, far better than down-
playing it. The writers have crafted a 0
world so subtly, coolly different from
our own, that even an'episode of the
alternate universe's evening news
would be incredibly captivating.
The actors also now get to show
new sides to their old characters.
One of the greatest strengths of
"The Plateau" is thatcit finally put the
alternate Fringe Division into a rou-
tine, letting the actors fully embrace
their new personas.
-JA MIE BLOCK

Dance Team: Athletic
artists or artistic athletes?

Donald Glover

*

goes to outer space,

By ERIN STEELE teams t
DailyArts Writer high ki
field or

When early prima ballerinas
Maria Tallchief and Anna Pavlova
took the stage in the late 19th and
early 20th centuries, I'm guessing
they never dreamed of dancers in
short skirts and sparkly makeup
using their technical training
to pirouette on the sidelines of
college football and basketball
games. When Ginger Rogers and
Fred Astaire waltzed across the
silver screen in the '30s and '40s,
they probably didn't intend on
paving the way for groups like the
Laker Girls and the Redskinettes
to strut their stuff for NBA and
NFL fans.
Now, classically trained danc-
ers can be seen on ESPN, pom-
poms in hand, cheering their

pose se
from a:
yet, it,
What I
ated b
Fan
ci
We
class h
cally d
ity gea
sportse
As a

o victory while executing dancer and dance team member
cks and leaps across the here at the University, I've seen
court. This shift in pur- the whole spectrum of styles
ts this kind of dance apart encompassed in dance and how
ny other art or sport. And each is used to create something
can be considered both. that qualifies as art. What I've
began as an art appreci- learned from my experience is
y the aristocratic upper that dance will always be an art
form - even the most commercial
or "dance team" movement evokes
,w certain emotions from its audi-
Ls think we re ece.
1eer 1eaders. The part that gets confusing is
when dance is incorporated into
rc a collegiate or professional ath-
re way more. letic program. Although sports
and art both involve finesse and
skill, the team that scores the
as morphed into a physi- most points is the objective win-
emanding athletic activ- ner. There are art competitions
red toward entertaining out there, to be sure, but they're
enthusiasts. much more subjective. One per-
classically trained ballet son may like a particular routine
while another person doesn't, so
you can't definitively determine
a clear "winner" with a simple
score tally. You need to call in
the judges, which you'd never
see on a traditional sports field.
Football, basketball, soccer and
all the rest of the conventional
sports are athletic competitions,
but most would never be called
art. So is dance, which is often
just as athletically demanding,
excluded from the "sport" moni-
ker because it's also an art form?
The honest answer is that
people aren't really in agree-
ment yet. Whenever I'm out in
my uniform at a game or other
sporting event, I am called a
cheerleader by most fans, and
who can blame them? I carry
pom-poms and cheer "Go Blue!"
at the top of my lungs. Colle-
giate dance teams have become
recognized as part of athletic
programs across the country
only very recently. Even in the
NFL and NBA, the dancers are
referred to as cheerleaders (the
Dallas Cowboy "Cheerlead-
ers" are all trained dancers).
Yet, when average people think
of dance, they think of a stage,
costumes and ballet shoes - or
more recently, hip-hop music
See DANCE TEAM, Page 3B

'Community' star
discusses episode,
his own college years
By SHARON JACOBS
AssistantArtsEditor
Donald Glover's character on
"Community," former football
prodigy Troy, isn't the show's pop
culture almanac - thattitlebelongs
to his socially inept friend Abed
(Danny Pudi). But just because
tonight's episode is a half-hour
homage to "Apollo 13" and other
outer-space media, that doesn't
mean Glover has to sit out the fun.
In a conference call interview on
Monday, Glover explained how
Troy fits into the geeky referential
joy of "Community."
"Nerds and jocks actually have
a combined love of a lot of cool
things," Glover said. "Anything
with robots and explosions and
time travel and stuff. ... Jocks just
don't want to know the ins and outs
of it. I think that's the only thing
that separates them."
Troy plays a major role in
tonight's episode, as Greendale
Community College's most love-
able study group gets stuck in a
flightsimulator and mustfind a way
home.
And how, one might ask, does a
humble community college end up
with its own flight simulator?
"We've made it pretty clear at
this point that Greendale doesn't
spend their money wisely," Glover
admitted. "They have like 20 danc-
es a year. It's ridiculous."
Now in its second season, "Com-
munity" has been gearing up for a
space spoof ever since last spring's
"Modern Warfare" - a combina-
tion of to-the-death paintball war
and wide-ranging parody of the
action genre.
"Everybody loved the paintball
episode. How are we going to beat
that?" Glover said of the mental-
ity that inspired the episode "Basic

Donald Glover was hired to write for "30 Rock" while still a student

Rocket Science."
"Maybe we send (the cast) to
space ... that was the joke."
And while chances are good that
Shirley's prayers, Jeff's last-minute
leadership and Abed's plot dictation
will be enough to bring the study
group home in one piece, Glover
doubts any of the characters would
be able to make it as real astronauts.
"(Abed would) be able to memo-
rize and know everything better
than anyone else," he said. "But I
think his lack of emotions ... they'd
be like, 'Well, we can justput a com-
puter in his place, and that'd be just
as efficient, and cheaper.'"
Ultimately, the point is moot,
Glover said.
"NASA is probably not going to
hire anybody from a two-year com-
munity college."
Glover's own college experi-

ence was more fortuitous - though
he never heard from NASA - but
somewhat less exciting than a
Greendale education.
"There wasn't as much adven-
ture, you know, unless eating
Ramen noodles and watching 'The
Chappelle Show' on DVD is an
adventure."
While still a student at NYU's
Tisch School of the Arts, Glover
was hired to write for NBC's "30
Rock."
"My name got tossed in the ring
for writers when they were starting
a show," Glover said, "because I was
doing a lot of work at the (Upright
Citizens Brigade) Theater and
around. And a lot of people knew
that I was a writer."
From there, Glover made the
leap to stand-up comedy, and then
See COMMUNITY, Page 3B


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, October 14, 2010 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, October14, 2010 - 3B

Le Dog is le
best at le soup

O ne of Ann Arbor's best
kept secrets, Le Dog,
would be easy to miss if it
weren't painted bright red. Bro-
ken lightbulbs
hang from
their sockets
underneath
its curved
awning. Its
corners ate "
damaged from
years of quiet LILA
vigilance. KALICK
Great white
globe lights
adorn the red spires of its sup-
ports; ironic, considering it's
never been and never will be
open at night. It's not apparent
where the entrance is. Like Willy
Wonka's factory, it seems that

civilized line against the curb. Le
Dog's humble but delish hotdogs
and mouthwatering sophisticat-
ed soups are the reason you nobly
choose to overlook its shortcom-
ings (as in No Cell Phones, No
Seating, No Soda and No Credit
Cards).
In terms of its food, Le Dog
might as well be called Le Soup.
The hotdogs are good but not
worth writing home about. Ray's
Red Hots are better, but it takes
20 minutes to get one and that
place has lost all its swagger
since it switched owners and
stopped being the beloved Red
Hot Lovers of yore. But despite
Le Dog's median score on the
hotdog scale, the polish sausage
is excellent - a winner if you're
not into just a run-of-the-mill

The Witch of Stephen Sondheim's 'Into the Woods' departs from Broadway norms by busting out a rap.
Enering Sondheim's 'Woods'

nobody
ever co
Le D
erty (on
tions -
South A
Arbor i
though
doned.:
sure it
sible th
Arbor
Dog a
it open
that. L
tery by.
short h
a.m. to
T
de
lob
Don
warniq
use or
"NO C
soda. E
Van Dy
tion for
mudge
you ma
that yo
only tw
five day
get a lit
East
Dog's a

ever goes in, and nobody dog.
imes out. Where the bark is worth its
og's stand on East Lib- bite at Le Dog, though, is the
ne of its two elusive loca- soup selection. The available
-the other being on 306 soups rotate daily. Try the cheesy
Main Street) is an Ann chicken tortilla, indubitably the
nstitution. Perhaps you bomb. Other favorites include
it it was closed or aban- broccoli cheese, peanut udon or
Maybe you were pretty the Moroccan stew, depending
was a drug front. It's pos- on the day. Every morning Mon-
at in all your time in Ann day through Friday, the staff-- a
you could've passed by Le two-man show made up of Van
million times and not seen Dyck-Dobos and one other dude
. Well, there's a reason for - post the day's soups. Hand-
e Dog maintains its mys- made signs highlight crowd-
keeping some seriously pleasers and let newcomers know
ours (weekdays from 11:30 what's up.
2 p.m.). Maybe its most popular
soup - so much so that it is
the only mainstay on Le Dog's
menu - is the lobster bisque.
he dogs are It's only available on Thursday
c the and Friday, so make sure you
cent, bUt t e check your planner. Made with
cream and sherry, there are
ster bisque is actually real substantial pieces
to die for. of lobster in the lobster bisque,
which is sadly a novel concept
these days. Six bucks will get
you 16oz.
't be dismayed by signs Beginning at 11:30 a.m. Mon-
ig against rude cell phone day through Friday, Le Dog's
insistence that there is window miraculously opens. A
oke, NO Pepsi, NO pop or line forms. People are walking
ver!!" The owner, Jules away with small styrofoam boxes
Eck-Dobos, has a reputa- and brown paper bags with the
r being somewhat of a cur- tops rolled over. At 2 p.m., the
on. But who cares? When window closes. Rain or shine,
ike a product so popular winter or summer. It's cash only
u can get by selling it for - so bring some dollars in your
ro-and-a-half hours a day, pocket.
ys a week, its hard not to Now you know. There's no
ttle diva. excuse not to go at least once in
Liberty provides Le all your years at Michigan, or
imbiance. There seems to those thereafter.

be an unwritten rule among its
patrons: Up-at-bat and on-deck
persons ordering stand under
the awning; all the rest form a
* COMMUNITY
From Page 2B
to network television. In his
spare time, he also raps under the
name Childish Gambino and does
sketch videos with DERRICK
Comedy. But while Glover himself
has gathered an impressive fol-
lowing, the same can't yet be said
for "Community."
"It'd be nice to have more peo-
ple watch the show, just because
I feel like they'd enjoy it," Glover
said.
Still, Glover is more than
pleased with the enthusiasm of
the fan base, comparing "Commu-
nity" to a large, enjoyable dessert.
"If you make a great cake ... a
special cake with crust and sprin-
DANCE TEAM
From Page 2B
videos and movies like "Step Up"
- because dance is still recog-
nized, first and foremost, as an art.
I'm guessing it will be a long time
before dance loses its ambiguity
and is officially considered sport in
addition to art.

School of MT&D
takes on challenging
fairytale musical
By SHARON JACOBS
Assistant Arts Editor
When the Department of Musi-
cal Theatre begins its run of "Into
the Woods" tonight, it will mark
the first time in five years that the
School of Music, Theatre & Dance
has taken on the work of famed
composer and lyricist Stephen
Sondheim - a peculiar fact given
Sondheim's enormous influence
on the scene. Numbering into the
teens, Sondheim's Broadway shows
run the gamut from the creepy
and cannibalistic "Sweeney Todd"
to the pun-filled Roman farce "A
Funny Thing Happened on the
Way to the Forum." He's one of
the darkest and most unconven-
tional personalities along the Great
White Way, and "Into the Woods"
is certainly out there.
For "Into the Woods" Director
Mark Madama, an associate pro-
fessor of music, this production
marks only his third staging of a
Sondheim show in more than 10
years directing musical theater at
the University.
"Sondheim musicals, except for
'Into The Woods,' are just not that
accessible," he explained in an
interview with the Daily.
But "Into the Woods," which ties
together some quite mature themes
a fairytale motif, manages to bridge
age gaps for a wider appeal. The
show premiered on Broadway in
1987 and soon became a favorite of
community theater companies and
youth drama programs.
"If you doit in a grammar school
or a high school, it just means that
the kids are just watching these
fairytales," he said. "If you do it
with a college-aged group in their
twenties, you're watching people
making decisions that are going to
affect their lives. And then if you
do it on a more adult level, you're
watching people who are living the
ramifications of the choices they
made when they were in college or
when they were in their early twen-
ties."
The plot of "Into the Woods" fol-
lows Cinderella, Little Red Riding
Hood, Rapunzel, and Jack of "Jack
and the Beanstalk" as they all tryto
make their wishes come true while
stumbling through a physical and
metaphorical forest. The charac-
ters' familiar storylines all cross
paths, but ultimately they're tied
minutes. (It may not sound long,
but trust me, it is.) Of course, this
intense athleticism is showcased
in costumes decorated with rhine-
stones, lace and velvet, specially
designed to show off muscular
legs and toned abs. Being a girly-
girl, that is one of the things I love
most about being a dancer: There's
no other time I'd get to sweat and
work out in full makeup and a
beautiful costume.

together by Sondheim's original
tale of a baker and his wife who, in
order to have a child, must reverse
a curse of infertility.
"I think that my favorite char-
acter is probably the baker's wife,
because she holds everything
together, and she's probably the
most human and has the most
human wants and flaws," Madama
said. "They all do, but Baker's Wife
is the most easily recognizable,
because she's not a character from
a story, from a fairytale - although
she seems like she would be."
"She deals with the problems
she's having with her marriage,
looking for more adventure, and
then the ramifications of finding
that adventure," he continued.
It's these problems that twist the
show from fantasy into a story of
true-to-life people stuck in a fan-
tasy world.
"When you get really familiar
with the script, you realize that it's
not just about the fairytales ... it is
about how sometimes wishes don't
come true, and life doesn't turn out
like you hope it does," said Music,
Theatre & Dance junior Sam Lips.
"I think it's a really profound mes-
sage that a lot of people can relate
and connect with."
Lips plays Rapunzel's Prince,
the younger of two royal brothers
whose spoiled-rotten lifestyle is
challenged when he's faced with a
girl he can't simply own.
"He can't get (Rapunzel) down
to be his wife, so it becomes that
one thing you can't have that you
want more than anything," Lips
said. "And I think because you
can't have it, you want it that much
more."
"Into the Woods" also delves
into Rapunzel's storyline from
another, less explored perspective:
that of the witch who has impris-
oned her in the tower. The Witch
of "Into the Woods" is a complex
woman in many ways bound up
by her overprotective feelings and
love for Rapunzel.
"(To cast) the Witch, you try
to find somebody who is going to
allow themselves to be free and
allow themselves to find something
they love more than anything in the
world, which would be Rapunzel,"
Madama said, "even if that means
their dog, even if it means their par-
ents, even if it means anything, just
trying to find something they can
relate to."
At the end of July, all musical
theater students who wished to par-
ticipate in "Into the Woods" were
sent a casting breakdown and list of
requirements for auditions, which

included singing a song in the style
of a character from the show.
"If you're doing Sondheim,
Broadway style is the best - except
for the Witch, who can come in with
a rap song," Madama explained.
One of the Witch's early musical
numbers is a spoken-word piece
about - what else? - beans.
Rachel Bahler, the Music, The-
atre & Dance senior who won the
part, had the advantage of already
being familiar with her rap.
"I saw this show in community
theater when I was eight, and I
was obsessed with the Witch bean
rap, so ... I hearkened it back to my
memory," Bahler said. "And once
you've learned it, it really just rolls
off your tongue."
Though she was ready for
the rapping, Bahler found other
aspects of the score difficult - a
charge often levied at Sondheim.
"(Singing Sondheim) takes a lot
of work, and a lot of concentration,
because everything needs to be
very precise in order to get those
words out, and the tempos change
- it can be very tricky," Madama
said.
"Into the Woods" has its fair
share of timing-dependent duets
and sudden musical changes.
Bahler pointed specifically to the
quick emotional turns in her songs
as being tough to master.
"In 'Stay With Me,' I start out
furious with Rapunzel and I have

to demonstrate that feeling," she
said. "Then I have this huge swell of
motherly tendency toward Rapun-
zel even though I was mad at her.
So you have to be really attuned
to those emotional changes. But
(Sondheim) is brilliant; once you
get it, then you're set."
Before the musical theater
department's production, Bahler
and Lips had never performed in
"Into the Woods," though both
were already fans. Madama is more
familiar with the show, having
directed several regional theater
productions in the'90s.
"I'm looking at it from that other
perspective of being an adult, as
opposed to when I was just starting
to direct shows, and I was more in
the mindset of somebody who's set-
ting out on a new life," he said.
Madama doesn't try to impose
his own views on his cast - a
16-person ensemble composed
entirely of musical theater majors.
Instead, he stresses the importance
of each actor relatingto the charac-
ters and the show from his or her
own standpoint.
"Really, what they need 'to all
do is become children, and play as
their age," he said.
And in portraying their charac-
ters from a college student's per-
spective, the cast members open up
means through which all audience
members can connect to this dark
and twisted fairytale.

Kalick is doing Ann Arbor Le
Dog style. If you want to join,
e-mail her at Ikalick@umich.edu.
kles and it's delicious, and only
two people eat it and they love it
- that's enough for me," he said.
The theme of "Community"
is one that anyone can relate to
- like a long airplane trip or an
hour in the doctor's office wait-
ing room, the show puts a bunch
of people in one room who might
never talk otherwise.
"The great thing about commu-
nity college and especially, spe-
cifically this group, is that none of
them were supposed to be there,"
Glover said.
The same could be said about
outer space in tonight's episode
- certainly, none of the charac-
ters are supposed to be there, but
the clever jokes, petty fights and
life lessons they'll take from each
other will make it worth their
while.
Fueling the movement, national
college dance team competitions
televised on ESPN show the grow-
ing interest in dance as a college
sport. Watch some of the videos
on YouTube from last year's Uni-
versal Dance Association college
nationals and then tell me dance
isn't athletic. I attended for the
first time last year and saw groups
of girls furiously turn, jump, crawl,
leap and thrash for a solid two

This is the first time in five years the School of MT&D has done Sondheim.

THE B-SIDE WANTS TO KNOW:
DO YOU HAVE ONE OF THE
UNIVERSITY'S BEST-DRESSED
PROFESSORS?
E-mail jamblock@michigandaily.com
to nominate your professor.

school f
information
Connect with SI
AN INFORMATION SESSION FOR PROSPECTIVE MASTER'S AND PH.D. STUDENTS
Noon-4 p.m. Saturday, Oct. 23
Great Lakes Room, Palmer Commons
RSVP by Monday, Oct. 18 at si.umich.edulrsvp
A graduate degree from the School of Information
pr epares you f exciting array of Information Age
cIrOeers. Our hD. program prepares you forteaching id
Sesacinacademiaandcorporatesearhlach bs, Indo
how our exible, multidisciplinary program will benefit'you
A Michigan MSI can lead to a career as:
Archivist Librarian, Research ; Analyst eb Marketing Manager Multimedia Consultant, Data Analyst.
Usabi ity Engineern.ntin: Architect Aution yesigner/Manager Computational Linguist,
Natural Language Engineer, Pcicy AdvisoMn MuseCuam Cura i r Community Organizer - and many more!


4B - Thursday, October 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Map THIS TAT
MARISSA MCCLAIN/DaIly
Fairy doors tend to mimic the storefronts ot the boildings in which they appeor, hot on o fantastically srmoll scole.
Gatewas to the urban fairworld

The mysterious
doors of fairyologist
Jonathan B. Wright
By CARLY STEINBERGER
DailyArts Writer
They may be small, but they
certainly haven't gone unnoticed.
Since the spring of 2005, fairy
doors have been appearing all
around downtown Ann Arbor. The
first one popped up in Sweetwaters
Coffee & Tea on West Washing-
ton Street. Others soon followed,
at locations such as the gift shop
Peaceable Kingdom, The Ark and
the Ann Arbor District Library.
Intricate and unique, each fairy
door is a miniature replica of the
establishment in which it resides.
The Sweetwaters door, for exam-
ple, mirrors the outside of the cafe.
Peering into the Peaceable King-
dom's miniature door, the plates
and little trinkets unmistakably
resemble the store's products.
But where did these little doors
come from?
"What I hear is that when the
fairies moved in and started build-
ing, the workers would come to
the store in the mornings and
find sawdust on the counter,"
explained Lynn Antisdel, a Peace-
able Kingdom employee.

Antisdel insisted that the fairy
doors are quite literally built by
fairies. She did mention, however,
that there's a man who has a spe-
cial connection with them.
His name is Jonathan B. Wright,
and he frequently refers to himself
as a "non-certified fairyologist."
In an interview with the Daily,
Wright maintained that fairies
were responsible for the tiny doors.
"In 1993, the first fairy door that
I know of was found in our house,"
Wright said. "The door was not
necessarily attributed to a fairy.
My wife was running a childcare
program in our home and it was
the kids who found the door and
they speculated on what might
be living there - which included
a 'lion mouse' and various others
tiny beings."'
Wright upheld that the fairy
door phenomenon began in 1993
(although no fairy doors were dis-
covered downtown until 2005).
He implied that it was in part
inspired by other mythology, like
Stuart Little, the Borrowers and
other creatures that are "weensy
and living in tight quarters."
Wright says that fairies built
the fairy doors in Ann Arbor, but
he specifically refers to them as
"urban fairies." He clarified the
difference between urban and
woodland fairies, aside from the
obvious habitat preferences.

"I see (urban fairies) as a kind of
new generation of fairies, maybe
ones that have got beyond some
of the traditional foibles of fair-
ies - being allergic to iron, etc.
They're a little bit more interested
in people, and that's why they live
in closer proximity."
Yet, many are still confused as
to why these urban fairies build
doors. Wright elaborated on this
point as well.
"You wonder if they even need
doors to get into spacest I would
say they're more of a prop by the
fairies that replicate a human con-
vention. Not required, but more
for fun."
Wright also indicated that
sometimes these fairies broaden
their horizons, building objects
other than doors.
"There was a car entered in
(Ann Arbor's) Rolling Sculpture
Car Show by a fairy named PeZz,
and it was a small Vernors- and
Mentos-powered vehicle," he said.
"I don't think fairies would need a
car, per se - they supposedly have
wings. But again, it just might be
for fun."
Wright has maintained his
interest in fairy doors for so many
years because he and his wife have
always been intrigued by mythol-
ogy and fairy stories. He com-
mented that as more and more
fairy doors began to appear in his

house and eventually downtown,
it grabbed his attention. A trained
illustrator, Wright was inspired
to write books on the subject and
maintain a website, urban-fairies.
com, which includes a history of
fairy doors, their locations around
Ann Arbor and any observations of
urban fairy activity.
But perhaps another reason
Wright has kept up his interest in
fairy doors is the way they inspire
children. During the Daily inter-
view, which took place at Sweet-
waters, a group of kids ran into the
cafe and immediately began look-
ing at its fairy door. Their curiosity
brought a smile to Wright's face.
"I like the fact that it's free and
it's fun. This group showed up,"
he said, as he gestured to the chil-
dren surrounding the Sweetwa-
ters door, "and they get to visit the
fairy doors."
And it's not just children who
get a kick out of these doors. Anti-
sdel said that Peaceable Kingdom's
fairy door gets both children and
adult visitors every day. Peaceable
Kingdom also gives out a free map
of all the Ann Arbor fairy doors.
But this map just includes all
the fairy doors that are connected
to Wright. Recently, fairy doors
built by other "tribes" of fairies, as
Antisdel puts it, have been appear-
ing around Ann Arbor. These
include the doors at the bookstore

01

Crazy Wisdom and the one at the
candy store This & That.
"We actually built our fairy
door for our granddaughter," said
Andrea Graef, co-owner of This
& That. "She likes the fairy doors
around town, and that's why we
put it in." Graef's door, with a clear
front revealing a miniature sweet
shop behind it, also resembles her
store.
Wright isn't necessarily
opposed to fairy doors built by

other "tribes."
"For me it's more important to
leave the mystery and the magic
of how they appear than to take
credit for them or something like
that," he said.
Wright also made clear that the
fairy door phenomenon is far from
over. He said we should definitely
expect to see some new fairy doors
around town in the near future. It
seems that the urban fairies are
hard at work.


A CAPPELLA
From Page 1B
they're going to want people who
are going to mesh with that certain '
feel."
Because there were so many
auditioners this semester, many
groups ended up taking more mem-
bers than ever before.
"The girls this year were just out
of this world," said Vishrut Srivas-
tava, a junior in the Ross School of
Business and presidentof the Southz
Asian a capella group Maize Mir-
chi. "We had people that we defi-
nitely wanted to take but we just
didn't have space."
Of course, not all decisions were
particularly difficult.
"There was this one person who
auditioned this year," Srivastava
laughed. "At the beginning of the
audition, we test the range of their This year saw a record number of audition
vocal ability so that we can test to
see where they fit on the spectrum. a group is the music director, who
It's a pretty easy exercise, but this is not only responsible for run-
guy didn't really understand what ning rehearsals but also for coming
we were doing, so he started at the up with a schedule for the entire
bottom and kept on getting louder semester. Once rehearsals start
and louder and higher and higher, there's a thorough approach.
and we were all trying so hard not "Usually we only get to three
to laugh." or four songs in a rehearsal," said
"I usually laugh at least three Music, Theatre & Dance senior
times," admitted Chaz Cox, LSA Alex Kozak, the music director for
senior and a longstanding member Amazin' Blue. "In the beginning we
of the G-Men. "It's unclear to me just take time to learn the song."
why these people come to audi- Kozak typically runs rehears-
tions." als by first listening to the song as
Within the a cappella communi- a whole, and then splitting up the
ty and across the individual groups, sections to work the members indi-
the range of formal musical and vidually. She also changes up the
technical ability is striking. amount of time rehearsing through
"I am an example of a person that a song straight through.
can'treally read music," Cox said. "I "If we already have the notes
can go up when the notes go up and learned and we're doing more sty-
go down when they go down, but I listic things, we will probably start
can't play the notes on a piano." at the beginning. Then if there's
In terms of choosing and arrang- some section that needs tweaking,
ing the songs in their set lists, we'll stop," she said.
groups typically go on a weekend Solos are chosen in a similar
retreat every semester and figure fashion to callback auditions, with
out what new songs they want to each potential soloist singing the
sing. The person who suggests a song in the style they want to sing
song is responsible for arranging it. it while the rest of the group sings
"I like to write in new parts," softly around them.
Weber said. "Sometimes songs "After you do your thing, you
don't really translate well to a cap- leave the room, and that's where
pella - for example, if you have a everyone that's left has this formal
lot of guitar and bass chords - you deliberations process where you
really need to spice it up a little, pick the people," Srivastava said.
because you don't want everyone "And we always say, it's never per-
singing block chords. So I'm a big sonal."
fan of writing in new parts. All groups try to minimize
"(Arranging) takes me a really accompaniment in practice.
long time," she added. "There are' "Sometimes our music director
some people who can just do it in will stand in the middle and listen
one day." to parts and tell us what to do in
The most important position in terms of shaping the music," Cox

wear traditional Indian garb dur-
ing their concerts, but they're not
the only ones with distinguishable
stage costumes. For the G-Men, it's
their trademark blue jerseys.
"We're defined by our blue jer-
seys," Cox said. "We wear them to
every gig, and they're something
that will always and forever be part
of the G-Men."
Beyond physical characteristics,
each of the a cappella groups has a
specific personality.
"I think there's sort of a spec-
trum where you're either extremely
musical or you're very social," Sriv-
astava said.
"Dicks & Janes and Amazin' Blue
are probably among the most musi-
cally focused a cappella groups,"
he added. "They put music first,
and it shows - they're both nation-
ally recognized groups. But you can
also be more about the relation-
ships than the music, which is a fair
distinction. I think Kopitonez falls
a little more on the fun side of the
spectrum. The G-Men and Friars
are also a little more fun."
"If you're in the community
you understand that you develop
a perception of each group, but
they're subtle," Cox explained. "For
instance, when I think of Dicks &
Janes, I think of really sharp cho-
reography."

"I think of technical sound and
super intense and really great,"
Weber added about the Dicks &
Janes.
One thing they all can agree on,
though, is that whatever the per-
sonality, a group is never limited in
the songs that it sings.
"In terms of musical genres, I
think it's very difficult to charac-
terize groups in that way," Srivas-
tava said. "We all spread out quite
a bit."
In order to accommodate the
wide diversity of groups across
campus, the Michigan A Cappella
Council (MACC) was created in
2002 to organize large-scale events
and promote cross-group bonding
in the a cappella community. Cox
and Weber currently serve as presi-
dent and secretary of the council,
respectively.
"The biggest issues for us are
things that affect the entire a cap-
pella community," said Weber. "It's
just sort of a way to check up on all
the groups."
In addition to putting on A Cap-
pella Rush in the fall, MACC spon-
sors MACCFest in November, a
collage concert featuring perfor-
mances from each a cappella group
on campus. It also organizes social
events around the year for the ben-
efit of the entire a cappella com-

munity - most notably AcaProm,
when members gather together to
get dressed up and dance.
Yet beyond the music, the solo
auditions, the competitions and the
performances, the most important
thing to the a cappella community
is the singers' bonds with each
other.
"I think it's so powerful when
you're singing with a group of
people that you love so much," Cox
said. "There's something that clicks
and everyone in the group feels it...
I'm getting goosebumps just talk-
ing about it."
The Lyres are geared up for their
third run-through of "Sweet Caro-
line."
"This song is all about energy and
value, so do what the music tells
you to do," the music director says.
"If you've already memorized your
music, tryto move around a little."
With that, one girl drops her
binder of music with a thud. Anoth-
er starts tapping her feet in antici-
pation. They're ready this time.
When the chorus hits, the sing-
ers have merged their movements
together - one human instrument
made out of a mess of limbs, hips
and fingers. Toward the end, this
time all the members unanimously
belt the words out: "So good! So
good! So fucking good!"

01

ers for a cappella groups.
said. "But there's nobody sitting at
the piano plunking out chords tell-
ing us what to do."
In addition to the three all-
female (Harmonettes, Sopranos
and Midnight Blue) and two all-
male (G-Men and Friars) a cappella
groups, there are also five groups
dedicated to special cultural or reli-
gious interests. There's the multi-
cultural group 58 Greene, the Asian
group Kopitonez, Maize Mirchi,
the Jewish group Kol Hakavod and
the Christian group Good News, all
of whom cater their songs and mes-
sages toward these focal points.
"We have a music portion and
a fellowship portion," said LSA
senior Cory Chin, who is a member
of Good News. "For the fellowship
portion, we have (auditioners) share
their testimony with us, about their
relationship with God - just to see
if they share the same vision as us
in sharing the good news."
Good News typically sings
arrangements from Christian rock
bands like Avalon, Switchfoot and
Point of Grace, but not always.
"If there's a secular song that we
think has a Christian message, then
we can use that too," he said.
Maize Mirchi incorporates
Western music into more tradition-
al Bollywood songs. And though
a large number of the traditional
songs are sung in Hindi, some of
the members don't know how to
speak it.
"Obviously, the soloist has to be
able to sing in that language, but
everyone else doesn't really need
to," Srivastava said.
Maize Mirchi members typically

01

Each group has its own personality - some are more music-focused while others are all about the social aspect.

4


