Now that junior guard Manny
Harris announced he's leaving
Michigan for the NBA, is the
men's hoops team doomed?
PAGE 8

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, March 30, 2010

michigandaily.com

FABRICATING FUTURE FUEL

How the 'U'
landed Pres.
Obama for
graduation
In recruitment effort, Seedocumentsforthis


ANNA SCHULTE/Daily am ece aboutthis
Engineering freshman Chris Parmer works on a project for his Engineering 100 class. The class focuses on creating alterna- $ca at t i h s
tive energy sources like wind turbines, which will later be tested by the students on the top of the AOSS Building. dass at
r Harris to enter NBA Draft

Coleman, student
leaders sent letters to
the White House
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily Staff Reporter
Though it was only announced
last month that President Barack
Obama would be the speaker at this
spring's commencement, Univer-
sity officials have been communi-
cating with the White House since
last April to try to get the president
to speak at the Big House.
According to documents
obtained by The Michigan Daily
through a Freedom of Information
Act request, University President
Mary Sue Coleman first contact-
ed Alyssa Mastromonaco, White
House director of scheduling and
advance, on April 30, 2009.
Following the initial letter, Cole-
man sent a formal invitation direct-
ly to Obama last September. In her
letter to Obama, Coleman high-
lighted the University's history as
one of the premier public universi-
ties in the country.
Coleman also encouraged the

P story at Mdngcs i*.
president to come to Ann Arbor by
referencing the University's com-
mitment to topics important to
his administration like economic
expansion, developing alternative
energy sources, sustainability and
health care.
"The University of Michigan
vigorously pursues the many issues
our nation faces and that you are
tackling as president," Coleman
wrote to Obama in her September
letter. "Your visit would inspire
and motivate continued progress in
these areas."
In her letter, Coleman also ref-
erenced visits by other presidents,
including John F. Kennedy's 1960
speech on the steps of the Michi-
gan Union. Kennedy, who was cam-
paigning at the time, stood before
a crowd of students at 2 a.m. to
announce his plans to create the
Peace Corps.
"That night, and in the days and
weeks that followed (Kennedy's
speech), the enthusiaqtic response
of our students helped propel that
brief speech into a major national
program," Coleman wrote in the
letter. "Today's students are no
See OBAMA, Page 7

Junior says now is
the 'right time' to
pursue NBA dream
By NICOLE AUERBACH
and JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editors
Junior Manny Harris
announced yesterday morning
that he will not be returning to
Michigan for his senior season.

At a press conference, Harris
said that it has always been his
dream to play basketball profes-
sionally, and he felt now was the
time to pursue that dream. He will
enter his name into the 2010 NBA
Draft.
"I've thought long and hard
about this very difficult decision,"
Harris said. "This was just some-
thing that I always dreamed of
(doing). It just felt like it was the
right time to do it."
Harris is projected by DraftEx-

press as a late-second-round pick.
Despite averaging 17 points and
nearly six rebounds per game for
his career, scouts say his body is
not NBA-ready and his long-range
shooting is questionable.
"I heard a lot of different things
(about my chances in the Draft),
but I believe the work you put in is
the work you get out," Harris said.
"I'm just going to keep working."
The option exists for Harris to
work out for NBA teams and hear
See HARRIS, Page 3

ARIEL BOND/Daiy

'U' and Chinese university
launch research partnership


$6M collaboration
will focus on
renewable energy,
biomedical fields
By KYLE SWANSON
DailyNewsEditor
University officials announced
a multi-million dollar research
partnership with a prominent
Chinese university yesterday that
will focus on renewable energy
and biomedical research.
The move signifies a growing

relationship between the Uni- million to the effort over the next
versity and Shanghai Jiao Tong five years.
University in China - with which That financing will complete
the University the first phase of the program,
already col- but according to the release, both
laborates on institutions expect to take advan-
educational tage of federal matching programs
efforts within for future work.
the College of A call for project proposals was
Engineering. issued yesterday in Ann Arbor
A press KYLE SWANSON and Shanghai. The press release
release issued specified that all proposals must
by the Uni- Ci c he include researchers from Shang-
versity yester- Admin-istion hai Jiao Tong University and the
day outlined University of Michigan and that
the terms of the collaboration, in all grant proposals will have an
which the University and Shang- initial $200,000 annual funding
hai Jiao Tong will each commit $3 See RESEARCH, Page 7

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
EveAronoff poses fora portrait in her restaurant Eve in Kerrytown. Aronoff will be opening a new Cuban-themed restaurant in July.
Eve to open Cuban-inspired eatery

Political blogger launches mayoral run

Pal
cha
Den

tricia Lesko will - doesn't have a background in
local politics. Instead, she's spent
illenge Hieftje in the past several months scrutiniz-
ing Ann Arbor city officials on her
nocratic primary blog, A2Politico.
Lesko started the blog last
By DYLAN CINTI August after The Ann Arbor
Daily StaffReporter News, where she worked as a
political reporter since 2008,
gtime Ann Arbor resident closed its doors.
ia Lesko's resume is a little In an interview last week,
ent from that of the average Lesko said her idea for the blog
al candidate. stemmed from an interest in con-
ughshe'srunningfor mayor tinuing to cover the local politi-
Arbor, Lesko-- a Democrat, cal scene, despite the loss of one
led paperwork yesterday to of Ann Arbor's print newspapers.
Mly enter the race for mayor She said she felt the Ann Arbor

City Council needed a commit-
ted critic who would provide "a
counterweight to how issues were
being presented by council."
Many of her posts on the blog
focus on what Lesko considers the
city's poor management of funds.
In a Feb. 8 post called "The Poli-
tics of Priorities," Lesko criticized
the city's proposed plan to cut 37
positions in the Ann Arbor police
and fire departments to alleviate a
$5.2 million budget deficit.
"Cutting emergency and other
citizen services is an absolutely
unacceptable and unnecessary
See LESKO, Page 7

Former Top Chef
contestant has
another restaurant
in Kerrytown
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily StaffReporter
For Eve Aronoff, the opening of
her new restaurant, Frita Batido, is
a dream come true. The owner and
chef said she always envisioned
opening an affordable restaurant
that reflected her creative and
informal personality.
Aronoff, who already owns the
restaurant Eve on North 5th Ave-

nue in Ann Arbor, will be opening
her second venture by July 1, 2010
in the space formally occupied by
Caf6 du Jour on West Washington
Street.
Though the new restaurant will
be Cuban inspired, Aronoff said she
doesn't plan to offer Cuban dishes.
Instead, the chef said the menu will
reflect her passion for different tex-
tures and flavors and her commit-
ment to buying fresh produce from
local sources.
"(My restaurant) is inspired by
Cuban culture and ingredients
and my own style of cooking and
doing something fun and casual
and informal, but still following the
things that are important to me like
working with local farmers and fol-

lowing the seasons and being able
to make something that is delicious
and affordable," Aronoff said.
Aronoff said she has wanted to
open Frita Batido ever since read-
ing about a Cuban sandwich called
Frita - a Cuban burger made of
chorizo with shoestring fries on
top and an egg bun.
"It was so wild because years
and years ago I always wanted to
do it," Aronoff said.
Aronoff said the restaurant will
also offer a variety of batidos -
milkshakes made with tropical
fruit, ice and sometimes rum. She
added that she wants Frita Batido
to be a restaurant where students
can afford to dine regularly and
See RESTAURANT, Page 7

Lon
Patrici
differe
mayor
Tho
of Ann,
who fi
officia



WEATHER HI: 72 GOT A NEWS TIP?
T M R OL:5 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW h LO: 50 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Former 'M' baseball player to have jersey retired.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEWS.......
Vol. CXX, No.119 SUDQKU..
200 The Michigan Daily OPINION..
michigandoilycom

.....................2 ARTS.. . . . .........5
.....................3 C LA SSIFIED S ...................... 6
.4 SPORTS.. . . ..........8


2 - Tuesday, March 30, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers
Suf
Associate Kinesiology Prof. Da
iel Ferris said he first developed;
interest for the field of movems
science as a football player at t
University of Central Florida.
"I broke both legs, my hat
my nose, and back all at diff'
ent times," he said in an intervir
yesterday. "It made me want
understand how to train to becor
a better machine for human perfc
mance in order to keep from brea
ing".
After going on to receive r
Ph.D. at the University of Califc
nia-Berkeley, Ferris said he came
the University of Michigan to u
his knowledge about the hum
body in hopes of teaching othe
about its wonders.
Ferris said he strives to make r
classes more hands on by using;
unconventional teaching style th
incorporates real world situatio:
like designing a prosthetic leg.
CRIME NOTES
Indecent
exposure
WHERE: 615 Oxford, Noble
House
WHEN:Sundayatabout11p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported a
man was masterbating outside
of Noble House, University
Police reported. The man was
reported as a white male.
Two automobiles
damaged
WHERE: 1500 Washington
Heights
WHEN:Sunday at about12:30
p.m.
WHAT: Two vehicles received
minor damages in an accident
in lot M-28, University Police
reported. No one was injured
in the accident.

SC*
)erhero sci
n- His newest course, which will
an be offered in the fall, is all about
ent the movement science of Batman.
he A book written by Ferris's good
friend, E. Paul Zehr of the Univer-
nd, sity of Victoria, inspired the topic of
er- the freshman seminar.
ew Though the intended audience
to of the book is more general, Ferris
,me said he thinks the book could be a
or- great tool to get freshmen students
ak- interested in Kinesiology.
"The course focuses on under-
his standing physiological principles
or- that go into making one human the
to best machine he or she can be," Fer-
use ris said.
an The coursewillexaminethe ana-
ers tomical factors that go into making
a superhero like Batman and will
his give students the chance to con-
an sider the. possibility that a human
hat could achieve Batman's abilities
ns, with the proper training.
If the Batman course is a hit, Fer-

WEDNESDAY: T
fore You Were Here C
ence
ris said he will open more sections,
adding that he may even introduce
a new superhero into the mix after
Zehr completes his second book
about Iron Man. Ferris said he is
even better qualified to talk about
a superhero in an iron suit, because
his main area of research is devel-
oping robotic exoskeletons for
people who need to re-learn how to
walk.
Ferris said he even believes that
one day students will see a real life
Iron Man walking the streets.
"Give us 50 or 60 years and we
may have a suit you could flyaround
in," he said.
Ferris said that when he isn't
enlightening his students about the
mechanics of superheroes, you can
find him playing beach volleyball or
spending time with his wife - who
is also a professor at the University
of Michigan - and two daughters.
- JENNA SIMARD

rHURSDAY: FRIDAY:
ampus Clubs Photos of the Week

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.inichigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0550
smiteeise@,nichigandaiy.cem tmdbusiness@gmnaitxom

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom c
News Tips
Corrections
letters to the Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

Office hours:Sun.-Thurs.7.-2a.m.
newsomichigandaily.com
corrections@michigandaily.com
Lothedaily@michigandaily.com
photoa'michigandaily.com
artspage@michigandaily.com
opinion@michigandaily.com
sports@michigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
onlineadso@michigandaily.com
finance@michigandaily.com

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
Prof. Daniel Ferris teaches a class that explores the fundamental
aspects of Kinesiology through Batman.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Car accident at
the Big House
WHERE: Michigan Stadium,
1201 Main Street
WHEN:Sundayatabout1:30
p.m.
WHAT: A car accident
occured at Michigan Stadium,
University Police reported.
The cars involved in the crash
had minor damages and there
were no injuries.
Backpack stolen
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library
WHEN:Friday at 2:30 p.m.
WHAT: An unattended blue
backpack was stolen from a
study carrel on the forth floor
of the South Stacks, University
Police reported.

Seminar on
public speaking
WHAT: A public speaking
seminar with tips on giving
professional presentations,
successful interviewing,
using body language in
presentations and general
public speaking skills.
WHO: Mock Trial Team
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Palmer Commons,
Great Lakes Central Room
Confidence via
social skills
workshops
WHAT: Workshops on
building confidence and
increasing social skills tocre-
ate stronger relationships.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Service
WHEN: Today from
1:15 p.m. to 2:45 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
CAPS Office, Room 3100

Lecture on
communities
and culture
in literature
WHAT: A lecture by Uni-
versity Prof. Susan Scott
Parrish on the rural and
urban communities of Afri-
can Americans and how
nature affects their lives
as explored by author Zora
Neale Hurston in the years
between 1927 and 1937.
WHO: Institute for
the Humanities
WHEN: Today from
12 p.m. to 1:30 p.m.
WHERE: 202S.
Thayer, Room 2022
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Japan has developed "thera-
peutic ringtones" that claim
to help alleviate symptoms
of hay fever, which is abundant
in Japan during spring, accord-
ing to BBCNews.com. Though
it is unproven, the ringtone has
become a fad in the country.
Ann Arbor City Council
will consider an amend-
ment next month that
would ban the use of private
e-mail accounts by councilmem-
hers to discuss city business.
>" FORMORESEEOPINION, PAGE4
A New York couple was
found tampering with
packages of Jell-O pudding
mix by replacing the mix with
salt and sand particles and then
returning the boxes for a refund,
according to Foxnews.com. The
pair is facing counts of tamper-
ingwitha consumer productand
petit larceny. According to police,
they were simplytryingto get the
pudding packets for free.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.con
SENO NEWS kIOR:N soe Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
ASITAN EWSME D nIT ORS a Cn tsbaryln Fitzgrad, Joseph Lichterman,
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SNOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Laura
ASSISTAN'TEDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: MichelleDeWitt,AlexSchiffMatthew Shutlerj
Ryan Kartje Managing SportsEditor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
Pyzik, Tim Rohan, A my Scarano
Jamie Block Managing Arts Editor block@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Ca rolyn Klarecki, Andrew Lapin, Jeff Sanford
ASSISTANT ARTSEDIT S: Leah Burgin;,Sharon Jacobs,,Emma Jeszke,tMikeKuntz,
avi ShekharPandey
MaxCollins and photo@michigandaily.com
SanWilson snogiogeherexEditrs
FENIOR POTO EDITOR FOR MULTIMEDIA: Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Ariel Bond
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Aaron Augsburger, Jake Fromm, Marissa McClain,
Jed Moch
Sarah Squire and design:gmichigandailyceom
AnnaLein-Zielinski ManagingDesignEditors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Allison Ghaman
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaiy.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
MelanieFried and copydesk@michigandaiy.com
Rachel Phillips copy chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielJozwiak SalesManager
MA RKTNG MANAGEI:MichaelShrotenboer
Ryan Businski classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
lason Mahakian Production Manager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Projet Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wintertermsbystudentsattheUniversityofMichigan.Oneeopyisavailablefreeof chargetoall
readers.Additionancopiesmaybepickedupattheoaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,
startinginSeptember ,viaU.S.mailare$1O.WitrteermOJanuary through April)is 115yearlong
(September throughApril)is$195.University affiliatesaresubjecttoareducedsubscriptionrate
O-campus subscriptions for fatermare35Sbscrpionsmst bepead.TheMichiganDaly
isa emelr of The AssociaterloeaThe AssoiatedClleiat rPes.

6

I!

10

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

WANT TO WRITE FOR NEWS? E-MAIL BERMAN@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

4

Live your life.
You earned it.

-

You worked hard
to get this far.
@VI

0

What do you do now? Start your career?
Move out on your own? Travel the world?
Buy health care coverage?
It's time to live your life knowing you're covered
by Michigan's most trusted name in health care.
With the largest network of doctors with local and
nationwide coverage, MyBlue offers affordable
health care plans for every stage of life.

0

Make it easy on yourself.

0

Young
Adult BluesM

Visit: bcbsm.com/bluelO
Call: 877-4MY-BLUE (469-2583)
Contact: your Blues-contracted agent

4

IiSM

Blue14



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWS BRIEFS
OTTAWA
Clinton urges
Canada to stay in
Afghanistan
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary
Rodham Clinton said yesterday the
U.S. would like Canada to remain
in Afghanistan past 2011 and sug-
gested the military could switch to
a training role.
Canada's Parliament has man-
dated that the military mission in
Kandahar end in 2011. Canada has
about 2,900 troops there.
Clinton told CTV News on Mon-
day that the U.S. would like Can-
ada to keep some of its troops in
Afghanistan.
"We would obviously like to see
some form of support continue,"
Clinton said. "The military could
switch more into a training role
instead of a combat role, a logistics
support role instead of the front-
line combat."
Catherine Loubier, a spokes-
woman for Canadian Foreign Min-
ister Lawrence Cannon, said that
although Canada's military mission
will end in 2011, officials are exam-
ining Canada's possible nonmili-
tary role after that.

Trailers on property belongg to David Brian Stone, the leader of Midwest Christian militia Hutaree are shown yesterday,
the day after an FI radin Clayton Mich.
Local militia charged
with plot to kill cops

HARRIS
From Page 1
what professional scouts have to
say about him, which is permissa-
ble under NCAA rules, if Harris
doesn't hire an agent.
But Harris said this morning
that he intends to hire an agent.
When asked if there was any
chance Harris would come back
to Michigan, he said no. Harris
plans to work out with DeShawn
Sims, an outgoing senior and close
friend, in the coming weeks to pre-
pare for the Draft.
"Like so many guys coming
out, whether they come out after
four years, three years, two years,
(Harris) realizes there are difficult
challenges ahead of him," Michi-
gan coach John Beilein said. "He
wants to tackle those challenges,
and we have nothing to do but sup-
port him on that."
Harris said he would play in
Europe or in the NBA D-League if
those were his only options in the
immediate future.
"If that came up, and it's like
I had to do it, then definitely,
because I love playing basket-
ball," Harris said. "Whatever
route I have to take to get there,
that's my final destination, is to
be in the NBA, whatever route it
is."
Reporters asked Beilein, who
sat next to Harris throughout the
press conference, what he thought
the team would be like next year
without Harris. Beilein mentioned
that it will be the combination
of losing him and Sims that will
change the make-up of the Wol-
verines.
"It's not just Manny, it's
DeShawn (too)," Beilein said. "You
take two guys who have taken the
majority of shots over two years,
three years. It will be difficult. As
you coach long enough, you find
these situations, and you find ways
to make it work."
Harris and Sims have been
Michigan's two leading scorers for
the past three years, and the two
dominant players opposing defens-

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 - 3
es worried about.
Harris attended Redford High
School in Detroit, where he was
a two-time All-State first team
selection and was Michigan's Mr.
Basketball asa senior in 2007. Har-
ris was recruited by former Michi-
gan coach Tommy Amaker, but he
ended up playing all three seasons
as a Wolverine under Beilein, after
Amaker was fired
Harris was a prolific scorer this
year, averaging just over 18 points
per game, but ran into problems off
the court when he was suspended
by Beilein for agame for "unsports-
manlike conduct" in practice at
the end of January. Harris said
after the suspension that he had
"learned a great deal from this sit-
uation" and he didn't "ever want to
have it happen again." Harris said
today that his relationship with
Beilein was fine.
"We leave on a great stand-
ing," Harris said. "Coach Beilein's
a great coach, and he just did so
much for me as a player, on and off
the court. A lot of people looking
from the outside would probably
not know, but we definitely had a
great relationship, and any player
on any team, for a coach and aplay-
er that both want to win the game,
sometimes you buttheads.
"We did a couple times during
the season, but there were way
more goods than bad."
When asked if Michigan's dis-
appointing season was a factor in
Harris's decision, he quickly dis-
missed the idea, saying thatitactu-
ally made it more difficult for him
to leave because he wanted to go
out on a higher note.
But when push came to shove,
his interest in a chance to play pro-
fessional basketball outweighed
his desire to play another season at
the collegiate level.
"It's always your dream, you
always think about it," Harris said.
"Whilebeing at Michigan, I played
for Michigan, I love being here at
Michigan, but you always think
about playing for the NBA."
Harris said he plans on eventu-
ally earning his bachelor's degree
from the University.

NEW YORKFeds say plan was to
Sarkozy, first lady attack an officer and
visit Columbia bomb their funeral

University
With a lecturn flown in from
France and his fingers firmly
entwined with those of his smiling
wife, French President Nicolas Sar-
* kozy made a splash yesterday even
before he opened his mouth for a
no-holds-barred speech at Colum-
bia University.
Amid blogger reports of strains
in their marriage, Sarkozy and
ex-supermodel Carla Bruni-Sar-
* kozy made every effort to appear
the happy couple, walking close-
ly together and clasping hands
as they mounted a staircase into
an auditorium packed with stu-
dents, faculty and other specta-
tors.
The French first lady, elegant
in a swept;-up chignon and form-
fitting black top with gray skirt,
at times threatened to upstage her
husband, who scolded his Ameri-
can hosts about health care and for
not paying enough attention to the
rest of the world.
WASHINGTON

DETROIT (AP) - Nine alleged
members of a Christian mili-
tia group that was girding for
battle with the Antichrist were
charged yesterday with plotting
to kill a police officer and slaugh-
ter scores more by bombing the
funeral - all in hopes of touching
off an uprising against the U.S.
government.
Seven men and one woman
believed to be part of the Michi-
gan-based Hutaree were arrest-
ed over the weekend in raids in
Michigan, Indiana and Ohio, and
another was still being sought.
FBI agents moved quickly
against Hutaree because its mem-
bers were planning an attack
sometime in April, prosecutors
said. Authorities seized guns in
the raids but would not say wheth-
er they found any explosives.
The arrests have dealt "a severe
blow to a dangerous organization

that today stands accused of con-
spiring to levy war against the
United States," Attorney General
Eric Holder said.
Authorities said the arrests
underscored the dangers of home-
grown right-wing extremism of
the sort seen in the 1995 Oklaho-
ma City bombing that killed 168
people.
In an indictment unsealed yes-
terday, prosecutors said the group
began military-style training in
the Michigan woods in 2008,
learning how to shoot guns and
make and set off bombs.
David Brian Stone, 44, of Clay-
ton, Mich., and one of his sons
were identified as the ringlead-
ers of the group. Stone, who was
known as "Captain Hutaree,"
organized the group in paramili-
tary fashion and members were
assigned secret names, pros-
ecutors said. Ranks ranged from
"radoks" to "gunners," according
to the group's Web site.
"It started out as a Christian
thing," Stone's ex-wife, Donna
Stone, told The Associated Press.
"You go to church. You pray. You

take care of your family. I think
David started to take it a little too
far."
Donna Stone said her ex-hus-
band pulled her son into the move-
ment. Another of Stone's sons also
was charged and still was being
sought.
FBI and police surrounded
a rural area yesterday about 30
miles from the site of raid in
Michigan and were using a near-
by church as a staging area, but
wouldn't say whether their search
was related to the weekend raids.
Authorities arrived at Wheatland
Church on Sunday night and were
focusing on a trailer about a mile
away, said Irene Wonders, wife of
the church's pastor.
Prosecutors said David Stone
had identified certain law enforce-
ment officers near his home as
potential targets. He and other
members discussed setting off
bombs at a police funeral, using a
fake 911 call to lure an officer to
his death, killing an officer after a
traffic stop, or attacking the fam-
ily of an officer, according to the
indictment.

LOVE THE ADOBE SUITE?
JOIN DAILY DESIGN.
E-MAIL DESIGN@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
TO GET STARTED.

.--'---.--

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
Consumers keep Corona/SollodellaPaifico Specials All Night
registers humming Z)" S4z a P;ed/ "e&
$25.0n Ieeu;c r {s i Qj iTea Ri V5.JIL.J r

Confidence is growing that the
economic recovery won't fizzle
out. Consumers kept cash registers
humming last month at a decent
pace, pointing to modest and steady
economic gains ahead.
The Commerce Department
reported yesterday that consumers
boosted their spending by 0.3 per-
cent in February, marking the fifth
straight monthly gain.
Nigel Gault, chief U.S. econo-
mist at IHS Global Insight, called it
"an encouraging sign of consumer
revival."
The pickup in spending was a
tad slower than the 0.4 percent
increase registered in January
and marked the smallest increase
since September. Nonetheless,
the spending gain was considered
decent, especially given the snow-
storms that slammed the East
Coast and kept some people away
from the malls.
"Households are starting to
ease up on their tight grip on their
wallets, though it would be nice if
they had more money to spend,"
observed Joel Naroff, president of
Naroff Economic Advisors.
ANN ARBOR, Mich.
'U' hosts panel on
prisoner re-entry
A University of Michigan policy
center is hosting a panel discussion
about a state prisoner re-entry pro-
gram.
The Policy and Politics of the
Michigan Prisoner ReEntry Initia-
tive is Monday at the Ann Arbor
university. Panelists include Mich-
igan Department of Corrections
Director Patricia Caruso and state
Reps. John Proos and Alma Wheel-
er Smith.
The program is designed to
reduce returns to prison and better
prepare prisoners for parole. Both
reduce prison populations.
The panel will examine the poli-
tics of the initiative within the state
legislature and the effect of criti-
cism on its future. It's convened by
the university's Center for Local,
State and Urban Policy.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

25%Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVER
A S.UGD 0 0

Today's Career Tip:
What you wear makes a difference in
how you influence the world.
Text "UMStudents" to 41411 to win great prizes
and get daily career tips.
ALUMNIASSOCIATION
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Royal Shakespeare Company Creative Project
Public Event
INSIG HT: WRITTEN ON THE HEART
Reading and discussion of David Edgar's new play on the
translation of the King James Bible.
with members of the
Royal Shakespeare Company ondthe LAByrinth Company
Tuesday, March 30 at 6:30 p.
Blau Auditorium (Ross School of Business)
701 Tappan Street (off Hill Street)
Free-no tickets required.
More information: 508-498-7025 or pmuldoon@umich.edu


4 - Tuesday, March 30, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

*I

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor,MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Amending city trust
Ann Arbor City Council must be more transparent
D emocracy is contingent upon a government's ability to
acknowledge its citizens' voices. After controversy this
summer about the transparency of the Ann Arbor City
Council, the council will consider an amendment next month
to ban council members from using private e-mail accounts to
exchange information related to city business. The amendment
is a condition of the settlement of a lawsuit filed against the city
by three Ann Arbor businesses. The ban would help hold council-
members more accountable and would promote the transparency
that is inherently a part of a democratic government. City Council
should approve the amendment in order to restore the trust of Ann
Arbor citizens in their government.

The percentage of the public
that disapproves of the recent-
ly passed national health care
- According to a poll by CNN/Opinion Research Corporation published on Monday.
BELLA SHAH E-MAIL BELLAAT BELLZ@UMICH.EDU
Mw ~ 5I~ - e vt - se es - ' waj see.; 01-k, 'tl~ wad B d
5.1050. r m O d sfv-d;-t i
L, 1 S &t (sittsA
00 ____ IIIA1 ,, Z

0
6

Michael & Me

Last summer, e-mails from a Feb. 17,
2009 city council meeting were released
to the public, showing that City Coun-
cil members had been privately send-
ing e-mails to each other regarding a $50
million proposal to build an underground
parking structure on South Fifth Avenue -
the very topic being debated at the meeting
by the public. A group of businesses near
the proposed parking structure filed suit
against the city in August, accusing the
city of violating the Michigan Open Meet-
ings Act, which requires governments to
make all records of meetings available to
the public. As part of a settlement reached
on Mar. 22, City Council must consider a
proposed amendment to force members to
"use their city e-mail accounts when send-
ing e-mail communications about substan-
tive city business." The amendment isn't
mandatory - councilmembers still have
the option to vote it down.
But they shouldn't ignore the impor-
tance of the amendment. Backroom dis-
cussions during open debate reflect poorly
not only on the individuals involved, but
also on the entire City Council. City Coun-
cil decisions affect the daily lives of Ann
Arbor residents and University students.
Council members are elected to represent
and listen to the voices of the people of
Ann Arbor, but the controversial e-mails

show that certain councilmembers weren't
considering their constituencies during
important debate. Councilmembers should
care about city residents' opinions, but the
e-mails make it seem as though some are
more concerned with their own agenda.
City Council's acceptance of this proposal
would show that it is dedicated to being an
open governmental body.
The technical legality of the e-mails
remains in question, but they are symbolic
of a culture of exclusiveness in City Coun-
cil that is unacceptable in a democratic
body. To ensure that councilmembers are
being honest with the residents they rep-
resent, it's necessary to enact regulations
that would require council members to
keep all important discussion in the public
sphere. And though the wording associat-
ed with the proposed amendment is slight-
ly ambiguous, it would still be a valuable
endeavor to encourage council members to
be more open.
City Council has a responsibility to be
completely upfront with the citizens it
serves. The amendment would help guar-
antee that the public's views are taken into
account and allow residents to hold City
Council accountable for its actions. City
Council should adopt the amendment to
show Ann Arbor residents that it is dedi-
cated to an open, transparent democracy.

T wo weeks ago, controver-
sial documentary filmmaker
Michael Moore visited cam-
pus to talk with
Screen Arts and
Cultures stu-
dents about the
20th anniversary
of his breakout
film, "Roger &
Me." Since I'm
still entertaining
my pipe dream of
being a Hollywood CHRIS
screenwriter, I
attended, hop- KOSLOWSKI
ing Moore would __
have some special
insight into the road from the streets
of Flint to the big time. After screen-
ing his documentary, which blasts
former General Motors CEO Roger
Smith for closing assembly plants
in Flint, Moore took center stage
in Angell Hall Auditorium A for a
question-and-answer session. As luck
would have it, the microphone was
passed to me, and I asked Moore if he
had any advice on breaking into the
industry. -
His answer was simple: make
the best damn movie you can make,
and if it's good enough, it will get
noticed. Then, standing only 20 feet
away from me, Michael Moore looked
me in the eye and told me to disre-
gard critics, costs and the inevitable
catastrophes and follow my dream. I
have to admit, having one of the most
iconic Michigan natives in the film
industry wish me success meant a
lot. But, one obstacle will prevent my
conversation with Moore from being
one of those moments I tell my grand-
children about.
What could that possibly be? The
answer is simple. I hate his guts.
With his multiple documentaries,
books and public appearances, Moore
has attacked just about all of my

political beliefs - corporate autono-
my, gun ownership, privatized health
care and even capitalism itself. He's a
master of exploitation and deceit. He
had no qualms about re-arranging
history to better fit his narrative in
"Roger & Me," and his interview with
famous actor and former National
Rifle Association President Charlton
Heston in "Bowling for Columbine"
is a lesson in how to take advantage
of someone obviously suffering from
early symptoms of Alzheimer's dis-
ease.
I came into Moore's screening
with a genuinely open mind. I knew I
was the oddball in an audience of col-
lege film students that would eat up
everything he said. But I hoped that
meeting Moore in person would soft-
en my image of him. Surely, his movie
persona couldn't be an accurate rep-
resentation of the man. I thought I
would endure the inevitable bashing
of George W. Bush and congressional
Republicans and then learn some-
thing useful about film.
Honestly, Moore did seem like a
nicer guy in person than I thought he
would be, and I applaud him for tak-
ing time to speak to us. Listening to
him, I was getting ready to reverse
my opinion of him until one com-
ment confirmed everything about
who I had always assumed him to be.
A student asked Moore to talk about
what had made him optimistic for the
future and if there was any hope of an
American turnaround from our con-
tinuing economic woes. Moore blunt-
ly answered, "No." He explained that
he thought nothing could stop Amer-
ica's downfall, and that we were all
pretty much screwed.
I don't care if you're talking about
President Barack Obama or Ronald
Reagan - the sign of a good Ameri-
can leader is unshakable optimism.
One of the most basic American val-
ues is the belief that no matter how

bad things are today, people have
the power to make a better tomor-
row. Conservatives are tradition-
ally labeled as cold, dispassionate
and uncaring. Well, I can tell you
with tOO-percent certainty that if
Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Beck, Sarah
Palin or Dick Cheney was speaking
to a group of college students, none
of them would ever say "give up,
because we're all screwed," no matter
how dire the political climb. In fact;
most famous liberals wouldn't either.
It's because they are American men
and women who understand the infi-
nite good this country and its people
are capable of doing.
Honestly, Ijust
hate Michael
Moore's guts.
Nodding stupidly as Michael
Moore told meto work hard and write
my way to success, I was struck with
an overwhelming feeling of conflict.
A man who'd once snuck in to watch
movies in the very same Angell Hall
auditorium seat I found myself in was
telling me that my wildest dreams
were possible. Yet, just minutes ear-
lier, he'd informed an audience full
of young people that America was
dying, and that they were powerless
to stop it. Considering Moore is just
as wealthy and influential as Roger
Smith, Charlton Heston and many
of the others he's lambasted through
the years, his hypocrisy was sadden-
ing but not unexpected. Sometimes, I
guess, appearances aren't deceiving.
- Chris Koslowski can be
reached at cskoslow@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON|
I don't live in Smith's America

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

After reading Brittany Smith's last column,
I find it not only shocking, but also quite sad-
dening that she is ashamed to be an American
(Reforming Patriotism, 03/26/2010). I am also
deeply disturbed that Smith defines being
American by everything this country has ever
supposedly done wrong in the world. To say
she has felt ashamed by her fellow Americans'
patriotism and that the waving of Old Glory is
"too bold a symbol of pride" is appalling. The
American flag has been proudly displayed by
countless citizens since the Revolutionary
War. I display it proudly every day outside my
house.
I do believe she is correct in saying the flagsig-
nifies this country's superiority over the world.
But that's because this country is superior to the
rest of the world. For example, Smith attends the
University of Michigan, one of the top schools
in the world, and she writes for The Michigan
Daily, a 120-year-old publication. I'm sure she
lives comfortably somewhere on or near cam-
pus with electricity, heat and hot running water.
She can say or write nearly anything without
legal consequence and she can worship any god
her heart desires. If she lived in one of the third-
world countries that we supposedly oppress,
these luxuries would be severely limited. If she
lived in Iraq or Afghanistan as little as 10 years
ago, she wouldn't even be allowed to show her
face in public, let alone write a newspaper article
- especially one speaking out against national
pride. I think most citizens in Iraq and Afghani-
stan are thankful for their liberation. Just ask
any soldier.
I'm not saying the wars in those countries
have gone perfectly - but does any war? And
I'm not saying everything about America is
perfect - that certainly isn't the case. The

health care system is flawed, and so are the
welfare system, Social Security, the process
of naturalization and many other govern-
ment programs. Our government's ineptitude
was certainly apparent during the aftermath
of Hurricane Katrina - but that is not what
defines an American.
As a victim of Hurricane Katrina, I certainly
felt like a refugee in the days after the storm.
My family and I were homeless, had only
three sets of clothes and had no idea where
we were going to sleep each night. That cer-
tainly sounds like a refugee to me - perhaps
not to the extent that we hear about in Africa
or the Middle East, but a refugee nonetheless.
Does that mean the government treated us as
unequal? I don't think so. No one had ever had
to deal with something like that before, so no
one knew how to handle it. Could the govern-
ment have handled it better? Certainly, but
they didn't purposefully treat us as unequal.
My home was submerged in a mixture of
swamp water, oil and sewage for three weeks,
and when we returned to rebuild, we received
no aid. Did we ask for it? Of course. Did we
complain and whine when we didn't get it?
Maybe a little, but we moved on and did it our-
selves with only the help and support of lov-
ing family members in other states. After 16
long months of hard work and determination,
my family moved back into our home. I believe
that's what defines Americans: working hard
to achieve your goals and not giving up dur-
ing the lowest of the lows; and working hard to
better your country, yourself and those around
you. For that, I5am damn proud to be an Ameri-
can, and Smith should be too.
Christopher Johnson is an Engineering junior.


WILL BUTLER I

There will be blood

0

The minute the vote count hit 216 in the U.S. House of
Representatives in favor of the health care reform bill on
Mar. 21, Facebook statuses exploded across the nation.
While some applauded the historic moment and celebrat-
ed the passage of the biggest social legislation in decades,
it was much more amusingto read the ignorant lamenting
of those who believed we had entered an era of "socialist
America." As I scanned through dozens of posts, I found
many vowing voter revenge and metaphorical electoral
blood in November.
This isn't just limited to the crazies in the Tea Party or
the uninformed on Facebook. Elected GOP officials have
promised to campaign this fall on repealing the health
care reform bill. But not only will this promise prove to
be electorally and procedurally impossible, this cam-
paign strategy will also be costly. By campaigning on the
platform of repeal, Republicans will narrow themselves
even more toward their base and the fringe right, pushing
away moderates and independents.
There is no argument that the Republicans and other
right-wing groups won the battle of framing the bill and
thus it's perception by the public. It was completely on
Republicans' terms that this bill was presented to the
public. This manifested itself in the despicable actions of
Tea Partiers as they shouted racial slurs at African-Amer-
ican Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), called openly gay Rep.
Barney Frank (D-Mass.) a "faggot" and posted Rep. Tom
Perriello's (D-Va.) brother's home address on a blog and
told other Tea Partiers to "stop by." These antics didn't
cease once inside the House of Representatives either, as
Rep. Bart Stupak (D-Mich.) was called a "baby killer" by
Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) - taking a page right out
of Rep. Joe "You lie!" Wilson's playbook.
Republicans have perpetuated misinformation and an
atmosphere of mass hysterical Armageddon. This has led
to a lack of knowledge about the bill among the public.
Despite the fact that there isn't a public option, many
believe they are now under a single-payer system or a
government takeover of health care. Despite the fact that

there are no "death panels," many still believe they exist.
Despite the fact that the non-partisan Congressional Bud-
get Office estimates that the bill will reduce the deficit by
$143 billion during the first 10 years and then $1.2 trillion
during the second decade, many are still unconvinced by
these numbers. However, now that the bill has passed and
portions will begin to be implemented, this is no longer a
battle of framing or perception but a battle of actual mate-
rial benefits - benefits people don't want taken away.
Though public support for the health care bill as a
whole is divided, polls describing the individual provi-
sions of the bill show high public approval. According
to a CNN poll conducted in mid-February, 72 percent of
Americans agree with employer mandates for mid-sized
and large businesses, 62 percent approve of making it ille-
gal to drop insurance for those who are seriously ill and
58 percent agree with preventing insurance companies
from denying aid to those with pre-existing conditions.
This shows that though Americans have been duped by
the right-wing spin machine, they are largely in favor of
the bill's reforms. It will be incredibly difficult for Repub-
licans to campaign in the fall by telling young adults that
they will take away their ability to stay on their parents'
health insurance policies or by suggesting that those with
pre-existing conditions deserve to be denied coverage.
Once voters enjoy the benefits of the bill, they certainly
won't vote for them to be taken away.
There certainly will be blood in November, but it might
just be the Republicans' own. Of course, while midterm
elections are always more difficult for the president's
party, Republicans might want to reconsider their cam-
paign strategy. It is a bad political message to run on
repealing what's already done, with no declaration of
what your party plans to accomplish. And while everyone
enjoys watching the desperate acts of a party in a train
wreck, I'm not too sure that many people will enjoy vot-
ing for it.
Will Butler is an LSA freshman.

The Daily is looking for diverse, passionate, strong student
writers to join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members
are responsible for discussing and writing the editorials that
appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com h

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 - 5

Jonathan Foer and my
meaty epiphany part1
J received Jonathan Safran entire 41-day lives waiting to be "influence." At the end he pres-
Foer's newest non-fiction slaughtered, barely heing fed, ents a simple factoid: The average
book "Eating Animals" as never having walked on solid American eats 21,000 animals
a gift not too ground. Their claws reportedly in a lifetime, one for each word.
long ago, its grow around the metal mesh of I had not made this connection
cover garishly their cages. between dead meat and killed
hot green and it is this disconnect that I animal. My thoughts had stopped
covered in struggle with - a chicken versus there, right in their tracks, on the
blocky white chicken on a plate. I know, and moral road.
letters, its have always known, that I was Then I watched a 1949 docu-
spine yelping a eating animals since I was a child. mentary film made by French
for attention I went to a school that had a farm director Georges Franju titled
on a shelf of WHITNEY in the back that housed pigs, "Blood of the Beasts." Its cheery
drab-colored POW sheep, goats, a miniature horse, title sequence with dancing chil-
(teal, rose, rabbits and chickens. Here I fed dren creates a perverse frame for
brown) books. pigs, shoveled goat manure and the horrifying images to come.
The title of the book itself simi- picked the ticks out of the sheep's Soon a horse is led into a slaugh-
larly clamors for attention, point- heavy woolen coats. It was also terhouse, hit through the skull
O edly and politically using the my job to go out in the foot-high with a spring-loaded spike and,
word "animal" instead of "food." snow at 8 a.m. to pick up the eggs as it lays twitching on the floor,
It asks for a moral awareness of the chickens had laid in their legs circling in the air in a dying
eating meat: Know what you eat. coop. I was in sad awe one day desire to escape, three men cut
And at this point of my life, I'm when I approached a hen and its neck open and blood - so, so
beginning to think twice about gently put my hand on the back much of it - comes pouring out
my omnivorous eating habits. of her neck. She calmly bowed by the gallon.
I grew up in a Chinese-Amer- her head down, her neck gently other scenes in the film are
ican family, where, like many equally horrific - baby cows are
other families, Christmas dinners strapped down and decapitated,
often involved various animals one by one, the headless bod-
cooked, sauteed, baked and pre- "Eating animals ies twitching as men skin them;
sented on plates. In my family it sheep are calmly herded and led
is also a tradition to eat animals and killing them to a similar fate. It was then that
with their parts (heads, feet, eyes, I realized that while I knew what
tails) preserved and left on dishes w ere nOw I was eating was an animal, and
delivered to the table. intermin led" that I was ingesting marinated
There were no hot dogs, no m gl flesh that had once moved, I could
hamburgers, no chicken fingers not kill these animals myself. I
(except the literal kind) - no couldn't put out an animal's life.
animals ground up and re-worked grasped between my thumb and And here is where the moral
into patties or amorphous, forefinger, and she stood there, dilemma sat in my head: Eating
unnatural shapes. Instead, at our quietly unmoving, yielding - animals and the process of kill-
table, the plates were filled with waiting. ing them were now intermingled
the animals themselves, not just I've now come to a point of and causal even though I had put
reconstituted, unrecognizable re-thinking my attitudes toward up a mental blockade, separat-
"food" - and this awareness ret- eating animals. "What we forget ing the idea of dead flesh from
ognized the lives that were given about animals we begin to forget killed flesh. And I realized it
for us to eat. about ourselves," Foer writes. We was my moral responsibility to
On a two-page spread in his forget animals' deaths and so for- consider both of these concepts
book, Foer presents a rectangle get our own hand in it. We forget together in order to make a deci-
barely larger than a DVD case. their pain at the hands of unkind sion about where I stood mor-
At the bottom of this heavy black and often violent farming prac- ally and ethically on the topic of
box, Foer presents some facts - tices, and similarly forget our- eating animals. But before I did
the average egg-laying hen has selves in relation to it. My moral this, I decided to read further
a cage with 67 square inches of assumptions about meat had into Foer's book - the book that
space: "The size of the rectangle stopped with my comfort eating turned Natalie Portman into a
above." We are aware of chicken flesh - an amorphous word more "vegan activist," as she says in
with an odd disconnection connoting "food" than "killed her essay for the Huffington Post
between the illusions we have animal bodies." - and decide these things for
seen in storybooks (the fat, happy, The translation of "meat" to myself.
ambulatory hens making bread, "dead animal" is attempted in
not letting others have any) and another section of the book where The second part of this column
the reality of these birds. Accord- Foer presents five consecutive will be published in the April 13th
ing to Foer, they are stuck in a pages containing only two words edition of The Michigan Daily. Pow
hand's width of space for their repeated: "speechlessness" and can be reached at poww@umich.edu.
A political prescription

A spa-thetic attempt

Too nostalgicfor
teens and too vulgar
for adults
By CARLY STEINBERGER
For the Daily
The screenwriters of "Hot Tub
Time Machine" must have con-
sumed copi-
ous amounts
of drugs before
writing this
film. The movie HOt Tub Time
is one big trip, Machine
beginning with
a journey back At Qualityl6
in time with and Showcase
one preposter- MGM
ous scenario
after another.
"Hot Tub Time Machine" intro-
duces audiences to Adam (John
Cusack, "2012"), Lou (Rob Corddry,
TV's "The Daily Show with Jon
Stewart") and Nick (Craig Rob-
inson, TV's "The Office"). We've
heard their stories a thousand times
- Adam is going through a break-
up with his long-term girlfriend,
Nick's stuck in a go-nowhere job
and has a possibly unfaithful wife
and Lou is a profane drunk with
nothing to show for himself. Each
approaching a midlife crisis, the
former best friends decide to revisit
the favorite ski-town of their past.
Accompanied by Adam's pudgy
nephew, Jacob (Clark Duke, TV's
"Greek") the friends decide to drink
away their sorrows in a hot tub.
During the drinking binge, an ener-
gy drink spilled on the tub's wiring

"What do you mean 'The jets aren't on?'
system sends them whirling back in
time to the fluorescent '80s.
To say that the dialogue of "Hot
Tub Machine" is less than bril-
liant is an understatement. The
film is riddled with profanity,
sexual comments and homophobic
remarks. The asinine humor the
movie employs is a bit enjoyable
at first - it definitely elicits some
laughs. But after about an hour, the
overt coarseness becomes a bit too
much to handle. The film becomes
annoyingly gross and it leaves one
contemplating a walkout. This is
especially true when it comes to
Rob Corddry's character. The audi-
ence initially revels in his irrev-
erence, laughing at his excessive
drinking, his constant criticism of
geeky Jacob and his continual quest
for sex. But the early laughs his
character earns soon morph into
utter disgust. His actions are just
too repetitive and vulgar.'
Who is the intended audience of
"Hot Tub Time Machine"? The film

is too vulgar for those who actu-
ally remember the '80s. And while
the adolescent crowd may find the
senseless humor hilarious (at least
initially), they miss the blatant
manifestations of '80s culture.
In one scene, Cusack's charac-
ter attends a Poison concert with
his perm-sporting girlfriend who
is decked out in neon and span-
dex. The irony of Cusack, an icon
of '80s teen comedies returning to
this genre in his 40s, is also lost on
young viewers. Extended cameos
from '80s stars Chevy Chase and
Crispin Glover most likely also go
unrecognized - these days they're
only known as the "old guy on
"'Community" and "the creepy thin
man in 'Charlie's Angels.' " Unless
they're pop culture historians,
young viewers cannot fully appre-
ciate "Hot Tub Time Machine."
"Hot Tub Time Machine" is a
drug trip gone wrong - after the
initial excitement, it makes one
want to just go back to reality.

Shedding 'Lights' on the Whites

The
career +
most
pelling
ma.
and
White
trol
aspect
their i
They
fine
selves
using t
in both
scheme
constar
envelor
some of
tive sou
"Un
Lights,
tion of
ful ca
inventi
In 2
huge b
limitin
mantes
of Can
lenge, t
every
the wor
(geogro
But.
to rest

By DAVID RIVA ventional concert halls, as they
Daily Arts Writer made spontaneous performances
in town squares, youth centers, a
White Stripes have built a bowling alley, a city bus and even
on being the music world's a nursing home.
com- The film's technical aspects
enig- **** - exceptional sound quality dur-
Jack ing concert scenes, crafty editing
Meg Under Great including a cut to "Citizen Kane"
con- White Northern and alternating black-and-white
every and full-color images - illustrate
of Lights the talent of the filmmakers. But
mage: On DVD the scenery and breathtaking
con- landscapes of Canada take cen-
them- Warner Bros. ter stage and become the most
by stunning element of "Northern
he number three as a limit Lights." The band's penchant for
instrumentation and color out-of-the-ordinary and out-of-
. On the other hand, they're the-way adventures certainly con-.
ntly pushing the creative tributes to this spectacle.
pe and consistently create There's one flaw that prevents
f rock'n'roll's most innova- the film from joining the ranks of
ands. canonical rock documentaries. It
der Great White Northern lacks a narrative structure and is
at its core, is an explora- absent of any major conflict. Foot-
this balance between care- age of Jack and Meg backstage
dculation and inordinate and during car rides displays some
veness. particularly private moments and
007, the Stripes set up a the film attempts to manufacture
oundary for themselves by tension by overplaying the con-
g an 18-day tour to perfor- trast between Jack's dominating
solely within the borders personality and Meg's shyness. But
ada. To add to this chal- even this seems forced. The real-
he band decided to play in ity, according to Jack, is that Meg
province and territory in is simply a quiet person and it's her
rld's second-largest country own decision to be silent while on
aphically). camera and during interviews.
Jack and Meg didn't intend Another telling, if not comical,
rict their shows to con- moment comes after a show when

Meg claims she "wasn't on top of
(her) game" during an evening's
concert. It's humorous because
her drumming is so simplistic,
practically anyone with a sense of
rhythm could emulate her rudi-
mentary style. But the fact that
she makes this statement shows
that, even though she might be
musically subordinate to Jack, she
still demands consistency in her
playing. In a later scene, Jack con-
firms their commitment to high
standards as he criticizes his vocal
quality and suggests the tempo
was dragging throughout a perfor-
mance. This might seem inconse-
quential to the casual observer, but
for Jack it's paramount to strive
for a sort of perfect chaos amid
his completely improvised guitar
solos and off-the-cuff setlist.
Although contrived at times,
"Northern Lights" reinforces the
unpredictability and unconven-
tional nature of a band that is open
to any new idea, so long as it fits
within self-imposed parameters.
Specific instances like a bagpipe
procession and a horse-masked
interview toe the line between
staged and spontaneous, which
perfectly illustrates the very
essence of the band. Ultimately,
the film provides a glimpse into
the bizarre and cryptic world that
Jack and Meg White have created
and perpetuated for 10 remarkable
years.

By SASHA RESENDE
Daily Arts Writer
Political awareness is nothing
new for Ted Leo. In a music scene
brimming with politically illiterate
post-punk enthu-
siasts, Ted Leo
and the Pharma-
cists are a much
needed breath of
fresh air. While and the
many of these P'iaists
groups sing pri-
marily about the The Brutalist
joys of whiskey Bricks
drinking, Leo Matador
prefers to harmo-
nize about gov-
ernment failure. Rather than shy
away from dense political narra-
tives, the Notre Dame graduate and
New Jersey native eagerly embrac-
es these heavy topics within the
confines of his guitar-heavy tracks.
With the Pharmacists, Leo's
current band and most successful
project, he has honed his talent for
crafting punk-inspired beats tinged
with political angst. On the group's
sixth full-length album, The Brutal-
ist Bricks, Leo and his Pharmacists
have solidified their sound and
produced their most cohesive col-
lection since 2003's near-perfect
Hearts ofOak.
Unlike its overambitious 2007
predecessor Living With the Living,
the Pharmacists' most recent offer-
ing is tighter, more compact and
more on-point. Instead of sprawl-
ing out into extended periods of
static confusion, every track on the
album is expertly structured with
a gripping introduction, catchy
chorus and (typically) a signature
Ted Leo guitar solo. From roaring
anthems ("The Mighty Sparrow")
to engagingyet subdued cuts ("One
Polaroid A Day") to quiet acoustic
tracks ("Tuberculoids Arrive In
Hop"), the album touches on vari-
ous musical orientations that are
all tied together by Leo's prevailing
punk influences.
The band's ability to straddle
multiple musical labels is wholly


Wildly different hair philosophies unite!
apparent on "Mourning In Amer-
ica," a track that wears its political
leanings on its sleeve. As Leo cryp-
tically illustrates the bloody history
of racial oppression in the U.S., the
track alternates between frantic
drumming and deep synths, brief-
ly cut by a somber guitar-driven
bridge. In combining these diverse
soundwaves within one tightly con-
structed song, Leo demonstrates
his ability to pull various influences
together to produce a track that is
both cohesive and innovative.
This ingenuity is expanded on
in the brilliant "Bottled In Cork,"
a cut that touches upon a multitude
of styles in just over three minutes.
Beginning with a frantic combina-
tion of crazed guitar strings and
uncoordinated drumming, the song
initially comes off as a prototypical
post-punk orgy of frenzied instru-
mentation. This chaos soon reverts
to a mix of cutesy guitars, topped
off with a dizzying Ted Leo solo.
By showcasing his ability to sur-
prise, Leo proves that neither he
nor his Pharmacists have fallen into
the trap of producing formalistic -
and ultimately boring - records to
appease its fan base.
Apart from this wide assort-

ment of musical styles, The Brutal-
ist Bricks is also packed with its fair
share of politically tinged lyrical
puns. Like many musicians with
punk leanings, his political musings
tend to skew heavily to the left. The
aforementioned "Bottled In Cork"
offers the album's most convolut-
ed - and, arguably, riskiest - line,
"There was a resolution pending
on the United Nations' floor / In
reference to the question 'What's
a peacekeeping force for?' " Such a
line can be appreciated simply for
its pure audacity.
Leo continues with this ques-
tioning theme on "Woke Up Near
Chelsea," a quirky cut that opens
with the phrase "Well we all got a
job to do / And we all hate God,"
before lamenting the "despair" in
America.
While Leo definitely has a politi-
cal agenda in craftingcertain lyrics,
he doesn't allow his core message
to excuse sloppy songwriting.
The vast majority of the tracks
are strong enough on their own so
that his overriding political mes-
sage only becomes apparent upon
repeated listens. And, thankfully,
The Brutalist Bricks has so many
gems that multiple spins come easy.

DECIDE
W- JWAT
GOES

The Michigan Daily
Advertising Design
Department is hiring
a Layout Designer.
Applicants should have a knack for
spacial relationships and a distinct
attention to detail. Experience with
Adobe InDesign is a plus.
Begin this summer and work
a couple hours every weekday.
E-mail mahakiaj@umich.edu





6 - Tuesday, March 30, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
!4 Bl)RM. CONDO '.1
Aug 2010. North canpus. Free utils..
A/C, ldry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV, DSL. $695/persan/mo.
Call 313-838-2629.
! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg ioel. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.msichcomrealty.com
for more itfo.
!FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY ! 4
ELEVEN LOFTS has limited spaces
left it grad-only apartments for 2010-
It. New building. 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$655, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Sitgle bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
uww.4elevenlofts.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HIRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!! ROOMS HILL & State. May, or
Fall. Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-
9904.
Studio & I
1drm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
734-663-1530
!! NEW LISTING Avail Fall 2010!!
721 Church- Unfurished I bedroom
apartment, Quiet atmosphere. Great lo-
cation, 1 block from South University,
near B-School & Education School.
hardwood floors, free heat, free water,
free parkitng. Lasundry.
Cull Atn 321-1244 ur visit our web-
site www.churcltreetrentals.con
!!!!!!!!!CENTRAL CAMPUS!!!!!!!!
APTS. AT UNBELIEVEABLE
SAVINGS
Discounted rates plus lots of extras
for free.
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and I bedrootn apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.cotn
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrtn
apts. 734-741-9300
annarborapartmets.tnet

Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?
Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
section on
APR IL 1JST
Advertise in th is section
by contacting:
(734) 764-0557
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 ofi summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
!AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-bdrms
on Central Campus. Heat, water, park-
ing incl, fully furnished, perfect sum-
mer locations! Varsity Management
(734)668-1100.
*****AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E.
Liberty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5
min walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
**2-BEDROOMS** TWO Central
Campus locations on S. Forest, Free
WiFi, new kitchens and baths, heat, wa-
ter, furnishings, and parking incl. Var-
sity Management (734) 668-1100.
**3-BEDROOM** ACROSS St. from
CCRB, close to Arboretum, great bal-
cony, large living room, heat, water,
furnishings, parking incl. Varsity Man-
agement (734) 668-1100.
**4-BEDROOMS** BEAUTIFUL
Burns Park mansion - converted into
enormous apartments with room for 5
or 6! Heat, water, furnishings, and
parking incl. Dishwashers, on-site laun-
dry, screened porch and a large yard!
Varsity Management (734)668-1100.
**BUSINESS & LAW SCHOOL**
Huge 2-bdrms one block south, cov-
ered parking, new kitchens and baths,
heat, water, furnishings, and parking
inct. Varsity Management (734) 668-
1100.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrt. touse. Walking distance from
catpus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768

DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorms),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
runiv.-r ty
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrt
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*GET FREE PARKING (where avail)
when you sign a new lease by March
3 st. That's a $300 savings!!!
Act Now!!! Call 734-996-1991 or visit
www.cappomanagement.com for
avail. properties.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michconrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment
1 OR 2 bdrmapts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates-
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Roms, Studio's - 3
bedrotms - heat, water and furniture in-
cluded - Contact us at universitytwers-
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE
BOX (dons), TIHlINK U. TOWERS.
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
6 Bed 2 Bath at State and Hoover avail
Sept 1,2010. $3750+ elec, parking,
free heat, coin laundry 734-668-6686
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.nnroraprtents.net
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
)furry infor Best Selection
Right now we havea few apartments at
Very Special Low Rates
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
Your home awayfrom home
536S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, Ml 48160
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. ftrn. apts. 402 I-ill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff. I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Htardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-

dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely CL- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furmished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE MAY & SEPT. 2010.
1,2,3 bdrms apts. Near Business School
and Law School. 734-222-9033.
www.jmsprop.com
P R ESE N TS T H E
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

- Broadview Apartments
'Sacius I bedroom apartments
"Spacious 2 bedrooms with master bath
Shuttle around campus
-Large private balconies
with wosed views
'Pets weome
.Mohelst 1n Daily
r I 741-9300
t (EXTENDED HOURS)
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
1028 Fuller - Prices just reduced
2 bedroom apartments, $950 - $995
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard 2 bedrooms - $1,075 Lo-
cated 5 blocks from central campus,
heat, water and parking included. Call
Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Igalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks frome
central campus 2 bdri's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @/ii 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
flors. Fireplace. Sun ro. Clean, dry
basemeut. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
FALL 2010 ! I bedroom apt. available
in prime location. Heat & Water in-
cluded. $799/month. 734-665-8825.
FALL 2010 7 Bedroom 3 bath house.
Free parking. $3200 per month. 1207
Prospect. Call Brian 734-260-6836.
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
1221 S.State #2
8 MO. LEASE
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPT PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm-
(suitable for 3) apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave.
Furn, disposal, dwshr, lndry, prkg.
Walkout balcony. $1100 + elec. 734-
662-7121 or email gpmiles@aol.com
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
ar Classiied listins with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
EIT., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonreManagersfrumich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815 SouthStateManagersfrumich.edtt
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for

showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
HOUSE FOR FALL small company
offers 7 bedroom at South U. and
Washetenaw $4000 and 6 bedroom at
I115 South Forest $2700. Eight month
leases possible. 734-260-4003.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.aiinarborapartments.net
MAY TO MAY Leases
3 Bedrooms "Park Plaza"
1320 S. University
Negotiable Rates
734-761-8000
primesh.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
SPRING FORWARD
WITH "FALL"ING RATES
EfT., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms on Central
Campus
We will work with YOUR budget!
Unbelievable Deals!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
x$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking,and utilities)
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.Icc.coop

REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

HELP CREATE A FAMILY
EGG DONORS NEEDED
IVF Michigan, P.C.
The Recognized Leaders
in Infertility Treatment.
Our office located in Ann Arbor
is looking for healthy women
between the ages of 21-32
for anonymous egg donation.
All ethnic backgrounds
are needed.
This program is completely
anonymous.
Qualified donors who are
accepted into the program will
be financially compensuted
$3000 for their involveeent
in our program
Ifinterested please call
734-434-4766.
IS YOUR EMPLOYER PAYING
100% MEDICAL, DENTAL AND Vt-
SION? WE DO! Along with paid vaca-
tion, sick time, holiday, retirement and
many more. Ann Arbor service com-
pany currently searching for a moti-
vated, organized CSR/Dispatcher with
good problem solving skills. Appli-
cants must be available Wed-Fri 3:00-
10:00 pm, Sat 8:00 am-6:00 pm and
Sun 10:00 am-6:00 pm. Please email
greggfrmichiganpowerrodding.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Clickon Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeonal iserv.net

0
0
0
S

AVAILABLE MAY! Huge 2-drms
on CentralCampus and Downtown.
Heat, water, parking inch., fully fur-
nished, perfect summer sublease! Var-
sity Management (734) 668-1100.
AVAIL MAY-AUG: Huge room &
closet, porch, wshr/dryer, prkg. S. Divi-
sion/Hill. $400, brlundin@umich.edu
SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

BUSINESS CHINESE: LEARN Busi- WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
ness Chinese or Chinese in Chinese summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Business Law Summer Program in Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Beijing. www.studyabroad-china.org Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK.800-965-6520 x 125. CHILDCARE
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr NEW RESPONSIBLE, ACTIVE, CAR-
campus location! Students apply g ING, and creative care giver required
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773. for 8 yr. old boy & 10 yr. old girl this
MYSTERY SHOPPERS summer. Req./details: female student -
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re- jr, sr, or grad at UofM pref; own car;
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed required between June 14-Aug 27;
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish- Sam- 6pm daily; $10/hr. West side of
ments. Call 800-722-4791. Ann Arbor. Call Lisa @ 734-997-9676.

6

HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURESAREACCEPTED
Ann Arbor'- (888) 883-7083 -'www.sciofarms.com
Ypsilanti - (888) 310-6850'- www.4lakeview.com
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Charged 32 "Just'!" 52 Stadium levels
1 Casey and 3 Watchdog's 33 Contaot lens 53 Balance sheet
Kildare: Abbr. warning solution brand item
4 Clairvoyant's 4._ 67: Montreal 34 Is required to 54 Approximations:
claim, for short World's Fair - 39 Take offense at Abbr.
7 Courses for coll. 5 Ship's captain 42 "To sum up..." 55 Classic autos
credit 6 Proverbial sword 43 Not with 56 58-Across star
10 Bull suMpol b eaterw i44 Cockpit abbr. Lendl
13 Ator M ellen 7 Apollstwin 45 Sand structures 59 Cinders of old
54 ClassiceJag sister 47 Tat-tunted comics
15 California fruit 8 Movie girl with 48 Bugged rock 6! doJuneira
17 Critters with "perils" 4! 5 uiut sands 62 L w yersn'p
powerful iaws 9 "To , Withngp.
20 Server on skates Love" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Sniggler's prey 10 Mah-jongg piece
22 Eliel Saarinen's 11 Cabinet dept. I N K H Y A T T C E D A R
son formed after the D E N A U R A E I R A T E
23 Normandy 1977oil crisis T H U S P I N N I N G T O P
2 atleground 12 Tigerinyur A R R O W Y O R E E M O
24 Chinese tanke ompany G U L FO PA NA MA
government 16 Bow's opposite G F R F EA QNA NA S
bigwig 18 Greek god of fear
27 Program 19 Nerd I A M DERMA EAR L
interruption 25 Actress _ Dawn R U G S T O R E C O W B O Y
32 Bedroom set Chong I N T O N I G E L S W E
piece 26"Snowy" wading G O E A S Y I N D O
35 Sun.speech birds T H E L AST S T R A W
36 Catch a few z's 28 Takea chance X V I E G A L O B A M A
37 "Green Eggs and 29 Arthurian lady M i D N I G H T S U N J A I
Ham" author 30 Texas city on the
38 Writer Jong Brazos E B 4 0 K T H I N G A N S
40 USNA grad 31 Wingstip-to-wing NEST S I O T A S H A T
41 Sephia automaker tip distance xwordeditor@aot.com 0329/10
44 Took, as advice 1 3 4 o 5 a t 10 11 12
46 Spurning learning
49 Caribbean is 11a to 1 1
belonging to
France 17 1s 19
50 " C6mo - 2021 2
usted?"
54 The Phantom of 0 24 25 26
the Opera
57 River inlet 27 23 2s3031
58 Game in which
love is expressed
frequently? a37 36O3
60 Discontinuing
relationsnof any 40 41 42 43 o as
kind
63 Apple-polishers 46 a7 4
64 canto: singing a sos 1s2 s3
style
65 Post- opposite 54 5ss St 00 7 5
66 Govt. ID
67 Frequently, in so t1 0
verse
68 Words in a simile -a 60 on
69 Old JFK arrival 60 6s 6s
t0n0nwm A6tst

For Wednesday, March 31, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
It's easy to feel sympathy for others
today. Because of this, you might meet
with groups of people to discuss charita-
ble projects or how to help those who are
in need.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
You feel extremely sympathetic
toward others today. You're willing to go
more than halfway to help somebody,
and certainly to listen to this person's
problems.
GEMINI
(May 21 toJune 20)
Group activities that are for a charita-
ble cause - especially to rescue a needy
group - will appeal to you today. You
want to be part of something bigger than
yourself.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Bosses, parents and authority figures
might be impressed with your visionary
ideas today. However, if youthink some-
thing fishy is going on, it is.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Your appreciation of beauty is height-
ened today. Therefore, visit beautiful
parks, buildings, museums, gardens and
art galleries. Enjoy relations with people
from different cultures.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Even though you feel sympathetic
toward somebody today, don't give
away the farm. It's important to have a
measure of healthy self-interest.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
This is a great day to mend broken
fences. You feel sympathetic and inter-
ested in partners and close friends.
You're willing to go more than halfway

to help someone.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You might see new ways of doing
things at work today. You might choose
an unusual health regimen or solution to
a health problem.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
This is a wonderfully creative day for
you! Enjoy the arts, film, music or play-
ful times with children. Secret flirtations
might give you a thrill.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
You feel sympathetic to a family
member today. This is a good thing;
however, don't let anyone take advan-
tage of you. Remain realistic.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feb. 18)
Don't worry if you pass your time
today woolgathering or daydreaming.
We all need times like this. (I call them
mental-health days.)
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Be careful if shopping today, because
you're tempted to buy things that are ele-
gant and impossibly gorgeous. If you
can afford this, fine. However, this could
be an impulse that you later regret. (Best
to keep your receipts.)
YOU BORN TODAY Many of you
develop a specific technique that you use
in your career. You are goal-oriented and
relentless in your pursuit of your objec-
tives. You need to know where you're
headed. There is a "star quality" to peo-
ple born on this day. (You are intrigued
by the myth of the hero.) The year ahead
is the beginning of an exciting new cycle
for you. Open any door!
Birthdate of: Pavel Bure, hockey
player; Gordie Howe, hockey player;
Christopher Walken, actor.

2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

6
I

1 d5s, e.g. N 0rib ne tediaServices nc.

03/30/10



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, March 30, 2010 -7

Students in residence halls get taste
. of local offerings at lunch yesterday
Meal was part of
University's Earth

No executions
took place in
Europe in'09

Day series of events
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporter
Students who ate lunch in the
dininghalls yesterdaygot a taste of
Michigan as local ingredients took
center stage.
In recognition of the 40th annu-
al Earth Day celebration coming
this April, all residence halls and
University-operated restaurants
and caf6s featured locally pro-
duced and organic foods yesterday,
supporting the student-led "Go
Blue, Eat Local" program to pro-
mote sustainable dining.
Sustainable Dining, organized
by the University's Division of
Student Affairs, University Hous-
ing and University Unions, offered
students a variety of local ingre-
dients, including fruits, produce,
meats, dairy products and pasta.
The zero trans-fat frying oil used
for cooking also came from Michi-
gan.
According to the Housing web-
site, the residence halls used nap-
kins made of 100-percent recycled
fiber, and any raw food waste from
the meal preparation was collected
and taken to Ann Arbor's compost
site.
Among the items made from
local ingredients that were served
were whole wheat penne pasta,
spicy black beans, a local Michigan
quarter-pound burger, chicken and
dumplings, butternut squash ravi-
oli, Michigan fruit crisp and Mich-
igan French vanilla ice cream.
After eating lunch at South
Quadrangle, LSA freshman Lizzy

Head Chef Rob Sutch of The University Club in the Union gives a sneak peak at preparations for a local-produced meal y

Nagler said she enjoyed the meal
not necessarily because the food
tasted better than normal but
because she supported the cause.
"I wouldn't say it tasted better,
but I felt better about it," she said.
Engineering sophomore Ian
McDonald said the lunch at South
Quad was "definitely better than
what they normally have."
At East Quadrangle, Residen-
tial College sophomore Dafna
Eisbruch said she loved the but-
ternut squash ravioli and thought
the meal as a whole seemed extra
special.
"The chef (took) it up a notch,"
she said.
The chef at East Quad, Nelson
Cummings, known as Buzz, was
transferred to East Quad from
South Quad in 2006 in order to
develop a vegan and vegetarian
focus there.
University Housing spokesman

Peter Logan,, said 2006 was when
Cummings began seriously advo-
cating for the use of local foods in
the residence halls.
Since 2006, the portion of the
dining hall menus made from local
ingredients has grown to 20 per-
cent, Logan said.
Despite this significant
increase in the use of local foods,
Logan said the possibility of hav-
ing local foods constitute the
majority of dining hall menus is
very unlikely.
"It's not so much the financial
side," Logan said. "The challenge
is really finding the Michigan food
products, particularly produce,
that are available at this time of
the year."
Accordingto Logan, the increas-
ing number of local farmers and
regional producers using hot hous-
es - greenhouses meant to recre-
ate warmer climates - to grow

out-of-season crops can certainly
help the University's effort to use
local foods, but that alone will not
be enough to support a major shift
to locally grown products.
In addition to buying local
ingredients, Logan said Univer-
sity Housing is trying to make an
overall shift toward more sustain-
able practices in the food services
operations on campus.
Logan mentioned that the din-
ing halls are considering tray-less
dining. The endeavor could reduce
food waste, save water and energy
and reduce operational costs in the
dining halls.
Logan added that students also
play a big role in the move toward
sustainability.
"One of the key elements ...
comes down to the education of
the diner, that is, encouraging stu-
dents to be mindful of the amount
of food they take," he said.

But two executions
in Belarus quickly
ended the trend
LONDON (AP) - Europe had
its first year without executions
in 2009, human rights group
Amnesty International said last
Tuesday. But the London-based
organization said the spell was
recently broken by the execu-
tion of two men in Belarus - an
indication of the challenges the
group faces as it fights to abolish
capital punishment.
Amnesty International has
been tracking executions inter-
nationally since 1980, although
their figures don't include extra-
judicial killings or the casualties
of war. Western European coun-
tries such as France, Britain and
Germany abolished the death
penalties in the years follow-
ing World War II, and abolition
spread rapidly through Eastern
Europe with the collapse of Iron
Curtain.
Many former Soviet satel-
lites banned capital punishment
in the 1980s and '90s. Russia
and Ukraine have not executed
anyone more than a decade.
Amnesty said that Belarus,
Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, and
Tajikistan have executed about

130 people between them over
the past 10 years, but since 2006
Belarus has been the only Euro-
pean state to carry out death
sentences.
The death penalty is "on its
way out," according to Amnesty's
interim Secretary General Clau-
dio Cordone, before acknowl-
edging that countries such as
Belarus were a "hard core" where
the practice would likely linger
for some time.
Amnesty said Belarus execut-
ed two convicts just under two
weeks ago. Death row prisoners
in the authoritarian country are
only given a few moments' notice
before they're killed. They're
then shot in the back of the
head and their bodies are buried
secretly, the group said.
Worldwide, the total number
of officially state-sanctioned
executions is as uncertain as ever
- in large part because China,
the world's largest executioner,
refuses to say how many prison-
ers it puts to death.
Unusually, Amnesty said it
would refuse to put a figure to
the scale of Chinese executions,
saying that previous estimates
- based on publicly available
data - have been far too low. In
2008, Amnesty put the minimum
figure of people put to death at
1,718.



OBAMA
From Page 1
less dedicated, and they would be
thrilled for you to challenge them
directly to meet the demands of the
21st century, as their forbears were
by John F. Kennedy."
Coleman added that the Uni-
versity not only has ties to past
presidents but to Obama's adminis-
tration as well.
"I would be remiss to close with-
out conveying how extremely proud
we are of the many University of
Michigan alums working for you
and your administration, who could
serve as a valuable resource as you
consider this invitation," she wrote.
But Coleman was not the only
one who lobbied the president to
come to campus. A group of 30 cam-
pus leaders sent a letter to Obama
requesting that he speak at the Big
House.
The letter from University stu-
dents discussed students' experi-
ences on election night in 2008,
when they celebrated on the
Diag after Obama's victory was
announced.
"And there we stood, all united as
students of University of Michigan
who had witnessed history being
made; shouting in one voice, 'YES
WE DID!"' the students wrote. "As
members and representatives of the
upcoming graduating class of the
University of Michigan, we feel a
RESEARCH
From Page 1
cap.
The first grants are expected to
be given in late June.
Stephen Forrest, vice president
for research at the University, said
in a press release that the new
research collaboration provides a
one-of-a-kind opportunity for the
University.
"By collaborating on renewable
energy and biomedical research
projects, we have a unique oppor-
tunity to move our innovations
much more quickly toward the
marketplace, where they can begin
to benefit people across the globe,"
Forrest said in the release. "I cannot
think of two other areas of research
that can have a greater impact on
the environment and the quality of
life of people worldwide."
The goal of the renewable energy
partnership is to identify renewable
energy projects that have commer-
cial potential to reduce global car-
bon emissions and that will attract
research funding from government
and industry in both the United
States and China, according to
the release. Possible topics to be
funded include clean coal technol-
ogy, building efficiency and clean
vehicles.
The program in biomedical tech-
nology aims to improve technology
used in the health care industry and
will focus on topics including diag-
nostic and therapeutic imaging,

special connection to this great day
in American history."
LSA senior Rebekah Sharpe,
assistant secretary of the Univer-
sity's chapter of the NAACP and
a signatory of the letter, said she
started an initiative last summer to
invite Obama to this year's spring
commencement.
Sharpe said she was put in touch
with Coleman's office, which was
already inthe process of recruiting
Obama, and the student represen-
tatives on the University's Honor-
ary Degree Committee, the group
responsible for determining the
commencement speaker and those
who will receive honorary degrees
during the commencement cer-
emony.
"I worked with the project man-
ager at the president's office, and
then we met with the studentrepre-
sentatives of the Honorary Degree
Committee to cultivate an innova-
tive and creative campaign to make
the University of Michigan stand
out," Sharpe said.
Business junior Alex Serwer, one
of the two student representatives
on the Honorary Degree Commit-
tee and a signatory of the letter to
Obama, said the letter was written
as a way to show student support,
without alerting the entire student
body, which may have been dis-
appointed if Obama declined the
request.
"We devised a plan so it wouldn't
get out to the general public,
minimal and non-invasive therapy
- used to minimize surgical risks
and recovery time - and bio-nan-
otechnology, which allows many
specific procedures to be carried
out at the microscopic level.
The biomedical technologies
part of the partnership will also
address tissue engineering and bio-
materials. In addition, researchers
will study biomedical devices like
surgical instruments and in vitro
diagnostics, neural engineeringand
rehabilitation and medical infor-
matics - the use of computers and
information within medicine.
Forrest wrote in the release that
he is looking forward to the part-
nership.
"The research strengths of our
two universities are quite comple-
mentary," he said in the release.
Yesterday's announcement ends
several months of University offi-
cials being tight lipped on the issue,
as Forrest made multiple trips to
China to continue negotiations.
When asked about the ongoing
negotiations in a January interview
with The Michigan Daily, Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman
indicated that the project might
focus on alternative energy, since
matching money was available at
the federal level, but she said that
nothing had been formalized.
"We are looking for research
opportunities and partnerships
and there are some discussions, but
there's nothing that's happened.
Nothing has been signed," Coleman
said at the time. "I hope they're

because we didn't want students to
get all excited about it and then be
disappointed about it if he decided
not to come," Serwer said. "But,
instead, in order to show we had
student support, we decided that
writing a letter to the White House
would be something that would be
more appropriate."
Michigan football player David
Moosman said in a phone interview
last week that he signed the letter
because he believes Obama's speech
at the Big House will be "historic."
"It's a time of rejuvenation for
the country, and Obama, I think, is
leading that," Moosman said. "Him
speaking and giving his wisdom
and words to the next class of lead-
ers in the community and in the
global market will be inspiring and,
for lack of a better word, useful."
Engineering senior Meha Pan-
dey, the president of the Society of
Women Engineers, said she signed
the letter because she thought it
was important for students to show
the administration that they want-
ed Obama to be their commence-
ment speaker.
"I think it's a great opportunity
not only for my graduatingclass but
to have the president of the United
States come to this campus, and it
kind of brings recognition toward
the University and makes us real-
ize that Michigan is great," Pandey
said.
Lisa Connolly, project manager
in Coleman's office, also had fre-
interested because it would be a
good opportunity to do some inter-
esting research."
Coleman added, "I think there's
an opportunity particularly in areas
that might be of mutual interest."
University Provost Teresa Sulli-
van echoed Coleman's comments in
a January interview with the Daily.
"It's a little too soon to tell what
it might mature into, but I think
that there is interest on both sides
in the existing partnership in mak-
ing it deeper and more substantive
than it already is," Sullivan said at
the time, adding that the Univer-
sity's relationship with Shanghai
Jiao Tong has already proven valu-
able for some Engineering stu-
dents.
In December, Sullivan had hinted
at a possible research investment
with Shanghai Jiao Tong University
that would have financial benefits
for the University. However, in Janu-
ary, Sullivan said she was only using
the example as a way to explain non-
traditional partnerships.
"It's not an investment in the
sense that we're selling them stock
or something. It's more that we
have been talking about research
possibilities together," Sullivan said
at the time. "That's a conversation
that's ongoing."
Sullivan also said the research
collaboration could be a valuable
addition to the North Campus
Research Complex.
"We see (the NCRC) as a space
for collaboration that we didn't
really have before and now it opens

quent contact with Mastromo-
naco, according to the documents
obtained throughthe FOIA request.
On Nov. 6, 2009, Connolly wrote
to the White House and enclosed
two previously sent invitations to
Obama to speak at commencement
and a previously sent invitation for
Obama to come to Ann Arbor from
Oct. 13 to 15, 2010 to participate in
events celebrating the 50th anni-
versary of the announcement of the
Peace Corps.
Connolly's other correspondenc-
es with the White House, which
included an e-mail dated Dec. 18,
2009 and a letter dated Jan. 29,
2010, were both inquiries regard-
ing the timing of any decision made
about attending commencement.
Connolly also wrote that
Obama's presence at commence-
ment would send an unparalleled
message to the graduates.
"We believe President Obama's
presence at the University of Michi-
gan this spring would provide
an unsurpassable send-off to our
graduates as they enter a workforce
laden with challenges," she wrote.
University officials announced
that Obama would be the com-
mencement speaker on Feb. 11,
2010. Commencement will be held
on May 1 at 11 a.m. Approximate-
ly 3,500 undergraduates will be
graduating and, according to a Feb.
11 Daily article, more than 40,000
friends and family members of
graduates are expected to attend.
up this possibility and since Shang-
hai Jiao Tong we've had a really
good exchange now of student and
faculty going both ways," she said at
the time. "They were kind of a logi-
cal partner to talk to about whether
there was potential there." .
The new research partnerships
between the University and Shang-
hai Jiao Tong have come after years
of collaboration between the two
schools. The University became the
first American institution autho-
rized by the Chinese government to
give graduate degrees in engineer-
ing to students in China.
In 2005 the two universities
strengthened their partnership by
forming a joint institute to manage
and direct degree-granting pro-
grams offered by both universities
to students from both nations.
Ties with the Shanghai Jiao
Tong will be further strengthened
this summer when Coleman travels
to China.
Earlier this year Shanghai Jiao
Tong was reported to be associated
with cyberattacks made to Google.
A Feb. 18 New York Times article
reported that the cyberattacks were
traced to computers at Shanghai
Jiao Tong. The hackers got into the
Gmail accounts of human rights
activists as well as the accounts of
34 companies. SJTU representa-
tives denied that the University had
any involvement in the attack.
- Daily Staff Reporter Joseph
Lichterman and Lindsey Mandich
contributed to this report.

RESTAURANT
From Page 1
that embraces the casual culture of
the area.
Aronoffstarted her career with a
part-time cooking job in a local res-
taurant kitchen while studying at
Brandeis University in Massachu-
setts. Since that time, she said her
passion for food has grown.
Aronoff said that as a child
she always had a love for food
because she grew up in a family
that revolved around eating and
cooking. After graduating from
Brandeis, Aronoff took her cook-
ing skills to the next level and
studied at Le Cordon Bleu - a culi-
nary school in Paris.
Aronoff said she enjoys opening
restaurants because she loves the
many aspects of the food industry
- the food, the business and a res-
taurant's atmosphere.
"I wanted to do something per-
sonal and independent and just
really try to do something special,"
Aronoff said. "My style of cooking
is French philosophy with a lot of
influences from all over ... just try-
ing a bunch of different ingredients
together and paying attention to
the texture and contrasts."
ForAronoff, thethoughtofopen-
ing more restaurants is not out of
LESKO
From Page 1
solution to closing this projected
gap in the budget," Lesko wrote in
the post.
Inspired by the anonymous
political writings of Benjamin
Franklin and Thomas Paine, whose
anonymity enabled them to focus
solely on issues, Lesko decided to
make her blog anonymous.
"The point of political writing
is to focus on the issues and not
the person who's writing on the
issues," Lesko said.
According to Lesko, reader
responses to A2Politico were both
positive and widespread, withup to
7,500 visitors in a given month.
By tracking visitors to her blog,
Lesko said she found people log-
ging on from the University, Ann
Arbor's city hall and even Wash-
ingtonD.C.
"What I found is that thousands
of others were equally interested
in the issues facing our city," Lesko
said.
Lesko said writing the blog con-
vinced her to become more active
in local politics, and from there, she
began to consider the possibility of
running for office.
On Feb. 2, 2010, Lesko revealed
her identity on the blog and
announced her plans to run for
mayor.
Since then, she's been working to
pull together a campaign in prepa-
ration for the Aug. 3 primary, dur-
ing which she'll run against fellow
Democrat and current Ann Arbor
Mayor John Hieftje.
Lesko said she faces tough com-
petition from Hieftje, who has
served as the city's mayor since
2000.
Nevertheless, Lesko said she's
confident about her chances of

the question, butshe said she would
want the restaurants to be in places
similar to Ann Arbor, where she is
able to make food from scratch and
buy products from local farmers.
Because Aronoff will be head
chef and owner of both Eve and
Frita Batido, she said she plans to
have a sous chef at each restaurant
to help her run both places success-
fully and smoothly.
Aronoff has become somewhat of
a local celebrity for more than just
her restaurant. Last year, she com-
peted on season six ofBravo's reality
competition show "Top Chef."
Aronoff said she cannot com-
ment on the experience due to a
contract with the network, but she
said she learned that televised com-
petitions weren't her style.
"I thrive on real life challenges,
but reality television and televised
challenges were not my cup of tea,"
Aronoff said.
While "Top Chef" was a unique
and challenging cooking experi-
ence, Aronoff said she looks forward
to the challenges of owning two
businesses and creating a restaurant
that embodies her cooking and style.
"I really care about the qual-
ity and standard and creativity,"
Aronoff said. "I am such an infor-
mal person that I am really excited
tobedoingsomethinglikethat,that
is really special atthe same time."
winning the primary and plans to
start campaigning door-to-door
in April. She added that her door-
to-door campaigning will target
University students first - a sec-
tor of the population Lesko said
other local politicians frequently
overlook.
"Iknow that most ofthe students
will be gone (by the primary) and
only a very, very small percentage
will vote, but that won't keep me
from going door-to-door," Lesko
said.
University alum Hatim Elhady,
who was an LSA senior last year,
similarly targeted student-heavy
areas, including South Quadrangle
and East Quadrangle, in his cam-
paign for a City Council position
last November.
Elhady lost and, according to
a Nov. 3, 2009 Daily article, East
Quad and South Quad saw only
3.06-percent and 2.64-percent
voter turnouts, respectively.
Nevertheless, Lesko is confident
that the student voice matters and
that with a little prodding can be
heard.
"It's shortsighted to look at stu-
dents and say, 'I will get nothing
from them,"' Lesko said. "That's
not leadership."
Lesko added that the goals of her
campaign center around public ser-
vice.
"I'm not a career politician. This
is not a stepping stone," Lesko said.
"This is a run for public service, not
public office."
If elected, Lesko said she hopes
to manage city funds responsibly
without cutting or reducing key
services like police and firefighter
forces.
"Finances and responsible
spending - if you don't have those
covered, you can't grow as a city,"
Lesko said. "It's all about getting
back to the basics."


8 - Tuesday, March 30, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MANNY HARRIS IS NO LONGER A WOLVERINE
NOW WHAT?

THIS IS THE END

By Nicole Auerbach & Joe Stapleton
Daily Sports Editors

NO WORRIES

The Wolverines lose their
leading scorer, their go-to
guy over the past three
years. Sure, his numbers were
slightly down this year and he
barely made third team All-Big
Ten, certainly a step down from
previous seasons.
But as he showed in what is
now officially his final game
at Michigan - the Ohio State
heartbreaker in the Big Ten Tour-
nament - he's capable of single-
handedly taking over a game and
putting his team in position to
win it.
Harris was also the guy oppos-
ing defenses keyed on and tried
to shut down, which opened up
teammates when Harris drove
and dished.
Paired with the graduation of
senior forward DeShawn Sims,
Harris's departure isn't just
unfortunate - it's potentially
apocalyptic.
Who were Michigan's two lead-
ing scorers this year? ... Drumroll,
please.
After Harris and Sims, who was
the third-leading scorer?
Current sophomore Zack
Novak, with seven points per
game. That's right - seven.
The fact is, Harris and Sims
were the only two Wolverines
who could create their own shots.
They were playmakers in the tru-
est sense of the word. Now that
they're gone, Michigan is left with
a roster full of complementary
players.
That's not a dig at Novak or
sophomore Stu Douglass or fresh-
man Matt Vogrich. They are all

very capable players and could
surprise people next year. But
from what we've seen out of them
so far, it doesn't look like any of
them are ready to carry the scor-
ing load like Harris or Sims did.
One player who could step into
the playmaker role is freshman
Darius Morris.
The California native showed
flashes of big-time ability last
year.
But that's the problem: Going
into next year, there are no sure
things.
Will the shooting improve next
year?
The players who are supposed
to be the team's best shooters
seemed to be cursed at times this
year, and who's to say that won't
happen again?
Will this year's redshirt fresh-
men, Blake McLimans and Jordan
Morgan, step up next year and
be able to bang in the post? Can
Morgan, who has been plagued
by injuries his first year, stay
healthy?
All freshmen not named John
Wall and DeMarcus Cousins are
essentially toss-ups, and that
rule holds true for the recruiting
class Beilein has coming in next
year. The class isn't even entirely
secured, as Michigan is still wait-
ing on a decision from one of the
state's premier talents, Trey Zei-
gler.
The bottom line: Harris leaving
early leaves Michigan without its
two leading scorers and without a
proven playmaker.
It could be a very long year, to
say the least.

The average Michigan fan's
reaction: We're fucked.
It's understandable. The
Wolverines struggled this year with
two of the best players they've had
in years (the other being DeShawn
Sims, who is graduating), so they're
guaranteed to be terrible without
them, right?
Wrong. Yes, Michigan will miss
Manny. No, there doesn't appear to
be anyone on the team ready to step
in and fill the scoring role Harris
and Sims have vacated. This means
Michigan will have a hard time
especially early in the season.
But this doesn't mean the Wolver-
ines are doomed.
Here's the thing: Michigan coach
John Beilein didn't recruit Harris or
Sims. They were former Michigan
coach Tommy Amaker's recruits.
While Beilein came to Michigan
with two really, really talented play-
ers, they weren't necessarily ideal
for his system, which meant he had
to make adjustments.
Think of the stars Beilein had at
West Virginia, like Mike Gansey and
Kevin Pittsnogle. Both of those play-
ers were talented, but they also fit
perfectly into Beilein's system, one
that is predicated on shooting and
high basketball IQ. Even the center
in Beilein's system needs to be able
to step out and hit shots with all the
time he spends on the perimeter.
Beilein tried to mold both Harris
and Sims to fit into his system. Har-
ris played point guard for most of
his sophomore campaign, and Sims
steadily moved outside his junior
and senior years, finally becoming
a consistent threat from beyond the
arc midway through this year.

But in the end, it wasn't meant to
be. Harris is a guy who needs the
ball in his hands to make a differ-
ence. That isn't a bad thing - there
are few players in the country better
than Harris at creating their own
shot off the dribble and drawing
fouls - it just means that he was
never going to truly fit Beilein's sys-
tem. And near the end of this year,
Beilein realized Sims is at his best in
the low post, where he's one of the
most creative players around.
Now, Beilein doesn't exactly have
the Fab Five coming in next year, but
he has some exciting players who
seem to fit into his system. Evan
Smotrycz out of the New England
Prep League is a 6-foot-9 forward
who can shoot and play the wing;
Tim Hardaway Jr. out of Miami is
a lights-out shooter who averaged
more than 30 points per game this
year; Jon Horford out of Grand
Ledge, Michigan's most recent com-
mit and brother of Atlanta Hawk Al
Horford, an NBA All-Star, is a proj-
ect, but he's undeniably talented.
Next year also means Blake
McLimans and Jordan Morgan,
both of whom redshirted this sea-
son, will be making their debuts,
automatically giving the Wolverines
some newfound size in the post, if
Morgan can stay healthy.
While Harris declaring for the
draft may seem likea death blow to
Michigan's hopes for next year, it
does give Beilein a chance to move
on with some of his own recruits -
recruits he hand-picked for his sys-
tem, which has been proven to work.
Don't run for the hills just yet,
Michigan fans. There's plenty of
room for optimism next year.

0
6

0

Former Wolverine Manny Harris led Michigan in scoring last season, and with-
out him, the Wolverines may struggle to find a top scoring threat. After Harris
and senior DeShawn Sims, the highest-scoring Wolverine this season was Zack
Novak, with seven points per game on average.

FOLLOW DAILY- --
SPORTS ON Katzman to get first start since injury
TWITTER By BEN ESTES
@mchdailysports DailySports Writer
It's been a longtime since senior
left-hander Eric Katzman has
toed the rubber in a starting role
for the Mich-
igan baseball m
team. Eat4
Just 'over Michigan
* l10 and a half
Machup
months to be Eastern10-14;
- 3 exact - he Michigan12-9
.os. .. estarted the
Wolverines' When: Today
second-to- 3P.
last game Where: Ray
*l of the sea- Fshen Stadum+
son, on May Live Blog: michi-
16 against gandailycom
Northwest- ''

ern.
Back then, Michigan (12-9) was
30-23, and Katzman's loss helped
seal the team's postseason-less
fate. The circumstances will be
slightly different when the senior
makes his first start since offsea-
son hernia surgery against East-
ern Michigan Tuesday afternoon
at Ray Fisher Stadium.
The Wolverines have won six
straight games and finally have
some momentum after an incon-
sistent start to the season. The
Eagles (10-14), like Michigan's
last tiao opponents, Fordham and
Indiana University-Purdue Uni-
versity Fort Wayne, are a beatable.
Of course, that was also the
case in 2009, when Eastern came
into Ann Arbor and left with a
3-1 upset victory. That result is
still in the players' minds, despite
the opening of Big Ten play and a
trip to Indiana scheduled for this
weekend.
"We're going to go out there and
try and take that game, obvious-
ly," Senior catcher and co-captain
Chris Berset said after Saturday's
12-3 victory over the Mastodons.
"We haven't forgot last year, so it's
probably a little motivation right
there. We can't look past anybody
and ... last year we lost to them so
we can't really look past them this
year."
The coaches have brought
Katzman along slowly this sea-
son, as he continues to recover
from his operation. Katzman has
appeared in relief four times this
season, most recently with his
performance in Friday's victory.
He threw one inning and
allowed one walk, but he also
struck out two and appeared to be
close to normal form.
"I felt much, much improve-

Senior Eric Katzman had to recover from hernia surgery this past offseason.

ment," Katzman said. "Each week
it's gotten extremely better and
today was a day where I felt I
could help the team out. (Sitting
out has) been tough, but I've been
trying to help out in other ways.
It feels real good to finally be out
there and putting up zeros."
The Eagles average seven runs a
game and are hitting just .289 as a
team. The matchup against EMU
should serve as a great opportuni-
ty for Katzman to ease back onto
the mound.
To compare, both squads have
played Jacksonville State this sea-
son. Michigan scored 33 runs in
two blowout wins over the Game-
cocks, while Eastern managed
just 23 in three games.
But after last year's result and
the way the early part of this sea-
son went, don't expect an over-

confident effort out of the gate.
The team will be looking to back
it's senior starter in his return.
"We're going to keep trying to
build him up," Michigan coach
Rich Maloney said of the injury.
"When he gets back to 100 percent
we'll be a lot better team because
he was our best returning pitcher
and he hasn't pitched much yet. I
feel like there's just been a lack of
strength since his hernia opera-
tion. Hopefully we can get him
back to form."
INJURY NOTES: When junior
outfielder Ryan LaMarre original-
ly went out with a broken thumb,
the prognosis had him out for six
weeks - putting him back in the
lineup this weekend against the
Hoosiers.
But his status is still unclear.
Though he has been rehabilitat-

ing as swiftly as possible, Maloney
said he might not be ready to play
in Bloomington (though he would
definitely be back by next week-
end's series against Purdue).
"Day by day," Maloney said. "If
he can end up playing, certainly
we would love to have him out
there. But we need to make sure
he is feeling really good before we
do that."
Meanwhile, the team's bad luck
with thumbs continued this week-
end. Redshirt freshman Kevin
Krantz, who was one of a host
of players attempting to replace
LaMarre in the lineup, fractured
his thumb in the fourth inning.
Krantz will see a hand special-
ist to determine whether he needs
surgery. It is unknown how long
he will be out until he receives
that evaluation.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 - 9

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, March 30, 2010 -9


I PFNSXK j Dedication at everyturn.
Move home
with Penske
Reserve your truck online
and save 10*
* Free unlimited mileage
on one-way rentals
. Clear, simple rates
" Moving boxes and
supplies available
Save now and later
Reserve your Penske
truck online and save a $,
10% now through
June 30, 2010. Save

another 10% on your return trip
booked online July 1 through(
September 30, 2010.*
1621 Plymouth Rd.
Ann Arbor, Ml 48105
734-302-4053
1-800-GO-PENSKE #
GoPenske.com
*Discount valid only with online truck rental reservations
for one-way moves. Moving accessories and boxes not
applicable. Certain restrictions apply.


10 - Tuesday, March 30, 2010

The Michigan Daily -- michigandailyxorn AkI

10 - Tuesday, March 30, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

a

'owl

JOIN DAILY SPORTS
E-mail: rkartje@umich.edu

WNIT was the better option

?I0LY WEEK AT? G'NT ERtBY ?l SdlI
Thursday, April 1st - lgsnps Supjsmc
5:30 p.m. A simple Mediterranean meal
in commemoration of The Last Supper.
Friday, April 2nd - L d Txicr y
sccyy 5:30 p.m. Featuring a reading of
the Passion Gospel by the women of
Canterbury House.
Friday, April 2nd - Thu Z o Fd j
21.1 151ght Tusus Mluviu Moralson atud
?ajaccss ?esisy 8:00 p.m. The life of Jesus
has inspired films ranging from "The
Greatest Story Ever Told" to "The Life of
Brian." Bring your jammies and a pillow!
Saturday, April 3rd -'The Essa e fss
Ifi2 8:00 p.m. A culmination of the Holy
Week celebration, with fire-juggling and
the re-telling in scripture and music of the

When I tried to convince
my friends to come to
the Michigan women's
basketball WNIT semifinal round
against Miami
(Fla.) at ZAK
Crisler Arena PYZIK
Wednesday
at 7 p.m., they On Women's
laughed. Basketball
Many con-
sider the WNIT less of an accom-
plishment than qualifying for the
Women's NCAA Tournament.
Is making the WNIT some-
thing to scoff at? Or maybe the
better question is, is it always
better for a team to go to the
NCAA Tournament instead of the
WNIT?
I ran into freshman guard
Dayeesha Hollins when walking
to South Quad on Sunday morn-
ing before the Wolverines' 78-52
quarterfinal annihilation of Syra-
cuse. Hollins told me that she was

nervous for this game - possibly
more nervous than she's been for
any other matchup this year.
If Michigan had qualified for
the NCAA Tournament, would
they still be playing in big games?
Would they still be getting
opportunities to play through the
nerves that Hollins experienced?
Probably not.
It's possible that the Wolver-
ines could have upset some higher
seeds - they had already beaten
Xavier earlier in the year and had
two close matchups against Ohio
State, both top-10 teams.
While the Musketeers are still
battling, Ohio State lost in the
second round. Michigan State -
who swept Wolverines in three
games this season - also fell in
round two.
So while this Michigan squad
is better than average, it most
likely wouldn't have gone to the
Final Four of the NCAA Tourna-

ment.
Instead, the Wolverines have
made the semifinal in the WNIT.
Michigan has blown out all four
of its tournament opponents,
including a Northwestern squad
that beat them twice in the regu-
lar season. Michigan remains the
only Big Ten team left in either of
the two major tournaments.
The Wolverines continue to
add dates to their schedule, and
that means the six freshmen that
function as the base for the Mich-
igan program are gettingto play
in some extra games.
The nerves of Hollins and
the other freshmen are a result
of being so deep in a legitimate
national tournament. That will
help her and her teammates in the
near future, when the big-time
tournament presents itself to the
Wolverines.
Hollins, freshman guard Jenny
Ryan, sophomore forward Car-

men Reynolds and junior guard
Veronica Hicks have all accumu-
lated more than 1,000 minutes
this season. Last season the Wol-
verines had just one player record
more than a 1,000, then-senior
guard Jessica Minnfield.
The point is, Michigan gains
much more in the WNIT than it
ever would in the NCAA Tourna-
ment, especially this year. In the
WNIT, they have gained valu-
able experience in high-pressure
situations. If they had made the
NCAA Tournament, the season
most likely would have ended
three weeks ago.
So next year, as the Wolverines
progress through their schedule,
they will face a lot of teams with a
weaker foundation from the pre-
vious season, especially in confer-
ence play.
I doubt that then, anyone will
be laughing at Michigan's 2009-
10 WNIT run.

6
6

$38 MOVING KIT
FAST FREE SHIPPING
Student Moving Pack Includes:
* 2 very large boxes * tape, packing paper
*5 large boxes * marker & knife
*9 medium boxes

*

I
I

All Inclusive If-Storage Packages! r
All Maize packages include: Package
6 montrent Starting at: $229
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

toxes
Roll of tape
Lock
Administration Fee
Insurance
#1 Airey Court
734-669-8880
#2 Lohr Circle
7';4-76q-nl 1lq

14 G A
Bus
r 1_ i .. y
cf aarn,_Blvd .
c
-*c

the STORAGE CHEST
#4 Jackson Rd.
#3 734-222-0277 734-747-9060 #5 734-222-0277



