PR EPPING FOR POTTER,
: Harry returns to the screen at midnight

,y
s
k
w'
_ ,
' :
t.
a

The Program in
the Environment
major isn't just
for hippies, take
Will Grundler's
word for it.
))PAGE 4A

tonight, and muggles all over campus are
getting ready to go back to Hogwarts.

PAGE 4B

~be £id~iqan 0i~

Thursday, November 18, 2010

michigandaily.com

ELECTION 2010
Experts: GOP
gains won't
affect student
aid legislation

Congress unlikely to
alter youth portions of
health care, financial
aid bills, experts say
By BETHANY BIRON
. Daily StaffReporter
Major advances for young people
in financial aid and health care leg-
islation shouldn't be significantly
affected by Republicans gaining
control of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives and adding seats in
the U.S. Senate, according to local
experts and University officials.
Instead, those experts said the
political shift will increase the
need for compromise between
the parties on some of the most
pertinent legislation pushed by
president ta-ack Obamd and his
administration. They added that
Republicans will resist significant
changes to recently passed finan-
cial aid and health care legislation,
largely because a repeal of these
bills requires the use of more fed-
eral funding.
Cindy Bank, assistant director of
the University's government rela-
tions Washington D.C. office, said
she doesn't anticipate that Republi-
cans will try to reverse financial aid
legislation enacted by the Obama
administration, including . the

Direct LoanProgram, which pro-
vides funding to students directly
from the government and bypasses
the use of private institutions.
. "I don't foresee the Republi-
cans trying to undo the direct loan
provision because that would cost
money," Bank said. "And right now
they're looking at ways to cut the
budget, not increase the .budget.
And overall, the switch to direct
lending has been going very well."
However, Banks said it is pos-
sible that Republicans in Congress
will cut down on the increased
funding for Pell Grants established
by the Obama administration.
She added that the funding could
become less available to students
in an effort to offset the nearly $6
billion that the grants contribute to
the national deficit.
"The Pell Grant is a funny sort'
of program on how it's funded,
becaUse it's basically an entitle-
ment," Bank said. "And so, if a
student qualifies for a Pell Grant
they're going to get it, whether the
money's been appropriated or not.
And that leads to a shortfall some-
times, especially recently, when
there's so many more students in
school and so many more students
in need."
Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of
finaid.org, a financial aid infor-
mation site for students, said he
believes that Pell Grant rates and
See GOP, Page 5A

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
Engineering senior Alex Sloboda models parts of the University's first student-built satellite (left) yesterday at the Radio Aurora Explorer lab on North Campus. The
satellite is slated to launch from Alaska on Friday.
In 'U' firstsatellite developed
by students to launch on Friday

Radio Aurora
Explorer built by
undergraduate and
graduate students
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
Daily StaffReporter
In the Radio Aurora Explorer
team's North Campus lab, high
tech receivers, antennas, and solar
panels are commonplace materi-
als.
Each component, combined

with the talents of Radio Aurora
Explorer (RAX) team members,
has the potential to become a part
of a fully functioning spacecraft -
but not without a crucial ingredi-
ent.
For Engineering senior Alex
Sloboda, that crucial component is
passion.
Sloboda was responsible for var-
ious aspects of the development of
the RAX - the University's first
ever student-built satellite, which
is set to launch Friday - and he
said he has spent a lot of time in the
North Campus lab since his fresh-
men year.

"University of Michigan stu-
dents really put their blood, sweat
and tears into the spacecraft," he
said. "Everything we've worked
for over the past 2 years ... has
finally paid off."
Team member Sara Spangelo, a
student in Rackham, echoed Slo-
boda's sentiments, adding that in
a lab where cooperation and col-
laboration is the norm, the col-
lective excitement that has been
surrounding the project will reach
a new high when the satellite
launches from Kodiak, Alaska at
about 8:20 p.m. on Friday.
Spangelo, Sloboda, and oth-

ers will, after much anticipation,
gather tomorrow on campus to see
RAX's missiaB tO terib - dtt
endeavor nearly two years in the
making.
Funded entirely by the National
Science Foundation, the proposal
for the mission was developed by
James Cutler an assistant profes-
sor of aerospace engineering and
atmospheric, oceanic and space
science, and Hasan Bahcivan, a
research scientist at SRI Interna-
tional.
Spangelo said undergraduate
and graduate students worked
See SATELLITE, Page SA


MR. STUB GOES TO THE UNION

'U' will consult tribes before
repatriating human remains

SMOLsON/Da i
Forafullstorynthe Uniuersity's - School of Public Health student Katie Waller (left), University health edu-
"Smoke Out"event yesterday, visit cator Marsha Benz and "Mr. Stub" work at a table in the basement of the
michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire w ire Michigan Union giving out smoking cessation aids yesterday.
GREEK LIFE
IFC, Panhel elect new presidents

Re
app
B
As t
policy
remain
Forrest
dent fo
day in.

search VP also will discuss all actions with the
affiliated tribes before repatriating
roves committee the remains.
A March 15 federal court ruling
suggestions requires the University to return
unidentifiable cultural remains to
y CAITLIN HUSTON the tribe that historically resided
Daily StaffReporter on the land where the remains were
found.
:he University formalizes its The Native American Grave
on Native American human Protection and Repatriation Act, a
is in its possession, Stephen federal law in place since 1990, also
, the University's vice presi- calls on museums to keep public
r research, announced yester- lists of Native American artifacts
a press release that his office and remains in their possession. The

act requires museums to work with
tribes to determine what repatria-
tionofobjectsis necessary.
In his announcement yesterday,
Forrest also approved the nine sug-
gestions of the Advisory Commit-
tee on Native American Culturally
Unidentifiable Remains. Established
by Forrest in October 2009, the com-
mittee outlined the procedure it
feels the University should follow
in returning human remains and
funerary objects currently housed in
the University's Museum of Anthro-
See TRIBES, Page SA

Amid campus bustle, Muslim Students'
Association pushes for reflection rooms

Leaders say they'll
promote a positive
image on campus
By SABIRA KHAN
Daily StaffReporter
The two largest Greek organi-
zations on campus elected their
new leadership teams in a set
of elections this week with the

incoming presidents of both.coun-
cils vowing to promote a more
positive image on campus and in
the community.
The Panhellenic Assocation,
the umbrella organization of 16 of
the University's sororities, elect-
ed LSA junior Taylor Schmidt
as its new president, while the
Interfraternity Council, the gov-
erning organization for 31 of the
University's fraternities, elected
LSA junior Jared Jaffe as its next

president.
At IFC's elections last night,
Jaffe stressed the need for IFC to
be more vocal and assertive as a
community.
"I would say that my main goal
is to make sure that the next coun-
cil is more vocal, because there's
nothing worse than wasted poten-
tial, wasted opportunities and
ideas that many of you held and
many of your predecessors held,"
See ELECTIONS, Page SA

Rooms with benches,
carpets in UGLi,
Michigan League
By CLAIRE HALL
For the Daily
A sign outside a small room
tucked away on the ground floor of
the Shapiro Undergraduate Library

reads, "This room has been made
available for students and mem-
bers of the University community
to meditate, pray, and otherwise
spend time in quiet reflection."
Room 1074 of the UGLi is one
of eight reflection r'aoms on cam-
pus, meant to be places for quiet
contemplation and meditation.
Often furnished with only rugs and
benches, the rooms provide seclu-
sion from the everyday bustle of

campus activity.
The Office of the Vice President
forStudentAffairs andtheAssocia-
tionof Religious Counselors collab-
orated to open the University's first
reflection room in Room 347 of the
Michigan League in January 2003.
Since then, seven more reflection
rooms have been established across
campus at locations like the Chem-
istry Building, Ross School of Busi-
See ROOMS, Page SA



WEATHER HI: 50 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Report: Big Ten championship to be aired on Fox.
TO MORROW LO 36 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEWS................2A CLASSIFIEDS........,.............6A
Vol. CXXI No. 51 AP NEW S ................ ..3A SPO RTS.,... ............... .... .7A
x201 The MichiganoDaily OPINIONT..........B
micianduilycum4A T EB S D ........ ......11

,;.;.>s:


2A - Thursday, November 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Professor Profiles CampusCubs Photos of the Week
Asha for Education

Members of Asha for
Education - a campus
organization that raises
funds for developing Indi-
an educational programs
- make it a priority to
inspire and motivate those
less fortunate.
As one of more than 73
international Asha chap-
ters, Asha-Ann Arbor
selects a variety of educa-
tional initiatives in India
to support each year.
Members facilitate dona-
tions to both schools and
specialized educational
programs, such as after-
school tutoring.
Currently, the group is
involved with Prayas, an
institute for children liv-
ing with mental or physi-
cal disabilities or in poor
social conditions, and

Pudiyador, a non-profit
organization promoting
education for children
living below the poverty
level.
Rackham student
Karthik Sathiyamoorthy,
Asha's project coordinator,
said the group strives to
identify the most promis-
ing initiatives to fund.
"We'll physically go and
look at a site," he said. "We
(then) vote to decide if the
project will be supported."
Ensuring that the orga-
nizations are using funds
wisely is also a priority,
according to Rackham stu-
dent Vishalakshi Krish-
nan, Ann Arbor chapter
coordinator for Asha.
"Once we pick a project,
we do an annual assess-
ment to see if the group

is using the money in the
way they said they would,"
she explained. "If a project
becomes self-sufficient...
we'll move on to another
project which would need
more help."
Group members seek
funding projects through
community events and
personal donations.
Eat to Educate, an
annual fundraiser running
today in the North Atrium
of East Hall from 7 p.m. to
9 p.m., is offering meals for
a small fee from local res-
taurants, like Suvai: Taste
of India and Temptations.
Other fundraisers include
a 5K walk/run in Detroit
and a station for henna -
a dye used decoratively
on the body - at the Ann
Arbor Art Fair.

Krishnan said in addi-
tion to spreading aware-
ness of Asha on campus,
the events also serve to
enlighten people about
Indian culture.
Krishnan, who said
she's been involved with
the club for three years,
added that she would like
to continue recruiting new
members while organizing
events in association with
other Asha chapters in the
metro Detroit area.
Sathiyamoorthy echoed
Krishnan's statements,
emphasizing the impor-
tance of having dedicated
volunteers.
"We'd like to have a
larger volunteer base and
continue to be financially
healthy," he said.
- CLAIRE GOSCICKI

SALAM RIDA/Daily
Art students Ian Matchett and Micaela McCabe per-
formed today, running while taking their clothes off as
music blasted and friends threw popcorn and cereal.

hr~ie WMCtpgaa Dail
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours: Sun.-Thurs. ta.m.-2a.m.
734-418-41 opt.3
NewsTips news michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
LetterstotheEditor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.eom
Sports ection sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classiied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson ManagingEditor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman ManagingNewstEditor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thirunavukkarasu, Devon Thorsby
ASSSANTE S EDITORS:Be t hanyB i on, DylanCi ntiCaitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramr, Jose~phLichtrmn,Vronica Msrdi, Olyna igss
RachelVan Gilder Editorial PagetEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANT E DITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:WillButler, WillGru ndler,Harsha Pandura nga
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek,Chanel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe St apleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes,Stephen Nesbitt,Luke Pasch, Zak Pyzik,Amy
Scarno
Jamie Block ManagingArts Editor block@michigandaily.com
SENsIORARTS EDITORS:Carylreki,dAnrLai,Je anorsd
SS NRTSEDITrORSKres tynAchoe, LeiahBurginJha ronco, Ravi Shekhar
PandeyDavidTao
Max Collins and photo@michigandaily.com
SamWolson Meeaieee'hertoditors
S NIORPHOTEDTO R:r Al Bonad, Missa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna Lein-Zielinski and design@michigandaily.com
Sarah Squire ManagngesiniEdirors
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Jenna Skoller
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
AdiWollstein tepythiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
JuiannatrinSalesMa ,er ,
SALESFRE sMANAGER:Stephani~e Bokr
MARKETINGMANAGER:GjonJuncaj
Hillary Szawala Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
lason Mahakian ProductionManager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler circulationManager
Zach Yancer Web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wintertermsby students attheUniversityofMichigan.One copyisavailablefreeof charge toall
readers.AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupattheDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,
startinginSeptember, viaU.S.mail.are1ter termlJanuary through Aprl)s$115, yearlong
(Septemberthrough April)is$195.Universitylaffiliatesare subject toareduced subscriptionrate.
n-campussubscriptionsfrfatermare$35Subscrptionsmestbepreaid.TheMichiganDaily
isa embnelfTherAsscatd Prssnd TheAsociaredCollegatrPrrss.

0
0

CRIME NOTES
Textbook taken Laundry bag

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Duderstadt Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about 8:30
p.m.
WHAT: An unattended
backpack on the second floor
was stolen, University Police
reported. The bag was later
found in a men's bathroom,
but an engineering textbook
missing.
Gift cards swiped.
WHERE: University Hospital
Emergency Room
WHEN: Tuesday at about
12:45 p.m.

bandit bounces
WHERE: Laundry Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about 4:45
p.m.
WHAT: Numerous plastic
laundry bags, valued at $27,
are missing, University Police
reported. There are currently
no suspects.
Wallet missing
WHERE: Mott Children's
Hospital

Film screening
WHAT: "Dead Man Walk-
ing," an adaptation of the
book, analyzes the justifi-
catiohs of ending a human
life. The film examines
the death penalty from a
humanitarian perspective.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art
WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art,
Helmut Stern Auditorium
Action theatre

CORRECTIONS
" An article in yester-
day's edition of The
Michigan Daily ("A proE's
protestingpast") incor-
rectly stated a survey
sent to students is part
of the ISR. It is not.
. An article in yes-
terday's newspaper
("Student governments
unite to try and increase
voter turnout') incor-
rectly stated a question
appearing on the LSA
ballot. One question
seeks to dissuade pro-
fessors from holding
exams on election day.
" An article in yester-
day's newspaper (" Vet-
erans talk transition to
college") inaccurately
identified Joe Schwarz,
a lecturer at the Ford
School of Public Policy.
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

KFC announced plans
yesterday to give one high
school student $20,000
towards their college edu-
cation for the best tweet it
receives, according to a USA-
TODAY.com article. The only
requirement is the tweet must
contain the hash tag KFC.
"Gibson Fleck" is the first
original musical writ-
ten by undergraduates to
be performed by the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance this
weekend.
>FOR MORE,SEETHE B-SIDE, PAGE 3B
A jawbone found on the
island of Aruba is being
tested to see if it is con-
nected to missing American
teenager Natalie Holloway, a
MSNBC.com article reported.
Holloway disappeared in 2005.

WHAT: During the past WHEN: Tuesday at about 3:34 WHAT: Classical actingis
month about $345 of gift cards p.m. combined with martial arts,
were stolen from the social WHAT: A patient's wallet fencing, arts and dance, to
worker assistance program, containing a credit card, debit form a uniquely different
University Police reported. card, and some cash was sto- performance. Theatrical
This is not the first incident, len, University Police reported. combat training is offered
but police currently have no There are currently no sus- in a wide range of weap-
suspects. pects. ons and combat styles.
WHO: The Ring of Steel
MORE ONLINE WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
LvemNsGetm ore online at mic iai om/blogs/TheWi red JWHERE: Student The-
atre Arts Complex

Israeli PM races to bolster
dsupport for a peace deal

In this Dec. 2,1998 photo, former Iraqi foreign minister Tariq Aziz stands at attention as the Iraqi national anthem is played at a
conference in Baghdad, Iraq. Iraq's president said yesterday he won't sign off on a death penalty sentence for Aziz.
Iraq pres. opposes death
sentence Tariq Aziz

Talabani says he
supports Aziz, an
'Iraqi Christian'
BAGHDAD (AP) - Iraq's presi-
dent declared yesterday that he
will not sign off on the hanging of
Tariq Aziz, joining the Vatican and
others in objecting to the death
sentence for a man who for years
was the -international face of Sad-
dam Hussein's regime.
President Jalal Talabani's state-
ment sets up a showdown between
those seeking maximum punish-
ment for key figures of the ousted
regime and groups calling for rec-
onciliation after years of fierce
sectarian conflict unleashed by the
2003 U.S.-led invasion.
"I feel compassion for Tariq Aziz
because he is a Christian, an Iraqi
Christian," Talabani, a Kurd, told
France's 24 TV. "In addition, he is
an elderly man - aged over 70 -
and this is why I will never sign
this order."
However, Talabani's opposition
does not necessarily mean Aziz,
74, will escape the noose. Aziz was
sentenced in October for his alleged
role in a campaign of persecuting,
killing and torturing members of
Shiite opposition and religious par-
ties that now dominate Iraq.

The Iraqi constitution says death
sentences must be ratified by the
president before they can be car-
ried out. But there are mechanisms
to bypass the president - such as
an act of parliament or the approval
of one of Talabani's deputies.
Justice Ministry spokesman
Abdul-Sattar Bayrkdar told The
Associated Press that death penal-
ties can be carried out regardless
of the president's refusal to sign an
execution order.
"If the president refuses to sign
an execution that is not a veto on a
verdict," Bayrkdar said.
Although Talabani says the
death penalty violates his socialist
principles, many convicted crimi-
nals and members of the former
regime - including Saddam him-
self - have been executed during
his presidency.
Talabani has tried to block only
one proposed execution - that of
Saddam's defense minister, Sultan
Hashim al-Taie, a popular figure
among the country's Sunni minor-
ity. Al-Taie, who was sentenced to
death three years ago, is still alive.
It is unclear whether Tala-
bani will follow up his comments
Wednesday with a vigorous cam-
paign to save Aziz's life.
The decision to prosecute and
execute members of Saddam's
Sunni-dominated Baathist regime
t

was popular among majority Shi-
ites, who now control the govern-
ment. The regime sent hundreds
of thousands of opponents to death
or exile. Many Shiites want ven-
geance.
"I support Aziz's execution as
any other criminal's whose hands .
are stained with the Iraqi people's
blood," said Zaid Ghalib, a shop
owner in Baghdad's Shiite slum of
Sadr City.
But although Aziz is Christian
and not Sunni, many Sunnis view
his conviction and those of other
former regime members as proof
they'll forever be held responsible
for actions carried out years ago.
"The ignorant people running
this government came (to power)
for revenge only," said Hussam
Ahmed, a resident of Baghdad's
predominantly Sunni district of
Azamiyah.
Aziz's family has argued that he
was not responsible for the crimes
for which he's accused but is being
persecuted simply because he was
a member of Saddam's regime.
"I want to reassert that my
father's execution sentence was a
political decision.
Therefore, it's null and void,"
said Aziz's son, Ziad, speaking from
neighboring Jordan. "As a fam-
ily, we thank the president and we
appreciate his decision."

Officials say vote on
Palestine-Israel deal
could happen today
JERUSALEM (AP) - Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netan-
yahu said yesterday he was close
to reaching an understanding with
the U.S. that would allow him to
present a proposal for restarting
stalled peace talks to his Cabi-
net, capping weeks of painstaking
American efforts to get negotia-
tions back on track.
Facing rising opposition to the
deal within his governing coali-
tion, Netanyahu vowed to push
hard for approval from his govern-
ment. Officials said a vote could
take place as soon as today,
The U.S. has proposed a 90-day
slowdown on West Bank settle-
ment construction to help bring
the Palestinians back to the nego-
tiating table and in exchange
offered a package of incentives to
Israel.
Netanyahu has signaled he
is ready to comply, but is seek-
ing written assurances from the
Americans that he will not have to
extend the settlement freeze after
the three months are up.
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary
Rodham Clinton declined to com-
ment yesterday on the demand for
a written guarantee, saying only
that efforts to revive the peace
talks were continuing.
"We are working intensively
to create the conditions for the
resumption of negotiations that
can lead to a two-state solution
and a comprehensive peace," she
said during a jointnews conference
with British Foreign Secretary
William Hague in Washington.
Netanyahu's office issued a
statement late yesterday saying he
"hopes to conclude contacts with
the U.S. soon" in order to bring
present the deal to his 15-mem-
ber Security Cabinet - a group of
senior government ministers split
between pragmatists and hard-
liners.
"The prime minister will, with
great determination, bring it
before the Cabinet for a positive
decision" the statement said.

Officials close to Netanyahu
said he would convene his cabinet
in the next 24 hours to approve the
deal. The officials spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the issue.
In a potential boostfor Netanya-
hu, representatives from the ultra-
Orthodox religious party Shas said
yesterday they would abstain in a
Cabinet vote - but only if it explic-
itly excluded Jerusalem. Absten-
tions from the party's two Cabinet
would allow it to succeed; oppos-
ing it would mean defeat.
A growing number of pro-settler
lawmakers in the hard-line gov-
ernment oppose the deal. Fourteen
members of Netanyahu's Likud
Party, more than half of the party's
parliamentary delegation, sent a
letter to the prime minister yester-
day urging him not to approve the
agreement.
U.S.-backed peace talks between
Israel and the Palestinians broke
down in late September, just weeks
after they were launched, follow-
ing the expiration of a 10-month
Israeli slowdown on settlement
construction.
The Palestinians say they can-
not negotiate while Israel contin-
ues to build homes for Jews in the
West Bank and east Jerusalem -
captured lands that the Palestin-
ians claim for a future independent
state.
Seeking to break the impasse,
the U.S. has proposed that Israel
reinstate the building restrictions,
while promising key military and
diplomatic support. Israeli officials
say the deal would include deliv-
ery of 20 next-generation stealth
fighter planes and U.S. pledges to
veto anti-Israel resolutions at the
United Nations.
During the 90-day freeze peri-
od, Israel and the Palestinians
would try to work out a deal on
their future borders. With a bor-
der determined, Israel could then
resume building on any territories
it expects to keep under a future
peace deal.
Netanyahu worked out the con-
tours of the deal during a marathon
meeting last week in New York
with Clinton. But since announc-
ing its details over the weekend,
he has faced mounting opposition

inside his hard-line government.
Israeli officials said Netanya-
hu is seeking written assurances
from the Americans that he will
not have to extend the freeze after
the 90-day period ends. They said
Israel also wants it to be clear that
east Jerusalem - claimed by both
sides - be enempt from the build-
ing restrictions.
A U.S. envoy, David Hale,
briefed Palestinian officials in the
West Bank Wednesday. Palestin-
ian officials have expressed con-
cern about the generous terms to
the Israelis - and the possibility of
east Jerusalem being exempt from
the building restrictions.
Palestinian negotiator Saeb
Erekat said Hale had told them
there was still no agreementcon the
U.S. proposal. "We said we will not
give any reaction before we see it
officially," Erekat said.
The Palestinians are divided
between two rival governments,
the Western-backed Palestinian
Authority that is pursuing a peace
agreement with Israel, and the
Islamic militant Hamas regime
that rules the Gaza Strip. The
Palestinians claim both areas,
located on opposite sides of Israel,
for a future state and will need to
resolve their split to establish their
country.
An Israeli airstrike ripped
through a car in Gaza City on
Wednesday, killing two militants
accused of helping kidnap a British
Broadcasting Corp. journalist in
March 2007, officials said.
The men, Islam and Moham-
med Yasin, are related and
belonged to the Army of Islam,
said a Gaza official who declined
to be named because of the sensi-
tivity of the matter. The shadowy
extremist Muslim group draws
inspiration from al-Qaida, though
it is not believed to have opera-
tional links.
Israel has killed dozens of want-
ed Palestinian militants - and a
number of bystanders - in air-
strikes over the years. But Israel
has greatly scaled back its opera-
tions since a fierce military offen-
sive in early 2009.
BBC reporter Alan Johnston
was released about four months
after his abduction in Gaza.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 18, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, November 18, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
* Unemployment in
Michigan drops
below 13 percent
Michigan's unemployment rate
dropped to 12.8 percent in October,
the first time since March 2009
the rate has been below 13 percent,
state officials said yesterday.
Michigan's current jobless rate
is significantly below the October
2009 rate of14.4 percent. Inthe past
year, the state has seen unemploy-
ment fall by 11.6 percent, compared
with a national decline of 4.9 per-
cent, according to Rick Waclawek
of the state's Bureau of Labor Mar-
ket Information. The national rate
currently is 9.6 percent.
Democratic Gov. Jennifer Gran-
holm, who leaves office at the end of
December, said the fact that Michi-
gan's jobless rate is falling faster
than the nation's is good news.
Michigan Economic Develop-
ment Corp. CEO Greg Main told
reporters yesterday that businesses
are continuing to ask for tax breaks
for new projects.
FRESNO, Calif.
Illegal immigrant
elected student
body president
The popular student body pres-
ident at California State Universi-
ty, Fresno has publicly revealed a
personal detail he long sought to
keep secret: He is an illegal immi-
grant.
Pedro Ramirez, 22, previously
told campus administrators in
confidence that he was concerned
about going public with his immi-
gration status after winning the top
post in student government.
But that changed Tuesday when
The Collegian, the newspaper at
the largest university in Califor-
nia's prolific farming region, dis-
closed his status after receiving an
anonymous e-mail.
"I don't want this issue to be
about me," Ramirez told The Asso-
ciated Press yesterday. "This is a
big, big issue that should have been
addressed a long time ago. My goal
is to bring awareness to that."
Ramirez was expected to appear
Friday at a campus rally in support
of the federal "DREAM Act," which
would create a path to citizenship
for young people living in the coun-
try illegally who attend college or
join the military.
HANOI, Vietnam
Death toll from
latest Vietnam
* floods rises to 19
Vietnam's government says eight
additional bodies have been recov-
ered after the latest round of flood-
ing in the country's central region,
raising the death toll from this
week's flooding to 19.
The government's disaster agen-
cy said on its website today that
the floods also have left six people
missing.
It said rains up to 32 inches (80
centimeters) have pounded the

region over the past four days, forc-
ing the evacuation of nearly 40,000
people.
The agency said the floods have
begun receding after submerging
nearly 30,000 homes and dam-
aged 35,000 acres (14,000 hect-
ares) of rice paddies and other
crops.
The area, one of the country's
poorest, was buffeted by three
earlier rounds of flooding since
early October that killed 167 peo-
ple.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.
Harvard comedy
show made fun of
Yale student killing
A comedy news show run by
Harvard University students is
making light of last year's killing of
a Yale University graduate student
in a parody video.
The "On Harvard Time" show
released the "Why Did I Choose
Yale?" video on Tuesday ahead of
this weekend's annual Yale-Har-
vard football game.
The spoof of a Yale admissions
office video refers to the slaying of
Placerville, Calif., resident Annie
Le (lay) when a prospective student
asks a tour guide, "What happened
to that girl that got murdered and
stuffed in a wall?"
The 24-year-old Le's body was
found behind a research lab wall in
2009. A former lab technician has
pleaded not guilty to killing her.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

Alcoholic energy
drlnks dangerous,
FDA cautions

GM set to return to
stock market today

Government could
seize products that
pose health risks
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The
Food and Drug Administration
issued warning letters yesterday
to four manufacturers of alcoholic
energy drinks often consumed by
college students, saying the caf-
feine added to their beverages is
an "unsafe food additive."
FDA Commissioner Marga-
ret Hamburg said the combina-
tions of caffeine and alcohol in
the drinks is a public health con-
cern and can lead to "a state of
wide-awake drunk." Evidence
has shown their consumption has
led to alcohol poisoning, car acci-
dents and assaults, she said.
The government could even-
tually seize the products if the
companies continue to make and
market them. The companies
have 15 days to respond to the let-
ters and either explain how they
will take their products off the
market or defend their drinks as
safe.
The government came under
increasing pressure as college
students have been hospitalized
in recent months after consuming
the drinks. The FDA said experts
have raised concerns that the caf-
feine in the drinks can mask ,a
person's feeling of intoxication,
leading to risky behavior. Many
of those who consume the drinks
are underage drinkers.
In response to such incidents,

four states - Washington, Michi-
gan, Utah and Oklahoma - have
banned the beverages. Other
states are considering similar
action.
White House Drug Policy
Director Gil Kerlikowske said
Wednesday that the FDA's quick
action to decrease consumption
of the drinks is critical.
"These products are designed,
branded, and promoted to encour-
age binge drinking," he said.
With the FDA decision immi-
nent, Phusion Projects, which
manufactures the popular Four
Loko, announced late Tuesday
that it would reformulate its
drinks and remove the caffeine.
The company's statement said
it was reformulating the drinks
after unsuccessfully tryingto deal
with "a difficult and politically-
charged regulatory environment
at both the state and federal lev-
els."
"We have repeatedly con-
tended - and still believe, as
do many people throughout the
country - that the combination
of alcohol and caffeine is safe,"
said Chris Hunter, Jeff Wright
and Jaisen Freeman, who identify
themselves as Phusion's three co-
founders and current managing
partners.
Four Loko comes in several
varieties, including fruit punch
and blue raspberry. A single-serv-
ing 23.5-ounce can sells for about
$2.50 and has an alcohol content
of 12 percent, comparable to four
beers, according to the company's
website.

GM prices its share
value at $33 after
increasing total
number of stocks
DETROIT (AP) -- The last time
General Motors threw a big party
was two years ago, for its 100th
birthday. Two months later, its
CEO was before Congress, beg-
ging for bailout money. Now GM is
getting ready for another celebra-
tion - this time for its future.
GM will be reborn as a public
company Thursday with a stock
offering, ending the government's
role as majority shareholder and
closing a remarkable chapter in
American corporate history.
The U.S. government should
make about $13.6 billion when GM
shares start trading on the New
York Stock Exchange. The federal
Treasury is unloading more than
400 million shares of GM, reduc-
ing its stake in the company from
61 percent to about 33 percent.
The IPO could wind up as the
largest in history. GM set a price
of $33 per common share yester-
day, a day after it raised the num-
ber of shares it will offer to satisfy
investor demand. When the U.S.
government and other owners sell
their shares, they'll raise $18.2
billion. GM will raise another $5
billion by selling 100 million pre-
ferred shares at $50 each.
Together, the sale of common
and preferred stock will bring the
deal's value to a record $23.2 bil-
lion.
The stock offering is the latest
in a series of head-spinning devel-
opments over the past two years

for an American corporate icon.
In 'September 2008, to mark
the beginning of its second cen-
tury, the automaker celebrated
in the grand three-story atrium
on the ground floor of its Detroit
headquarters. GM had seen a lot
of changes in its 100 years, said
then-CEO Rick Wagoner.
"In fact, it's changed a lot in
the last 100 hours," he said, refer-
ring to the banking crisis, which
was just starting to unfold. Two
months later, Wagoner found
himself in front of members of
Congress, begging for money to
keep GM alive. Four months after
that, he was ousted by President
Barack Obama.
By June 2009, GM had filed for
bankruptcy. Itemerged relieved of
most of its debt but mostly owned
by the government and saddled
with a damaging nickname: "Gov-
ernment Motors." The value of
its old stock was wiped out, along
with $27 billion in bond value.
Now GM will become a pub-
licly traded company again and
revive the stock symbol "GM."
Dan Akerson, GM's fourth CEO
in two years, will ring the opening
bell tomorrow on the New York
Stock Exchange, to celebrate the
company's rebirth.
"This is an extraordinarily
important moment in the life of
GM, along with emerging from
bankruptcy," says Steve Rattner,
who headed up Obama's auto task
force for several months. "It's not
the end of the story of government
involvement in GM, but it is a crit-
ically important step forward."
Most of the new stock will go
to institutional investors, not to
everyday investors, following a
Wall Street system that rewards

investment banks' big customers.
GM will set aside 5 percent of its
new stock for employees, retirees
and car dealers to buy at the offer-
ing price. The deadline to sign up
was Oct. 22, but the company has
not revealed how many people
took the offer.
Senior Obama administration
officials said yesterday that the#
Treasury Department sought to
strike a balance between getting
a return for taxpayers and exiting
government ownership as soon as
practical.
The government has agreed
that it will not sell shares out-
side the IPO for six months after
the sale. The officials, who spoke
on condition of anonymity, said
they would assess their options
for selling the government's stake
further.
In the stock offering, the gov-
ernment stands to make $13.6 bil-
lion if it sells 412 million shares, as
planned, for $33 apiece. It will still
have about 500 million shares, a
one-third stake. It would have to
sell those shares over the next two
to three years at about $53 a share
for taxpayers to come out even.
The total bailout was $50 bil-
lion. GM has already paid or
agreed to pay back $9.5 billion.
That comes from cash and pay-
ments related to preferred stock
held by the government.
The GM debut comes at a time
when auto stocks are performing
well generally. The stock of GM's
crosstown rival, Ford, has risen
steadily this.year, from about $10
in January to about $16.50 as the
GM IPO approached. The stock
traded for a dollar in November
2008, and Ford never even took
bailout money.

Obama advocates for Senate'
approval of nuclear arms pact

Two police officers stand guard yesterday at the main train station in Berlin, Germany.
German officials boost
securitylevel afternew
terrorism warnings

Treaty to shrink
U.S. and Russian
arsenals of strategic
warheads
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama will push for
Senate ratification of a nuclear
arms pact with Russia before
year's-end despite opposition
from a key Republican senator,
the White House said yesterday.
Press Secretary Robert Gibbs
said he believes the New START
deal will come up and pass dur-
ing the lame-duck Congress, now
in progress.
The pact is a top foreign poli-
cy priority for Obama. It would
shrink the U.S. and Russian arse-
nals of strategic warheads, and
revive on-the-ground inspec-
tions that ceased when a previous
treaty expired nearly a year ago.
Sen. Jon Kyl, a leading Repub-
lican voice on the issue, dealt
the pact a major setback Tues-
day by coming out against a vote
this year. Kyl, who's been seek-
ing more money and focus on
maintaining and modernizing
the remaining arsenal, said more
time was needed before moving
forward.
When pressed on the issue yes-
terday, Kyl told reporters: "We're
talking in good faith."
The treaty has support from
some moderate Republicans, but
Kyl's opposition makes approval
a tough climb since many in the
GOP were looking to his assent
before giving their backing. Six-
ty-seven votes are needed for
approval, so Democrats need at
least eight Republican votes for
ratification in the current Senate.

Once the newly elected Senate
is sworn in January, Democrats
need the support of at least 14
Republicans.
"The president will continue
to push this and believes the Sen-
ate should act on it before they go
home," Gibbs told reporters at the
White House.
"I think we'll have enough
votes to pass it" even without
Kyl's support, Gibbs said, calling
it crucial to the nuclear inspec-
tion regime and international
relations.
"I don't think it's going to get
pushed into next year," he said.
Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid, D-Nev., issued a state-
ment yesterday supporting quick
action on the treaty, saying he
was "puzzled" by Kyl's stance.
But the administration's hopes
suffered another hit when Repub-
lican Sen. George Voinovich, an
Ohio moderate who is retiring
this year, expressed his reserva-
tions with the treaty.
"America's grand strategy
approach towards Russia must be
realistic, it must be agile, and as .1
have said it must take into account
the interests of our NATO allies.
I am deeply concerned the New
START Treaty may once again
undermine the confidence of our
friends and allies in Central and
Eastern Europe," Voinovich said
in a statement.
A clearly frustrated Sen. Rich-
ard Lugar of Indiana, the top
Republican on the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee and a treaty
supporter, suggested the admin-
istration press ahead with a vote
despite the opposition of Kyl and
others. Lugar, a leading voice on
nuclear issues, said if the White
House and Democrats wait until
next year and the new Congress,

the process would have to start
anew with hearings, committee
votes and a greater risk that the
treaty isn't ratified.
"This is a situation of some
national security peril," Lugar
told reporters.
Obama and Russian President
Dmitry Medvedev signed the
pact in Prague in April. Obama
met with Medvedev last weekend
on the sidelines of an economic
meeting in Japan and emphasized
his commitment to advancing the
treaty during the lame-duck ses-
sion.
The treaty would reduce U.S.
and Russian strategic warheads
to 1,550 for each country from
the current ceiling of 2,200. It
also would set up new procedures
to allow both countries to inspect
each other's arsenals to verify
compliance.
Sen. John Kerry, top Democrat
on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, said there were no
substantive disagreements on
the treaty itself and that a major
objection of Kyl's should have
been removed when the adminis-
tration pledged an additional $4.1
billion for weapons moderniza-
tion programs.
Earlier yesterday, Secretary
of State Hillary Rodham Clinton
beseeched the Senate to vote this
year.
"This is not an issue that can
afford to be postponed," the sec-
retary said after the meeting.
Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said
yesterday that the treaty must
advance.
"I'm very comfortable with
our military capability that's rep-
resented in this treaty. I'm very
comfortable with the verification
piece," Mullen told reporters.

German chancellor:
Security threat will
not stop my travels
BERLIN (AP) - Germany sent
hundreds of police officers into
railway stations, airports and other
public places yesterday, after the
nation's topsecurityofficialwarned
of an increased threat from Islamic
extremists.
The move came after new, tan-
gible intelligence came to light over
the past weeks and months, Inte-
rior Minister Thomas de Maiziere
said. Germans will notice a visible
response to the threat, including
an increased police presence at air-
ports and railway stations to remain
in place untilfurther notice, he said.
"These measures are aimed at
prevention and deterrence," de
Maiziere said. "We are showing
force, that we will notbe bullied."
Despite the heightened security
presence, de Maiziere urged calm.
Officials did not provide specific
details about the threat.
"There is reason for worry, but
there is no reason for hysteria," he
said. "We will not allow interna-
tional terror to limit us in our way
of life and our culture of freedom."
Germany has no color-coded or
numbered-tier system for measur-
ing security levels, comparable to
those in the U.S., Britain or France
and tends to be far more cautious in
publicly discussing the degrees of
threat, on grounds it could endan-
ger efforts to prevent an attack.
Germany has more than 4,900
soldiers serving in northern
Afghanistan as part of the NATO
security force there and has long
expressed concern it could be tar-
geted by extremists.

Chancellor Angela Merkel's
spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said
there were no plans to cancel or
change any trips or public appear-
ances by the German leader. He
echoed de Maiziere's statement that
the country must not allow terror
threats to impinge on its freedom -
"then we would give the terrorists a
cheap victory."
Though Germany has escaped
any major terrorist attacks like the
Madrid train bombings of 2004 and
the London transit attacks of 2005,
at least two major plots have been
thwarted or failed before they could
be carried out.
"Besides the previously known
findings, we now have additional,
relevantindications of possible dan-
ger that security authorities agree
justify our current assessment that
we are now facing a new situation,"
de Maiziere said.
He cited a tip from another
unspecified country about a sus-
pected attack planned for the end
of November - though he didn't say
where it was supposed to take place.
That tip arrived after the inter-
ception of two mail bombs mailed
from Yemen to the U.S. - one of
which went through a German
airport before it was found in Brit-
ain. The Yemen plot points to "the
adaptability and the persistence of
terrorists in pursuing their aims,"
and underlines "the reliability of
some leads," de Maiziere said in
a statement to reporters, without
elaborating.
He said German authorities had
also gathered concrete intelligence
of their own pointing to "sustained
efforts" by Islamic extremist
groups to plan attacks in Germany.
Consequently, authorities have
launched investigations that could
lead to charges.

A 4


4A - Thursday, November 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CAMERON AT CNEVEU(S@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

CAMERON NEVEU I

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
It's time to repeal DADT
Obama and Congress should end archaic policy
During his campaign, President Barack Obama said that
overturning the military's ban on openly gay members
would be a priority of his administration. But there has
been no improvement since he took office. Obama has failed to
take action and the U.S. Congress has been unable to pass legis-
lation on the issue. Earlier this month, the U.S. Supreme Court
stated that the ban could be enforced even while it's under scru-
tiny by a federal appeals court. But the federal government needs
to put a stop to this archaic ban. Congress should repeal the ban.
In the meantime, Obama should issue an executive order to halt
enforcement of the ban.

Sf,9T 4 .,E '0CA y ML .
oA THANC 1 TO-.
In defense o tree huggers
any history book will tell wet and has some chickens next to scientific concentrations, it's a moot
you, the environmental move- it. Actually, that is the entire poem. point at best. (Note to English majors:
ment has often been associ- It literally has - get this! - sixteen A good rhetorical way to refute your
ated with fascism words, and he allegedly wrote it in opponents' arguments is to simply
and is thought to five minutes. But it is a masterpiece, call all their points - or their faces -
have caused our according to people that hold degrees "moot.") Simply put, PitE majors don't
country's Great that you don't. Considering that it is need fancy mathematics to tackle
Depression. But a masterpiece: (1) What does it say such issues as sustainability and glob-
public perception about the human condition? (2) What al warming. People are wasteful, the
of both the envi- does it say about the chicken condi- earth is heatingup. It's not that hard!
ronment and envi- tion? (3) Which condition (human or
ronmentalists is chicken) is more emotionally arrest-
improving. ing? (Be sure to mention the wheel-
Before I write WILL barrow at some point.)"espiew at you
too much, though, GRUNDLER Needless to say, like many people D
I should stress that who enjoy nature but have difficulty think, PitE isn't
in today's column making life plans, I switched to PitE.
we will absolute- Littledid I knowthatthe majorhas vir- just for hippies.
ly not discuss whether the current tually the same reputation as English -
global warming trend is man-made many non-PitE students just don't take
or natural - is that what you were it seriously. So I'd like to correct some
expecting? Good lord, if you don't of the false assumptions people have of course, cynics will jump on this
think humanity is causing it, then about the concentration, starting with: and say, "So you'll be leavingrthe actual
you better make sure you don't oper- "Don'tronly hippies major in PitE?" solving ofthe energy and climate crisis
ate heavy machinery, serve on a jury This is absolutely false. PitE to engineers, physicists, etc., hmmm?"
or reproduce for the rest of your life. attracts people from all walks of life - This is rather petty, but it deserves
No, today's column is about the Pro- hippies, hipsters, artists, animal lov- a response. Consider this: until we
gram in the Environment major - the ers, super-meta-ironic self-identifying solve the energy and climate crisis,
only concentration that includes the anti-hipsters, people who enjoy recre- who will actively nag people to turn
words "program in the" in its title for ation, people who enjoy recreational off lights? To recycle? To use reus-
absolutely no reason. Anyway, despite marijuana and, of course, vegetarians. able water bottles? Reusable grocery
the increasing amount of respect with To say that only hippies major in PitE bags? Certainly not engineers and
which we treat the environment, or is to say that only scumbags become physicists, who often have less social
with which we want to treat the envi- lawyers. Well, let's use a less conten- skills than a cactus.
ronment but are just kind of lazy, or tious analogy: to say that only hippies Ultimately, the Program in the
with which we would like to see our major in PitE is to say that only geeks Environment major isn't some use-
public officials treat the environment major in engineering. It's simply not less degree to be frowned upon like
if they weren't brainless gerbils, many true. Anyone can love and respect the English or Organizational Studies -
students scoff at the PitE concentra- earth unless they're an asteroid. it's a dynamic, interesting alternative
tion (pronounced "pity"). Another ignorant utterance is: to real degrees in biology or ecology,
Ofcourse, I'm no stranger to people "I've heard there's no math involved degrees that require considerably
scoffing at my major. I was going to in PitE and your individual 'program' more effort. However, it will still get
concentrate in English for a long time can be laughably easy." This is a typi- you a job. At least I hope so. I don't
and had to deal with a LOT of verbal cal response from students study- want to go back to being an English
and physical abuse, mostly from my ing triple advanced biochemistry or major. If life is all about a red wheel-
father. Also, I became tired of writ- honors theoretical particle physics barrow then we're all doomed, no
ing papers that featured topics like: and it's often tinged with jealousy. matter what happens to the climate.
"In William Carlos Williams's 'The While it's true that thyfiner points
Red Wheelbarrow,' the speaker med- of calculus and physics and all that - Will Grundler is an assistant
itates on the supreme importance of stuff aren't stressed in environment editorial page editor. He can be
a reddish wheelbarrow that's a little classes as much as they are in other reached at wgru@umich.edu
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited for
clarity, length and factual accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
Regulation without restriction

S

To sidestep the Defense Department's
ban on openly gay people serving in the
military, President Bill Clinton created
DADT in 1994. The executive order allows
LGBT community members to serve in
the military with the condition that they
do not reveal their sexual orientation. On
Nov. 12, the U.S. Supreme Court decided
that the military could continue to enforce
DADT while a federal appeals court delib-
erates on whether or not it will see a case
determining its legality. The decision over-
rules a California federal district judge.
Prior to the Supreme Court's decision on
Friday, The Washington Post published a
summary of a report by a Pentagon study
group that has not yet been released to the
public. According to two anonymous indi-
viduals "familiar" with the document, the
report includes the results of a survey that
indicated that most military personnel
wouldn't object to serving alongside a mem-
ber of the LGBT community'-'thouabout
40 percent of the Marine Corps expressed
concern about lifting the ban. The report
included a potential plan to end DADT's
enforcement.
According to a September Gallup poll,
69 percent of Americans are in favor of
repealing DADT. The survey summarized
in The Washington Post article suggests

members of the military share this grow-
ing acceptance. The results from these
studies indicate that the repeal of DADT
would not negatively affect the military's
functioning. There is little reason to keep
the draconian policy in place.
Following the midterm election, the U.S.
Congress has entered a lame-duck ses-
sion. Currently, Congress has the power to
reverse a discriminatory policy. Efforts to
repeal the ban have stalled in the Senate in
recent months, but now outgoing senators
have nothing to lose. Now is the time to
push legislation through and stop discrim-
ination against members of the LGBT com-
munity who want to serve their country in
the armed forces.
But Obama has the opportunity to reverse
the policy as well. He ran on a promise to
repeal DADT - and it's time for him to deliv-
er. He should put pressure on Congress to
pass legislation ending the ban. In the inter-
im, he should enact an executive order that
stalls enforcement of the ban completely.
In the end, Congress must be the insti-
tution to end this discriminatory policy.
But just as Clinton initiated DADT with
an executive order, Obama should issue
an executive order that puts a hold on its
enforcement until the ban is legislatively
overturned.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft,Asa Smith, Julian Toles, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner
ACLU-UM I
Revise DPS trespass policy
p '

On Tuesday, the undergraduate chapter of
the American Civil Liberties Union sent a let-
ter to University President Mary Sue Coleman
and Department of Public Safety Chief Ken
Magee regarding DPS's trespass policy.
ACLU-UM believes thatthe policy is vaguely
worded, which allows for too much discretion
as to who is banned from campus. This places
an immense and limitless amount of power in
the hands of DPS officers.
Furthermore, to appeal a trespass order, an
individual must ask for a review of his or her
case by the same people who issued the ban in
the first place. To keep the policy from infring-
ing upon First Amendment free speech and
assembly rights, the policy must be more spe-
cifically worded. It must specify when a tres-
pass order is appropriate and further define
the process through which it is issued. Addi-
tionally, individuals must be able to appeal
their trespass order to a body independent
from DPS for review.
Currently, DPS.Policy and Procedural Order
on Trespass delegates the power to issue a tres-
pass warning to DPS officers if, among other
violations, an individual "disrupts the opera-
tions and lawful functions of the University or...
demonstrates a risk of physical harm or injury to
others or property." This policy allows officers
excessive discretion in deciding what is or is not
"disruptive." Vagueness in the policy unneces-
sarily creates room for a DPS officer to overstep
his or her legal authority and restrict speech
protected by the First Amendment. The policy
also effectively dissuades individual free expres-
sion for fear of receiving a trespass warning.
Along with amending the conditions under

which trespass warning may be issued, a
revised policy must create an appeals process
that includes an objective, independent review
body. Current policy now states that an individ-
ual may appeal the warning "by appointment
with the Director of the Department of Public
Safety." But an appeal to the same body that
issued the punishment isn't enough protection
for individuals who have been issued trespass
orders. The appeals process must be reformed
to give an individual a meaningful opportunity
to challenge the validity of the punishment.
DPS's trespass policy must not come with
the risk of banning free speech on campus. As
an academic community that encourages the
free transfer of ideas, University policy must
be tailored to avoid silencing protest or speech
in any way. As members of the University com-
munity, we understand that DPS must be able
to effectively keep our campus safe. And we
believe this objective can still be accomplished
with a modified trespass policy.
There may be instances in which the ban-
ning of an individual from campus is necessary
in order to ensure the safety of the community,
but this type of action shouldn't be taken with-
out due process. Everyone has the right to feel
safe on campus and should be comfortable uti-
lizing the systems that are in place to protect
them, so long as they are fair and just. A new
policy must maintain the necessity of student
security while providing protection of the
First Amendment.
This viewpoint was written by Mallory Jones,
Rebecca Egler and Bennett Stein on behalf of the
University's undergraduate chapter of the ACLU.

Lots of people in today's politi-
cal climate make accusations
that the government is too
big and frequently
intrudes on peo-
ple's lives (see the
midterm election).
But these accu-
sations are espe-
cially prevalent
in debates sur-
rounding health
regulations on
consumer .prod- JEREMY
ucts like tobacco LEVY
and food. For
instance, many
have argued that
the University was overstepping
its boundaries when it went ahead
with the campus-wide smoking ban,
set to take effect in July 2011. Cities
and states that contemplated a soda
tax to curb obesity this past spring,
such as New Mexico and Baltimore,
received similar scrutiny. Every pro-
posal of this nature is accompanied
by a debate over the boundaries of
government regulation, and these
boundaries are being determined on
a case-by-case basis.A new case came
under scrutiny on Nov.10, as the Food
and Drug Administration proposed
36 new graphic cigarette labels, nine
of which will be required on cigarette
packages by October 2012.
Unlike the current warnings that
are on cigarette labels, the new labels
display disturbing images that are
intended to remind consumers of the
dangers of smoking. For example, one
design has a picture of a man smok-
ing out of a hole in his neck. Addition-
ally, the proposed labels would take
up half of the package and would be
accompanied with phrases like "ciga-
rettes cause fatal lung disease."
I'm not worried about government
overstepping its bounds in these
cases. Under the assumption that a
soda tax actually would be effective
at reducing obesity, I would support

it. But I think it would be particu-
larly difficult in this case for anyone
to argue that the government has
no right to regulate cigarette labels.
Many of the typical arguments
against government regulations sim-
ply don't apply in this situation.
To explain why, I want to invoke a
philosophy called "libertarian pater-
nalism," coined by Richard Thaler
and Cass Sunstein, an economics pro-
fessor and law professor respectively,
in their 2008 book "Nudge." The main
premise of this concept is that any
program manager - from govern-
ment officials to business owners -
can attempt to influence a consumer's
decisions without restricting that
consumer's options. This is because
humans all have natural psychologi-
cal biases that frequently prevent us
from acting in our long-term interests.
For instance, a dining hall manager
can utilize the information that indi-
viduals are more likely to pick the first
food item they see. If he seeks to influ-
ence consumer health, the manager
can arrange the healthiestitems in the
front of the cafeteria. In this way, he
influences consumers to make health-
ier decisions without restricting the
options of pizza and a burger.
The logic behind the smoking
labels is similar. People who smoke
are likely aware of the health effects
of smoking and many want to quit.
But when a cigarette is actually
accessible, it's easy for an individual
to ignore that information - often
because of addiction. The new smok-
ing labels - which are much more
difficult to ignore than current warn-
ings - would serve as a reminder at
every point in the smoking process.
Consumers would see the warnings
every time they buy a pack or pull
out a cigarette. In a 2001 survey by
the Canadian Cancer Society, 44 per-
cent of smokers said that these types
of labels, which were introduced in
Canada in 2000, "increased their
motivation to quit."

But the labels don't restrict con-
sumer options. They don't place
increased financial burden on people
who smoke like a tax would, and they
don't limit where an individual can
smoke, as would a public ban.
New cigarette
labels won't restrict
consumer options.

0
0

Regardless, cigarette companies
have objected to the changes on any
grounds possible. In this case more
than any other, it won't be very con-
vincing for them to argue that these
labels place undue burden on people
who smoke.
If you look at the reader comments
for any news report about the pro-
posed labels, you will see objections
along the lines of, "What's to stop
the government from putting dead
body labels on cars and fast food?" To
this, I argue that few would consider
applying a similar policy to any other
product. According to the Center for
Disease Control, tobacco use is the
leading cause of preventable deaths
worldwide. It's for that reason that
gruesome labels have been instituted
for cigarettes, rather than any other
product, in 39 different countries.
When it comes to smoking, it's too
easy for individuals to ignore infor-
mation that would be beneficial in
the long term. The new FDA labels
seek to counteract such a trend, and
they do so without restricting any
consumer choices. They maybe grue-
some, but if they're effective they
could re-energize the fight against
smoking in the U.S.
- Jeremy Levy can be reached
at jeremlev@umich.edu.

lhe
podium

Thoughts from the Daily: Yesterday, the FDA said it
was closing time for Four Loko and other alcoholic energy
drinks. This Prohibition-esque decision goes too far.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Podium.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.comh

Thursday, November 18, 2010 - 5A

GOP
From Page 1A
financial aid appropriations will
most likely remain stable, which
will generate difficulties for stu-
dents as college tuition continues
to rise.
"The general trend that I'm
expecting is the national Pell Grant
is going to be stagnant, so it is not
going to be keeping pace with the
increasing of college costs," Kan-
trowitz said. "We're going to see
very sharp increases in college
tuition without corresponding
increases in federal grants. College
is going to become less affordable
for low- and moderate-income stu-
dents."
. Kantrowitz said he foresees that
in addition to a decrease in gradu-
ation rates, the increase in col-
lege tuition will lead to a national
downward shift in student matric-
ulation in four-year institutions
as they switch to more affordable
alternatives.
"It is in turn going to cause low-
and moderate-income students at
an increasing rate to switch from
four-year institutions to two-year
institutions, and from non-profit
institutions to public institutions,"
Kantrowitz said. "So we're going
to see declines in bachelor's degree
attainment as a result."
Kantrowitz added that while the
future of legislation in Congress is
uncertain, he sees the Republicans
grappling with the choice either to
attempt to block progressive legis-
lation or to attempt to compromise
in order to prevent "being seen as
obstructionist."
"I think there's going to be a
lot of resistance to anything that
spends more money," he said. "The
difference between Democrats and
Republicans is not that one party
really exercises fiscal restraint, it's
really rather that the Democrats
spend money on programs while
the Republicans spend the money
on reducing taxes."
He continued: "I think given
that we have record budget defi-
TRIBES
From Page 1A
pology.
All of the committee's suggestions
are in-line with the finalization of
NAGPRA human remains transfer
rules, which were completed earlier
this year, according to the release.
The suggestions outline that the
University will develop a clear policy
on how to transfer Native American
human remains and how to handle
requests on information about the
process.
Forrest made minimal changes
to the recommendations, includ-
ing halting all further research on
culturally unidentifiable Native
American remains and bringing in
at least one committee member who
is not affiliated with the University
to bring a tribal perspective to the
group, the release said.
Those changes made by Forrest
were based on public feedback gath-
ered in October, the release stated.
Other committee guidelines,
all of which the office of the Vice
ROOMS
From Page 1A

ness and Pierpont Commons on
North Campus.
Nader Hakim, president of the
Muslim Students' Association, said
his group has been a major propo-
nent of these spaces, adding in an
e-mail interview that the organiza-
tion "provides the structural sup-
port that people need to approach
the administration about improv-
ing and creating reflection rooms."
Hakim added that the hard work
of individuals are really the driving
force behind MSA's efforts.
"It's the motivated Muslims on
campus who take it upon them-
selves to help out their brothers and
sisters in faith," he said.
Laurie Alexander, director of the
UGLi, echoed Hakim's sentiments,
saying that individual students
stepped forward to advocate for
reflection room space.
According to Hakim, LSA junior
Ahmad Hasan was one of those stu-
dents driving the push for reflec-
tion rooms.
"The administration was
extremely supportive and recep-
tive to our request," Hasan wrote
in an e-mail interview. "They gave
us a lot of room to express what we
wanted the reflection room to look
like and were willing to make it
happen."
Alexander noted that the room
has already seen significant use
after being re-purposed for reflec-
tion.
"It was definitely a need that we
were able to meet," she said.
Hakim said officials have also
been responsive to student com-
plaints about conditions of the
reflection rooms. Graduate stu-
dent instructor mailboxes near

cits, it's goingto be very difficult to
see any increases on spending on
federal student aid and certainly
not any kind of bold increase."
Kantrowitz also said he doesn't
foresee any change in recently
established federal health care
legislation that applies to students,
like the Affordable Care Act, which
extends coverage to individuals
up to age 26 under their parent's
health insurance plans. He said he
believes this is because young peo-
ple tend not to have serious health
issues that lead to the use of gov-
ernment resources.
"I don't see them rolling health
care back," Kantrowitz said. "The
26-year olds generally don't have
very many health problems. It's
a way of reducing the risk of the
insured pool. And certainly it
increases the cost of the insurance,
but they typically will pass it on to
the consumers indirectly soI don't
see that changing."
Mike Boulus, executive director
of Presidents Council, State Uni-
versities of Michigan, said student
aid legislation within the state may
face complications, since Michigan
is dealing with a nearly $2 billion
deficit for the 201 fiscal year, near-
ly 25 percent of which includes
higher education costs.
"Without a new tax structure
and new revenue, we're looking
at possible severe cuts and higher
education could be among the
victims," Boulus said. "And if the
state continues to disinvest in the
institutions, and we want to main-
tain the high standards of quality
education, particularly at Univer-
sity of Michigan, something has to
give."
Boulus said while the University
has been efficient in budgeting in
some sectors, it still can't prevent
the imminent future increase in
tuition.
"Some of it is about that cost
containment stuff which I think
University of Michigan has really
excelled at, but at some point its
tuition is going to continue to rise,
which means the need for more
student financial aid," he added.
President for Research has agreed
to follow, stipulate that if the Univer-
sity transfers culturally unidentifi-
able remains, it should also include
funerary objects in the transfer. The
guidelines also state that the human
remains committee will remain a
standing comlittee d gontinue to
advise the OVPR.
The OVPR has also adopted a sug-
gestion from tribal leaders, vowing
to leave the remains in their current
locations while deciding where to
returnthem, accordingtotherelease.
Forrest said in the press release that
his office believes it is important to
include input from committee mem-
bers with tribal knowledge as the
University continues to develop its
remains policy.
"We simply must get all parties
talking to each other again," Forrest
said in the release. "We believe con-
sultation, on all aspects of this sensi-
tive issue, is critical to developing a
sharedunderstanding."
According to the release, Univer-
sity officials will send letters explain-
ing the new transfer process to tribal
leaders by the end of the month.
the Chemistry Building reflection
room used to interrupt students'
prayers, he said. Those mailboxes
have now been removed, according

to Nina Grant, director of Multi-
Ethnic Student Affairs and the
Trotter Multicultural Center.
"It was an individual student
that brought that concern through
the Dean of Students office," Grant
said.
MSA has raised issues of cleanli-
ness in the Haven Hall location as
well, and Hakim said maintenance
has already started to improve.
Though the reflection rooms are
secular in nature, Muslim students
are among the most frequent users.
The privacy offered by the reflec-
tion rooms allows them to quietly
perform their five daily prayers
while on campus.
"I don'tknow of any other specif-
ic organization that uses the reflec-
tion rooms," Hakim wrote. "But
I have seen other individuals sit-
ting quietly in personal reflection,
especially in the League reflection
room."
Hasan agreed with Hakim, writ-
ing that he has seen students of all
faiths and backgrounds make good
use of the rooms, either for reli-
gious purposes or "simply to enjoy
some personal time." Hasan added
that the rooms were intended as a
safe space for University students
on campus to relax and reflect.
"Overall, the Muslims on cam-
pus are very grateful to the Univer-
sity and student leaders on campus
for recognizing this need and fill-
ing it," Hakim said. "Speaking for
Muslims, I know these rooms are
frequented every single day."
Hakim said the addition of more
reflection rooms remains a prior-
ity for MSA, and the organization
hopes to push for a location at the
Union in the near future.

LEAVIN' FALL BEHIND

SAM WOLSON/Dail
University custodian Robert Harrison shovels leaves into a trash can in front of the Michigan Union yesterday. Harrison, who drives 97 miles everyday from his home in
Freeland, Mich., said picking'up the leaves is a constant battle because he knows that tomorrow he will be back to do the same thing.

SATELLITE
From Page 1A
through multiple stages, which
included design efforts, testing and
interfacing to build the RAX.
"We know now how it should
behave in orbit," she said.
According to Sloboda, the team
also manufactured many of the
spacecraft's materials, includ-
ing parts members had originally
planned to purchase.
"Our team was like, 'You know
what, if we want it done right, we
have to do it ourselves,"' he said.
Once in orbit, the RAX will relay
data to the team, which intends to
examine the ways Earth-to-Space-
craft communication is disrupted
by space anomalies called magnet-
ic field-aligned irregularities.
Radio signals will be trans-
mitted from Alaska into plasma
instabilities within the ionosphere
- the highest region of the atmo- A part of
sphere. The RAX will then record
and process these signals before commu
they are sent back to Earth to be Thou
analyzed. RAX w
"We have antennas that we Springn
can use to 'talk' to the satellite," apprehc
explained team member John membe
Springmann, a Rackham student. satellite
"We can send commands up to it, up to 2t
and ground stations around the "It'sz
world have volunteered to help us said. "N

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily

the student-built RAX satellite that is slated to launch this Friday.

nicate with it."
ugh there's a chance the
ill fail - a possibility that
mann said has created some
ension among the group -
rs are confident that the
e could remain in orbit for
5 years.
really just begun," Spangelo
We're trying to constantly

bring in new people and get them
involved.It's an ongoing project."
And though the satellite has
yet to launch, the RAX team has
already garnered attention on
campus. During her Oct. 27 State
of the University speech, Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman
praised the efforts of the RAX
team, calling their work "teaching

and learning in action."
"The University of Michigan
flourishes because our commu-
nity believes in a promising future,
one shaped by spectacular teach-
ers, life-changing science and
research, and talented graduates
whose creativity is, literally, out of
this world," Coleman said during
the speech.

Newly elected IFC President Jared Jaffe talks at IFC elections last night in the Anderson Room'of the Michigan Union.

ELECTIONS
From Page 1A
he said in his candidacy speech.
"And if you are not vocal, this is
detrimental to our society."
In an interview after the elec-
tion, Jaffe said one of his main
goals as IFC president will be to
improve the image of fraternities
on campus.
"We need to affect the commu-
nity positively so that people know
that fraternities aren't just about
hanging out and that we do things
to better themselves and the com-
munity," he said.
Schmidt was elected at Panhel's
elections on Tuesday. In an inter-
view after IFC elections last night,
Schmidt said she ran on a platform
of "positive visibility."
"Pretty much promoting our

positive image on campus, wheth-
er through wearing letters or doing
service in our letters," she said.
Ryan Knapp, IFC's public rela-
tions chair, explained in an inter-
view that IFC and Panhel follow
similar election protocols that use
a run-off election system.
"We have a slate where each
candidate has interviewed with
their respective member of the
e-board and then as a board, they
have an application process, where
they have specific questions that
they answer," Knapp explained on
Monday afternoon before the IFC
elections. "And then, we interview
them, and we create a slate of peo-
ple we think are qualified for the
position and then we present that
to the president."
Knapp said candidates could
submit applications between Oct. I
and Oct. 22 and were interviewed

by current executive board mem-
bers between Oct. 22 and Nov. 10.
After that, the executive board had
a week to produce the slate that
was presented at the elections.
"Every chapter that's recog-
nized by IFC has a seat at the table
and each one, provided they're in
good standing, has a vote (in the
election)," Knapp said.
IFC elections also follow a strict
protocol with specific time restric-
tions.
"It is a long process, because to
give everyone a fair shot, there are
three parts," Knapp said. "There's
the speech by each candidate,
there's a pro and con for each can-
didate, and there's a discussion
afterwards."
Outgoing Panhel President
Katie Rosenberg explained that
Panhel elections follow a similar
process.

SALAM tIDA/Daily
"It's the same deal, the president
speaks for five minutes, the other
candidates for three," Rosenberg
said. "We don't have the discus-
sion in between and we don't do
question and answer. We just do
speeches, mostly pros, we don't
really ever do cons."
And while the process is long,
Knapp explained it is necessary
for the organizations to function
properly.
"We've had pretty good pro-
tocol as far as the process goes,
we're going to try to really stress
upon the fact that we're real-
ly electing our future leaders.
We're really trying to find the
best candidate for the position at
this time," he said. "It's a process
that's worked really well for us in
the past, when you're trusted in
something of this magnitude, it is
really important."


6A - Thursday, November 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
! 3 BDRM APT: Furnished, Heat,
Water Incl., Parking. Close to Campus!
Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
4 BDRM house. May '11. Mary Ct.
IM bldg. Prkg. $2290. 845-399-9904.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS is now leasing
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today.l to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!! SWEET 6-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3600 (313) 215-8115.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!!
2 & 3 bdrms, lots of closet space, flat
screen tvs, modern furniture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!3 BEDROOM HOUSE! Just one
block from S. University, near B-
school and Ed. School. 2 bathrooms! 2
Kitchens! Large bdrms, 2 parking
spaces, full basement for storage, laun-
dry facilities, unfurnished. New up-
grades planned for Fall 2011! $2,175 +
utilities. Please contact our leasing
agent Patty White: 734-320-1245 or
email pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State St./Athletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., 1
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
.o6 roperties.com
734-663-5609

625 Churcht s .(74)6680100
anot S. Fores
Svnry2 6rorfs w/ largeliing rooms &
rer bedroom.sreat4fr 2s4people!
Updated kitchens and bthroorms, A/C.
rlary. & FREE wireless
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available Spring & Fall.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1007 S. State. Furnished,
free laundry, free parking.
$4300/month. Call 734-678-0122
6 BEDROOM HOUSE great location,
2 blocks to mudbowl, Linden St., free
laundry & parking, furnished, 2 baths,
fireplace, central A/C, large bedrooms,
new kitchen all ammenities, Fall 2011,
$3600. Ask for Jim 734-426-4772.
3 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #1,
$1850/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM APT 1004 s. forest #B3,
$1450/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.Com

the Rif*c.
' 4~ed and01
t9 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
C'entral Campuns rDowm twn
rNorth Campus rwest side
Lt Our Family Tak .dmo or
Ptuatkcid t (:L 6 1a
734.7419300
WWW.ambOrpartmts.et
FREE BUBBLE ISLAND TEA, with
every new tour. Now Taking Reserva-
tions. For best selection come in today,
we sold out early last year. Don't miss
out on the Best of Central Campus! We
have Rooms, Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bed-
room furnished apartments for Spring/-
Fall 2011. Call us Today at 734-761-
2680 or Visit us at: www.University-
Towers-MIcom
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.eom
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskman@yahoo.com.
1039 BALDWIN
Spacious 4 br. apts. in a gorgeous con-
verted home! High ceilings, bay win-
dows, fireplace, hardwood firs, &
screened in porch. Large backyard w/
parking included!!
www.varsitymanagement.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
625 Church St.(34) 668-1100
920 ewey
Near Athletic Campus!! Large 5 br. house
w/fireplace efinished attic full basement.
and 42' Stscreen 1V' !Hge yard w/
plony of parkng!

FALL 2011 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4700
7 510 Catherine $3700
7 1129 WhiteSt $4200
6 412 N. Thayer $3600
6 418 N. State $3500
6 605 E. Hoover $3720
6 716 E. Kingsley $3400
6 1207 Church $3800
5 1024 Packard $2850
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927S. Division $2240
4 1117 S. Forest $2440
3 507 Sauer Ct $2000
3 932 Mary $1800
Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991

ARBOR
PROPERTIES
(734) 994-3157
wwwarborprops.com

STU DEN T H USING, INC:
IS8 Locations to choose from
mnynon Central Campus
Luather Furnituret0Ri/F NTERNET
tI-leelri-level sbleatu Watrotcnluded,
651., 1,2? & 3 !sdruru Parkingtnirruoded
iUpdated Kitchens Completely Furwished
Electroei Entries On Site Laundry
Balconies & Patios Air Conditioning
On AALA bus nlies Garbage Disposals
Trash Removal Dishwashers
FREE HIGH SPE ED
INTERNET CONNECTION
Direr/VowAoai/a ie
Visit us sn the web at
WWW.primeShcOm
Stop by our ofSce at 610 (hutch St.
or cal us tod ay at
(734) 761-8000
to arrange viewings.
Amenities vary by location

Distinctive
Award-Winning
Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old
West Side, Burns
Park

*I

Ojibwe Culture
t 2. TT
t grgat Meet the first Ann Arborites, the Ojibwe
tribe, who will offer authentic music
language, and rituals during the 12:10 worship
service at the First Congregational Church.
Sunday, Nverbcr 21, 12:10 t
www.ccannarbor g

1

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, November 18, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Discounted price 35 Stop asking for 48 Prohibitions
1 Encircled by 5 Antonius Block's cards 50 Bad start?
6 Persian faith chessopponent in 38 Like a USN 52 HQs for B-2s
11 One with acover Bergman's"The volunteer 53 Not leading
14 More ofta novice Seventh Seat" 41 Parakeet'seats anyone
15 Lunch hr. end, 6 Nuclear Nobelist 43Distance on a 56 Highest
often Niels tank Russian territory,
16 A victory may 7 Prefix with gram 45 _del Fuego once?
break one 8 Author Wouk 47 Itsusouthem 57 Kerfuffle
17 Marxmas a Druid? 9 Paraphemalia border is about 58 Grille cover
19 Rio hello 10 "That's my cue!" seven times 59 From Essen to
20 PD precinct boss 11 Godfather longer than its Leipzig,
21 Chants ofta portrayer tumed northem one locally
23 tor s 12 sop ner? ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
26 Cell component perhaps B O RAT B O Z R I O T S
27 Lift with effort 13 It can raise I M AGE I O U I N D I E
280pin agy 1dou s L 1 V E R P O O L A C C E N T
20 Built up charges 16 Vinyl successors,
31Partsofpersonal briefy E T E R N A L U N E A R T H
music libraries 22 Chiang Ma P A W I D S
33 Musical intervals resident K N O C K A B O U T H A R T
36 ASCAP rival 23 Ewe kids A U D IO O G R E R H10
37 First rabies 24 Asian cartoon B R I O C H E H A M P T O N
vaccinecreator genre O S S H U R L M A U D E
39 Interior decorator's 25Beatle in a bout?
concem 26 Fortification
40 Classic breath 29 Musical seconds A M C M A E
freshener 30Notchargingfor A S U S U A L R E S P E C T
42 Certain counter's 32 Safe place with a W U R S T P U Z Z L E E V E R
we counterintuitive EMI LE N E A C R A N E
4lorandupimet amSe DOS ED A NN TE ST Y
brand 34 Less oggy xwordeditor@ao.com 1117/10
46 Spread out
47 Memo opener 1 2 0 4 5 8 7 80 10 11 12 13
49 Bengals, on
scoreboards 14 15 SO
50 Noble address 17 1 1,
51 Question of
advisability 20 21 22
53 There are pins at
the endoftone 23 24 2s 2 27
54 Columnist
Landers 28 300
55 Well-dressed 31 32 3 34 5
Swedish
actrera? 3as 37 38 09
60 Bikersohopper
61 Bullwinkle 40 41 42 43
nemesis
62 Stravinsky and a 44
lab assistant 47 a8 4 so
63 Barcelona bear
64 Bright 51 52 53
65 Not schooled in
DOWN
1 Ring piece s 61
2 West of 83 4 85
Hollywood
3 Athena's B y JohnDoppierSchiff1/
atendant (c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 11/1810

For Best
Selection,
Reserve
TODAY!
Spring & Fall
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
SmtUitr, 0, 2 & 3 BciEDRoMlss
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus
for 2011/2012
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-268o
UNIVERSITIOWERS-MIOM
INFis1U-TE'0iRS.tOM

1506 GEDDES
Great 3 br. apts perfect for 3-4 people!!
Large living rooms, balconies or patios,
tons of closet space, dishwashers, and
double sinks in bathrooms. Near the
CCRB & CC Little bus stop!!
www.varsitymanagement.com
515 WALNUT
Studio, 1, & 2 br. Apts. Available!!
Just a few blocks from the CCRB and
Central Campus. A variety of floor
plans here. 2 br., 2 bth bi-levels w/
rooftop patios and new kitchens.
Perfect for 4 people!!
734-668-1100
BRIGHT 5 BEDROOM, 2 Bath, No-
Fee Laundry & Parking, $2800/month
(neg). 333 John St. Call 734-277-0668.
4 BDRM APT, 819 S. State #4, $2200/
month, May lease;734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spoes for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! I bdrms starting an $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
-NOW SHOWING
APARTMENTS-~
For 2011-12!
18 great locations
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Furnished, Heat & Water Included,
1 Parking Pass & FREE Internet.
Call today to see your new home!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
*Amenities Vary By Location
WE HOLD THE KEY.....
To Yeu New Home!
Prime S dent Housing
734-761-8000
primesh.com
The Choice is Yours!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
" 1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Townhome
+ Free WIFI
+ AATA Bus Line
+ 24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible Lease Terms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
+ Pool & Sauna
+ Pets Welcome
+ Continental Breakfast every Wed,
+ Concierge Resident Service
+ Business Center
+ Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
+ Hospitality Apartment
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr
734-663-7633
Amenities Vary by Property
wwsWoodburyGardens.cm

the daily classifieds.
they're kind of a big deal.

521 WALNUT
1, 2, & 3 br. Apts. Available! Great
campus neighborhood!! A quiet tree
lined st. off South U. nearthe CCRB &
CC Little. New kitchen w/ dishwasher,
A/C, fully furished, free parking, laun-
dry on-site, and intercom entry.
www.varsitymanagement.com
526 PACKARD
New Construction & Amazing Loca-
tion!! Large 3 br. apts w/ hardwood.
floors, updated kitchens, huge bal-
conies, & tons of closet space!! Sunny
apts w/ new windows and large sliding
glass door. FREE Wireless!!
734-668-1100
FALL 2011
Huge house in prime locations!
6 Bdrms, 3 studies, 3 1/2 baths
$4699/month
734 665 8825
www.campusrealty.com
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011*!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonpropertfes.com
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
NEWER 6 BD RMS FURNISHED
Apts AVAILABLE, walk to CEN-
TRAL CAMPUS rates start at
$615/room. For VIRTUAL TOUR and
INFO call 734-418-2050 or log on
www.828greeneapts.com
NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check nut our full list at
Campusrealtyrcom
734-665-8825
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
MAY 2011 HOUSE 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 6 bed. tenants pay all utilities
call Cappo Deinco 734-996-1991
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com

COLLEGE STATS ONLINE tutor
needed.dec- jan.for grad student over-
seas.contact dan andrews 734-426-1613
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.ne s
SEE
www.scienceworddoctor.com.
for your SCIENTIFIC WRITING
NEEDS. Services include GRANTS,
CLINICAL REPORTS,ABSTRACTS
and MANUSCRIPTS. 734.709.3222.

BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefimd. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
LOOKING FOR NEW people, part
or full time to help with Mobile Media
Expansion in Ann Arbor. Great market-
ing/advertising experience. Paid posi-
tion. Go to iZiggl.com for more info or
EMAIL todd@crunchfrugal.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE tojoin. Click on Surveys.
AD
VE
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS

0

WI. ' ' /

Show TEAM Enterprises what you've got!
Our goal is to bring energyand
excitement to every event andleave a
positiveimpression onthe consumer.
We are currently looking for the
BEST and BRIGHTEST top promotional
models in Ann Arbor!
Requirements:
SMustbe 21 years of age or older
. Must be able to workevenings
and/or weekends
. Musthave reliable transportation
and avalid driver's license
. Models will be reliable, self-motivated,
and have a professional demeanor
. Outgoing personality
Please email a non-professional
headshot and a brief paragraph about
yourself to:m heath@teament.com
Uniforms will be provided to all
contracted models and compensation
is paid out on an hourly/projectbasis.
We lookforward to hearingfrom you!

(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 18, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, November18, 2010 - 7A

Consistent play from
third line sparks icers

Junior guard Zack Novak is expected to provide an offensive boost off the bench this season for the Wolverines.
'M hopes shooters
stay hot against

By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
While most athletes agree that
competition among teammates is
good, sophomore forwards Chris
Brown and A.J. Treais take their
friendly rivalry pretty seriously.
As linemates on the Michigan
ice hockey team and roommates,
their close friendship adds fuel to
their competitive edges. To keep
pushing each other to get better,
Brown and Treais regularly make
predictions about who will score
before each game.
The incentive? They give each
other rewards when they're
right. And according to Treais,
Brown is leading the way.
"Sometimes we just try to pre-
dict who is going to score," Treais
said after practice Wednesday.
"And then if he scores, I give him
something and if I score, vice
versa. It's to keep it fun. I think
he's winning because I didn't get
my first goal until last weekend,
so good for him."
Treais and Brown are used to
playing together - they spent
the last half of last season on the
same line and played together
for two years on the Ann Arbor-
based U.S. National Team Devel-
opment Program.
They started this season on
different lines, but for the past
two weekends, Brown and Treais
have played on a line with fresh-
man left winger Luke Moffatt.
There is something to be said
for familiarity. Over the four-
game span, the trio has provided
a consistent offensive spark for
the Wolverines (5-2-1-0 CCHA,
6-3-3 overall), tallying a com-
bined three goals and 11 assists.
Treais has netted his only two
goals of the season in the past two
series, and Brown and Moffatt

each have had three-assist games
during that time. Prior to playing
together, Brown had just one goal
and one assist while Moffatt and
Treais hadn't recorded a point.
While Treais acknowledged
that at least two of the goals from
his line have been a direct prod-
uct of "puck luck," as Michigan
coach Red Berenson calls it, the
sophomore knows the important
role that work ethic plays in hav-
ing success on the ice.
"We've got a lot of confidence
(on the line)," Treais said. "I
mean, we've been working hard
and that's been translating into
goals and assists. We've been a
little lucky, too. I got one off the
head, Luke got one off the skate.
But we're working hard, and
we're reading off each other real-
ly well, so that's good too."
Moffatt, Brown and Treais
haven't just been scoring goals
and notching assists, though. The
line has clicked at the right time
for the Wolverines, scoring at
crucial moments in each of their
last two Saturday matchups.
After being shut out two Fri-
days ago against Alaska-Fair-
banks, Michigan rebounded to
grab game two thanks in large
part to the production of Brown,
Moffatt and Treais. The Wol-
verines took an early lead with
senior forward Louie Caporus-
so's goal at 1:25 in the first, but
the Nanooks scored just 23 sec-
onds into the second period to tie
the game at one.
Moffatt's first career goal came
two minutes later to give Michigan
the one-goal advantage. And after
the Nanooks tied the game at two,
Treais responded with his first goal
of the season to cement the win.
"Confidence is definitely huge,
especially getting the first goal,"
Treais said. "My first goal of the

season, for a while I didn't think
it was ever going to come. When
your confidence is high, every-
thing is better."
The line responded ina similar
way this past Saturday against
Notre Dame. When the Fight-
ing Irish scored first, the crowd
at Yost Ice Arena fell silent. But
after a five-minute span, Treais
found his way to the net for his
second goal of the season to tie
the game at one.
While the game went back
and forth two more times before
the Wolverines could pull away,
Treais's score put Michigan back
in the game, coming off its third
consecutive Friday night loss.
"A little more confidence, little
more spark, a little enthusiasm ...
they're giving our team a life right
now," Berenson said. "(Brown),
for example, was struggling until
we put him on that line and now
he's excited and he's getting a
little confidence. And he hasn't
even started to score yet. Wait
until he starts to score. He's play-
ing physical, he's working hard
and he's really taken charge of
that line."
Berenson constantly empha-
sizes the fact that line chang-
es can be expected to occur
frequently, especially to help
jump-start certain players who
aren't having production in
games.
But in the case of Treais,
Brown and Moffatt, the line has
gelled quickly and hasn't given
Berenson a reason to doubt its
legitimacy.
"It helps sometimes to have
the chemistry with someone that
you respect so much," Berenson
said. "You don't want to let them
down, you want to help them, and
they want to help you. It's just
contagious."

By BEN ESTES guard Darius Morris said Wednes-
Daily Sports Writer day. "And we make shots in practice
--- ---- and he recruits a lot of shooters and
In the 2008-09 season, the Mich- we know that everybody on this
igan men's basketball team shot team can get it done. It's just the
42.5 percent from the field, includ- bottom line of going out there and
ing 33.4 percent executing it.
on three-point "Just hopefully we can be consis-
attempts. The Bowling tent this year. We don't want to have
next year, those Gmn at flashes where some games we're 50
numbers dipped percent, 30 percent or 10 percent.
to 4n.6 percent Michigan We just want to be consistent."
and 29.9 percent, When: Tonight The Falcons aren't a very explo-
respectively. at 7 p.m. sive offensive team. They only mus-
So it comes Where: tered 52 points in a season-opening
as no surprise Crisler Arena loss to Howard, and they return just
that the former two of their top-six scorers from last
made the NCAA TnRadio year's team, a squad that finished in
Tournament for Network last place in the Mid-American Con-
the first time all ference's East Division.
decade, while One of those players though,
the latter slid to a junior swingman Scott Thomas, has
disappointing seventh-place finish scoring potential. The forward led
in the Big Ten, failing to make any Bowling Green in scoring last sea-
postseason tournament. son and is repeating the feat so far
That's why the Wolverines' per- in 2010, coming in with 15.5 points
formance in their season opener per game. Thomas can do damage
last Saturday against South Caro- from any spot on the court, meaning
lina Upstate was so encouraging for Michigan will have to be disciplined
Michigan fans. Michigan (1-0) went to keep him fromgting open ooks.
22-of-50 from the field and made Down low, the Falcons feature
seven of 22 3-pointers, good for 3L8 big-bodied freshman Cameron
percent. Black. The 6-foot-10, 230-pound
The team will have to continue center is a physical presence in the
to put up those kinds of numbers paint and will be a challenge for the
in order to perform above its rock- Wolverines' equally inexperienced
bottom expectations this season. group of big men.
Thursday night's game against "He's a strong guy," Beilein said.
Bowling Green (1-1) at Crisler Arena "He's just going to get rebounds just
will provide another test early. because he's a space eater, so we've
"(Coach John Beilein) really got to play with our feet around him
emphasizes trying to put up a lot of to make sure that we somehow can
shots in practice," sophomore point establish some leverage with him

when he has the ball, and when he
doesn't have the ball, because he
can get some put-backs very easy
because of his size."
But if Michigan's excellent defen-
sive performance against the Spar-
tans is any indication, it should be
able to slow down the Falcons' aver-
age attack.
That just makes it even more
critical that the Wolverines' offense
remains efficient - a poor showing
could keep Bowling Green in the
game longer than it should be.
One area of particular focus
will be on the fast break. Beilein
wasn't happy with his team's tran-
sition attack against South Carolina
Upstate, as Michigan failed to con-
vert on a number of attempts.
Whether it was Morris throwing
an errant pass or any number of his
teammates mishandling the point
guard's quality looks, the Wolver-
ines appeared rusty when pushing
the ball.
But the players believe they can
straighten it out.
"(Fast-break mistakes) were all
decision-making errors," junior
guard Zack Novak said. "They
weren't effort errors. People were
running hard, probably as hard as
they ran, but we just made bad deci-
sions. (Improvement) will come as
you play together more."
Beilein knows Falcons coach
Louis Orr from their days in the Big
East - Orr coached Seton Hall when
Beilein was still at West Virginia.
And whenever their teams
squared off, Beilein said, the home
team was usually the victor.

I I

After weekend sweep, Blue
advances to World Series

GET YOUR.
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
November 10-12 and 15-19
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
North Campus November 18-19
in Valley room of Pierpont

ByEMILYBONCHI
Daily Sports Writer
The bat made contact, popping
the ball up into short right field,
just behind the second baseman.
After a collision between junior
right fielder Ashley Rose McLaury
and senior second baseman Jackie
Genow, the ball somehow still
rested securely in Genow's glove.
The Michigan club softball team
had made the third and final out
against Central Michigan, earn-
ing the Great Lakes North Confer-
ence title.
The victory on Sunday, which
secured a trip to the 2011 National
Club Softball Association World
Series in Columbus, Ga., has been
a long time coming.
In 2002, two students interest-
ed in playing softball, but not at
the Varsity level, founded the club
program. Now, eight seasons later,
the team has developed quickly,
expanding from a pickup team on
Elbel Field to a conference-win-
ning program.
The Wolverines (12-3) packed
up their cars early Sunday morn-
ing and drove to Mt. Pleasant,
Mich. for their final games of
the fall season - a triple-header
against Central Michigan. Two
wins would give them first place
in the conference. But if Grand
Valley won just one game that
weekend, the threat of a tie for
first would loom.
A sweep, however, would give
Michigan the berth to nationals.
Junior Kelly Babcock pitched
a shutout in game one, giving the
Wolverines the 9-0 win. During
the next two games, pitched by
junior Lyndsay Berger and Bab-
cock, respectively, Michigan lim-

ited the Chippewas' offense to
just eight runs. Sophomore Brigid
Lynch, junior Genevieve Kotyuk
and Burger earned top offensive
honors for the Wolverines, con-
sistently getting on base and pro-
ducing RBIs. Michigan ended up
sweeping the series with scores
of 6-2 and 13-6 in the second and
third games.
"It was absolutely freezing at
the game and it was snowing,"
said Berger, who is co-president of
the club. "It was our last game of
the year and everyone was pretty
tired. As soon as the last out was
made, we all freaked out. 'We just
won the conference, we can go to
nationals!'"
The shutout against Central
Michigan was Michigan's fifth of
the season, as it blanked Indiana -
South Bend in three games on Oct.
10 and shut out Bowling Green in a
game the following weekend.
The club softball team has out-
scored its opponents 126-63 this
season, proving that talent on the
diamond can be found outside of
Alumni Field.
Berger and her co-president,
junior Jessica Kraft, have worked
together to make sure everything
runs smoothly throughout the
season, since being involved in a
club sport brings upon many dif-
ferent types of responsibilities.
"I think it's a completely dif-
ferent experience," Berger said,
comparing the club team to a
varsity program. "There is a lot
more of a balancing act that goes
on. A lot of girls are challenging
softball with one, sometimes two
jobs, and a full academic load. In
addition to that we have to pro-
vide our own transportation.
We're paying for equipment, bats,

uniforms ourselves."
This player-run team definitely
has its ups and downs - last week-
end only one umpire showed up to
a game, and the team has to fund
the entirety of its trip to Georgia.
But the hard work its members
have put in throughout the course
of the season has certainly made it
worthwhile.
"I think this team is one of the
most talented teams I've seen
while being here," said Michigan
graduate student and fifth-year
shortstop Kelly Bartlett. "What's
made us really good this year is
that we have an older team; a lot
of our team members are juniors
and seniors. Over the past couple
of years, we've really developed
together, making our individual
talents even better."
This year, the Wolverines
returned thirteen players, nine of
whom are juniors.
"We've banded together as a
team," Barlett said. "We realized
we had to stick together and face
the opposition with those issues.
If we started fighting internally,
then things would start to fall
apart."
Junior Ashley Rose McLaury
said earning a bid to the World
Series was something the play-
ers have wanted for a while and
receiving it was an all-around
team accomplishment.
"I think that we have a lot fun
when we're together," McLaury
said. "And that chemistry trans-
lates into us being able to work
together as a team. At the end of
the third game on Sunday we all
wanted that out. We wanted to
finish it and have that good solid
end to a really awesome fall sea-
son."
A 1

Then sittigf e~
This price inClU
the 2011 Michi
Sign up online b
and enterin Sc
Phone 734.418.
E-mail ensian.uj

wP PCA

Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.

Michiganensian
YEARBOOK



01

8A - Thursday, November 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


Gordon adjusts to
new position on'D'

ByRYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Editor
Cam Gordon isn't used to staying
in one place.
The redshirt freshman spur was a
four-year starter at linebacker during
his time at Melvindale and Inkster
High Schools. But when Michigan
came to recruit Gordon, it wanted
him for something entirely different
- wide receiver.
So Gordon redshirted as a wide-
out in Ann Arbor, waitingfor his shot
to catch some balls in what would be
a high-powered Michigan offense.
But since the Wolverines were
thin in the secondary, Michigan
coach Rich Rodriguez shifted Gor-
donyet again.
"I feel like I transitioned over to a
new position in a good way," Gordon
told the Daily in April after Michi-
gan's spring game. "Playing offense
last year, that's where I wanted to
stay at, butI felt like I had to help the
team."
Gordon started the first seven
weeks of this season at free safety
after receiving a great deal of hype
during Michigan's spring practices.
His hard-nosed style of play was per-
fect for comingup inrunsupport, but
he still lacked some technique when
it came to coverage.
So against Penn State, Gordon
changed positions - again. This
time, Gordon moved up toward the
line, startinginthehybrid linebacker
(spur) position, while freshman Ray
Vinopal took his old spot. Michigan
coach Rich Rodriguez said, being a
hard hitter, Gordon was more tai-
lored to being'a linebacker - some-
thing he was more comfortable with.
"It's Cam's size and mental make-
up," Rodriguez said. "I think he's just
better closer to the ball."
And Gordon doesn't mind. Part
of the reason coaches praised his
attitude this spring had to do with
his willingness to change positions.
Anything he can do to help the team,
Gordon says.
"If it's good for the team, it's good
for me," Gordon said at Monday's
press conference. "I'm a football
player and just want to play. There's
nothingto it but that."

.g Interview by Tim Rohan|IDaily Sports Editor
THE BRUISING BADGER BACK SITS DOWN WITH THE DAILY
TO TALK EXPECTATIONS AND RUNNING DEFENDERS OVER
Wisconsin junior running back John Clay ran for more than 1,500 yards his sophomore
season and the 6-foot-1, 255-pound runner has split time with two younger backs this
season for the Badgers. But he's still the big man in the backfield - just like Ron Dayne
used to be. On Saturday in the Big House, the Wolverines face a huge challenge in shutting
him down.

ARu stL Pd/ ly
Redshirt freshman Cam Gordon recovered two fumbles lost week against Purdue.

Gordon is all about being physi-
cal - he says it's one of his biggest
strengths - and it's easy totell on the
football field, where he often goes for
tackles with reckless abandon. But
that physicality begs the question:
Why did he start as a wide receiver?
"You try to project the position
when you recruit them, but when
they get into your weight program ...
they'll continue to grow," Rodriguez
said. "Some guys eat their way from
a linebacker to a defensive lineman.
I've seen safeties grow to be defen-
sive ends."
But a wide receiver growing into
a safety and then growing into a
linebacker? That's a special type of
growth - one that fits the skill set
of the physical Gordon. And as long
as his teammates and coaches want
him there, he's happy to be there.
"I just wanted to help the team,"
Gordon said. "That was my whole
goal. And I feel like I've been doing
that."
Lastweek againstPurdue, Gordon
gave his biggest contribution to the

team since he first started against
Connecticut in week one - he gave
the defense seven points.
As sophomore defensive end
Craig Roh stripped the ball from
Purdue ballcarrier Dan Dierking,
Gordon scooped it up and ran for a
58-yard touchdown. The score gave
the Michigan defense unprecedent-
ed confidence, and the unit held
the Boilermakers to zero offensive
touchdowns.
For Gordon, it's been a while since
he's felt the rush of scoring a touch-
down. But he's notlookingfor amove
to the offensive side of the ball.
"(Thatplay) doesn't make me miss
scoring touchdowns on offense,"
Gordon said. "It makes me want to
score more touchdowns on defense.
That's the plan - score more touch-
downs."
He may notlget many more oppor-
tunities to score on defense in his
career, but for the first time in his
two years in Ann Arbor, Gordon
seems like he'll be staying in one
place for a while.

The Michigan Daily: You are the
defendingBig Ten Offensive Player
of the Year, but you weren't picked
to win the award again in the pre-
season, do you use that as motiva-
tion?
John Clay: Everybody has
their own opinion. I just have
to go back out there and prove it
again, like I did this past season.
Having an excellent offensive
line coming back, seven different
starters coming back. Got a lot of
skill guys coming back. The sky's
the limit for this offense and for
me.
TMD: Is there more confidence
on offense having your starting
quarterback, Scott Tolzien, coming
back for the first time in a while?
JC: It feels great having Scott
coming back, just knowing what
he's all about. He's like a perfec-
tionist. He wants to make sure
everything's right. You can't fault
a guy for wanting that. It just
motivates you to be on the same
page as him.
TMD: What was it like splitting
carries with P.J. Hill two years ago?
JC: Itwas good. Justbeing able
to see what goes on in a game,
it was my first year playing. It
felt good, being able to follow
behind him just because he's been
through it .
TMD: Since you got to Wis-
consin, have things gone the way
you thought they might? Playing
behind P.J. and now shining?
JC: Yeah, I'm getting better
every year. I'm putting up good
numbers and trying to be the
complete back that I wanted tobe.
TMD: You had a lot of carries
in 2009, do you ever worry about
wearing down, especially going on

to the next level in the NFL?
JC: No, that just shows what
kind of offense we have. Just a
run-happy offense, and being that
back able to take them hits and
everything. I'm fine with it. I just
monitor myself and the coaching
staff monitors me during practice
so I don't have to take so many
reps and so that I'm safe for the
game.
TMD: You're a big bruising
back, but do you like to run guys
over and then awayfrom them?
JC: I like to build it up, running
people over. I know they think
I'm going to run them over again.
I hopefully surprise them with a
move thenbreak away from them.
TMD: The Big Ten has been
moving toward more teams run-
ning the spread offense, Wiscon-
sin's still keeping true to its pro
style. What do you think of that?
JC: We know what kind of suc-
cess we've had with running the
ball. And we know what kind of
offense we are. We look forward
to making the run game first and
then setting up our passing game.
Then when they like to load the
box on us, that's when our skill
players come in with the wide
receivers and the tight ends.
TMD: In the offseason, you had
surgery to relieve pain in each of
your ankles. What was the result
of that?
JC: Right after I woke up from
my anesthesia, I felt a big differ-
ence with pressure released off
my ankles. I was just so excited
about playing without pain for
the first time. I had (my left) done
right after the bowl game and (my
right) in the middle of the week
in April. I'm feeling pretty good
right now.

TMD: Did you sit down with
coach Bielema and talk about this
season and the expectations on
you and maybe how to deal with
them?
JC: Yeah I met with him and
just talked about what all is going
to come this year, all of the dif-
ferent awards and different pres-
sures from the outside media
world. Just making sure I'm
focused and nothing comes at me
bombarding, so I know what to be
prepared for. I was mostly listen-
ing, just trying to pick his brain.
He's been around; he knows what
goes on and what happens.
TMD: Have you talked to Ron
Dayne or anyone else about being
in the spotlight?
JC: Yeah a little bit. He just said
you have to give everything to
your offensive linemen, because
without them, you wouldn't be
anything.
TMD: You're from Wisconsin.
Did you grow up watching Ron
Dayne?
JC: A little bit. I really wasn't
into college football when I was
younger. I was mostly into the
NFL. I used to watch tapes on
Jim Brown when I was younger.
That's why I wear the No. 32, for
him. I just like his running style
and what he brought to the game.

TMD: You guys have high expec-
tations this year, how do you think
you can live up to them?
JC: Not staying too focused on
all of it. We've got to make sure
we take it a game at a time. Start
with practice first, make sure we
know what we're doing in prac-
tice. And then when game time
comes around, that's when we got
to be able to put out what we did
in practice.

0I


Now through December 30th
COLLEGE"
UCAP CODE
444778 (THIRST)
and you could WIN a
$500 Coke Cash Card
or other Coke prizes!*

Wisconsin junior running back John Clay is the top back in Wisconsin's dominant trio of balcarriers.

balanced. healthy. living.
FITNESS CLASSES SPA
student discount student discount
0 off fitness classesI11 /0 off waxing
209 s Ashley St I 734-665-2156 heather@v et com www.vnefifio

FOLLOW
MICHIGAN
DAILY
SPORTS ON
TWITTER
@MICHDAILYSPORTS


Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com t Thursday, November 18, 2010
weekend
essentials
Nov.18 to Nov. 21
'< ON DISPLAY
' ~The Hubble Space Tele-
S scope has taken some
of the most fascinating
sed bookstores many secondhand book stores, images of the universe
possess a certain and that is really unique," he ever produced. In
w"q^ inscrutable charm: said. The Special Collections
the warm, stale Library, housed in the Hatcher beVii t
smellofoldbooks; themaze-like Graduate Library, holds his- by the UM Exhibit
rows; the disheveled shelves; torical and culturally sinifi- Museum of Natural
the sometimes-surly employees. cant books ranging fron ancient History's Planetarium,
These hole-in-the-wall shops, medieval manuscripts to n-
AK1 toverflowing with volumes of lit- temporary novels. Amon e the best of the images
'. a erature by obscure authors, are collection's more notewothy are constructed into a
a paradise for some, daunting holdings are a second folio of tapestry of the most
and impregnable for others. the works of Shakespeare and beautiful sights the cos-
"You either get it or you a manuscript in Galileo's own '
don't,' said Jay Platt;owner of hand, written in 169. ' mos have to offer. The
West Side Book Shop on West "Some of our books, I would exhibit opens at 12:30
Liberty Street in Ann Arbor. argue, are in a very similar con- p.m. on Saturday and
And from the look of his shop, dition to the way they were read runs until December
A, - it's clear that Platt is someone 400 years ago," Alvarez said.
who "gets" the appeal of books. This, according to Alvarez, 18. Admission is $5.
Stacks of them surround the allows one to reconstruct the
desk in his quaint shop, and reading experience of the book's
shelves brimming with them original audience, aprocess that
tower over him. A glass case in is only possible with a physical,
the middle of the room displays printed book.
the store's most prized volumes, "If you see many digital col-
including pristine first editions lections, exhibits, very few of
of "The Scarlett Letter" and them tell you how big the book
"Through the Looking Glass." actually is, and that's very
Platt, a University alum with important because you really T H- - |-
a degrein naval architecture, need to know whether, for A TH V1I
became interested in books instance, the Bible was held in
when he went into a used book- only one hand or if that Bible MT&D senior Kacie
store in New York City in 1970. was actually meant to be read in Smith will be present-
"It was like turning on a light a cathedral," he said.
bulb," Platt said. "I like the idea that you could ing her directing the-
He got into the business that learn, not necessarily from text, sis, "And Baby Makes
year and opened West Side in from the written word, but from Seven," today through
1975. an artifact." Saturday at 7 p.m. and
one of the store's most
impressive books is a Biblel. tomorrow at 11 .m.
printed in 1610. It's a giant vol- Ilike the idea This comedy addresses
tme, coe to five-inches thick that you cud learn, issues in the LGBT com-
alda t i notnecessarily munity and discusses
godinlay on the cover. Hold- notltael
ing t t fi ! 4w 'w>fom C1-d lnt
hard not to feel some sense of written word but structures. The show,
wondeat its history a d 'ee written artwritten by Paula Vogel,
substance. from an artifact.wlbeprrmdnth
"Wrilieteph cipe-. will be performed in the
ec b ai Bil - Pablo Alvarez Walgreen Drama Cen-
more, ner of Dawn Treai ' ' ' " ter. Admission is free.
Book Shop a few blocks aw-yon
East L'ie'rt 1 Gillmore started However, the Internet is
his shp the same year as Platt, chaning the wa people bu
butthe founing i str was ad rad hbols. 'mthmore and
more intal. m' e people toilng t c-
"au ' i'' my, y landlord onic readers andperaps ore
pushed me into it,"'Gillmore proinently to other types
said. media, actual printed b alesA
Gillmore had been workin aredectiin
as a b kb' inde in the basemet i'ome used bokstres h ae
of the Michigan Theater whn tied to adapt to theA hang-.
his laidl rd told him he ',!'ad to ing buinss,t llingboks
come Apl,%%ih a reail oi°n or online is time-cnsumng. The independent film
hslean ' woldntern e'. D"id''Book oni, "iAiamSteet "Cherry" will be playing
Anid soDawn Trdr waslorn, as beun todo mot ofits ui
and Gilmoe got to eep hisnesvrth ebtonerEd tonight at 7:15 and 9:30
lease. Ktrnsimuchharder than p.m. at the Michigan

DawU. n Tr ade<r s deepti ely sengin the stre. Theater. Shot in West-
Srge , etnding fater ack Itotaks:lngr to dal ith erMihatefm
'A g~ A~' '. Y'. emn Michgan, the film
a tan the mal]trefrot u T- boks row;topan'[t jst put
Sg Asts, and cotai A 0 'hem 9 n the 'Asheif and xet follows a love trangle
bo As ' smene tcomn wtin aI between a naive college
h s a' has a "iamre'books ik or two end uy t " oster freshman, a 34-year-
thXn it can hld," iLmore aid. ,ai."You'vereally go ttolist the od udn dhe
c' Av reah amt t te thing nl'e'ndyu t old studentand her
ciling ,lndkee-"gh noacks of someone t it. y u'e ge't 14-year-old daughter.
obooks lne thfnr.tpackthe tig, shp the ting ' The movie premiered
S althatl "1' at SXSW in Austin,
The allun' ofthe tangibe Gillmlore ha also epr- Texas and has played at
encd the negtive effets of
Th tic;ou j-, usd k- Intrnet ; pgbte n a ie a d- several festivals around
stora have sed in' rnt fr . Michigan. Director Jef-
""supp, Ann Aroin st a I a'' ' ' mia" frey Fine will be present
man te enci 'ent tan a a s. s after the 7:15 screening
many uthr amtte.a__ntends tetat Iwud have the nly S
SPabl . A >are, c'ato t he opy of a crtain book in Ann for a Q&A moderated
Spscia I ColectiAn. Library a 'Aorb'rthtanbody had en by Jim Burnstein.
heUitrvsity. oryitars, and1" cold Charge
"Iui thn Annrbour i %sry htve atdfr it. IThe
rtrtatbeau, v wttirat
t i th toun,th e so ''e USED BOOKS, P aA4B
CONCERT
Craving some electro-
dance pop vibes? Catch
the University alumni of
My Dear Disco at the
Blind Pig this Saturday.
The group's shows are
a unique experience,
complete with the
delightfully bizarre jux-
taposition of new-wave
synthesizers, Irish bag-
pipes and the occasion-
al megaphone. After
playing a slew of high-
profile summer gigs,
the band has quite a
following. Early show at
7 p.m., late show at 10
p.m. Tickets from $12.


2B - Thursday, November 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - Thursday, November 18, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Judging A Book
By Its Cover
Why read a single page when the cover
tells the whole story?

SINGLE REVIEW

On a newly released outtake
from 2008's Post-Nothing, the
drums-and-guitar duo Japandroids
starts with a "Hey!" before letting
its full assault
of sludged-out
angst begin. Like
he's writing a My
Bloody Valentine Japandroids
track on a bad trip, "Heavenward
guitarist Brian Grand Prix'
King builds a wall
of noise behind Polyvinyl
a sporadic dance
beat courtesy of
drummer David Prowse, bringing
some ambient-punk ruckus with
new-school emo lyrics like, "We
don't have to be like they are / On
the heavenward grand prix." The
track builds a steady groove before
tearing it down again and starting

over. Between disjointed burstsof
drummer-boy percussion and faux-
anthemic lyrics, this is what "Sun-
day Bloody Sunday" would sound
like on Psychocandy. Japandroids
takes as many cues from the early
'80s underground as it does from
today's art-damaged punk acts like
No Age.
With "Grand Prix," the band
maintains its moody, minimalist
approach to pumping out gothic,
frustrated anthems, but there's
nothing too compelling here to
reward repeated listens. King's
dingy guitar is too stagnant and dull.
And whatever momentum the song
builds, the band quickly rejects. The
track has bite - and makes plenty of
noise - but it's pretty clear why this
was left off the album.
-MIKE KUNTZ

0
0

In a warped science fiction version
of a classic American frontier story,
it's cowboys against aliens in "Cow-
boys & Aliens."
Somehow Dan- **
iel Craig (who
looks just as good .Cowboys
in a cowboy hat&
as he does in his &AieNS
Bond tux) winds Universal
up in the desert
with amnesia,
arousing the suspicions of a can-
tankerous Harrison Ford. The only
clue to Craig's past is the mysteri-
ous metal bracelet around his wrist.
Trouble soon follows like a roving
tumbleweed through the swinging
doors of a dark saloon. Before long,
the people of the quiet, Western
town are being sucked into space-

ships by tractor beams.
There have been space cowboys
before, but cowboys from space
might be a little questionable. As if
to somehow authenticate the movie's
credibility, the preview makes sure
to emphasize the presence of Steven
Spielberg and Ron Howard as pro-
ducers. Not that this really helps the
fact that the movie is basically about
cowboys fighting aliens through
fields of cacti.
It doesn't really seem like a fair
fight, either. The aliens have all this
high tech equipment, and the cow-
boys are riding around on horses
waving torches around. Still, the
cowboys have Daniel Craig and
Harrison Ford; that has to count for
something, right?
-EMILYBOUDREAU

TRAILER REVIEW

0!

Jinx and her werewolf do
things. They gossip about celebs,
take trips to the zoo and visit
Grandma Jinx at her state-man-
dated hospital room. They trade
stock and hair-care tips. They
stay up all night gabbing about
boys (unless of course there's a
full moon, then Jinx locks herself
in the attic and rocks herself to
sleep). They're a couple that seems
to have it all. But one thing they
haven't been able to do is take their
relationship to the next level. Shit
gets weird.
While this reviewer is not par-
ticularly against human-on-myth-
ical-beast love, Marisa Chenery's
"Jinx and Her Werewolf" defies all
standards of good taste. Not only is
Jinx's werewolf a one-dimension-
al caricature (we get it, he's a hairy
stud averse to full moons), but

he's a disgrace to all strong, inde-
pendent werewolves everywhere.
He puts up with Jinx's constant
verbal (and in one tense elevator
scene, physical) abuse, is forced
to pick up Jinx's kids from day-
care every weekday and endures
the couple's weekly swim aero-
bics classes, even though he, like,
hates the water. It's depressing
and insulting to those who grew
up idolizing werewolves for their
power and fury.
Cheneryneedstotake alonglook
at her output and decide whether
it's really good for a generation
of young werewolf enthusiasts to
grow up thinking it's OK for their
heroes to be objectified and belit-
tled, marginalized and deprecated,
emasculated and bikini waxed (yes,
this does happen). Roar.
-JEFF SANFORD

r I r S~lShowtime always provides an
EPI SOD E RE V I W excellent cast of characters and
amazing cinematographic style,
but lately narra-
tive hasn't been
its strong suit.
Up until its sea-
son finale, "The Taking the
Big C" has fol- Plunge
lowed the mold
with a less-than- The Big C
stellar premise SHOWTIME
that's been done
before: the angry
suburban housewife.
For 12 episodes, Cathy (Laura
Linney) has been a defeated and
self-victimized bitch who just can't
get past the idea she has cancer. But
in "Taking the Plunge," after the
COURTESY OF SHOWTIME suicide of her new friend Marlene,

Cathy finally finds a new lease on
life, ultimately giving a new life for
the series.Instead ofbeing defeated
and angry, Cathy becomes a more
inviting and loving character now
determined to fight her cancer.
This season finale introduces her
best friend's pregnancy with her
homeless brother, and her son's dis-
covery of his mom's cancer. All of
this is very emotional and real, yet
leaves viewers wanting more.
Cathy and her family are every-
day people struck with tragedyt the
developments in the final episode
aren't so over-the-top that they
couldn't happen in real life. Let's
hope Showtime keeps it that way
and doesn't sign away its fate to
insane plots.
-LINDSAY HURD

Kerrytown Concert House brings intimate vibe to Ann Arbor *

'U' affiliates and
international artists
alike flock to venue
By DAVID RIVA
DailyArts Writer
Hill Auditorium, the Michigan Theater,
the Blind Pig, The Ark - these are the
go-to spots for live music in Ann Arbor. But
what about the lesser-known venues that
reside off the beaten path? The Kerrytown
Concert House may not be a recognizable
name to most students, but to many Ann
Arbor residents and some University stu-
dents and faculty, it's a staple for live music
in a city with many options from which to
choose.
Known for its intimate space and wel-
coming atmosphere, the Concert House
plays host to performers in styles ranging
from classical and chamber music to avant-
garde jazz and cabaret.
"If you open up The New York Times
any Friday where they have a listing of
what's going on (in) downtown (New York)
in jazz, about 80 percent of those people
listed have passed through here," founder
and director Deanna Relyea said.
In addition to these national - and in
some cases, international - touring acts,
the Concert House is used frequently by
students and faculty of the University.
In the upcoming months, KCH will
see a number of events with University
connections. The Schumann Festival
Concerts in December will include three
nights of chamber music played by School
of Music, Theater & Dance students and
faculty members, while the musical the-
atre department will take over the Con-
cert House in December to perform songs
from new Broadway and off-Broadway
musicals. In addition to these traditional
performances, the concert house will be
the site of a January master class for musi-
cal theatre students taught by Eric Com-
stock and Barbara Fasano - a cabaret duo
currently tearing up the New York night-
life scene.
"I think that young people could take
this place over," said Relyea, a University
alum herself. "They could make it their
place."
Relyea has long embraced the natural

evolution of the venue.
Her original plan back in 1984 was
simple: find a studio suitable for teaching
classical piano lessons and an occasional
master class. A developer offered her a res-
idential house on 4th Avenue - a 20-min-
ute walk from the Diag near Zingerman's
Deli. After an unsuccessful attemptcto have
it torn down for parking, she decided to
give ita try.
"The rent, when it first started, was
$1500 a month - which was a lot in those
days," Relyea said. "That kind of forced me
to think about ways to make money (and)
diversify the business."
One performance led to another and the
Concert House - now a non-profit organi-
zation - has continued to grow and prog-
ress ever since.
"We've sort of moved our niche as nec-
essary through the years," Relyea said.
"People look to the space for many dif-
ferent things," added Ellie Falaris Ganelin,
marketing assistant for the concert house.
"You come in the afternoon and you'll see
kids toting their cellos or violins up the
stairs to take lessons."
But when the night falls, performers
from around the world come to entertain
eager audiences. In the past two months,
musicians from Finland, Germany, Argen-
tina and Spain have played sets.
In its current incarnation, the Concert
House has maintained Relyea's initial
vision by renting out rooms upstairs for
private lessons, but its primary attraction
is its first-floor performance space.
The L-shaped room thatctakes over most
of the first floor has a distinctly intimate
feel, unlike many concert venues.
"The space is fairly small - it's a 110
seating capacity," Falaris Ganelin said.
"The audience is up close, so the perform-
ers can see what color lipstick you're wear-
ing in the front row."
Professor Ellen Rowe, chair of the
Department of Jazz and Contemporary
Improvisation at the University, explained
how the closeness between audience and
artist has affected her performances at the
Concert House.
"The space is intimate and certainly
enhances a sense of warmth and commu-
nity," she wrote in an e-mail interview. "As
my performances frequently involved con-
versation with the audience, this is incred-
ibly important."

01

The Kerrytown Concert House's performance space takes up the first floor of a 4th Avenue house.

.0
COURTESY OF KERRYTOWN CONCERT HOUSE
venue like Hill.
The city itself is also an important com-
ponent to the Concert House's longevity.
"The Concert House is a unique busi-
ness," Relyea said. "It's designed to fit into
Ann Arbor."
"Ann Arbor attracts artistic and edu-
cated people," she continued. "The rea-
son why any local business survives is
because the people in the community
care to support local businesses and keep
that thriving."

The relationship between audience and
performer continues after the music stops.
"After the show, the artist will be sit-
ting here in the hallway and the audience
members can interact with the artist after-
wards," Falaris Ganelin said.
This sense of community is something
that Falaris Ganelin considers one of the
most important aspects of the Concert
House.
"(It's this) unique, organic interaction
that you don't see at other places" that

makes the venue so attractive to patrons
and musicians alike, she said.
The intimacy of the Concert House also
lends itself well to on-the-spot improvisa-
tion.
"By being in a smaller setting, you have
more of that interaction - that fire, that
spark to create something new happens
in a space where you can be close to the
other players and to the audience," Falaris
Ganelin said, adding that this "spark" is
more difficult to generate at a massive

GOT AN EYE FOR THE LENS? TAKE OUR PHOTOS.
E-mail photome@umich.edu for
information on applying.

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 18, 2010 - 3B

IM'
tell you
prowle
famous
son's W
pedia p
commi
the fact
memor
then pr
ly forg
aboutt
couple
later. C
rity is
lover, i
Righ
adorat:
trow. I
in Love
Tenenb
times,
Gwyne
over m
person
it's rele
my hea
ally die
hot CoI
allows
old, I w
worshi
truth o
Butt
think I
gets ol
talente
one I a
to day,
back o
super f
fact, shI
percen
(i.e., ho
people
ity shov
crap abi
superm
For
ju
Po
For t
share
reality
a little
came f
model
a ton o
Vogue
finally
Ric Oc
ring in
Then, j
got hir
on the
"Ameri
Adm
much a
her CW
aware o
model,
much i
Christy
Claudia
she car
make m
Sure, I
ful, ant
of mean
Janice
constr
thing w
mean t
memor

Then
the bor
Late La
guson,
from "
the day
only th
fire-bre
"The
and the
jokingl
On t
screen c
by how
she rev
"A daya
phone r
not sur
people
tru

My model
(super)model
y obsession with me to dish further dirt, but the
celebrities comes and beauty of being 44 is that one
goes in waves. I can't spends a lot less time bullshitting
u the number of times I've oneself. And none of those calls
d some were to offer me another job."
s per- Appreciative of the truth,
Viki- that's what I was. Celebrities
)age, these days don't get fired or let go
tted all - they either "weren't right for
ts to the project" or "had scheduling
y and / n conflicts." To even insinuate the
rompt- ' word "fired," much less throw
ot all it around so flippantly - that's
hem a JENNIFER really unheard of. And refresh-
weeks XU ing.
eleb- Porizkova eventually was
a fickle signed to The Huffington Post as
my friends. a monthly-ish online contributor,
at now, the bulk of my blogging about topics from aging
ion lies with Gwyneth Pal- to politics to books to the ephem-
've watched "Shakespeare eral price of beauty. I cherish
e," "Proof" and "The Royal the day these columns come out,
baums" more than 20 each containing a bittersweet,
collectively. A picture of affecting epiphany, because
th stands as a patron saint they're realer than anything I've
y dishes, and Itread her read about the cost of celebrity
al newsletter every time and beauty. There are definitely
ased. ButI know that, in people more beautiful than oth-
rt, this love will eventu- ers, she says, but it's really not as
eout. If she divorces her big a deal as people make it out
ldplay husband, or if she to be; it's about as important as
herself to get saggy and being good at sports or crossword
ill find somebody new to puzzles.
p. So lies the sad and cold In one of her Huffington
f star power. articles, "And the Shows Go
there is someone I don't On," Porizkova talks about the
'll forget about once she rises and falls of the modeling
der, less attractive or less industry, how each new girl
d. Though she's not some- replaces the next one in a mat-
ctively think about day ter of months, how seasons come
she's always there in the and go like leaves blowing in the
f my mind. She's also not wind. "All the Good Stuff Always
amous or successful - in Happens in the Ladies Room" is
e's someone perhaps one a haunting, beautiful piece about
t of the population knows running into Anna Wintour in
rny guys of the 1980s and the women's bathroom and being
who watch modeling real- completely cold-shouldered,
ws) and even fewer give a despite the fact that in her prime
tout: former international she had once graced quite a few
nodel Paulina Porizkova. covers of Wintour's magazine.
And in "Aging," she chronolo-
gizes her struggles with essen-
tially making a career out of what
rm er 'ANTM ' she looks like, only to have it all
dematerialize right in front of
.dge Paulina her. "Old age is the revenge of the
ugly ones," she cracks.
)rizkova tells I've realized the reason I love
Paulina is that she's willing to
it how it is. call out other people's bullshit.
In a world where skinnier is the
new skinny, where stars get their
imperfections pumped, squeezed
hose of you who don't and pruned with collagen and
ny crazy obsession with silicone until they are rendered
television, let me give you unrecognizable, Porizkova's
background. Porizkova words are like a breath of fresh
rom Czechoslovakia to air. Whether it's calling out
at the ripe old age of 15, hit Madonna for refusing to age or
f runways and covers for admonishing Kate Hudson for
in the late '80s and then her breast implants, her blogs are
married Cars frontman all about urging people to stay
asek in 1989 after star- true to their natural beauty.
one of his music videos. And the thing is, half the time
ust a few years ago, she you're not even sure whether
ed as a permanent judge you're supposed to believe her.
panel of my favorite show, Is she just saying all this stuff
ca's Next Top Model." because she's still bitter about
ittedly, I didn't know being fired from "Top Model"?
bout Porizkova prior to Is she merely jealous of all these
V debut. I was vaguely celebrities because they're far
of her existence as a more successful and famous than
but I treated her with as she? It's possible, but if you think
ndifference as I would about it, that's really what makes
y Turlington Burns or her human.
a Schiffer. Similarly, when I love Gwyneth Paltrow

ae on the show, she didn't because she's like the modern
such of an impression. equivalent of an English princess.
thought she was beauti- She has perfect skin, a perfect
d I thought she was kind little yoga body, perfect husband,
n - not drunken, bitchy, perfect family. She can sing, she
Dickinson mean, but can dance, she can act - and
actively mean - but some- she's got an Oscar to boot. But
vas missing. I guess what I those are all pretty one-dimen-
o say is she just wasn't that sional things to judge a person by,
able. and alot of them are constructed
n in spring of 2008 came out of images Ihave formed from
nbshell, revealed on "The the movie roles she takes or what
ate Show With Craig Fer- her PR people present about her.
'that Porizkova got fired I don't just love Paulina
Top Model" over the phone because I think she's beautiful,
before her birthday after or hilarious, or because I think
ree seasons alongside the she was the greatest judge ever
athing Tyra Banks. on 'ANTM.' I love her because for
y needed to cut some fat, all her beauty and wit, she's not
fat was me," she said, half afraid to reveal herself to the pub-
y, half not. lic as a human being - a person
he tiny little YouTube with real-life problems, struggles
on my laptop, I was struck and hopes, a person just as vulner-
sad she looked. Later, able and open to judgment as we
ealed ina blog post that are. And for that, I don't just love
after I outed myself... my her. I actually like her.

"Gibson Fleck" follows a boy looking for a home and a fa

Staging a student show

'Gibson Fleck' is the
School of MT&D's
first student musical
By ADDIE SHRODES
Daily Arts Writer
A trio of close friends who
bonded over Frank Sinatra imper-
sonations in class vowed to create
a musical
- at someG
point in the Gibson Fleck
very dis- Tonight at 7:30,
tant future. tomorrow and Satur-
After an day at 8 p.m., Sunday
unexpect- and Monday at 2 p.m.
ed open- ArfhrMillerTheafre
ing at the Tickefsf a r o
School
of Music,
Theatre & Dance, they had to
shorten that timetable dramati-
cally. The resulting product, "Gib-
son Fleck," will premiere this
weekend at the Arthur Miller
Theatre.
"We've always had this creative
energy, so we're always entertain-
ing ridiculous possibilities," said
MT&D senior A.J. Holmes, who
most recently played Tateh in the
University's production of "Rag-
time."
Last winter, after hearing that
the School of MT&D was looking
for a new original musical to pro-
duce this fall, Holmes, along with
MT&D senior Carlos Valdes and
MT&D junior Ali Gordon, jumped
on the opportunity without trepi-
dation. Less than a year later, and
after a series of theatric twists
and tumbles, their show "Gib-
son Fleck" is the first full staging
of a musical written by current
undergrads to be produced by the
school.
"The stars just aligned, and
instead of keeping it as a distant
fantasy in the back of our minds,
we said, 'Let's make this a real-
ity,' " said Valdes, who wrote the
music and lyrics for the musical
adaptation of "Trafford Tanzi,"
and collaborated with Holmes
on the music and lyrics for Team
StarKid's "Me and My Dick."
"Gibson Fleck" is about a young
man's search for a family and a
home after being abandoned as
a baby and inheriting his birth
mother's belongings years later.
But the story premiering tonight
is entirely different from the play
submitted to the School on July
21.
"A gem of an idea," according
to Holmes, was all that the team
of writers had when the School
was looking for an original musi-
cal last winter. Nevertheless, they
asked the faculty if the School
would produce a play about an
orphaned boy looking for a home,
providing they wrote it over the
summer.
For past original productions,
the School has always turned to
established professional play-
wrights, some of whom have been
University alumni. But this wass
the first time current students had
pitched an original musical to the
school.
"We knew full and well that

nothing like that had ever been
done before, that it was crazy, but
we were audacious and hopeful
enough," Valdes said.
They met with Linda Goodrich,
an associate professor in the
School, who enthusiastically sup-
ported the project and wanted to
direct it in the fall.
"This is very unique in that we
felt confident about the maturity
of the writers, that they're incredi-
bly gifted way beyond their years,"
Goodrich said.
MT&D Chair Brent Wagner
challenged them to write the play
and score first, and then pitch it to
the School on July 21.
"He kind of flipped our logic
and said, 'No, if you write it, then
maybe we'll do it,'" said Holmes.
At the beginning of May, the
group created aboard full of sticky
notes with story details and song
ideas. They wanted to flesh out
each character to tell a rich story.
"We spent countless nights in
Mason Hall charting the char-
acters' trials and tribulations on
graphs - incredibly silly," Holmes
said.
"There were loose wires" in
the show, Valdes said, and once
they proposed it to the school,
they realized they would have to
completely revamp it. Advice all
around was to simplify - and dra-
matically so.
"I thought it was best to push
the story to the best it could be
rather than just settle on what it
was," Goodrich said.
Just a day after the pitch, the
group eliminated characters, cut
songs and slashed dialogue until
they were back at the prologue. It
was a painful prospect.
"It was very depressing because
we had spent from May all the way
to July 22 creating this story ... and
now we were scrapping 90 percent
of it," Valdes said.
"I woke up the next day, and I
looked at the script and realized
that two pages of the original 98
could remain in some way in the
show, and it was the first time that
I just cried, just cried," said Gor-
don, who recently performed in
"See Rock City" and "Me and My
Dick."
With the school's website pro-
moting "Gibson Fleck, a new musi-
cal" auditions on Sept. 2, and the
play premiering Nov. 18, they had
no choice but to rewrite.
Gordon had planned to go home
to New York City in August, but
the process had to move forward
even though she wasn't in Ann
Arbor. Goodrich, who had been
giving the team feedback since
May, jumped in to guide the work.
Holmes and Valdes spent count-
less late nights at Goodrich's house
Skyping with Gordon in New York
as everyone teetered on the edge of
falling asleep.
Goodrich, who has ample expe-
rience directing new plays and
who had continually advised them,
quickly became an indispensable
member of the team.
"She's been a fourth writer for
the show, honestly, just conceiv-
ing it in a new sort of way and
making it take off," Holmes said.
Through the sleepless process

of rewriting and with Goodrich's
help, the themes of the musical
became clear. The mother-son
relationship and the theme of
searching for a home, which had
been integral from the beginning,
became more important than
ever. The writers cut extrane-
ous themes, and others emerged
organically.
They also held onto their
emphasis on storytelling which
they learned from animation
mogul Pixar.
"Throughout the summer we
held Pixar as like this huge bea-
con of light in storytelling," Valdes
said. "We always asked ourselves,
'How would Pixar tell this story?"'
The dual background in acting
and theatrical literary analysis
that the writers acquired as musi-
cal theater majors was crucial
during the process of creating the
musical.
"You've got to look to the mas-
ters to decide where you want to
go next," Gordon said.
The two music writers, Holmes
and Valdes, had gained confidence
from writing "Me and My Dick."
"The plays have different tones,
but rules for good writing and
dramatically situated songs are
the same," Holmes said.
The team has gotten extraor-
dinary feedback on the final play
and is ecstatic about the cast. The
writers didn't create characters
with performers in the depart-
ment in mind, but the two main
leads, Will Burton (Gibson Fleck)
and Holly Grossman (Gibson's
mother) are both MT&D seniors
like Valdes and Holmes. Also, Val-
des and Burton went to the same
performing arts high school in

Georgia.
"Their lead (role) gets to be in a
show that their friends are writ-
ing and crafting with them," Hol-
mes said of Burton and Grossman.
"They get to make their marks
on these roles before anyone else
does, and they get to make a really
good mark, because they're doing
some incredible work."
Burton, who will be on stage
for almost the entire two-hour-
plus show, emphasized that it's
exciting to work on an original
play because the actors have free-
dom to interpret and create the
character without preconceived
notions.
Though he was a bit anxious
when he first heard that fellow
students wrote the play, the mate-
rial quickly won him over.
"One we started working on it,
it was amazing," Burton said. "I
was so impressed by the writing,
and the music is very, very good,
and very dramatically sound."
Despite the behind-the-scenes
drama, the group said the project
has been better than they could
have imagined. All three of the
writers plan to keep acting and
writing, and they hope to do more
projects together in the future
after graduating. Valdes is already
churning out concrete plans, but
Gordon and Holmes need a break
first.
"The idea of working on anoth-
er show and getting emotion-
ally invested in your characters
is obviously incredibly exciting,"
Gordon said. "But, honestly, my
greatest ambition right now is to
sleep a little bit. And it's going to
take until after the show opens to
get to that place."

ang off the hook. I'm still
e whether it was because
were appreciative of the
uth, or merely looking for

A J Holmes, Carlos Valdez and Ali Gordon wrote "Gibson Fleck
'ASPARKUJNGW

Xu is already over Gwyneth
Paltrow. To suggest her new celeb
crush, email jennifxu@umich.edu.

U

WANT TO WRITE
A COMIC STRIP
FOR ARTS?

E-mail shacobs@umich.edu for
information on the process.


4B - Thursday, November 18, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

RMUGE MADNESS
'IJ spellbound for Potter premiere
From Markley to South Quad, students prepare
for midnight's moviegoing magic
By Jennifer Xu I Daily Arts Writer

"Harry Potter" book and movie pre-
mieres have long brought out the crazy in
our generation, and this is no exception
for University students. Tonight, The Boy
Who Lived is exploding onto our theater
screens for the second-to-last time in
"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows:
Part 1," bringing a month's worth of par-
ties and events to a close.
The Michigan Muggles kicked off the
adventure two weeks ago with a "Harry
Potter" Trivia Night at Buffalo Wild
Wings on State Street in Ann Arbor.
People signed up in groups of four to par-
ticipate, and proceeds went to fund a chil-
dren's literacy program.
"That was a good way to get warmed
up," said LSA sophomore Kristin Harden.
Just last year, the Muggles were formed
by a small group of students passionate
about the "Harry Potter" books and mov-
ies, but the club has expanded significant-
ly in the past few months.
"We filled B-Dubs," Harden said. "I
think there are a lot of people that are
very open about their obsession with
'Harry Potter.' "
The club also holds occasional book
talks, in which members discuss what
reading "Harry Potter" meant to them as
a child and how they got so involved in it.
"I started reading 'Harry Potter' when
I was in the fourth grade," reminisced
LSA senior Kelci Parker. "When I was
younger, I didn't really like reading for
fun. It was like the first book I could just
casually read and enjoy, and after reading
books one, two (and) three really quickly,
I was hooked."
"Also, the seventh book came out right
after I graduated high school," she added.
"Seventh year was like (Harry's) last year
of high school and me and all my friends
were like, 'It's for our class. It's for us.'
"And it's our senior year right now, and
Harry's graduating too - the first half is
coming out now in my senior year, and the
second half - that's when all the 'Harry
Potter' movies are over and I'm done with
college. It feels very symbolic."
Harden and Parker are both planning
on attending the midnight showing of the
film tonight.
"The week of 'Harry Potter' I'm also
planning on watching all the movies,"
Harden said. "We'll probably split it
between a few days since there's so many
- I did that for the last movie where (my
friends) sat and watched all of the movies
in a day."
Harden plans on dressing up as a Huf-
flepuff student and already has her cos-
tume ready.
"(I) made it with my best friend for the
USED BOOKS
From Page 1B
fact that I've got the only one in Ann Arbor
no longer means anything, because all
of the copies that are for sale all over the
world are available all at once."
Stocking up
To keep their walls stocked, used book-
stores must constantly purchase books.
For most, the majority of these come from
customers bringing old books into the
store to sell. But choosing and valuing
books turns out to be a more complicated
process than it seems.
"It's such a vast decision-making pro-
cess (that) I can think of no easy way to
describe it," Gillmore said.
But after so many years in the used-
book business, Gillmore and his fellow
Ann Arbor booksellers can often assess a
book's value on first glance.
"What one pays depends, obviously, a lot
on the book," Platt said. "Some books you
think will sell very quickly you're going

to pay a higher percentage (of the selling
price). And generally the more valuable
the book is, the higher percentage you'll
pay for it."
Shop owners consider the condition of
the book, how well the book is made and
who the author is.

last movie," she said. "I have a blue blaz-
er, and my friend actually drew the Huf-
flepuff crest, and so I sewed that to the
blazer. I have a skirt, a white shirt and I'll
probably wear stockings or something."
"My best friend is going as a Gryffindor
Quidditch player," she added. "She drew
out the Gryffindor crest, and she has a
cape, which has her last name on it and
the number seven. And she has a broom
and she even made a little golden Snitch."
Harden's passion for "Harry Potter"
extends past mere enjoyment of the books
and movies - for her, there's also senti-
mental value in the series.
"It was actually my mom that got me
into reading them," she said. "She would
read them to me every night before we
went to bed, so I fell in love with them
through that. Then my mom actually
passed away when I was 11, and I just kept
on reading them."
For those without transportation to
Quality 16 or Rave, fear not - most of the
residence halls are taking students by
university bus to the Saturday showing at
varying times during the day.
"We're going to have half-off conces-
sions, and we're paying for some of the
ticket, so it should (be) really nice," said
LSA senior and Markley resident advisor
Matthew Duprie.
Markley's 45 RAs have also divided
up the residence hall's four wings into
the four houses of Hogwarts, with Lil-
lian Madrigal and Brandon Ebenhoeh,
both LSA seniors, acting as Head Girl
and Head Boy, respectively. If a student
participates in an event or wins a compe-
tition, that person wins points for his or
her "house."
"We told everyone before fall break
when they went home what their houses
were. Then we put up a sign that said, 'The
Chamber of Secrets has been opened,' "
Ebenhoeh said.,
"It's in red paint and looks like blood,"
Madrigal added.
Markley is sponsoring a pie-eating con-
test and a non-alcoholic Butter-Beer Pong
tournament over the course of the week.
"We found the recipe online. The
essence of it is cream soda, butterscotch
and vanilla ice cream. Lots of sugar,"
Ebenhoeh said.
On Saturday and Sunday night, the resi-
dence hall also plans to have its denizens
play a real-life game of Quidditch, bor-
rowing the Michigan Quidditch team's
brooms and equipment for a big tourna-
ment in the Central Campus Recreation
Building.
"The CCRB is nice because there's that
track right above where people can go and
"You learn after a while what authors
are going to sell and what aren't," Koster
said. "After so many years, you're selling
the same people over and over, you just
don't turn those down."
There are several other ways to buy
used or rare books, like estate sales, per-
sonal collections and public libraries.
Some booksellers also attend antiquar-
ian book fairs, where collectors and mer-
chants gather to talk about and sell books.
Platt attends eight to 10 book fairs every
year - some as far away as Boston, where
he says most of his more expensive books
sell.
Platt also has hosted his own annual
antiquarian book fair on campus for the
last 33 years. The fair attracts booksellers
from Ann Arbor and all over the Midwest
each spring.
However, most of the action for those
who sell used books still takes place in the
store, and with a constant influx of books
and tens of thousands to sort and main-
tain, it can be hard to keep track of every-
thing.
Used bookstores are notorious for their
lack of organization. It can be a nightmare
findingthe book you want,.or even the sec-
tion you want. But somehow the owners

can pinpoint the location of almost every
book in their stores.
"You tend to visualize where every-
thing is," Platt said. But it wasn't always
that easy for him: Platt recalled one of his
first experiences in a used bookstore.

Each wing of Markley Hall has been decorated to look like a different Hogwarts house.

watch, so it kind of creates that environ-
ment that they have in the books and mov-
ies where people are watching the game
from above," Madrigal said.
The person who will be playing the
Snitch has already been determined.
"One of our staff is a cross country run-
ner," Ebenhoeh said. "And he has a twin
brother, so they're going to swap. It's real-
ly going to be quite intense."
South Quad Honors kicked off its own
"Harry Potter" week last Saturday with
the Yule Ball, a charity dance for which
the majority of proceeds went to the Ruth
Ellis Center, a center for homeless LGBT
youth in Detroit. The ball is a continua-
tion of the program's charity ball from
last year that featured a series of "Harry
Potter"-themed food, music and activi-
ties.
"Last year, we asked residents what
they wanted out of next year, and over-
whelmingly they wanted the Yule Ball
back in addition to other 'Harry Potter'-
themed things," Nursing senior Lizzi Shea
said. "The Honors kids are really excited
about this, and they definitely wanted to
see it happen."
Throughout the week, South Quad is
showing selected films from the "Harry
Potter" 'series and scenes from "A Very
Potter Musical." There will also be an
ethics panel about the decisions Harry
makes throughout the books, led by Cen-
"I can remember this guy asking for
some obscure title," he said, "and the
bookseller went up and found it right
away, and I thought, 'How did he do that?
How did he know where the books were?'
Now I know."
The magic of
book browsing
That lost feeling, though, is actually
part of the allure of a used bookstore. In
the process of looking for a certain book,
you discover another one.
"I suspect most of the books I sell are
things people found but didn't know they
wanted, rather than books they came for
specifically," Gillmore said.
"You literally don't know what you're
going to run into in a place like this," he
continued. "You don't even know what
section you're going to be in in a place like
this. You just wander around and see what
catches your eye."
Browsing, even browsing without the
intention of buying, is something booksell-
ers encourage, because the magic of find-
ing something you weren't looking for can
mean much more than pre-meditated buy-
ing. It gives what Alvarez calls a "human
component" to a purchase.
"There are many collectors who, they
buy a book, they have a collection, but they
want to tell a story about how they got that
book. ... Sometimes it is very fascinating

ter for Ethics in Public Life fellow Zach-
ary Smith.
"A lot of people look at Harry Pot-
ter and don't think about the immoral
and unethical decisions that he makes,"
LSA senior Samantha Greenberg said.
"For instance, when he makes Dumb-
ledore drink the potion until he pretty
much dies, is it moral, unethical? Yes.
But he does it, and in the end there's this
happy ending, of sorts. So the idea (is)
that this happens in 'Harry Potter' a lot,
and nobody takes a sec to look at how it
impacts our real life."
The week will culminate in a screen-
ing of the film at Quality 16, which all
the South Quad RAs will supervise and
attend. But in addition to going to the
movie's Saturday showing, Greenberg,
an admittedly huge "Harry Potter" fan
herself, is also planning on attending the
midnight premiere with her friends.
"My best friend and I have always been
to 'Harry Potter' since the fourth movie,
so there's really no other option than to go
at midnight," she said.
Greenberg's favorite premiere was the
sixth movie, two years ago.
"There was a group of 20 kids that all
dressed up as something different, and in
the hour and a half leading up to the pre-
miere they acted out different scenes -
they dueled, they had one person conjure
up a Patronus and fight a dementor. They

had one scene with Harry and Ginny in
love," she said.
Most students look favorably upon the
division of the seventh and final book into
two films.
"I understand it, because it is a really
long book," Harden said. "I just hope they
use it to their advantage. I really hope that
they include details about the Horcruxes,
because that was my only problem with
the sixth movie - they didn't go to so
much detail about Voldemort and his past.
So I hope that since they have so much
more time, they are able to be truer to the
book."
Whether faithful or not, by next July
the famed 13-year "Harry Potter" series
will have truly come to an end. Many
fans, who have grown up reading the
adventures of Harry, Hermione and Ron
and have shed tears over the deaths of
major characters, will finally have to put
away their broken glasses and invisibility
cloaks, as a part of their childhoods comes
to a close.
"I remember when I finished the sev-
enth book, I was crying," Parker said.
"And my mom, who hadn't read them
before - she came in, and she was like,
'Are you seriously crying?' It was like six
in the morning, because I stayed up all
night reading it, and I was like, 'Yes, the
seventh book's over and I just don't know
what to do!"'

0


David's Books has begun to do business online.
browsing," he said.
"I think there are still people who really
enjoy that part: the hunting," he added.
"They enjoy more the hunting than the
possession itself."
Such serendipity, Platt said, is unique to
used bookstores.
"A new bookstore is based on books that
are just in print now," Platt said, "whereas
with a used bookstore, every book that's
ever been printed is a possibility. All the
millions and millions of books that have
ever been printed may turn up."
Internet shopping similarly can't pro-
vide this experience, Gillmore said.
"(Customers) like the accident of finding
books they didn't know existed," he said.
"You can't look for books on the Internet if
you don't know they exist."
But despite their charm, the future of
used bookstores is uncertain and used
booksellers are unsure of their staying
power.
"I feel a little bit like a buggy-whip
manufacturer in the time of Henry Ford,"
Gillmore said. "I see it becoming more
and more and more difficult." His fellow
used bookstore proprietors share his sen-
timents.
"It's tough to make ends. meet, and it
could just get tougher and tougher until
most (used bookstores) close," Koster said.
"Every one or two weeks you read an
article in the New York Times about the

death of the book," Alvarez said, though
he doesn't anticipate printed books dying
out any time soon.
Gillmore is also confident about the
future of print.
"There are two things that are going to
make books survive. One of them is that a
book's operating system will never become
obsolete. The other is that books are as
much icons as they are things to read," he
said.
And in talking to these book apprecia-
tors, one begins to share their understand-
ing that books can have value beyond just
literary merit, or the simple transmission
of ideas.
"Besides the text, there is something
else," Alvarez said. "There are more lay-
ers that you could discover in a book
that in many ways takes you to historical
moments."
"Now, that world is kind of disappear-
ing in many ways. ... But I think there are
still people, like me, who like to keep in
touch with places and people."
This idea of "keepingin touch with plac-
es and people" - of experiencinghistory -
is embodied in used bookstores. And while
the future of Ann Arbor's used booksellers
is uncertain, for the time being they are
content to see where their businesses will
go, as long as the books they love go with
them and they can share the used book
experience with their custowers.

Dawn Treader's collection numbers appreximately 70,000 books.


