PINWill Grundler takes on what's left in Ann Arbor when everyone leaves for spring break - and things. get. weird. PAGE 4A

iC i1 Hn 43atlm

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, February 25, 2010

michigandaily.com

CAMPUS MENTAL HEALTH
As demand
soars, CAPS
increases its
programs

University Police officer Mike Mathews plays a training game with Tazer an explosive detection dog that's part of the Department of Public Safety's K-9 unit. The K-9 unit
was the first of its kind in the county and does sweeps before major events.
For DPS's canine unit, a
very 'serious game of fetch

Total appointments
are up 4 percent
over last year
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
After four new offices were
added to the Counseling and
Psychological Services counsel-
ing center last semester, CAPS
officials are continuing to see
demand for their services climb
and plan to continue to increase
programming to reach more stu-
dents.
CAPS saw an increase in
funding from the University last
semester, allowing for the new
construction, but CAPS Direc-
tor Todd Sevig said CAPS offi-
cials are continuing to use the
funds to expand their program-
minsg beyfhd just the new offices
- especially in light of a recent
increase in the number of stu-
dents using their services.
"We're trying to make good
use of the money," Sevig said. "It's
not just dollars and cents to us; it's
what we can do with it, so we're
remaining engaged with students
to make sure we're making use of
our increase in money."
According to CAPS statistics
obtained by The Michigan Daily,

from Jan. 1 to Feb. 19, 2009, there
were 465 first appointments and
1,220 individual appointments.
During the same time period in
2010, CAPS had 497 first appoint-
ments and 1,263 individual
appointments. Combined, total
appointments have increased by
more than 4 percent.
"Basically, more people are
requesting services," said CAPS
Associate Director Vicki Hays.
"There's more demand."
Hays said the average wait
time for an appointment is now
seven to eight days compared to
the rough average wait time of
14 days in October - prior to the
completion of the new offices in
early November.
According to the 2008-2009
CAPS annual report, 96 percent
of University students said they
would return to CAPS if theyever
needed to seek help again, and
98 percent said ifa friend was in
need of similar help, they would
recommend him or her to CAPS.
The report also states that
from 2008 to 2009, CAPS had
3,127 students request clinical
services, which is a 63-percent
increase from 2000 to 2001 when
1,914 students requested services.
Though Hays doesn't know
the reason for the increase in
demand, she cited a few fac-
See CAPS, Page 5A

Renowned for their
bomb-sniffing skills,
DPS dogs sweep areas
* before major events
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily StaffReporter
For years, the University's police
force has been revered throughout
Washtenaw County for its tracking
abilities. The Department of Public

Safety is able to locate almost any-
thing, from hidden explosives and
fleeing suspects all the way to a key
on a football field - thanks in part
to two officers with four legs.
For the past eight years, DPS's
canine unit has served the Univer-
sity and surrounding areas as one
of the leading forms of explosive
and article detection and tracking
in the county.
DPS spokeswoman Diane Brown
said the department chose to cre-
ate a canine unit in the wake of
the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks,

based on heightened level of con-
cern for the safety of students and
guests on campus.
"That represented a significant
change in that there was extraor-
dinary threat and damage," Brown
said. "The war had come to the soil
of the United States."
At the time the program was cre-
ated, DPS was one of the first agen-
cies in the county to have a canine
unit. Since then, others have been
added, but the University's police
dogs are known for their credibility
in tracking and detection.

See a multimedia piece aboutthis
story on McanDaly.corn
Sgt. Jason Forsberg, head of the
canine unit, said thanks to the suc-
cess of the dogs and their handlers,
the program is in high demand
throughout the county.
"Our handlers and dogs have
been very competent in what they
do over the years," Forsberg said.
"I'd say it's evolved in that we get
more requests for services from
other agencies as other agencies get
See CANINE UNIT, Page 3A


SPR ING BREAK
New locations and purposes
for spring break travelers

TAKING A LOOK

Fewer students said
to be going to Mexico,
seeking meaningful
0 trips elsewhere
ByNATALIE BERKUS
and SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporters
Next week, many students will
soak up the sun on beaches in hot
spots like Florida, the Bahamas
and Aruba but many are also

choosing to avoid the typical desti-
nation of Mexico this year.
According to Ann Arbor trav-
el agents, the number of spring
break travelers going to Mexico
has decreased this year because of
safety concerns due to the Mexi-
can drug wars and because stu-
dents are saving money for more
culturally-enriching trips abroad
or within the United States.
Rashmi Popat, manager of
Boersma Travel in Nickels Arcade,
said the number of students head-
ing to Mexico is down this year, in
part due to the current violence

related to Mexican drug cartels.
According to The Guardian, as
of mid-January there have been
283 deaths in the year 2010 due
to the Mexican drug war. Several
cartels have been fighting with
one another for control of the drug
routes into the United States over
the last few years, but violence
has escalated since 2006, when
President Felipe Calderon ordered
6,500 troops to tryto end the fight-
ing.
"Mexico travel has gone down
compared to Jamaica or Costa Rica
See SPRING BREAK, Page SA

TEXTBOOKSAND TECHNOLOGY
iPad could alter textbook market

MARIssA MccLAIN/Daily
Research assistant Sarah Williams (BACK) sets up her multimedia piece "Recognition of Chinchilla" with help from gallery
director Gloria Pritschet in the new "Mind" themed exhibit at the Gallery Project on South Fourth Avenue yesterday.
STJDYING OVERSEAS
Class trip to study Philippines
experiences funding troubles

Programs to read
textbooks on device
already in the works
By A. BRAD SCHWARTZ
Daily StaffReporter
While online bookstores have
changed how many students shop
for textbooks, the Apple iPad may
soon signal a change in the format
of the textbooks themselves.
Apple Inc. recently announced

that it will be adding a tablet com-
puter - the iPad - to its line of
digital devices, which will be avail-
able for purchase in March. Recent
news suggests the company will be
working with textbook publishers
to develop course materials for the
iPad.
Some textbook publishers have
contracted ScrollMotion, Inc. - a
company that has already devel-
oped applications to read maga-
zines and newspapers on the
iPhone - to create textbook and
study guide applications for the

iPad, according to The Wall Street
Journal.
W. Russell Neuman, John Derby
Evans professor of media technol-
ogy at the University, said he is
skeptical that the iPad will be as
popular as the iPod and iPhone,
but thinks e-books, in general,
have a promising future on the
new platform.
"In the next few years, e-books
will probably largely replace ink on
paper as the medium of communi-
cation, using a technology like the
,See IPAD, Page 5A

Students go to learn
about the economics,
politics of country
By ALEXA BREEDVELD
For the Daily
A group of about 25 graduate
students will be heading to the

Philippines next week to study
various aspects of economics and
government in the country. But
the trip, which is part of a Public
Policy course, was harder to fund
this year than in years past due to
the down economy.
During spring break, the stu-
dents will be meeting with govern-
ment officials and policy makers
in the Philippines as part of Pub-

lic Policy 674. The course gives
students the chance to study a
given country's economy in depth
and then travel to that country.
The trip is usually largely funded
through the University, but that
funding was a little harder to
secure this year, according to Matt
Schaar, a business school graduate
student, who directed fundraising
See CLASS TRIP, Page 3A


WEATHER HI: 33 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO: 27 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Mike Brouchard announces job creation plan.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEW S .................................2A SPO RTS .... .................. . 7A
Vol CXX, No.102 OPINION.. . . . 4A THR I-SltE.......................1B
Thecanaily CLASSIFIED......................6A SUMMER EMPLOYMENT . i..1C
michigondailycom

t

t I I


2A - Thursday, February 25, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam 0

2A - Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 0

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Navara Foundation

tnstead of holding restau-
rant fundraisers or selling
baked goods in Angell Hall,
the Navara Foundation, a club
within the Ross School of Busi-
ness, is selling Honduran cof-
fee to Ann Arbor businesses
in an effort to raise money for
merchants living in rural Hon-
duras.
The club, which was started
in fall 2009, will be sending
about eightrstudents to a string
of villages in Honduras next
week during spring break to
research economic develop-
ment strategies for Honduran
farmers. Along with providing
economic advice to villagers
and researching candidates to
receive microloans, the group
will begin to build the foun-
dations for what Peter Was-
serman, a club member and
Business junior, said he hopes

will be a "lasting relationship."
Education, career devel-
opment, research and eco-
nomic investment are the
fundamental initiatives of the
Navara Foundation. Though
still in its early stages, Busi-
ness junior Jordan Kirkbride,
sncub member, said the Navara
Foundation promotes the idea
of microfinance to help devel-
oping countries improve their
economies.
Researchers from Union
MicroFinanza - a non-profit
organization in Ann Arbor
made up of University alumni
who study opportunities for
microfinance in Honduras -
will accompany the group of
students.
Kirkbride said Union
MicroFinanza focuses on
social justice and seeks to
"teach people how to empower

themselves and improve upon
themselves."
To support Honduran farm-
ers, Union MicroFinanza and
the Navara Foundation have
been marketing Honduran-
grown coffee beans to local
Ann Arbor coffee houses.
According to Wassernman,
some businesses have indi-
cated interest, and many local
churches have already pur-
chased the coffee.
Espresso Royale, which
already sells a variety of inter-
national coffees, is one of the
businesses that has indicated
an interest in the fundraiser.
According to Wasserman,
the group plans to buy the
Honduran coffee at $5 per
pound and then sell the coffee
to businesses at about $10 per
pound. This will allow Union
MicroFinanza to give these

profits back to Honduras by
funding various operations in
the country and redistribut-
ing the funds to them through
micro-loans, Wasserman
wrote in an e-mail interview.
According to Kirkbride,
there are incentives for local
coffee. houses to purchase the
Honduran coffee including an
inexpensive price tag and the
opportunity to help the devel-
oping country.
Wasserman said he hopes
to see the Navara Founda-
tion develop even more in the
months to come because it
offers valuable experiences for
students.
"We can sit here and talk
about microfinance, but if
we're not doing anything, then
what does it mean?" said Was-
- CLAIRE GOSCICKI

Members of the toss School of Business'
Navara Foundation dig a latrine in the center
at a viliaee in Honduras. tight memhers vf
the group, founded in lull 2009, will travel to
Honduras aver spring break.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SPMLOVITZ DAN NEMMAN
Editor is Chief easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
amilovire@michigandailyceom tmdbusinesst~gmailtcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsoam Offie hoursSn.-Thurs. 11iasm. - 2a.
News Tipsnws@michigandaily.com
Correctians correctizns@michigandaity.com
Letes to he Editor tohedaiygmichigandaily.omn
Photography Department photo@michigandailycome
Atslection artspage@michigandaily.cam
Editorial Page opinionic~higandaity.coa
Sports Setlion sports@michigandaity.cam
Display Sales display@michigandailyucomn
Classified Sales classifiedichidgandaitycomn
Online Sales onltineads@michigandailycomn
Finance finance@mihigandailycom
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattlAaronson Mansagt ditor aaroson@michigandaily.com,
Jllian Berman Managing New~sEditr, berman@michigandaily.coam
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Abe, MalloryJones, Sephaie enberg, Kyle
Swnon, EshwarThirunE.,kkien,,
ASSISTNT nNEWS EnoOS Dylan Citii, DarrynsFitzgrald, Jseeph Lichermn,
Veonica Mealdi,~Anie hoas,oaDeo Torsby,5ElyaaTigs
Rathel Van Gilder Editoial Page Editor vangitder@miohigandaity~can
SENI0R EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: BanAFeaherty, Erika Mayr, Emily r ley, Lara
ASSISOANOEDITOoIAL PAEEIOoSMielessitt,AlnSchiiMathewSssti
Ryan Kantje Managing SpotstEditor kartje@michigandaily.cam
SENIOR SPORTSnEITORS: Nicole Auesbac, MarkBars,GjRon Joen., ri
Mesans, J0eSapleton,
ASSISTN SPOSro EDITsORS:icihaeiFlorek,AlxHenen,Ran Pdee , ak
Przik,oimsRhan, AmyScarano
JamielBlock ManagingArtsEditor btock@michigandaitycan
SENIORAnTSEDIORnS:Carlynarki,AdeLpi,effSaniord
ASSI0SANnSnEDITORS:LeahsBurgi, Sharonacb,Biidilcoins,Mik untze,
KaviihekharPandey
Max Collins and phooe@michhandaiv..cen
SamnWnlsnn ManagigPhotonEditors
SENIOReHOTOnEIOnn OaRoMULTIMnDIA:Chane o a bsburgLohign
ASSISTANT PHOTO EITOSAan Asrers, ,Jkerm,,sMarissaMcElai,
SaabSquieand daian@michiganedailyeaom
AnnatLein-Zielinski Managing Desig toss
SEOESINsEDITOR: AglaChih
TreorCalero Magazine Editor caeo@mihigandaitycom
MelaneFried and copydsk@michigandailycom
Racbel Phillips topytchiefia
BUSINESS STAFF
Kaie larwiakSales Manager
SALES FORE MANAGER:.Moly Twigg
Ryan Businski ClassifiedhManager
CLASIIED ASITANT MAAGER:KaylLaFata
Jason Mahakian ProductionsManager
Allison SanaceiLayoansMaaager
Vivian LeerFinaceMaaer
Brittany Mrales Circuation anager
Brad WileyProjecoordiator
The Mihigan Dail (ISvN 0745-967)lispulshd MondayohFriFda drigathefall and
wntrters ystudensat thedniversityofcig5a. Oeopyis aailablefeeofcharg tall
readers.Additionalcopiesaybe piked upathe ailsffie for2. ubsciptionsfr faller,
startiveI nginSeber vaaU.S. mail are lilt. WinteremlJanasrsthrough Aprilis $11, yearlong
(September through April) is $195. University affiliaesare subectto a redaucesubcrpion rate
On-csams bsriptnsor all tem anlit.tSbsriptions mst beprpaid. The higanily
isamem~berloTAssoiatdPrss ad TheAsoiaedCllegiatePres.

CRIME NOTES

0
0

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Toilet blocked, Thief steals Astronomy
carpet soiled DeWalt saw, flees lecture

WHERE: Medical Inn, 1501
Catherine
WHEN: Tuesday at about 8:30
WHAT: An unknown suspect
crammed paper towel into
a toilet causing the water to
overflow onto an office carpet,
University Police reported.

WHERE: Chemistry Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about 9 a.m.
WHAT: A caller reported a
DeWalt saw was stolen from an
office in the Chemistry Build-
ing, University Police reported.
The saw was valued at $200.
There are no suspects.

WHAT: Ellen Zweibel of
the University of Wisconsin-
Madison will be talking
about the marco and micro-
physics of cosmic rays.
WHO: Department
of Astronomy
WHEN: Today from
3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Dennison, Room
807

Intentional foul Laptop stolen Guest lecture on
prompts DPS call from parked car childhood trend

Student concert
WHAT: Concert featur-
log compositions from
student composers and
conducted by student con-
ductors. No tickets needed.
WHO: University Sym-
phony Orchestra
WHEN: Today at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
Nature display
WHAT: Exhibit focusing on
nature's smells and sights
with interactive activites.
Tickets are required.
WHO: Matthaei Botanical
Gardens & Nichols
Arboretum
WHEN: Today from 10 a.m.
to 4:30 p.m.
WHERE: Matthaei
Botanical Gardens
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

1A female trainer at Sea-
World's Shamu Stadium in
Orlando, Florida was killed
by a killer whale yesterday
when she apparently slipped
and fell into the tank, CNN
reported.
2 26michigan is holding a
mustache-a-thon starting
March 8 to raise money
for children's literacy.
The group will accept dona-
tions through an online voting
system on its blog.
>> FOR MORE, SEE BSIDE, PAGE 3B
3 According to ABC News,
an oil spill that began on
Tuesday in Italy has now
spread to the River Po and is
threatening to become an eco-
logical disaster. Environmental
groups estimate that 158,500
gallons of oil were spilled.

0
0

WHERE: North Campus Recre-
ation Building
WHEN: Tuesday at 6:10p.m.
WHAT: A University student
was assaulted during a bask-
ball game at the NCRB. He
was pushed twice, University
police reported.

WHERE: Church Carport, 525
Church
WHEN: Tuesday at about 10a.m.
WHAT: A laptop valued at
$2,000 was stolen from an
unlocked, staff members car
parked at the Church Carport,
University Police reported.

WHAT: Professor Sabine
Fruhstuck form the Uni-
versity of California, Santa
Barbara will be discussing the
militarization of childhood
in the twentieth century.
WHO: Center for
Japanese Studies
WHEN: Today from
12 p.m. to 1 ,p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work, Room 1636

MORE ONLINEL
Love Crime Notes? Get moreolne at micigandaily.com/blogs/the wine

I-the wire
WANT THE LATEST NEWS?
FOLLOW THE DAILY'S NEWS BLOG
michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

ARE YOU AMBITIOUS, ASSERTIVE AND SOCIABLE*

We need new account executives
for the Spring/Summer period.
Are you up to the challenge?
It's not just a job. It's the training you
need to succeed!
Where else can you learn to:
Build customer relationships.
Clove deals
Convince skeptics
Become a leader
and build a Killcer Resume?

Please pick up an application at
The Michigan Dully
Student Publicationo Building
420 Maynard Street, first floor
or call
(734).764-0554
or e-mail, attn:- Julianna Crim
dailydisplay~cgmaiilcom
Application deadline
for Summer 2xo positions:
March '19, 2010
CIe irThiian Oat

0I

y I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
NEWS BRIEFS
BROOKLYN, Mich.
Speedway to ban
smoking in May
Michigan International Speed-
way says it's banning smoking in
most areas in response to a state
law change that takes effect May 1.
The racetrack announced yes-
terday smoking will be forbidden
in its grandstands, mezzanines,
concessions, restrooms, suites and
chalets.
It says smoking will be allowed
in open-air areas behind the
grandstands, the New Holland
Fan Plaza and campgrounds.
The 2-mile oval track seats
119,500 and is located in the unin-
corporated community of Brook-
lyn, about 10 miles southeast of Toyo
Jackson. It hosts two weekends of cer,
NASCAR events this year.
WAUKESHA, Wis.
Teen convicted
for Facebook sex
crime
A Wisconsin teen convicted of
using Facebook to blackmail doz-
ens of classmates into sex has been
sentenced to 15 years in prison.
Nineteen-year-old Anthony
Stancl (STAN'-sihl) of New Berlin W
showed no emotion as the sentence blisi
was handed downyesterday. dent
Stancl pleaded no contest in reps
December to two felonies, includ- and
ing repeated sexual assault of a car-
child. defe
He apologized during sen- duc
tencing, saying he has learned to But
. understand what his victims went dec
through. "
He had faced a maximum ed R
30-year sentence. And
Stancl is accused of posing as Flor
a girl on Facebook and tricking an "
more than 30 male classmates rept
' into sending him naked photos of safe
themselves, then using the photos O
to blackmail them for sex. said
sign
DENVER hav
. . .cials
Technician in Colo. ing
infects 36 with and
Hepititus C lence
of n
A 27-year-old Colorado surgery gras
.technician_ who infected three wor
dozen people with hepatitis C deep
has been sentenced to 30 years in Toyi
prison. B
Kristen Diane Parker received Am
the sentence yesterday in federal law
court in Denver after pleading top
guilty to some of the charges in
the case.
Prosecutors had previously
recommended that Parker get 20 CL
years in prison, but a judge reject- Froi
ed the plea agreement. Some of
the victims said it was not enough effo.
time. Si
Parker had worked at the Rose. com
Medical Center in Denver and the get
Audubon Surgery Center in Colo- hurs
rado Springs. "
She infected the patients after of t
she injected herself with pain- our

killer-filled syringes and replaced Scha
them with ones filled with saline. depa
Schi
PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad Sch
.of th'
Ally of Colombian extr
president arrested yeS
in t
A former senator with close ing
political ties to President Alvaro ever
Uribe was arrested by Colombian that
authorities yesterday on charges Desp
of colluding with far-right death Scha
squads. was
Mario Uribe, a second cousin a litt
to the president, is one of the most "V
prominent figures in a scandal stud
that has sent dozens of current selv
or former lawmakers to jail on in t
charges of benefiting from links progi
to outlawed rightist paramilitary befo
groups.
Under an order handed down
by Colombia's Supreme Court,
Uribe was arrested in the city of
Medellin, 155 miles (250 kilome-
ters) north of Bogota, police said.
He was to be transferred to the
capital.
The 60-year-old former senator
has denied any wrongdoing.
Uribe, who presided over the
Senate in 2000-2001, is a close
confidant of Colombia's conserva-
tive president. The two launched a
political party together in the mid-
1980s and have remained allies
ever since.
The arrest stems from allega-
tions by a former paramilitary
leader that Uribe conspired
with right-wing militias in the
1990s to gain control of land in
northeastern Colombia's agri-
culturally rich regions where
paramilitaries controlled large
swaths of territory.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Thursday, February 25, 2010 - 3A

PABLO MARTINES MONSIVAIS/AP
ta President and Chief Executive Officer Akio Toyoda, center, and Yoshimi Inaba, right, president and chief executive offi-
Toyota Motor North America, are sworn in on Capitol Hill yesterday prior to testifying before Congress.
)espite apology, Toyota
~res sdent repriman ded

Lawmakers blast
Toyota leader for
vehicle defects
VASHINGTON (AP) - Under
tering criticism, Toyota Presi-
t Akio Toyoda personally and
atedly apologized to Congress
millions of anxious American
owners yesterday for deadly
cts in popular models pro-
ed by his Japanese company.
angry lawmakers forcefully
ared it was hardly enough.
Where is the remorse?" scold-
Rep. Marcy Kaptur, D-Ohio.
Republican John Mica of
ida held aloft what he called
absolutely appalling" Toyota
irt bragging of defusing a
ty investigation.
f Toyoda's apology, Kaptur
, "I do not think it reflects
ificant remorse for those who
e died." Federal safety offi-
s have received reports link-
34 deaths in the United States
afety defects in Toyota cars
trucks over the past decade.
I extend my sincerest condo-
es to them from the bottom
ny heart," responded Toyoda,
ndson of the founder of the
Ud's largest auto company "I'm
ply sorry for any accident that
ota drivers have experienced."
ut what's most important to
erican drivers - and what
makers pressed Toyoda and a
aide to provide - was a bet-
ASS TRIP
m Page1A
rts for the class.
chaar said the class had to
pensate for departmental bud-
constraints that haven't been
dles in past years.
The recession didn't hurt most
he programs we usually get
funding from until this year,"
aar said. "We go to different
artments. We go to (the Ross
ool of Business), we go to (the
ool of Public Health), and a lot
iose groups justcdidn't have the
a funding to support us this
r."
chaar said students enrolled
he class had to take fundrais-
into their own hands, holding
its at clubs around Ann Arbor
earned a total of about $1,200.
pite the efforts to raise money,
aar said, funding for the trip
15 percent short of the target
tle over a week ago.
We were going to have some
ents pay for the trip them-
es, or a portion of it, which,
he 10 years we've had this
ram, (has) never happened
)re," he said.

ter explanation for slow actions to
deal with the defects and believ-
able assurances the problems that
led to sudden unintended acceler-
ations will be fixed. Toyoda said
those changes are being made
nearly around the clock, but he
repeated the company's insis-
tence that there is no link to the
cars' electronic systems.
Many drivers filing com-
plaints with Toyota and the gov-
ernment say their acceleration
problems had nothing to do with
floor mat interference or sticky
gas pedals - the, culprits the
company is pointing to. Outside
experts have suggested elec-
tronic problems.
Toyota has recalled 8.5 mil-
lion vehicles, more than 6 mil-
lion of them in the United States,
mostly to fix problems with floor
mats trapping gas pedals or with
pedals getting stuck. Toyoda said
great strides were being taken by
his company to put "safety first"
and it was working hard to refit
the millions of cars and trucks
that have been recalled.
The company also said yest-
eday it will offer free at-home
pickup of vehicles covered by the
national safety recall, pay for cus-
tomers' out-of-pocket transpor-
tation costs and provide drivers
free rental cars during repairs.
The deal was initially announced
as part of an agreement between
Toyota and New York state.
Toyoda also said that new sys-
tems to allow brakes to override
Schaar said a last-ditch effort
to reach the chief administrative
officer at the Ford School of Public
Policy for departmental funding
helped close the budget gap.
"I feel like we earned our way
over there," Schaar said. "I kind of
like the fact that we have to put in
some of our own effort to make it
happen."
In addition to fundraising for
the trip, students coordinated
meetings with government offi-
cials through a public policy
school in the Philippines, accord-
ing to Aileen Payumo, a business
school graduate student and Phil-
ippines native.
"I'm friends with Tony La Vina,
the dean of the Ateno School of
Government, ... (and) he was able
to put me in touch with various
officials," Payumo said.
Payumo added that she is excit-
ed to go on the trip because her
connection to the country will
give her a special perspective on
the project.
"I think I'll get something very
different than what everyone else
will because I am Filipino. I think

gas pedals were being put on new
models.
"Notwithstanding that, acci-
dents actually happen," he told
the House Oversight and Govern-
ment Reform Committee, the sec-
ond of three congressional panels
examining Toyota's troubles.
Toyoda, 53, remained calm
when some Democratic and
Republican lawmakers scolded the
company for the recalls and safety
problems.
He stood firm on many points,
including saying he was "abso-
lutely confident" the causes
of runaway acceleration were
mechanical, and not a design flaw
in the company's electronic throt-
tle control system. Many safety
experts and lawmakers have sug-
gested that the electronics systems
should not be ruled out.
Rep. Mica said it was an embar-
rassing day not only for Toyota but
for U.S. safety regulators, whom a
number of lawmakers said should
have acted more quickly and force-
fully.
Mica held up a copy of a July
2009 internal Toyota document
boasting of a "win" for Toyota in
striking a deal with the U.S. gov-
ernment for a more limited recall
involving floor mats. The docu-
ment said the agreement saved the
company $100 million.
The internal presentation was
addressed to Yoshimi Inaba, chief
of Toyota Motor North America,
who sat next to Toyoda at the wit-
ness table.
it's going to give me the ability to
be an ambassador to my country,
which I'm always excited to do,"
she said.
Egan Reich, a second-year pub-
lic policy student, said the students
chose to go. to the Philippines to
observe its unusual patterns of
economic growth and develop-
ment.
"The Philippines has all sorts of
economic growth indicators, and
yet it still has pretty significant
poverty, and a lot of the things
you would normally look at to see
what has an effect on poverty don't
seem to work," he said.
Reich added that the students
have been divided into six groups
with different research topics like
economics and public health and
will meet with government offi-
cials to discuss these topics.
"We're going to interview sever-
al policy makers, and see what sort
of insights they have to offer," said
Reich. "We have our background
research and what we've done in
class, and then to add to that, peo-
ple who are actually working there
and doing it."

CANINE UNIT
From Page 1A
more confidence in our abilities."
Police dogs Sampson and Tazer,
under the instruction of Officers
Mark West and Mike Mathews,
are the second generation of police
dogs at DPS. In 2008, the original
police dogs for the department,
Brutus and Jessy, retired from duty
and were adopted by DPS officers
as pets.
Sampson and Tazer, a brother
and sister from the same litter of
Belgian Malinois, were selected
for police work early in their lives
based on their development as pup-
pies as well as their documented
lineage, according to Mathews.
Once purchased by the depart-
ment, the dogs, who had received
some previous training, spent one
week training intensely for 40
hours with their handlers before
beginning shifts in the field.
While remarkably well-trained,
at a training demonstration last
week, Tazer embodied the concept
of "work hard, play harder." Upon
finding explosives in training, she
sat and waited patiently for her
reward - a game of tug-of-war -,
which she rarely loses, only releas-
ing the toy upon upon verbal com-
mand from Mathews.
Mathews, an officer with the
canine unit since 2008, explained
that explosive-detection dogs are
taught to associate training with
play. Once the dog detects explo-
sive material and notifies its han-
dler, it is rewarded with a game.
"They learn that whenever they
come into this odor (of explo-
sives) that they know that if they
sit they'll get a reward," Mathews
said.
The dogs are able to identify
between 15 and 20 different kinds
of explosives, as well as track peo-
ple based on scent and locate miss-
ing items or evidence.
Beyond their work in explosives,
the canines are used by the Uni-
versity Hospital to track patients
who may have walked away from
the hospital, particularly patients
in the psychiatric ward, and may
not know where they are, Brown
said.
To maintain accuracy, Mathews
and West designate one day each
week to devote to training, along
with beginning and end of shift
practices to increase the skill level
and confidence of the dogs.
Mathews said he specifies Taz-
er's training sessions to help her
improve areas where she is strug-
gling like if she is forgetting to
check elevated areas for whatever
she is tracking.
"If a particular problem comes

up and she's having difficulty with
a certain area, whether it be a slip-
pery floor or where she's not work-
ing a particular area up high, I'll
focus on those areas to increase
her confidence and skill level,"
Mathews said.
To encourage a bond between
dog and handler, Tazer lives with
Mathews and Sampson lives with
West, never leaving the handler's
sight unless in a designated fenced
in area.
"She's considered a pet, but she's
a working dog first," Mathews said.
Forsberg explained that the
need for the dogs to be within eye-
sight of their handlers is primarily
for the safety of the dog and other
people. While they are not trained
attack dogs, they are not used to
casually interact with people and
could react negatively in that situ-
ation.
The intensity of training for each
of the many explosives depends
on the national or local violence
threat level, according to Mathews.
So if the threat level goes up, the
dogs are trained more thoroughly
in all of the bomb odors.
"We have to take into account
the information we get from dif-
ferent sources when we train with
explosives," Mathews said. "In
contrast, a narcotics dog may only
know four odors. The bomb dogs
are smarter."
Brown said the reason DPS
chose to create an explosive-
detection canine unit over narcot-
ics identification was based on the
effectiveness the dogs' abilities
would have in preventing major
crime.
Narcotics dogs are used when
looking for large quantities of ille-
gal drugs, whereas on campus,
drugs are more likely tobe in small
amounts, Brown said.
"Do we have drugs on campus?
Yes," she said. "But that's not the
point to try and get those little
users. Our bigger use and need to
mitigate was all the VIPs we have
coming, whether they're speak-
ing or coming to the hospital, their
protection."
While both canines regularly
sweep the Big House before foot-
ball games, explosive sweeps
before other events depend on the
threat level at the time.
Forsberg added that sweeps
prior to high-profile guest speak-
ers are also common, depending
on the type of event and if threats
have been made. The canine unit
has served to protect such presti-
gious figures as the Dalai Lama and
former U.S. presidents. But regard-
less of the event, the mission of the
canine unit remains the same.
"We are here to serve the Uni-
versity community," Forsberg said.

FOLLOW THE DAILY'S
FOOD BLOG
michiga ndaily.com/blogs
/the table

S U

o-,



4A - Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

JbE *ICdigan 0at4i
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu


0

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Opening the doors
'U' Board of Regents should be more transparent
E thical standards haven't appeared to be the University's
strong suit lately. Allegations that the University violated
NCAA regulations are damning enough. On top of the
NCAA debacle, alum Robert Davis has filed a lawsuit against the
University alleging that a closed-door meeting of the Board of
Regents violated the terms of the Michigan Open Meetings Act.
Though it's not yet clear if the meeting was technically a viola-
tion of the law, the regents clearly weren't as transparent as they
should be. The Board of Regents makes important decisions that
directly affect the University community and it has an obligation
to disclose everything it discusses.

The lawsuit, which was filed last week,
alleges that a meeting that took place on
Feb. 3 in University President Mary Sue
Coleman's private conference room was in
violation of the Michigan Open Meetings
Act. Davis claims that he was denied entry
into the meeting, and that the regents have
refused to release the meeting's minutes.
As reported by the Daily last week, Univer-
sity spokeswoman Kelly Cunningham has
said that the regents haven't done anything
wrong in this situation. University spokes-
man Rick Fitzgerald has said that because
the meeting was informal, it didn't fall
under the act's jurisdiction.
The meeting in question was held to dis-
cuss the then-ongoing NCAA investigation
of the University's Athletic Department. The
investigation aimed to discover if the foot-
ball program had violated NCAA policies
regarding limits on practice time. The Uni-
versity has since received official notice of
allegations that five violations of NCAA rules
occurred. Punitive action is pending.
It is ironic that the regents may have
ignored state regulations in a meeting in
which they were discussing whether stu-
dent-athletes had violated NCAA regula-
tions. And though the regents' intentions
may have been pure, their actions seem
like subterfuge. This type of exclusive and
secretive behavior is damaging to the Uni-
versity's reputation, especially since the

issue at hand was potentially unethical
behavior within the University. It would
have been in the regents' best interest to
be frank and forthcoming about their han-
dling of the investigation.
The meeting's legality is still under scru-
tiny. And the University may have acted
within the boundaries of technical law. But
the regents certainly violated the spirit of
the law. As a public institution, the Uni-
versity has an obligation to Michigan resi-
dents to be transparent about its decisions.
That the regents thought that they should
keep their discussion of the investigation
private is troubling.
And the regents have a history of keep-
ing their decision-making processes in the
dark. They routinely vote unanimously for
tuition increases without public debate and
discussion, with the exception of the last
increase, which two regents voted against.
But the debate that often gets withheld
from the public is valuable. And the Uni-
versity has a responsibility to include the
community in its choices.
It's likely to be quite some time before a
conclusion to the lawsuit is reached. But
regardless of the outcome, the regents
should understand that their lack of trans-
parency is unacceptable. The regents have
a responsibility to the University and it is
imperative that theybe upfront about their
actions.

I give her the gold medal for courage:'
- Olympic ice skating coach Robin Wagner, commenting on Canadian figure skater Joannie Rochette, whose
mother passed away two days before her performance, as reported by the New York Times on Tuesday.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI IE-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOw@UMICH.EDU
me a favor. Next time
you're in the mood for aduk I wakeup last night, and all I --
entertainment. Owrn the ~ ) hear is, "Yep, yes! Go! Yes! i don't tare what the ids
sound down. Hauder! Hurry hard! REAL call it these days. just keep ita
HARD! R ALL R
6 ...x.na.' a
6 C 6 CID
06 *
0 0 0 O tC
Blah la la
W ooooooooeeeeeeee! photographs to go along with it?" gets WILD. Ann Arbor becomes New
Spring break! SPRING Whatcthey're trying to say, of course, Orleans on Mardi Gras.
BREAK. Spring BREAK. is that censorship is perfectly all right.
Ooh, that one's No, I mean that they're trying to
the coolest look- keep this paper respectable, which is No one is reading
ing. Hey, maybe definitely a good idea since the presi-
they should call it dent will be coming to campus soon. this.Im a just
"Winter break #2" Instead of having a spring break issue t . mean,
at the University. this week, for instance, yesterday's look at the title!
Ha ha! Because it's edition of the Statement featured the
still snowing out. ',. slightly less raunchy - yet no less
I wonder if people exciting - topic of landscaping.
will get the joke. Also, this year, we at the Daily Many have questioned the reason
Not that it matters WILL would like to shed light on what hap- for all this excitement from non-stu-
because I don't GIUNDLER pens in Ann Arbor during the week dent Ann Arbor citizens. There are,
have to worry of spring break, rather than "what's in fact, lots of reasons:
about anyone actu- happening" in Cancun or someplace 1. There are no students.
ally reading thi- else. 2. The Squirrel Club ceases its
Woah! You're still here? AND So then, what goes on here in Ann operations.
you're reading the Daily? (Why?) Arbor when you're gone? It's actu- 3. Squirrels start to starve.
Well I guess this column does matter. ally quite interesting. To use an 4. Cars are permitted to drive.
I'm sorry, what would you like to read analogy: Remember in the "Harry 5. There aren't any boring, philo-
about? Health care? The economy? Potter" books when just about every- sophical and elitist conversations
Animal rights? Ellen Degeneres on one leaves for spring break, leaving from said smart-alecky students who
American Idol? I have a firm stance Harry, Ron and Hermione all alone, are so busy having them on their lit-
on all the major issues. I walk into and then Harry flings the invisibil- tle cell phones that they just walk in
the Daily and all the other colum- ity ring into the big volcano? Wait, front of said cars.
nists say, "Man, just look how firm I'm remembering it wrong. Maybe 6. The Michigan Student Assembly-
his stance is!" Even if I don't know Dumbledore dies first? Okay, MSA, I'll letcyou off this time, but
about an issue, I make sure I'm firm Anyway, the point is that stuff goes ONLY because youguys are alwaysstar-
about it. down when 40,000 students who feel geted for abuse and/or humor.
But let's address spring break. You that they "run this town" leave, and 7. MSA ceases operations.
probably have a Friday class or some- that stuff is... a huge party. Still reading? Well, you can stop
thing, and then after that it's down to it's unbelievable, right? While now because I'm done. I've got a
Mexico to get fur - we're supposed to be having the time break to take! I just don't know which
I will have to apologize again. My of our lives on aswarm beach in Flor- one - I've got tons of offers. And I
editors, who are outstanding indi- ida, Ann Arborites are partying it up mean TONS. You get really popular
viduals, have just informed me that back here! You would think that the when you become a Daily colum-
"obscene articles about spring break stores would close their doors and nist. Acapulco, Jamaica - these nice
are in poor taste, and though they people would just sort of stay in bed people at Exclusive College Spring
have appeared in the past, this is or die off, but what happens is com- Break keep offering mesweet deals.
ultimately a prestigious paper with a pletely the opposite. This is why we But I may just stay here and watch the
circulation of- Well, you're right, it's always get an e-mail from the Uni- madness.
not a HUGE circulation, let's be clear, versity reminding us to secure our
but- Look, will you just listen? Stop valuables, lock our doors and take - Will Grundler can be
shouting. What doyou meanyou have any alcohol with us, because it just reached at wgru@umich.edu.
The Daily is looking for diverse, passionate, strong
student writers to join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members
are responsible for discussing and writing the editorials that
appearon the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.
TIMOTHY CORVIDAE I
Amore inclusive call to action

0
0

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
JEREMY LEVY I
Rational release policy

While I understand Asa Smith's concern for
Michigan's safety and reputation, his analysis of
Democratic Gov. Jennifer Granholm's proposal
to release 7,500 prison inmates relies on several
untrue assumptions (Good behavior, bad regu-
lation, 02/21/2010). This proposal is obviously
an issue of concern to Michigan citizens and it
needs to be handled delicately. But by framing
the conversation as a clear trade-off between
public safety and budget cuts, Smith distorts
the issue. Many politicians have capitalized on
public fear by presenting the same narrative. It
is possible to make budget cuts to our prisons
without putting ourselves in more danger. Gra-
nholm just has to do it correctly.
Earlier this month, Granholm proposed mak-
ing over $130 million in cuts to the state's prison
system. The state would release roughly 7,500
prisoners early based on "goodbehavior credits."
People imprisoned for all types of crimes could
potentially qualify forthese credits.
My biggest problem with Smith's analysis is
his portrayal of the makeup of Michigan's pris-
oners. His use of child-rapists and murderers
as examples suggests that most of our prison-
ers are incarcerated for crimes of equal sever-
ity. The public tends to envision a prison system
crawling with those convicted of only the most
serious types of crime. But not only are there
violent crimes that aren't as severe as murder,
there are also plenty of felonies that aren't vio-
lent. While it's surprisingly difficult to find sta-
tistics on the makeup of Michigan's prisoners,
I have good reason to believe that the general
public's narrative is wrong.
Let's start with prisoners convicted of rape
and other sexual offenses. The term "sex-offend-
er" is a vague term that is too often used inter-
changeably with "child-rapist." The Michigan
State Police department provides alist ofoffenses
for which an individual can wind up on the sex-
offender list. Many kinds of offenses, like what
the Michigan Penal Code describes as "solicit-

ing, accosting, or inviting to commit prostitution
or immoral act" could mean a number of things
that don't involve adult-to-child rape. This fall,
for instance, the Daily reported on the case of a
teenager who could have been put on the list for
a crime he committed when he was 15 years old.
Furthermore, many criminology studies
show that individuals frequently overestimate
the amount of murder occurring in the U.S. and
this is often a result of the way crime is por-
trayed in prime-time television. Ina 1997 study,
Vandiver and Giacopassi asked criminal justice
students to estimate the number of homicides
that occurred in the U.S. that year. The aver-
age estimate was 250,000, even though the real
number thatcyear was 18,208.
There are several other problems with Smith's
analysis. It assumes that long prison sentences
are necessary to decrease crime recidivism, even
though there is a body of research showing that
the opposite is true. It also doesn't acknowledge
that Michigan has a recent history of having
unusually high incarceration rates in relation to
other states. Finally, inflamed crime rhetoric like
referring to murderers as inherently bad people,
or stating that criminals must be removed from
our society, suggests thatall criminals are utterly
hopeless. If this were true, we would just give
them all lifetime sentences or the death penalty.
I agree with Smith that good behavior cred-
its should not be granted blindly to all types of
criminals - one who is imprisoned for murder
should not be subject to the same discretion as
someone who is imprisoned for drug use. But
this is not enough of a reason to go against the
policy altogether. Fear rhetoric is a powerful
tool and I encourage the public to look past it
in the arguments that are inevitably going to
be made by Republican legislators. As we con-
tinue to discuss Granholm's policy, let's be sure
not to lose our heads.
Jeremy Levy is an LSA sophomore.

Imran Syed's column this week (Political correctness
run amok, 02/22/2010) provoked a flurry of online com-
ments as he responded to a recent Daily editorial on
gender-neutral language at the University (He/She/Ze,
02/15/2010). Syed wrote, "I'm ... concerned that this
(MSA and University move to use gender neutral lan-
guage) is yet another instance of a hollow gesture mask-
ing a gross lack of commitment to understanding the
underlying issue and to taking the costly steps to resolve
it." I appreciated his acknowledgment of how entrenched
discrimination against transgender people is, so I read
on enthusiastically to hear what drastic remedy he might
call for.
Sadly, he didn't offer better actions and left readers with
a call not to "enable" the University to take even "simplis-
tic" action. Basically, it was a call to do nothing at all. If
we were to forego taking even these small steps, we could
guarantee that change would come only at the glacial pace
Syed worries is our fate - if change were to come at all.
Syed writes, "that solution is so perfunctory that it
borders on offensive." However, I am not offended by
MSA moving to use language that causes no harm to non-
transgender students and facilitates a sense of inclusion
for gender variant students. It would be offensive were
this the only solution being considered.'
It is true that transgender students, staff and faculty
face challenges much greater than discomfort with non-
inclusive language - for example, the right to use our
preferred names, change gender markers on legal docu-
mentation, have access to gender neutral bathrooms and
housing, be treated respectfully and fairly at work and in
class.
Ifusing inclusive language were so simple and perfunc-
tory, why does it inflame such vehement resistance? In a
world of rampant prejudice, a "simple" language change
is not at all simple. Language change can be uncomfort-
able. When we made the shift away from using "man" and
"he" as universal, it was awkward. Writers to this day
must decide how to handle this and explain themselves
in prefaces or footnotes. Reviving the use of the singular
"they" would resolve that dilemma. So this solution does
not serve only a tiny minority of transgender folks.
Discrimination in language is part of a larger problem.
Adjusting pronouns in official documents and making
proclamations about inclusion doesn't change the world.
If that were the only support transgender people were to

get from the University, I would be concerned. However,
arguing against such changes does not improve the situ-
ation either. As with most social change efforts, multi-
pronged approaches are necessary. It makes more sense
to fight for change in your own way than to fight against
someone else's efforts toward the same end.
Syed offers the "Don't ask, Don't tell" policy as an
example of a "solution" that didn't solve the problem.
He points out that it "did nothing to change the under-
lying biases that led to the exclusion of homosexuals in
the first place." This is true. By dishonorably discharging
anyone who admits to being gay, the military states loud
and clear that being gay isn't acceptable. But, this is not
a parallel situation. Adopting gender inclusive language
acknowledges the presence of - and models acceptance
of - gender variant students. This acknowledgment cre-
ates visibility, which some would argue is an important
step toward tolerance and acceptance.
Many online comments seem concerned that anyone
would bother to make adjustments to better include stu-
dents who are in an "infinitesimal" minority. It's true:
Very few students today openly identify outside of the
gender binary - emphasis on "openly." It used to seem
that there weren't many gay, lesbian, bisexual or queer
students at the University either. This wasn't because
they weren't here. Rather, they weren't visible because to
be open abouttheir identities ina climate of socially sanc-
tioned homophobia might have endangered their careers
and their physical and psychological safety.
Individuals who don't identify with the gender binary
of man or woman are rare; we will possibly always be
quite rare, even where it safe for us to be visible. This
doesn't dismiss our right to basic respect and courtesy.
Online writers pointed out that my career and my reputa-
tion as a sane human being are at risk because my gender
identity and expression aren't normative. I can't tell from
your gender whether you are mentally stable, a good stu-
dent or worker, or a decent human being. You can't tell
that from mine either. When people assume they can is
proof enough that language change is necessary. It isn't
a small issue. It is a necessary addition to initiatives on
campus aimed at fulfilling the University's commitment
to nondiscrimination. -
Timothy Corvidae is a School of
Social Work graduate student.

0
0
0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 25, 2010 - 5A

IPAD
From Page 1A
iPad," he said.
iPad competitors like the Ama-
zon Kindle, Sony Reader and Barnes
& Noble's new Nook already have
a variety of textbooks available
for download, and publishers like
The McGraw-Hill Companies and
Houghton Mifflin directly offer
e-textbooks of their own.
Neuman said students will even-
tually read textbooks on laptops,
phones and specialized e-readers.
He added that being able to search
for text on a single device, rather
than using an index, is one of the
chief advantages of digital books
over printed texts.
"Who wants to carry around text-
books at seven pounds a piece?" he
said.
Local textbook retailers may
already be losing business to digi-
SPRING BREAK
From Page 1A
or any other places that people
would go to," Popat said.
Despite the violence in the coun-
try, Popat said travelers returning
from Mexico haven't reported
experiencing anything dangerous
and that the hesitation to visit the
country stems from word of mouth
accounts.
"You hear this, you hear that
and people just have this idea (that
Mexico is unsafe) and people just
view it that way," Popat said.
LSA sophomore Jenna Marine
said she is one of roughly 15 girls in
Kappa Alpha Theta sorority who is
not traveling to Acapulco, Mexico
for spring break this year because
her parents will not allow her to go
due to safety concerns.
"Every year usually everyone
from my sorority goes," Marine
said. "It's very Greek. All the
sororities and frats that we hang
out with go, but this year, for the
first time, not everybody's going."
But Marine said she under-
stands why her parents won't let
her go on the trip.
"Their reasoning was that it's
unsafe and that they didn't want
to pay $2,000 for me to get drunk
on an unsafe beach in Mexico,"
Marine said. "I feel like I wouldn't
let my daughter go either."
Joni Marine, Jenna's mother,
said it is the excessive drinking

tal course materials. Shaman Drum
Bookshop was forced to close last
June, and officials there pointed
mainly to online developments in
the textbook market for the store's
trouble.
Ulrich's Bookstore and Michigan
Book and Supply have created online
rental programs to compete with
online textbook service Chegg.com.
Jade Roth, vice president of books
at Barnes & Noble College Book-
stores, said the company sees digital
textbooks as just another option for
students who would rather rent than
buy printed copies.
"As college booksellers, we don't
choose the content - that's chosen
by the professor," she said. "What
we try to do is provide students with
as many choices as possible from a
format and price perspective."
Barnes & Noble has sold digital
textbooks since 2003 and has made
efforts to apply them to electronic
devices, Roth said. She added that,

despite their availability, digital text-
books might take a long time to be
adopted by the reading public.
"If I'm reading a textbook, I
want to interact with the mate-
rial, do exercises, rely on color
and graphics, take notes and have
those dump out into a study guide;
in essence I want to consume con-
tent," she said. "When I look at the
(e-)readers that are on the mar-
ket today, they don't really fill the
need at that point."
Representatives from Ulrich's and
Michigan Book and Supply declined
to comment on the issue of digital
textbooks.
With stores offering different
textbook options, students said they
have varying opinions on whether
they would actually buy a digital
textbook or whether they would use
one on an iPad.
LSA junior Sandhya Simhan said
she already uses digital materials for
some of her classes and would use

more if they were available.
"If iTunes suddenly had text-
books, that would be pretty damn
cool, atleastin myopinion," she said.
Simhan said that though digi-
tal textbooks would be convenient,
she doesn't see the iPad as the best
device for viewing text given its
touch-based interface.
"I like the idea of buttons, because
I know exactly whereI am," she said.
"It's very sci-fi to use your fingers...
but even if I am the Internet genera-
tion I'm not as comfortable with (it)."
Kinesiology sophomore Zachary
Salt said he still prefers printed ver-
sions of text over digital ones even
if the downloadable textbooks were
made readily available.
"Personally, I like to read hard
copies of things and it wouldn't be
that much use to me," he said. "But
for people who like to stay organized
and like to keep everything all in one
place, it would definitely be a use-
ful tool."

CAPS expands
both programs
and its offices


on spring break trips coupled with
the dangerous drug activities in
Mexico that worry her.
"I think it's the concept of
spring break that you're going for
one reason - and one reason only
- and that is to get drunk 24/7,"
Joni Marine said. "If you're going
to go for that reason, I really
don't like it to be in an unsafe
place."
LSA junior Hunter Rojas, whose
family owns a hotel in Cozumel,
Mexico, said despite students'
concerns the hotel hasn't seen a
decrease in tourists thus far.
"The government has been able
to do a decent enough job of keep-
ing the wars away from high tour-
ism places," Rojas said. "In these
big hotels you don't even leave
them, so it's not like you're going
to be mixing with scary locals."
But results from a recent sur-
vey conducted by STA Travel - a
travel agency with offices around
the world, including in the Michi-
gan Union - showed a major shift
in this year's most popular desti-
nations for students traveling on
spring break trips.
In the survey of 600 college
students, 60 percent said they
planned to travel during break. An
unusuallylow 10 percent of college
students said they were traveling
to Mexico, while a surprisingly
high 34 percent reported Europe
as their planned destination.
In October 2008, STA conduct-
ed a similar survey asking students

about their 2009 spring break
plans. The survey found that 78
percent of respondents planned to
travel during the break - with 65
percent reporting that they were
heading to Mexico, the Caribbean
or a domestic beach location and
15 percent saying they were going
to Europe.
At the STA in the Union, store
manager Carolyn Okon reported
an overall decline in the number of
University students traveling for
spring break this year.
Of those traveling, Okon said
most are taking shorter four- or
five-day trips to domestic loca-
tions, with Miami as the most
popular destination.
"A lot of people seem to be sav-
ing (their) money to do a bigger
trip in Europe over the summer,
or at least that's what they've com-
municated to us," Okon said.
In an STA press release, James
Bell, commercial vice president for
STA Travel, wrote that this year's
shift in the most popular locations
could be the result of students
wanting a more culturally mean-
ingful experience.
"What you're seeing is a more
globally-focused generation than
in the past, and they want to use
their time off to soak up the cul-
ture of Europe rather than the sun
of Mexico," he wrote.
STA spokesman Patrick Evans
offered another explanation for
the shift, saying that, in light of
the economy, atrip to Europe this

year is "a great value and a great
opportunity."
Evans said parents might favor
trips to Europe not only because
they are especially affordable
right now, but also because if they
are going to pay for their kids to
travel somewhere, they want the
expense to be worthwhile. He
added that parents would rath-
er picture their kids learning at
museums in Europe than partying
on a beach in Mexico.
LSA senior Domenic Terenzi
is on the University's Ginsberg
Center Alternative Spring Break
leadership team for site and devel-
opment of ASB trips. He said the
record number of applications -
more than 500 - ASB received
this year could also be a result
of students looking for valuable
experiences participating in com-
munity service work at affordable
prices.
According to the Ginsberg Cen-
ter website, ASB trips cost $125
per person.
"Financially, ASB makes a lot of
sense for a lot of people," Terenzi
said.
He added that he thinks there
is a growing interest on campus in
social justice activities and ASB is
a way for students to explore that
interest.
"The whole getting drunk at a
beach thing is getting overdone or
cliche," Terenzi said. "(Students
are) making the most of that time
in other ways."

From Page 1A
tors, including the economy and
its effects on students, increased
interest in CAPS outreach pro-
grams and a possible decrease in
stigma from students hearing pos-
itive comments from others about
their CAPS experiences.
"I think it's some form of com-
bination of all that," Hays said.
Sevig said the center is expand-
ing its services by offering more
individual counseling and other
programming to create a more
comprehensive office.
"We're in this wonderful peri-
od right now where we are get-
ting bigger in terms of increase in
quantity and also increasing ways
that really meet students' more
immediate or short-term needs,"
Sevig said. "Individual counseling
is a very important part of what
we do, but we do a lot of other
things."
Hays said CAPS recently
developed a number of drop-in
counseling classes that are open
to all students and do not require
an appointment. Some of the
workshops offered involve main-
taining healthy relationships,
improving self-esteem, medita-
tion and dealing with procrasti-
nation.
"The group offerings have
increased quite a bit this term,"
she said. "Groups are a really
wonderful way for students to

experience personal growth - not
just with one person giving them
feedback - but with a lot ofpeople
giving them feedback, especially
from their peers."
Through these programs,
Sevig said CAPS is able to reach
students that wouldn't normally
come in for individual appoint-
ments.
"We're increasing the quantity
of our individual work, but we are
also increasing in other ways," he
said. "We're getting a little smart-
er in how to get in touch with stu-
dents' needs."
Sevig said since mental sup-
port for students doesn't come
in a "one-size-fits-all" approach,
CAPS is trying to think of creative
ways to attract students.
With the help of the CAPS Stu-
dent Advisory Board, CAPS is cre-
ating three short videos that will
soon be posted on the CAPS web-
site. The video topics include how
to make an appointment at CAPS,
how to help a friend in need of
services and how to break the ice
with a professor.
And the extra programming is
coming at a time when CAPS is
seeing an increase in the number
of students using the center.
Hays said even though the wait
time for an appointment with a
CAPS counselor is usually lon-
ger in fall semesters, this winter
semester has had a longer wait
time than in the past.

INTERESTED IN
JOINING THE DAILY'S
NEWS SECTION?
Send an e-mail to berman@
michiga ndaily.com


HPV Fact :

About

5:
7 t+ teaa:..
F,
'apftv- o e t

gnitaI varts after having any kind of
with someone infected.
HPV Fact
YOUhave to actually have six

to get

-the virus that causes

Why risk it
Visit your campus health center.

MERCK
Copyright0200 Merck & Co, Inc.
All rights reserved. Printed in USA.

21050004(40)-01/1 S-GRD



6A - Thursday, February 25, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

1-L-

~L..j EL.
I

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 2-BED: 2-BATH BI-LEVEL !
Walnut @ Geddes
Heat, water, furmishings, 1parking spot
Perfect for 4to share
Only I left!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
! 4-BEDROOM!
Geddes @ Observatory
1 minute walk In the CCRB
3 minute walk to the Diag
Choose ALL utilities incl: heat, water,
electricity, cable, wireless Internet.
Comes fully furmished & w/ 2 parking
spots!
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
~t ,a y
:roperties
Rent with the Best!
Fall 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
! 4-BEDROOMS!
Baldwin & Cambridge
Hardwood floors & 10' ceilings
Beautiful, quiet neighborhood
Heat, water, furnishings, parking incl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
' AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
! CENTRAL CAMPUS 2-BED-
ROOMS
Two S. Forest locations w/ free wireless
Tappan @ Oakland w/ several floor
plans avail.
521 Walnut to choose your furniture
1039 Baldwin w/ brand new kitchens,
screened porch, and a huge yard
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com

C 4
+w a d
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
'OPEN HOUSE !
Saturday March 6th, 2010
11am-3pm
341 E. Huron
Free Rent, Ikea Gift Cards, No App.
Fee. and more
734-662-4446
info@issaproperties.com
1221 S. State##2
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C. dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!!MAY TO MAY!!!!
AND
SHORT TERM LEASES
734-761-8000
primesh.com
**2 BDRM**. WSHR/DYR in unit.
Walking distance to UM Medical Cen-
ter. $800/mo, incl. water. Call 734-395-
5288 or 248-855-3143.

It Pays to Stay at
The Courtyards!

All inclusive rates
No more high utility bills
, Free Internet
Free satellite TV
Fully furnished
!THE,
C COURTYARDS o
STU D t . APARTMTS
1780 Broadway (734) 994-6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
!!LETS MAKE A DEAL!! New low
rates available.
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments.
Fall 2010, Across from East Quad.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Check our web-
site www.churclhstreetrentals.com or
Call Ann 734-320 1244.
$$$ SWEET DEALS $$$
At
Prime Student Housing
FITf, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooums
Make us an offer3e can't refuse!
734-761-8000
priinesh.com
lAartmentsavailable1

V1,0ODPAt R;Y C()VM%0NITIES
The Choice isYours!
Now Renting for 2010-2011
+ 1, 2, & 3 BedroomTownhome
+ WIFI Ready
+ AATA Bus Line
+ 24 Hr Health Club
+ Covered Parking
+ Flexible Lease Terms
+ Apartments &Town Homes
+ Pool & Sauna
. Pets Welcome
f Continental Breakfast every Wed.
+ Concierge Resident Service
+ Business Center
+ Shuttle Van to Downtown AA
+ Roommate Leases Available
+ Hospitality Apartment
+ Includes All Utilities
Call Today For Pricing!
Woodbury Gardens
Industrial & Stadium Dr.
734-663-7633
*AmenitiesVary by Property
www.WoodburyGardens.com
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-
6380. www.benjaminrentals.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrin-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, ndry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdnn-$ 3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
8 MONTH LEASES for fall. Two
houses to choose from: 7 bdrm for 8 at
S. University and Washtenaw. 6 bdrm
for 7-Mid S.:Forest area. 734-260-4003
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.com

DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorms),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
? BAD RES HALL ASSIGNMENT?
Try 4 ELEVEN LOFTS instead and get
$250 cash back! Single bedrooms,
roommate matching. Special $4450 per-
semester rate, includes utilities, space
limited. New bldg, great views, 2
blocks from Central Campus, per-per-
son contracts. Rates from $655 with
flat-rate utilities. Sign by Feb. 28 for
$250, or get $150 by March 9. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
IStudio& 1
ri Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
CQue &,:c $ li ; s- Cd c *x:k rmm Campru
734-663-1530
^^^^YOUR MOM CALLED^^^^
She wants you to live with
Prime!!!
Reduced Rates.... at Great Locations!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.

CORNERHOUSE
APARTMENTS
205 S. State St.
on corner of State and
Washington
2 & 3 bdrm. Apt. Homes
Beautifully Furnished
Outstanding views
Garage parking
Central air
9 foot high ceilings
Premier campus location
Models open daily
734-741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarboraparttments.net

0
"

AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate' storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURES AREACCEPTED
Ann Arbor.- (888) 883-7083 - www.sciofarms.com
Ypsilanti - (888) 310-6850." www.4lakeview.com


Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 KaypThompson's 40 Gin and tonic 50 Gets fresh with
1 Quick kiss impish six-year- garnish 53 Dizzy's jazz
5 Bond player, old 41 Awayfrom the 57 Wine list
seven times 3 Mobile maker coast heading
10 Confiscated auto 4 William the pirate 42 Roast hosts, for 58 Fishing craft
14 End of a fronton 5 Hamm of soccer short 60 Cow-horned
game? 6 Switch positions 45 Sport : family goddess
15 Back list 7 Riverforming vehicles 61 Comic Margaret
16 Court cry part of 46 Equal to, with 62 Cut oft
17 Detectives Germany's "e"Eq3aFrmm__ B:Cbtsof
assigned to eastern border the" 63 From B: basic
unsolved 8 Betty Ford 48 Actress Dahl step
mysteries? Center program 49 No-calorie cola 64 Fled or bled
20 Buddy boy 9 Oozes out ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Calls, in a way 10 Prefix with tiller
22 Waste not , 11Sleeping aid RAP T T S P B O S T O N
23 Navig. guide 12 A pop E L i A W H O E N C O R E
26 Quarterback 13 Jigger's 112: T A C K R O O M H E R O E S
Roethlisberger Abbr. D I SEA S E D A R ENO T
27 Stable diet? 18 Clear and I N T A R R O W
30 Soak through convincing MSG G E I C 1 U B O L T
33 Siesta shawl 19 High Courtcount
35 Local groups 24 Poker holding Y U A N PROP S A R A N
37 Start of a theory 25Condescend E M M A S O L O S L I P 10
38 Intermission 28 Big louts RAM I S N Y U K LOS T
queues? 29 House call? S C A L P A T T I C N E E
42 Hawaii's "Valley 31 Partner of words B A D G E D O Z
Isle" 32 Gay leader? P R A I R I E U M L A U T S
43 Midwestem 34 Unilever laundry F A S T E N B R AD P I T T
landscape map brand C I N E M A E A R P E O N
44 Ring innting 30 Like a whip?
47 Carrying 38 Train guide SNORER ELK ASPS
capacities 39 Continental xwordeditor@aol.com 02/24/10
51 Pavement a a a 4 1 e a a 10 11 12 13
warning
52 Word processor ma s1 16
setting
54 Mad Hatter's 17 F
drink 20 21
55 Fjord relative
56 Like some bio 22 in 24 25 26 a7 2 a
majors
59 Daphne eloped ao 31 32 as 34
with him on an a 37
"Frasier"
61 Shower gifts for s aa3ao 41
brie lovers?
65 Word that car ) a 2a3
precede each a a 4a an aa an ans
word in 17-, 38-
and 61-Across 1 52 5 3 a a
66 Crucial artery
67 Regarding, to a ne57 6s so
6Funsel pF16s 62 4p
68 Hatch seretly 5
70 "Just a
coupla__" a s on
DOWNg y 2Gry na ri chi .02/25/10
1lGttreadp to go ()s10runeMnnianries, mInca.2/1

www.lartonbrook.com, 734-665-5620
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL: 6
bdrm house. Price just reduced.
$2,695 514 Lawrence**
2 bath, free high speed internet, easy ac-
cess to central campus, nursing, medi-
cal and dental schools. Dishwasher and
laundry. Parking available.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm, house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2200
SEPT 2010
COPi PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1699/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.miclicomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartinents.net
((ge MiC41gan dailyJ
PR ENTS THlE
Onlne Classi fieda
Rental Map
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.


0

0

0


7A - Thursday, February 25, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

7A - Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Michigan Daily = michigandailycom

* Novak finds his stroke
as other players go cold

M' struggles from the field

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editor
Against Illinois on Tuesday,
five Wolverines put up 0-fers from
beyond the 3-point line, including
shooters Michigan normally relies
on, like sophomore Stu Douglass
and redshirt sophomore Laval
Lucas-Perry.
But piercing NOTEBOOK
through the dark
clouds surround-
ing the Michigan men's basketball
team's awful 3-point shooting was
a beam of light - from sophomore
guard Zack Novak.
Novak has been struggling with
his stroke recently, most notably
against Penn State when he went
1-for-6 from the 3-point line.
But against Illinois, Novak went
4- for-10, providing his team with
the only consistent touch from
beyond the arc.
"I've been working on changing
stuff up with my shot," Novak said.
"Just slowing down, trying not to
be in a rush. It helped."
The good shooting effort led
to one of Novak's best offensive
nights in a while. His 12 points
marked the first time the guard
has cracked double-digits since
Jan. 23 against Purdue.
LUCAS-PERRY STRUGGLES:
The shooting sruggles have been
plainly evident all season, and the
numbers continue to back it up.
Of Michigan's five starters, not
one is shooting above 31 percent
from deep. And recently, few play-
ers have been struggling as much
as Laval Lucas-Perry.
The guard's 0-for-6 shooting
from deep against Illinois was the
worst in his past five games. In

ARItL BOND/Daily
Sophomore Zack Novak, pictured here, shot 4-10 from three-point range in Tues-
day's 51-44 loss to the Fighting Illini.

three of those, he has not made a
3-pointer.
"Same old song," Lucas-Perry
said. "We got to find some answers
quickly, because the Big Ten Tour-
nament is coming up right away
and we got to find a solution to this
problem that we're having."
Lucas-Perry is known as a
shooter, but given his current
slump, he said he needs to find
other ways to contribute to the
team.
"I've got to do something dif-
ferent to help this team win,"
Lucas-Perry said. "Defensively, or
finding other teammates when I'm
not hitting, driving to the basket."
SILVER LINING: With the way
the Wolverines were shooting
during the first half of Tuesday's
game, no fan would have been sur-
prised to look at the scoreboard
and see that Michigan was down
by a wide margin.
In reality, the Wolverines were
only down by eight. The reason
behind the small deficit despite
the poor shooting was simple:

defense. When Michigan missed
shots, it tightened up on defense.
This observation may seem like
it's out of an elementary-school
coach's handbook, but it's been a
hard lesson learned by this year's
Wolverines.
One of Michigan's biggest prob-
lems this year has been that when
it can't hit shots, it becomes dis-
tracted on defense.
"When we haven't shot well, we
are a distracted team," Beilein said
after last week's loss to Penn State
at home. "Now you're thinking
about the missed shot and not get-
ting the loose ball. You're thinking
about it on defense."
But that was definitely not the
case on Tuesday. And if there was
a silver lining against the Illini,
that was it.
"We were great defensively,"
Beilein said. "Really good. You
can't do much better defensively."
Illinois has averaged 68 points
per game in conference play. On
Tuesday, Michigan held the Illini
to 51.

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
In their last three games, the
Wolverines shot a combined 31 per-
cent from the field.
And for a team with postseason
aspirations, that's notcutting it.
"If we can't shoot the ball better
than we are now, we can't beat any-
body," Borseth
said after the loss NOTEBOOK
to Penn State last
Thursday.
Against Michigan State and Penn
State, Michigan shot 28 and 29 per-
cent in the first half. And on Sunday,
they team shot 37 percent to the
Badgers 46.
But the Wolverines always play
their best games in the second
stanza, so there was hope. But even
when they are able to step it up in
the last 20 minutes, they haven't
been able to dig themselves out of
their first-half holes due to lack of
offensive performance.
"We came out a little bit on,"
Hicks said after the loss to Wiscon-
sin Sunday. "But then we didn't get
a few calls and we flattened out in
the first half and we dug ourselves
in a hole and unfortunately that hole
was insurmountable tonight."
Michigan had numerous free-
throw chances in all three defeats,
but only on occasion did those really
make a difference, and never in the
eventual outcome. Against Penn
State, freshman guard Dayeesha
Hollins shots from the charity strip
with fifteen seconds remaining gave
the Wolverines a second chance,
sending the game into overtime
before they lost 71-65. Against Wis-
consin - a team that shot 46 percent
at Crisler last Sunday - free throws
were Michigan's saving grace,
allowing them to stay in the game

before comingup short.
RECRUITING ASSETS: After nine
winning seasons as head coach at
Wisconsin-Green Bay, Kevin Bors-
eth had some adjusting to do when
he came to Ann Arbor three years
ago.
And in his third year as the Mich-
igan women's basketball coach, it
looks like those adjustments are
finally beginning to pay off.
Borseth inherited a squad largely
made up of upperclassmen, and in
two seasons, eight seniors gradu-
ated, giving him a chance to rebuild
the program.
Last season, the starting roster
was made up of four seniors and the
team record was 10-20. Neither of
Borseth's first two recruits at Mich-
igan averaged even 20 minutes per
game.
This year, he has had six new
freshmen to work with, handpicked
by Borseth himself. And while
NCAA tournament hopes are all but
gone, the squad is 14-12 with two
games left in the regular season.
Starting with now sophomores-
Carmen Reynolds and Courtney
Boylan, Borseth has been able to
pick the players he sees potential in,
as well as players who are coachable
and adaptable.
"I saw (freshman guard Dayee-
sha)Hollins in a tournament down
in Atlanta," Borseth said at Big Ten
Media Day at the end of Oct. "One
time was enough for me. She was
a junior. They had a shootout in
Atlanta I was watching her play.
And I said there ain't no way we're
getting this kid. She's a good guard.
She'sverygood."
After playing as reserves in their
first year, Reynolds's and Boylan's
impacts are felt this year. Reyn-
olds shoots almost 50 percent from
downtown, and has scored double

digits in all of Michigan's confer-
ence victories this season. Boylan
consistently provides a spark off the
bench.
While Borseth hasn't had that
same success he had in Green Bay
just yet, that could be different a few
years down the line when the play-
ers Borseth recruited are juniors
and seniors. They sure have shown
flashes of success.
When she is performing, Hollins
puts up double digits and takes the
ball down the court with surprising
conviction for a freshman.
"You know, you hate to put the
weight of the world on the kid,"
Borseth said at Big Ten Media Day.
"But I think Hollins is a real good
player. She's legit. She can move. She
plays the way I coach. She's a natu-
ral for what we do."
Hollins and freshman guard
Jenny Ryan have started every
game this season. And while Ryan's
contributions are the ones you don't
see as much on stat sheets, she is
second on the team in rebounds,
only four behind 6-foot-6 senior
Krista Phillips.
SENIOR SHINE: Senior guard
Kalyn McPherson scored a season
high eight points in the last 10 min-
utes of the Wolverines' loss to Wis-
consin Sunday. Off the bench, she
contributed five points to Michi-
gan's 12-5 run, putting the Wolver-
ines within four with four minutes
remaining.
"I just tried to provide a spark
for the team coming off the bench,"
McPherson said. "A lot of (posting
up), it's just body strength and body
position, learninghow to score."
McPherson, 5-foot-7, took over
6-foot-6 senior center Krista Phil-
lips's usual role, penetrating the
Badgers' defense to post itup for all
eight points.


aJr

EK-JW

Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?

1~

Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
Experience the Difference
section on * 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
AP R IL 1ST Great for 2-5 people
A Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
B H DirectiN w/DVR Service
AdvertiselinithiscSection
dishwasher, disposal
b Contemporary Furniture
r Close to CCRB m
o Exercise Room, Rec. Room s
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
Advertise in this section
mo Con ctingo C u 741-9300
(734) 764-0557 P-OP-AM ANAAE
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed- LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
room house located near U/M Athletic Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen, ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
and ldry. Call Michigan Realty, 734- avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com www.annarborapartments.net
for more info.

www.varsymanagement.com
Varsity
Management
623 Church St. 17341 668-1100t
1039 BadUw in
Studio, 2 Bedrooms, 4 Bedrooms
Inbehevabfy spacious apartments
ra rdvoodfCoors, highiceilings, bay
wndovs, and fireptacesi ,na
beautifulrconverted mansion.
flue backyard m a quiet
neigiborhfood 'eat, water,
furnshings, & parkig included!
Calffor your personafizecdtour!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
FEB-U-LESS! 2 Bedrooms at Great
low rates-Reduced to $1299.00! Rent
today with University Towers.
Rooms, Studio's - 3 bedrooms - heat,
water and furniture included - Con-
tact us at universitytowers-mi.com
- Secure Your Apartment Before
YOU Leave for Spring Break.
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic campus, Law &
Business schools. Groups or individual.
SINGLE RM LEASES. $585/bdrm &
up. SIX-BD RM UNITS $3,510.00 and
up 734-418-2050
www.828greeneapts.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
flo8MooroeMaougers(&,Llumich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
81 SouthStateManagers@umich.edu

Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage*
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
UoEM Discounts!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt 1 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartnents.net
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSeltA2.com 734-476-9768

U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/11r. NEW
campus location! Students apply (
www.teleftind.umich.edu or 763-8773.
YOUTH MINISTER SEARCH: First
Baptist Church of Ann Arhor (FBCA2)
seeks a half-time Youth Minister to de-
velop and oversee all FBCA2 min-
istries to junior high and high school
aged youth. See http://www.fbca2.org
SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com

child! Summer therapy camp for chil-
dren with physical disabilities. Located
on the shores of Lake Superior in Big
Buy, MI. Pasilions.,unailahle .fox.oun-
selors, Waterfront, Instructors for Na-
ture/ Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses,
Therapists, Food Service, and Auxil-
iary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible,
and love children. June 13 through Au-
gust 8. $1,800 plus room & board, and
experience of lifetime provided. Down-
load application: www.baycliff.org.
For more info cull or email: (906) 345-
9314 buycliffpbaycliff org

IN-HOME SITTER needed for
preschooler and toddler, Wednesdays.
Exp., ref., and trans. required.
734-972-7329.

AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Mont in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.

FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmspropllsbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds

For Friday, Feb. 26, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
This is a wonderful day to schmooze
and enjoy the company of others. Catch
a movie. Watch some sports. Enjoy play-
ful activities with children. Flirtations
will be fun.
TAURUS
(April 20to May 20)
Home, family and domestic activities
are your primary interests today.
Discussions with a-parent could be sig-
niticant. Invite the family over for pizza
and beer.
GEMlNI
(May 21 to June 20)
This is a busy, bustling day for you!
Talk to relatives and siblings. Run
errands. It's a good day for negotiations,
wheeling and dealing, plus buying and
selling.
CANCER
(June 21 to July 22)
Your focus is on business and com-
merce today. You might be shopping or
making business deals. It's easy to iden-
tify with your possessions today. "This is
mine! All mine!"
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
The Moon is in your sign today, which
makes you a bit more emotional than
usual. However, it also brings a little bit
of extra good luck to you. Yay!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Work alone or behind the scenes
today. Keep alow profile. This is a good
day for quiet research.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Enjoy schmoozing with others today.
All group activities are favored.
Discussions with a female, in particular,
could be significant. It's a good day to
join a class.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
Quite likely, some aspect of your pri-
vate life will suddenly be made pubhlic.
In fact, bosses, parents, teachers and
VIPs will notice you. Be aware of this.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Because your sense of adventure is
aroused, you want to do something dif-
ferent today! Go someplace you've
never been before. Try to learn some-
thing new.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Wrap up a few details with red-tape
matters regardiug inheritances, wills,
insurance matters and shared property.
Just do it.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
Because the Moon is opposite your
sign today, you will have to go more than
halfway when dealing with others. This
is not a big deal. Be friendly. Two weeks
from now, others will have to go more
than halfway dealing with you.
PISCES
(Feb. 19to March 20)
You want to get better organized
today. Set aside 10 minutes to reduce the
clutter that is accumulating at home and
at work. Just 10 minutes every day will
make a difference in two months!
(You'll love yourself for this later.)
YOU BORN TODAY Because you
sincerely empathize with others, you
know how to touch them emotionally.
You're very tuned into what others need
and want. This makes you a successful
entertainer, teacher, healer or person
who deals with the public. Work to build
or construct something valuable to you
this next year. You will attain more than
you dare to dream!
Birthdate of: Jackie Gleason, come-
dian/actor; Johnny Cash, singer/song-
writer; Corinne Bailey Rae, singer.

AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY I & 2 bdrm apts. Near See great places on an interactive toap
Ctral Campus. $500-750. Includes or Classified listings with frill descrip-
H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991. tions, features, and prices

711 Arch - Between State & Packard H
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts. HELP WANTED
Call Phil at 734.662.5270

Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
:$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilitiest
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 wwwlcc.coop

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
MAIN STREET VENTURES is now
hiring reservations agents for Ann Ar-
bor office. Free Parking! Must be avail-
able evenings and weekends. Please ap-
ply Mon-Fri 2-5pm at 605 S. Main,
Suite 2.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
East up to $150 per day. Exd. not Re-
qotired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeoniiserv.net

i 2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 25, 2010 - 8A

0


Blue looks to gain bye
in Notre Dame series

By MARK BURNS
Daily Sports Editor
After the Michigan hockey
team's home-and-home series
against Notre Dame this weekend,
the Wolverines could find them-
selves in a number of CCHA first-
round playoff matchups.
There's one clear-cut certainty:
if Michigan sweeps the Fighting
Irish and North-
ern Michigan
splits against Notre Dame
visiting Lake at Michigan
Superior State,
the Wolverines NotrepDame
won't have to 12-14-8; Michi-
play that first gan18-16-1
game at all. When: Today
But the what- 7:35 P.M
if scenarios don't
have Michigan Where: Yost
coach Red Beren- Ice Arena
son's attention in TV/Radio:
the slightest bit. FSN/Detroit
"We are
focused on our game," Berenson
said. "When the smoke clears, we'll
see where we are (in the standings).
And it'll be our doing one way orthe
other, whether we are movingup or
moving down."
Currently, the Wolverines (13-
12-1-0 CCHA, 18-16-1 overall) sit
in seventh place in the CCHA, and
because the fourth-and fifth-place
teams - Alaska and Nebraska-
Omaha, respectively - finished
their conference schedules last
weekend, Michigan still controls
its own destiny.
And it will start on the defensive
side of the red line, according to
Berenson. In last weekend's series
at Yost Ice Arena against Northern
Michigan, the Wolverines surren-
dered the first goal early in each
game. It's something that's been
a trend throughout the season for
Michigan: get down early, claw its
way back into the contest, but fail
to clinch a win.
"We have to play better defen-
sively," Berenson said. "One thing
that happens when we give the
other team two or three goals, the
pressure to score - it's harder to

'M'readies for .
west coast trip
By BOBBY REEDY them a little bit loose."
For the Daily one key freshman for the Wol-
verines is attackman Thomas Paras.
The Michigan men's lacrosse The Lakewood, Ohio native was an
team starts its regular season with All-American in high school and is
its longest road trip of the season - a expected to be a big contributor on
10-day, three-game trip to Arizona this year's squad.
and Utah. And they leave today. His skills were already on display
As the most successful club in his first game at Michigan. After
lacrosse program in the country missing the first two scrimmages of
over the last two seasons - with the preseason due to injury, Paras
back-to-back national champion- returned in the third and final
ships - the Wolverines can expect scrimmage and netted a hat trick.
that teams like Arizona, No. 4 Ari- Saturday's game against Arizona
zona State and No.5 Brigham Young will be Paras's first regular-season
will be out to knock Michigan off its game as a Wolverine.
pedestal. "We play scrimmages but you
The most anticipated game of the don't know what it's like until you
trip pits the top-ranked Wolverines get out there and see game speed,
against rival fifth-ranked Cougars. especially in the season," Paras
Prior to Michigan's run of domi- said.
nance, the Cougars were considered Although BYU has consistently
the cream of the crop in men's club had great teams, Arizona State
lacrosse, winning three national should not be overlooked, partico-
championships in 10 seasons. lary because of its offensive talent.
"It's hard not to get more amped "They have some special play-
for (BYU)," senior captain Michael ers," Wolverines coach John Paul
Bartomioli said. "You try and said. "Arizona State is loaded with
approach every game the same way, offensive talent. When you're play-
but when you're playing a team like ing teams like this, you do have to
BYU, there has to be a little some- put a little more into individual
thing extra on the table. Last year matchups than some of the other
was my first year here, so that was teams we play."
my first taste of BYU, and the atmo- The game will be interesting
sphere was just crazy." since it will be the Sun Devils' set-
And the rivalry has picked up in ond game since coming back from
recent years. Before 2008, Michigan a season-long suspension during
had lost its six consecutive games to 2009. School officials self-imposed
the Cougars, including two postsea- the suspension after being made
son losses that ended the Wolver- aware of a team incident involv-
ines' 2003 anl 2006 seasons. ing underage drinking and hazing,
But that has changed in the last accordingto Paul.
two seasons. Michigan won both Seeing as Arizona State has not
of its most recent contests against played since 2008, preparing a
BYU and also returned a favor by gameplan could become a bit of an
knocking them out of the national issue. But Paul is not worried.
tournament in the 2008 semifinals. "We don't deviate a whole lot *
This year, with many of Michigan's from what we do every game," Paul
freshmen playing their first games said. "The keys to our success are
on this trip, crowd support could be no secret - the keys to our success
a concern for the team. are riding and ground balls and a
"I think it is important (for the lot of the little things between the
freshmen) to stay loose," Bartomioli lines. Everybody deals with Xs and
said. "A lot of these guys are going Os and how you play certain play-
to be nervous - I remember when ers. We still feel like as much as we
I was a freshman, I was nervous. I do that we're going to win by the
try to talk to them before the games, things that we bring to every single
joke around with them and keep game no matter who we're playing."

MAX COLLINS/Daily
Junior Louie Caporusso has gone on an offensive tear as of late, tallying seven points in his last five games.

score....You're better off to be shut-
ting the other team down, worry-
ing about defense. And then you
get your chances."
Against Notre Dame in the
teams' home-and-home series in
mid-December, the Wolverines
scored first midway through the
first period en route to their 4-1
win in Ann Arbor. Junior forward
Louie Caporusso netted a goal and
two assists, and it's the Wood-
bridge, Ontario native's play lately
that has Michigan in a good posi-
tion to have a successful weekend.
With the former Hobey Baker

finalist boasting a line of 4-3-7 in
his last five games, and Berenson's
encouragement to shoot more
instead of trying to finagle his way
past defenders, the Wolverines are
feeling better about their chances.
But not only will they have to
shut Notre Dame down (8-11-7-2,
12-14-8) defensively, they'll have
to improve on the power play as
well. When Michigan played the
Fighting Irish earlier, it converted
only once on 10 power plays. Notre
Dame plays an aggressive style of
penalty kill, where it mininizes
the oppositions' space and time

when it comes to making decisions
inthe offensive zone.
According to Berenson, the
Wolverines will need to make
quicker decisions with the puck
as well as execute if they hope
to bypass a first round CCHA
matchup.
"Whether we get a bye or not,
as long as we have a good week-
end, we will have something to
build on," Berenson said. "I can't
say we have a lot to build on after
last weekend, not enough.We need
more than that to be ready for the
playoffs."


0

Wicked lobs, LLC
Featured Job Listing #10407
Executive Coordinator of Leisure
.Salary:$450,000/week + expenses
Responsibilities include leisure seeking,
world travelling and outrageous party throwing.
Must be able to enjoy the most expensive
accommodations, most exotic locales and
pampered service.
No restrictions apply. Schedule optional.
Face it. Fantasy jobs do not exist. But the job that's an
absolutely perfect fit for you does. Find it at MiPerfectJob.com.
perfectjob.com

0


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I Thursday, February 25, 2010

weekend
essentials
Feb. 25 to Feb. 28
5, /
ON DISPLAY
"Yes No Maybe"
exhibits the work of 10
students in the School
of Art & Design's MFA
program. The exhibit
is intended to "engage
(visitors) in the the-
matic discussion of
adaptation, awareness
and abandonment,"
and it includes inter-
disciplinary works like
interactive installations,
photography and kara-
oke. Open until Feb. 28
in the Warren Robbins
Gallery on the second
floor of the Art & Archi-
tecture building, 2000
Bonisteel Blvd. Free.
AT UMMA
Rawr! This Saturday
in a whimsical fam-
ily workshop run by
the Ann Arbor Art
Center, participants
search for mythical
creatures and animals
featured in UMMA's
collections. The day
culminates with every
participant creating a
mask or animal figure
based on their favorite
creature. All materi-
al's are included. The
fee is $15 for mem-
bers and University
students and $18 for
non-members.

By Sharon Jacobs
Assistant Arts Editor
n a projector screen at the front
of the Michigan Union's Pond
Room, a woman dangles inch-
es from the ground. She gen-
tly sways back and forth from
ropes descending from the ceiling, attached to
large metal hooks planted deep in her shoul-
der blades. Her skin is stretched almost to the
breaking point.
This is suspension, an extreme, spiritual
and sometimes gory practice - and the topic
of the semester's first meeting of the Students
for the Appreciation of Body Modification,
founded last winter.
The movie on the projector screen is "Flesh
and Blood," a 2007 documentary about radi-
cal body modification artist Steve Haworth.
As a man onscreen suspends from metal rings
in his nipples, SABM Publicity Chair Jordan
Marchese, an Engineering senior, discusses
his own suspension experience.
"There was a point in which I was spin-
ning," Marchese recalls. "I was watching the
room spin, and I was just completely free ... to
look down, see that my feet (weren't) touching
the ground and look at the wall and just slowly
watch it move and just be completely weight-
less."
Marchese isn't crazy, and he certainly
wouldn't look out of place on a college campus.
A thick wooden earring hangs from each ear,
but any other metal or ink Marchese has is
covered up by his hoodie and jeans - and from

From tattoos and piercings to
scarification and implants, Ann
Arbor is home to a varied and vibrant
body modification community.

talking to him, one would never suspect his
penchant for dangling by the skin on his back
from hooks and ropes.
But then again, Ann Arbor's body modifica-
tion aficionados have a surprising knack for
blending in.
The many faces of modification
After more than a year, Karen Ross's moth-
er still doesn't know about her tattoo. Ross, a
sophomore in the Residential College, had her
late father's initials inked on her inner wrist at
Lucky Monkey on South Ashley Street.
"I thought about getting it for like three
years before I actually did it, just so it wasn't
some rash decision," Ross explained. "This
is how he used to write his initials, and then
ever since he died I've just kind of had it in
the back of my mind ... part of why I wanted
it was so I could look at it every day and be
reminded of everything that me and my dad
had together."
When Ross wears an inch-thick bracelet on
her wrist, the initials are completely covered
up. She used to put on the bracelet every time
she went home.

"When I was a little kid (my mom) used
to tell me like, 'Never get a tattoo, you won't
be able to get a job, people will look down on
you,' " Ross said.
But this isn't just any old tattoo; it has a spe-
cial meaning.
"I just want to wait and see if she'll see it on
her own," Ross said, "and if she sees it on her
own, then that's the time that I'll talk to her
about it."
Art & Design senior Nae Morris is more
conspicuously modified. She has several pierc-
ings on her ears and nose. But it's not until she
yawns or makes a funny face that the extent of
Morris's modifications reveals itself: Thetip of
her tongue is split in two, and she can move the
segments independently of each other.
"No one ever notices, because when I talk
you don't see it, you don't hear it," Morris said
of her tongue bifurcation. "I didn't want a mil-
lion piercings in my ear, I didn't want to be
visibly known ... butI was really happy having
things for myself."
Besides the bifurcation and her numer-
ous piercings and tattoos, Morris has exten-
sive scarification - purposely carved scars
in the shape of cherry and plum blossoms run

from her armpits to hips on both sides - and
implants in her hands.
"It's the exact same thing as a breast
implant pretty much, except that these are
solid instead of being a bag filled with sili-
cone," Morris explained the process. The flow-
er-shaped implants are soft to the touch, "like
a gummy bear ... and when I wake up they're
kind of more poofy."
Although they push'out nearly a half-inch
from the backs of her hands, the implants
aren't glaringly obvious, and long sleeves can
easily cover them.
"I wear hoodies and jeans all the time -
nobody even knows I'mtattooed," Morris said.
Pangea Piercing's self-described "captain,"
j.c. potts (no capitalization, "like ee cummings
with punctuation") regularly interacts with
the secretly modified like Ross and those with
more noticeable art like Morris.
Since Pangea has a reputation for cleanli-
ness and high-tei sterilization methods,
much of potts's clientele consists of scientists,
researchers and doctors - hardly the stereo-
typical metal-ornamented rebels.
To hide his customers' piercings from pry-
ing eyes, potts sells "retainers," glass fillings
that make the holes less noticeable.
"They're not going to withstand a Jewish
grandma, but your boss, maybe," he said.
Launching into the gender disparities in
piercings (more girls pierce their nostrils or
See BODY ART, Page 4B

There's way more people that look
like you that have genital pierings
than people that look like me.
-j.c. potts, captain
of Pangea Piercing

FILM
Need to catch up on
all of the Best Pic-
ture nominees before
Oscar night? Check
out your local AMC
Theater (the closest to
Ann Arbor is in Livo-
nia), which is returning
its annual Best Picture
showcase. This year,
the program is split
into two halves - five
movies will be play-
ing marathon-style
on Feb. 27 and the
other five on March 6.
Tickets start from $30
for a one-day pass.
CONCERT
Straight from Dublin,
Ireland, The Guggen-
heim Grotto and its
soothing folk melodies
will gently rock the Ark
tomorrow at 8 p.m.
Its intellectual tunes
have found critical
acclaim in Ireland, and
the group performed
at Austin's SXSW fes-
tival last year. Open-
ing act Tiger Cooke
supports with his
self-described "dark
folk." Tickets $13.50,
doors at 7:30 p.m,

I I"


2B - Thursday, February 25, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOOD WARS
ANGELO'S e THE BROKEN EGG

Multimedia Online
Go to michigandaily.com to watch a video
accompanying our story, "Pierced and Painted."



At Ann Arbor's most renowned break-
fast joint, there had better be some good
eggs. And there are! The extras are allot-
ted in generous but not overstuffed por-
tions and the tastes all meld perfectly. But
the omelette just isn't fluffy enough to
stand up to some of its competitors. It's a
delicious mix to be sure, but it's not that
magic we expect from Angelo's.

Though its Main Street location has
kept The Broken Egg from becoming a
mainstay eatery for students, one bite of
one of their omelets will change every-
thing. You can stuff your colossal egg
glob with ingredients from a long list of
fresh herbs, veggies, meats and cheeses.
No matter the combination, you'll be wel-
comed with a burst of flavor.

OMELETS
SAVA'S AFTERNOON DELIGHT
Sava's makes a mean breakfast. While Step through the cafeteria-style coun-
Angelo's and Cafe Zola get all the glory, ter at Afternoon Delight and treat your-
Sava's remains underappreciated, which, self to a patented Giant Omelette. Maybe
happily, means verylittle standinginline. you'll go for the Mexican, with gener-
Sava's omelets have the gourmet touch, ous servings of meat and a side of chips.
with fluffy, quality eggs and fresh-tasting Or perhaps you'll prefer their Veggie,
ingredients, whether they be cornedbeef, stuffed with eclectic greens (zucchini!).
asparagus or goat cheese. A top-quality Either way, you'll leave full, satisfied and
breakfast without the massive queue. cholesterol-giddy.
AND THE WINNER IS: AFTERNOON DELIGHT
CAMPUS CLASH
LAST WEEK'S RESULTS:
Barack Obama, the President of these United States, steps into the arena, ski
pole in hand, audacious as ever. But Abhishek Mahanti has passed a resolu-
tion to win, and he looks to keep it. Wielding his curling rock, he charges the
president, but Secret Service agents take him down. He manages to fight his
way out of the pile and, in a final act of desperation, passes a resolution for
peace in the Middle East. It succeeds. Heartbroken, Obama falls to his knees
in shame. (Fun, fake fact: This got more votes than the MSA election.)
WINNER: ABHISHEK MAHANTI? REALLY?
THIS WEEK'S FIGHT:
RICH THE
RODRIGUEZ VIC NCAA
ARMED WITH: ARMED WITH:A
Ensured employment Allegations and three
and crocodile tears. angry weasels.

Pangea Piercing's captain j.c.
potts describes body
modification through the ages
and across cultural boundaries.
See piercing in action, the
inner working and inventory of
Pangea and detailed photos
of different kinds of
modifications.
Weekend Freebies
Because boredom doesn't end
when your cash flow does
Thursday, February 25
University Symphony Orchestra
Compositions by student composers,
conducted by students, fo free!
Hill Auditorium, 8 p.m.

Friday, February 26
Dissertation Recital:
Pantelis Polychronidis J
Spanish music, fo free!
E.V. Moore Building, 8 p.m.
Go see "Dis Illusion" 1
Art ahout illusions... ortis ?
Go find out, fo free!
E.V. Moore Building, 8 p.
Michigan Union, 10 p.m.
Sunday, March 7
Dissertation Recital:
Matthew Thompson
A jazzy, showy piano concert.
Fo free, oftcourse!
E.V. Moore Building, 5 p.m.

e i
A
a;,.
3 jF
;: t
Y f f ,
:
' ;

WHAT'S NEW
ON THE DAILY
ARTS BLOG
. 50 Cent's new job as
porno narrator: After 50
Cent's copyright lawsuit over a
50-year-old woman's homemade
porno, Andrew Lapin explores a new
talent for rappers.
* 'Lost' sheds some light
on its secrets: This week's
episode of "Lost" was a return to
everyone's least favorite on-island
group, the Temple peeps. But it
wasn't a total loss.
. Going through sand and
back: In this week's online diver-
sions, you can feel like Lawrence of
Arabia as you fill your screen with
all different levels of wetness and
explosiveness. Can you build a per-
petual motion machine? We can.

0

For the Academy, will it be she?.

Kathryn Bigelow can soundstage somewhere in Califor-
nia. And don't forget the half-bil-
make history with lion-dollar budget at his disposal.
Meanwhile, Bigelow brought
'The Hurt Locker' her vision to life three miles from
the Iraqi border, where her cast
many years too late and crew occasionally had to deal
with rocks and bullets whizzing
By NICK COSTON about their heads. She often rolled
DailyArts Writer four cameras simultaneously
during 12-hour shoots under the
For81 years, the Oscar, awarded unbearably hot sun, resulting in
by the Academy of Motion Picture over 200 hours of footage. And she
Arts and Sciences, has been the only had $11 million to bring it all
pinnacle of cinematic achieve- together.
ment. The awards have been pre- Those aren't the only odds
sented to men and women in a against Bigelow. Since 1936, the
host of categories - acting, cos- winner of the Academy Award
tume design, makeup, editing and for Best Director has been cho-
the big one, directing. Actually, sen from a field of five nominees.
scratch that last category. Since That's 370 nominations over the
the very first Academy .Awards past 74 years and dozens more in
in 1929, no woman has ever been the nine preceding years of vari-
honored as the best director of the able nominations. Only four of
year. those nominees have been women.
Women have flown under the After Linda WertmUller's
radar in the world of directorial breakthrough nomination in 1976
fame for decades. But with next for "Seven Beauties," only Jane
month's Academy Awards, one Campion ("The Piano") and Sofia
woman just might deliver the kill- Coppola ("Lost in Translation")
ing blow to that longstanding ano- have come as close to the Oscar for
nymity. For her outstanding work Best Director. Both Campion and
on "The Hurt Locker," Kathryn Coppola left their respective cer-
Bigelow has been nominated for emonies with the Academy Award
the Academy's 82nd award for for Best Original Screenplay.
Best Director. In an extra juicy As of today, those three women
twist, the man who stands most stand as the benchmarks for female
directly between Bigelow and his- directors. They made it to the final
tory is her own ex-husband, box- round. Though they didn't get to
office annihilator James Cameron, the podium, they shared with their
whose sci-fi epic "Avatar" grossed male counterparts the hallowed
a billion dollars in 17 days and awkward split-screen anxiety
became the highest-grossing film that comes just before the tear-
of all time after only 40 days. ing of the envelope and the forced
There's no question that "Ava- conciliatory applause required of
tar" is a work of scientific genius. defeated nominees. Some of their
Cameron's technical achieve- efforts, like Campion's and Cop-
ment is unparalleled; after all, he pola's writing, were (according to
personally invented the camera the Academy) even better than the
system that shot the film. But he men's. But the 78 other years have
was also able to create his uni- been entirely male-dominated.
verse entirely within a series of It must be noted that there are
high-powered computers and on a more male directors than there are

female. According to the Associ-
ated Press, of the just over 13,000
members of the Directors Guild
of America in 2007, only seven
percent were women. And in the
1930s, this number was probably
even lower. But compared to the
meager one percentage of nomina-
tions female directors have gar-
nered, there must be some other
explanation.
Maybe studios just don't trust
women to make the kind of mov-
ies upon which the awards circuit
smiles. Director. It's a masculine
word. It's a man's job. The direc-
tor is a manly man who solves
all the problems and puts all the
pieces together. He gives orders.
Sometimes he yells at people. No
wonder female directors can only
make gentle, unassuming films.
Or so those with closed minds
(which could include the big
movie execs) might think. In real-
ity, women have matched and
surpassed male directors in the
emotional, the violent, the sexual,
the grotesque and the poignant
alike. Even sophomoric comedies
like Penny Marshall's "Big" and
Amy Heckerling's "Fast Times at
Ridgemont High," long cherished
by pimply teenage boys, have made
their way onto the screen thanks
to their female directors.
In the past decade, perhaps
no film has held such a hyper-
masculine allure as "American
Psycho." You've no doubt seen a
broseph's Facebook status or two
pulled directly from its cheerfully
insane dialogue. The film's com-
mentary on modern materialism
via the sick machinations of a yup-
pie serial killer has found a last-
ing appeal in an overwhelmingly
male audience in its second life on
DVD after a modest run at the box
office.
That audience might be sur-
prised to learn that the film, writ-
ten off in 1999 as "un-filmable" by

Hollywood insiders, was adapted
to the screen and directed by Mary
Herron. Through her screenplay
and direction, Herron launched
the career of star Christian Bale
and created one of the most iden-
tifiably male films of the early 21st
century.
Herron going unrewarded for
her efforts probably wasn't in
itself a marked injustice; the film
was highly divisive in its initial
critical reception for the supposed
nihilism of its extreme violence
and sexuality, and it retains its
detractors today. Three years later,
however, another gruesome film

was widely lauded upon its release.
"Monster," starring Charlize
Theron, told the story of Aileen
Wuornos, a prostitute who mur-
dered seven men during the late
1980s and early 1990s. For her de-
beautified performance as Wuo-
.rnos, Theron swept the awards
circuit, winning the Best Actress
award from the Screen Actors
Guild, the Golden Globes and
even the mighty Academy. But
the woman who made her perfor-
mance possible, writer and direc-
tor Patty Jenkins, went unnoticed.
On Jan. 30, Bigelow's peers
named her the best director of

the year at the Directors Guild of
America Awards. In the 61-year
history of the DGAs, only six win-
ners have not been similarly hon-
ored at the Oscars. Less than a
month later, "The Hurt Locker"
and "Avatar" went head-to-head
in eight categories at the British
Academy of Film and Television
Arts (BAFTA) Awards. "The Hurt
Locker" won six, including Best
Picture and Best Director. If Big-
elow wins the Oscar, it won't just
be another statue in her growing
collection. It will be a landmark
victory for all the filmmaking
women of the world.

0

0

Kathryn Bigelow is only the fourth woman in history to be nominated for a Best Director Oscar.

DAILY ARTS IS LIKE SOCK'EM BOPPERS.
IT'S MORE FUN THAN A PILLOW FIGHT. JOIN DAILY ARTS.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for
information on applying.

t


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 25, 2010 - 3B

io gging from
the belly

Vault of Midnight opened in 1996 during the decline of the comic book industry.V
A2s comic book gs
From a one-room house on Ashley Street, Vault of Midnight
rose to become Ann Arbor's premiere comic venue.
4y
By Kavi Shekhar Pandey I Daily Film Editor so s O

Outside the cushion of the din-
ing halls lurks what is for some
the biggest downside of apart-
ment freedom - cooking. On
top of piles of
homework, a
spectacular
social life and
a dwindling
bank account,
food has to
find its way
from the fridge
to the stomach CHRISTINA
in an edible, ANGER
possibly even
tasty form.
Frozen entrees aside, when an
inspiration to cook hits, a good
cookbook is usually out of a poor
college student's reach. And when
everyone's go-to, Google, is faced
with the task of presenting a
recipe containing on-hand ingre-
dients, it will most likely lead to
a food blog, authored not by five-
star chefs but by real people and
maybe aLe Cordon Bleu dropout
or two.
Blogging is fun in general,
but the reason food blogging is
so contagious is its mass appeal.
Many blogs detail day-to-day
life (LiveJournal, anyone?). But
who really cares about the often
depressing song lyrics bloggers
post to summarize their feel-
ings? Food blogs are about food, .
and everyone eats. And as they
capture the interest of so many
readers, these blogs can widen
people's horizons to the daily
diets of people around the world
and introduce ideas like the
power of organic produce or the
raw food movement.
Food blogs can take a reader
from spicy Indian curry to home-
baked sweet potato fries to tips
on seasonal produce, all on a
single site. Don't sell these blogs
short. People do read them, and
they can grow more powerful
than our wildest imaginations.
And I'm not talking about the
power to help a student whip up
a pretty good risotto in under 30
minutes (take that, Rachael Ray).
The power behind the blog that
extends beyond the reaches of
the individual kitchen is being
noticed, and of course, Holly-
wood was the first to capitalize.
"Julie & Julia," starring
Meryl Streep and Amy Adams, is
based on one woman's food blog
journey: cooking 524 of Julia
Child's recipes in 365 days. What
began as a real food blog from
an anonymous amateur cook in
New York City became a book
and eventually a box-office hit.
Food blogs, and blogs in general,
have more influence than we
may think.

The culinary topics of blogs
are countless. There are specific
blogging communities out there
that pride themselves on good
food porn and are always look-
ing for the best food-gasm. Food
blogs are sopopular there's even
a website dedicated to helping
you comb through them all to get
to what you want. FoodBuzz is
a food blog doubling as a search
engine for the hunt of any con-
ceivable food topic. Aspiring blog-
gers must apply to be a part of the
website, and they receive a small
compensation for the small ad
they must place on the sidebar of
their pages.
These blogs are uniting food
lovers all over the world. As they
write, cook, take pictures and
comment on other blogs, the
cooks behind the blogs get to
know each other. While this has
some obvious perks, there are
also some worrisome perils.
What starts as a fun hobby has
the potential to be as unhealthy
as deep-fried Twinkies. Many
food blog authors admit to hav-
ing control issues with their
diets, and at times, posts are
monotonous and neurotic -
there's no need to post pictures
of a piece of bread or apple as
a snack. Some bloggers post
Calories, and many measure or
weigh everything they devour.
These restrictions can be masked
Nobody reads
cookbooks when
there's the Web.
under the broad label of "health-
conscious" but are often not
full-blown disorders. Of course,
many non-bloggers have control
issues with food, but in the glow
of the Internet, food blogs are
scrutinized and picky eaters are
exposed.
On top of being a place to proj-
ect and possibly worsen personal
issues with food, the blogs are
taking precedence over pub-
lished cookbooks. Betty Crocker
used to be the go-to gal for
dinner, but now, bloggers post
recipes from popular cookbooks
and request ones they'd like.
There isn't a need to buy the lat-
est recipe book because, chances
are, the instructions are featured
somewhere on the blogosphere,
most likely with some food porn.
While this isn't fair for cookbook
authors, popular, widely read
bloggers understand this and
See ANGER, Page 4B

Proudly perched among the fine dining and
fancy boutiques of Ann Arbor's Main Street is
Vault of Midnight, a store whose vibrant blue
exterior transfixes the gaze of any casual passer-
by. "Comic Books & Stuff" reads its wittily vague
subtitle, and a peek inside clarifies why "stuff" is
perhaps the only term that can sufficiently sum-
marize the store's impressive assortment of mer-
chandise. Aside from new comic books, Vault of
Midnight is packed wall to wall with graphic
novels, figurines, board games, T-shirts, stat-
ues, manga and an enormous six-foot Uglydoll
named Icebat.
Indeed, Vault of Midnight is a veritable para-
dise for Ann Arbor's aficionados of comic books
and other cool "stuff." The store offers almost
100 new comic issues each week and its entire
comic collection runs into the tens of thousands.
But behind the stacks of old back issues of "The
Goon" is an incredible success story of an inde-
pendent, locally owned business.
Vault of Midnight first opened in 1996 in a
one-room house on South Ashley.
"We were so small when we opened, it was
ludicrous. I opened with my entire collection
and a couple thousand bucks," said Curtis Sul-
livan, co-owner of Vault of Midnight, who was
just 21 when the store opened.
Most ludicrous of all was the prospect of
opening a comic book store in the late '90s in
a town where there were already three other
comic shops. And it was a time of monumental
decline in the comic book industry.
"Everyone was like, 'Holy shit! You're opening
a comic shop in1996?"' recalled Sullivan. "That's
when it went from 'Everyone buy five-million

copies (of a title)' to 'Everyone buy no copies.' "
In the early '90s, publishers flooded the mar-
ket with company-wide crossovers, holographic
covers and other schemes to milk avid comic
book readers of their last pennies. But the satu-
ration of the market led to a bubble burst and the
business plummeted - industry titan Marvel
Comics even declared bankruptcy in 1996.
Despite the obvious difficulties of entering
a dying market, Sullivan, along with his wife
Elizabeth DellaRocco and friend Steve Fodale,
decided to open the store. There was no grand,
elaborate business plan behind the decision.
Their motivations for opening a comic book
store were quite simple.
"We just really love comics," Sullivan said.
The origin of the store's name perfectly The store initially s
encapsulates its dark-horse roots.
"We took (Vault of Midnight) from old hor- of Midnight. "N
ror comics, the EC Comics. Vault of Horror and they had Superr
Crypt of Fear, House of Mystery ... they were the these demonic t
original independents," said Sullivan. "We're an cooler to a 12-y
independently based shop as far as the publish- cape."
ers go and the EC (Entertaining Comics) were Vault of Mid
kind of the renegade comic company of that era, market of inde
they were the underdogs." worked - it mar
"Initially we focused on independent the lowest point
comic books, stuff that wasn't Marvel or DC," store made enor
explained Sullivan. "(In other stores) we saw tions, moving up
more of Marvel and DC, so we thought we could years on Ashley
find our niche that way." Huron. After ano
The store's independent collection was a erty Street, nea
source of appeal for many customers. five years there.
"The other shops didn't do smaller books or - Ann Arbor's e
self-published books," said Christian Silbereis, Vault of Midnigh
an original patron and current employee of Vault

MAXOcLINS/Daily
old only independent tilesN
o one else had the crazy toys ...
man and Batman but not Spawn,
oysfrom hell. They looked way
ear-old than Superman with a
night's goal of filling a niche
pendent comic books certainly
=aged to prevail through one of
ts in the industry's history. The
ugh money at each of its loca-
o a little bit each time. After two
, it moved to a new location on
other two years, it moved to Lib-
r Afternoon Delight, spending
Now, stationed on Main Street
quivalent of Madison Avenue -
ht has made it to the top.
See VAULT, Page 4B

Helping kids, one mustache at a time

ByKRISTYN ACHO
DailyArts Writer
The allure of the mustache has
always been in a state of flux. From
the slick bristle
of the roaring Mustache-
'20s to the shag-
gy '70s 'stache, A-ThOn
facial hair has KicI(off
long been a sym-
bol of manhood. Starting March
But these days, 8 at8:26 p.m.
the mustache Ann Arbor
seems to have Brewing Company
been ostracized
by mainstream society.
So what would compel a group
of seemingly lucid, average non-
hipster gentlemen of the 21st cen-
tury to put down their razors and
commit this ironic fashion faux
pas?
Literacy, of course.
For 826michigan - a nonprofit
organization composed of eccen-
tric and creative volunteers who
seek to improve writing skills
in children throughout the Ann
Arbor and Ypsilanti area - don-
ning hair on the upper lip has been
deemed the perfect avenue for
promoting free literacy programs.
Participants in the Mus-
tache-A-Thon, an annual facial
hair-growing contest, include vol-
unteers from 826, University stu-
dents and other men from the Ann
Arbor community who admire
the organization's programs. All
these brave competitors find local
donors to sponsor their efforts.
Last year,30 men participated in
the contest, and 826 is anticipat-
ing more this year.
Starting March 8, a collection
of some of the 826 organization's
favorite fellows will begin their
five-week quest of growing a styl-

ish 'stache. Regardless of the 826
team's seemingly quirky and care-
free demeanor, they're completely
serious when it comes to all things
facial hair. And those considering
taking part in mustache mania bet-
ter be willing to make the cut - of
the beard, that is. -
"This is a mustache on the upper
lip only," explained 826 Executive
Director Amanda Uhle.
The concept is pretty ingenious.
Tyler Brubaker, an avid mustache
grower and 'U' alum, described the
experience: "I think I had a goa-
tee for a year or so in college, but
since then my upper lip has been
unadorned until last March ... the
mustache isn't necessarily a good
look for a lot of people."
The participants, who, like Bru-
baker, aren't typically mustache
wearers, are constantly bombarded
with quizzical looks 'and blatant
remarks about their ridiculous
furry facial features throughout the
five weeks. This gives the men the
opportunity to tell their friends, co-
workers and the occasional befud-
dled gawker that the mustache is
being grown for literacy and that
they should look into donating.
But that's not all participants
get for embracing the hirsute.
How about buds, bristles and
beers? Beginning with a kick-
off on March 8, fearless fuzz-
free men will meet at Ann Arbor
Brewing Company to have their
pictures taken by professional
photographers. During the course
of the event, mustache growers
will meet at the brewing company
every Monday promptly at 8:26
p.m. Each week, photos will be
taken and posted on the 826 blog
so readers can donate money in
the name of the most innovative,
classy or trashy mustaches.

And many growers can't help were taken in the 1970s, because
but have a little fun with it. I had this giant mustache," Bru-
"If you're really proficient at baker said. Also, "When you go
growing your mustache, you can out west with your mustache, the
get the handlebars or the curly sweating is an issue."
Qs," Brubaker said. Vanities and inhibitions aside,
many of this year's upcoming
'stache growers have already pon-
dered their hairy prospects.
Literacy fostered "My upper lip is so sparsely
haired that I don't have much
with handlebDar freedom to design, but.I've always
' a ebeen intrigued by the Salvador
Dali, wildly manicured handle-
bar" said first-time grower and
University law student Carlos
Sure, it's all fun and games - Torres.
until somebody vacations with There's more to 826michigan
their throwback'stache. than mustaches, though. 826
"Last year I went on vacation National is an organization found-
during the Mustache-A-Thon and ed in part by bestselling author
all of the pictures of me at the Dave Eggers. After becoming suc-
Grand Canyon looked like they See MUSTACHE-A-THON, Page 4B

Ioffvm
a 0 5
--I
Pe-ipe

COURTESY OF 826MICHI
Rich Retyi is excessive. The Mustache-A-Thon only considers the upper lip.

I


4B - Thursday, February 25, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MUSTACHE-A-THON
From Page 3B
cessful, he wanted to find a way
to give back to the community. In
2002, he opened 826 Valencia in
San Francisco.
According to Uhle, Eggers
"wanted to take away the stigma
of getting help for kids. So he
made the name just the address
instead of something that would
make the place feel less fun."
Since Eggers opened 826 Valencia
in 2002, 826 National has started
seven chapters across the country
- 826michigan is one of them.
Every.826 writing center has a
different theme. At 826 Valencia,
there's a pirate ambiance, and
826michigan is all about robots.
Uhle says the theme immediately
resonates with children when
they come into the 826 building.
"It's fun and different and it
engages them in a way that their
homework cannot ... it just brings
the community to our doorstep.
It's a way for us to recruit new
donors, new volunteers and new
mustache growers. It's a commu-
nity portal," Uhle said.
Many Ann Arbor residents
walk into the store without know-
,.ing what to expect. Brubaker, who
works the store shift four hours a
week, explains how the process
typically goes down: People ask
about the robots, he gives them
a straight-laced answer and then
lets them know what 826 is really
about.
"People get really excited when
they know kids they can bring in,
and (they bring) money to help
support our program, so it's kind
of a community liaison type of
thing. You draw them in under

Not only do the winners have mustaches, so do their trophies.

one pretense and once they find
out what you're doing, they're
even more excited about it," Bru-
baker explained.
Mustaches and robots aside,
826michigan's literacy pursuits
are pretty astonishing them-
selves. 826 has more than a thou-
sand volunteers, many of whom
are Michigan students who tutor
children ages six to 18 in every-
thing from math to English. The
team also goes to public schools in
the Ypsilanti and Ann Arbor area
to hold writing workshops.
What surprises most people
about the organization is that it is
completely volunteer-run and all
programs - tutoring, workshops,
field trips - are free. 826 Execu-
tive Director Uhle and Executive
Director Amy Sumerton are the
only two paid members on staff.
"It's a volunteer army of people

that want to help," Brubaker said.
826 even makes young creative
writers into published authors -
whether it be through their own
zine or a specially composed
book.
"Kids get super excited when
you publish their work," Brubaker
said. "Just the look on their faces
when they realize, 'You want to
put something I wrote into a book
and people want to read it?' It's a
big deal ... And to be a published
author whether you're six or 15?
That's a big deal."
If helping an organization as
admirable as 826 isn't enough of
an incentive to convince anxious
gents to put their follicles to good
use, maybe these accolades will:
Every Mustache-A-Thon partici-
pant gets a thrift store trophy for
his commendable pursuits - com-
plete with its own stylin''stache.

BODY ART
From Page 1B
traguses - the triangular flap of cartilage toward the
front of the ear - and guys prefer eyebrows), potts
stressed that it's ultimately impossible to predict who
has what.
"There's way more people that look like you that
have genital piercings than people that look like me,"
he said. "Like, what do you think the percentage is of
people that work here that have genital piercings?"
It's 50 percent. Potts is one of them, but "you
wouldn't be able to guess (the other)," he said.
Finding acceptance
According to potts, Ann Arbor is a fairly tolerant
place for the heavily modified.
"If you want to stand out here, you have to cut your
hair and wear a suit and tie, and listen to Rush Lim-
baugh," he explained. "But if you want to go alongwith
the mainstream then you get some dreadlocks, you get
your nose pierced, you go vegan."
In a town where so many of the residents are stu-
dents, it's not surprising that attitudes toward body
modification would be relatively liberal.
Morris was particularly gratified by the University's
response when she had to go to UHS last year for a skin
allergy.
"I was really, really impressed that (the doctors)
were so friendly to me, that they didn't give me some
sort of parental speech of 'What are you doing to your
body?' "she said. "That was really reassuring to me."
However, Morris has had her share of bad reactions
to her body modifications, both in the University and
the outside world.
"I think campus is accepting. I think campus still
judges," she said.
During her seniorcritique in the art school, one pro-
fessor, upon seeing her hand implants, accused Morris
of self-harming. It's a charge often laid on people with
more unorthodox modifications.
"It's not like I'm doing my scarification work with a
razor blade on my arms," Morris explained.
"I don't want to makelightof situations where people
are cutting, because that's a very serious issue, but it's
not something that I deal with ... There's a big difference
from when you do it to yourself, by yourself, than when
you find a tattoo artist and spend six months designing
something, and then spend a year of your life working
with that person for hours every other week to finish
something."
Morris clearly doesn't do her modifications on a self-
desecrating whim. She is extremely picky aboutcleanli-
ness, recovery time and the state of her health before
she gets each new modification. But she recounted an
incident in a grocery store, when she saw a motherscold
her misbehaving child, " 'Stop being trouble, you're
such trouble.'
"And then (the mother) looks atcme, 'She knows what
trouble is."'
Morris didn't just let the comment pass.
"I looked at her, I'm like, 'Actually, ma'am, I'm put-
ting myself through the University of Michigan, I'm
completely drug-free - I've never smoked anything - I
lead a vegan lifestyle for myself, I'm active in different
political organizations, I work with all these different
things, I'm on ResStaff, I hold multiple jobs at a time
while being a full-time student. If you'd like to know
about trouble, Ican direct you to some other groups, but
I'm not (in) them.'
"And she was dumbfounded."
Parental reactions to students' modifications are
often the stickiest to deal with. Like Ross, whose moth-
er still doesn't know about her small tattoo, Morris
doesn't announce her new work to her family. Students
often let their parents find out about their modifications
when it comes up - in some cases, literally.
LSA sophomore Christina Daniels had a tree tat-
tooed on her hip when she turned 18. Her mother found
out when she was driving back to school from fall break
last year.
"I was laying down in the car and my shirtcame up a
little bit and she waxlike ... 'What is that?' " Danielsasaid.
"'It's my tattoo, buh-bye Mom, I'll see you at winter
break."'
Remaking the temple
Perhaps more reassuring to parents are the motiva-
tions behind tattoos and other modifications - in many
cases, it's a particular fusion of the artistic and the spiri-
tual.

"I got (my tattoo) because of a Bible parable," said
Daniels, who has been religious all her life. The tree,
which spreads over nearly a foot of her right hip, is a
"metaphor for faith and how it can grow and become
a big thing."
More than a spiritual outlet, Morris sees body modi-
fication as "a whole process of, really, adding to your-
self."
"It's a freeing process, it definitely helps me feel
more comfortable with myself," she said, but "it's never
something you need."
Marchese agrees that modifications shouldn't be
necessary to feel atchome in one's own skin.
"I have my two or three piercings because I care
about them, because they mean a lot to me. I didsuspen-
sion because it was meaningful to me.... I don't feel like
my piercings complete me; ina sense, it's just my way of
expressing myself at this point intime."
In doing piercings, potts deals directly with how to
turn this self-expression into art.
He described his work as "more of a craft," in that he
turns other people's concepts into artistic reality rath-
er than directly engaging with his own ideas. He sees
himself as an employee of his customer, the real artistic
visionary.
"It's art for you when you're sitting and they're mak-
ing over your body," he said. "You're remaking your
temple ... we just help."
For potts, body modification is all about decorating
the earthly temple.
His own piercings and tattoos are an exercise in "try-
ing to make the outside look like what I think the out-
side should look like - curb appeal, as it were."
Potts sees eye to eye with many of the Students for
the Appreciation of Body Modification crowd on-their
reasons for getting into this particular form of art. He
described LSA senior Amanda Badger, a co-founder of
SABM and frequent visitor to Pangea.
"She's not a weirdo. She just likes her temple and
wants to decorate a little bit. And she's not sad or self-
mutilating or anything likethat. It's about a celebration
of her life.... It's a very empowering thing."
Modified bodies in the student body
Badger founded SABM last year as a place for stu-
dents to get together and have an open conversation
about body modification.
"I enjoy body modification and body modification
accessories, and I noticed that there wasn't an actual U
of M student group that was involved with (that)," Bad-
ger said.
Though only the five officers attended the suspen-
sion-themed first meeting of the semester, Badger
hopes to expand the group. She echoes the sentiments
of many modified students in her worries that others
sometimes judge them or fear their differences before
gettingto know them.
"Anything that you don't know about is scary, and I
don't want people to just chalk (me) off as some sort of
freak, because I'm the same as anybody else," Morris
said.
Even Daniels, whose tattoo is only visible when she
wears a swimsuit, said her friends are "always really
surprised when they find out I have it."
"They're like, 'Oh, you don't seem like the tattoo
type,"' she said.
Clearly, the idea of a "tattoo type," the standard ink-
covered and metal-spiked delinquent, is a myth. The
body-modifiedcanmbe anyone; their art is just as likely
to be a purely personal expression as a loud public state-
ment.
"It's not weird ... it's not unacceptable," Badger said
'of body modification. "We're not mean, and we're not
elitist, and -"
"Speak for yourself!" Morris joked.
Morris mused that with her split tongue, pop-up
flowered hands and countless tattoos and piercings, she
is "probably the most heavily modified student on cam-
pus." She has traveled across the country to find just the
right artists or craftsmen to do her work.
But in Ann Arbor, Morris still admits to a discrepan-
cy between her community at the 'U' and her modifica-
tion community.
"Some of my friends ... see meas a novelty," she said.
"I always have this weird feelingthat people see me as,
'Let's live vicariously through her, because she's willing
to make these choices for her life' ... I think that some
people are afraid to step out of their little comfort bub-
bles."
The spiritual and artistic outlet of body modifica-
tion is an essential part of Morris's life and the lives of
many modification practitioners.
And, Morris confessed, "I really want to have more
friends that IScan share that with."

0

The "stuff" referred to in the store's tagline includes figurines, T-shirts, manga and a giant Uglydoll.

VAULT
From Page 3B
If anything else, it was extreme-
ly fortuitous for Vault of Midnight
to open when it did. It was able to
ride along the wave of the indus-
try's return to prosperity. Comic
books have blown up since the
global successes of comic book
movies - "Spider-Man," "The
Dark Knight" and "Iron Man," to
name a few.
These film sensations have
definitely led to more awareness
and readership of comic books in
general, but to attribute the 'suc-
cess of Vault of Midnight merely
to this phenomenon would belittle
the hard work done by the store's
owners and employees.
"I think we've been able to
thrive because of genuine appre-
ciation and enthusiasm for what
ANGER
From Page 3B

we're doing," said Silbereis.
"At the heart of it we just really
loved comic books," added Sul-
livan. "I would talk people's ears
off, I would get them to buy comic
books 'cause I was totally all about
them. And that's real."
For newbies who may worry
about being overwhelmed by Vault
of Midnight's mammoth collection,
fear not. The store's employees
are extremely knowledgeable and
passionate about what they sell -
they've been reading comics since
they were kids. And the only thing
they love more than the comics and
games themselves is the chance to
introduce others to them.
"(What we sell) coincides with
what we like, that's pretty much
how we do everything," said Sul-
livan. "It's got to be the marriage
of both of those things ... we have
to like it, not (be) selling for the
sake of selling. We could have
every kind of gaming thing imag-
bloggers don't always know the
taste of each other's dishes, and
will hail the aesthetically beau-

inable but we'd spread ourselves
too thin and we wouldn't know
a lot about (the products), and
knowing a lot about (what we sell)
helps us do well.
"It's so easy if you don't have
to bullshit," he continued. "I just
think you'd be miserable trying to
sell stuff that you weren't really
into, it seems like a worst night-
mare."
Although Vault of Midnight has
a large selection of mainstream
Marvel and DC comics today, the
owners haven't forgotten their
origins. The store has a significant
selection of independent comics -
nearly half of the store's main floor
is dedicated to titles from smaller
publishers including Dark Horse
("Buffy the Vampire , Slayer"),
image ("Invincible") and Dyna-
mite ("Red Sonja"). In many ways,
this symbolizes a universally held
dream - the ability to achieve suc-
cess without sellingyour soul.
There are quick, easy meals out
there begging to be cooked, and
once personal qualms are over-
looked, the blogs are a round-trip
ticket to dinner tables around
the world. When lengthy lists of
weird ingredients in cookbooks
without pictures stifle the desire
to become the next Julia Child,
the blogs are the place to go.
Anger wants to cook 524 of your
recipes in 365 days. To send her
von rlst. e-mail steena diumich.edu.

tiful efforts of another home
cook. Trust me, I've made some
will often post pictures from very pretty dishes that were just
food made from the latest cook- impossible to swallow.
books, but not the recipe itself. Food blogs can amplify con-
And before you go blog-happy trol issues, but also record diet
in your kitchen, be warned: A transformations and help out
dish can look amazing with the with what to make for dinner.
right plating, lighting and angle, I would encourage people to
without tasting like anything scour food blogs not only for
more than a cardboard box. Food their recipes but for inspiration.

S
0

JOINING
DAILY ARTS.
IT'S WHAT'S
FOR DINNER.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu 0
for information on applying.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 25, 2010 -1C

:.;
r


2C - Thursday, February 25, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2C - Thursday, February 25, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

Community
HOUSING NETWORK.
Opersin Do r rs asformintgLivs

M a 1
,
,
a ._
; < .,.,

LAY HARD
eZPaI0

Help the Homeless
while interning at
COMMUNITY HOUSING NETWORK
Community Housing Network is a nonprofit organization that
focuses on affordable housing solutions for people in need in
Macomb and Oakland counties.
We are now accepting applications for
these Summer 2010 internships:
" Social Work MSW/BSW
" PR/Marketing
" Affordable Housing Development
CHN Interns will work closely with staff, community partners,
and program participants to create, support and deliver
affordable housing programs and resources. We are
committed to the education of each intern, and provide each
intern with tasks as closely related to their interests as possible.
For more information about these positions and to learn how to apply,
please visit us at: www.communityhousingnetwork.org
and follow the Interns link, or see our online posts at the UM Career Center.
Community Housing Network
570 Kirts Blvd, Suite 231
Troy, MI 48084 (248) 269-1342
Contact: C.J. Felton/cfelton@chninc.net

Come join our exceptional staff for a summer full of adventure!
We are hiring camp counselors, program specialists, and support staff for
Summer 2010. Gain valuable experience while working with children in the
outdoors. Teach/assist with athletics, swimming, A.C., drama, yoga, archery,
gymnastics, scrapbooking, ropes courses, nature and much more.
Office & nanny positions also available.
Apply online at www.pineforestcamp.com

01

:1Iy

Work alongside fellow students while
Marketing Classified display and line ads to
clients
Obtaining and building client relationships
Gaining priceless sales experience
Improvingyour resume
Makinga commission-based salary
...and having FUN at the same time
Please e-mail dailyclassified@gmail.com,
call (734) 764-0557, or stop at
420 Maynard to apply
Deadline is March 15, 5:00pm
Don't Let This Great
Opportunity Pass You By!

01

GamCAEN
Earn competetive wages!
To apply, pleaso sandd resume and
cover letter to oampaensumiohadu
-____Michagan~nglnweing

E

Get outside and get real!
C.rnp Gr.arl dg il Do you want to help kids
Build Real Faith,
same sois our staff this Make Real Friends,
smmer to make a huge And have Real Camp Fun?
mpact in kids lives.
Looking for counselors, WSI, activity specialist
and a Horesemanship Instructor.
For more information call 248 - 615-9844 r
or get an application from our website'
www a mnnedarridnae r

0I

St. Francis Camp Hiring Fair
March 20th, 2010 11-3pm
**Earn College Credits While Working**
**Inquire About Scholarships Available**
10120 Murrey Rd, Jerome, MI 49249
(517)688-9212- campadmin@saintfranciscamp


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily com

Thursday, February 25, 2010 - 3C

Camp Sea-Gull

Charlevoix, MI
Traditional Girls Camp
Beautiful Lake Charlevoix Location
Female Staff Openings for 2010
Nurse,
Sailing Instructor/Counselor,
Counselors with LGT and tennis skills
Excellent Salaries: June 18th-Aunust 6th

Males and females.
Meet new friends! Travel!
Teach your favorite activity.
Tennis Waterfront
Land Sports Arts
June to August. Residential.
njoy our website. Apply online
RIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls
1 -00-997-4347

seagullS5@comcast.net
www.camrneaall com

Become a Role Model Today!

=

College Nannies & Tutors is currently accepting
applications from responsible, outgoing individuals for a
variety of nanny, baby sitting and other childcare
positions. We offer flexible scheduling and a variety of
nositions to fit your skills and nreferencen

htfsy yoursumnmerp ptn
. The Career Center can help you:
" Live your 7.,. define what you'd like to do
" Link to your C7K 1y .locate internship opportunities
Launch your r, r' Kia: .work on your
resume, cover letter & interview skills

Visit us today
www,careercenter.umich.edu
www.facebook.corn/careercenter.uumich
3200 SAB / 764-7460

Fort WorthISD is seeking hIlymotivated andqualified
physics, chemistry, math and bilingual teachers.
On April16, 2010 recruiters from the Fort Worth I 0 will
be conducting interviews at the Michigan Union.
If you are interested in joining the team at one of the
nation's premier public school districts, register for an
information webinar at www.teachfortworth.org
All applicants will be screened prior to being scheduled
for interviews. To schedule an interview e-mail resume to
Samuel.Febres@fwisd.org.

woooo I
At

r,
__,;u


4C - Thursday, February 25, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

*I

Pretty LakeJW
Vacation Camp impact you for the rest of your life?
Consider Pretty Lake Vacation Camp!
Pretty Lake Vacation Camp is a non-profit organization
whose primary mission is to provide a summer
residential camp experience to under-served children in
Kalamazoo County,
9123 WestAM 4971 e Now hiring for semmer staff positions!
269.375.1950 * Great opportunities for growth and learning
www.prettylakeeamp.org * For more information visit us at
www.prettylakeeamp.org.
LOOKING
FOR THE
Pill k0
UIl

CAMP INSTRUCTORS NEEDED!
Part-time and Full time positions
are available for candidates who:
* Have experience working with groups
of children aged 4-12
* Are outgoing and have a fun personality
" Have your own car
* Are responsible and reliable
Apply on-line: www.madscience.org/detroit
E-Mail: madsciencedetroit@att.net
Call Today! (734) 266-9444

9

ATTENTION: FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES!
ARE YOU AMBITIOUS, ASSERTIVE AND SOCIABLE?

MACKINAC k1LAND
Resort Hotel and Fine Dining Restaurant
Seeking summer staff for all positions.
Go to wwwiroquoishotelcom
and fill out an on-line application
or contact Marti at
906-643-8293 for further information.

Se'll mAs flor
The Daily.,

We need new account executives
for the Spring/Summer period.
Are you up to the challenge?
It's not just a job. It's the training you
need to succeed!
Where else can you learn to:
Build customer relationships
Close deals
Convince skeptics
Become a leader
and build a Killer Resume?

Please pick up an application at
The Michigan Daily
Student Publications Building
420 Maynard Street; first floor
or call
(734) 764-0554
or e-mail, attn: Julianna Crim
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Application deadline
for Summer ao positions:
March 19, 2010

Summer Impressions
Dlay Camp
West Bloomfield, Ml
Join the Fun!Meet Great People!
Seeking Talented Staff
Positions Available:
-Division Leaders -Sports Instructors
-WSI's & Lifeguards -Art Instructors
-Counselors -Drama & Science Instructors

0

Call for Applications
(248) 661-3630

Fax#
(248) 357-6361

1,[ j ~ii fl ait

www.summerimpressions.com


