When one show spawns the ~
Beilein says his tearn, once considered
next, the audience is leftN T n t s
dumber, but entertained. forgo a ss s if.it.risses the NIT.
PAGE5 PAGE 8
~Iie lidigan 0at~

Ann Arbor, Michigan
MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
MSA boosts
funding for
student orgs
this semester

Tuesday, March 9, 2010

michigandaily.com

Campus group
leaders say funding
process should still
be more accessible
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Student Assem-
bly allocated more money than
ever to its main funding committee
designated to give money to stu-
dent groups this semester, increas-
ing the funds by about 30% over
last semester. Officials point to a
new initiative to increase the fis-
cal responsibility of the assembly
as the cause of the funding boost.
MSA Treasurer Vishal Bajaj
said that about $225,000 will be
given to student organizations this
semester.
A large portion of that money
comes from MSA's Budget Pri-
orities Committee, to which MSA
gave more than $175,000 this year
-$75,000 more than the Compiled
Code, MSA's governing rulebook,
mandates for the budget for stu-
dent organizations., This budget
includes student organizations,
MSA payroll, Airbus revenue, the
up keep of MSA Chambers, and
allocations to MSA sponsorships.
Passed in a unanimous reso-

lution last month, the BPC allo-
cated its funds to about 37 percent
of the 110 student organizations
that applied for money. Twenty-
nine organizations appealed their
requests for funding, which is
more than any other semester in
MSA's history. These organiza-
tions received some funding origi-
nally but appealed the amount,
asking for more money.
The BPC of the assembly gives
more money to student organi-
zations than any other group on
campus. MSA also gives money to
student groups through its Com-
munity Service Committee and
various committees and commis-
sions.
Through an application and
appeals process, student organiza-
tions can applyfor fundingthrough
MSA. During this year's first cycle,
the BPC found that more money
was distributed directly to student
organizations on campus than in
past years.
The Compiled Code-designates
what percentage of MA's bud-
get should be spent on internal
processes like payroll, and in pre-
vious years MSA had been exceed-
ing those percentages, Bajaj said.
By bringing those numbers back
down to the required level, more
money was available for students.
"It feels good to know that
See MSA, Page 7A

Outgoing Athletic Director Bill Martin (left) and incoming Athletic Director David Brandon talk at SACUA yesterday. The two talked to the faculty governing body about
the current financial state of the Athletic Department, the academic experience of a student-athletes and the state of the University's recreational and exercise facilities.
Martin Brandon talk'
athletics beforfaut

Former and current
ADs discuss finances
and academics
By ANNIE GORDON THOMAS
Daily StaffReporter
As part of his first day on the
job, Athletic Director David Bran-
don spoke before the University's
top faculty governing body yester-

day with his predecessor, former
Athletic Director Bill Martin.
At the meeting of the Senate
Advisory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs, Martin and Brandon
discussed topics like the Athletic
Department's financial situation,
changes in the academic area of
the student-athlete experience
and University facilities used for
recreational and exercise pur-
poses.
The two also discussed the pos-

sibility of expanding the Big Ten
Conference - a hot topic in col-
lege sports circles of late.
Martin began the talk by
highlighting the strong financial
state of the Athletic Department,
which he said is in a drastically
different place than where it was
when he began his tenure at the
University a decade ago.
"We are in strong long-term
financial shape," Martin told
SACUA members.

Martin added that the Athletic
Department may feel some of the
effects of the economic down-
turn in the future, but that even
with the recession, the Athletic
Department is still in stable finan-
cial condition.
Martinalso discussedimprove-
ments in graduation rates of
student-athletes during his time
as Athletic Director. He said the
graduation rates of both students
See SACUA, Page 7A


At campus event, public health
activists discuss TB prevention
Speakers offer / J

Officials laud proposed boost
in funding for the Peace Corps

differing views on
treating TB, HIV
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporter
Carol Nyirenda, a Zambian
community health activist, and
Vernard Green, a senior public
health advisor for the Centers for
Disease Control, came to the Uni-
versity yesterday to give several
talks on the importance and chal-
lenges of controlling tuberculosis.
Both speakers have extensive
experience with TB diagnoses and
treatment through their work with
public health organizations. But
the two speakers used their dif-
ferent backgrounds to provide two
distinct perspectives on the issue
at the event, which was co-spon-
sored hy World AtDS week and
RESULTS - a grassroots citizens'
lobby aimed at ending poverty.
Nyirenda said she has been
infected with both TB and HIV.
She said it took doctors over six
months to diagnose her with TB,
after which she endured eight
months of treatment. During those
six months, Nyirenda said, she was
a risk to her son and daughter, the
latter of whom she shared a bed
with.
Since her experience, she has
advocated extensively to the Unit-
ed Nations and pharmaceutical
companies for effective diagnosis
and treatment programs for both

If budget passes,
money will increase
recruitment, sites,
group reps say
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
President Barack Obama's
budget plan for the 2011 fiscal
year released last month includes
a request for a $446.15 million
budget for the Peace Corps -
an increase of about 10 percent
over this current fiscal year that

officials say will greatly benefit
the Peace Corps program both
nationally and here at the Univer-
sity.
If Congress approves the bud-
get increase, it will be used to
expand the amount of volunteers
currently serving in the Peace
Corps, the number of countries
accepting volunteers and the
overall quality of the program,
according to program officials.
Josh Field, press director for
the Peace Corps, said the pro-
gram's focus for 2010 is expand-
ing the number of volunteers in
current posts as well as increas-
ing the number of host countries.

He added that the organization
is trying to establish a third-year
extension program for volunteers
interested in serving longer than
the two-year requirement.
Field said that if the budget
passes, the increased funding will
allow for more volunteer recruit-
ment. In addition to bringing in
more volunteers, Field said Peace
Corps officials are looking to
enhance the quality of volunteers.
"It will affect our recruitment
just based on the fact that we are
looking for quality volunteers
with positive experiencetogo into
these countries," Field said. "And
See PEACE CORPS, Page 7A


U N k'V ER SI

ION

Dean Pollack tapped for

Carol Nyirenda, a Zambian public health activist, and Vernard Green, a senior public
health advisor for the Centers for Disease Control, spoke yesterday about TB prevention.

diseases.
In addition, Nyirenda is a com-
munity representative on the Stop
TB Partnership's New Diagno-
sis Working Group and is a board
member of UNITAID - an organi-
zation that represents people liv-
ing with TB, HIV and malaria.
Through the Community Initia-

tive for Tuberculosis and Malaria,
Nyirenda is also involved in policy
analysis for TB-related legisla-
tion, support group formation for
TB patients, treatment adherence
training and community outreach.
At the event, Nyirenda empha-
sized the importance of public
See PUBLIC HEALTH, Page 7A

On July 1, School of
Information dean
will start new job
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Martha Pollack, dean of the
School of Information, was
named the vice provost for aca-
demic and budgetary affairs last
week, replacing Philip Hanlon
who is will become the Univer-
sity's next provost in July.

Pollackis appointment is set to
begin July 1, pending approval by
the University's Board of Regents.
Pollack will succeed Hanlon
who was named the next Uni-
versity provost in January after
current provost Teresa Sullivan
announced she willibe leaving her
post to become the president of
the University of Virginia.
Hanlon announced Pollack as
the new vice provost for academic
and budgetary affairs on Wednes-
day, according to the University
Record. In an interview following
the announcement, Pollack said

vice provost
this opportunity.to take the new
job came about fairly quickly.
"(Hanlon) came in and talked
to me about it and we had a num-
ber of meetings," she said. "I talk-
ed to a number of advisors and I
thought over what to do and final-
ly decided to take the position."
Pollack added that she was
"stunned" when Hanlon first
approached her about taking the
position.
"I had never imagined that
this was coming," she said. "I am
enormously excited about the
See POLLACK, Page 7A



WEATHER HI: 53
TOMORROW L 041

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Local favorite Zingerman's looks to expand.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

IN D EX N EW S ................................... 2 A RT S .................................... 5
Vol. CXX, No.105 SUDO K3U ........................ 3 CLASSIFIEDS.................. ...6
Q010 The Michigan Daily OPINIO 4 SPORTS. ....
michigandaily~com


2 - Tuesday, March 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

2 - Tuesday, March 9, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Oether Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SAI"OVITZ DAN NEW MAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-555
smilovirz@michigandailycom tmdbusiness@gmailtcom

Love for literature, lemurs

Lemurs sing. Loudly.
University lecturer Anne Axel
doesn't seem to mind, though.
Passionate about research, Axel
has dedicated much of her pro-
fessional career to studying the
loquacious animals in Madagas-
"They're really loud in the
morning. They'll sing a duet.
One group will sing, and then
the next group will come in,"
Axel said.
It's fitting for Axel to study
animals that sing together,
because she describes her life
as a sort of "duet" of science and
English.
Though the two subjects may
not seem like they go together,
figuring out how to combine
them came naturally, Axel said,
when she considered the possi-
bility of writing for the sciences.
"As I was teaching at Michi-

gao State University I realized
how important writing was,
and as a science teacher, t felt
like students really needed to
write, even in science," she said.
After developing her teach-
ing career at Michigans State,
Axel joined the University of
Michigan's Department of Eng-
lish in fall 2009 as a lecturer.
The ability to combine both the
topics of ecology and English
during her time at the Univer-
sity makes her post here "the
perfect job."
"I never knew how reward-
ing it would be to be teaching
English," she said. "I love being
able to share all these books."
Though Axel is happy where
she ended up and feels confi-
dent, she said she faced chal-
lenges on her path to academia.
"I was pre-med in college,
really driven," Axel said, add-

log that she eventually decid-
ed against attending medical
school.
Instead, Axel said she took
off some time to explore other
opportunities. Fresh out of
college, she traveled to Mada-
gascar, satisfying an interest
in travel and developing a new
interest - lemurs.
Today, Axel says lemurs
make up a significant portion
of her ecological research, add-
ing that she hopes to develop an
undergraduate research pro-
gram related to lemurs at the
University.
"I'm content to have my own
research program, not some
multi-million dollar type thing.
I just want to keep doing what
t'm doing now and provide
opportunities for others to
learn," she said.
- CLAIRE GOSCICKI

CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom t
News Tips
torrections
Letters tothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
Spurts Section
Display Sales
tlassified Sales

office hours..-Thurs. 11a.m. - 2a.m,.
news@michigandaiy.com,
corrections@msichigandaily.com
ttedaily@m~ichigandaily.com
phteo@msichigandail.oms
artspage@msichigandily.com
opinion@ichigandiy.om
sports@michigandily.com
display@michigondiy.com
cloaified@m~ichigandaiy.com,

LSA senior Danielle Wang, Engineering freshman Sajan Shah and LSA
freshman trod Pamron celebrate She sunny day by studying outside of
tspresso Rnyale yesterday.

CRIME NOTES
Cell phone stolen Graffiti on North

WHERE: University Hospital
WHEN: Saturday at about S
p.m.
WHAT: A cell phone and char-
ger were stolen from a waiting
room, University Police report-
ed. The items, which are valued
at $40, were left unattended
while the subject was steeping.
The theftchappened between
2:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m.

Campus sign
WHERE: 1800 Bonisteel
WHEN: Friday at about 1 a.m.
WHAT: Black paint was
sprayed over the "University of
Michiganpart of the entrance
sign to North Campus, Univer-
sity Police reported.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Planet Earth Artsbreak
Movie Night WHAT: Join Artsbreak
in the Michigan Union
WHAT: Hayerukim is for its weekly night of
hosting the second Planet free arts and crafts.
Earth Movie Night on the WHO: University Unions
big screen. Following the Arts & Programs
screening, those interested WHEN: Tonight,
can participate in a discus- from 8 to 11 p.m.
sion about the environment. WHERE: MUG Eoom,
Dinner will be provided. Michigan Union
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Hillel (Mandell L. CORRECTIONS
Berman Center)

Gym bag stolen, iPod stolen from
found in trash the Union

1Recently convicted serial
killer Eodney Alcala was
a winning contestant in a
1978 episode of the show
'The Dating Game,' CNN.com
reported. Alcala was convicted
in February of murdering four
women and a child. Ten years
prior to his appearance on the
show, he had been convicted of
raping an S-year-old girl.
2Michigan was not one of
the 16finalists for the Race
to the Top program, which
was created to provide a
one-time payment of up to $400>
million for states that lack prop-
or funding for education.
mFOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3Lii' Wayne was sentenced
yesterday to one year in
prison, CNN.com report-
ed. The rapper, whose
legal name is Dwayne Carter,
pleaded guilty in October to
charges of gun possession fol-
lowing his 2007 arrest where
police found him with a.40-cal-
iber pistol.

Orlire Soles onlineadsymichigandaiy.com
Firarce finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MattbAarorsor MonagingtEditor aaroson@eiehigasdaiy.oom
lillian Berman Managing New~sEditor hermoe@ehchigandoity.eoe
SENses sumS EDITORS: Nicole Abe,MallorJones,Stepane sSteinb,,tKyer
Sso,, s,., OThiunavukkarsu
ASA~N N ESumsEDInORS: DylnCini, Darryn Fitzgmald, Joseph Licterman,
Veronica Menali, Annie Thomas,eon hor, ElyanaTwigs
Rachel Van Gilder tditorialtPage Editor vangitder@mihigandaity.om
SENIOREDoITORIALPAE EIORS:oBrinFaert,Erika Mayr, EmlOreyh,t Laura
Ryan Kartle Managing SportsEdier torkrtje@michigandaity.com
SENORSPRT EITRS N c ueb,to Marstk Burns, GjonsJunaj, Chis
Meszaros,oe Sapleton
AuSSSnANSPORnSEDIOS :Mihel Ftloek,leaHermann,e,.Ryodes,oZak
Jamie Blotk ManagingArs Editor bock@michigandaily.eom
SENIOR ARTeS IORS:Caolyn lrki, AndeLpi, Jeff Snord
ASSISTAnoNTRS EDInTOSLeah Burgin, Saron ascots, Bagdsiajo t, ike Kuntz
Ma tollins and photo@michigandaily.com,
Sam Wolsan Managing PhototEditors
SENIuOePOTOEDIOnFORMLIMEDIA:Chaneln Hbsburg-Lohinen
Sarah Squireand d dg@miehigandaiy.eom
Anna teir-Zielinssi ManagingtDesignoEditors
SENIRoDE~rSINEDO:nougelasChih
Treortalemo MagazineEditor eatemo@michigundaiy.com
Melanie Fried and cxpydesk@michdgaditycom
Rachel Phillips Copy Chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KatielaOzulak Sales Manager
SoLES FRoCE MANAGER: MolyTrninr
Ryan Basinaki CtassifiedManager
CLASSIFIEDeSSAN TsMANAGoEsRyaata~
Jason Matrakian 5roductiossManager
Allisun SantacreU Layout Manager
Vivian Lee FinancerManager
Brittany MoralesCiciultionManager
Brad WileyeProje tCoordinator
TheMichigan Dit SNsts45~-96i)ispublisedMndsarogFriidadrigathetfall and
wer terms by students atthe UiversitystofichigaOess copis avaalhe fre o care oall
readers. Additional copies maybe, picked up at tin Dailys oicfor $2. Suscruiptions for tall ter,,
stain neemeria US. aae $11. inter er Jauaytrou prilis$t,yearlong
(Septeber throughApril) is$195.Uniersity affiiates ae subject toa educedsbsciptinrate.
On-campussubscriptionsfoalter a~re$t. ubscipis s e prepaid. The Michiganaiy
isaeber oftThAoiatdPess adTh ssoiatdCliate Pes.

WHERE: Central Campus
Eecreation Building
WHEN: Friday at about 6 p.m.
WHAT: A gym bag was stolen
while left unattended in the
main gym, University Police
reported. The bag was found
in a trash can with cash and an
iPhone missing.

WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN: Sunday at about 9:30
p.m.
WHAT: A subject reported
that her iPod was stolen from
the Btillards room, University
Police reported. The theft
occurred on Friday between 9
p.m. and 1 am.

Pre-law meeting
WHAT: Eappa Omega
Alpha, the pre-law frater-
nity, will be hosting a mass
meeting at which guest
speakers from The Princ-
eton Review will be pres-
ent and LSAT prep books
will be given out for free.
WHO: Eappa Omega Alpha
WHEN: Tonight at 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Anderson
Room, Michigan Union

1 A photo in yesterday's
edition of The Michigan
Daily (" 'M' out of answers
after rivalry loss") was
inaccurately attributed
for photographer Al Gol-
dis. He is a photographser
with The Associated
Press, not the Daily.
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandailycom.

MORE ONLINEL
[sve Cime Notes? Get moreonline at michigaedaly.com/lsgs/the wine P.


In summer,
Yale turns
u p the heat.
And yu'einitd
In summer, Yale takes over 200 courses
in Humanities, Science, Drama, Art,
mand more, and condenses 13 weeks
of learning into a five-week curriculum..
Are you up for it?
_ Full Yale University credit.
1 Two five-week intensive sessions.
Y May 31- July 2
_ July 5- August 6
Residential College living
r See website for information and application requtirements.
www.yal.cdu/sumnmer
Email: sulmmer.session@yale.edul" 203 432-2430
J f Yale Summer Session
SAME VERITAS. MORE Lux.

F.:

Northwestern University Summer Session offers
hundreds of opportunities to get ahead, catch up
or try something new. Classes are convenient and
accessible, with day and evening offerings in both.
Evanston and Chicago. Whatever your interest
might be, we invite you to study at Northwestern
this summer.
" Choose from more than 300 classes
« Earn transfer credit
" Prepare for graduate study
" Explore a new interest
" Immerse yourself in an intensive science or
language sequence
o, View 2010 summer courses at
www. northwestern.edu/summer

NORTHWESTERN
UNIVERSITY
summer session

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 9, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
SANTA ANA, Calif.
Man charged for
running student
visa fraud ring
A California man was charged
yesterday with operating a ring of
illegal test-takers who helped doz-
ens of Middle Eastern nationals
obtain U.S. student visas by pass-
ing various proficiency and college-
placement exams for them, federal
authorities said.
Eamonn Daniel Higgins, 46, of
Laguna Niguel made an appear-
ance in U.S. District Court in Santa
Ana on one count of conspiracy to
commit visa fraud as federal immi-
gration agents arrested 16 of his
suspected clients who remained in
Southern California.
A judge entered a not guilty plea
on behalf of Higgins.
* The allegations revealed a
potentially dangerous security
breach in the country's student
visa system and underscored the
vulnerability of a tracking pro-
cess that relies on schools to verify
the identities of people taking the
mandated exams.
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Health bill provision
ensures coverage for
part-time workers
A Democratic aide says a new
provision in the health care bill
will require businesses to count
part-time workers when calculat-
ing penalties for failing to provide
coverage.
The bill originally passed by the
Senate only penalized businesses
for full-time workers who weren't
covered. The Senate bill is being
used as the basis for a final pack-
age President Barack Obama wants
Congress to pass in the next few
weeks.
The inclusion of part-time work-
ers is part of a package of final
changes that is nearing completion,
according to the aide, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because it's
not been made pulic.
Democrats feared that business-
es would avoid penalties by hiring
iore part-time workers. But husi-
ness groups oppose the change as
overly burdensome. ody text.
ANN ARBOR, Mich.
Michigan court
overturns murder
conviction
A Michigan man sent to prison
for 15 years is getting a new trial
after the judge failed to do a routine
procedure - ask the jury to take an
oath.
Timothy Becktel was sentenced
in 2008 for assault with intent to
murder. But his appellate lawyer
successfully argued that the ver-
dict should be thrown out because
the jury didn't swear to return an
honest decision based on law and
evidence.

The Michigan Court of Appeals
said Friday it must erase the verdict
to preserve the fairness and integ-
rity of the judicial system.
Assistant prosecutor David King
says his office might appeal to
the Michigan Supreme Court. He
says Becktel's trial attorney never
objected to the lack of a jury oath.
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti
Haitian gov't. frees
U.s. missionary
One of two Baptist missionaries
still held on kidnapping charges in
Haiti was released yesterday, but
the U.S. group's leader remained in
custody.
Charisa Coulter, 24, was taken
from her jail cell to the airport
by U.S. Emhassy staff more than
a month after she and nine other
Americans were arrested for trying
to take 33 children out of Haiti after
the earthquake.
Coulter, wearing a red tank top
and sunglasses, declined comment
as she quickly got into an SUV that
took her to the airport.
The leader of the Idaho-based
missionary group, Laura Silsby,
said she was glad about Coulter's
release. "I'm very happy that she
left today, and for her freedom, and
expect mine to come soon," Silsby
told The Associated Press as she
left the courthouse where a judge
held a closed hearing yesterday.
Silsby, 40, was returned
to her cell in a police station
near Port-au-Prince airport.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

JORGE SANCHEZ/Ap
Students of the Bias Canas school attend their first day of classes in Santiago yesterday. Hundred of schools are still closed
after an 8.8-magnitude earthquake struck central Chile on Feb. 27, causing widespread damage.
Classes commence in
Ch ile after quake delay

Both Iraqi
parties claim
poli victory
Results of and a drop in voter excitement. A
spate of attacks on election day -
Sunday's historic some directly targeting voters and
polling stations - killed 36 people.
parliamentary Gen. Ray Odierno, the top U.S.
commander in Iraq, called the
election unknown election a milestone and said that
every sign suggests Iraq will be
BAGHDAD (AP) - The Iraqi able to peacefully form a new gov-
prime minister's coalition and its ernment in the coming months,
main secular rival both claimed and U.S. combat troops can head
to be ahead in the vote count yes- home by the end of August.
terday, a day after historic par- Most of the roughly 96,000
liamentary elections that the top troops in Iraq will remain here
U.S. commander said would let all through May, when the military
but 50,000 American troops come will begin scaling down to 50,000
home by the end of summer. noncombat troops by the Obama
Sunday's election, which took administration's self-imposed
place against a backdrop of vio- deadline at the start of September,
lence in Baghdad, marked a turn- Odierno said.
ing point for the country's nascent The timetable calls for all troops
democracy. The winner will help to be outby the end of 2011.
determine whether Iraq can "Unless there's a catastrophic
resolve its sectarian divisions and event, we don't see that changing,"
preserve the nation's fragile secu- Odierno said.
rity as U.S. troops leave. With ballots still being counted,
Initial results for some prov- officials from both the State of Law
inces, as well as for Baghdad - an coalition led by Prime Minister
area essential to determining any Nouri al-Maliki and the rival Iraq-
winner - were to be announced iya claimed to be leading. Iraqiya is
Tuesday. a secular alliance led by Shiite for-
The election was only the coun- mer Prime Minister Ayad Allawi,
try's second for a full parliamenta- but it also contains many Sunnis.
ry term, and it attracted 62 percent Abbas al-Bayati from al-Maliki's
of about 19 million eligible voters, coalition said early information
according to the nation's election from the coalition's representa-
commission. The last such elec- tives showed the group did well in
tion, in December 2005, attracted Baghdad and in the Shiite south,
roughly 76 percent of eligible vot- which includes Iraq's second-larg-
ers. est city, Basra.
Officials attributed the lower "We think that the State of Law
turnout to a combination of voter coalition will shoulder the task of
intimidation, more stringent ID forming the next government," he
requirements at the polls said.
- - - -
Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
toonaSolNodella/Pacifico SpecialS All ight
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25% Off Mexican Fare All With NO COVE R

Officials warn it could
be months before all
studens can return to
the classroom
SANTIAGO, Chile (AP) -
Chile's earthquake-delayed
school year began yesterday, but
education officials said it may take
until April 1 before all students
are back in classrooms.
About half of the schools in the
disaster zone have some damage
from the 8.8-magnitude earth-
quake and tsunami, and others
are being used as staging areas for
relief. While the education minis-
try hasn't tallied the total repair
cost, it will likely use up a large
part of the $1.2 billion that Chile
estimates it will need for restoring
infrastructure.
The earthquake hit on the last
weekend of the South American
summer vacation, and many fami-
lies had just made back-to-school
purchases of books and uniforms,
only to see the supplies ruined or

swept away.
"This is all we've found of all
the supplies we bought for my
son," said Marcela Ortiz, holding
up a single mud-covered black
shoe in Dichato, where the tsu-
nami destroyed 80 percent of the
houses, reducing many to stinking
piles of lumber and twisted metal.
Picking through the wreck-
age, many townspeople realized
almost nothing was salvageable.
Reopening schools is a key part
of the recovery effort. While res-
cue missions shifted to relief sev-
eral days ago, bodies are still being
recovered and identified, increas-
ing the confirmed death toll to 497
yesterday, Deputy Interior Minis-
ter Patricio Rosende said.
The government is still trying
to determine exactly how many
schools are unusable, but Educa-
tion Minister Monica Jimenez said
80 percent of the students in the
areas most affected by the disaster
- more than 2 million in all - were
resumingclasses yesterday, a week
late. She said schools would gradu-
ally reopen for the rest.
"By April first, we expect to

have regional school systems
functioning 100 percent," said
Miguel Rojas, the regional educa-
tion director in Concepcion.
To make up for lost time, the
July winter vacation has been
canceled, authorities said.
School can't reopen quickly
enough for 8-year-old Hernan
Perez Villagran, who has been
camping in a park with his moth-
er, sister and four other relatives
in Concepcion since the earth-
quake.
"I want to go back to school,
I'm bored here. I want to see my
friends," he said.
Only schools that can guaran-
tee water, power and safety for
the children will be allowed to
reopen, Rojas said. School direc-
tors will have to personally sign
documents proving they have
fulfilled the requirements, Rojas
said.
In Chile's capital, Santiago,
Mayor Pablo Zalaquett said many
older school buildings show dan-
gerous cracks that need to be ana-
lyzed by structural engineers to
be sure they are safe.

Gov't to 'reinvigorate
civil rights enforcement'

Nappy flour $4.99 6 Wing & Pint
.. ... "N IM PMIMIRIVII!



ss U My'narc . - i utters I m Ou ex 1'e saynart rartu otmcts'e
H,.-.K

In symbolic speech,
Sec. Duncan cites
MLK's dream
SELMA, Ala. (AP) - Educa-
tion Secretary Arne Duncan said
yesterday the federal govern-
ment will become more vigilant
to make sure students have equal
access and opportunity to every-
thing ranging from college prep
classes to science and engineering
programs.
"We are going to reinvigorate
civil rights enforcement," Duncan
said on a historic Selma bridge
to commemorate the 45th anni-
versary of a bloody confrontation
between voting rights demonstra-
tors and state troopers.
Duncan said the department
also will issue a series of guide-
lines to public schools and colleg-
es addressing fairness and equity
issues.
"The truth is that, in the
last decade, the office for civil
rights has not been as vigilant
as it should be. That is about to
change," Duncan said.
Duncan spoke to a crowd about
400 people on the Edmund Pettus
Bridge in observance of "Bloody
Sunday," the day in 1965 when

several hundred civil rights pro-
testers were beaten by state troop-
ers as they crossed the span over
the Alabama River, bound for
Montgomery.
The demonstrators were
stopped that day, but thousands
more arrived along with Dr. Mar-
tin Luther King Jr. two weeks
later for what became known as
the Selma-to-Montgomery voting
rights march.
"With a strict adherence to
statutory and case law, we are
goingto make Dr. King's dream of
a colorblind society a reality."
High school student D'wan
Lewis, who is black, said he liked
what he heard.
"I don't think we have the same
opportunities as other schools,"
said Lewis, 18, a student at Keith
High, a small, rural school outside
Selma. "We need more materi-
als. Really, we just need a better
school."
The Education Department
expects to conduct 38 compli-
ance reviews around 40 different
issues this year, said Russlynn Ali,
assistant secretary for civil rights.
"For us, this is very much about
working to meet the president's
goal, that by 2020 we will regain
our status in the world as the num-
ber one producer of college gradu-

ates," Ali told The Associated Press.
Although the investigations
have been conducted before, the
department's OfficeofCivilRights
is looking to do more complicated
and broader reviews that will look
not just at whether procedures are
in place, but at the impact district
practices have on students of one
race or another, and if student
needs are being met.
Duncan also highlighted sev-
eral jarring inequities.
- At the end of high school,
white students are about six times
more likely to be college-ready in
biology than black students, and
more than four times as likely to
be prepared for college algebra.
- Black students without dis-
abilities are more than three times
as likely to be expelled as white
students, and those with disabili-
ties more than twice as likely to
be expelled or suspended - num-
bers which Duncan says testify
to racial gaps that are "hard to
explain away by reference to the
usual suspects."
- Students from low-income
families who graduate from high
school scoring in the top test-
ing quartile are no more likely to
attend college than the lowest-
scoring students from wealthy
families.

Dem. sees positive signs
for health care reform

Rep. Stupak says he's
optomistic about
resolving dispute
over abortion policy
TAWAS CITY, Mich. (AP) -
Prospects are good for resolving a
dispute over abortion that has led
some House Democrats to threat-
en to withhold support of Presi-
dent Barack Obama's health care
overhaul, a key Michigan Demo-
crat said Monday.
Rep. Bart Stupak said he
expects to resume talks with
House leaders this week in a quest
for wording that would impose no

new limits on abortion rights but
also would not allow use of fed-
eral money for the procedure.
"I'm more optimistic than I
was a week ago," Stupak told
The Associated Press between
meetings with constituents in
his northern Michigan district,
including a crowded town hall
gathering where opinions on
health care and the abortion issue
were plentiful and varied.
"The president says he doesn't
want to expand or restrict cur-
rent law (on abortion). Neither
do I," Stupak said. "That's never
been our position. So is there
some language that we can agree
on that hits both points - we
don't restrict, we don't expand

abortion rights? I think we can
get there."
Stupak has emerged as spokes-
man for about a dozen House
Democrats who supported health
legislation approved by the House
in November but contend a $1 tril-
lion version that passed the Senate
the next month would authorize
federal abortion subsidies. They
insist on restoring stiffer restric-
tions Stupak added to the House
measure.
Stupak had said last week that
nothing had changed and he
didn't think the House leaders
had the votes to pass the bill.
His hard-line stand has made
him a lightning rod for abortion-
rights supporters.

WE'RE
APPLY ONLINE by MARCH 19th
www.umich.edu/info
Campus
Information
Centers
Hicbigan Union 0 Pierpoet Commons « 17341 764-INFO


4 - Tuesday, March 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
A fai grade for funding
Mich. needs Race to the Top aid for education
E ducation will be the cornerstone upon which Michigan
can build a new economy. And while it's understandable
that the state must reduce expenditures considering its
current budget crisis, education shouldn't be on the chopping
block. On Friday, Gov. Jennifer Granholm told legislators to stop
cutting education funding. And she's right. To supplement edu-
cation funding, the state should improve its application for the
federal Race to the Top program, which could provide as much
as $400 million dollars for education. To take advantage of the
federal money, the state must be prepared to reapply for the
funds in June - and the federal government should recognize

The percentage difference in
6 /4 median weekly earnings between
those with bachelor's degrees and
those with high school diplomas.
-A ccording to The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics in 2008, the most recent data.
BELLA SHAH E-MAIL BELLZ@UMICH.EDU
* *
'' .F Vet CO .
C ika Selsyk wae,%# Av?2cBX'tiwa s a am d . ti'ab\e beavexs., yu o
Every m/Il'lion dollars counts

0

that Michigan needs the aid.
Michigan was not one of the 16 finalists
for the federal Race to the Top program,
which was created by the Obama adminis-
tration. Final winners will be chosen later
this spring. The program provides a one-
time payment of $400 million for states
that lack proper funding for education. In
October 2009, the state legislature cut K-12
funding by $165 per pupil for the current
academic year. Inan effort to avoid making
another round of similar cuts in the future,
the state sought federal aid. Granholm has
said that she intends to reapply for Race to
the Top aid when given this opportunity
in June. She plans to review the applica-
tions of the states that became finalists to
improve Michigan's application.
Cuts to education are detrimental to
Michigan's efforts to salvage its economy.
A new kind of .knowledge-based econo-
my will depend upon the production of a
highly educated workforce. But increased
college enrollment depends upon a strong
K-12 public education system. And though
money doesn't solve every problem in edu-
cation, it certainly helps to create a strong
base for the education system.
Recently, Granholm has criticized
legislators for failing to approve school
reforms that would help struggling schools
become more efficient, according to a Mar.
5 Detroit Free Press article. She also pro-

posed a services sales tax intended to raise
$554 million for public schools. But until
other efforts to find funds for education
come to fruition, federal funding is the
state's best hope.
To supplement decreasing state funding,
Michigan's public schools could benefit
greatly from federal aid. The state should
do everything it can to ensure that it's cho-
sen to receive funding when it reapplies
in June. It's Granholm's responsibility to
rework Michigan's application to make the
state a more attractive candidate for the
federal funds.
It's unfathomable that the federal gov-
ernment ignored Michigan's economic
need when it chose finalists for this round
of the Race to the Top program. Michi-
gan's economy - the worst in the coun-
try - is more than enough of a reason to
include the state among those receiving
federal funds. The federal government
should award Michigan the funds it needs
to improve the public education system
in one of the country's most economically
downtrodden states.
Michigan's public education has already
taken too many cuts from the state. The
federal government should encourage a
strong education system to revive Michi-
gan's economy, starting with providing
funding.

he harsh reality is we can't
afford the government we
. have," said state Senate Major-
ity Leader Mike
Bishop (R-Roches-
ter) in the Detroit
News last week.
He was express- ;
ing disappointment
with the Michigan
Senate's vote on
Wednesday to keep A
a scheduled 3-per-
cent state employee ROBERT
salary boost on the SOAVE
books. Cancelling
the pay raise would
have saved the state
$48 million.
Supporters of the increase were
quick to point out that $48 million is
hardly a drop in the bucket in the face
of Michigan's multi-billion dollar defi-
cit. What they don't understand is that
such a mentality is what puts a state in
this position in the first place. Bishop
is absolutely right: Michigan can't
afford its government. Everything
the government spends with revenue
it doesn't have - revenue that comes
from the pockets of suffering taxpay-
ers and businesses - pushes Michigan
toward insolvency.
But while it's easy to make such an
obvious point about the state's fiscal
crisis, it's harder to say exactly what
should face cuts. Seldom do recipi-
ents of government funding believe
that they should have their revenue
reduced - it's always that other agen-
cy or program that could use a reduc-
tion. The Michigan Daily's editorials
are often guilty of this, preaching the
need for compromises and necessary
cuts to state government - but abso-
lutely not for the University or stu-
dent financial aid programs!
Senate Minority Leader Mike Prusi
(D-Marquette), who supported the
pay increase along with most Senate
Democrats, argued in a similar vein.
He commended the vote, explaining

that cancelling the salary increase
would be "like saying to state workers
we don't value your work enough to
give you the raise you bargained for in
good faith."
Unfortunately, the problem is not
that state employees are underval-
ued but the exact opposite - they
are grossly overvalued. According
to the conservative Mackinac Cen-
ter for Public Policy, state employee
salary has increased by 26 percent
since 2001, whereas private sector
compensation has only increased by
15 percent. An even greater dispar-
ity exists when employee benefits are
factored in as part of a worker's total
compensation package. And just as
with salary, this disparity is growing.
Between 2002 and 2007, the differ-
ence between private sector benefits
and public sector benefits grew by $2
billion.
But compensation is just one area
where state employees beat the private
sector. Another is joblessness. While
the private sector has lost 12.1 per-
cent of its jobs since 2000, the num-
ber of state employee jobs has actually
increased in the same amount of time.
Of course, when the only growing
industry in a state is the one that's rev-
enue base is compulsory, something
has to be wrong.
Reducing the pay of over-com-
pensated state employees, then, is
not only an economic necessity for a
desperately broke state government
but also a matter of fairness. In such
harsh economic times, why should
state employees be given raises when
private employees - who are no doubt
working as hard as ever to make ends
meet - earn lower salaries, have dras-
tically inferior benefits and face great-
er joblessness?
Now, I know I'm likely to receive a
dozen comments on this article say-
ing something like, "My dad is a state
trooper! He puts his life on the line
every day to protectYOU. Why do you
want my familyto starve?" Let me stop

you right there, hypothetical com-
menter, because I'm actually looking
out for your dad's job, too.
That's because your dad's job is in
trouble. The state is broke, remem-
ber? But only the legislature has the
power to reduce employee compensa-
tion and benefits. This means that if
compensation stays the same or con-
tinues to increase, there are only two
ways to afford it - the government
must either take in more revenue by
raising taxes (an unappealing option
for the people of Michigan) or fire
public employees.
Pay increases are
not an option with
the state's deficit.
Indeed, this scenario transpired
last summer, when Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm asked state troopers to take 37
hours of unpaid leave to make up for
insufficient funding. But the police
union rejected this compromise,
leaving Granholm with no choice but
to lay off 100 state troopers. Wouldn't
it be better for public employees to
compromise their exorbitant com-
pensation packages rather than lose
their jobs entirely?
The legislature was not willing to
make the right choice last week. But
the gap between the privileged class
of public employees and the rest of
the work force is widening. How
much further into debt must Michi-
gan descend before the government
wakes up to the reality of the unjust
wages it pays its own employees at
taxpayers' expenses?
- Robert Soave was the Daily's
editorial page editor in 2009. He can
be reached at rsoave@umich.edu.


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith,
Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith


The big problems with 'Big
government, big debt'facts
TO THE DAILY:
I will leave it to my economist colleagues to
refute the finer points in Alexander Franz and
Anthony Cerrato's recent viewpoint (Big gov-
ernment, big debt, 02/26/2010). But two errors
are so glaring that they are obvious even to a
psychologist.
The authors say, "The Reagan administration
oversaw annualized nominal GDP growth of 9.4
percent despite two recessions." According to
SIMON BORST

SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILYUMICH.EDU
World Bank data, during Reagan's eightyears in
office, the U.S. annual growth rate averaged 3.41
percent, reaching above five percent only once
(7.2 percent in 1984). Of course Franz and Cer-
rato use the term "nominal GDP," which does
not account for inflation, and therefore does not
reflect real growth.
Secondly, in discussing the theory that
increasing taxes lowers revenue, they refer to
"Nobel Prize-winning economist Arthur Laf-
fer." It's interestingthat the Nobel Prize website
seems to have omitted his name from the list of
economics laureates. Now there's a real laugher!
David Winter, Ph.D.
Faculty
E-MAIL SIMON AT SIMKAL UMICH.EDU

WILL BUTLER I
Jim Bunning's 'finest hour?'

y
-,_
_.
' '
. tMC 3oc Sr tQ

Objecting to the lack of adherence to the Senate's pay-
as-you-go rules, U.S. Sen. Jim Bunning (R-Ky.) recently
succeeded in delayinglegislationthatwould extend unem-
ployment benefits and Congressional Omnibus Reconcili-
ation Act health care coverage, more commonly known as
COBRA, for 1.2 million Americans. His nearly week-long,
one-man filibuster had the added benefit of furloughing
2,000 federal transportation workers. Congratulations,
Mr. Bunning, no Republican has ever reduced the size of
government and hurt more working class people in such a
short amount of time. This must get Bunning some sort of
conservative speed record - like winning the Republican
Party Olympic gold medal. Despite the fact that the bill was
eventually passed, and Bunning was forced to end his pro-
cedural objections, this type of overzealous fiscal conser-
vatism is exactly what endangers working Americans and
furthers their disconnect with Washington.
While a completely legitimate debate could be had over
the economics of deficit spending and its validity today,
what concerns me more are the contradictions of Bun-
ning's actions. While stating that his "objections" - a Sen-
ate procedural tactic he abused relentlessly - were fueled
by a lack of revenue to pay for the unemployment aid, Bun-
ning actually caused more money to be spent. According to
Judy Conti, an advocate for the National Employment Law
Project, Bunning just passed extra administrative costs to
state governments, which will have to shut down and then
resume their benefit programs. "Once the program is ret-
roactively reauthorized, the federal government is going to
send the same amount of money, but his own state govern-
ment is going to have to spend even more money," she said in
a Feb. 26 Huffington Post article.
On an ethical level, Bunning politicized a conversation on
deficit reduction on the backs of the unemployed. Kentuck-
ians should be even more angeredby all of this, as the unem-
ployment rate in the state is 10.7 percent, according to the
Kentucky Office of Employment and Training. Their sena-
tor, who should be working for them, passed on more costs
to his own state government all the while ignoring the needs

and desperation of Kentucky's out-of-work citizens.
But an even larger problem .is that Bunning's actions
embody a dangerous type of conservatism that exists today
- one that is out of touch and doesn't care about the Ameri-
can people. While American people were drowning and in
need of government assistance, Bunning complained about
missing a basketball game during the debate. "I have missed
the Kentucky-South Carolina game that started at 9:00, and
it's the only redeeming chance we had to beat South Carolina
since they're the only team that has beat Kentucky this year,"
he said, according to the Huffington Post article. Although
the Wall Street Journal knew all this information, it had the
egregious audacity to declare in a Mar. 3 editorial that this
was Bunning's "finest hour," as if denying assistance and aid
to those in need is a part of the moral high ground.
What Bunning has made me realize is that if you are
unemployed and struggling financially, this extreme Tea
Party-esque conservatism does not care about you. If you
are unable to afford decent, adequate health care, this
conservatism does not care about you. If you are a recently
laid off federal transportation worker, this conservatism
does not care about you. Bunning and the type of conser-
vatism he represents would rather grind federal and state
government operations to a standstill than have a sensible
debate about deficit reduction. This comes at the expense
of not Bunning and his precious little basketball game but
those who depend on government assistance to put food
on the table.
I do believe that a reasonable conversation must be held
about the deficit and that the pay-as-you-go rules should
not just be a facade of fiscal policy. But Bunning's actions
represent one of the most appallingly blatant examples of
politics over people. While some may tout this ideological
crusade as Bunning's "finest hour," it needs to be realized
that fanatical fiscal demagoguery like this only harms the
American working class that he claims to represent - not
to mention the country as a whole.
Will Butler is an LSA freshman.


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name
and University affiliation. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 9, 2010 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, March 9, 2010 - 5

The endless chain of
reality TV losers

And then villainess Lola McStinkyfarts was finally brought to justice.
Horror gon insan

'The Crazies' covers all
the often-missed bases
with genuine tension
By NICK COSTON
Daily Arts Writer
Contemporary horror is a cesspool.
Its entrants are neither scary nor enter-
taining nor remotely
organized. So here's
something weird: "The
Crazies" is all of those The CrazieS
things. Yeah, it's deriva-
tive and, yeah, the sec- At Quality 16
and half is too reliant and Showcase
upon jack-in-the-box Overture
spooks, but let's not get
too greedy here. This is
a cohesive, plot-driven, well acted horror
film. A pitchfork through the chest has
never been such a pleasant surprise.
A remake of George Romero's 1973 film
of the same name, "The Crazies" takes
place in Ogden Marsh, Iowa, where David
Dutton (Timothy Olyphant, "Live Free or
Die Hard") is the town sheriff and his wife
Judy (Radha Mitchell, "Silent Hill") is the
town doctor and that crazy man on the
high school baseball field with the shot-
gun is - uh oh. Residents of the peaceful
little town begin behaving strangely and
violently, and David has to protect his
pregnant wife and stately sheriff mus-
tache from their growing lunacy.
The film works the farmers-gone-psy-
cho angle best in the beginning, when

neither David nor Judy has a clue what
the hell is going on with their neighbors.
Olyphant and Mitchell, veterans of the
crappy horror circuit, have mastered con-
fusion and determination, the two neces-
sary faces for actors working in the genre.
Joining them on their Corn Nuts survival
quest is David's deputy Russell, played
with an admirably uncertain state of san-
ity and a genuine hick accent by England's
Joe Anderson ("Amelia"). The trio sets
itself apart from standard horror pro-
tagonists: they're not young or hip or sexy
or hedonistic, and the audience's rooting
interest in their endurance is strength-
ened because of it.
But after a rough encounter with a big
steaming plate of plot device, both the
characters and the audience have a little
too much information to work with and
the film makes an unfortunate switch
from unease and tension to good old
shock value. Our ragtag group of plucky
survivors makes its way through a series
of gory set pieces in such a resolute state
that it's hard to fear for their survival
even when it's not hard to jump at the
surprises.
And the jumps are great. "The Crazies"
deliberately avoids the cheeseball dream
sequences and instead uses dramatic
irony to full effect. The pitchfork through
the chest doesn't come out of nowhere;
you see it scraping along the floor, mov-
ing from body to body, and there's noth-
ing the characters or the audience can do
about it. Waiting for the killer blow is far
more intense and makes abetter film than
simply jamming a knife into someone's

head from off-screen just because no one
was expecting it.
Even those who haven't felt forced to
scour the international market for good
horror probably remember 2002's "28
Days Later." Like "The Crazies," "28 Days
Later" focuses on a small group of survi-
vors trying to make sense of the chaos
around them and struggling to retain
a semblance of humanity in a frothing
sea of zombie inhumanity. The film was
lauded for its examination of what it
means, exactly, to be human in the first
place. But audiences just looking for zom-
bie scares might have been bored by its
deliberate pace.
Filmmaker Kevin Smith has an anec-
dote that's now a YouTube mainstay
about his pitch meeting for a Superman
movie with wacky Hollywood produc-
er Jon Peters. Smith's script was good,
Peters told him, but it needed more action
beats, one every ten pages or so. Super-
man needs to fight some polar bears
here. He needs a gay robot sidekick here.
And he has to fight a giant spider in the
third act. "The Crazies" is a gutted ver-
sion of "28 Days Later" with a truckload
of leftover Jon Peters Action Beats. It's
the perfect film for anyone who doesn't
want morality sauce getting on his zom-
bie platter.
"The Crazies" is a treat for American
horror fans. Though it might be formu-
laic, redundant and rehashed, it's still a
far greater effort to compose a real film -
not just a sequence of teens getting mur-
dered - than most of the garbage that
floats through modern horror cinema.

You know that slew of reality pro-
gramming that comes from the
incredibly specific and narrow
source of other reality programming? I'm
talking about televi-
sion in the vein "Flavor
of Love," "I Love New
York" and "Real Chance
of Love." There are tons
of reality shows like
this that regurgitate4
their loudest, most
obnoxious competitors
whom you love to hate CAROLYN
and hate to love and KLARECKI
put them in their own
series, rinse and repeat.
And it's pretty widely agreed upon that
these shows are crap.
With the advent of reality TV, we were
introduced to the idea that anyone could
be a star. What has really come to pass,
though, is that anyone can be a star if that
person is loud, aggressive, willing to fall
instantly and madly in love with an ex-
rapper, can't handle rejection and is willing
to display all of that crazy on national tele-
vision. And if everyone's expectations of
crazy are exceeded, then these people can
make their stardom last longer than a sea-
son when they get a whole new show just to
highlight the madness.
And this brings us to the realization to
which we all came after the premiere of"I
Love New York": Justbecause anyone can
have a TV show doesn't mean everyone
should.
Still, people watch these shows. This
programming must be in high demand
considering the way these melodramatic
pseudo-divas are handed TV shows left
and right. And despite the sermons from
my higher-brow friends stating otherwise,
I don't think there's much wrong with
watching these shows.
Following the trajectory of this new
brand of celebrity is really quite fascinat-
ing. It doesn't even require watching the
show every week. All you need to do is see
one episode partway through the season
and keep up with the episode promos and
you'll know that Bret Michaels is picking
between Jes and Heather.
The phenomenon of former reality con-
testants getting their own show on which
more contestants can compete not only for
some grandiose prize, but also the chance
to also get their own show, is fairly recent
in the history of TV. We can see the pro-
gression of television before our eyes in a
shorter time span than ever before. The
path to fame of these types of reality show
stars displays a little slice of modern Ameri-
can culture, albeit a rather tacky slice.
These shows have their own special gene-
alogy - a family tree linking Megan Haus-
erman to her dysfunctional family members
"Beauty and the Geek," "Rock of Love,"

"Rock of Love: Charm School" and the
short-lived "Megan Wants a Millionaire."
Just to demonstrate how fascinating
this style of TV is, I'll illustrate the prime
example, courtesy of only the highest qual-
ity of VHl programming. You might want
to make a flowchart to follow this one.
If you know who Flava Flav is, then you
probably know he brought about the fame
of Tiffany Pollard, better known as "New
York." You might not have known that the
rapper fell back into the spotlight with an
appearance on "The Surreal Life" where
he met and dated Brigitte Nielsen. They
received their own show "Strange Love,"
where she dumped him at the end of the
season. So he got his own show "Flavor
of Love." And that's just where the mess
begins.
The loud and boisterous Tiffany "New
York" Pollard was the first runner-up on
the first season of "Flavor of Love." Though
she didn't'take her rejection well, she also
mended her broken heart with a mess of
her own shows including multiple seasons
of "I Love New York," "New York Goes to
Hollywood" and "New York Goes to Work."
"I Love New York" gave birth to the
So lowbrow you
can't help but watch.
fame-monster Kamal Givens. Givens
(dubbed "Chance" by Pollard) competed
for her love and followed the rejection
trend after his loss with an appearance on
"I Love Money" and by starting his own
love-seekingshow ("Real Chance of Love")
with his brother and fellow competitor for
Pollard's affections, "Real."
So in summary, Flava Flav was turned
down, got his own show, turned down
"New York," who then got her own show so
she could turn down "Chance"'and "Real"
who then got their own show.
Yes, this is a ridiculous and probably
unwarranted way to achieve fame, but it's
also fascinating and just as entertaining
(if not more entertaining) than the shows
themselves. Maybe I'm still attached to the
fascination that anyone - including myself
- could become famous through reality TV.
After all, Tiffany Pollard and Kamal Giv-
ens were regular people at one time before
their transformation into "New York" and
"Chance." It's harmless to follow reality
spin-offs - to smirk at their absurdity and
to treat them as the novelties they are.
They're admittedly lowbrow, but that's all
they're supposed tobe.
Klarecki is loud, aggressive and
willing to fall instantly and madly in love.
E-mail her at cklareck@umich.edu.

Parental disapproval The Avett Brothers' ascension

By JAMIE BLOCK
ManagingArts Editor
The label "family show" is used nowa-
days to tell the audience ashow is friend-
ly for all audiences,
but NBC's new series
"Parenthood" wants
to turn family into Parenthood
a standalone genre.
With as many parts Tuesdays
drama as comedy, none at 10 p.m.
of which are particu- NBC
larly original, "Parent-
hood" sinks into pure
family schmaltz as all the other emo-
tional stimuli cancel each other out.
"Parenthood" is obvious if nothing
else, both for the writers and the audi-
ence. After the first few staple plotlines
of the family saga are revealed, the rest
fall neatly into line. A rebellious teen
daughter dating a shirtless rocker seg-
ues seamlessly into a heartfelt utterance
of "It wasn't my weed." A dating mother
predictably gets caught in a compromis-
ing position by her wayward son, who
then runs off. The men are macho and
NBC follows
the family formula
too closely.
want the children to excel at sports. The
women are gossipy, mock the men and
claim emotional high ground.
But then there's Max, the youngest
male of the Braverman clan. At only 12
years old, actor Max Burkholder ("Fam-
ily Guy") brings something pure and real
to the Max Braverman character. He has
an awkward air about him; he is always
slightly aloof, somewhat confused but
motivated by the best of intentions. The
subtly just-over-the-line abnormali-
ties Burkholder puts into the character
are all the more impressive when it is
revealed that Max has Asperger syn-

drome. It's just a shame that the show
also used several less subtle hints, ruin-
ing the moment.
Max's parents also shine as the best
adult actors in the cast. Peter Krause
("Six Feet Under") and Monica Potter
("Boston Legal") serve as beacons of
realism among caricatures. Not moti-
vated by finding a man or being the
favorite parent, Krause and Potter focus
solely on the fate of Max. They work
through his problems, trying to find a
way to make him happy when it seems
like nothing is working. Their struggle
with making a good life for their son
and coming to terms with his condition
is the only plotline among the barrage of
subplots begun in the pilot that stands
above pettiness. And it stands extremely
far above.
And this isn't just because of the
serious subject or the strong acting; it's
because it epitomizes what a show called
"Parenthood" should be about. Before
we can delve into the perils of dating
with kids or struggles among adult sib-
lings giving each other unwanted love
and parenting advice, we need to really
see the pure love of a parent.
In one scene, the four Braverman sib-
lings are standing around, joking about
the sexploits of the ever-annoying Sarah
Braverman (Lauren Graham, "Gilm-
ore Girls") while Sarah's son is missing.
Yeah, your son could be anywhere right
now, but let's take a moment to joke about
a fling you had with an ex-boyfriend
while your sister talks about how good
of a lawyer she is. Nobody even seems
concerned that her son has disappeared
until they all receive a phone call saying
where he is. Were they even planning on
lookingfor him?
A show aboutcparenting does not work
if all the focus is put on the adults, and
only Max, both as an actor and a char-
acter, is strong enough to save the show.
As "Parenthood" progresses, everyone
should take some time to remember that
in the lives of parents, and in the lives of
shows about parents, one thing should
matter above all else: making a good life
for your children.

By MIKE KUNTZ topped many year-end music
Daily Music Editor lists, winning over fans and
critics with its organic yet con-
The Avett Brothers are con- temporary take on Southern
ventional folk musicians like bluegrass and folk. The band
Jackson Pole now counts among its many
lack was a TheAv accolades Album of the Year
conventional (2009) from Paste Magazine, a
painter. The Brothers Best New Artist tag from Roll-
band, like Pol-T h ing Stone and a feature on the
lack, turns Tonghtat famed music institution "Austin
tradition on its 7:30 p.m. City Limits."
head, choosing Michigan Theater After a well deserved break,
bits and pieces Tickets from $26 the band was all too eager to get
for themselves back on the road and greet the
before moving hype by performing - a return
forward into the wild unknown. to how the Avetts secured their
The Avetts' brand of folk loyal following throughout the
music - a genre-defying hodge- U.S. over the past few years.
podge of punk, bluegrass and "It's all exciting right now,
rock'n'roll influences - is the because this is our first day of
kind that breaks 32 strings in the tour," Kwon said. "But I'm
a night and leaves blood on the sure you could ask me in a cou-
banjo. They attack their songs ple weeks and I'll be like, 'Get
with a passion and fury more me off of this road!"'
akin to a punk show at CBGB Despite its glorification in
circa 1978 than a hippie-dippy rock'n'roll lore, the road, as
gathering of picnic blanketers. any touring musician will tell
In light of the band's stop at you, isn't without its share of
the Michigan Theater, the Daily gaffes and grease stains. Driv-
recently spoke with the Avetts' ing through Appalachian Ohio
cellist, Joe Kwon, about the through the night, before their
band's tour, its growing fanbase first show, the Avetts had a pret-
and the role of college students ty close call themselves.
within the music industry. Hav- "As soon as we pulled out
ing just soundchecked for its set of the mountainous area we
at Ohio University's Templeton- got onto a straightaway and
Blackburn Alumni Memorial blew one of our tires," Kwon
Auditorium, the first stop on explained. Having just missed
their spring and summer tour, beingstranded in the mountains
the band was admittedly shak- - avoiding what might have
ing off some rust. been one of the worst possible
"We were working on some omens to start a tour - Kwon
songs and just making sure was ready to see the bright side.
we remembered them," Kwon Chalk it up to beginning-of-the-
said, speaking from the Athens, tour optimism, he said.
Ohio auditorium. Kwon joined "It's like a total blessing
brothers Seth and Scott Avett because if we had blown the tire
to record 2007's Emotionalism, in the middle of the mountains
and has been with the group it would have been deadly,"
ever since. Kwon said, referencingthe hair-
The band's acclaimed 2009 pin turns and carved-out roads
release I And Love And You skirting the Appalachian moun-

tainsid
Befi
as ap
Southe
didn't
instead
rest of
"I'm
these
I've ni
Kwon
excited
becaus
before
Wit
lined u

e. But even with all the new-
tting the band's image found hype, Kwon and the band
o-guts-no-glory gang of are ever conscious of the role
rn folk rebels, Kwon college students play in devel-
dwell on the mishap, oping momentum for newer
d looking forward to the acts - the Avetts' upcoming
the tour, tour includes stops in Minne-
really excited about apolis, Minn. and Boulder, Col.
Europe dates, because in addition to Athens, Ga. and
ever been there before," Ann Arbor. The band will also
said. "I'm also really be playing Coachella and Bonn-
d about going to Australia, aroo, summer festivals known
e I've never been there for attracting large crowds of
either!" younger listeners.
h international dates "I remember what it was like
ip as far as Oslo, Norway in college, tryingto find the next
new band - you seek it out,"
Kwon said. "That's the age kids
really seek out different music,
Bringing a new music.
With help from the Internet
hype machine and endless praise
f folk to the from critics worldwide, Kwon
contends college-aged students
M ichigan. are crucial in bringing attention
to artists that fall left of the dial.
"And they're gonna know
about small bands from North
rdney, Australia, it's easy Carolina like us," he added,
why Kwon is so enthu- laughing.
In just a few years, The Presented by The Ark, The
Brothers went from whis- Avett Brothers will be perform-
about critics' darlings ing at the Michigan Theater
tull-fledged international tonight at 7:30 p.m., with The
g machine. Low Anthem supporting.

u
of

and Sy
to see
siastic
Avett I
pered-
to a f
tourin

The Avett Brothers' /AndLove And You topped many year-end lists.


0

6 - Tuesday, March 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

9

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has limited
spaces left for 2010-11. New building,
2 blocks from campus, walk to down-
town. Rates from $655, great views, el-
evators, HDTV, 10-ft ceilings, all utili-
ties at flat rate. Single bedrooms and
grad-only apartments avail.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
AVAILABLE FALL Studios, one
und two bedrootm apartmtents located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. H-eat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!!MAY TO MAY!!!!
AND
SHORT TERM LEASES
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!AVAIL MAY - 2 bdrm w/ study.
$200 off summer rent. Newly remod-
eled kitchen & bath. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net
R I
Bent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com
!!LETS MAKE A DEAL!!
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS RE-
MAINING FOR FALL 2010
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments.
Fall 2010, Across from Last Quad.
Beautiful, expansive spaces,Eclosets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Check our web-
site www.churchstreetrentals.com or
Call Ann 734-320 1244.
$$$ SWEET DEALS $$$
At
Prime Student Housing
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Make us an offer we can't refuse!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
**AVAIL. FOR FALL. 119 E. Lib-
erty. Lrg 3 bdrm apt. 1600 sq. ft. 5 min
walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
**NEAR UNION - studio to 3 bdrm
apts. 734-74t-9300
armnarborapartments. net

wwnuwarsitymanagement com
*Varsity
Management
625 Church St. (734) 668-1100
Studios
*331 Pck rd
room w/ shared kitchen &bth
418E. Washington
tst, 2nd, & 3rdefloor avail
1-Bedrooms:
*801 W. Madison
Old WestSide quiet neighborhood
*1015 Vaughn
Perfect for Business or Law Schools
*521 Walnut
Newfurniture, CCRB so close
*418E. Washington
Grad Student Haven
2-Bedrooms:
*1039 Baldwin
New kitchens, hardwood floors
*911 & 181 S. Prest
Frerwireess, great location
*1015 WHurn
Just west of Do town
801W.Madison
Quiet, quiet, quiet, righton a bus route
*917 Packard
Tons of space for just a little money
*848 Tappan
Location, location, & covered parking
*1015 Vaughn
Graduate students must see
510 Walnut
2bd : 2th bi-levels, humongous
last one
3-Bedrooms:
*331 Catherine
Kerrytown, all new interior, gorgeous
*1506 eddes
Only 1 left, so close to central campus
4-Bedrooms:
*139 Baldwin
Hardwood floors,
high ceiling, enormous
1346 eddes
Perfect centralloc, huge bi-level
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrn. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrmn
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1699/mo. 734-665-8825.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
1221 S. State #2
6 BDRM APT
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
**AVAILABLE FOR FALLt 6
bdrm house. Price just reduced.
$2,695 514 Lawrence**
2 bath, free high speed internet, easy ac-
cess to central campus, nursing , medi-
cal and dental schools. Dishwasher and
laundry. Parking available.
Call Campus Mgt i/ 734-663-4101.
Ask about otr specials!

It Pays to Stay at
The Courtyards!

'' g All inclusive rates
No more high utility bills
,, Free Internet
Free satellite TV
.: Fully furnished
" COURTYARDS .1
St UD E N T A PA RT M EN T S
1780 Broadway (734) 994-6007
www.thecourtyardsannarbor.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all wtil. 5
bdrm-$2750, 6 bdrm-$2950, 7
bdrm-$3150. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, lndry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
8 MONTH LEASES for fall. Two
houses to choose from: 7 bdrm for 8 at
S. University and Washtenaw, 6 bdrm
for 7- Mid S. Forest area. 734-260-4003
^^^YOUR MOM CALLED^^^^
She wants you to live with
Prime!!!
Reduced Rates.... at Great Locations!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS, & Rms. List and
Browse FRE! All Cities & Areas.
877-367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. furn.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free atil & prkg. 734-904-6735.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
uS 7/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking,and utilitiest
Inter-Cooperative Cuncil(ICC)
734-662-4414 wwwicccoop
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Dets $3300. Other Ica-
titus available atmichiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
535 S. 5th- 4 bdrm house, onsite laun-
dry and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bdrm house, will
have newly refinished hardwood floors
on move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer. Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bdrm house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall 2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-4101
Ask about our specials!
PRESEN TS THE

Online Classified
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all ofpthe
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

e4 ow. d n
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
809 Catherine, 209 N. Ingalls, and
1028 Fuller- 2 bedroom apartments,
close to nursing, dental and medical
schools, easy access to central campus.
Furnished, onsite laundry and parking.
1025 Packard- Located 5 blocks from
central campus 2 bdrm's, heat, water
and parking included.
Call Campus Mgt (@v 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*1028 Fuller- 2 bdrm apartment avail-
able in the shadow of U of M hospital,
furnished, heat, water and parking in-
cluded. Move in today.
*1116 White- Studio apartment within
walking distance of central campus,
parking included.
Call Campus Mgt @ 734-663-4101.
Ask about our specials!

DON'T BE FOOLED INTO
LIVING AT THE DORMS AGAIN!
2 Bedrooms Reduced to
$1299.00! Rent today for
your Best Selection and
Best Rates while they last.
1 Bedroom starts at
$650.00 per month.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.COm
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (dorws),
THINK U. TOWERS
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 4811)4
UniversityTowers-mi~com
)E' iv - i m t
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale it the area.
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270

Experience mte urrerence
' 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-S people
' Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
' Free High-Speed Internet
' HD Direct V w/ DVR Service
' Built in micmwave,
dishwasher, disposal
' Contemporary Furniture
' Close to CCRB
' Exercise Room, Rec. Room
' Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
- 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

0

SPRING/SUMMER SUBLETS 19 lo-
cations to choose from. Call for a com-
plete list. 734-741-9300.
annarborapartments.net

0

. Call above numbers or email for
Studio & 1 showings or please stop by!
New Lower Rates!
Bdrm. Units
WWW.800FULLER.COM
Tower Plaza Condominium (734) 769-7520
Cuc~e & ;cure -.nebkxk* frm nmps 1 & 2 bdnn., modern, clean, quiet
Ca-I6 ms-15 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
734-663-1530
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10. 420 S Division #2_
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215. 5 BDRM
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter inc. 1215 Hill St.734-260-4003 SEPT 20 10
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300 COPI PROPERTIES
www.annarborapartments.net (734) 663-5609
AVAILABLE NOW TO AUGUST (734)_ 663-56 _9_
10!!! Rooms / EFFICIENCY/ 1 Bed
avail. now. $450-$500 + elec. Near Ctrl REDUCED RATES
Campus. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991. "PRIME" LOCATIONS
2 BEDROOMS AT Great low rates- ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
Reduced to $1299.00! Rent today with
University Towers. Rooms, Studio's - 3 FREE Internet
bedrooms - heat, water and furniture in- FREE Heat
eluded - Contact us at universitytowers- FREE Water
mi.com - THINK OUTSIDE THE FREE Parking
BOX (dorms), THINK U. TOWERS. FREE Maintenance
Fully Furmished

HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.teleftind.umich.edu or 763-8773.
MAIN STREET VENTURES is now
hiring reservations agents for Ann Ar-
bor office. Free Parking! Must be avail-
able evenings and weekends. Please ap-
ply Mon-Fri 2-5pm at 605 S. Main,
Suite 2.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail and Dining Establish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
SUMMER IN MAINE
Males and females.
Meet new friends! Travel!
Teach your favorite activity.
Tennis Waterfront
LandSports Arts
June to August. Residential.
Enjoy our website. Apply online.
TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls:
1-800-997-4347
www.tripplakecamp.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
YOUTH MINISTER SEARCH: First
Baptist Church of Ann Arbor (FBCA2)
seeks a half-time Youth Minister to de-
velop and oversee all FBCA2 min-
istries to junior high and high school
aged youth. See http://www.fbca2.org

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Greek city on its 34 Odometer button 56 Mischievous
1 Silently own gulf 39 Container at an tykes
understood 3 Politician in a afternoon 57 Tryto reduce
6 'Dear' advice political cartoon, service, maybe 65-Across
giver e.g. 41 Playwright Akins 58 Ferberor Best
10 Cinch sound 4 A former Mrs. 44 Lowercase 60 Popeyed
14'Hell dune!" Trump 45 Cable sta for old 61 Place for a beret
15 ErlYucatan 5 Garage service films 63 Sugar source
dweller 6 red of 47 Hibachi residue 64 Putstwo and two
1e Nehraska trihe agreement 4 umrsg oebr
17 Sweet toast 7 The _olAvn 48 SumPruclign e Lauge sa s
topper 8 Boring wayto 51 Proclaim 66 Language suffix
20 "Not-, no gain" learn 55 Loy of "The Thin 67 Sock-in-the-jaw
21 Cancel 9 "Whoopee!" Man" sound
22 Book of maps 10 Direct, as a ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Peace and quiet confrontation
25 -shanter: 11 "_ cost you!" U S O L E T S S E E G I S
Sc2ttish caP 12 Bubbly drink P O P I N A W O R D I T T
13-D2 wn:Abbr. 13Largo, West, et al. C H A M B E R M A I D G A R
293-rownyhAbr. 18 Like roads wt
29 Fruity bread many psthole S O L A R K E Y H O L E
topper GCEpierproblem G E T B Y I L I A
35 Inform (on) pChemroom D A L I H A M M E R L O C K
36Groupo bits,rin 26"Washboard" O V A D E R A I L E D
7oherhalstorage muscles G A S T A N K MENACE D
speak 2R7 irdCannescash A D H E S I V E P L Y
38 Be next to 2oRepairbillne B A R R E L R A C E I R K S
40 Wood-dressing 30OSchttispptrt I F I T M S N B C
42 In. response 31 Rockclimber's O F F S I D E O U G H T
team stop N I L S I G H T U N S E E N
43 Complaint of the 32tWindblown I R E O N G U A R D N Y U
weary" desert plant CMS F A S T E N S E S T
46 Kick into a net 33 Cosmetician
49 Quiting party Lauder eneriediteriaei.nen 03/0eJ10
50 "Schmeared" 1 2 3 4 a s n 10 11 12 13
bagel supper
52SWimbledon 14t5 it
d oter
53 Madethe scene 17 16 19
54 Terse orer to a 2021 22
chauffeur
56Modeluol2 2 2 2
ecellence
9AsAignearsto 27 2n 29 m 3122 m a
e2 Leadership org.
fn females us me337
65 Halstwoe
(caused, perhaps, un uu 40 a1 42
by overndulgence
in17-,29- and 50- a3 44 45 46 en ma 4 4
Acrou)mi 1 2
68 Hang in the1
balance
69 Scheduleopening su 1 4 "
70W ith ut tp 56 57 58 59 80 81 62 63 64
71 Hang around l 1 1 1 1 1
72 Move cautiously 65 88 67
73 Enjoys akiddie
pool ma 8u 70
DOWN 71 72 ns
1 1/16oacup:
Abbr. BMangesSakaraishre 03/09/10
(c)2010 Tribe Meiaeric, Incs.

ADVERT SE
WIT H
MICHIGAN DAILY
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com
CORNERHOUSE
APARTMENTS
205 S. State St.
on corner of State and
Washington
2 & 3 bdrm. Apt. Homes
Beautifully Furnished
Outstanding views
Garage parking
Central air
9 foot high ceilings
Premier campus location
Models open daily
734-741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

On Site Laundry
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
Looking for a place to
live throughout
the summer?
Check out the
SUMMER REALTY
section on
APRIL 1sT!

WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Isiand House Hotel and Ryas Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com


* The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 9, 2010 - 7

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, March 9, 2010 - 7

SACUA
From Page 1
at large and that of student-athletes
have risen since 2000, with an
improvement from 68 percent to 84
percent for student-athletes and 82
percent to 88 percent for other stu-
dents.
One of Martin's goals as ath-
letic director was to close the gap
between the graduation rates of
student-athletes and the greater
student body, he said. And, while
statistics for 2009 have yet to
be determined, Martin said he
believes the numbers will be right
on track.
"My goal was to always have
graduation rates of the student-
athletes the same as the students at
large," Martin said.
The former athletic director also
discussed several changes to the
academic area of the student-ath-
lete experience.
Martin said all freshman schol-
arship enrollees on the women's
and men's basketball teams, as well
as freshman members of the foot-
ball team, willibe required to attend
the Comprehensive Studies Pro-
gram's Summer Bridge Program
unless they are "academically off
the charts," he said.
Martin also discussed a new sys-
tem in place in which the provost's
office oversees student-athletes'
academic performances.
"It used to be that the academic
support of athletics had a dotted
line to the provost and a solid line to
the athletics," he said. "That's now
switched."
Martin said giving the provost's
office primary responsibility over
student-athletes' academics has
been successful. He added that it
has allowed for a burden to be lifted
from the Athletic Department.
POLLACK
From Page 1
possibilities."
Hanlon said he conducted an
internal search for his replace-
ment. After consulting University
Provost Teresa Sullivan, various
regents and other University offi-
cials he said Pollack was clearly
the best candidate.
"Martha rose to the top
amongst the people who were
suggested," Hanlon said. "So, at
that point I pushed Martha about
the idea. I had several conversa-
tions with her about the position.
(I) cultivated her interest. I know
she consulted with various people
herself about the possibility."
Pollack came to the University
in2000 as aprofessor inthe School
of Information and Computer Sci-
ence and Engineering. She served
as associate chair of the Computer
Science and Engineering divi-
MSA
From Page 1
we are doing everything the
right way," he said. "Finally we
are accountable of how student
money is being spent."
Bajaj added that the increased
funding to student groups is
indicative of a successful funding
cycle.
"When we take this to the
regents, and show them the whole

spreadsheet, this is what they
want to see," Bajaj said. "This is
essentially the purpose of MSA."
This budget is accumulated
through a $7.19 MSA fee that stu-
dents have to pay every semes-
ter, which totals approximately
$266,000 dollars per semester, or
$532,000 per year.
According to Bajaj, another rea-
son the funding cycle was so suc-
cessful was because MSA worked
to make the funding application
process more straightforward by
improvements like putting more
information online and adding an
option for advance funding to the
application.
BPC chair Sahib Singh said cre-
ating a more comprehensive fund-
ing application process, was the
PUBLIC HEALTH
From Page 1
health organizations reaching out
to people infected with TB.
"Most of the time you don't find
hospitals going out into the com-
munity," she said.
Once infected individuals are
found, Nyrienda said it is crucial
they receive Directly Observed
Therapy, which requires com-
munity treatment supporters
to bring medication directly to
patients. The community treat-
ment supporters are usually peo-
ple with TB who have already
been through treatment.
Nyirenda said the Zambian
government can only afford to
provide DOT for two out of the
nine months of treatment for
most patients, but the quality of

Martin said there has also been
increased communication with the
College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and that he sees more stu-
dent-athletes enrolling in LSA as
freshmen.
According to Martin, LSA Dean
Terrence McDonald has been inter-
ested in bringing more student-ath-
letes into the school, which Martin
said would be both beneficial to
the future of LSA and the Athletic
Department.
In addition to discussing aca-
demics and the Athletic Depart-
ment's finances, Martin answered
questions from SACUA members
regarding the state of the Univer-
sity's facilities used for recreational
and exercise purposes.
"Recreational sport facilities
here are nowhere near compara-
ble to other universities," SACUA
member Wayne Stark said.
Martin said he hopes that this
issue will moveforward.more effec-
tively now that oversight for the
Department Recreational Sports
has been transferred from the Ath-
letic Department to the Division of
Student Affairs.
He cited the possibility of a stu-
dent fee as a source of revenue for
the buildings, a method that was
used to fund some of the current
buildings.
Martin said the buildings were
"historic at best" and "truly do
need to be updated," noting that he
hopes they are able to become simi-
lar in quality to those at Ohio State
University or other colleges where
the facilities have been recently
updated.
Brandon, who remained quiet
for most of the meeting, said he was
happy to take the reins of a depart-
ment where "nothing was on fire."
In the future, Brandon said he
hopesto keep the revenue line going
for revenue generating sports, like

AN NA H ULyestE/D
Bill Martin and David Brandon discuss University athletics at a meeting yesterday,.

hockey, basketball and football,
since the "cost line will continue to
accelerate."
Brandon also discussed facility
improvement, citing Crisler Arena,
where he said about six teams jock-
ey for court time.
Some teams have to practice as
early as 7:00 a.m., not by choice
but because there is simply no
other time or space where they
can hold practice, Brandon said.
He cited last weekend as an exam-
ple of how crowded the facility
is. The Michigan men's basket-
ball team had to hold practice off
campus before their game against
Michigan State University last
weekend because the Big Ten
Wrestling Championships were
taking place in Crisler Arena.
Brandon and SACUA members
also discussed the issue of adding
teams to the Big Ten Conference,
with SACUA members citing con-
cerns like extended travel time for

students.
Brandon said adding to the con-
ference brings about "a tricky set
of issues" driven by elements like
recruiting, broadcasting, academic
standards and geographic location.
In dealing with recruiting, Bran-
don said it would be important to
have inroads in states where many
high-quality athletes live.
Martin added the Big Ten is now
coping with the issue of chang-
ing demographics. He said most of
the athletic population now lives
and the South and that coaches are
forced to recruit in Southern loca-
tions to find the best players.
"High schools have opened in
the South and high schools have
closed in the North," Martin said.
He said the number of football
players in the state of Michigan,
for example, is dwindling, which is
why it is becoming more common
to see players from Texas and other
southern states.

"
To cure blighted
Detroit, proposed
plan calls for city
to shr inkin size
Fruit trees and Dave Bing, who took office last
year, is expected to unveil some
farms would replace details in his state-of-the-city
address this month.
abandoned "Things that were unthinkable
are now becoming thinkable,"
neighb rhoods said James W. Hughes, dean of the
School of Planning and Public Pol-
DETROIT (AP) - Detroit, the icy at Rutgers University, who is
very symbol of American indus- among the urban experts watch-
trial might for most of the 20th ing the experiment with interest.
century, is drawing up a radical "There is now a realization that
renewal plan that calls for turning past glories are never going to be
large swaths of this now-blighted, recaptured. Some people probably
rusted-out city back into the fields don't accept that, but that is the
and farmland that existed before reality."
the automobile. The meaning of what is afoot is
Operating on a scale never now settling in across the city.
before attempted in this country, "People are afraid," said Debo-
the city would demolish houses in rah L. Younger, past executive
some of the most desolate sections director of a group called Detroit
of Detroit and move residents into Local Initiatives Support Corpo-
stronger neighborhoods. Roughly ration that is working to revitalize
a quarter of the 139-square-mile five areas of the city. "When you
city could go from urban to semi- read that neighborhoods may no
rural, longer exist, that sends fear."
Near downtown, fruit trees and Though the will to downsize has
vegetable farms would replace arrived, the way to do it is unclear
neighborhoods that are an eerie and fraught with problems.
landscape of empty buildings and Politically explosive decisions
vacant lots. Suburban commuters must be made about which neigh-
heading into the city center might borhoods should be bulldozed and
pass through what looks like the which improved. Hundreds of
countrysideto getthere. Surviving millions of federal dollars will be
neighborhoods in the birthplace of needed to buy land, raze buildings
the auto industry would become and relocate residents, since this
pockets in expanses of green. financially desperate city does not
Detroit officials first raised the have the means to do it on its own.
idea in the 1990s, when blight was Itisn'cknown how many people
spreading. Now, with the reces- in the mostly black, blue-collar
sion plunging the city deeper into city might be uprooted, but it
ruin, a decision on how to move could be thousands. Some won't
forward is approaching. Mayor go willingly.


sion within the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Com-
puter Science from 2004-2007. Sn
August 2007, Pollack was named
dean of the School of Information.
Though she acknowledged she
has a lot to learn before she becomes
a vice provost in July, Pollack said
her experience atthe University and
the contacts she has made within
the University community will help
her in her new role.
"I'll bring to (the Vice Provost's
office) the prospective of someone
who has been a Michigan faculty
member, who has been the asso-
ciate chair of a large division in
the College of Engineering, who
has been the dean of a school, and
who has also a Michigan parent
because I have a daughter who's a
senior in LSA," Pollack said.
Pollack added that she will be
able to draw upon her budgetary
experience to help her manage the
University's budget - a large part
of the vice provost's job.

"In my role as dean of SI, I run
the budget," she said. "Now, it's
a much smaller budget and one
that's not as complicated as the
University's, but I have managed
a substantial budget. And, as an
academic scholar, I have managed
research budgets."
Hanlon echoed Pollack's sen-
timent. He acknowledged that
there would be an adjustment
period, but he said Pollack would
definitely be able to handle the
transition.
"Sheisgoingtobringsomeimpor-
tant perspectives to our office,"
Hanlon said, explaining Pollack's
experience as a dean and a College
of Engineering faculty member was
a key factor in his decision.
Hanlon said he was impressed
by Pollack's commitment to
undergraduate and graduate edu-
cation and the teaching awards
she has won.
Though the vice provost for
academic and budgetary affairs

has many responsibilities, Pol-
lack said her primary focus will be
assisting Hanlon in his new role as
provost.
"The job of the vice provost is
really to support the provost in
realizing his vision," she said. "So
that will be my top priority."
Between now and July, Pollack
said she will continue to perform
her duties in the School of Infor-
mation. But she added that she
will be preparing to assume her
new role so she will be able to hit
the ground running when it comes
time to assume the post.
"My primary responsibility
between now and July 1 continues
to be to those who are associated
with my role in the School of Infor-
mation," she said. "But, (Hanlon)
has reached out to me and is giv-
ing me ways to learn parts of the
job even before I start."
- Daily News Editor Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.


result of a "solidified effort" on
the part of MSA officials to make
the application easier to fill out.
According' to Singh student
organizations requested about
$250,000 this semester and about
$100,000 was allocated. In addi-
tion the overall budget for BPC
has increased this semester from
about $125,000 to about $175,000.
The remaining $75,000 goes
toward things like MSA payroll
and scholarships.
"Students were able to navigate
the process," Singh said. "(In the
past) it has been clouded by direc-
tions that just aren't clear."
Teresa Semaan, President of
Project Flavor - a student orga-
nization that makes 5-course
meals from scratch for the Ron-
ald McDonald house - said that
this was the first year that the
non-profit organization received
100-percent funding from the
CSC, the MSA committee that
allocates money to philanthropic
organizations, of MSA.
Semaan said the group's suc-
cess was partially due to a clearer
funding application process, add-
ing that the process has become
easier every year since she came
to the University.
"Over the last four years, it

has become much more clear,"
Semaan said. "The instructions
on the application form are much
better. They offer a lot of help.
There are definitely resources
available if you don't know where
to start."
Abhinav Saxena, finance
director for the Detroit Part-
nership, said MSA has been
extremely helpful in allocating
money to the organization. After
the appeals process finished, the
group received about 75 percent
of its requested funding, Saxena
said.
Saxena said that though the
information sessions hosted by
MSA at the beginning of the year
were helpful, the appeals process
could be improved so that organi-
zations know why MSA decides
not to fund certain groups.
"You don't get any feedback on
why you don't get the money," he
said. "Other than that, most of
everything is pretty straightfor-
ward."
Crosby Modrowski, a student
volunteer at the Sexual Assault
Prevention and Awareness Cen-
ter, said he was disconcerted after
the funding process. Though the
amount of money SAPAC received
was sufficient for the organiza-

tion's first time applying for fund-
ing through MSA, Modrowski
said the application process could
be improved.
"It was hard getting used to
how to fill out the application and
how to strategize," Modrows-
ki said. "It's kind of confusing
because when you're applying you
have to figure out what they like."
He added that because cer-
tain organizations don't find out
why they didn't get funding, they
don't know how to change their
strategy for applying in future
cycles.
"It could be improved," Mod-
rowski said. "It needs to be more
clear-cut."
Though MSA officials believe
the funding application pro-
cess is the clearest it's been in
years, Bajaj said student organi-
zations can expect it to become
easier next year when the budget
spreadsheets get put online.
"They can look online and see
what they are doing compared to
other student organizations, he
said. "It's much more transparent
... every student should be able to
see that."
Singh said the online budget
spreadsheets could be up and
running as soon as this month.

PEACE CORPS
From Page 1
we are obviously looking to meet
the needs of the countries that
need additional volunteers in the
new posts that we are making."
Kevin Quigley, president
of the National Peace Corps
Association, said the increased
funding would also make more
resources available to the pro-
gram and would help the pro-
gram improve its leadership and
structure.
"Financial resources will
enable Peace Corps to make
investments in its systems and
its infrastructure to do a better
job on recruiting, training, plac-
ing and supporting volunteers
and enhancing their impact,"
Quigley said.
Quigley estimates that the
increased funding could allow
for more people to join the
Corps.
"Those additional resources
should enable Peace Corps to
grow over this two-year period
by roughly a third, from 7,500
to 10,000 volunteers," Quigley
said. "And since there's been a
pretty dramatic increase in the
applications to the Peace Corps
in response to the president's
call for service and in response
to deteriorating economic con-
ditions, by providing more
resources for the Peace Corp,
many more Americans will have
an opportunity to serve."
With increased interest in the
Peace Corps, Quigley said that it
may make the application pro-
cess more competitive but that
the increased budget would also
help make the application pro-
cess more efficient and easier for
applicants.
"Yes, there's going to be more
people applying, but it should be
easier and faster to apply," he said.
John Greisberger, director
of the University of Michigan
International Center - which
works in conjunction with the
Peace Corps' Chicago Regional
office to serve as a resource
for students and community
members interested in joining
the Peace Corps - agreed with
Quigley that the increase in
funding should make the appli-
cation process easier.
"With more money; hopefully
there will be more opportunities
for students to be assigned or
apply to be assigned to the Peace
Corps sites in a more expedient
way," Greisberger said.
As a former Peace Corps vol-
unteer in Afghanistan, Greis-
berger said that while he is
satisfied with the amouit of
money that President Obama
allocated to the program in
the proposed budget, he would
always like to see more funds
given to the Peace Corps. Greis-
berger added that he is already

working toward receiving more
money for the program.
Alex Pompe, the campus coor-
dinator for the Peace Corps at
the International Center, said
that the funding increase is pret-
ty significant, especially with
the current economic crisis.
"I'm really satisfied with
it," Pompe said. "It's quite sig-
nificant, especially given that
amongst other federal agencies,
few have seen an increase of that
percentage-wise."
Though he doesn't believe it's
feasible to reach Obama's goal
of doubling the size of the Peace
Corps program by the 50th anni-
versary of the announcement
of the program later this year,
he said the additional funding
would help the program expand,
but in different ways.
"When were talking about
doubling the size of the Peace
Corps, there's also ways to
improve the quality within that
doubling so that we're talking
about an improvement of quality
and quantity at the same time,"
Pompe said. "And one of the
ways it's been recognized is to
establish firmer links to educa-
tional institutions."
Pompe added that creating a
closer relationship with educa-
tional institutions could start
with the University - which is
currently ranked forth among
universities in all-time produc-
tion of Peace Corps volunteers -
with increased focus on graduate
school programs and fellowships
for Peace Corps volunteers.
"I think realistically one of
the ways that will affect Michi-
gan is possibly the development
of more grad school opportuni-
ties, particularly Masters Inter-
national, and possibly some
more Peace Corps fellows pro-
grams starting up here," he said.
Pompe added that a major
factor preventing students from
getting involved in the Peace
Corps is debt and student loans
from college. He said the budget
increase could help to solve this
problem by establishing a loan
forgiveness program.
Christine Torres, public
affairs specialist for the Peace
Corps' Chicago Regional office,
wrote in an e-mail interview
that the increased funding
would also allow for the pro-
gram to recruit students with
the special skills needed at cer-
tain Peace Corps sites.
"The types of program areas
that open up will help steer
specific recruitment efforts,"
Torres wrote. "For example,
right now, we have a very strong
need for applicants degreed and
skilled in Education and English
teaching, as well as public health
and environmental studies.
While we are always generating
broad awareness for programs in
general, we also implement some
very targeted outreach too."


life during those two months is
significantly better than it would
be without DOT.
She added that one of the ulti-
mate goals of her advocacy is to
have one place in Zambia that
patients infected with TB and
HIV can go to seek treatment for
both diseases.
Green, the operations manager
of the Detroit TB Program - a
public health organization that
manages TB cases in Detroit and
surrounding areas - also spoke
at yesterday's event, but offered
another side to the issue.
Green spoke generally about
the importance of public health,
saying public health organiza-
tions fight for "the greater good
of all." He added that this interest
in the greater good is what distin-
guishes public health organiza-
tions from private health care.

Services provided by public
health organizations, Green said,
include patient follow-up, pre-
vention, and education. He said
they deal with the social aspects
of health care, like ensuring
patients have stable housing and
food.
Green spoke about a patient
his organization worked with in
2004, who had TB but refused to
complete her treatment. About
a year after not completing her
treatment, the patient came
down with drug resistant TB and
caused an outbreak around her,
but still refused to complete her
treatment.
"This woman verbally abused
my staff and basically assaulted
one," Green told the audience.
After more than two years
of tracking down every per-
son potentially infected by the

patient, Green and his staff suc-
cessfully tested and treated every
one of them.
The patient will finally com-
plete her treatment next week and
Green said she now does advocacy
work for the Detroit TB Program
because she realizes they went
above and beyond for her.
"That's what public health for
us is about," Green said.
In addition to working with
patients infected with TB, Green
said his organization also deals
with patients that are co-infected
with TB and HIV.
"In the past four to five years,"
he said, "we've realized that TB
and HIV are partners."
Because of the dangers of co-
infection, Green said the Detroit
TB Program has made HIV test-
ing a necessary part of their eval-
uation for TB.


8 - Tuesday, March 9, 2010
Harris falters at Michigan
State, Beilein says no CBI

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ByNICOLE AUERBACH
Daily SportsEditor
EAST LANSING - At times, it
was hard to find him on the court.
Manny Harris, Michigan's star
guard and leading scorer, was a
non-factor in the
Wolverines' loss NOTEBOOK
to Michigan State
on Sunday.
Harris scored just four-points,-
which is not only a season low, but it
also tied a career low for the junior.
The last time Harris put up just four
points was against Wisconsin in the
second round of the Big Ten Tour-
nament, the last game of his fresh-
man season.
On Sunday, Harris shot 1-for-10,
without any excuses for the low
output - like foul trouble or not
playing many minutes (he played
33). He simply struggled to create
open shots, and each time he took
one, it looked forced.
Michigan coach John Beilein
said that Harris's low output could
be attributed in large part to the
Spartan defensive game plan.
"They play a great individual
defense," Beilein said. "They keyon
him ... and make it difficult for him
to get anywhere."
Beilein also talked about partic-
ular moments during recent games
when Harris wasn't making the
smartest plays. Many times, these
were the situations when the Wol-
verines needed their star to step up.
"There were some times they
go under a ball screen, he's got to
shoot the ball," Beilein said. "He
still has (trouble) recognizing that
sometimes, or when he gets into
the lane, he's got to get a little
15-foot jump shot where he rises up
and shoots.
"He doesn't do that enough. He's
still a guy that likes to take it to the
hole or dish. The in-between game
is something he's got to spend the
whole summer on."
BEILEIN TALKS TOURNEYS:
During Monday's Big Ten basket-
ball teleconference, Beilein was
asked about Michigan's postsea-

son outlook. It wasn't
about the NCAA
Tournament, a topic
that was brought up
often in the early part
of the season. Instead,
he spoke candidly of
the second-tier and
third-tier tourna-
ments, the National
Invitational Tourna-
ment (NIT)- and the-
College Basketball
Invitational (CBI),
respectively.
Beilein said Mon-
day that Michigan has
applied for the NIT,
though it doesn't seem
likely the team will
end up playing in the
tournament.
"I don't think we'll
be eligible; the Divi-
sion II game does not
count," he said, refer-
ring to Michigan's
season-opening win
over Northern Michi-
gan. "I think you
have to have a win-
ning record, and if I'm
doing the math cor-
rectly, I don't think we
can get there."
The Wolverines
would need to win the
Big Ten Tournament
to end the season with
a record above .500
- which would actu-
ally give them an auto-
matic bid to the NCAA

ICE HOCKEY
Walk-on scores
first career goal
By TIM ROHAN But Rohrkemper is a different
Daily Sports Writer style player from Sparks and one
that might fit exactly what Beren-
Jeff Rohrkemper cut his spring son is looking for on the fourth
break short last week, coming line. He's a defensive-minded for-
back to Ann Arbor early to work ward.
on his shot - and that extra work Rohrkemper has had to make
paid off this weekend. his impression in practice due to
With Michigan leading Lake a lack of playing time. And that's
Superior State 1-0 on Saturday, where he has made an impact
junior defenseman Chad Langlais with the coaches. The coaches
carried the puck into the Lakers' saw that Rohrkemper would be
zone with Rohrkemper skating good away from the puck in the
with him. When the puck was offensive zone to complement his
deflected away from Langlais by defensive play, so they decided to
a defenseman, Rohrkemper was give him a chance with playing
there to put the puck in the top time.
right corner of the net for his first "Those (fourth-line players)
career goal. work hard every week, and they
"Obviously you wish the first don't know if they're going to play
one comes a little bit earlier in the or not on the weekend," Beren-
season, but it was exciting to score son said. "Maybe they didn't play
a big goal in a big game for us," that poor but our team didn't play
Rohrkemper said. that well. So there's things they
The freshman walk-on has can't control. But the one thing
appeared in 13 games this season, they can control is their effort
including both games this past and their honest play when they
weekend. Rohrkemper did play play and sometimes it shows up
in four straight games in series in goals."
against Ohio State and Notre One thing that both Rohrkem-
Dame in early December, but he per and Pearson admitted the
hadn't recorded a point until Sat- freshman needed to work on was
urday. building strength.
Rohrkemper has seen his action With added strength in his
on the fourth line this season, and lower body and improved skat-
Michigan coach Red Berenson has ing, Rohrkemper would match up
made it clear what he wants out of better defensively with the physi- 9
his fourth line - to not be minus. cal offensive talent around the
"Not scoring," associate head CCHA.
coach Mel Pearson said. "He was Pearson also added that
brought here with the idea that he though Rohrkemper hadn't seen
would add some penalty killing, much time on the penalty kill
defensive specialist type of role so far, he will get playing time
on our team. And any scoring is on the unit in the future. That's 9
a bonus. ... Really, his role on our Rohrkemper's bread and butter -
team is to be a good solid defen- the goals are just gravy.
sive player, who you know if you "In fairness to Jeff, he hasn't
get the chance, chip one in, but played a lot, and even in the
make sure you kill penalties and games he played, he hasn't played
be a plus player." a lot," Berenson said. "And I don't
The Grosse Pointe native has base his game on whether or not
been smack dab in the middle of he scores. He's an honest two-
a rotating fourth line all season. way player and he showed that
But after winter break, fellow given a chance, with a loose puck,
freshman forward Lindsay Sparks he can score as well as anyone
started scoring and has only else. Good for him and good for
missed two series since then. our team."

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Junior MannyHarris, pictured here, stored a season low aud lied a caree' law with ust four points
against the Spartans at Sunday. Harris shot 1-tar-10 tram She floar in Michigan's 64-48 lass.

Tournament.
In the past, the NIT only invited
teams that finished at least .500 in
the regular season, but it abolished
that rule in 2006. Since then, how-
ever, no team with a record under
.500 has played in the NIT.
The next step down the ladder,
the CBI, is a 16-team tournament
that is hosted at on-campus sites.
In order to play, teams must pay a
fee. Last year, Oregon State won
the tournament, beating UTEP in a
best-of-three final.

"We do not have an interest
in the CBI this particular year,"
Beilein said.
INJURY UPDATE: Michigan fans
already looking toward the promise
of the future might be a bit alarmed
after Sunday's game. Redshirt
freshman forward Jordan Morgan,
who is listed at 6-foot-8, wore a sling
on his left arm.
"He hurt his shoulder fairly sig-
nificantly in practice (Friday),"
Beilein said after Sunday's game.
"I don't know what the plan is, but

there's a very good chance of an
operation."
And 6-foot-10 redshirt freshman
forward Blake McLimans wore a
boot on his left foot on Sunday.
"Blake McLimans sprained his
ankle badly in practice (Saturday),"
Beilein said. "I don't think he'll be
available this week as well."
BIG TEN AWARDS: Senior for-
ward DeShawn Sims was named to
the all-Big Ten second team, and
Harris was named to the all-Big Ten
third team Monday night.

Knutson ready to meet high expectations

By STEPHEN NESBITT with my routine."
Daily Sports Writer

Expectations have always been
high for senior captain Kelsey Knut-
son - she was raised that way - but
after being hampered with injuries
in her first three years at Michigan,
each performance after has been a
blessing.
Right now, the three-time Iowa
high school "Gymnast of the Year"
is healthy - and taking advantage.
Against No.5 Utah on Feb. 19, she
posted a season-high score of 9.875
on the beam to win her fourth title
of the season, leading then-No. 16
Michigan to an upset victory.
"She has been a rock for us on
beam all year long," Michigan
coach Bev Plocki said after the win.
"The ironic thing is that she had
struggled on the beam all during
the fall, and she really kind of put
it together right before the season."
Knutson recalled the difficul-
ties and the improvement that fol-
lowed.
"Bev even joked to me, asking
if I knew that I was ranked eighth
in the country (on beam)," Knut-
son said. "She asked, 'Would you
have thought you would have been
ranked that high in November?' I
just laughed. I was still struggling
in the fall, trying to get consistent

GOING BLUE
It all started with alittle girl, a leo-
tard and a passion for gymnastics.
Hailing from Ames, Iowa, home
of Iowa State University, Knut-
son grew up watching gymnastics
nearby, and her journey began very
early in life.
At the age of six, she started
attending the Cardinal Gymnastics
Academy, and she was hooked.
"In a very short time, we start-
ed going there five days a week,
an hour-and-a-half, one way," her
father, Dan, said. "So I drove two
days and Carol (her mother) drove
three."
From that experience, Knutson
came into contact with the current
coachesof No.1Oklahoma andIowa
State. Becauseofthose connections,
choosing to attend the University of
Michigan was difficult.
But after visiting Ann Arbor,
Knutson was ready to make a deci-
sion to become a Wolverine, and she
hasn't regretted it since.
"I think my parents were a little
bit surprised when I chose Michi-
gan, because it was a little out of my
comfort zone," Knutson said.
SLIPS AND FALLS
As soon as Kelsey joined the

team, she was placed on the beam
lineup with high hopes of improv-
ing the team's overall consistency,
but immediately, injuries began to
wear on her body.
She came to Ann Arbor with
ailing knees, but her grim out-
look worsened once a wrist injury
required minor surgery, and back
problems plagued her as well.
But in her first performance
as a freshman, a day before her
19th birthday, Kelsey's hit a team-
high 9.875 routine on the beam to
take third out of 30 gymnasts, an
impressive debut.
At the end of the 2007 season,
Knutson needed reconstructive
surgery on one knee, and after a
successful sophomore campaign -
being named to the All-Big Ten sec-
ond team - she tore her ACL and
MCL inwarm-ups forregionals and
had to undergo more surgery.
Having already undergone five
gymnastic-related operations,
nothing was certain, and doubts
weighed heavy on her mind.
After several months of contem-
plation, Kelsey was determined to
get back on the beam.
"I have such a strong passion for
the sport of gymnastics," Knutson
said, "And being a college gymnast
was something I had aspired to be
all my life. I didn't want to end my

career without trying everything I
could to end it on the right note."
During her junior year, Kelsey
only performed a few times, and she
had to adjust and relearn her rou-
tine to adapt to her injury-riddled
body.
"Gymnasts are kind of a weird
breed," her father said. "They are
going to have to train and rehab
anyway ... if they feel strong enough
they're going to try to keep per-
forming. As a parent, you just don't
want them to get hurt, especially if
they're already hurt."
But this year, in her second year
as a team captain, Knutson has
shrugged off injuries to become the
most consistent Wolverine on the
balance beam.
SUPPORT ON THE ROAD
Since their daughter came to
Ann Arbor, Kelsey's parents have
been fixtures in the Crisler Arena
seats.
Sitting just below the press table
on the west side of the floor, Dan
is the first to explode from his seat
after a performance to applaud the
Wolverine gymnasts, and the one
who ribs the judges the loudest for
inconsistent scoring.
. "We've probably missed as many
meets as are on one hand in her four
years," said Carol, her mother.

0

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
Senior Kelsey Knutson, pictured here, was forced to overcome injuries throughout
her career as a Wolverine, but support from her family has helped her overcome.

Kelsey admits that when she
committed to Michigan she was
worried that her parents would be
unable to attend her meets.
"But my big brother reassured
me that if I went to Michigan they
would be at every meet, not just the
home ones," Knutson said. "And they
have been driving across the country
to see me and support the team, from
Georgia, to Penn State, and Oregon
and everywhere in between."
They haven't missed a thing,
from her first performance to her
career-high 9.925 performance to
upset No.1 Georgia during her soph-

omore year.
Just before the Wolverines' last
match, Carol was busy laying out
a map plotting a trip to Penn State
for yet another match - this time, it
was a 14-hour drive.
"There don't seem to be any
flights into State College from
Iowa," Dan said with a laugh. "So,
it looks like we'll be taking another
road-trip."
Needless to say, when Michigan
scheduled a meet at Iowa State ear-
lier this year it was a sigh of relief,
as was Kelsey's beam title that same
night.

Learn more about the Peace Corps.
Attend an information session.
Wednesday, March 10th
6 :30 p.m.
International Center, Room 9
800.424.8580 lwww.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will you go?


